
VOL. XXXVII NO. 82 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Legends plan unveiled to group 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
The new incarnation of the Alumni-Senior Club is finally laking shape. The noor plan for the new facilitv, to be called Legends, was ·unveiled at Monday's Executive Cabinet meeting by Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin. 
The building, slated to open Aug. 1, will be 50 percent larg­er than the current structure and will feature a pub, a restaurant, a stage and a dance area. A portion of the building will be available to student groups for early evening· programming, but Coughlin said the building's focus will be providing consis­tent entertainment opportuni­ties to the University commu­nity. 
"It's going to be very differ­ent than it is now," said Coughlin. "We want consis­tency. The new facility will be open and programmed every night." 
Weekend programming ini­tiatives will feature live music as a centerpiece. "We're going to have a live music series sim­ilar to Acousticafe, in addition to inviting new bands." 
"We want to make Notre Dame a place where up-and­coming bands have to come," Coughlin added. 
Legends will feature satellite feeds of sporting events, including all NFL games, on 16 televisions, while a large pro­jection screen will showcase the game of the day. Interactive trivia games will also be available. 
A large portion of the build­ing will be converted into a nightclub on Friday and Saturday nights. featuring about $150,000 worth of state­of-the-art sound, lighling and DJ equipment, Coughlin said. The club will be open until 4 
a.m. on weekends. 
The pub area will feature 20 varieties of beer on tap, including a large rotating selection of microbrews and specialty beers. Unlike the Alumni-Senior Club, Legends will be open to students of all ages. To enforce Indiana alco­hol laws, students 21 and over who wish to drink will be given wristbands at the door. 
The restaurant's format and menu are currently under development. Coughlin encouraged students to partic­ipate in the development process. Focus groups will meet to make recommenda­tions on the food and drinks to be served in the new eatery. 
Coughlin said the exterior of the building·will not undergo renovation, citing financial 
see LEGENDS/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Students spe<;1-k out on Iraq 

. Most panelists oppose Iraq war 
By KRISTIN KLEIN and LUKE BUSAM News \'ilrirers 

It was standing room only at the Peace Coalition's discus­sion Tuesday as over 100 peo­ple filled the Reckers Hospitality Room to discuss the idea of the United States going to war against Iraq. 
A panel composed of 10 stu­dents from various organiza­tions on campus, including College Republicans and Pax Christi, presented multiple 

Rough seas ahead for Boat Club 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Wricer 
It may be too early to tell whether The Boat Club's ship has sailed, but the police raid that turned up more than 200 minors Friday doesn't bode well for the popular student tavern, say officials who regulate the state's bars and alcohol indus­try. 
"When you've got a situation where it's that many minors in a tavern, it's going to get the attention of the prosecutor" for the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, said Penny Davis, superintendent of the Indiana State Excise Police. 
Early Friday morning, excise police oversaw the raid of Boat Club, 106 N. Hill St., where they ticketed 213 underage patrons, mostly Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. It ranked among the biggest sweeps on underage drinking to ever occur in South Bend, police said. 
Today, investigators at the excise police District 1 office in Michigan City expect to forward their report on the raid to Davis. After she inspects it to "make sure all the elements are there," Davis said she will forward the report to the Indianapolis-based ATC. 
The ATC prosecutor will review the case, including any past legal action against Boat Club, before determining any possible sanctions for last week's raid, said ATC chair­woman Mary DePrez. 
DePrez declined to comment specifically on the Boat Club 
case. 
But generally, DePrez said, big busts or checkered histories translate into stiff penalties for bars. Bar owners face fines and suspension or revocation of their liquor licenses. 
"Normally, any action we take will come in the form of fines," she said. "If there are a lot of citations involved, there may be heavier fines or loss of license." 
Punishment -if bars receive any -typically is swift. DePrez estimated that no more than 30 days passes between when bars are raided and when they hear from the ATC prosecutor. 
Boat Club remained open over the weekend and was open Monday night. 
The bar's owner did not 

return phone calls requesting comment. The bar was raided about 
12:40 a.m. Friday, following a two-month investigation into complaints about underage drinking there, police said. Authorities said they were barred from disclosing who lodged the complaints against the bar. 
·1n most cases, raids are com­plaint-generated, said excise chief Davis. 
"The people who usually come forward are usually a disgrun­tled employee who's been fired or a parent with good informa­tion that illegal activity is hap­pening in an establishment," Davis said. 
The Boat Club was well known among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students as a haven for minors. The bar was a popular destination for students on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. 
Between 200 and 300 people were inside the bar at the lime ofthe raid, police said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 
viewpoints for those gathered. Of the ten, one member sup­ported war with Iraq, six were against it and three were undecided. 
The audience mirrored the panel. with over half against any form of war in Iraq, about 40 percent undecided and 10 percent supporting the w.ar only with U.N. support. Less than 10 people supported a war without backing from the United Nations. 
The first panel member to speak, Mark Hayes of the College Republicans, believed that the United States should go to war with Iraq. 
"Giving more time to the weapons inspectors will only 
delay the inevitable," said Hayes. 
Hayes also said that President Bush does not want to go to war with Iraq but it is necessary to enforce the UN resolutions. 
Another panel member, Denise Creed, a former mem­ber of the Marine Corps and law student, did not take a side. Creed said he believes that the United States is, "try­ing to clean up our Cold War mess," by going to war with Iraq. He encouraged students to actively lobby their elected representatives. 
"The best way to take action 
see PANEL/page 6 

Board elects Soukup as new editor in chief 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer General Board unanimously elected assistant managing editor Andrew Soukup as the 2003-04 editor in chief on Monday. 
Soukup.a junior polit­ical science major from Holland. Mi Ch .• joined the Observer as 


Soukup

an interhall football reporter during his freshmen year and covered football and mens basketball as an associate sports editor in his sophomore year. 
His coverage included the widely-publicized search for a Notre Dame head football coach for the 2002 season. 
"I look forward to the oppor­tunity to use the experience I've gained with the sports depart­ment to improve the paper as a whole," Soukup said. "It is a tremendous challenge, but one I am willing to accept." 
As an assistant managing edi­tor, he oversaw the sports department while working on a variety of special projects and editorial operations. 
"It just kind of seemed like a natural progression to me," Soukup said of his promotion. 
In addition to his work with The Observer, Soukup gained professional experience last summer as a sports intern with the South Bend Tribune. 
Among the projects Soukup hopes to undertake during his tenure include improving the Observer Web site (observer.nd.edu) and strength­ening recruiting, training and reporting methods. 
"I was excited to see what I could do to see The Observer improve the next year," Soukup said. "And I'm extremely eager to work with a very talented staff." 
A resident of Knott Hall, Soukup has a minor in journal­ism, ethics and democracy. 

The Observer . 'WHAT'S UP Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The ansvVer to 3/4 = 28o/o 
If you're actually reading this, you've undoubtedly seen the flamboyant cam­paign implemented by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Ignorance with the slogan "When does 3/4 = 28%?" You've also probably won­dered what kind of 
Tom Haight 

idiotic decision it was to run them a whole month with­Assistant Ad out an answer. 
Design
While I can't 
Manager

answer why it's taken this long to come out with the answer (though I sus­pect coordinating the Boat Chili bust with the sheriff might have had some­thing to do with it), the answer to the actual riddle is that 3/4 of the student body drinks only 28 percent of the alco­hol consumed by said body. Personally. I had it pegged as 3/4 of the alcohol is drank by 28 percent of the student body, but you don't need to be a math whiz to realize the numbers work out to be essentially the same. Ijust happened to see the uglier side of the same argu­ment, something they apparently either didn't fathom or didn't care about. 
So back to the dirty converse: 72 per­cent of the alcohol is consumed by 1/4 of the student body. Doesn't that still con­stitute one heck of a major problem (at least it should to the people making these ads, right?)? I guess they didn't take that into account when they came up with this fun fact. This is like telling people to look on the bright side of a train wreck just because not everybody died. What this ultimately boils down to is the administration using BS in a pathetic attempt to curb drinking. As if taking our hard alcohol and tailgating privileges away on top of banning in­dorm dances wasn't enough, now we have to listen to this drivel trying to con­vince people that it's just a small minori­ty of the student body who drink more than a beer and laying a guilt trip on those who drink more. These are your tuition dollars hard at work. Pardon me for being unimpressed, especially since I'm getting shafted for another 4.9% more than last year. My estimates (which have been correlated with reli­able sources) put the cost of the cam­paign at around $10,000 thus far, before starting to tell us the answer. Money well spent, ifyou're a Sobriety Nazi. 
The fun doesn't stop here, though. These stats were compiled with what our esteemed President Bush would call "fuzzy math." According to the OADE, these stats were amassed from the CORE and NORM surveys (something they haven't admitted to everyone yet), which I'm sure were filled out with 100 percent honesty. In other words, this stat might hold true for the sophomore Arts and Letters class {and whoever the NORM surveys count, which I really don't know). Tlris makes the numbers irrelevant for the entire student body at best and downright fraudulent at worst. 
Why is it that I suddenly wish for a return of the days when they simply told us that our livers would rot if we didn't all die from drunk driving accidents or STDs accwnulated under the influence? That being said, my birthday's this week, so if you see me. congratulate me for surviving 22 years and throw back a pint with me. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Contact Tom Haight at thaight@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Wednesday'i. :ucide, "Mugged scudcnt files police report," the Observer erroneously reporred, "South Bend police did not return phone calls seeking com­ment on che invescigation." In reality, the police were 11nable to provide the teq11ested information at that time. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Bush adviser U.N. inspec­speaks on tors bolster faith-based chances for 
initiatives war In Iraq 
Inspectors say 
Iraq has failed to

Jim Towey told 
stu~nts that faith­
cooperate fully 

based initiatives 
during inspections, 

are required if the 
but called for the 

social services 
United States to 

delivery system in 
wait at least a few 
months before

the United States is 
war.

to be effective. 
page4 
page 5 



WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Ratcatcher, lnt(>.rnational Film Series (United Kingdom). 7 and 9 
p.m. at thn Montgomery Theatre, LaFortunc Student Center 
. Lecture, "Hcligious Bcasons, Liberal Theory, and Coercion," Nicholas Wolterstorff, Yale University, 7 p.m., room 136, DcBartolo Hall 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Semester Around the World lnterviews. 3 p.m., Stapleton Lounge, LeMans IIall 

. 
Kaplan Test Preparation, 6 p.m., Hoom 315 Madeleva Hall 

. 
Student Senior Comprehensive Auditions, 7 p.m., Little Theater, Moreau Center for the Arts 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: boiled linguine, tortellini with basil cheese sauce, bianco pizza, chicken sea gumbo, honey glazed pork chop, white beans with ham, whipped potatoes, baked lemon perch, vegetable rice pilaf, szechuan vegan noodles, cali­fornia rancho rice, broccoli quesadilla, mexican dipping sauce 
Today Dinner: chicken strips, maca­roni and cheese, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, lentil and bar­ley stew, tofu jerk, baked sweet pota­toes, oriental vegetables, vegetable pota­to casserole, barbeque chicken, sea­soned fries, baked beans, cornbread, pork fried rice, boiled chinese noodles, vegetable egg rolls, refried beans 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 

Call for partic­market still 
Housing 
ipation in thriving 
Saint Mary's elections 
Home buyers 
In a letter to the took advantage of 
editor, the Board of some of the lowest 
Governance clari­mortgage rates in 
fies the voting pro­decades, giving 
cedures for today's 2002 the highest 
election for student number of sales of 
body president. previously owned homes ever. 
page 7 page 9 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Golf cart vandals identified 
NDSP identified Sunday two stu­dents who vandalized a golf cart outside LaFortune Student Center. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Keys to the Rock stolen 
A set of keys were reported as taken from the Rockne Memorial between 1-3:45 p.m. on Sunday. The case is being investigated fur­ther. 
Student taken to hospital 
NDPD responded to a report of an intoxicated student at Alumni Hall Sunday morning. The student was identified and transported by ambu­lance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Roommate reported missing 
A student contacted NDSP at 5:10 
a.m. Sunday to report that her Badin Hall roommate was missing. She later notified NDSP her room­mate had returned. 
Harassment investigated 
NDPD is investigating a harassment complaint from the East Gate that occurred on Friday. 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb­baked pollock, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, scalloped corn casserol, tangy grilled chicken sandwiches, steakhouse fries 
Today's Dinner: Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, cauliflower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes, rice valencienne, lemon-baked perch, Jamaican-jerked pork loin, BBQ chicken, soft pretzels 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
~ 
I.LI 


:::c 
I.LI


;: ~ 
..J 
ct 
() 




.9 HIGH 32 29 HIGH 28 HIGH LOW 26 26 LOW 14 LOW 


SCENE SPORTS 

Matchbox 20 Free throw shows they shooting key are more than to team's 16-3 you think season 
As opponents' coaches have com­Matchbox 20's plained about thethird album, More 
number of free
Than You Think throws attempted,:You Are, is its most Notre Dame menversatile to date. 

have shot 75.7 per­cent from the line. 
page 10 page 20 
Car hit while parked 

A student reported her vehicle was hit while parked in the D06 South lot between Jan. 21 at 9 p.m. and Saturday at 4:35 p.m 
Students flee from police 

NDPD issued two University cita­tions for minor consumption and for minor consumption and resisting by flight Saturday. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Student taken back to dorm 
NDPD transported a student from Memorial Hospital to O'Neill Hall Saturday morning after he received treatment for injuries sustained during a fall. 
Cars collide in Main Circle 
NDPD responded to a two car acci­dent in the Main Circle Friday. There were no injuries reported. 
Student loses necklace 

A student reported losing her neck­lace at an unknown campus loca­tion on Jan. 17. 
Employee's car towed 

A University employee's vehicle was towed from the University Club lot for a parking violation Friday. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: grilled hamburger, grilled bratwurst, grilled cheese, french fries, chicken breast teriyaki, vegetable lo mein, peas and carrot, deluxe pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, ham salad, sliced beef, sliced turkey, pepper jack cheese, oatmeal raisin cookies, seven layer bars, french onion soup, cream of broccoli soup 
Today's Dinner: Biriyani rice w/ cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini. yankee pot roast, lyon­naise potatoes, corn and tomatoes, chick­en fajita pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, vegetable and cheese chimichanga 
FRJDAY SATURDAY 


34 35 26 26 

Atlanta 52 / 44 Bost_on 23 / ~ 9 Chicago 31 / ~2 Denver 51 / 25 Houston 65 / 55 Los Angeles 7 4 / 53 Minneapolis 32 / 6 New York 26 / 24 Ph1ladelph1a 75 / 48 Phoenix 29 / 25 Seattle 50 / 41 St. Louis 49 / 30 Tampa 66 / 49 Washington 37 / 32 
----------------.. ------. -----------------~ 
page 3 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
Students prepare for annual fair 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 
The annual Winter Career and Internship Fair, sponsored by Notre Dame's Career Center, will be held today in the Joyce Center from 4 to 8 p.m. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students from all majors will have the opportunity to present their resumes for con­sideration for full-time posi­tions and internships and dis­cuss career options with recruiters from over 130 com­panies. 
Career Center Associate Director Anita Recs said she is impressed at the response from employers given the state of the economy. 
"The economy is very volatile and these companies still think that it's important to recruit Notre Dame students," she said. "Employers have cut back the number of schools at which they arc recruiting." 
In anticipation of the career fair, Hees said that the career center has offered multiple job fair preparation session where students were welcome to go over their resumes with a counselor and learn helpful interviewing tips. These ses­sions have helped Hees gauge how students are responding to the preparations. 
"I sense excitement in some of them". Rees said. "In other students, I'm a little afraid that they think people aren't hiring. It's not just a display. they truly are hiring." 
According to Rees, because of timing of hiring, it is very hard to track exactly how many stu­dents are hired through the career fairs. 
"We're hoping this year to do a follow-up with employers to get feedback," she said. 
Rees is very optimistic that students will be well received. 
"We have fantastic students and I think that these employ­ers are going to be excited to meet them and see their quali­fications," she said. 
While students are also excit­ed to meet employers, some are also nervous as to what to expect from their efforts. 





Group responds to election editorial 
Senior Gail Thompson said she is going over her resume and researching companies in which she is interested in hopes of making a good impression. 
"After spending four years at such an accredited University, it's embarrassing to go home without a job," Thompson said. "I know that my family will be there to support me no matter what but I'd like to stand on my own two feet." 
Thompson said that the career fair is just one of the many options that she is exploring. 
Although senior Joseph Lordi already has a job offer. he said he views the career fair as a chance to explore other oppor­tunities. 
"We're constantly being told that as Arts and Letters majors that we are not the most mar­ketable pMple, but the career fair gives us a sense of hope and offers consolation that we won't be living off our parents forever." 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu-. 

By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
The Board of Governance responded to requests for money from various student organizations, initiated a fund to benefit needy students and discussed voting procedures for today's student body presi­dential elections at its weekly meeting Monday. 
Voting procedures and today's election evoked the most discussion among BOG members, in response to an editorial that appeared in Monday's issue of The Observer. The piece urged Saint Mary's students to vote an abstention in order to show objection to the single ticket on this year's ballot. The board members said that the editorial contained false infor-


Holy Cross Associates Honeywell IBM 


• 
Advocate Health Care Education of Students 


january28
AEP/Cook Nuclear Plant Indiana Dept. of Transportation
Allstate Insurance Company Indiana Legal Services 

4pm-8pm
Arnate House Indianapolis Motor Speedway•
American 'Enterprise Institute Interlachen Arts Camp 

joyce center north dome
Aon Corporation Kauffman Entrepreneurial InternArthdtis Foundation Program, Notre Dame (hockey rink side) enter gate 3 Augustinian Volunteer Program Kellogg Institute for International 

Bastian Material Handling Studies, Notre Dame Smith Barney US Dept. of Treasury, Bet Tzedek Legal Service<' Internal Revenue S~rvice
Kellogg's Smithsonian Institution Boys & Girls Clubs of America US Environmental
Ken Herceg & Associates Social Security Administration BUNAC 
Protection Agency
KPMG South Bend Silver Hawks 
US General Services AdministrationCamp John Marc 
Liz Claiborne Southwestern Diabetic Foundation/ 
US Marine Corps OfficerCargill Dow Camp Sweeney
LOGAN Center 

Selection Station
Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Lowe's Companies State Farm Insurance Companies US Naval Criminal
Carter Center Madison Center for Children Strong Financial Corporation Investigative Service 
Caterpillar Marathon Ashland Petroleum Stryker Instruments US Navy Civilian Jobs CBS News• Stryker Leibinger/Navigation
Mayo Clinic* US Secret Service CDW System Parking
McGladrey & Pullen US Securities and ExchangeCenter for Social Concerns. 
Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Target Corporation Commission Notre Dame 
Merrill lynch Teach For Amerka Unjted Parcel Service Center for the Homeless 
Methodist Research Institute Technology Servkes Group University Directories Centers for Disease Control at Clarian Health* US Army Corps of Engineers Walgreens
and Prevention 

MPI Research US Army Healthcare Recruiting Watson Wyatt WorldwideCentral Intelligence Agency NALEO Educational Fund' US Dept. of Justice, VAi/Nationai Institute forChicago Consulting Actuaries NAVAIR Antitrust Division People with Disabilities• 
CIS 

Neiman Marcus* US Dept. of Justice, Community YWCA of St. Joseph County, IN 

Relations Servke 
* Resume drop 

~':J 


findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

Click on the"Undergraduates" title bar, then click on the 
"Go !RISH" title bar and enter username and password 
Type in "WCIF" in the "Enter Keywords" textbox in 
Quick Search 

On "Search For·; click on eitl,er "Jobs" or "Internships'; 
and then dick on "Search" 

THE
Click on either"JobTitle" 
or "Employer"title bar for 

CAREER 
an alphabetical list ofjobs 
or companies 

CENTER 


diversityreception 
lafortune ballroom, noon to 2pm all invited 
•




winter 
City of South Bend New England Center for Children• City of South Bend Newell Rubbermaid

Police Department 

Northrup GrummanCity Year Chicago Space Technology
Coachnlen Industries 

Northwestern Mutual Financial Coca-Col" 
Network Hoopis Financial College Football Hall of Fame 
Northwestern Mutual Financial ComEd, An Exelon Company Network -Indianapolis Counc,f on foreign Relations., Office of US Senator Evan Bayh Crate & B;1rrel Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutlc,il, CSG Systems 
a Johnson & Johnson company 
Culligan International• Outdoor Academy• 
Deloitte & Touche Parsons Brinckerhoff 

Partnership Assistance CenterDENSO Manufacturing Michigan 
Dept. of Political Science, Peace Corps 
Notre Dame Peterson Consulting, a unit 
Dominican Sisters of of Navigant Consulting 
Springfield, IL Porter-Starke Services 
E & JGi!llo Winery P,ess Ganey A5sociates 
Easter Seals Wiscon~ln Cump~ PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Eaton Procter & Gamble 
EIi Lilly and Company Progressive lnsu,ance The Elkhart Truth PuJte Homes Corporation Enterpris.P Rent~A~Car R. A. Smith & Associates General Dynamics Raytheon Generc:il Electric Refugee & Immigration Services Goodwill Industries of Michiana 
of South Bend 
H-E-B Grocery Company SCORE Small Business Development Ce11ter
Heritage Foundation 5COREI Educatlonnl Centers•
Hewlett•Paek,,rd Sidley Austin Brown & WoodHill/Holliday Siemens Building Technologies 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 
mation. 
"To abstain adds neither to the yes or no count," explained Vice President Elisabeth Jablonski-Diehl. "It is a majority of no's which would start the process over." 
Board members were also dismayed that the editorial said the current candidates are the only ones willing to run for office. They said that the term "willing" was used in a negative manner, and some­how implied the candidates were sacrificing themselves in order to run for a student gov­ernment position. 
"Our election process is fair," said board member Kristen Matha. defending the election "and everyone should take the time to vote." 
The board drafted a written response to the editorial. which appears in today's 
Observer. 
The BOG voted to provide $550 to the Student Nurses Association, to allow 13 nurs­ing majors to attend the State Nurses Association Conference in Indianapolis. The board members said they hope the students attending the confer­ence will be able to share the information they learn with the student body at the annual Health Fair in the spring. 
Special Friends, a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's club, will also receive $550 to help pay the expenses of a seminar on autism the club plans to host. The seminar will include a guest speaker with expertise in the field and will take place at Notre Dame. 
The BOG also granted $400 to the Saint Mary's Advertising Club. The club, which has doubled the number of its partnerships in the past year; requested the funds in order to embark on a unique joint project with Bellzine Magazine. The money will enable the advertising club to reach out to local businesses and interest them in advertis­ing in the magazine. The club officers' goal is to eventually have the magazine be finan­cially independent through advertisement sales. 
The idea of creating a fund for needy students was raised at the meeting. The fund would exist to assist those stu­dents who may find it difficult to attend school functions because of financial reasons. Activities the fund could be used for include retreats, dances and other social events. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, January 28, 2003 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Bush adviser speaks on initiatives 



ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Jim Towey, deputy assistant to President Bush and direc­tor of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, emphasized the importance of these initiatives while deliver­ing the keynote speech for the Center for the Study of Latino Religion's symposium "Faith at Work in the Latino Community" in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
"In many of our neighbor­hoods, faith based initiatives are the only game in town," Towey said. "If you exclude them. you are going to have a totally different social ser­vices delivery system that won't be as effective." 
Towey's keynote address, "The Role of Faith in the Public Square: Stories of Mother Teresa and President Bush," centered around his experiences working with Mother Teresa and Bush, his volunteering at organizations aimed at assisting the poor, · and his comments on the Bush administration's view of the role of faith-based initia­tives. 
"The problems in our cul­ture are not one law away from being addressed," he said. "Our problem is that there aren't enough places where people are welcomed into placr-s for the poor. When you encounter people in their poverty, you discover your own poverty." 
Towey, a self-described "Pro-Life Democrat," served for 12 years as legal counsel to Mother Teresa and spent time volunteering in her home in Washington D.C. for people with AIDS. He served as leg­islative director and legal counsel for retired Republican Sen. Mark Hatfield. as well as working in former Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles' cabinet. Towey said that his experi­ences working with the poor and the sick taught him much about his own life as a for­merly "disgruntled Catholic." 
"The poor have a gift to give. They are some of the most powerful people on earth -they have the power to change your life," he said. 
Towey said that faith-based initiatives are able to do what government cannot: reach out to people in need on an indi­vidual and personal basis. 
"President Bush's initiative is seeking to unleash armies of [faith-based organizations] in our country, where faith­based initiatives can do what they do best: to enter into relationships with other peo­ple," Towey said. "Government cannot love; faith-based organizations can love." 
Towey's address was spon­sored by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the Institute for Latino Studies and the Center for the 
LISA VELTE/fhe Observer Jim Towey speaks Monday In his lecture for the symposium entitled "Faith at Work In the Latino Community." 
Study of Latino Religion. The larger symposium celebrated the inauguration of the Center for the Study of Latino Religion at the Institute for Latino Studies and featured lectures and panel discussions on the importance of religion to Latino youth and on recent research findings with respect to Latino religious life. 
Towey was the inaugural speaker in an ongoing lecture series that the Center for the Study of Latino Religion plans to sponsor. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


Legends 
continued from page 1 
constraints. "Every dollar we save on construction costs can go towards better sound and lighting equipment," he said. 
In other Exec Cab news: 
. 
Student leaders continued their organizations' strategic planning initiatives, begun last semester. Next week's execu­tive cabinet meeting will fea­ture plan presentations by stu­dent union treasurer Andrew Oxenreiter and freshman class president Dave Baron. 

. 
Junior class president Meghan O'Donnell encouraged Saint Mary's students to vote in Tuesday's election. calling an Observer editorial "bogus." The Observer on Monday called for students to abstain from voting. "It's bogus to ask everyone to abstain simply because there's only one ticket running," O'Donnell said. 

. 
Senior class president Matt Smith outlined several upcom­ing events for seniors. Thursday. seniors will have the opportunity to tour Notre Dame Stadium, followed by a class dinner at BW3's. On Feb. 5, the class council will host a reception in the Joyce Center 


Monogram Room, honoring the women's basketball team before tipoff against Georgetown. A cash bar will be available. Smith also announced that registration for Senior Week events is available online at www.nd.edu/-class03. 
. 
Student body president Libby Bishop encouraged stu­dents to attend the perfor­mance of "Sex Signals," a duet improv work that deals with dating, gender relations, and sexual assault. The perfor­mance will be held Feb. 6 in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

. 
The freshman class council announced that a rosary ser­vice will be held at the Grotto Tuesday evening at 6:45 in honor of missing student Chad Sharon. Baron asked students to light candles for the stu• dent, who disappeared Dec. 


13. "We hope to find some solace in the Grotto," Baron said. 
. Judicial council president Danielle Ledesma announced that the development of online elections is proceeding, and that a pilot system will be in place over the next few days. "About 100 students will test the system," Ledesma said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd.edu 



* 
;  •  •  •  ,:.>,'  • -~  
, .,  1 X  
.. ,·.. ,z.z-:-...;..  .  .  

:.,:,,-.,,;.;,,»;,;.:.c,c,:~,1-:.:,;.;,;,.:,~.-N ;,:,;,.· 
. . r 
, X 
•.-.-•~,u•~_._....,..,. -•~_,.,. r~~·.,;r~ 

Three-quarters of all Notre Dame students drink only 28% of all the alcohol that is consumed here! 
It's a fact! The large majority of students do only a small portion of the drinking that takes place at Notre Dame, both on and off campus. 
{Based on the University of Notre Dame 2001-2002 Core and Norm Surveys, Spring 2002) 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 




WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
UNITED NATIONS 
U.N. inspections bolster chances for war in Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

U.N. weapons inspectors bol­stered the United States' case Monday that Iraq has failed to cooperate with them whole­heartedly. but also called for at least a "few months" to give the process time to avert a war. 
The United States rejected Iraq's response to U.N. disar­mament demands as inade­quate, with Secretary of State Colin Powell warning that Saddam Hussein has "not much more time" to ''turn on the light" about his weapons pro­grams. China, Russia and France countered that the reports support the need for inspectors to continue to do their work. 
In a toughly worded critique 60 days after inspections began, chief inspector Hans Blix charged that Iraq has never genuinely accepted U.N. resoiutions demanding its dis­armament and warned that "cooperation on substance" is necessary.for a peaceful solu­tion. 
"Iraq appears not to have come to a genuine acceptance, not even today, of the disarma­ment that was demanded of it," Blix said. 
He said Iraq failed to provide inspectors evidence supporting claims that they indeed had destroyed their weapons, such as the deadly nerve agent VX, anthrax and Scud-type missiles 
with a  range of more than 90  
miles.  
Blix  said  his  teams  now  

believe Iraq's claims that it was unsuccessful in producing VX were untrue. "There are indi­cations that the agent was wcaponized,'' Blix said. Inspectors have also discovered a mustard gas precursor dur­ing recent inspections. 
Mohamed EIBaradei, who heads the U.N. nuclear control agency, said nuclear inspec­tions of 106 sites had turned up no evidence so far that Iraq was reviving its nuclear pro­gram. With Iraq's cooperation, he said, "we should be able within the next few months to provide credible assurance that Iraq has no nuclear weapons programs." 
"These few months would be a valuable investment in peace because it could help avoid a war," EIBaradei told the coun­cil. 
While E!Baradei asked for more time to carry out inspec­tions, Blix made no request to continue working in his 15­page report, delivered at an open council meeting. 
But Blix's spokesman, Ewen Buchanan, said there were no differences with ElBaradei and that Blix has mapped out a of the road," Buchanan said. program of future inspections, In closed-door consultations which he referred to in the after the reports, U.S. report. "This is an update of an Ambassador John Negroponte ongoing and continuing process pointedly asked Blix and of inspections. It is not the end EIBaradei how much time they 

Associated P rcss 
JERUSALEM 

Confident of victory in Tuesday's election, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon withdrew to his office on the last day of the campaign, while opposition loader Amram Mitzna phoned waver­ing voters in a desperate attempt to cushion what is shaping up as the worst-ever showing of the once-domi­nant Labor Party. 
Israel's fourth election in seven years has inspired little passion, even though the direction of Israel's con­met with the Palestinians is at stake. 
Mitzna champions a quick withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and much of the West Bank, while Sharon says troops must stay there until Palestinian mili­tants have been crushed. 
Many voters have simply despaired of a quick end to 28 months of fighting that has killed more than 2,800 peo­ple, three-fourths of them on the Palestinian side. 
"No one really expects the dawn of a new day -at most the twilight of an old evening," commentator Hemi Shalev wrote in the Maariv daily. "It is likely ... that what was, will be." 
About 4.7 million of Israel's 6.6 mil­lion citizens are eligible to vote, with 27 parties competing for 120 seats in parliament. The nearly 8,000 polling stations are to open at 7 a.m. local time Tuesday and close at 10 p.m. At that time, three Israeli TV stations plan to broadcast exit polls or tele­phone surveys. Complete returns are expected Wednesday, and official results will be announced Feb. 8. 
Israel clamped a three-day closure on the Palestinian areas, further tight­ening travel bans amid a flurry of warnings that Palestinian militias will try to disrupt the vote. 
In Cairo, the Palestinian militant 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Koreas talk to reduce nuclear tension: 
North Korea ordered the U.N. nuclear agency to keep out of its business Monday. a scornful diatribe that came as top North and South Korean officials held cordial talks on resolving Pyongyang's nuclear crisis. Moving ahead with Seoul's diplomatic offen­sive, South Korea's presidential envoy met with a close confidant of reclusive North Korean President Kim Jong II -and there was speculation that he and other envoy could meet with Kim himself in the coming days. Pyongyang's acceptance of the envoys could signal an casing of its refusal to allow third parties to help end the crisis over North Korea's nuclear weapons program. which it insists is a mat­ter between it and the United States. The Southern delegation reported to the government in Seoul that the talks were "sincern," while the North's state-run news agency, KCNA, said discussions were held "in an atmosphere overflowing with compatriotic feel­ings and mutual understanding." 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Internet worm still affecting banks: 
The weekend attack on the Internet crippled some sensitive corporate and government systems, including banking operations and 911 centers, far more seriously than many experts believed possi­ble. The nation's largest residential mortgage firm, Countrywide Financial Corp., told customers who called Monday it was still suffering from the attack. Its Web site. where customers usually can make payments and check their loans. was closed with a note about "emergency maintenance." Police and fire dispatchers outside Seattle resort­ed to paper and pencil for hours Saturday after the virus-like attack disrupted operations for the 911 center that serves two suburban police departments and at least 14 fire departments. American Express Co. confirmed that customers couldn't reach its Web site to check credit state­ments and account balances during parts of the weekend. 
needed to conclusively deter­mine whether Iraq was com­plying with its obligations, diplomats told The Associated Press on condition of anonymi­ty. 
ISRAEL 
Confident Sharon finalizes Israeli election campaign 
groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad announced Monday they will not halt attacks on Israeli civilians, ending Egypt's months-long effort to pave the way for a truce and resumption of peace talks. There had been some expectation that a truce announce­ment could be made before Israel's vote. 
With Sharon's right-wing Likud expected to emerge as the largest fac­tion -Monday's polls had Likud win­ning 30 to 33 seats -attention has already shifted to post-election coali­tion troubles that could significantly weaken the prime minister. 
Possible death penalty spy case opens: 
The first spy trial in 50 years that could result in the death penalty opened Monday with prosecutors por­traying a retired Air Force master. sergeant as will­ing to sell out his country for a price and his lawyers saying he had nothing of value to offer. Brian Patrick Regan is charged with offering classified information to Iraq, Libya and China. If convicted, Regan could become the first American executed for spying since Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in 1953. After 12 jurors and four alternates were seated, lawyers for both sides delivered opening statements before U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee "Brian Regan took an oath of loyalty to the United States. It is an oath he did not keep," Assistant U.S. Attorney Patricia Haynes told the jurors. She read a letter that Regan allegedly wrote to Saddam Hussein offering the Iraqi president information to help the lraquis hide anti-aircraft missiles in exchange for $13 million in Swiss francs. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
Panel 
continued from page l 
is to get out there and vote," said Creed. 
To make it easier for stu­dents to voice their opinions in other ways, the Center for Social Concerns provided paper and envelopes for stu­dents to send their views to hometown politicians and other people involved with the decision to go to war with Iraq. 
"At what point is [Saddam Hussein] enough of a threat to take action against him?" questioned Creed. 
Numerous other panel mem­bers asked similar questions, though no one seemed to have an answer. 
"According to the U.N. Atomic Energy Report, if there were no inspectors in Iraq, the earliest (raq could build a weapon to pose a threat to the United States is eight years," said panelist Yakoob Bangash as a reason not to go to war with Iraq. 
Two panelists, Mohammad Hamad, a member of the University Muslim Association, 



Mom's murder said to imitate 'Sopranos' 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif. 

Two young men killed their mother and tried to cover their tracks by chopping off her head and hands the way they saw it done on "The Sopranos," authorities said Monday. . 
Jason Bautista, 20, and his 15-year-old half brother, who was not identified because of his age, were arrested over the weekend for investigation of murder, Sheriff Michael Carona said. 
Carona refused to say where Jane M. Bautista, 41, was killed but said a pre­liminary autopsy showed she was strangled. Her head and hands were found in the apartment she shared with her sons in Riverside, east of Los Angeles. 
"I don't know what motive you could possibly give for killing your mother," Carona said. 
The family. originally from Illinois, moved to California six years ago and had moved into the Riverside apartment about six months ago. 
According to the sheriff, Bautista was killed and dis­membered Jan. 14. The sons allegedly tried to dump her body in Oceanside the next day, but were spotted by a security guard and ended up throwing the body in an Orange County ravine. The guard gave police the license number of Jason Bautista's car. 
Jason Bautista. a desk clerk at a Holiday Inn in Ontario, was arrested at California State University in San Bernardino on Jan. 24. 
He allegedly told investiga­tors he and his brother lived with their mom but they hadn't soon her for weeks, but soon confessed. 


Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
*Check #7 Notre Oamo/University Park Mall schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just 
or area restaurants. So one of the many reasons check out TRANSPO, students ride public offering bus service transportation every day. They also throughout Soutl1 Bend ride it to go to the rnall, the rnovies, and Mishavvaka. 
For route & schedule infurmation please call; 
t2g)~L~iJ®iJ

--,z-~-"-~fff1.T~ 
Wherever Life Takes You 
and Peter Quaranto, Pax Christi, gave a humanitarian view of the war. 
Hamad cited many statistics about the Iraqi children who do not have enough food, good health care or education, and he cautioned that a war in Iraq would only make it worse. 
"We forget the people of Iraq, if they die, it is no differ­ent than us dying," said Quaranto. 
North Korea's nuclear weapons was another com­mon thread throughout the discussion. 
Casey Wong, Peace Coalition believes that other countries pose a more immediate threat and that the United States should be going after them. 
"I don't believe lraq poses an immediate threat, but Pakistan and North Korea both have nuclear weapons." 
After the panel presented their views, questions were taken from the audience. 
"What is the viable alterna­tive to the war?" asked sopho­more Greg Cannon. a common question from members of the audience. 
Cannon also said that the war is the only way he sees to right the immorality occurring in Iraq. 
"Using immorality to fix immorality, in my opinion, just doesn't work," said Quaranto. 
Contact Kristin Klein at Kristin.M.Klein.3 l@nd.edu and Luke Busam at Luke.J.Busam.S@nd.edu 

Recycle The Observer. 




Do you see a windy day or a way to generate power for 1000 homes? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you're like us 
and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet 
engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE will give you unlimited 
opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work 
every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Underclassmen -GE will be on campus interviewing for internships in February. For more info: www.gecareers.com/notredame 
Winter Career & Internship Fair 
Joyce Center 
January 28, 2003, 4:00 -8:00 PM 
We bring good things to life. 




BusiNEss 
Tuesday, January 28, 2003 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 27 
Dow Jones 
7,989.56 -141.45 



NASDAQ 
1,325.27 -16.87
•


S&P500 
847.48 -13.93
•

AMEX 
807.09 -8.75 



NYSE 
4,786.96 -93.23
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICI 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -1.17 -0.29 24.5; 


si~s2:::~~x~i;Jit!!~lirlllilllli:!l:1!l1!lli!!Jilll:!:Jil;IJi 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -1.37 -1.18 85.2~ 

MigR9~2i,l'li'.ll!:)li!IIIJl!llilll!~:1111111:11:1111i:11 
INTEL CORP (ITTC) +0.19 +0.03 15.Sf 
IN BRIEF 
Government must return licenses 
The Supreme Court ordered the government Monday to give back billions of dollars worth or unused wireless licenses to NextWave Telecom Inc., a decision that could lead to better service and more options for cellular customers in many major American cities. The airwaves slices have been in limbo during a protracted fight between NextWave and an agency that confiscated the licenses and resold them at a huge profit after NextWave filed for bankruptcy protection. The high court ruled that the Federal Communications Commission did not have the authority to take away licenses from the company while it was reorganizing its finances. Now NextWave can finish building a network or sell the licenses to other companies. It will free up wireless spectrum in dozens of crowded markets, including Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington. "Now the spectrum that's been tied up in litigation all these years can be put to use to serve the public, as NextWave always intended." said NextWave lawyer Donald B. Verrilli Jr. "You'll probably see market-wide effects." Companies like AT&T Wireless, Cingular Wireless and Verizon Wireless may vie for the airwaves, analysts said. 
SEC investigates credit agencies 
Wall Street credit-rating agencies, partly blamed by lawmakers for the massive accounting failure at Enron Corp., are being scrutinized by federal regulators for possibly stifling competition in their field. The Securities and Exchange Commission has been investigating since last year the role of the· credit raters and considering whether they should be more tightly regulated. Their gradings of companies' creditworthiness are watched closely by the markets and can determine where banks and other financial institutions invest. Despite their power, the SEC allows them largely to police themselves. 



Housing market still thriving 
. Existing home sales rise despite economy 
As•ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Home buyers took advantage of some of the lowest mortgage rates in decades and catapulted sales of previously owned homes in 2002 to the high­est level on record. 
The housing market thrived even as the American economy, knocked back by the 2001 recession, struggled all last year to regain a solid foot­ing and suffered through uneven growth. The lure of low mortgage rates proved irresistible to many people, who opted to make big­ticket financial commit­ments despite the muddled economic environment. 
Previously owned homes sold at an annual rate of 
5.56 million in 2002, shat­tering the record of 5.30 million reached in 2001, the National Association of Realtors reported Monday. 
"Housing remains one of the sole pillars of strength for the U.S. economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief econo­mist at Bank of America Capital Management. "Consumers remain willing to undertake longer-term commitments in terms of sales in a month continued monthly cash that home­By region, existing-home

purchases of both autos 

for all 12 months. owners save by refinancing sales in the West rose by
and homes," she said. 

"Exceptionally low mort­mortgages at lower rates 7 .5 percent in 2002 fromWhile low mortgage rates gage interest rates are the has helped consumer the previous year to 1.49
have stoked home sales, primary factor in record spending remain the pri­million. In the Midwest,free-financing and other 

levels of home sales," said mary force keeping the sales rose by 4.9 percent to incentives have buoyed car David Lereah, chief econo­economy going. 1.22 million, and in thesales. 
mist at the National Another factor motivat­South sales went up 4.1
But on Wall Street, fears Association of Realtors. ing home buyers is solid percent to 2.2 million. Inabout war with Iraq pum­The average interest rate appreciation of housing the Northeast, sales

meled stocks. The Dow 

on a 30-year fixed-rate values. That offers people increased to 653,000, a 2.4
Jones industrial average 

mortgage was 6.05 percent attractive investment, percent rise from 2001.
lost 141.45 points to close in December, a record especially given the turbu­Economists believe the at 7,989.56, the first time monthly low, the associa­lent stock market, econo­Federal Reserve will holdin three months that the tion said. For 2002, the mists said. short-term interest rates atindex closed below 8,000. 

average rate on a 30-year The national median a 41-year low of 1.25 per­
Sales of previously 

mortgage was 6.95 per­home price last year was cent at the close of a two­
owned homes rose to a 

cent, the lowest annual $158,300, up 7.1 percent day meeting Wednesday.
seasonally adjusted annual average since Freddie Mac, from 2001. The median By keeping rates low, poli­rate of 5.86 million last the mortgage giant, began price is where half sell for cy-makers hope the Fedmonth, representing a 5.2 

tracking them in 1971. more and half sell for less. will entice consumers to 
percent increase from 

Low mortgage rates The 7.1 percent increase continue to spend and
November's level. The 

encouraged many people was the largest annual motivate businesses to step
annualized rate reflects 

to buy homes last year or increase since 1980, when up investment, forces that 
how many homes would 

refinance those they the median sales price shot would help the sputteringsell if the same number of already owned. The extra up by 11.7 percent. recovery. 

GETTY A "Sold" sign marks the front of a single-family home In a new subdivision in Glenview, Ill. in January. Both home-building and existing home sales flourished in 2002 desite the economic recession. 
Euro hits new high against dollar 
Associated Pcess 
BERLIN 
The curo hit a new three-year high against the U.S. dollar Monday, breaking above $1.09 in a rally that comes amid concerns over a possi­ble war on Iraq. 
The euro rose to $1.0907 in European trading after breaking the $1.08 mark on Friday. It last traded higher on Oct. 15, 1999, when it reached $1.0912. 
By late in the New York trading day, however, the euro had eased back and changed hands at $1.0852. up from $1.0844 late Friday. 
The euro's recent rise is viewed by economists less as a spike in the currency itself than a decline in the dollar, which slumped also against the British pound as rising fears of military action in the Persian Gulf prompted selling across financial markets. 
"If you compare this to what hap­pened during the Gulf War a decade ago it's exactly the same," said Michael Schubert, an economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. "If mili­tary action takes place. it goes in the other direction, but so long as there is uncertainty there will be a ten­dency for the dollar to depreciate." 
Schubert said he could foresee the 
euro rising as high as $1.12 if the uncertainty continues through February. 
Europe's common currency has gained more than 20 percent against the dollar in the past year, as worries about the U.S. economy and stock markets turned to alarm that an Iraq conflict could drive up oil prices and dry up investment. 
The spike makes life more expen­sive for Americans living or travel­ing in Europe. but helps U.S. manu­facturers by making their goods cheaper in comparison with those of their European competitors, while raising possible concerns over the outlook for European exporters. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, January 28 , 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, IN 45556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
A.sS'r. MANI.GING EDITOR  Oi'ERADONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDJTOill Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herder, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kai;mar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKcnna 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Maura Ccnedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROI..LER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. ..................................... .......................631-0927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@lnd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4:,4,l MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4:,41 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOJNT.......................................... •......631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4S43 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................63I-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................63I-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................63I-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edi tor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Oh.server. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stiom regarding Obsn-vrrpolicie, should be direct­ed to Editor in Chiiffasan McFar!ey. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th<" Obsener (USP-S 599 240) Ui publiihc,d Monday chrough Friday except during 
a.m and ~1ion period,, A luruct'ipllon w The Ob~rvcris SlOO roronc ai.:adc:mic yc;U; S55 for one K1neu.cr. 
The OblCl'Vcr l1 pubb1hed ac l'OITMASTER 
0.24 South Dining H~ Send addrcu correcr:ions ro;.. Notre Dame. IN 46556 ~Obscm:-:r 
P.O.BoxQ Ptriodic:M po1tagc-paid 1.t Nooe DI.Bl~ Nalff' Ila~. ZN 46556-0779 md .ddiUOn.l m~li11g offices.. 
Tiu: O~rvc:-r i1" mcml>(:-r of tbe lu.Mx:i.ate..l Press. All rcpn,du.cri~,n ti,hu vi; tticr,·cd. 

Visit to Baghdad inspires concern for Iraqi people, opposition to war 
Last fall, 30,000 academics signed a petition opposing the apparently impending war with Iraq. In response, the University of Baghdad invited signa­tories to the petition to visit Baghdad to learn more. Thirty-two people. mysell' Julie Ryan-Sliva included, accepted the invitation and traveled to Baghdad from Jan. Viewpoint: Iraq 11 to Jan. 17. The delegation included academics in the fields of archaeology, communications, computer science, environmental stud­ies, geography, history, law, mathemat­ics, medicine, Middle East studies, nurs­ing, philosophy, political science, psy­chology, public health, religious studies, social work and sociology. While our del­egation does not support the regime of Saddam Hussein, we traveled with the hope of learning more about and show­ing support for Iraqi people. We did not accept financial assistance from our hosts so as to maintain the independence of our group. 
Before leaving, I had concerns. Frustration over U.S. foreign policy might translate into aggression from Iraqis. A crisis might occur and make it difficult to leave. The message of the trip could be twisted both in Iraq and the U.S., to opposite ends. And it seemed likely that the trip would be so closely managed by the Iraqi government that genuine interaction with Iraqis would be difficult or impossible. 
Upon arrival, though these concerns did not melt away, I had the sense that it had been right to face my fears. The Iraq I saw is filled with ordinary people trying to live ordinary lives -students eager to practice their English, shopkeepers anx­ious to sell souvenirs, professors excited to exchange academic ideas and chil­dren curious to interact with foreign visi­tors. Yet overshadowing this ordinari­ness is a deep sadness and frustration, as foreign soldiers and bombs gather around a nation weary from years of war, sanctions and international isola­tion. 
Iraq has been and should be a pros­perous country, with fertile land fed by the Tigris and Euphrates, an abundance of oil and a populace that places a high value on education. However, since the end of the 1991 Gulf War, sanctions imposed on Iraq have resulted in deaths from malnutrition and disease as well as economic devastation and the isolation of ordinary Iraqis. 
Iraq's health care system, once among the best in the Middle East, now strug­gles to cope with treatable diseases. The formerly impressive educational system, with limited access to international jour­nals, conferences and academic exchange, now lags behind. The sanc­tions, intended to weaken Saddam Hussein and impair his ability to remili­tarize. have directed his people's anger toward the United States rather than his own regime. Our attempts to marginal­ize and weaken Saddam Hussein have weakened and demoralized Iraq's 24 
million people but seem not to have 
affected the regime much. 
We knew that the Iraqi government 
had an interest in controlling what we 
saw and heard, and we were under no 
illusions that we were interacting with a 
representative cross-section of Iraq's 
diverse population. Our hosts were pri­
marily university professors, adminis­trators and students, a number of whom had been educated in the United States. However, we heard more than just the government line on the current situation. We witnessed some discomfort about the heavy-handedness of the official mes­sage being presented to us and sensed a strong desire to be accepted members of the international community. We heard repeatedly from Iraqis that they gen­uinely like America and Americans, and we were warmly greeted by those we met. 
Nevertheless, the Iraqis I talked to do not trust the United States' expressed desire to "liberate" them. They were adamant that they could not accept change imposed by a foreign power. If attacked, they said that they would be forced to defend their land against the United States, which many believe is more interested in their oil than in their human rights. 
This attitude came as no surprise based on experiences that I have had studying and working in other parts of the Middle East for more than four years. The history of colonialism by the British and French is still fresh in the minds of most Arabs I have met, and they are deeply distrustful of foreign intervention into their countries. Though many Americans perceive a difference between former imperialist actions of European powers and current U.S. poli­cy, we cannot ignore that millions of people in the Middle East do not accept this distinction. 
On Jan. 17, the Washington Post reported that postwar plans already drawn up by the Bush Administration state that following a U.S. invasion, "Iraqis relegated to advisory roles in the immediate postwar period would gradu­ally be given a greater role, but they would not regain control of their country for a year or more." 
It seems singularly unwise, from a security perspective, for the United States to put itself in the position of mili­tarily occupying an Arab country, espe­cially for such an extended period. The animosity that such an occupation would generate would threaten rather than secure our nation for years to come. Of special concern is the fact that Iraq con­tains many Islamic holy sites and is close to Islam's most sacred places of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. 
The attacks ofSeptember 11 illustrat­ed vividly that it does not take weapons of mass destruction to cause havoc; a relatively small group of enraged and determined individuals with modest resources can have a devastating impact. Moreover, a preemptive strike on Iraq would set a dangerous precedent encouraging other countries to take pre­emptive actions against those they per­ceive as a threat, leading to greater con­flict and instability worldwide. 
I agree with the Oct. 2002 statement of CIA Director George Tenet that the likeli­hood of Saddam Hussein launching an unprovoked attack on the United States is low but that. if cornered, he would become much more dangerous. A firm and consistent policy of containment and deterrence is an option that can enhance global security without destabilizing the region or creating even more implacable enemies. It is not a viable or sustainable foreign policy to invade every country that has oppressive leadership and dan­gerous weapons. It is clear that Saddam Hussein's regime is a brutal one, and Iraqis deserve a better future. However, to be legitimate and to endure, change must come from within. 
We can support internal change through engagement with Iraq in which great international influence can be brought to bear. We must ease the sanc­tions and isolation that Iraqis have expe­rienced for 12 years to end the unintend­ed effect ofstrengthening Saddam Hussein's regime and weakening aver­age Iraqis. At the same time, we must pursue an arms control policy that reflects the needs and interests of all countries in the Middle East. 
At the conclusion of our trip, our group prepared a joint statement outlining our position and recommendations on Iraq as informed by our trip and previous knowledge of the region. Despite a great diversity within our delegation, we found unity in our opposition to a preemptive attack on Iraq and support for the easing of sanctions and direct dialogue between Iraqi and American politicians and peo­ple to reduce our mutual sense of threat. A full text of the statement as well as photographs from our trip are available at: httpJ/home.earthlink.net/-ryan-silva. 
There is still time to act to prevent a war. Let us not lose this opportunity to protect our nation's values, international reputation and national security. 
Julie Ryan-Silva is a 1991 graduate of Notre Dame and a current graduate stu­dent at George Mason University's Institute for Conflict Analysis and Resolution. Her column is the first in the series "Viewpoint: Iraq, " which will explore the issues surrounding the U.S. conflict with Iraq from a variety ofper­spectives. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger 
Viewpoint 
Dolores Diaz 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 
Sports 
Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso Olal'OOHalloway 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Stephanie Grammens 

NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does student goverment take actions that impact your life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Peace is normally a great good, and nor­mally it coincides with righteousness. but it is righteousness and not peace which should bind the conscience ofa nation as it should bind the conscience ofan individual." 
Theodore Roosevelt 
U.S. president 

-l 
I
O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, January 28, 2003 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Calls for participation in Saint Mary's student government elections 
Board ofGovernance clarifies votingprocess 
We as the Saint Mary's College Board of Governance, representing the Saint Mary's College students in an effort to clarify the election process, feel the need to issue this statement. 
According to the Saint Mary's College Student Government Association Constitution. voting procedures are as follows: if one lickct emerges, a vote of "yes" signifies support of the candidates, a vote of "no" indicates a vote of no confidence in the candidates and a vote of "abstain" indicates a vote of no opinion on the candidates in the election. The elec­tion process will begin again only if the ticket receives 50 percent plus 1 vote in the "no" category. Abstention votes are counted in the overall percentage. 
Students arc reminded they have until 11 :59 p.m. tonight. Tuesday, Jan. 28, to vote on-line via prism in the student body elections. We would like to state that all current Saint Mary's students have the right to vote in this election. 
As the student's voice, we would like to clarify that all current sophomores and juniors were invited to attend election information meetings and to form tickets. Many students attended those meetings with one ticket emerging. Our election process is open and inclusive. 
We encourage all students to vote and to consult www.saint­marys.edu/-sga with further questions in regards to voting proce­dures for election day. You are always welcome to call the Student Government Office at 284-5373 with any comments, questions, or con­cerns. 
Board of Governance Saint Mary's College Jan.27 

ElectJablonski-Diehl and Brown 
As a first-year student at Saint Mary's, I found The Observer's endorsement of an abstention campaign in Saint Mary's upcoming election to be both disappointing and disturbing. Not only are Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and Sarah Brown willing to run, but they arc truly the best candidates for the position. The women in our student body who are standing quietly aside are doing so not out offear or intimidation, but in support of a ticket that has faithfully and beneficially served their student body. I agree that student government should be about adequate represen­tation and that we should elect the ticket who will do the best job on behalf of our students. That is why I stand behind Jabloski-Diehl and Brown and offer them my complete support. They have alr~ady shown us their amazing capabilities as young leaders in the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities. and I believe that their efforts will only increase and students will continue to be satisfied as they accept the new positions that they seek. Their efforts to provide a better academic, social and spiritual environment for Saint Mary's students should not be met with hostil­ity as they seek our support in this election. Instead, those of us who truly know these candidates and their abilities should take a solid stand in their support and cast our vote in their favor this Tuesday. We are currently represented, and represented well, in Saint Mary's student government. Let's continue to support those who continuously sacrifice their personal time and effort for us; let's elect Jablonski-Diehl and Brown. 
Anna Bauer 
freshman First-Year Class President Saint Mary's College Jan. 27 

Peace movement ignores need for removal of Saddam 
As a result of the peace protests last weekend and the calls for no war in Iraq that have surfaced on this campus. I feel compelled to respond. I know many of the students personally who are clamoring for peace, and they are very sincere people who have a world­view worthy of respect. I even had the privilege of attending the delightful Sheila Provencher's talk on what she witnessed on a recent peace coalition trip to Iraq. She is a true person of non-violence and very brave to do what she did. Yet, a nagging fact remains that if the counsels of the peace move­ment are followed, at the end of the day Saddam Hussein remains in power. This is an injustice that cannot be sim­ply overlooked. 
Now I realize that no one in the peace movement cares for Saddam Hussein, and they are certainly not among his apologists. But the fact remains that by opposing any military action to remove him, they are indirectly supporting the status quo and the continued oppres­sion of the Iraqi people. 
There are many reasons to support regime change in Iraq, and all of these have been stated by. people better than myself. The first is the fact that Saddam Hussein has broken every law on genocide and human rights. As a result, Congress under President Clinton passed the Iraqi Liberation Act calling for Saddam's removal many years before this current debate. 
Second is Saddam's continual efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction in violation of several U.N. resolutions over the past decade. A third is that the Iraqi secret police are known actors in the international underworld of terror. 
In fact, regime change has already happened in Iraqi Kurdistan. Due to American and British enforced "no-fly" zones the Kurds have successfully con­structed a flourishing civil society com­plete with newspapers in several lan­guages, TV stations, Internet cafes and satellite dishes. At the University of Sulaimaniya, a significant number of the students are home. 
If the peace movement wishes to remain consistent, they should protest that these no-fly zones be lifted since they are ongoing measures from the last Gulf War. Then we would see how quickly Saddam's death squads would move in and attempt to annihilate the Kurds once again as they did in 1988 and at the end of the last war. Surely a principled peace movement would not ignore these self-determined peoples. 
There remain objections that have been raised and that merit serious con­sideration. One of the most ubiquitous is that this is a war for oil. On one side, I feel I can say that if it were simply about oil, would it not be easier for President Bush to call for the lifting of the sanctions and give Saddam a green light to do as he pleased, only asking in return that Iraq sells us its oil a little cheaper? I find it hard to believe ihai Saddam would not jump if given that chance. On the other hand, I guess one can say it is about oil. 
A consensual government in Iraq would ideally raise the oil production to over three million barrels and allow the world price of oil to decline or stabilize. This would benefit millions of people outside the United States, and it would allow the Iraqi people to benefit from oil profits to rebuild their country instead of the money going toward Hussein's anthrax labs or palaces while the people starve. If there is anyone who does not want the current oil situ­ation to change, it is the large oil com­panies who· rely on the large profits that come from the status quo of a tight world oil supply. Those who accuse the United States of being economically imperialistic need only reflect that there was no oil to be found in Grenada, Panama, Somalia or Kosovo, all places where the United States has carried out military operations in the past twenty years. 
What is in place now in Iraq are crip­pling economic sanctions that I would agree are immoral. They punish the Iraqi people while letting Saddam keep a grip on power. Yet, they cannot be lifted while he is still there since this would allow his regime to regroup and pursue weapons of mass destruction. 
What the peace movement should be advocating is a coherent policy for a post-Saddam Iraq. This is an area where we can reasonably question the current administration's commitment to staying the course after the war. 
Iraq will be very fragile once Saddam is gone and could "Balkanize" with all the different ethnic factions fighting among themselves. Jeffersonian democracy will not catch overnight and will require many years of multi-lateral presence in order to keep the peace and help the Iraqis construct a democ­racy. We would owe the Iraqi people no less. A new government in Iraq could serve as beachhead from which waves of democratic reform could emanate to the failed regimes that surround it. 
In the end. if the views of the peace movement had been followed over the past decade, Kuwait would no longer exist as a country, having long ago been gobbled up by Iraq and Saddam Hussein would have nuclear weapons. This would risk a much bloodier more destabilizing conflict than we can now imagine if he were to ever use them. 
Continuing with this thought, if the peace movement prevailed in 1999, Kosovo would currently be ethnically cleansed. An interesting note is that Saddam Hussein came out against the removal of Slobodan Milosevic, a man who was killing Sunni Muslims, mem­bers of Saddam's own sect. These reac­tionary dictators tend to stick together. When faced with all of this it surely must make a hands-off approach to Saddam more problematic. This leads me to ask my friends in the peace movement if it really is about peace. 
Damian Zurro 
senior off-campus Jan. 27 

THE OBSERVER 

page 10 Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
Matchbox 20 show they're more 
By JON GARGANO 
Scene Music Critic 
More Than You Think You Are, Matchbox 20's third album, is easily their most versatile to date. Possessing intense lyrics, swirling guitar riffs and propulsive choruses, this album further expands and diversifies the band's image as the face of radio pop-rock. Jn this album, the quintet experiments with dif­ferent styles and sounds incorporating gospel, country-twang and hard-rock into their emotive ballads. 
The album's first single "Disease," co­written by Rob Thomas and Mick Jagger, which adds Jagger to the long list of megastars Thomas has collaborated with. Filled with powerful guitar solos and upbeat tempos, "Disease" is slightly reminiscent of Thomas's Grammy win-
More Than You Think You Are 
Matchbox20 
Atlantic Records 


ning hit "Smooth" performed with Carlos Santana. 
"Bright Lights" is the first song on the album that emits a southern vibe. The song makes use of a pedal steel guitar and a piano to reach a folky twang sound that can also be detected on the track "All I Need." These songs highlight the group's impressive range and it seems probable that these tracks were influ­enced by Rob Thomas's recent exposure to Willie Nelson. 
"Unwell" is the first track that stands out for its intriguing lyrics. Rob Thomas's songs are deeply self-reflexive and can often seem all too familiar: 'Tm not crazy / I'm just a little unwell / I know right now you can't tell/ But stay awhile and then maybe you'll see / A different side ofme." . 
Though Rob Thomas continues to shine as one of the top songwriters of the 
day, his 
pres ­


e n c e can be a little strong. T h e biggest flaw of t h e group's second album. 
M a d 
Season. w a s that it sounded too much like the Rob Thomas Group, with each track possessing the same atti­tude and soft melodic quality. However, More Than You Think You Are goes to great lengths to integrate all five mem­bers and represents the first of the group's albums in which each member shares in song­writing credit. Drummer Paul Doucette wrote "Could I Be You," which adds another dimension to the ·group's sound. 
Perhaps the most dar• ing track on the album is ''Downfall" which starts out with a typical rock sound, but midway through turns to soul, complete with a gospel choir. The result is an incredible and inventive sound enriched by lyrics of lost love, "l want you back again / I want you to trouble me I Be my savior / And I'll be your downfall." This attitude continues into the following track "Soul." 
If there is a flaw in the album it is emotional excesses. The same Rob Thomas lyrics which are liberating in some tracks seem hampering in others. Though each song is well written, some­times the soft emotional messages seem incongruous with the upbeat music, making the band come off as melodra­matic. 
More Than You Think Are is a very solid album straight through the opening track "Feel" to the final hidden track "So Sad So Lonely." It successfully captures the sounds that millions of fans fell in love with in the groups first two albums while simultaneously introducing an array of new sound and style. 
Contact Jon Gargano at gargano. l@nd.ec:lu 
Dashboard fans unplug 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
What makes a good Jive album? A good setlist? Lots of witty banter between the band and the crowd? How about the qual­ity of the recording? Dashboard Confessional's latest release, MTV Unplugged, attempts to capture all the elements of a perfect live show, but they fall short. 
Unplugged should be the perfect setting for an entirely acoustic band, and Dashboard does an excellent job of creat­ing an intimate atmosphere. Chris Carraba, originally a solo acoustic act, created Dashboard Confessional. With his relentlessly sad and impossibly frail acoustic songs, he ultimately created the erno-core genre. This is the perfect band to take the stage on MTV's historic Unplugged series. Being an acoustic based band, Dashboard's sound on Unplugged is no different than their stu­dio sound. One major difference, however, is the presence of the audience. 

On most live albums the crowd is mixed out of the recording and you can barely hear them, but on this album the crowd is all you can hear on several tracks. Microphones were placed in the crowd in order to pick up the audience's voices as they sing along with Chris Carraba on every single song. On several quieter tracks you can barely hear Carraba's voice and guitar over the audience's singtng. This is very annoying and takes away from the music, which is wonderful­ly played. The sing-along works only on one song, the first track "Swiss Army Romance." Carraba plays solo and stops singing during the chorus at the end and lets the crowd take over. This creates a very i n ti ­
continues to drown out the music throughout the album, and the only time you cannot hear them is when the rest of the band comes out and plays with Carraba. 
Beneath the crowd's vocals, the songs themselves are beautifully played. Standout tracks include the first track, "Swiss Army Romance," which Carraba plays solo, as well as "So Impossible," "For You to Notice" and "Again I Go Unnoticed," which are all played with a full band. The rest of the songs seem as though they are probably played excellently, but the crowd is so loud you can barely hear anything that is being played. 
When the acoustic guitars are intelligi­ble, one of the best guitar players can be heard. Carraba's sideman plays a haunt­ing guitar with gentle riffs that make the emotional songs even better. He also dou­bles on the piano which adds a certain sound to Dashboard's songs which cannot be heard on their studio albums. Their most recognizable song "Screaming Infidelities" is much better than the origi-
MTV Unplugged Dashboard 
Confessional 
Vagrant Records 



mate s e t ­ting. but the crowd should have been mixed 0 U t after th at track. T h e crowd nal adding a piano. but again the crowd covers it up almost completely with their singing. 

This is an excellent live album, and the bonus DVD that comes with the album is excellent too. The only flaw in this is the crowd's annoying sing-along. Because of this Dashboard's songs lose much of their beauty. Other than that, this is a very good album that will no doubt expand Dashboard Confessional's fan base. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 
,______ 
THE OBSERVER 

Tuesday, January 28, 2002 page 11 
Dylan thunderous in revue 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assiscam Scene Edicor 
There is no one quite so hard to define as Bob Dylan. It see·ms that every time he appears in the news he has rndicully Lrans­formed his image, his sound. his message, or some combination of the three. Most recently, Dylan made an appearance at the Newport Folk f<'estival sporting a shoulder­length wig. a fake beard and a fake mus­tache. His purpose for doing this? No one knows. 
Over the years, Dylan's live performanc­es have echoed his chameleon-like person­ality. Rarely does he play a song true to its album version. Instead he alters them nearly beyond recognition, with varying rhythms, instruments and lyrics. Fans find themselves competing with each other at concerts to see who can recognize the songs first. Usually recognition occurs about halfway through the second verse, that is, if Dylan even chooses to include it. This is all part of the fun of a Dylan show. 
Dylan-philcs have been circlinf bootleg tapes for decades, highlighting the abun­dant workings of his nwnerous songs. 
But now the bootlegs have become offi­cial. Dylan has started releasing live seloc­tions of his songs in his Bootleg Series, the most recent, Volume 5, Live 1975, The Rolling Thunder Revue. 
This double album showcases a wide­variety of Dylan's repertoire, sampling live cuts from his 1975 tour, The Rolling Thunder Revue, The songs traverse his career from his early folk/protest roots to his 1976 release, Desire. 
Traveling with Dylan on this tour were a caravan of musicians, friends, poets, and anyone else he collected on the way. Most notably present on this album arc folk­singer Joan Baez; the Byrd's Roger McGuinn; and Scarlet Rivera, a long-haired gypsy violinist whom Dylan randomly asked to join the show after seeing her on the street with a violin case. 
Although the songs are all taken from different shows along the tour, they progress smoothly and are delivered as though they were all in one set. Disc one plunges into the opener, "Tonight I'll Be Staying Here With You," a song from his country-flavored album, Nashville Skyline. The song, originally recorded as a gentle, meandering number, takes on a vigorous persona, with a powerful backing band and Dylan ·s aggressive vocals. 

Next, comes "It Ain't Me, Babe." One of his most well-known acoustic ballads, Dylan electrically transforms this song into a galloping rove, cuhninating in one of his expert harmonica solos. 
Another shocking song adaptation is the protest song "The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll." The song depicts the injus­tice of the court system in the trial of William Zanzinger who killed Hattie Carroll, a black mother of 10 children. The original acoustics are morphed into a plodding bass-driven beat over which Dylan croons with vengeance, "But you philosophize disgrace and criticize all fears/ Take the rag away from your face/ Now ain't the time for your tears." • 
The highlight of disc one comes in the 
mellow "Mr. Tambourine Man." Dylan's 
vocals show maturation with a deep, rich 
sound, far different from the nasal wails 
of his youth. This song stays true to its 
original version from the Bringing It All 
Back Home album, but there is a certain 
intimacy in this live recording that the 
original song lacks. The gentle strum of 
his acoustic and his timid vocals give this 
song a vulnerable, endearing charm. 
Disc two opens with the gorgeous "It's 
All Over Now, Baby Blue." As with "Mr. 
Tambourine Man," Dylan sticks to the 
album version of this song with soft 
acoustic strumming complementing his 
harmonica solos and the gentle puzzle of 
his lyrics, "The highway is for gamblers, 
better use your sense / Take what you 
have gathered from coincidence ... This 
sky, too, is folding under you I And, it's all 
over now, Baby Blue." 
Disc two also includes the epic song 
"Hurricane," the song Dylan wrote in 
defense of the wrongfully imprisoned 
boxer, Rubin "Hurricane" Carter. In fact, 
the impetus for the Rolling Thunder tour 
was Dylan's desire to draw attention to the 
plight of the boxer. Dylan prefaces the 
song with a plug for Carter, asking the 
audience, "If you've got any political pull and all, maybe you can help us get this man out of jail and back on to the streets." The song quickly swirls into a whirlwind of guitar. harmonica, and Hevera's incendiary violin bowing with Dylan flashing "Here comes the story of the Hurricane / The man the authorities came to blame / For somethin' that he never done/ Stuck in a prison cell / But one time he could-a been the champion of the world." 

Although Dylan's peculiarities surface every now and then, they never get in the way of his music. And as Live 197 5 shows, the music is Dylan's crown and glory. There is no new material on this album, but listening to it is like listening to the songs for the first time. Each version is unique, and no matter how it has been ~ altered from its studio to its live version, every song is inherently Dylan. 
Contact Julie Bender at bender. IO@nd.edu 
eb•. 2'. · 
'.~b•.·•·•···~l>;\'.> \S •ti. 11·• 
.-..~,.<2';;; >' 
,-< \ ..~ , .. 
. 23· 
... ,,, .. ,., ,,:..,•,','• 
:··. ,'' •', '' :,.:!\' :;:::::::,: 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
NFL 
Raiding the aftermath 
. Raiders looking ahead at long road of trouble 
Associated Press 
OAKIA.ND, Calif. 

The short-term plan failed ­and the long-term troubles are just beginning for the Oakland Raiders. 
While desperately pursuing their first championship in 19 years, the Raiders didn't think far into the future beyond Super Bowl Sunday. They stocked their roster with tal­ented veterans, and pushed the limits of their salary cap for years to come with lucrative contracts. 
After the Raiders endured a crushing 48-21 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and former coach Jon Gruden, the future arrived -and it isn't promising for an aging, expen­sive team that's almost certain to get major changes before next season. 
"We had a great shot this year," guard Frank Middleton said. "Who knows what the future holds? None of us have any idea what's going to hap­pen to us next year." 
As they packed up and head­ed home on Monday, most of the Raiders were disconsolate at their failure. 
They wanted to win for Tim Brown, the longest-serving player in team history who was in his first Super Bowl. They wanted to win for 73-year-old owner Al Davis, who inspires incredible loyalty in most of his players. They wanted to win for a city that could use the good news -and not the shameful rioting that followed their loss. 
"It's more disappointing than I ever thought it could be," Pro Bowl tackle Lincoln Kennedy said. "I can't put it into words. I thought this was our year." 
All-Pro center Barret Robbins didn't even wait until the Super Bowl to begin the scattering of the Raiders. He disappeared on Friday night and didn't resurface for nearly 24 hours, after which the Raiders kicked him out of the team hotel. 
His teammates heard wild rumors about the reasons for Robbins' departure -but Robbins spent game day in a hospital, where he was expect­ed to remain until at least Tuesday. 

After the game, Oakland coach Bill Callahan promised he would reveal all when the team returned home -but in typical Raiders style, the team then decided to stay off-limits to reporters on Monday. 
Robbins' bizarre weekend distracted from the Raiders' dismal performance in the Super Bowl -the game on which they had focused all of their efforts this season. Even without Robbins, Oakland wasn't nearly up to the chal­lenge posed by the Buccaneers. 
A team built on veteran maturity seemed wholly unpre­pared to deal with Tampa Bay's swanning defense, which bullied the Raiders' offensive line and reduced their vaunted receiving corps to a bunch of spectators for nearly three quarters. 
The NFL's best passing game was in ruins. Rich Gannon didn't throw a pass near Jerry Rice in the first half. and Brown caught just one pass for 9 yards on the Raiders' first drive. Three of Gannon's career-high five interceptions were returned for touchdowns -and with each one, the Raiders' title hopes were fur­ther flattened. 
"It's a tough one to swallow, because we've thrown the ball so well this season," Rice said. "I'm not sure what went wrong. We weren't clicking from the start, and it just never got going. I can't make excus­es, because I can't even think of any." 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue would have had to give the Lombardi Trophy to a man who has relentlessly criti­cized him while pursuing in a $1.2 billion conspiracy suit against the NFL. Gruden, who bolted Davis' regime after four years, returned to California to crush his old team with his younger, faster new team. 
And while Gruden's future looks bright with the Buccaneers, Callahan and Davis face an uphill battle to return the Raiders to the form that has earned three straight division titles and two trips to the conference title game. 
It's a given that several key veterans from this season's team will be gone. Defensive tackle Sam Adams, signed to a six-year deal in training camp, said he expects to be released, while others already sense their fates. 
Even if the Raiders use enough salary cap alchemy to keep much of their roster together, an old team will be one year older. Rod Woodson, Bill Romanowski, Trace Armstrong, Gannon, Rice and Brown all are past 35 -and what's more, it's hard to believe Robbins' teammates could ever trust him again. 
"We definitely don't have a cap problem," Brown said ear­lier in the week. "If you know anything about football, the only time you have a cap prob­lem is when you have players you're paying, but don't want to keep. So hopefully we have enough of these players back again to help us try to do this thing again." 

. 80 arrested in Oakland after Raiders' loss 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. 

Police used rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse football fans who smashed windows and set cars on fire after the Oakland Raiders' Super Bowl defeat. 
At least 80 people were arrested Sunday night, mostly for public drunkenness and throwing rocks and bottles at police and obstructing officers, authorities said. Police said they are reviewing videotapes of the violence to try to identify some of those who escaped arrest. 
"Unfortunately, you had a convergence of some young men that seemed hellbent on taking advantage of a situation to engage in lawlessness," Police Chief Richard Word said. 
Police had assigned hundreds of extra officers to work the Oakland streets on Super Bowl Sunday. But trouble broke out after the 48-21 loss to Tampa Bay. 
"When it was apparent that the Raiders were going to lose, we did not anticipate that peo­ple would turn to the streets to celebrate," Word said. 
About 10 vehicles were set on fire and crowds broke the win­dows of at least one television news van, police and witnesses said. One group of young men set debris on fire in the middle of a street and then posed for news photographers. 
Nine fire department vehicles and 12 police cars were dam­aged by thrown objects and three firefighters were injured, none seriously. 
Police lobbed tear gas canis­ters into the crowds and pelted them with rubber bullets. Streets were closed off as the trouble shifted through various areas of East Oakland. People who threw things at officers and passing cars quickly retreated into the crowd, often making it difficult to arrest them, the police chief said. 
It was the second straight week that violence followed a Raiders game. The previous week crowds also set fires and broke windows in the area. 
Police were busy from the time of the first drunk driving arrest at 5 p.m. Sunday until about 2:30 a.m. Monday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every bu.siness day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
New lour bedroom 3 bath home for Rooms For Rent $250 monl/1 Brand New Everything. 2•story I still don't think 15 is impossible... rent with two car garage. Gas heat, includes utilities 272-1525 mmm• rental house with porch and yard
NOTICES central air conditioning, all appli-rentals@aol.com FOR SALE just blocks from campus. Off-street 41 days Iii Spring Break! 
ances, fire place. Call 574-232· parking. 3,4 or 5 students. Summer 
4527 or 269-683· Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom or fall availability. 235-Does anyone else besides me think Need one ticket for G Town game. 5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm-JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON 3655. Joe Millionaire is not hot? 277-0372 rentals@aol.com 272-LAKEWALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­
1525 W'taJ. llllDIDl'.fl0lals CQID KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY 3-6 BDRM HOMES 03/04 YR SEC I really want Bk right now... 
Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed; 2 272-SYS WASHER/0 272-6306 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574-ND & SMC Women: South Bend SPRING BREAK on South Padre 6306 If your friend was a tightrope walker 243·2621 professional couple seeks responsi-Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination and you were walking in the street 
ble female student(s) to provide by the Travel Channel. South Padre and he tripped, that would be totally Acapulco's #1 Spring Break occasional afternoon, evening or Resort Rentals has the best 1 ,2&3 PERSONAL unacceptable. Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is overnight care for two daughters, bedroom condos.. Great location 
FOR RENT 
"Going Loco" with a "Last Chance ages 11 and 5. Located 1 mile from and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 30 days until our little boy becomes I think Big Foot really is blurry and to Dance" Special! Book now and campus in historic district. Must 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis-a man... and can get into the State that's extra scary to me. There is a get $100 off our already low price! have own transportation. Get away land.com FREEDOM! Now renting 2004-05. again.,) large out-of.focus monster roaming Your seat is available now. but may & earn extra money in low-stress The best furnished houses. Prime the countryside. He's fuzy... run be gone tomorrow! Call now 800· setting Call 707·2047 or email Ivy RD condo avail-short term locations, sec.systems, wash/dry, YA TOAST!!! away! 875-Tommp@mbm.org. renlals•ND staff/guests/grad stu-utll incl. Some with V-Ball,B-Ball & 4525. 't£/£/J. lm::a~llQlll tQID dent. Pis call 610-541-0486 pool tables. Call Greg 233·9947. FRENCH TOAST!!!! We're going for a record tonight!! 


--·--­
Tuesday, January 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Jaines cleared after SUV investigation 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

LeBron James dunks like an NBA player, and drives like one, too. 
But he's stiU not a profession­al. 
The nation's top high school basketball player was cleared Monday after a two-week inves­tigation determined he did not violate state amateur bylaws by accepting a sports utility vehicle 
The Nanovic Institute Film Series The New Rebels in European Film: Britain and France 
REJECTS: 
January 29, Wea, "Secrets 'Er Lies" (British 1994) 
1:00 pm., 101 OeBartolo Auditorium 
Peter Hollana., McMeel Family Professor ofShakespeare Studies at Notre Dame will introduce the film. 

--
"':. 
·•;; r,
~

1-:(."?f•
" rf· ·:--.. 
C 
':J-• 
.~. 
.~.. 

,,­
..' ... '&.­
~ . 
January 30, Thurs, "Little Guys/Petits Freres" (French 2001) 7:00 pm., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. French socio-linguist Louis-Jean Calvet from the Universite cte Provence will introduce the film 
Co-sponsored by The London Program, International Studies, Film, Television and Theatre and Gendu Studies. 
This vrogram was made possible with the support of the Cultural Services ofthe French Embassy and the French Ministry ofCulture (CNC). 
;.-:.-:..-:.-:.-:.-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:.-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-:..-=------_-_-~_-_-~_-_-~_~__________----, 


;~~'\YOU BEAT THE MARKET? ALL WORK?
\ ,H~\ DOE!\ IT 
·' \ ,J \;\
learn the basics of1,;1.nv"\srJig. v /~IV 
\.J ~ 
J 

take an active role in~.manag~ll(9 nea 1Y. 1\ / $250,000 of real money./\ I \ t 1 -_. 
~.f 't\ ..,;.._,I
\ .·, \ . ;­
~,

\ ;f\ tv J\ r 
! \ ; \' l I 
INVESTMENT CLUB V 
\~j 
INFORMATION MEETING v 
WEDNESDAY, JAN 29 129 DEBARTOLO 6: 00-PM 
bvlaw that states amateur status is forfeited if an athlete capital­izes on athletic fame by receiv­ing money or gifts of monetary value. 
Muscaro was shown the busi­ness records from the bank and dealership and was satisfied that the financing and acquisi­tion of the vehicle were acquired by James' mother alone. 
'Tm not in position to question bank officials," Muscaro said. "That infringes on confidentiali­ty with a client. 1 am satisfied that the loan that was granted did not violate our guidelines and was acquired only by his mother." 
Muscaro said no violations of the OHSAA amateur bylaws "as currently written" were found and that James, expected to be the No. 1 pick in this year's NBA draft, is stilJ eligible to play. 
However, Muscaro thinks the OHSM should re-examine some of its amateur bvlaws. 
"It's something that needs to be looked at," he said, "to make sure they are in step with cur­rent times." 
If the OHSAA had ruled James ineligible, St. Vincent-St. Mary, ranked No. 1 by USA Today, would have had to forfeit its games from the time he accept­ed the SUV. 
With the investigation over, James can now concentrate on the remainder of his final season with the Fighting Irish (14-0). 
Muscaro said he has received negative e-mails and letters crit­icizing the decision on the 18­year-old James, arguing it was financially based. Critics say the OHSAA was afraid to rule differ­ently because of the money it would lose without him in the state tournament. 
CMr.tli'i . ACAl'l.lt.C<!l . JAMAICA BAHAMAi . FLOil'DA 

SELL TRIPS, UINWH, 
... ,1..
GO FREE! 
1.800.648 4149 
www.sfstroval.com
-
!"-...I\ A
\.A/ 
v 
NFL 
Goodrich arrested for hit­and-run 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Dallas Cowboys reserve 
defensive back Dwayne 
Goodrich was arrested 
Monday on three new 
charges in a hit-and-run 
crash that killed two people 
earlier this month. 
Goodrich, who had been 
free on $50,000 bond on 
two manslaughter charges, 
was taken into custody at 
his suburban Coppell home 
about 9 a.m. and transport­
ed to jail in Dallas. 
County Magistrate Alfred 
Campos Jr. initially set 
Goodrich's bail at $6,000 ­
$2,000 for each new count 
of failure to stop and render 
aid. Another judge later 
raised it to $15,000 ­
$5 ,000 for each count. 
Goodrich posted bond and 
was released. 
Police said the Jan. 14 
accident happened just after 
2 a.m., while Goodrich was 
on his way home from a 
topless nightclub. 
Authorities say the football 
player drove his BMW at 
speeds of more than 100 
mph between a concrete 
barrier and a burning car 
involved in an earlier high­
way accident. 
A passenger in the burn­
ing car was trying to fr.ee 
the driver when Demont 
Matthews, 23, and Joseph 
Wood, 21, pulled to the side 
of the road and ran to help. 
The BMW ran into all 
three rescuers, killing 
Matthews and Wood. The 
third man suffered a broken 
leg. 
Court records show that 
investigators collected hair 
and blood from a point of 
impact in the center of the 
windshield of the backup 
cornerback's 2002 BMW 
745i. 
Tissue and hair also were 
found underneath weather­
stripping near the wind­
shield, and fiber and hair 
were found near the right 
headlight, the records show. 
They stated that fragments 
of glass with blood were 
collected from the right 
dashboard, and hair sam­
ples were taken from the 
right front seat. 
Through his attorney, Goodrich has said he initial­ly thought he'd struck only debris from an accident on Interstate 35E in northwest Dallas. Goodrich told inves­tigators he was the driver and sole occupant of the car. 
Failure to stop and render aid is a felony punishable by up to five years in prison. Manslaughter is a second-• degree felony punishable by two to 20 years in prison. 
Dallas County District Attorney Bill Hill has said a grand jury could begin hearing evidence in the case next month. 
as a gift. 

Ohio High School Athletic Association commissioner Clair Muscaro decided James did not compromise his amateur status and that his mother, Gloria, had provided proof she bought him the Hummer H2 vehicle. 
"I was satisfied with the docu­mentation that we were given," Muscaro said. 
Muscaro had been gathering information and financial proof to determine how James, a senior at St. Vincent-St. Mary High School, had obtained the auiomobile, which has a base retail price of $50,000. 
Gloria James said she took out a bank loan in Columbus to buy the SUV -shipped from California and outfitted with three TVs and computer game hookups -for her son's 18th birthday and provided evidence to the OHSAA. 
Muscaro's concern was that James had accepted the SUV from an agent or outside source and had violated an OHSAA page 14 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
No. 1 to face No. 2 this weekend 
Associated Press 
The scene is set. It'll be No. 1 against No. 2 when Duke and Connecticut meet this weekend. 
The Blue Devils and Huskies remained the top two teams in the AP women's basketball poll Monday -five days before they square off at Duke's Cameron Indoor Stadium in one of the most anticipated games of the season. 
Duke (19-0), which has been No. 1 all season, received 41 of 43 first-place votes from a nation­al media panel and had 1,073 points. Connecticut (18-0), its record winning streak now at 57, received the two other first-place votes and had 1,033 points. 
With Kansas State third and Tennessee fourth, the top four stayed the same. But there were many changes after that and only one other team, No. 20 Villanova, hold the same spot it did last week. 
Top 25 teams lost a total of 10 games to unranked opponents during the past week. Minnesota and DePaul both lost twice to unranked foes. 
Big Ten co-leader Ohio State returned to the poll at No. 23 after a two-week absence. Washington entered at No. 25 for the first time since early last sea­son. 
"We're having a good season," said Washington coach June Daugherty, whose team trails first-place Stanford by a half­game in the Pac-10. "We're glad the polls are recognizing that." 
DePaul and Rutgers dropped out. 
Duke completed a 3-0 week by beating Florida State 81-63 Sunday despite a season-low seven points from Alana Beard. The Blue Devils already have been involved in a 1-2 matchup this season, beating then-No. 2 Tennessee 76-55 on Nov. 24. 
-


~½~,;;t,·:}l,lf:PIW~,n:1w:~g11,,,.,,,~: 
Do you want to be more than just a player in the world's 
LARGEST AND BEST 
5 on 5 basketball tournament? 
Fill out an application to be a Bookstore Basketball Commissioner. Applications are available starting January 21st and are due January 31st. Applications can be picked up and returned to the Student Activities Office (31 S Lafortune) or the Club Resource Center (314 Lafortune). 
-. .~ 
• 
IT'S A 27-MONTH COMMITMENT .YOU EARN A MONTHLY STIPEND WHILE AWAY 

• 
HEALTH INSURANCE IS PAID FOR 

• 
AT END OF SERVICE, YOU'RE GIVEN $6,000 


.UPON COMPLETIOI', YOU HAVE 1•YR. ENHANCED HIRING STATUS FOR FEDERAL GOV1T JOBS 

Join us for a meeting where you will learn more about the Peace Corps: 
Wednesday,Jan. 29, 6 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 


Want to interview to join the Peace Corps? 
1NTERVJEW ON CAMPUS FEB.13. SCHEDULE THROUGH CAREER SERVICES' GO IRISH WEB SITE AFTER FEB. 2. AN APPLICATION MUST BE 
www.peacecoros.2ov SUBMITTED BY FEB. 7 TO INTERVIEW. 

Are you in a Club? 
Do you want to become more involved at Notre Dame through Student Government? 
If you answered yes to these questions, :henjoin the Club Coordination Council! 
Come to the CCC elections at the Club lnfonnation Meetings the first week in February in LaFortune Student Center: 
Academic Clubs: February 3rd @ 7pm in the ND Room Athletic Clubs: February 4th @ 7pm in Room l 08 Cultural Clubs: February 4th @ 8pm in Room l 08 Performing Arts Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre Service Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre Special Interest Clubs: February 6th @ 7pm in Montgomery Theatre 
Candidate Forms are available on the 3rd floor of Lafortune in the Club Resource Center 
E-mail: ccc(?Dnd.edu for more information. 
Write Observer sports. 
Call 1-4543 



Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
S.~<ii,. & 1.& Centerfior Socia( Concerns .•~ & 
~0°N~~R~~ WJlT~"rn t oo ru [J) [J) @ oo a oo ~ ~ t' n-~..,Jl~ 
http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Encuentro Chicai:o 

ENCUENTRO CHICAGO applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. Join us for a weekend immersion into the Mexican immigrant community of Pilsen in Chicago. February 15th-16th. Applications due Tuesday, February 4th. 
Current Volunteer Opportunities 
Children 

*Seeking energetic students to teach physical education class at Good Shepherd Montessori School, a new elementary school in our community currently serving children ages 6-9. Student teachers must be available on Mon and Wed afternoons and able to provide own transportation. Contact: Call 276-3152 or email GoodShepherdMS.aol.com Also seeking playground monitors for GSMS, Mon-Thurs from 12-12:30 PM 
Elderly 

*Hospice of St. Joseph County is dedicated to providing support and comfort for persons and families facing the end of life. Volunteers are trained to serve as caregivers in patient homes, assisting patients in nursing homes and working in our Hospice House (inpatient setting). Four-hour patient matches may be made 7 days a week in the mornings, afternoons and evenings for volunteers. Next semi-annual training is going to be offered from 9-noon at the Hospice office on the following days (the training session is 21 hours; all days are required to be trained): Feb 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 25th. For more info, contact Jackie Boynton at 243-3127. ***Pre-registration is required by Feb 1st. 
Tutorine 

*A tutor is needed for a 12-year-old boy who has special needs. He can be tutored any day after 4:30 at Hesburgh Library. Contact Thanh Le at 631-8018. 
*Tutors are needed for athletes at Clay High School on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 3-5 PM. 
Contact Scott Dactelides at 243-7006 (work) or 287-3597 (home). 
Questions mi the above opportunities? Please email cscvols@nd.edu 
Post-2rad Service Opportunities 
***Mercy Works -Chicago Info Session TODAY, Jan. 28 al 7:30 p.m.at the CSC ***Peace Corps Info Session TOMORROW, Jan. 29 at 6 p.m. at the CSC 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? CAREERS AS VOCATIONS: MEDICINE 
THIS SUN, Feb 2, 4 · 6 PM At the CSC 
A panel presentation with: 
Dr. Sue Erlenborn '85, Internist, Chicago, IL Dr. Jack Schneider, '83, Sparta Health Center, Sparta, MI Dr. Nancy Siegler Weigel '78, Family Practice, Morehead, KY 
Pizza will be served. 
Sponsored by the CSC & the Notre Dame Vocation Initiative 
Faculty Opport1111ities... 
The Center offers resources to faculty members teaching community-based learning and research courses. If you are interested in some support for,Our work in this area, please contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Director, Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, at bcckmau.9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist with course development grants, workshops, reading materials, and more. 
SPRING BREAK SEMINARST 
Descriptions of the Seven Spring Break Seminars & ALL APPLICATIONS are AVAILABLE al the CSC & on-line at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu ! Applications are due: 
TOMORROW WED, JAN 29th 
HLIP! Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP) applications available at the CSC. An eight­week long summer internship. Interns exposed to and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of the community. 
Applications due Wed, Feb 12th 

NOTICE: ALL DRIVERS 

For Service/Social Action Groups and Community Volunteer Services 
New vehicle request fon11s must be submitted for the spring semester ifyou plan to schedule transportation through the Center for Social Concerns. Request fonns are due the Friday prior to the week offirst use. 
. Forms are available at the CSC reception office or can be printed from the CSC web page. 
, . If you did not attend a driver training session given first semester, please contact Transportation Services at 631-0293 or 631-6467 to schedule an appointment for certification. 
·N~P···············; 
To join a weekly time for faith-sharing & prayer with 
Center for the Homeless guests.
The National Youth Sports Program : (NYSP) is a 5-week summer day camp 
Every Monday morning, 7:00 -8:00 AM 
that serves over 200 disadvantaged 
At the Center for the Homeless 
youth from the local community. 
All ND/SMC/HCC students arc welcome! 
Student Leaders receive a $1,500 
Students are needed to serve as musicians,Jacilitators, and 
Stipend, Housing, and 3 Theo Credits. 
members of afaith-sharing community.
¦ 
•¦ 

• Applications available at the CSC For More Information or Questions? Email Kelly
•

• Due: TOMORROW, Wed, Jan 29th. Rich at Rich.9@nd.edu 
D.d k ???
1 you now..... . . . The CSC has a Satellite Office? Located at 113 Coleman-Morse 
Open Mon, Wed, & Fri 9 AM-6 PM Tues & Thurs 4 PM-9 PM 
(Closings will be noted ahead of time or posted outside the oftice.) 
***Come by for applications, with questions, or to hold Center for Social Concerns-related meetings*** (Sign up ahead of time with Lauren Beyer in Satellite Office.) 
You Are Invited... 

Summer Service & ACCION Internships 
Last Info Session for SSI! Tomorrow, Jan 29th, 5:00 -6:00 PM at the CSC 
Career & Placement Internship Fair Tonight, Jan 28th 4:00 -8:00 PM at the JACC 
Summer Service Internship and ACCION Internship info available. Former participants will be here to answer questions! 
• page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
PGA TOUR 
Fiji native sings victory in Phoenix 
A..sociatcd Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. Vijay Singh thought a good final round would win the _ Phoenix Open. As it turned out, 
it took a great one. 
Singh birdied five of the first six holes and shot an 8-under­par 63 Sunday to win the event for the second time. 
He finished at 23-under 261, three strokes ahead of John Huston. 
Singh won this event in 1995, but that was in a playoff. 
This time, he tied the tourna­ment record for lowest final­round score, had the best finish by a PGA Tour winner since Jonathan Byrd's 63 at the 2002 Buick Challenge and strolled up to the 18th green knowing he had won. 
"It was a dream start for me," Singh said. "You know. I birdied 1 and 2 and then birdied 4, 5, 6. You do some­thing like that when you're just one or two back to start, and you're definitely going to hav~ good momentum." 
The Fiji native had eight one­putt greens on the front side while shooting a 29, which would have tied the nine-hole record except for Chris DiMarco's 7-under 28 in the third round. 
"When you 're making putts and hitting it close, you can have a good score," Singh said. "That's what I did on the front side. I think that's what won the golf tournament." 
Only a BRAVE woman would wear a wig like 
that! 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Barkmeier! 

This was the 12th tour victory for Singh, the 2000 Masters champion. He also has 21 inter­national wins. 
It also was the tour's fifth straight win by an international player. Luke Donald and Singh started the string on the same weekend last season at the Southern Farm Bureau Classic and the Tour Championship. Ernie Els had two wins in Hawaii this year. 
Singh won $720,000, boosting him from eighth to second on the money list with $990,929. 
Huston bogeyed 17 and closed with a 67. Third-round leader Harrison Frazar strug­gled to a 69 and tied for third at 265 with Robert Gamez (66), Reticf Goosen (67) and Tim Petrovic (68). 
Alex Cejka and Joe Durant finished five shots off the lead, followed by Phil Mickelson and Mike Weir at 26 7. Mickelson and Cejka carded 64s, but were too far back at the start to make a charge. 
"I drove the ball very well today and made a lot of birdies," said Mickelson, the 1996 champion and the high­est-ranked player in the field at No. 3. "Although it wasn't enough to seriously challenge any of the leaders, I was very pleased with the way I started to progress." 
DiMarco went 15 under for the tournament -only two shots worse than his winning 267 in 2002 -but was eight shots behind in his title defense. 

Volunteers Needed 
ECDC, at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers 
to play :rnd interact with young children. If you enjoy reading to children, playing games, building with blocks, art activities and singing songs, please consider voluntee1ing for two hours once per week It is both rewarding and fun! Paid positions also available at ECDC-ND: M-To 11:15 -12:30 and M-F 12:30 -1:30 & 2:30 -3:30. 

Early Childhood DevelopmentCenter, Inc. 
Plca:;e call ­
631-3344 or 284-4693 
i,., f,,.ssac •
ff-~~­
-0


SOCIAL =
~ 

CONCERNS 
SUMMER SERVICE INTERNSHIPS ENHANCE YOUR FIELD OF STUDY 
Business: most ofthe sites (NFP} )Vchitecture: Habitat programs. outreach housing Accounting/Business: ACOONProgrf,UtM i11 Micro-ltmding qiJi<:es 
Psych/Soc/Anthro: every site would apply Gender Studies: Abuse shelters, Women's C,ue Centers Political Science/Government: Shelters· outreach programs Science/Pre-Prof: Low incomedinks,AIDS programs, 
Jwegmm,JI programs. elderly 1,ealth Theology: All sites-related by course packet. 


Jl7eo/ogymajorsandCSTconcentration mayreceive a graderatherthan S/U lhls;s O partiallist--o/mostollma/ors wllbenefit/Tom onSSI. 

• Devote s weeks to the service of those in need 
• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United Sta~es 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with pos~ible _crosshsts)_ S/U · 

• 
Receive a $2000 tuition scholarship with the o!>uon for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship . 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 


LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29th at 5:00 PM At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 1 2, 2003 
Congregation ofHoly Cross 


Be part of the solution. 

ANSWER'.W 
THECALLW 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 17 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
;:.. /: ;:,=::;:: ;·<)·•.~'.;i::::::\:::~{flt\!;;~· :(::_;\:·:::::.. /\. . . . 
. • ...·•.,:·•····\:•ttWW:t.:'.'W:%¥fWW?WWWtmm:r::rn:::mw:::· 
.
'~flftlJ,U 

ft-;~ 

>·:-::;':-_::::=.=· :.. ;.:::=:1:;:;::::::·t\f\i\i~\gt1lfJJJ!f:Jt:~~ffa?il:}iif¥f%f i;if\!ii@~f:l@fi? 
... ,: t't,:vl~tiwJ . 
•. ::··••;:••··i~i~~ ::;.al:ti,t,:lt!b,w 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Indiana at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN Texas A&M at Oklahoma 7 p.m., ESPN2 Florida at LSU 9 p.m., ESPN9 
OUTDOORS Lumberjack Competition 9 p.m., OUTL 
NFL 


... 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK. Mich. 
Marty Mornhinweg was fired as coach of the Detroit Lions on Monday after a 3­13 season, the second-worst record in the NFL. 
Detroit was 5-27 under Mornhinweg over the last two seasons, including a road record of 0-16. The Lions lost their last eight games this season, and only Cincinnati finished with a worse record. 
Lions chief executive Matt Millen, with the blessing of team owner William Clay Ford Sr.. said on Dec. 31 that Mornhinweg would return as coach. 
On Monday, Millen said Mornhinweg was fired as part of the process of mov­ing forward. 
"We have to continue to make the best decision to get this franchise going in the right direction," Millen said. 

"I want to win, and I want to win now." he said. 
Mornhinweg became the fifth NFL coach to be fired since the end of the season, following dismissals at Cincinnati, Dallas, Jacksonville and San Francisco. 
Mornhinweg matched Chris Palmer's two-year record of futility for a new coach since the NFL went to a 16-game schedule in 1978. Palmer coached the Cleveland Browns in 1999 and 2000. 
Palmer. though, was coaching an expansion team. Mornhinweg took over a team that went 9-7 and narrowly missed the play­offs. 
Possible replacements include former Minnesota coach Dennis Green and for­mer San Francisco coach Steve Mariucci, a Michigan native, who was released earlier this month. 
"I spoke to Steve and I would like to speak to him again," Millen said. 
Asked if Mariucci's avail­ability was a factor in firing Mornhinweg, Millen said, "It's certainly a factor, but I don't think it's a big factor or a main factor." 
Millen said he would con­sider minority candidates, a process mandated by the NFL this season. 
Mornhinweg had never been a head coach at any level before taking the job with the Lions. He replaced Gary Moeller, who took over for Bobby Ross midway through the 2000 season 
Mornhinweg was widely criticized this season for choosing to take the wind instead of the ball after the Lions won an overtime coin toss against Chicago. The Bears got the kickoff and drove to the winning field goal. 
When Mornhinweg was hired he set the team's sights on a first Super Bowl trip. The Lions have had only one playoff victory since winning the 1957 NFL title. 
"The bar is high," he said. "The goal for this organiza­tion is to win Super Bowls." 
Mornhinweg had insisted the team's weak record stemmed from failed drafts from the previous regime, along with aging or injured players. 
The past two years, the Lions have gotten rid of five one-time first-round picks ­Herman Moore, Johnnie Morton, Bryant Westbrook, Terry Fair and Aaron Gibson. The Lions also lost Ron Rice, Kurt Schulz and Stephen Boyd to career-end­ing injuries. 
IN BRIEF 

Edwards join Pro Bowl Redskins benefit from general counsel, said players who are team Senate rejection injured continue to collect their San Diego Chargers middle line­Washington Redskins players got a salaries for at least a year and can receive up to $235,000 a year in dis­
backer Donnie Edwards was added break Monday when a state Senate to the AFC Pro Bowl team Monday committee rejected legislation aimed at ability pay for life. At the end of their after Denver's Al Wilson and reducing the team's workers' compen­careers, players who were injured also Pittsburgh's Kendrell Bell pulled sation costs. can seek workers' compensation. he out. The Commerce and Labor said. It will be Edwards' first Pro Bowl Committee voted 9-4 to kiU a proposal Such "double-dipping" by highly paid appearance. The game is Sunday in to aUow the Redskins to reduce work­athletes is an abuse of a state law that was intended to protect working-class 
Honolulu. ers' compensation by the amount of Edwards led the Chargers with salary paid to the player after an Virginians, Chirite told the committee. 
129 tackles and five interceptions. injury. "Virginia law permits the kind of He was named a second alternate to Late in the day. the Redskins front abuse we seek to rectify here," Chirite 
the Pro Bowl last month. office decided to withdraw an identical 
said. 
Last week, Chargers linebacker bill in the House of Delegates so the He said the law puts the Redskins at a disadvantage to teams in 12 states
Junior Seau said he'll miss the Pro two sides could seek a compromise Bowl to have surgery to fix an ankle outside the legislative arena, said Julie that already have enacted legislation injury that hampered him for most Rautio. a freelance publicist assisting similar to that sought in Virginia. The 
Redskins have faced 745 workers com­
of the 2002 season. Seau was select­Redskins management on the issue. pensation claims since 1997, he said. 
ed for his 12th straight Pro Bowl. Norman D. Chirite, the Redskins' 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish bowlers strike out 
Special to The Observer 
Beacon Bowl was again the venue for the sixth Blue and Gold Classic this weekend. 58 teams competed in mens A and B and womens divisions, including 10 of the top 20 national mens programs and seven of the top twenty wom­ens programs. The Classic is rated one of the five Elite tour­naments in the country. 
Morehead State captured the mens title, while Central Missouri State defended their womens championship of a year ago, beating Nebraska by 
.. only six pins. Top individual men's honors went to Anthony Corrao of Florida State, with a 220 average for nine games. Jason Pawlak averaged 193 for the weekend to lead the Irish and finish 36th among 191 keglers. Teammates Daniel Gonzalez, 180, Donavan McFeron, 171. Jason Raver, 168 and Matt Nieves, 159 com­pleted the A squad, while Van Koppersmith, 151, Joe Reilly, 145, J.B. Bertumen, 139, Phillip Nagel, 127, Gab Torres, 121 and Mike Failor, 121, com­prised the B squad. Michele Taets led the Irish women with a 129 average, followed by Jacqueline Pimental-Gannon, 127, Daniele Laframboise, 117, Sarah Paulson, 113, Amanda Hernandez, 113 and Betsy Schroeder, 95. Next year, the tournament 
will expand io 80 to 100 teams, 
making it second in size to only . the national champiunships. 
Mens Volleyball 
The Notre Dame mens volley­ball club posted its best finish in several years at a regional tournament this weekend, fin­ishing fifth among 18 strong teams in the Michigan Classic. The Irish dropped their opening round match to Ohio State, 25­
13. 25-20. However, the Irish rebounded quickly. following the lead of all tournament play­er Tom Bradbeer as they swept Virginia Tech, 22-25, 25-20, 15-7; Bowling Green, 30-28. 25-21; host Michigan, 25-23, 25-20; and Michigan State, 25­14, 25-21 to place second in its pool at the end of the first day. 
On Sunday, the Irish opened with Duke and captured the first game 25-21 before being victimized by poor passing and dropping the second game 25­
17. In the deciding game, a strong defense led by Nick Abrams and Brian Michalek, coupled with the clutch front row blocking of captain Drew Mascarenhas and the offeIJse of outsidehitter Jim Lowder helped the Irish to their fifth consecutive victory. In the quarterfinals, the Irish strug­gled against Cincinnati, drop­ping the first game 25-20, before defensive specialist Brad Weldon and opposite hit­ter Dan Zenker gave the Irish a much needed boost to take the second game, 25-21. However, passing problems again cost the Irish as they dropped the deci­sive third game 15-13 to bring the tournament to a close. The Irish will now take a month break from competition to fine tune their game for a run deep into the national tournament. 
Womens Ice Hockey 
The womens ice hockey club continued to experience grow­ing pains in its first year as a member of the powerful WCHJ\. The Irish dropped two games to Michigan State at East Lansing, by the scores of 10-0 and 12-2. In the opener, the Spartans scored first at 14:43 of the first period, and scored once more late in the period for a 2-0 lead. However, a second period onslaught resulted in five goals and the outcome was deter­mined. 
In the second game, the Irish again fell behind quickly, 4-0, before Tori Blainey scored a second period goal on a slap­shot from the point. Down 6-1 entering the third period. Lizzy Coghill stole the puck from a defender on the opening face off and skated in on goal for the Irish second goal. However, a series of Irish penalties resulted in six more Spartan goals, including a penalty shot. 
Highlighting Irish play was the line of Jenny Stahl, Heather Reilly, and Allison Ricci, which only allowed two goals in two games. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
line. 
"We have a lot of good shooters on this team." Carroll said. "Guys are confi­dent. and they know if they want points, they can get some free ones from the line." 
Part of Notre Dame·s suc­cess from the line comes from a drill the Irish run to end every practice. Every member of the team steps to the line to shoot one free throw. The ratio varies, but on average, only two players arc allowed to miss their free throw. If more than two miss. the whole team takes off running, only to return to the line to repeat the process until enough players make their free throw. 
"It's a pressure shot," Carroll said. "You've got everyone watching you, and everyone wants you to make it." 
Notre Dame's foul shoot­ing, however. has bailed them out of many a tight game. Against Boston College Saturday, for exam­ple, the Irish made 31-of-42 attempts -including 12-of­l 7 in overtime -while the Eagles made 13-of-19. 
The most impressive foul shooting perfermance to date by the Irish this season came against Rutgers. The Irish made 22-of-23 shots from the line, with the lone miss coming in garbage time by the team's best free-throw shooter, Thomas. 
It's also no coincidence that two of Notre Dame's losses have come when the Irish shot their worst from the line. Against Creighton, Notre Dame made 55 percent of their shots. and against Pittsburgh. the Irish hit just 
53.3 percent. 
Notes: 
. The Irish returned from Boston Sunday without inci­dent -which is more than they can say for the last time they took a road trip. 
When the team was flying back from Providence after a 71-65 win Tuesday, the chartered plane touched down safely in Indiana. Only when the Irish looked out the window, the plane wasn't at South Bend Regional Airport. 
Due to a mix-up, the Notre Dame charter plane landed in Elkhart Municipal Airport, some 15 miles short of their destination. 
After a short delay, the plane took off again, cruised for five minutes and landed in South Bend around 2 p.m. 
"That was cra,;y," Carroll said. "I don't know what happened, but it was crazy." 
. Irish sophomore Chris Thomas was named co-Big East Player of the Week, sharing honors with Miami's Darius Hice. 
Thomas averaged 25.5 points, 6.5 assists and 6.5 boards in road wins over Providence and Boston College. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at aoukup@nd.edu 

I UNLOCKING THE PAST SHAPING THE FUTURE Friday, Jan. 31 and Saturday, Feb. 1 Registration Fee: $5 Featured Workshops ... •Opening Ceremony (Auditorium, Hesburgh Center) -Dr. • Discussion Panel, Student Interracial Dating, Moderator: Denise M.. Evelyn Hu-DeHart, opening speaker, "From Yellow Perill to del la Rosa Model Minority: Asians in the Americas" • Senator Paull Shin, Asian American Political Activism • Judge Hiroshi Ohno, Japanese Judicial System: Contemporary • Professor Bradley Malkovsky, The Practice and Purpose of Meditation Problems and New Judicial System • Ms. Emily Liu, Asians in Entertainment: Toe Reel Story• Dr. Evelyn Hu-DeHart, Asian Americans and Globalization • Discussion Panel, Cultural Identity, Moderator; Ms. Chandra Johnson • Professor Asma Afsaruddin, Islam in a Pluralistic Society • KEYNOTE: Banquet & Closing Ceremony (COBA Atrium) ­Senator Paull Shin, "Moving Forward''  



Tuesday, Janua1y 28, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 

----------------------------~-------------------~----------------~-------­
SCHOOL DAZE 
:·~::•-.•:•:•,• .......;.. ··.· .-·... · ,:;: -::... :-·:··,::::.·.·:. -.•:•:·:·.}~1
::ft:,ua::~•:1:~ 
••••t··•G::•of' und•rwear•"1J•••:;;m. 
<Ut Happy Town~,()~
f11M this fun and I~ } 
···••:·; .. ~:::i'!:~;~:;::;• 

HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
ro 
En:tpa~ .l$tl/l!,1!, . T~v,iy f:i,tlgtit ··,··.· . m'fai!JW~ ) ·••· 
* I don't think 11<>, -Ed 
JACK MONAHAN 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~&bill 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HUTOM 
t 
I t J 

C2003 T nbune Media Servicaa, loo. All Rights Reserved 
VERIP 

I t J b
tLATOPS ~ 
wwwlumbla.eom
tLYRSUT j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J tr I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A rI I I J'l I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: CHIDE HUMAN BELONG MOTIVE Answer: When the judge made an error, his teammates said he belonged here -ON THE BENCH 
CROSSWORD 
11,eJw§orklinttl I

Crossword Edited by Will Shortz 
ACROSS 32 Like apples, 1 Almanac 
say, during the fall
contents 6 Book of 
34 You can lend it memories, 
or bend it maybe 35 Blaster's need 11 Big shot. for 36 Bcok in prison? short 
38 It's hailed 14 Love to bits 
41 Rep.'s
15 Numbers-calling counterpart 
game 42 Over again
16 67.5°, to 
44 Flies, ants and mariners such
17 Grant provider 47 The Beatles' 
18 Route to 
"Hey_•
prison? 48 Like Nash's
20 Campus locale lama 
22 This very 49 Nay sayer
moment so Neigh sayer 
23 Concertgoer's keepsake 51 Track shape 25 English race 52 Unofficial ticket place source 28 Load of bunk 54 Desperate 29 Fall (over) 56 Money In 30 Courts prison? 31 Fracas 59 X-rated, say 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

c::,+-:::-1,,,....., 21 Former "Fam,ly Feud" host Richard 
---=:+::.r.::i 23 "S.N.L.' t,it 24 T.V.A. part: t.:-t;::t~..,.T:t-~:-t;:;r.:1t.t-....•--Abbr. 

27 Look around a prison? 31 Che~ ending 33 Ideal serves 
~;.i.-=~i-:4-;;.i 26"A~ydaynow 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
62 Wood-dressing tool 63 Grind, as teeth 64 Come after 
65 Where to hear 10-0own 66 _:_Domingo 87 007, tor one 
DOWN 1 Furtiys. once 2 Hoo-ha 3 Escape lrom 
prison? 4 Hot water, so to speak 
5 Word repeated after •Que" 6 Epitome ol simplicity 7 Cefest1af feline a Pickers' instruments 9 Full-length 10 Cows' chorus 
11 Of the spring 
12 Shoe part 13 Nickname for a little guy 19 Out-and-out 

Puule by Tyter Hinman 
34 Go beyond the bounds of 37 Puts a stop to 38 Poetry 111 prison? 39 Geometric calculation 40 Period ender 41 Pink-legged bird 

For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a mmule; o,, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscnpt1ons are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puules. nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The leam111g Network, nyt,mes.com/leaminglxwords. 
WILL SHORTZ 
No. 1217 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
.,. D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alan Alda, Mikhail Baryshnikov, ---. Joey Fatone, Sarah Mclachlan 
Happy Birthday: You will have added energy that will enable you to follow through with your plans and complete what you start. Try to do most of the work yourself so you don't lose momentum. Your numbers are 5, 19, 22, 27, 35,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your artistic talent will come in handy while doing things with children. They will be excited by your ideas and eager lo participate. Finish off old projects before you begin new ones. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Children or an older relative may try lo put ~ added responsibilities on you today. Try to give sound advice, but don't bail them out by offering to pay for their mistakes. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emotional relationships will be extremely passionate. Social activities will lead to interesting propositions and valuable new connections. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your head, although people you work or live with will be hard to handle and emotionally unpredictable. Be honest and 
direct.*** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Physical activities will be challenging and exhilarating. Join clubs and get involved in creative projects. Spread your wings and soar. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your day will be hectic due to family events. Don't spread yourself too thin, or discord will result. Take a little time for yourself. ** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22}: Plan to visil friends. Help children with their projects. Explain the things they don't understand. It will be time well spent and rewarding. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will blow situations out of proportion when dealing with the one you love. Pause before you say something you'll regret. Losses are likely if you gel involved with dubious individuals. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be somewhat emotional concerning a rather private maner. Don't share your dilemma with anyone who has trouble ., keeping a secret. Keep your personal life to yourself. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Quiet, behind-the-scenes activities with the one you love should be the highlighl of your day. Don'I let worry about work inlerfere with your personal life. Make good use of your evening together. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Contribute to worthwhile causes. Problems surrounding inheritance, insurance or taxes should be looked at carefully. If need be, get legal advice. **** · PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be aware of other people's feelings. You will be popular with acquaintances, but your lover could get insecure. A little effort will go a long way. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will not be content to stand on the sidelines. You will be a doer and will strive to be at the center of everything. You will show leadership ability at a very young age. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 43 Ship's securer 53 Cribbage needs 
44 Mathematician 55 Light bulb's Blaise signification, in cartoons
45 Make cryptic 57 World record
46 Quatrain or suffix

sestet 58 P on a fraternity
47 Michael who housewas five-time 

N.B.A. M.V.P. 60 Winery cask 50 Salon color 61 "Is it soup_?" 

PORTS 
Tuesday, January 28, 2003 
... 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Straight shooters 
.,,, . Notre Dame's excellent free throw shooting has been key to its 16-3 record this season 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spom Writer 
The total is now up to three. r Three coaches, that is, who complained about officiating following a game with Notre Dame. 
First Seton Hall coach Louis Orr blasted the officials for whistling his team with too few fouls, citing a 29-9 disparity in free throws attempted. Then Rutgers coach Gary Waters made a thinly­veiled comment about the quality of Big East offi­ciating after his team watched Notre Dame take 23 foul shots to the Knight's nine. 
The latest member of the club? Boston College coach Al Skinner, who, after his team lost to the Irish 101-96 Saturday pointed out that the Irish made more free throws (31) than the Eagles shot 
r (19). 
But there's a good chance coaches wouldn't be complaining a lot if the Irish weren't deadly from the free throw line. 
So far this season, the Irish have shot 75.7 per­cent from the charity stripe, a percentage that jumped to 77.6 in Big East play alone. That places the Irish second behind Providence in free throw shooting. 
• "We have a good free throw shooting team," said senior Matt Carroll, who is second on the team with a 82.6 percent free throw shooting average. "It's a big weapon we use to score. The more we drive, the more we get to the line." 
Chris Thomas and Carroll lead the team in both free-throw attempts and percentage -Thomas has connected on a team-high 86.4 percent of his shots -a statistic that shows a newfound aggressiveness on the part of the Irish guards. 
But the team's free throw shooting success has come as a result of solid foul shooting from Notre Dame's big men. In fact, in conference play, only Jordan Cornette -who has made five of his nine attempts -is shooting under 70 percent from 
Senior Dan MIiier takes a shot at the free-throw llne during a game earlier In the season. Exceptional free seelRISH/page 18 throw shooting Is responsible for Notre Dame's winning record this season. 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Home-opening wins propel track teams into season 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports W ricer 
The Irish track season got off to a resounding start Friday as both the mens and womens teams won their home openers in the first scored match of the season. With 131 points, the Irish women outdistanced Ball State at 99 and Western Michigan at 93. The men defeated Ball State 91.5-65.5. 
The Irish women were led by Kymia Love in the 200 
meter-dash and Molly Huddle in the 3,000. Both of their efforts were sufficient to qual­ify them for the NCAA Indoor Championships in March. 
"We had some outstanding performances," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "Qualifying for the NCAA's is awfully good." 
Also posting victories for the women were Jaime Volkmer, who won the triple jump and tied with teammates Jill Vanweelden and Laura Huarte in the pole vault. Emily Loomis won the high jump, 
while Megan Horn won the shot put. 
Love also won in the 60­meter dash, Jennifer Handley took the mile, Kristen Dodd won the 400, and Tameisha King won the 60-meter hur­dles. 
On the men's side, Selim Nurudeen continued to impress, winning the 60­meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles. Other event winners for the runners included Luke Watson in the mile, Eric Morrison in the 800, Tim Moore in the 3,000, James Scarborough in the 60 and Ryan Postel in the 400. 
In the field events, Chris Staron won the high jump, Godwin Mbagwu took the triple jump, Juan Alba won the shot put, and Chip Roberts won the weight throw. 
"We really had a lot of very good performances," Piane said. "Ryan Postel, Luke Watson, Selim Nurudeen, Megan Horn were all very good. Chip Roberts threw the 35 lb weight very well too. But 

I'm not surprised at any of them; they're all capable of doing those things." 
Looking forward to next week's match against Michigan State, Piane will be looking for continued success and fmprovement. 
"For our first meet we com­

peted really well," said Piane. 
"Both teams won so we're 
really pleased." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
.... 

CLUB SPORTS MENS AND WOMENS TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dame women 131 Notre Dame men 91.5 Ball State 99 Ball State 65.5
The Irish bowling team finished 36th in the Blue and Gold Classic held this 
Western Michigan 93

weekend. Mens volleyball finshed fifth posting its best finish in several years this weekend, also. 
Both the mens and the womens teams finished first in their home openers in their first meets of the season. 
page 18 
back page 





