
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Coupling broken up by WNDU 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Students and residents of South Bend and Elkhart look­ing forward to the premiere of NBC's new comedy, "Coupling," will be sorely dis­appointed when they flick to WNDU-TV at 8:30 p.m. this Thursday night. 
Bather than a racy show about the sex lives of six Chicago thirtysomethings, based on a wildly popular British sitcom by the same name, they will be greeted with the first part of "Hoastin' the Golden Boy", the so-called 'roast' of Notre Dame lleisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung, filmed at the JACC. 
WNDU's President and General Manager Jim Behling announced in a press release last Thursday, "Unless signifi­cant changes in style and direction of the show are made, it is likely that [WNDU] will not broadcast any episodes of 'Coupling' this tele­vision season." 
After part two of "Golden Boy," the station will air reruns of "Spin City," the Michael J. Fox and Charlie Sheen sitcom discon tin ued in 2002, in its slated time slot. 
The decision not to air the 
By TERESA FRALISH A.uisrancc News Ediror 
After over a month of court delays, the remaining 150 law­suits liled against Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students cited in the Jan. 24 Boat Club raid are scheduled to be heard today in the St. .Joseph County Small Claims Court. 
Millennium Enterprises, the company that owns The Boat Club, tiled suit last April against the 200 students cited in the raid and asks for damages of $3,000 per defendant. 
The suits, which were originally scheduled for mid-August, were postponed by Superior Court MagL<>trate Hichard McCormick to allow both sides time to me briefs, 
THE 
and for students to return to South Bend. 
The Boat Club, represented by South Bend attorney Mitchell Heppenheimer, contends that the underage students fraudulently represented themselves and caused the bar to incur damages. 
llowever, McCormick already dismissed about 40 of the 200 suits in August. Ed Sullivan, the attorney representing those stu­dents, said he believes that the remaining cases will likely be dis­missed as well. 
Because the suits are identical, McCormick's reasons for throw­ing out some suits would apply to the other 150, according to Sullivan. 
In his order granting the motion to dismiss, McCormick said that "It is difficult to see how [the] 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Convocation to discuss Middle East 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Wrirer 
The first-annual academic convocation for first-year stu­dents will take place this evening in the Joyce Center arena at 7:30 pm. Featuring panel discussions on the topic "The United States and the Middle East: Do We Face a 'Clash of Civilizations?"' the con­vocation will address required reading that freshmen complet­ed during the summer. 
"I believe that the summer readings and the anticipation of the convocation have already accomplished a great deal by encouraging students ... to think about a very important contem­porary topic," said Eileen Kolman, Dean of the First Year of Studies. 
After a welcome by Kolman and an introduction by Scott Appleby, a history professor and the director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, students will listen to three panel discussions. 
The half-hour-long panel ses­sions, composed of a 20-minute presentation and a 1 0-minute period for student questions, will address topics such as "What is 'The Heart of Islam'?", "Do We Face a 'Clash of Ovilizations'?" and "The Gift of Dialogue." Each panel will con­sist of two faculty members ­from departments such as theol­ogy, anthropology, political sci­ence, philosophy and Middle Eastern studies -and one stu­dent. '1\vo seniors and one first­year student comprise the stu­dent panelists. 
"The convocation invites stu­dents to become part of the community of academic dis­course at Notre Dame," Kolman said. 
First-year advisers identified specific first-year students to ask questions during the allotted time -Kolman said that the students "are working together to identify questions which they will present to the panel." 
Appleby and Joseph Amar, director of the program in Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies, consulted with and 
see READING/page 4 


shows, and basically the shows are a little more than a succes­sion of crude sex jokes which, when taken in total, simply push the envelope well beyond the boundaries of good taste," 
see COUPLING/page 4 
new comedy was the result of a unanimous vote of the board of directors of Michiana Telecasting Corporation, owner of WNDU, which was brought about by recommen­dations made by Behling after receiving advance copies of 
three new "Coupling" episodes. 
The tapes were made avail­able to all members of the board, which include broad­casting veterans as well as four officers of the University. 
"We have previewed three 

Remaining Boat Club lawsuits heard today 

Plaintiff could prevail on the issue of damages as a proximate result of[the] Defendant's conduct." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Irish Guard laments injury of members inThursday incident 
By SHEILA FLYNN and BETH 
ERICKSON 
Members of the Irish Guard said that Saturday's game "was not the same" without their tenth man, who could not participate in gameday activities after suffering injuries in what senior Guard member Drew DeWalt called an "unprovoked attack" Thursday night in downtown South Bend. 

"Having to march with nine men instead of our full 10 was extremely unfortunate, espe­cially because of the reason it had to happen," said junior Guard member Justin Funk. 
Four Notre Dame students, including DeWalt and Guard 
member John Raih, who missed Saturday's game, were assaulted Thursday night. DeWalt said that he and the other three students got pizza at Vesuvio's and then walked to a location across the street from The Library to wait for a cab. While they were waiting, he said, a car of "South Bend residents" stopped, and its 
occupants got out to verbally harass the four students. 
"My impression was they were just looking to fight, and they found a reason, some­how," DeWalt said. 
"We didn't want to fight, especially with the numbers against us, and they just started beating us up," he said. 
"While it was going down, another one of the cars ­their friends -showed up. I don't even know the exact numbers. There were four of us, and more or less 10 of them," he said. 
DeWalt said the fight contin­ued for five to 10 minutes 
see GUARD/page 4 

~-----~---------------. 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


What's the use? 
I wonder if anyone would notice if I just wrote blah blah blah blah blah five hundred times. What's that? The grammar Nazis would? Dangit. 
Anyways, there's really nothing hor­ribly funny going 
on around cam­pus, it seems. The epidemic of laugh­ing sickness seems to have died down, and some might argue that it's been replaced by a studying sickness. 

Of course, I Will Puckett could always fall back on ridicul­
Production
ing some campus issue without knowing all the facts, but Fives did that so beautifully yesterday I think I'd better not attempt that. 
I could write volumes about how the football team needs to improve, how Brady Quinn needs to start or how even I can snap the ball out of the shotgun. But I think I'll leave finding reasons to beat a dead horse to the administration-they are, after all, experts at it. 
Abusing the whipping-boy pulpit I have here, I suppose I'll head on to condemn some social issue or prob­lem that every single person on this campus has totally ignored and needs to be addressed right this very second before we do anything else, so drop your lunch and run outside and make this happen right now, do it now! *gasp* 
Daisy, daisy, give me your answer do; I'm half crazy, all for the love of you. 
You hear that? That's the sound of Araxynthex, the new kickass band you've just GOT to listen to. If you don't listen to this band, you're not really a true Irish fan! Uhh! Yeah! Excuse me while I go bash myself in the head with my (pop) can! 
AIM is the greatest invention since the cotton gin. AIM is God's gift to col­lege campuses. AIM is the solution to all those pesky nights when you need to procrastinate and just can't find any other way. AIM is the end-all, he­all time-waster! Why can't we have AIM in the dining halls instead of TV's? 
TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! 

None of the above probably make much sense, and I realize it sounds like a bunch of sound bites taken out of context from California recall elec­tion candidates. 
I suppose that's the real point, though: virtually every Inside Column ever written falls somewhere into one of those categories. Including this one. So what's the use? Wait. I know. 
So THAT's why I keep on finding pages out of the paper in the bath­room ... 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to inaccurate information provided to an Observer reporter, a story in Monday's paper stated that at least four guardsmen were involved in an inci­dent Thursday night in South Bend. Only two guardsmen were involved in the incident. 
A story in Sept. 18 issue ofThe Observer incorrectly stated that professor Donald Kommers was found guilry of heresy at the Irish Inquisition. The three­person panel acquitted Kommers. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we wiU make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63 I-454 I so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT HAVING A SMOKE-FREE CAMPUS? • 




Megan Marshall Nicole Hernandez David Osburn 
Freshman Freshman Junior Howard Hall Lyons Hall Off-Campus 
"Who smokes "I don't smoke, so "The ethanol is herer it's good.· bad enough. We don't need more smells.· 
Convicted murderer to produce TV show 
NEW YORK -Convicted child killer Joel Steinberg has a job as a television pro­ducer waiting when he's released from prison next summer after serving 17 years, his attorney said Monday. 
Steinberg will work for "New York Confidential," an interview show on a local cable station, attorney Darnay Hoffman said. 
"He has contacts in prison," Hoffman said, explaining that Steinberg, a disbarred lawyer, knows some of the state's most notorious criminals. "He knows how to go into a prison and get a story." 
Steinberg, 62, is complet­ing an 8-to-25-year prison term for manslaughter in the death of his illegally adopted daughter, Lisa, and is expected to be released next June. 





Roseanne DePaoli Ryan laflgllola Carrie Dunne 
Freshman Pangborn Hall 
"I think it's a healthy choice. n 


Those are some of the questions physics professor George Plitnik is exploring with 15 students, mostly jun­iors and seniors. He says the class is not all fun and games, despite his penchant for dressing up as Albus Dumbledore, headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. 
"This is not something where you just show up and talk about Harry Potter books and get a grade," Plitnik said before donning his black wizard's hat and robe for a recent session. "This is a college-level class." 
Frostburg State, a public school in western Maryland with average annual under­graduate enrollment of 4,300, isn't the only institu­tion of higher education offering a scholarly take on the Potter phenomenon. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

In 1987, Steinberg fatally struck 6-year-old Lisa, the girl he had taken as a days­old infant from an unwed teenager. He was supposed to arrange an adoption, but instead took the baby home to his live-in companion, Hedda Nussbaum. 
Harry Potter goes to college 
FROSTBURG, Md. ­Harry Potter is in college ­as a subject, not a student. 
"The Science of Harry Potter," a three-credit hon­ors seminar new this fall at Frostburg State University, offers fans of J .K. Howling's popular fantasy novels an opportunity to study the links between magic and sci­ence. 
Can antigravity research produce a flying broom­stick? Can Fluffy, the three­headed dog, be explained by genetic engineering? 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
s ::c 3: 
..... 
cc 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 64 59 HIGH HIGH 65 LOW 51 50 LOW LOW 49 


Freshman Senior ZahmHall McGlinn Hall 
"I think it's "/ don't think unrealistic. n smoking is a problem here. " 
IN BRIEF 
International Student Services and Activities will sponsor a screening of the Egyptian film "Halfouine, Boy of the Terraces" tonight at 7 and again at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Institute for Church Life will continue its "A Call to Solidarity with Africa" confer­ence through Wednesday in McKenna Hall. 
RecSports will sponsor a drop-in soccer game tonight from 8:30 -10:30 p.m. at Rolfs' Court 1. 
"Iraq War II: a Blatantly Unjust War," a lecture pre­sented by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will be held at 4:15 p.m. tonight in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold its annual post-graduate service fair at Stepan Center from 5 to 8 p.m. Wednesday. 
Diversity commissioner training will be held Wednesday night at the Center for Social Concerns from 7 ­
8:30 p.m. All diversity commis­sioners are asked to attend. 
RecSports will sponsor a drop-in volleyball game tonight from 7 -11 p.m. at Rolfs' Court 4. 
The Snite Museum of Art will present its "Freshman Night at the Snite" Thursday at 7:00 
p.m. The event, focused on first-year students, will feature a talk by the museum's direc­tor, refreshments and enter­tainment. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


68 HIGH 53 LOW 

Atlanta 84 I 57 Boston 72 I 57 Chicago 69 I 54 Denver 83 I 53 Houston 86 I 68 Los Angeles 82 I 65 Minneapolis 71 1 51 New York 76 I 59 Philadelphia 77 I 55 Phoenix 103 I 76 Seattle 68 I 49 St. Louis 74 I 56 Tampa 90 I 72 Washington 77158 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board of Governance discusses budget 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance members reviewed the preliminary student govern­ment budget for the academic 
year and discussed a financial contingency plan at Monday's BOG meeting. 
Executive Treasurer Kym Dunlap distributed and explained the preliminary financial report to her fellow board members. The budget detailed allotted financial resources to each class and major student activities 
board. 
The number of students in each class determines class budgets with $150 allotted for each stu­dent, Dunlap said. The student count includes ofl"-campus stu­dents, but excludes students studying abroad. The average class budget this year is $1,500, 
the report indicated. 
Major student organizations, such as BOG and Student Activities Board, receive the largest portion of the financial resources granted to student gov­ern rnent. These figures are established by reviewing spend­ing in past years and remain fair­ly constant. 
The budget total, however, has grown to $221,250 this year. 
"We have $3,000 more than last year," said Dunlap. "I am really excited because 1 am able to increase your allotment." 
Board members also discussed an emergency financial contin­gency plan, and were given ques­tionnaires to aid in the creation of the plan. The plan will help establish procedures in the case of a fmancial crisis at the College, said student body President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. 
"The college is not currently having financial problems," Jablonski-Diehl said. "But we never know what could happen, with terrorism and all." 
Boards members were asked to detail how their budget was spent, and what could be cut in 
the case of a crisis situation. 
In other BOG news: 
• First Year elections will take place on Tuesday. All First Year students are encouraged to vote online at the BOG Web site. +Jess Eaton and Allison Roche were elected Holy Cross Hall President and Vice President in last week's election. RHA President Shay Jolly reported that the election had an excellent par­ticipation rate, and the winning ticket won 80percent of the vote. +Former Smith College President and social activist Jill Ker Conway will speak at Saint Mary's Thursday in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30pm. Complimentary tickets are avail­able at the Saint Mary's box office. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei09078@saintmarys.edu 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

Six president/vice presidential 
tickets and nine board candidates 
for Saint Mary's freshman class 
council began their campaign last 
Thursday under the guidance of 
Elections Commissioner Nicole 
Haeberle. 

Voting for the primary election 
will take place today until 11:59 
p.m., and the run-off election will be 
held Thursday from 12:01 a.m. 
untill1:59 p.m. 

Freshmen must log into PRISM on the Saint Mary's server and click "Take a Survey" to place their votes. ~Students will be able to vote for one presidential ticket and have the option of approving or disapproving 
the nine class board candidates. 
Each candidate conducted a 
"meet and greet" session in Haggar 
Parlor Monday night, where stu­
denl'> had a chance to meet their 
potential representatives and find 
out what they have to offer. 
"It's not about us; it's about our 
peers," said presidential candidate 
Oaudia Toth. 

Although she shares the same last name with her vice presidential candidate Ashley Toth, the two are not related. Together, they hope to open a "Belle General Store" to pro­vide Saint Mary's students the opportunity to purchase snacks and necessities. 
The platform of candidates Rosemary Walsh and Brittany Hartford includes an increase in school spirit and the initiation of events such as a campus-and com­munity-wideclothingdrive. 
Susan Mclldulf and Ashley Oberst said they hope to initiate campus­
,-------~----------------------~------~-------------------------------------­

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

---~----~ ~---­
Sites Seeking Student Tutors 

St. Luke Memorial Church of God in Christ is seeking volunteers for an after school program 
on Mondays-Wednesdays from 3-6 pm. 
Contact Mrs. Marcella Jones Preston at 
233-5232 or 288-6809. 
Greater Holy Temple has asked for student help with its tutoring program. The temple is located about 4 blocks from campus. 'li.Jtoring takes place on Tuesdays from 7-8 pm and transportation is available. If interested, contact Howard Dukes at 288-1199. 
The South Bend Housing Authority is looking for tutors and mentors for children grades 1-12 from 3-5 pm Monday-Thurs­day. There are a few locations and trans­portation can be provided. If interested, contact Stephanie Ball at 235-9890. 
Young Life, a Christian youth outreach ministry, is looking for tutors on Mon­days from 5-7 pm and transportation can be provided. There will be a mandatory two-hour informational meeting and training held at Notre Dame. If interested, contact Mike Bredcweg at 287-3596 or rnbredeweg@aol.com. 
Freshman candidates begin campaigns 
community involvement as well byattending South Bend community meetings. They plan to offer a bea­con of hope for those disturbed by early morning construction of the new student center. "We will go directly to II.G. Construction and ask them to not begin work at 6:30a.m.," Mcllduff said. Not only did presidential and vice-presidential hopefuls Amanda Shropshire and Irene Bayudan say they want to improve the quality of residential life, they said they aim to increase cultural diversity on cam­pus through their ties to many cam­pus diversity clubs. If elected, Laela Tahmassebi and Caitlin Kelly said they hope to initi­ate more themed dances and create new Saint Mary's apparel. 
'We are very excited to represent our class, and hope to continue to meet new people," Kelly said. 
Anyone who has seen Monica 


lindblom and Kru,ien Bogdanowicz around campll'> decked out in rain­coats and hats understands their slogan, "Always here for you, rain or shine." 
Only one ticket will be named the new class president and vice presi­dent Friday, but all candidates said they are ambitious to represent Saint Mary's class of 2007. 
Since only nine candidates are running for the thirteen spots on the freshman class board, all are assured a position. Those running include Bridget Gorman, Kristi Sobhani, Kathleen Kindt, Katie White, Ashley Sanders, Chelsea Foote, Megan Sosnowski, Lauren Knisley and Katie Whalen. 
"Together we hope to create a sense of unity between the class of 2007, the upperclassmen and Notre Dame," Whalen said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOl@saintmarys.edu 

Volunteers Needed for Children, Elderly & Disabled 
Homebound woman needs help 
to run errands and go grocery shopping for about I hr a week. 
Contact Francis at 257-2904. 
Youth Services Bureau at the YMCA needs volunteers to assist in watching babies and toddlers while their young mothers are attending meetings. Volunteers are needed on Friday, Sept. 26 from l 0 a.m to noon and on a monthly basis after that. Contact Carolyn Coleman at 235-923I ext. IS or ccoleman@michiana.com for a short interview. 
A support group for grandparents is looking for volunteers to watch children 
ranging in ages from one to I1 or facilitate discussions and hang out with children aged I2-I6. Volunteers are needed once a , month on Tuesdays from 6:30-8 
p.m. and transportation can be provided. Contact Opal or Tina at 232-6890. 
Autistic child Volunteers are needed to watch a I3 year old who has cerebral palsy and autism after school from 3:30-6 p.m. Monday through Friday. You must provide your own transportation. Contact Donna Fraiser at 237-1250. 

Healthwin Specialized Care Facility is looking for volunteers to help with group activities and also those interested in developing a one-on-one relationship with patients. Contact Lori Miller at 272-0 I 00 ext. 204. 
Head Start program needs volunteers to help assess 4 and 5 year olds. They are needed for both mornings and afternoons and must complete 4-5 hours of training. Contact Beth O'Connor at 234-6647 or 284-47I7 or email her at oconnor@saintmarys.edu. 
Events of Interest 
International Summer Service Learning Program Learn more about the Center's eight week service-learning program in 12 developing countries. Applications now available at the CSC. Due November 1. 
Wednesday, Sept. 17 and Tuesday, Sept 23 6:30-7:30 pm@ esc Additional info sessions offered weekly in October. 
Film Screening: "Cathy Corne Horne" 
Thursday, Sept. 25, 7:00pm Hesburgh Library, Carey Auditorium See www.nd.edu/~fit for more information. 
Solidarity with Mrica Conference 
Americans and Africans in dialogue about Africa's promise, needs, and image. 
September 21-24 McKenna Hall 
See www.nd.edul~icl/africa-confhtml for schedule 
page 4 





Coupling 
continued from page 1 
said Behling. 
Behling said he has fielded feedback from viewers voicing concerns about the degree of the University's control over the station, and many are rais­ing the black flag of censor­ship. 
To quell their fears, Behling explained that the Board of Directors, and thus indirectly the University, has seldom been involved in programming decisions. They were consulted on this one specifically because of its sensitive nature and the possible effect on WNDU's business relationship with NBC. 
As for censorship, Behling said that the station was exer­cising its responsibility to the family, taking into considera­tion the show's early time slot and questionable content. 
Carol Kaesebier, a member of 

Reading 
continued from page 1 
identified the faculty and student panelists. 
"The participating faculty and students were chosen on the basis of faculty area of expertise and ... interest in participating," Appleby said. "The students were recruited by individual faculty members who knew them from classes." 
The Convocation brings together material from Seyyed Hossein Nasr's book "The Heart of Islam: Enduring Values for Humanity" and supplementary articles that all first-year students were required to read during the sum­mer. 
Appleby said that he is excited about tonight's program and encourages students to come to the convocation even if they have not read each page of the assigned reading. 
"I have no doubt, of course, that every first-year student has read and reflected upon every assigned page -but if there are one or two who have not done so, please come to the convocation anyway," he said. "I am delighted that Notre Dame has launched this initiative, and I am looking forward to a vig­orous conversation about these interesting and evocative texts and ideas." 
Kolman said that she is aware of a number of classes, including all fields represented by faculty pan­elists that have incorporated the summer reading or some discus-


Guard 
continued from page 1 
before the police arrived, after being called by other student witnesses. The police broke up the fight and took down names, but no one was arrested, DeWalt said. 
South Bend police Captain John Williams said Monday that he was not aware of a police report filed in conjunc­tion with the incident. 
"Just because we were called doesn't mean there was a report made," Williams said. 
DeWalt said Raih and the two other students went to the hospital for treatment. Raih sustained multiple bruis­es and injuries to his face and body, and his condition pre­the Board of Directors and Vice President and General Counsel of the University, said, "I think they don't understand what censorship is. We're not pre­venting them from seeing this show -there are lots of ways to see it-we're just not going to air it on the station. I think we made a decision about what the community standards are." 

As Behling said, it's a "damned if you do, damned if you don't" situation, with half of the phone calls received regarding "Coupling" thanking the station for its discretion, while the other half condemn it for taking away what they have called its viewers' right to choose. 
WNDU was among twenty stations to pull a controversial show last year called "God, the Devil and Bob," but stands with only one other NBC affili­ate in its "Coupling" pre-emp­tion -KSL-TV in Salt Lake City. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
sion of its topics into their curricu­lum. Additionally, Kolman said that at least one residence hall is planning a follow-up meeting for Wednesday evening and she plans to work with other departments to offer follow-up panels later in the semester. 
Kolman said she anticipates that all first-year students will attend the convocation. 
"The language [faculty associat­ed with the convocation] have always used is that 'all first-year students are expected to attend.' My position on this has not changed," she said. 
Some students, however, said that they perceived some ambigui­ty regarding the requirement to attend the convocation, based on the information mailed to students during the summer as well as advertising posters displayed around campus. Neither explicitly states that attendance is required. 
"I assumed that it [the academic convocation] was required ... and I felt like I'd better do the reading over the summer," said Lyons Hall freshman Jessica Pryor. 
Knott Hall freshman Jeremy Klein, on the other hand, said that he understood that students were "strongly encouraged to attend" but that the convocation was "more for the intellectual aspect" and was not absolutely mandato­ry. 
Both students said they have completed the reading and plan to attend the convocation. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtombel@nd.edu 
vented him from participating Saturday in Irish Guard gameday activities. He could not be reached for comment. 
"Johnny, as much as it hurt him, was physically unable to march because his face and nose were too swollen, [he was) too lightheaded from his painkillers, and because if he tried to march, let alone trot, his broken nose would start bleeding," Funk said. 
DeWalt also said that the two other students suffered significant injuries. 
"The other two guys, had they been on the Guard, wouldn't have been able to march," DeWalt said. 
"We dedicated all gameday activities to Johnny," Funk said. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu and Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
Attend all required classes or make-up sessions, complete all scheduled tests, and do your homework. If your score doesn't improve on test day from your Kaplan diagnostic or a prior official test score, you can choose to repeat our program for free or get a full refund of your tuition.** It's that simple. 
World Leader in Test Prep and Admissions 




KAPLAN. 
1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com 
*Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
**To be eligible for this offer, you must be enrolled in Kaplan's full classroom, tutoring, or online courses. In addition, you must present a copy of your official score report and your course materials within 90 days. 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 Cotv\PllED FROM THE ()BSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hurricane Marty hits Mexico 
CABO SAN LUCAS, Mexico -Hurricane Marty weakened slightly as it headed toward mainland Mexico's Pacific coast Monday after knocking out power, flooding streets on the southern Baja California peninsula. One death was reported. 
Forecasters said Marty was expected to maintain hurricane strength as it crossed the Gulf of California on its way to the mainland. 
Epigmeo Lopez, 52, was killed early Monday when Marty's high winds ripped the roof from his cardboard and wood shack in Cabo San Lucas, state police officer Francisco Solis said. 
A number of minor injuries were reported and hundreds were evacuated to shelters in Cabo San Lucas and San Jose del Cabo. 
Some sections of both cities were without water and electricity, forcing hotels to rely on candles and generators. Most hotels and businesses, however, escaped major damage. 
Scheffer chosen to lead NATO 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -NATO selected Dutch Foreign Minister Jaap de Hoop Scheffer as the alliance's new secretary gen­eral Monday. 
After a nine-month search, ambassadors from the 19 NATO nations agreed on De lloop Scheffer to replace Britain's Lord Hobertson. whose four-year term ends on .Jan. I. 
De I loop Scheffer, 55, showed his diplomat­it: skills earlier this year during the debate over Iraq as his government supported the U.S.-led war but avoided antagonizing France, Germany and other European oppo­nents of the effort to oust Saddam Hussein. 
The Dutchman's main rival for the position was Canadian Finance Minister John Manley. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Blame shared in Academy assaults 
WASIIINGTON -Commanders at the Air Force Academy failed to heed warnings that female cadets were being sexually assaulted, according to a congressional panel, which recommended a full inquiry Monday into which leaders were to blame. 
In a report delivered to Defense Secretary Donald Humsfeld, a panel created by Congress said leadership failures went beyond the Colorado academy and included Air Force leadership at the Pentagon. 
The panel recommended a full investiga­tion by the Pentagon inspector general to determine if academy and Air Force leaders should be held accountable for the failures. 
Between 1993 and 2002, there were 142 allegations of sexual assault at the academy. 
Police wound student gunman 
SPOKANE, Wash. -Police shot and wounded a 17 -year-old boy who brought a gun to school and fired a bullet into a wall Monday. 
The teenager was in surgery at a hospital and the extent of his injuries was not avail­able, police said. No one else was hurt. 
Police said they were trying to establish a motive for the incident, which took place in a third-floor science classroom at Lewis and Clark lligh School. 
"lie was angry at everything. He was mak­ing threats about everything," said Police Chief Hoger Bragdon. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Pastor found guilty of fraud, theft 
INDIANAPOLIS -An East Chicago pastor pleaded guilty Monday to stealing more than $100,000 in Build Indiana Fund money for a battered women's shelter that was never built. 
Gilliam pleaded guilty to felony counts of theft, perjury and failing to file income taxes. 
As part of the plea agreement, Gilliam also must pay back some of the money to the state. lie will sell three rental properties he bought with Build Indiana money and must forfeit money in some of his bank accounts. 
IRAQ 


Car bomb hits U.N. compound 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber, his body wrapped in explosives and his car filled with 50 pounds of TNT, struck a police checkpoint outside U.N. headquarters in Baghdad on Monday, killing an Iraqi policeman who stopped him and wound­ing 19 people. 
The bomber, who also died in the 8:10a.m. blast, was trying to get into the 
U.N. compound at the Canal Hotel, where a truck bomb a month ago killed 23 people, including the top U.N. envoy to Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, said a U.S. military spokesman. Monday's attack wounded two U.N. workers. 
The attack, apparently timed to snarl attempts by Washington to win U.N . legitimacy for the U.S. occupation of this Arab country, could diminish the world body's willing­ness to become more deeply involved in Iraq's reconstruction. The United Nations already sharply reduced its work here after the Aug. 19 bombing. 
Secretary-General Kofi 
U.S. soldiers secure the area of a suicide bombing near U.N. headquarters
Annan warned that if the 
Monday In Baghdad. The bomber killed himself and an Iraqi guard .. 
situation continues to deteriorate, U.N. opera­tions in Iraq "will be keepers and money to the ed the explosives. the hotel just yards from handicapped consider­reconstruction effort. Praising new security Vieira de Mello's office, ably." But it was unclear how arrangements around the when it exploded and 
"I am shocked and dis­the United States would hotel, a U.S. officer at the brought down the facade, tressed by this latest respond to French and scene credited Iraqi police trapping him and several attack on our premises in German requests for the with preventing an even others in the rubble. Baghdad," Annan said at world body to oversee the greater tragedy. Kirley said the Iraqi the United Nations. process of handing over "I reiterate that he was police had a warning of 
"We are assessing the more authority to Iraqis not through the check­Monday's attack shortly situation to determine and to be given a larger point, and he was not near before it happened. lie did what happened, who did role in the management of the U.N. compound. That not give details. it, and taking further Iraq's transition to democ­means security is work­The power of the blast measures to protect our racy. ing," said Capt. Sean sent the hood of the installations," he said. Annan has said he Kirley of the U.S. 2nd bomber's car flying 200 
The blast, which could wants assurances of secu­Armored Cavalry yards. The detached arm be heard over much of the rity for U.N. personnel in Hegiment. of a victim lay more than Iraqi capital, took place a Baghdad along with any The bomb exploded 100 yards away. day before President Bush expanded role. about 200 yards from any Iraqi police Master Sgt. was to address the U.N. The bomber in Monday's of the buildings or mobile Hassan al-Saadi. among General Assembly. He was attack was blocked at a offices inside the com­the first on the scene, said expected to seek an newly established police pound and about 400 he was told by wounded expanded U.N. role in checkpoint on a street in yards from the hotel policemen that a gray rebuilding Iraq, a condi­back of the compound. As building itself. The truck 1995 Opel with Baghdad tion set by many nations police inspected the bomb last month was license plates approached for contributing peace-bomber's car, he detonat-parked outside the front of the parking area. 


Court rehears recall postponement 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -A federal appeals court heard arguments Monday about whether to let California's gubernatorial recall elec­tion go forward on Oct. 7, sharply questioning whether the Supreme Court's Bush v. Gore decision is grounds for postponing the vote. 
But judges also raised concerns that holding the election could deny some people the right to vote because of error-prone voting machines, giving hope to both sides that they might prevail in a legal bat­tle that could still end up before the nation's high court. 
There was no indication when the court would rule. 
The American Civil Liberties Union wants the election postponed until six counties can install new voting machines so that 40 percent of California voters will not have to use the infamous punch card ballots that made "hanging chads" a household term during Florida's elections deba­cle. 
Judges Alex Kozinski and Johnnie Hawlinson challenged Charles Diamond, a lawyer for a pro-recall group, to explain just how error­prone a county can be before it vio­lates the Constitution. "We cannot value one person's vote over anoth­er," Haw Iinson said. 
If one out of every 10 votes doesn't count, Kozinski said, is that "close enough for government work?" 
"If it was 50 percent I think we'd want to take a searching look," Diamond conceded. 
But Judge Hichard Tallman expressed concern about the nearly 615,000 absentee ballots that Californians already have cast. 
The hearing was the result of a ruling last week by a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that postponed the guberna­torial election, agreeing with the ACLU that thousands of votes could be missed. 
The 9th Circuit later decided to allow an 11-judge panel to reconsid­er, setting up Monday's hearing. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
ISRAEL 

Palestinian prenlier co1nplains of weapons 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM The Palestinian premier-designate complained Monday about the "chaos" of weapons in the West Bank and Gaza but sug­gested that -like his prede­cessor -he will not use force to disarm militant groups. 
With Israeli-Palestinian con­tacts frozen, a chance to break the stalemate came Monday from a different direction: A Palestinian source said Israel and the Lebanese militia Hezbollah were close to a pris­oner swap that would free Palestinian uprising leader Marwan Barghouti and hun­dreds of other prisoners. 
Israeli officials would say only that talks with Hezbollah were advancing. 
A dramatic prisoner release and Palestinian steps to dis­arm the militants would be significant confidence-building measures that might help get the stalled, U.S.-backed "road map" peace plan back on track. 
The release of prisoners by Israel is a key Palestinian demand, but Israel has refused to free anyone who participat­ed in terror attacks. 
Hezbollah -which fought Israeli troops during the 1980s and 1990s in south Lebanon ­is trying to free Palestinians who might not win release in negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, including prisoners with life sentences and those convicted of killing Israelis, the Palestinian source said. 
Barghouti -enormously popular among Palestinians ­is on trial for his alleged role in attacks that killed 26 Israelis, and the possibility of his release would likely set off tremendous opposition in Israel. But his relationship with Israel is complex: a fluent Hebrew speaker, Barghouti was seen as a supporter of peace in the past, and some still believe he might grow into a leader who can push through future compromises with Israel. 
The Palestinian source, who is close to the talks, said nego­tiators agreed in principle on a list of 400 Arab prisoners to be released by Israel, including more than 200 Palestinians as well as Syrians, Jordanians and Lebanese. 
Israel's security Cabinet was to decide on the deal in coming days, said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Israeli media reported Monday that Ilan Biran, a sen­ior defense official, was in Germany for talks with an unidentified German mediator handling the contacts, and that as part of the deal, Hezbollah would release Israeli business­man Elhanan Tannenbaum and the bodies of three Israeli soldiers, all kidnapped by the guerrillas in 2000. 

Israel would free Abdel Karim Obeid and Mustafa Dirani, two Lebanese guerrilla leaders it snatched in the late 1980s and early 1990s to win the release of Israeli airman Ron Arad, who was shot down over Lebanon in 1986. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's aides declined com­ment. "I prefer at this time to let the negotiators do their jobs," said Sharon adviser Raanan Gissin. 
In the past, Israel had objected to freeing Palestinians in a swap with Hezbollah. But last week Israeli security officials said a release of other Palestinian security prisoners is no longer being ruled out. 
Earlier Monday, a senior offi­cial at Israel's Foreign Ministry, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Barghouti would not be freed, citing a June recommendation by Israel's attorney general. "There is no intention of releasing Marwan Barghouti," the official told The Associated Press. 
In Beirut, Hezbollah leader Sheik Hassan Nasrallah told the Lebanese newspaper As­Safir in an interview published Monday that he expected a "comprehensive solution soon." 
As part of the negotiations, Hezbollah asked the Palestinian militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad, as well as Fatah party headed by Vasser Arafat. to put together lists of prisoners they would like to see released, the Palestinian source said. 
Barghouti, the Fatah leader in the West Bank, tops all three lists, the source said. Increasingly seen as a possible successor to Arafat, his popu­larity has been boosted by more than a year spent in an Israeli jail. 
Nasrallah also said his group would try to find out more about the fate of Arad. Israel believes that the navigator was at one point held by Hezbollah, but might have been sold to Iranian Revolutionary Guards operating in Lebanon and was perhaps moved to Iran. 
"We are actually interested in uncovering Arad's fate," he told As-Safir. 
As negotiations were contin­uing, Palestinian prime minis­ter-designate Ahmed Qureia was working to put together a government and forge a new cease-fire to replace one that collapsed after six weeks in a spasm of Palestinian suicide bombings and Israeli air strikes last month. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS Buy -SELL -TRADE ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS 'l PREFERRED TICKETS 234-5650 

Ashcroft order li1nits prosecutors 
Associated Press 
WASHINTON -Federal prosecutors were ordered Monday by Attorney General John Ashcroft to pursue maxi­mum criminal charges and sentences whenever possible and to seek lesser penalties through plea bargains only in limited circumstances. 
An Ashcroft memo sent to all 94 U.S. attorneys' offices supersedes policy during for­mer Attorney General Janet Reno's tenure that allowed prosecutors greater individual discretion to determine if the charges and potential punish­ment fit the crime. 
Ashcroft said his intent is to bring greater consistency to criminal prosecutions around the country. 
"It's a direction for the way we prosecute criminal behav­ior at the federal level," Ashcroft said Monday after a speech in Cincinnati. "If you violate a federal law, punish­ment will be uniform." 
The policy change is the lat­est example of Ashcroft's attempts to bring greater sym­metry -critics say inflexibility -to the federal justice sys­tem. During the summer Ashcroft instructed U.S. attor­neys to seek the death penalty whenever applicable, overrul­ing some who would not, and to vigorously oppose sentences imposed by judges that are lighter than recommended by federal guidelines. 
Critics predicted the new plea bargain policy will severe­ly limit prosecutors' options, forcing more defendants to face costly, time-consuming trials instead of pleading guilty and adding to prison over­crowding problems through harsher sentences. 
"No two crimes, and no two defendants, are exactly alike," said Marc Mauer, assistant director of The Sentencing Project, a research group that advocates alternatives to prison. 
Gerald Lefcourt, past presi­dent of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said the change "creates a system that is not only inflexible and prob­lematic, but becomes a sort of immovable object. You're adding more unfairness to the system." 
Nearly all federal criminal cases are resolved before they go to trial. According to Justice Department statistics for fiscal 2001, more than 96 percent of criminal defendants pleaded guilty to the offense charged or to a reduced charge, or had their cases dismissed. 
The order by Ashcroft marks a return to the spirit of the original instructions for prose­cuting cases under federal sentencing guidelines devel­oped in 1989 by then-Attorney General Richard Thornburgh. Those instructions were rewritten by Reno in the 1990s. 
Justice Department officials said the policy, developed by a 15-member advisory group of 
U.S. attorneys, provides enough flexibility to deal with differences in defendants and still ensure that all prosecutors pursue the same brand of jus­tice. 
"The whole purpose is to eliminate the disparity between similarly situated defendants," said U.S. Attorney Bill Mercer of Montana. "It's very hard to deter crime if there's a perception that a per­son isn't going to be held accountable for his or her actions." 
The Ashcroft memo said prosecutors will have a "gen­eral duty" to pursue the most serious crimes they feel confi­dent of proving in court. Plea bargains involving lesser charges should be limited ­there are six specific excep­tions -and would frequently have to be approved in writing by a supervisor. 
The plea-bargain exceptions are: 
+ 
When a defendant agrees to provide "substantial assis­tance" in an investigation. Ashcroft said the message is, "if defendants will cooperate, the green light is on for negoti­ation." 

+ 
Under so-called "fast-track" programs aimed at unclogging court dockets in which certain types of defendants are given a preset charge and sentence lower than that called for under federal guidelines. These programs, which will be reviewed individually by the Justice Department, are popu­lar for common immigration and drug violations in the Southwest. 

+ 
When prosecutors decided that the original charges will be tough to prove in court because of witness access problems, suppressed evidence or some other reason. 

+ 
If the possible sentence would be unaffected by a charge under a lesser offense. 

+ 
When "enhancements" that could result in a longer sen­tence, such as a defendant fac­ing multiple charges connected with the main crime, remove any incentive for the defendant to plead guilty. Enhancements for firearms offenses, however, would generally have to be included. 

+ 
On a case-by-case basis for other reasons with written approval by a supervisor. 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9 535.41 -109.41
Jones ' 


·~·~ 
99s··. 44··········;··~··~;~~;:.~:•:·;·:%2~~o;~::::::::::::::::::;:
AlJ1EX NASDAQ 1,874.62 -31.08 
NYSE 670.14·· S&P5fXJ 1,022.82 -13.48 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  -2.97  -0.89  29.07  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -3.32  -0.136  3.964  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -1.24  -0.15  11.97  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.23  -0.65  28.52  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -1.14  -0.24  20.78  

IN BRIEF 
Dow sued over Chinese loao 
BEIJING -A Chinese court on Monday ordered the company that publishes The Wall Street Journal to pay a Chinese calligrapher $50,000 in a dispute over its use of one of his Chinese characters as its corporate logo in China, a lawyer for the company said. 
The case was an unusual collision between 
art and commerce in a Chinese legal system 
that is under pressure to fight widespread 
piracy of copyrights and other intellectual 
property. 
Guan Dongsheng drew the character at the request of Dow Jones & Co. employees as a gift to the company chairman in 1994. Guan !iled suit this year, saying he retained rights to use his character "Dao," which sounds like Dow. 
Dow Jones said Guan gave oral permission to use the character, but the Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People's Court rejected that argument in a ruling Monday, said Lu Qing, a lawyer for the company. 
"The court believed that there was insuffi­
cient evidence that there was an oral con­
tract." Lu said. "It told Dow Jones to stop 
using the character and to pay 400,000 yuan 
1$50,000]." 
Guan's character is used by Dow Jones on its Web site, advertising and business cards in China, and Dow has not decided whether or not to appeaL 
Galvin resignation helps Motorola 
ClllCAGO -Wall Street cheered the end of Christopher Galvin's disappointing tenure as chairman and CEO of Motorola Inc., elevating the stock Monday to its highest level in more than a year amid a raft of upgrades. 
Even before a successor is named, analysts forecast the sell-off of one or more of Motorola's struggling business lines and other restructuring moves they said are needed to reinvigorate the lumbering wireless giant. Shareholders signaled their eagerness for change by driving up the stock 97 cents, or 9 percent, to $12.06 -its highest closing price since Sept 11, 2002. 
Industry experts were divided on whether the cell-phone and semiconductor maker is likelier to go outside for its next leader or promote its highly regarded president and chief operating officer, Mike Zafirovski, who is untested as a CEO. 

Judge approves Enron settlement 
HOUSTON -A Manhattan bankruptcy judge Monday authorized the committee rep­resenting Enron Corp. employees to collect some of an estimated $53 million in accelerat­ed deferred compensation payments set aside for certain executives on the eve of the com­pany's bankruptcy !iling, lawyers said. 
New York U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Arthur Gonzalez approved a settlement reached by Enron's current management, the unsecured creditors' committee and the employee committee over the issue, according to lawyers for the employees. 
Houston-based Enron, which filed for bank­ruptcy in New York in December 2001 as it descended into an accounting scandal, did not have an immediate reaction to the ruling. 
ENGLAND 



Fashion show takes London 
Associated Press 

LONDON -Design duo Antoni & Alison may have rather oddly chosen a blowup Santa Claus and several snowmen to acces­sorize their catwalk show at London Fashion Week, but just about everyone else was turning up the heat as the parades kept coming Monday. 
Even a sudden down­pour that flooded the main exhibition tent and delayed shows for more than an hour did not stop the sultry beachwear vibes in the spring/summer 2004 collections. 
Designers such as Jenny Packham and Honit Zilkha, who usually feature more formal evening collections, were even seduced by images of hot, humid nights in lands obviously far distant. 
Betty Jackson's "Campari and Capri" show reinforced a theme already emerging from the week -the 1950s are back. Her full chiffon dresses in mustard yellows and soft greens were com­pleted with soft grosgrain ribbon ties at the waist and her blue floral one­piece bathing suits were covered with simple linen box jackets. 
Packham targeted the stylish holiday-maker with TV show "Absolutely tea dresses floated by. tion for bringing new sequined swim wear and Fabulous," sitting in the Preen was one of the few designers to light and rainbow print shawls, front row and stylish major houses to break allowing a little quirkiness while Zilkha fused influ­young Zara Phillips -from the flashback to ear­to invade the catwalk. ences from Hio and Asia to Princess Anne's daughter lier decades, instead pre­Robert Cary-Williams present multilayered and -trying to avoid the senting quite a futuristic attracted attention to his colored dresses, trailing flashguns a few rows back. collection of patchwork collection by showing it in with porn poms. The London circuit of mini-dresses and black urban wasteland near 
Tl}e Gharani Strok show the fashion season does and silver catsuits. Kings Cross train station "Firefly Fever" featured a not tend to attract the The week is the twice­and sending his last model turquoise sequined same A-list stars that flock yearly showcase for down the catwalk astride a evening mini-dress with a to New York shows, but Britain's $18 million cloth­horse. trailing back resembling a the FrontFrench show also ing and textiles industry. But the stalwarts took train. Design team kept the reporters happy More than 4,000 buyers, over on Monday with both Nargess Gharani and when both Claudia Schiffer journalists and photogra­Betty Jackson, who last Vanya Strok also present­and Kate Moss turned out phers are following the year celebrated 21 suc­ed beaded satin draw­to support designer Sadie 50-odd catwalk shows that cessful years with her own string trousers and suede Frost, the estranged wife have been crammed into collection, and Paul Smith hot pants. of actor Jude Law. the five-day schedule. featuring simple, classic 
Jackson's show provided In a break from the The accompanying collections. an injection of some much­usual catwalk style, designers' exhibition has Still to show their 
needed glamour with a Schiffer and Moss joined grown from 50 exhibitors designs are top names small posse of British others at roundtables on in 1994 to more than 150 including Pringle, Nicole celebrities, including an art deco set as models in 2003. Farhi, Jasper Conran and Jennifer Saunders of the wearing 1940s-style silk The event has a reputa-Julien MacDonald. 

FCC approves broadcasting merger 
give Hispanic media a better oppor­Univision rivals including Spanish
Associated Press 

tunity to compete against big media Broadcasting System Inc. and 
WASHINGTON -The government companies, capturing more advertis­Telemundo had complained the deal approved Univision Communications ing revenue to allow it to expand would harm competition in the Inc.'s $3.1 billion purchase of unique language and cultural offer­growing market. Hispanic Broadcasting Corp. on ings to its audiences." Los Angeles-based Univision Monday, allowing the nation's But Democratic FCC Commissioner already owns the Univision and largest Spanish-language media Jonathan Adelstein said the "FCC is TeleFutura TV networks, the conglomerate to grab an even bigger turning a deaf ear to millions of Galavision cable network and 50 tel­share of the burgeoning Latino mar­Spanish-speaking Americans." evision stations nationwide. ket. "By allowing this transaction to go Soon after the FCC announcement, 
The Federal Communications forward with no protections for con­Univision said it completed the Commission voted 3-2 to accept the sumers, the FCC denies Spanish merger and HBC had been renamed deal, with the two FCC Democrats speakers their right to receive a Univision Radio. contending the merger would hurt diversity of perspectives over the Univision now has the top Spanish­competition and limit news and nation's airwaves," Adelstein said. language broadcast TV network, entertainment choices for Spanish­Hispanics are the nation's largest cable channel, record label, Internet speaking Americans. minority group. The nearly 39 mil­site and radio network, as well as 
The three Republicans said in a lion residents comprise 13.5 percent the largest group of television and joint statement that the deal "will of the U.S. population. radio stations. 
---------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the law and Christianitv 
~ j 



Deepening the Doctrine 
Eight Lectures on the Development of Catholic Moral Teaching 
Septet.nber 23 Father Newt.nan Startles September 25 The Unknown Sin September 30 A Girl Named Zita and ()rher Commodities 
I 

October 2 The Obstinate Hill Clin1bed, with Eclat October 7 Folly, Championed October 9 Out of Deeds Comes Law October 14 Out of Difficulties Comes l)evelopment October 16 The Test of the Teaching 

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the Law School Courtroom and begin at 5:00p.m. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors. The Pew Charitable 'Eusts. the \Villiam J. Carey Endowment. and the University of Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Gulf War vets prone to Gehrig's disease 
Assod.red Press 
WASIIINGTON -Veterans of the 1991 Persian Gulf War were at least twice a.'i likely to be diag­nosed with Lou Gehrig's disease as non-Gulf veterans or other people younger than 45, accord­ing to studies published Monday. 
The findings, reached sepa­rately, came almost two years after Veterans Affairs Secretary Anthony Principi decided, based on early findings, that the VA would offer health care and other survivor benefits to Gulf War veterans with Lou Gehrig's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. That marked the first time the government acknowl­edged a scientific link between service in the Gulf and a specific disease. 
"The important thing is where do we go from here? We have to conduct more research into Al..S to sec if we can determine why this happened," Principi said. Principi also said he hopes "we can now increase funding for ALS research" at VA and at other institutions. 
The VA study and one led by researchers at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas appear Tuesday in Neurology, a peer-reviewed journal. 
Always fatal, the disease caus­es the gradual death of nerve cells that control muscle move­ment and results eventually in paralysis and death. Its cause is unknown, and there remains no cure. It affects about 30,000 Americans and is commonly associated with baseball Hall of Farner Lou Gehrig of the New York Yankees, who died of the disease in 1941 at the age of 37. 
The VA found 40 veterans with the disease. The University of Texas center's study found 20. Some cases may have over­lapped. The Texas researchers did not have access to all records available to VA. 
VA researchers found that mil­itary personnel deployed to the Gulf War region during the con­flict stood twice the risk of suf­fering ALS compared with non­deployed military. 
Members of the Army and Air Force had higher risk. 
"What we have to ask now is why is there that elevated risk?" said Dr. H.D. Horner, an epi­demiologist at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. He led the VA study. 
The Texas Southwestern study, led by epidemiologist Dr. Robert Haley, determined that 17 of the 20 war veterans with the disease were diagnosed before they turned 45. or those, 11 have since died. 
Haley compared the number of cases of ALS in Gulf War vet­erans between 1991 and 1998 to the number of cases expected each year in the same age group -45 or younger -in the gener­al population. 
From 1991 to 1994, the num­ber of cases was no different from what would have been expected. But by 1998, the num­ber was almost three times greater than what was expected, Haley said. 
Haley emphasized that not every Gulf War veteran will be stricken. Researchers believe that people who contract ALS are susceptible genetically to it, he said. 
"A lifetime of environmental exposure will build up and give you this disease in your 60s and 70s," Haley said. "What may have happened here is Gulf War veterans were exposed to some unusually toxic exposure that accelerated the process by 30 years." 
Almost 700,000 U.S. military personnel were deployed for the conflict, both in the Desert Shield buildup from August 1990 to January 1991 and Desert Storm combat in January-February 1991. Some returned with com­plaints of unusual illnesses, including fatigue, diarrhea, dizziness and muscle weakness, which have come to be known as Gulf War Syndrome. 
Standards violated by ex-Bush official 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal investigators have concluded President Bush's former telecommunications policy chief committed three ethics viola­tions by allowing industry lob­byists to throw her a party. The Justice Department, however, is declining to prosecute her. 
The previously confidential findings by the Commerce Department's inspector general came in late June, two weeks before Nancy Victory announced her resignation as assistant secretary for telecom­munications and information. 
The inspector general said that Victory violated ethics standards that prohibit federal employees from accepting gifts from anyone whose interests they substantially affect and require them to avoid any appearance of impropriety in carrying out their official duties. 
Ten days after the catered party in her honor in October 2001, Victory urged a policy change benefiting telecommu­nications companies that helped pay for the catered $3,000 event with 60 to 80 guests at her home in Great Falls, Va. 
Hep. Henry Waxman, the 
ranking Democrat on the House 
Government Heform 
Committee, released the find­
ings from the IG's probe, which 
was triggered by stories last 
January by The Associated 
Press. 
The party's six hosts were 
from the Cellular 
Telecommunications and 
Internet Association, Cingular 
Wireless, SBC Communications, 
Intelsat Global Service Corp., 
Motorola Corp. and Victory's 
former law firm, Wiley, Rein & 
Fielding. 
Victory said last January that 
the telecom industry hosts of 
the event were friends who 
paid for the party out of their 
personal funds. 
But the inspector general 
found that the cost of the party 
"was borne by the hosts'respec­
tive companies." 
The IG's June 25 report rec­ommended that the depart­ment's political hierarchy take "appropriate administrative action against Victory for viola­tion" of the ethics rules. Asked Monday whether any action had been taken prior to her departure, a department spokesperson said, "At this point, we're considering it a private matter." 
During the month of the catered event in 2001, Victory met eight times with lobbyists who hosted the party or with executives of companies repre­sented by the party's hosts. according to her meeting calen­dars. 
The IG also found that before 
the party Victory failed to fully 
explain the circumstances sur­
rounding the planned event to 
ethics officers at the Commerce 
Department who approved her 
participation. 
The department's ethics offi­cer "was under the impression that the dinner would involve just Victory, her husband and two other couples," said the inspector general. 
According to the IG report, it was only when press accounts of the party emerged that ethics officials realized the event was larger in scale. 
"Without an adequate disclo­sure of the size and nature of the party, Victory cannot rely on" a defense that she checked with ethics ollicials beforehand, said the IG. 
The ethics officer indicated 
that had she known the full cir­
cumstances, the officer "would 
have advised against such an 
event because it was open to 
misinterpretation." 
The June 25 IG report stated that the Justice Department's public integrity section was reviewing the matter. Justice Department spokesman Bryan Sierra said Monday it had been closed without criminal charges. 
The IG stated that Victory's acceptance of the party violated ethics standards that prohibit federal employees from accept­ing gifts from anyone whose interests may be substantially affected by the performance of an employee's duties a prohibit­ed source such as a lobbyist with business pending before the employee. 
By accepting the gift, Victory also violated the ethics stan­dard that requires employees to avoid any actions that create an appearance that they are vio­lating the law, the IG said. 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
'/1i.i""'i-..Jbot. D.o;ij ~"/'-r5mif"(N<"'~~.S4!.ii.fary'• .. > 
Pride distinguishes Domers 
P.(). Bo)<Q;N~r¢0:!!1le;.J:NM~%· 



TODAY'S STAFF 

News G-raphics . 
OBSERVER POLL

Meghan Martin Graham Ebetsch Michael Sports Chambliss Matt.Lozar Are you in favor of a smoke-free campus, Amanda Pat Leonard including outside buildings and on the 
Michaels Scene · 

quads?
Viewpoint Sar8.h Vabulas Lauren Beck Rama lliustrator Gott1Wtuk:kala.········ Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Katie Knorr 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No generalization is wholly true, not even this one." 
Oliver Wendell Holmes 
U.S. Supreme Court justice 
o~4 $6mn Dirung Hall; No~ril¥ffl~.ii;,) ~1>>% ) . 
EDIJUR JN ClullJ,').·•·•>. ;.; . 

·Anwew Souk.Ji ;····· 
:::::::::{:=. 
MXNAGING EDitOR lltl•:=~A~k~ :::~:;:;t::::: 
Srott Brodfuehra . &iiL!Wii~ki 
As$1'; MAAIA.G!NG EUitoll. Sheila Flynn NEWS Eprroa: .M<:gh;;;{~i b~wo~ Vn;wPOJNT EDJ1QR: 1'tifesi &.di$11 •>•••••••••••••••·· SPORn EDITOR: JoeH~tl# .: ••••• \ 
SWitEPtro!t: S.uilh.Wbtliii ..< •.. / ·SAiNT MA.ttrs IIDrroR: AII~~u~wd<l~rot"J ••· • ,
PHoro·Eori'oR= T.im.=Kd~· ·====·= ··=·-===·:·=::::::::::::::.:.:.:. 
G!W'HICS EDrroRt. Mlk.~ fl~kiil~> ADVEJmSJNG MANAGER: Maura Ceneddla .. ·..·. )@ AD D.es1GN MANAGER: Tom B#iht ·••·· • 
S¥S11!MS ADMINISfllA1UR: Ttd B;$g~k .•i.·:· > • WEa ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Ctttk < CoNTROllER: Mike El#lil~ > ·.· 
CoNTACT Us · 
OFAC£ MANAGER & GENEAAllMfO {')74) 6~l·747t 


FAX 

{574)=63:1...692.7: .:'·:: ·.;. :..-:=:.:=.-:.::::::::::l..;::::::;:;:::;::;:;::::;. 

(574) .651·690Q ···e~~~~;4~•• 

i••••••••••._.:::ii••••::••···•·:·•·:·••••··· 
(574)6~1-4542 .• MANAGING EOITOII & AssiSTAHfMAitAGING EOITOA 
(574) 6~h45~t 8o~~:~(j~~!ti············· .·. 
· 
·(5~~;a~~l~?········· 
(574) 63l-53Z3 ohsnews;t@ndJ*i~ VlfWPOlNT 0~1(. { . .. .. 

(574) 63h$30~ yi&poin~~l'Wh<Le#i.i > • 
.... . . SPoRTS DESK . ..•... •..·.• ·..•.. 

(574J 631-4543 sro8 rts.10@nd:ejl:ti > ·.•..••..:.•_!·.·.··•.••.•••.·.·.•.··.·.·.'····•.·.•.•,_•_.••.'.'·'·.•.••.· . CENE ESK · ··•'•'''''' · 
($741 63l-454~A:nM.1n~~d0~~ •··\! •·· .•. ~ 
~:;:~::~~:;; ::~~~~1~: .;;;:.:. ·r:•rJ: 
. SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTIIATOfiS {574} 63I,8S~f 



o8sfuVER.·C9fi4!1~J•••:·•··••·•·•···••·•·················· 
www.ndsmcobserver.tllm .··· 

POLICIES The Observer is th¢1nde~diiii;t/C®Y ~pa~ <·•• •·• 
published in.prinumdonline ~y cli.~ !ii:ildaits (Ifdie•••.· •· University ofNotre Oame du U¢ and W*Matys . ... College. Edirorlal conteti,, indudit:tgaiiver~!:SiiS · not governed by polki~ ofthe. adrrlli"##i,ti9n of~idleroinstitution.The.Obierver res~dl~dgl:i(iptefus~<· .. advt:rcisemenu based oil.Wnt~i~ i .. <.).•. The news!Sreporte<:l~ acc~#i<IWJ¢<:ti~# .. possible. Unsigned editorialsrepresent tlu:opinion oF .. 

§~ari~
Observer. ·· · ..·..· 

a~::i~;;:;!!:~=u~b~:!~~~~~r::········· 
~=r;~:r~:~/~~~·b¢$l~n¢~~~w~i~m~k•> > 
· ······: ···-:.:·:·:·:·:rr~~I?;:(:::-(:-:·: ·... ·:< ·:·>·:· ::<-:-:-: 
~ons rrgardmg Obsm>er)Qiki'mhould lir ··· ···· ··.. Jirecud ta EditQT. i'l C#fAflil#tt;.~p. ·.· 
PoST OFFICE·INFORM!Wt,~ ..·.··.·.·....·.·.·.·.···. ~o.:~:~~;tlt~~::~~~i;·t~'f,~a::~········
ytar.: $.5? fA( one: ~Jt'r,.. · . . .. . . . 
~~:';;~-;;~~"' •·...·.. ·..• ~~~.kn>~ ••• •• •i 
No•«D...,i!N4~S%.W7~ .•·••>.•,·. ·.. ·.t~iJW<,_,.~)) \· /•.•.·•······ 

::"j;!f:rr.:t;ri!rr7 ·•~~W~f~&~ /···
9 
Go green. Go white. Go home you donkeys. 
This weekend I played gracious host to a friend from high school and his friend from Michigan State. I baptized 
their forlorn fan­ 
nies into the inner  David Barrett  
sanctums of the  
Notre Dame foot­ 
ball experience.  
We did the Friday  Jigga Geoff  
afternoon 40s rou­ 
tine and then pud­ 
dle-jumped from  

party to crazy party later that evening. What was an ordinary night for any South Bend socialite was some Natural Light-fueled nirvana for these guys. 
They were smitten with every Irish lassie they laid eyes on. They wouldn't stop telling me how cool my school was. Went so far as to say they would be here with me if Notre Dame had half the Turf program MSU did. Apparently seniors in the CSS pro­gram (Crop and Soil Sciences). all aspiring golf course superintendents and groundskeepers, have a daunting course-load. Aforementioned load includes, but is not limited to: CSS 
362: Management of Turfgrass Pests and CSS 269: Turfgrass Strategy -a caveat to the ambitious strategist though, this one is 4 credits. seminar setting and quite the bogy. Fore! 
Those guys rocked all night long. It must have been midnight, East Lansing time, before they were all tucked in and passed out. 
"Dude, 8 a.m.?" "Yeppers dude, that's the plan." "Set it for 6 stud, we're Spartans. Go 
green, go white!" 

The soil scientists finally rolled off the couch around 9 a.m.. at which point they did their best to blend in with the Sea of Green that amassed around them. We showered them with 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~ove~NM,EM.r os~J.\ 
f'JZ·6'C-A~\ON~ 'O'f C,~N.. wt:r:.St..-E?""f Ct.-At:e·~~s; t'RlS.;.,-,..,.;: C"'1'1At.., CAMf'"At~'tN ~ 

r= 
N., 

\ ""~~'/ -r..,.... 1if~?>to '""~1 

ffZ!:AJJ'otH4~ t..i'HGirJ-S t>oN'T 14>0t'--\ltif2"1 ·p~~ ~~liAL ... 
free beer, burgers and the fairly 
innocuous banter that opposing fans ·should come to expect. Things to the tune of. "You stink". "You are ugly," 
"You are stupid," and so on. No esca­
lation, no offense. None taken. 
Not until the game was over did any­
thing become even remotely offensive. 
I am not one to get my skivvies in a 
bunch about football courtesy, 
because God knows I've never actually 
worn skivvies. But if I did happen to 
have a pair of these so-called skivvies, 
they'd be in a wad on the floor right 
now. 

After the game had ended, our play­
ers, as usual, proudly raised their hel­
mets to applause and cheering from 
the student section. That right there is 
a move of pure class. I will admit that 
I do not go to the pep 
rallies, I think every The pack of ladies I was
"It's our pride that
Shirt should be recalled rolling with. It was
distinguishes us ...
and remade and. on the pathetic, entirely whole, I could do a Everybody sees it. It unprovoked, unneces­shade more in support sary and out of line.
elevates us."

of Irish athletics; how­ever. it's pretty tough to keep from bawling my eyes out when they hold their helmets up. 
It's those moments that remind you that it really is more than just a game. Those guys sit next to you in class, if they go, dance with your girlfriend, if you have one, and give you wedgies, if they want to. But seriously. when they do that, man. it's like we were all on that field. We all lost. We were all that 12th player on the field. We were all there. And it gives you chills just thinking about it. 
To be quite upfront about it, if we aren't in contention for the national title, I wouldn't mind if we lost every game, because it makes those moments particularly poignant. Anyway, if you want poignancy, buy the book. The Bookstore has it on backorder. 
tNSf"c~-rc.·fts Ft·~•li:E: ?A,,...,~~>O" SAFEf""-1 . 
After the players walked off the field and through the tunnel, and the Band of the Fighting Irish assumed forma­tion, we waited as the MSU players finished their celebrating and went through that same tunnel. 
As they were walking through our band. one Spartan stole the MSU flag from one of their cheerleaders and started waving it right in the face of one of our tubists. At a time when he should have been celebrating with his teammates and getting on the bus home, he was acting like a complete donkey and rubbing it in our faces. 
There's no place for salting the wounds, but that's what he was doing. That's pretty much what every State fan I bumped into on the walk home was doing. That, or throwing beer 
bottles at me and the 
If nothing else, it 

made me feel even more proud about our school and about our fans as I walked home. A couple of losses cannot shake that. 
When I met up with those kids from MSU after the game. they shocked me by telling me the exact same thing. It's our pride that distinguishes us. They see it. Everybody sees it. It elevates us. 
Other schools don't have that, though they all wish they did. They told me that they'd give anything to come to this school. If only we offered Turf Strategy. 
David Barrett is a senior philosophy and economics major. Contact him at dbarretl @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 page 11 
Notre Dame needs greater acttvtsm 
One week ago, Archbishop Desmond Tutu inspired hundreds of people on campus with his message of hope, family and together­ness in a world of division, hate and inequality. People all over campus were moved by this spiritual prophet. but did they really 
hear what he had to say? 
In a daze of wonder and awe, did we truly hear Archbishop Tutu's message that holds concrete implications for our own lives or did we, as we can so easily do, hear only what we wanted to hear? While I want to be optimistic, I fear the latter prevails. 
Archbishop Tutu's message was essential­ly the very message that this week's Institute for Church Life, titled "A Call to 
Peter Quaranta 
A Call to Action 

Solidarity with Africa," attempts to engage: the need to create 
solidarity with one another throughout the world. This is not a 
soft or easy message; rather, it is a call to social action, rooted in 
love. It is a call to ask the tough questions about structures, poli­
cies and systems in our society and world that create inequality 
and perpetuate injustice. Social action, thus, is moving beyond 
the service of treating social problems to asking why those prob­
lems exist. 
Here at Notre Dame, we are very good at treating and address­ing the problems of our world, but we are very limited in engag­ing in the social action that is so important. More than 80 percent of the student body does service, but a small minority partici­pates in social action. Is this a result of a conformist culture, a product of a politically apathetic student body or just an affirma­tion of the laziness that exists within all of us? Most likely, a bit of all three. 
Why is it that when the Progressive Student Alliance begins a campaign to promote rights for workers on campus who are lim­ited in their right to unionize, most people could not care less? Why is it that when the Peace Coalition organized events on North Quad this Sunday for the United Nations designated International Day of Peace and featured speakers from Rwanda, Sierra Leone and Palestine. not more than 30 people came? These are eiTorts to begin the sort of social action that Notre Dame desperately needs. but they fall short without our support. 
Heeding Archbishop Tutu's message requires us to do more than write a paper or visit a homeless shelter; it calls us to engage ourselves. one another and our community with the issues that threaten equality, justice and peace in our world. It calls us to actively engage in dialogue and debate when our country is at war. It calls us to act for those whose voices are not heard. It calls us to dream of a better world and act to make that better world a reality. 
Essentially, this call is the call of Jesus to all Christians to engage in radical, active love for the "least of my brothers and sisters". It seems almost ironic that Notre Dame, considered by some to be the Vatican of America, is a home, at times, to com­placency, conformity and conservatism. What ever happened to the idea that the Church should be a social force acting in the name of Jesus for a better world of human rights. justice and love? 
llenry Fagan, a former worker for the National Institute on Church Life, once wrote, "The Church is called to be a social prophet and catalyst, protesting every injustice, oiTering reasons to hope and motives to serve. In every culture and political atmosphere, the Christian people, the Church of Christ, ought to be raising questions for public consideration, challenging popular assumptions, oiTering critiques of commonly accepted ways of acting and giving poor and powerless people reasons for hope." 
Amen, but where is the social prophet here at Notre Dame? Where is the protester or even the critic, giving hope to the poor? 
People, such as Archbishop Tutu, are examples of individual people committed to social justice who, through their witness to a greater vision and their faith, are able to transform our world into a better place. Last week, Archbishop Tutu called you and I, just as Jesus did and does everyday, to be such social actors for a better world. Can we respond to that call? Are we up for the challenge of truly building the foundations of solidarity in a world of strife? 
Perhaps, the key is not to think in quantitative or even qualita­tive terms of making a difference. The key is to act. The key is to go into the community, hear the voices of the poor. be moved and then go out to create a better world than our current war-strick­en. violent. poverty-ridden, unequal one. Archbishop Tutu ended his speech with an overwhelming message of hope by exclaiming that if peace could come to South Africa, peace could come to anywhere. 
Similarly, if activism can come to Notre Dame and Notre Dame students can engage the social issues of our time, it can happen anywhere. Let us be that beacon of light for the rest of the aca­demic world. 
Peter Quaranto is a sophomore political science and interna­tional peace studies major. He is involved with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition. Contact him at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Stadium should accomodate mothers with infants 
At the end of each Notre Dame football game, win or lose, the students link arms and invoke "Notre Dame, our Mother." 
You won't find many mothers of young chi!­dren swaying in the graduate student section or in any section of the Stadium for that mat­ter. A mother who naively assumes that her infant child will be allowed into the Stadium with them for the game will be turned away. 
It is a story repeated at every Notre Dame football game. A mother or father of an infant child calmly walks up to the ticket taker with their infant in their arms (or in a baby carrying pouch). The parent presents his or her ticket to the man at the gate only to be asked were the baby's ticket is. This question is first met with surprise. "You're telling me my baby needs a ticket. but she is three months old? You can't be serious; I'll be holding her the whole time." The dejected, frus­trated, angry,and perhaps saddened parent is forced to 
retreat from the Stadium. '~'lliiiiiP~ all shocked. 1 urge you to talk
As one would imagine, this experience stirs up a range of reactions. It is highly probable that at some point during the long trek from the Stadium back to the car the dejected mother says to herself, "But I thought Notre Dame was supposed to be a family-friendly place." 
What possible rationale does Notre Dame have for keeping infants out of the Stadium unless they are in possession of a full price 
ticket? Even airlines, who do not all claim to 
be family-friendly, don't charge children 
under the age of one who fly with their par­
ents. The only justification for Notre Dame's anti-
baby policy offered by the ticket office is that 
babies will take up space and inconvenience the people sitting in adjacent seats. Anyone who has recently spent time around a new mother knows that the baby does not take up much space. When they are not carrying their babies, modern mothers usually "wear" the baby in a sling or front pack. With baby attached, mothers usually take up less space than they did when they were pregnant. The ticket office would do a better job conserv­ing space if they charged obese people double. I write this letter because I believe that Notre Dame is a family-friendly place. When I found out about this poli­cy and mentioned it to other students, they were 
to your student government 
representatives about changing 
this policy so out of line with the 
mission of Notre Dame. Let us urge Notre Dame, Our Mother, to welcome into the Stadium the mothers of Notre Dame. 
Nate Pollock third year law student Sept. 22 

Students must promote diversity, respect 
As long as I have been a student at this school, I have noticed things I wish were dif­ferent. Lately, two issues have really been bothering me. 
Too often, I hear criticisms from the student body about the lack of diversity at Notre Dame. While I support this claim. I also recog­nize that nothing will change until the stu­dents drastically change their mentalities. 
The University exerts tremendous effort to recruit minority students; it hosts clubs and organizations to promote diversity and foster community among students of all backgrounds and employs a very diverse faculty and staff. There are students who take advantage of all the opportunities the University provides, but it is always the same students. 
I bring this up because I was disappointed by the student attendance Sunday evening to hear the president of Nigeria speak. How often do speakers of that caliber visit our University? The JACC should have been full, but I do not think even a third was occupied. The conference, "A Call to Solidarity with Africa," is an example of the wonderful oppor­tunities and events the administration, faculty and staff bring to this campus, but the interest and participation on the part of the students is desperately lacking. 
Second, I was slightly disgusted the article about marshmallow throwing actually made the front page of Monday's Observer but thor­oughly disgusted by Brett Campbell's and Dan Zychinski's cartoon mocking NDSP and our stadium ushers. I can almost see how marsh­mallow throwing is a "tradition" that we should be proud of, but it definitely will not be the tradition I think of when remembering what makes Notre Dame exceptional. 
What angers me about the whole ordeal is the disrespect I witnessed toward the ushers. There is no reason someone should be asked three times to stop throwing objects at people. And it is absolutely inexcusable to yell at an usher who is doing his job and looking out for the best interests of the students. 
To the young man I saw raise his voice and talk back to an usher who was at least 60 years old, and to anyone else who thinks that behavior is justifiable, who are you to be so insolent to a University official? Yeah, yeah, we are adults and should be able to do what­ever we want, but that does not mean we for­get how to treat other people, especially those who deserve our respect. In my section, the students were beyond obnoxious, and I am happy they were asked to leave. 
Deka Motanya senior Walsh Hall Sept. 22 

THE OBSERVER_ 





CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
Bull winkle's serves Dillon Hall 
By MATT BRAMANTI and 
JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Writers 

It's 11:30 p.m. on a Thursday night. You have a serious case of the munchies. The dining halls aren't open, and your Grab and Go supplies 
-are critically low. 

What are your options? Well, you could go to Reekers, get a vibrating, flashing thing and still be waiting 45 minutes later. You could battle the crowds at LaFortune. You could order a pizza and hope the Papa's not too busy. 
But if you're one of Dillon's Big Red, why bother? After all, just down the hall is Notre Dame's best kept culinary secret-Bullwinkle's. 
The late-night dining option that bills itself as "the original and still the best," Bullwinkle's is one of the few and proud dorm eateries at Notre Dame. Every Sunday night from 9:00-12:30 p.m. and every week­night from 9:30-12:00 p.m., Bullwinkle's serves up late night snacks at affordable prices. -give their phone number, and are "Vinnie made up a fictitious conquis­chase $10 credits that can be used at 
Their best selling menu items are called back in a matter of minutes to tador called Dirty Sanchez," Bramanti any time. Upon spending the entire the signature pizza bagels. Why? come and pick up their order. explained. The Dirty Sanchez platter card, the patron is entitled to a free "Because they're good," deadpans Business is boom-consists of a variety order of pizza bagels. junior Tommy Bramanti, one of the ing, Bramanti said. of tacos and nachos. These moves have paid off. proprietors. Your choice of pepperoni In previous years, the "Running a food service The "P. Diddy Bullwinkle's is profitable for the first or sausage can be ready in just a few business lost money Platter" -named time in several years, and "now it's
for the dorm isn't service 
minutes. due to poor manage­after Dillon rector the best food service on campus,"
enough. We really want
Bullwinkle's also offers a variety of ment, but those prob­Father Paul Doyle -boasts Bramanti. Italian and Mexican specialties. lems appear to be to give back." offers four pizza In gratitude for their success, the Meatball sandwiches, chicken parme­over. In an effort to bagels, six wings, management of Bullwinkle's offers san subs and mozzarella sticks com­turn the business four mozzarella free garlic bread to Dillon residents
Tommy Bramanti

pete with tacos and nachos for the around, co-owner sticks and two sodas after Sunday night Mass. "Running a 
Dillon Hall Junior

attention of late-night snackers. Vinnie Zuccaro has for a value price. food service for the dorm isn't service Barbecue sandwiches, pretzels, wings created several Dillon men can enough," Bramanti explains. "We and burgers can also be had, and a combo meals that also enjoy the "Big really want to give back." variety of cold sodas and sports drinks have proven very popular with Dillon Balls" combo, including a meatball are available. residents. sub, mozzarella sticks and a soft 
Students simply call the kitchen -In order to push their newly intro­drink. Contact Matt Brarnanti at located on the first floor of Dillon, duced Mexican specialties, the The outlet also offers a "Bullwinkle brarnanti.l @nd.edu and conveniently next to the 24-hr lounge Bullwinkle's staff needed a mascot. Bucks" card where students can pur-Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 


Emmys a night of reruns 
Roberts collected a supporting Associated Press 
comedy actress trophy for play­ing nagging mother Marie LOS ANGELES -The Emmy Barone, while Garrett received Awards turned into a night of his second consecutive support­mostly reruns. ing comedy actor honor for his 
For the fourth consecutive work as her hangdog son year, the White House drama Robert. "The West Wing" claimed the Roberts said her streak of vic­best drama award -whacking tories shows that aging stars what seemed to be yet another can still do great work. "The groundswell for the mob series fact that I'm 72 years old and "The Sopranos" after stars that I'm still kicking and that James Gandolfini and Edie I'm doing the kind of work I'm Falco each claimed their third doing, I'm still challenged, is career Emmys. great hope for everybody in the 
It was Gandolfini's third con­business," she said backstage. secutive win, and Falco's sec­Meanwhile, "Everybody Loves ond. She also won previously in Raymond" received its first­1999 ever award for best comedy 
Meanwhile, the Emmys series. repeated a disturbing trend of Ray Romano, who lost in the recent years: diminished view­lead comedy actor class, said ership. Preliminary Nielsen he was happy for the crew's Media Research figures pegged sake that the show won overall. Sunday's average audience at "They're my queer eye, they 
17.7 million viewers, down make me look good," he said from 19.8 million on NBC last backstage, referring to the year. Bravo makeover series "Queer 
The 2001 Emmycast, twice­Eye For the Straight Guy." postponed and aired by CBS Among the other first-time opposite the seventh game of winners was "Will & Grace" the World Series, drew only star Debra Messing for lead 
17.1 million viewers. But in comedy actress and Tony September 2000, the show was Shalhoub of "Monk" for lead seen by 21.8 million viewers. comedy actor. 
Other repeaters: Doris "When you're a little girl and Roberts and Brad Garrett of you have dreams of being an "Everybody Loves Raymond." actress, you just hope you'll get For a third straight year, the opportunity to do what you 

love and be able to pay your bills. That's success as an actor. This is otherworldly," said Messing, who was nominated but passed over for the role three times. 
While "The Sopranos" claimed four honors, counting its wins for best drama writing and supporting drama actor Joe Pantoliano, "The West Wing" had only two -includ­ing best drama director. 
HBO's crime saga was again robbed of the top award by NBC's fictional Washington politicians. TV academy voters have never crowned a cable series as best drama. 
The hulking Gandolfini said backstage he was grateful to be honored -again -but felt the cast and crew of "The Sopranos" were slighted by being denied the top drama prize. 
"It's bittersweet," he said. "My work has been acknowl­edged. It's time for everyone else's work to be acknowl­edged. I wish that had hap­pened." 
The ceremony was both cele­bratory and melancholy, with homage paid to a number of performers and industry figures who died this year including Bob Hope, John Ritter, Gregory Hines and Fred Rogers. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
page 13 
'Friends' enters final season 
Hit comedy sitcom begins tenth season Thursday on NBC's "Must See 7V"lineup 
Photo courtesy of starswelove.com NBC's Immensely popular comedy sitcom "Friends" enters Its final season this Thursday during the "Must See TV" lineup. The show stars Jennifer Anlston (Rachel Green), Courteney Cox (Monica Geller Bing), Lisa Kudrow (Phoebe Buffay), Matt LeBlanc (Joey Tribbiani), Matthew Perry (Chandler Bing) and David Schwimmer (Ross 
Geller) as six close-knit friends who live and work in New York City. 
By SARAH VABULAS and 
RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editors 
This fall. "Friends," the NBC com­edy sitcom that millions of fans around the globe have come to love and adore, enters its final season of syndication. The show focuses on the interactions between Monica, Chandler. Hachel, Joey, Phoebe and Hoss, along with their romantic on goings. 
Jennifer Aniston (Hache! Green), Courteney Cox Arquette (Monica Geller Bing). Lisa Kudrow (Phoebe Buffay), Matt LeBlanc (Joey Tribbiani), Matthew Perry (Chandler Bing) and David Schwimmer (Ross Geller) star in this hit comedy about six close-knit young friends living in New York City. 
Beginning its tenth season as the leadoiT series on NBC's enormously popular "Must See TV" Thursday­night lineup. "Friends" continues to garner critical acclaim and ratings success. The show reigns as the number-one show on television. 
Since its debut season (1994-95), "Friends" has garnered 44 Emmy Award nominations, including five for Outstanding Comedy Series, and has won six Emmy Awards. The cast won a Screen Actors Guild Award in 1996 for Outstanding Ensemble Performance in a Comedy Series and has been nominated four times ( 1996, 1997, 1998 and 2002) for a Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series. Musical or Comedy. "Friends" won the People's Choice Award for Favorite New Comedy Series in its first season, and has since won three more times as Favorite Comedy Series. 
The series focuses on the friend­ship of three men and three women who frequently gather at each other's apartments and share sofa space at Greenwich Village's "Central Perk" coffeehouse. Monica is a chef with an obsession for neat­ness and order in her life. She is also married to Chandler (Perry), a computer programmer with a quick wit who is never at a loss for words. Across the hall is Chandler's long­time roommate Joey, a not-so-intel­ligent, womanizing actor currently on the soap opera "Days of Our Lives." 
Across the alley from Monica and Chandler lives Monica's hapless brother Ross. a paleontology profes­sor who has been divorced three times, includ­
one character emerging as the top banana on the show. You are just as likely to find a Friends fan who empathizes with Ross. a sensitive, hopeless romantic, as another fan who blurts out Joey's pickup line "How you doin'?" at every oppor­tune moment. 
The sitcom is both well cast and well scripted. But above all else, the writers and actors have pooled their efforts to create believable charac­ters that you can't help but empathize with. The key to the show's success comes from the var­ied and thorough backgrounds that each character has been given. These extensive histories explain a 
great deal 

ing once from 
about the
"Friends" 
underlying
Hache!, 
<The Final Season)
Monica's pam­
identities and 
emotions of the
pered best 
title characters,
friend from 
and gives us
high school. 
Although 
the feeling that 
these six peo­
Rachel is no 
longer roman­Station: WNDU-NBC 
ple really do 
tically involved Date: Thursday, September 25, 2003 
know each 
with Hoss, she Time: 7 p.m. EST 
other and have 
been friends
currently 
shares his apartment where they are raising their newborn daughter, Emma. Rounding out the circle of friends is Monica's ex-roommate, Phoebe Buffay, an offbeat, eternally opti­mistic folk singer and massage ther­apist. 
One of the show's strengths rests in its incredibly diverse and rich cast of core characters. There is no single character who gets the majority of screen time, but instead the show mixes and matches comedic situations involving all six main characters. The result is that each of the six compatriots has developed a rich history, with no for years. 
The series was created by the writing team of Marta Kauffman and David Crane. Emmy and Cable ACE Award-winning producer Kevin Bright is executive producer with Kauffman and Crane. Scott Silveri, Shana Goldberg-Meehan, Andrew Reich and Ted Cohen also serve as executive producers. "Friends" is a Bright/Kauffman/Crane Production in association with Warner Bros. Television. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu and Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

----~------------------~-------------------------------------------------------~--~-----=~--~=---·----~-----------------------~------~ 
page 14 Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Division I meet a challenge 
two mile marks and everyone Invitational, senior JackieBy PAT LEONARD achieved them, so I'm extremely Bauters led the Belles with a 
Sports Writer 
pleased going into the time of 20:50 and a 112th place Jamboree." finish. Freshman Katie White,The Saint Mary's cross-coun­The upcoming MIAA who had the third-best Sainttry team was not favored by any Jamboree this Saturday at Mary's time at the Heidelbergmeans to defeat Division I oppo­Adrian College will open confer­Invitational and the top time at
nents such as Notre Dame, 
ence competition for the Belles, the Aquinas College Invitational,Dayton and DePaul at the and Saint Mary's is taking every came in 136th place with a timeNational Catholic Invitational at 
last precaution to be healthy for of21:07.
Notre Dame on Friday. 
the race, including not running Junior Elizabeth CommersThe Belles, however, set real­athletes in races. (21:45), freshman Erin Nolanistic goals and paced themselves "Sara Otto did not run because (21:46) and freshman Allisonto fmish No. 25 overall and No. 
of an injury," Barstis said. "We Beyer (21:47) finished right on16 among Division II varsity needed to save her for the first each other's heals, finishing incontenders on the weekend. 
Times were a bit slower for conference race this Saturqay." 172, 175 and 178th places, Saint Mary's, but coach Dave Notre Dame dominated and respectively. Barstis provided an explanation. won the overall meet. Saint Beyer improved last week's "My goal was to have every­Mary's scored a 418 in Division time by 26 seconds. 
one race for only two miles, then II competition and 703 versus bring it in easy," he said. "I set a Division I teams. Contact Pat Leonard at goal time for the one mile and At the National Catholic pleona.rd@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles seek second conference win 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's will face confer­ence opponent Hope today as the Belles look for their second conference win of the season. The team is currently 1-4 in the conference and 8-5 overall. 
The Belles fell in four games to defending MIAA champion Alma Sunday afternoon, and are looking to fix the problems that plagued the team in Sunday's game. 
"I think communication was our biggest problem," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We have the talent and skill, but we need better communication." 
The outlook doesn't look good at first glance, because Hope (7­5, 4-1 MIAA) swept Alma in three games earlier this year, but Saint Mary's believes it has a plan to take care of its oppo­nent today. 
"Their setter is very experi­enced," Schroeder-Biek said. "We're going to have to be ready for her to send that second ball over in an offensive attack. 
"She's a real offensive weapon for them, and they always have a very good team and they're really experienced this year." 
Talented setter McKenna Troyan is one of three seniors on the Hope roster. Outside hit­ter Katie Hall and return spe­cialist Anna Eriks are the other two. 
By contrast, defensive special­ist Alison Shevik is the only sen­ior on the Belles' roster. 
Hall is the leading hitter for the Flying Dutch, and was named the MIAA player of the week two weeks ago. 
Hope features the top two individual hitting percentages in the MIAA in Troyan (.478) and Lindsey Buche (.449). As a team, the Flying Dutch hit .289, tied for second overall in the confer­ence. 
The Belles really want this conference win because it will be the second of three straight conference matches at home. 
Their coach explained this is an important part of the sched­ule. 
"We've really wanted to rack up some conference wins here," Schroeder-Biek said. "It's always nice to be home. We have a great crowd of both parents and students who really support us." 
Saint Mary's faces Hope at home today at 6 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 


Hope steals second victory from Belles 
Adams, who both shot 82, while By JOE HETTLER Megan Mattia fired a 90, fol­
Sports Editor 
lowed by Chrissy Dunham's 95. Hope countered with medalist 
Different weekend. Different 
Lacey Wicksall's 81 to win the golf course. Same result. individual honor. 
For the third time this season, 
Hamilton knows his team is the Saint Mary's golf team feeling a little bit of pressure. played well, but couldn't over­"It defmitely pushes us a little 
take Hope College. The Belles now, "Hamilton said. "Theyshot a 344 at the Blackthorn were not expected to play this Golf Course, one stroke behind well. We defmitely want to beat 
the Flying Dutch's 343, and them." 
grabbed second-place in MIAA Saint Mary's took second at competition in South Bend the Briton Invitational Sept. 16 Saturday. with a 345 score, two shots 
"We were disappointed in not behind Hope. The Flying Dutch defending our home turf," fired a course record 343 in that 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton 
tournament. 
said. "The course played diffi­At Knox College a few dayscult. We had a couple of good earlier, the Belles took fourth of 
scores and a couple scores that 
20 teams, but were two places 
were a little higher than nor­behind Hope, who took second. mal." The Belles were led by Contact Joe Hettler at Stefanie Simmerman and Julie jhettler@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 


Starting defender recognized twice 
0 victory over in-state rival
Special to The Observer 
No.18 Indiana. The junior domi­Kevin Goldthwaite, a defender 
nated his side of the field
on the University of Notre Dame 
against Indiana and Westmen's soccer team (4-1-2). 
VIrginia (Notre Dame's other 1­
earned two weekly awards 
0 victory last week). Moving up
Monday after a great week of soccer during Notre Dame's two to attack at selected times, 
victories last week. He was Goldthwaite managed five shots named the Big East Defensive (tied for tops on the team last Player of the Week, as well as week) including a header and landing a spot on the College shot off the crossbar against Soccer News Team of the Week. West Vrrginia. 
Goldthwaite notched the Goldthwaite played a hand in game-winning goal during dou­Notre Dame's game-winning ble overtime in Notre Dame's 1-goal over West Vrrginia. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­ DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL  Spring Break 2004 with  
NOTICES  Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who  URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home nex1 to Notre  HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877·773-3911.  StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with  
wish to work in a FUN and fast  Dame. A limited number of home  MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  
pace environment. A new store will  sites are available. For more info go  CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT·  a Campus Repl Choose from 15 of  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  be opening up in early October. We  to: www.lrishCrossings.com  HOUSES-STUDENT  ED· TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232·  the hottest destinations. Book early  
PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­ have aggressive pay. Hrs from  NEIGHBORHOODS· SECURITY  2378 PM 288-2726  for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS  
DENTS. COM  11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers  99 Honda Civic EX, Exc. cond., fully  SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE  and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee!  
and mgmt available. Call Andy at  loaded, auto, 44K, dk grn. $9,900.  STAFF 24 HOURS·  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  To reserve online or view our Photo  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  574-277-0850 for interview.  Call574.251.1459.  WASHERS/DRYERS CALL  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­ Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com  
TODAY-HOUSES ARE GOING  2726  or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  Movie Ex1ras/Models Needed. NO  CLASSIC '65' STUDEBAKER  FAST CONTACT KRAMER 574­ 
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  exper. required. All looks & ages.  CRUISER RUNS GREAT! 83,000  315·5032 or 574-234-2434 ALSO  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
Music 4609 Grape Rd  Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820­ mi $3,900 call: 289-9351  STARTING TO LEASE FOR 2005·  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232·  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
Mish, IN 2775038  0167, ex1. U187.  2006 SCHOOL YEAR  0964.  campus reps. Call for discounts:  
TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE.  800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring  BABYSITTER WANTED for family  NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­ 3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
bartenders and bar wait staff, as  in Granger. Days/eve/wknds. Refs.  ROOM. ALL MAJOR ~PPLIANCES.  floors. Very clean, quaint. Appl. incl.  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  
well as cashier positions. Must be  & car rqrd! Call Laura: 243-4776.  10 MINS FROM CAMP-US. $69,900  last mo. 10-mo lease. 417  Hottest prices Book now.. Free  
21 for the bar jobs. Very flexible  299·7078  • Napoleon. 1/2 mil. from ND. Call  Just Between You And Me, ADire  Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­ 
schedules, good money, and a fun  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED  299-9428 Graduate students,  Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs  tours.com or 1800-426-7710  
place to work. Apply in person at  2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  faculty or staff.  ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659  
123 W. Washington, downtown South Bend.  2 free trps high commission sun­splashtours.com 1800-426-7710  FoR RENT  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  What do you call them? Men?  
Just Between You And Me, A Dire  has space available for football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  PERSONALS  Section Marino is about to regulate up in her' tomorrow at 5.  
Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs ONLY PLEASE PH:277·1659  FoR SALE  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  A much needed bye week.  
MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272·  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ not go it alone. If you or someone  
1525  9487.  you love needs confidential support  won't be workin' tomorrow, so  
WANTED  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  happy birthday dude  
NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD· ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED.  houses, prime locations, sec. sys­tems, sand V-ball, wash/dry call  TICKETS  more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  PL, JCap and Clown. listen up on Mondays.  
- SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER· EES-needed for south side elemen­ $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  Greg 233-9947  Seeking quieVgrad roommate.  what is sleep, seriously ...  
tary school, located near Scottsdale  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Quiet street, 20 min. to campus.  
Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per  Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to  B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT·  Choice of 2 rooms; $220 or $300,  meat-lovers pizza dude. if he were  
soccer game; $25.00 per VB match.  ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage.  HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288·  BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  1/2 util.  throwed, he would ask for the meat- 
Call 291-4200.  $107,000. (574) 273-1666  5377.  674-6593.  269/325-2267.  lovers pizza  

Thur~Jay, Au~:;ust 28, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page IS 

page 16 Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE PREVIEW 


Breen-Phillips faces Pasquerilla West 
By BOB GRIFFIN and JUSTIN 
SCHUVER 
Sporrs Writer and Associate Spores Editor 
Tonight at 7p.m. on Riehle West field, Breen Phillips and Pasquerilla West will continue their football seasons, which to this point look extremely promis­ing. 
Breen Phillips (2-0) has looked especially impressive on offense thus far, putting up a Kansas City Chiefs-like 59 points in two games. The Babes come into this game looking to continue to move the ball downfield with constant production from their explosive offense. 
"We want our offensive unit to continue to look sharp," captain Kelly Deckelman said. "We're just looking to come out strong and catch them on their heals." 
Breen Phillips is not taking this game for granted, however. Pasquerilla West (1-1) has looked sharp in both of their games, despite a loss to Walsh on Sunday. 
"This is definitely going to be our toughest game so far," Deckelman said. "We've been practicing a lot this week in order to get ready for what should be a very difficult matchup." 
Pasquerilla West is not expect­ing an easy win either when they come into tonight's game. The Purple Weasels know that they have a lot to do in order to win the game, and they are going to need consistent play on both sides of the ball in order to keep pace with Breen Phillips' offense. 
"We had a few lapses in our loss on Sunday, and we need to be more consistent on offense," captain Leslie Schmidt said. "We have the ability to make big plays down field, but we need to estab­lish our short completions in order to move the ball more effectively." 

Pasquerilla West is aware of the offensive prowess of its oppo­nent and is hoping to counter it with solid defensive play. 
"Breen Phillips has an excellent offense, and we need our defense to make some big plays in order to come out with a victory," Schmidt said. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn 
One team has the experience of being in the Stadium. The other is a young team looking to rebuild and improve itself before the year is over. 
It's a recipe for a game in which anything could happen, and it is the kind of game that could be expected when Cavanaugh and Pangborn collide tonight. 
The Chaos are coming into the game with only one other game under their belt-a 13-8 win over Welsh Family all the-way back on Sept. 14. 
"We've had some good quality practices," captain Jenny Nokes said. "It means that we'll be pre­pared." 
The Phoxes may be younger by age, but come into the game with much more game time experi­ence. According to captain Katie Murray, that's a positive for her team. 
"I think we've gotten a chance to see what a lot of other teams are doing," she said. ''I'd definite­ly say that gives us an advan­tage." 
Cavanaugh is coming into this year on a mission, to get back to the championship game after los­ing last year to Pasquerilla East. 


HAPPY 21'ST 
BIRTHDAY BRAD!!! 

LOVES YOU ALWAYS STITCH 

BOOKMAKER'S PUB 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD-''YOU BET" lARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: 
FRI: SAT: 
SUN: 

Monday night football on 15 screens 99¢ specials Give away night, including game tickets 32 oz specials
Jason Sapen (also plays with Blammo) at8pm Pre-game warm up Game day on 15 screens with live 
WAOR remotes 

Randy Martin and Daryl Buchanan NFL Sunday ticket 
Chef Kip Peters (formerly of South Bend Country Club) 
--2046 SOUTH BEND AVE After 9pm, Mustbe21 -with valid I.D.

7 1766 
Nokes believes that a hard fought win over a good team like Welsh Family will pay ofT dividends at the end of the year. 
"I think that a win is defmitely a great way to start a season," she said. "I think it was even better to win a tough game, because that can set the tone for the rest of the year." 
Nokes said that the play of quarterback Lisa Ruffer was key in that win, as well as good con­tributions from a defense that is loaded with veterans. 
"We had a pretty good season last year," Nokes said. "And I think that everyone who's come back has shown a lot of that same intensity." 
Murray believes that Pangborn has a lot of the same intensity, but the players just haven't learned how to harness it yet. 
"Our strength is our weakness," she said. "We're a very young team, and that's great because we have a lot of girls with energy and athleticism. 
"But it's going to take time to get them to be football athletes." 
Cavanaugh and Pangborn meet tonight at Riehle West field at 8 p.m. 
Farley vs. Welsh Family 
Welsh Family may be used to success, but they know that noth­ing comes easy in this league any more. They'll keep that in mind as they face Farley tonight. 
The Finest are only playing in their second game of the year, losing to Breen-Phillips last Tuesday. Welsh Family is 2-1 and won its last game 13-6 over Pangborn. 
The Whirlwinds are traditional­ly one of the dominant teams in women's interhall, and this year is no exception, although there have been ups and downs so far this season. 
"I definitely think our defense has stepped up every game," said Welsh Family captain Jamie McEldowney. "I think our offense stepped up last game, but we need that every game. 
"You can always stop a team on defense, but you still have to score a touchdown to win." 
Farley comes into the game with only one game under its belt, something that has not gone unnoticed by captain Angelina Zehrbach. 
"I think we'd rather have more game experience," she said. "It's kind of hard to start out your schedule with two teams that are so good." 
Farley hopes the game will end up being a defensive battle. 
"I think our defense has really stepped it up from last year," Zehrbach said. "We also know that their defense is pretty good, but there's not much we can do about that. 
"We just have to keep playing our game." 
Welsh Family, meanwhile, just wants to keep doing what they've been doing for the rest of the year. 
"Our coaches always tell us to focus on the little things, because they can win you a lot of games," said McEldowney. "It's been a real team effort so far, since we lost a lot of key seniors from last year." 
Welsh Family and Farley meet tonight at Riehle West field at 9 p.m. 
Contact Bob Griffin at bgriffi.@nd.edu and Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Walsh 
continued from page 24 
completed the one-point conversion to make the score 7-6. 
Although the Purple Weasels Jed the game for most of the first half, it was not much time before the Wild Women took con­trol. 
With the first half near­ing an end, Walsh quarter­back Carrie Campbell ran in for the 5-yard touch­down. 
"Campbell was great. She is able to read beyond the called plays and she has great intuition," said Borys. 
This was perhaps the turning point of the game as the Wild Women were able to prevent the Weasels from scoring for the rest of the game. 
The Purple Weasels were unable to stop an early touchdown drive by the Wild Women in the second half, making the score 18­
7. They also could not take advantage of an intercep­tion with 9 minutes, 30 seconds left on the clock. 
Despite the loss, Van Hoegarden said she feels this is just the beginning of a great team. 
"We are improving, we're still young and have a lot of freshmen," Van Hoegarden said. Improving overall will come with time." 
The Wild Women, Bell said, "were satisfied with the win," and look toward their next game against Cavanaugh. 
Contact Dan Tepetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

WANT TO HELP FAMILIES COPING WITH CANCER? 
Become Involved in 
Cam **** esem 
Camp Kese.m Is a weeldong sumn1er carnp (August 2004} being planned for children who have/had a parent with cancer. YOUR help is needed to create this unique summer camp experience. All students are encouraged to become involved. Students are needed for planning throughout the yea.r~ 
Interested?? Come to an informational meeting on Tuesday 
September 23, 2003 
8:30pm at the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium 
if you have any questions or seek further info please contact: 
info@campkeserrH'\d.org or http://www.can1pkesemwnd.org 

Tuesday, September 23, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 




CALL TO 
SEPTEMBER 21-24


SOLIDARITY WITH 
AMERICANS AND AFRICANS 
IN DIALOGUE ABOUT AFRicA's 

PROMISE, NEEDS, AND IMAGE 
MONDAY,SEPTEMBER 22 
FOR A COMPLETE SCHEDULE: WWW.ND.EDU/ -ICL 
8:3o-1o:oo am Theology and the Project of Re-imagining Africa McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Moderator: Prof. Maura Ryan (Vice President and Associate Provost, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) 
Sr. Teresa Okure, SHCJ (Professor of Scripture, Catholic Institute of West Africa) 
Solidarity among Christians: Lessons from the New Testament 
Fr. E. Elochukwu Uzukwu, CSSp (Professor of Theology, KMI Dublin and Catholic Institute, Paris, France) 
·-r~ .·

African Theology and the Project ofRe-imaging Africa 
Respondent: Prof. John Cavadini (University of Notre Dame) 
10:30 am-12:30 pm American and African Scholarship and "the Call to Solidarity with Africa" Auditorium · I'
·, I· c ' 

Moderator: Rev. Paul Kollman, esc (Assistant Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) I 
Rev. Cyprian Davis, OSB (St. Meinrad School of Theology) 
American and African Scholarship and the Call to Solidarity with Africa. 
Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom (University of Notre Dame) 
The Church on the Frontlines ofWar and Peace 
Rev. Michael Schultheis, SJ (Catholic University of Ghana) 
Catholic Higher Education in Africa: the Promise and the Project 
Respondent: Prof. Emily Osborn (University of Notre Dame) 
Informal Breakout Sessions on Topics of Interest (optional) 
U.S. Faith Based Organizations: Public Advocacy for Africa Auditorium Facilitator: Mr. John Carr (Secretary, Department of Social Development and World Peace, USCCB) 
Role of Civil Society in Africa Rooms 100-104 Facilitator: Mr. lan Gary (Strategic Policy Adviser, Catholic Relief Services) 
Food for Life: Confronting the Agricultural Crisis in Africa Room 202 Facilitator: Mr. Ray Almeida (Policy Adviser, Bread for The World) 
,_ 

3:00-5:00 pm The Church at the Service of Africa Auditorium 
, -:-· .~-­Moderator: Rev. Mark Poorman, esc (Vice President, Student Affairs, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) 
Most Reverend Laurent Monsengwo·Pasinya (Archbishop of Kisangani, Democratic Republic of Congo/President of SECAM) 
... 

Church at the Service ofHumanity · 
Most Reverend John Onaiyekan (Archbishop of Abuja/President of ttie Nigerian Episcopal Conference) 
Imaging and Re-/maging Africa: the Role ofthe Church 
Most Reverend Joseph N. Perry (Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago) <1[" 
The American Church in Solidarity with the African Churches ! .. 
Respondent: Mary Motte, FMM (Missiologist) 
5:15pm Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Presider and homilist: Most Reverend Wilton D. Gregory (Bishop, Diocese of Belleville/President, USCCB) 
6:15pm Dinner (limited seats available) Lower Level Mr. Andrew Natsios (Administrator, US Agency for International Development) The Role ofFaith Based Organizations in Africa's Development 
S:oo-9:30 pm Religion and Political Participation: Roots of Conflict in Africa Auditorium 
Moderator: Prof. Mark Roche (Dean, College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre Dame) 
Most Reverend John Baptist Odama (Archbishop of Gulu, Uganda/President, Acholi Religious Leaders Peace Initiative) 
The Story ofthe Lord's Resistance Army in Northern Uganda 
Prof. Francis Deng (Brookings Institution, Washington, DC) 
Religious Roots ofConflict: The Case ofSudan 
Rev. Mathew Hassan Kukah (Harvard University) 
Politics and Participation: An Overview ofthe Situation in Africa 
Respondent: Rev. Michael Perry, OFM (Office of International Justice and Peace, USCCB) 
9:30pm Reception Atrium 
HIGHLIGHTS oF TOMORROW'S SCHEDULE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 
8 }\g~mnd0~00f~~·a New Africa 10:30 a.m.-12:15 p.m.
REGISTER ONLINE AT: 
Solidarity with Africa: The Question of Health Care 
12:15 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
WWW.ND.EDU/"' ICL Lunch with Prof. Lamin Sanneh, Yale University 
1:30 p.m.·3:oo p.m. 
International Business and the Renewal of Africa


EMAIL: ICL@ND.EDU 
3:30 p.m.· s:oo p.m. 
International Finance/Economics and International Trade s:ls p.m.
REGISTRATION IS FREE FOR 
Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Presider: Most Reverend john M. D'Arcy, Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne/South BendND STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF. Homilist: His Eminence Theodore Cardinal McCarrick, Archbishop, Diocese of Wash. DC 8:oo p.m. -9:30 p.m. The Future of U.S. Foreign Policy Assistance and Africa's New Agenda 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 2003 

Men's 
continued from page 24 
said. 
Unfortunately for O'Neill, nei­ther quarterback could provide the answer. 
Thanks to the domination of their defensive line and good deci­sion making from Cottingham, the Dawgs broke open the game with three touchdowns in the second half. The first came on a 5-yard run by Alex Roodhouse early in the third quarter. The touchdown came after a couple of long Cottingham completions that moved the ball deep into Mob ter­ritory. 
O'Neill went three and out again and Alumni took advantage of the punt. The Dawgs tore through the Mob defense, gaining big chunks of yardage on every play. Roodhouse waltzed into the end zone on a 4-yard run right as time expired in the third quarter for his second touchdown of the day. 
Alumni poured it on as they intercepted Tiberio on the next possession and returned it deep into Mob territory. Cottingham scored a few plays later on a spectacular run around right end to make the final score 28-0. Cottingham was pleased with his team's play and is looking for­ward to next week. 
"The line was extremely solid on both sides of the ball." he said. "Our defense put a lot of pressure on O'Neill. Morrissey looked tough in their game this afternoon but we feel confident after today's 
win," 
Enterline was disappointed 

about the outcome of the game but gracious in defeat. 
"I have to give credit to Alumni. They're a very good football team," he said. "I don't think the score shows the effort today. There are a lot of positives we can take from this game and there is no reason we can't be a good foot­ball team this year." 
Morrissey 14, Keough 0 
The strong defense of Keough could not handle Morrissey's explosive offense in the Manor's 14-0 victory in the season opener for both teams Sunday afternoon. 
Morrissey scored on its first drive with a Marty Mooney 56­yard touchdown pass to a wide­open John Mulligan. The two­point conversion was successful and the Manor led 8-0. 
The following two series showed the two teams' powerful defenses. Keough was stuffed near midfield on third down and again on fourth and short. Similarly, in the beginning of the second quarter, Morrissey turned the ball over on downs after they were stopped on a fourth down play at the 47-yard line. 
Keough gave the ball back when the Morrissey defense recovered a fumble. With good field position, Morrissey moved the ball down to Keough's 15-yard line with a couple of nice passes from Mooney to tight end Dave Purcell. However, the Keough defense held and John McCarthy intercepted Mooney on a tipped pass at the 5-yard line. 
In the second half. Morrissey recovered a fumble after Keough quarterback Brian Kusper was hit as he was about to throw the ball. The Manor countered with an amazing 26-yard diving catch by Mulligan at the one-yard line. 
This pass set up a touchdown run by Mooney. The two-point conversion failed, but the Manor extended its lead to 14-0. 
On the ensuing drive, Keough made another costly turnover after gaining good yardage from a 15-yard pass interference penalty and a 20-yard pass. The Morrissey defense stripped the ball after a short screen pass. The Manor moved the ball to near midfield with a Mulligan reverse and a 15-yard pass to Purcell. The Manor was forced to punt after a sack on third down, though. 
Keough went after the punt, and Kyle LeClare came up with a huge block to give the Kangaroos the ball at Morrissey's 38 midway through the fourth quarter. But after two 4-yard screens. Kusper threw an untimely interception that gave up the ball late in the game. Morrissey ran out the clock and walked away with the victory. 
"The defensive and offensive line dominated today," Morrissey captain Aaron Ronsheim said. "The only way they could really move the ball was on our penal­ties," he explained. 
Morrissey's defense also shined in this game as they earned a shut out. The Manor had three sacks and made four turnovers: three fumble recoveries and an inter­ception. 
"This is the first step to a suc­cessful season, and definitely something to build on," Ronsheim said. 
Keough captain John McCarthy admitted Morrissey was a good team, but felt the game came down to a few plays. 
"Besides the two big pass plays in the first and third quarters, we played pretty well," McCarthy said. "We had too many turnovers. probably due to inex­perience. We didn't play poorly, but we definitely have a lot to work on." 

Keenan 6, Stanford 0 
Sometimes the best offense is a good defense. Holding Stanford to a meager 32 yards, Keenan cou­pled efficient, ball-control offense with stifling defense as the Knights rode a late first half-fum­ble return to a 6-0 opening day victory over the Griifms Sunday. 
"Our goal coming into the game was to shut them out." Knight freshman Adam Fischer said. "We knew that the offense might struggle since they didn't have much time to put in plays during practice. It was nice to get that shutout." 
Using a trio of tailbacks, Keenan consistently kept the Stanford offense on the sideline as the Knights steadily picked up yards. Freshman tailback Alex Staffieri carried the bulk of the offensive load, rushing for 70 yards and frequently moving the chains. 
While Staffieri's running was instrumental in the Knights avenging last year's 14-6 opening day loss to Stanford, it was the Keenan defense that stole the spotlight. 
Shortly after Keenan failed to take advantage of a mid-second quarter interception by junior John Hart by losing the ball on downs at the Stanford 34-yard line. The Griifms curiously decid­ed to go for it on fourth-and seven-from their own 37-yard line. 
Rolling left. Stanford quarter­back Rich Whitney tossed to the tailback who was immediately crushed by jarring the ball loose. Fischer promptly scooped up the ball and scampered 35 yards for what would be the game's only score. 
"They tried to run the option and one of our guys made a nice play that left the running back out to dry," Fischer said. "I was just fortunate to be in the right place to make a hit and cause the fum­ble." 
In addition to the Fischer fum­ble return and Hart interception, senior Brian Long recorded a cru­cial sack to stunt a fourth quarter Stanford drive. and freshman Eric Laumann picked off a Whitney pass late in the fourth. Keenan's defense combined with Stanford offensive miscues to prevent the Griffins from building any sus­tained momentum during the contest. 
"With it being the first game, it was a little hard to get things moving on offense and we were unprepared," Stanford captain Dave Marques said. "Their defensive was more than solid though ... they definitely have some players over there." 
Having already matched last year's win total-the Knights fm­ished 1-3 -Keenan will enjoy a bye week before challenging O'Neill on Oct. 5. Stanford, on the other hand, will attempt to rebound when the Griffins meet the Angry Mob this Sunday. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu, Chris Sinutko at csinutko@nd.edu and Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


If God is calling you . • 
• 
Join us. 

Think you might have a vocation? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 23, 8:45pm at Corby Hall. 

www.nd.edtt/.-vocation 
.... ~······· .. ·' 

Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
FOOTBALL 
Willingham, Baer take blame for 12 men 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writor 
The ball lay at the Notre Dame 35-yard line with 85 seconds to play Saturday, one yard away from crossing a first-down marker that would effectively end the game. Facing fourth down, Spartan coach John Smith elected to go f(Jr the first instead of punt­ing. So the Irish took a timeout to set up their defense. 
But when the Irish came back onto the field after the timeout, they had 12 men on the field. Although Spartan running back Jarcn llaycs had rushed for the first down anyway, the Irish absorbed a penalty that could have been a costly mistake. 
So whose fault was it? 
"That was just me," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I tri1~d to get too much done. I tried to anticipate, and I don't think it was communicated all the way through." 
But Willingham wasn't the only one who wanted to take the blame. 
"It was a miscommunication probably on my part," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "So if anyone wants to point a finger, point it at me." 
Notre Dame's defense, while somewhat effective, is no longer the dominant unit the Irish rode to an 8-0 start last year. It is ranked 63rd in the nation in rushing yards -and that's after it moved up 17 places from where it sat after Michigan ran over the Irish two weeks ago. It's best defensive category, statistically? Rushing, where the Irish are ranked 66th and allow an average of141 yards on the ground a game, including a 71-yard touchdown by Hayes that put the Spartans in the lead for good Saturday. 
First-down woes 
Part of the reason for Notre Dame's abysmal third-down con­version ratio this season is the fact that the Irish are haVing problems moving the ball on first down. 
Saturday, Notre Dame ran the ball 18 times and passed it 14 times on first down. When the Irish rushed, it averaged just over two yards a carry, with the longest run a 5-yard play. When the Irish passed, quarterbacks Carlyle Holiday and Brady Quinn were a combined 4-for-14 with one inter­ception. Three of the four comple­tions went for over 10 yards. 
The struggles on_first directly translated into third down prob­lems. While Notre Dame convert­ed 33 percent of its third downs, its best performance of the sea­son, only three of the 18 third­down attempts came when the Irish faced less than third-and­four. Seven of the 18 times, on the other hand, Notre Dame faced at least third-and-10, ifnot longer. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


McKnight 
continued from page 24 
Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "When you look at our team, we did not put enough points on the board, we did not have enough execution." 
Where do the Irish problems lie on offense? All over the field. 
Notre Dame has converted just 11-of-46 third downs, and zero in the fourth quarter. A rushing attack that gained 163 yards in the season opener against Washington State has only accumulated a combined 149 in its two games since. Quarterbacks Carlyle Holiday and Quinn have combined for a passing efficiency rating that ranks 112th in the nation. Receivers dropped a number of passes Saturday. An inexperi­enced offensive line is still showing signs of growing pains. 
"I don't think it's so much we're not clicking," McKnight said. "We just tend to make mistakes in crucial situations. And we can't have that in order to be a good team." 
Most troubling is Notre Dame's struggles inside the red zone. The Irish have scored in all eight trips they've made inside the red zone, but only two of those scores were touch­downs. 
The problem was magnified Saturday when Notre Dame's defense and special teams gave the Irish offense the ball at the Michigan State 15-and 29-yard lines. Both times, the Irish kicked field goals, and on one of those drives, the Irish actual­ly lost three yards. 
"There's an extreme amount of pressure right now," Holiday said. It's frustrating when you're near the end zone and not able to put a touchdown in. It happens so much that it just sticks to your mind." 
Notre Dame's coaching staff has avoided laying blame at the feet of the offensive line, which was playing without starting center Bob Morton and right guard Sean Milligan Saturday but has still surrendered 11 sacks this season. 
But backup center Zach Giles had trouble snapping the ball to a quarterback in the shotgun and the Irish running game never got going. 
It's a conglomeration of prob­lems that the Irish plan to begin addressing in practice today. 
"Every loss hurts," Willingham said. "Every loss has that jagged edge on it that just kind of sticks in there. 
"We've got to find a way to deal with this and go forward because Purdue will not. In fact, they arc probably pretty happy we lost [Saturday]." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

574-271-1330 
*Offer valid mry Monday 11 a.m fo dose 
----------, 
OUND THE NATION 
page 20 Cn'VtPILED r·ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September 23, 2003 




around the dial 
BASEBALL Chicago Cubs at Cincinnati Reds 
6 p.m., FOXCH 

PoKER World Series of Poker 7 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

struck a helmet early in 116 yards rushing for a doctors' attention," Martz 
ST. LOUIS -St. Louis the third quarter of 2.8 average per carry said. Rams running back Sunday's 24-23 loss at with one touchdown, and "He's the all-time tough Marshall Faulk will be Seattle. 12 catches for 66 yards. guy." sidelined four-to-six Second-year player On Sunday, the Rams Gordon had eight car­weeks. Lamar Gordon, who fin­estimated Faulk would be ries for 41 yards and 
Faulk is out with a bro­ished the game at tail­out three-to-four weeks. caught four passes for 25 ken left hand, even back, will start on Sunday The estimate was yards on Sunday, even though the injury will not against the Arizona changed after team doc­though he had a severe require surgery. Cardinals. tors examined the run­headache early in the 
Faulk also will undergo Faulk missed two ning back Monday in St. game. surgery to repair torn games and parts of six Louis. "I feel very good about cartilage in his knee. others due to injuries last "They're very, very firm him," Martz said. 
This is an injury that's year. about when he'll be able "I feel outstanding been bothering him off He hasn't played a full to come back," Martz about him after watching and on since training season since 1999, his said. him on tape." camp. first year with the Rams. Faulk is expected to Gordon was named the 
The seven-time Pro He had 15 carries for recover from the knee starting fullback last Bowl player broke the 31 yards, and one recep­injury well before the week. bones that connect the tion for six yards before hand heals. Martz would not say pinkie and ring fingers to leaving Sunday's game. "It was significant who would play the posi­the wrist when his hand This season, Faulk has enough to bring to the tion this Sunday. 
IN BRIEF 

Diem Injures Left Ankle thin on the offensive line before the with two homers and 11 RBis in 20 
INDIANAPOLIS The injuries. Only seven linemen were games this season for Double-A Indianapolis Colts might be without active for Sunday's game -the five Altoona. He spent part of his rehabili­starting right tackle Ryan Diem this starters and backups Tupe Peko and tation at Bradenton of the Gulf Coast 
Sunday night at New Orleans. Meadows. League. 
Diem injured his left ankle late in Dungy said the Colts were consid­House was a fifth-round draft pick Sunday's 23-13 victory over ering adding at least one practice in 1999 and was the South Atlantic Jacksonville when a player rolled up squad player to the roster this League's MVP in 2000. 
on him. Coach Tony Dungy said week. His 2002 season was cut short by Monday it was a high ankle sprain Dungy remained hopeful defensive two hernia operations and the elbow and that Diem was likely to miss the end Dwight Freeney could play injury. game against the Saints. against the Saints after missing House, who set national high school 
Diem's replacement would be Sunday's game because of a football passing records at Nitro Adam Meadows, who started at sprained left ankle. (W.Va.) High, turned down a chance right tackle in each of his first six "He's been in a boot, but there's a to play quarterback at West Virginia 
seasons with the Colts. He started chance he could go," Dungy said. to remain in the Pirates' system. all but five games since the Colts Pirates plan to call up House Detroit recalls Infante chose him in the second round of PITTSBURGH -The Pittsburgh KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Detroit the 1997 draft. Pirates plan to call up J.R. House, a Tigers recalled infielder Omar 
Meadows lost his starting job to highly touted prospect working his Infante from Triple-A Toledo before Diem during training camp this way back from reconstructive elbow Monday night's game against the year. surgery. Kansas City Royals. 
While Meadows sprained a knee House will join the Pirates on In 61 games with Detroit this sea­in Sunday's game, Dungy said Tuesday in New York for a three­son, Infante hit .213 with no home Meadows had a better chance of game series against the Mets. runs and seven RBis. He batted .223 playing than Diem. The 23-year-old catcher had right with two homers and 18 HBis in 64 
Indianapolis (3-0) already was elbow surgery in 2002. He hit .333 games with Toledo. 
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
The Irish received many strong performances, including especially good outings from Katie Thorlakson and Christie Shaner. Thorlakson, who scored the game winner against Santa Clara, was named offen­sive MVI' of the tournament, while Shaner was defensive MVP. 
like we were expecting to win, without being overconfident." 
In addition to Thorlakson and Shaner, Warner and Mary Boland have now made the All­Tournament Team at all three tournaments in which the Irish have competed. Boland scored the first goal against the Broncos, and assisted on Thorlakson's game winner. She now leads the team with seven goals on the year, with Warner 
being second 
with five. 

"Christie Shaner "We count on
"We have to keep
had a great week­Amy being
[the team] focused 
end for us," solid," Waldrum Waldrum said. "It and not look ahed." said. "She has was good for her such an impact confidence and because teams
Randy Waldrum 
good for the older are so con­
Irish coach 
players to have more confidence in her. Thorlakson was extremely good for us. It was nice to see her have that kind of weekend." 
The win and tic keep Notre Dame ranked No. 2 in the NSCAA poll behind perennial title competitor North Carolina. Since the top teams get to play NCAA Tournament games at home, the Irish realized the importance these wins could have on their eventual NCAA Tournament positioning. The Irish play their next eight games at home, including important contests against Big East foes West Virginia, Connecticut and Villanova. 
"The older kids know the importance of the national rankings and seedings," Waldrum said. "We have to continue to fight for a top four seed. We went out there feeling 
cerned with her 
and it frees up 

other players. She's really important for us whether she scores or not." 
The Irish are already back to work, preparing for their next game against North Texas. At 7-0-1, the Irish are back in a familiar position near the top of the polls. Despite the positive feelings created by the solid early showings, the Irish know they have a number of chal­lenges ahead. 
"As a coach we worry about all the games," Waldrum said. "We have to keep them focused and not look ahead. We're cre­ating chances and the defense keeps getting better. 
"We've got that Notre Dame feel again, and we expect to win." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Chicks beat Shamrocks 19-0 
By ANNIE BRUSKY and 
RACHEL SCHIROS 
SportS Writers 
In a battle of unbeaten teams, the Lewis Chicks sailed to a 19-0 victory over the McGlinn Shamrocks behind the senior leadership and superb talent of quarterback Erin Nasrallah. 
Thanks to the dynamic duo of Nasrallah and fellow senior Mimi Lungren, who connected in the endzone three times, and the Chicks' solid defense that record­ed its second shut-out in a row, Lewis extended its winning streak to three games. 
"We played great. This is our best offensive showing that we've had. We had some good drives," Nasrallah said. "As always, our defense came up strong. I can't say enough about our defense." 
Lewis scored on the first drive of the game when Lungren caught a long pass from Nasrallah. Lungren scored again before halftime and the Chicks were ahead 13-0 at the break after sophomore Joslyn Moya caught the extra point. 
Late in the game Lewis receiv­er Lynne McChrystal picked up nearly 40 yards from another long pass, setting up the final touchdown of the game. 
After scrambling and running with the ball all game, Nasrallah again looked to run to the right. With the McGlinn linemen fast approaching, Nasrallah complet­ed a pass to Lungren just before she was sacked, making the final score 19-0. 
With seven seniors dominating the field, the Chicks are hoping their early-season success is a sign of good things to come. 
"Our goal is, as always, to get to the Stadium," Nasrallah said, having played in the title game sophomore year. "It's a great feeling to be in there and we just want to end on that note." 
The Shamrocks, for their part, are disappointed at the game's outcome. After beating Pasquerilla East earlier in the week, they were confident and ready going into Sunday's game. 
"It was a really hard loss," McGlinn running back Raquel Ferrer said. "We really didn't come out with a lot of intensity. We learned a lot from the game and we're just hoping to come out hard for our next game." 
Pasquerllla East 6, Howard 0 
The Ducks put it all out on the field Sunday afternoon but, in the end, still got burned. The oppos­ing teams maintained a shutout until the last minutes of the sec­ond half, when Pasquerilla East came out with a touchdown to win 6-0. 
The first half set the intense tone for the game and saw numerous exchanges of posses­sion without significant progres­sion in either direction. The Pyros were surprised by the strength of Howard's defense. 
"Our offense struggled to find its rhythm today," Pasquerilla East captain Laura Wolohan said. "Luckily our defense really pulled it together." 
Howard had the ball to begin the half but, after four running plays, failed to achieve a first down. 
Control of the ball reverted back to the Ducks when Megan Marshall had her second inter­ception of the game. a pass by Pasquerilla East's first-year quarterback, Laura Adams, in the first PE play. 
Howard continued to run the ball rather than attempt to pass. The Pyro defense took advantage of this with quick and accurate execution. Several times they stopped the ball even before a handoff could be completed. 
Pasquerilla East coaches con­tinued to utilize passing plays. A determined offensive line let the offense get two frrst downs and then the tie-breaking touchdown by Leslie Follmer, although not the extra-point. 
Despite the loss, Howard real­izes the potential shown in hold­ing out so long against last year's champions. 
"We're seen as the small dorm with little threat," Howard cap­tain Shannon Trevino said. "We gained a Jot of respect for Howard today." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu and Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu 

CENTER FOR 

Post-Graduate Service Fair 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Wednesday, September 24 5 -8 p.m. @ Stepan Center 
The Center for Social Concerns thanks the following programs for their continued recruitment, training and support ofstudents who commit to a 
year or more offull-time service after graduation. We invite all students to 
attend the fair and meet with representatives from these programs. 
International Programs 

Casa De La Cruz Christian Brothers Vol. Program Columban Fathers Lay Mission Prog. Comboni Lay Missionary Program Good Shepherd Volunteers Holy Cross Associates Maryknoll Mission Association Maryknoll-China Teaching Program Passionist Volunteers International Peace Corps 
Secular Programs AmeriCorps Center For The Homeless EnviroCorps Indiana Legal Services Little Brothers: Friends OfThe Elderly Peace Corps Rosehill Center 
Teaching Programs 

Alliance For Catholic Education (ACE) Cristo Rey Jesuit Alumni Volunteers Inner-City Teaching Corps LANCE Loyola Univ. Chicago Opport. In Cath. Educ. (LU-CHOICE) Marist Volunteer Program New Orleans Vol. Service Comm. New York Teacher Vol. Program Operation Teach Pacific Alliance For Catholic Education Paraclete Center Red Cloud Volunteers St. Ignatius Loyola Academy Teach For America The Haitian Project The Neighborhood Academy 
Faith-Based Programs In The U.S. 
AL.l.V.E And Gimme A Break Alaska Radio Mission-KNOM An1ate House Augustinian Volunteer Program Bon Secours Vol. Ministry Program Boys Hope/Girls Hope Cabrini Mission Corps Campus Ministry Internships Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Catholic Charities/Project Serve Center for the Homeless Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Volunteers Colorado Vincentian Volunteers Covenant House Faith Community Cultivation Ministries Dominican Volunteers USA Faith Formation Leadership Program Franciscan Volunteer Ministry Holy Cross Associates Holy Cross Vocation Office Humility OfMary Service Intercommunity Ministry Vol. Prog. Jesuit Volunteer Corps CArche-Cieveland Maggie's Place Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Mercy Volunteer Corps Missionary Ccnaclc Volunteers NET Ministries Providence Volunteer Ministries Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Saint Joseph Worker Share Foundation St. Vincent PaUotti Center Vincentian Service Corps 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Sorin edges Fisher on last second field goal 
By STEVE COYER, KEVIN 
O'NEILL, KATIE WAGNER 
Sports Writers 
After a day of turnovers, missed opportunities and strong defense by both teams, Sorin emerged victorious 3-0 over Fisher in a closely contested game. 
With time running out and no end in sight to the scoreless stalemate between the teams, it all came down to one kick. For the Otters, their first and only scoring chance of the day would be a 35-yard field goal attempt. 
While many adjectives could describe the Otters offense today, the kick can be explained in one -good. Off a perfect snap and hold, Sorin kicker Chris Petersen put the ball straight through the uprights for the game winner. Petersen was quick to give credit to his team­mates for setting up the kick. 
"The defense kept us in it all day and the offense put together a nice drive on the last posses­sion to get us in range," Petersen said. 
For most of the game, the Green Wave had the advantage on both sides of the field. While their defense completely shut down the Otters for the first three quarters, Fisher's offense was able to put together sus­tained offensive drives. 
Untimely interceptions negat­
ed  Fisher's  advantage  on  
offense.  
"We  played  very  well  on  

offense," Fisher captain Tom Gorman said. "We gained about 250 yards but just couldn't get the ball in the end zone." 
Statistically, Fisher dominated the game, but Sorin made the most of their last possession. 

"We had some freshmen step it up on defense and our offense made some good plays near the end of the game to put us in position to win it," Sorin captain Collin O'Keefe said. 
Until Sarin's final scoring drive, the possibility of a score­less tie seemed very likely. It came down to which team could produce when the opportunity was there with Fisher going 0­for-2 in the red zone while Sorin was a perfect 1-for-1. 
For both teams, the secondary was the strength of the defense. Solid coverage and aggressive play limited Sarin's passing attack to 4-of-11 on the day while Fisher's completion rating was slightly better at 7-of-18. In addition, key interceptions by both defenses stopped potential touchdowns. 
Siegfried 16, Knott 0 
The Siegfried Ramblers, led by quarterback/outside linebacker Bill Bingle, showed the interhall football world why they are the defending champions with a dominating 16-0 victory over archrival Knott Hall Sunday afternoon. 
The game, which was also played for the Flanner Cup, got off to a great start for Siegfried. On the first play of the game, Bingle executed a superb play action fake and then threw a 38­yard strike to receiver Jon Kaup. The pass set up a field goal that put the Ramblers up 3-0 before most fans had settled in. 
The Siegfried defense then took over, stopping the Knott drive in five plays and giving the ball to Bingle and company on proved to be more than enough. Knott and Gilfillan were forced to go almost exclusively to the air and abandon a running game that had enjoyed some success behind running back John Bisanz who ran for 27 yards on 7 carries. 
Gilfillan was held to just 39 yards, most of it to wide receiver Alex Fergus, on 3-10 passing with 2 interceptions, and Siegfried ended the game on top by the score of 16-0. 
"They got good defensive back play today." Gilfillan said. 
Despite the loss, Gilfillan feels Knott isn't far away from being a good football team. 
"Three mistakes cost us the game today, but we saw a lot of positives from both the offense and the defense," Gilfillan said. "We're confident that we'll win the next three games and see Siegfried again as a different team." 
As for Bingle and the Ramblers, they have the kind of confidence one would expect from a defending champion who convincingly won its first game. 
"We need to cut out the stupid penalties, but if we throw it on them, we'll have to write a letter of apology," Bingle said. 
Carroll 10, Zahm 6 
Carroll's strong start proved to be the key in its 10-6 defeat over Zahm. 
Early in the first quarter, freshman Preston Carter kicked a 42-yard field goal on Carroll's first possession. Soon after­wards, junior Dom Gabbianelli of Carroll helped prevent Zahm's offensive from advancing with a sack. 
Freshman quarterback Kory 
19JI§:P§ JFli:NfiE ART'§ L1ECUTliJR1E §JERIIIE§ 

the Rambler 40. Bingle and Kaup went back to work, con­necting first on a 9-yard out, and then two plays later, on a roll out, for a 45-yard touch­down scoring play. After Knott blocked the extra point, Siegfried had scored on their first two possessions and was up 9-0. 
Bingle described the confi­dence the Ramblers have in their passing attack. 
"We feel like if we throw it on them four times. there isn't any­body that can stop us," Bingle said. 
After another stop by the defense, Siegfried took over with time running down in the first half and mounted a wild drive that began with a holding penal­ty that negated a 40-yard punt return by Kaup. The unusual play continued with a drop of a sure touchdown by a receiver and yielded a controversial missed 45-yard field goal that was ruled good by the referee under the goal post and then overturned by the head referee. 
Getting the ball to begin the second half, the Juggernauts looked to strike quickly by going to the air on the first play from scrimmage. Quarterback Ben Gilfillan faded back and threw an out pattern that was read perfectly by Bingle from his out­side linebacker position. Bingle intercepted the pass and ran it back forty yards for a game­sealing touchdown. 
"I just read the quarterback, jumped the out and ran it in," Bingle said. 
The point after sailed through the uprights, and Siegfried was staked to a 16-0 lead near the end of the third quarter that Wilmot and Mike Johnson led Carroll to its only touchdown. Johnson caught a 15-yard pass. then a 20-yard pass from Wilmont to score Carroll's first touchdown. 
After Carroll's second and final scoring drive, Zahm picked up its energy level and got back into the game. Freshman tail­back Kyree Blackwell really got his team fired up with his huge three consecutive runs. begin­ning at the end of the first half. Sophomore Patrick Gourley. jun­ior Eric Tarnowski, junior quar­terback Mitch Knapke and Blackwell had some impressive runs in the second half for Zahm. 
Zahm came very close to scor­ing in the second half, but was stopped by some great defensive plays by Carroll. Tarnowski did find the end zone late in the game on a 2-yard run for a touchdown, but it was not enough for the Rabid Bats. 
Blackwell's interception offered one last scoring opportu­nity for Zahm. Despite several strong runs by Gourley, Blackwell and Knapke, Carroll regained possession of the ball before Zahm could score and closed out the game. 
Carroll's victory was especially exciting for Carroll's captain Jim Butz and his team because Zahm shut them out last fall. 
"I could tell in practice that these guys were ready to kick some [butt]. We just walked in and beat up on Zahm who beat our butts last year," said Butz. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu, Kevin O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu and Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 
Have you ever been hit by a truck? 
No! 
THIS IS AN OUTRAGE!!! 
Mike McGowan's turning 21! 
Love, The Badin & Cavanaugh Girls 

PRESENTS... 
BOBBY GONZALEZ 
CUONJIJE 

CU1EILJEBRA\.'1r1E IHIJI§P~BCU IHIIER11TAG1E l9ll 0 1\ij"TJHI \\WBTIHI liJ§!! ! 
Date: Tuesday, September 23:0 2003 Where: Eck Visitors:o Center Auditorium Time: 7:00pm 
Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
528 !E. CofFlx ~ve., Suite #2 Soutfi $end; 'ltN46617 
574/2,~2-,1822 

q12 W. C(eve(and' tfu{ -§ranger, 'l'Jf46 574/277·'6693 
·AConlemJ>Ol'iU'tJ Women's Roul:ltJUe SJledJlzlng t~ 
Designer Oothes anJ Gifts 

Tuesday, September 23, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WYLEN 
j
I I r () 
02003 Trl>une Media Servk::ee, Inc. All Rights Re~erved. 
JOANB 
j
I I r () 
SWACHE 
(IJ () 
www.jurrble.com 
DIALIN 
j
I rI ( J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold •nd Mike Arglrlon 


THE: MINE:R QUIT HIS JOB BE:C.AUSE: HE: WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~r:( I I I I I J't I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MOUNT FLORA LOCALE MANIAC Answer: Counts when shopping for a car-ACALCU-­LATOR 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ ACROSS 37 Score of 1oo-o, 67 Big. name in say auto parts
1 Use a swizzle stick 39 Letter from a 68 Sport in which teacher players wear
5 Sarcophagus 40 Treat with chips 

masks
9 Skater Henie 43 Five-note refrain 69 ·unsafe at Any
14 Humanitarian Speed" author 

org. 44 Start of Caesar's last 10 No short story
15 Track shape 

gasp 71 Orderly
16 Goodbye to 45 "Witness"Jose director Peter DOWN17 Birthstone for 46 Doesn't contain 

many Libras 1 Jeer 
one's anger18 Personal staff 2 Piglike animal
48 "Note tomember 3 Farsi speaker50 Stroke19 Massaged 4 Confederate51 Part of WWWplaces signature53 West of20 Super 5 How pendulumsNashville 

23 Ally swing
58 Condition of 

24 Versailles 6 "Metamorpho­
utmost 

habitant perfection ses" author 25 Married 61 Capital near 7 Volunteer org. madrilelia: Abbr. launched in
Casablanca 1980

28 Natural hairstyle 64 Cupid's Greek counterpart 8 Cloudiness
31 Disney's dwarfs, 
e.g. 65 Qatari leader 9 Lindbergh Field 34 Longest river in 49 Combatant 57 Tito Puente'ssite
33 Thick slice 66 Dumbfound France nickname
52 Geoffrey of 
-------------10 Jazz singer 35 Alaskan native 58 Discomfit
fashionANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Anita 36 Spot on the 59 Duffer's 
radar obstacle "rl':::+:-t::i 12 Friday on TV 
38 Head in a 55 Adagio and 60 Arizona tribe ~:+.-:hi 13 Simpleton guillotine? allegro 61 Oversaw 
21 Santa_, Calif. 41 Big trouble 
62 Famous jour.

56 "But you
42 Dead-end street publisher
"*:-fl!!~ ~~~··· 22 Classical promised!"
Japanese drama 
47 Sun. delivery retort 63 One-star -rl':::+=+.-:-'!'t:*.~+rt-::-t 25 Investment 1-:t-:-t:+~:t. -:+:+~w ..;,;.+.,;-+.=+:~ 26 Diameter halves For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 27"Doe, _ .. ." credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
29 Lecher crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
30 Removes from Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-;-t;;;-to;+.:-i-;:i power 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~:-+;,;+;,;~ 32 Ship's front Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ..;.;,L;.;,L,;..J.::..L=.J 33 Exorbitant nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Julio Iglesias, Ray Charles, Bruce Springsteen, Jason Alexander 
Happy Birthday: You want to be a perpelual studenl this year. The more you open yourself up to knowledge, the higher your potenlial will become. You will be able 10 find inner peace if you follow your bean and do whal's best for you. Your numbers: 5, 7. 16, 22, 28, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The opportunity to go out wilh friends will be enticing. Don'l forgel thai your mate may want to spend some time with you as well. Don't be evasive about your plans or you'll pay lhe price later. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Home-improvement projects should be on your agenda. Don't let your mate back you into a corner. Try to do 1hings yourself. Relying on others will end in disappointment and disaster. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can meel a new romantic partner or secure the love connection you already have. Plan a nice evening with people you care about, and the rest will fall into place. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may need 10 put in a few hours al work in order to complete one of your deadlines. Don't be afraid to speak your mind; your ideas will be taken seriously. You may be up for a raise. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need time 10 do things wilh friends or family. Plan a fun-filled day that will bring joy to all age groups. You will be admired by others because you know how to please everyone. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make adjustments in your domestic environment loday. Be sure to keep an open mind and lalk to loved ones before you make decisions thai will affect them as well.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pleasure trips or visiling friends will be in your best interests. Changes due to unpredictable individuals in your home will be unexpected. You need to have open communication with others. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a problem holding on to your cash. Leave your checkbook and credit cards at home. Don't make unreasonable promises that you know you won't be able 10 keep. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotions will be hard to control. Don'l let loved ones goad you into doing things you'd prefer not to do. You must follow your own hearl and do what you feel is best for everyone. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be up and down emotionally if you get involved wilh someone you work wilh. Try to contain your feelings and conlrol your reaclions to such occurrences.**** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will meet special people if you attend events thai cater to those less for1una1e. Your ability 10 intellectually dazzle olhers with your unique and innovative ideas will attract attention. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let anyone play havoc with your heart. You need to be careful in opening up to people. Some people you know through work would love to make you look bad. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be too willing to let others know your inlentions. Learn to be more secretive, and you will find the palh that leads to your greatest desires. Interaction will improve with your reluctance to wear your heart on your sleeve. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web sile at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 

..-----·­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 23, 2003 
Page 24 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish are cautiously optimistic 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Randy Waldrum knew he would find out something about his team when the Irish traveled to the Santa Clara Tournament this past week­end in California. After tying Stanford 0-0 and beating the host 
_ Broncos 2-1, he knew he liked what he found. "As a coaching staff we're ecstat­ic," Waldrum said. "Both the teams we played are very good teams and will be there at the end of the sea­son, at least in the final16." Despite only tying Stanford, the Irish played solid soccer in both contests, dominating play despite being on the road in difficult, hot conditions. "We had a lot of good opportuni­ties But we just didn't put them away," senior forward Amy Warner said. "You have to credit them defensively, they are extremely organized." 
see SOCCER/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Positively offensive 
McKnight's play a bright spot for nation's fifth-worst offense 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spores Writer 
He had already caught three passes on a drive Notre Dame needed to score in order to stay in the game, but Rhema McKnight wasn't finished. 
So, on fourth-and-five with the ball on the Spartan 29-yard-line, he caught a short slant from Brady Quinn, See Also turned toward the.Irish sideline, 
"Willingham,

turned again toward the end 
zone and sprinted for a touch-Baer take blame 
down -Notre Dame's only one 
for 12 men" 

of the game and one of the lone offensive highlights for a strug­page 19 gling Irish offense. 
But after the game, McKnight, who finished with a career-high eight catches for 104 yards, wasn't in the mood for talking about his personal success. 
''I'm just worried about the negatives right now and not thinking about the positives," McKnight said. "We have to correct the negatives first." 
It was the same tune across the board for the rest of the Irish offense, which is ranked 113th in the nation out of 117 Division 1-A teams. 
So far, the Irish have managed to avoid pointing fingers, instead choosing to spread the blame to the entire team. And in most cases, that team-wide blame is justified. 
"I think in all areas we still need to improve." 
see MCKNIGHT/pagel9 


MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Alumni defense pounds O'Neill 
By MIKE GILLOON, CHRIS 
SINUTKO and MATT 
PUGLISI 
Spores Writers 
Sunday afternoon was a per­fect fall day. The sun was out, a breeze was blowing and the sky was blue. Nevertheless, O'Neill felt as if it ran into a hurricane. Led by a dominat­ing defensive line, Alumni mauled O'Neill 28-0. 
The Dawgs started the game off on the right foot. They marched down the field behind the rushing of halfback Alex Roodhouse and a key fourth down scamper by sen­ior quarterback Chris Cottingham. But O'Neill held· firm in the red zone forcing Alumni to turn the ball over on downs. 
The Angry Mob couldn't move anywhere on the tough Alumni defense and was forced to punt. The Dawgs needed only three plays to score with Cottingham throw­ing a 25-yard touchdown pass with four minutes left in the first quarter. O'Neill then went three and out and gave the ball right back to Alumni. O'Neill's defense lent a helping hand to their struggling offense when they made the first of its two interceptions off Cottingham. 
Things were looking up for the O'Neill as they started with a first down on the Alumni 5­yard line. However, the Alumni defensive line was not going to give in as they forced O'Neill into a missed field goal. 
O'Neill hoped to mix things up in the second half when the Angry Mob brought in quar­terback Tommy Tiberio to replace Matt Hughey. 
"We have a lot of confidence in both quarterbacks and we wanted to get each one of them on the field today," O'Neill captain John Enterline 
see MEN'S/page 18 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Total effort leads Walsh to victory 
By DAN TAPETILLO .,Spores Writer 
The Wild Women of Walsh came out on top Sunday after­noon with an 18-7 win over the Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels. 
"It was a dual effort of the offense and defense that stopped Pasquerilla West." said Walsh team member Amanda Borys. "The defense had a lot of interceptions and this put the offense in a very good scoring position." 
Borys was a key cohtributor for the Wild Women beginning early in the first half. Borys began the game with two 20­yard runs and an interception that led to a touchdown to make the score 6-0. 
"[Borys] did a tremendous job on offense and defense," said defensive lineman Karla Bell. 
However, the Purple Weasels came back strong with a wide open touchdown to receiver Heather Van Hoegarden in the left corner of the end zone and 
see WALSH/page 16 


en 
MEN'S INTERHAU 
WOMEN'S INTERHAU 
WOMEN'S INTERHM.l 
SMC GOLF 
SMC VOllEYBALl

SMCXC 
f-uw Sorin 3, Fisher 0 
Saint Mary's (8-5, 

Lewis 19 
Breen-Philli~ vs. 
The Belles finished 
Hope College
McGlinn 0 
Pasquerilla est 
1-4J_vs. Hope (7­

No. 25 overall and No. 
defeated Saint Mary's 
5, 1)
Sie~fried 16

r:cs 
16 among Division II 
by one stroke at the
=: 
Knot 0 
Pasquerilla East 6 
Cavanaugh vs. 
teams at the National 
Blackthorn Golf Course 
4! 
Today, 6 p.m. 

Howard 0 
Pangborn 
Catholic Invitational. 
on Saturday.
Carroll 10, Zahm

Dati 6 
en 
page 22 
page 21 
page 16 
page 14

page 14 
page 14 








