
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Sole ticket wins unanimously 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Edi.tot 
Junior Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl and sophomore Sarah Brown wore elected Saint Mary's student body president and vice president in Tuesday's uncontested election. 
"I'm rnally excited," Brown said. "Participation [in the 
ABSTAIN 


Results are based on 380 student votes
election] was up and l think it went well." 
Because Jablonski-Diehl and Brown were the only candi­According to election commis­dates running, their only com­sioner Alison Joseph, low voter petition was the student body's turnout can be attributed to right either to vote no or to the fact that there was only abstain. This was a change one ticket running for office. from past years when one-tick­Student government repre­et ballots only held the choice sentatives had been hoping 
between vot­ that with this  
ing yes and voting to  "Participation [in the  year's integra­tion of elec­ 
abstain.  election] was up and I  tronic  voting  
In order to be elected  think it went well."  the number of student partici­ 
Jablonski­ pating  would  
Diehl  and  Sarah Brown  be higher. The  
Brown need  student body vice president-elect  election  was  

to earn over 50 percent of the total stu­dent vote. Only 380 students voted -about 25 percent of the student body -and Jablonski-Diehl and Brown received 71. 32 percent of the total student vote, with 17 .11 percent voting no and 11.58 percent abstaining. 
Voter turnout has been low the past few years, with only 266 students voting last year and 350 voting the year before. 
the first time 
students on 

campus and abroad were able to vote online through PRISM, the same program used for student registration. 
Students were able to access the online polls at 12 a.m. on Tuesday until 12 a.m. Wednesday. Each student was allowed to vote once by logging on to PRISM using her PRISM login and password. Once logged in each student was 
Graphic by ANDY DEVOTOffHE OBSERVER 
able to vote by clicking on "Answer A Survey" and then by proceeding to vote in the appropriate election. 
"Our numbers are about even with last years," Joseph said. "Hopefully the numbers will increase through the years." 
Despite the overall student body disinterest in the elec­tions, reflected by the low voter turnout Jablonski-Diehl and Brown look forward to taking office. One of their first tasks in the coming weeks is to pick who is going to be on Board of Governance next year. 
Jablonski-Diehl and Brown also plan to work with the Student Academic Council, say­ing they will focus on the Reading Day proposal and what the next step will be for getting the proposal approved. 
Jablonski-Diehl and Brown's term begins April 1. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@nd.edu 

HTTP:1/OBSERVE . D. Reward for Sharon's wherebaouts doubles 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
Ten local companies have ofered an additional reward of $25,000, doubling the total to $50,000, for information leading to the safe return of or verified communica­tion with missing freshman C h a d Sharon, University officials said Wednesday. 
T h e University offered an initial reward of $25,000 on Jan. 3. Sharon has been missing since the early morning hours of Dec. 12, when he was last seen by friends at a Corby Street party. Sharon. a straight-A student who was attending Notre Dame on a full scholarship, missed all of his finals and has not made contact with friends or family since his Dec. 12 disappear­ance. 
The companies involved include Fifth Third Bank. the Gurley Leep Automotive Group, Lake City Bank, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, Sobieski Bank, St. Joseph Capital Bank, Teachers Credit Union and Wells Fargo Bank, along with two companies requesting anonymity. 

While Notre Dame officials were involved in coordinating this initiative and posting the announcement. the companies themselves were the main force behind the decision to offer a new reward, said uni­versty spokesman Matt Storin. 
"We just helped facilitate getting people together and announcing [this)," said Storin. "l think this was very much an act of compassion and community effort." 
John Rosenthal, president of St. Joseph Capital Bank and son of former Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal, was one of the major coordinators of the effort to double the reward, according to Storin. "Even though he did not want credit, the fact is that it did start with him," said Storin. 
Rex Rakow. director of Notre Dame Security Police, said he believes the new reward will generate more leads in the case. "It will put [Sharon's disappearance) back in the news cycle and keep the story fresh," said Rakow. "We got some leads off the last [reward] and we'll see if we get more leads from this. We remain [open] to accepting any information," he said. 
NDSP has provided a variety of ways for individuals to pro­vide information, said Rakow, 
see SHARON/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 
Bishop asks for leadership, disagrees with cotntnittee's letter 
. Senate debates, fails to pass letter asking for reinstatement of SYRs 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES A.ssociate News Editor 
A letter from the Residence Life com­mittee of the Student Senate asking the Board of Trustees to restore in­hall dances for a probationary period failed to pass in a 12-12 vote after sig­nificant debate Wednesday. 
The committee intended for the let­ter, presented in the form of a resolu­tion, to be included as an appendix to student body president Libby Bishop's Feb. 6 Board of Trustee report, where she plans to talk about student opinion regarding in hall dances. According to du Lac, the letter would have to be approved by the Office of Student Affairs before the Board of Trustees could see it. 
The Residence Life Committee origi­nally passed the letter unanimously; however, three of the senators on the committee voted against it in the roll call vote. 
Katie Boyle, senator from Cavanaugh Hall, said after the meeting she voted 
see SENATE/page 6 

. Bishop calls for leadership, completion of goals in her State of the Student Union address 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Edi tor 
Libby Bishop, student body president, said the student union is stronger than ever in her State of the Student Union address Wednesday, adding that her office will focus on finishing its goals during the remaining two months of her term. 
Bishop said the Student Union is stronger than it was in the fall due to its experience and the increased knowledge of the student leaders. After her address, she said Student Senate was an example of this because they have taken additional initiatives and increased communication with University officials. 
She said this is the busiest time for the stu­dent union as it works to complete its goals and leaders must use their skills to accom­plish these goals now as their term comes to an end. 
"For the next two months we, as student leaders, must use our knowledge and experi­ence to its utmost potential. We will do this 
see BISHOP/page 9 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT,S UP Thursday, January 30, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My ultimatum to the Dome 
Last Friday, I had the unpleasant experience of being in Dillon Hall at 8:30 p.rn. What, you ask, could be so bad about being in. the most glorious Dillon Hall at this hour? Well, gentle readers, it 
was at this ho':11" Tom Haight
that the gremlins (or maybe Alumni) struck again, set• Assistant Ad ting off the fire 
Design

alann and causing 
Manager
a mass exodus into 
what my room­
mate's thermometer assured me is 16­
degree weather. 
To add insult to injury. I was of course asleep at the time of the drill (Lest you think I am lazy, know that I am recover­ing from mono over break. Know also that the next person who makes a lewd joke about how I contracted it forfeits his/her right not to be slapped). Slowly rising and putting on my clothes in a half-conscious state, only one thought clearly made its way through my belea­guered brain: revenge. 
Had this been an isolated incident I could perhaps check my urge for vendetta, but nay, reader, this is no singe occurrence! Would you believe this assault on our senses is not the sec­ond, nor third, but forth in a series of false alarms to atllict our home this semester? Fortunately, being a member of the Knights of Columbus, I am privi­leged with the escape of walking across South Quad to the Knights' building, but this alone is not comfort enough for my woes. as my ears still ring as I pen this. 
I have often thought during the pre­mier moments of these travesties that I should simply ignore them. I, however, am no longer afforded that luxury, hav­ing been twice caught as the last person to exit the building during those evacua­tions deemed 'drills.' I do not think. my friends, that even our beloved rector could forgive me were it to happen again. My excuses run thin. 
But I divert Q:?lll my purpose. Let me make it known that this record of malice toward the student body shall be tolerat­ed no longer! I am hereby delivering an ultimatum, effective immediately, to those who have dictated this malfunc­tioning monstrosity of a fire prevention system to be installed: namely the University administration. For every fur­ther injustice wrought upon the unsus­pecting inhabitants of Dillon Hall. I declare that it shall be returned to you tenfold (provided I can find nine people to help me)! I shall do nothlng less than return the favor you have seen fit to bestow upon us by allowing those administering our beloved University to learn firsthand the joys of congregating in the January snow! 
When those at the epitome of power at this institution are made to grovel in the cold like the rest of us, our voices shall be heard, and they will know we are not without the ability to avenge. On that glorious day, my brothers, we shall all realize the power that is truly ours. Until then. I pray for the sake of those involved that sweeping changes are made to assure the sound rc~tl>f the residents of Dillon Hall, for our voices shall not go unheard! 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Contact 
Tom Haight at thaight@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due roan editing error, Wednesday's article about Sainr Mary's college experiences incorrectly quored Molly Burns saying, •Ac IUSB I would go co class, and then to my car and go home." This should have been anribuced to Angelique Ingabire. The ,mi­dc also incorrectly stared thac Molly Burns trans­ferred from Indiana Univer.;iry South Bend. Burns actually transferred from Miami-Ohio University. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
"Sex Signals" more than just comedy 
"Sex Signals" is a straightforward show about com­munication between the sexes that tackles issues such as rape to help spread aware­
ness. 
page 3 

WORLD& NATION 
Saddam says Iraq prepared for war with 
U.S. 
Hussein vowed yesterday that Iraq had "huge capabili­ties" and was ready for a possible war with the United 
States. 
page 5 
BUSI.NESS NEWS 
Turner steps down at AOL 
Cable television pioneer Ted Turnr announced yester­day he will step down from his position of vice chairman of AOL Time Warner. 
page 7 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Notre Dame Architecture Student Drawings: Designs for a New Snitc Museum, all day in the Suite Museum of Art. 

. 
Latin American Democratization since 1978: Hegime Transitions, Breakdowns and Erosions with lecturer Scott Mainwaring, 4 p.m. in the llcsburgh Center. 

. 
Keenan Hevuc '03 Pcrl'ormance, 7:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Semester Around the World Interviews, 3 p.m., Stapleton tounge, LcMans Hall. 

. 
Kaplan Test Preparation, 6 p.m., Hoom 315 Madeleva I I all. 


. Keenan Hevue '03 Performance, 7:30 p.m. in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Amatriciana, mushroom marinara, sausage pineapple pizza, meatloaf, scalloped corn casserole, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, petite carrots in honey-orange sauce, cherry cobbler, grilled tilapia, potatoes with spinach, baked potato, broccoli spears oatmeal, sausage patties, scrambled eggs and potato triangles. 
Today Dinner: Amatriciana, pesto sauce, sausage pineapple pizza, roast top sirloin, zum zum potato salad, chick­en gravy, whipped potatoes, peas & pearl onions, cherry cobbler, lemon­baked perch. rice valencienne, curried vegetables and cut corn. 
VIEWPOINT 
Dr. Phil leads to decline of Western civilization 
Marlayna Soenneker takes an in depth look at television program­ming and how the low quality of these shows reflects 
America's decline. 
page 10 
SCENE 

Scene reviews movies 
Scene reviews the new blockbuster movies 'Confession of a Dangerous Mind,' 'The Hours' and 'About Schmidt.' 
page 12 
SPORTS 
Irish off to best start in two decades 

The Irish mens bas­ketbaII team took on West Virginia 
and  beat  the  
Mountaineers  88­ 
67.  

page 24 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza. pretzel sticks, cheese and vegetable pie, winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, cajun-baked pollock, roast top round, baked sweet potatoes, long grain and wild rice, soft pretzel and chicken tempura. 
Today's Dinner: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, potato pancakes, hot chunky apple­sauce, stuffed green peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast and bread stuffing. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRJDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
L&J 
::c 
~ 
L&J 
3 
_, 
<( (,) 


.s HIGH 28 HIGH 25 HIGH 33 HIGH 37 LOW 22 LOW 14 LOW 25 LOW 33 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student pays fine to keep car 
A student's vehicle was being towed in the Stepan lot when the owner arrived and paid the towing fee on Tuesday. The vehicle was released to the owner. 

Larcenny in Dillon reported 
A student reported the theft of her cellular phone from her coat pocket while in Dillon Hall between 10 p.m. on Nov. 16 and 2 a.m. on Nov. 
17. There are no suspects. 
Theft leaves student without tunes 
A student reported the theft of her CD/MP3 player from her backpack on Tuesday in the South Dining Hall. There are no suspects. 

Bike heist forces student to walk 
A student reported the theft of his locked bike from the Student South Stadium lot between 
5:30 p.m. on Monday and 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday. There are no suspects. 
Complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegan burritos, Mexican rice, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, broccoli spears, sandwich provencal sandwiches with soups, chicken tenders, zesty oven fries, peas and mushrooms, rolled broccoli pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, bacon, egg, and cheddar muffin, grilled beef and pineapple salad and Sliced ham. 
Today's Dinner: Sweet potato patty sandwich, baked pasta torte, grilled veg­etable lasagna, marinated bean salad, broiled salmon steaks, rice pilaf, roasted yukon potatoes, green beans, sausage pizza. cheese pizza, bread sticks and chicken and dumpling casscrctte. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


Atlanta 54 / 39 Boston 30 / 26 Chicago 30 / 23 Denver 57 I 33 Houston 61 / 43 Los Angeles 80 / 56 Minneapolis 28 / 22 New York 36 / 32 Philadelphia 34 / 23 Phoenix 76 / 50 Seattle 50 / 42 St. Louis 40 / 30 Tampa 73 / 56 Washington 37 I 31 
,-----------------------------------------­
Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Obserwr . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

TCEs 1nay be changed 
Faculty Senate members were By AMANDA ROTHEY "very positive" and offered News Wricer "good feedback," but suggested that Student Senate must take a closer look at logistical issues. 
Student Senate At this point, the Student
Hcprcsentaiives Jeremy Staley 
Senate proposal recommendsand Trip Foley met with 
Lhat a new section of questions
Faculty Senate members recently to discuss continuing be added to the Scantron sec­plans for changes in the admin­
tion of the TCE. These ques­istration of Teacher Course 
tions would ask the student to rate the quality of the cuurse
Evaluations (TCEs). At the end of 
and professor, very similar to 11ach semester. the existing students have the "The questions format. opportunity to Students
wouldn't be very 
could thenprovide feedback 

different from those in access the
about lhe positive and negative other sections and results of aspects of their this section
students would be able 
professors and of questions 
to view the results of on the
c o u r s e s Internet.
Administrators use the new section online." 
"The ques­

these evaluations 
t i o n s

to grant tenure for 
Trip Foley
professors and wouldn't be assess the quality Student body vice president very differ-
of a course. 
ent from those in

However. students have no other sections and students
access to the results of TCEs at this time, and therefore have would he able to view the little motivation to take the 
results of the new section evaluations seriously. 
online," said Foley. Student Senate members will
Recently, Student Senate members developed a proposal soon form a TCE reform sub­to provide students with limited committee to pursue the issue. access to TCE results. Staley and Foley presented their pro­posal to the Faculty Senate this Contact Amanda Rothey week. According to Foley, arothey@nd.edu 


Sex signals more than just cotnedy 
rape from police officers, it environment that creates its By MELANIE BECKER was a stoic, stranger model. own advantages and disadvan­
News Writer 
We thought that if we could tages to relationships. There is 
combine our efforts, we could a different sexual dynamic [at 
"Sex Signals," a straightfor­create a show to establish gen­Saint Mary's and Notre Dame] ward show about communica­der perspectives and show how and because I experienced tion between the sexes, was often [rape] happens," Stern that, I'm excited to explore it," shown at Saint Mary's in said. Murphy said. Carroll Auditorium "Sex Signals" began as a Awkward moments and ten­Wednesday. Sex Signals, spon­humorous, yet realistic look at sion began to arise as the show sorcd by the Division of stereotypes and double stan­zeroed in on rape, particularly Student Affairs and co-spon­dards of both genders. date rape. Stern and Murphy sored by the Student Diversity Audience interaction and some created scenarios that showed Board, was first shown at Saint improvisation were used to ways in which miscommunica­Mary's last year by recommen­create social situations and tion turned into date rape. dation from the Board of common scenarios between Murphy and Stern stressed the Trustees. men and women. Each mem­importance of discussion 
"We've tried over the years ber of the audience was given between men and women to bring different presentations a 'Stop Sign' and asked to hold about sexual activity, because on this issue to it up when of the gray area in date rape. campus," said he or she felt The show culminated in an Georgeanna "/ had seen presentations that the situ­open discussion of what consti­Rosenbush, a ti on was tutes date rape, communicat­
on rape from police 

director of going badly. ing limits and drawing the line. 
officers, it was a stoic,

Student Flirting, Plans are being made to Affairs. stranger model. We sexual innu­bring "Sex Signals" back to The two per­endo, mixed campus for First Year
thought that ifwe could

formers, Gail signals and Orientation weekend next fall.
combine our efforts, we

Stern, a for­miscommu­"We want to do this to edu­mer worker at could create a show to nication cate people about their behav• a rape crisis between col-ior; how you interact with the
establish gender 

center, and 1e g e -aged opposite sex can easily put you
perspectives and show

Christian men and in a bad situation," Rosenbush Murphy, a how often {rape] women were said. 1992 Notre demonstrat­Students who missed last
happens."

Dame gradu­ed as night's performance can see ate, met in Murphy and "Sex Signals," sponsored by 1998. They Gall Stern S t e r n Student Government, the wrote the actor brought Department of Film Television show in 1999 humor to the and Theater and the College of based on dia-situations. Arts & Letters, tonight at 7 logue and research on the Exaggerated humor was used p.m. in the LaFortune topic of gender and dating and to establish stereotypes and Ballroom. began performing in May the perspectives of situations 
2000. from both sexes. Contact Melanie Becker at 
"T had seen presentations on "Every school has its own beck09J l@saintmarys.edu 
sex 
signals 
an in-your-face, no-holds barred look  
at  the  college dating scene, gender relations, and sexual assault  
7  pm  ...  tonight  

lafortune ballroom 
sponsored by student government, department of film, television and theater, college of arts and letters, gender studies, CARE~ SUB, and the women's resource center 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 30, 2003 
Flyers to fight rape 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
A student-led initiative has made blue flyers with sexual assault awareness tips a com­mon sight in campus bath­rooms. 
The sexual assault aware­ness flyers are a product of the Student Senate's gender issues committee. This organization handles all issues regarding gender relations on campus. "Sexual assault is one of the main issues we are looking at," said Courtney Badgley, student senator and member of the gender issues committee. 
An informational meeting by campus security and discus­sion of the sexual awareness 
Chad 
continued from page 1 
line at 631-5555, and an anonymous tip line at 631­8000. 
Sharon's parents, Steve and Jane Sharon, said they are hopeful that the new reward will provide further leads for investigators and are grateful to the area companies for their efforts. 
"It just means so much to us," said Steve Sharon. "People really do care." 
In particular, Steve 
talks given during freshman orientation reignited last year's flyer initiative. 
"Things happen and you should not ignore them," said Courtney Kohout, sophomore senator from Badin Hall. 
The flyer contains contact information and procedural instructions designed to assist a victim of sexual assault. Badgley said, "Girls don't know where to turn and this just gives them resources." 
No further concrete plans have been made regarding sex­ual assault awareness on cam­pus. "Our main concern right now is to keep the flyers up and on display," said Badgley. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 
Sharon said this new announcement and related media coverage would help keep their son's disappear­ance in the mind of students who may be able to recall information about the Corby Street party Chad Sharon attended. 
"We still don't have any kids that saw him leaving the party," he said. Sharon's father urged students to come forward with informa­tion relating to their son, even if their knowledge did not seem very significant. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

fke 5tMe11tl'rtftCttt{-t5 fJ#<'t,e <6 aueptt1rg logo d-e5~115 /bf' tlte lftw 
"f.f6fNPG 11r.ol'hl-t,,fl( 6cNt()fBAfJ. 
$200pl"(z,e !or tie 111i1111i11! ieFi911, Mfitke it61!fl.-tl' 6piton alfi lo90 wt({6-e ({6p{QJfU oi'Mi.t frtw "l~tfriF. " {M.tt.6f&t ~ N,m !JP1tt-e Ftlldt11t~ FfAmtlfto. ie,1111.J 
Ptaifl/f-t /OI' 5"°111tttt1r9 fo9g '*i91f5 (5 &ti41(. &bf'tl.A.N( f !. 'Pl'Of o#e1rfl'ftF tD tk-e, Gtll.i-e,11tAttivttr~ fl#it-e,, !fftan/'tAA-e,. Fol' aiiitfb1111.fi11/0Jt1t1afio1r, tolffQtftke 6trd-tlft lltttv-fti-tl fllltte, u5(-7rPc. 
ND first at trial competition 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's first year mock trial team won the Northwestern University Mock Trial Association invitational tournament. It was held at the Lake County Courthouse in Waukegan, Ill. the weekend of Jan. 18-19. 
The victorious team of first years consisted of seven stu­dents; Michael Anderson (Best Witness Award}, Drew Haase, Anne Marren, Trina Semelroth (Best Attorney Award). Chris Sheehan. Kelly Snyder and Natasha Uffner. They received the highest number of points in each of the four rounds and were undefeated, beating 31 other teams, including last year's national champion and teams from the University of Chicago and Saint Francis University. Two other teams from Notre Dame also competed. 
Sheehan said, "It really 
gives you a feel for the court and a~ understanding of court rules. 
Notre Dame's Mock Trial Association, ranked third in the nation, is made up of 23 students divided into three teams. Attorney Bill Dwyer of the Chicago law firm of O'Rourke, Hogan, Powlcr & Dwyer coaches students at Notre Dame for two hours every Thursday. In addition, each of the teams meets sev­eral times a week to prepare for tournaments. 
All the college students in mock trial associations across the country work on the same case throughout the year. Last fall, the American Mock Trial Association released this year's case: a civil law suit involving a 7-year old boy allegedly killed by a car. 
Every team prepares for both the plaintiff and defense sides of the case. ln a compe­tition, a coin draw just before the start of each round deter­mines which side of the case a team will play in that trial. Each team presents opening statements, conducts direct and cross-examination ot' wit­ness es and makes closing statements for its side. 
Dave Belczyk, president of Notre Dame's Mock Trial Association, said, "The com­petition is designed for stu­dents to work on trial advoca­cy -the way you would pre­sent a case in court." 
Students develop logical thought and argument skills and hone their presentation skills. "The winning team did an excellent job," said Belczyk. "Every team requires a broad range of talents to perform well." 
The regional Mock Trial tournament will be held at Notre Dame from February 21 to 23. The national champi­onship will be held from April 4 to 6 in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 

Multicultural Student Programs and Services & The Notre Dame Athletic Department Present.. . 
....... ............. . ..................... . 
IDSPS Comee!~ SltoUJ 
........ ............. . ....................... . 
Featuring.. . 



Jerry Bed­
nob 

Date: Saturday, February 1, 2003 Time: 7pm Place: Reckers Admission: FREE FREE FREE 

I 
I 
WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Saddam says Iraq prepared for war with U.S. 
has been frequently broadcast­
Associated Press ing scenes of Saddam confer­
ring with military commanders 
BAGIIDAI> and senior lieutenants. It was 
Saddam Hussein. in remarks unclear when the meeting aired televised Wednesday, said Iraq Wednesday took place. "has huge capabilities" and is The broadcasts appear aimed ready to face a U.S. attack, at rallying the Iraqi population "destroy it and defeat it." A at a time of crisis and sending senior Baghdad official con­out the message that Saddam demned President Bush's State remains in firm control of the of the Union speech, saying it military and civilian leadership. was filled with "cheap lies." On Wednesday, a top Iraqi 
"When faced with an attack, official took issue with Bush's we always put in our calcula­address to Congress. tion the worst case scenario "Banned weapons are not and wo build our tactics on small objects that Iraq can that," Saddam told milHary hide," Maj. Gen. Hossam commanders. "We know that Mohammed Amin, head liaison they arc coming with large to U.N. a,rms inspectors, said on forces of infantry and armored Iraqi television. "Iraq has got­units to storm our defensive ten rid of all these weapons." positions. But we will absorb Iraqi leaders also rejected the momentum of the attack, Bush's allegation of past or destroy it and defeat it." potential links between 
Saddam said the Americans Baghdad and the Sept. 11 ter­have no right to attack Iraq rorists. "There's no connection "and every one of them, from between al-Qaida and Iraq," the top down to the smallest said lawmaker Hazem Bajilan, soldier, is coming as an aggres­a foreign affairs specialist in the sor with ambitions." National Assembly. 
"We will have long successive Ordinary Iraqis, meanwhile, defense lines with continued voiced growing fears of a new support of equipment," Saddam U.S. war, a conflict one doctor said. "Iraq is not Afghanistan. saw as a "catastrophe" in the ammunition depot and other to the council Monday that Iraq vious U.N. inspectors in the Iraq has huge capabilities and making for civilians. sites, as their chiefs prepared to was cooperating on practical 1990s. throughout history, Iraqis never International arms inspection meet behind closed doors with matters in the 2-month-old Iraqi officials said they would allowed foreigners to stay on teams pressed on with their the U.N. Security Council in inspection process, but was not submit their own rebuttal to the their homeland." unannounced rounds New York. offering evidence to allay suspi­United Nations by Thursday, 
As the crisis with the United Wednesday, dropping in on an Those chiefs, Hans Blix and cions it retains chemical or bio­"clarifying" points raised by the States escalates, Iraqi television Iraqi missile-fuel plant, an Mohamed ElBaradei, reported logical weapons missed by pre-chief inspectors. 

Congressional Budget Office: $199 billion deficit expected 
Associated P rcss 
WASHINGTON 
This year's federal deficit will soar to $199 billion even without President Bush's new tax cut plan or war against Iraq, the Congressional Budget Office said Wednesday in a report that cast doubt on chances for balancing the bud­get anytime soon. 
The nonpartisan budget office project­ed that without action on any tax or spending initiatives -which no one con­siders realistic -small annual surpluses would not return until 2007, a year later than the office predicted in August. 
In perhaps the starkest depiction of how rapidly the government's long­range outlook has eroded, the budget office said Wednesday that it envisioned a cumulative $20 billion surplus over the decade that began last year. In May 2001, the office projected an unprece­dented $5.6 trillion surplus for that same period. 
The bleak forecast further inflamed this year's budget fight between Bush and congressional Democrats, who accuse each other of speeding the downward spiral of the government's books. Bush wants more tax cuts and spending restraint, while Democrats prefer higher spending and smaller tax reductions. 
"The elephant in the room he didn't mention last night was the deficit," said Rep. John Spratt of South Carolina, top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, referring to the president's State of the Union address. "The ques­tion he avoided was: How would he do all the things he's talking about in the State of the Union and have any kind of bottom line left in the budget?" 
In his speech, Bush renewed his call for a $674 billion, 10-year tax-cutting plan to fortify the economy, and pro­posed spending initiatives including a $400 billion, 10-year expansion of Medicare. He said the best way to con­trol deficits is to foster economic growth and limit federal spending. 
Republicans echoed his argument Wednesday. They added that for now, deficits would have to play second fiddle to initiatives aimed at invigorating the economy and confronting terrorism. 
"If the only index you look at is cash flow, you may be missing the point" that there are other important priorities. said House Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle, R-Iowa. 
The budget office's projected $199 bil­lion deficit for this year compared with a $145 billion shortfall it projected in August. Its forecast five months ago for a $111 billion deficit in 2004 also got worse, rising to $145 billion in the new report. 
Since CBO's projections include none of the tax and spending initiatives that lawmakers are likely to tackle, they are meant as a benchmark for measuring future action. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Sharon rejects Arafat's peace talk offer: 
A day afler his election victory, Ariel Sharon on Wednesday rebuffed an offer by Yasser Arafat to resume peace talks -an indication the Israeli prime minister will stick to his tough policies in his second term. In Tuesday's vote, Sharon won a ringing endorsement for his military crackdown on the Palestinians, and his right-wing supporters want to see him take an even tougher line. However, an Israeli government dominated by hawks could lead to friction with the United States. 
Venezuelan banks end 2-month strike: 
Under intense pressure from President Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's banks agreed to abandon a 59­day-old opposition strike -the latest sign the drive to force Chavez's quick ouster was unraveling. Wednesday's decision came as the government nib­bled away at the strike's core: a walkout that hob­bled the oil industry, the world's No. 5 exporter. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. may find safe haven for Hussein: 
The Bush administration, weighing whether to set a deadline for Saddam Hussein to disarm, offered on Wednesday to try to help find a haven for the Iraqi president and his "henchmen" as a way to avert war. But time appeared to be running out, and State Department officials said an exile sce­nario was not under serious consideration. "We're entering the final phase" and only a narrow "diplomatic window" remained open, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
Utah police seek couple in kidnapping: 
Police on Wednesday said the transient couple who allegedly took a woman's infant from a downtown shopping mall Tuesday night were try­ing to teach the mother a lesson. The alleged kid­nappers and the motber were part uf a group of seven homeless people who socialized with each other, said Salt Lake City Police Lt. Jim Jensen. 
Explosion, fire, kills 8 in Kinston, N.C.: 
An explosion followed by a raging fire demolished a plastics factory Wednesday, killing at least eight people and injuring at least 16. Others were feared trapped in the burning ruins, which sent black. acrid smoke billowing over the countryside. City Manager Ralph Clark said an unknown number of workers were believed to be still inside the West Pharmaceutical plant. 
Officials break credit-card fraud ring: 
More than 30 Pakistanis face federal charges in an alleged credit-card fraud ring that investigators believe netted $5 million. Investigators have con­cerns, but no hard evidence. that the money may have helped fund terrorist activity. The alleged ring­leader, Shah Nawaz, has fled to Pakistan as have other members of the group, U.S. Attorney Paul McNulty said Wednesday. McNulty said there may be "a loose connection" to terrorist activity. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 30, 2003 
meeting it was not Senate's duty to send a letter to the
Senate 
Board of Trustees. "I don't think it will comple­
continued from page 1 
ment the report and will 
against the letter because she detract from it," Bishop said. trusted the expertise of "My report is going to be Bishop and Trip Foley, stu­cohesive and I see this letter dent body vice president, who as superfluous. In the end, I discouraged the inclusion of am questioning what are you 
the letter. She said she trying to do. I will fight for thought it would he repetitive student rights." to include the letter in the Bishop said her report, appendix since Bishop's though it is not finished. will 
report is supposed to already be more informative and represent student opinion and include the voice of the stu­the ideas in the letter. dents in a more balanced way 
Brin Anderson, senator from as opposed to the letter. Howard Hall "It's not what a n d I wanted to say
"My report is going to be 
Residence in the report," Life commit­she said after
cohesive and I see this tee member, letter as superfluous. In the meeting. said after Though she
the end, I am questioning
the meeting said she was 
she agreed what are you trying to not trying to 
with Boyle, do. I will fight for student censure what saying, "I another body of
rights."
wanted to student govern­support ment thought, Libby and I Libby Bishop she said the let­
knew she student body president ter incorrectly 
was uncom­addressed the
addressing Student Senate 
fortable. I know that she will accurately represent the stu­dent body." 
During the debate, Kevin Conley, who chairs the Residence Life committee and voted in favor of the letter, said, "Trip, Jeremy [Staley], and I made a big deal about not getting enough respect and part of the opposition to this was that we would make people uncomfortable. If we hesitate from standing up for students just because it will make people uncomfortable then we don't deserve respect because we aren't doing our job." 
Bishop said that at the meeting she originally agreed with the purpose of the letter when Conley made the sug­gestion but later changed her mind. 
After the meeting, she added that she did not look at the letter in its full context when she informed Conley earlier in the week she agreed with the letter. After thinking further about the letter and talking with Foley and Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, she said she thought the letter was inap­propriate. 
Bishop said at the Senate 
Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631­5323. 
real reason why 
in-hall dances 

were taken away. 
The letter connected the ban on in-hall dances to alcohol consumption and abuse and said, "If it is believed that the elimination of hard alcohol will help to improve unhealthy consumption habits, then why ban in-hall dances and hard alcohol in the same year. The banning of in hall dances ... should not have been neces­sary until all options had been explored and it was clear that SYRs and responsible behav­ior were mutually exclusive." 
After the meeting, Bishop said this claim is incorrect and referenced Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman's statements that in-hall dances were banned due to space limita­tions. 
She also said the nature of the Board of Trustees meeting allows for only a limited dis­cussion and that the report needs to be concise in order to get the issue addressed and not for discussion to be stalled by questions that the letter could have raised. 
Chief of Staff Pat Hallahan, who has attended previous Board of Trustees meetings, could have helped the report and that the report's message would only have been strengthened by the additional voice of 28 student leaders. 
"I think it could have been toned down a little while keeping the main point and it could help a lot if it was sent in right fashion," Hallahan said after the meeting. "Libby's recommendations do ask for dances back which would have been complement­ed by the letter. I think we could have worked on it a lit­tle bit more just to make sure they were in line with one another." 
Several senators questioned why there was opposition from Bishop and Foley to the inclusion of the letter seeing as how the letter represents student opinion. 
"If this letter doesn't coin­cide with the report, this con­cerns me and I wonder if the report is addressing the cor­rect concerns," Breen-Phillips Senator Joanna Cornwell told the Senate. 
Other senators who voted against the letter said it was not because they disagreed with the message of the letter but because they did not want the letter to potentially detract from Bishop's report. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Elliot Poindexter said Financial Management Board called for an increase in the student activities fee, the sec­ond proposed increase in as many years. The fee was increased for the 2002-2003 academic year from $65 to $80. 

. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution to include a referendum on an upcoming University-wide vote regard­ing the Flex-10 Meal plan. 

. 
The Senate decided to cre­ate a TCE sub-committee within the Academic Affairs committee in order to draw on members from the entire Senate to work on research and bring the project to a con­clusion before Senate turnover. 

. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution asking the Office of International Study Programs to inform students studying abroad about alcohol awareness and the country's 


Contact Meghane Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Seventh ticket enters election 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Editor 
Judicial Board President Danielle LeDesma announced Wednesday a seventh additional ticket for the upcoming student body president elections. 
The ticket of Zahm resi­dents Matt Padberg and David Rail submitted its petitions just before the Jan. 22 midnight deadline, but their candidacy was not announced at the Jan. 22 Student Senate meeting because the ticket's peti­
tions had not yet been turned in, Ledesma said. 
Padberg and Rail join the following six other presidential candidates in the Feb. 10 general elec­tion: Mike Bott and Mike Kirsh, Charlie Ebersol and Lauren Meagher, Ryan Gagnet and John McCarthy, Pat Hallahan and Jeremy Lao, Joe Muto and Mimi Matkowski, and Drew Updike and Eric Tarnowski. 
Contact Meghane Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


GREECE SUMMER STUDY TOUR 
The Greco-Roman World and Christian Origins· (3 credits) May 19 -June 5, 2003 
Open to Not.re Dame, Holy Cross, and Saint MarT's Students 
• 
Visit all major sites on the Greek mainland (Athens, Olympia, Corinth, Delphi, et al.) and one Greek island 

• 
Leam about ancient religions, politics, city planning, architecture, art, economy, and travel in Greece 

• 
ExpeL"ience what it was like to be a Christi,m in the Greco­Roman world during the first century 

• 
Participate in small student teams that will do independent projects at sites rather than only hearing lectures in groups 

• 
Stay in fine 3 star air conditioned hotels with daily continental bre.akfast and travel in a/c luxury coach 


Price: $2349 *For More Information:* Call: Dr. John Fotopoulos at Saint Mary's College at 284-4071 Email: jfotopoulos@saintmarys.edu 
~­
' l i
J 

11re isIlle111swer1 
Three-quarters of all Notre Dame ~tudents drink only 28o/<» of the alcohol that 1s consumed here! 
It's a fact! The large majority_ of _student~ ~o small portion of the dr1nk1ng that a es
1 

~:-1a~:at Notre Dame, both on and off campus. 
N t D me 200'1 -2002
(Based on the University of <> re a 
core and Norm Surveys, Spring 2002) 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
311 La Fortune 


-------·------------­

Thursday, January 30, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 29 
8,110.71  +21.87  
NASDAQ  
1,358.06  ~  +15.88  
S&P500  
864.36  
 +5.82  
AMEX  
810.03  
 +6.49  
NYSE  
4,865.96  +24.97  

TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) +l.49 +0.37 25.15 
c1~,~9:.lali11~!:'ill~lllill!;:11111111~:11it::;11;:;11:::1il!~II 
INTEL CORP (ITTC) +3.93 +0.63 16.66 
tie!?i!!i!il!l1lll!!~lllilll1l!!ll!l!!!llll:l\ij[l:lllllilll
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +2.23 +1.09 49.91 
IN BRIEF 
United pilots irked at airline's plan 
United Airlines' pilots union lashed out Wednesday at the company's emerging strat­egy in bankruptcy. saying its plans for a new discount carrier would amount to a breakup of United and vowing to fight it "by every law­ful means available to us." 
The angry statement from United's most powerful union came on the eve of a Thursday meeting of the company's board of directors at which CEO Glenn Tilton is to pre­sent the new business plan. 
While United has not disclosed details of the plan, a published report Wednesday said it aims to reduce the number of its pilots and flight attendants by up to 25 percent and implement a two-tier pay structure. 
The Chicago Tribune, citing unidentified sources, reported that pilots and flight atten­dants working for a planned new discount carrier to be operated by the airline would be paid significantly less than those on regular United flights. United declined to comment on the report. 
The world's second-largest airline, which has posted heavy losses since mid-2000, filed for Chapter 11 federal bankruptcy protection on Dec. 9. 
War fears drive bond prices lower 
Bond prices moved lower Wednesday as investors pushed stocks higher, despite President Bush's warning that a war was imminent. 
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note slipped 13/32 point, or $4.06 per $1,000 in face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.02 percent, from 3.97 percent on Tuesday. 
The 30-year Treasury bond slipped 19/32 point to yield 4.91 percent, down from 4.87 percent Tuesday, according to Moneyline Telerate. 
The market got little, or any, boost from a decision on interest rates by the Federal Reserve. 
COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
Turner steps down at AOL 
• Company posts $44.9 billion loss 
Associaied Press 

NEW YORK 
Fourth-quarter losses skyrocketed at AOL Time Warner Inc. after a stag­gering $45.5 billion charge to account for the strug­gling media conglomer­ate's plunging value. The company also announced Wednesday that former cable TV mogul Ted Turner is stepping down as vice chairman. 
In the three months end­ing Dec. 31, AOL lost $44.9 billion, or $] 0.04 per share. compared with a loss of $1.8 billion, or 41 cents per share, in the fourth quarter of 2001. 
Revenue rose 8 percent to $11.4 billion, and AOL said its results without the one-time accounting markdown would actually have beaten Wall Street estimates -at 28 cents per share instead of the 26 cents and $11.2 billion in revenue predicted by Thomson First Call. 
Turner, who pioneered cable television and built CNN before selling to Time Warner in 1996, will leave in May. He has long been on AOL's board at all will Two years after AOL and ship now totals 35.2 mil­reported to be unhappy be determined in the next Time Warner's $106 bil­lion, up nearly 2 million in with his diminished role few weeks, spokeswoman lion merger, which could 2002. since the merger with Mia Carbonell said. be considered the crown­It took double-digit AOL. but AOL chief Analysts had been ing moment of the Internet growth in AOL's cable, TV Richard Parsons said expecting AOL take a boom, the company has networks and movie divi­Turner wants to spend goodwill writedown but been forced to justify the sions in the fourth quarter more time on his philan­were surprised by its enor­rationale for the deal and to make up for a 6 percent thropic endeavors. mity. overcome questions about drop in revenue from the 
"He's concluded now is The announcements its accounting. online division. the right time to make were made after the mar­The bright spot has been AOL Time Warner this more space for his other kets closed. AOL stock Time Warner's media week also sold its 8.4 per­activities," Parsons said in closed higher, up 30 cents properties, which include cent stake in Hughes a conference call with ana­per share at $13.96 on the CNN, Warner Music, Time Electronics Corp., the par­lysts. New York Stock Exchange. and People magazines and ent company of the 
Turner's exit coincides The shares dropped 10 the Warner Bros. film divi­DirecTV satellite service, with the pending depar­percent in the extended sion that boasts block­for $800 million as part of ture of Chairnlan Steve session. buster franchises like a plan to reduce debt to Case, the America Online Executives said they "Harry Potter" and "Lord $20 billion by the end of co-founder, putting the expect 2003 revenue to of the Rings." this year. disparate histories of AOL grow "in the mid-single­The weak link has been Analysts have speculated Time Warner's divisions digits" and earnings before the AOL online division, that AOL will make other even further into the past taxes, depreciation and which now hopes for a jolt cash-raising moves, such as the mammoth company amortization to be essen­from expanding high­as selling its book-publish­plots its turnaround. tially flat. Analysts had speed Internet access and ing division and the 
Whether Turner -who been forecasting roughly 5 rolling out new music, Atlanta Braves, the base­owns nearly 3.5 percent of percent growth in rev­information and shopping ball team Turner brought the company -will remain enue. services. AOL's member-into the media empire. 

Fed keeps interest rates constant 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Federal Reserve decided on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged at a 41-year low, opti­mistically predicting that the feeble 
U.S. economy will revive once geopolitical risks -a reference to a possible war with Iraq -recede. 
The Fed's widely expected deci­sion means the continuation for bor­rowers of rates that have spurred record home sales and a wave of mortgage refinancings. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, strik­ing an upbeat tone in their brief statement, contended that many of the ·economy's current problems were temporary and caused by the uncertainties surrounding possible military action in Iraq. 
"Oil price premiums and other aspects of geopolitical risks have reportedly fostered continued restraint on spending and hiring by businesses," Fed policy-makers said in explaining their 12-0 decision. 
"As those risks lift, as most ana­lysts expect, the accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with ongoing strength in productivi­ty, will provide support to an improving economic climate over time," they said. 
The federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans. will hold at 1.25 percent. It has remained there since a half-percentage point rate cut in early November, the 12th rate reduction in an aggressive easing campaign that began in January 2001. 

Banks' prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, will keep steady at 4.25 percent, the lowest level since May 1959. 
Some economists said the Fed decided to conserve what few rate cuts it has left in case further reduc­tions are needed should an Iraqi war take a turn for the worse with a pos­sible disruption in global oil supplies or a terrorist attack. 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer .INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 8 
U.S. fails to gain support for coalition against Iraq 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Key members on the U.N. Security Council said Wednesday that the United States had so far failed to con­vince them that time had run out for a peaceful resolution to the crisis with Iraq. 
At a crucial council meeting a day after President Bush's State of the Union speech, 11 of the 15 members supported giving more time to weapons inspec­tors to pursue Iraq's peaceful disarmament -France, Russia and China who all have veto power as well as Germany. Mexico, Chile, Guinea, Cameroon, Syria, Angola and Pakistan, council diplomats told The Associated Press. 
Only Bulgaria and Spain backed the United States and Britain in focusing on Iraq's failures rather than continued inspections. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said diplomacy was in its 'final phase,' and Secretary of State Colin Powell said the United States would try to help find a haven for Saddam Hussein, his family and close aides if he would agree to go into exile. 
"That would be one way to try to avoid war," Powell, who will address the Security Council next Wednesday, said at a news conference. 
However, State Department officials said an exile scenario was not under serious consid­eration. would conduct intense negotia­
At the daylong Security tions, both at the United Council meeting, which was Nations and between capitals, held behind closed doors, ahead of the special Feb. 5 Britain remained squarely in council meeting where Powell Washington's camp. is expected to present evidence 
"There are of Iraq's secret members of weapons pro-the council 'The majority of the grams and links 
who are ask­council thinks we should to terrorist 
ing for time, groups.
continue inspections. " 
but it isn"t a Council diplo­matter of mats who spoke time. It's a Jean -Marc de la Sabliere on condition of matter of anonymity said
French Ambassador
whether Iraq the possibility realizes that of a second res­the game is up, or whether it is olution was being widely dis­trying to keep the inspectors at cussed. The most likely sce­hay," British Ambassador nario would be a resolution Jeremy Greenstock said during declaring that Iraq has failed to a break in the meeting. cooperate actively with inspec­
U.S. diplomats had hoped tors and setting a relatively Wednesday's council meeting short deadline for Baghdad to would signal increased interna­meet certain steps, the diplo­tional support for military mats said. action in Iraq. But neither the Bush said Tuesday night he largely negative reports from would use the "full force and weapons inspectors this week might of the U.S. military" if nor Bush's address altered the needed to disarm Iraq. positions of some of America's In the meantime, Negroponte key allies, including France. pressed the chief weapons 
"The majority of the council inspectors behind closed doors thinks we should continue Wednesday for additional inspections," said French answers on intelligence the Ambassador Jean-Marc de la United States believes indicates Sabliere. "This is what they Iraq is rearming. think today, and I think it is But Mohamed ElBaradei, the important to say so." top nuclear inspector in Iraq, 
Still, U.S. Ambassador John said the evidence hasn't Negroponte warned that the panned out and he disputed "diplomatic window is closing, Bush's claims that Iraqi intelli­for the council and the time for gence agents are posing as sci­decision-making is fast entists approaching." In a wide-ranging interview 
He said the United States with AP, EIBaradei stood by his inspectors' findings that alu­U.N. inspector, Hans Blix, spent minum tubes the Iraqis had Wednesday answering ques­tried to import were for rockets tions from Security Council and not for a nuclear program. members regarding their as the president reasserted in reports on the first 60 days of his speech Tuesday night. inspections. 
"We believe the tubes were Their differing -but ulti­destined for the conventional mately negative -reports rocket program," ElBaradei issued Monday were used by said. He said the tubes could be Bush to strengthen arguments modified for uranium enrich­for possible war. and could per­ment but that the process suade reluctant allies to sup­would be expensive, time-con­port military action to disarm suming and detectable. Saddam. 
In his annual speech. Bush But key council members said: "Iraqi intelligence officers were unswayed by the reports are posing as the scientists and Bush's address. inspectors are supposed to During a break, German interview. Real Ambassador scientists have Gunter
"We believe that
been coached by Pleuger said Iraqi officials on inspections must inspectors what to say, and continue and that ifIraq should be intelligence given "a
stops

sources indicate realistic 
that Saddam cooperating with 
opportunity Hussein has inspectors and starts to discharge ordered that sci­their man­
blocking inspections, we
entists who date. Let us 
cooperate with must look into it." not put aside 
U.N. inspectors an instru­in disarming ment we only
Sergey Lavrao 
Iraq will be recently
Russian Ambassador
killed. along sharpened." with their fami-Russian lies." Ambassador Sergey Lavrov said 
ElBaradei said it was unlikely reports that President Vladimir his inspectors "could be fooled Putin was shifting to a more in the nuclear area on who is a pro-American stance were mis­scientist and who is not." interpretations. 
"We know all the scientists "We believe that inspections from the past and I think our must continue and that if Iraq people could easily detect if stops cooperating with inspec­that person is a scientist or tors and starts blocking inspec­not." tions, we must look into it. 
EIBaradei and the other chief 
THE 

BSE 


is currently accepting applications for the 2003-2004 term for thefollowing positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Any sophomore or junior business major Managing Editor should demonstrate strong interested in gaining valuable work experience is journalistic and management skills. An in-depth encouraged to apply for Business Manager or understanding ofnewspaper production, Operations Manager. Applicants should be including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress comfortable in a management position, 
and Photoshop, is required. Experience with demonstrate strong organizational skills and have Macintosh computers is helpful. a solid understanding of accounting principles. 
An application for any ofthe above positions should be at least jive pages and explain the applicants qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Business Editor applications are due by Friday, Jan. 31 at 5 p.m. Assistant Managing Editor and Operations Manager applications are due by Wednesday, Feb. 5 at 5 p.m. 
Submit all applications to Andrew Soukup in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Andrew Soukup and Managing Editor Kate Nagengast at 631-4541 or Business Manager Lori lewalski and Operations Manager Bob Woods at 631-5313. 
-• • --.• itT I' •· 4 • •-• • • I I • e e • • • • • ; e • "?: .,_ ._, W a L 
page 9 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, January 30, 2003 
SMC-wotnen attend pro-choice conference 
By lAUREN CONDON 
News Writc,r 
Four Saint Mary's women attended a pro-choice con­ference in Washington, 
D.C. during tho same time when many of their class­
mates  were  at  the March  
for Life.  
The  four  students  

received a grant from Saint Mary's Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership to attend the one-day conference that focused on lobbying for pro-choice causes. The students who attended the conference believe that it was a leadership opportu­nity. enabling them to experience a day in the nation's capital learning how to lobby for causes and about the judicial sys­tem. 
"I feel that because we arc Catholic we need to address the situation. H is the woman's body and she should decide what to do with it," Saint Mary's con­
ference group organize not only to talk about pro­Heather Engstrom said. choice, but also to teach "Catholics for Free Choice young people how to make uphold that it is a woman's their voices heard," right to make her own Engstrom said. decision.". Although many within the 
The conference, held Jan. Saint Mary's community 
22. also marked the 30th did not agree with anniver-Engstrom, the sary of pro-life and
"I feel that because we
ihe Roe v. pro-choice 
W a d e are Catholic we need to students Supreme address the situation. It respected each 
C o u r t other's opin­
is the woman's body and
decision, ions.
she should decide what 
w h i C h "That is legalized to do with it" their deci­abortion. sion," Saint 
Engstom Mary's senior 
Heather Engstorm
believes and March for that the organizer Life attendee confer-Elizabeth encc was Rosswurm more about leadership and said. "We are supporting having young people what we believe in and involved and interested in they are supporting what the legal system. they believe in." 
"The conference, which "I think that everyone addressed the issues of has the right to their own what the judicial system is opinion. It's great that we doing with the recent five can respect each other's to four vote upholding Roe stance on the issue," Saint vs. Wade and the feminist Mary's March for Life movem1rnt, was organized o r g an i z e r Oani e II e Kr a ft 
added. 

Those who chose to attend the March for Life to protest abortion accept­ed an unexcused absence and paid their way for the bus trip. 
"[I went because] I feel pretty strongly about the pro-life cause and that lif'e begins at conception. Abortion needs to be ended," Saint Mary's fresh­man Jenny Robbins said. The four girls sponsored by CWIL had all expenses paid and were flown to Washington D.C., to attend the pro-choice conference. 
"It's disappointing," said Indiana Archbishop John D'Arcy after learning of CWIL's sponsorship. " 
The program itself was student leadership. The purpose was to show stu­dents how to become involved in lobbying and leadership," CWIL director Meredith Sarkees said. 
Contact Lauren Condon at cond5030@saintmarys.edu 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
"Law and Culture" 
Upcoming Lectures 
Christopher Tollefsen February 17 
Joseph Raz April 10 
Francis Cardinal George Archbishop of Chicago 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 3 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Bishop 
continued from page 1 

through finishing important pro­jects. giving available student input into campus wide issues and representing student voice accurately," Bishop said. 
Though Bishop did not outline any future plans in her address, she said the Student Union must look toward the future in order to empower future leaders and called on the Student Union to fulfill their duty of passing on their knowledge to future lead-
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes l@nd.edu 
Iraq may be capable of nukes 
Associated Press 

The top nuclear inspector 
conceded Wednesday that alu­
minum tubes the lraqis had 
sought for rockets could be 
modified for a nuclear pro­
gram, as President Bush 
reasserted in his State of the 
Union address. 

"We believe the tubes were 
destined for the conventional 
rocket program," Mohamed 
E!Baradei told The Associated 
Press in an interview. "They 
could be used for enrichment 
but they need substantial mod­
ification before they could be 
used." 

He said such a process would 
be expensive, time-consuming 
and detectable but that the 
Iraqis have the capabilities to 
alter the tubes. 

EIBaradei told the Security 
Council in a report Monday 
that he had found no evidence 
Iraq had revived its nuclear 
program. The comments. cou­
pled with his determination 
that the tubes were for rockets, 
put him at odds with the Bush 
administration which has 
insisted the tubes were meant 
for enriching uranium. 

The back-and-forth between 
the Bush administration and 
ElBaradei's International 
Atomic Energy Agency began 
shortly after the president first 
raised the Iraqi attempts to 
buy the materials when he 
addressed the United Nations 
last September. 

As a result. E!Baradei made it a top priority for his team to investigate the matter when inspections resumed two months later. 
Iraq admitted they sought the tubes but said thev were for a rocket program and very quickly, the nuclear team began to agree. 
But the United States has been relentless in its insistence that the tubes were for a nuclear program and President Bush included it again in his annual address Tuesday. 
"We believe... that these tubes arc of the fineness and kind of tooling and workman­ship that is definitely consistent with the use of enriching ura­nium," U.S. Ambassador John Negropontc said Wednesday. 
"The way in which Iraq has gone about trying to procure those tubes suggests quite clearly that they were trying to do something illicit," he told reporters. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 30, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
E.OITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lew:tlski  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANI.GER.  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne V1EWP01N1· EDITOR.I Kristin Yemm SPOIi.TS EDITORS: Joe Hecrler, Mace Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHIOi EDITOR.I Katie McKeuna SAINT MA!lv's EDITOR: Sarah Nesror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ccnedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR• Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLI.ER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OliFICE MANAGERIG.ENERAI. INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............. , ............................... ...............631-6927 ADVERTISING................................... ..631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 Smuts/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://oburver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotce Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leccers co the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
~lions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to F,ditor in ChiefJason McFar/.ey. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObK111Cf (USPS 599 240) U puhli,hcd Mondiy rhrough F rid"Y aa::p( during cum and vacation periods.. A 1uh1UipDon IO The Obscrvc:r ia $100 for one acadmuc yea-~$~) b 'l'lt\C ~wcr. 
The: Oblrrwr i-1 plihfubed at: l'OSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Scad add~, -corm:lion~ to: 
Norn= D.vnc, IN 465~ Th~Oblcrvcr 
P.O.BmQ Pctiodica.l f>OJtagc paid a.1 Nocrc Dame Nolf~ Oam~, IN "6556..0779 and ai:ldiriN1ilfm:1.i.btig;oflias. 
The Ob~rm· i1 .a member of the /Uin.incd r,ffi. All rcprooJ.iction ,ighu ...-c •=n«l. 
LETTER FROM THE EDITORS 
SMC endorsement confusion clarified 
We wish to apologize for the confusion surrounding Monday's Observer editorial calling for abstention in the Saint Mary's student body presidential and vice presidential elec­tions, but reiterate our original sentiment calling for increased political participation at the College. 
Because of incorrect information we received from the Saint Mary's representative on our editorial board, we believed there would be only two options on the ballot this year. as there had been in past elections: the names associated with the only tick­et running. "Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl/Sarah Brown," and the option to "abstain." 
Unbeknownst to us, however. Saint Marv's constitutional revisions to its election process involved aitering the ballot, too. In the past. students were confused about how to express dis­satisfaction with the candidates in increasingly common single­ticket races at the College. As a result, Election Commissioner Alison Joseph said, for the first time Tuesday, the ballot offered three options for voters: "yes," meaning the voter supports Jablonski-Diehl/Brown; "no," signaling a vote ofno confidence in the ticket; or "abstain," mearung a vote ofno opinion. 
The Observer very much intended for Saint Mary's students to voice an opinion. We misunderstood the purpose of the bal­lot's abstention option and should have instead endorsed vot­ing "no." Though we apologize for our mistake, we stand by the sentiment of our endorsement. We urge the 25 percent of Saint Mary's students who voted in the third consecutive sin­gle-candidate race Monday and implore the 75 percent who did not submit a ballot to consider participating more actively next year to prove that Saint Mary's does. as Jablonski-Diehl herselfsaid. "bring a leader out of every ... student." 
Jason McFarley Editor in Chief 
Kate Nagengast Managing Editor 
Andrew Soukup Assistant Managing Editor 

Tuning-in to the decline of Western civilization 
As we know from my last column. l've been applying to graduate school. As we also know from my last column, if we like to read the little biographical sketch at the end, I graduated at the beginning 
of this month. This Marlayna all leads us to the logical question: Soenneker 
What have I been doing other than Here We Go applying to gradu­
Again ... 
ate school? 

The answer, fel­low Domers, is watching TV. Television these days is of very low quality, by the way, particularly during the day. I really felt like I was missing out on something when I lived in the dorms and didn't watch TV for months on end, but it turns out rwasn't. 
For one thing, I watch things like "Dr. Phil" (who I say that I don't like because he makes psychologists look bad. but I secretly watch him and even kind oflike him) and "dating" shows, like "Blind Date," "Fifth Wheel." and "Elimidate" (further guilty TV pleasures. except I really do dislike them. Ijust watch them anyway), which aren't terribly high qual­ity. 
For another thing, I avoid quality tele­vision like the plague. I always thought that if I ever lived outside of the Notre Dame bubble that I'd be a better informed person when it came to current events, but it's really not turning out to be true. I pretty much never watch the news. 
I don't like world news much because I can almost never make it through an entire broadcast without becoming despondent and convinced that Western civilization is in an inevitable decline. I actually do think that Western civiliza­tion is in its decline. but I usually try to ignore that conviction and it's harder to do that when you watch 30 minutes of actual proof every night. 
Tom Brokaw: "In the United States today, there is no money for any impor­tant programs for helping people. In sev­eral states, masked gunmen murdered dozens of innocent bystanders. When apprehended and asked the reasons for their actions. the gunmen responded, 'Hey man, bad things happen to good people. They looked like good people. Who are we to change the rules?' 
"In international news. several wars rage on today with hefty loss of life. and no one in China has any human rights at all. This just in: the world is going to Hell in a handbasket. Here with more on its downward progress is news correspon­dent Frank." 
I don't much like national or world news. because it's always depressing. Sometimes they throw in that human interest story near the end about the blind guy, the puppy who cures him, and their amazing search together for the cure to cancer, but somehow that usually fails to erase the emotional impact of all the human suffering so rapidly discussed before. 
I don't watch much local news either. largely because every single night for the last two weeks the lead story has been the fact that it either is currently snow­ing or was snowing earlier that day. 
Anchor: "I'm Bill, and our top story on the 10 o'clock news in Michiana is that it is snowing for the fifth day in a row. Let's go to Jane, our reporter out in the field." 
Reporter: "I'm Jane, out here in Elkhart, where it also appears to be sno-wing. Let's talk to some people pass­
ing by. Hello there! Do you feel that it is snowing here in Elkhart?" Passerby: "Yes, there does seem to be snow falling from the sky." 
Reporter: "There you have it, Bill. It is snowing in Elkhart. I'm Jane. reporting for News Channel 3. Back to you, Bill." 
Anchor: "We'll return with further team coverage of this alleged snow from downtown South Bend, Notre Dame and Granger after these commercials. A little later. we'll have an in-depth interview with a woman who has lived in Michiana for a number of years and remembers other times when it has snowed." 
Tuesday night the State of the Union Address was on, which I did actually watch for a while. One of my roommates wanted to see it, but then she ended up talking on the phone. About halfway through. my other roommate and I switched over to "Smallville" on the WB because we like it better. 
I'm 21 years old with a Bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame, and I like Smallville better than r like watching the president address the nation in the biggest speech he gives all year. And I am supposed to be a future leader of America. 
This is probably why Western civiliza­tion is declining -people like me are watching "Dr. Phil" and "Elimidate" instead of keeping up on important events or actually doing anything. 
Marlayna graduated from Notre Dame in January, but is continuing to live in the South Bend area until May gradua­tion. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Justin Krivickas Himanshu Kothari Joe Trombello 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Joe Hettler Joe Lindsley Matt Lozar 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 

Lauren Forbes 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does student government take actions that impact your life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are 1011 stars in the galaxy. That used to be a huge number. But it's only a hundred billion. It's less than the national deficit! We used to call them astronomical numbers. Now we should call them economical numbers." 
Richard Feynman educator 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tax cuts represent American values 
Last night. in his State of the Union Address, President Bush reiterated his economic stimulus pack­age, which would reduce or eliminate unfair and bur­densome taxes on all American taxpayers, especially families and investors. Unfortunately this proposal has been demonizcd by the Democrats as simply "tax cuts for the wrong people (i.e. the 'evil rich') at the wrong time." 
Listening to Tom Daschle and other prominent Democrats, one would think that the "rich" somehow don't deserve tho income they earn. or that they attain their wealth by exploiting the poor "working families." Obviously Oaschle doesn't think that the "rich" work for their income. Any reasonable person can see the fal­lacy in such ideas. 
Some in Washington, D.C. seem to forget that it is our (i.e. the tax­payers'} money in the first place, not their entitlement. The fact is that most of the so-called "rich" are small business owners and entrepre­neurs, 23 million in all, who would benefit greatly by the tax cuts and elim­ination of the dividend tax, which would free up more capital to make investments on equipment or hire more employees. 
Ten million senior citizens rely on dividend income to supplement their Social Security. At the same time, Microsoft alone is hoarding $40 billion instead of paying out dividends or making capital improvements because of the silly tax penalties, certainly not a positive step for the economy. And what salary defines "rich"? According to the few Democrats who will actually define "rich," it is $92,000. That may sound like a hefty salary at first, but that is approximately the total for a two-parent family consisting of a fireman and teacher. 
Good luck living on 65 percent of that in San Francisco or New York City. Ending the marriage penalty and death tax while providing tax credits for families with children not only makes good fiscal sense but is also morally right. The marriage penalty is simply absurd while the death tax in effect penalizes success. When did success become deserving of such contempt and scorn in America? 
While the Democrats cry foul about tax cuts for the "rich," 12 current Democratic Senators including Robert Byrd, Frank Lautenberg and Dianne Feinstein (and even Al Gore) voted to drop the top marginal tax rate to 28 percent in 1986, yet have vowed to vote against the Bush plan which would reduce the top rate 
to 35 percent. The Bush plan would provide 92 mil­lion taxpayers an average $1,083 of tax relief this year and the typical family of four with two earners making a combined $39,000 in income would receive $1,100 in tax relief. In fact, the largest rate reduc­tions are tilted toward middle and 
lower income wage-earners: 20 percent for those making between $30,000 and $40,000 compared to 
11.4 percent for those earning more than $100,000. 
Also, to those "deficit-hawks" complaining about runaway deficits, I would remind them that 
interest spending on the budget deficit today is the lowest in years as a part of the GDP (1.5 to 3 per­cent compared to upwards of 5 per­
cent during the early 1990s according to the Congressional Budget Office.) Here are just a few final fun facts about 
taxes. Half of all taxpayers in America pay less 
than 4 percent of all tax revenues, while the top 5 percent ($128,000+) pays almost half of all taxes. So why should people who pay virtually no taxes get a larger tax break than those who actually pay the bulk of taxes? When did America turn into a welfare state? 
I have grown up in an America where "the pursuit of happiness" is attained through the virtues of hard work, perseverance and determination. I am deeply troubled by the notion that has pervaded this country in recent years of "You have it. I want it. You owe me." Class warfare and class envy are tragedies and insult all Americans who believe that hard work really does mean something. 
Michael Derocher 
sophomore St. Joe's Hall Jan.29 

GiveNDSP some respect 
In response the Chris Federico's Jan. 29 Inside Column, "Who's policing the police?" I would like to try something different and, God forbid, take the side of Notre Dame Security Police. I have worked with many of the officers since the beginning of this school year and I can honestly say that they work hard for the stu­dents on this campus. Yes, they are hero to serve and protect, but they are also police officers, in charge of enforcing the law. 
First of all, contrary to popular belief, writing tickets and harassing students about underage drinking con­stitutes very little of the way NDSP officers spend their time. They are the ones who provide rides to hospitals and the health care center when no other transporta­tion is available. They fix your bikes, jump your cars and open locked doors for students and faculty. When you call after hours with power outages, heating con­cerns or a plumbing crises, NDSP dispatches assis­tance. They respond to both fire and burglary alarms and spend hours taking reports on stolen or lost items. 
They are on patrol 24 hours a day, in cars, bikes and on foot, despite the freezing South Bend weather. If you don't see them on a regular basis, it is because they are occupied performing any of the other numer­ous duties listed above. There is not an infinite number of officers on duty per shift. 
If you have concerns about walking in the dark, I suggest you try calling Safe-Walk. Sure, NDSP officers are going to issue violations to you if you get caught parked illegally or transporting alcohol. And I'm not saying that they don't make mistakes or are infallible in their judgment. But I do believe that, for the most part, the Notre Dame Security Police department works hard to assist students as much as possible. The men and women I have come in contact with genuinely care about the students at this school and deserve our thanks. So how about we all try something a little dif­ferent and give NDSP some respect? 
Emily Weisner sophomore Pangborn Hall Jan. 29 

On the day I first arrived in South Bend I decided to go for a walk at night, being eager to explore the Athens of Indiana. Before going for a walk it would probably have been a good idea to ask someone who had lived in the area for more 
Peter Wicks 
than six hours 
whether there were 
any areas that I 
Englishman
should avoid in my 
Abroad

nocturnal ambling. 
I didn't do that, and 
there's a good rea­son why not. It's because I'm an idiot. 
The first sign that my evening stroll was not an altogether good idea came when about five minutes away from my new front door a car pulled up to the sidewalk beside me. In the front seats sat two heavy-set men. They looked not so much like they could have happily killed me, but rather -and I think this is worse -like they could have killed me without really thinking much about it either way. 
In the back seat there was a woman with big hair and too much make-up. By that I don't mean that she was wearing too much make-up, I mean that there shouldn't be that much make-up in the world. The woman rolled down her win­dow and hollered "Hey baby! Are you straight?" 
For a moment I thought I was the vie­tun of I.hat most American of crimes, the drive-by survey. I fully expected to be 
Walking the streets 
bundled into the car, driven to an aban­doned warehouse, tied to a chair and forced to participate in an involuntary focus group. But of course the woman was in fact a prostitute (l probably would have realized the truth sooner if she had looked more like Julia Roberts). 
Having been absent from school on the day when we were taught what to do when propositioned by a prostitute, I panicked and did what I usually do when I find myself hopelessly out of my depth in a social situation. I explained that I was foreign. 
"Are you straight?" she asked again. 
'Tm English," I replied. 

It wasn't a very satisfactory exchange 
from anyone's point of view. As I hastily 
departed, I started thinking about her sales technique, and her choice of ques­tion. "Are you straight?" 
The suggestion seemed to be that if my parents ever found out that I'd declined her services their first reaction would be to start worrying that they should have bought me more GI Jocs as a boy. Though unsuccessful in my case, there was no denying it was masterly sales­manship, and I couldn't help thinking that she would probably have done well in marketing, a career offering all the moral turpitude of her current profession plus dental and a 401k. 
I kept going and after a few minutes, just as I was walking underneath a bro­ken streetlamp, a car rolled past me in the opposite direction. It was barely trav­eling above walking speed and the driver turned and slowly stared at me as he passed. He honked his horn and turned in to the ally immediately behind me. At the sound ofthe horn a large man appeared from out of a bush at the side of the road a little way ahead ofme. He walked up to me and stared at me, sizing me up. It didn't take him long. I think it was about this point that I noticed that he was carrying a monkey wrench. 
Trying not to panic, I quickly made a mental list of all the per­fectly innocent and non-sinister reasons why he could be carrying the monkey wrench. It wasn't a very long list. It had one item: perhaps he had been repairing the bush. 
The man asked me for a ciga­rette, although putting it that way makes it sound too much like a request. His exact words were ''Give me a cigarette." 
Refusing to be intimidated I said, "Back off, mofo," but for some reason it came out as ''I'm sorry I don't smoke." 
The man looked confused by this. He may have been wondering why since I couldn't give him a cigarette I wasn't doing the decent thing and offering to make it up to him by giving him the con­tents of my wallet. Or perhaps he was 
just trying to place my accent. 
Suddenly I remembered the last thing my mother had said to me before l left 
for America, "Remember: Don't talk to any strange 
men who have a monkey wrench and a nicotine 
craving." 
I felt guilty because at the time I had rolled my eyes. I turned 
away from the man, having decided my walk 
must come to a hasty end. I was in America now. It was 
time to start jogging. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate 

student in philosophy. The views expressed in this column are not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer, nor are they necessarily those ofthe author. Many of his friends are in marketing. Peter can be reached at pwicks@nd.edu. 


THE OBSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, January 30, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Kidman, Moore and Streep shine in 'The Hours' 
By BJ STREW Scene Movie Critic 
"The Hours" was the working title for Virginia Woolf's "Mrs. Dalloway," but Michael Cunningham's Pulitzer­winning homage to Virginia Woolf is more than a nod to the tale. It merges and switches and recasts the various personas in "Mrs. Oalloway." In fact, Woolf's book connects the tripartite narrative. with one character writing it, one reading it, and one unwittingly enacting it. 
As in the book, the film kicks off crisply unveiling the theme and direc­tion of the story as Woolf (played by a sublimely explosive Nicole Kidman with a hefty prosthesis on her nose) shuffles into the River Ouse with rocks in her pockets. This wistful and lyric depiction of her 1941 suicide casts a grim pall over the movie. 
This Sapphic meditation on stifled lives and suicide, morbid as it sounds, is buoyed by the histrionic pageantry of its A-list ensemble. Joining Kidman 's Woolf 

Both Woolf and Cunningham rely on large doses of introspection in long, winding streams of consciousness. The director opts instead to intercut relentlessly and use repetitive paral­lels, almost forcing the book's leitmo­tifs into view. In some places, voiceovers would have worked per­fectly. 
The film's only obstacle, however, is 
with Philip Glass. 

are Julianne His score is over­
"The Hours"
Moore and Meryl bearing in the Streep. Moore 
extreme: severely plays Julia simple, severely Brown, a house­repetitive, and, wife self-destruct­worst of all,
Director: Stephen Oaldry

ing in sunny but severely loud. 
Writers: Michael Cunningham (Ill), David
drab 1950's Los The intrusive 
Hare

Angeles. Streep arpeggios border 
Starring: Nicole Kidman, Julianne Moore,
plays Clarissa on insulting: it
Meryl Streep, Stephen Dillane
Vaughan. a mod­feels likes Glass is 
e .r n -day, menopausal West Village editor, who is planning to fete ex-lover and poet Richard (a arch, languid Ed Harris), now wheelchair-bound in the final stages of AIDS. 
Kidman deftly conveys the anguished, heaven-storming genius of Woolf, supplying the film's best scenes as she works on her modernist mag­num opus -and plans tea with her sister. The despair and unrequited interests of Moore's fragile Julia drive her to the edge of suicide, on her hus­band's birthday, no less. Ending in a poignant intersection, "The Hours" succeeds in pretty much every respect, sating both readers of Cunningham's book as well as the casual viewer. 

trying to emotion­ally shepherd the audience. 
Despite the necessary evil of the director's structural departures and the unnecessary evil of the composer's droning, this film has a great story at its heart. Though the film seems at times to tread into maudlin and pre­tentious territory, the virtuosic acting salvages it. Kidman. Moore and Streep, proving they merit their marquee fire­power, furnish perhaps the best per­formances of their careers, and all without earning the derisive epithet "chick flick." In short, don't be afraid of Virginia Woolf; go see "The Hours." 
Contact BJ Strew at wstrew@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Clooney's 'Confessions' falls apart on screen 
By ERIN ENGLISH 
Scene Movie Critic 
Schizophrenic in the extreme. "Confessions of a Dangerous Mind" begs the question "What was the point of the last two hours?" Choosing style over sub­stance and story line, the movie walks a fine line between real film and music video before descending precipitously into a complete mess. 
"Confessions" is 
ing. especially among the female leads, Penny (Drew Barrymore) and Patricia (Julia Roberts). Barrymore acts like a teenager throughout, displaying nearly no character growth even when she should. Roberts is cold, inappropriately timed and unconvincing as a sexpot spy. Clooney himself is simply adequate as Barris' spy boss. 
Clooney is attempting to be ambitious in his directorial debut, which is 
admirable. However, 
the audience cannot 

based on the autobi­help but ponder
"Confessions of a
ography of game whether Clooney show producer and Dangerous Mind" was the actual host of the "Gong 
auteur. Rather, it Show," Chuck Barris, appears Steven who claimed to have Soderbcrgh, the pro­a double life as a CIA ducer, was allowed assassin who killed Director: George Clooney to pull too many 33 people. Writer: Charlie Kaufman, Chuck Barris strings. Clooney uses "Confessions" treats Stan-ing: Sam Rockwell, George many of the same Barris' tale as if it Clooney, Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts techniques and styl­
were fact, intertwin­ing these two lives as Barris writes his memoirs during his 1981 nervous breakdown. 
Tho screenplay by Charlie Kaufman is spotty at best. Kaufman tries to make the characters more clever than they ought to be. and occasionally borders on the inanely preachy, such as when a Playboy bunny chastises Barris for his negative judgment of humanity, or in Barris' com­ments on kiJ!ing for his country while watching the Reagan inauguration on television. 
However, the screenplay was the least of the problems. Far worse was the act­ish tricks, which are 
commonly associat­ed with his mentor, but does not display the same sense of moderation or timing, which comes only from experience. Between Kaufman, Soderbergh and Clooney, "Confessions" gives the impres­sion that there were far too many cooks in the kitchen. 
The movie does have its high points. Sam Rockwell is superb as Chuck Barris redeems many of the flaws in his dia­logue. The use of interview footage with Barris' coworkers such as Dick Clark and "Gong Show" regulars Gene Gene and the Unknown Comic are surprising­ly strong. Many scenes border on absurd, but also entertaining humor, including the CIA training sequence (where Barris is given a picture of Mao for target practice) and the first seduction scene between Barris and Patricia coyly references Scorcese's "The King of Comedy" to good effect. "Confessions" can be entertaining despite its lack of depth. 
The movie's main fault remains that it can't decide whether to be a stylish thriller or an insightful tale about identity. Instead, it prefers to hover unsuccessfully in the middle ground, overusing its bag of tricks when it is trying to be its most sincere and tak­ing itself too seriously during its most lighthearted parts. It tries to be clever. wise, gimmicky, funny and heartfelt all at the same time, and only in a few select moments does it succeed at all of them. 

Contact Erin English at eenglish@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

Thursday, January 30, 2003 page 13 
THE ARBITER OF TASTE 
Midwestern hit in 'About Schmidt' 
"About Schmidt" is a tough movie to put into a capsule. The Internet Movie Database describes it as the story of a man who, "while trying to run his daughter's life, realizes he has wasted his." Entertainment Weekly calls it "part comedy, part tragedy, part satire, mostly master­piece." And Movies.com may well have it best, asking, "'What's "About Schmidt" about? It's about to win Jack Nicholson another Oscar." 
"About Schmidt" is a road movie, and like most road movies, it has a fair­ly simple plot. Jack Nicholson plays Warren Schmidt, a retired businessman who, shortly after the sudden death of his wife (June Squibb), travels to Denver to see and hopcl'ully prevent the marriage of his daughter (I lope Davis) to a waterbed salesman (Dermot Mulroney). Along the way, naturally, he meets interesting people and questions whether or not he has had any success in his life. There are funny parts, and gut-wrenching parts, and moments of real insight, but ultimately what makes "About Schmidt" di!Tercnt and worth seeing is Jack Nicholson. 
Nicholson is generally acknowledged as one of the best actors Hollywood has ever produced, but he has recently been the target of considerable criticism. There is an understandably common belief that Nicholson has degenerated to self-parody, that his repertoire is limited to throwing temper tantrums, delivering poisonous insults, smirking and lewdly arching his eyebrows. 
Excepting one or two cathartic out­bursts of temper, Nicholson throws none of these punches in "Schmidt," limiting himself to more subtle facial expressions and understated line delivery. The result is a tour de force, a phenomenal portray­al of a regular man who has complex relationships and many layers of emo­tion. When he cries. the audience cries -an effect rarely achieved in the mod-

Jack Watkins 
The Arbiter ofTaste 


ern sob-laden cinema. Nicholson has three Academy Awards, and none of them are for performances as good as this. He should and probably will soon become the first actor to be honored with four Oscars, and given this perform­ance he's probably capable of winning as many as he wants. 
Because Nicholson is so often on the screen alone, the film uses a voice-over. Normally, voice-overs are obnoxious and indicative of structural weakness, and, what's worse, they often carry a distract­ing frame story to give the narrator the excuse to tell his or her story. "About Schmidt" gets around this by having the voice-over be Nicholson's letters to Ndugu, a 6-year old Tanzanian boy he sponsors through a foster program. As the program asks him to send "personal information," Schmidt uses the letters as the one outlet he has for his true emo­tions. Naturally, he also is supplying Ndugu with a slightly altered version of events. This allows Nicholson even more fully includes the­matic layers, giv­
ing the film itself as much depth as 
Nicholson's character. Politics, religion and the different cultures within 
America seem to hover just below the 

surface, and it is interesting to note that 
the film sometimes seems like homage to 
conservative, midwestern values. Payne himself, like Warren Schmidt, is from Omaha, and "Election," too, was set in Nebraska. "About Schmidt" only has one notable flaw. The plot makes it necessary for Schmidt to disap­prove of his daughter's engage­ment and subsequent marriage, and even for the audience to sympathize with his disap­proval. But the film achieves this by making Dermot Mulroney's family an over-the­top collection of foul-mouthed, dimwitted pseudo-hippies, the type of people it apparently expects us to belief congregate in Denver. Kathy Bates, playing Mulroney's mother, curses out her divorced husband, erects a shrine to her son composed of his "Honorable Mention" and "Participation" ribbons, talks too much about her sex life, and horrifies Schmidt (and the audience) with a nude scene in a hot tub. Such overdone char­acters would be more at home in a Jim Carrey or Adam Sandler film, and become obnoxious in such a serious context. Payne seems to be reaching to force the audience 

opportunities to show what he can do. to share Schmidt's distaste for his new 
Of course, Nicholson can't take all the in-laws, an unnecessary move given credit. Director Alexander Payne, who Nicholson's phenomenal talent. also adapted the screenplay from Louis While Mulroney and Bates are reduced Begley's novel, to caricature, reunited much of Hope Davis, who the crew from his "About Schmidt" plays the daugh­last film, the criti­
ter, Jeannie cally acclaimed Schmidt, shines. "Election," which Her intonations undoubtedly and facial expres­accounts for the sions mirror
Director: Alexander Payne

polished feeling of Nicholson's own, 
Writer: Alexander Payne, Jim Taylor (Ill)
the film. Payne's and the pain that
Starring: Jack Nicholson, Kathy Bates, Hope
adaptation care­her character feels
Davis, Dermot Mulroney, June Squibb 
is fully convincing. 

With June Squibb's character dying so early in the film, Ms. Davis is the audience's only ., source of insight into Schmidt's family life outside of Schmidt himself. and his often biased view is completed by Ms. Davis's fine performance. There arc entire levels of subtly to the relationships within this film that would have been lost in the hands of less competent actors. It is a credit to the casting team that they found Ms. Davis, who is primarily a Broadway actress and whose work would not have been equaled in the hands of most Hollywood stars. 
"About Schmidt" admittedly owes a lot to certain other road films, most notably David Lynch's "The Straight Story," which also featured an older man on a solo trip through the Midwest to see an estranged family member. Payne even seems to acknowledge the influence by practically quoting the beginning ol' Lynch's "Blue Velvet" during the scene in which Schmidt's wife dies. 
Despite this. "Schmidt" is its own film, bravely different from its many sources, and packing an emotional impact that is unmatched in theatres now. This is not a film to be missed, and those who don't get a chance to see ii during its run here in South Bend would do well to rent it this summer. if for no other reason than to see Jack Nicholson put on an acting clinic for the ages. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
Jack Watkins can be contacted at John.F. Watkins.25@nd.edu. 
---~­
Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
NBA 
Jordan held to 8 points as Nets defeat Wizards 86-78 
Wizards' next two possessions.
Associated Press 
"It's unusual to see No. 23 make mistakes at the end of
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

the game, but he's human likeKenyon Martin made a state­
everyone else," Nets coachment and Anthony Johnson 
Byron Scott said. 
lived out a daydream on a night when Jason Kidd left with an injury and Michael Dallas 104, Houston 81 Jordan played poorly. The Dallas Mavericks beat 
Martin had 19 points and a Houston with 3-point baskets career-high 21 rebounds and and then talked about defense. Johnson led the Nets on a Dirk Nowitzki scored 34 game-changing run after Kidd points and Michael Finley strained his groin in the third added 29 points, hitting seven quarter of New Jersey's 86-78 of Dallas' 15 3-pointers as the victory over Washington on Mavericks beat the Houston Wednesday night. Rockets for the third straight 
"It was a little statement," time this season. Martin said. "I should have "We talked about it at the been on the All-Star team." half that we weren't tough 
Richard Jefferson added 24 enough," Nowitzki said. "We points for the Nets, who held wanted to go out and play a Jordan to 8 points -his low­little tougher, especially on est-scoring game ever at the defense. When we did that and Meadowlands. rebounded better we were 
Johnson had 10 points and able to get our break going." five assists after Kidd strained Trailing 53-46 at the half, his right groin. Kidd will the Mavericks hit eight 3­receive treatment Thursday pointers in the third quarter and will be a game-time deci­and scored 31 points in the sion Friday against New period on their way to improv­Orleans. ing the NBA's best road record 
Johnson committed six fouls to 16-6. in the fourth hut gave the Finley made three 3-pointers team almost 15 minutes of during the quarter and con­leadership it desperately need­verted all six of his free ed. throws after being fouled 
"I sit in my house and dream twice in 3-point range. what it's like to run this ball­"Our offense was generated shot for Cleveland. McGrady fourth quarter with a three­jumper all night," O'Neal said. club, and that opportunity by our defense," Finley said. got the ball, was fouled and point play by Michael Stewart "We got the ball inside and 
might present itself later in "Shawn Bradley got some big made one free throw for the to take a 85-84 lead. McGrady took it to the hole, and No. 8 the week," Johnson said. blocks and on the other end final margin. followed with a pair of free (Bryantl had a fabulous 
Kidd strained his groin when our point guards found me McGrady missed Sunday's throws that put Orlando in the game." he jumped in an unsuccessful and Dirk." loss at Boston to be with his lead for good. Stephon Marbury had 33 effort to intercept or deflect an Dallas had 11 steals, forced fiancee as she gave birth to points and 10 assists and fel­
outlet pass that Jerry 18 Houston turnovers and held the couple's daughter. low All-Star Shawn Marion
Los Angeles 99, Phoenix 90 
Stackhouse turned into a dunk the Rockets to 39 percent Mike Miller finished with 21 The Los Angeles Lakers had had 18 points and 11 
points for Orlando despite rebounds for Phoenix. 
with 4:24 remaining in the shooting for the game. The four days off to clear away the 
third. Mavericks were 15-for-32 going just 8-of-22 from the After handing the Suns just
hangover of two ugly losses at 
Johnson replaced Kidd with from 3-point range, equaling field. He is a combined 10-for-their fourth loss in 22 home
home. The rest did wonders. 

3:22 left and hit his first shot their season high for 3-point­40 from the floor in the last Kobe Bryant scored 14 of his games, the Lakers head for 
two games. Darrell Armstrong 
17 seconds later, a 16-footer ers made. 40 points in the fourth quarter Sacramento to face the Kings 
that cut Washington's lead to "If you could bottle that scored 16 off the bench for the Friday night. 
as the Lakers held off a
Magic and Pat Garrity added
57-55. Johnson added a layup stuff, it would be great but you Phoenix rally and snapped the The Suns have dropped five and an assist as New Jersey don't know, the next game you 12. Suns' 11-game home winning of six overall and lost at home 
Cleveland fell to 3-22 on the
closed the quarter with a 6-0 might not make those shots," streak 99-90 on Wednesday to a Pacific Division opponent
road. Zydrunas Ilgauskas
run for a 65-59 lead. Dallas coach Don Nelson said. night. for the first time this season.
scored 22 points and grabbed
"They're a good team for a Yao Ming led Houston with "My knees feel great," Phoenix is 18-4 overall at 
seven rebounds for the
reason -because they have 20 points. Bryant said. "I feel as close to America West Arena. 
Cavaliers before fouling out
other guys who can step up 100 percent as I've ever felt. I "We're just in a real nasty
with 3:43 remaining. Parker
and play without [Kidd]. His can't speak on behalf of the funk right now," Marbury
Orlando 113, Cleveland 108 had a season-high 21 points,
style of play is infectious Tracy McGrady returned other guys, but if the days off said. "This is a no-mercy
Ricky Davis 16 and Jumaine 
among them, and everyone from a one-game absence to worked for them as well as league, and right now teams
Jones 14. 
wants to get in and make the score 31 points, grab 12 Miller gave Orlando a 110-they did for me, we're going to are just attacking us right great pass," Stackhouse said. rebounds and make three foul be in great shape." away."
105 lead with 25.8 secondsThe run reached 11-0 as the shots in the final 13. 7 seconds remaining and Davis answered Shaquille O'Neal added 25 In what has become a pat­Nets scored the first five as the Orlando Magic defeated with a pair of free throws. points, 11 rebounds and six tern, the Suns, just back from 
points of the fourth, and a the Cleveland Cavaliers on Darius Miles then stole assists as the Lakers, coming a 1-4 trip to the East. The 
dunk by Aaron Williams off Wednesday night. Miller's inbounds pass and the off home losses to Golden Suns trailed by as many as 17 
Martin's eighth and final assist McGrady had 14 points in Cavaliers called timeout with State and New Jersey, beat a in the first half and 16 in the 
gave the Nets their largest the fourth quarter and went 18.5 seconds left. Pacific Division foe away from third quarter. 
lead -76-63 with 7:21 15-of-18 from the free throw Chris Mihm then made one the Staples Center for the first "We're struggling," Phoenix 
remaining. line for the game. McGrady of two free throws for time this season. Robert Horry coach Frank Johnson said, 
Washington came back with made two free throws to put Cleveland and Orlando called matched his season-high with "our defense, our offense. 
a 10-2 run to close to 78-73, the Magic up 112-108 with timeout with a 110-108 lead 16 points in Los Angeles' sixth making shots, just having any
but Hughes took a bad shot 13. 7 seconds left. and 14.5 seconds to go. road victory in 21 tries. type of continuity." 
and Jordan traveled on the Smush Parker then missed a The Cavaliers opened the "We didn't rely on our 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Acapulco's #1 Spring Break  SPRING BREAK on South Padre  Two tickets for CATS  Brand New Everything.  
NOTICE  Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is 'Going Loco' with a 'Last Chance  Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre  appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center.  2-story rental house with porch and  PERSONAL  
to Dance' Special! Book now and  Resort Rentals has the best 1 ,2&3  Good seats on main floor.  yard just blocks from campus.  
Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed, 2  get $100 off our already low price!  bedroom condos. Great location  $45 each.  Off-street parking.  
Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574­ Your seat is available now,  and amenities, close to Mexico. Call  Please call 271-9539.  3,4 or 5 students.  Chemistry Tutoring.  
243-2621  but may be gone tomorrow!  800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis- Summer or fall availability.  Call 360-1983  
Call now 800-875-4525.  land.com  235-3655.  
New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage. Gas heat,  WWW.breaknow.com  FOR RENT  3-6 BDRM HOMES.  Want to work lor Observer Sports? Call 1-4543  
central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place. Call 57 4-232­ Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525  FOR SALE  FREEDOM!  03/04 YR · SECSYS.  can't think of a classified  
4527 or 269-683-5038. Rent $160('  mmmrentals@aol.com  Now renting 2004-05.  WASHER/D  
plus utilities.  JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON  The best furnished houses. Prime  272-6306  still cannot think of a classified  
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO- locations, sec.systems, wash/dry,  
Ivy RD condo avail-short term  homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm- KER OWNED.  util incl. Some with V-Ball,B-Ball &  Four bedroom house tor rent. CALL  only the good die young  
rentals-ND staff/guests/grad stu­ rentals@aol.com 272-1525  GILLIS REAL TY 272-6306  pool tables.  Anlan Properties, L.L.C.  
dent. Pis call 610-541-0486  www.mmmrentals.com  Call Greg 233-9947  532-1896  in the middle of the night  
...  

NBA 

Artest disappointed with four-gan1e suspension 

Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Indiana Pacers forward Ron 
Artest was suspended for four 
games Wednesday for his run-in 
with Heat coach Pat Riley and 
flashing an obscene gesture 
toward the crowd. 
Artest also committed a flagrant foul on Heat guard Caron Butler by pushing him into the stands in Monday night's game in Miami. 
The suspension, announced by Stu Jackson, NBA senior vice president of basketball operations, will cost Artest about $84,000 in pay. It started with Wednesday night's home game against the San Antonio Spurs. 
'Tm very disappointed with the league's ruling," Artest said in a statement. 
"I don't think the suspension comes close to going with my actions. I thought I might get a fine, but not a game. I don't think four games is fair at all," he said. 
Dan Wasserman, spokesman for the NBA Players' Association, said he would speak to Artest or his agents before deciding whether to file a grievance. 
The suspension was the second of the season for Artest. He missed three games for hurling a TV monitor and smashing a $100,000 camera in New York. He also was fined $10,000 for shoving Dallas' Raja Bell. 

In the fourth quarter of the 
Pacers' 102-95 win against the 
Heat, Artest scored, was fouled 
and flexed his right arm muscles 
as he walked toward the Miami 
bench. 
He and Heat assistant coach 
Keith Askins exchanged words, 
then Artest brushed against Riley, 
They began shouting at each 
other, and the Miami coach 
shoved Artest away. 
Artest was called for a techni­
cal. After Miami's Eddie Jones 
missed the free throw, Ari.est hit 
his free throw and backpedaled, 
holding aloft the index finger of 
his right hand and the middle fin­
ger of his left hand. 
"It was in the heat of the moment," Artest said Wednesday. "I definitely apologize to the fans, and mainly to the kids who saw the gesture on TV." 
Dan Wasserman, spokesman for the NBA Players' Association, said he would speak to Artest or his agents before deciding whether to file a grievance. 
Riley hopes the latest suspen­sion sends Artest a message, 
"The only thing that I was upset with two nights ago was the hit on Caron (Butler]. The other stuff is just foolish behavior," Hiley said Wednesday. "But I'd like to have two or three Ron Artests myself, know what I'm saying? I !e's a hell of a player, a very competitive player," 


UNLOCKING THE PAST SHAPING THE FUTURE 
Friday, Jan. 31 and Saturday, Feb. 1 Registration Fee: $5 
Featured Workshops... 
•Opening 
Ceremony (Auditorium, Hesburgh Center) -Dr. • Discussion Panel, Student Interracial Dating, Moderator. Denise M. Evelyn Hu-DeHart, opening speaker, "From Yellow Perill to de la Rosa Model Minority: Asians in the Americas" • Senator Paull Shin, Asian American Political Activism 

• 
Judge Hiroshi Ohno, Japanese Judicial System: Contemporary • Professor Bradley Malkovsky, The Practice and Purpose of Meditation Problems and New Judicial System • Ms. Emily Liu, Asians in Entertainment: The Reel Story 

• 
Dr. Evelyn Hu-DeHart, Asian Americans and Globalization • Discussion Panel, Cultural Identity, Moderator: Ms. Chandra Johnson 

• 
Professor Asma Afsaruddin, Islam in a Pluralistic Society • KEYNOTE: Banquet & Closing Ceremony (COBA Atrium) -Senator Paull Shin, "Moving Forward" 


more info@ http://www.nd.edu/~aaa/AAC 
'···'•'.t''•.. · 

page 16 
NFL 
Lions said to show­interest in Mariucci 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 2003 
AFPPHOTO Steve Marluccl celebrates after Jeff Garcia's touchdown In the fourth quarter during the 49ers' 39-38 victory over the New York Giants on Jan. 5. A Detroit Lions source said the team planned to Interview Marluccl for their vacant head coach position sometime this week. 


Associated Press 
DETROIT 

The Detroit Lions plan to int.ervicw former San Francisco 49ers head coach Steve Mariucci by the end of the week, a source within the league said Wednesday. 
The source, who spoke on condition of 
On Monday, Millen said he hoped Mariucci would be a candidate for the job. 
"I spoke to Steve after he was let go, and I would like to speak to him again," Millen said then. 
Mariucci, who was born and raised in Iron Mountain, Mich., had a 60-43 record in six seasons with the 49ers, 
and he 

anonymity, said Lions  "/ spoke to Steve after he  guided the team to the  
chief execu­tive Matt Millen made contact with  was let go, and I would like to speak to him again."  playoffs four times. Mariucci clashed  
Mariucci to  with 49ers  
set up a meeting after Millen  Matt MIiien Lions executive  o w n e r John York. however,  
fired  head  and  the  
coach Marty  team fired  

Mornhinweg on Monday. Mariucci three days after a Millen was not available 31-6 loss at Tampa Bay in for comment Wednesday. the divisional playoffs. 
"The process continues," Mariucci had one year left Lions spokesman Bill Keenist on his contract. said. While Mariucci had just a 
Mornhinweg, who served 3-4 postseason record, he as offensive coordinator 
had won three times as under Mariucci with the many playoff games as the 49ers, was fired after a Lions have since winning the month after the Lions fin­1957 NFL title. Detroit beat ished 3-13. Mornhinweg had Dallas 38-6 in the divisional a record of 5-27 during his playoffs on Jan. 5, 1992, and two seasons, the worst two­lost to Washington in the year stretch in team history. NFC Championship Game. 
Call 1-4543 to work for Sports 

Volunteers Needed 
ECDC at Saint i\faiy's and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers to play and interact with young children. If you enjoy reading to children, playing games, building with blocks, an activities and singing songs, please consider volunteering for two hours once per week It is both rewarding and fun1 Paid positions also available at ECDC-ND: M-Th 11:15 -12:30 and M-F 12:30-1:30 
& 2:30 -3:30. 
Early Childhood DevelopmentCenter, Inc. 
Please call ­
631-3344 or 284-4693 

Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


/>FP PHOTO Tiger Woods reacts to a poor shot on the 9th hole during the final round of the Target World Challenge Dec. 8, 2002. Woods announced Wednesday he was plagued by a knee Injury. 
ORE~r WALL 
CHINESE AMERICAN RES1 ARUURANT Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! 
$895 
SPECIAL CHINESE Sat. Feb 1: 11 :30am-9:00pm NEW YEAR BUFFET Sun. Feb 2: 11:30am-9:00pm ALL YOU CAN EAT Children Under 10 Half Price 

Includes: Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 10 Entrees and Desserts Other menu items also available 
222 Dixie Wav, South Bend 574.272.7376 
CHAMPS ON THE ~AifNlii 
COME TO THE NEW PLACE IN TOWN 
2206 MISHAWAKA AVE. 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS. ON FRIDAYS ENJOY $1.00PITCHERSOFBEER AND $2.00WELLDRINKS AND DANCING WITH PRO SHOW 
D.J. AT 10:00 P.M. $5.00 COVER 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
CALL 574-289-4939 
AIHWEllllG wml 
GOLF 
Woods reveals knee injury 
Associated Press 
Tiger Woods only made it look easy. 
His dominance became even more impressive Wednesday when he revealed that pain in his left knee was so intense last year it made him sick to his stomach. and he had to take injections just to keep playing. 
"It was a tough. tough year. one I don't want to have to go through again," Woods said Wednesday during a confer­ence call, his first interview since Dec. 12 knee surgery. 
The bottom line looks healthy as ever. 
Despite benign cysts that made his knee ligaments inflate like a balloon, Woods became the first player in 30 years to win a season's first two majors. He ruled golf for the fourth straight season, winning a total ofsix times. 
Imagine how he might play if healthy. 
Woods could get an answer soon. He received clearance from his doctors Saturday to hit a driver and as many practice balls as he wants. He'll decide next week whether he is fit enough to return Feb. 13 for the Buick Invitational in San Diego. 
If not, Woods said he would try to play either of the fol­lowing weeks. in the Nissan Open at Riviera or the Match Play Championship. 
"I don't know whether my knee situation can handle it in full practice but next week I'll make a decision as to whether to play in the Buick, in L.A. for the Nissan Open or at the Accenture Match Play Championship." 
Woods first revealed his left knee was hurting at the sea­son-ending Tour Championship. He showed few signs of pain during the year. when he finished-out of the top 10 only twice after winning the Masters. 
"It was a good acting job," he said. 
Woods had knee surgery while in college, although he says this injury is unrelated. He started feeling intermit­tent pain about two years ago, but it was never sore long enough for him to pay attention. 
"Last year. toward the end, it was brutal," he said. "A lot of times, I didn't want to go out there and play. I felt nau­sea in my stomach because the pain was so great. l had it injected numerous times to play last year. 
"I know what other athletes go through with those nee­dles," he said. "It's not fun." 
Woods said the pain affect­ed him in some of the majors. It was hard to tell. 
He won the Masters and 
U.S. Open by three strokes each, finished second by one stroke in the PGA Championship and was in contention at the British Open until an 81 on a cold. blustery 
"I need to know if this knee will hold up in a full practice session," he said. "Once I know that, I'll be fine compet­ing. I may be rusty when it comes to hitting one shot. Playing my way into shape is going to take a little time." 
There could be some inter­esting ramifications. 
Woods is closing in on Byron Nelson's record of making 113 consecutive cuts on the PGA Tour. He is at 96, and narrowly avoided the weekend off at Torrey Pines last year. 
He also is going for a record fifth straight money title. 
Saturday at Muirfield. 
"You've got to put it aside and play," he said. 
The worst he felt was at Sherwood Country Club in December, when he made up seven shots 

"Last year, toward the end, it was brutal. A lot oftimes, I didn't want to go out there and play. I felt nausea in my stomach because the pain was so great. " 
Tiger Woods golfer 
During his rehabilita­tion, Ernie Els won the first two tourna­ments of the year in Hawaii, and Vijay Singh won in Phoenix. 
"I'm anx­ious to get back out, I really am," 
on Padraig Harrington in the final round before losing by two. He told his agent the night before he might have to withdraw. 
"In the morning, it was bor­derline I would play." Woods said. "I took painkillers, and it still hurt. As it started get­ting warmer, I was feeling better and said, 'Let's give it a try."' 
The one-hour surgery removed fluid from inside and around the anterior cruciate ligament, and removed benign cysts. Woods' doctor said the long-term recovery prospects are good. 
"But once you've had the procedure done, you're sus­ceptible to having the same procedure," Woods said. "Hopefully, that won't be the case." 
Woods never got too far away from golf. He putted on his carpet, chipped into pil­lows and onto his bed, and started hitting wedges by the end of the year. 
The real test comes this week. 
Woods said hasn't felt any pain since he started hitting a few practice balls at his home outside Orlando. Fla. 
Woods said. 'Tm anxious to compete. As far as them, that's great. It's going to be a challenge, because they're both doing well." 
When he does return, The Masters looms. Woods will be going for an unprecedented third straight title at Augusta National. 
"It's going to be one heck of a challenge -hopefully, one I'll be prepared for," he said. 
There might not be any way to prepare for what awaits at Augusta National and protests over its all-male membership. 
Martha Burk of the National 
Council  of  Women's  
Organizations  and  Jesse  
Jackson  have  vowed  to  

protest outside the gates unless the club invites a woman to join. 
Chairman Hootie Johnson has said that won't happen any time soon. 
Woods said he won't be dis­tracted. 
'TB be fine," he said. "Once it's time to play, it's time to play. Whether it's all the things outside the gates, or the fact I'm trying to win three in a row -all that goes away once it's time to tee it up." 



Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
*Check oil Notre Dame/University Park Mall schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just "•'••· or area restaurants. So one of the many reasons check out TRANSPO, students ride public & . offering bus service
'911transportat;on evc,y day. T:J l!llllllll•liil'.. throughout South Bend ride it to go to the mall, the movies, and Mishawaka. 
For route & schedule information please call: 
l2~~o~'fJ~tJ 
--fil?i'i..[;j:,.~,l_ 
Wherever Life Takes You 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVlCES Thursday, January 30, 2003 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Butler at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN2 Oregon at UCLA 10:30 p.m., FOX Sports 
NBA BASKETBALL Minnesota at Dallas 7:30 p.m., TNT Sacramento at Seattle 10:00 p.m., TNT 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The federal judge who sent Pete Rose to pi'ison thinks the banned former star belongs in the Hall of Fame. 
Rose was sentenced in 1990 to five months in prison, three months in a halfway house and 1,000 hours of community service by U.S. District Judge S. Arthur Spiegel following a guilty please to two felony counts of failure to report income. 
The career hits leader is in tax trouble again. Rose owes $151,689 in federal taxes from 1998, according to the Los Angeles County Recorder's Office. The Internal Revenue Service has filed a lien on a home he owns in suburban Los Angeles, property tax records show. 
"I have no knowledge about his current issues other than what I read in ~he papers," Spiegel said Wednesday during a tele­phone interview from his office in Cincinnati. "But I think he should be in the Hall of Fame for his accom­plishments on the ball­field." 
Rose has been negotiat­ing with baseball commis­sioner Bud Selig to gain reinstatement. As long as he's on the permanently banned list, he's ineligible for the U.S. Hall of Fame. 
The tax troubles and reports that Rose was seen last week in Las Vegas casi­nos came at the same time Selig's security officials have been investigating Rose's current activities. 
The new revelations could hurt his chances for election to the Canadian 
IN BRIEF 

Walton under investigation for theft 
Arizona is investigating an accu­sation that star forward Luke Walton was a lookout while other players stole money and candy from a hotel vending machine. 
A guest saw men wearing jackets of the top-ranked Wildcats grab up to 80 candy bars and change from the machine in Lawrence, Kan., over the weekend, police Lt. Dave Cobb said Wednesday. 
The man, Stuart Schwartz of Chicago, identified Walton but said he wasn't sure about the identities of the other players, he told police. 
The Marriott Spring Hill Suites decided not to press charges, but the school's athletic department is investigating and could punish the Baseball Hall of Fame, which has put him on its 46-person ballot. 
"I would think our selec­tion committee would like to see the muddy waters cleared," Canadian Hall president Torn Valcke said. 
"I wouldn't say for sure that these things hurt his chances, but they certainly didn't make them any bet­ter," he said. 
During Rose's sentencing in 1990, Spiegel said "today we are not dealing with the legend. History and the tincture of time will decide his place among the all­time greats of baseball. 
"With regard to Pete Rose, the individual, he has broken the law, admitted his guilt, and stands ready to pay the penalty." 
Rose admitted he hid $354,968 in income from memorabilia sales, auto­graph appearances and gambling earnings from 1984-87, offenses punish­able by up to six years in prison. 
"My work with him was completed when he fin­ished his probation," Spiegel said. "He fulfilled his sentence as required by the law, both in prison and the halfway house, and in community service. The reports I got back on him when he served when all favorable. As far as I'm concerned, he paid his debt to society." Rose spent most of his career with the Cincinnati Reds and was their manager when he agreed to the ban in 1989 following an investigation of his gambling. 
Baseball investigator John Dowd detailed 412 baseball wagers by Rose between April 8-July 5, 1987, including 52 on Cincinnati to win. 
players. 
Coach Lute Olson called the accu­sations "a bunch of hogwash," and Walton denied involvement. 
After Arizona (15-1) overcame a 20-point deficit to defeat Kansas 91-74 Saturday, police surprised the coaching staff by entering the locker room to talk to players. 
Hotel manager Stephanie Bowler said the team gave her $80 for the candy before returning home and that she considered the matter closed. 
Callahan says Robbins was incoherent 
Barret Robbins was incoherent and didn't know where he was the night before the Super Bowl, Oakland Raiders coach Bill Callahan said Wednesday in his first public comments about the troubled All-Pro center. 

Robbins, who has a history of depression, spent Super Bowl Sunday in a San Diego hospital after disappearing from the team's hotel the night before. Callahan would not reveal Robbins· current whereabouts. 
The 6-foot-3, 320-pound lineman reportedly had stopped taking his medicine for depression. He missed a team meeting, a position meeting and a walkthrough practice Saturday, Callahan said. 
"l was fearful something wrong was occurring," said Callahan, who decided to bench Robbins on Saturday night, then later chose to send him home. 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles stand tall after suffering 68-54 loss to Scots 
. Losing streak stretches to six games 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
Any fan of Saint Mary's bas­ketball would have left the Angela Athletic Center with a smile on the face after last defeated by the Scots {11-5) by 14 points. increased their losing streak to six games and held onto their last-place MIAA ranking for the third game in a row with a 1-6 conference record. 
night's  68-54  loss  to  Alma  
College.  
The Belles  (5-13)  were  

Why would anyone be proud of this? 
Well, the underlying success of the Belles' battle is that they played the second-ranked MIAA team and made them work for it. 
"By no means did we let Alma win this game," guard Shaun Russell said. "We had them on the run for most of the game. They just had a quick scoring run late in the second half." 
The Belles had a slow start, trailing the Scots by five points at the end of the first half. 
However. with sizzling shoot­ing accuracy from scoring lead­ers Emily Creachbaum and Anne Hogan and stifling defense from sisters Katie and Bridget Boyce, the Belles nipped the heels of the Scots 


Special Shuttle Schedule for Keenan Revue 

Going to the Revue? Why not take the express! ! ! 
Shuttle Bus #1 will run an express nonstop service between the Grotto and O'Laughlin Auditorium on Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings between the hours of6:30 until 8:00 and also between 9:30 and 11 :00. (During these times it will not be funning its regular service.) 
Shuttle Bus #2 will maintain its normal schedule during this time. 
Keenan Revue thanks Student Activities for its support ofthe Revue and for making this adjustment to the shuttle service. 
Enjoy the Show! 

and took a short-lived lead in among her numerous strong the second half. shooters. 
"The numbers definitely do The Belles now look to the not reflect upon what the team future as they enter the second put into this game," said half of their season, replaying 
Russell. "We played with a lot more intensity this time around and made the other team work. No player on this team has any rea­son to be ashamed of how the game 
went." 
The Belle's 
intensity was pub­
Ii cized both on 
and off the court. 
From the locker 

"By no means did we let Alma win this game. We had them on the run for most ofthe game. They just had a quick scoring run late in the second half" 
Shaun Russell Belles guard 
their con­ference foes. 
" W e took a big s t e p today," s a i d Russell "We're at a turning point in the season 
and  I  
t w  h e  i n. r  k e  

room and the bench came the hoots and hollers of a very fired-up Belle squad through­out the course of the game. 
Despite the loss, each player for the Belles came away with something to be proud of as coach Suzanne Bellina once again utilized her strong bench, dispersing the points going to surprise a lot of teams this time around. We have nothing to lose." 
The Belles leap into their new beginning as they square off against Olivet College at home this Saturday afternoon. 
Contact Trey Williams at williams.137@nd.edu 

Write Observer sports. 
Call 1-4543 

Thursday: Unlimited bowling $7.95 per person 
Don't forget Mon. night 
BEACON BOWL 4210 Lincoln Way West Near the airport (574) 234-4167 

..._ 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 30, 2003 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
C-M Campus Ministry 
sign up now 
~ 
Get involved, go on a retreat 
Freshman Retreat #46 
Retreat Date: Feb. 28-Mar. 1 Sign-ups through February 24 
wh t' h . 
frjday_ 1.11  sunday_ (cont. l  
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #74 Friday and Sunday Fatima Retreat Center Senior Retreat #8 Friday and Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center Mass for Peace and Justice 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 807 Mass 8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge In-Focus Conference on Asian Awareness Friday and Saturday Coleman-Morse Center www.nd.edu/~aaa/AAA  Learning to Talk About Race Retreat #25 Pre-Retreat Plunge 5:00-7:00 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge Reioice! Mass 10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel tuesday 2.04 Confirmation Session #9 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Weekly Spanish Mass 10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall  
sunday 2.02  wednesda)t 2.05  
RCIA Session  Graduate Student  
10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.  Christian Fellowship  
CoMo Student Lounge  8:oo p.m.  
Wilson Commons  
Sankofa Academy Open  
Discussion Group  Interfaith Christian  
2:00-3:30 p.m.  Night Prayer  
316 Coleman-Morse Center  10:00 -11:00 p.m.  
Morrissey Hall Chapel  

mark your calendar 
On the 4th day, God created 
INTERFAITH. 
And it was good real good. 
i n t ' ' .. 
f a i t h 
c,,hY'1~tiilt1 ni5-ht pya~c,y 
Wednesdays • 1Opm • Morrissey Chapel 
mass schedule 
Notre Dame Encounter with Christ Retreat #75 
Latino Student Retreat 
Retreat Date: February 28-March 2 Retreat Date: Feb. 21-22 Sign-ups end tomorrow Sign-ups through February 17 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Info & apps are available in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the Campus Ministry Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4:00 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations.... 
World Day of Consecrated Life 
Serving Notre Dame Serving the World 
by Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C. 
Director of Freshman Retreat & Associate Director of Vocations 
I made my first pilgrimage to the birthplace of Holy Cross when I was a junior studying abroad in Angers. I stayed for a week at our foundation in Sainte-Croix (Holy Cross), the neighborhood in nearby LeMans, from which the Congregation gets its name. When I returned to France last November for a couple of days, I gazed again at the stained glass window in the original church which depicts the Golden Dome of Notre Dame. fu I prayed below at the comb of our founder, Fr. Moreau, I was over­whelmed with a sense of gratitude for my life in Holy Cross which has allowed me the privilege of serving in a religious community chat touches the lives of people all over the globe. 
fu a history major here at Notre Dame, it is simply amazing to me the accomplishments that Holy Cross has achieved in its relatively brief history. Fr. Moreau and a small group of men banded together shortly after the French revolution to re-evangelize France. Although the state forbad worship at the time, these Holy Cross religious were determined to pass on the faith inspired by the apostles. fu if the task of re-evangelization was not great enough, the community quickly developed a zeal for the missions and sent religious to Africa, Bengal, and America. 
The windows in the 
Church ar Sainte-Croix give As I prayed below at the tomb of our founder, Fr. witness to God's blessings Moreau, I was overwhelmed with a sense of gratitude of the Holy Cross commu­
for my life in Holy Cross which has allowed me the 
nity. Women and men on 
privilege of serving in a religious community that
five continents in fifteen 
countries know God berter, touches the lives of people all over the globe. at least in part because of the willingness of Holy Cross religious to dedicate their lives to mission. Beside the window of the Golden 
Dome is a window of the Oratory of St. Joseph. This oratory was inspired and built by the direction of Blessed Brother Andre Bessette C.S.C.., a Holy Cross brother known as the "miracle worker" in Montreal, who trusted in the prayers and merits of St. Joseph. Other windows include missionaries in Africa and Bengal, and teachers in the classroom. Not only has Holy Cross touched the lives of women and men here at Notre Dame, but irs religious, institutions, students, and friends have helped to inspire people through­out the world. 
On Sunday, the Church celebrates the World Day of Consecrated Life. This celebration occurs on the same day that we honor the presentation ofJesus in the Temple. Just as Jesus devoted his own life to serving the needs of the world, we are reminded in a special way of our own call to follow Christ and pursue a life of holiness. Each one of us is consecrated in our baptism to be priest, prophet and king in our world; to be a light in the darkness. Religious dedicate their lives in a special way to be a witness of God's grace in the world. Consecrated religious are not only concerned with their own life of holiness, but also by their teaching and example aim to inspire and assist the laity in their own pursuit ofsanctity. 
fu a University, Notre Dame consistently graduates seniors who have extensive service experience and/ or seniors who choose to give a year or more to direct service before continuing their education or begin­ning their careers. In a real way these students take seriously Jesus' example of service to others and they too become a model and an inspiration for others to do the same. 
This Sunday as we reflect on Jesus' mission of service we give thanks in a special way to those women and men who have consecrated their life as religious priests, sisters, and brothers. Let us pray that God would continue to call and assist religious in our world and let us ask ourselves how we are called to further 
serve God's church. 
The Presentation of the Lord 
basiUca of the sacred heart 
Saturday 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. James King, C.S.C. 
Sunday 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. James King, C.S.C. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C. 


around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 
Spanish Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
1st: Mal 3: 1 -4 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
Law School Chapel 
2nd: Heb 2: 14 -18 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

Gospel: Luke 2: ·22 -4<b 

------------, 
I 
Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 l 
ANDY KENNA/The Observer Matt Carroll sets up to shoot over Johannes Herber during the 88-69 lrlsh victory over the Mountaineers Wednesday. Carroll had 18 points for the Irish, who Improved to 17-3 overall and 5-1 In the Big East. 

$3 dbrt 101 thursday 10 pm friday 8 and 10:30 pm saturday 8 and 10:30 pm 
REES 
SWI_~ 
I­


"We're very disappointed with the outcome tonight, but
Eagles 

we'll go back to South Bend continued from page 24 and learn from it," McGraw ------------said. "At this point in the sea­
McGraw said. 
Besides Batteast, no other Irish player could get in an offensive rhythm. Alicia Ratay had eight points, but took only six shots. The usually depen­dent Courtney Lavere had a rare off night, scoring only seven points on 2-for-9 shoot­ing and fouling out near the end of the game. 
son we can't linger too long on a loss. We have to turn around and get ready for our next opponent." 
That opponent is West Virginia, who Notre Dame faces Saturday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
sive rebounds alone compared to West Virginia's 13 total
Irish 

rebounds. continued from page 24 The game marked only the ------------sixth time in 20 contests this 
On Notre Dame's first posses­sion of the half, Thomas found Francis in the paint for the 6­foot-10 freshman's first points of the night. 
The play kicked off a 12-5 run for Notre Dame to bring the lrish lead to 48-35, with Francis and Carroll accounting for all 12 points during the push. 
The Irish once again proved deadly from the foul line, hit­ting 20-of-23 free throws in the second half and sinking all four attempts in the first. 
"If we can get to the bonus quick, it's a great weapon for us, whether we're going inside or driving the ball and getting to the foul line." 
But the biggest area of domi­nation for Notre Dame Wednesday came off the glass as the Irish out-rebounded West Virginia 51-27. At the half, Notre Dame had 14 offen­season that Notre Dame grabbed more boards than its opponent, as six Irish players had six or more rebounds against the Mountaineers, led by forward Dan Miller's nine. 
"That's kind of unusual for us. We're not usually the ones winning the rebounds under­neath," Carroll said. "I think our guys were very aggressive on the offensive boards." 
With the victory, Notre Dame moves on to 17-3 on the season and 5-1 in the Big East. 
"We have an eight man rota­tion, and [Wednesday] was the first night where I've thought that all eight guys played very well," Brey said. "This was a good win for us, and it gives us some juice for [Georgetown] Saturday." 

Contact Chris Federico at 
cfederic@nd.edu 
-~··············································· 
: 
•
•
• •
• 

: liiiTH.Eiill9T•411,. D.INllllc; 
• COIIIMtTTIEE OH GAY AIID LUatAN 5TUDl:NT Nlll•D¦ 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential infonnation, education, and resources) 
Contact" Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
.. 
· (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students -and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact" Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu •••• 
Unive.l'.sity Counseling Center 
·{Individual counseling) Contact· Dr. Pat Va at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' 


University Resources : 
• 

for Gay, Lesbian, & : 
•

Bisexual Students :
•
•
•
•
•
• 

OPENING NIGHT BASEBALL DINNER 
TUESDAY, FEB. 4TH JOYCE FIELDHOUSE DOORS OPEN AT 6:00 PM 
CALL JEFF SCHMAL AT 631-3264 TO REGISTER 
FEATURING C'H'lC?l§O C'll'BS §'M 
j '1 M ']-[~'1f1J'RY 
-RELIVE THE INCREDIBLE WORLD SERIES RUN -OPPORTUNITIES TO WIN BASEBALL MEMORABILIA -2003 IRISH BASEBALL POSTER AND MEDIA GUIDE 
ADULTS -$25 YOUTH/ STUDENT -$15 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 2003 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Battle expected as Irish face Wildcats 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
No. 22 Notre Dame travels to Evanston, Ill. today for what the Irish expect to be a battle with No. 12 Northwestern. 
The Irish, 2-0 in dual-match play this season, are hoping to remain unbeaten as they face one of the nation's most talent­ed rosters. The Wildcats boast four singles players ranked in the top 80 nationally. 
"It's going to be a battle, as always," senior captain Katie Cunha said. 
The Irish are fresh off a 5-2 road victory over essentially the same Wisconsin squad that knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournament last season. Four days earlier, Notre Dame earned its first victory of the spring with a 5-2 triumph over Western Michigan at home. 
The win over the No. 30 Badgers should prove as an important morale-booster as the young Irish squad prepares to face a tough schedule. 
"The Wisconsin match has given us a lot of confidence heading into the Northwestern match," Cunha said. "We lost to Wisconsin in the NCAAs last year, so there was a lot of bit­terness." 
All of the Irish veterans achieved victories against the Badgers. The two freshmen on the squad were the only ones to suffer defeats. 
"We played really well and I think that's going to help us going into the match tomor­row," she said. 
Junior Caylan Leslie, in her comeback after a 15-month injury hiatus, won her match over the Badger's Linda Mues. 
"Leslie is doing great," Cunha said. "She took 15 months off, and that's a lot of time. She worked extremely hard over break. It's just going to take her a little bit of time to get back to where she was." 
Perhaps because the team is young and because they want to prove themselves to the colle­giate tennis world, the Irish work ethic has been consider­ably strong this season. 
UEveryone's playing really well," Cunha said. "Everyone works so hard. People go in on their days off. Everyone wants to play." 
The two freshmen in the line­up, Lauren Connelly and Kristina Stastny, have been par­ticularly pleasing for the Irish. 
"Their work ethic is incredi­ble," Cunha said. "They're at the top of the lineup where they deserve." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

MENS TENNIS 
Irish off to -worst start since 1988 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
For the first time since 1988, the Irish mens tennis team has begun a season with a 0-3 start. 
The Irish lost their third straight match Wednesday as the Illini prevailed. 6-1. 
"We definitely knew it would be tough," sophomore Brent D'Amico said. "We had a lot of chances to make the match fairly close." 
Initially, No. 34 Notre Dame looked promising against No. 2 Illinois. Playing at No. 1 doubles, D'Amico and junior tri-captain Matt Scott worked up to a 6-1 lead, but then Illinois' Rajeev Ram and Brian Wilson rallied to win 8-6. 
At No. 2, juniors Luis Haddock and Ben Hatten fought hard against the sec­ond-ranked doubles duo in the nation, but the Irish lost the battle in a tiebreaker, 9-8 
(7 -4). 
"We probably didn't finish the way we needed to," D' Amico said of his doubles match. "I think everyone's just learning every day we play." 
After Illinois claimed the doubles point, the Illini went on to win five of six singles matches. D'Amico, for the second match in a row, had the only Irish point of the day as he upset No. 84 Ryler DeHeart in straight sets, 7 -5. 
7-5. "I think people are building 
"It felt good to win," on what they can," D'Amico D'Amico said. "Right now, I said. "Obviously people aren't think I'm more focused on the happy with the way we've team. I haven't paid a lot of started, but they are focused attention to the individual and determined to make some [aspect]." changes and improve our sea­
Although D' Amico regis­son." tered the only Irish win. Friday Florida State will junior Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo visit Notre Dame in a desig­
and junior  nated "Gold  
Matt Scott both were  "Obviously people aren't  Game," a program  
strong. Acevedo, a transfer  happy with the way we've started, but they are  created by the Student Athlete  
f  r  o m  focused and determined to  Advisory  
Bowling G r e e n S t a t e  make some changes and improve our season.  Council to encourage attendance  
University,  at Irish ath­ 
was play­ Brent D'Amico  letic events.  
ing in his  Irish player  According  

first sin­gles dual-match for Notre Dame. He won his first set against the Illini's Chris Martin, 4-6. but Martin tri­umphed in the next two sets, 6-1, 6-3. 
Scott took on Amer Delic, the nation's second-ranked player, but Delic prevailed, 6­4, 7-6 (7-3). 
The Illini's Michael Calkins, ranked 42nd nationally, defeated unranked Irish freshman Patrick Buchanan, 6-3, 6-4. Sophomore Jimmy Bass lost to Pramod Dabier, 6-4, 6-2. No. 72 Luis Haddock was upset in straight sets, 6­4, 6-2, by Ram. 
to D'Amico, 
the Irish are 
"trying to gain confidence." and the team hopes that a victory over the Seminoles can get their season on track. 
Additionally, the Irish are hoping for a strong student showing at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"I think we can get a pretty good amount of people out this Friday," D'Amico said. "It's really important. It helps so much when we have our fans out there and people cheering for us." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

Apple @ Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 4 
Apple Computer will visit the University of Notre Dame, sponsoring technology demontrations and presentations in the Lafortune Student Center, for all students, faculty and staff. 
Product showcase, from 9:30-4:00, in the first floor lobby of LaFortune Student Center. Presentation focus and times listed below (all are welcome). 
For Staff For Faculty For Students 
"Why Move to OS X" "Using Photos and Videos in the "Create and Organize Your Curriculum" Digital Life" 
Learn how OS X makes your job easier and Learn how to use iPhoto and lMovie to Have photos and music? Learn how to use faster. It is simple to use and more manage both new and old photos and Apple's iApps to create and organize your powerful. videos as we automatically create a great digital life. looking web site. 
10:00 am Sorin Room 12:00 pm Sorin Room 2:00 pm Sorin Room Lafortune 
LaFortune LaFortune 
Co-sponsored by Apple Computer and the Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 

Solutions Center. 

Thursday, January 30, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-

SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

Wouldn't this book be cheaper online? Well, I'm 
at the Bookstore, and I should'~\~enJt by now. 
;:·,• .-..:. 9 

That will be $121.65, sir, 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OSHUE 


j 
02000 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved 
GUDOH 

b
tTECTAL I 
WWW Jumble .com 
LINKANP I

[IJ I tJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRlON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: ( 

I I I I I I ) HIS "(III)'' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: VISOR TESTY EXHALE TACKLE Answer: This agent works here -A TAX "SHELTER" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Bun toppers 1 Big drops 41 Debut of Philip 7 Smafl intake Marlowe 10 Rib 
43 Haughty14 British medical 
outburst 

journal, with 
44 Fail"The" 

ignominiously

15 One of the Aleutian Islands 45 "Stop rowing" 
command

17 Debut of Sherlock 46 Comfortable, as Holmes accommodations 
19 Seeker's 
47 Blue question 
49 World Cup20 Understands, legendslangily Maradona 21 Need to pay 51 Milk source for22 In _ (isolated) Romano cheese24 1st, 2nd and 

3rd, e.g.: Abbr. 54 First capital of the kingdom of
26 60's TV kid Italy
29 Henry James biographer Edel 56 "Camelot" composer
31 Freezing 35 Headed 60 Debut of Lew 36 Debut of Kinsey Archer 
Millhone 63 Black Canyon 38 Distributes, as carver, with tasks "the" 
64 Samuel Barber's· for Strings.­
65 Door fixture 66 Brown with His Band of Renown 67 Render harmless, in a way 
DOWN 
1 Dig sans tools 2 Work (out) 3 Table payment 4 Winding road 
section 5 Daughter of 
King Aeetes 6 Bay of pigs? 7 Option not 
available in a convertible 8 _ many words 9 Smokers' units 10 Disturb 11 Christiania, now 12 Bias 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 More than
antipathy  
A w E  ~..,;.+.-+,~,-1 16 Closing moment  
D I  A  ~~:.i-:=~ 18 Weak yes  
26 Declaim  
27 Ottoman  
Empire  
governor  
28 Miniature photo,  
maybe  
30 Leader's aid  
32 Transitional  
state  
0  

WILLSHORTZ 

Punle by Patrick Berry 

34 Like good 46 Triumphant 55 Depend (on) gossip shout 57 Frozen food columnists 48 2001 British brand Open champion 58 Peter who
36 Bolshevik, e.g. David directed "The
37 Kyle _, "The 50 Clearing Truman Show"

Terminator" hero 

51 Do work on 59 Town on the 39 Wading bird glass, say Thames 
42 Unmanageable 52 Shout from a 61 Heavy-duty horses, in the coach locks? Southwest 53 Slender fish 62 Smidgen 
For answers, call l-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puule and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEB~ BOM ON TIIlS 0.AY: Vanessa Redgrave. Gene Huckman. Brett Butler. Dick Cheney 
Happy Birlbday: You ure aggressive. intlt.enrial wxl wm't stop lrying until you cprnplele what you set out to do. You are an adventurer and will step into u position of leadership this year. You will gain popularity us well us recognition. Your numbers ure3, 17.24.27.32,41 
ARIFS (March 21-April 19): One-sided panncrships ure likely to etxl in disaster. Be sure to gct promises in writing. Derepcim is upparcm wJ,en dealing wid1 bolh your ix,rson:il wxl profes.sicxuil life. -Irk TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make plans to 1rnvel. You need 10 provide menlli! stimulation to offset bcredom. Expwxl yCl.Jf knowledge. ***-Irk GEMINI (May 21-June UI): Don't overspend or give too freely 10 odiers. This is a time foc fiscal restniint. Work out a budget tliat will e,iable you to save a little e<tra *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): P..irtnmhips will be 1ense. Sudden romantic infatuations won't be lasting. You may just want 10 keep to yoursclf for tl1e time being. * * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Colleagues niay not be telling you all the facts. Someone may be trying to make you look bad. You may feel w1certain about tl,c future ofthe company yoo wori< foc. Diversify.*** VIRGO (Aug. 2.~22) lnclu:le mends wxl family in cultur.il events. Evcryaie wiU appreciate your efforts and be inspired by your creativity. Don't let children Uilk you u1to spending mo,iey 1l!111=Ssarily. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't bother lrying to make someone you live witl1 see your point ofview. I! will be a waste of ti1rie and etrrgy. PU! yrur ellorts into reda-a-.iting a inviting fuends over. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.'-Nov. 21): Take tlie time to catch up on overdue phone calls. Get logeUier witl1 those you fiixl interesting w,d who have ditli:renl philosoplties. fapwxl your haizons. *'*** 
SAGITIARillS (Nov. 22-1:lt...:. 21): Be careful how you help tl1ose less fortunate. Diplomacy will be of tlie utmost imponance. Don't lend your cash to otl1ers; give ofyourtinr. tt* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your w,certaimy will be dilticull lor loved cxies to comprehend. Your c01runw1icatia1 skilis are so1newhat lucking, so do not ovcm:act oc get involved in senseless dispules. ** AQUARIUS (Ja1L 20-Feb. 18): Take tl,e time to review your past; it will shed light on the present. You will find it easier to make decisions concerning your goals if you have a better handle on die circumstw1ces that surrou11d you. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marclt 20): Your ability to see both sides of tl1e coi11 will put you into a position of leadership. Others will admire your abilities w1d be willing to support youreffi:xts. -Irk** 
Birthday Baby: Others will look to you foc advice wxl solutions. You will have a strong desire to experience new things, but you will not do so if it means giving Ii' yoor tr.idinms wid beliefs. 
Oicck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialusLcom. wnctwork.com. 
CDPYRIGITT;J.'.XJ3 l/NIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
1'(EN'S TENN)$ 
ND vs. FLORIDA STATE 
Friday, January 31 st -4:00 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
GDLlJ GJ\},J.E:'1 "'-!<­
~,,,. 
The first 100 fans to the match will .:1i~ ;~~::, receive a F8.EE Adidas tennis t-shirt '", , 
... " .. ., . . . .. . . . . .~ 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
$f and DIVING $f Saturday 2/1 -2:00PM vs. MICHIGAN Rolfs Aquatics Center 
FREE ADIDAS T-SHIRTS TO THE FIRST 100 FANSI 
--
PORTS 
Thursday; January 30, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Eight men is enough 
. Irish rely on depth and win 13th straight home game 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Wrirer 
It was a tag-team effort for Notre Dame Wednesday night as both the Irish starters and bench players made significant contributions in Notre Dame's 88-69 victory over West Virginia at the Joyce Center. 
As the Irish starters struggled through much or the first half, reserves Tom Timmermans, Torrian Jones and Chris Quinn were there to pick up the slack, scoring 16 of Notre Dame's 36 first half points. 
"Not a lot of teams have that ability to allow for (the bench play]," said Irish point guard Chris Thomas, who had only four of his team-high 18 points in tho first half. "Our bench did a tremen­dous job tonight. Tom Timmermans came in there in the first half and did a terrific job. If we continue to get that kind of output from them, we'll be a heck of a team." 
The 6-foot-11 Timmermans, who was in the game to increase Notre Dame's size advantage over the smaller Mountaineer lineup, led the surge from the bench with nine points and seven rebounds in just seven minutes of play in the half. 
"I think it definitely helps when I can contribute offensively," Timmermans said. "I just try to get in there, get some productivity and work to get on the boards and give [the other players] second shots."
... 
In the second half, however, the Irish starters grabbed the reins from their teammates to put the game out of reach. 
Thomas, center Torin Francis and senior guard Matt Carroll, who combined for only six points in the first half, dominated play in much of the sec­ond half in scoring 38 collectively. 
see IRISH/page 21 

ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish lose Severe, lose lead, lose game 76-48 

ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Ediror 
Notre Dame led Boston College 21-12 midway through the first half at the Conte Forum Wednesday night when guard La'Tania Severe fell to the court with an injured shoulder. 
She was knocked out of the 
game, and soon after, so were 
the Irish. 
Boston College's leading scorer Jessalyn Deveny, who was score­less at halftime, exploded for 18­second half points to lead the Eagles to a blowout 76-48 victo­ry over the Irish. 
Only Jacqueline Batteast reached double figures scoring for Notre Dame. She had 17 points and a season-high 13 rebounds. 
"La'Tania is our spark, so when she went out we lost a lot in the lineup," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said "Megan Duffy played outstanding, she just didn't get any help." 
The Eagles shook off a slow start to totally dominate the Irish in the second half, outscoring them 53-23 and picking up their 14th win of the season in the process. Notre Dame dropped to 11-7 overall and 3-4 in the Big East. 
"It wasn't so much a matter of us breaking down as they were hitting the shots in he second half," McGraw said. "They weren't making the shots in the first half that they were making in the second." 
The other difference in the two halves was the rebounding. Notre Dame held a 27-19 advan­tage in the first half, but Boston College took over the boards in the second half, holding a 19-7 edge. 
Despite struggling in the sec­ond half, the Irish were still within 51-43 with nine minutes to play. But then Boston College reeled off a 25-5 run to finish tho game. 
Eagle Amber Jacobs helped push that run, scoring 17 points in the game and hitting 8-of-9 field goals. Center Becky Gottstein added 12 points and nine rebounds for Boston College. 
"Once they got going, they really put us back on our heels," 
see EAGLES/page 21 
Cl) MENS TENNIS 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
MENS BASKETBALL 
NO WOMENS BASKETBALL
1,1,1 
Illinois 6 

1--1(:1 
Notre Dame at 

Alma 68 
Notre Dame 88 
Boston Collef e 76 

Notre Dame 1 
Northwestern 

Saint Mary's 54 
West Virginia 69 
Notre Dame 8

ccs 
The Belles remain proud 
The Irish fall to 11-7 overall after 
The second-ranked Illini 
== 
The No. 22 Irish prepare 
Back at home, the Irish 

defeat Notre Dame, who 
after loss to the No. 2 team 
their loss in Chestnut Hill, Mass. 
for battle against the No. 
defeat the Mounainers. 

are now 0-3 on the season. 
in the MIAA.
12 Wildcats.

a. ti 
back page
back page 
page 19

page 22 
page 22
Cl) 








