
VOL. XXXVII NO. 107 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Talk denounces sex trafficking 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writ~r 
In a lecture entitled "Sexual Slavery: The Problem or the Trafficking of Women in an International Context." intorna­tion al law scholar Mohamed Mattar educated the audience Monday evening in DeBartolo llall about the problem of sex and labor trafficking that victim­izes thousands of women each year. 
"I believn that trafficking in persons is an issue that should be addressed by all. by univcrsi­ti es and especially by law schools." he said. 
Mattar. an adjunct professor or law al Johns llopkins University, Georgetown University and American University sought to distinguish between sex and labor trafficking by focusing on recent United States legislation that affords victims more rights. 
"Trafficking is more than just sex; it involves sex trafficking and labor trafficking." he said. "Sex trafficking involves women being trafficked from one coun­try to another. It involves decep­tion and false promises of employment. It also involves vulnerable victims; they don"t spAak the language. they don't know the country and they don't know the culture," Mattar said. 
A co-director of the The Protection Project, a legal hurnan rights research insti­tute at Johns Hopkins University that records and spreads information about the scope of person trafficking, Mattar focused on the Trafficking Victims Protection Act signed by President Bill Clinton in 2000. 
"I think that it [the Trarf1cking Victims Protection Act] is the most important human rights legislation in the history of the United States," he said. 
The legislation, according to Mattar, has created "a Bill of Rights ... on behalf of the vic­tims of trafficking." The Act also shifts the focus from crim­inalizing the behavior of the trafficked women to penalizing those who have exploited and abused the victims. 
The Trafficking Victims 
see SlAVERY/page 4 

EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Board plans next catnpus concert 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
Nc:ws Wri1cr 
Executive Cabinet members met Monday evening in LaFortune Student Center to dis­cuss program funding and the latest installment in the body"s strategic planning initiative. 
Tai Romero, president of "The Show.'' presented her organiza­tion's plan for the annual con­cert. The event, which began two years ago as "Flipstock," aims to bring major bands to Notre Dame. Romero appealed to cabinet constituencies for funding, noting the significant financial investment involved in planning the event. 
"ff we want big-name bands, we have to pay big-name prices," Romero said. 
She later said "The Show" is seeking contributions from every residence hall, as well as all student government groups, including the class councils and executive cabinet. 
The concert. scheduled for Aug. 29, will take place in the Joyce Center. 
"We're definitely having it indoors in the JACC," Romero said. She also stressed the importance of funding in keep­ing ticket prices low. 
"We've asked all the student groups [for contributions] because it's supposed to be a truly campus-wide event," Romero said. 
The committee aims to keep ticket prices for students under $5. in order to encourage stu­dents to attend. 
Last year's "Show," drew between 2,500 and 2,700 atten­dees, Romero said. That concert featured the varied music of George Clinton & P-Funk. Better Than Ezra and The Green Room. Romero hopes to reach the concert's capacity of 4,000 this year. 
"We want to start the year off with a bang," Romero said. 
Student Body President Libby Bishop encouraged cabinet members to pledge funding 
see CABINETIpage 6 

Panelists speak out on KKK 
By JULIE MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 
Faculty, students, and community members gathered yesterday evening in a packed Debartolo lec­ture hall to hear three local women advocate a message of "no hate in America" as they recounted their experiences of hate moving into their Osceola County neighborhood in the form of the Klu Klux Klan. 
Nvin Tillery, assistant professor of Political Science, headed the panel discussion in an effort to expose Notre Dame students to the experiences of people who have dealt with racism in their everyday lives. 
The women, Barb Franklin, Liz Dobbs and Stacie Sawaia are the founders of a local organization called UC for Peace, a group dedi­cated to linking Elkhart and St. Joe.•s Country together in combating issues ofracism. 
see KKK/page 4 

Play unites women protesting the war 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Women from the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munity joined a worldwide project to unite women around the world to protest the war in Iraq last evening by performing the racy and raucous Greek play "Lysistrata" in Carroll Auditorium. 
South Bend attorne~and human right's activist Erika Harriford-McLaren organized the event after hearing about the project on the radio. Harriford-McLaren then con­tacted friends in the commu­nity, securing Saint Mary's for the location and recruiting students from the College and Notre Dame to participate in the reading. 
"I looked it [Lysistrata Project] up on the Internet and thought I'd like to get South Bend involved, .. Harriford-McLaren said. "Even ifit's just a group of ten people sitting around, we needed to do this." 
"Lysistrata" is a Greek com­edy by playwright Aristophanes written in 411 
B.C.• about women in Greece who, because many of their husbands and sons were being killed in the Peloponnesian War, unite and go on a sex-strike to end war between Athens and Sparta. 
"I really think that any event that we can organize to highlight the negative affects of the war is important,.. Notre Dame graduate student and play participant Cora Fernandez-Anderson said. "Especially with something like this that is being per­formed across the world, we create networks of people who are expressing them­selves and makes a statement much stronger... 
The play, adapted by George Brosi. opens with the women of Athens"s lamenting over the absence of their men because of war. Lysistrata, played by Jessica Genther, says, "ff we women can reach an agreement with the women of the countries we are at war with. we can save Greece." 
With this understanding the women of Greece make a vow to "practice total abstinence" with their husbands and lovers. The women of Athens then take hold of the Acropolis, thereby effectively cutting off the men of Athens from the city and from their wives. 
"We made up our minds without more delay to make common cause to save Greece. Open you ears to our wise counsels and hold your tongues. and we may yet put things on a better footing," Lysistrata says. 
After many days have past without the men of Athens or Sparta able to exercise their marital rights they come together to concede to the women's wishes, signing a 
see IRAQ/page 4 

~---------------------------------­
page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Here's to 

you,Zahm 
This one goes out in defense of all Zahmbies, those mystery shrouded men that hold the dubious distinc­tion of being the butt of more cam­pus jokes than Flipside and Bob Davie combined. 
You've all heard Christle Boisen the whispered rumors, especial­Assistant ly if you're a girl 
Scene Editor 
or live in Keenan. I myself imagined 

a dorm full of Neanderthal-like characters that grunted to commu­nicate and dragged their knuckles along the floor when they walked. 
Many other girls with similar men­tal images probably do not dare to venture inside, especially if the last time they came in contact with a Zahm resident was when a half­naked swarm of them crashed one of their innocent Frosh-0 events. cov­ered in black and red body paint and singing Right Said Fred's 'Tm Too Sexy." Or if they happened to glimpse some full-frontal Zahm nudity during finals at any time. 
But if you're still afraid, you're missing out on meeting a top-quality group of guys. Maybe they have to be more welcoming than other guys, just to overcome their reputation. But I have yet to encounter anyone else who will buy Papa John's on command for a group of girls who are self-proclaimed "hefty eaters." Not impressed? Well listen to this ­they have an RA who makes his own hummus. If that is not one of the top ten talents someone can possess, I don't know what is. If you want to make the ladies flock, a big tub of chickpea spread and a baggie of baby carrots will probably do it. 
Just to clarify, when I say they're "nice," I don't mean in an effeminate or toolish way. They are definitely cool enough to pull off the pastel leisure suit look and still get the girls to dance willingly with them to Elton John classics. I just mean that they don't have pretenses of being too cool to talk to you if you don't know them, and can even remember names. Sometimes, on a binge­drinking campus with gender rela­tions comparable to junior high schools, this name-remembering business presents a problem for peo­ple. . 
As a small token of gratitude for the money spent and fun times, I would like to take this minute to salute Zahm. Not because I want to change the tradition of its infamy, but because I always know that fun times will ensue when we glimpse that red Zin the distance. Thanks, guys, I'll always think you're cooler than Flipside. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Con tact Christie Boisen at cbalsen@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itsdf as a professional publica­tion and strives for the hlghesr standards of journal• ism at all rime.1. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. ·Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we i;an 4;0rrcct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
The last man on the Moon talks about lunar geology 
Astronaut and former U.S. Senator Harrison Hagan Schmitt discussed the geology of the Moon. 
page 3 

WORLD& NATION 
Iraq attempts to beat UN deadline 
Iraq takes steps to disarm just in time for the U.N. report to appease inspectors. 
pages 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 


BUSINESS NEWS 
Auto Industry suffers slump In sales 
General Motors claims huge losses this year as American con­sumers express concerns over the war with Iraq. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Column calls for International support to free Iraq 
Guest column urges France and Germany to stand up for freedom and put down despo­tism. 
page 9 


SCENE 

Lou Reed releases Raven in tribute to Edgar Allen 
Poe 
The Raven takes the work of Poe's poetry and spins it into a lyrical jour­ney. 
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Visitor arrested 


SPORTS 
Irish basketball player named Rookie of the We~k 
Courtney La Vere is named the Big East Rookie of the Week. An Irish player has received this honor in five out of the last six years. 
page 20 

Sunday, a visitor was arrested by NDSP for dri­ving with a suspended license. 
Student reports trespasser in room 
A student reported an unknown person entered her room in Badin Sunday morning at 4 a.m. The case is being investigated. 

NDSP issues speeding ticket 
The NDSP issued state citations for exceeding the posted limit and driving without a license on Edison Road Sunday. 

Car towed on campus 
A student's vehicle was towed for a parking vio­lation at Main Circle Sunday. 
. 
Grab 'n' Co Drive for Lifo TrcalmPlll Centers i\11 day at various campus !orations 

. 
I.Pl'lurc with T1•d Beatty, lkpartnwnt of' llistory 

12:30 p.m. at IIPsburgh Center, Hoom C-104 

. 
Lecture, "DC!: A Pow<'rf'ul Lesson" 7 p.m. at De Bartolo 101 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lenten Lecture Series Brunch 

10:30 a.m. at Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Contemporary Drama Heading 

4:30 p.m. at Pr<'sident's Dining Boom 

. 
Minority Women in Business DcvPlopnwnt Council 


(i:30 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled spinach fettuc­cine, Southwestern pasta sauce. pep­peroni pizza. apple turnover, pretzel sticks, chicken in the pot soup, Budapest vegetable soup, walnut plum chicken breast. cheddar pollock scrod, beef and peppers stir fry, vegetable egg rolls. chicken taco. 
Today's Dinner: Boiled mostaccioli, pastaria meat sauce, shrimp spaghetti, cream of broccoli soup, roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing, whipped pota­toes, asparagus tips and cuts, broccoli quiche, vegetable rataouille, hickory smoked pork chops, seafood medley stir fry, fried rice. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
D:: 
LI.I 
8 :c :: 
..J 
-t 
(J 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, boulangerie potatoes. herb-baked pollock, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, scalloped corn casse­role 
Today's Dinner: Amatriciana, cauli­flower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes, rice valenci­enne, lemon-baked perch, jamaican­jerked pork loin, beef and pepper stir fry, flame-roasted fiesta corn and pep­pers. 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
.9 HIGH 35 HIGH 22 HIGH 25 HIGH 37 LOW 21 LOW 21 LOW 7 LOW 26 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Falafels. saffron rice, marinated cucumber salad, vegetable lasagna, parmesan muffins, sweet and sour shrimp served with sticky rice, ravioli bar. hot open faced turkey sandwich, whipped potatoes, provolone loafer, slices roast beef. 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu. herbed pasta, marinara sauce, corn­bread, fried plantains, egg foo yong bar, taco and burrito bar. barbequed chicken, scalloped potatoes. french bread pizza. tuna noodle. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


Atlanta 57 I 50 Boston 35 / 32 Chicago 64 / 48 Denver 34 / 16 Houston 64 / 55 Los Angeles 59 / 48 Minneapolis 19/ -4 New York 40 / 35 Philadelphia 43 / 38 Phoenix 56 / 40 Seattle 62 / 47 St. Louis 48 / 42 Tampa 88 / 68 Washington 48 / 42 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Last man on Moon 


Members discuss FYS changes 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Campus Life Council task force representatives quickly summed up their short-term and long-term projects and brainstormed for the rest of the school year. 
"This is a very busy week, so we're going to keep this 
"Keep the ideas coming, 
meeting Action program short, con­we don't have to do at Princeton cise and 
freshman [orientation] allows incoming 
produc­first-year stu­
the same as it is 300
tive," said dents to bond student yearsfrom now. " during a week body presi­of camping and dent Libby participating in
Paul Doyle 

Bishop, set-activities cen­
Dillon rector

ting the tered around 
The leadership task force has researched programs at other colleges and universities for additional ideas. Parliamentarian Rick Sadowski and Breen-Phillips Hall rector Becca Davidson shared a Princeton University freshmen pre-orientation program with members and suggested imple­menting a similar program at 
Notre Dame. 
The Outdoor 

tone for Monday's 
meeting. 
The academic task force is continuing conversation with the Office of First Year of Studies in order to establish a more comprehensive mentor­ing program that combines aspects of existing Notre Dame programs with ideas of other institutions such as Duke University in order to better serve students. 
"llopefully. that can become a reality next year," said senior Erin Cushing. 
Currently, First Year of Studies has a peer advising program that matches first­year students with seniors. Several residence halls also have Big Brother/Sister p~o­grams, but dorms orgamze their programs differently. 
Cushing will meet with ~s.is­tant professional specialist Laura Flynn today to discuss further plans. 
nature and 
leadership. 

"It seems like a great way to pass down skills of one class to another," said Davidson. 
Sadowski said it could be dif­ficult to implement at Notre Dame, but added the pJan would be worthwhile to consid­er. 
Father Paul Doyle, rector of Dillon Hall, also expressed enthusiasm. 
"Keep the ideas coming," he said, "We don't have to do freshman [orientation] the same as it is 300 years from now." 
David Moss. assistant vice president of Student Affairs, also suggested that the leader­ship task force look into one­credit diversity courses. Sadowski and Bishop both mentioned courses they had taken under the political sci­ence department and the Center for Social Concerns, respectively. 
Tho leadership committee also reported that it was close to putting out posters about opportunities to get involved on campus. 
In Other CLC News: 
Student body vice president Trip Foley said there would be a delay in the distribution of the underthedome.nd.edu mag­nets to advertise the Web site because of a misprint on the magnets. He added that there has been a "steady stream" of visitors to the Web site, which was launched last week so stu­dents could easily find out cam­pus events. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

SUPPORT YOUR IRISH BASKETBALL TEAM IN THEIR LAST HOME GAME OF THE 2002~2003 SEASON! 
WEAR GREENI 
BE LOUD, BE ROWDYI 
LET'S BEAT SYRACUSE ,QN ESPN2 AND SEND OUR 
TEAM INTO THE POST SEASON WITH A. BIG WIN 

talks about geology 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Speaking be(ore a pa~ked auditorium, Harrison Schmitt, a former U.S. senator and the last man to walk on the Moon, spoke Monday in DeBartolo Hall. 
Schmitt, who set foot on the lunar surface as a member of the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, discussed the evolution of the Moon's geology. The lecture was the latest installment in the College of' Engineering's Distinguished Lecture Series. 
Schmitt traced the Moon's history from its creation 
indirect data, since the Apollo missions only brought back samples from the surface. He used gravitational measure­ments from the Moon's 14 basins to identity differences in the Moon's density in certain areas. 
Schmitt also traced the begin­nings of life on Earth, using the history of' the Moon as a bench­mark. In discussing the intense meteor impacts of about 4.3 bil­lion years ago, which struck the Moon and Earth simultaneous­ly, Schmitt said, "The dominos began to fall that eventually gave us life." These impacts, he said, led to a "global soup" which, a couple of hundred mil­
lion years later 
allowed for

about 4.5 bil­"The moon has given us a 
"organic mole­

lion years legacy ofscience that we 
cular synthe­

ago, connect­
can now apply to our sis," or the
ing the 
precursors to

shared histo­thinking ofthe other 
DNA.

ry of the terrestrial planets." 
He paral­

Earth and the 
leled the histo­

Moon. His 
ry of Mars,

Harrison Schmitt
discussion 
Earth's closest

focused on fonner U.S. senator 
the results of m a j o r impacts on the two bodies: The same impacts that created the large basins on the lunar sur­face -the light areas visible on a full moon -"might have cre­ated the seeds of the conti­nents" on Earth, Schmitt said. 
He went on to offer a hypoth­esis debunking the popular "giant impact theory" regard­ing the formation of the Moon. The theory holds that about 4.5 billion years ago, a large celes­tial body collided with the Earth, breaking off a large chunk of material that con­densed into the Moon. 
"The giant impact theory can't explain the geology of the lower mantle," Schmitt said. 
He used geological and seis­mic data to show that the Moon's internal composition of is different from that of the Earth, casting doubt on the possibility that the two bodies are made up of the same mate­rial. 
Much of Schmitt's work on deciphering the deep composi­tion of the Moon is based on 
planetary 
neighbor, with Earth and the Moon, suggesting that they developed in much the same way. 
"The moon has given us a legacy of science that we can now apply to our thinking of the other terrestrial planets," Schmitt said. 
Schmitt also delivered a pub­lic lecture entitled "Exploring the Moon and Planets After Apollo" Monday evening. In that lecture, he called for fur­ther advances in manned space flight. 
"It's about time to take anoth­er trip to the moon," he said. 
Schmitt, a native of Silver City, N.M, began in NASA's s~i­entist-astronaut program 111 1965. In 1976, he was elected to the U.S. Senate from his home state, where he served one term. He is chairman of Interlune-Intermars Initiative, an organization dedicated to advancing commercial uses of lunar resources. 

Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
On one occasion, the Grand South Bend on May 5, 2001, offi­Dragon of the Klan approached the cials finally took notice of the racial 
KKK 
school bus that his children rode slurs that had been contaminating continued from page 1 and demanded his kids sit ne;,,."t to the community far too long. The 
only other white children. three women. along with local com­thanking the audience members fot "What do you think went through munity leaders and Father David their interest in the issue. the minds of those children who Otson of St. Paul's Parish, banded 
"It wasn't that long ago that it were on the bus that day'?" Sowala together to form UC for Peace. orga­was difficult to get people to listen," asked the audience. nizing a rally of their ovm. said Sowala. Franklin told her story of KKK In August 2002, the first annual 
She then recounted the summer members and their children riding "Reaching Common Ground" rally alternoon in 2000 when members up and down her street hurling was held at Bethel College. The of her neighborhood racial slurs rally included an inspirational first saw men with at pedestri­speech by South Bend Mayor white hats and robes "We cannot let racism, a n s . Stephen Luecke. patrolling a piece of hatred and Richard "We must stand together in oppo­property with rifles in Lloyd, the sition of their message ... we cannot 
bigatary tear our 
hand. On many occa­local leader let racism, hatred and bigotry tear sions throughout the community apart.,. of the Klan, our comrmmity apart," Luecke said summer. the once threatened in the speech. quiet suburban Franklin "Silence is acceptance to these
Stephen Luecke 
neighborhood was with per­groups. We must take a stand as
South Bend mayor
jarred by the "hate­s o n a I individuals and as a community filled words and speaking in August 2002 threats. against hatred of all types," Dobbs shouts of white ''Anyone said. power" that came from this local can be a target -it's not always Sawaia closed by asking the audi­compound of the KKK. based on religion and race," ence to leave with some kind of goal 
As Klan activity escalated into the Franklin said. in mind. following spring, neighbors fre­Dobbs, the wife of an African­"Don't listen to that racist joke or quently witnessed public cross­American man and the mother of those words that you think don't burnings and even a celebration of bi-racial children, recalled for the matt.er ... it's very important to be Hitler's birthday in April. audience the day that she first saw strong in your views. Let people 
Members of the neighborhood the American Flag turned upside know you aren't going to tolerate contacted officials on numerous down on Lloyd's truck, as well as disrespect," Dobbs said. occasions, but were frequently told when Uoyd hoisted his Confederate that there was nothing that could Flag the day after 9 -11. Contact Julie M.i.ller-Lemon at be done. When a KKK rally was held in jmiller l@nd.edu 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
treaty and ending the war. 
"I think it's important that students know what is going on in the world and how what is happening can affect their lives," audience member and Saint Mary's freshman Crystal Schaf said. 
The Lysistrata Project started in New York City when actress­es Kathryn Blume and Sharon Bower began the Lysistrata project so to give those who are opposed to war with Iraq could voice their concern. 
"Before we started the Lysistrata Project, we could do nothing but sit and watch in horror as the Bush Administration drove us toward a unilateral attack on Iraq," co-founder Blume said in a press release. "So we emailed all our friends and put up a Web site. The response has been enormous." 
According to the website, www.lysistrataproject.com, the official position of the cam­paign's stance on war is, "Lysistrata Project represents many individuals with a range of opinions, [though] we all oppose a unilateral, preemptive attack on Iraq by the United States. We support the contin­ued work of United Nations weapons inspectors." 
To date, there were 1,004 scheduled performances of "Lysistrata," in 59 countries and in all 50 U.S. states, but many more performances are expected in the coming months. 
"I think it is a good, humor­ous way to tackle a difficult topic," Saint Mary's sophomore and play participant Jennifer Hernandez said. "I just hope [the audience] got it." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
SPRING BREAK ... 
Slavery 
continued from page 1 

Protection Act made three changes to better protect the victims of trafficking, Mattar said. The act now requires that convicted traffickers be imprisoned for 20 years, pro­vides for mandatory restitution and compensation of the vic­tims and requires that the per­petrators forfeit their assets. 
"The act has responded to the modern day slavery of trafficking. It treats the traf­ficked person as a victim who should be treated with respect, compassion and dignity," he said. 
Mattar also addressed cur­rent movements within human rights legislation, both on the national and the international level to further protect sex trafficking victims and punish sex trafficking offenders. 
He discussed movements in Texas and Washington state to make person trafficking a state crime and mentioned international efforts to impose sanctions on countries that have not adequately reported the extent of people trafficking 
five raternity brothers. normal college students. partying; drinking; driving. crash. death. jail. 
SURVIVAL. 
DUI: a Powerful Lesson with Mark Sterner 

(45 minutes) 
102 DEBARTOLO 
Brought to you by: 
PILLARS/Office of Alcohol & Drug Education, Transportation Services & Student Government 
that occurs. Mattar said that while he supports recording and collecting information on sex trafficking. he does not believe in imposing sanctions. 
'Tm not sure that I'm with sanctions, but I am with reporting. When it comes to trafficking, obtaining informa­tion is the number one prob­lem," Mattar said. 
Mattar said that the United States imposes the harshest sentences on traffickers than any other country, although other European models have proven more effective in obtaining assets and providing for restitution. However, Mattar cautioned those who would attempt to impose a common legislation across all countries. 
"There is no model of legis­lation that you can apply to every country, but there arc elements [of legislation that could be universally applied]." he said. 
Mattar's lecture was spon­sored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights and the Law School. 
Contact Joe T rombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

IRAQ 
Iraq takes steps to disarm in time for U .N. report 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Iraq crushed missiles. sliced casting chambers, unearthed bombs and sent scientists to talk with U.N. weapons inspec­tors Monday. all in a desperate effort to prove it is disarming before a crucial U.N. report at the end of the week. 
France. Hussia and China urged Iraq to meet every U.N. dumand in hopes of staving off war, but the United States ­which might wage war even without U.N. authorization ­said the actions were too little, too late. 
"Iraq is not cooperating." White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Monday. "Despite whatever limited head-fakes Iraq has engaged in, they continue to fundamen­tally not disarm.'' 
U.S. officials said a vote on a new U.N. resolution authoriz­ing force would likely come next week, after chief weapons inspectors Hans Blix and Mohamed EIBaradei address the Security Council on Friday. 
The U.S.-led military mobi­lization entered a critical stage Monday. with B-52 bombers landing in Britain and soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division setting up camp in Kuwait. 
But the Turkish government 
showed no signs Monday that 
it would quickly ask parlia­
ment to reverse its refusal to 
allow in more than 60,000 
U.S. troops ahead of an Iraq war. Washington's hopes for a Turkish-based northern front were dealt a blow when the parliament narrowly rejected a motion to grant the U.S. request. 
Defense officials and ana­lysts say American troops could seize Baghdad without a northern front, but at higher risk and with more difficulty. 
t\s U.S. generals command­ing aboul. 225,000 troops in the region declare themselves ready to attack Iraq, weapons inspectors are suddenly receiving Iraqi cooperation on a swarm of issues that have dogged thflm for months. 
Iraq met a Saturday dead­line to begin destroying its Al Samoud 2 missile system, banned because its range may be slightly greater than allowed. It is slicing up banned casting chambers used to make another missile, the Al Fatah. 
Workers have unearthed buried bombs they say are loaded with anthrax, aflatoxin and botulin toxin. and inspec­tors are analyzing the con­tents. Iraq is readying a letter to the United Nations that pro-chemical and biological Another scientist was inter­poses verifying it has gotten weapons of mass destruction viewed on Monday, the fourth rid of anthrax and deadly VX have begun to give private in as many days. The United nerve agent. interviews to inspectors, Nations has asked to speak to 

Even Iraqi scientists who something all but three had more than 30 scientists since helped make missiles and refused to do since December. December. 
FBI and CIA agents search terror suspect's computers 
Associated l'rcss 
WASHINGTON 
FBI and CIA experts dug through computers and piles of other informa­tion Monday from the Pakistani homo of alleged Sept. 11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, searching for clues that new terror strikes might be immi­nent. 
In addition to his capture on Saturday. government officials said authorities had caught Mohammed Omar Abdel­Hahman, a son of the blind Egyptian sheik accused of inspiring the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. 
The younger Abdel-Rahman was caught several weeks ago in Quetta, 
Pakistan, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Pakistani officials have suggested the Quetta arrest helped lead authorities to Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, although American sources disputed that. 
Officials also said they believe they have captured a suspected financier of Sept. 11. The financier. whose national­ity was uncertain, was captured with Mohammed. 
Mohammed was questioned Monday by U.S. authorities seeking information about safe houses and hideouts used by the al-Qaida terror network, a Pakistani intelligence official said. Mohammed's exact whereabouts were unclear. 
He had been plotting attacks against targets in the United States and Saudi Arabia in the weeks before his capture, 
U.S. counterterrorism of'ficials contend­ed. 
Such attacks might have been against commercial or other lightly defended civilian targets. officials said, although they acknowledged they did not know whether al-Qaida targets had been selected. 
Intelligence about Mohammed's activ­ities led in part to the orange alert that lasted most of February, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said. 
"Some of the concerns we had that caused us to raise the threat level were attributable to the planning he was involved in," Ridge said. "There were multiple reasons that we raised the threat level and his relation to one of the plot lines was one of the several." 
Ridge declined to discuss specifics but said the threat level was lowered last week because later information showed that plans for attacks had been disrupt­ed and were less likely to occur. 
Authorities recovered a huge amount of information about al-Qaida at the house in Pakistan where Mohammed and two others were arrested early Saturday, a senior Jaw enforcement offi­cial said Monday. 
Recovered at the home in Rawalpindi were computers, disks. cell phones and documents. Authorities believe the materials will provide names, locations and potential terrorist plots of al-Qaida cells in the United States and around the world. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli troops arrest Hamas founder: 
Israeli troops arrested reclusive I-lamas ideologue Mohammed Taha on Monday in a deadly raid, sig­naling a change in Israeli strategy that until now had not targeted the Islamic militant group's leader­ship. Backed by attack helicopters and tanks, troops blew up Taha's home and three others in the Bureij refugee camp in the Gaza Strip. Eight people died in the raid, and besides the 65-year-old Hamas co­founder, his five sons -all Hamas activists -were 
arrested. The arrests, part of a two-week-old offen­sive in Gaza, marked the first attack on a Barnas leader since the latest Israel-Palestinian conflict erupted in September 2000. Israel had focused its efforts on rank-and-file militants and on the security forces of the Palestinian Authority itself. The shift comes as Israel's new hard-line government. sworn in last week, promised more crippling blows to mili­tant Islamic groups and as global attention turns toward U.S. action in Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korean jets intercept U.S. plane: 
Four armed North Korean fighter jets intercepted a 
U.S. 
reconnaissance plane over the Sea of Japan and one of the Korean jets used its radar in a man­ner that indicated it might attack, U.S. officials said Monday. Lt. Cmdr. Jeff Davis. a Pentagon spokesman, said it was the first such incident since April 1969 when a North Korean plane shot down a 

U.S. 
Navy EC-121 surveillance plane, killing all 31 Americans aboard. The latest incident happened Sunday morning, Korean time. and there was no hostile fire, Davis said. A dispute between the United States and North Korea over nuclear weapons development increased last week when North Korea restarted a 5-megawatt reactor that could produce plutonium for such weapons. North Korea said Saturday that nuclear war could break out at "any moment." In the Sunday incident, North Korean planes "shadowed" the American plane over international waters for about 20 minutes. 


School district to appeal Pledge ruling: 
The school district at the center of the fight over the Pledge of Allegiance said Monday it will ask the Supreme Court to overturn a ruling barring use of the pledge in classrooms. Dave Gordon, superinten­dent of the Elk Grove Unified School District in Elk Grove, Calif .. also said attorneys will ask that the rul­ing be put on hold so children can continue reciting the pledge. The ruling by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. which says the phrase "under God" is unconstitutional when recited in public schools. takes effect in nine Western states next Monday. 
Sniper anti-death penalty motion rejected: 
A judge rejected defense arguments Monday that Virginia's death penalty law is unconstitutional and barred cameras in the courtroom for the trial of teenage sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo. Malvo's lawyer had argued that the instructions given to a jury on when to recommend the death penalty are too vague. 
I 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Cabinet 
continued from page l 

soon, "while there's still money left in the budgets." The concert cost about $120,000 last year, and this year's funding will have to be at least that high in order to attract top-rated musical tal­ent, Romero said. 
Leaders of the Hall Presidents' 
Council presented their organi­
zation's strategic plan, continu­
ing the cabinet-wide initiative 
begun by Bishop last semester. 
Senior Pam Ronson, co-presi­
dent of HPC, said the plan focus­
es on improving Notre Dame 
dorm life overall. 

"We want to answer the ques­tion, 'Are we getting the best residential life experience possi­ble?"' Ronson said. 
She cited the growing num­bers of students living off-cam­pus as evidence that improve­ments are needed. 
Ronson and her co-president, senior Chris "Stretch" Martin, said their plan would focus on seven key areas including spiri­tual, multicultural, service, aca­demic, gender relations, social and athletic aspects of residen­tial life that would be empha­sized in the plan. 
Tho pair called for more strin­gent standards of hall govern­ment to ensure that students would be well served by their dorm leaders. In particular, they recommended that at least one president in each hall remain on campus for the entire academic year. With the prevalence of juniors studying abroad, conti­nuity of leaders can be a prob­lem, Martin said. 
"It's tough for transition when a president goes abroad ... sometimes a lot of information and expertise is lost." he said. 
The plan quoted the University's mission statement: "Residential life endeavors to develop that sense of communi­ty ... that is at once more human and more divine." Ronson said HPC strategy will "strengthen the residential life experience [that] is undoubtedly unique to this university." 
Cabinet members also debated an appeal for funding from Pi Sigma Alpha, the political sci­ence honor society. The group is planning to bring former attor­ney general Janet Reno to speak at Notre Dame April 8. Reno's speech will be co-sponsored by the Student Union Board and the College Democrats. Promoters of the event requested $4,334 from the cabinet's discretionary fund. The money will be applied L Reno's $22,500 speaking fee. 
Steve Christ, manager of the Student Union Board, said the speech could attract a large audience if planned well. 
"We want to keep admission prices as low as possible ... I'd expect about 1,500 students," Christ said. 
SUB programming director Lauren Fowler agreed. 

"There is a wide audience at Notre Dame that politicians can draw," she said. 
Cabinet members unanimously approved the funding. The news comes on the heels of a report by the American Council of Education that Notre Dame freshmen are interested in poli­tics at a rate 50 percent higher than students at other institu­tions. 
Student leaders also welcomed a new member into their midst. Junior Don Norton was intro­duced as the new SUB treasurer. The junior will oversee over $300,000 in funding for student organizations. 
Contact Matt Brama.nti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Women march to take back the night 
By MELANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
The fourth event in the view­points of Iraq series was held Tuesday night with a presenta­tion from Margaret O'Brien Steinfels in Carroll Auditorium entitled ''Iraq: Just War?" 
O'Brien Steinfels opened her presentation by asking the audience how they felt about the impending war with Iraq. The presentation was an extension of the question and how to adequately evaluate whether or not war with Iraq is in fact just. 
Steinfels centered the discus­sion of United States involve­ment in Iraq based on if the war would advance or harm national interest. Using force in order to achieve a means needs to be limited to situa­tions in which war is justified and necessary, she said, adding that the controversy today is over where to draw the line between what consti­tutes a just cause for war and what becomes an act of terror­ism. 
O'Brien Steinfels examined the criteria that justifies war and used it to encourage the audience to consider whether 
Bush announces new changes to Medicare 
Associa.tcd Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush offered a rough blueprint Monday for adding drug benefits to Medicare, proposing that the government use sweetened benefits to entice seniors into HMOs and private plans, and renewing his call for a dis­count drug card. 
The White House promised "comprehensive" benefits for those who moved into such plans. But officials refused to say whether or how the drug subsidies would be more gen­erous than those in traditional Medicare, insisting that Congress will iron out the details. 
Bush promised in his January State of the Union 
or not international law justi­fies U.S. involvement in Iraq today and the reasons behind the U.S. going to war. 
O'Brien Steinfels' presenta­tion addressed the need to examine who is given the legit­imacy to declare war. why that person is empowered, the intention of war and how pro­portional the means are to the outcome. 
O'Brien Steinfels pro­ceeded to ana­lyze the actions  "/ do not think that this is likely to be a just war. People have made  Steinfels con­cluded by encouraging the audience  
of the Bush administration and the  compelling but not convincing arguments on  members, particularly students, to  
American pub­ nuclear disarmament. "  learn about  
lic. The Bush  foreign poli­ 
administra­tion's argu­ment in fa vOr  Margaret O'Brien Steinfels former editor of Commonwealth  cy. The after­math of war in Iraq was a  
of going to war  concern  for  
is  to  remove  O'Brien  

Saddam Hussein from power, Steinfels, who expressed a destroy potential terrorist net­need for U.S. citizens to under­works, get rid of weapons of stand how the United States mass destruction and make affects the rest of the world. Iraq comply with international The key to determining the treaty requirements. validity of going to war is to 
From her research, O'Brien have active thought and partic­Steinfels' conclusion is that, at ipation on the issue from every the present time, war with Iraq citizen. is not just. "Had we done this 10 years 
"I do not think that this is ago, we may not be facing war likely to be a just war. People today with Iraq," O'Brien 
address to spend $400 billion over a decade to change Medicare, mostly to deliver on his promise to add drug bene­fits. The White House laid out a "framework" Monday night on how he intends to do that, though many of the difficult details were left to lawmak­ers. 
The president is pinning his hopes on what the White House calls "Enhanced Medicare" -an arrangement in which seniors would join a health plan and get unspeci­fied prescription drug benefits in return for paying a monthly premium and an annual deductible. Underscoring the emphasis the administration places on the plan, Bush pro­posed creating a new govern­ment agency, the Medicare Center for Beneficiary Steinfels said. 
The lecture was sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Political Science Department, the Intercultural Living Community, Women's Studies, the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership, the Justice Education Department and the Political Science Club. 
O'Brien Steinfels was the edi­tor of Commonwealth, an inde­pendent journal written by Catholics which reviews poli­tics, religion and culture since 1988. Prior to 1988, she served as the director of publications at the National Pastoral Life Center and was the editor to its journal, "Church." Additionally, O'Brien Steinfels published a book, "Who's Minding the Children? The History and Politics of Day Care in America." and has written many articles appear­ing in the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times. 
Students who missed last night's activities can attend O'Brien Steinfels' presentation "Hope Springs From Sorrow: Redemptive Aspects of Suffering" today at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093l@saintmarys.edu 

have made compelling but not convincing arguments on nuclear disarmament," O'Brien Steinfels said. 
O'Brien Steinfels' reasoning for her findings was that while the United States would most likely have a swift military vic­tory, the proportions of the actions do not justify the pro­portions of the outcome. 
O'Brien 
Choices, to oversee the new plan. The government would pay for most of Enhanced Medicare, which would also provide full coverage of pre­ventive benefits and "protec­tion against high out-of-pocket drug costs." It would eliminate the lifetime limit for inpatient hospital care. 
Seniors who chose to stay in traditional Medicare would get also protection against high drug costs. The frame­work did not specify what would constitute "high" drug costs, or where the govern­ment help would kick in, and White House officials declined to say. 
The administration offered a third option, "Medicare Advantage," that would enroll seniors in "low-cost and high­coverage managed care plans" currently available under Medicare. Plans in com­petitive markets would bid to provide participants with Medicare's enhanced basic benefit package. 
Bush plans to ask Congress to "immediately" provide all seniors with a drug discount card that the White House estimated will save 10 to 25 percent on prescription drugs. 
The General Accounting Office, the congressional investigative arm, estimated the savings at slightly less than that. 
"The discount card by all accounts is a proposal of very, very marginal value," Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle said. "We have cards in the market today. They are of limited value. This really doesn't extend much hope." 

BusiNEss 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVliR WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 3 
DowJones 

7,837.86 • -53.22 
N4SDAQ 

1,320.29  '  -17.23  
S&P5(X)  
834.81  •  -6.34  
AMEX  
829.71  
 -0.92  
NYSE  
4,709.38  -6.69  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.89-0.2613.72 
IIRii:IIIii!lillli~!lillll!~l~ili!iil[ll!lilllillli
INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.48-0.6016.66 
~1~~~11 :it1~tt1:Fil!!iii!;::~11i111~;~,;~1:1;1~:i1 
FIBERNET TELECO (FTGX)-25. 00 -0. 02 0. 06 
IN BRIEF 
Tobacco giant targets counterfeiters 
The Philip Morris USA division of Altria 
,roup Inc. is suing 325 retailers in seven <ates, accusing them of selling counterfeit versions of the company's cigarettes. 
The company said it filed 15 lawsuits Monday as part of a continuing effort to curb the sales of cigarettes illegally using Philip Morris trademarks, including its iconic Marlboro brand. 
A company spokeswoman, Jamie Drogin, said the suits were tiled against a range of retailers, from small. individually owned out­lets to large chains. She would not identify the names of the businesses, but said the suits are targeted against 325 individual retail locations. even though some share ownership. 
Nader forms SEC oversight group 
A new public interest group has formed in response to the corporate accounting scandals and will monitor government agencies that oversee the accounting industry, consumer advocate Ralph Nader announced Monday. 
The Association for Integrity in Accounting. comprised of accountants and professors of accounting, said it plans to "keep a close eye" on the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory agencies responsible for overseeing the accounting industry. That would include, notably, the new accounting oversight board created by Congress last sum­mer at the height of the scandals that began with the collapse of Enron. 
"For too long, the public interest voices in the accounting industry have been over­whelmed by corporate pressures," said Nader, whose Citizen Works organization is helping fund the new group. "Today we are pleased to introduce a new public interest voice to restore integrity to the accounting profession, to remind the profession of its public interest duty. and to make sure that we can all benefit from their work honestly and well done -no matter how large. how pow­e rf'ul and how demanding their corporate clients." 
U.S. ·vehicle industry suffers 
. Weather, war fears hurt car sales 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT 

A continued barrage of incentives couldn't over­come consumer skittish­ness and fears of a war with Iraq as U.S. vehicle sales slid last month, and at least two automakers prepared to scale back production. 
General Motors Corp.. thP world's largest automaker, said Monday that sales of new cars and light trucks fell 19 per­cent in February com­pared with a ·robust month a year ago. 
GM, like others in the industry, saw business drop considerably last month as winter storms crippled parts of the country and economic uncertainty festered. 
The outlook remains sketchy. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. has low­ered its full-year sales forecast from 16.9 million to 16.6 million vehicles. 
David Healy, an analyst with Burnham Securities Inc .. said most observers estimated that February's brutal weather on the East Coast and some other regions trimmed 
Mitsubishi Motors Corp., bottom line. consumer confidence in total U.S. sales by some also recorded year-to­Ford also said it is likely the U.S. economy plunged25,000 vehicles. year sales declines in to trim production. but to its lowest level in near­
Still, he said, the num­
February. declined to give specifics ly 10 years in February as bers were weaker than Most analysts expected Monday on its second­Americans grew bleak expected. Ford's February sales to quarter schedule. The about jobs and oil prices
"I think the industry is be about the same as last world's No. 2 automaker in the face of a possiblefighting a bit of headwind year. Chrysler's numbers said its car sales rose 3 showdown with Saddam with this Iraqi situation," were better than some percent last month, while Hussein. Healy said. "That's hard forecasts. GM's tallies light truck volume -O'Connor said he to prove and hard to were below expectations. which includes pickups, expected the volatility in quantify, but I still think and the automaker sport utility vehicles, vans monthly sales and eco­
it's out there." 

announced it would cut and minivans -was nomic data to continue in 
Among the other domes­second-quarter produc­down about 1 percent. the coming months. tic automakers, tion by 10.5 percent. "February was a chal­Chrysler car sales were DaimlerChrysler AG's A production cut is sig­lenging month," said Jim down 2 percent last Chrysler Group said its nificant because automak­O'Connor, Ford's group month. Truck sales were light vehicle volume ers consider a vehicle sold vice president for North off 5 percent.declined 4 percent last when it's shipped from American marketing. Gary Dilts, Chrysler's month, while Ford Motor the manufacturing plant sales and service. senior vice president for Co.'s sales were flat. to a dealer, not when the "Plagued by uncertainty sales. said consumers 
Several foreign dealer reaches an agree­and paralyzing weather -would be hard pressed to automakers, including ment with a buyer. no wonder consumer con­find a better time to buy a Toyota Motor Corp., Therefore, diminishing fidence slumped." new vehicle thanks to Nissan Motor Co .. production can do the The Conference Board depressed prices and Hyundai Motor Co. and same to the automaker's reported last week that lucrative incentives. 

United claims cuts boost revenues 
on the revenues of not only other $11 billion combined. 
Associated Press 

major carriers but United itself. Northwest Airlines said last CHICAGO "Contrary to some reports in the month it was losing $10 million in United Airlines said Monday it is media, the increase in business pas­monthly revenue as a result of the 
pulling in an extra $20 million to senger volume has more than offset lowered fares, as did US Airways. $25 million per month in revenue the lower fares," said Doug Hacker, Northwest also estimated that because the sharp reduction in executive vice president for strategy United was losing $30 million a business fares it made eight weeks at United. month because of it. ago is attracting more passengers. United put the revised pricing A Northwest spokeswoman did 
But in a reflection of the contro­structure into effect Jan. 6 on last­not immediately respond to a versy stirred by the January fare minute fares out of Chicago and request for comment on United's change, the claim was greeted skep­Denver -its top two hubs -giving estimate. tically by at least one competitor. customers up to 40 percent off Minneapolis-based airline travel 
Bankrupt United issued a state­unrestricted fares. analyst Terry Trippler said United's ment saying the lower fares have Other carriers and some industry statement clearly was a response to proven "good for United's bottom analysts criticized the move, which Northwest's earlier comment, line," despite rival airlines' claims came after a year in which the nine underscoring the high-stakes com­that the fare war was taking a toll major U.S. airlines lost more than petition between the two. 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Drune, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No<rc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BusINESSMANACER Kate Nagengast Lori Lcwalski 
OPERATIONS MANAGER. Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITO!h Hdena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 

SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hecrler. Mau Lozar 
SCENE .EorroR: Maria Smirh 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnna 
SAIN'!' MARv'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura CenedeHa 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Meghan Goran 

Wu ADMINISTRATOR• Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............63I-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADV£RTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 
MANAGING ErnroR/Assr. ME .................... 631-454I 
BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 
NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWP0JNT ................................................. 631-5303 
observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................63I-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR'i's..... ........................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.«lu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
UniversityofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer resetves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelyas 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through lecrers is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
conract information. 
Qu,mom regarding Obm-ur poluus 1hou!dbe direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Orueoer (USPS 599 2-40) ia published MDfld~y chrough Friday except during exam mdvacuion pcrioch. A ,t1b$Cription lO TheObscrvu is $100 for one ac.i.danic 
year,$55 foronc:sanct1cr. 
The Obtrrfff ii pub~•h.:d ar: l'OSTMASTER 
0.24 So•rh Oirutlg Hall &ad .ddn:5' mrn:crions tD· Nol«' Umic,, IN 46556 The Observe( 
P.O.BoxQ PC!noai.:;J pa~ p.ud"' Notre D.unc Norn: Dame, TN 4655(....(1779 :md 24dition.al mtiling offica. 
The ObKr,a JI a mcmbct of die: Auoc-.uted Pna. All n::prodUClian rig.bu .u .....,d. 
O
THl' 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 


On the last evening of my stay in Baghdad, a sudden commotion out­side the hotel drew me into the night. Just beyond the lobby doors, a wed­ding party of about 30 people was pouring out of cars and danc­ing to the beat of drums and trumpets. It's incredible that 
in this city that 
............L~ could be bombed within Shella Provencher 
weeks, there was such an explosion of joy -the bride bedecked in white, proud par· ents, a yellow-sweatered toddler shimmying to the music and delight­ed adults looking on. This little girl grasped my hands and spun on the sidewalk, until her parents came and drew me even deeper into the crowd. 
"Thank you, thank you," they smiled and shouted over the music. Flashbulbs popped as my fellow Westerners emerged from the hotel to share in the spectacle, an amazing celebration of life. 
Only days before, I had stood in the Amriyah bomb shelter. Light streamed into a ragged hole torn through the ceiling by the two 1991 
U.S. "smart bombs" that incinerated more than 400 women and children who had huddled there for safety. Human blood and the shadows of their bodies are still smeared on the walls. It is a place of desperation and foreboding and its story of the past predicts a possible future. 
We stand on the brink of war. Not a war against a brutal dictator alone, but a war that will kill little 5-year­old children who only want to dance. A war against a people wearied and weakened by 12 years of sanctions that have caused their children to die by the thousands of malnutrition, cancer and water-born diseases. 
A Jan 7 U.N. report estimates that 
1.25 million Iraqi children under the age of five could die of malnutrition as a direct result of a new war. 
Many in good conscience support a war, hoping that it will "liberate" these people. And Iraq's people are surely in need of liberation -caught as they are between a brutal dictator and an invading foreign power. But Catholic social teaching calls us to experience conflict situations as Jesus did, from the perspective of the most vulnerable, the weak, the most forgotten. 
If we really want to help the Iraqi people.can we first look them in the eyes and ask if they experience vio­lence as a way to "liberation"? Over and over, the Iraqis I met begged me to ask U.S. civilians to avert the war. "Just tell them what you see here," they said. "Tell them what you see." 
I saw a baby, his fragile skull nes­tled on his mother's shoulder, as she sang to him in the cancer ward of the Al Monsour Pediatric Hospital. The skyrocketing cancer rates in Iraq, up to 400 percent, are linked in some studies to the radioactive depleted uranium used in U.S. weaponry. 
I saw young students at Baghdad's Al-Mustansyria University, their courtyard faces full of future dreams. But in the classroom, Laithe's 20­year-old smile was tense with fear. Mariam begged to know, "Will they use nuclear weapons on us? I am so frightened of those bombs." 
I saw Sister Bushra Gaggi, a Roman Catholic sister and the director of a maternity hospital, standing next to cribs of rosy-cheeked newborns. She tried to smile but could not stop the tears of fear from filling her eyes. What will happen if the electricity is gone? What if a bomb hits the hospi­tal? "Maybe if he could see my tears, Bush would not bomb us," she said. 
And returning home to the United States, I saw my neighbor, a single mom whose son was just deployed to Kuwait. She is so desperate to avoid a war that she wants to serve in his place. 
There must be another way. Yes, Saddam Hussein is a dictator and many Iraqi people suffer under his repressive regime. But why are we choosing a method that could result not in liberation but in massive loss of life on both sides, innumerable deaths of innocents, regional destabi­lization and the creation of the very kind of terrorism we seek to prevent? 
Perhaps if we come close enough to recognize each other as brothers and sisters and parents grieving for the safety of our children, young people fearing for the future, all fearing vio· Jenee then we will seek other ways. Several ways have been suggested in previous columns, such as enforcing all U .N. Security Council Resolutions, supporting continued inspections or using the International Criminal Court to confront Hussein's regime. 
Nonviolence implies not passivity, but alternative action. Some of the Iraqi people have the courage to act and to literally dance in the face of a looming darkness. We can join them in the dance and work for a better future for all of us. 
Sheila Provencher. masters of divinity '01. traveled to Iraq from Dec. 8-21 with the Iraq Peace Journey. a delegation of U.S. Catholic leaders. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Kiflin Turner Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 

Sports 
Katie McVoy Charee Holloway 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Claire Kelley 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One ofthe greatest casualties ofthe war in
Do you feel that local bars take adequate steps 
Vietnam is the Great Society ... shot down on
to ensure the safety of their customers? 
the battlefield ofVzetnam. " Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights activist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 page 9 
GUEST COLUMN 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
France and Germany must stand up for freedom 
I have been at a loss all week as to what lopic I would choose for this week's column. Then I remembered; we're on the brink of war, and people are pissed about it. 
History truly does repeat itself. It may as well be 1938, as far as I'm concerned. 
Jason Lenz
In 1919. the Treaty of Versailles was signed. ending World 
Texas 
War I. One ot' the stip­
University
ulations placed on the 
Daily
defeated Germans was disarmament. Upon Adolph Hitler's attain­ment of supreme power in 1933, he began the process of rearming Germany. 
In 1936. the Germans remilitarized the Hhincland along the border with France and Belgium. a clear violation of the Treaty of Versailles. France and England did nothing. 
The Germans' support of the Fascists in the Spanish Civil War from 1936 to 1939 made Spain a testing ground for German weaponry. France and England did nothing. 
During the summer of 1938, Ilitlcr pressed for the addi­tion of the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia, inhabited by Germanic peoples, to the Fatherland. Not being in the mood for conflict, France and England conceded to Hit! r's wishes. 
On Sept. 29, 1938, the Munich Pact was signed, wherein llitler told the French and the English he would seek no more terri­torial additions. Czechoslovakia had no say in the matter. 
In March 1939, Germany violated the treaty, marched into Czechoslovakia and annexed it, along with its military supplies that further bolstered the German juggernaut. France and England did nothing. 
On Sept. 1, 1939, World War II began, and the rest is history. 
On Feb. 25, 2003, Saddam Hussein continues to stall, giving head U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix more piecemeal information while balking at requests to destroy his stockpile of Al Samoud 2 missiles. 
This stalling for time has continued for more than a decade since the end of the Gulf War In 1991. 
France does nothing. Not being in the mood for conflict, French president Jacques Chirac is willing to give Hussein more time. The French don't learn too quickly. 
The Russians and Germans have pledged their support for the French proposal to give Iraq one more last chance. For these two nations, this push for peace represents a dramatic role reversal, historically speaking. 
Por practically all of the preceding centu­ry, the world debated what needed to be done to disarm Germany and Russia. They have not yet been on this side of the disar­mament issue. 
Amazingly, the diplomatic community of the present day has not quite learned the lesson that appeasement does not work. Only the United States and Great Britain have the wherewithal to tell the world, "Hey. bad things happened the last time we let a dicta­tor pull crap like this." 
Here's a simple analogy. If you toss a frog into a pot of boiling water, he will hop right out. If you put him in a pot of cold water, however, and heat it up slowly, he will sit there and boil to death because he is not quick enough on the uptake to notice it's getting hotter and hotter. 
With the exception of the United States, Great Britain, Spain and Bulgaria, the entire international community is one gigantic boil­ing frog. How many times will the United Nations slap the Iraqi regime on the back of the hand. scold it for not cooperating and give it another chance? 
As stated in the U.S.-British-Spanish pro­posal that can be found at msnbc.com, Security Council Resolution 1441 of Nov. 8, 
2002 should have been the last chance for Hussein. In the resolu­tion, the Iraqis were afforded one final opportunity to com­ply and disarm, which they did not do. False statements made by the Iraqis would be deemed further breach­
es, according to the resolution. They have made numerous false 
statements, and nothing has been done. 
Iraq was warned in the resolution that a persistent attitude of noncom­pliance would have serious conse­quences. 
The French, Germans and Russians apparently 
have a different con­
cept of what serious consequences entail. The only consequence 
they speak of is anoth­er resolution stating that there will be seri­
ous consequences if Iraq does not comply. At what point in time will 

the protest-happy interna­tional community wake up and realize it's a bit warm in this pot of water after all? 
How many resolutions are necessary? When is noncompliance finally going to draw the ire of the rest of the world? When will Hussein see something more than mere empty rhetoric coming from the Security Council? 
I believe that time has come and gone. Iraq will never fully comply. Hussein hopes the clamor from anti-war protests around the world will drown out the sounds of weapons manufacturing in his country. Thankfully though, George Bush and Tony Blair are still eavesdropping. 
This column first appeared in the University Daily. the student newspaper pf Texas Tech University, on Feb. 28. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The beginning of liberal talk radio? 
As a result of their crushing defeats on Election Day 2002 and the stale state of the mainstream liberal media, the left has proclaimed the need to create their own Rush Limbaugh for the radio waves. Their hopes lie in Al Franken, the former writer and actor on Saturday Night Live. Who could forget Stuart Smalley, the caring nurturer who has helped the likes of Michael Jordan and even Al Gore cope with their failures and disappointments, remind­ing them that they are "good enough, smart enough, and, doggone it, people like me?" 
While the left is convinced that liberal talk radio can suc­ceed, it has failed by going directly at Rush. Franken recently asserted on the "Donahue Show," which by the way is the lowest-rated cable news show in its time-slot, "I think the audience isn't there for a liberal Rush, because I think liberals don't want to hear that kind of demagoguery." 
Mr. Franken, that may be the most hilarious thing you have said to date -keep in mind I am a huge Stuart Smalley fan. Perhaps he has forgotten or is just simply igno­rant of the shrill rhetoric used by liberal and Democratic . groups in recent years, who have declared that Republicans are responsible for church burnings, hate crimes and starv­ing schoolchildren, just to name a few. 
Sen. Chuck Schumer has used the race card in an attempt to block Charles Pickering's judicial nomination while Sen. Hillary Clinton reminded us that Trent Lott's foolish com­ments only exposed "what happens on the back roads in the Republican South every day." Meanwhile, we hear compar­isons of President George Bush to Hitler daily. The American people are so accustomed to hearing this abra­sive tone from the mainstream newspapers, magazines and television -The Washington Post, The New York Times, CNN and the major news networks minus Fox News ­where is the appeal to hear the same old story on the radio? 
Jonah Goldberg, editor of the National Review Online, argues that liberal radio will never succeed because among other things, liberalism has become reactionary. Its ideas amount to "standing pat and breeding fear of change." While the Republicans propose major reforms which would provide individuals more choices for programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security and even giving parents the opportunity to take their children out of failing schools, how do the Democrats respond? 
They use scare tactics and class-warfare in order to coerce voters into thinking that the Republicans want to push Grandma down the stairs and give her Social Security to "big business" so it can cut down a few more Sequoias in California or give the "evil rich" another tax break. And who can forget Al Gore's central budgetary idea of the "lockbox" that was the cure-all? 
Unfortunately for Franken, today's world of "political cor­rectness" has limited him to jokes about rich Christian white guys, which. like liberalism's reactionary nature, are old and stale. 
Michael Derocher sophomore Holy Cross College Mar. 2 
THE 
OBSERVER 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Still evolving, oh tny my 
By MARJA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
On March 11 the dread-locked, alter­native poster child Ani Difranco will release Evolve, her latest full-length album. Evolve is an intriguing musical development in DiFranco's fiercely indi­vidualistic career. The same musical complexity that made the singer and songwriter famous has matured into an even more polished and unique sound, different from anything else in popular music. The artist is never afraid to take chances or try new things, and once again her daring has paid off. 
Over the last 13 years fans have come to rely on DiFranco for something more unique than the mass-produced sounds of one-hit wonders. DiFranco has kept her name and her own record label afloat with an inventive musical sophisti­cation that relies on a skilled band, a wide variety of musical influences and politically conscious lyrics instead of amplifiers or synthesizers. Her newest album features jazz and Latin influences new to the artist's musical repertoire, but still maintains the musical quality of her previous work. 

For "O My My," one of the most origi­nal tracks on "Evolve," DiFranco also took a shot at playing piano instead of her usual guitar. DiFranco's piano debut is particularly reminiscent of modern jazz. 
"I always prefer to hear musicians tak­ing chances, than to hear them playing it safe and getting it right all the time," said DiFranco in the album's press release with interviewer Joe Sweeney. 
"Here for Now," another highlight of the album, has a fast and furi­ous Latin beat and a forceful b r a s s accompa­niment. 
"That's 

just what my hands started play­ing on the guitar, which was nat­uni.lly influenced by what I was listening to at the time," said Difranco, "listening, that is, by choice, and also by default, since Latin pop artists were dominat­ing the requisite Top 40 sound­track to all public spaces." 
DiPranco is as much a poet as a musician. Many of her CDs feature tracks with little or no musical accompaniment in order to showcase poetry on topics from loneliness to abortion. The artist has long used her music to act as an outspoken activist in addition to being a musical force. Evolve is not DiFranco's most lyrically interesting work, but the CD does feature some exccllent passages. "Serpentine," a to-minute con­struction of guitar and poetry that took DiFranco months to write, keenly criticizes people and politics in the United States. '"Cuz all the wrong people have the power of suggestion and the freedom of the press is meaningless if nobody asks a question," Difranco comments, "The mind control is steep here, man, the myopia is deep here." 
DiFranco's famously intense self­examination is not as cathartic on Evolve as on earlier albums like her 1996 release Dilate. Whatever the strengths and weaknesses of Evolve, the CD is worthwhile for any DiFranco fan or anyone with an ear for something unique. 

Contact Maria Smith at smith.525@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Indie-rocker stays musically stagnant 
By BJ STREW Scene Music Critic 

Indie-rock mainstay Ted Leo, of minor Chisel fame, cut his teeth in Washington, D.C. and cemented his place in the local underground's fore­front. His Pharmacists, however, have no cemented places -the members come and go as the group trudges along in its quest for its own distinct character. 
As for now, they bring a bevy of influences into the mix -Dexy's Midnight Runners, Generation X and The Ruts, to name a few. Infectious pop and furious punk ingredients, plus dub, folk and ska spices make for a bouncy bouillabaisse of an album. Leo's latest creation here is Hearts of Oak, their follow-up to the instant 

classic The Tyranny of Distance, released in 2001. 
It's undeniable: Leo's voice is a breath of fresh air from the thickening miasma of affected wails and overly nasal inflection that's back in vogue when it should have been buried alongside Ian Curtis. His range extends from cool and composed to a barbaric yawp. Fellow Pharmacists Dave Lerner and Chris Wilson. deliver thundering bass lines and triplet-filled percussion, respectively. 
A light, quirky drum roll launches the album on "Building Skyscrapers in the Basement." Layers of strings and guitars are caked almost to cacopho­ny, while Leo muses on mortality with his trademark idealism. The ode to The Specials, "Where Have All the Rude Boys Gone?" proves to be the standout on the album with its great melody and gui­t a r break­downs. The mid­tempo "Bridges, Squares" proffers L e o another chance to rail against 
apathy, deploying hopeful lyrics over syncopated strumming. 
W h a t almost sepa­rates Hearts of Oak from the masses of steaming dreck the record com­panies are doling out these days is that the lyrics almost go some­where. They do have a point, but it seems culled from The New York Times op-ed pages. Nevertheless, Ted pours his secondhand politics into songs like "The Anointed One" and "The Ballad of the Sin Eater." 
Hearts of Oak stays a sprightly jaunt and a mood-booster, but rollicks right out of your recollection. Needless to say, it still grinds John Mayer under­foot with extreme prejudice. 
Despite the shallowness of his lyrics, their earnestness cannot be denied and their infectiousness cannot be ignored. The Pharmacist sound owes its melodic familiarity to the bourgeois Brit-metal bards Thin Lizzy, indie-rock monolith Pavement, fellow D.C. rock­ers Fugazi and, most strikingly, the whole of classic rock. But even Chris Yanek knows that classic rock is dead. It's the 21st century; it's the third mil­lennium -bands must keep evolving or they will be phased out. 

Contact BJ Strew at strew.l@nd.edu 

. '".. . .. ·.... __ .'· . . ,. . . ' . . .. 
Matt Carroll playS hiS tin81 •ffl . . . game against Syracuse tonight. ,~\,;: 
. . ..·~,:~ 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
Seniors honored as Irish try to snap losing streak 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

On a night when the Irish plan to honor their seniors before the game, Notre Dame will try to figure out what they can do to avoid dropping their third game in a row to one of the country's hottest teams. 
Before No. 16 Notre Dame (21-7, 9-5 in the Big East) and No. 12 Syracuse 121-4, 11-3) tip off tonight, the lrish will honor seniors Matt Carroll, Dan Lustig, Jere Macura and Oan Miller, who will be play­ing their final home game tonight. 
Then thfl Irish will go to work trying to solve whatever has plagued them during their last two games. 
The Irish know first-hand what effect an emolional goodbye for seniors can have on a team. 
At Rutgers Saturday, when the Scarlet Knights honored their senior class, the Irish got lit up by one of the worst teams in the Big East who just happened Lo get hot at the right time. 
But a week ago, when Notre Dame dropped its first home game of the season to Connecticut, the Irish also watched the Huskies run circles around a much slow­er Notre Dame team. 
Admittedly, Notre Dame lost to two teams playing arguably their best basket­ball of the season. But they still lost, and the losses had tremendous ramifications on Notre Dame's postseason goals. 
"We've played some desperate teams lately," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "Were we as desperate? No, and it's kind of hard to simulate that when you know you're going to (post-season tourna­ments]." 
The two losses have jarred Notre Dame's dreams of winning its second Big East West Division title in three years and severely jeopardized its chances of earn­ing a bye in the Big East Tournament or playing a first-round NCM Tournament game in Indianapolis. 
The Irish currently sit at fourth in the Big East West Division, a position that can't get any lower. With two games to go in regular season play, the Irish trail leaders Syracuse and Pittsburgh by two games and third-place Seton Hall by one. In order to qualify for a bye, the Irish must finish second or better in the regu­lar season standings -something they 
COACHING 
Brey can become the only coach to lead his
LLI 
team to 10 league wins 
:E 
in three years if the
c( 
Irish win tonight. His hands-off approach has 
Q 
LLI 
proven popular with his
a: 
l­
players, but with Notre 
o 
Dame having lost two
z 
in a row, he might have to do a little bit more. 
Boeheim all but per­
fected the 2-3 zone,
LLI 
U) 
and his players know
:::» 
how to operate in his
(.) 
system. A 26-year vet­
c(
a: 
eran of Syracuse,
>­
Boeheim's name is vir­
U) 
tually synonymous with Syracuse basketball. 
Twenty-six years of basketball experience can't be taken lightly. While Brey has had a lot of early success at Delaware and Notre Dame, what Boeheim has accomplished gives him the advan­tage. 


need a lot ofhelp to accomplish. 
And so, with their destiny out of their hands, the Irish find themselves in an unusual position tonight. They can't win the West Division, they'll need help to get a bye and they already have a Toumarnent bid locked up. 
But they also havf' a losing streak Lhey're determined to end. 
''We're kind of back on edge again after losing two in a row," Brey said. "We want to handle not only Senior Night well but the last experience this season for our borne crowd because they've given us some great support." 
It doesn't help, either, that the Irish are playing one of the hottest teams in the nation in Syrar,use, that has won 10 of' its last 12 games and 21 of 24. 
When Notre Dame last played Syracuse Feb. 15, the Irish lost 82-80 thanks, in part, to a 3-pointer by Gerry McNamara with 15 seconds left. The loss is still fresh in Noire Dame's mind, and it kicked off a string of games where the Irish would lose three of five games and narrowly avoid losing another game to West Virginia. 
Beating the Orangemen means finding a way to score against their vaunted 2-3 zone defense. If Notre Dame's shot is on, it can cause serious problems for the Orangemen defense. 
But against Connecticut and Rutgers, when the opponent started scoring in a hurry -something Syracuse freshman Carmelo Anthony is always a threat to do -the Irish got knocked out of sync rather quickly. 
It's something Brey said the Irish have still yet to get used to -adjusting to fac­ing the best a team has to offer every sin­gle night. 
"We had a couple teams storm the court against us, and it always used to be our kids storming the court after a great upset," Brey said. "It's great that we're in that position, and I think since December we've handled ourselves well. 
"But it is new taking everybody's best shot." 
Tonight, the Irish will have the target painted on their chests once again as they try to break their first two-game losing streak of the season. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

STYLE OF PLAY 
Notre Dame revolves around a perimeter­oriented style of play, and their entire game often revolves around how well the offense is clicking. If the shots fall, the Irish are tough to beat. Otherwise, they get rattled. 
A relatively slow­paced offensive style of play meshes well with the zone defense. Anthony keys the Orangemen attack, but other players can dam­age the Irish just as well. 
Neither team has the advantage, as shown by what hap­

f . tiW(¾
~) ef~;Ji 
e' ft'~ 

a r' th1 zone apart. If not, they'll have a little more ditnculty. 
POST PERIMETER PLAYERS PLAYERS 
Francis and Cornette, while solid, haven't yet shown they can be a domi­nant force inside. On defense, however, Cornette is a shot­blocking monster and the Irish have shown they can ·rebound effectively. 
Carroll and Thomas comprise arguably one of the best backcourts in the Big East, if not the nation. They get a lot of support from Miller on the defensive end, as well. Notre Dame's success directly depends on Carroll and Thomas. 
BENCH 
With Jones and Timmermans, Brey can choose to go ath­letic or physical. If the Irish need offense, Brey can turn to Quinn. While each player has a clearly ­and narrowly ­defined role, they all know their job. 
INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame saw first-hand Saturday how a red-hot team can fall on Senior Night. They'll be anx­ious to come out with a win. Although the Irish are on a two-game los­ing streak, the Irish are anxious to get back in the win column. 

::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Anthony is a multi­dimensional threat who can hurt teams from behind the arc or in the paint. In Notre Dame's case, the Orangemen will try to exploit the freshman down low, and he'll get help from Warrick and Duany. 
The Irish had trou­ble stopping Anthony last time -he scored 26 points -and they're going to have a tough time stopping him again. Notre Dame simply hasn't shown it can compete in the paint with Big East teams. 
As a freshman, McNamara has done a solid job running the point for the Orangemen, but he can score as well. He hit the game-winning 3­pointer to pnt the Irish down in the Carrier Dome in February. 
Notre Dame's back­
on their minds. 
In Forth, Pace and McNeil, the Orangemen have a solid supporting cast but no true spe­cialists. Yet they know their role and comple­ment the Orangemen stars well without try­ing to do too much. 
Each bench offers a type of matchup, and neither 
u.oei;foF'"''fb t
_·a , rr-ID
r.fre ; 
e tg;;h toe to the bench, while Boeheim knows he's going to get consisten­cy from his rotation. 

Few teams in the nation are as hot as Syracuse, winners of 10 of their last 12. Sure, Big East teams have struggled on the road this season, but the West Division leader isn't one of them. 
Although Syracuse is Of1 ,roll, Notre D~mc h,,1.~ .only lpst on~ game at~o~~ all year..Throw 
S():tµQ,t;.l'Jigl,ttinto tbe mix, and the Irish are goinglril:>e a tough team to sttfjf · · 

li.1esday, March 4, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Shooting down his foes 
Carroll wraps up a stellar career zvith his final home game tonight 

l\y ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spnrl~ \Xrria.·t 
Orw by Olli\, tnammat.ns havn liled off tlw pra<'iiW court aml into Lho lncknr room. Tht\ arona slowly nmpti11s of playl'rs and coadws, until thrrn are just two pPople lnl't. on thn court. 
Onn. manager Malcolm Farmer. slands under the bas­ket. 1111 grabs each ball as it floaLc: rffortlnssly through the nnt and passes it out to tho rndpinnt. !\gain and again. Farmer watch­es the ball swish through the net, 
and again and again, he kicks it 
out. 
The other, senior captain Matt Carroll. has picked out u spot b<!hind thn 3-point line. I le takes nach pass, cocks his elbow. ele­vates into air, flicking the ball toward and through the rim. Like Jimmy Chitwood shooting free throws, Carroll can't miss. lie hits ninn, 10, 11 from the right corner. 
One glances off the rim and away from the basket, sending Farmer chasing after the ball. Carroll turns, wipes his forehead with his jersey, then catches a pass from Farmer and starts a new streak. 
Catch. Shoot. So easy to say, so dillicult to do. yet Carroll makes burying shol'i look as routine as lying shoes. 
The early years 
For as long as he can rmnem­lier, Carroll has spent his life catching and shooting. It's how he spent his elementary school days in Urn backyard with his father, catching a pass and firing it toward the rim. It's how he spent his high school years, where he recorded the 13th highest career point total among all Pennsylvania players. It's how he spent four years at Notre Dame, where he holds the career record for most 3-point shots made. 
Sports were 
to earn it." 
Carroll's grandl'alher. Loo. twlpcd him. There were times wlwn Carroll would drag his grandfather with him to the gym to help him shoot. i\nd afler every game, Carroll's grandfa­ther always gavo his progeny plenty of advice. 
"After my games, rd have 30 points. and everyone else would be saying great game,'' Carroll said. "lle'd say, 'Here's what you have to do."' 
Carroll quickly earned a repu­tati.on as a fundamentally sound player with a deadly jump shot. And when colleges came caUing, Carroll was eager to listen. 
Coming to Notre Dame 
Carroll still remembers the recruiting pitch former Notre Dame basketball coach John MacLeod gave him. Never mind that the Irish only finished two games above .500 two years before Carroll arrived. Never mind Notre Dame's annual absence from the NCAA Tournament. 
Macleod pointed to a fresh­man class that included Troy Murphy, David Graves and Harold Swanagan and told the Pennsylvania native. "You can be a part of something special. You can put Notre Dame basketball on the map and bring back the glory days." 
"When I saw the guys who were here," Carroll said years later, "I thought, 'You know what? We can do that."' 
Despite receiving offers from North Carolina State and Wake Forest, the atmosphere sur­rounding Notre Dame and its rig­orous academic program con­vinced Carroll _to join the Irish. 
But the summer before Carroll arrived on campus, Matt Doherty replaced Macleod. A year later, Doherty was on his way out and Mike Brey on his way in. The coaching carousel made Carroll all the more happy he 
started a school-record 110 games. 
Carroll had success early. But that success pales in comparison to how he has played since the regular season ended last year. 
Beginning in the Big East Tournament and then continuing through the NCAA Tournament, Carroll began lighting up oppo­nents quickly. He averaged 20 points a game in postseason play last year, giving him confidence when the Irish entered the off­season. 
He also solidified the respect his teammates and coaches had for him in the summer. While Irish coaches were scattered across the country, Carroll made sure he gathered his teammates together at least once a day for summer workouts. In the weight room, he picked freshman big man Torin Francis as his partner to show Francis how important he was to the team. 
Hut for all the time Carroll spent working with the team, he spent endless hours more improving his own game. He worked on everything -driving to the basket because Notre Dame needed guards who could penetrate, shooting from NBA 3­point range to improve his range, learning to shoot the ball without first locating the seams to get a quicker release. 
Carroll can't count the number of extra hours he and Farmer spent in tho gym shooting jumper after jumper. "Ifl called him at 2 
a.m. and said, 'Malcolm, let's go shoot,' he'd be there at 2:05," Carroll said. "I shot so much I got tendonitis in my elbow, which is a good thing I guess because it shows J was working hard." 
The final season 
A young fan, clad in a Notre Dame basketball shirt, slowly walks up to Carroll. He catches the star's attention, and then proceeds to rattle on about how Carroll is his favorite basketball player and that, when he has to come up with trivia questions for his class, all his questions involve Notre Dame basketball. 
"Nobody wanted any auto­graphs four to five years ago," Brey said. "These guys were unknown back then. and now they certainly have a presence on campus, a presence in the community and a presence nationally." 
Carroll played a tremendous role in helping resurrect Notre Oame's long-dormant basketball program. And he remembers how few fans turned out for the early games his freshman season -attendance numbers that dra­matically changed as the Irish started winning. 
'Tve seen the program evolve, and each year it's gotten better and better," he said seconds after a young fan told him Carroll is his favorite player -some­thing he couldn't have imagined when he arrived as a freshman. "I hate to leave it now, when everybody is so interested in bas­ketball on campus and around here." 
In his senior season, Carroll is averaging a team-high 20.6 points a game, nearly six points higher than his previous career high. He's leading the team in minutes played in Big East play. He's shooting 44 percent from the field and 39 percent from 3­point range. 
Opponents quickly search for Carroll on the court, and he's bearing the scars from hard fouls he earned driving to the basket. There are still traces of an ugly scratch he earned against Virginia Tech, and Carroll said he can't remember a game where he wasn't bloodied or bruised at the end of it. 
After playing in the shadow of NBA first-round picks Murphy and Ryan Humphrey his first three seasons, Carroll is finally getting the spotlight shined on him. At one point in the season, Brey called Carroll the best play­er in the nation and at another, Brey said Carroll and Chris Thomas formed tho nation's best backcourt. Opposing coaches often begin their post-game press conferences praising Carroll's deadly shooting. 
For his part. Carroll is thriving his role as "the heart and soul of this team," as Thomas once said. He has the unqmistioned respect of his teammates, opponents, coaches and fans, and he hopes professional basketball lies ahead in his future. 
When the lights click olT afbir tonight's game, Carroll's home career will be over. But he won't be done with tho Joyce Center court just yet. As long as there is a hoop and a ball, Carroll will still be on the court. 
Catching. Shooting. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

always a part of "l shot so much I got picked Notre 
Carroll's life. tendonitis in my elbow. Dame. I !is grandfather "I had a
which is a good thing I 
is the win­good support­
guess because it shows I
ningesl. basket­ing cast who ball coach in was working hard.,, helped pick Pennsylvania this school for high school his­more than a 
Matt Carroll
tory. llis father basketball played football lrlsh guard school," he 
at Penn State. 
llis uncle played professional basketball. 
When Carroll started playing organized basketball in second grade, he seemed destined to fol­low in his family's foot<iteps. And he had pl,mty of guidance, too. 
Carroll credits his dad with helping him IParn how to shoot. The two spnnt endless hours practicing jump shots. 3-point­nrs, l'adeaways and just about every shot from every localion on the court. Games of Around the World, and Horse, which Dad always won until Carroll rnached eighth grade, helped hone Carrflll's competitive fire as well as his shot. 
"lie taught me to be competi­tive and to never let up," Carroll said. "That's how I learned uol to be easy on people. If you want something. you're going to have said. "A lot of 
kids, they do so many little things that it makes it seem like you're the most important thing in the world. You don't pick a school for a coach, and I'm glad they helped me see past the show and the glamour." 
Standing out 
Carroll distinguished himself early in his career with a deadly jumper and uncanny leadership. He remembers wondering for a bit if he could play college bas­ketball, wonderment that ceased when the Irish upset eventual national champion Connecticut. 
He started a lot and played a lot more. Entering tonight's game against Syracuse, Carroll has missed just one college bas­ketball game due to an injury ­last year at Miami -and has 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
Macura stays positive despite not playing 
S.~ J.. I.A\._ Centerfior Socia{ Concerns -~ & 
~iN~~R~; ·1--r"-rn 1 oo ru ~ [J) @ oo n ~ fB ~ 11 n~AT.n: 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Conscience in the Crossfire: Moral Questions of War 
CSC/THEO/PSY/BPS -One Creclit Course 
Wednesdays 3-5 p.m., March 19, 26, April 2, 9, 16 
Where do you stand on the impencling war with Iraq? How do you explain your position on the war to others? How did you make up your mind? In this course we invite students into a process of taking a moral stand on the issue. The goals of the course are: 1. To address the process of the formation of conscience. 2. To stuefy responses to war in the Catholic Social Tradition and app/y the learning to the current case of Iraq. 
3. To explore creating the conditionsfar peace. The course will include presentations from a variety of faculty members. For more information and to sign up for the course, come to the front desk ofthe CSC this week. 
Current Volunteer Opportunities Special Needs: 
A tutor is needed for a special needs child who is in kindergarten (6). He could be tutored on any afternoon or evening besides Wednesday at Hesburgh Library. 
Contact Cody Johnson at 258-0198. 
Special Projects: 

Volunteers are needed to staff a crisis hotline at the local YWCA, which helps women and their families who are victims of domestic abuse. Contact Ms. Stratton at 233-9491 exr. 323. 
Tutors/Mentors: 

A few tutors are needed to tutor at McKinley Elementary School with Professor Werge of the English department. Tutoring is on Wed.from 2:30-3:30. Contact Professor Werge at 631-7679. Questions 011 the above opporluniJies ~ Please email cscvols@nd.edu.
r----------------------------------­
1 Faculty Opportunities I 
I I
I The CSC is offering course development grants to faculty members for the development of new community-based learning courses ($2000) I I and for the incorporation of community-based research assignments ($500). Courses are intended to involve students in community service, I I community-based res~arch, or in learning from and within the local community (or elsewhere, if trips are planned) in other ways. Grants will be I I awarded on a competitive basis; applications are due April 15. Additional information can be found on the Center web site: I I http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu (Go to faculty opportunities and then faculty programs), or by contacting Mary Beckman I I (beckman.9@nd.edu, 631-4172). We are looking particularly this year for individuals who would like to: I I * create an assignment in which students help to document economic rights violations as part of the national Poor People's I I Movement, and I I * develop courses that address issues related to housing. I 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
He is the ninth man in an eight-man rotation, hasn't played since Dec. 22 and has scored a grand total of six points this season. To make mattflrs worse, he is a senior and a co-captain watching his final days as a college basket­ball player pass by from the bench. 
Some people could have fig­ured they were never going to play and quit the team. 
But Jere Macura isn't one of those people. 
Tonight's ceremony honoring the seniors before the Irish play Syracuse will be a bittersweet one for Macura, the Croatian native who signed at Noire Dame to play for Matt Doherty and rarely broke into the regu­lar rotation under Mike Brey. 
The reason why Macura hasn't played is a combination of bad luck and poor timing, but he won't go into significant details. 
.. It's a long story," he said, grinning broadly. "We had a lot of good guys on the team. I had my chance, but I missed it." 
When was his chance? 
"At the beginning of the sea­son." What happened? "Bad day," Macura simply 
shrugged. 
The truth is a nagging injury kept Macura from getting in the regular practice rotation in the pre-season -a fact made worse by the fact that he had to compete against Torin Francis, Jordan Cornette and Tom Timmermans for playing time. Worse yet, Dan Miller could play the inside-outside threat that previously defined Macura's role on the Irish. 
"He came back with a great frame of mind, and he's gotten better," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "The one thing that hurt him was not getting into the rotation. The other thing was, it wasn't like we weren't having success." 
So as the Irish kept winning, Macura kept wal.ching. 
It was a far cry from his days as a freshman, when Macura played in every game, averaging 
14.2 points. He played a pivotal role off the bench in a season when the Irish narrowly missed qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. 
But the fact that Macura even ended up at Notre Dame is a unique story in itself. When Doherty was hired as Irish coach, he immediately contact­ed Macura and his friend Ivan Kartelo who was attending prep school in the United States. When Macura heard Kartelo was coming to Notre Dame, he decided to come too. 
"It was a big culture shock for me," he said. "I had to adapt and get used to the American style of things and the American style of basketball. But l remem­ber my first game like it was four months ago, not three years ago." 
A lot happened since Macura first suited up for the Irish. Doherty left, Brey was hired and Macura saw his minutes drop to about seven a game. When Kartelo decided to transfer to Purdue, Macura, too, flirted with the notion of finding a dif­ferent school. 
But after visiting a few other colleges, Macura realized he couldn't leave Notre Dame. 
"I missed the Golden Dome," he said. "This was the place that I signed for. And after you leave it for a little while, you miss it." 
A contented Macura returned to the Irish, saw his minutes slightly increase during his junior year, and seemed poised for a breakout senior season. 
But the  opportunity barely  
came.  
That  hasn't  diminished  

Macura's enthusiasm for bas­ketball. Although he's the first to admit this year has been tough, the pain of not playing has been eased by the joy of watching his teammates win. 
His attitude in practice is as good as anyone else's. Brey said. Working with the Irish reserves, Macura helps instruct freshmen Omari Peterkin and Rick Cornett on the finer points of the game. 
"I really respect how Jere Macura has handled a tough sit• uation .. When you're a senior and a captain and not getting playing time, but he still comes every day and practices," Brey said. "It's a tough thing to han­dle, but he's handled it with a lot of class." 
Tonight marks the end of Macura's home career, but not the end of his basketball career. Armed with a marketing degree he will receive in May, Macura plans to return to Croatia, where he hopes to find a team to play with. He's even toyed with the notion of trying out for the national team. 

There, he knows, he'll get to play. "My practices are my games. It's real hard," Macura said. " ... 
When you're not playing, you realize how much you miss bas­ketball and how much you miss playing." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

~-----------------------------------------------------~ 

THE 
OBSERVER 


Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
page 11 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Reed fails with 'Poe' -try 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scone Music Critic 
Perhaps the most ambitious of any of his projects, Lou Reed's recent release The Haven contains highlights from the musi-cal "Poe"-try that he co-wrote about the 

macabre life and works of Edgar Allan 
Poe. Reed seems to consider Poe a kindred 
spirit and draws parallels between their 
works in his liner notes. "I have reread 
and rewritten Poe to ask the same ques­
tions again. Who am I? Why am I drawn to do what I should not? ... Why do we love what we cannot have? Why do we have a passion for exactly the wrong thing?" 
The multi-genred album that results from Recd's obsession with Poe combines rock, gospel and acoustic tracks with read­ings of the poet's works, most of which have been filtered through Reed's imagination causing slight variations in the text. 
The album features guest artists such as Steve Buscemi, William Dafoe, David Bowie and The Blind Boys of Alabama, among others. 
While The Raven definitely wins points for originality, one could undoubtedly see it joining the ranks of cult classics such as Rocky Horror Picture Show or The Evil Dead due to its bizarre nature. Like those cult favorites, The Raven forces listeners to ask, "\'\That the hell would cause someone to write this?" 
For all practical purposes, The Raven is merely an oddity, con­taining very little music of any worth. Unlike The Who's Tommy, a 
concept a I b um based on a somewhat similar idea; The Raven lacks both a central narrative and the continuity nec­essary to make the album coherent. The album is so baflling that even after listen­ing to it only once, one cannot help but be emotionally drained. 
The album opens with a frenetic track called "Edgar Allan Poe" on which Reed frantically chants, "These are the stories of Edgar Allan Poe / Not exactly the boy next door / He'll tell you tales of horror / Then he'll play with your mind / If you haven't heard of him/You must be deaf or blind." Luckily, the album mellows out somewhat after this track, but the strangeness of it pervades the entire album. 
Although there is no doubt that Reed is passionate about his work. the best tracks occur when he hands the microphone over to his collaborators. The most enjoyable and straightforward song on the album is "Broadway Song," containing actor Steve Buscemi's stint as a lounge singer. William Dafoe gives a haunting reading of Poe's "The Haven" backed by eerie string instru­mentation. 

Stretching popular music to the break­ing point, Reed's The Haven is the most confusing album to be released in a very long time. Although a few of the tracks merit at least one listen, the majority of the album is reserved solely for hardcore Reed or Poe fans. But those without an existent appreciation for these artists will not gain one here, and Poe fans may not appreciate the changes that Reed makes to Poe's writings. Most likely, The Haven will leave the average listener saying, "Huh?" 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumbrink. I@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
'Rock and road' with McCartney 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
First there was the tour -fans went nuts. Next came the live album -fans rev­eled in the glory. Thirdly came the televi­sion special -fans relived their memories. 

And now, the DVD has come. Fans have 
endless access to one of the greatest shows 
of all time. whenever they want. \'\Tho is the 
source of so many treasures? Paul 
McCartney, of course. As the executive producer of this Back in the U.S. Concert Film DVD, McCartney managed to pack all the excitement and 
musical genius his 2002 concert tour brought to the United States into three hours of music. mayhem and one hell of a backstage pass. 
McCartney romps through his set list song by song, in the very order he delivered them in his con­certs. The show starts off with the often-overlooked charmer, "Hello, Goodbye," which carries into a crowd-favorite from his solo years, "Jet." "All My Loving," comes next with a neat splicing of audience shots with fans from the current tour along side screaming Beatlemaniacs from concerts in the early '60s. Amusingly, the screaming 15-year-old girls of the '60s have now morphed into mid­dle-aged women, but their love for the "cute Beatie" and their energy certainly have not faded. 
Another song this concert DVD showcases is the lovely, "Blackbird." McCartney gives fans a little background on the song as the band clears the stage for his solo part of the show, "The song I'm gonna sing now was written in the '60s when there was a lot of trouble in America, particularly in 
the southern 
states, over civil rights. I don't know if any of you know, but in England we call girls 'birds.' I kind of wrote this song with that in mind." 

Some of the most interesting parts of the DVD besides the music are the shots of the audience. The diversity of the fan base, from 7-year-olds decked out in Sgt. Pepper suits, to old folks dancing with their canes. shows how influ­ential McCartney and the rest of the Beatles were in both music and people's personal lives. "Macca-mania" is evident with neatly interspersed clips of fans from every age group sporting Beatie tattoos, Beatie surfboards, McCartney blow-up dolls. personalized Beatie license plates and hand painted Beatie artwork. Showing just how magical McCartney is, there are even shots of a few celebrities, for example John Cusack, dancing in the audience. 
In addition to the fans and the music, Back in the U.S. also includes interviews with the band members, a backstage tour, the sound check, and a peek at the pre­show, which has McCartney and the other musicians warming up their vocals in a bathroom. 

In one of the side clips on the DVD, Hadio DJ Murphy Huston asked McCartney. "\'\Then you were young and back with the Beatles it was about fame and money. Now you have all of that, all that success. \'\That's it about now?" McCartney quips right back with his celebrated Beatie-wit, "Fame and money." But, it certainly seems to be more than that. As this DVD proves, McCartney's devotion to his rans is equivalent to their devotion to him. 
Back in the U.S. provides McCartney fans with an intimate look into the "rock n' road" life of this former Beatie. The experi­ence of touring McCartney's life in his luxu­rious dressing room, in the back seat of his limousine. in his wardrobe and, of course, onstage, can be seen no where else. The only thing that could be better would be to have a job as a personal attendant to McCartney on the tour. 
Contact Julie Bender at bender. IO@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Pierce leads Celtics to 111-110 victory 
Tracy McGrady and kept him times he kicked the ball back 
Associated Press 

under his league-leading scor­out and ended the first half ing average. with eight assists and 11
MEMPHIS. Tenn. 
What they couldn't do was points on 3-of-7 shooting. 
Paul Pierce, who missed 
prevent the Orlando star from Chicago staged a mini-rallyBoston's last two games with controlling the game with his in the fourth quarter with a
lower back pain, scored 31 

other talents and leading the 12-4 run to get within nine. 
points and grabbed 13 
Magic to another victory. But McGrady went baselinerebounds Monday night as the ·"I've received double•teams for a dunk, hit a juniper andCeltics held on for a 111-110 for a while now and I know made four free throws before
victory over the Memphis 
how to handle that," McGrady Garrity hit a 3-pointer as theGrizzlies. 
said after scoring 26 points. Magic regained control. 
Pierce connected on l 2-of-19 
tying a career high with 13 "He's amazing,"Orlando
from the field as the Celtics 
assists and getting nine coach Doc Rivers said of
won for the third time in four rebounds as the Magic beat McGrady. "He didn't have a 
games. The loss snapped a 
the Bulls for their sixth win in good shooting night and he
three•game home winning 
seven games. was still one rebound awaystreak for the Grizzlies. 
"I know where my guys are from a triple-double. I thoughtMemphis was within three, on the weakside and if they down the stretch he took the108-105, when Jason Williams want to double, fine. It's not game over." 
missed a layup and Pau Gasol about me going out and trying
missed the follow•up jam with Kings 107, 76ers 99 
to score 30 or 40 points. I'm
26 seconds left. Tony Battie Chris Webber had 29 points,
just trying to get the win. I'm
made one free throw and J.R. 10 rebounds and eight assists
sacrificing when they double." 
Bremer two for Boston before and the Sacramento Kings
McGrady shot just 6-of-19
a 3-pointer by Memphis' Shane snapped the Philadelphia
but had eight of his points in
Battier with under a second 76ers' season-best nine-game
the final 4:45 to fight off a
remaining accounted for the winning streak. 
final Bulls rally. 
final score. Allen Iverson had 35 points,
"He did a good job with his
Bremer helped keep the five rebounds, five steals and
assists and knew where io find 
Celtics ahead in the fourth four assists as the Sixers lost
his guys,"Chicago's Donyell
quarter, when he scored 10 of for the first time since the All­
Marshall said. 
his 23 points. Bremer was 5-Star break.
"He's 6-foot-8 and sees over
of-6 from 3-point range in the Iverson scored six straight
guys and they've got good
game. Antoine Walker added points during a late 8-0 run,
spot-up shooters, "Chicago
17 points and 14 rebounds for including a 3-pointer with 3:34
coach Bill Cartwright said. 
Boston, but was 8-of-24 from left that pulled Philadelphia
Benefiting from the focus on
the field. within 94-92. The Sixers took
McGrady, Orlando's Pat
Seven Grizzlies finished in the lead briefly at 95-94 but
Garrity scored 21 points, mak­
double figures led by Gasol's couldn't hold it. 
ing five 3-pointers. Gordon
23 points and 17 rebounds. Peja Stojakovic made two
Giricek scored 18, Darrell
Battier had a season-high 21 key baskets and Doug Christie
Armstrong 14 and Drew
points, while Wesley Person scored off a steal of the Sixers'
Gooden 13 for the Magic. Jalen
added 18. inbounds pass following a
Rose led the Bulls with 24
The Celtics opened a 13-timeout.
points and Donyell Marshall
point first-half lead and led Eric Snow, who has been
had 15.
67-62 at the break. Pierce led doing almost everything right
After the game, frustrated
the way, hitting eight of his 10 recently, missed two free
Chicago rookie Jay Williams,
shots for 19 points. throws at 2:10, and the Sixers
who went scoreless in 22 min­
Gasol hit 8-of-9 from the were sloppy with the ball in
utes, suggested that it was
floor for 16 points in the open­the final minutes. 
time the 21-41 Bulls made
ing half, while Person added Webber, one game after
some changes.
11. scoring 36 points and grabbing 
"You lose so many games,
Both teams shot well in the nine rebounds in a loss at San game winning streak. points, 64-57. but Webber had
it's definitely frustrating. It
first half, the Celtics connect­Antonio, scored 23 of his Philadelphia last won in 15 points in the quarter to
makes you second guess your­
ing on 64 percent, while points after halftime and Sacramento on Dec. 30, 2000, keep the Kings in it. lverson's
self and everything else going
Memphis hit 57 percent. 
Bobby Jackson had nine of his 107-104 in overtime. three-point play with 7.2 sec­on here,"said Williams, the No.
Boston would finish with 53 2 pick in last year's draft. 18 points in the fourth quar­Jim Jackson's 3-pointer for onds left in the period gave percent from the field, while ter. Sacramento with 9:33 left tied Philadelphia a 77-76 lead
"Maybe it's time to do things
Memphis shot 48 percent. During its winning streak, the game at 81, then Webber heading into the final quarter.
differently."
The Grizzlies were able to 
Meanwhile, Orlando rookies Philadelphia averaged 107.6 scored consecutive baskets The Sixers missed eight of take their first lead of the Gooden and Giricek provided a points a game and limited and Jackson made a reverse their first 10 shots, but still 
game midway through the 
opponents to 95.6 points. The layup for an 87-83 lead with shot 54.5 percent in the firstspark. Gooden had six pointsthird period on a 3-pointer by and Giricek five in a 20-6 run Sixers were shooting 47.8 per­6:35 remarnrng. Bobby quarter and 44.2 percent for 
Battier. With Pierce on the 
to start the third quarter as cent during the streak, but Jackson hit a 3 at 5:34 to the half. They Jed 52-51 at bench, Boston struggled offen­the Magic pulled out to a 17 -shot 46.3 percent to make it 90-83. halftime sively and Memphis built the point lead. Sacramento's 52.6. Van Horn returned to the Stojakovic scored seven lead to 82-79. 
McGrady, who was averaging Only two of their victories lineup after missing Sunday's points in a 9-2 run that gaveBut Boston would score the 31.2 points entering the game, came against teams with win­win at Denver because of a the Kings a 10-point lead, 19­last six points of the quarter had scorched the Bulls for 52 ning records -they beat New stomach virus and finished 9, with 4:25 left in the first and take an 87-84 lead into points in just 33 minutes when Jersey on Feb. 16 and the with 17 points and seven quarter. Then Van Hornthe final period. 
the teams met 10 days ago, Utah Jazz on Friday. rebounds. scored five points during an Magic 104, Bulls 89 going 15-of-32 from the field. The Kings have won four Iverson scored back-to-back 11-0 Sixers' run. 
The Chicago Bulls accom­Every time McGrady drove to straight against Philadelphia baskets early in the third The Kings are 13-0 against plished this much Monday the basket this time, the Bulls and 12 of the last 13 at Arco quarter as the Sixers built the Eastern Conference at night: they double-teamed collapsed on him. So several Arena, where they have a five-their biggest lead of seven home. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces, The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 
FOR SALE 
4-bdrm, 2-balh home. close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144 

WANTED 
Summer Job-North Shore suburban Chicago Financial Planning and Investment Management Firm seeks serious student for full lime summer internship. Skills required: excellent Excel and courteous com­munication. Demands utmost dis­cretion and reliability. Resume and professors references required. Please send inquiries, interview availability in Chicago, and resume to ccberto@aol.com. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol com 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrenlals@aol.com 272­1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
LIVE IN AGREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773097 
Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & 
St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm sys!,washer/dryer. Can email picts. 
Calli Joe Crimmins @ 273­0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. 
$650/m negotiable. 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don I go ii alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
25? 25? I say that's underperfor­mancel 
Tahiti-sand, sun, and, well, other good things. 
How many days to spring break? Oh yeah, that's right 5 
Why is the floor as low as I can go? 
Cathy -you're gonna do great on Thursday! Tell your cast to break a leg. 
K-Dogg-Happy Mardi Grasl We'll just have to bring a little New Orleans to you tonight! 
Who's done? l'mdonel 
L 

Tuesday, March 4, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 
Cavs say they still haven't quit 
Associ2ted Press 
CLEVEIAND 

Hicky Davis doesn't care what Tracy McGrady thinks or what Himbo Coles or anyone eL'>c has to say. The Cleveland Cavaliers haven't quit, and they're not losing on purpose this season to get LeBron James. 
Those charges have stung Davis more than any one of Cleveland's 48 losses. 
"It hurts a lot to hear that," Davis said. 
Following Sunday's game, McGrady accused the Cavs of giving up during the third quartor of Orlando's 102-76 win. The Magic outscored Cleveland 39-12 in the period. 
"They quit." McGrady said. 
Davis, the club's leading scorer, defended his team­mates following practice Monday. 
"I don't think guys have quit, jfs just a long season," Davis said. "There's a lot of frustra­tion. It's real tough .... I never. never, never experienced something like this, and I never want to experience it again." 
The Cavs have lost eight of nine, dropping them to an NBA-worst 11-48. At the moment, Cleveland has the best chance of winning the lot­tery· and selecting Akron's James, the nation's top high school player, in the June draft. 
However, Davis said losing games to get James is prepos­terous. 
"I've been hearing it from the beginning of the year," Davis said. "I've been hearing it from my family. I don't know, man. It's something 
•
Study in the 

nation's capital 

•Work 
in an internship 

•
Fulitll philosophy, theology, and rme arts requirement •Open to 

• 
Study public Sophomores, 


affairs Juniors, and Seniors from
•Live in an exciting city all colleges 
John Eriksen, Director 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 
·-:: www.nd.edu/-sen1ester · 

ND staff er George Kelly dies at age 75 

about Cleveland. We just got to get it together.'' On his way out the door, Coles slammed the Cavaliers. 
The 34-year-old guard was waived Friday by Cleveland, which bought out the remain­der of his $2.4 million salary this season and his option for next season. 
Coles accused Cavs' manage­ment of being dishonest with players and said he would advise free agents to stay away from Cleveland. 
"You can't trust anyone in upper management," Coles told The Plain Dealer. "If you're in the room with them and you plan to walk out, you better face them backing out so you won't get stabbed in the back.'' 
Cavs general manager Jim Paxson declined to comment when reached by The Associated Press. 
Cavs interim coach Keith Smart believes his team is still going all out and working hard in practice. He called McGrady's comments were off the mark. 
"They didn't quit," Smart said. "When we got into the fourth quarter we were playing some good basketball. It's unfortunate how we played in the third quarter. Our guys didn't quit. 
"I've been around teams that have gone the other way and I have not sensed that with our team." 
Special to The Observer 
George Kelly, special assis­tant to the athletic director and a 34-year member of the Notre Dame athletic staff, died at his home tonight fol­lowing a short illness. He was 75. 
Probably best known as a 17-year assistant football coach from 1969-85 for Irish head coaches Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine and Gerry Faust, Kelly most recently worked as a liaison with athletic director Kevin White's office in terms of football and basketball operations, working particu­larly in the football schedul­ing area. 
He shifted into the adminis­trative wing beginning in '86 after coaching a long list of AH•America inside lineback­ers since first joining_the Irish football staff in 1969. A key figure in molding a long series of top-notch defensive units, he developed 13 line­backers selected to perform at the professional level. 
"George understood the fiber of Notre Dame as well as anyone I've met since I've come to South Bend," said White. 
"He spanned the decades as far as the University was con­cerned, and there was hardly anyone connected with Notre Dame, especially from the football standpoint, that George didn't touch. There's no way to measure his love for Notre Dame, much less all the contributions he has made to the University over the years. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1953, Kelly remained in South Bend and joined the football staff at St. Joseph's High School. The fol­lowing year he assumed the head football coaching reins at the school and spent three years in that capacity. 
Kelly jumped to the colle­giate ranks following the 1956 season, beginning as an assistant coach at Marquette. He moved to Nebraska where he spent eight seasons (1961­1968) as an assistant under Husker head coaches Bill Jennings and Bob Devaney. With Kelly a key member of the Nebraska brain trust, the Huskers led the nation in total defense in 1963 and 1967 and had a combined record of 59-16. He joined the Parseghian staff following the '68 season. Kelly coached under three head coaches who are members of the College Football Hall of Fame -Devaney. Parseghian and Devine. 
Among the standout Irish linebackers he coached wei-e all-stars Bob Olson ('69 cap­tain), Greg Collins {'74 cap­tain). Bob Golie ('7 8 captain) and Bob Crable ('80-'81 cap­tain). The Irish defense ranked among the top 10 nationally six times during his tenure, including 1974 when it ranked first (195.2 yards per game). 
Kelly has received numer­ous awards, including the 1989 Harvey Foster Award, given by the Notre Dame Alumni Association; in 1990, a University of Notre Dame Special Presidential Award; in 1991, the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Award of the Year; in 1993, the Moose Krause Award from the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and the Edward Krause Distinguished Citizen Award, given by the Notre Dame Quarterback Club; and in 1997 the Moose Krause Award by the Notre Dame National Monogram Club as its member of the year. 
Born July 6, 1927 in Rockford, Ill., Kelly and his wife, the former Gloria Haddad, have four children: Barbara Gorbitz, Patti, Lori (Mrs. Ronald Janowczyk) and Kevin (who is married to the former Carrie Reda), who graduated from the University in '85 after earning four monograms as the Irish spe­cial-teams center. 
Funeral arrangements are pending, with details avail­able through the Notre Dame Sports Information Office. 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Cake Service ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants
!
!Applications available outside the Student Activities Offico, 31 S Lafortune ar an-line at www.nd.edu/-sao/office/jobs, 
APPLICAT!l.)l'tc:S DUE MARCH 28. 
-

page 14 Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Hargrove still coping with decade-old tragedy 
Associated Press 

FORT LAUDERDALE. Fla. 
A decade had passed since the tragedy, and Mike Hargrove still has vivid flash­backs of his most somber experience in baseball. 
Hargrove was beginning his third season as manager of the Cleveland Indians in March 1993 when two of the team's most popular pitchers, Tim Crews and Steve Olin, were killed in a boating acci­dent. A third Cleveland pitch­er, Bobby Ojeda, survived with severe head injuries. 
"I relive 10 years ago three or four times a year," Hargrove says. 
Since Baltimore Orioles pitching prospect Steve Bechler died of heatstroke on Feb. 17, Hargrove has been dealing with the same emo­tions he felt in 1993: remorse, guilt and sadness. 
"It's certainly brought back all the bad feelings," he says. 
Hargrove still has trouble coping with the deaths of Crews and Olin. 
"I don't think dealing with one tragedy like that neces­sarily prepares you for the next one. Hopefully, you don't have a next one, but if there is a next one, it lets you know how better to be there for people and not necessarily expect them to act a certain way. Everybody reacts differ­ently and handles it different­ly. Beyond that, I don't think you ever get used to handling grief." 
After Crews and Olin died, Hargrove couldn't help think­ing the accident would never have happened if the team held a practice that morning. It was the last time that spring he gave the players a day off. 
Now, yet again, he wonders if he could have done some­thing to prevent the death of Bechler. 
The pitcher reported to camp overweight, struggled during the early drills and col­lapsed while running near the end of a workout. 
Dr. Joshua Perper, a Florida medical examiner, said a pre­liminary autopsy revealed the use of ephedra as a contribut­ing factor in his death. Perper also cited a history of border­line high blood pressure, liver abnormalities detected two years ago, warm and humid weather, and a lack of solid food in the pitcher's stomach. 
But Hargrove has replayed Bechler's final days in his mind on countless occasions, assessing his own responsibil­ity while striving to make sure that nothing like that ever happens again. 
"You always think, is there something I missed? Is there anything different that I or we could have done? I've gone over it 15,000 times in my mind, and given the indica­tions that we had, we did what we felt was the right thing," he says. "And it was the right thing. Certainly, you can't see into the future." 
Hargrove says he pulled Bechler from a running ses­sion on the second day of camp after the pitcher com­plained of stomach pains. The following day, Bechler again struggled to complete the workout, and finally col­lapsed. Ile died the next day. 
Hargrove can only hope the Orioles respond better than the 1993 Indians. 
"It changed the whole chem­istry of the team," says Sandy Alomar Jr., the starting catch­er on that Cleveland team. "We never recovered that year because of the way it hap­pened -three guys in a boat on a day off." 
Alomar, now a member of the Chicago White Sox, can only imagine how badly Hargrove must feel in the wake of Bechler's death. 
"The first thing I thought was my heart goes out to the manager," he says. "Man, that's the second time he's going through that." 
It never gets any easier. The one question that Hargrove has attempted to avoid asking himself is: Why me? 
"You sit there and start try­ing to figure out why it's been two times," he says, "and you drive yourself nuts." 


Tuesday, March 4, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Brow-n resigns after
Teams banned from postseason 
Associated rre•S 
OLPAN,N.Y. 

St. Bonaventure must forfeit six Atlantic 10 Conference victo­ries and is barred from the league's postseason tournament for using an ineligible player. 
The sanctions were deter­
mined Monday by the league's 
12 presidents. 
Junior center Jamil Terrell was declared ineligible Feb. 27 for failing to meet NCAA junior college transfer guidelines. The school said it was petitioning the A-10 to have Terrell reinstated, declining to say what guidelines were cited. 
"This is a very uncharacteris­tic problem regarding one of our institutions and our presidents are determined that something like this never happen again," Atlantic 10 commissioner Llnda Bruno said. 
Terrell is averaging 6. 9 poinlS and is the leading shot-blocker for St. Bonaventure, whose record after the penalties drops to 1-13 in the league while its overall record remains 13-14. 
He joined the Bonnies last year after two seasons at Coastal Georgia Community College. He started 18 of 25 games before sitting out Wednesday's 94-89 overtime victory over George Washington. I le was declared ineligible a day later. 
St. Bonaventure president Hobert Wickenheiser took responsibility for approving the transfer. 
"I want to emphasize that none of these actions indicate any wrongdoing by Jamil Terrell," he said. 
Coach Jan Van Breda Kolffleft after practice and referred questions to school spokesman David Ferguson. Ferguson said the players were "devastated" and would not speak with the media. 
The men's program in 1968 drew probation for one year for a recruiting violation. In 1993, the women's program was placed on two years' probation. 
Fresno State 
Fresno State banned its mens basketball team from playing in the postseason this year after the school confirmed allegations of academic fraud. 
The Bulldogs (20-6. 13-3 Western Athletic Conference) already has clinched the regu­1ar-se as on league title, 1999-2000 season under former 
pornography charges 
coach Jerry Tarkanian. 
While the specific violations were not revealed Monday, Welty announced that most of the allegations were true. 
"\i\'hilc r regret having to take an action that is so hurtful to our current team, it is consistent wiih NCAA precedent, and I believe it is in the best long-term interest of the basketball pro­gram and the university," he said. 
"Doing it now puts our pro­gram in the best possible posi­tion to enter next year with a clean slate," he added. "Most importantly, it demonstrates to the NCAA that we are dealing 
but they "I regret that this severe with this prob-
in support of the complaint,
1em in the

won't be per­
U.S. Postal Inspection Service
action will affect student 
most serious

mitted to play 
investigators seized two com­
athletes, staffand manner."
in the confer­
puters from Brown's home and 
ence tourna­coaches who were utterly Mintz told 
one from his office Jan. 24.
The Fresno

ment, the 
unconnected to the 
Visual images of minors
Bee in

NCAA tour­
engaged in sexually explicit
problem." February that
nament or 
conduct were found on them,
he wrote and

the NIT. 
according to the criminal com­
delivered 17

"I regret John D. Welty 
plaint.
that this pieces of 
The affidavit alleges that

Fresno State president
severe action course work in 
will affect student athletes, staff and coaches who were utterly unconnected to the problem," university president John D. Welty said Monday. "However, it is important that this institution guarantee its academic integri­ty. We simply will not tolerate academic misconduct in any form." 
In mid-February, former bas­ketball team statistician Stephen Mintz said he was enlisted to take part in a scheme to write papers in exchange for cash for three members of the school's basketball team during the After officers seized the com­puters from his home, Brown returned to basketball practice at Hilton Coliseum. 
That evening, Brown told investigators he had destroyed the floppy disks at work, saying he was "concerned someone would find evidence on the disks," according to the affi­davit. 
Brown acknowledged he was warned not to destroy evidence, "but that he had a 'lapse of judgment' and did a 'stupid' thing,"' Marshall wrote. 
Investigators seized what was left of the diskettes. 
A conviction on the posses­sion charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and the obstruction of justice charge carries a maximum of up to 10 years in prison, the 
U.S. attorney's office said. 
A telephone message left Monday at Brown's home was not immediately returned. 
ISU basketball coach Larry Eustachy said Brown had resigned, effective immediately, and that the university had accepted his resignation. 
Athletic department 

-
spokesman Tom Kroeschell said Iowa State coaches and players would have no further comment. 

2000 for three players -Courtney Alexander, Terrance Roberson and Dennis Nathan -and was paid $1,500 for his work. 
Alexander, who now plays for the New Orleans Hornets, faxed a statement to a Fresno televi­sion station after Mintz went public with the charges. 
"I categorically deny that Mr. 

Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 

Iowa State assistant men's basketball coach Randall Brown resigned Monday after he was charged with possession of child pornography and obstruction of justice. 
Brown, 45, remains free pending an initial court appear­ance March 11, said Al Overbaugh, spokesman for the 
U.S. attorney's office in Des Moines. At that time. a prelimi­nary hearing date will be set and a judge will set bond. 
According to an affidavit filed 

after Brown was contacted by investigators, he destroyed about 30 floppy disks that con­tained additional images. 
In the affidavit, Inspector W. Kevin Marshall said he spoke to Brown on the afternoon of Jan. 24 and Brown agreed to coop­erate with the investigation. 
Students at Notre Dame 
7 :30 -9:30 pm 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Sttident Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-1\!Io. Everyone is welcome. and confidentiality is assured. 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 

Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

Defending champion Andre Agassi was upset in the first round of the Franklin Templeton Tennis Classic on Monday by wild card Thomas Enqvist 6-7 (6), 6-4, 6-1. 
The defeat snapped Agassi's 12-0 start this year after win­ning the Australian Open and in San Jose. It was his best start since winning his first 15 matches in 1995. Enqvist, who is 5-4 in his career against Agassi, snapped that run as well. winning in three sets in Philadelphia. 
"I've played him a few times, too, when he killed me," Enqvist said. "But I think I like to play when the ball comes fast to me, and Andre has been hitting the ball extremely hard." 
In an earlier upset, Cecil Mamiit beat eighth-seeded Xavier Malisse of Belgium 7-6 (5), 7-6 (3). 
"My game plan today was to come in and work his back­hand," said Mamiit, a Los Angeles native who was ranked 114th to Malisse's 25th. "I needed to be mobile." 
Taylor Dent beat Homanian Andrei Pavel 6-3, 7-5, David Sanchez of Spain eliminated Nicolas Massu of Chile 3-6. 6­3, 6-4 and Franco Squillari of Argentina defeated Davide Sanguinetti of Italy 6-3, 6-2. 
Enqvist hurt his right shoul-Mintz ever wrote a paper for me," Alexander's statement 

TENNIS
said. "All he did was type papers for me, for which he was fairly compensated. [Mintz] obviously is trying to make a name for himselfat my expense." 
Agassi upset by 
Enqvist in 1stround 
der last year and wasn't able to play a match after the U.S. Open. He came to Scottsdale ranked 73rd after going win­ning just one of seven matches this year. 
But the 28-year-old Swede has regained his powerful serve and showed it. 
Agassi seemed to have the upper hand when he won went ahead 6-0 in the tiebreaker. But Enqvist stormed back to tie it, only to double-fault on his last serve before Agassi hit a backhand cross-court winner to end the first set. 
"After coming back and get­ting a second chance to tie it up and then hit a double-fault, of course it was very disap­pointing," Enqvist said. 
He recovered to break Agassi in the first and fifth games of the second set. Agassi broke back to cut his deficit to 4-2. On set point, Enqvist blasted a hard serve that Agassi hit weakly into the net. 
Enqvist also broke Agassi three times in the third set to pick up his best win since defeating then-No. 2 Pete Sampras in the 2000 quarter­finals at Indian Wells. 
"He got the early break in each set, and I just think that a guy like him. when he's feel­ing the momentum, he starts hitting it bigger and hitting it closer to the line," said Agassi. a four-time Scottsdale winner. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
GOLF 
Woods remains in a world all his own 
Associated Press 
CARLSBAD. Calif. 

The idea behind the World Golf Championships was to bring together the best players from every tour on every conti­nent. 
Tiger Woods remains in a world all his own. 
The final trophy in his collec­tion of world titles came Sunday at La Costa when Woods captured the Match Play Championship with some dra­matic moments that he could have done without. 
Woods expected a gutsy comeback from David Toms. 
What he never imagined was a bee landing in front of the hole and knocking a pivotal birdie putt off line. Equally sur­prising were his own mistakes under pressure, which made him toil longer that he wanted. 
"This was one tough week," 
Woods said. Next up: A two-week break. Woods decided to skip the 
Dubai Desert Classic and $2 million in appearance money, saying it was too close to Iraq
-and not safe enough for him to travel. "Going overseas in this par­ticular year, right now. espe­cially in that part of the world, is a little tough for me," he said. He finished off Toms on the 35th hole, hitting a 7-iron 195 yards -it was only supposed to go 188 yards -and saving par from the bunker to win 2 and 1. Woods never trailed the entire day. He played 112 holes over six rounds, the fewest among any winner in the five-year history of the Accenture Match Play Championship. That didn't make it any easi­er. Woods built a 4-up lead after the morning round, increased it to as many as five holes and then had to grind as hard as ever to claim his first match­play title as a professional. "This is the hardest to win," Woods said. "Yeah, it's physi­cally grueling, but I think it's more mentally grueling because of the ebb and flow of match play. If we had to do this every week, every pro's playing career would be about 10 years." Toms, a former PGA champi­on who squeezes everything from his game until it's time to stop playing, gave Woods a bat­tle that no one expected. Woods was relentless from the start, belting his drives long and straight to apply enormous 
pressure on Toms. Woods fre­quently drove the ball 25 yards past Toms, and his approach into 5 feet for birdie on No. 1 -the 19th hole of the match -put him 5 up. 
'Tm not going to quit," Toms said. "That's not my nature. We're on national TV and I wanted to last a long time. I didn't want to be embarrassed. When he got 5 up, l just had to dig deep and not give in." 
Woods promptly hit into 8 feet for a birdie chance on the next hole, and it looked as though the rout was on. 
Instead, Toms rolled in a birdie putt from 35 feet to win the hole, then won the next with a 10-foot birdie as Woods took three putts for par from 40 feet. 
Woods must have figured the odds were stacked against him. Trying to make a 15-foot birdie putt to win the fourth hole in the afternoon and. regain momentum, he looked up after his putt and saw a bee land in front of the cup. 
The ball rolled over the bee and hopped slightly, just enough to throw it off line. Woods settled for par, and spared the bee. 
"I didn't kill it. I sure thought about it, though," he said. 'Tm sure the animal rights society would have gotten on me." 
It couldn't have done more harm than Woods wanted to inflict on himself. Having played 102 holes with only two bogeys, he promptly bogeyed two in a row. 
The first was a 5-foot par putt that rimmed around the cup. The second was a 4-iron that sailed right of the ninth green (27th hole) into deep rough. 
"Giving him those holes back­to-back like that with bogeys ... you just can't do that in match play," Woods said. 
He should know. 
Woods was the master of match play before turning pro, winning three straight U.S. Junior Amateur titles and three straight U.S. Amateurs. 
He was 0-4 as a professional -stronger fields have some­thing to do with that -but he didn't forget the strategy, not to mention timing. that brought him so much success. 
Having badly missed a 20­foot birdie putt on No. 11 -his lead down to 1 up -Woods realized his shoulders were not aligned properly. He hit a few practice putts, then faced a 12­foot birdie putt on the 13th hole. 
"I said. 'You did the work two holes ago, go ahead and trust it.' And I poured it right in the 
Pete, 

00MPA L00MPA D00MPA 
DEE 000 

Happy 21st Birthday 
to you! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Gina, Maria and Brian 


middle," Woods said. 

Another birdie by Toms on the 15th brought him within one hole, but he came up short on the par-3 16th and had to scramble for par, then lost any hope with a drive into rough and an approach shot that was buried in deep grass left of the green. 
"When he plays good. he 
wins. We all know that," Toms said. 
Woods won for the 36th time on the PGA Tour and earned $1,050,000. He took two months off because of knee surgery. and in the three weeks Woods has been back he's won twice and tied for fifth. 
He also became the first play­er to win all four World Golf Championships since their inception in 1999 -three times the NEC Invitational at Firestone, twice the American Express Championship and the 2000 World Cup with David Duval. 
'They're all different in their own right," Woods said. "But I'm extremely happy to win this one. It's pretty cool." 


Announcing the Year 2003 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gifl from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2003 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nommlly be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and musl be applicable to a studenl's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in 
Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-tern, goals  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow  
· 4)  a budget indicating the costs involved  
5)  the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline:  Wednesday, March 26'\ 2003  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at NOTRE DAME 7 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN2 Florida at Georgia 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


ship," team vice president began his head coaching ture in his left leg, and his 
Associated Press 

Elgin Baylor said. career with the La Crosse status for the rest of the "But I reached the con­(Wis.) Bobcats of the CBA season is listed as day to
LOS ANGELES 
clusion Sunday night that in 1999-00. Johnson was day. He has missed threeCoach Alvin Gentry was the players simply were first hired as an assistant consecutive games. 
fired by the Los Angeles not responding. and I with Boston from 1993-97. Center MichaelClippers during a disap­believe a change is neces­Considered one of the Olowokandi underwent
pointing third season 
sary at this time." best defensive players in arthroscopic knee surgeryMonday and replaced by Gentry went 89-133 NBA history. he won titles Feb. 3 and has not beenassistant Dennis Johnson. 
since becoming the with Seattle in 1979 and attending games or prac­The Clippers went into Clippers' coach before the Boston in 1984 and '86 tices during his rehabilita­
Monday night's game 
2000-01 season. Before during a 14-year playing tion. He will become anagainst New Orleans with 
that, he was 73-72 as career. Johnson was MVP unrestricted free agent
a 19-39 record, last in the 
Pacific Division, despite a coach of the Detroit of the NBA Finals in 1979. July 1. Backup guard roster loaded with young Pistons. He also coached The Clippers have some Keyon Dooling is on the talent. the Miami Heat, after 10 of the best young players injured list because of a 
"These decisions are seasons as an assistant in the league, but they've strained left foot. 
never easy, and this one is with three NBA teams. been plagued by losses The Clippers begin a six-especially tough, because Johnson is in his fourth and injuries this season. game road trip Alvin and I had a very season as an assistant Leading scorer Elton Wednesday at good working relation-with the Clippers. He Brand has a stress frac-Washington. 
IN BRIEF 

Return s~cialist Brian Jerry Rice, who has 22,248. free-agent linebacker Shawn Barber Mitchell signs with Giants Most of Mitchell's yardage has to a seven-year deal. 
The Ne_w York Giants on Monday come on kick returns, with 12,897 Barber. who had 93 tackles and signed a four-year deal with return yards on 552 returns. He has two interceptions with the specialist Brian Mitchell, who last returned 434 punts for 4,845 yards, Philadelphia Eagles last year. should year moved past Walter Payton into including a 5-yarder with the Eagles help bolster the Chiefs' awful defense, 
second place on the career list for on Dec. 15 that put him past Payton which allowed more points and combined yardage. on the all-time combined yardage list. yardage last season than any other in 
Mitchell. 34, played the last three His agent, Steve Baker, said: "Brian franchise history. seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles, is excited about staying in the NFC Barber said the deal -the terms of who had hoped to re-sign him. East and the chance to break Jerry which were not disclosed -came 
His deal with the Giants is worth Rice's combined yardage record." together quickly because the Chiefs $3.55 million, with $1.255 million in Mitchell said he was surprised the were the top team on his list and he the first year, including a $500,000 Eagles had not pursued him more was the top linebacker on the team's signing bonus and $725,500 in salary. aggressively after last season, when list. 
"It's a great opportunity for.me," he averaged 12.3 yards per return, "He possesses the skills, abilities 
Mitchell said in a teleconference from on 46 returns for 567 yards. Ile also and experience that should improve Newark Liberty International Airport. returned 43 kickoffs for 1,162 yards, our defense immediately," Chiefs just after inking the deal at Giants for a 27-yard average. He rushed defensive coordinator Greg Peterson 
Stadium. "I hope I can bring the same only once, for 1 yard, and did not said in a statement. "lie has played thing I've been doing. l hope I can catch a pass. with one of the top defenses in the bring my tenacity on the field and NFL in Philadelphia. We look for him keep making right decisions." LB Barberjoins Chiefs in to bring that experience with him to 
Statistically, Mitchell brings 21,987 7-yeardeal our defense." combined yards on kickoff and punt The Kansas City Chiefs took the first Barber said he was drawn to returns, rushes and receptions -sec­step toward revamping their league­Kansas City by head coach Dick ond only to Oakland Raiders receiver worst defense Monday by signing Vermeil. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
WOMENS GOLF 
Rain and rust affect Irish per£ormance 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Between terrible weather con­ditions and rusty golf swings, the womens golf team figured it would struggle in its first outing at tho Edwin Watts/Carolinas Collegiate Classic. While the team's scores were far from their 312 goal, the Irish golfers showed steady improvement over the three days as they tied for 14th in the 22-team field. 
"The weather was really bad," Irish coach Debby King said. "It was raining sideways and was about 35 degrees during our practice round, so we ended up only getting to walk the course. That, combined with our rusty swings, was a bad combination." 
After an opening round 338, the Irish turned in rounds of 333 and 321 for their 992 total, 70 strokes behind tournament win­ner East Carolina. Penn State fin­ished second, with North Carolina-Wilmington, Georgia State, and Jacksonville State rounding out the top five. 
Freshman Sarah Bassett was low for the Irish, finishing tied for 46th with a 246 total (84-79-83). Classmate Katie Brophy was one stroke higher at 247 (86-85-76). Brophy's 76 was the low round of the tournament for the Irish. Sophomore Karen Lotta finished at 248 (81-84-83) while juniors Shannon Byrne and Rebecca Rogers tied with 254. Byrne fired rounds of 89-85-80 while Rogers shot 86-86-84. Rounding out the Irish contingent was freshman Lauren Gebauer who shot 257 (87 -88-82). 
"Sunday wasn't too bad," King said about the third round of the event. "That was our one saving grace, that the scores kept getting better. I really expected we'd be in the 318 to 321 range. We've been practicing inside since Feb. 3, but this is the first time we've played off real grass." 
In addition to the team champi• onship, East Carolina's Jessica Krasny took home medalist hon­ors with a 223 total (73-77-73). She finished one stroke ahead of second round leader Brooke Mangan of Alabama­Birmingham. Katie Futcher of Penn State and Janie Quinn of East Carolina tied for third at 227. 
The Irish will continue the spring portion of their schedule on March 10 at the Peggy Kirk Bell Invitational in Orlando. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroege@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Ultimate team. thrives at Mardi Gras Invite 
Special to The Observer 
Baton Rouge hosted the 10th annual Mardi Gras Invite this weekend, and the Notre Dame ultimate club thrived in the fes­tive atmosphere. The Irish opened on Saturday with victo­ries against Whitman College, 15-11, and Winona State, 15-12, to earn a third-round bye. The Irish returned to action with impressive afternoon victories over Texas Graze, 15-7, and Georgia State, 15-5. The Irish dropped their next game to fourth-seeded Georgia, 13-12, in a game that came down to the end. In the consolation, the Irish were doomed to suffer another 13-12 heartbreaker to Illinois. 
Womens Water Polo 
Stepping up in competition, the Notre Dame womens water polo club played several of the Midwest's best this weekend at the Purdue Invitational. In their best performance to date, the Irish opened the tournament with a 7-5 upset of 10th ranked Illinois. After defeating Purdue B. 13-2, the Irish dropped a 16-1 contest to third ranked Purdue. Instead of hanging their heads, the club bounced hack to defeat arch rival Miami (Ohio) 5-4 to close the tournament. 
Womens Ice Hockey 
Although continuing to show marked improvement, the Notre Dame womens ice hockey club dropped a pair of CCWHA games this weekend to Michigan. In Friday's contest, the Irish trailed 1-0 after one period and deep into the second period. Allison Ricci and Lizzy Coghill skated in on goal with Coghill tipping in Ricci's rebound with three sec­onds left to knot the score at one. The Wolverines scored twice within twelve seconds of the third period to take a 4-1 victory. 
Sunday's rematch was a mirror image as the teams were again squared at one after two periods. Megan Mattia scored at 13:02 in the second period for the lone Irish goal. Again, the Michigan depth and experience was evi­dent as the Wolverines scored three goals in the latter half of the third period, once on a 5 on 3 advantage, and one empty netter with nine seconds on the clock. 
Salling 
Temperatures in the seventies and winds of 12-15 knots greeted the Notre Dame sailing duh in St. Petersburg, Fla. this weekend as the chili competed in the Eckerd Tntersectional. The Irish finished ninth, as host Eckerd won the regatta, followed in order by Boston College, Texas A&M, Rollins, South Florida, Florida, and Florida State in the top eight places. The Irish fmished ahead of Virginia, Tennessee. and Emory. Sailors competed in four races, sailing 420's. 
Mens Volleyball 
The Notre Dame mens volley­ball club continued its midseason slump, dropping four of five con­tests this weekend. The Irish lost to Ball State, 25-17, 25-19; Marquette, 25-22, 25-18, Chicago, 20-25, 25-17, 15-13; and Dayton, 25-13, 25-20. The lone Irish win was against Platteville, 18-24, 25-22, 15-12. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 

this season while making sure the rest of her team gets time with ball, falling among the top five in the Big East in assists, with 6.38 per game. 
With that in mind, the Irish arc hoping to shut down the lift the Orangewomen got from their win against Pittsburgh. 
"I think our chemistry helps us get through the rough spots in the season," LaVere said. "And this season has had its ups and 
downs, and we're kind of on a high." Notre Dame hopes that high will continue. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 



Tuesday, March 4, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans:"( Illl l I J" THE ( I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: HONEY KEYED INVEST PHYSIC Answer: What the reliever did when the starter got hurt -"PITCHED" IN 



EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 lV's Science 69 Destitute 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Chastity Bono, Emilio Estefan, PatsyGuy 70 It may be 
Kensit, Paula Prenti~
1 Representatives from farm 33 Get rid of slapped 
Happy Birthday: You will face challenges to your plans, so be prepared to adapt
states, e.g. 34 Yours, in Tours 71 Fixes 
so that you don't lose Immentum. You may not want to leave whatever you are working5 Belafonte or 36 Slugger's 72 Bonds on in the hands of someone else, but doing so wiU only prove how valuable you are. Be Lewis opportunity 73 Get smart gooo to yourselfand so will everyone around you. Yournwnbers are 2, 17, 21, 36,44, 48 
10 Not handle 40 Smithsonian 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be ready to take on anything and anyone today.
gently attraction 
DOWN Your intent will be financially oriented with the purpose of acquiring extra cash to 14 Medical 44 Kind of opposite have some fwi. You will be respected for your wit. honesty and integrity in your
1 Punishment for 
symptom dealing;. -Jett
45 Hoosegow a sailor, maybe 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make headway in all aspects of your life
15 Hercules 46 Nutritionist's fig. 2 Punishment for 
today if you mix busine~. pleasw-e and personal issues. You can handle ii all if you 
a sailor, maybe
16 Pilot's setting, 47 In honor of are smart and organized. 1rlrlrk perhaps 3 Northern capital 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make financial gains today, but be careful with
49 Cineplex feature 

whom you deal. Be secretive about your intentions and ideas in order to protect
17 Madonna's "La 4 Innocent
52 One who loves 
yourself. tt
Bonita" a good bouquet 5 Exhibitionist 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Welcome a new experience. Being on the receiving
18 Go in circles 
end of knowledge will open your eyes to different lifestyles. Romance is likely to take over. tttt-k 
56 "You don't 6 Frau's mate 
19 Peculiar: Prefix mean me?!" 7 Prefix with 
LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Focus on the job you have to get finished. Be creative in 
20 Author who'll 57_ flash sexual 
your pursuits, but oon't lose sight ofyour criginal plans. tttt 
never make a 58 Pugilist in 8 Singer Bonnie 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Busines.s trips will be succes.sful, as will the partnerships 
name for himself 
you fonn today. You will meet new clients that could tum your life around, so be observant and make your IIDVe. -lrlrlr 
training 9 Apprentice 
23 Publicity, 64 Vexes 10 When Labor 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl 22): Business and partnerships should be your prime
slangily 66 Province Day is 
concern today. Form a gocxl working relationship wilh somebody at either a personal
24 Can opener abutting Madrid celebrated in 
oc business level. Make plans to budget -lrlrlr
France 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Intellectual pursuits will twn into entenainment. wilh
25 Aeschylus' 67 Alluring -by 0.Vtl and DIIIM Epperaon 
the opportunity to meet someooe who could change your life. Be receptive to someooe
"Oresteia," e.g. 11 Part of a TV
68 Morales of "La 37 Outlying district, 48 Move, as a 59"Mon_!" 
who is shy but obviously interested in getting lo know you better. tt-ktt
feed
27 DNA source Bamba" for short picture 80 Start of some 
SAGrrI'ARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let everyone around you distract you from 
inn names 
what it is you are supposed to be accomplishing. Consider your options carefully and 
------------12 Kind of 38 2000 Broadway
operation 50 Inner ear'? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE h't1 61 TV's warrior 
refrain from making ha.5ty decisions. tt -:-:-T-:-r:-~T:"I 13 Play _ 51 Selling points? 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your ability to see situations clearly will make
princess 

you a valuable friend today. Today is the perfect day IO do what's right and what's
-:+.:-:+-:,-+-:-+-::-1 21 Draft outlet 39 Peter, e.g. 52 Feelings 
62 Group for Liz 
best fey~ around you. tttt 

~...+.-,+,,,.+-,,-1 22 Money of Qatar 41 Slew 53 Occupied 
Taylor 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you really wanl to follow your dreams, consider 26 "My So-Called 42 Fetters 54 Needle 63 Some bar 
what it is you have to sacrifice. Weigh the pros and cons carefully. There will be no 
Life" actor Jared 
return once you make your Imve. ~
supplies43 Peak-to-peak 55 "Bolero" 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcll 20): You will be nervous and a little uptight today. Speak
27 Show shock 
transports composer 65 Family girt 
about what you know and you will impress others. Don't hold back because of your
28 Fair 
own inner fears. -ktt ......,......,_ 29 Playwright 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Birthday Baby: You will be a little sensitive, especially when others don't see things
Simon 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
your way. You will also be ahead of your time and will make huge steps in whatever
30 Part of the Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday 
direction you choo;e for yourself.

Winnebago crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
nation 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. -+...+-r+-,-,f 31 Church galleries past. puzzles, nytimes.com!diversions ($19.95 a year). .,,...,...._.....,,... 35 "The.doctor Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
CDPYRIGfIT 2003 UNIVERSAL~ SYNDICATE 
nytimes.com/leamio'3xwords. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today 1to receive The Observer in your home. 
\ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


PORTS 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
r Riding the high 
. Irish hope to ride three-game streak into tourney 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Ediror 
All sea.son Irish coach Muffet McGraw has been talking about looking for her team to peak as they head into the Big East tournament and, ulti­mately, the NCAA tournament. Tonight. she will get a chance to see if that happened. 
Exactly one year after Syracuse (10-16, 5-10 in the Big East) eliminated Notre Dame in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament, the Irish will have a chance to use the Orangewomen as a momentum booster as they head into the Big East tourna­ment. 
According to team members. they haven't reached their peak yet, but there are hopes that it will happen. 
"I don't think we've peaked yet," freshman Courtney LaVere said. "We're capable of so many things. We still have a lot to look forward to." 
The Irish are heading into tonight's game with a two­
-game win streak under their belts. But that fact may spell defeat for the Irish. Notre Dame has yet to put together a winning streak any longer than two games this season. But Saturday's come-from-behind victory against Seton Hall pro­vided the Irish some momen­tum heading into the game against Syracuse. Now the Irish are just hoping that the momentum will lead them straight through tonight's game and into a solid showing 
in the Big East tournament. 
"I think ending with a win would be really good as we head into the Big East tourna­ment and the NCAA tourna­ment." Lavere said. "That's what we're looking for -a win to build our confidence." 
But in order to get that confi­dence booster, Notre Dame must control a Syracuse team that has experienced some real trouble this season. 
While the Qrangewomen have found some success on the road, collecting a 6-8 mark, they have won a paltry four games at home, losing their other eight. In conference play, Syracuse is even worse, winning just two of their five Big East games at Manley field House. 
However, Syracuse is coming into tonight's game on a high note after closing down Pittsburgh for a 71-61 victory Saturday. 
In order to make sure that they do not suffer the same fate as the Pirates, the Irish are going to have to shut down Syracuse's dangerous perime­ter game. Syracuse is much smaller than Notre Dame, but can be deadly accurate at the three-point line. 
"They have some really good point guards. shooting guards," LaVere said. "We have to contain the three-point shot." 
Syracuse's Julie McBride and Shannon Perry are both aver­aging 16 points per game, placing them among the top 10 in the Big East. McBride, who has taken more than half of her points from the perimeter, has hit a team-high 65 treys 
see IRISH/page 18 


. LaVere grabs Big East honors 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Courtney LaVere made sure that Notre Dame could take fi.ve out of six. With the Big East's announcement on Monday that La Vere was the Big East rookie of the week, LaVere confirmed the Irish had a rookie of the week in five out of the last six years. 
"It's a big honor," LaVere said. "It's nice way to end oIT the sea­son since we're coming to end. I was really happy to hear about it." 
The award marks the first Big East award of LaVere's career, coming after what was arguably the best week she has had since falling sick in late January. 
"Since what's been happening the last couple months -I've been sick almost every day -I was just able to play last week like I was healthy," LaVere said. 
In two Irish victories against Big East opponents last week, LaVere averaged 17 points and 
4.5 rebounds per game, with a . 520 field goal percentage (13­25). On Saturday, she tied a game-high with 20 points on 7 ­of-13 shooting, marking her fifth 20-point game of the season. 
The previous Wednesday against Pittsburgh, she had a team-high 14 points. grabbing 10 of those points in a three-minute span in the second half. But her most important contribution was her game-tying lay-up with 7.8 seconds, setting up for the Irish victory. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish give up 8 second-half goals in loss 
in the second half. The Big Red Senior midfielder Danielle Steinberg and Fischer to go over certain things," she
By ANDY TROEGER 
added six more goals in the Shearer led the Irish with two answered for Cornell before said. "Our possession off the 
Sp<>rts Wrircr 
second half. including three by goals and an assist. while McGrath's first collegiate goal draw was better but we forced Sarah Fischer and two from junior Meredith Simon had one knotted the score at 2. some things that proved to be 
After a fairly even first half Sarah Averson, both of whom goal and two assists. Senior The Big Red took a 4-2 lead costly. When you play a top 10 of play. the Irish womens had also scored in the first Eleanor Weille and freshman on goals by Averson and Kate team you have to play a 60­lacrosse team gave up eight half. Mary McGrath added the other Hirschfield, but Shearer and minute game and we didn't goals to begin the second half, "l think they're very good," scores for Notre Dame. Weille answered to tie the capitalize on our opportunities as No. 9 Cornell defeated the said Irish coach Tracy Coyne Cornell out shot the Irish 34-game at 4 before Cornell's in the second half." No. 7 Irish 13-5 in both teams· about Cornell, a team that is 26, with Irish goalkeeper Jen decisive run. The Irish continue with their season openers. coming off a Final Four White making 11 saves for the Despite the loss Coyne early season road trip, playing 
Arter the Irish tied the game appearance last year. "They Irish while Ashley Charron had looked at the game as an at Brown March 9 before trips with 4:53 left in the first half, exposed some of our weak­eight saves for the Big Red. opportunity for her team to to Ohio and Boston College. Cornell's Lindsay Steinberg nesses and they have a lot of The first half was a back and learn lessons for later in the scored with less than a minute components on the field that forth battle as Simon gave the season. to go in the half for a 5-4 lead were clicking well for this Irish an early lead with her "When you lose it causes you Contact Andry Troeger at before adding two more early early in the season." goal at 23:19 in the first half. to go back and re-evaluate and atroege@nd.edu 

MENS BASKETBALL  WOMENS GOLF  CLUB SPORTS  
Syracuse at Notre Dame 7 p.m.  Irish finish 14th at Edwin Watts/Carolinas Collegiate Classic  lrlsh Ultimate team goes 4-2 over weekend  
Notre Dame will honor its seniors as the Irish  Bad weather and rusty strokes spelled trouble  The Irish were successful in the early rounds of  
take on the Orangemen in their final home game.  for the Irish.  the Mardi Gras Invitational before falling in the  
end.  
Irish Insider  page 18  page 18  








