
VOL XXXVII NO. 108 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Saint Mary's officials approve reading day 
ed ... [and] shocked," Kim Standards Committee voted to trators. have [study days]. it seems 
. Student Jensen, student body presi­approve it, although not unan­The reading day proposal, fair," said junior Beth Broviak. 
government dent, said. "Now that it's imously, and it was passed previously Currently Saint done, it's a great feeling." forward to the Academic known as Mary's holds
"/ think it'll help a lot
succeeds after ten 
According to Jensen, the Affairs Committee, which the study classes through
ofstudents. For me I
years of proposals Academic Affairs Committee gives the final approval before day propos­the Friday before gave the proposal "a pretty implementation. al. has been don't think it will make exams week and solid vote" at Tuesday's meet­Now that the reading day a student considers
much more ofa
By SARAH NESTOR ing. proposal has been approved, government Saturday and 
Saine Mary's Editor difference but since 
T h e the study days initiative Sunday as study Student will be included since 1992. most schools have days. Saint Mary's student govern­Academic "I'm glad that it got in the 2003-04 The read­[study days], it seems The reading day ment 10-year struggle to Council and academic cal­ing day will will not be added
passed for the people fair. ..
implement study days into the Board of endar and a allow stu-to this spring academic calendar culminated Governance who will be here next separate com­dents to semester since Tuesday had already year. but I wish it would mittee will be have the Beth Brovlak the semester is afternoon 
unanimous­formed to Friday already in
have been passedfor this Junior
when the ly approved review the before final progress.
semester [so seniors

Academic the reading reading day exams week ''I'm glad that it Affairs day propos­could benefit}.,, and the cam­off from got passed for the Committee al last fall, pus's reaction. classes, which gives students people who will be here next voted to after which Jensen said the opportunity to study, meet year, but I wish it would have
Evelyn Gonzales

approve the proposal the committee with professors or work on been passed for this semester the reading was sent to senior will be made projects. [so seniors could benefit]." day propos-t h e up of an equal "I think it'll help a lot of stu­said senior Evelyn Gonzales. al. Jensen Academic number of stu-dents. For me I don't think it 
"Right Standards Committee. dents and faculty, and will will make much more of a dif­Contact Sarah Nestor at now we're really, really excit-In February, the Academic also include several adminis-ference but since most schools nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
FONDUE FUN 

A Notre Dame student helps herself Tuesday evening to fondue at South Dining Hall In celebra­tion of Mardi Gras. 
Student contracts meningitis 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
A local hospital is treating an off-campus Notre Dame student for meningitis, according to University Health Services. 
The student became ill Sunday night with a fever and a headache after she returned from a weekend trip. Her house­mates took her to the hospital, where she was diagnosed with meningitis, an inflammation of the brain or spinal cord mem­branes that is contracted through oral and nasal secretions. 
Since the student has not been on campus since Wednesday. Health Services workers are con­fident that few students are at risk of having meningitis. said assistant director Pat Brubaker. They estimate a total of six peo­ple, including her five house­mates, have had contact with her since her contraction of a bacter­ial form of the disease. 
"We assume because the symptoms began three days [after she went out of town], she might have caught it from some­where else, .. Brubaker said. 
Brubaker said it was likely that the student had contracted one of the most common types of bacte­rial meningitis, Neisseria menin­gitis, which has no vaccine. 
Doctors have treated the stu­dent with antibiotics, according to Brubaker. 
Health Services alerted the Notre Dame campus in an e-mail Monday. Brubaker said about 50 students have called the office with concerns about whether they could get the disease if they knew one of the six people who had immediate contact with the student. 
"This is not one of those germs that can be passed from a sec­ondary contact," Brubaker said, adding that those who had con­tact with her received a different type of antibiotic than the stu­dent. 
Brubaker encouraged all stu­dents to get immunized against the strains of meningitis that do have vaccines, pointing out that incidents of meningitis are high­est among babies and college freshmen. 
"It's best to catch it early," she said. 
The last reported local college case of meningitis occurred two years ago when Jenny Nemeth, a Holy Cross student, died of bacte­rial meningitis. 
Brubaker said the current case has caused less panic on campus because fewer students were exposed to the student than two years ago and the current stu­dent was quickly treated. 
Contact Helena Payne at Paync.30@nd.edu 
New prosecutor to assume rape trial 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
Four former Notre Dame football players accused of sexually assaulting a Notre Dame student in spring 2002 await the naming of a special prosecutor, which could possi­bly further delay their trials. 
Former prosecutor Chris Toth filed multiple charges against Lorenzo Crawford, Donald Dykes, Abram Elam and Justin Smith last summer. Current prosecutor Michael Dvorak acquired the cases when he 
gestion for the special prose­cutor to the judge. Due to the timing and complexity of these cases, Gotsch also said Dvorak's office was unable to make a recommendation. 
Saint Joseph County Superior Court Chief Judge John Marnocha will appoint the special prosecutor. Once the appointed prosecutor qualifies for the case and is approved by counsel. the tri­als will continue. 

The special prosecutor will come from one of the other 89 judicial districts in Indiana and the trials will remain in 
entered the Saint Joseph
"In the long run it is 
prosecu­County unless
better to [request a
tor's office there is a t h i s special prosecutor Jthan request for a January. change of
to turn the case over
Dvorak's venue.
later in appeal. We want
office filed The special a petition to make sure it is prosecutor 
Feb. 26 assigned to someone who would then 
asking for have discre­
can handle the case
a special tion over the prosecutor properly. •• case and to be decide named due whether to


Mike Gotsch 
to a con­drop the

chief deputy prosecutor
flict of charges, 
interests. Ken Cotter, chief deputy pros­ecutor, formerly represented Crawford. Another chief deputy prosecutor worked in Tony Zappia's office, which represents Smith. 
Mike Gotsch, chief deputy prosecutor, said, "In the long run it is better to [request a special prosecutor] than to turn the case over later in appeal. We want to make sure it is assigned to someone who can handle the case properly." 
Gotsch said the prosecutor's office would normally make the request and provide a sug­

accept a plea or pursue the trials. 
Gotsch said the time frame of the trials could be delayed depending on the length of time until the special prosecu­tor is named. 
Elam's trial is currently scheduled to begin March 31 and is the first of the four, with Smith's and Crawford's trials scheduled for April 28 and June 2 respectively. A new trial date has not been set for Dykes' case. 
Contact Mcghannc Downes at mdownc.sl@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 5, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The 'hood 
It was always a beautiful day in his neighborhood. but in most places. peo­ple barely nod at the family next door. The recent death of Fred Rogers sig­nals a close in the chapter of the American community. but by practicing the same morals 
"Mr. Rogers" held, we can turn the pages and write a new story that revives his neigh­borhood. 
In the world of Mr. Rogers, every­one was special 

from Mr. McFeely. Helena Payne the mailman, to the puppets of the 
Neighborhood of News Editor Make-Believe.Fred Rogers, who was 74, was a mild-mannered Presbyterian minister from Pittsburgh who taught his young view­ers to respect individuals and how to deal with life's tragedies. His neighborhood was a small utopia, 
but today. people rarely have time to sit back and appreciate their communities. When is the last time most Americans 
have even smiled at the person who delivers their mail or invited him or her in for hot chocolate in the winter or lemonade in the summer? 
Unfortunately, it's hard to trust the mailman when sometimes you can't even trust the person sending the pack­age. 
From 1963 until 2000, "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood" welcomed children to a place where people learned to appreci­ate each other and conflict was settled through dialogue. 
I'll be honest. Sometimes "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood" wasn't exciting enough for me. People rarely had any­thing contrary to say and ifthere was conflict. it was always resolved in the designated time span. Also, I found it hard to believe that Mr. Rogers was never too busy for the random locals who would visit him. At least Sesame Street had a Grouch. 
Even so, I compare Mr. Rogers' neighborhood with American commu­nities today and ask if more parts of American society will be able to devel­op into such a place. Will the family of three living out of a car be able to park on the streets of that neighborhood? Will the working teenage mother be able to get a loan to move into the home next door? And how will the old grandfather who lives alone in an apartment building be able to find out how to get to Mr. Roger's neighborhood ifhe has no one to accompany him there? 
The more I hear about the global issues of war, racial and ethnic conflict and poverty, I wonder if we can aspire to such an ideal as the Mr. Roger's neighborhood at the local level. Soon, we will go on spring break. Some will return home, some will go on trips and some will remain in the area. Wherever we spend that week free of classes, we should reflect on what we can do to make our communities-"our," mean­ing communities of the world and not exclusively one's own -better. Maybe with a collective effort, we will no longer look to the television for an ideal model of community. Rather, we can build our own beautiful neighborhoods. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Ysmad Fonsca's name incorrectly appeared in the 
Feb. 26 "Hear Our Voice" ad on pages 14 and 15. 
The Observer regards itself as a prof~ional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con­txt us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 

GSU approves gala charity event 
The Graduate Student Union moved forward with plans to host an end-of-the-year 
WORLD& NATION 
White House softens on resolution stance 

The Bush admin­istration suggested it would not press for a U.N. vote to support the war if 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Martha Stewart Living suffers 
For the first time, Martha Stewart's company reported a quarterly loss. 
it would be defeat-which charity its gala by deciding on 
ed. event would sup­port Tuesday. 
page4 

page 5 page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
J\sh \Vcdncsday Mass, 11 :30 a.m., Sacred Heart Basilica 

. 
Student Senate, 6 p.m., LaFortunc Ballroom 

. 
The Vagina Monologues, 7:30 p.m., \Vashington llall 

. 
Last Lecture Series with Professor Asma Afsaruddin, 8 


p.m.. Siegfried IIall 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. ND/SMC Tax-Assistance Program, 3 p.m.• Haggar College Center, room 303 
-. Irish Dance Lessons, 5:30 p.m., Madeleva I fall, room 231 NE/N\V 
. Adult Children of Alcoholics Meeting, Madclcva 1 lall, 
room 317N 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, honey-garlic pork chops, white beans with ham, brown sauce, pork gravy, cherry crisp, baked lemon perch, sauteed julienne vegetables, maypo, scrambled eggs, breakfast ham, butter­milk pancakes, Szechuan vegan noodles, broccoli quesadilla 
Today Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, chicken strips, macaroni and cheese, green beans, cherry crisp, tofu jerk, lentil and barley stew, baked sweet potatoes, Oriental vegetables, vegetable potato casserole, BBQ chicken 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0: 
L&J 
:c 
!ci 
L&J 
3: 
...I C 
u 



0 
HIGH 25 HIGH

..J 
LOW 3 LOW 
24 
10 
VIEWPOINT 
The case for a just war has been made 
Professor Keir Lieber lays out the reasons for why a just war in Iraq could be possible. 

SCENE 
'The Tenacity of the Cockroach' 
The Onion inter­views the most infamously persis­tent entertainers from the past two 
SPORTS 
Beaten to a pulp 
Notre Dame ral­lied from a 21-point deficit before falling to Syracuse 92-88 in the last 

decades.  home game fseniors.  basketball or the Irish  
page 8 page 10  page 20  
WHAT'S GOING DOWN  

NDSP finds cell phone in Lyons Hall 
A cellular phone was found Monday in Lyons Hall. 
Police return license, money to owner 
A license and money were found Monday in the C1 parking lot and returned to the owner. 
Student illegally parks in faculty lot 
A student's vehicle was towed Monday for parking in the B1 faculty/staff south lot. 
Student falls and goes to hospital 
Notre Dame Security/Police took a student to St. Joseph Medical Center Monday to treat injuries after a fall. 
NDSP investigates hacker accusations 
A visitor reported Monday that a hacker invad­ed his computer. NDSP is investigating the case. 
Worker suffers from injuries 
NDSP took a student Monday to the University Health Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall at a Food Services Support Facility. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Information not available. For more Information check: 
http://food.nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH HIGH 37 LOW LOW 20 
30 28 
No Information avallable. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH 25 LOW 12 
Atlanta 66 / 48 Boston 44 / 28 Chicago 22 I 7 Denver 46 25 Houston 70 / 48 Los Angeles 65 / 48 Minneapolis 19 / 7 New York 52 / 29 Philadelphia 54 I 29 Phoenix 66 / 46 Seattle 46 / 38 St.. Louis 29 / 18 Tampa 88 / 68 Washington 60 / 36 


r
I 
[
,. 
3

• Wednesday, February 5, 2(l ·:..-======================Ti:::'h::::e=O=bs=e=rv=er=.=C=AM==P=U==SN=E=W=S=======================================p=ag=e=
' 


Speaker recalls drunk driving experience 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
The tragic aftermath of drunk driving was the topic of Tuesday's presentation entitled "DUI: A Powerful Lesson." 
Mark Sterner recalled his 
spring break trip in 1994, when 
he was behind the wheel in a 
drunk-driving accident that left 
three of his friends dead and one 
injured. 
Sterner, then a 21-year-old senior at Johnson and Wales University in Rhode Island, was seriously injured in the crash. His blood alcohol level was at .17, more than twice the legal limit of .08. 
Sterner showed a home video of the friends made the night of the accident. The five, all mem­bers of the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity, had spent their spring break week on Sanibel Island, Fla. 
For the first five days of the trip, the students took turns act­ing as designated driver. But on the last night, they decided that "whoever the least drunk person was, that would be who drove us home," Sterner said. 
The video showed the friends laughing and drinking. 
"We were just guys dancing with no rhythm and no moves," Sterner said. 
The tape goes on to show the group driving erratically, reach­ing speeds of 100 miles per hour. Sterner left the room during the video, and reappeared in an orange prison-issue jumpsuit with "Lee County Jail" printed on the back. 
Following the video, which ends about 15 minutes before the acci­dent, Sterner discussed the acci­dent. Later that night, as the group was returning home from a bar, their rented Lincoln went off the road and struck a tree at about 60 miles per hour. Four of the vehicle's occupants -includ­ing Sterner -were ejected. One passenger was crushed to death in the mangled car. and two were instantly killed when they struck a tree. 
Sterner recalled waking up in the hospital, nearly two weeks after the accident. 
"I didn't know where I was or how I got there," he said. 
He soon received the news of his friends' deaths. While still recovering in the hospital, he was charged with three counts of manslaughter, carrying a possi­ble maximum sentence of 45 years in prison. 
"It was the only time in my life I've seen my father cry," Sterner said. 
He was found guilty and sen­tenced to two years in prison and twelve years probation. He recalled his daily prayers for safety during his incarceration. 
"Prison is over, probation will be over, but... my nightmares will never go away.'' Sterner said. 
Sterner urged students not to make his mistake. 
"You've heard the saying 'time heals all wounds.' If you've ever lost anyone close to you, you know that's not true," he said. "When you go away on spring break, come back." 
PILLARS and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education sponsored this presentation. 
Contact Matt Bra.manti at mbramant@nd.edu 
.~': . ~: ~-;:,-·::..,· _, __ ,.;;·,_··, ',.:_,-.. /-. _. -•):... ,.,~~. ,-~~_:.~;,'f ·•;_:\_:·-:_•j ..':,· ?:" .};'.l:; ,.··. 
. ~ . ' . .. ',. . ... .·,. 
_UNf.:VERS_tT.YC. ·QF ;Nor:RE DAM·E ·. WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
•Study 
in the nation's capital 

•Work 
in an internship 


• Fulf111 philosophy, theology, and fine arts requirement 
•
Study public affairs 

•Live 
in an exciting city 


. ND students are more politically aware, less social 
By WILL PUCKETT 

News Writer 
Freshmen at Notre Dame are more interested in poli­tics and other academic pursuits, while being less interested in partying, smoking and drinking, as compared to national aver­ages, according to a recent­ly released nationwide sur­vey. 
The survey, headed by the American Council on Education and the Higher Education Research Institute at UCLA, attempts to take stock of many differ­ent areas of student life. academically, socially, eco­nomically and morally. 
While various elements of the University may look at the results and evaluate them as they see fit, there is evidently no further use of the survey's report at Notre Dame. 
"While the First Year pro­gram and other various groups do keep an eye on the trends and where stu­dents stand on issues, there's really nothing more to it than that," said Dennis Brown, associate director of news and information. 
Brown did note that Notre Dame has participated in the survey and received results each year since the survey's inception in 1966, and that it is a widely rec­ognized survey. 
Notre Dame first-year stu­dents indicated a level of 

•Open to Sophoniores, Juniors, and Seniors froin all colleges 

John Eriksen, l)irector 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 



Study reveals freshman views 
interest in politics higher than the national average. Fifty percent of Notre Dame's class of 2006 said they consider following poli­tics "essential" or "very important," compared with 33 percent of freshmen at other institutions. 
The national statistic in this category rose 2 percent last year, and Notre Dame freshmen have shown an increase of 3 percent over the last five years. 
Overall political activism has also risen, according to the survey. The figure of Notre Dame students who think it is highly important to influence the political structure has jumped, with 21 percent of the freshman class agreeing this year, compared with only 19 per­cent in 1997. 
Senior political science major Chuck Lamphier said the figures were consistent with the current political mood of the nation. 
"I keep pretty up to date on politics ... and I'm not surprised. I think with war looming, students are being more politically conscious and active," he said. 
The survey also indicated Notre Dame freshmen as departing from national averages in a variety of other cate­

as abortion and the death 
penalty are more offensive 
to first-year students here 
than elsewhere. Abortion 
was opposed by 68 percent 
of freshmen, as compared 
with the national average of 
54 percent. and the death 
penalty was opposed by 55 
percent, as compared with 
32 percent. 
Smoking among freshmen at Notre Dame is much lower than the average on college campuses across the nation. with 1 percent of freshmen reporting fre­quent smoking, compared with 7 percent nationally. 
Drinking statistics were more in line with national norms, while still being below average. Nationwide, 53 percent of freshmen con­sumed wine or liquor and 46 percent drank beer. At Notre Dame, those numbers are 46 percent and 41 per­cent, respectively. 
One possible reason for the slight dip in numbers is the 42 percent of first-year students who indicated they partied not at all or less than one hour a week dur­ing their senior year of high school. as opposed to 36 percent nationally. 
Brown said that most of the changes in the statistics could be ascribed to shifting 
interests 

gories involving academic  "Most students here do seem to be fairly  a n d attention of the  
expecta­ confident of their  popula­ 
tions and student life. Surveyed freshmen  academic success and seem to have reason to ..be.  tion as a whole. "Society changes  
students  over time,  
were gener­ally opti­mistic  Eric Carolan freshman  and peo­ple today are more  

about acad­
emic suc­
cess, with 94 percent indi­
cating chances are very 
good that they will gradu­
ate. Eighty percent expect 
to receive at least a "B" 
average and 87 percent 
predict they will be satisfied 
with the University. 
Freshman engineering student Eric Carolan thought the study's num­bers sounded reasonable. 
"Most students here do seem to be fairly confident of their academic success and seem to have reason to be," he said. 
More than double the national average of fresh­men said they expected to participate in international study programs -44 per­cent at Notre Dame com­pared to 21 percent nation­ally -possibly due to the attention the University draws to the opportunity students have to study abroad during their under­graduate years. 
Controversial issues such 
attuned 

to poli­tics," he said, adding that there are several factors that change public opinion, such as the possible war with Iraq, the ongoing war on terrorism, global eco­nomic problems and hotly contested national elections. 
Brown also advised that people should take the results within its context. 
"The survey is scientific and very well done, but it's still only a survey," he said. 
The ACE survey is designed to profile the polit­ical and social views -and the socioeconomic back­grounds -of America's col­lege freshmen. This year's survey is based on the responses of 282,549 first­year, full-time students at 437 four-year colleges and universities, including more than 1,700 members of Notre Dame's 2002-200] freshman class. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Members approve gala charity event 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union moved forward with plans to host an end-of-the-year gala by approving the charity the event would support during their meeting Tuesday. 
Representatives considered six possible charities researched by Eugene Walls, human diver­sity committee chairperson, including La Casa de Amistad, Reins of Life, Refugee and Immigration Services of South Bend, the YWCA Women's Shelter, Sex Offense Services and the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
After minimal debate, repre­sentatives selected Refugee and Immigration Services of South Bend. The YWCA Women's Shelter came in a close second. 
The event is scheduled to take place April 25 at the do'Mltown South Bend Marriott's grand ballroom. GSU anticipates that 400 people will attend and it will raise $2,000 for the charity from ticket sales and a raffle with prizes donated from area merchants. GSU has also signed a contract with the Cardinal Bus Company to provide transporta­tion to and from the event. 
"[GSU representatives] will certainly be seeing more on this as the month goes on," said Tim Dale, president of GSU. 'Tm really hoping to generate inter­est. I'm encouraging you to talk this up within your depart­ments." 
Invitations for the event will be mailed out to all graduate students at the end of the month, Dale said. 
In Other GSU news: 
• Representatives debated and unanimously passed a resolu-
WANNA PUT 


MONEY 

IN YOUR POCKET 
t 
r 
Sunday noon-5 
11918 Grape Road Indian Rldp Plan llltlhaw&ka, 1lf 
243-9100 

tion decreasing the maximum amount of reimbursement allowed under the organiza­tion's conference presentation grant committee. Graduate stu­dents attending conferences had been able to file for reimburse­ment for up to $550 of their travel expenses. The new amount is $500. 
"This doesn't sound like a lot but if five people [are reim­bursed] $500 instead of $550, we can pay for another trip," Dale said. 
Representatives also agreed to reiterate GSU's policy. which requires that applicants request reimbursement from their departments before filing an application. In the past, several departments encouraged gradu­ate students to approach GSU first. 
. GSU Co-Vice President Misty Schieberle updated the Council on Grad-Tax Lobbying Day, a nationwide event held in Washington, D.C. last month to encourage Congress to reinstate tax exemption status for gradu­ate student stipends. 
Currently, graduate students are focusing their attention on several "target" Congressmen who they believe may support such a bill. These include Charles Grassley, R-IA, Dianne Feinstein, D-CA, and Rick Santorum, R-PA, in the Senate and Bill Thomas, R-CA, Mark Foley, R-FL, Ben Cardin, D-MD, Sandy Levin, D-Ml, Phil English, R-PA and Rob Portman, R-OH, in the House of Representatives. 
"If anyone has any contact or lives in the state where these major senators and representa­tives live, please write a letter," Schieberle said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Filmaker visits Saint Mary's 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
Freelance filmmaker Hope Hall visited Saint Mary's Tuesday, showing three of her short documentary films and discussing her craft and life. Hall's presentation, "The Craft of Creative Nonfiction Filmmaking," featured her films, "This is for Betsy Hall," "10 Seconds in Our Life" and the "Art of the Motorcycle." 
Although Hall focuses on cre­ating documentaries she said that a line could not be drawn between what is considered fie­tion and what is nonfiction. According to Hall. all films are subjective. 
"You can't ever really get anything [that is] real when the camera is there," Hall said. 
Hall began her professional film career at VHl, working on the one-hour "Behind the Music" segments but found that she did not enjoy this. 
"It was disastrous for me to work in a place where no one cared about what they were i:naking and were just following a formula," Hall said. 
Hall's most recognized work is the short film "This is for Betsy Hall." which received Honorable Mentions at the Sundance Film Festival. The film is about Hall's biological mother's struggle with anorexia and bulimia. The film gives only a glimpse of the painful impact that her mother's diseases has had on her family and daugh­ter, which she abandoned and how this has affected the daughter and family she left behind years before. 
Hall is based in New York City and has worked with the Guggenheim Museum and MTV on recent projects. 
Contact Saran Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
@i
~,....Black History Month Celebration 2003 African and African American Studies 
Special Thanks to: 
Project Directors 
Dr. Gina Shropshire and Ms. Christy Fleming 
Speakers, Panelists. and Performers 
John Charles Bryant, Teddy Burgh, Danny Chambliss, Ayo Coly, Liz Dobbs, Larry Dwyer, Barb Franklin, Cyraina Johnson-Roullier, Bill Nicks, Karen Richman, Christopher Sieving, Stacie Sowala, Mel Tardy, Al Tillery 

Co-Sponsors 
..•,:,~,...,,,, I American Studies,Anthropology Department, Black Alumni of Notre Dame, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, College ofArts and Letters, 
~ Department of Classics, East Asian Studies, 
........,.....•.. Economics Department, English Department, Gender Studies, History Department, Honors Program, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, ND Printing Services, The Observer, 
.....,........_..~•.. Office of Institutional Equity, Office of the President, Philosophy Department, Political Science Department, Program of Liberal Studies, Romance Languages Department, Student Government, Women ofNew Life Fellowship Ministry 

Wednesday, March 5, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 






Bush administration softens on resolution stance 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

With other nations' opposition hardening, the Bush administra­tion left open the possibility Tuesday that it would not seek a United Nations vote on its war­making resolution if the measure was clearly headed for defeat. 
U.S. troop strength in the Persian Gulf neared 300,000, and President Bush and his advisers were looking beyond the diplo­matic showdown in the U.N. to make plans for a public relations buildup to potential war with Iraq. 
One option under serious con­sideration was Bush giving Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein a final ultimatum, perhaps with a short­term deadline, in an address next week, two senior White House officials said. 
The officials, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, stressed that a variety of options are on the table and all depend on the out­come of a U.N. Security Council debate on the U.S.-backed war resolution. In a new blow, Russia's top diplomat said Moscow may use its veto against the measure. 
Even without a veto from Russia, China or France, the United States still doesn't have the nine votes needed to win approval of the resolution, according to both supporters and opponents. Many undecided council members are looking for a compromise. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, in an interview with RTL televi­sion of Germany. said that early next week U.S. leaders would "make a judgment on whether it's time to put the resolution up to a vote." But he also said the United States was inclined to push for a vote "in the absence of compli­ance on the part of Saddam Hussein." 
At the White House, spokesman Ari Fleischer said, "The vote is desirable. It is not necessary." 
Once the vote is resolved one way or another, Bush will intensi­fy his case for war, officials said, barring unforeseen events such as Saddam suddenly disarming or going into exile. 
In addition to a possible address, they have dis'cussed a presidential news conference and a Cabinet meeting as ways for Bush to communicate his plans to the nation next week. He may stop short of a specific ultimatum, officials said, but would make it clear that war is imminent in other ways, such as warning jour­nalists and humanitarian workers to get out of Iraq. 
Meanwhile, Bush telephoned leaders of India and Egypt to dis­cuss his plans. And officials said Powell had had two telephone conversations and a one-on-one meeting in recent days with Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez in his search for Mexican support. 
The Army's oldest armored divi­sion, "Old Ironsides," got its orders to head for the Persian Gulf, and Pentagon officials said 
U.S. land, sea and air forces were approaching 300,000 in the
. 

U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell waves outside the State Department in Washington Tuesday. Powell said that the the U.S. will probably push a vote on the war resolution at an opportune time If Saddam Hussein does not comply with U.N. regulations. 
region. open a northern front against Fleischer said. 
Tommy R. Franks, the com-Iraq. Until Tuesday, the spokesman mander who would lead the war, At the White House, Fleischer had suggested part ofthe package met at the Pentagon with Defense said Turkey would lose a pro-would be available to Turkey Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld posed $15 billion aid package regardless of whether 62,000 and was to consult with Bush on unless it went along. American troops are allowed in Wednesday. "The particular package that the country. White House officials 
Still to be resolved was the mill-we've been talking to them about said they were turning up pres­tary question of whether Turkey was predicated on assistance and sure on Turkey in hopes that the would allow its territory to be cooperation in any plan for the parliament would grant the U.S. used for U.S. ground forces to use of force against Iraq," request on a second vote. 
PHILIPPINES 

Backpack bomb kills 21, injures 145 in Philippine airport 
Associated Press 
MANILA 
A bomb planted inside a backpack ripped through an airport terminal in the southern Philippines on Tuesday, killing at least 21 people -including an American missionary -and injuring 145 in the nation's worst terrorist attack in three years. 
The blast comes at a time of height­ened debate over the role of U.S. troops in the war on terror in the Philippines, where Muslim insurgents have battled the government for decades with attacks, bombings and kidnappings. 
Three Americans -a Southern Baptist missionary and her two young children -were among the wounded. Two of the 147 who were injured ­many of them in serious condition ­died overnight to bring the death toll to 
21. There were no details on the most recent deaths but the earlier fatalities included a boy, a girl. 10 men and seven women. 
President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, who invited U.S. troops to help train Filipino soldiers in counterterrorism, said the bombing at Davao airport on Mindanao island was "a brazen act of terrorism which shall not go unpun­
ished." 

President Bush condemned the attack as a "wanton terrorist act" and sent con­dolences to the people of the Philippines, his press secretary Ari Fleischer said. 
"The president notes that the bombing underscores the seriousness of the ter­rorist threat in the southern Philippines, and he emphasizes that the Philippines have been a stalwart partner of the United States in the war against terror," Fleischer said. 
No one claimed responsibility for the blast, but Arroyo said "several men" were detained. The military has blamed Moro Islamic Liberation Front rebels for a string of attacks, including a car bombing at nearby Cotabato airport last month that killed one man. 
U.S. special forces are training Philippine soldiers in counter-terrorism tactics in the city of Zambc....nga, about 250 miles west of the scene of Tuesday's attack. 
Eid Kabalu, spokesman for the rebel group, which has been fighting for Muslim self-rule in the predominantly Roman Catholic Philippines for more than three decades, denied his group was responsible. He condemned the attack and said the group was ready to cooperate in an investigation. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korea: confrontation threat growing: 
After North Korean fighter jets intercepted a U.S. recon­naissance plane, the communist country said Tuesday the threat of armed confrontation on the Korean Peninsula was growing because of what it called U.S. aggression. North Korea did not comment on the inter­ception of the plane. Its state-run media instead criticized annual U.S.-South Korean military exercises that began Tuesday, saying they were preparation for an attack. 
U.N. draws up secret after-Saddam plan: 
The United Nations has secretly drawn up a plan to establish a post-Saddam Hussein government in Iraq if U.S.-led forces invade the country and drive him out of power, a newspaper reported Wednesday. The London Times said the plan was produced over the past month, as U.N. officials discussed Saddam's compliance with the world body's demand that he destroy his weapons of mass destruction, and as U.S. and British forces amassed in the Persian Gulf for a possible war ifhe fails to do so. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bush Medicare plan gets cool reception: 
Republican lawmakers showed the same disdain for President Bush's latest Medicare prescription drug plan Tuesday as they did his first one a month ago, promising that after two failed attempts by the White House they will write their own plan with bigger ben­efits for older Americans. The administration spent the day explaining facets of the proposal, which offers a general outline but leaves specifics to Congress. At the center of it is a plan to offer older people seniors increased prescription drug coverage ifthey join HMOs or other private health plans. 
Relatives sue over nightclub tragedy: 
Relatives of two people killed in the Rhode Island night­club fire sued the band Great White and the club's owners Tuesday in what is believed to be the first law­suit filed over the deadly blaze. The wrongful death suit was filed by the families of Tma Ayer, 33, of Warwick and Donald Rodriques, 46, of Fall River, Mass. 
Molten aluminum found on shuttle tiles: 
Molten aluminum was found on Columbia's thermal tiles and inside the leading edge of the left wing, bolstering the theory that the shuttle was destroyed by hot gases that penetrated a damaged spot on the wing, the acci­dent investigation board said Tuesday. Roger Tetrault, a board member, said he suspects the melting occurred because ofthe penetrating gases and also because of the intense heat offalling through the atmosphere. 
Panel calls on Pa. governor for moratorium: 
Executions should be stopped in Pennsylvania until the state can study how race affects death penalty sen­tences, a committee appointed by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court said in a report released Tuesday. The 550-page report by the Committee on Racial and Gender Bias in the Justice System calls on Gov. Ed Rendell and the court to order the moratorium. Blacks make up 62 percent of Pennsylvania's 242 death row inmates but only 10 percent of the state's general population. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
Saint Mary's vigil encourages healing after rape 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 

In honor of Women's Month, several Saint Mary's student groups sponsored "Take Back the Night," an annual event to raise awareness of sexual vio­lence. 
..It's basically reclaiming ground saying that we should be allowed to do what we want without repercussions or fearing sexual assault," said junior Jackie Zins, primary organizer of the event. "It helps raise awareness on our campus and 
Lecture focuses on Catholic scandals 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, former editor of Commonweal and current member of the Catholic Common Ground Initiative, focused on the recent problems the Catholic Church has had with sexual abuse in her opening lecture for the Center for Spirituality's Lenten Lecture Series on "The Suffering from Self-Inflicted Wounds: Church Concerns." 
"Over the past year we have become aware of the suffering that the Church inflicts upon its members," O'Brien Steinfels said. "Including the children who were abused, the parents of the victims and the priests who suffer from guilt and remorse." 
O'Brien Steinfels reported hav­ing experi­enced a keen 
sense of loss "It is hard to grasp how power." 
and stinging Thus, one of
naive we have been 
sense · of the solutions 
betrayal in the about our Church O'Brien audiences she Steinfels sug­
leaders.·· 
has spoken gested is to with about this for people to 
topic. Margaret O'Brien Stelnfels make their "Faith is dis­lecturer opinions 
tinctly Catholic," she said. "And our confidence in this has been deeply shaken." 
O'Brien Steinfels wanted to bring an awareness and under­standing to the current situation of the Church. 
"It is hard to grasp how naive we have been about Church leaders," she said. "Our confi­dence was displaced." 
This speech came one year after the Boston Globe began to expose the scandal. 
"This crisis was not caused by the media, victims or anti­Catholics," she said. "It was 
Pete, 

OOMPA LOOMPA DOOMPA 
DEE D00 

Happy 21st Birthday to you! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Gina, Maria and Brian 
shows that we won't tolerate it." 
Take Back the Night marches and similar events have occurred since the 1970's, said Catherine Pittman, faculty advi­sor to Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination. 
"They are an active way to protest the fact that women don't feel safe and a way of expressing their resentment of having to give up their freedom," she said. "Women want the night back, and they join together with men to try to reclaim it during these marches." 
Tuesday's march began at 
6:45 p.m. outside of LeMans 
Hall. A group of approximately 20 women visited areas on cam­pus to pray and share readings. During the walk, participants chanted, sang and lit candles to display their encouragement. 
A rally and bonfire were held at 7:45 p.m. at the Saint Mary's soccer field. Patrick Drury, advo­cate and coordinator from Sex Offense Services of Madison Center and Hospital, spoke at that time. 
Drury talked about the prob­lem of sexual assault and the effect it has on everyone. 
"It happens to us, to loved ones and to people we care about," he said. "It's not just a women's issue, it's a human's issue. If men aren't involved as part of the solution, then the problem will never truly be solved." 
Although Drury had participat­ed in other Take Back the Night events, this was his first at Saint Mary's. 
"I think it's a wonderful pro­gram. It's a great way to give survivors a chance to be sup­ported," he said. 
Following the speech, anyone who had been targeted with sex­ual violence was invited to share her experience. Trained SOS vol­unteers were available for addi­tional support. 
Based on the success of the past two years, Pittman is opti­mistic that the event will contin­ue to be a tool helping women safely fight against sexual vio­lence. 
"Women who have been assaulted often show up at these marches without telling anyone what has happened to them," she said. "I have had students tell me that it is a very healing experience." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

caused by Vatican appointees." O'Brien Steinfels placed most of the blame on the bishops. 
She called all Catholics to sup­port efforts of thorough investi­gation and documentation of every incident. to implement a checks-and-balances system within the Church structure and to lobby for better bishops. 
"Bad bishops undermined and destroy the fundamental ideals of the church," she said. "Rome cannot say bishops are the suc­cessors of the apostles and then appoint those who cannot fill their sandals." 
The lack of Vatican involve­ment in the crisis concerned O'Brien Steinfels. 
"I continue to believe that the Vatican has not fully absorbed their role in this crisis," she said. "This scandal is as much about 
the abuse of children as  it is  
about  the  
abuse  of  

heard. 

"Make an effort to inform the Vatican of the seriousness of this problem," she said. 
This was the first of three lec­tures the Sisters of the Holy Cross will sponsor this Lent. 
The next Lenten Lecture will be March 18 at 12:15 p.m. Pauline Viviano, theology profes­sor at Loyola University Chicago, will speak on the topic "From Punishment to Redemption: Suffering in the Bible." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at Baill407@saintmarys.edu 



CHEERLEADING ®~~L¢ptt¢cbaun 
Tryouts 
I,~formal INFORMATION Meeting 
Wednesday, March 19,2003 --5:30 pm Joyce Center Gym 2 -Above Gate 10 
:1 

Ask Questions 
:i 

l\.'leet this year's cheer team members· 
:1 

Evervone ,velcome
.., 
..J 

Guys -No prior cbeerleading experience required -Clinics start 3/20/03 Gym 2 ­
Joyce Center ~Tryouts 4/12/03 
,------------------------------------------------------------------------­
O
THE 

BSERVER 
USI 

Wednesday, March 5, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 4 
DowJones 
• 
. 
.

7,704.87 -132.99 
NASDAQ 

1,307.76 • -12.53 
S&P500 

-12.82
821.99 ' 
AMEX 

829.76 ~ +0.05 
NYSE 

4,638.05 • -71.33 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1.57-0.37 23.17 
:1¦!lll1:l!!llllll¦Jll!illllltl~klllllillllllilllll!ll 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1. 76 -0. 06 3. 35 
i!llllllli:111111111!11llll!llllll11:lllllillllilllill~lil[llillllll 
NEXTEL COMM-A (NXTL) -2.08-0.2813.20 
IN BRIEF 
SEC asked to probe bankers trust 
Two House lawmakers have asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to inves­tigate tax schemes designed by Bankers Trust, one of several outside advisers to Enron Corp. that helped the failed energy merchant inflate its reported income by mil­lions. Bankers Trust was among the invest­ment banks, accounting firms and law firms that advised the now-bankrupt energy-trad­ing company on the complex transactions that stretched the legal boundaries of the tax code. 
Auto stocks slide in demand slump 
Shares of the world·s largest automakers and their suppliers slumped Tuesday after U.S. vehi­cle sales for February came in below expecta­tions a day earlier and a top industry analyst said vehicle demand may slump in the United States for several years. Deutsche Bank Securities analyst Rod Lache on Tuesday low­ered his stock ratings for General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co.. as well as suppliers Delphi Corp. and Visteon Corp., from "hold" to "sell." "Recent developments have led us to become increasingly pessimistic on the downside risk to profitability for U.S. automakers over the next few years," Lac he said in a research report. 
United OKs more employee stock sales 
United Airlines said Tuesday it would allow the sale of a third of its remaining employee­held shares, retaining a key tax benefit but setting the stage for the demise of its contro­versial employee stock ownership plan. Citing JRS assurances that the sale would not jeop­ardize a huge tax write-off it needs to help in its recovery, the bankrupt carrier said State Street Bank & Trust could sell an additional 
3.9 million shares of stock in United parent UAL Corp. But United indicated the stock sales are likely to lower the employee owner­ship level below 20 percent, triggering "sun­set" provisions that would eliminate key ele­ments of the 9-year-old employee stock own­ership plan. 
Martha Stewart Living suffers 
. Company 
reports first-ever quarterly loss 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The insider trading 
investigation surrounding 
Martha Stewart is taking a 
toll on her namesake com­
pany, contributing to the 
media and retailing com­
pany's first-ever quarterly 
loss and projections of 
larger losses ahead. 
Among the fallout at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia: an expected 25 percent decline in advertising pages at the company's flagship Martha Stewart Living magazine during the first three months of this year. 
"Certain advertisers are opting to wait until they see the resolution of the investigations involving Martha before committing to run pages," company president and chief operat­ing officer Sharon Patrick said Tuesday during a con­ference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter earnings and outlook for the first quarter. 

For three months ending Dec. 31, the company lost $2.0 million, or 3 cents per share. in contrast to a profit of $5.7 million, or 13 page decline, the company to know whether Stewart be negatively impacted." cents per share, in 2001. predicted a 20 percent was trading on insider Fourth-quarter revenues The results marked the drop in newsstand sales information when she sold were $77.6 million, com­first time the company has for Martha Stewart Living shares of ImClone stock in pared to $82.7 million in reported a net loss for any and a 20 percent decrease December 2001. Stewart 2001, following declines in quarter since it went pub­in revenues at the compa­has denied any wrongdo­the company's publishing, lic in 1999. ny's publishing division. ing, but since the investi­television and 
Excluding a $7.7 million The Internet/direct com­gation became public in Internet/direct commerce restructuring charge relat­merce division is also June, her company's stock divisions. ed to its Internet/direct expected to post further price has tumbled more TV revenues fell 33 per­commerce division, the losses. than 50 percent. cent -a loss the company company earned 6 cents Wall Street responded to "2002 was an exception­attributed to the lack of a per share in the fourth the news by selling the ally difficult year for· holiday TV special. Martha quarter -putting it ahead stock. Shares of Martha Martha Stewart Living Stewart Living Omnimedia of the 3 cents per share Stewart Living Omnimedia Omnimedia, and our dis­also is restructuring and that analysts surveyed by fell 30 cents, or 4 percent, appointing fourth-quarter reducing the operations Thomson First Call had to $7.25 on the New York results reflect both a sub­for its InterneVdirect com­forecast on a comparable Stock Exchange. stantial negative impact of merce division, which lost basis. Founder and chief exec­the ongoing governmental nearly 18 percent in rev­
But the company warned utive Martha Stewart said investigations relating to enues in the fourth quar­of more difficulties ahead, that although she is hope­my personal sale of stock, ter. The restructuring, saying it expects a first­ful that the government as well as the generally which involves refocusing quarter loss of 6 cents to 8 investigation into her trad­unfavorable U.S. econo­catalog operations, should cents per share. Analysts ing activities will be my," Stewart said. "So help the division break were looking for a profit of resolved soon, the issue long as the investigations even by 2004 and turn a 3 cents a share in the first continues to hurt business. are ongoing. our business profit by 2005. the compa­quarter. Along with the ad Federal regulators want segments will continue to ny said. 

Housing market may slow down 
ers into more cautious consumers. bly will slow, which could restrain 
Associated Press 

"The frenetic pace of home equity buying behavior. 
WASHINGTON extraction last year is likely to Still, they also agreed with 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan appreciably sir.1mer down in 2003, Greenspan's assessment that the Greenspan said Tuesday that the possibly notably lessening support housing market will remain healthy. high-flying housing market is likely to household purchases of goods "Low mortgage rates still repre­to lose a bit of altitude this year. and services," Greenspan said in a sent a stimulus to the housing mar­
That could slow consumer spend­speech delivered via a satellite ket and there is still a population of ing, one of the economy's few bright video link to the Independent people out there who are tempted spots, he cautioned. Community Bankers of America to buy or refinance the home they 
A home-mortgage refinancing meeting in Orlando, Fla. own because of low mortgage boom and rising home values have A copy of his speech was distrib­rates," said Bill Cheney, chief econ­been key pillars supporting con­uted in Washington. omist at John Hancock. 
sumer spending, the main force Private economists largely agreed "But in terms of growth rates ­keeping the economy going. with Greenspan's assessment, say­in home refinancing, home sales Greenspan said an expected cooling ing that the super-brisk pace of and home values -you can't look on the refinancing and home appre­refinancings and home-price appre­for a whole lot of increase," he ciation fronts could turn homeown-ciation seen in recent years proba-added. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Lori Lewalski 
OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Bob Woods 

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Man Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR! Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR! Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR! Kacie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR! Sarah Nesror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER1 Meghan Goran WEB ADMINISTRATOR! Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0•.••••••••••••631-7 471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIA.s.sT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS....................................................... ...631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit out Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assist.ant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and muse indude contact information. 
Questions regarding Obterverpolicies should be direct­tdto Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.a.or (USPS 599 HO) i, publi,h<d Mood.y through Friday """'P' during e:)t.1.rn Md v,1u,tion periods. A sWMCripO.on to The Oblcrver i1 $100 lo, one-ac.adcmk 
ya,: $55 for on< ,cmcso:r.  
The Obtc,va i, published•~  POSTMASTER  
02~ Sourh Dining H.U  Smd addro, c.orm:rioru w:  
Noa. Dame. IN 46556  n., 01,,,n,.,  
P.O. BoxQ  
Periodical pomp: paid ar Nouc Dame  Nou.e Dame. IN 46556--0779  
and addirional m.Uling offi!.fl.  

Th< Ob,cn,c, i> • ..,_1,qof th< Aaociaral P,-. All n:producrion righo arc rncr;cJ. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Helena Payne Matt Lozar Joe Trombello Lisa Reijula Mike Chambliss Scene Viewpoint Maria Smith Claire Kelley Lab Tech Graphics Chris Orenchuk Mike Harkins 

An international coalition led by the United States will soon use military force to disarm and oust Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq. This war is necessary and justified on strategic, legal and moral grounds. 
War is horrific and unpredictable. Military force should be used only after reasonable alternatives have been 
exhausted. Yet war is sometimes the least bad option. History offers tragic examples of what happens when good people avoid necessary wars. European appeasement of Hitler in 1938 might be ancient history to some, but the last decade witnessed the feckless response of the interna­tional community in both the Balkans (where Serb aggression left 200,000 Bosnians dead) and 
Rwanda (where 800,000 civilians were slaugh­tered). 
The strategic need to disarm Iraq of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) is twofold. First, a nuclear-armed Saddam Hussein would pose huge risks to regional and global stability. Specifically, Saddam believes WMD would give him a freer hand to conquer his neighbors (as tried with Iran and Kuwait) and control the region's vast oil reserves. He might be deterred from using WMD directly against the U.S., but Saddam's record ofreckless miscalculation is not encouraging. 
The second strategic danger is that al Qaeda and other ter­rorists will acquire WMD in cooperation with Iraq and then use these weapons in a catastrophic attack. Deterrence logic does not apply to suicidal terrorists bent on murdering mil­lions. 
Critics dismiss the possibility of an al Qaeda-Iraq link on the grounds that Islamic extremists would not ally with a secular despot like Saddam. However, Osama bin Laden called for cooperation with Iraq to fight the "greater cause" against America, and Colin Powell presented concrete evidence of an active al Qaeda cell in Baghdad. Given Saddam's history of supporting terrorists, a growing al Qaeda-Iraq link is likely and troubling. 
For some people no amount of evidence justifies war on strategic grounds. The rest of us must identify a tipping point where the risks of inaction outweigh the costs of preventive war. After Sept. 11, inaction based on underestimating the ter­rorist threat appears far riskier and deadlier. 
The legal basis for disarming Iraq is clear and compelling. Saddam has failed to show that he has eliminated existing WMD programs and stockpiles. No serious observer believes Saddam is committed to disarmament. International law requires that he be disarmed by force. 
In April 1991, at the end of the Gulf War, the U.N. Security Council passed Resolution 687, which demanded that Iraq eliminate its WMD programs. In Nov. 2002, after 11 years of Iraqi obstruction and deception and 15 additional resolutions demanding Iraqi compliance, the Security Council unanimous­ly passed Resolution 1441. It offered Iraq a "final opportunity" to voluntarily disarm but stated that any false or incomplete claims by Iraq in its weapons declaration, combined with fail­ure "at any time ... to cooperate fully," would constitute a "material breach" of the resolution and be met with "serious consequences" (diplomatic speak for war). 
ChiefU.N. inspector Hans Blix has since reported that Iraq submitted an incomplete weapons declaration, failed to coop­erate on multiple issues, and has not made the fundamental decision to disarm. Blix's most recent judgment: "The results in terms of disarmament have been very limited so far." 
Disarmament through inspections has failed. The plea to "just give inspectors a chance" reveals collective amnesia or delusion about the last decade. The French demand for more 
inspections is particularly galling, given that France 
spent the 1990s undermining the inspection regime and signing oil contracts with Iraq. 
Similarly. the call to beef-up the inspection teams misconstrues the U.N.'s mission and mistakenly shifts the burden of proof from Saddam to the inter­national community. Inspectors are in Iraq to review and confirm Iraq's voluntary disarmament, not to play hide-and-seek. The international com­

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you feel that local bars take adequate steps to ensure the safety of their customers? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
munity has tried everything within reason to enforce 
the law -diplomacy, sanctions, embargoes, positive inducements and even limited air strikes. When war comes, it will have been long overdue. 
A war against the Iraqi regime will be morally just. Ultimately one's own moral compass determines whether lib­erating the Iraqi people from the world's most brutally repres­sive dictator is a cause worth fighting for. The well-intentioned claim that the Iraqi people prefer the status quo to foreign intervention flies in the face of both logic and evidence. 
Would mothers and fathers forced to watch their daughters raped by Saddam's henchmen oppose regime change? How much credence should we give to interviews with civilians who, under the gaze of Iraqi agents, pledge to defend Saddam? The voices of Iraqi dissidents who risked their lives to escape Saddam's bloody grip-and who are busy beseeching the U.S. and anyone else who will listen to help liberate their country -are a better barometer of the wishes of the Iraqi people. 
After a century of genocide and other massive violations of human rights, the just war tradition has established humani­tarian intervention as a morally legitimate reason to wage war. According to just war scholar Michael Walzer, a dictatorial government deserves toppling when it "turns savagely upon its own people" and undertakes "actions which shock moral con­science." Saddam Hussein is responsible for over a million Iraqi deaths through torture, execution and war. In a country of just 22 million people, this level of brutality is almost unprecedented in modern history. 
It is particularly surprising and tragic that many anti-war demonstrators dismiss the moral obligation for regime change in Iraq. If a just war aims to block evil, restore peace and defend human rights, then Iraq is the model. No matter how bad things go in the war (and there are good reasons to be optimistic}, it is hard to imagine that post-Saddam Iraq will not be a much freer, safer and better place to live. 
War in Iraq is necessary, legal and morally justified. The war should be as multilateral as possible, fought with every effort to minimize civilian and military casualties and followed by a robust commitment to build democracy and improve the lives of the Iraqi people. But the time for war has come. 
Keir Lieber is an assistant professor in the Department of Political Science and faculty fellow at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You cannot simultaneously prevent and prepare for war.·· 
Albert Einstein scientist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, March 5, 2003 page 9 
Azteca Foods employees deserve better conditions 
On Sept. 30, 2002, 63 (out of 90) Azteca Foods workers went on strike to protest poor working conditions, compa­ny mistreatment, along with Art Velasquez's refusal to negotiate with them. Mr. Velasquez is the president and 
Paul Graham
CEO of Azteca and is an alumnus on the Board of Directors for the University of Another Notre Dame and for Perspective the Institute for Latino Studies. He is a well-respected philanthropist who has made positive contributions in Chicago and done much for the Notre Dame community, which is why his inaction at his own factory is all the more shocking. 
The workers organized and over­whelmingly voted to form United Electrical. Radio and Machine Workers of America (UE) Local 1159 last April. For 20 years preceding this, they were represented by the Distillery Workers Local 3. This union was corrupt and is now under federal investigation. John Duff Jr., whose family runs the union, served 17 months in prison for embez­zlement of union funds. It is popularly known that Mr. Velasquez referred to Local 3 as "his union." This puppet union did more to protect the company than workers, which resulted in poor working conditions, pay, benefits and more. 
In 2000, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), a federal inspection agency, cited Azteca for 12 violations of safety code. Last fall, the company locked out inspectors for more than 3 weeks. When they were finally admitted into the factory, they still found two violations. 
On Feb. 20, 2003, a temporary work­
er crushed his arm and hand in one of 
the machines and had to be rushed to 
Loyola Medical Center. Neither this 

worker nor any of the other workers 
knew how to shut the machine off. 

To keep up with the machines, employees must maintain a rapid work pace, and accidents have become all too common. The company claims that they make more than 3 million tortillas a day. These machines are not only dan­gerous and lack safety guards, but also create intense heat. Josefina Bonilla told an audience of more than 50 Notre Dame students in February, "In the summer we are very sweaty. Some faint because they can not leave to get water." There are frequent burns from the machines and inadequate first aid kits. Many of the workers are forced to work in these conditions 12 hours a day, 6 days a week. 
In addition to these conditions. the company does not recognize the seniori­ty of its workers. Most of the employees have worked there for more than 12 years, and 1/3 of them have been with the company for more than 20 years. 
Despite the seniority and the tenure of 
most the workers, 2/3 make only $9 an 
hour and 1/3 make $10.75. 
Azteca is not a struggling company: Its annual revenues are around $33 mil­lion. The company can afford to improve conditions and pay. The work­ers helped build the company into what it is today. They have worked long hours at low wages and Mr. Velasquez has reaped massive profits. Yet despite their hard labor and commitment, Mr. Velasquez last year refused to meet with the new union. Negotiations began on May 14, 2002 but he refused to listen to workers and showed them little respect. 
The workers are negotiating for rais­es, better retirement, sick days, griev­ance procedures and seniority in job transfers, shift preferences and over­time. Mr. Velasquez wants to make things worse. He wants to raise insur­ance costs by 32 cents an hour but only offer a 5 cent raise. cut seniority rights in new job openings and eliminate des­ignated clean-up time at the end of shifts but still make workers perform clean-up duties off the clock. 
In protest of Mr. Velasquez's attitude and disrespect. the workers went on strike. Two weeks into the strike, they called for the boycott on Azteca Foods products. These products are sold in Buen Provencho in the Huddle. The LaFortune workers were told by their 
supervisors to claim that the products 
are from Azteca's distributor. 
Mr. Velasquez recently agreed to fed­eral mediation. tfe agreed because the workers were planning a rally at a bank where he sits on the Board of Directors. The bank essentially gave him two options: Accept mediation or forfeit his position on its Board. 
It is this type of positive influence that the Notre Dame community can have with Mr. Velasquez. Mediations begin today. Ask Mr. Velasquez to negotiate with his workers and to bargain with the workers in good faith. Sign the peti­tion asking Mr. Velasquez to negotiate fairly, available at www.nd.edu/-psa /aztecaPSA.html. We can also send a message by boycotting his products on campus until he negotiates a fair deal with his workers. For information on the strike or the boycott. go to http://www.ranknfile-ue.org/ 1159azteca_home.html. The workers need our help. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor who is opposed to the war on Iraq. His column appears every other Wednesday. You may contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' objectify 
It's time to stand up for women; it's time to affirm the beauty and dignity of women everywhere. But in order to truly respect women as they demand and deserve, we cannot reduce them to a female body part, as "The Vagina Monologues" does so easily, masking the degradation of women under the false guise of "end• ing violence." 
The premise behind the play may be valid and meaningful; rais­ing awareness of violence against women is an important cause. However, the "Monologues" are the wrong means of accomplishing this goal, and in fact even counteract the effect of "ending" the perception of women as mere sexual objects. I have read the entire script; I am shocked that the women who perform these mono­logues are unable to see that they are becoming objects of lust and temptation for men. 
The "Monologues" are pornography. Like the rest of the pornog­raphy in society Gust look at MTV and you'll see pornography broadcast worldwide), they numb any sense of chastity or modesty left in our youth. By dwelling on the details of the acts, they make it seem okay or even natural for these women to have such experi• ences. They fail in their purpose and instead add to the abuse of women as sexual objects. 
Some argue that these stories must be shared because they are "true;" they may be true, but I do not need to watch pornography to know that it's wrong. Likewise, I do not need to watch a murder and all of the gruesome details to know that violence is wrong. There are better ways to raise awareness of violence than porno• graphic plays; just go to the Snite. Women, do not stand up only for your vaginas; you are so much more than that. You are beautiful souls made in the image and likeness of God; stand up for your dignity. 
Furthermore, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are both Catholic colleges and should appropriately follow Ex Corde Ecclesiae in obedience to the Catholic Church and to the Bishop of its diocese, for where the Church is, there Christ is. Like Mary, our greatest example of womanhood, we must humble ourselves and follow Christ in the Church. Finally, how can we address the needs of women to understand their sexuality? Christopher West will be coming to Notre Dame on April 25 to discuss Pope John Paul H's "Theology of the Body," affirming the dignity of the sexuality of women as children ofGod, not as mere sexual objects. This is true empowerment; see for yourself. 
Jim Lee 
junior 
Morrissey Manor March 4 

Remember death penalty's injustice during Lenten season 
As Catholics begin their Lenten journey, ashes are placed on foreheads to remember that from ashes we came and to ashes we wiil return. Today on campus, Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns. the Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, the Community of Sant, Egidio and ND/SMC Right to Life invites the Notre Dame community to make our Lenten beginning one of reflection. education and action on behalf of those marked with death in a manner more perma­nent than ash and are so marked by us and the legal system we espouse. 
Current statistics do not present an argu• ment that justice comes with the death penalty. From a study by Columbia University released in 2000: "68 percent of all death verdicts imposed and fully reviewed during the 1973-1995 study period were reversed by courts due to serious errors." Errors included incompetent legal counsel, racist or biased judges and jurors, police and prosecutors accused of professional impro­priety and many cases of suppressed or manipulated evidence. In many states, appeals processes do not allow for the intro­duction of new or exculpatory evidence; this condemns many to relive the same error-rid­dled original trial experience over and again. Despite this, over 100 innocent people in the last 20 years have been exonerated after years spent on death row. 
Moreover, as Judge Shelia Murphy has said. candidates for capital punishment are selected "from a fatal lottery among poor and minorities." The American Bar Association reports that 90 percent of death row inmates could not afford their own counsel at time of trial. While 82 percent of those on death row killed a Caucasian, people of color compose 50 percent of all murder victims. Further, 43 percent of inmates on death row are African­American though 12 percent of the general population are so. 
And beyond the current social condition of our legal system, Catholics have a responsi­
bility to incorporate into their lives the teach• 
ing and action of Christ and the Church. 
Following a dialogue with Church and civic leaders, as well as the witness and teaching of Sister Helen Prejean, who for many years has walked with death row inmates and the families of victims, John Paul II proclaimed in the Gospel of Life that cases where the death penalty may be justly and duly applied are "very rare, if not practically non-exis­tent." 
Our nation must endeavor to renew its legal structure, so that it "corresponds to the concrete conditions of the common good and are more in conformity to the dignity of the human person." This is a proclamation that comes from the heart of our Christian faith -God has created us in God's image, we have infinite worth. Our legal system may justly convict to uphold public order and pro­tect; it may never condemn. 
Here it might be well to reflect on the infi­nite mercy of Jesus on the cross; he began our canon of saints with the man condemned on his right: "Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom and truly I say to you, you shall be with me today in paradise." Injustice anywhere obscures the inherent self-worth of each human in society. 
Please take some time to learn and reflect today. Try to sign the petition that will be available all over campus in dorms and din• ing halls to enact a moratorium on the death penalty here in Indiana. Consider other ways that you might become involved, such as con­tacting your local politicians and writing a prisoner on death row. And let us all pray for those on death row, for their victims and their families, for the people that guard and protect, and for an end to the injustice, indig­nity and disparity perpetuated by the prac­tice of the death penalty in our time. 
Ricky Klee 
staff 
March 4 
THE 

OBSERVER 

page 10 Wednesday, March 5, 2002 

e Tenacit 
0 
e 
] 
The Onion interviews the most infamously persistent entertainers from the pa 


By SARAH VABUI.AS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The Onion, a satirical weekly publication printed and posted online 4 7 times a year on Thursdays, comes through once again, prov­ing that humor, even that of the most abrupt and crude variety, rules all. The Onion A.V. Club, the longstanding name for The Onion's entertainment section has released its first hard copy collection of the interviews fea­tured weekly in The Onion, both on and 
offline. "The Tenacity of 
the  Cockroach  
Conversations  with  
Entertainment's  Most  

Enduring Outsiders" assembles 68 of its best interviews with prominent former celebrities, who in some cases desperately try to sneak their way back into the limelight of star­dom. 
The A.V. Club's interviews are most commonly featured people read both editions of The Onion on a with The Onion. weekly basis. This division of The Onion fea­The interviews date back up to tures Question & Answer interviews with 10 years ago, featuring everything entertainers, essays and reviews of movies, from an interview with Lawrence music and books, as well as the Savage Love Tureaud, more famously known as 
"'Jt,s never over. You never 
entertain­
column and the comic strips "Red Meat" and "Pathetic Geek Stories." 
The editor, Stephen Thompson, compiled the most popular and pungent interviews conducted for 
The  Onion  through  the  
years,  to  
form  this  

highly 
really feel like you've made it.., 
Conan O'Brien Talk Show Host 
on The Onion 
Web site, or found on the back pages of The Onion hard copy newspaper. Over 1.5 million 
ing, witty super-book of notori­ous propor­tions. The 
"Yes, we sold 15 million records and made a movie, but I was talking into a lot ofthings. like writing a slow song and wearing baggy pants.·· 
Vanilla Ice Singer 
title of the book originates from a quote found in the interview with Henry Rollins, a former actor, 
m us1cian, and writer, who said. "I had 18 minutes instead of 15 because of tenacity, the will of the cockroach." 
This book features, instead of the usual young, shining faces of the entertainment 
industry, the over 30, some­what faded celebrities who were once in the public eye and prominent in 
Hollywood, now found for­
gotten by mainstream 
media and the general 
public. These entertain­
ers and storytellers, 
thanks to The Onion 
A.V. Club, have once again found themselves offering colorful con­
versation and insight to the masses by 
"'I'm telling these guys, 'Why you gotta grab your crotch?' Then you see Michael Jackson grabbing his crotch 50 tillles. What's with him?" 
Lawrence Tureaud 
Mr. T 
reliving their glory days of fame and 
fortune. 

These interviews reveal struggles 
from childhood years as well as 
highlight the pinnacle of each 
celebrity's career, while maintain­
ing the puns and other hilari­
ty expected from a 
publication 
associated 

Mr. T, first print­ed in October 1993, to more recent interviews with people like Kiss rock star Gene Simmons in March 2002. 
The book also features John Waters, Tom Waits, Pam Grier, Chuck Jones, David Lee Roth, Joan Jeff, George Carlin, Conan O'Brien, Alice 
Cooper, Vanilla Ice, "Weird Al" Yankovic and many more celebri­ties, who seemed more than ready and excited to jump back into the spotlight, if even for a moment. The collection boasts timeless con­versations, grouped by tone to segue from anger and resignation to joy and contentment. 
Also featured are five stops on the career path of Bob Odenkirk and David Cross, the masterminds of the HBO sketch­comedy series Mr. Show. These interviews appear in chronological order to provide something of a counter-narrative for their evolving 
battles that shed light on dealings surrounding the struggle between entertainers for creative ideas in the television industry. "Weird Al" periodically jumps in to give his insight on his friends and heroes. 
The interviews uncover many of the answers to the questionable rumors that have been floating around since the height of each icon's career, while presenting how each perceived the era and the events surrounding his or her fame. 
The compilation provides fans a wonderful insight into the deeper thoughts and feelings of some once shy and taciturn celebrities, who during their reign would dismiss all rumors or alleged perceptions of the world around them. Or in the case of the more outspoken person­ality, the interviews provide a deep­er look into the unanswered ques­tions of the former notoriety in each of their lives. 
"The Tenacity of the Cockroach ­Conversations with Entertainment's Most Enduring Outsiders" by The Onion A.V. Club (Three Rivers Press. December 2002) can be pur­chased at any local bookstore or online at www.theonionavclub.com. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
(I} the OMIOH ~ 

I I 
a.\tC U 


THE 

OBSERVER 

Wednesday, March S, 2002 page 11 

I 

roac 
rst two decades 
J 


....................... . 
\ 


Audioslave rocks the Riviera 
By MATT ZATORSKI 
Scene Writer 
A 65-year-old woman walked on stage in 
front of roughly 1,500 screaming rock 
fans. "Are you ready for the best [exple­
tive] band in the universe?" she said. The 
crowd responded with a resounding roar. 
If seeing Tom Morello's mother come out 
before their performance wasn't enough, 
Audioslave made sure everyone in atten­
dance got their money's worth with a set­
list that included much of their debut 
album of the same name in addition to 
several new songs. Their performance at 
Chicago's Riviera Theatre Thursday was a 
bit of a departure for the members of 
Audioslave, who in previous musical lives 
played in front of tens of thousands of peo­
ple. Fortunately, they still played as fried 
and as alive, with only the scenery chang­
ing. 
Audioslave is the lovechild of two of the 
most important bands of the '90s. Chris 
Cornell formed Soundgarden in 1985 and 
over the course of 12 years repaved the 
rock landscape, selling over 20 million 
albums. With Tom Morello on guitar, Tim 
Commerford on bass and Brad Wilk 
behind the drum kit, Rage Against the 
Machine was arguably the most original, 
hard-rocking band to surface since Led 
Zeppelin founded heavy metal rock. 
Chris Cornelljoined the remaining mem­bers of Rage Against the Machine in late 2001. After many jam sessions and even more rumors that their self-titled debut would never be released, Audioslave hit the shelves Nov. 19, 2002. Since its release, it has already sold well over 750,000 copies. Their two radio singles, "Cochise" and "Like a Stone," have had heavy radio airplay. 
With every show on the tour sold out, Audioslave has been destroying venues around the country. Opening with "Gasoline." the band ripped through the first three songs of the set, stopping for air only when some over-excit­ed fans recovered from their fall into the gap between the bar­rier and the stage. The band played extremely well together, fir­ing on all cylin­ders at a frenzied pace that the crowd could barely keep up 
with. 

One of the highlights of the evening was Tom Morello's guitar solo on "Like a Stone." Morello showed why he has even garnered comparisons to Jimmy Hendrix, the ax-master himself. Morello, put quite simply, can summon any sound he wants from his guitar, making up technically for any shortcomings melodically. Cornell couldn't help smiling and bowing when Morello finished his wailing solo. 
The band saved its other hit-single, "Cochise," for the closing of the encore, sending everyone off with a thrashing, four minute-long shakedown. Cornell proved his worth as a frontman, visiting every stop on the vocal highway as he shredded 

his tired vocal chords. Commerford's rag­
ing baseline matched Morello's lead meas­
ure for measure as Audioslave emptied the 
tank in a simply great rock performance. A surprise song was a cover of Funkadelic's "Super Stupid." Their group has integrated their song into their set, and will likely give a repeat performance at future shows. This cover was much bet­ter than any Soundgarden or Rage cover the band could have performed. Furthermore, it was evidence that the band is moving forward, not backward. 
Audioslave's best songs of the night, though, have not reached any ears on the radio. "Set It Off" and "Exploder" set the tone for the night as alternately heavy then melodic efforts. These two songs illustrate the breadth that Chris Cornell has brought to these groups of musi­cians, complementing their heavy styles with his harmonious tem­perament. Commerford alone has improved greatly, learning to align his baseline to a melody line, some­thing he didn't have to do when backing up Zach de la Rocha. With an upcoming slot on this summer's Lallapalooza, Audioslave will be able to bring their sound to those tens of thousands again. The band will be as big a hit in front of 80,000 fans as they were in front of a mere 1,500 at the Riviera in Chicago. All the members of Audioslave seem to be extremely happy with their current musical situation, making innovative rock for their fans and touring with each other. For anyone who owns Rage Against the Machine or Superunknown, seeing Audioslave live is something to look into. And if you missed them this time around, don't worry. You'll get a chance to see them again this summer. 
Contact Matt Zatorski at 
Matthew. T.Zatorski.2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 5, 2003

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA MENS BASKETBALL 
Georgia upsets No. 3 Florida 
points and eight assists for the average of 21 points in those 
Associated Press 

Longhorns (21-5, 12-3 Big 12), who games. 
went 14-0 this season at the Frank 
Erwin Center. Boston College 92, VIiianova 84 
ATHENS, Ga. Texas lost five games at home Goodbye. Bill Bradley and Elgin Georgia put aside all the distrac­last season and hadn't gone unde­Baylor. Look out, Calvin Murphy tions for one night at least. feated on its home court since and Austin Carr. 
Jarvis Hayes banked in a 12-foot­1994-95. Troy Bell scored a season-high er with 14 seconds remaining and Matt Siebrandt scored 12 points 38 points to move ·into 38th place the 25th-ranked Bulldogs beat No. for Kansas State (12-16, 3-12). on the NCAA's all-time list and lead 3 Florida 82-81. which lost its 16th straight confer­Boston College to its ninth win in 
Florida (24-5, 12-3 Southeastern ence road game and sixth straight 10 games, a victory over Villanova. Conference) had a chance at a final overall. "He's the best player in the shot, but Matt Walsh slipped trying The win keeps Texas in the hunt nation," said Craig Smith, who had to penetrate and David Lee for a bye in the Big 12 tournament. 21 points and 12 rebounds for BC. couldn't get the ball off before the Sixth-ranked Kansas has already "And everybody knows that." buzzer. earned at least share of the league The Eagles (17-9, 10-5 Big East) 
Georgia (18-8, 10-5) was playing title and one of two first-round took over first place in the confer­its second game against a top three byes. ence's East Division and clinched a team in three days. On Sunday, the The other will be determined bye in the first round of the confer­Bulldogs lost to No. 2 Kentucky 74-Saturday when Texas travels to ence tournament. They are one­
66. border rival No. 5 Oklahoma, half game in front of Connecticut, 
More troubling. Georgia's pro­which beat Nebraska 76-51 which plays Providence on gram is under NCAA investigation Tuesday. Texas beat Oklahoma at Wednesday before coming to because of charges made by a for­home this season. Boston on Saturday. 
mer player. Longhorns fans chanted "Beat Villanova (15-13, 8-7) led by as 
Tony Cole claims assistant coach OU!" as the finals seconds ticked many as 14 points early in the sec­Jim Harrick Jr. paid some of his off against Kansas State. ond half before allowing a 14-2 run bills and committed academic The game had the look of a rout to turn the game around. The fraud. The son of head coach Jim early as the Longhorns shot 53 Wildcats have lost four of five and Harrick was suspended with pay percent the first half. wrap up the regular season against last week, but watched the game No. 7 Pittsburgh on Sunday. from a tunnel near the Georgia Oklahoma 76, Nebraska 51 Andrew Bryant had a season­bench. Having taken care of a little pre­high 16 points for BC, hitting a 3­
Earlier Tuesday, the elder liminary business, No. 5 Oklahoma pointer to tie it 58-all after BC ral­Harrick denied all of Cole's allega­can look forward to some serious lied from a 12-point halftime deficit tions, calling him "a vindictive work. with 21 of the first 30 points in the young man." The NCAA and the The Sooners, chasing Kansas for second. That was the first BC field school are investigating, casting a the Big 12 title, beat Nebraska and goal by someone other than Bell or pall over the Bulldogs with tourna­now close out the regular season at Smith in the second half, and just ment time approaching. home Saturday against No. 4 the third of the game. 
Putting aside those troubles for a Texas. Oklahoma and the Villanova led 60-59 when Bryant couple of hours, Georgia defeated Longhorns are tied for second hit another 3 to give BC its first the Gators in a thrilling game. The place and need a victory for any lead since the Wildcats went on an lead changed hands three times in chance at catching the sixth­18-2 run to turn an 11-8 game into the final 39 seconds, beginning ranked Jayhawks, who finish their a 26-13 runaway. with Ezra Williams' 3-pointer that season at Missouri on Sunday. Villanova pulled to 78-75 before put Georgia ahead 80-79. "We're trying to go 13-3 in the the Eagles pulled away with a 7-0 
Matt Bonner drove into the lane league, and then 'Go Missouri run on a 3-pointer by Bryant and to hit a basket that put the Gators Tigers,"' Oklahoma coach Kelvin two free throws each from Ryan back on top, 81-80, with 23 sec­Sampson said. Sidney and Louis Hinnant. onds left. Hollis Price had 20 points to lead 
Georgia called a timeout and set five players in double figures as the Indiana 7 4, Minnesota 70 up a play to isolate Hayes on the Sooners (21-5, 12-3) rolled after a Jeff Newton didn't have to check left side. He faked Justin Hamilton sluggish start. Oklahoma went 1O­himself into the game Tuesday to the court and knocked down the for-10 from the field in a 25-0 run night. game-winning shot. that spanned both halves to take He just stayed in and kept mak­
After Florida's final possession control and ran its homecourt win­ing plays. came up short, the Georgia faithful ning streak to 37 games, longest in Newton scored 22 points and stormed the court to celebrate. the nation. grabbed a career-high 16 rebounds They mobbed Harrick when he "The first five or six minutes we in his home finale, and Bracey stopped for an interview. showing weren't making any shots, but I Wright added six 3-pointers and 21 their support for the embattled don't ever worry about that," points to lead Indiana past coach. Sampson said. "Our defense was so Minnesota. 
"We really came together in this good, they weren't scoring. It was "That's my plan every night, to game," Harrick said. just a matter of time before we attack those guys and put pressure took off." on them and get them in foul trou­
Texas 74, Kansas State 60 De'Angelo Alexander scored 15 ble," Newton said. 
James Thomas had 22 points and points and Jabahri Brown had 14 Newton was sensational in one of 15 rebounds to lead No. 4 Texas to points and eight rebounds for Indiana's (18-10, 8-7 Big Ten) most a victory over Kansas State, as the Oklahoma, while Ebi Ere and Kevin critical games. Longhorns finished their home Bookout each scored 10. The victory assured them of a schedule undefeated for the first Andrew Drevo had 24 points for non-losing record in Big Ten play, time in nine seasons. Nebraska (11-17, 3-12). which a key factor for a team that does 
Brandon Mouton scored 13 dropped to 0-7 on the road in the not yet believe it is assured of an points and T.J. Ford added 11 Big 12, getting outscored by an NCAA tournament bid. 
1(
i(. 
St. Bonaventure votes not to play firial 2 games 
• Decision comes a day after school forfeited six games for using an ineligible player 
Associated Press 
OLEAN, N.Y. 

Forced to forfeit six games for using an ineligi­
ble player. the St. Bonaventure mens basketball 
team voted not to play the final two games of its 
season, the school announced Tuesday. 
The decision came a day after the Atlantic 10 
Conference took away the six wins and barred the 
Sonnies from the postseason for using center 
Jamil Terrell. 

St. Bonaventure was scheduled to play 
Wednesday night at the University of 
Massachusetts and then host Dayton on Saturday. 
The school's board of trustees also is reviewing 
the matter and could take further action. 
"We are most concerned about the devastating 
impact all of this is having on our student ath­
letes, as well as the entire university community," 
said William Swan, chair:man of the board of 
trustees. 

A vote by the players was taken Monday night 
and a consensus was reached, school spokesman 
David Ferguson said. After several discussions 
between school administrators and coaches, it 
was determined that the team would abide by the 
players' decision, he said. 
The players had left the campus several hours 
before the announcement. Students are on spring 
break this week. 
Ferguson said coach Jan Van Breda Kolff 
respected the players' decision, even though he · wanted to play the games. Ferguson said the team was going through many emotions and 
found it difficult to play at this time. 
"This is a complicated situation. Players, coach­
es and fans are all victims of this thing," 
Ferguson said, referring all questions concerning 
ramifications or compensations to conference 
officials. 

Van Breda Kolff could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
"We are extremely disappointed that St. 
Bonaventure has taken this action," Atlantic 10 
commissioner Linda Bruno said. "The A-10 presi­
dent's council will discuss the university's deci­
sion at its April 1 meeting." 
Ferguson said the school will fully cooperate 
with any Atlantic 10 or NCAA investigation. The 
NCAA reserves the right to launch its own investi­
gation to determine if further sanctions are nec­
essary against the school. 
After a 90-minute meeting with Van Breda 
Kolff, players dispersed around campus. Some, 
including Patricio Prato, talked about the contro­
versy swirling around Terrell, who was declared 
ineligible last week for failing to meet NCAA 
junior college transfer guidelines. 
School officials, who said they were petitioning 
the A-10 to have Terrell reinstated, have declined 
to say what guidelines were violated. 
Van Breda Kolff told reporters that Terrell was 
first declared eligible and that the school was in 
compliance with NCAA rules. 
..Now, things have changed dramatically," Van 
Breda Kolff said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 3-4 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: The new Mario record is 5 minutes, OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 Make a difference in the life of a 19.9 seconds 
NOTICES BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW WANTED child! Summer therapy camp for 1FOR SALE 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM• PUS· STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING FASTIII -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­5032 OR {574} 234-2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ 
DOMUSKRAMERCOM EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER OR FALL 235-3655 

FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 272-1525 mmm• rentals@aol.com 
Summer Job-North Shore suburban Chicago Financial Planning and Investment Management Firm seeks serious student for full time summer internship. Skills required: excellent Excel and courteous com­munication. Demands utmost discretion and reliability. Resume and professors references required. 
Please send inquiries, interview availability in Chicago, and resume to ccberto@aol.com. 
children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MT. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & Crafts/ Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 15 through August 10. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228-5770, email BayCliffHC@aol.com 
4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
It's a shame Otto wasn't at the game tonight 
Otto is beloved by the under-six crowd through his friendly and cheerful behavior 
The other name option was Opie, but that would have rhymed with dopie 
Sports starts at 11 -in what might be one of the most impressive nights ever. 
Oh, its on 


Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

807 MASS IS A GREAT OPPORTUnlTY TO 
grow Spiritually reflect on the gospel meet. peoplt1 
Co e join us on march Jg) 
t.he first Friday after we get 
back from Sprint Break. 
on YOUR WAY TO A PARTY? A DAnCE? A fflOUIE? 
Stop by and join us for 807 8pm. Friday ni1·ht !n the coma. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


MLB 
Wells says he won't waive no-trade clause 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

David Wells won't waive the no-trade clause in his contract if the New York Yankees attempt to deal him after embarrassing revelations in his new book. 
"I can say yes, but I'm not a fool. I'm not waiving it," he said at the Yankees' spring training camp before the team left to play Boston at Fort Myers. "I don't want to go anywhere else. obviously." 
Wells has a complete no-trade clause in the two-year, $7 mil­lion contract he agreed to with the Yankees before the 2002 season. The New York Post had reported that Wells, after details of his book became known, had told the team he would waive the no-trade clause if the team wanted to get rid of him. 
The 39-year-old left-hander could be punished by the team for writing an autobiography that general manager Brian Cashman said "tarnishes the Yankees' image." Wells apolo­gized to Cashman on Saturday and addressed his teammates Sunday about the book, Perfect I'm Not! Boomer on Beer. 
Brawls, Backaches & Baseball. 
\.Yells would not say if the no­trade clause came up in recent conversations with manager Joe Torre or Cashman. 
"What we talked about was our business," Wells said. 
Cashman would not say if Wells approached the team about waiving the clause. The general manager did say the Yankees haven't asked Wells to do it. 
Wells said he hasn't spoken with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner about the book. Steinbrenner said he has no intentions of addressing the matter with the pitcher. 
"I didn't think it was going to get to this stage," Wells said. 'Tm not going to deny anything I wrote in there. I'm account­able for everything that I've written." 
Cashman started reading the galleys of Wells' book and hopes to finish shortly. 
"Instead of being swift, I'd rather be right," Cashman said. "Until I get through it and then have a chance to have discus­sions with others [in the organi­zation] I'm not going to com­ment. I'm not ruling out any­thing. I'm not saying anything will happen." 
-~···········--·································· 
: Universlty Resources 
•
•

• 
for Gay, Lesbian, &
• • •• • Bisexual Students 
• 
• 
TH& STANDING 

• 
CO.. >flTTltlE OH 


• CIA'¥ AND LU¦IAN 
• STU-NT HIEIEH 
•

• The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
•

(Confidential infonnation, education, and resources) • Contact· Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • .. mf!mbers (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
•

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
'•

.and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact' Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Stee1e.3 I@nd.edu 
•
• 
. . 

• University Counseling Center ••• (Individual counseling) ••• ~ •• • Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •••
••• • For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsD' ••••
• 
• 


Wells wishes he would have do anything about it. It was a kept the issue of steroids out of bad choice putting it in the his book, scheduled for publica­book. I can't change anything. tion March 14. In galleys of the It's already done." book distributed by publisher In the actual book, the figure William Morrow, Wells said 25 is 10 to 25 percent. to 40 percent of major leaguers "We did that way back," said used steroids. Wells of the change. "Months 
"All I can do is apologize for and months back. It wasn't any­the pain it caused to the organi: thing recent." zation. my teammates and who­Also in the galleys, Wells ever," Wells said. "It was proba­claims he was "half drunk" bly the biggest mistake I ever when he pitched a pBrfect game did by putting something in in 1998 anti take:-. digs at team­there. I wish I didn't, but I can't mates Rog,...r Cl1~nwn" and Mike 
It's a Run 
.u. 

? It's an all Campus Run 
It was the ..Christmas in April., Run 
· It's now the ··nebuildinu TogetherH Run 
I It's happening March 29 
.... 


Sponsored bv RecSpons and Notre Dame Food Services 

Student, Grad & Staff DMslons 
10K and 5K runs. 2 mlle walk T-Shins to all Finishers Raglstradon beulns 3/17 at RacSports S&-00 In Allvance; SB.DO Dav or Race Advance Reulsuadon ends 3/28 at 5:00pm Race Begins at 11:00am at Stepan Center 


Now2ATMS In Lafortune Student Centerl 
For your convenience, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has nine ATMs on campus-all with no-surcharge~ 
Hammes Bookstore Main Building Decio Hall Reckers Grace Hall J'oyce Center North Dining Hall LaFortune Student Center (2) 
Plus, there's a full-service branch in Lafortune Student Centerl 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
www.ndfcu.org 

8.1-NCUA-1 'Members of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union are not charged a surcharge when using a Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ATM. LENDER '""-==-Non-members, however, may be surchanged when using a non-campus Notre Dame Federal Credit Umon ATM. Independent of the University. 
Mussina. Wells earlier backed off the half drunk statement. saying he was hung over. 
He doesn't feel the matter has become a distraction for his teammates. 
"I don't think these guys are being distracted," Wells said. "They're focusing on one thing: that's spring training and the season. They could care less. They're trying to work on stuff and get into season form and go out and try to win a pennant. That's what I'm trying to do." 
I 


Wednesday, March 5, 2003 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
C-M Campus Ministry 

Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #76 
Graduate Student Retreat 
• 
now 
Junior Retreat #2

Get involved, go on a retreat 
Retreat Date: March 28-29 

Sign-up through March 21  Retreat Date: April 11-13 Sign-up through March 7  Retreat Date: April 4-5 Sign-up dates: February 28-March 31 contact Fr. John Pearson: 631-7953 or pearson.1@nd.edu  
what'  h  ·  Pickup info & apps in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to s p.m. or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight.  
today 1.os·  iafter break 1 ..  considerations....  

Ash Wednesday ----. 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. Basilic of the Sacreed Heart 
Make this Lent more meaningful. Pickup Lenten prayer booklets, rosaries and other resources at the CoMo througout the season. 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Special Mid-Terms All-Music Edition 
10:00 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
friday 1.01 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
sunday J.o9 
Depart for Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, CA 
Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish in Coachella, CA 
take action 
monday J.11 
Mass on the Feast of St. Patrick 
5;15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
tuesday 3. 1s 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Marse Ce:!ter 
Confirmation Session #12 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 3. 19 
Solemnity of St. Joseph Mass 
5:15 p.m. . Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
In a culture of VIOLENCE...ln a culture of DEATH... 
ACall to Be a Voice of Hope 
Inform yourself 
about the Catholic Church's stand on 
life-related issues 

Add your Signature 
to a petition to declare a moratorium on the application of the death penalty in Indiana. 
Pick up info & sign the petition TODAY during lunch & dinner at the dining halls, CoMo, LaFortune and the Law School. 
mass schedule 
First Sunday of Lent 

basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c.  Rev. Pat M. Neary, c.s.c.  
11:45 a.m.  
Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c.  

Lent 

Pray for peace: Inner and Global 
by Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Director of Campus Ministry & Counselor to the President 
On Sunday, Pope John Paul II reminded pilgrims gathered in St. Peter's Square that Ash Wednesday is the beginning of Lent when "we undertake a penitential path towards Easter with a stronger commitment to prayer and fasting for peace, which has been put in doubt by growing threats ofwar." He urged fervent prayer to Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace, " ... because peace is a gift of God we must invoke with humble and insistent trust.)) 
Ash Wednesday, that is, today, is the beginning of the Lenten Season, when we imitate the forty days Jesus spent in the desert before beginning His public ministry, fasting and in prayer. 
We begin Lent surrounding by ever-growing signs that our country and the world are at the brink of a war we have been preparing for over so many months now. Every sign of progress towards a pos­
We understand Lent as a time of conversion,
sible peaceful 
when we heed in a sustained way, our longing
solution is 
for God and for a deeper relationship with God
dismissed by our 
through prayer and service of brothers and
government as 
sisters who are weak or poor or marginalized.
game-playing by Iraq. 
Our country, and the leaders ofother countries, have not only the right bur the obligation to protect their citizens through judicious use of the courageous service of the members of the armed forces to promote and defend the democratic values we enjoy and treasure. But as Pope John Paul II stated in his encyclical letter The Gospel ofLife, the defense and promotion of all life issues are based and developed on the defense of the right to life itself, upon which the inalienable rights of individuals are derived. 
We understand Lent as a time of conversion, when ·we heed in a sustained way, our longing for God and for a deeper relationship with God through prayer and service of brothers and sisters who are weak or poor or marginalized. 
Ash Wednesday comes to us this year in an especially timely way. 
May our increased prayer, our fasting and our generous service and gifts to the poor bring us a deep sense of inner peace, so that we might radiate in big and small ways, the light of Christ's peace which will be the result of our forty days. As His time in the desert prepared Jesus for his ministry, may our Lenten observance enable us to serve as He did, to be as compassionate and accepting ofothers as He was, and above all, to understand our lives as intimately connected to the life ofJesus, the Prince of Peace. 
Special Note: In the event ofwar, there will be a candlelight prayer service in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart at 9pm in the evening ofthe day war is declared. 
Sunday's Scripture Read;ngs 1st: Gen 9: 9 -15 2nd: 1Peter 3: 18 -22 Gospel: Mark 1: 12-15 

page 16 

\ 
'. i 
: l ' 
I ) 
I l I \ 
I ' 
I ) 
: l 
I 
I 
I \ 
. l 
I 
I I 
,I ! 
i l
I 



' ! 
' i 
. \ 
i l
I 
I I 
I I I I I ; 
: I I I 
: ! 
I ' 
' 

i 
'' 

. ' 
: l around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech at Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN North Carolina State at Clemson 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Timberwolves at Kings 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Blackhawks at Stars 9 p.m., FOXCH 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
NFL 


Associated Press 

ALAMEDA, Calif. 
Jerry Rice has signed a 6­year. $30 million contract extension to remain with the Oakland Raiders, a salary cap-friendly deal that theoretically could keep the star receiver play­ing until he's 46. 
Tim Brown, the longest­tenured Raider with all 15 of his seasons in Oakland, also signed an extension ­which means the NFL's old­est receiving tandem will stay together for now. 
"Them coupled with Jerry Porter were as pro­ductive as any receiver trio in recent memory," Raiders senior assistant Bruce Allen said. "We're happy to have them back, and I'm sure Rich Gannon is as well." 
The AFC champions were more than $30 million over the salary cap heading into the offseason, with some estimates as high as $50 million. 
Rice received a signing bonus, and the deal is "back-end loaded," his agent, Jim Steiner said, meaning much of his salary would be paid out in those final years. 
"We're happy with the deal," said Steiner, who has reworked Rice's contract almost every season. "Jerry's happy with the deal. They appreciate Jerry's contributions. Since he left the 49ers, it has worked out perfectly well." 
Rice, 40, joked during last season's playoffs that he might play until he's 45. 
"It could happen," Steiner said. "He takes it year to year based 'on how he feels and how he's playing. Who knows." 
Rice had 92 catches for 1,211 yards and seven touchdowns in his 18th NFL season, a testament to his disciplined preparation and conditioning regimen. He joined the Raiders after the 2000 season. 
In 2002, Rice became the first player in NFL history to score 200 touchdowns; he broke the record for most playoff yards in a career, and he tied a record for most career playoff TDs. He was select­ed for his 13th Pro Bowl, his first in four years. 
Brown, 36, "signed a very similar deal" to Rice's, according to Steiner. Brown's agent, Marvin DemofT, did not immediate­ly return calls for comment. 
Brown reached his first Super Bowl last season, after finishing with 81 catches for 930 yards and two touchdowns to help the Raiders win their third consecutive AFC West crown. 
IN BRIEF 

FSU quarterback charged State's team in November, after his amateur status for accepting with gambling police said he was connected to the improper benefits from Mark 
Former Florida State quarterback theft of a blank check later cashed Komara, his former AAU coach. Adrian McPherson was charged with for $3,500. The school benched Stone for a one misdemeanor count of gambling, Drayton said no other charges are game with East Carolina last 
including on games in which he expected. McPherson's lawyer, Grady Saturday while the NCAA continued played. Irvin Jr., did not immediately return its inquiry. Stone will return to action 
McPherson, who started four a call seeking comment. Wednesday night, when No. 15 games for Florida State last season, Inderhees was in Tallahassee on Louisville (20-5, 10-4 Conference placed bets over the Internet on col­Tuesday and was expected to surren­USA) plays at DePaul. lege and pro games during the 2002 der to Tallahassee police, Drayton "Based on what I've been told, he 
football season, the school said said. Delach was in Pennsylvania, will be on the floor," said his attor­Tuesday. according to authorities. ney, Donald Jackson said. "It's as 100 
He bet on every Seminoles' game The charges result from a three­percent as these things can be. We're last season, always wagering that month investigation by the university, thrilled." they would win, according to Florida Tallahassee police and the Florida Jackson said that the NCAA found State police chief Carey Drayton. Department of Law Enforcement. that Stone's relationship with Sources told investigators McPherson Komara was established before Stone 
bet large amounts and owed a Louisville's Stone cleared to began earning recognition for his Tallahassee man, identified as play basketball ability. 
Dereck Delach, a total of $8,000, Louisville center Marvin Stone has The NCAA allows established fami­police said. been cleared to play by the NCAA, ly friends to provide benefits for stu­
Delach and Florida State football athletics director Tom Jurich said dent-athletes as long as the relation­team equipment manager Jeffrey Tuesday night. ship began before the athlete gained lnderhees were charged Tuesday Louisville officials had been await­status for his skills and did not devel­
with one felony count of bookmaking. ing word for a week on whether the op as a result of the athlete's McPherson was kicked off Florida team's 6-foot-10 senior would lose increased notoriety. 

Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
\ 
i . 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer Notre Dame's Le'Tanla Severe elevates for a Jumper earlier In the season against Pittsburgh, who the Irish play Saturday In the Big East Toumament. 
03=28=03 


Announcing the Year 2003 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2003 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a fonnal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nonnally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow 
· 4)  a budget indicating the costs involved  
5)  the names of two references.  
Application Deadline:  Wednesday, March 261\  2003  

Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
Women 
continued from page 20 
defense, we needed to limit them to only one [shot]." 
The other thing the Irish did was try to key in on the Orangewomen's key threat -Julie McBride and the 3-pointer. Although the Irish managed to control McBride, teammate Marchele Coleman had a solid game for the Orangewomen. However, Syracuse still managed a mea­ger 33.3 percent from 
the arc, while the Irish utes left, however, it lit 
"/ think that ifwe had
hit more than 46 per­a fire under Notre
lost. it would have been 
cent of theirs. Dame and they 
"We were really devastating.·· responded. focusing on McBride, "We knew we could and I think we did a get the job done on
Muffet McGraw 

great job on her," defense, we got shots McGraw said. Irish coach when we needed to 
"We didn't do as well as we would have liked," Severe said. "But we knew who the shooters were and got out on them." 
Although the Irish headed into halftime with a 28-20 advantage, the score didn't tell the tale of the first half. There were five ties in the first half before the Irish went on an 11-1 run in the last seven minutes, limiting the Orangewomen to just one field goal in that time. The game, however, was closer than most of the Irish expected. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Georgia menunder NCAA investigation 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Ga. 

NCAA and University of Georgia officials have ques­tioned two basketball starters 
INDIANA ONLINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 

TAKE IT ON THE 
INTERNET 
• 
No classroom attendance · required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 

www.lndianaDriver.com 
Localed In The Upper Level Of The Brewery At The Hisloric 100 Cenfer Mishowolo Hours: Thursdm1, fridoy and Saturdolj 5:30-11 pm Phone: 574-257-1792 
-.2096 Student Discount Specials on Thursdays-
The pradice of fondue, first used by fhe Swiss, is derived from !he word "fondre" whid1 means "fo melt". 
Fondue was introduced as a nolional dish in Switzerland. II sym­bolized the coming together of families and friends. At these gath­erings beautifully decorated ceramic, pofterLJ, or earthenware 
caquelons of cheese and oil accompanied bl.J crusted breads, fruits, : vegetables, meats, and bamboo skewers were placed on fhe fable so 1 that quests could indulge at their leisure. : Thus today..••• man4 centuries lafer -fhe same fradifion of hospi­f fality and good fasfe is still olive and well. Now you don't have fo 

-·~• • •• • • rv·~ • • • • • :-• ":.,::.,!:;.":;. ::: : ~~~ •~ "" ••• -~,;:;~•=*~:::"~.-. 41 
I The fondue! ;, hopp::of~w~::~::~.f::t~::lacelo go w;fhfom;I~ 
and friends." Call 574-257-1792 or ask 4our server for details. 
"After the game, I said to the team that we have to expect that every game is going to be like this," McGraw said. "I think every game is going to be close because we're that kind of team. I think we have the expectation that we were going to win by a lot, hut I think we have to understand that everyone is pretty good." 
The second half was much ofthe same. After a 10-2 Syracuse run to start, the Irish took the lead several times as the Orangewomen fought back to knot the score up. When Syracuse took the lead 
with less than five min­

and that put the pres­sure on them so they had to score," Severe said. 
With a 10-6 Big East record, Notre Dame is tied with Virginia Tech for fifth place in the Big East. However. since the Hokies defeated the Irish during the reg­ular season, Notre Dame will take a No. 6 seed into the Big East Tournament, where they will face Pittsburgh. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
about allegations made by former player Tony Cole. 
Rashad Wright and Chris Daniels were pulled out of practice and asked questions about a class they took with Cole in 2001, Georgia athletic director Vince Dooley said. 
The class, "Coaching Principles and Strategies of Basketball," was taught by assistant coach Jim Harrick Jr., son of head coach Jim Harrick. Cole said he received a passing grade without ever attending the class. 
"The investigative team is seeking the truth, which is what we want," said Dooley. "As always happens, one thing leads to another, which leads to another. The history is that it will go on for a while." 
Wright and Daniels were expected to play in a home game against No. 3 Florida. 
l 
f 
i 
i®
i 
ii 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
Soukup 
continued from page 20 
needed to get back into the game. 
With 7: 19 left in the first half, desperation finally kicked in for the Irish. They need to hang onto it for the rest of the season. 
In Notre Dame's last three games, they've played teams with a lot more at stake than the Irish. who had their ticket punched to the NCAA Tournament back in December. Connecticut badly needed a win to improve their tournament resume. Rutgers badly needed a win to make the Big East Tournament. Syracuse badly needed a win to stay on top of the Big East West Division. 
In those three games, the Irish lost their chance at a West Division title, lost their chance at a Big East bye and might have lost their chance to play in Indianapolis. It's easy to have that happen, though, when you know your invitation to the Big Dance has been filled out for two months. 
And so Notre Dame, initially lacking the sense of urgency its opponents have possessed, now finds a gun pointed at its head. 
The Irish have been victimized by allowing good teams to leap out to lightning-quick starts. Sure, Notre Dame has the offen­sive weapons to climb back in the game, but they expend so much energy coming back that they can never take the lead. 
So when Syracuse's Gerry McNamara hit two quick 3­pointers early on. Matt Carroll said he started thinking, "Here we go again." Soon, the Orangemen quickly proceeded to jump out to a 21-point lead as Irish defenders seemed more interested in discovering how many points Syracuse could score rather than trying to stop them. 
After the game and after a players-and-coaches-only soul­searching meeting, Carroll pro­ceeded to give a seminar on Notre Dame's problems worthy of waking up at 8 a.m. for. 
The Irish can't get that last stop on defense, Carroll said. The Irish let opponents jump out to early leads, Carroll said. The Irish need to find that sense of urgency. Carroll said. 
For nearly five minutes, Professor Carroll explained why the Irish needed to find some kind of urgency as reporters frantically scribbled notes on pads of paper. 
So how do the Irish get the urgency back for the entire game, not just the second half? 
"I don't know." Carroll said. 

Dan Miller didn't know the answer, either. Neither did Chris Thomas or Torrian Jones or the rest of the Irish. 
And if the don't find out soon, the only havoc the Irish will cause in March might be on the plane ride back. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
Irish fell behind by double-digits in the first half. 
But this time, they battled back to tie the game. After Carroll's 3-pointer brought the Irish even with the Orangemen, forward Dan Miller couldn't get control of a block by freshman forward Torin Francis and Syracuse regrouped in a timeout. 
The Orangemen came out and gave the ball to freshman Carmelo Anthony who drove to the basket and scored easily. Syracuse forward Kueth Duany fouled Torrian Jones, who connected on two free throws to tie the game at 88. 
The Irish couldn't get the rebound of a Hakim Warrick miss next time down and Anthony tipped it in, putting Syracuse up two. 
Brey used a timeout and set up an offen­sive set to get a quick 3-pointer. Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas got an open look at the top of the arc but his shot went in and out. 
"I thought it was in," Thomas said. "A couple of mine had rimmed out. I'm sup­ing. 
The Irish responded with a 13-4 run keyed by 3-pointers from Carroll, Thomas and Chris Quinn, who took advantage of 25 minutes off the bench by scoring eight points. 
Finally feeling a sense of urgency, the Irish came out of the locker room playing aggressive defense and started the half on a 8-2 run. For most of the half. the Irish couldn't cut the deficit to less than four. They finally got within two at 84-82 on one of the many easy baskets Francis got in the second half with 3:04 remaining. 
"He played great tonight. We did a good job dropping it off in to him getting dunks and some easy ones," Brey said. "When we can do that, it helps. He got into a little bit of a rhythm. He is very important for us." 
The Irish closed the gap a minute later on Carroll's trey, but were never able to get over the hump and grab the lead. 
With only one regular season game left, the Irish are looking to get some momen­tum with a win Saturday at Georgetown. 
"I don't think we are thinking about the seed or the West Division title," Thomas said. "We just want to get back to winning. We want to know what it feels like to win.'' 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

t 
, 
I 
i 
l 


posed to make those shots." 
"You're at a point now," Irish coach Mike Brey said, "where if they don't understand it now, then our season will end quick­ly." 
The thing is, there isn't exact­ly a magic button the Irish can push labeled, "Instill Fear of God" to fix their problem. But, as Miller succinctly said after the game, "We're not going to win a lot of games if we play this 
,. 
way. 
Notre Dame is only guaran­teed three more games. That's it. Saturday's game at Georgetown, a game next Wednesday in the Big East Tournament and a first-round NCAA Tournament game. 
If that doesn't give the Irish a sense of desperation, nothing will. Eight days ago, Carroll and the Irish were a three-hour bus ride away from a tournament game in Indianapolis. Now, they're praying they don't have to take a three-hour plane flight. 
Notre Dame's season is wind­ing down. and a three-game los­ing streak remains fresher in Irish minds than a three-game winning streak over Top 10 teams. In December, the Irish played with an intense energy they harnessed to manhandle some of the top teams in the country. 
Finding it again is apparently tougher than it sounds. 
"It's something that just has to happen," Carroll said. "I don't think you can pinpoint it, I don't think you can talk about it. You have to go out there and do it, and until you go out there and do it, we really don't know what it is." 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those o/The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
"I told Chris Thomas that I'll live with that look from up top every night out. I have no problem with the look he got there," Brey said. "That was how we were going to have to win the game-with that quick 3 to shock them. Maybe they don't get a shot off on the other end or it gets chaotic." 
Duany made two free throws at the other end to seal the game for Syracuse. 
Billy Edelin led Syracuse's talented trio of freshman with 26 points. Anthony finished with 21 shooting 9-for-23 and guard Gerry McNamara scored 20. 
Edelin was able to get most of his points by taking advantage of aggressive defense by Thomas and driving into the paint where Syracuse scored 54 points. 
"He needs to be more focused on that, there's no question about it," Brey said. "He is going back and forth guarding a power guard and a shooter. I told him at halftime, 'Just be disciplined.' 
"I thought in the second half, he was very good. Edelin made some tough shots on him. His discipline was better and he trust­ed his teammates." 
McNamara came out on fire at the start of the game, connecting on five of his first six shots and scored 15 poi:~: ; . u;;-~,,: half. Syracuse was hot as a team as well and built a 39-18 lead on 14-" ~--' ---.t. 
I\Yl~~ 
~ Announas the !vllowing inlroducto,y offers of••• 
·------.. ·------.. ·------.. ·------· ·------.. 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I $15 I I $26 I I $69 I I $69 I I $69 I 
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights,

I Mens Cut I I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style

I I I I I One Process I I I .I ______ ..I 
·------· ·------· ·------· ·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-

Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2

ATRIA SALON 
Notvalidlorspiralpomu. Longorwm:dhairadd$10. Noocha-di=.muapply. Opcnsc,mctvmi"!l'-ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
S:il<,n = mo l~IUO ...-fuse scivice to any dicnt whme hair oondirion irnnrrouble. Next to Sprint Corner ofEdison 
271-8804

289-5080 
OFFER EXF-1.H S 3-16-03 
Less than I mile from campus 



Wednesday, March 5, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
Gahl What happened 
to your forehead? 


HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

. .,.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
WETTE 
rJ I 
02003 Tribune Media Selvices, Inc. 
i 
All Rights Reserved. 
l 
I 
i
CRIHB 
: 
l 
'
rJ I Q 
I 
I 
7 
I
tCOASIF 


WHAT HE:R MATE: TUR.NE:D INTO IN L.A5 VE:GA5. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

HER"( I I I I l )" (I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) > 

Yesterday's j Jumbles: ASSAY CAKED CHEERY ARCTIC Answer: When they discovered the missing cash, the cops-"CRACKED" THE CASE 
CROSSWORD 
1 Followers of 65 Neutral shade Tyler and Taylor 35 Trash hauler 
66 Assist, in a way 6 One-inch pencil, 38 1990's civil war 
67 Concerning 
say site 
68 Letter opener 9 To boot 40 Losing 
69 French
purposely

13 So out it's in possessive
42 Jam producer?

14 Home to Jose 70 They're
43 Voice mail 

verboten15 Place 
prompt 16 See 48-Across 45 Use binoculars, 
DOWN
say

17 Hurl a barb at 1 End of shooting 
46 P.T.A. and

18 Sacred N.E.A., for two 2 Epitaph starter
creatures of old 48 With 16-Across, 3 Road to old
19 Woodworker's places to pull Rome
own tool? over 4 Llano growth
22 Oxy-5 target 
50 Baseball stat 

5 •Already?"
23 Takes off 51 Slain 6 Home builder's24 Main lines 
53 Kansas motto tool 26 Boxing Day's word 
7 Jimmy Carter's mo. 55 Cellular coll. 29 Place for a ring 56 Apt title for this aCity on the 30 Deliver by chute puzzle Tigris: Var. 61 Label info 9 Cookbook
31 Son of Aphrodite 63 Visitor to Cathay phrase 10 Cost of a 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19th~centurycomposer's work? 
11 Brown pigment 12 Gives the boot to 14 Winter Palace throne? 20 Campbell or Judd 21 1964 Anthony Quinn role 
25 They may have forks 
26 Fam. tree member 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by MlchHI Shteyman 
27 Switch add-on 37 Peak near 

28 Undistinguished poet Pound? 32 Le _ (Buick model)  Taormina 39 Aristotle's forte 41 Bunting places 44 Wise counsels  54 acid 57 Soliloquy starter 58 Flush  
34 Photo of the  47 Be short with  59 Paradoxical Greek  
Panama Canal, once?  49 "Iliad" warrior 51 Gave medicine  60 Fast fliers  
36 Sports stuff  to  62 Where It.'s at  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dean Stockwell, Andy Gibb, Samantha Eggar, Paul Sands 
Happy Birthday: Balance will be the most important lesson you learn this year. Take it easy and be diplomatic in all your dealings. Your kindness, understanding and willingness to do what you can will be remembered when you need to be on the receiving end. Your numbers are 5, 18, 22, 35, 42, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be high-strung today. Listen to an older, experienced individual who offers you advice even if you don't want to hear it.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An investment may pay off or you could 
-

receive a tax rebate, insurance surrender or even a legal claim that has been pending. Any changes you want to make to your home will tum out as planned. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is the perfect day to do something you enjoy with friends or relatives. You'll impress the people you encounter, resulting in your receiving favors that you may ask for. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You won't get what you want if you are stubborn in your approach. Give a little and share. This time it probably is your fault, so an apology is in order. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will dazzle clients and friends with your big ideas and colorful way of presenting what you want to do. Everyone will want to share in your extravaganza. Be thorough and build your idea on solid 
ground. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be concerned with legal matters and what to do with your finances. You may want to consider expanding into an investment that can bring you a higher return. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful when it comes to your partnerships. You will find yourself in a bit of a bind if you have made a promise you can't keep. Focus on serving in your community. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll want to be a star today, especially where getting ahead is concerned. You will pull out all the stops to do the best and most impressive job. Interact with people in high positions. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make plans to do something that is fun as well as challenging. You will be spontaneous and imaginative. Your ability to work hard and have fun while doing so will impress anyone watching. 
*****
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful riot to annoy someone today. Put your time and effort into moneymaking ventures. This is not the day to start arguments or to disagree with someone in power. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Buckle down and do your thing and you will find that everyone will want to help you along the way. Your unusual way of doing things will catch the eye of someone important to your future. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to strive for recognition. Use your imagination and you will discover that you have some very unique contributions to make. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will have everyone wrapped around your little finger as you charm and delight your audience. You will use your insight and wisdom to do what you can for those less able . 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
-

\ 
t 
't, 
:-­
., 
. 
·, 
l 
i t\'i 
\ 
\ t 
L 
l-', Wednesday, March 5, 2003 ;,t 

l I 
I 
! I 
r 
[, 
I J 
l 
r 
l 
I, 
,.' 


I 
l 
I 
. . 
I 
.... 
MENS BASKETBALL 

:( ,; 
!, l Beaten to a pulp 
' 
t
l 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer

i 

l Syracuse's Hakim Warrick elevates for a slam dunk over Torin Francis In the second half of the lrlsh's loss to the Orangemen. Francis had 19 points and U rebounds. 
. Orangemen jump out to 21-point lead, then hold off Irish comeback 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Editor 
When his sixth 3-pointer of the half and school-record tying eighth of the game tied the game at 86, Notre Dame guard Matt Carroll thought the Irish were going to complete a 21­point comeback on Senior Day at the Joyce Center. 
"I thought that was the time," the senior tri-captain said. "I thought we were going to pull ahead because we were at home, and we were going to get a stop, and it sure didn't hap­pen." 
But the one thing his basket didn't do was give the Irish the lead, as the Irish lost 92-88 to Syracuse Tuesday. The loss puts the Irish on a three-game losing streak for the first time since January of last season. 
"You are most disappointed because you couldn't get it for Matt Carroll," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. That's why I'm most disappointed. Forget 10 league wins, or [that] they are ranked, you just want­ed a 'W' because he is a winner and has meant so much to this program and to my tenure." 
Notre Dame hasn't led since 11 minutes remained in Connecticut's 87-79 win over Notre Dame Feb. 24 and for the third consecutive game, the 
see MEN/page 18 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Junior Torrlan Jones walks off the court after Notre Dame lost 
against Syracuse 92-88. 

. Notre Dame needs urgency to survive in March 
If Notre Dame makes a huge run in the NCAA Tournament, the players could point to the 
7:19 mark 
in the first half against Syracuse as the point where the Irish learned 


how to play Andrew Soukup defense. 
That's 
ing the second Notre Dame timeout in two minutes, Irish coach Mike Brey not so nicely told his team to dig their heels in and start playing basketball. 
At that point, Syracuse had a 19 point lead and seemed well on their way to handing the Irish another embarrassing loss. Llke Drew Carey and food, Syracuse was doing any­thing it wanted to a sluggish Notre Dame defense. 
But in that timeout, during that lecture, something kicked in for the Irish. They started shutting down Syracuse's potent scorers, began limiting them to ugly looks and started making the defensive stops Notre Dame so desperately 

when, dur-Sports Writer see SOUKUP/page 18 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish wrap up regular season with win at Syracuse 

By KA TIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

It looked close for a while, but the Irish ended the season how they wanted to. 
With Tuesday night's 62-54 victory against Syracuse, the Irish have now won seven of their last nine and head into the Big East Tournament with the momentum they need. 
"[This win] was huge," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think that if we had lost, it would have been devastating. Nine games ago we said we had to win seven of the next nine. I'm feeling good about where we are." 
With 4:55 left, a basket by the into the tournament, and a win does that, 0rangewomen's April Jean gave Syracuse especially a close one on the road," 
a  one-point lead,  Le'Tania Severe  
and it looked like the Irish might lose  "Nine games ago. we said we had  said. "That's real important. We  
the  momentum  to win seven ofthe last nine. rm  knew that we had  
they had picked up from their last two  feeling good about where we are. ·•  to get a good front going and we've  
victories. But a 13­ that, and it will  
4  run,  including  Muffet McGraw  help us going into  
three consecutive  Irish coach  the tournaments."  
3-pointers  from  One of the ways·  
Alicia Ratay in the  the Irish put up  
final minutes guar­ that  good  front  

anteed the Irish would end with the confi­was by maximizing their height advan­dence they need for the post season. tage. The other was minimizing Syracuse's "We wanted to have momentum going 3-point threat. 
Although the 0rangewomen tried to stymie the Irish height advantage by start­ing 6-foot-4 Awa Diop, her inexperience left her in foul trouble early in the game. allowing the Irish to take advantage of their height. Notre Dame outscored Syracuse 33-22 in the paint and used their 37-34 rebound advantage to grab 12 sec­ond-chance points while limiting Syracuse to just two. 
"When [Diop] was out, we had the height advantage we needed," said Severe, who recorded a season-high eight assists. "Regardless of where the ball came from, we knew we needed the rebound and, on 
see WOMEN/page 17 


MENS BASKETBALL 

Syracuse 92 Notre Dame 88 
Notre Dame rallied from a 21-point deficit to tie the game late in the second half on a Matt Carroll 3-pointer, but the Irish couldn't grab the lead as they dropped their third straight game. Seniors Carroll, Dan Miller, Jere Macura and Dan Lustig were honored before their last home game. 
back page 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame 62 Syracuse 54 
The red-hot Irish, winners of seven of their last nine, ended the regular sea­son with a convincing win at Syracuse. The win clinched a No. 6 seed for the Irish in the Big East Tournament, where Notre Dame will play first-round foe Pittsburgh Saturday. 
back page 






