1 
~ 
1nnday, March 31, 2003


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Irish take 3 from Hoyas 

P"l 0-:'.l I) 4­u be ,...,, . 
VOL XXXVII NO. 120 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Ebersol intends to redirect Student Board 
ByMEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Edirur 
April 1 marks not just the day that student government offices turnover, but the first day of a new Student Union Board that vows not to operate \Vithin the scope of student apathy but will be committed to revitalizing campus life. 
Charlie Ebersol set mighty goals for SUB when he was nominated for SUB board manager and Student Senate approved·· him in March. Ebersol, who ran for student body president on a broad platform that included bring­ing top 40 performers and Saturday Night Live comedians to campus. previously was not a part of SUB and said in the student body president debates and following the elec­tion that he was not consider­ing running for the top posi­tion at SUB. However, this changed shortly after the elec­tion when Brain Coughlin, director of Student Activities, approached Ebersol and said his programming platform would be a waste if he did not apply for board manager, Ebersol said. 
"The more I thought about it, the more it fit with what I ran on," Ebersol said. "I ran for president because I thought student life could be better and fbefog] SUB manager will allow me to improve one facet 


of it." of student life that must be 
Ebersol is joined by former maintained by SUB. He feels running mate Lauren Meagher SUB has fallen apart in some who will be the controller. Tai ways because SUB's brand Romero, former Student Union name died and people stopped Secretary during Brooke associating it with big events. Norton's presidency, will be Ebersol added that SUB head• the director of operations and ed in a wrong direction when ~im Zigich joins the board as it accepted its downplayed roll the programming director. and structured its program­
Ebersol said there is a level ming to coexist with student 
apathy. 
With the condensing social scene on campus and more students going off-campus, Ebersol recognized a need to make student life a priority at Notre Dame. Ebersol intends to program the next year with several medium•sized and a 
see SUB/page 4 



Show's budget slashed 
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 

In its debut last August. "The Show" was quite suc­cessfu I, bringing in upwards of 2,700 student spectators. 
Yet, organizers this year have met some resistance in obtaining the funding they asked for from Student Affairs. 
Budget cuts made across the board by the University this year have prompted coordinator Tai Romero to turn to clubs, class coun­cils and dorms to make up for the slack. Romero said the cuts weren't directly related to funding for "The Show," but. that they were more a response to all departments undergoing budget cuts. 
When questioned why "The Show" committee has had to look for so much outside funding, Romero said that the Office of Student Affairs has never 
see SHOW/page 4 
College admissions plans for sizable class 
By SARAH NESTOR Senior Staff Writer 
Saint Mary's admissions pro­jects the class of 2007 to be· similar in size to the past sever­al classes, represent a range of states and countries and have strong academic quality. 
Mary Pat Nolan, Director of Admissions. said she projects Saint ·Mary's will enroll a class of between 375 and 400 stu­dents, which is similar to last year's class of 2006 and only slightly smaller than the classes of 2004 and 2005. 
According to Nolan, as of today, the accepted students represent 43 states and 19 countries. 
"Typically, over the past 20 years, our classes have repre­sented approximately 36 states and several countries. The majority of [students} historical­ly come from the 13 state Midwestern region," Nolan said. 
Nolan also added that the academic quality for the class of 2007. and over the past ten years. has remained strong. The mean GPA is 3.68 on a 4.0 scale and the mean SAT com­
posite score is 1150 and the mean ACT composite score is 
25. Nolan added that she would know more about the class composition after the National Candidate's Reply Date on May 
1. 
"We have exceeded by a few percentage points the number of applications from last year and the year before," Nolan said. 
Nolan did give reasons that the class of 2006 1may slightly be smaller in size. She said approximately 80 percent of students go to public institu• tions, and the number of stu­dents who consider a women's college has stayed constant over the past three years. 
Nolan also said that the national economic situation is a factor, considering that unem­ployment and underemploy­ment is high and personal income is basically flat. Another factor working against private institutions can be contributed to Federal aid flat funding and, in Indiana, the decrease in state aid. 
However, Nolan and the admission staff continue to plan major on-campus visitation, 
see ClASS/page 6 

STRUTIN' THEIR STUFF 

Monday, March 31, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Fifth Food 

Group 
Movies such as "Animal House ... "Van 
Wilder" and "Road Trip" all celebrated 
the party aspect of college life with their 
portrayal of one party after the next. 
While this is not exactly true, at Sarah Nestor least ifyou expect to ever graduate 
Senior Staff
and leave college, 

Writer•
having an active 
college social life is 

an important part of the experience. 
Therefore, on any given weekend at col­
leges across the nation, you can find stu­
dents heading to dorm parties, house 
parties or to their favorite local tavern, 
in search of the college students' aqua 
vitae and the fifth food group -beer. 
With hundreds of beers to choose from around the world, students can each have their own favorite but college students tend to have their choice of one of four kinds: cheap, light, classic, dark and thick beers. 
First, there are the cheap, or poor col­lege student beers, which can usually be found in vast quantities at dorm parties. Usually these are beers that no one at the party has ever heard of and have names like "granny's best" or "spring light." However, the staple cheap beer popular with new beer drinkers is Natural Llght, fondly known as "natty light" on campuses. 
Next are the light beers, which are favored by female college students. Llght refers not to its taste, but to its lower caloric content. Llght beers have on average thirty to forty calories less than their regular counterparts. For this reason Llght beers are popular as col­lege students also try to avoid the dread­
• ed "freshman fifteen," or '1unior fif­teen," or even "senior fifteen." Classic beers are lager beers, \\-ith the full caloric content, easily recognized because of their labels. Beers such as Budweiser, Miller Genuine Draft, Coors and Heineken all fall into the classic beer category. It is usually one of these beers chosen to fill the keg, as it is a safe bet that all party goers will drink these beers, even if it is not their favorite. Another choice for the college student is dark beer or ale. Dark beer, while still clear, does not resemble the color of urine but more closely is considered to be amber. Students who consider them­selves beer connoisseurs and, holding their cup aloft, often ask, "How can you drink that dirty water" to a passing friend holding a glass of Budweiser, more often than not drink these beers. Favored dark beers include Killians, Smithwicks or local house, brews. However. the darkest and thickest beers are known as stouts. These black brews are considered to be the yogurts among beers because they are so thick you almost want to eat them with ~ spoon. Brewed for only the heartiest of souls, stouts are considered by some to be the "manly man's" drink, guaranteed to put hair on your chest. The most pop­ular of these being Guinness, the Irish brew recognized around the world for its tar black color and distinctive taste. Dark beer drinkers are most likely to be found at the nearest pub. 
The varying tastes of the hundreds of beers brewed each year allow us enough choices so that we each could have our own different favorite brew. 
Disclaimer: remember to drink responsibly! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those oJThe Observer. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest98 77@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Coalition of Generals, students Rumsfeld participate in defend war walk against strategies homelessness 

Members of the The nations top Notre Dame com­generals anci munity came Defense Secretary 
together over the Donald Rumsfeld 
defended theirweekend to raise strategy in Iraq
over $17,000 to 

against critics on
combat homeless­
Sunday.
ness. 
page4 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
\Vindow on music 12 p.m. at Moreau, room 114 

. 
Board of Governance meeting 



4:30 p.m. at Ilaggar College Ccnwr 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Meatloaf, scalloped corn casserole, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, petite carrots in honey-orange sauce, cherry cobbler, grilled tilapia, potatoes with spinach, baked potato, broccoli spears. oatmeal, sausage patties, scrambled eggs, fried potato triangles, steakhouse fries, Szechuan vegetable stir-fryi 
Today's Dinner: Roast top sirloin, zum zum potato salad, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, peas and pearl onions, cherry cobbler, lemon-baked perch, rice valencienne, curried veg­etables, cut corn, sliced carrots, broc­coli, baked potato, bread sticks 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Crude oil future falls slightly 

Amid war jitters crude oil ended a little lower Friday as traders took profits on Thursday's gains. 
page 7 

SCENE 
A career in show biz 
Casting director Mike Fenton, who was involved in such films as "The Godfather: Part II" and "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,'' gives advice to aspiring actors. 
page 12 

. 
Hound table discussion about students' voice 7 p.m. at Lafortune 

. 
Lecture with Gregg Nebel Task force on anti-sweatshop initiatives 

7:30 p.m. at Ilesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Swing dance lessons 



8:30 p.1n. at Hockne Memorial, room 301 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. OMA celebrates Cesar Chavez Day All day at Haggar College Center, room 303 
VIEWPOINT 
Cartoon failed to appreciate purpose of Spring Visitation 

Junior Jourdan Sorrel questions references that allude to spring visitation as a deception that "paints a false pie-· ture of Notre Dame." 
page 11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Hawaiian pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, cheese and veg~ etable pie, winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, cajun~baked pollack, roast top round, baked sweet potatoes, whipped potatoes, long grain and wild rice, cut corn, baked potato, broccoli cuts, peas, cut green beans, grilled ham and cheese on white 
Today's Dinner: Potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, beef-stuffed peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast, whipped potatoes, baked sweet potatoes, cut corn, bread stuffing, baked potato, broccoli cuts, peas, cut green beans, mashed potato 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::c 
ti 
LLI 
~ 
...I 
ct 
(.) 





...I 0 HIGH 46 HIGH 43 HIGH 57 HIGH 65 LOW 27 LOW 38 LOW 45 'LOW 58 
~ 

SPORTS 
The end of the road 

The Irish wom­ens basketball team was knocked out of· the NCAA tourna­ment 66-47 by the 
P  u  r  d  u  e  
Boilermakers  on  
Sunday.  

page 24 
No new information available from the NDSP crime 
blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetarian paella, wild mushroom strudel, pasta, mari­nara, caribbean twice baked sweet potatoes, seafood international saute, grilled hamburger, grilled bratwurst, grilled cheese, french fries, BLT's, ~hicken breast teriyaki, vegetable lo mein, peas and carrots, deluxe pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks, ham salad 
Today's Dinner: Biriyani rice with cashews, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, fettucine pasta toss, sweet potato bis­cuits, tortellini, "dawg house bar," texas style briskett, lyonnaise potatoes, corn, chicken. fajita pizza, cheese pizza, bread sticks. chimichangas 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 55 / 40 Boston 37 / 26 Chicago 49 / 41 Denver 65 / 40 Houston 71 / 50 Los Angeles 80 / 56 Minneapolis 49 / 39 New York 40 / 27 Philadelphia 44 / 27 Phoenix 89 I 60 Seattle 51 / 38 St. Louis 63 / 47 Tampa 62 / 43 Washington 48 / 33 
r 
Monday, March 31, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Peace conference examines Iraq war 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Undergraduates from 12 uni­versities addressed issues relating to peace-building and conflict resolution in the Kroc Institute's annual Undergraduate Student Peace Conference held Friday and Saturday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Student organizers said this year's conference, entitled "Shadows of \Var, Visions of Peace," proved espe­cially relevant in light of the war with Iraq. 
"Back in the fall, it looked like lwar with Iraq was impending]." said Emily Badrov, senior political science major and an organizer of the conference. The 'Shadows of War' [was because} we could tell that something was about to happen. We wanted to have the conference be about [this]." 
Students began preparing for the conference in October, dis­cussing possible topics and themes for the conference. Upon deciding on this year's theme, organizers began to call for undergraduate papers through networking and adver­tising on the Kroc Institute's website. 
Shabnam Siddiqui, a gradu­ate student in political science and a conference organizer, said that the quality of this year's papers was impressive. 
"The kind of papers we have gotten this year is much rich­er," Siddiqui said. 
Panels of four to five under­grad uates addressed issues relating to a wide variety of interests. including panel dis• cuss ions ranging from "Opportunities and Challenges of NGO's and IGO's in Global Society " to "Religious Paths to Peace" to "Innocence Lost: The Effects of \Var on Children." Each student had approxi­mately 10 to 15 minutes to deliver their paper with anoth­er five minutes for questions and answers. 
In a panel discussion entitled "Justifying War in the Modern World," presenters John Viano from Marquette University, De­Yuan Kao from the University of Chicago, Claire Carter from Indiana University and Notre Dame's Ky Bertoli, presented papers that related to just war theory and argued that the current war with Iraq did not meet this criteria. 
Viano's paper, "\'Var and Peace Revisited," argued for a need for greater information sharing among nations in order to better predict empiri­cally the actions of countries. Such trust 

philosophies of Michael Walter, Simone Weie and Albert Camus with respect to pacifism and just war theory and argued that the war with Iraq clearly violated the concepts of just war theory. 
"This war is preventive. designed to respond to a dis­tant threat. [There is] no pressing need to act in self• defense," she said. 
Bertoli's paper, "What is Happening to Just War Theory," focused on the Catholic Church's views toward just war theory and the war with Iraq, illustrating the differences between the Church and the Bush Administration with respect to the war. 
"[The Bush Administration says that] we are acting because the risks of not acting 
would be much 
and complic­ity among nations, V i a n o  "We haven't in the peace movement been able to convey that war is no  greater. The Vatican stands starkly on the other side," he  
argued, w o u l d  longer [a smart option].,,  said. In  a  work­ 
remove much guess­ George Lopez  shop entitled "Resolving  
work  from  political science professor  Conflicts with  
international  0  t  h  e  r  
politics.  Americans  

"The cause for peace is such Over the Current War," moder­that if we all recognize that we ator George Lopez, Notre are insecure, we can do some­Dame political science profes­thing about it that isn't vio­sor, addressed means of medi­lence," he said. ating discussion and resolving 
Kao's paper, "\,Vhy conflict between supporters Intervene? A Comparison and opponents of the war with between the 'Two' Gulf Wars," Iraq. discussed the evolution of U.S. "This is a war about ideas as doctrine regarding the use of much as it is about terrible force from 1980 to the present killing," Lopez said. day and compared the use of Audience members shared force in the first and second many of their personal encoun­Gulf Wars. ters with combating hostile 
Carter's paper entitled "Is it viewpoints. A woman com­just? Three Perspectives on the mented on her experiences Moral Status of the Bush passing through a hostile pro­Administration's Proposed War war group while heading to an in Iraq," compared the political anti-war protest, and a man 
International Festival Schedule of Events 


6:30-9:00 pm, Center for Social Concerns Cafe 
Brazilian Coffee House and Samba Lessons 
Brazilian Acoustic with Gilberto Libanio and Samba lessons from Hilma DeVasconcelos 


3:30-4:30 pm, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 
World Literature Readings I International students and scholars reading poetry, lyrics and other literary selections in their native languages 
7:00 pm and 9:00 pm, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 
International Film, "Madadayo", Japan 
Two showings ofAkira Kurosawa's final film with special introduction 
and commentary 


8:00-10:00 pm, McGlinn Residence Hall 23-hour Lounge 
International Dating Game 
Dating around the world in 2 hours! Open to undergraduate students only. Please write to ISSA.2@nd.edu to reserve a place 


11 :00-4:00pm, Sorin Room 1st Floor, LaFortune Student 
Center 

Cultural Displays and Demonstrations 
3:30 -5:QO pm, University Village Community Center 
Children's Day 
Children's crafts, songs, games and refreshments from around the world 
6:00 -8:00 pm, Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
African Dance Troupe and Cultural Displays 
The African Student Association presents an evening of entertainment and insights 
8:00 pm, Center for Social Concerns Cafe 
French Coffee House 
Acoustic French with Fabien Feron, Cyril LeSage and friends 
discussed the conflict between 
himself, an opponent of the 
war, and his parents who sup­
port the war effort. 

Lopez encouraged his audi­ence to continue to discuss war theory with those who support the war rather than engaging in highly emotional arguments not grounded in theory. 
"We have to find a way to ... get away from the antiseptic treatment of war that we have," Lopez said. "\Ne haven't in the peace movement been able to convey that war is no longer [a smart option]." he said. 
Although some discussions and workshops addressed the conflict with Iraq, many focused on issues ranging from 
U.S. foreign policy, children's art therapy, education and psychology in peace-building, the role of the media in war coverage to the Israel­Palestine conflict. 
"A lot of the issues [have been very diversified]." Siddiqui said. 
In addition to student-led panel discussions, the peace conference featured presenta­tions from Take Ten, a peace­buiIding program for fourth through sixth graders led by Notre Dame volunteers and students from the Washington 
D.C. seminar, as well :).S a dramatization of Aristophanes' anti-war play Lysistrata. The conference concluded with a concert by Amnesty International. 
Siddiqui said that the confer­ence was intended for students to share information and net­work with other students inter­ested in similar kinds of research. 
"Over here [in America] the kind of intellectual under­standing and dialogue that youth are involved in is partic­ularly spectacular," she said. "Maybe the next breed of international peacemakers [are in the making]." 
Undergraduate students, graduate students and staff members from the Kroc Institute assisted in the organi­zation, planning and realiza­tion of the Undergraduate Student Peace Conference. 
CantactJoe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

Director named to Hall of Fame 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's Athletic 
Director Lynn Kachmarik is 
one of two people slated for 
induction into the Collegiate 
Water Polo Association Hall of 
Fame's class of 2003. 
Kachmarik is the first 
woman to receive the 
Association's highest honor. 
She will be inducted at the 
2003 Women's Eastern 
Championship Awards 
Banquet at Harvard University 
on April 25. 
Kachmarik enjoyed a stellar playing and coaching career that spanned more than 20 years at both Slippery Rock University and Bucknell University. She garnered All­American laurels in water polo all four seasons she played at Slippery Rock while also earn­ing All-American status on the swim team. 
Her success as a player was not limited to collegiate water polo. Kachmarik was a mem­ber of the U.S. \'Vomen's National Water Polo Team from 1976-86, serving as cap­tain of the squad for six years. She was selected to the All­World Team in 1978. As a member of the U.S. team she competed in three World Championships and seven FINA World Cup tournaments. 
While playing water polo on the international stage, Kachmarik began a coaching career in the college ranks. In 1982 she was named women's swimming coach at Bucknell University and in 1984 was appointed assistant coach of the university's men's water polo team. 
In 1998, Kachmarik relin­quished her duties as BuckneU's swim coach to start a women's varsity water polo program. In addition to her playing and coaching, Kachrnarik resides in South Bend with her husband Scott and three children. 



Monday, March 31, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Coalition of students participate in walk against hunger 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
News Writer 

Members of the Notre Dame community came together on Sunday to participate in the SK Homeward Bound Walk to Fight Homelessness, co-spon­sored by Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity and 14 other non­profit organizations in Indiana, raising over $17,000. 
In addition to raising funds, the walk served to raise aware­ness about the problem of homelessness in the area, said Lindsay Lutz, walk chairperson. 
"It is great that there are so many people from the South Bend community who came to Notre Dame to participate," sophomore Colin Dowdall said. "Habitat is really reaching out 

Show 
continued from page I 
been able to give all of the funding necessary, and that the difference between this year and last year is that the committee put a price tag on it to "increase student own­ership of the event." 
'"The Show' didn't get as much funding as it wanted, yet Student Council wants to make it bigger than ever." said Joe Horton, CCC Service Division Chair. As a result, Romero and other "Show" organizers had to use outside venues, such as class coun­cils and dorms, for funding. 
Because "The Show" and Rally in the Alley fall on the same night, it would make sense that fundraisers would approach the Office of Student Affairs to allocate more funding to sponsor an event that would keep stu­dents on campus and not tapping kegs at Turtle Creek. 
But that was not the plan of Romero and her commis­sioners. 
"\Ve didn't want to use 'The Show' as a non-drinking alternative to Rally. It's meant to be a welcome back activity for students," Romero said. "Giving every­one a chance to pitch in makes it a more campus­wide event. If you assume that 100 people from each dorm came last year, asking the dorms to donate $500 apiece is basically asking them to subsidize a $5 ticket price for their residents to go to the concert." 
Only the current Sophomore Class Council has positively agreed to giving "The Show" committee the $500 it requested. The Junior and Senior class councils have said that they will consider giving money after their councils hold one final fundraiser, an indica­tion that funding from Student Affairs is low. 
to the broader community through this walk." 
Walkers were motivated with a talk by Lou Nanni, vice presi­dent for University relations and former director at the Center for the Homeless, who put the event into a deeper con­text, giving faces to the face­less. 
Nanni spoke about the broad range of people he saw walk through the doors at the Center for the Homeless, as diverse as a first round NBA draft pick suffering from a crack cocaine addiction, to a former Notre Dame security guard who broke down after losing his wife, to a pregnant 12-year-old girl. 
"We're not just talking about people who fall through the cracks of society, but people who are born into the cracks of 
And while the University endowment is low due to the economic downturn of the past year, the Student Activities Fee and sales of "The Shirt" continued to rise this year. It is the Student Activities Fee and revenue generated from the sale of "The Shirt" that serves as the main source of funding for student committee and club-sponsored events such as "The Show." With the rise in the Student Activities Fee from $65 for the 2001-2002 academic year to $80 this past year in addition to the over $250,000 raised by "The Shirt," funding for stu­dent activities shouldn't be low. 
The Student Senate is scheduled to approve the proposed Financial Management Board's budget in the near future, but it will be several more moths before student clubs and activities will get the funding that they had hoped for. 
In the end, "The Show" will go on, but most likely not without some outside finan­cial support from other orga­nizations. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu • 
society," Nanni said. 
Nanni spoke about Ovetta, a homeless woman who does not trust the world and sleeps with men to feel loved for a moment. Ovetta writes her thoughts on paper, because she is so ashamed of herself that she cannot bear to hear her own voice. 
"For as long as I can remem­ber, life has been ugly and I can remember since I have been one and a half," Ovetta wrote. "I've had children, only to have someone love me for me with no exceptions." 
Nanni said that Ovetta and other people who live in the stark reality of homelessness are asking for not simply a house, but a community. They are looking to feel a sense of intimacy that they cannot find 
SUB 
continued from page I 
few large-sized events. 
"We are trying to be bigger in scope and intent than has ever been attempted by SUB," Ebersol said. "Instead of trying to make two events that are just huge we want two large events and three medium events -so that we don't put all of our eggs in one basket." 
Ebersol intends to use the newly revamped Senior­Alumni Bar know known as in their family or society. 
"Homelessness is not house­lessness, but rather a pathology of connectedness," said Nanni. "You are here in some small way to close gaps. You are not here to walk for the homeless, but to walk with the homeless." 

Nanni pointed out how timely this event fits within the cur­rent world situation, and told the crowd to think not only of terror or war when they walked, but also of the war going on right here, and the struggles in their own back­yards. • 
Recognizing the importance of community awareness that Nanni highlighted, coupled with the reality that houses are cost­ing more as building costs go up, Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity hopes to make this 

Legends for ..Right now SUB seems and early 
events and will like a very good fit for March. keep traditional Comedians,
me, but we will see. ,.
SUB programs along with such as traditional anTostal, Charlie Ebersol S U B Sophomore SUB board manager events, will 
Literary Festival, Collegiate Band Festival, Acousticafe and the Loft Series; however, he will com­pletely rework the Loft Series to make it more functionable. 
Movies that SUB offers will be marketed toward different dorm quads in order to increase attendance. The movie will be chosen by the dorms on a different quad each week and will be open for the entire camous to attend. 
Ebersol said he plans to have a Sinner and Saint Concert for Charity, an idea that was on his platform, which he claims will be larger in scope than anything SUB has done before. The concert would include top 40 performers. Ebersol wants to set the standard high here in order to show students what SUB and the campus can offer them next year as far as stu­dent life. 
Additional concerts will be offered between late November and early December and late February 
be offered 
between 
these con­
certs. 
"Between January and March, it's cold -that's when you need to program the heck out of the University -when students are most apathetic," Ebersol said. "We aren't look­ing to do all huge events because we have a limited budget and time. We want to constantly provide program­ming." 
Thoui!h Ebersol's Q'oals mav an annual event said Habftat for Humanity co-President Maria Manhohn. 

All pledges collected by Notre Dame students, totaling approximately $1,500 will go directly to Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity and will help to purchase materials for a house currently being built in South Bend, the ninth house in nine years built by the group. Other participating organizations included the YMCA Woman's Shelter, the Center for the Homeless, Habitat for Humanity of St. Joseph's County, Youth Services Bureau and La Casa of Goshen. 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu 
seem lofty and expensive, he has the connections to bring the big name talents and said his staff strategically budgeted money without asking for an excessive amount of funds form the Financial Management Board. Ebersol said SUB will be looking for co-sponsors for events, but will no longer be the Student Union bankroll. 
Ebersol denies claims that he became SUB manager for political reasons and has not considered running for student body president next year. He will focus on the next 10 months and then decide what his next option will be regard­ing student government. 
Ebersol said he decided to take an active role in improv­ing student life because he felt the ideals of the University's community, the faculty he had met and the friends he made within his dorms had buoyed him when he struggled at the beginning of freshman year with family problems and los­ing several friends in the Sept. 11 attacks. He wanted to give something back to the commu­nity that helped him. 
..Right now SUB seems like a very good fit for me, but we will see." Ebersol said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

BuyorSellyourHomewith aGrad from the Dome Call ~iaria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141  



Monday, March 31, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 



Generals, Rumsfeld defend war strategies 
innovative plan, and it's going to
Associated Press 

work." WASHINGTON In Qatar, Franks likewise 
The nation's top generals and insisted the U.S. troop reinforce­Defense Secretary Donald ments now headed toward Iraq Rumsfeld defended their Iraqi are not a reaction to the tough strategy on Sunday against new resistance from Iraq fighters, but criticism they had underestimat­part of a long-planned "rolling ed the opposition and started the start" to the war. war with too few troops. And the nation's top general. 
Rumsfeld, whose confident, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman sometimes combative style is of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, insist­quickly becoming a focus of criti­ed along with Rumsfeld that cism, insisted Sunday that the some U.S. ground commanders plan to attack Iraq -which he who have expressed surprise at called a good one -had origi­Iraqis' ferocity sec only one part nated with war commander Gen. of the war. and not the overall Tommy Franks and been situation. which they called good. approved through the nation's "Nobody ever promised a short military c~_mmand, all the way war," Myers said on NBC's "Meet up to President Bush. the Press." 
"In fact, the president wanted "Others can have opinions, but to support the diplomacy in the Ijust would say we are executing United Nations. So he wanted the plan that the combatant things to flow in over a period of commander [Franks] asked for," time," Rumsfeld said on ABC's Myers said. "He's got exactly "This Week." what he wants." 
"But everything that [the Last week, the Army's senior ground commanders] asked for ground commander in Iraq, Lt. is in process. It's all arriving," Gen. William S. Wallace, told Rumsfeld said. reporters, "The enemy we're 
Rumsfeld said he could think fighting is different from the one of one instance, during the pre­we'd war-gamed against." war troop and equipment A Senate Republican. Chuck buildup, when he questioned Hagel of Nebraska, while not war planners about their recom­mentioning Rumsfeld by name, certain things, the civilian lead­ers, including top generals. bases. mendation to call up one particu­said he was "a little concerned" ership at the Pentagon must be Before the Sept. 11 terrorist Once the war in Afghanistan lar specialized unit as opposed to that Pentagon civilian leaders very careful not to be publicly attacks, Rumsfeld had clashed began, however, Rumsfeld's con­letting somebody else handle the were not listening carefully dismissive of that," Hagel said on with some Pentagon generals fident, forceful performances job. enough to such views. CNN's "Late Edition." and members of Congress who during frequent televised 
"The plan we have is his," "When your battlefield com­It is not the first time that accused him of failing to consult Pentagon briefings made him so Rumsfeld said of Franks. "I manders who are there, who are Rumsfeld, a former fighter pilot, as he pushed for unpopular pro­popular that Bush once jokingly would be delighted to take credit commanding the troops in the has faced criticism that he is too posals to "transform" the mili­called his 70-year-old defense for it.... It's a creative and an middle of the battle are saying quick to dismiss the views of oth-tary and close U.S. military secretary a sex symbol. 

ISRAEL 


Islamic Jihad: suicide attack a 'gift' to Iraqi people 
Associated Press 

NETANYA 
A Palestinian suicide attacker wounded 30 people outside a packed cafe in northern Israel on Sunday -a blast the Islamic Jihad called "Palestine's gift to the heroic people of Iraq." The violence raised Israeli fears 
of more  bombings  as the  war in Iraq  
intensifies.  
The militant group said  a vanguard  

of Palestinians has arrived in Baghdad ready to kill American and British sol­diers in suicide missions. The claim came a day after a noncommissioned Iraqi army officer driving a taxi deto­nated explosives at a U.S. checkpoint in Iraq, killing himself and four American soldiers. 
The blast in the coastal town of Netanya was the first suicide bombing in Israel in nearly a month and involved five pounds of explosives stud­ded with nails. It occurred during lunchtime outside the popular Cafe London on the downtown pedestrian mall. 
Ten of the wounded were Israeli sol­diers, including one who stopped the attacker as he tried to enter the cafe. police and the army said. The attacker detonated a nail-studded explosive strapped to his body as panicked cus­tomers ran, overturning chairs and tables and shouting, "Terrorist! Terrorist!" 
Islamic Jihad identified the attacker as Rami Ghanem, 20, from a West Bank village just across the porous line with Israel. The bombing affirmed "the unity of battle from Palestine to Baghdad in confronting the American-· Zionist invasion which targets the entire Arab and Islamic nation," the group said in a statement. 
The militants' support for Iraq appeared be a departure from pledges not to get involved in other conflicts. In the past 30 months of fighting with Israel, Islamic Jihad and its sister group Hamas have sent dozens of young men and a few women into Israeli cities, where they've killed hun­dreds with bombs and bullets. 
Hamas also appeared to link the bat­tle against Israel with the fighting in Iraq. Masked Hamas activists at a pro­Iraq march in the West Bank city of Nablus on Sunday posed before a large placard showing bloodied maps of Palestine and Iraq with a black-clad man strapped with explosives standing between them. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Family of suicide bomber paid $34,000 
Iraq gave $34,000 to the family of an Iraqi army officer who killed four U.S. soldiers in a suicide attack, and the leader of the militant group Islamic Jihad said Sunday its volunteers had gone to Baghdad for similar bombing missions against the "American invasion." 
Ali Jaafar al-Noamani, a noncommissioned officer with several children, was posthumously promoted to colonel and awarded two medals for the attack in Najaf that killed the unidentified Americans, Iraqi state television reported. His family reportedly was given a fortune by Iraqi standards: 100 million dinars, the equivalent of $34,000. Iraqi Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan indicated Saturday's attack in Najaf was "just the beginning" and even raised the specter of terrorism on U.S. or British soil. "We will use any means to kill our enemy in our land and we will follow the enemy into its land," Ramadan said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

New York man arrested for shootings 
A man who allegedly wanted to harm people of Middle Eastern descent because of his anger over the World Trade Center attack has been arrested in a string of New York workplace shootings that left four people dead. Larme Price. 30, of Brooklyn, was arrested Saturday after admitting to the shootings in a telephone conversation with investigators, Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said Sunday. Police were charging Price with four counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder in the attacks, all of which came in Brooklyn and Queens. 
Price, who is unemployed, contacted police and said he had information about the killings, Kelly said. When they called him to come in for an interview, he admitted to the killings over the phone and said he had been motivated by the Sept. 11 attacks, Kelly said. 

Soldiers stranded in desert for a week 
For a week, two American soldiers were stranded in the Iraqi desert. They survived -hungry, thirsty and tired, but eager to get back to their unit and back to the war. The two mechanics said they were stranded when their truck's clutch failed on the way to tow an officer's Humvee that had broken down as the division was traveling toward Baghdad. They said a staff sergeant had ordered them to wait, and said they would be picked up. 

Data sheds light on Columbia disaster 
Columbia's salvaged data recorder registered unusual temperature spikes in the left wing just sec­onds after the shuttle experienced the peak heat of re-entry. indicating the ship was mortally wounded before it began its descent. That makes the flyaway foam from the shuttle's fuel tank. during launch. an even stronger suspect for breaching the leading edge of the wing. 

Monday, March 31, 2003 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

Couple to receive Laetare Medal 
Special to The Observer 

Peter and Margaret O'Brien Steinfels have been awarded the University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 2003. They will receive the medal. the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, dur­ing the University's 158th Commencement exercises on May 18. 
"Peter and Peggy Steinfels live out and articulate a compelling response to 
the Catholic "Peter and Peggy senior reli­vocation," Stein/els live out and gion corre­University spondent
articulate a compelling
President for The 
response to the Catholoc 
Father New York Edward vocation. ,, Times, Malloy said. where his "As married "Beliefs"

Father Edward Malloy
people, as column intellectuals University president continues 
doctoral degrees in European history from Columbia University. While in graduate school at Columbia, he began work as an editorial assistant at Commonweal and had become associate editor before leaving the magazine staff in 1972 to take a posi­tion at the Hastings Center, a bioethics think-tank. While at the Hastings Center, he continued to write columns for Commonweal. returning to its staff as editor in 1979. 
He left Commonweal again 
in 1988 to 
become 

and as chil­dren of the Church, their witness to the Kingdom has been splendid and exem­plary." 
Both Chicago natives, the Steinfels have been succes­sive editors of Commonweal, an independent biweekly journal of political, religious and literary opinion pub­lished by Catholic laypeople. Both have earned national reputations as commentators on the Catholic Church in the United States. 
Peter Steinfels graduated from Loyola University in 1963 and holds masters and 
to appear. 
He has 
written articles and reviews in numerous other journals and is the author of "The Neoconservatives: The Men Who Are Changing America's Politics." He also is a former member of the American studies faculty of Notre Dame, where he was the vis­iting W. Harold and Martha Welch Professor in 1994. 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels also graduated from Loyola University in 1963 and holds a master's degree in American history from New York University. She wrote film reviews for Today maga­zine before becoming a reporter and columnist at the National Catholic Reporter from 1969-71. In addition to her freelance writing, she was editor of the Hastings Center Report, executive editor of Christianity and Crisis, and editor of Church magazine before succeeding her hus­band as Commonweal editor in 1988. She resigned as edi­tor earlier this year. She is the author of "Who's Minding the Children? The History and Politics of Day Care in America," and she gave the Commencement address and received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1991. 

The Steinfels' were mar­ried in 1963 and are the par­ents of Gabrielle Hendricks and John Steinfels and the grandparents of Max Hendricks. 
The Laetare Medal is so named because its recipient is announced each year in celebration of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. " Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor which antedates the 11th century. The medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity." 

Citizen sues Elkhart over religious display 
Associated Press 

GOSHEN, Ind. 
A man who prodded the city of Elkhart into moving its Ten Commandments monu­ment off public property is now challenging Elkhart County officials over a similar display. 
On behalf of William Books of Elkhart, the Indiana Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit last week in U.S. District Court asking for a permanent injunction seeking the removal of a printed version 
Class 
continued from page I 

including Accepted Student Day on Campus on April 6, Spring Day on Campus on April 27 and Fall Day on campus held earlier this year. 
"Annually, we have approxi­mately 500 families participat­ing in these formal events," Nolan said. "In addition, we will have approximately 800 fami­lies who will make individual campus visits during the year." 
Nolan said that perspective students are always encouraged to visit, either for one of the large admission programs or to design a personalized visit. Nolan expects that between 200 and 250 families will participate of the Ten Commandments erected Monday in the county office building. 
On March 17, the three county commissioners voted to use a donated series of reprinted documents and flags in the building. 
Ken Falk, the ICLU's legal director, said Books does not wish to speak publicly about the issue. 
"It is extremely offensive to him that the county of Elkhart is sponsoring a display which violates the Constitution," according to the ICLU's com­plaint. 
in this year's Spring Day on Campus. 
"The President, the College's Administrative Council and the Budget Committee remains well informed on the progress of the formation of the class of 2007 by weekly updates from the Admission and Institutional Research offices," Nolan said. "The College is planning on an entering class of 2007 to fall between the range of 375 and 
400. Of course, we would like to expand that number and are working toward a higher goal than the actual number being used currently by the Budget Committee." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


If you'd like to know, Mu Alpha Theta will hold a meeting on Monday 31" of March, 6pm, in I 17 Hayes-Healy. 
Dr. Mark Alber, Director of Center of Biocomplexity and a math professor here at Notre Dame will be giving a talk on the applications of math in biology. His team is currently doing research on chick embryo development with the aid of mathematical formulas. 
Come join! This is the LAST meeting of the year, and we will also be holding officers ellections. Don't miss it. Pizza and refreshmens will be served. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, March 31, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch March 28 
DowJones 

8,145.77 • -55.68 

NASDAQ 

1,369.60 • -14.65 
S&P500 
863.50 


-5.02 
AMEX 

827.96 ~ +3.64 


NYSE 

4,809.10 -20.61
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI) -2.90 -0.02 0.67 
lgs~l;!li!!1I'li:::1~;:~!~l:l!llllillllll!1!!1:l:1111111111~1i~l1~!111: 
BOOTS & COOTS (WEL) +9.21 +0.07 0.83 



i;lggiiix~iffi~i!ii:iiii!l~:i!::1:11111:il!:&i!~:il!ii!~l!lrllli~lll!~:l!I 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -1.10 -0.2926.08 
IN BRIEF 
Judge allows pension termination 
A federal judge on Friday gave his final approval to US Airways' termination of its pilots' pension plan, clearing the way for the airline to emerge from bankruptcy protection next week. 
The pension issue had been the last hurdle to the airline emergence. On Friday morning, the Federal Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp. gave its approval to the pension plan, and 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stephen Mitchell approved it Friday afternoon. 

AOL Time Warner overstates profits 
AOL Time Warner Inc. indicated Friday that it might have to restate its financial results as much as another $400 million because of accounting improprieties at its America Online division. 
According to papers filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC has noti­fied the media company that it believes that two transactions involving America Online and Bertelsmann AG were accounted for improperly. Those transactions involve the dispensation of Bertelsmann's stake in AOL Europe. The company responded in the filing that it believes the deal was done correctly, and is "engaged in ongoing discussions" with the SEC. 
Senate Republicans send aid to airlines 
Senate Republicans agreed Friday on a $2.8 billion aid package for the nation's airlines, much less than the industry says it needs to offset slowdowns caused by terrorism worries and the war with Iraq. 
The package would extend the war-risk insurance that protects airlines from liability for injuries to passengers during war or an act of terrorism and would reimburse the air­lines $1.1 billion for security measures. It also would give the airlines a six-month break from passing on to the government the pro­ceeds from a passenger security tax of up to $10 per round-trip ticket. 
Crude oil futures fall slightly 
. Prolonged war in Iraq affects market 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Crude oil futures ended 
modestly lower Friday as 
traders took profits on 
Thursday's sharp gains 
posted amid Iraq war jit­
ters. 

Trading was subdued, as participants sat on the sidelines after the recent volatility and awaited fresh developments in Iraq and Nigeria, the market's twin concerns. 
At the New York 
Mercantile Exchange, the 
May crude oil contract fell 
21 cents to close at $30.16 
a barrel. The contract post­
ed an overnight high of 
$31.05 a barrel. 

Front-month April gaso­line and heating oil futures ended mixed ahead of Monday's expiration. April heating oil closed up 2.10 cents at 83.25 cents a gal­lon, while April gasoline closed with a loss of 2.08 cents at 95.39 cents a gal­lon. 
At London's International Petroleum Exchange, North Sea Brent blend futures for May delivery dropped 4 7 cents to $26.35 a barrel. 
Natural gas for May delivery fell 0.09 cent to dampened hopes for a determine how quickly the is over." settle at $5.146. quick resumption of Iraqi United Nations can return Meanwhile, Nigerian oil 
Despite Friday's modest oil output, which accounts its staff to Iraq to begin dis­output remained sharply pullback, oil prices man­for about 3 percent of glob­tributing the aid. curtailed two days after aged to end the week more al supply. The resolution does not militants battling govern­than 12 percent higher, Iraq exported about 1. 7 address the oil sales side of ment forces in the oil-rich recouping some of the 30 million barrels a day of oil program, an apparent Niger Delta announced a 
percent decline that came through the oil-for-food acknowledgment of the cease-fire. on expectations of a quick program. uncertainty surrounding President Olusegun war in Iraq. The United Nations sus­the state of the Iraqi oil Obasanjo has ordered 
Those expectations have pended the oil sales pro­industry. security forces to arrest all but evaporated in recent gram last week as allied "In terms of flows, we ethnic militants, whose bat­days, as allied forces face forces prepared to attack would expect that volumes tles with rival fighters and stiff Iraqi resistance as they Iraq. The Security Council would be erratic at best government troops have advance toward Baghdad. voted Friday to resume the until a definitely more sta­shut down 40 percent of Some coalition officials program once the ble political element is in the country's oil produc­have acknowledged that American-led war winds place," said Tyler Dann, an tion. they had underestimated down. oil analyst with Banc of But ChevronTexaco, the Iraqi military's willing­The resolution approved America Securities in Royal/Dutch Shell and ness to fight, warning that Friday gives Secretary­Houston. "I would suspect TotalFinalElf say the situa­the war could be longer General Kofi Annan control tanker companies are tion is not safe enough to 
and more difficult than over the humanitarian side going to be quite skittish return their staff to the many had hoped. of the program for the next about lifting oil from facili­region and have given no The prospect of pro­45 days. Annan said that ties that are anywhere indication when they plan 
longed military conflict has the military situation will close to Iraq until the war to restore production. 

Dollar falls due to prolonged war 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The dollar fell against most major rivals Friday amid deepening anxiety about a potentially protracted war in Iraq, and as traders sought to limit their exposure to riskier assets ahead of the weekend. 
"The war is going to take a few months," said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist with HSBC in New York. "I think [the dollar] has adjusted to that," he added. 
The greenback's across-the-board retrenchment was perhaps most noticeable against the euro. as the single currency climbed to within a hair of the $1.0800 mark for the first time since March 17. 
Dollar sentiment soured on a flurry of reports about Iraq, including Iraqi officials' claims that 51 people were killed when the United States bombed a civilian area in Baghdad. 
In a sharply and carefully worded statement, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld Friday warned both Syria and Iran not to interfere with operations in Iraq and warned both countries that any such interference could be regarded as hostile acts. 
In a reflection of how jittery traders have become about the dol­lar, it tripped to an initial run of global session lows against the Swiss franc and the euro early Friday in New York, as a report that a bridge in New York City had been shut down hurt an already jumpy, rumor-prone market. 
Police shut down the Williamsburg Bridge for more than two hours Friday morning after workers spot­ted three intoxicated men in a restricted area, officials said. The incident had no connection to terror­ism, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. 
In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at $1.0778, up from $1.0692 late Thursday. 
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 119. 70 yen, down from 119.97 yen late Thursday. 
The dollar was quoted at 1.3698 Swiss francs, down from 1.3828, and 1.4714 Canadian dollars, up from 1.4632. The British pound rose to $1.5754 from $1.5648. 

Monday, March 31, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

OP'.E'NL'.ET'T'.E'R 'TO "N'D 'U'N'D'.E'R§'R'A'D'll'A'T'.E S'T'll'D'.E"NTS 
'Dear runleraraduates, 
rffie 'lnstitute for Latino Studies offers 'Notre 'Dame underaraduates the minor in Latino studies. Latino studies is afie(d of academic inquiry that riaorous{y examines the fiistorica( andcontemyorary exyeriences ofLatinos in tfie context of 'American society andits institutions. Latinos inc(ude yeoyfe who trace th.eir fieritaae to Mexico, Puerto 'Rico, Cu6a, the 'Doniinican 'Reyu6fic, andCentra(andSouth 'America. 
'ln addition toyrovidin3 ryyortunitiesforfocusinlJ inte((ectua(inquiry on syecific arouys (e,lJ,, 'Mexicans or Cu6ans), Latino studies aims to 3ive students-6otfi Latinos andnon-Latinos-andscfio(ars from diverse discpfines a contextfor exyforinlJ the fiistorica(, fiterary, socia{, economic, refi3ious, and_poUtica(ex_periences ofthis vast{y hetero3eneous yoyu(ation. Students wfio yursue the minor wiffhave the ry_portunity to 6e at the forefront of tfie study ofone ofthe twenty first century's most si3nificant demoarayhic cfianaes in tfie 'UnitedStates. 
'As the Latino diasyora evofves, so does thefteCc{ ofLatino studies, which recoanizes the value ofa com_parative, cross-6order yersyective for arrivin3 at an in-dpth understandinlJ ofLatinos' historica( roots andmufriethnic fieritaaes. 'lt_pr01notes 
research andana(yses ofnew issues such as erneraintJ transnationa(communities, cfianaina immiaration yatterns, 
remittances, andcufrura( f(ows 6etween Latinos in the 'UnitedStates andthe Cari66ean andSouth andCentra(?lmerica. 
WliiCe the emyfiasis is on dornestic Latino communities, tfie discy,Cine's focus inevita6(y 6ecomes internationaHzed when we 
consider afo6aCization, immi3ration, andGorder issues. 
Minor in Latino Studies 
• 
L:E?l'R'lf a6out Latinos in the context of?lmerican society: syirituafity, socia( action, ethnicity, gfo6afization, art, cufrure, demoarayhy, immigration, andyu6(ic_po(icy issues. 

• 
P'R!EP'A'RPfor a myriadofyrofessiona( settings andto sen1e an increasint]{y diverse society. 

• 
'l'R'A1'1ffor araduate andyrofessiona( schoofs andan array C!f o_pyortunities at the federa(, state, and foca( (evefs ofgovernment, nonyrofit oraanizations, andtfie yrivate sector . 

• 
'NO L'A 'lf§'ll'A(j:E 'R!EQ,'U'l'R:E'M!E'lf rf 



• OP:E'lfrfo ~L 'U'N'D:E'R§'R?l'D'U?l'J:E S'T'U'D:E'lfrfs 'lnterested students may ayy(y 6y stoyyin8 6y my office at 2so'Mc'Kenna ']{a((, 6y reavin8 a messaae at 631-0940, or 6y 
contactina me at yn1arino@ni.edu. 'A(( the 6est, 

9\cademic 'Affairs, 'lnstitute for Latino Studies 

Latin,, studies 

page 9

Monday, March 31, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
CANADA 

Mystery illness causes health emergency 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
A mystery illness with no known treatment continued to spread through Asia and Canada on Sunday. killing three more people and infect­ing many others as officials warned it may be more conta­gious than originally thought. 

Hong Kong health officials said 60 more people had fall­en ill with a deadly flu-like disease. more than half of them in one apartment com­plex, pushing the number of infections worldwide past 1,600. 
Singapore's health minister, Lim Hng Kiang, said the dis­ease may spread more easily than first believed. with some people found to be more infectious than others. Labeled as "super infectors," they can infect as many as 40 others, he said. 
"We run the risk of a huge new cluster of infected peo­ple, which could start a chain 

reaction," Lim told  a  news  
conference.  
The  World  Health  
Organization  said  severe  

arute respiratory syndrome, or SAHS, has killed at least 54 people worldwide. with the majority of cases in Hong Kong and China. That figure does not include three more deaths reported Sunday, one each in Hong Kong, Toronto and Singapore. 

The International Ice Hockey Federation canceled the women's world champi­onships scheduled to begin Thursday in Beijing. 
Authorities have declared a health emergency in Toronto, located 50 miles from the U.S. border. U.S. health officials have reported 62 cases in the United States. 
So far, four people have 
died from the illness in Toronto, the latest was reported Sunday. In addition, about 100 probable or suspect cases have been reported. Officials have closed two 
"We run the risk ofa huge new cluster of infected people, which could start a chain reaction." 
Lim Hng Klang Singapore's health minister 
hospitals to new patients, and hundreds of people have been quarantined in their homes. 
Another possible case turned up in New Brunswick on Canada's east coast, offi­cials said Sunday, meaning the illness that originated in Asia may now reach across Canada. The New Brunswick case involves a school princi­pal who recently traveled to China; 
Other suspected cases are in Ottawa; Winnipeg, Manitoba; and on the west coast in Vancouver, British 
Columbia. 
The United States and Canada have advised people to avoid travel to afflicted areas in Asia, and the World Health Organization recom­mended that international travelers from Toronto and several Asian cities get screened for symptoms. 
Singapore said it would sta­tion nurses at its airport to examine all travelers arriving 
from infect­ed areas, w h i l e Canada planned to screen those traveling abroad from Toronto, although no system was in place Sunday. 
Most of 
the Toronto-area cases are health care workers at Scarborough Grace Hospital and York Central Hospital who became infected while treating initial victims, all of whom had traveled in Asia or had close contact with other victims. 
The disease has caused a run on surgical masks in the city and slowed business by as much as 70 percent at Pacific Mall, a Chinese shop­ping mall in Toronto's north­ern suburbs. 
Kevin Wong, a worker at a video store in the mall, said the public reaction seemed excessive, but was under­standable. Some merchants also were taking precautions, wearing protective masks even though no cases have been linked to the mall. 
"People are still coming to work but they're coming in later and leaving early," he said. "They don't want to waste their time when there's no one here." 
U.S. health officials said Saturday that none of the antiviral drugs and other treatment they have tested are effective against SARS. 
In Hong Kong where 13 people have died, Christians and Taoists held special ser­vices Sunday to pray for an end to the epidemic. 
Most of the new cases reported Sunday came from Hong Kong's Amoy Gardens apartment complex, where a victim recently spread the disease, according to a Health Department statement. 
Some frightened residents have moved out and medical teams have gone through the apartments to check for SARS, while some minibus drivers won't even stop there anymore. 
In canceling the women's hockey world championships, the international federation said the spread of the illness to Beijing from southern China put the players at risk. 
IVORY COAST 
Soldiers battle looters 
Associated Press 
ABIDJAN 

Fighting between govern­ment troops and armed loot­ers in Ivory Coast's lawless west killed one civilian and wounded 19, an official in the rebellion-torn nation said Sunday. 
Soldiers attacked and chased off English-speaking fighters who were looting the village of Guiuebli on Saturday, Lt. Col. Philippe Mangou said. The village is near Ivory Coast's border with Liberia. 
None of the soldiers or loot­ers were reported hurt dur­ing the fight and no one was arrested. But Mangou said one woman was killed and 19 people were injured. 
He said that the looters were mercenaries from Liberia, where English is spo­ken. He charged that they were hired by Ivory Coast insurgents whose six-month rebellion has divided the world's largest cocoa produc­er into government and rebel-held regions. Rebel leaders weren't immediately available for comment. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, March 31, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
11,, Jru/,pmd.nrt. D,d./y N,w,p"l'n-/Mrvi,rt No,,,, Dltmt ,ruiS.lnt M•ry i 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX........... ·········...···...................................631-6927 ADYERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofth-: University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to che Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th,• Oh,.,rv,·r (USPS S9'J 240) i, publi,h.:J Monday rhrough friday <>=pr Ju ring c.um ~d 'w'.¥:aJion periods. A\UhKriprion 10 The Ob.>erver i, SI 00 for one .c.1Jc-mic 
year; S5S-for one semester.  
The ObiCJ"\'t1 ii publish.rd at:  POHMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  ~d .addrni, roro:ctions m:  
Nom, Darn,, IN 46556  The Ob.en-«  
P.O. !lox Q  
Pcriodiu! ponigc paid ac Notre l):.m,c  Norr< Dame. IN 46556-0779  
.and .ldJirinn;il mailing offk.ci,  

fhc Ob:1erver i1-,1 member of the Au,x:,art'd Prns. All rq,rodm:tion rights Mt" racrvrd. 

Jobless in South Bend· 
So my parents think I should have a job. So do I. I am almost 21 and my life remains an utter joke. If only it was so easy. If only I could rely on my average looks, my tender booty or my 
shapely thighs.  
Hanson had some­ David Barrett  
thing there. If only.  
I never had a  
problem securing babysitting jobs or  Notre Bum  
paper routes. I was  
a sixth grade stud  

and a conscientious one at that. You say you need a little stencil work on your poster board presentation? I'm 
on it. How about a little shakalaka with that boom? Just give me a shot. I guarantee I'll make it. 
I was money in the bank. My cursive was renowned. There was no question as to who would own the gymnasium on kickball day. People knew I could water plants, sell popcorn and woo their middle-school daughters. I was a standout, a perennial force in the annual spelling bee. People knew me. I knew people and what they wanted. I could get it done. I was no Boy Scout. I was a Webelo man. 
But now, nearly a decade later, they just aren't seeing it. I've sent out near­ly 40 resumes and received an embar­rassing 3 responses. One was simply to notify me that I had the wrong address, the other two to remind me that they stopped accepting applica­tions in February. Sure, my marks are mediocre and my extra-curriculars nonexistent, but I am deserving. 
Same thing happened last summer. I showed up in Boston with a couple of roommates and a basketful of ambi­tions. I hit the streets with a pair of fresh khakis and an ironed brown polo. I hopped from bar to bar, Gap to American Eagle, looking for an estab­lishment worthy of my employment. Nothing. I skirted over to Rosie's Bakery, but apparently my booty wasn't fat enough. I humbly applied at the nearby fast food chains but found no love there either. I went home. To southern Maine I went. I would take up my past employer at the local lob­ster shack on his offer to re-hire me for another long summer. 
Keds and ponytails awaited me. They sold me out for a payroll of pre­teens. What a loser. Luckily, I had a list of household chores prepared for me. I spent the duration of the sum­mer washing the deck with a high­pressured hose, an infomercial buy and my dad's new favorite toy. It, worked okay. I amused myself with a monthly stipend and trips to the public librar.y to abuse the renovated educa­tional movie rental section, all the while anticipating next summer and an enormous salary. 
So here I am, stuck applying to jobs I don't want in order to make money and gain experience that I desperately need. I know it's cliche, but it's not quite as easy as it always seemed. Never mind the Big Five. Underqualified as I may be, I applied to the Big Three: Alamo, National and Hertz. No word yet, but the fingers are crossed. It's not that I want to be parking cars for the rest of my life. I just need a legitimate job this summer. If that doesn't go well, I might be applying to Wendy's and McDonald's, the Big Two. I just always assumed the bachelor in economics and philosophy would carry me a little bit further than fast food. 
Maybe I shouldn't worry just yet. We are currently in the midst of war and incredible economic uncertainty, and people just aren't hiring. Confidence is not high. I repeat, confidence is not high. Every night I check the career center's useless Golrish home page for the latest job postings. Every night I struggle to determine whether Vima Gupta is a "Dear Mr." or a "Dear Ms." I try to convince COO Gupta that although my course selection does not reflect a passion for advertising, I'm his or her man. 
I find myself cursing Notre Dame and its limited major offerings. I could have gone to Tufts and majored in something I actually would have liked and benefited from, like African funk or infectious diseases. Maybe I just chose the wrong major. Either way, 1 never thought I'd have trouble getting a connection with the vast network of generous, doting Darners. It isn't too hard. Simply hook this brother up. 
Maybe I should harken back to those middle-school days once again. I was quite the entrepreneur. My brothers and I used to lurk in the bushes, just off the 18th fairway at the local golf course, waiting to sprint out, steal people's golf balls and take off. Like any dream job, it proved both lucra­tive and enjoyable. We'd sell them back, a day later, three for a dollar. 
I'm going to give those 36 pending internships a couple of weeks. Wait it out. See what happens. But if nothing fleshes out, I might just be calling up my brothers with a business proposi­tion. 
Dauid Barrett is a junior economics and philosophy major. llis column appears every other Monday. Contact him at barrett.43@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Chris Federico Shannon Kurt Bogaard Nelligan Christine 
Kevin Allen Armstrong 
Viewpoint Scene 
Patrick McElwee Maria Smith 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Mike Harkins Lisa Velte 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that the incoming student body presidents will be able to fulfill their campaign promises? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All paidjobs absorb and degrade the mind... 
Aristotle Greek philosopher 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, March 31, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cartoon. failed to appreciate purpose ofspring 'Vis' .. 
Last Thursday's "School Daze" strip concerns me both as a diversity educa­tor and student. For those that did not see the cartoon, the subject line makes reference to Spring Visitation Weekend and the supposedly deceptive tactics used by the admissions office in con­vincing students that Notre Dame is a metropolis. I challenge the cartoon artists and the campus community to look further than what is on the surface and create effective solutions in correct­ing the notion that Spring Visitation Weekend deceives students. 
This is not the first instance in which the admissions office has been the topic of discussion in The Observer. In Jan. 2001, an Observer news writer pub­lished an article accusing the office of "deceptive diversity." In her article, Christine Kraly wrote that "Some stu­dents and administrators believe that the Spring Visitation Weekend, with its emphasis on multicultural students and activities, paints a false picture of Notre Dame." . She went on, adding that a percentage of students that enrolled with the University after the weekend returned in the fall to a different picture. The lat­est cartoon strip is continuing in Kraly's 
footsteps. We need to understand the overall purpose and reason that Spring Visitation Weekend is important in cre­ating a more diverse environment. 
Cindy Santana, multicultural recruit­ment coordinator, states: "The main purpose for Spring Visitation is to bring students here who may not be fortunate enough to visit the campus on their own as well as high talent diversity studen·ts that may not be considering Notre Dame as their first choice." 
I can attest that Spring Visitation was a main factor in my decision to enroll. Notre Dame did not actively recruit at our high school, and the only way I heard about it was through a local con­tact that was actively involved with the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. I would not have considered applying here if it were not for the open arms of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame and the admis­sions office in helping me consider whether· this university was the best fit. 
Many students such as myself are not fortunate to be from "feeder schools," schools that continually send a number of students to Notre Dame or whose stu­dents are recruited by the institution. In 
, 

effect, minority students may not learn about the institution except through dif­ferent sources. They need the opportu­nity to experience campus life before making their final decision. 
Granted, during Spring Visitation, more minority events occur than in any other weekend. However, this is not the only way that students can take advan­tage of the Notre Dame experience. It is explained when a student arrives on campus by their host that the weekend is not representative of the school year. Hopefully. the prospective student takes this into mind and participates in the scheduled talks from administrators, faculty and students as well as attends classes and the various ethnic events to sample the culture and environment of campus. 
I noticed that when the weekend is over and students return in the fall, there are discussions of the Spring Visitation deceiving people. presenting the false sense of reality that Claire · O'Brien's cartoon strip_points out. Notre Dame is attempting to increase the per­centages of underrepresented groups on camp~but needs help from the student population. Spring Visitation Weekend 
. 

is not the end all to the overall experi­ence. Cultural events such as Asian Allure, Blak Images and Fiestang Filipino along with other events spon­
~ sored by the Multicultural Student Programs and Services and other departments occur throughout the acad­emic year. 
However, people should recognize there are ample opportunities to make campus a special place if you want it to 
· be. I admit complaining at times that there is nothing to do on campus but re_cognize that we have the opportunity to raise the bar for those that come after us. What it all ~omes down to is whether we at Notre Dame desire for this to happen. A community cannot be rebuilt without a firm foundation. This can not be created without the com­bined dedication and efforts of every individual. However, the question is who will be the first to dig the hole in the ground so others can follow and create an institution that we can call our home. 
Jourdan Sorrell 
junior Siegfried Hall March 28 

Bush muddies 
waters 
How would you define clean water? The Bush adminis­tration seems to think that clean water contains leftover waste from mining operations, a wide range of toxic pol­lutants and is unfit for human contact. Anyone thirsty? 
Clean water is water that is fit fot human recreation; it is not water deemed hazardous to your health. In clean water. the levels of pollution are well within the safety standards of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It is free of industrial waste. And it is safe to eat the ani­mals that live in clean water. 
Unfortunately, the EPA reports that more than one­third of surveyed rivers and half of all lakes and estuaries within the United States are too polluted for human recreation. And at least 44 states have a partial or statewide fish-consumption warning posted, which includes 100 percent of the Great Lakes, a large percent­age of our nation's coastal waters and one-third of shell­fish beds. 
Despite this knowledge, the Bush administration contin­ues to define clean water on terms that are not healthy for us or the environment. On May 3, 2002, the Bush administration decided to allow coal companies to dump leftover dirt and rock from mountaintop mining opera­tions into streams and valleys. And on Dec. 20, 2002, the Bush administration let a proposal die that would have reduced pollution runoff into rivers, lakes and streams. 
Now the Bush administration is seeking to further limit the waters protected by the Clean Water Act of 1972 because our waters are already so clean. If the Bush administration is successful. as much as 20 percent of our nation's wetlands could become polluted or destroyed. That's 20 million acres of wetlands, which help to filter drinking water, retain flood waters and sup­port a wide range of wildlife. Destroying wetlands would result in greater pollution of our ground and surface water, making more waters unsafe for human recreation or consumption. 
If you agree with the Bush administration's definition of clean water, then dive on in. If not, then go to www.cleanwateract.blogspot.com, click on the EPA link and tell our government not to jeopardize our health by limiting the Clean Water Act. But act quickly. The EPA will stop accepting comments on the purposed changes to the Clean Water Act on April 16. 
Ryan Brallier 
sentor 
Zahm Hall March 30 

Things could surely he better 
I shudder to think what would 
have happened had we not had 
the Electoral College in place for 
the last election. Had it not been 
for this antiquated system placed 
in our Constitution for the pur­
pose of making sure that the une­
ducated people of 18th century 
America made the right choice in 
choosing their leader, then w~ 
would certainly have a different 
president. And, even more shock­
ingly, we likely would not bein a 
war. 

In response to Matt Somma's 
letter on Friday entitled, "It 
would be worse without Bush,'' 
which was more of a cheap 
attack on the character of Bill Clinton than anything else, all I ·can say is that things could be a 
whole lot better too. 
In defense of Clinton; despite 
his personal shortcomings and 
poor judgment calls, he was rme 
of the most intelligent world lead­
ers in the modern era, as well as 
a seasoned politician and diplo­
mat. The eight years of Clinton's 
administration were some of the 
most peaceful and 'prosperous 
within living memory. Not only 
were they peaceful years here at 
home. but abroad also, for the 
most part. Somma aptly decides 
to point out the bombing of the 
USS Cole, but fails to mention 
that it was also the most peaceful 
time in the Middle East. There 
were peace conferences between 
Israelis and Palestinians that 
actually made a short-term 
improvement in their relations. 
Theodore Roosevelt's quota­tion, "Speak softly and carry a big stick," is taken completely out of context in Somma's letter. Roosevelt spoke these words in reference to imperialism and the colonization of places like Puerto Rico. Teddy Roosevelt was not one of the largest proponents of words before war, as is blatantly obvious when we examine the Spanish-American War. To imply that Clinton used too much diplo­macy is ridiculous since most Americans would agree that war should be used only as a last resort in a desperate situation. 
With regard to the cuts in mili­tary spending during the Clinton administration, this was 
be cut following the f the reasons for mili­
astronomical increas­ary involvement in 
es in spending dur­raq. Honestly. I 
ing the Reagan hink that war was 
administration. navoidable by the 
With military pro­ime we entered 
grams such as Iraq. We were 
Star Wars during too deeply 
Reagan's terms, involved not to 
the only thing do anything. 
that could have However, if we 
possibly been are there 
done with mili­because of the 
tary spending U.N. weapons 
was to decrease inspectors, then 
it. Clinton was the imply say that. 
first Democratic et's have a real. 
president after . ustifiable reason 
Reagan, so of course or involvement. ·he was going to cut In the end, when 
spending to the mili­
tary. 
nine to argue the hypothetical sit­
uation of how another person 
would have reacted to and han­
dled the Sept. 11 attacks. No one 
can say what Gore, Clinton or 
anyone else would have done if 
the situation had been theirs to 
deal with. Bush certainly rose to 
the occasion, so it is entirely pos­
sible that another would have 
done the same. 
Furthermore, on the issue of Sept. 11 and its political after­math. Bush and his henchmen found it necessary to "declare" a "\Var on Terror," which has led to our current military involve­
• ment in Iraq. The fact that the United States "declared" a war on an idea is completely beyond me, as is our government's insis­tence on using Sept. 11 as an • excuse to enter other countries and re-arrange their govern­ments. Despite what some want to believe, it has not been proven that Iraq had any direct involve• ment in the attacks. In a recent 
This is a man-made war that was, until a few weeks ago, avoidable. The belief that it is necessary to make ill-founded, poorly researched character attacks about Bill Clinton is ridiculous and completely unnec­essary. Had the Electoral College outcome reflected the popular vote of the people of America, things would be very different now, though I'm not convinced that they would be worse. 
Maureen McCormick 
freshman 
Pasquerilla Ease 
March 28 

The casting ca  
1915: one Flew over the cuckoo's Nest  1981: Raiders of the lostArk  1983: AChristmas Storv  1985: Thi 80 Backtothll  
1914: Thi lodfatber: Part II Young Frankenstein  1919:The Amitvville Horror  1982: LT. The Extra-Terrestrial Poltergeist  1984: FooUoose Indiana Jones and the Temple of ooom  

----··-------­
THE OBSERVER 

Monday, March 31, 2003
page 12 

A career in 
Casting director Mike Fenton from 'The Godfathe 

By LYNN TEDESCO 
Scene Writer 
What do all three "Back to the Future" movies, all three "Indiana Jones" movies, "The Godfather: Part II," "Chaplin," "Chinatown," "American Graffiti," "Beaches," "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Young Frankenstein" havQ in common? If you're thinking it's an all-star cast. you're almost right. 
The correct answer is one man: Mike Fenton. Fenton, a graduate from the Film School at UCLA, has been a prolific casting director for over 30 years. Having anticipated interviewing Fenton for over a week, I came to the conclusion that my questions for him would be very open-ended, and I really just wanted to hear what he had to say. 
"Actually, Mr. Fenton, I'm not a regular columnist for the paper. I'm a film student at the University, and I had expressed an interest in becoming a casting director ... " 
"\\'by?" 
Fabulous -I could tell right away that the interview was going to go well. 

"So, what exactly does a casting director do?" 
"I cast motion pictures." 
I suppose I was asking for that one. "Okay ... but how does that work? What is the process like?" 
"The process is a simple one, though complex when a director's in the mix." 
His first comments didn't tell me much. After much probing, I finally managed to get him talking. 
"The director actually makes the final decision. All I do is basically expose the director to the people that I feel are most right. Here's how it works. The director gets a script. He sends the script to a casting director. That's me. If I feel that I can become intimately involved with the script and I believe that I can do a good job casting it, I will accept the script and begin conversation with the director. 
"We discuss the main roles and think of big names to fill the roles. From that point, I go to the studio and see who they would rather I cast. Then I go to those actors' agents and make an off er. 
"The rest of the cast happens the same way. There's what we call a Breakdown Service. 
"The script is sent to the Breakdown Service, and from there. sent out to all agencies. These agen­cies choose the actors that they rep­resent who they feel will do the best job and send their pictures and resumes to me. We go through the process of bringing in the lesser actors to meet the director. The director then decides who reads." 
I asked him how he got into the industry. "Well, you know," he replied, "I grew up in this atmosphere ... " "Oh, I see ... were your parents involved the film industry?" ''Well, no, but you know, I grew up in L.A., so ..... 
"Is there any particular film that you enjoyed casting the most? Anything you are most proud of?" 
"\,Ve read the scripts before we start casting," Fenton said. "If we are not passionate about a script, we won't cast it." 
He had little more to say about specific films or particular actors with whom I knew he'd worked. I asked him about how he came upon Robert DeNiro for "The Godfather: Part II", and how he found Jonathan Brandis for "Ladybugs." 
His answers remained the same; 
"It's all the same process ... their 
agents contact us, the actors read. 
we make an offer ... In [Hobert 
DeNiro]'s case, we'd seen him in 
"Bang the Drum Slowly". He read 
for the part. Francis [Ford Coppola] 
gives tips for i 


Mike Fenton Is one of Hollywood's preml gives tips on making a name In acting. 
loved him." 
Evidently, casual name-dropping makes a casting director feel like the epitome ofcool. But, I finally got him talking. 
"Any actors or directors with whom you especially enjoy work­
.
mg.?" 
"Well, you know, it's a business just like anything else," he said. "As far as the directors are concerned, the bottom line is, the directors make the movies. They create an atmosphere. When you work with Spielberg, Dante, Polanski, these are people who are consummate film­makers and they create an atmos­phere that allows the creative peo• ple on their staff to open their minds and go in directions that are real wide rather than very narrow. They investigate ideas and they make the process very exciting. 
Bladerunner 
-----------------------------------------------------------------.--­
THE 
OBSERVER 


Monday, March 31, 2003 page 13 
Lshow biz 
,,: Part II' and 'Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade' aspiring actors 

Photo courtesy of www.hollywoodawards.com 

ier casting directors. His new video 
"As far as the actors, I mean, they're just people. And, like I said, it's a business. A small business. Everyone knows everyone. For instance, I happen to be very close friends with Jack Nicholson's agent. So, you know, I'll go out golfing with Jack and to dinner with Harrison Ford, and it's all in a days work. You enjoy them; they enjoy you." 
"They are just people, they just have a bit more exposure than other people. And they have to. I mean, I don't just have to answer to the direc­tor.-I have to satisfy the network or the distributor in terms of the value of the actors. So, even in the smaller roles, if we're doing a film. we will put people who have some visibility for the smaller roles. 
"Okay, so we have this small busi­ness where everyone knows every­one," I said. "And you cast actors that 
have already been in other films 
before to satisfy the director and the 
studio. 
"So where does the new talent come from? Many of the people who are going to be reading this article are probably wondering what they can do to get themselves into that small Hollywood circle. How can an aspiring no-name actor, for example, make an impression on you that is so powerful that they actually get a job?" 
· "For actors, the most important thing is to study and to continue studying," Fenton said. "Actors are very fragile people and they get caught up in a lot of scams and what I did, because I worked with them for so long, I did a DVD and a VHS that explains the process for actors when you're an actor. 
"The series explains certain meth­ods of presenting yourself. It will open your eyes as to how to get into the system and how to market yourself and the dos and don 'ts of the busi­ness. Obviously, if you 're Jack. Nicholson, you don't need this. But it is a good introduction for an actor and a tool to which an aspiring actor will refer often. I can't really remem­ber the name of it, but it's in book­stores already, and you can read more about it at www.mikefenton.com." 
Had I knovvn that he was selling a video from the beginning, the inter­view would've gone a lot smoother. But the truth is, I'm glad I didn't know. I'm glad that the interview went the way it did. I learned a lot about Fenton, and about the film industry in general. Had I known about the video from the beginning, I would have been sold after five min­utes. 
He plays it down, but Fenton absolutely loves his job. He loves to talk about all the famous people he works with, and he loves to pretend that he thinks it's no big deal. But it is a big deal, and who better to get advice from on how to become an actor than probably the biggest cast­ing director in Hollywood? 
I have since been to his website and done some more research. I chuckled to myself when I thought about how he "grew up in the industry" and got his start in the mailroom at MCA Artists. 
But like he said, "It's a business, just like anything else. You have to start at the bottom and work your way up." Fenton knows what it's like to start in film school and graduate with a mailroom job, and he wants to help those talented people be discov­ered. 
His series is entitled "Mike Fenton 's Actor's Workshop" -as if he actually 
forgot what it was called. But that was all part of the plan. He wanted me to think he wasn't trying to sell his video. He wanted to casually name­drop famous actors and box office hits while playing it off like it was no big deal. He wanted me to see what a . prolific and wonderful casting direc­tor he is without telling me that he thinks he's a prolific and wonderful 
casting director. 
And it worked. He's right. The film 
industry is a business just like every­
thing else. 
"The agents are salespeople; it's all 
marketing," Fenton said. 
Fenton has been on the receiving 
end of all this marketing and sales­
pitching for over 30 years. He knows 
what works and what dQesn't. He 
marketed himself to me the way 
actors have done so to him for his 
entire career. Who.better than him to 
teach young aspiring actors how 
Hollywood works, what to put on a 
resume, how to get the audition and 
how to get the part? If you have ever 
had any serious thoughts about pro­
fessional acting, visit ¼Ww.mikefen­
ton.com and read more about his 
workshop. 
Contact Lynn Tedesco at ltedesco@nd.edu 



1reer ot Mike Fenton 
:oaies 1989: Back to the Future Pan II 
1992: ladYbugs

tblre Turner and looch .Dante's Peak Honev, 1Shrunk the Kids 1990: Aracbnapbobia
1988:Baaches Total Recall 1995:Coouo 1998: lostIn Space
Indiana Jonas and Iba last Crusade 
Back to Ille Future Part Ill 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 31, 2003 
NCAA BASKTBALL 

Sooners can't crack Syracuse zone, young stars 
ment field was only eight teams. the national semifinals next
Associated Press 

The loss kept Michigan State Saturday in the Superdo;ne. · from appearing in its fourth Instead, the Jayhawks (29-7)
ALBANY, N.Y. 
Final Four in five years. will face Marquette in New
Carmelo Anthony cut the~ 
The last time only one No. 1 Orleans. The third-seeded
down the net, then stuck . 
seed made the Final Four was Golden Eagles (27 •5) stunned
strands underneath his brand 
2000, when top-seeded No. 1 Kentucky 83-69 earlier
new white cap that showed the Michigan State won the national Saturday to win the Midwest
next stop for the Syracuse 
title. Regional.
Orangemen: New Orleans. 

The Spartans had a 38-28 The Jayhawks blew leads of
The freshman sensation led 
rebounding advantage but 16 points in the first half and 14 the way, scoring 20 points and couldn't match Texas' 49-per­· in the second, but did enough in
adding 10 rebounds to help 
cent shooting and 29-of-38 the end to win. 
knock off top-seeded Oklahoma effort from the foul line. Texas The Wildcats made life diffi­63-4 7 in the East Regional final· never trailed after leading 18-cult for Collison in this game,Sunday. 
16 in the first half, and the holding him to eight points andWhether Anthony heads for Spartans didn't get closer than nine rebounds. 
\. the NBA or not, he ·will have at five in the second. So Hinrich took over.
least one more game in his col­The Spartans tried to frus­Hinrich fell one point shy oflege career. 
trate Ford by closing down the his career high. lie shot 10-for-
With Anthony stepping up 
paint on defense and bumping 23, including 6-for-17 from 3­
from the start and Syracuse 
him with larger bodies, espe­point range, and added fivedominating with its 2-3 zone, cially .6-foot-5, 215-pound guard rebounds, five assists, two steals ,.
the Orangemen advanced to 
Kelvin Torbert, who had five and two blocks. 
their first Final Four in seven inc:hes and 50 pounds on Ford. The defeat was a tough oneyears. 
The tactic seemed to work, as for Arizona and 68-year-oldNext weekend, the third-seed­Ford appeared frustrated when Hall of Fame coach Lute Olson,ed Orangemen (28-5) will face he twice tumbled to the floor. who remained stuck at 499 vic­Texas, the winner of the South "They were tough," Ford said. tories in his 20 seasons asRegional. 
"They made me work for every­leader of the \Vildcats. 
Syracuse's zone took over the thing." -­game, causing the Sooners (27­. Frequent whistles slowed the
7) fits inside and outside. The Marquette 83, Kentucky 69
game dramatically in the second 
Sooners managed ju'st three Dwyane Wade sailed high
half. Texas was in the shooting
points over the final 8112 min­above a defense that had car­
bonus with more than 13 min­
utes of the first half as Syracuse ried Kentucky all season, slam­
utes to play but couldn't sustain 
took a 30-20 lead. ming the ball through the hoop
any momentum because of the
Things got worse for repeatedly in a stunning upset
frequent stops in play. Paul
Oklahoma. few people expected. 
Davis converted a three-point
Syracuse scored the first eight Led by Wade's dazzling per­
play with 7:59 left, getting the
points of the second half to take formance, the Marquette Golden 
Spartans within five at 66-61. 
its biggest lead on a 3-pointer Eagles emphatically ended the
But they couldn't pull any
by freshman Gerry McNamara Wildcats' 26-game winning
closer, and the Longhorns kept 
with 15:35 to play that capped a streak with a 83-69 victory
getting to the line. 
22-3 run. Saturday to earn a trip to the 
The last time Syracuse was in Final Four in New Orleans. the Final Four was 1996 when Kansas 78, Arizona 75 "I wanted to take Marquette it lost to Kentucky in the nation­Nick Collison 'did it one game, to the next level, the same level al championship gam.e. The last Kirk Hinrich the next. as Al McGuire did," Wade said, time the Orangemen were in That's how it works at referring to the man who New Orleans for a Final Four Kansas, and the payoff is a coached Marquette to its only they lost to Indiana in th~ 1987 return trip to the Final Four. national championship, in 1977. championship on a jumper by Hinrich went from his least "Maybe we don't have the tal­Keith Smart in the final sec­productive performance of the ent as other schools in previous onds. season to one of his best, scor­years, but we look at ourselves triple-double in NCAA Kentucky's star guard, Keith 
Now, Boeheim gets another ing 28 points and blocking a 3-as an elite school," Wade Tournament history, and the Bogans, wore a protective brace chance at that elusive national point attempt by Jason Gardner added. first since Utah's Andre Miller on the left ankle he sprained in title. in the final seconds Saturday as Cheered by a sea of yellow­against Arizona in the 1998 the semifinal victory Thursdaythe second-seeded Jayhawks clad followers, third-seeded West Regional final. Magic over Wisconsin. He scored 15 Texas 85, Michigan State 76 beat top-seeded Arizona 78-75 Marquette's surprising rout in Johnson did it against Penn in points on 4-for-11 shooting in As the final seconds.ticked off, to win the West Regional. the Midwest Regional final gave 1979 to get Michigan State into 24 minutes, but with his quick­
T.J. Ford dribbled to halfcourt, The victory was the 1,800th the school its third trip to the the title game. 
ness hampered, the Wildcats
flashed the "Hook 'em Horns" for Kansas -the third-most in Final Four and first since the Wade started slowly, looking 
simply couldn't respond to
sign to a sea of burnt orange in NCAA history. The Jayhawks team won it all. for openings early when Marquette's offense. 
the crowd and hugged his grin­will play in their 12th Final If Wade keeps it up, the Kentucky tried to deny him the Kentucky (32-4) closed to 12ning coach. Four, the fourth in Roy Golden Eagles might get anoth­ba,ll. Once he got started his points with 10:50 left and had aThe star guard and the rest of Williams' 15 years as coach. er title. He showed again why teammates followed, and chance to cut it to 10. But after the Texas Longhorns can cele­Williams has a 417-100 he's one of the nation's top Marquette was off and running. 
a great spinning move to thebrate all the way to the Final career record and his .807 win­players with a triple-double -As he stood on the floor cele­basket, Antwain Barbour wasFour, the school's first trip there ning percentage is the best 29 points, 11 rebounds and 11 brating, Marquette's fans began called for· an offensive foul,in 56 years. among active coaches, but he's assists. chanting "One more year, One sending Wildcats coach SmithFord scored 19 points and had never won a national champi­"We had no answer for more year" to the talented 'into a dance of disgust. 
10 assists in an 85-76 victory onship. Wade," said Kentucky coach junior., who is a top NBA 
From there, Wade was too
over Michigan State in the South This team appears poised and Tubby Smith, whose top-seeded prospect.Regionaf final Sunday, leaving ready. Wildcats gave up their most Now it's on to the Superdome. much for the Wildcats to han­the Longhorns as the only top­"I feel awfully good right points since a 115-87 victory where Marquette will play dle. After Scott Merritt hit a seeded team in the tournament. now," Williams said with a big over Tennessee State on Dec. 30 Kansas in the national semifi­jumper, \\lade scored 
The last time the Longhorns smile. that started the long winning nals. The second-seeded Marquette's next 11 points with played in the Final Four was So much for that anticipated streak. Jayhawks beat No. 1 Arizona two three-point plays and a 3­1947, when the NCAA tourna-Arizona-Kentucky matchup in \Vade recorded the third 78-75 to win the West Regional. poin.ter to put the victory away. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 3-4  Laptop Computer $250, Dell  Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June  Summer sublease -2 bedroom  ADOPTION AL TEANATIVE. Are  
NOTICES  OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW  Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229-3333  1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe  Turtle Creek townhouse. Call (217)417-4223  you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan- 
EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM•  Church. Incl. alarm syst,  cially stable woman would like to  
PUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER  washer/dryer. Can email picts.  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  consider adopting a baby. Free  
DOMUS PROPERTIES· HAS 3  OR FALL 235-3655  ·  Call Joe Crimmins @ 273­ homes 1/2 mile from campus.  counseling, living expenses and  
HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  FOR RENT  0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or  mmmrentals@aol.com 272­ medical expenses. This can be a  
SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN·  JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com.  1525 www.mmmrentals.com  good thing for you and your baby.  
T AINED HOUSES NEAR CAM· PUS· STUDENT NEIGHBOR­ FOR SALE  HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba,  $650/m negotiable.  '  Discreet and legal. Call 904-824­7006.  
HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL,  walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com  3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC  PERSONAL  
WASHERS/DRYERS CALL  Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1 .5 bath, fire•  1 ·Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND.  532·1896  Please let me graduate.  
TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!!  place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage,  $500/mo. 283-0325  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  
-CONT ACT KRAMER (547) 315­ fenced yard, 1 mile from ND.  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES- alone. If you or someone you love  
5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ·ALSO  288-2001  Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom  TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  needs confidential support or assIs- 
LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT  apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.•  OF ND 2773097  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  The current Mario record is 5  
OUR WEBSITES @  Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins  5 minutes from campus/good neigh•  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  minutes, 19.1 seconds, as if anyone  
DOMUSKRAMER.COM  for P.A. $75.  borhood. $350 a month.  2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  cares.  
631-5195  Call 229·1691  Spa.tanning bed 229-3333.  The Observer.  


page 15

Monday, March 31, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rangers homer their way to opening day win 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM. Calif. 

With World Series Game 7 winner John Lackey on the mound, ThunderStix in the stands and the Rally Monkey on the scoreboard, the Anaheim Angels started this season the same way they began last year -with a thud. 
Alex Rodriguez, Juan Gonzalez and Michael Young homered, making manager Buck Showalter a winner in his Texas debut as the Rangers beat the World Series champion Angels 6-3 Sunday night in the major league opener. 
Lackey was hit hard as the Angels dropped their fourth straight opener. Last year, they started off with a 6-0 loss to Cleveland an(! fell to a franchise­worst 6-14 before coming back. 
After rousing pregame cere­monies that included the raising of the Angels' first World Series championship flag in their 42­year history, Young quieted the crowd with a three-run shot over the center-field wall off Lackey to give Texas a 4-2 lead in the fourth inning. 
The Rangers rocked Lackey for five runs on eight hits in five innings. In his last outing, the 24-year-old right-hander became the first rookie to win the seventh game of a World Series in 93 years when he gave up one run in five innings of the Angels' 4-1 victory over San Francisco on Oct. 27. 
Ismael Valdes made his first start in an opener and got the win against his former team­mates, allowing three runs on seven hits in five innings. 
Ugueth Urbina, signed as a free agent over the winter, pitched the ninth for the save. He had 40 last season for Boston last year. 
.Texas relievers combined for one-hit ball over four innings. 
The Angels' runs came on an RBI single by Brad Fullmer in the first inning, another run­scoring single, by Garret Anderson in the third, and Darin Erstad's RBI groundout in the fifth. 
Rodriguez, hampered by a herniated disk in his neck this spring, made it 5-2 with a solo homer in the fifth. He began trotting almost as soon as the ball left his bat, and the ball landed deep in the left-field seats. 
Rodriguez missed two weeks this spring because of the neck injury but played the final three exhibition games. He hasn't missed a regular-season game since signing a record 10-year, $252 million contract with the Rangers on Dec. 11, 2000. 
The homer was the 299th for 
the 27-year-old A-Rod, begin­
ning his eighth full big league 
season. He went 1-for-5 and is 
5-for-34 in season openers. 
Allsport Photo 

The Rangers Juan Gonzalez smacks a home run In the seventh Inning of Texas' 6-3 victory over the Anaheim Angels Sunday to open the 2003 Major League Baseball season. 
Gonzalez, coming back from huge "USA" was mowed into the Tim Salmon, the Angels' outfield grass, there was a senior member, helped raise the 
an injury-plagued year, had a moment of silence for U.S. ser­World Series flag near the left­home run, double and single. 
Besides the sea of red-clad vicemen and a flyover by Navy field seats. Jackie Autry, widow 
fans in the sellout crowd of fighter jets. The national anthem of former team owner Gene Autry, also participated in the
43,525, there also was a strong was played by the 1st Marine flag-raising ceremony. 
red. white and blue theme. A Expeditionary Force Band. 

------111 

page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 31, 2003 


Nicholas Boyle, University of Cambridge 
Author of Goethe: the Poet and the Age, 
Vol. 1: The Poetry ofDesire (1749-1790} 
Vol. 2: Revolution and Renunciation (I790-I 803) 
Co-Editor of Goethe and the English-Speaking World: Essays from the Cambridge Symposium for his 250th Anniversary 
Co-editor of Realism in European Literature: Essays in Honour off. P. Stern 
Author of Who Are ~ Now?: Christian Humanism and the Glabal Market from Hegel to Heaney 
Winner of the Goethe Medal in 2000 
Fellow of the British Academy 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
. . . ' . -'
' ' 

··: ... 
I 
o as e
. ­

. ­





.. ,, . ...... . . 
.. ~ . ,., .·... . . . . 
··':, ·.:· , . 
. ~ I, ; : :~. • •. • 

' ', ~ . ' . . ;
'. ·:· .·.·· . . ' 
. ,·. ..,,,,..
'. 
-
' ._::: ., .. 

t ~ • • • . • • • •• .· • • • • 
'. . ·.· .,... ·....
. . ' . f,• ·-. 
' . .. . . ....· ·. ·. 
. '. . ~­
,,. ,,:·:•. ;··. . ·• •·.... . . ·.. •.. . 


. ·.. ·.. . . . . 
·--,.. ' •·. . 
.; : ....--:::. . .· ~ ..... 


. . 
' 
' . 
.• f .••. 
,, 
• I •. 
. .. 
. . ·. :; ,.. ~ .. 
. ·, .. 

. .... . . . . ~ . 


•,• 
, ••• :~. ! 
. ·....·.. " . :: :-'. . 
• : , ... ·.;...,.· • • ,j i' • • ~--~ 
·{ ')' 1 
I ,, ; 
I _______.,. __________;

Sacred and Secular Scriptures:· a catholic approach to literature 
Literature as Bible 
April 1, 2003  Sacred and Secular  
April 3, 2003  Wagers  
April 8, 2003  Faces*  
April 10, 2003  Rewards and Fairies  

Scheduled on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays, the lectures will begin at 4:00 p. m. and are expected to be two hours in length (with a refreshment break). They will be held in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies *exceptfor the April 8 lecture that will take place in Room C 103 ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
. . . . .. .. . .
~ 

·-r:::: '. ~"'.: -..·:-~:•·•:~7?•:•:-:~··t•:·: :.··:::·\~:·? '.'::~•-~ //i~~·•. ·~,~:•:7(::·._' :•·, , ._r•• '.: :-· ··-r~·-;:. :: ·;·~-•··: ...,•. ~ :·•· ':-~~:-'"'" "'--, -~,,: ........,_-;_') '.,~:·•·~~ :."; '":'.-(~';7 ., .•., . . -~
'

ER A S·M·-·u .st)--I··:...__N S TI T·· UTE, -1 
. '' ' ~-.,J ' 1 • . . . . . ~~··, ·-. '•. ,.; :i :·. ( ;.,· •• \; :·...... l .•:~~--.'J~,: :-..•!~;·..·.~:•.~i.•--.~..·,.,·,· .f...t.'-~ ,! , ,:·.•.,)•,·ot:.~~.:,..~•~,~-l•..~-·· .. ""~t~~ ......,:•.;H".,.~.-;~ ·:1.. ii .· {;,,~)~~;.. ~ ... -.~. •~..;.i.:~!~i -~: ..••.~;~,~, .• ~-""' \,;~,;~.:.11,1.-.:~s-.t,:.;.:••.-,,1-..• .•. ,~ .-:.•.!~~~-...>>:i. ,i-.,-.-~ ~•:.~ ..·,~ ~:~.,~~'. .ol',. ...-. i~-:;_,,~t·. 1o••:• -:j 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the g~nerosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 

Monday, March 31, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 
. ·. ,-·.·.•.•. ···-:-·.-:-· :.: :-:•:-; :-:-<<<<·>>>: ::::::;:;:{::::::?::;::::::::::::::;:::·· 

••:•••• >••••••1•1 1M1at jptl¦i l!&1lt11t:i 
:,: r::::: 
.....,,. . . 
BlgEa$f 

\V L Pett 
.·· 
:-·-·-:.--:-·-. 
·t~rirtictl~t >.·.• a..·.··.··• .. <>O ·.1f~rur·· ·> 
Pilblwrgh >· l> ? 1 .66].•... >• \ 
.NOTRfOAMf !... > ···1 Bastlll COflege t ·· 1 Se1on Half /. 1. 2 

i)[.{l
. vui;ia~va ..·... ·.. . i( . 2 
· . 0EtOHJtloWi( .... 
Vlrgi(JlilJtcij \ ·. · ·..·...• 1; >.... i St.. .iot@f > .·· · ·•··••••·•·••••ri;•••:••••••:.. 
HQ9PY 
...........Rutij~ij)··•••·•·:•·.. I ::· ........ JJOO .: 
. . . . -. . . . 



around the dial 
WOMENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL Tennessee vs. Villanova 7:30 p.m., ESPN Duke vs. Texas Tech 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
BASEBALL Cubs at Mets 8 p.m., FOX Yankees at Bluejays 7 p.m., ESPN2 
GOLF 


Davis Love Ill watches his tee shot off during the final round of The Players Championships. Love earned his second Players Championships trophy by shooting an incredible 64. 

Love wins second Players Championships 
Associated Press be a huge boost to his con­Love earned $1.17 mil­to howl and temperatures fidence with the Masters lion from the richest purse dropping. But Love made PONTE VEDRA only two weeks away. on the PGA Tour. sure that wasn't the case. BEACH, Fla. Love finished at 17-under Haas, trying to become "We got run over today," 
Davis Love III provided 271 and won by six strokes the oldest winner of The Haas said. the charge everyone over 49-year-old Jay Haas Players Championship, set­So did Woods. expected from Tiger Woods and Padraig Harrington of tled for a consolation prize. Despite two eagles, and delivered a perfor­Ireland, who shared the He closed with an even-par Woods hit three balls into mance every bit as domi­lead going into the final 72, and his tie for second the water and wound up nant Sunday in The Players round but never stood a earned him enough money with a 72 and a tie for 11th, Championship. chance against such a bar­to move into the top 10 on the first time since the 
Love pulled way with five rage of birdies. the money list and qualify British Open that he failed straight birdies and closed Even into the crosswinds, for the Masters. to finish in the top 10. with an 8-under 64 to the most challenging in Harrington made back­Love, who won at Pebble match the best final round golf, Love blasted his drives to-back bogeys early in his Beach earlier this season, by the winner in the 30-down the middle of the fair­round and was never a fac­now has 16 victories in a year history of the tourna­way and stuck his tor. He also had a 72. career that many believe ment known as the fifth approach shots close to the Robert Allenby had a 7-has not lived up to his tal­major. hole. under 65 to finish at 278, a ent. Love has struggled 
It was the second time "You can't do that for 18 score that looked as though with a 54-hole lead, but he Love has won The Players holes, and he did it," it might be good enough to proved again to be danger­Championship, and it could Couples said. win, with the wind starting ous coming from behind. 
IN BRIEF 

Cone returns to Mets ably needed a year off," he said. ''I'm five times. David Cone's comeback is almost thrilled to have come full circle, to fin­Ranked No. 2, Agassi heads into the complete. ish where I started. I know I started clay-court season as the player to 
After sitting out the 2002 season, with Kansas City, but I grew up with beat. While No. 1 Lleyton Hewitt lost the 40-year-old Cone won a spot in the Mets." his opening match at Nasdaq, Agassi the New York Mets' rotation Sunday He won the AL Cy Young Award in won his third title of the year and and will make his first major league '94 with Kansas City, threw a perfect improved to 18-1, best on the men's start in 18 months Friday night at game in '99 for the New York Yankees tour. The streak includes his eighth Shea Stadium against the Montreal and owns five World Series rings. He Grand Slam title at the Australian Expos. is 193-123 with a 3.44 ERA, and he Open. 
When Cone was invited to spring won 20 games as recently as '98 with "He played great," Moya said. "He training, it seemed unlikely he would the Yankees. didn't give me any chance at all." 
Agassi has won a record 18 consec­
make the team. The Mets just wanted to see if their former ace had anything Agassi wins sixth Key utive matches at Key Biscayne, where left. He sure did, surprising almost Biscayne title the hot, breezy weather and medium­
everybody with steady progress all The first point went by in a blur: paced hard courts work in his favor. spring. Andre Agassi tossed a ball into the Three-time champion Pete Sampras The right-hander went 1-0 with a balmy breeze and whipped a 117 mph held the old record of 17 consecutive 
4.40 ERA in five spring training ace. victories in 1993-95. appearances, including two starts. His dominating serve made the rest Agassi, who won his first Key Opponents batted only .176 against of the match go quickly, too, and Biscayne title in 1990 when he was 
him and he struck out 12 in 14 1/3 Agassi beat Carlos Moya 6-3, 6-3 19, earned $500,000 and completed a innings. Sunday in the final of the Nasdaq-100 successful weekend for defending 
He'll start the fourth game of the Open. champions. Serena \Villiams won her season at Shea Stadium, where he's With his sixth Key Biscayne champi­second consecutive Nasdaq title always been a fan favorite. onship, Agassi surpassed his wife, Saturday by beating Jennifer Capriati 
"The miles I had on my arm, I prob-Steffi Graf, who won the tournament 4-6, 6-4, 6-1. 


¦ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 31, 2003 
l' 


>;
}\, 
I 
), 
r }, it 
)( 
f 11, 
~: I
1:, 
) ~ I 
JJ, 
111 
IQ 
I\ 
•,)!· 
~ i1 
I• 
!i1 
I.'
,,, 
:1, :11 
ll) 
:~ 
't 
I' 
I 
,, 
ROWING 

MENS LACROSSE 
Irish sweep in-state 
Irish hold off late surge 
rivals at Indiana Classic 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spores Writer 
ability to adapt to conditions and
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
The No. 13 Notre Dame
learn from one another." 
Sports Writer 

mens lacrosse team
Notre Dame also won the varsity 
received a scare on
four race in 7:25.87. Indiana fol­
At Sunday's Indiana Classic, the lowed 4.5 seconds later with a 
Sunday from Great 
womens rowing team finally applied 7:30.45 finish, and Purdue finally 
\Vestern Lacrosse League 
its racing plan to a full 2,000-meter finished 16.92 seconds behind the 
opponent Denver at 
course, burning both Purdue and Indiana in every varsity race to claim bragging rights over its two in-state rivals. 
Notre Dame's first varsity eight boat finished in 6 min­utes, 37.66 seconds, 8.1 7 seconds ahead of Purdue. Indiana was third with a time of 6:53.08. In the second varsity eight, the Irish, with a time of 6:40.09, easily beat the Boilermakers by their largest spread 

of the day -18.25 seconds. Indiana took last place with a disappointing 
7:05.78 finish. 

"I thought the second eight had a great race today,'' coxswain Kathy Long said. "We kept our focus on moving our boat the best we could in the fast current. We got an early lead against Purdue and Indiana, but we kept pushing ourselves to row even better. We have a very young crew in the second varsity eight, but -.ve havP ~n amazing spirit, and an 
WE NEED AF OODMEN 
WHAT ARE·:140 s MER? 
·,. c~, "11.4. ~ 
\?i:.A ,.,_i. ~----\'J!!:•-"t"..i'!'-.:_..~ 
'T .}.ttj;,~·£i~. ""' 
-.l'.l-&~l'/l'/I/IY,JJV,111'/IYIYl/l'/l'/,llll'/l'/,lll'/l/l/l/l>I/I/I/I/IYl'/JWl/l/l/,l'/~""f::.l/l411"/,,,,.W/l<...,alilll~IWWW.-,IY.#'_.,"!°':1':1YI.W.-,..WIYl~~~-~~-~I~ ,'#/l/l'/l'/l/l/l'/l/l'/l/l/l/l/l-.l/l/171/#l/l'/l'/l/l,/JWl'/l-.l/l/l/l_,I/I/I/A 
Sum"l~< ·1-Sii~ice::J.1ii]r1!s1ips 
Boston, Massachusett --~.~,Laza Cincinnati, Ohio: Loe:. 
Frankfort, Kentucky: ~ 
~ ·~. . 
·u:i:i.:U:.c·o&a/i.o:ii&"",i',_w,...... •·• ·----.-,.;,,::,~·tt·~m~---~·-'.-..;~,:.o~;:•...:'?•:..i;lli:.',.' ··-:--
Osh Kosh, Wiscon,sln:".Fatllei:J:Jiff:(sh"elter~for nten)_~
,ufZ,·-·_-:,:;~.~-.:7'#.J:>··.:--:· .-:..._..: -.· :~:, ·: "1t:.0_;·:,'!.-::.:';r:w:·::·•;:;~f!!!!!!l!J%:;;.::·:~::.;:,:,2jJ1..':·.:,Ei~­
Jackson, M!£~ig·an;C~u;:c.:@#o~ ~r,~the:dI~~ble~•-~, ,_ Kansas ~Jl~f~L~~~~§,~a~w~~~-~~~-1J:a tholi_cJ!Jorker House fOr_ hoiTf~!~ ss.-'!ieri)Los Angele~s~alifof"nia:~Mys_ter!f~sit= -'. ..; _ ····.~ Albuquerque, ~irw~Meii)co:=ffli..Q~9cLSheph_~r~ ~helter;~ 'Dls111a-r~Ho-use"'(home··ror eH-Offenders)
:t:Vf!!St~-~.:J!::L::,_:.::...~,,..--;;_·:·,:_·:,;;,:,~.. ._,('+iifi,_§_.'f?.·~ -~;__~y,.:_:,f,f{•:'#f-_·~~:::..:·:--~·-·;;::.·:..4:~~--~,,i:."'/J;f;:' ·. ·.:::.::,_.:.~~~--~~--• ---~-•·-_jjf/~~ --~•,...,,,c"',._,~~ 7__ -~~.,..,..,.,-~,-:-'6_,:._,tr· •. __ __ ,_:_ ·_;_ -• ­
St. Joe Ualley, Inr.J1ana; 1) Nappanee Jloy~--and 61rls Club•"2) !'lymouth ~oy~and_ 61rls Ilub 
Park City_!_l!!:h: ~'iiY$1'y~tf,1.~~~~!:!Jilll!r!~l~~:. .. ···. . . ~~;c__ ~ ,:,:_; ~;;;~~
~-~~c•:'. 

Waterloo;·1owa'!:_teatIfolic Wci"rl<er House 
csc
... * • ~ 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

~­
CONCERNS 

"The Indiana Classic was a good way for us to enter into April's races. It allowed us to see how far we have come in the last few weeks but shows us how hard we need to work in order to gain speed for Iou;a, Michigan State and Dayton" 
Casey Buckstaff Irish rower 
the preparation needed for April's 
three goals in playing the upcoming races. 
final 22 minutes. "The Indiana Classic was a good 
"Nick did a great job," way for us to enter into April's 
coach Kevin Corrigan races," rower Casey Buckstaff said. 
said. "We have a great "It allowed us to see how far we 
situation in goal. We have have come in the last few weeks but 
a guy we believe in with shows us how hard we need to work 
Stewart Crosland. but we in order to gain speed for Iowa, 
also have a guy like Nick Michigan State and Dayton." 
Antol who came in today 
and made a huge differ­
ence."Contact Christine Armstrong at 
carmstro@nd.edu 

Antol's play and strong 
Moose Krause Stadium.
Hoosiers. 

The Pioneers scored eight
In the second var­
sity four, the Irish 
goals on 13 shots and 
challenged the Irish late,
collected first and 
but three goals from
third place finishes. 
Notre Dame's C boat 
junior attackman Dan 
Berger helped Notre
finished first in 
Dame get a 9-8 win in its
7:45.08. The 
first league game of the
Boilermakers were 
season.

close behind with a 
With the victory, Notre
7:47.83 finish. The 
Dame increases to 5-3
Notre Dame A crew 
overall and 1-0 in the
finished a mere .92 
GWLL.

seconds behind 
Purdue's boat, in 
With starting goalie 
Stewart Crosland strug­
7:48.75. 

gling, making two saves
The Irish, though 
and giving up five goals,
content with their 
performance in this 
senior reserve Nick Antol 
stepped in and made
weekend's regatta, 
have not lost sight of 
three saves and allowed 
'1J/4~~~ilitJ~iN:.. 
defense late in the game steadied a team that often had the lead but just could not seem to pull away. 
"I didn't think we played great," Corrigan said. "I think we can and will play better. They continued to come back, and that can be disheart­ening to a team with less character. But I was happy with the way we reacted." 
The Irish ran into a wall in the second quar­ter after building a 4-1 lead with two early goals from Berger and one from Walsh and fresh­man Matt Ryan. Denver held Notre Dame score­less in the second quar­ter. The Pioneers· Scott Davidson then scored back-to-back goals at the 
13:58 and 11:27 marks to tie the game at 4-4, one of four ties during the contest. 
"I know we can do much better in terms of execution," Corrigan said. 
The execution came primarily from freshman attackman Pat Walsh. Walsh scored two goals and had five assists, one of which came on fresh­man Matt Karweck's goal that put the Irish up 7-6 with 10.43 remaining in 
., . ... ~~:t=~-~t~ :, -. --~--.,_ 
VOLUNTEER EOR EIGHTWEEl<S AND LEARN FROMAN UNDERSERVED POPUlATION WHILE EARNiN'd~$2~'oo~cfSCii6Cl~sH1P AND.THREE ELECTIVE.CREDIT'HbuRS1H1?suMMER 
..!'.,.tr.}£-# .,7'· 'W.~··'~'--~-:·~~--·:•:..~ e:2~:--·\. :f//iff/t!i.i~·W:::,·\~>w-""~l1·---i;~¥t;£~:::t'T!fj/:·:·'.'::-.-::,,.wn1o·h•• ,;;;;;-. 
~ ((. . ~ b-iV¾fi)'.iJ .. . ~ 
Applic tion e availabl~Lfi·1_::1,he CSC-applg now! 
' -••,·· ,.;J_';.'· } 

Deadline ealended:1 ma,ch 51'1 
~ ., . , -~-. 


the fourth quarter. 
"Walsh had a huge game," Corrigan said. "His running mate, Matt Howell, went out [with an injury]. and Pat respond­ed. They were playing a zone, so it was not a game of individual match-ups. It was more situational, and that's where I think Pat's at his best." 
Despite Walsh's efforts, Notre Dame had trouble putting Denver away. The Pioneers netted a goal off of a face-off just six sec­onds after Karweck's goal to tie the game at 7­
7. But that would be the last tie of the game as junior midfielder Steve Clagget and Berger would each score to give the Irish the lead for good. 
"We gave up two goals off of face-offs, which can be disheartening not just because of how quickly the goals are scored but because of our not being able tci discourage that situation," Corrigan said. "Still, I thought we played extremely well defensive­ly." 
Notre Dame is in action next on Sunday at GWLL opponent Ohio State. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 



Monday, March 3 1, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 

Connelly sisters help topple the Buckeyes 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles dominate Aquinas, Olivet in shutouts 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team overpowered its opponents over the weekend, sweeping both Aquinas College and Olivet College in easy 9-0 victories. 
The Belles (8-1) crushed the visiting Saints of Aquinas (1-5) on 

..-----------------------------------...---,· Lady Comets. 
Think you kno-w-a lot about sports? Testyour knowledge against fellow students at WVFl's Annual Sports Quiz! Qualifier test: 7PM Monday March 31st Montgomery Theatre in Lafun 
First rrfty people to show up get to compete. Sports Quiz Grand Prize:100-Watt Computer Speaker System with 8 in. Subwoofer 
Sports Quiz wtu take place In earfy Aplif so co,11e out and qualify Monday nlghtL 

brought to you by: wvfi..nd.edu 


Friday. The 9-0 victory showed the all-around strength of the Saint Mary's team. 
At No. 1 singles, Jeannie Knish defeated Aquinas' Kara Ferguson 6-0, 6-4. No. 2 Kristen Palombo won over Carly Goodwin 6-0, 6-3 and No. 3 Kaitlin Cutler beat Katie Kroft 6­0, 6-0. 
At the No. 4 spot, Kris Spriggle beat Sara Peterson 6-0, 6-1 and Cutler/Ryan won over No. 5 Elisa Ryan was a 6-1, 6-1 Kroft/Peterson, 8-2. Aquinas' winner over Ashley Rivers. At the Conklin/Rivers pairing lost 8-5 to No. 6 spot, the Belles' Miranda the Belles' No. 3 team of Spriggle Mikulyuk defeated Sandy Brakel and Lindsay Cook. 6-0, 6-0. The Belles didn't waste any 
The Belles swept the doubles time against Olivet College in competition as well. The No. 1 their MIAA conference opener on doubles pairing of Saturday. The team recorded Knish/Palombo beat the team of another dominant performance Ferguson/Goodwin, 8-4. No. 2 in the 9-0 shutout of the visiting 
The match took place indoors at Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavilion due to the cold weather. 
At No. 1 singles, Knish was a winner over Stephanie Reed 6-0, 6-0. No. 2 Palombo also shut out her opponent, Stacey Way 6-0, 6­0, as did No. 3 Kaitlin Cutler, who notched a 6-0, 6-0 victory over Jennifer Rust. 
At the No. 4 slot for the Belles, Ryan overpowered Dustin Slivensky, 6-1, 6-0. In similar fashion, Saint Mary's Miranda 
~ffee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesda~ AoriI 1, 2003 
...and every first tuesday of the month 
7:00 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs invites 
Gay, Lesbian, and 
Bisexual members ofthe 
Notre Dame family, their 
friends andsupporters to 
an informal coffee at the 

Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refre5hments will b€ served* 
Mikulyuk won her No. 5 match over Heather Boultinghouse 6-0, 6-0. In No. 6 singles action, Anne Knabel beat Olivet's Heather Walther 6-0, 6-1. 
The Belles made quick work of the Lady Comets in doubles play. The No.1 team of Knish/Palombo won over Reed/Way 6-1. 6-1, and No.2 Cutler/Ryan defeated Rust/Boultinghouse 6-0, 6-1. 
At the No. 3 spot, Saint Mary's Angela Sandner and Marta Dziekan dispatched Slivensky/Walther in a 6-0, 6-0 victory. The Lady Comets won only five games over the course of the afternoon. 
The Belles are on an impres­sive winning streak, having shut out three of their last four oppo­nents. Next up for Saint Mary's will be Bethel today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reiju.la at lreijula@nd.edu 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
For the third time in five days, the Irish beat a ranked Big Ten team as they topped No. 35 Ohio State 5-2 in Columbus. 
Having conquered No. 55 Purdue, No. 28 Michigan and now the Buckeyes, the 48th ranked Irish will go for their fourth Big Ten victim Wednesday when they head to No. 17 Illinois. 
Notre Dame faced an Ohio State squad that had won the doubles point in 12 of its last 13 matches. The Irish, with a doubles strength of their own, won at the No. 2 and No. 3 flights to go ahead 1-0 for the fifth consecutive match. 
Then, in singles play, the Connelly sisters turned a poten­tially close match into a sure Irish win Saturday, which marked the eighth consecutive time a Notre Dame squad has defeated Ohio State. 
With the Irish up 3-2, sopho­more Sarah Jane Connelly, in her seventh straight singles victory, delivered a 6-1 straight set win over Meaghan Colville to give Notre Dame the win. Then her sister, freshman Lauren Connelly, finished off Emily DeCamilla, 6-1, 7-5. 
"It was exciting," Sarah Jane Connelly said. "It's good to finally start getting our confidence back as a team and beating the ranked teams, and hopefully getting our ranking up to where it should be." 
The Connelly sisters also played a key role in securing the doubles point for Notre Dame. Lauren and junior Alicia Salas defeated Erica Fisk and Jackie Leskover in a tiebreaker to put the Irish ahead. The Salas/Connelly tandem has now won eight of its last nine matches. 
Sarah Jane Connelly and fresh­man Kristina Stastny, playing together for only the second time, secured the first Irish win of the day when they defeated the Buckeye pair of Lindsey Adams and Colville, 8-1. Playing at No. 1 doubles, senior Katie Cunha and freshman Jennifer Smith were defeated 8-6 by Ohio State's Sadhaf Pervez and Lindsay Williams, 8-6. 
Salas, ranked 77th, captured the first singles victory of the day with her 6-4, 6-2 triumph over Fisk. Then Cunha. playing at No. 3, topped Williams, 6-1, 7-5. 
No. 53 Pervez, who is 14-0 while playing at No. 1 this season, gave the Buckeyes their first point when she upset No. 33 Caylan Leslie, 7-5, 6-2. Then Leskovar defeated Stastny in the sole three­set match, 6-1, 1-6, 7-6 (7-0). 
Now the Irish are preparing for their fourth Big Ten opponent within a week -and one of the nation's top squads. 
"We're really confident, and we're playing well," the elder Connelly said. "We've had a lot of matches lately. Hopefully we can go upset Illinois." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
\. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 31, 2003 

[Sunday]. We had three really outstanding starting pitching
Sweep 

performances, and any time continued from page 24 you get that on a Big East 
weekend, you have to feel real­Sollmann also struggled head­ly good about it." ing into the weekend, going 6-In the opener Saturday, for-27 in his last six games. Niesel was nearly unhittable But the junior tri-captain made for the Irish through six a solid statement to campaign innings of the seven-inning for his third Big East Player of game. The sophomore right­the Week honor this year with hander gave up only four hits a 7-for-12 performance, and never allowed a Hoya including seven runs scored baserunner past second, and four RBI. before yielding two 
But again, the story of the Georgetown runs in the last weekend for Notre Dame was inning. Niesel had nine strike­dominant starting pitching. In outs in the complete game vic­the three games, Irish starters tory to move to 2-1 on the sea­Chris Niesel, John Axford and son. Ryan Kalita went 3-0, pitching "Its too bad Niesel didn't get 19 innings that shutout 
and allowing I was only four "We didn't knock the really hoping earned runs he could get
fences down at all, but it 
on 11 hits, that for him­
was a difficult day. and
while striking s e l .f , " out 23 they did what it took to Mainieri said 
. ..
Georgetown Saturday.
win. 
batters. "Chris has 
"It was a been a really great weekend Paul Malnlerl solid pitcher for us," Irish coach from the Mainieri said. time he "We did what walked on we had to do all week. We got campus. Sometimes he doesn't another outstanding pitching get the run support, and he 
performance from Ryan Kalita has some bad luck in terms of 
Practice 
continued from page 24 

team in 2003 for various reasons. Since four new players will be starting in the fall, the old adage of an offensive requiring chem­istry to be good needs to be over­looked. 
''There is a significant amount of turnover, so continuity, I hope, is not as important this year as we say it is in other years," Willingham said. 
The weeks of winter condition­ing end today as the players put on the pads and get back on the field. 
"Our young men have worked hard and diligently this winter, and the coaches are eager to see exactly what that process has brought us this spring and out of the spring game," Willingham said. 
Spring practice culminates with the Blue-Gold game held in Notre Dame Stadium April 26. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

getting no-decisions. in the inning. 
''Today, he pitched that Sollmann had just about as seven-inning game, and he was good a game as a leadoff hitter able to go the distance. He can have, going 4-for-4, with wasn't going four runs to leave any scored, three doubts as far "Today, I just felt a little RBIs and as getting a three stolen
better than I had before 
decision, but it bases.
and got some ofthe
would have The Irish been nice for hits." right-hander him to get that Axford shutout." improved to
Matt Edwards
Niese} got 5-0 on the
Irish third basemn
some help season with from the two, another three and four strong start, spots in the working six lineup in centerfielder Brennan innings and allowing two Grogan, Edwards and right earned runs on three hits. The fielder Kris Billmaier. The trio sophomore overcame some was 9-for-12 with three runs early control problems to scored, driving in all six Irish strikeout eight Georgetown runs, as well. batters. 
"It definitely helps when you In the final game Sunday, the know you have a lead," Niesel Irish steadily built a nine-run said. "Then you can just go out lead through the first four there and pitch your own game innings, from which they·d and not have to worry about never look back. falling behind and losing, but it The senior Kalita earned his definitely helps when you get tenth career victory -he has run support." never lost a decision with the 
In the nightcap Saturday, the Irish -with six shutout Irish jumped on top 4-2 after innings. five innings, but used a nine­The Hoyas would score their run sixth to shut the door on five runs on relievers Martin the Hoyas. All nine Irish hitters Vergara and Matt Laird with in the lineup crossed the plate many Irish reserves in the game. Notre Dame closer J.P. Gagne came on in the ninth and struck out the side to com­plete the three-game Big East sweep. 
The Irish return to the field Tuesday against Detroit after only a day off from game action. That game begins at 5 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notes: 
. Notre Dame head coach Paul Mainieri got his 700th career coaching victory after Notre Dame's 6-2 victory over Georgetown. A ceremony with athletic director Kevin White and assistant athletic director Bill Scholl was held between the first and second games to commemorate the occasion. 
"I get a little embarrassed when people tell me I've won 700 games, because I didn't do anything," Mainieri said after the landmark win. "Those [wins] were accomplished by the players, our other coaches and our trainer Mike Bean that really did all the work." 
''I'll tell you this: I am proud that we've won 700 games here. because it's a lot better than losing 700." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

THE /VANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES There IIVill be c;wr, IriFCJrrl'l~-tior,~I /\,fee-ting c,r, -the EL4ro,::,ec:wr, S-tiAdies J\,fir,or TLIESOAY, APRIL :J.., 4:30-5:30 P/\,1 300 Bro11Vnson Hall <Behind -t::he Basilica., 'l::hrough 'l::he 'Wrough-t: iron ga'l::e a'I:: 'f::he BroMl'nson court:yard en'l::rance., and $'1::raigh'I:: back. -f:::hrough 'l::he courtyard 'l::o 'l::he rar en'l::rance. Go up -t::he s'l::airs to the third r,oor_:, Inrorrnaf::ion on -the minor can also be round a-t 1-VM'J.V.na.eau/-nanovic/progra,ns..,, or call 632-.52.53.  


rWANNA PUT 

MONEY 
IN YOUR POCKET 
' .. ,'!iit: i.i~.(.....~ ,~:',;~1-~ :tl-¥'":":'flt,/t 1<:•; ..,.,_. 
.,/;~·­
Mon..:• 
10-8 Saturday 10 -6 Sunday 
noon-5 

PLAT8'S 
15918 Grape Road ··2:--.:LOSE: (Incllan Ridge Plua Millhawaka, nr 243-9100 
Monday, March 31, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS • page 21 
Road 
continued from page 24 
the first half scoring eight of Notre Dame's last 10 points. 
"It was a fun matchup to watch in the first half," McGraw said. "We kept going with her and she kept delivering like she has done in her four years. I'll be really sorry to see her go." 
After two free throws from Ratay got the Irish within one at 30-29, Purdue guard Erika Valek drained a 3-pointer with two seconds left in the half to send the Boilermakers into the locker room with a four-point lead. 
"I felt the last 3-pointer of the half was really an important momentum switch for them. We had just cut it to one, and I felt we were right back in the game," McGraw said. "To be down four. that put a little more pressure on you coming out in the second half. I really felt the end of the half was criti­cal." 
The Boilermakers used the energy from that 3-pointer and went on a 16-2 run, which effectively knocked out the Irish. 
"I thought there was a five­minute stretch in the second half where we just kind of got on our heels a little bit, and they took advantage of it," McGraw said. "I think they stepped it up a notch." 
Notre Dame's defense gave them a chance to get back in it, holding Purdue scoreless for over eight minutes. During that stretch the Irish couldn't take advantage. matching their game percentage in shooting ­4-for-12. 
Ratay was the only Notre Dame player to reach double figures with 16 points. Valek scored a game-high 19. 
As a No. 11 seed, Notre Dame was supposed to be one and done. Wins over No. 6 Arizona and at No. 3 Kansas State made them the tournament's Cinderella and put an uplifting finish on a rocky season. 
'Tm proud of the team and 
what we accomplished down the stretch," McGraw said. "I think we overachieved a little bit in the NCAA Tournament and showed a lot of growth throughout the season. 
"To get to the Sweet 16, that is one more step forward for the team, and hopefully next year we can take one more step." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
MENS TENNIS 
Hurricanes bowl over Irish 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
A win ove.r Miami would have been a nice aide to helping the Irish enter the NCAA tournament, but the 25th-ranked Hurricanes stayed on top of the Irish Sunday as they delivered a 6­1 victory in Coral Gables, Fla. 
The Hurricane win created confusion as to which team is number one in the Big East. Prior to Sunday's competi­tion, Notre Dame had held that distinction, but with the Irish loss, the top three teams in the conference ­Miami. Virginia Tech and Notre Dame -are all 1-1 versus each other. 
Nevertheless. the Hurricanes did not let the prospect of seeding confusion in the Big East Championships damper their desire to win, and they moved ahead early on with their winning of the doubles 
point. 
Andrew Golub and Colin Purcell, ranked 56th as a doubles team, commanded the No. 1 flight, 8-3, as they defeated the Irish duo of sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior Matt Scott. Todd Widom and Eric Hectman won 8-6 over Irish captains Brian Farrell and Luis Haddock. 
Junior Ben Hatten and sophomore Paul McNaughton were bright spots for the Irish with their 8-4 win over John Boyes and Luis Manrique. The Hatten­McNaughton pair obtained their first win in three matches together this season. 
Scott, who has missed sin­gles play in the last two Irish matches due to illness, gave Notre Dame its only point of the day. Scott, who has now won seven of his last nine matches. defeated Golub 6-4, 6-2. 
Miami completely dominat­ed the rest of the singles por­tion of the match, with the exception of one set, won by D'Amico. 
Playing at No. 1, Widom, ranked 14th nationally, defeated No. 122 Haddock 6­3, 6-1. The Hurricanes' Purcell beat junior Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo in 6-2 straight sets, and Hoyes defeated freshman Eric Langenkamp, 6-1, 6-2. 
D'Amico won his first set against Manrique. 6-2, but he lost his second set and match tiebreaker. 
Notre Dame was without the services of freshman 
Patrick Buchanan due  to  a  
wrist injury. Buchanan  usu­ 
ally plays at No. 5.  

The Irish have four remain­ing matches before the Big East Championship. Their next competition is April 6 at No. 54 Southern Methodist. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

MENS GOLF 
Jack Frost plays role in Irish finish 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish approached the first tee Saturday, the Big Blue Course at the University Club of Kentucky was a slightly different hue. It was white. The morning precipitation proved to be a bad omen for Notre Dame, as inclement weather plagued the team throughout the weekend. 
"On Saturday, we woke up to snow on the ground," freshman Scott Gustafson said. "It got warmer as the day went on, but on Sunday it was 25 degrees with 30 mph winds. The conditions were brutaL At the end we were worn down and tired." 
The Irish got off to a strong start Saturday. Through 36 holes, the team was in 8th place out of the 15-team field. Notre Dame's play slipped during Sunday's final round. however. Four of the team's five members turned in their worst round of the tournament as the Irish slipped to 11th place. 
Junior Bill Mccaughan (82-80­77-239) was the lone member of the team that improved from his second round score, as he golfed his best round of the tournament. 
However, Notre Dame's 11th place finish is misleading. The final standings were marked by several close finishes. Three shots separated five teams between seventh and 11th in the final standings. Only three strokes separated champion Vanderbilt from runner-up Indiana as well. 
Notre Dame was also at a dis­advantage, as Mccaughan was replacing one of the team's top golfers in freshman Tommy Balderston, who was withheld from play so that he could rest his injured elbow. 
Gustafson still had the best tournament of his career, leading the Irish for the third tournament in a row. After 36 holes of the tournament, Gustafson was tied for second and trailed leader Heath Peters of Indiana by one stroke. Gustafson (74-72-79) fin­ished tied for sixth in the 81­player field. Although the weath­er eventually wore him down, he credited the climate for giving him a mental edge. 
"Being from Minnesota, I have played in a lot of weather like this," Gustafson said. "It kind of played to my advantage. I knew that no one was going to light it up and that I needed to just grind it out. The person with the most patience was going to win." 
The next few days are impor­tant for another reason as well. If Balderston is unable to compete, the team's next hottest golfer may be given his spot. Coach John Jasinski has a deep roster teeming with golfers ready to fill in. 
"It's uo to Coach," Gustafson said. "There's no perfectly set lineup. There may be some quali­fying in the next few days in order to find out. If so, [Ryan and Bill] have a slight edge over the rest of the guys." 
The Irish resume play this Friday when they compete in the Border Olympics. In the interim. Jasinski wants his golfers to work on their mental prepara­tion. 
"[Jasinski] wants us to bring a little better attitude to the next meet," Gustafson said. "We know our talent. We can golf better and contend. We've struggled a little bit recently, but we can beat anyone if we golf at our highest level. We need to maintain an attitude like that." 
The Border Olympics will take place at 8 a.m. Friday and Saturday at the Laredo Country Club in Texas. Thirty-six holes will be played on Friday, and 18 holes will be played Saturday. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 

Happy birthday guyt 

• 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 3 I, 2003 
I\ , 
TRACK AND FIELD

: I 
\ ; i .1 
, I l I \ ' 
Irish successful in all parts of country over weekend
i ; 
'I 
1 \ 
·, 1 did not stop there, however, as 1,500 meters, finishing fifth and meets. Meanwhile, Mbagwu took fourth
I I By HEATHER
) I 
he qualified for the conference sixth, respectively. Both King (4 Saturday saw more Irish run­in the triple jump (13.83 meters), 
'1 VAN HOEGARDEN
; I ' meet in the hammer with an minutes, 20. 32 seconds) and ners qualify as well. qualifying him for the Big East 
If ', Sports Writer 
effort of 50.00 meters. good Huddle (4:20.50), easily qualified Eric Morrison led the way for meet as well. nl enough for eighth place at the for both the Big East and NCAA the Irish, taking fourth in the top With competitors in Michigan 
I ,l \ 
The Notre Dame mens and meet . Regional meets. section of the 1,500 meters with and California, the Irish also sent '1\ ; womens track and field teams Freshman Megan Horn led the A late Friday night effort saw a time of 3:44.16. His effort was their best relays to Florida and 
• ,\ < 
·I\
)\ wrapped up a successful week­women, as she qualified for the one qualifier and two near miss­good enough to qualify him for saw them succeed. The women's ,):)' \ ' end that saw the Irish travel all Big East meet with a second es. Vinnie Ambrico came close to both the NCAA Regional and the 400-meter relay of Tameishan1 over the country. place 12.8-meter effort in the qualifying for the NCAA Regional conference meet. Kevin Somok King, Kristen Dodd, Kymia Love At Western Michigan, where shot put. meet, but fell short in the 1,500 took 17th in the same race, qual­and Ayesha Boyd took fifth in 
i11 l 
the majority of the team trav­In the last of the conference meters, taking eighth place in ifying for the Big East meet with section one. Their overall time of 
;ll eled. the Irish battled 38-degree qualifiers from Western the B section with a time of a time of 3:48.48. 45.18 was good enough to place weather and wind chills down Michigan, Mark Barber sprinted 3:51.73. In the last of the distance qual­them fifth overall. The strong into the teens that stopped many to a third place finish in the 110-Meanwhile, Ana Morales took ifiers, freshman Thomas finish qualified the women for runners from competing. meter hurdles, with a time of 32nd in the women's 1,500 Chamney ran to a 12th place fin­the NCAA Regional meet as well. However. the Notre Dame 14.99 seconds. meters, with a time of 4:48.82. ish in the top section of the 800 The Irish return to South Bend throwers disregarded the cold. Meanwhile, while their team­John Keane. however, was meters, qualifying for the Big on Saturday, where they will as Juan Alba enjoyed an eventful mates were struggling to stay another story for the Irish, as he East meet in 1 :52.01. com:Jete in their spring opener, day. qualifying for the NCAA warm, many distance runners took third place in section two of Chris Staron and Godwin the only home meet of the sea­regional with a 50. 77-meter dis­competed at the Stanford the 5,000 meters. His time of Mbagwu rounded out the field at son. cus throw. That distance was Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. 14: 16.53 was not only a personal Stanford. Staron took sixth place good enough for second place On the women's side, Lauren record, but was also good in the high jump, clearing 2.07 and also qualified him for the King and Molly Huddle ran enough to qualify him for both meters, good enough to qualify Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Big East Conference meet. Alba together in the top section of the the NCAA Regional and Big East him for the NCAA Regional meet. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish hold off Hokies to stay undefeated in the Big East 
r . 
I 
)'. 
said. "It was a pretty impor­goals in 33 minutes and 
By ANDY TROEGER 

tant game because we wanted sophomore Carol Dixon mak­
Sports Writer 

to stay undefeated in the Big ing nine saves and allowing East and really turn our sea­four goals in 27 minutes. 
After Notre Dame's loss to son around." Having won their second Ohio State last Tuesday, Irish Virginia Tech surged back Big East road game in as coach Tracy Coyne empha­in the second half, scoring many tries, the No. 14 Irish sized the importance of start­four of the first five goals to will try to make it three in a ing well and getting a lead. close to 11-10. With the score row against No. 8 Syracuse Her team did just that in tak­12-11 a few minutes later, the on Wednesday night. ing the early lead and holding Irish finally put the game "This win was good for our off Virginia Tech 16-13 in away as Simon scored twice confidence," Simon said. "We Blacksburg, a n d know we can win on the road Va. Weille in the Big East, so we just 
The Irish added her have to do the same against
"Teams can't scout us for
used a bal­final goal Syracuse." a n c e d one player and have to to stake 
attack to focus on everyone. They also the Irish 
knock off to a 15-12 Contact Andy T roeger at 
can't shut down one player
the Hokies l e a d . atroeger@nd.edu 

for the because everyone else steps Freshman third con­up. .. M a r y secutive McGrath year, get­provided
Meredith Simon
ting four the final goals and junior margin 
an assist from junior Meredith Simon, while Danielle Shearer added three goals and three assists. Junior Abby Owen had two goals and two assists, while seniors Eleanor Weille and Anne Riley had three and two goals, respectively. The Irish evened their record at 3-3 (2­
0. Big East). while Virginia Tech fell to 1-8 (0-3 Big East). 
"Our attack has really been playing well the past couple games," Simon said. "Teams can't scout us for one player and have to focus on every­one. They also can't shut down one player because everyone else steps up." 
After the Irish jumped out to a 4-1 lead early in the game on goals by Weille, Owen, Shearer and Weille, the Hokies managed to cut the lead to one on six differ­ent occasions. but never managed to catch Notre Dame. They cut the lead to 4­3 before the teams traded six goals to give the Irish a 7-6 lead. The Irish surged ahead before halftime, however, as Weille, Riley and Owen all scored again to make it 10-6 at the half. 
"It was very important to get off to a good start," Simon 
with a goal in the final 
minute. 

The Irish used two goal­keepers in the win, with senior Jen White making four saves and giving up seven 
Therapeufic Massage 
In my office: 1/2 hour $35-1 hour $60 (on-site & outcalls available) 
Jnfroducfion lo 
Medifafion 
4 Week Class Begins April 22, 2003 
Lypossa9e 
All Natural Body Contouring System 
Pennie Cl,\l"·istie, CMT Ce,-ti~ed Lypossa9e Pl'actitioner 
574-247-0661 
E-Mai~ 
Touchright@aol.com 
The Powel' of To1.tch C,cpuience it today 

OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 
2003-2004 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 

574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 
ASK FOR KRAMER 


Monday, March 31, 2003 page 23
,. The Observer . TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE/ 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon
~IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUWNE j
I I r 
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reseived. 
GWAON 
[ J I 
I 
OTTYNK 
l<E:Ct=IVW BY THE 5 TUDE:NT PIL-OT BEFOl<f= HIS 
www.jumble.com 


Fll<ST L-ANDING • DECLUD 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. AnsWer here: 
THE 

"[ I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
:,..

Saturday's I Jumbles: CABLE PHOTO RANCOR IMMUNE Answer: This was between the salesman and his good customer -THE COUNTER 
Sturrped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
CROSSWORD 

WILL SHORTZ· 
1 Book of maps name

6 Lounge 42 Story line 70 Carried with
10 Lounge 43 1998 Peter Weir 
difficulty
film, with "The"
14 Milk purchase 15 Actress Falco 46 Group of 100 
DOWN 
16 Word before a 48 "No sweat" 1 Shades of blueverb, maybe 

49 Six years, in the 2 Oklahoma city17 Pain inside 46·Across 
3 Cagney's TV 
18 Taboo 

51 Period of partner 19 Not timid greatest 4 Regions success
20 Cruising 5 Narrow 21 1986 Detroit 56 Amateurish waterway: Abbr. debut 
61 Prefix with -naut 6 Late-night name 23 Refuses 7 Olfactory
62 Aware of 

stimulus
25 Tall tale 

63 Without value 8 Dance named26 E.P.A. concern: 
Abbr. 64 Express after an aviator appreciation to 
9 Dance class ­
29 Paint over 65_Clayton wear
33 Government Powell Jr. 10 Grouped
subsidy 66 Help for a 11 It may get into a
38 This-and-that detective jambdish 

Puzzle by Alan Albeeleld 
I

39 21-Across, e.g. 67 "It's the truth!" 12 Humdinger 35 lots 50 Manhandles 57 Take back13 They may be40 Bruin Bobby 68 Region 
split or tight 36 Out 52 "Hurray!• 
58 Funnyman 21 An ellipse has 37 "_ la Douce" 53 Had control of Laurel
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
(1963 film) the deck
two of them 59 Oversupply
....+....+...+-+-......,..c 22 "_you surer 43 Actor Stamp 54 Golfer Palmer, 44 Tennis's Arthur informally
----+...+---+--+-...,... 24 Take-home 
60 Peter Fonda
45 Bill _, TV's 55 Like farm oxen
27_ about title role
Science Guy

--+,,,,.+o,..c (approximately) 56 Husband of 47 No. on a Ruth, in the 64 Explosion
28 Lash _, who 
business card Bible maker 
...,,,...,.......+..-4 played the 
--+...+....+,,.+-,+,,-, Cheyenne Kid in old westerns For answers, call 1 -900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 30 Pledge credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ..,...,,..,~!!"f 31 Concerning Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS.
32 Unfreeze
.......,...,.... Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
---+.....,.........,......,.....,.+,.......,. 33 Openings past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year}. ---+--+.....,......,,....,....,...,,.. 34 It may begin Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, "Do not ..: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community . 
• 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rhea Perlman, Christopher Walken, Shirley Jones, Richard Chamberlain · 
Happy Birthday: There will be lots of changes in your life this year. Love and romance will stand out. Your confidence should mount as you realize how much you have to offer. You will be in a high learning cycle. Preparation will be the key to your future. Your numbers are 8, 13, 15, 27, 33, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You must be sure that you are making the right choices, especially at a personal level. Your financial situation could be upset · if you are not straight with yourself and others today. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get motivated and start doing. The more you get involved in worthwhile groups, the better you will feel about yourself and the more likely you are to meet people who can further your own interests. 
**** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have some original ideas. If you work on them quietly behind the scenes, you will be able to make progress. It is . certainly the day to accomplish. *** ·:I 
1

CANCER (June 21-July 22): The day may start out to your advantage, but things could tum quickly if you are too pushy with others. Give the people around you space to do as they please. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Bide your time and everything will tum out the way you want. Listen to what others have to say and you can make wise choices regarding financial matters. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Expect opposition from anyone with whom you form a partnership. You will both have your own ideas of what will and what won't work. The deciding factor will be financial. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't talk about what you feel or want to do. Be aggressive and do what's necessary to prove your point and you will stand a much better chance of coming out on top.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone close to you will probably give you false information to spare _your feelings. Focus on your work and getting along with coJleagues. Try to put things in perspective. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may want to lay low until later in the day when your charming side will reappear. You will be very lively and entertaining as the day progresses. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are likely to have a change of heart, but don't let your feelings be known just yet. You will change your mind several times this week. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may want to take special care when it comes to important relation"ships. If you are too candid about your feelings, you may give the wrong impression. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will want to do something to improve your position. Take a look at the options available to you and at the direction that you see yourself going. You may need to pick up additional skills. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will have a heart of gold. You will be open and receptive toward others and quick to react to anyone who takes advantage of your kindness. You will use your intuition well. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
.. 




Monday, March 31, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
The end of the road· 
t .' ' 
I 
I 
I 
I 



By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
The Irish opened home play in the Big East with a domi­nating three-game sweep of Georgetown (6-15, 1-8 Big East) this weekend. 
Notre Dame, who improved to 17-6 on the season and 5-1 in Big East play with the three victories. had little trouble in putting away the Hoyas, 6-2, 13-3 and 12-5. 
Despite the cold tempera­tures and strong winds blow­ing at Eck Stadium, several Irish batters were swinging hot bats in cranking out 31 runs on 37 hits as a team during the weekend. 
"I was very proud of our guys. It was really tough con­ditions to play in quite frankly," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said after his team's doubleheader sweep Saturday. "It was pretty cold out there, and I thought our guys played pretty well. We pitched pretty well and played decent defense. We 

FOOTBALL 
Spring 
•
practice begins 
ByMATTLOZAR Associate Sports Editor• 
It's the beginning of a ne""'. sea­
son, but the goal hasn't changed. 
With spring practice starting 
today,' Notre Dame coach Tyrone 
Willingham remains focused on 
his well-known emphasLs -win­
ning. 
"Our focus for the most point 
remains·very much the same," 
Willingham said. "It's to figure out 
a way to develop a football team 
to win its next football game." 
Last year, Willingham and his 
staff came iri vvith a fresh perspec­
tive and fresh attitude for the foot­
ball program. In a short amount 
of time. the team needed to learn 
Willingham's system, which was a 
major change, especially on the 
offensive side of the ball. , 
Over ayear has passed since 
Willingham implemented his sys­
tem, and the players obviously 
have a better grasp at this time 
than a year ago. 
However, the next step to fur­
ther development isn't going 
deeper into the system, but going 
back to the basics. 
"What we bave to do is to 
become much better in all areas 
at just the basic fundamentals," 
Willingham said. "We have to 
improve our foundation, because 
in doing that, it gives us the 
opportunity to become a much 
stronger team as we go through 
the year. 
"Now with the system in place, 
it gives them a better opportunity 
to really go back and focus on the 
things that are really important to 
execution." 
Thirteen starters return from 
the 2002 team, which went 10-3 
and lost to North Carolina State in 
the Gator Bowl. While these play­
ers have earned the right to be 
starters, Willingham wants to see 
those players accept challenges 
from their teammates and 
improve from that competition. 
"Our goal is to have our best 
players on the field, and if we do 
that, then that can ensure us our 
best opportunity to be successful," 
Willingham said. "If you are our 
starter or if you are our All­
American, then you should wel­
come the challenge of being the 
best that you can be. It shouldn't 
frighten you or cause you to 
become complacent." 
"It should energize you to be the 
best of the best." 
Four of the five starters on the 
offensive line will not be with the 
see PRACTICE/page 20 

• Irish knocked out of NCAA tournament 66-47 by Boilermakers 
ByMATTLOZAR Associare Spores Editor . 

DAYTON, Ohio 
The "Storm" defense. that got Notre Dame to the Sweet 16 held Purdue scoreless for a stretch of 6:03 in the first half and 7:50 in the second half. But the Irish could only muster 17 points of their own during those stints. 
Unfortunately for the Irish. during the other 26:07 of the game, the Boilermakers outscored them 66-30. 
Plagued by 33.9 percent shooting, No. 11 Notre Dame lost in the regional semifinals to No. 2 Purdue 66-47 at the University of Dayton Arena Sunday in front of 9,552 fans. 
"I felt that we had a lot of 
great effort. I just think that 
they played better," Notre 
Dame coach Muffet McGraw 
said. "I felt we played pretty 
good defense. Sixty-six points. 
isn't too much to give up in a 
game like this if we could have 
BASEBALL 

just put the ball in the hole a little bit more." 
Coming into the game against Purdue, Notre Dame's leading scorer sophomore Jacqueline Batteast was 2-for-26 from the field in the NCAA Tournament. As her shooting problems con­tinued with a 4-for-17 perfor­mance against the Boilermakers, Batteast focused on other areas to be a positive contributor for the Irish. 
"I tried to be more aggressive on the other end of the court because I felt I could contribute more if I rebounded and went after loose balls," said Batteast, who had a game-high 12 rebounds. "I tried not to worry about that." 
Down 16-7, the Irish used their defense to get back into the game. holding the • Boilermakers scoreless for just over six minutes in the first half, but the offense shot 3-for­10 throughout Purdue's drought and only got the Irish within three. 
Sensing her team was in need of an offensive lift, senior guard Alicia Ratay. in her last game in a Notre Dame uniform, kept the Irish close during the end of 
see ROAD/page 21 


Irish sweep Hoyas into dog house 
didn't knock the fences down at all, but it was a difficult day, and they did what it took to win." 
A couple of Irish batters who had fallen into uncharac­teristic slumps at the plate used the weekend to get back on track. 
Third baseman Matt. Edwards, who entered the series two hits in his last 20 at-bats, jumped on the Hoya pitchers, going 6-for-11 with three runs scored and nine RBIs on the weekend. 
"I had a little to.ugh luck last weekend," Edwards said. "I hit the ball pretty well, but in these mid-week games, I really didn't even hit the ball that bad except for one bad game where I struck out three times. But I still felt comfortable the whole time, even though I wasn't getting my hits. Today, I just felt a lit­tle better than I had before and got some of the hits." 
Second baseman and lead­ing Irish hitter ·Steve 
see SWEEP/page 20 

U) TRACK & FIELD 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
MENS TENNIS 

MENS GOLF 
WOMEffS TENNIS 
SMC TENNIS
LU 
Notre Dame 16 
Miami 6 

Notre Dame 5 
Saint Ma8''s def. 
I-·c., 
Virginia Tech 13 
Notre Dame 1 

Ohio State 2 
Aquinas, livet 

The cold weather hurt
m:S 

Several Irish athletes 
The Irish used a bal-

The Hurricanes tied the 
the Irish as they fin-
The Belles won two

The Irish toppled a 
qualified for the NCAA 
anced attack used to 

Irish and Hokies for 
ished eleventh out of fif­
easy 9-0 victories.

fourth ranked Big Ten 
regional. 
topple Hokies. 

first place in the Big 
teen in a Kentucky tour-
team. 
== 
a.~ 
East. 

nament. 
page 19

en cs: page 22 
page 22 

page 19
page 21 
page 21 

, . 











