
Thursday, April 10, 2003 

Tiie Independent Nezvspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 128 

Axford strikes out12 Broncos 
page 36 
HTTr://Ol\SERVER.ND.EDU 

University reschedules registration 
. Server crash prompts officials to change web registration times 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 
The server that handles most of the University's primary administrative tasks overheated and crashed Wednesday morning, causing officials in the Registrar's office to reschedule the Web registration times for hundreds of juniors, graduate students and law students. 
In what one member of the registrar's office called tht~ worst registration-related situation that had occurred in over two decades, Hcgistrar Harold Pace announced Wednesday that registration times would be changed while the Office of Information Technologies 
see CRASH/page 4 


. Campus activities may be affected by the new registration schedule 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 

The registrar's decision to move regis­tration times could make a variety of weekend events significantly more compli­cated for students taking part in every­thing from athletics to practice MC/\T exams. 
Students who arc unable to register via computer during their rescheduled regis­tration time Friday or Saturday were encouraged to either have friends or par­ents register in their place or call the reg­istrar's office during the scheduled time with the course call numbers, said 
see EFFECTS/page 4 

Panel debates Iraq -war 
By KEVlN ALLEN 
News Writer 
Students and faculty packed the student lounge in the Coleman-Morse Center Wednesday to discuss the war in Iraq. 
/\ir Force HOTC Senior Andrew DeBerry and fresh­man Peter Quaranto, a mem­bc r of the Peace Coalition, helped organize the event. titled "Student Dialogue on the War in Iraq." 
"This is a complicated issue and a lot of good, moral peo­ple disagree on whether this war is just and legal," said Quaranto. Both pro-war and anti-war voices had a chance to be heard Wednesday. 
Participants noted the impact on their discussion of recent news coverage that showed liberated Iraqis embracing American and British troops as they marched on Baghdad. 
"Today is a good day to talk about how the war has gone because today we've taken a big step forward in finishing the war," said Daniel Philpotl, assistant professor of international relations, as he began an introduction to the many issues associated with the 
U.S. involvement in Iraq. 
The discussion centered on the issues of whether the war in Iraq is a just war, whether a preventive war can ever be considered just. prospects for establishing a healthy democracy in Iraq and the responsibilities of the Notre Dame community during this 
see PANEUpage 8 

Students sponsor bone marrow drive 
. Bone marrow drive hopes to register 1,000 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
In an attempt to register 1,000 blood donors, Howard Hall kicks oIT its third annual blood drive today, which will take place from 6-9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The drive hopes to register 1,000 donors in the registry. The drive, which is also sponsored by the Minority Pre-Medical Association, will conduct the medical screening and blood work necessary to enter potential donors into the national bone marrow registry. The Shirt fund has completely subsidized the $60 per person cost. 
"It's an amazing gift of life," said Jessica Howell, a Notre Dame senior who worked on last year's bone marrow drive. 
l loward Hall co-commissioner Camilla Pollock said that adver­tisements and letters in The Observer as well as fliers and posters have helped advertise the drive. 
"The challenge is getting the word out," she said. 
Pollock said that she and other Howard I !all organizers mailed letters to all minoritv students in an attempt to encourage dona­tions. The national registry is especially low on minority donors and patients in need of bone marrow usually find a match from their specific race. According to the National Marrow Donor Program, out of 15,556 WU'elated marrow trans­plan ts, only 3,332 have been among minorities. 
"It's really important that we get a diverse population," said senior Ann Gurucharri, Howard Hall co-commissioner. "We are really trying to recruit minori­
see DRIVE/page 8 


By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 

Bone marrow drives save lives. Just ask senior Ann Gurucharri, co-commissioner of the Howard Hall bone marrow drive, and her father Vince Gurucharri, a 1967 Notre Dame graduate who was diag­nosed in December 2001 with Myelodysplastic Syndrome, a disease curable only with a bone marrow transplant. 
"It was because of drives like Notre Dame has that I have been given a chance again at life," Vince Gurucharri said. "Donors save lives." 
The class of 2002 sponsored the first bone marrow drive two years ago in honor of classmate Connor Murphy, who was diag­nosed with leukemia. Connor eventually found a match in the national registry and under­went a transplant, but died due to complications. Two other members of the Class of 2002 also died of leukemia. and numerous faculty, staff and alumni have been either direct­ly or indirectly affected by bone marrow drives. 

Because of Ann's personal connection with the need for marrow, she decided to orga­nize a bone marrow drive last year in the hopes of finding a match for her father, who failed to match with his 10 sib­lings. 
Ann said that doctors gave her father a one in one-million chance of finding a donor. 
The national bone marrow registry found Vince a donor after four months and complet­ed a successful bone marrow 
see MARROW/page 6 

Thursday, April 10, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Take pride
in the U.S. 

Upon watching the images of many Iraqi people exulting in the streets ofthe once-oppressed and now chaotic but free Iraq, it seems hard to fathom that the heart of even the staunchest 
Joe Llndsley 

opponent of this war would not feel the slightest surge Sports of American pride. Production And this American Editor pride-real American pride ­is not a mere jingoistic self-love. 
On the contrary, it is a humble, yet confident pride home ofthe securing of precious liberty for fellow humans. It is a nationally transcendent pride that expresses gratitude for the American blood, as well as that ofthe British and Iraqi civilians, that has been sacrificed so that others might be free, for there is no greater gift amongst men than to lay one's life down for another. 
Even the leader of French President Jacques Chirac's party, the Union for a Popular Movement, said that the American and British forces should be honored for their great courage. 
Such praise should not be bestowed superficially, and perhaps certain figures would do well to own up to their true colors. Many who opposed the war have strong principles upon which their oppo­sition is based. Whether or not they have right opinion, many of these pacifists and others are at least sincere in their con­victions. 
Others are not so candid. 
Much of the opposition to the American-led Iraqi liberation effort­and we can now truly call this liberation -stemmed from people who are not opposed to war itself. Instead, they are opposed to America and the values that she defends. 
While space prevents a digression, one should consider researching the true, though often obscured, motives and ide­ology of the U.N., France, Germany and others. 
The pending fall of Baghdad signals an important event in many ways. For the Iraqi people, it is that liberty which is so sweet that will now bring peace to their land. This was encapsulated in a pithy sign displayed by an Iraqi citizen yester­day: "Mr. Bush: Man of Peace." How ironic -perhaps. 
Secondly, for the world, the American effort is evidence that wherever evil is bred, its sources had better fear this mighty yet friendly nation in whom the oppressed can place their hope. 
America cannot accept all the tired and the huddled masses into its limited domain, but she can be a powerful force for protecting what is good in this world including herself. 
So today, ifyou live within the great bounds ofthis country or ifyou take joy in seeing the happiness ofthe Iraqi peo­ple, take a moment, and thank with the greatest sincerity the United States and her noble defenders, from the Commander-in-chief to the fallen heroes -for standing tall against the raging tides, for protecting us a.nd for sharing the beacon ofliberty with the rightfully exuberant Iraqi people. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Lindsley at jUndsle@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and suivcs for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, plea,e contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Saint Mary's 
Iraqis topple swimming and 
statue of diving offers 
Saddam lessons 
Hussein 
Members of the 
Jubliant Iraqis Saint Mary's swim 
used a chain to team plan to offer 
bring down a stat­lessons to children 
ue of Saddam as in the South Bend 
allied forces began community. 
to take the city of Baghdad. 
pages 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Baseball vs. Chicago State 4 p.m. at Eck Stadium 

. 
Twelfth Night 7:30-10 p.m. at Washington llall 

. 
Pro-America Hally 5:30-6:30 p.m. at ·Fieldhouse l\lall 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Spring Choral Concert 

7:30 p.m. at Little Theatre 

. 
Political Science Panel 8 a.m. at Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Mcdclcva Lecture 7::m p.m. at Carroll Auditorium 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Honey-garlic pork chops, white beans with ham, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, collard greens, cherry crisp, baked lemon perch, baked potatoes, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed julienne vegetables, maypo, scrambled eggs, breakfast ham, buttermilk pancakes, company pota­toes, seasoned fries 
Today's Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, breadsticks, chicken strips. mac­aroni and cheese, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans, cherry crisp, jerk tofu, lentil and barley stew, sweet potatoes 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0: 
w
:c 
~ 
3 w 
.J 
c( CJ 


BUSINESS VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS 
Softball introduce new Center helps Scene gives Pepsi plans to Robinson 
sweeps vanilla cola to South Bend low marks to 
Pittsburgh in rival Coke community "View from the 
Top' two games 

The Irish women plans Wednesday columnist Richard 
The new movie
Pepsi announced Viewpoint 
defeated the to introduce a new Friedman explains 
starring Christina 
Pittsburgh beverage, Pepsi how the RCLC 
Applegate and 
Panthers in a dou­Vanilla, this sum­makes a significant 
Gwyneth Paltrow 
bleheader on the mer. impact on the fails to impress 
scene reviewers. 
road Wednesday. Northeast Neighborhood. 
page 18 page 36page 7 page 16 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Kontrol Kard stolen near LaFortune 
A University reported the theft of her Kontrol Kard while off campus Tuesday. 
Student's vehicle towed 
A student's vehicle was towed for a parking vio­lation Tuesday near Fisher O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences. 
Vehicle stopped from being towed 
NDSP was in the process of towing a student's vehicle near the D6 North Lot Tuesday when the owner arrived. The student was instructed to reg­ister his vehicle with parking services. 
Bike stolen from Law School 
A student reported the theft of her unlocked bike from the south side of the Law School Tuesday. There no suspects. 
Harassing phone call received 
A student reported Tuesday receiving a harass­ing phone call on March 29. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Quiche lorraine, stewed tomatoes, chicken breast cor­don bleu, baked cod, honey-glazed ham, whipped potatoes, delmonico potatoes, cut corn, Italian risotto, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, peas, cut green beans, grilled vegetable plate, fried potato skins, onion rings 
Today's Dinner: Sauerbraten, zum zum potato salad, baked parmesan chicken breast, kielbasa sandwich, sauerkraut, lemon-baked pollack, whipped potatoes, long grain and wild rice pilaf, cut corn, corn cobbettes, broccoli cuts, peas, fried clam strips, fried potato skins, onion rings 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


.s 
HIGH 58 39 HIGH 62 HIGH 53 LOW 36 36 LOW 36 LOW 32 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegan burritos, Mexican rice, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, honey baked onions, sandwich­provencal, fried rice bar, chicken ten­ders, zesty oven fries, peas, mush­rooms, rolled broccoli pizza, cheese pizza, pineapple salad, turkey breast, hummus, brown sugar cookies 
Today's Dinner: Grilled chicken breast, vegetable lasagna. fennel pita toast, marinated bean salad, nacho bar, meatloaf, roasted potatoes, green beans, sausage pizza, carrot cake, Boston cream pie, bread sticks, omelets, Catonesc tofu, chicken and dumplings 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 61 71 LOW 47 52 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 58 / 38 Bost_on 45 / ~4 Chicago 48 / _30 Denver 70 / 41 Houston 67 / 42 Los Angeles 83 / 54 Minneapolis 56 / 34 New York 42 / 38 Ph1ladelph1a 42 I 35 Phoenix 90 / 61 Seattle 56 / 42 St. Louis 53 / 37 Tampa 75 / 61 Washington 57 / 38 

---••-~···············································•~¦-¦¦•¦••··················' -••------•••-•-•••••-M•••••••·••·•• 
Thursday, April I 0, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Mock Trial attends competition 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame teams placed fourth and fifth in their division at the American Mock Trial Association (AMTA) National Championship Tournament and three stu­dents received additional awards during the event. held April 3-6 in Des Moines, Iowa. 
The Notre Dame program was the only one to have two teams place top five in either division and it received the most individual awards of any of the 64 teams present, according to William Dwyer. Mock Trial coach and an attor­ney with the O'Hourke, Hogan. Fowler and Dwyer law firm. 
"We did remarkably well," Dwyer said. "It was quite an accomplishment." 
Members of the two teams included Dave Belczyk and Mike Romano. club co-presi­dents, and Erika Jackson, Erin Blonde!, Brenden Bowes, Brad Springman. Meghan McCall. Kristen Rodriguez, Vinnie Tenerelli. Jared Rizzi. Marlena Mangan. Katie Spitz, Leanor Cimino. Brandy 1-lutton and Brian Frey. 
Mike Homano also received the All American Attorney and All-American Witness awards. Vinnie Tenerelli and Brian Frey received All-American Attorney awards as well. 
Mock Trial allows college students to simulate court cases with team members serving as defense and prose­cuting attorneys and witnesses. The AMTA holds tournaments across the nation with over 300 universities participating. All the teams in a particular division try the same case, either criminal or civil, and fol­low a series of established rules. 
During the National Tournament, teams participat­ed in a mock civil lawsuit brought by the parents of a seven year-old killed by a hit­and-run driver. 
"The idea is you have to work within the framework of the case and the rules set up by the AMTA," Dwyer said. "They try to recreate a realistic environment in which the case is tried." 
Dwyer and Romano described the atmosphere of the tournament as intense and said participants spend several hours each week practicing in addition to a two-hour class that focuses on form and legal knowledge. 
"The students work enor­mously hard and there's a lot cf stress involved," Dwyer said. 
There are a total of 21 stu­dents in Notre Dame Mock 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 

Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 _,,. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, l-'1819 > Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 ,,; John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ; . Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, I-7336 
. Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


Trial divided into three seven­person teams. All three teams qualified for the National Tournament but AMTA rules allow no more than two teams from each school to compete. 
Romano credits the success of the organization to the tal­ent of the members and the coach and said he anticipates the teams will do well next year. 
"Next year we definitely want to maintain the program," he said. "This year we established ourselves by taking fourth and fifth in the tournament. I think we will be in a position to do very well next year." 
"I think this is great for our program," echoed Dwyer. "It really shows the caliber of tal­ent at Notre Dame." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
SMC alutns speaks 
about business jobs 
By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's alumnae returned to campus Wednesday to speak about finding a job in a uncertain economy, the importance of networking and landing a job in corporate America without ever having taken a business class. 
Alysann Sieren, senior vice president of brand advertising at Bank of America, and Annie Kiperman, account super­brand themselves." 

Sieren and Kiperman also explained that success in the corporate world depends on being passionate about one's job. 
"Your passion. or lack there­of, will be directly reflected in the quality of your work and the degree of your achieve­ment," said Kiperman. 

Sieren and Kiperman also offered practical advice for landing a job and interviewing successfully as well as common sense tips for career 
visor at Zubi "Your passion, or lack advance-Advertising, are 
thereat will be directly m e n t . 
both 1992 Kiperman
reflected in the quality of
graduates of discussed the College who your work and the degree the impor­have been suc­
ofyour achievement. tance of 
cessful in cor­constantly porate expanding
Annie Klperman
America, O n C ' S although nei­account supervisor sphere of 
ther majored in 
business while 
at Saint Mary's. 
"Our advice to you is love what you study. You're not going to school to get a job," said Sieren. "You're going to school to learn how to think creatively. Employers hire peo­ple who can be taught the ropes [and] they can't teach you how to think." 
In their talk Sieren and Kiperman assessed the top 10 most essential skills they look for when hiring an employee. The abilities ranged from think­ing on a macro level to focusing on the details, learning how to follow and learning how to lead. 
"Sell your ideas," said Sieren. "Good marketers brand prod­ucts [and] successful people
PPE 
influence 
and building 

technical expertise and leadership skills. 
"Most importantly. network like crazy," she said. "Start with the Saint Mary's College Alumnae Resource Network." 
Megan McCall, alumnae com­missioner for the Board of Governance helped to organize the event in cooperation with Director of Alumnae Relations Barbara Henry. 
"We thought it would be important to bring the alumnae back to campus and raise awareness of successful Saint Mary's Alumnae and the importance of networking," said McCall. 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3501@saintmarys.edu 
THE MINOR IN 

PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 
Department, doconnor@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos. I@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply ~end a request to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 11. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 4:30-5:30 PM, 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
r 
! 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 10, 2003 
Effects 
continued from page 1 
University Registrar Harold Pace. 
But various leaders of campus organizations acknowl­edged that 
"I think they 're trying
altered reg­could call istration really hard to make it as from a cell times would phone from
accommodating as
impact the site they
possible for the students 
events were work­already that are working. " ing at to scheduled register if for the necessary.
Jenny Monahan
weekend. W h e n 
Exact num­coordinator of Rebuilding C h r i s bers of stu• Together Now Karnilowicz, 
natives that would enable students to still participate in the service project and register during their time. 
"I think they're trying really hard to make it as accommodating as possible for the students that are working," Monahan said, adding that students 
dents from different organizations affected were not available, however many juniors said they had con­flicts with the rescheduled 
times. 
Pace encouraged anyone with registration problems to contact the registrar's office. adding that the office would be open additional hours Friday and Saturday to assist with any registra­tion problems students might experience. 
As soon as Pace made the decision to postpone regis­tration, his office contacted at least three major groups -the band, which sched­uled a weekend tour to Detroit and Windsor, Canada, the organizers of the Rebuilding Together Now service project, former­ly called Christmas in April and the organization that runs a practice MCAT test ­to work out arrangements so students could register. 
Jenny Monahan, an assis• tant to the vice president of Student Affairs and the coordinator for student involvement in Rebuilding Together Now, said she had spoken with the registrar's office about possible alter-
manager at 
the South Bend Kaplan Center, learned of the change from the registrar's office, she sent an e-mail offering two options to students sched­uled to take an 8-hour prac­tice MCAT exam Saturday. Either they could take the test Saturday, leave when their registration time arrived and return to make up the time during a sched• uled break or they could take a make-up exam Sunday. 
University Band Director Kenneth Dye said he was attempting to make accom­modations for 12 students who would be taking a trip with the concert band. He said he told students who could not do what the regis­trar suggested that they would either try to find an Internet connection on the road or have someone back in South Bend register for students. 
"It's just another thing to have to deal with," Dye said, "and we'll try to use whatev­er technical avenues we can to make it up." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

them that if they had prob­lems, they should go to the Registrar's office in the Main Building for assistance. 
Latimer estimated that the server failed again around 
7:30 a.m. Wednesday morning, a half-hour before the first group of students was sched• uled to register. 
As wave after wave of con­cerned students arrived at the registrar's office, Pace and the OIT staff established a 9 a.m. deadline to fix the problem before they decided to move the times. When it became clear that computer compo­nents would have to be replaced again, Pace told approximately 60 students out• side the registrar's office of the move and sent out an e-mail about a half-hour later. 
Latimer said the OIT had no idea that the server, which was scheduled to be replaced in three years, was about to over­heat. A special technician was working Wednesday to replace most of the components in the server. 
"That's the characteristic of heat-related failure," Latimer said. "They show no symptoms until it fails. We thought we had a functional system." 
Both Pace and Latimer said they expected the server to be operational by Friday, but did not say what would happen if the server was not operational by then. 
Latimer said the OIT had a secondary server that would take at least eight hours to hook up and OIT officials were trying to decide whether to begin setting up the backup server. 
"Hindsight is 20-20 and had we known what we know now, we would have done it," he said. "But at this point, we're going to wait." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Crash 
continued from page I 
attempted to replace damaged components of the overheated server. 
Students scheduled to regis­ter on Wednesday will register Friday, while those scheduled to register today had their reg­istratio n times moved to Saturday. No time slots had been altered, said Pace, thus preserving the original order assigned by the registrar's office. 
Over 2,500 students were affected by the change. includ­ing graduate 
ated what OIT Chief Technology Officer Dewitt Latimer called "core adminis­trative tasks," including pay• roll, security dispatches and student services -the database that lrishlink uses in Web reg­istration. None of the data was lost and Latimer likened the shutdown to a computer that is intact but would not turn on. 
"There's no data loss," he said, "but no computer to bring it up." 
Pace said this is the first time registration dates actually had to be moved. When a problem occurred in the past, registrar officials could help students register for courses in the 
office. But 
students and business graduate stu­dents, law students, undergradu­ate juniors and Saint Mary's stu­ "That's the characteristics to heat-relatedfailure, they show no symptoms until it fails. We thought we had a functional system."  without access to the comput­er system, reg­istrar officials will not have even that option avail­able. Pace said the  
dents trying to take class­es at Notre Dame. Barring any further prob• !ems, Pace  Dewitt Latimer OIT chief technology officer  telephone reg• istration sys• tem, commonly called DART and previously used by the registrar's 

did not expect the rescheduling office before a switch to Web to affect sophomores and registration in the fall 2001 
freshman registration dates. semester, is no longer opera­Sophomores are scheduled to tional. being registering through The problem that caused the Irishlink Monday. server to overheat originally 
Most students have the same occurred last week, Latimer class schedule on Friday as said, and is the third problemthey do on Wednesday, Pace that occurred in a week. said, and moving the registra­Following a long string of rela­tion days to Friday and tively few problems, the 5­Saturday would minimize the year-old server overheated and number of students that would shut down last week. The OIT have to skip class to register. thought they fixed the problem 
"This is not a situation of our but this past weekend another choosing," said Pace, whose server component overheated office was flooded with hun­and again caused a shutdown. 
dreds of phone calls. "We just After the OIT replaced the hope that students can work second component, Pace said with us through this emer­his office noticed a slower gency." response time and sent out an The overheated server oper• e-mail to some students telling 


Windows PC Users: "Unjoin" the Domain Before You 're Locked Out 
To ensure access to your PC when you leave campus, you must "unjoin" the Notre Dame Windows Domain. 
Go to http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/helpdesk to find out how. 
What happens ifyou don't "unjoin?" 
Ifyou don't "unjoin," you may be unable to access your com­puter while away from campus; you also may have problems log­ging on to the network when you return. This does not apply to Macintosh users . 
Call the OIT Help Desk (1-8111) ifyou need further assis­tance. 
D¦ Office of Information Technologies 
D¦ University of Notre Dame 
-

WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April I 0, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WJRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Baghdad cheers collapse of Saddam's regime 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Tht>ir hour of freedom at hand, juLilant Iraqis celebralcd the collapse or Saddam llusscin's murderous regime on Wednesday, beheading a top­pled statuu or their longtime ruler in downtown Baghdad and embracing American troops as tib(irntors, 
"I le kilh'd millions of us," said a young Iraqi. spitting on one of counllnss portraits ol' Saddam scaltl'rl'd throughout the capital. Men hugged Americans in l'ull combat gPar and women held up babies so soldiers riding on tanks could kiss them. 
Iraqis n•leascd <.lecadPs of p,~nl-up fury as U.S. forces solid­itfod their grip on the capituL Marinn tanks rollod to the east­ern bank or the Tigris Hiver; the Army was on the western side of the waterway that curls through the ancient city. 
Looting broke out in the capi­tal as Iraqis, shedding their fear of' the regime, entered govern­ment facilities and made off with furniture. computers. air condi­tiuners and even military jeeps. 
"We are not seejng any orga­nized resistance," said Navy Capt. Frank Thorp at the U.S. Central Command. "The Iraqi military is unable to light as an organized lighting force," 
There was continued combat in cities to the north, though, where government troops were under attack from U.S. and British warplanes. 
The scenes of liberation in Baghdad and celebrations in scattered other cities unfolded as the Pentagon announced that 101 American troops had died in the first three weeks of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Another 11 are missing and seven listed as captured. The British said 30 of their troops were dead. There arc no reliable estimates for Iraqi casualties, although an Army spokesman said 7,300 prisoners had boen taken. 
The medical system was over­run with civilian casualties in Basra and Baghdad, cities where some of the fiercest fight­ing has occurred. Doctors said 35 bodies and as many as 300 wounded Iraqis were brought to the al-Kindi hospital in the capi­tal Tuesday. 


AFP Photo 
A U.S. Marine chains the head of a statue of lraql President Saddam Hussein before pulllng It down In Baghdad's al-Fardous square. lraqls began removing symbols of Saddam's 24-year grip on power as U.S. tanks rolled Into the heart of the lraql capltal. 
Iraq's UN envoy concedes defeat 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

With the fall of' Baghdad, Iraq's lJ.N. ambassador declared Wednesday. "the game is over" -and became the first Iraqi of'licial to concede defeat in the U.S.-lcd war. 
Mohammed Al-Douri expressed hope that the Iraqi people will now be able to live in peace. 
'"My work now is peace," he told reporters outside his New York residence. "The game is over, and I hope the peace will prevail. I hope the Iraqi people will have a happy life." 
Al-Douri was asked what he meant when he said "the game is over." 
"The war," he responded. 
His comments were the first admission by an Iraqi official that coalition forces had over­whelmed Iraqi troops after a three-week campaign. 
In an AP interview Wednesday night, Al-Douri said he wiU continue to work at the United Nations and had no intention of defecting. 
"Defecting from who?" he asked. "'I think the government has already defected. There is no more Iraqi government to be defected from." 
Two weeks ago, during a heated U.N. debate, Al-Douri accused the United States of "criminal aggression" against Iraq and warned the U.S.-led coalition was "about to start a real war of extermination that will kill everything and destroy everything." 

He said U.S. and British forces were being "hoodwinked" into believing "that the Iraqi people would receive them with flowers and hugs," 
The outburst caused U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte to walk out of the open Security Council meeting, saying he'd "heard enough." 
On Wednesday, when asked about Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, Al-Douri said he had no "relationship with Saddam." 
"I have no communication with Iraq," the ambassador said. 
Questioned about Al-Douri's comments, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: "Well, I would say it wasn't a game." 
US: Saddam was likely in bombed building 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. special operations forces on Wednesday scoured the site of a Baghdad building leveled by American bombs, searching for evidence that Saddam Hussein was inside at the time of the blasts, officials said. 
The team is looking for remains or other evidence to prove that the four tons of bombs dropped on the building Monday hit the Iraqi leader, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Multiple intelligence sources put Saddam inside the building in the capital's tony Mansour neigh­borhood before it was hit, other 

U.S. officials said. 

Intelligence officials described the information that led to Monday's strike as solid but did not provide details. One source was believed lo be an eyewitness who watched Saddam go inside the building. 
The officials stopped well short of declaring Saddam dead. 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld laid out several possi­bilities: '"He's not active. Therefore, he's either dead, or he's incapacitated, or he's healthy and cowering in some tunnel someplace trying to avoid being caught" 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuba aims to justify dissident crackdown: 
Cuba defended its speedy prosecution of 75 dissidents, saying Wednesday it had to protect itself against U.S. atuimpt.'> to subvert the government It also maintained that the cases' timing had nothing to do with war in Iraq. The United States, which has dismissed the Cuban allegations, condemned the crackdown. The knov\'n sen­tences for 57 of the government opponents who were tried ranged from 6 to 28 years. The remaining 18 sen­tences were expected by week's end. 
New Palestinian appoinbnents face delay: 
The niiwly appointed Palestinian prime minister delayed naming his government Wednesday because ol' a dispute with Vasser Arafat over who should be in charge of the region's security forces. Prime minister-designate Mahmoud Abbas' delay came as five Palestinians, including a 16-year-old buy, were killed during clashes with Israeli troops in . .tbc.Ga.zu. SLrjp._Tbe_twQ eyeots. w~rQ.no.t_i:_eJ1J.t.e.ct. ___ . _. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Three medical workers may have SARS: 
Three U.S. medical workers who cared for patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome likely have contracted the new contagious disease that has spread from Asia to the United States and elsewhere, officials said. Dr. Julie Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. said officials are particularly confi­dent that worker, identified over the weekend, has the disease. 
Ex-FBI agent charged 'With passing info: 
A former FBI agent who was involved in Chinese counterintelligence work carried on a lengthy affair with an alleged Chinese double agent and allowed her access to classified documents, federal prosecutors alleged Wednesday. The former agent, James Smith. was charged in documents unsealed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles with "gross negligence in han-
Gunmen lead cops to Idaho airport chase: 
Two suspected armed robbers led police on a high­speed, running gun battle across runways at Boise Airport in the middle of the night No passenger flights were affected, but the suspects were killed early Wednesday, police said. Officers tried to stop Milton Sanchez, 40. of Boise, and his wife. Melody. 32, at a gas station several miles north of the air­port after receiving a report that they were suspect­ed in two recent armed robberies and were plan­ning a third, police spokesman Rich Wright said. 
Federal jury convicts four Miami cops: 
In the biggest Miami police scandal in a generation, a federal jury convicted four officers of corruption Wednesday for planting a gun on an unarmed homeless man or lying to cover it up. The convicted officers each face up to 10 years in prison al sen­tencing Aug. 22. Three others were acquitted and 
• _.41..irig documevts_i:_eJ~t!3c;iJ.o .tlJe 11at.i9nal defense.", •• , •• , • , , the judge dcclar.e.d. a mistrial far Cuur. mo.re•. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April I 0, 2003 
medical screening and paper­work and answer questions.

Marrow 
Ann said that 90 people, includ­ing students and health care

continued from page 1 
professionals, will be on hand transplant May 15, 2002 -a to assist. date he considers his new birth­"There are so many people day. Vince has been selected to who come together to make a speak in June to all the living drive [happen.] I wonder what transplant recipients that have their story is and how they got passed though Barnes Hospital involved and if they lost some­at Washington University in one," Ann said. Saint Louis, the third largest Like many other participants donor program in the country. in the drive, Howard Hall rector 
"When I heard last year that Kathy Brannock understands Howard Hall and our daughter the need for marrow. A close were: going to have a bone mar­friend of her sister's developed row drive for people like cancer and successfully found a myself, I got goose bumps and donor match, but was too weak cried," Vince said. "I volunteer to receive the transplant. to talk to patients through the "When I was in college and national reg-my sister was istry now and in high school, there is noth­"Joining the registry she had a ing as sad as really close
should be thought ofas a 

to listen to a friend,
commitment to donate.

patient or Michelle, who 
family mem­It's devastating for a died of ber say that family to think they've leukemia. 
they have After Michelle
found a match {and have 

been waiting passed away, and so far no the donor refuse to our friends match has donate]." organized an been found awareness [of and time is Ann Gurucharrl the need for running out," marrow]."
Howard Hall co-commissioner 

he said. 
Anonymity prevents a transplant recipient from learning the identity of their donor until one year after the transplant. but Ann said that she could not adequately express her desire to meet the donor who saved her father's life. 
"On my graduation day, we get to find out who [the donor isl," she said. "We've been writing letters to [the donor] and I'm really hoping that I can meet him [or her.] I just don't know how you can thank some­one like that." 
Ann said that last year's bone marrow drive, which success­fully registered 642 potential donors into the national reg­istry, testified to the willingness of the Notre Dame community to come together in service to help others. 
"The day of the drive was amazing because in the midst of a semester that was personally trying, this was a moment when I had the support of my class [and others] for a total stranger. It gave me hope in the people around me. For me, this was the hope that I needed to get through it all," she said. 
Ann said that this year's bone marrow drive, being held today in the LaFortune Ballroom from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., is prepared to register 1,000 people into the national bone marrow registry. The procedure consists of a brief medical screening and blood test, which takes about 15 minutes. The cost, typically $60 per person, is subsidized through funding from The Shirt project. 
Patricia Brubaker, assistant director of University Health Services and a registered nurse, volunteered her time last year to draw blood for testing. She attributed the success of last year's drive to volunteers from Health Services and the South Bend Medical Foundation who donated time and supplies. Brubaker, whose sister was a recipient of a bone marrow transplant, said that last year's student response was surpris­ing to her. 
"I was overwhelmed with the response from the students. People were very kind and I was impressed by that," she said. 
Health care professionals from Chicago and South Bend will be available to perform the blood extraction, conduct the 
s a i d 
Brannock. "It was a personal issue for me. 1 saw what the possibility could have been for Michelle had she been better." 
Howard Hall is currently rais­ing funds to start an endow­ment to ensure that the bone marrow drive will be continu­ously self-funded in the future. 
Next year Howard Hall resi­dents may request part of their housing fee go towards the endowment fund and organiz­ers say they are exploring other fund raising options. like foot­ball concession stands and the solicitation of Howard Hall alumnae for donations. 
Brannock said the importance of an annual bone marrow drive remains paramount. 
"It's just important that we do [the bone marrow drive] every year," she said. "Who knows how many people we could help on this campus. Who knows when you may need [marrow] or someone you know may need it," she said. 
Co-commissioner Camilla Pollock will head the project next year after Ann graduates. Each year, a Howard senior and a junior spearhead the bone marrow drive so that one member will have experience in planning for the upcoming year. 
Pollock, who has a blood dis­order and has had bone mar­row extracted for testing. said that she understands the fear that many potential donors have about registering. 
"All the questions that people have about being a donor I can answer because I have gone through all of the medical test­ing." she said. 
Jessica Howell, a senior who worked on the drive last year, said that the number of people who volunteered to register astonished her. She talked about students who went in between their classes, braved long lines and frequently checked back multiple times in the day in order to register. 
"I was most struck that in times of need the Notre Dame community never fails to come together. It's an example of support and selfless giving," she said. 
Chris DesBarres, a volunteer and donor at last year's drive, said that the outpouring of sup­port was strong. 
"I was working there at the end and people were still lined up down the staircase waiting to donate. Even when we ran out of needles, people were reluctant to leave," said DesBarres. "It was a great way for the Notre Dame community to demonstrate its willingness to step in and help, even when the people you're helping are complete strangers," he said. 

Howell said that she wanted to register last year but could not when supplies ran out. She said that she is excited to regis­ter this year and believes that the extra capacity this year will be sufficient. 
"Sprits were very high. The most disappointing [problem last year] was seeing when we ran out of vials and tests and had to turn people away," said Howell. "So many people had really been wanting to get on the list," she said. 
Ann mentioned that only stu­dents who arc committed to the possibility of giving bone mar­row should register today. 
"Joining the registry should be thought of as a commitment to donate. It's devastating for a family to think they've found a match [and have the donor refuse to donate]," she said. 
Ann also said that students should not be deterred or frightened by the bone marrow extraction procedure. 
"It is slightly painful, but you're saving a life. Where is the choice to be made?" Ann said. 
The two previous bone mar­row drives held at Notre Dame have resulted in one successful match. One more donor is in the final stages of the testing process and six more donors have been contacted for further testing. 
There are currently over 3,000 patients in the United States searching for a matching bone marrow donor. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's plans swim1ning lessons 
Money raised will benefit
. Swim team to 

the Saint Mary's Swim rundteach kids and may help fund a winter ------------training trip, training equip­
By LAUREN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 

Throughout this month, members of the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team will hold swimming lessons for children in the South Bend community. 
Though swimming lessons were not available last year, they have been offered in the past, said Greg Petcoff. coach of the swim team and assis­tant director of athletics at the College. 
When Petcoff came to Saint Mary's in the fall of 2001, he decided to take a one-year break from offering the swim lessons to work on reorganiz­ing the program. 
This year, Petcoff enlisted the help of junior Amy Kleinfehn. a newly-elected co-captain of the team, and together they created a les­son plan for the 4-week pro­gram. 
The swim lessons were mostly advertised in South Bend parochial schools, but they are open to the entire South Bend community. Nearly 70 children partici­pate in the lessons, which cost $50 for eight sessions. 
According to Kleinfehn, teaching swimming lessons during the team's off-season serves multiple purposes. 
"Nearly everyone on the team has taught swim lessons before," Kleinfehn said. "It is a good way to raise money and bond as a team." 
ment or allow the team to travel to a swim meet in Wisconsin, which would give Saint Mary's the opportunity to compete against more Division III schools. 
Pctcoff said he realizes that a winter training trip to a warmer location could bene­fit the swim team. 
The most difficult obstacle the team faces is finding ade­quate training facilities. While the team takes advan­tage of Notre Dame facilities in the evening, morning prac­tices are held in Saint Mary's Regina Hall Pool. 
"When it comes down tu it, it is a question of what is going to help us to be more competitive," said Petcoff. "Making us better will win out over something that is nice." 
In addition to strengthening the College's swim program, sophomore Amy Nicholson views the lessons as unique opportunity to interact with children. 
"A lot of women on the swim team are education majors," Nicholson said. "The lessons give us a chance to interact with kids, as well as providing a possibility for us to see each other in the off­season." 
Due to the success of the lessons, Kleinfehn said there is a possibility the team will hold lessons again in the fall. 
Contact at Lauren O'Brien obri I648@saintmarys.edu 

THE KE0UGH mst:rtutE F0R IRISH stuDIES 
Th€ Oitholic Ounch in Con~m:rq h€land Patsq fficGarrq RE:liqious A.Hails CorrE:spondE:nt, The Irish Times 
7:00 Pffi 1lunsdaq, 10 April 2003 
210-214 filcK€IClta HalVa:E 
ffir. fficGanq has bE:E:n th£ IE:cipiE:nt of th£ TE:mpkton EurnpE:an Rdiqion WritE:r of thE: YE:m Awmd (1998) and th£ Irish Jou1nalist of th£ YE:ar Awa1d 0992). His talk is th€ opE:ninq addrE:ss for an intE:1disciplinmq conk1€ncE:: 
Irish Cafhofics: Bdid, Practice and Representation, 
210-214 fficKE:nna Hall, 10-13 Ap1il 2003. 


Thursday, April 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 9 
DowJones 

8,197.94 -100.98 
NASDAQ
• 

1,356.74 -26.20
•
S&P500 

865.99 -12.30
ij 
AMEX 

824.25 • -0.90 
NYSE 
-47.03

4,870.57 ' TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -3.95 -1.01 24.57 
CISCO SYSTEMS>(f~gf~!!;:l:!!~l~;~::fll~filli:1:I!lll~ll 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.46 -0.42 16.68 
SUN .MICROSYSTEM• €$~i~i;ii\:ili!:t1!~~~~iiI!l[tili!il 
ORACLE CORP (ORCl) -2.87 -0.33 11.17 
IN BRIEF 
Airline deal receives early OK 
American Airlines and British Airways will be able to sell seats on each other's flights unless public opposition convinces transporta­tion officials otherwise. 
The Transportation Department said Wednesday that it has tentatively approved a code-sharing agreement between the two air­lines, except for nonstop flights between the United States and London. 
The public hasn't been allowed to comment on the proposal. though, so the Transportation Department will accept writ­ten objections for a week. 
Code-sharing allows airlines to reach more places without flying more planes and to offer reciprocal benefits. American and British Airways already had an agreement to allow their customers to earn and redeem frequent Byer points on each others' airlines. 
The airlines said they plan to begin code­sharing as soon as transportation officials issue a linal order, expected sometime after April 21. 
Travel industry seeks tax breaks 
The travel industry wants a bigger tax break for business meals and government money tu promote tourism, citing fallout from lhe struggling economy, terrorism rears, the Iraq war and the mysterious flu­like illness spreading through Asia. 
At a conference Wednesday. travel repre­S(•n talivcs and others discussed how to rnvnrse the fortunes of an industry that has shed 387,000 jobs since the Sept. 11. 2001, terrorist attacks. 
"When American people move, so does our economy," said Tom Donohue. president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which spon­son·d the gathering. "Don't stay home and cry in our soup and leL Osama bin Laden win." 
. . . . Business travel 1s down, tourists are stick­ing close to home and international visitors 
Pepsi to sell rival vanilla cola 
. Analysts expect Coke, Pepsi rivalry to heat up 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
PepsiCo Inc. is hoping to turn up the heat this sum­mer in its rivalry with Coca-Cola Co. by launch­ing its own vanilla-fla­vored cola. 
The Purchase, N.Y., food and beverage company ended speculation Wednesday about the new drink by confirming it will introduce Pepsi Vanilla late this summer. No spe­cific launch date was announced. 
Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, has had much success with Vanilla Coke, which has sold 90 million cases since its launch last May, according to industry trade publication Beverage Digest. 
Also, on tap from Pepsi for the warm-weathered months is Mountain Dew LiveWire, an orange-fla­vored Dew; new packag­ing, which mimics Coca­Cola's "Fridge Pack"; and a Mountain Dew tie-in with the movie "The Hulk" from Universal Pictures, a 

unit of Vivendi Universal. then have a chance to up duce the show. a lot of attention," said 
Pepsi also plans to offer the ante to $1 billion with­Although Pepsi wouldn't John Sicher, editor and 1,000 consumers a chance out forfeiting the $1 mil­reveal the details of the publisher of Beverage to compete for $1 billion lion prize. game show, the company Digest. live on AOL Time Warner Matti Leshem and said it is sure to be Pepsi shares closed Inc.'s The WB Network. Michael Davies of marked by building sus­Wednesday at $39.39, up The show, which will air Diplomatic Productions -pense as the pool of con­16 cents, on the New York in September, will guaran­best known as the produc­testants gets winnowed Stock Exchange. Shares of tee a $1 million winner ers of former hit show down to the final winner. Coca-Cola finished at selected through a game "Who Wants To Be A "The billion-dollar pro­$41.67, down 18 cents, of chance. The winner will Millionaire" -will pro-motion is going to attract also on the Big Board. 

News Corp. to acquire Hughes 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
News Corp. agreed Wednesday to acquire control of Hughes Electronics Corp. and its DirecTV service, the nation's largest satellite television provider, in a $6.6 billion cash and stock deal. 
The proposed deal would give News Corp. access to DirecTV's more than 11 million subscribers and conclude media titan Rupert Murdoch's three-year effort to gain a U.S. outlet for his global satellite television network. 
News Corp. will acquire 34 percent of DirecTV parent Hughes Electronics, a subsidiary of General Motors Corp.. by purchasing 19.9 percent of Hughes shares owned by GM. News Corp. also will offer to buy 14.1 percent of Hughes shares owned by the public. 
News Corp. will pay about $14 per share, making the deal worth about $6.6 billion. The company will then transfer its interest in Hughes to its Fox Entertainment Group subsidiary, which includes the Fox News Channel. 
Murdoch, whose News Corp. also owns other media entities and the Los Angeles Dodgers, said the deal will kets and provide better services to 

U.S. viewers. 
"With Fox taking a significant inter­est in Hughes, we are forging what we believe will be the premier diversified entertainment company in America today, with leading assets in film, tele­vision broadcasting and production, cable programming, and now pay-TV distribution," Murdoch said. 
GM president and chief executive Rick Wagoner said his company "is pleased to have reached an agreement with News Corp. that provides sub­stantial value to our stockholders." 
In addition to DirecTV. Hughes also owns 81 percent equity of satellite operator PanAmSat and Hughes Network Systems, a broadband satel­lite network provider. 
Murdoch unsuccessfully wooed DirecTV in 2001. EchoStar Communications, a rival satellite broadcaster, tried to buy Hughes for $18.8 billion. but that deal was blocked late last year by federal regu­lators who felt iL would harm competi­tion. 
The News Corp. deal is aL'lo subject to regulatory approval. The new company will provide 
form to all suppliers" and will not be exclusive to Fox or News Corp. prod­ucts, Murdoch said in a conference call. 
At their convention in Las Vegas, members of the National Association of Broadcasters gave the acquisition a generally positive response, saying it likely would prod satellite operators to carry local stations more quickly. The trade group had opposed the Hughcs­EchoStar merger because it would have reduced competition and pres­sure to carry local stations in small<lr markets. 
Under the agreement, Murdoch would become chairman of Hughes and Chase Carey, who currently serves as an adviser to News Corp., would become president and chief executive officer of Hughes. The com­pany would continue lo be based in the Los Angeles suburb of El Segundo. 
Hughes shares, which trade sepa­rately from those of General Motors, fell 2 cents to $11.48 in regular trad­ing before the deal was announced, but gained 36 cents in extended trad­ing. News Corp. shares fell 66 cents in regular trading to $27.22 each but rose 50 cents in the after-hours ses­
sion. 

arc [)~~~~~: ~~ ~~~:s. ~~~~~~-. • •. • •• • • •••••••• _ -i~~~:~s~-~~1:1~~:i~~~ !~ .t?~.c~~~: !'!~r:•• ~-~~1_11.P!~t.e!: op,e.n_ ~f~ess !O _o~! _plat­
Thursday, April l 0, 2003 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 

Panel 
continued from page 1 

time. 
A four-person panel offered diverse perspectives from ROTC, Peace Coalition, Young Republicans and International Students. The panel was mod­erated by Philpott, who is also a faculty fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. After the pan­elists were finished discussing the planned part of the dia­logue, the floor was opened up to questions from the audi­ence. 
One panel member. Mary Ann Mazzarini, a senior and the wing commander in Air Force ROTC. gave possible positives and negatives that could come from the situation. She said that although the Iraqi people have been liberat­ed from a brutal dictator, the United States has set a danger­ous precedent by preemptively attacking Iraq. Actions by the United States could possibly discredit the United Nations, but that could also motivate them to enforce their rules more strictly. Mazzarini added. 
Catherine McGeeney, a member of the Peace Coalition, took issue with classifying American military involvement as a humanitarian mission to liberate oppressed Iraqis. 
"Why do we continue to sup­port regimes that are just as bad or worse than Saddam Hussein's?" she said. 
McGeeney pointed to exam­ples of human rights violations in Israel and Turkey, both U.S. allies, which have not been addressed. McGeeney also said the war has been a distraction from more urgent domestic affairs, such as the struggling economy. 
When addressing the issue of what the Notre Dame commu­nity can do at this time, McGeeney also said it would be important for students to inform themselves by using several sources for news, not just American, and by promot­ing dialogue on the issue. 
Mohamed Shehab El Din. a peace studies graduate student from Egypt, began his speech on the panel by requesting that everyone reserve a moment of silence to honor the victims of war. He then assert­ed that more resistance ~y 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov ... 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser ... 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2003 
NO PREREQUISITE 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/-grl 

Iraqis is imminent as well as casualties. "The war is not over," said Shehab. "This is just a stage." 
"The way [the war in Iraq] is viewed in the Islamic world and the Arab world right now is that 'it's a crusade,"' Shehab said. 
Shehab said that no one in the Arab world argue against the fact that the Hussein regime is corrupt, but they are extremely wary of the American presence in the region. He added that he is encouraged by youth and stu­dent opposition to the war. 
Mark Hayes, former presi­dent of College Republicans, rounded out the panel. Hayes pointed to the possible connec­tions between Hussein and ter­rorist networks and the subse­quent dangers to American national security as justifica­tion for the war. 
As a follow-up to Wednesday's dialogue, stu­dents will also have the oppor­tunity to discuss the war in open lunch discussions on Thursdays in April, starting today, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the South Dining Hall Hospitality Room. Students will get lunch as usual and enter the forum for conversation exclusively about the war. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
Drive 
continued from page l 
. ..
ti
es. 

Guruchani organized last year's project because her father Vince was diagnosed ½'ith myelodyplas­tia, a disease curable only by a bone marrow transplant. Vince successfully underwent a trans­plant May 15. 2002. 
"The day of the drive, even when the lines were really long, everyone was so patient and will­ing to be there. It was great," she said. 
Last year's bone marrow drive was a continuation of the project begun two years ago by the class of 2002 in hopes of finding a match for three classmates diag­nosed with leukemia. Over the past two years, one successful match has been made. One addi­tional donor is in the final stage of the matching process and six more arc in preliminary testing stages. 
"Students don't really realize how prevalent [the need for bone marrow is] on campus," Pollock said. 
Pollock will head the project next year, along with a Howard Hall member of the class of 2005, after Gurucharri graduates. The residents are currently raising funds to begin an endowment that will provide for future funding for the bone marrow drive. 
"People only hear about the drive the week before but it really is a 52 week commitment," Pollock said. 
Chicago and South Bend heath care professionals, as well as stu­dent volunteers, will be available to perform the blood tests, med­ical screening and paperwork necessary for donor registration. Participants in today's drive will be registered up to age 61. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 

SUMMER 1ijijJ TOUR GUIDES NEEDED 
The Office ofUnder~aauate Admissions Office is seeking full-time tour guide/office workern for thls summer 
(May 1~ ~ Au~ust 1~) 

Our 1)-minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and J~.m. 
Notre Dame stuaents from the ~outh Benn area and students plannin~ to attend ~ummer ~ession are encoura~eu to consider this opportunit~. 
Please visit Room 120 in the Main Buildin~ to apply for this position. ~:O~ am· ):Qij rm M· F 
Application deadline is Wednesday, April lb 

Thursday, April I 0, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Adtninistration announces plan to reduce air pollution 
Fainily watched Marine hang flag 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The world watched Wednesday as a Marine corpo­ral clambered up a statue of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad and covered its face with an American flag just before the monument was pulled down and torn to pieces by cheering Iraqis. 
Also looking on raptly was Cpl. Edward Chin's family in New York. 
"I thought, 'Oh, my son, you are making history, you are part of the Iraqis' liberation," his father. Stanley Chin, said after watching the image of his son broadcast on television all over the world. 
Shortly after wrapping the flag around the towering Saddam's face, military officials 
NDe~ Corner 

Z1-e--~~~;~,. 
Fridat:1 
9 pm 11pm 

1n the Doolet:J Room 
Sponsored b8 Student 
Activities Office 
His fiancee, Anne Fu, said she knew Chin "He wanted to show the 
meant no dis­Iraqi people that they 
respect. 
were free, that they were
"He wanted to show the liberated, that the U.S. 
Iraqi people was there to help them 
that they were 
and that Saddam is over.»
free. that they were liberated. that the U.S. Anne Fu was there to 
Cpl. Edward Chin's fiancee 
help them and that Saddam is over," she said 

outside the family's home. "Here's a 23-year-old doing all 
Chin and his family are ethnic these amazing things and rep­Chinese from Myanmar. for­resenting America and repre­merly Burma. They moved to senting it well, I think." 
Twentynine Palms, Calif. 
His family said they had not seen him since before Christmas before they glimpsed him on television. 
'Tm very proud of him," his sis­ter Connie Chin told WWOR-TV. 
Man killed tourist, convicted of murder 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
Jurors Wednesday convicted a former Navy SEAL of killing one of two tourists whose dismem­bered bodies were found last year after they disappeared during a Memorial Day trip to the beach. 
Benjamin Sifrit was convicted of second-degree murder for killing Martha Crutchley but acquitted of assaulting and murdering her boyfriend, Joshua Ford. 
Prosecutors say the two were slain after Sifrit's wife claimed her purse had been stolen while the couples partied at the Sifrits' condo. 
Ford's brother and other rela­tives sat stunned in the court­room after the verdict was read. 
'Tm totally disgusted," Mark Ford said. "He took away a good brother, a very loving, trustwor­thy friend to everybody and this guy walks." 
Sifrit, 25. testified that he was asleep when Crutchley and Ford were killed, but that he dismem­bered the couple to help his wife, Erika, cover up the slay­ings. 
Sifrit also was convicted of being an accessory after the fact. His trial, like the one scheduled in June for his 25­year-old wife, was moved out of Worcester County because of extensive pretrial publicity. 
Prosecutors said Crutchley 


and Ford, of Fairfax, Va., met the Altoona, Pa., couple May 25 on a bus in Ocean City in south­eastern Maryland. The four went to a bar before returning to the Sifrits' condominium to use the hot tub. 
When Erika Sifrit claimed her purse was missing, her husband went into a rage against the vic­tims, prosecutors said. 
Crutchley, 51, and Ford, 32, fled into the bathroom, but prosecutors said Benjamin Sifrit shot Ford through the door, kicked it in and shot him two more times. 
Sifrit said he cut the bodies into sections, wrapped them in plastic and dumped them in a trash bin outside a Delaware supermarket. The remains were found in a landfill days later. 
Sifrit faces a possible 30-year sentence for the murder convic­tion and five years for the acces­sory charge. He was also con­victed of first-degree assault against Crutchley. 
Sifrit's attorney, William Brennan, said his client was acquitted in Ford's slaying prob­ably because the gun used belonged to Erika Sifrit. 
The decision was especially difficult for Mark Ford, whose 23-year-old daughter Kelly was murdered, decapitated and had her heart removed by a serial killer two years ago. Nu one has been convicted of that crime, he said. 
"I've yet to receive any jus­tice," he said. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Praising the advantages of an environmental law it has criti­cized, the Bush administration announced agreements Wednesday with Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Alcoa Inc. to reduce air pollution in 16 states. 
The settlements under the "new source review" provisions of the Clean Air Act will result in nearly $680 million in spending to reduce about 130,000 tons of air pollution a year. Environmental Protection Agency and Justice Department officials said. 
''I'm willing to admit that this has been a very good too]." 
EPA Administrator Christie Whitman said of those provi­sions, which her agency changed last year. "But it's not the best we can do." 
Whitman and Assistant Attorney General Tom Sansonelti emphasized they will strongly pursue cases such as these even as the adminis­tration seeks further changes in the law. 
ADM, of Decatur, Ill., the nation's biggest ethanol pro­ducer, agreed to spend an esti­mated $350.9 million to settle charges it failed to accurately count emissions and expanded corn and oilseed processing facilities without installing proper pollution controls. 
The settlement filed in U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois includes $213 million for new pollution con­trols over the next decade at 52 plants in 16 states. 

Those states are Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. 
It also includes $127 million to change the way it processes corn and oilseeds and to con­duct environmental audits at all its facilities. Another $6.3 million will be spent to retrofit diesel engines in school buses and $4.6 million will go to a civil penalty. 
Sansonetti said the case builds on last year's settlement with 12 ethanol plants in 
Minnesota, the first time the federal government reached agreements mandating cuts in air pollution from manufactur­ers of com-based ethanol, an additive in gasoline. 
Alcoa. Inc. of Pittsburgh, the world's largest aluminum pro­ducer, cast doubt on the $334.75 million settlement fig­ure provided by the govern­ment. The Alcoa settlement ­which grew from a citizen group's complaint that its Rockdale, Texas, power plant improperly made changes that increased pollution -was filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. 
Alcoa spokesman Kevin Lowery said it might be cheap­er to close that coal-fired power plant and get energy elsewhere for its aluminum smelting facility there rather than spend the $330 million the government estimated it would cost to install new boil­ers. 
But the company will spend $2.5 million for conservation easements around the plant and $750,000 to retrofit school buses in Austin, Texas, and pay a $1.5 million civil penalty. 
Whitman said the agree­ments would reduce by 68,000 tons a year from Alcoa and by 63,000 tons a year from ADM emissions of air pollutants such as smog-causing nitrogen oxides and acid rain-causing sulfur dioxide. Sansonetti called it the first settlement of its kind involving the grain and oilseed processing industry. 
-highly conscious of anything that could be interpreted as a sign of American occupation ­ordered Chin, 23, to take it down. He then replaced it with an Iraqi flag. 

the United States when Chin was 1 week old and live in Brooklyn. He joined the Marines in 1999 and is sta­tioned at the Marine Corps Air/Ground Combat Center in 
page I 0 Thursday, April 10, 2003
The Observa . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
Campus Ministry C-M 
wh t' h 
today 4.10 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. McGlinn Hall 

[riday 4.11 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #76 
Friday through Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. Carroll Hall 

sunday4.1J 
Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion 
9:45 a.m. Solemn Mass 12 noon Sunday Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-Morning of Reflection 
10:00 
Coleman Morse Student Lounge 
. 
monday 4.14 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Old College 
tuesday 4.1s 
Campus Wide Stations of the Cross & Sacrament of Reconciliation 
7:00 p.m. 
Procession departs from the Grotto Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Lewis Hall 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 4. 16 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Traveling Rosary for Peace 
9:00 p.m. 
Stanford Hall 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 

one-time opportunity  
C  A  M  P  U  S  W  I  D  E  
C  A  N  D  L  E  L  I  G  H  T  


Tuesday, April 15 
Procession begins at the Grotto at 7 p.m. * Opportunity for Reconciliation to follow at approximately 9: 15 p.m. in the Basilica 
*In case of severe weather, Reconciliation will begin at 9 p.m. 

mass schedule 
OFFICE HOURS: CoMo room 114 & 319, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 

eace 
Tonight's Location: 
McGlinn @ 9:00pm 
(tomorrow night: Carroll Hall) 
TRAVELING ----­
Rosa 
FOR PEACE 

EVERY NIGHT, UNTIL THE END OF THE WAR IN IRA~ IN A HALL CHAPEL AROUND CAMPUS1 MEMBERS OF OUR NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY WILL BE GATHERED IN A 
PRAYER FOR PEACE. 
PLEASE JOIN US. 

Next week's schedule (each weeknight@ 9:00 p.m.): 
Monday, April 14: Old College Tuesday, April 15: Lewis Hall Wednesday, April 16: Stanford Hall 
For more info or to help with the Rosary for Peace, contact Kelly Rich @ 1-3390. 
Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion 

basiUca of the sacred heart* around campus (every Sunday; 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 
5:00 p.m. 9:45 a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c. Rev. Edward Malloy, c.s.c. Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel Mendoza COB 
12:00 p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c. 'Please note special times for Sunday's Basilica Masses 

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Mk 11: 1 -10 2nd: Is 50: 4 -7 Gospel: Mark 14: 1 -15:47 
._ ------.. -.. -------: : : -_-.::: -_ -_-..:_:: .._-_--...:.:..::.:.::..:.:.:...:·.:_::.:..::_:..::.:..·... :_:_::..:._-.:.:.:.--.:..:.:.:.. __, 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
SAUDI ARABIA 
Democratic candidates Citizens shocked by US ascension divided on war in Iraq 
. Fall of Baghdad met by disbelief in the Arab world 
Associatc<l Press 
H.IYADH 

The rail of Baghdad provoked 
shock and disbelief among 
Arabs, who exprusscd hope that 
other oppressive regimes would 
crumble but also disappointment 
that Saddam Hussein did not put 
up a better fight against 
America. 
''Why did he fall that way" 
Why so fast?" asked Yemeni 
homemaker Umm Ahmed, tears 
streaming down her face. "He's 
a coward. Now I feel sorry for 
his people." 
Arabs clustered at TV sets in 
shop windows, coffee shops, 
kitchens and oflices to watch the 
astounding pictures of U.S. 
troops overwhelming an Arab 
capital for the first time ever. 
Feeling betrayed and misled, 
sonw turned off their sets in dis­
gust when jubilant crowds in 
Baghdad celebrated the arrival 
of U.S. troops. 
"We discovered that all what 
the [Iraqi! information minister 
was saying was all lies," said Ali 
I lassan, a government employee 
in Cairo, Egypt. "Now no one 
believes Al-Jazeera anymore." 
In a live report from Baghdad, 
corrnspondcnt Shaker Hamed of /\bu Dhabi Television said, "We are all in shock. I low did things -come to such an end? How did 
U.S. tanks enter the center of the city? Where is the resistance? This collapse is puzzling. Was it the result of the collapse of com­munications between the com­manders? Between the political leadership? How come Baghdad falls so easily." 
The shock came after weeks of hearing Saddam's government pledge a "great victory" or fight to the death against "infidel invaders." 
"We Arabs are clever only at talking," Haitham Baghdadi. 45. said bitterly in Damascus, Syria. "Where are the Iraqi weapons? Where are the Iraqi soldiers?" 
Behind the disbelief lay a worry over the prospect of an American occupation of an Arab nation. 
However, Tannous Basil, a 47­year-old cardiologist in Sidon, Lebanon, said Saddam's regime was a "dictatorship and had to go." 
"I don't like the idea of having the Americans here, but we asked for it," he said. "Why don't we see the Americans going to Finland. for example? They come here because our area is filled with dictatorships like Saddam's." 
Tarek al-Absi, a Yemeni uni­versity professor, was hopeful Saddam's end presaged more democracy in the region. 
"This is a message for the Arab regimes. and could be the beginning of transformation in the Arab region," al-Absi said. "Without the honest help of the Western nations, the reforms will not take place in these coun­tries." 
From Kuwait, which was occu­pied by Saddam's forces before the 1991 Gulf War, came one of the few statements of unadulter­ated support. Sheik Sabah Al Ahmed Al Sabah, Kuwait's deputy prime minister and for­eign minister, said, "Joy fills our hearts as we see our Iraqi broth­ers ... express their jubilation at victorv." 

In comments carried by state­owned Kuwait Television, he praised "the huge sacrifices made by the coalition" to free Iraqis. 
But for most Arabs, the over­whelming emotions were those of distaste and worry. 
Three men having tea and smoking in a coffee shop in Riyadh were unsettled as they watched television, even though they said they were against Saddam and felt sorry for the long-suffering Iraqis. 
"l can't say that I'm happy about what's going on because these are non-Muslim forces that have gone in and I hope they will not stay," said Mohammed al­Sakkaf. a 58-year-old business­man. 
Another of the three, Walid Abdul-Rahman, said he was dis­turbed by the sight of U.S. troops lounging in Saddam's palaces or draping the U.S. nag around the head of a Saddam statue. "Liberation is nobler than that," he said. "They should not be so provocative." 
In Jordan, hotel receptionist Wissam Fakhoury, 28, expressed disgust at the Baghdad crowds. 
"I spit on them," he said. "Do those crowds who are saluting the Americans believe that the United States will let them live better?" Fakhoury said. "[AmericansJ will loot their oil and control their resources, leaving them nothing." 
Bahraini physician Hassan Fakhro, 62, said he was sad­dened because even if Saddam "was a dictator, he represented some kind of Arab national resistance to the foreign invaders -the Americans and the British." 

presents 

Dark Stde <>f the Ratnh<>w 
and 

Location: DeBartolo Hall Date: April 10th, 11th, and 12th 
Admission: $3 Time: 
Thursday 10PM; Friday and Saturday: 8 and 10:30 PM 
Associa tcd P re>s 
WASHINGTON 
On the day Saddam Hussein's regime collapsed, divisions over the war in Iraq took center stage in the first joint appear­ance of the nine candidates run­ning for the Democratic presi­dential nomination. 
The candidates intended to lay out their agendas on chil­dren's issues at a forum spon­sored by the Children's Defense Fund. But with U.S. military advances dominating the news, the first question from a panel of journalists 
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich. former Illinois Sen. Carol Moseley Braun and civil rights activist Al Sharpton of New York also maintained their opposition to the war. "I do not see where we have seen the nuclear weapons that we were told wern there," Sharpton said. 
The war has been a delicate issue for Democrats since many core party activists oppose it. But polls show most Americans are behind Bush's effort in Iraq, and some say a tough stance against the war could hurt his opponent in the general elec­
tion. 

was about the "For $200 billion we can The four 
war. candidates
insure every child in this
Five of the who voted to 
candidates country under the age of give Bush 
opposed the 18, it seems to me like authority to war and attack Iraq ­
that is a better
defended their Rep. Dick
investment."
position Gephardt and despite the Sens. John U.S. success in Edwards of
Howard Dean 
Baghdad. The N o r t h
democratic presidential
Bush adminis­Carolina, John
candidate
tration's attack Kerry of 
on Iraq sets a dangerous precedent of pre-emption, they said, and the money spent on the war and reconstruction could be better spent on prob­lems at home. 
"For $200 billion we can insure every child in this coun­try under the age of 18," said former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, who opposed going to war without U.N. backing. "It seems to me like that is a better invest­ment." 
Florida Sen. Bob Graham, making his first appearance as a presidential candidate, said he voted against the resolution granting authority for the mili­tary strike because he felt the 
, war would make Americans less secure. He said the United States should focus on pursuing the shadowy group of interna­tional terrorists responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks instead of Saddam Hussein. 
"Saddam Hussein is an evil person," Graham said. "He lives in a neighborhood with lots of evil people. The question is where do we put our priorities." 
Massachusetts 

and Joe Lieberman of Connecticut ­were asked whether the costs of the war will hurt domestic pro­grams. 
Gephardt said the war would create larger deficits. but as president he would roll back almost al! or Bush's tax cuts and fund health care for every American. 
"It's the moral thing to do, it's the right thing to do and as president I will get it done," he said. 
Lieberman and Edwards said there shouldn't be a choice between war and domestic pro­grams. "It's actually the respon­sibility of the president of the United States to do two things at one time," Edwards said. 
"If we pull back the tax cut, we could both protect our secu­rity and provide a better life for our children," Lieberman said. 
Kerry said that although he voted for the resolution and sup­ported disarmament of Saddam, he does not support the way that Bush went to war without more international support. 
fsY§,1Bargain Bool(s
~--!i--_....· Why Pay More? The Browsing Bookstore at 5505 Grape Road 574,271,1273 
Hundreds of new Oxford and University Press Titles at 50-90% off Publisher's List price delivered fresh every month. 
This Weekend in the Department ofMusic 
Saturday, April 12, 2003 A Graduate Degree Recital 
Jacqueline Schmidt, piano 
2:00 pm, Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Performing works by Scarlatti, Chopin, Schubert, & Prokofiev. 
Sunday, April 13, 2003 A Graduate Degree Recital Candace Thomas, violin w/ Paivi Ekroth, piano 3:30 pm, Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Performing works by Mozart, Sibel us, and Beethoven. 
All concerts free unless otherwise noted. 
Call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/Ncongoers for more info! 
Thursday, April I0, 2003 

IRAQ 

Kurds In Northem Iraq celebrate the falling of Baghdad to Amerlcan troops. Kurd forces, In coalltlon with American forces, hope to gain control of strategic cities like Mosul and Klrkuk. 
Kurds rejoice as Baghdad falls 
A,sociated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Iraqi Kurds flooded the streets of northern Iraq on Wednesday, rejoicing in the downfall of President Saddam Hussein -a leader who had gassed them and executed them by the thou­sands. 
"He's gone! He's gone!" chant­

ed a group of boys dancing in 
stalled traffic. As news spread 
that U.S. troops had overtaken 
the Iraqi capital Baghdad, 
Kurds left their homes and 
waded onto streets, waving 
streamers and the yellow star­
burst flag of their autonomous 
region. 
But fighting in the north was 

not over, and strategic oil fields 
near the cities of Mosul and Kirkuk remained under Iraqi control. 
Backed by U.S. Special Forces and American-led warplanes, Kurdish fighters took a strategic peak near Mosul and were just outside Kirkuk, but it wasn't clear when coalition troops would attack those key areas. 
That did not stop tens of thou­sands of Kurds from basking in the moment of Baghdad's fall to coalition troops. 
In the Kurdish administrative capital of Irbil, joy came in many guises. Car horns blared. Boys waved hand-drawn American flags. Militiamen held their weapons overhead. 
People burned newspaper 
photos of Saddam. One car 
windshield carried a message written in soap: "Bye Bye, Saddam." A cartoon showed Saddam falling into a garbage bin. 

"There is joy today, but let's not forget we've all shed tears because of Saddam," said actor Uman Chowshin. "We cannot never forget what he's done to 
US.11 

Saddam's regime has long oppressed the 4 million Kurds living in northern Iraq, despite occasional alliances of conve­nience between Kurdish leaders and Saddam's regime. In the late 1980s, more than 150,000 Kurds are believed to have been killed by the Iraqi leader's orders. In 1988, in the town of Halabja, a poison chemical attack wiped out an estimated 5,000 residents. 
Wall Street pulls back as troops move ahead 
Associaced Press 
NEW YORK 

Wall Street pulled back Wednesday after investors' elation about a quick end to the war with Iraq dissolved into concerns about corporate profits. Stocks tumbled sharply with the Dow Jones industrials forfeiting 100 points. 
"The market has been 
absolutely thrilled about an 
imminent end for arguably 
[these] first three weeks of 
the war. We started the stock 
rally before the war started," 
said Arthur Hogan, chief mar­
ket analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

"Unfortunately, when 
investors stop celebrating 
they will have to focus on cor­
porate profits, which may not 
be so jubilant," he said. 

The Dow closed down 
100.98, or 1.2 percent, at 
8,197.94. 

The broader market also 
foll. The Nasdaq composite 
index dropped 26.20, or 1.9 
percent, to 1,356.74. The 
Standard & Poor's 500 index 
fell 12.30, or 1.4 percent, to 
865.99. 

Wall Street welcomed news 
from the U.S. military that 
Saddam Hussein's govern­
ment is no longer in control of 
Baghdad and TV footage 
showing joyous crowds 
swarming the city and defac­
ing images of Saddam. 

But the market's ability to 
advance was impeded by 
first-quarter earnings, which 
companies began releasing 
this week. Profits are expect­
ed to be mostly disappointing. 
due to the detrimental effect of the war on the economy and in turn, corporate perfor­mance. 
Wall Street has failed this week to gain upward momen­tum despite encouraging news on the war front, including rumors Tuesday that Saddam was dead. The Dow dipped 1.49 Tuesday, having risen a modest 23.26 on Monday. 

"For weeks, the only game in town was Iraq. We have gotten to the point where it is not over but in the last quar­ter. Investors are now looking for the next thing that will drive the market," said Chris Johnson, manager of quanti­tative analysis at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati. "The economy is still not good. For the past few weeks, we were able to ignore that as the market focused on success in Iraq." 
While investors will likely 
send certain shares lower 
when first-quarter earnings 
disappoint them. stocks are 
more vulnerable to weak pre­
dictions about the second 
quarter, which companies are 
likely to make, citing higher 
energy costs and decreased 
consumer spending in the 
wake of the war. 

"The market needs to hear 
that the next quarter is it," 
said Johnson, referring to a 
return to profitability. 
"Unfortunately, the current 
events in the market are 
going to keep that from hap­
pening." 

Decliners included Knight 
Ridder, which fell $1.5 5 to 
$58.81 after reporting quar­
terly profits that fell short of 
estimates. 
Certified rnover 
Certified shaker 
Certified no more mac & cheese 
Certified acceleration Certified rush Certified freedon1 Certified bring it on Certified Pre~Owned BMW 
BMW 
Certified Pra-Ownad 


f;lfl~lt~~.,~t>m The UNlmate HJ()(.1.:;H-~1,!M'/V Or1vtng Mll<lhintr 

JbTP tWtr·x-;r· -"T TTlllIT'·1t1 ·--;; ·; · · 
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 

=Certified Prc~Ovmcd = 
.......................... l!~ IMY/ ...... r ................,
Get warranty protection* up to 6 years or 100,000 mllos. Got floxlblo !easing, ~Qd financing options. Got pure BMW. 

-

Thursday, April 10, 2003 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
UN refuses US demand to probe N. Korea 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

The U .N. Security Council r«'fused Wednesday to act on a U.S. request to condemn North Korea for pulling out of a trr.aty to curb nuclear weapons because of strong opposition from China and Hussia. 
But U.S. Ambassador John Nugroponte called the coun­cil's expression of concern "an acceptable outcome." He expressed hope that North Korea "will not reject diplo­matic efforts to address its nuclear program" and warned Pyongyang against any "fur­ther cscalatory steps." 
At the heart of the dispute is North Korea's insistence on direct talks with the United States. which it views as a threat to its security. 
The Bush administration. which has called North Korea part of an "axis of evil" along with Iran and Iraq, insists that the problem be addressed in a multilateral 
forum, including countries threatened by Pyongyang's nuclear program. 
China, Russia. the European Union and Secretary-General Kofi Annan have tried to get North Korea and the United States to the negotiating table. U.N. envoy Maurice Strong, who just returned from Pyongyang, said Tuesday both sides now agree to hold direct and multilateral talks, but haven't agreed on the for­
mat. 
North Korea has warned that any Security Council action would undermine peace efforts and it has reit­erated several times that it would regard U.N. sanctions as a declaration of war. 
With such high stakes. council members chose to take no action, hoping to instead find an acceptable framework for talks. 
"Members of the council expressed their concern" about the nuclear issue, said council president Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, Mexico's U .N. ambassador. "The council will continue to follow up develop­ments of this matter. There is nothing else to add to this." 

China's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday the Security Council had no business dis­cussing North Korea's nuclear program. 
Leaving Wednesday's meet­ing, China's U.N. Ambassador, Wang Yingfan, said, "I think it was a good discussion. All the efforts are being done, and 
will continue,  to  promote  
political dialogue  - that's  
what I stressed."  

"The only way the problem is going to be solved is direct bilateral dialogue between Washington and Pyongyang, and whatever multilateral for­mats are used should be in addition to this," said Russia's 
U.N. Ambassador. Sergey Lavrov. 
The standoff began in October when U.S. officials said North Korea admitted it had a clandestine nuclear program. North Korea's U.N. Ambassador Pak Gil Yon called the report "a rumor." 
Washington suspended fuel shipments that were part of a 1994 agreement with the United States that froze North Korea's nuclear program. The North retaliated by expelling 
U.N. nuclear monitors and withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty as of Thursday. 
It then took steps to restart its frozen nuclear program, saying it would be limited, for the moment, to peaceful pur­poses such as electricity pro­duction. 
The International Atomic Energy Agency referred the issue of North Korea's with­drawal to the council in February. 
Even though the council did not agree on a statement of condemnation, Negroponte 
said  the  outcome  of  
Wednesday's meeting was  
"acceptable."  

"Diplomatic contacts ... are taking place bilaterally, multi­laterally, between all the countries in the region around the Korean peninsula -China, Japan, South Korea and so forth," he said. 


2()()::.3 I)istir1gt1isl'1f~(i Lf~f.:tl.trf.~ Sf~ric~s HI .(--~ ()1· s··-. l" ~) i-l,i vi(j (·-~ ( ~\ l"'I'.·)(-··)r"':l 1'~"li, E'''"'< t1,1 ·1~('~ s ,,
...... "' b ...... (.t !. l ·(~ ...# .1 !. . . . (_..; . \.. . ./ _.,d . .. '--·· 
"The Attorney as Gatekeeper: Toward Definition and Implementation of the Securities Lawyer's Role" 
by Professor John Coffee Adolf A. Berle Professor of Law Columbia Universiry 
Friday, March 21, 2003* 
2:00 pm 120 Law School 
All are invited to attend. 
Ex-CEO 
rejects charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Fired HealthSouth CEO 
Richard Scrushy refused to 
answer questions in federal 
court Wednesday about 
claims the company overstat­
ed earnings by $2.5 billion lo 
meet Wall Street expecta­
tions. 
Scrushy faced more than 
50 questions from Bill I licks 
of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission but 
repeatedly invoked his Fifth 
Amendment right to avoid 
self-incrimination. 
The SEC filed suit last 
month accusing Scrushy and 
the health care giant he 
founded of overstating earn• 
ings. The hearing was to 
determine whether Scrushy's 
personal assets should 
remain frozen while the gov­
ernment investigates what it 
calls a massive accounting 
fraud at HealthSouth. 
Scrushy, who has denied wrongdoing, will be charged in a criminal indictment "that is about to drop," defense attorney Tom Sjoblom told the judge. U.S. Attorney Alice Martin wouldn't comment on whether Scrushy would be charged criminally. 
Eight former HealthSouth executives already have pleaded guilty and a ninth has agreed to. 
Scrushy already has given a sworn statement in the case, and the government revealed it has a recording of him made secretly by a for­mer HealthSouth executive who is helping investigators. 
Government lawyers said Scrushy has requested about $10 million in living expens­es, plus $60 million for legal fees and tax payments. Sjoblom wouldn't let Scrushy tell Hicks why he needed so much money, but Scrushy's lawyers did not contest the amount. 
Other former HealthSouth officials testified at Scrushy's hearing in a government effort to show it has a rea­sonable chance of winning the civil case. The hearing was set to continue Thursday. 
Diana Henze, the compa­ny's former assistant vice president for finance, testi­fied that she went to then­chief financial officer William 
T. Owens with suspicions about accounting fraud in spring 1999. 
Henze said Owens, who has pleaded guilty to crimi­nal fraud charges, told her changes had to be made to meet earnings forecasts to keep the company's stock prices up or "people would lose their jobs." 

*Please note that Prof. Coffee's visit has been moved up one week from the original!,y announced date of March 28. 
BuyorSellyour Homewith aGrad from the Dome Call Maria Cardle 360-3334 
CRESSY and EVERETT/GMAC 
Realty Office 233-6141 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

,--­
! 
, Thursday, April 10, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Senate passes tax cuts for donations to charities 
Associated rress 
WASIIINGTON 

Abandoning President Bush's larger "faith-based initiative," the Senate passed scaled-back legislation Wednesday granting new tax breaks for charitable donations. 
The initiative began as an effort to open government pro­grams LO churches, synagogues and other religious organiza­tions, but that proved so con­tentious that backers dropped every one of these provisions from the bill. 
The revised measure was approved 95-5. 
It now simply provides a vari­ety of tax breaks for charity donations, including a break for contributors who do not itemize on their taxes. It also provides $1.3 billion more over two years for the Social Services Block Grant, a favorite of Democrats. 
The White House said it sup­port~ many elements of the bill but "strongly opposes" the increased money for the social services program. President Bush suggested he wanted to see changes to more closely reflect his proposals. 
"America's charities face tough times, and we can do more to support their efforts," Bush said in a statement. "I look forward to continuing to work with Congress to improve the CAHE Act legislation." 
llis words contrasted state­ments by Senate backers, who characterized their action as the final compromise. 
Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., 
called Bush's move a "major reversal." 
"I cannot understand why the Administration would do such a divisive thing and undermine the harmony we achieved with this strongly bipartisan, high­constructive bill we passed today," Lieberman said in a statement. 
It was unclear what the bill's fate would be in the House, or whether the Senate would sup­port a hill that includes more of 
"After two years of

what Bush neighbor­wants. fighting. this compromise hoods of this 
As passed by is finally consistent with country,·• 
the Senate, the Santor um
the American values of

bill would give said. "We're people who do tolerance, equality under going to be 
not itemize on the law and religious getting those their taxes a resources
freedom."

break for dona­that are tions to charity much need­beyond $250 in Christopher Anders ed to those 
any one year, up grass roots
ACLU spokesman
to $500. To keep the cost down, the new tax deduction would expire in two years. 
The bill also gives tax breaks for corporate donations, allows tax-free donations from Individual Retirement Accounts and encourages banks to offer Individual Development Accounts, which match the sav­ings of low-income people 
It provides $150 million for a new fund to help small chari­ties, including religious groups, expand their programs. 
The vote Wednesday came after more than two years of sometimes angry debate in Congress about the role of reli­gious groups using tax dollars. 

Lieberman said he was "proud and in some sense relieved" to arrive at the vote. 
Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa.. the other lead sponsor, said the bill would encourage charitable giving and therefore support religious groups, as well as sec­ular ones, that will receive more contributions. 
"It's really a great day for those who have been working hard, committing their lives in some of the most difficult 
organiza­
tions." 

Santorum also argued that the Bush administration has suc­ceeded in rewriting government regulations to open programs to religious groups, making legisla­tion less urgent. Santorum also promised to revisit the issue when a bill renewing the wel­fare program comes to the floor later this year. 
The Senate dismissed an amendment backed by Sen. Don Nickles, R-Okla., to give people who sell land for conservation a break on capital gains. That vote was 62-38. 
That was the only amendment considered, with other objec­tions to the bill dismissed after 
the controversial parts were stripped. 
The initiative, at the center of Bush's "compassionate conserv­ative" agenda, met stiff opposi­tion from the start. 
Backers argued that people looking for social services should be able to choose reli­gious providers if they want to. Opponents worried about dis­crimination against people based on religion and feared the wall between church and state was crumbling. 
A divided House approved Bush-backed legislation opening a dozen new federal social pro­grams to religious groups. It allowed these groups to hire or fire based on their religion, and allowed them to skirt state anti­discrimination laws. 
The bill was strongly opposed by civil rights groups and oth­ers, and when it got to the Senate, Santorum and Lleberman scaled it back. 
Their bill initially offered tax breaks and made it clear that religious groups may not be excluded from government con­tracts for reasons such as hav­ing a religious name or display­ing religious symbols. 
Still, critics objected. Unable to overcome these objections, backers stripped the contested language altogether. 
Opponents welcomed the final version. 
"After two years of fighting, this compromise is finally con­sistent with the American values of tolerance, equality under the law and religious freedom," said Christopher Anders of the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Illegal cigarette 
ring busted 
Associated Prc.s., 
WASHINGTON 

Government investigators announced Wednesday that they had broken up cigarette smuggling operations that allegedly trafficked about $20 million in contraband ciga­rettes on both coasts. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives announced the arrests of 13 members of two smuggling groups in California. ATF agents are looking for four other smug­
glers. 

"Truckloads of these ciga­rettes were going across the country," said Jeff Roehm, ATF special agent in charge of the Washington field divi­sion. ''It's one of the largest tobacco operations uncov­ered." 
Federal, state and local law enforcement organizations were involved in the 2-1/2­year investigation. 
Officials said the smuggling organizations moved about 108 million cigarettes from Virginia to California, defrauding California of some $5 million in tax revenue. The smugglers operated in Nevada and New York as well. the government said. 

THURSDAY APRIL 10TH LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 9.00AM -6.00PM 
* Registering includes only asimple blood test. 
** Even if you do not qualify to donate blood, you are still able to register and donate bone marrow. *** Once registered, ynu will remain on the Registiy until age 60. No need to register again. 
@

ADW '0,.,. RKS 
,----------------------~ 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 Thursday, April 10, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P 0. Box Q. Notr,, Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGl'R 
Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hetder 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHIC..S EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVFRTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangerr 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX......................................................... .631-6927 ADVERTISING ...................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ........................ ................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversiryofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Obunmpolicin should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thi= Obie:rvcr (USPS 599 240) ii published Monday thmugh friday nccp1 during n..;un and vai:auon pciiod1. A rnba:ripfion II> TlxObK:tVCr ii SIOO for one academic year: SSS for one =am-
Tlw OhM:rvu u publhhcd at: POSTMASTER 024 :'>u1nh Dining H,ul 5c:'.nJ ;u;l<:lrn• i:orrccciom w: 
Now Dami;:, IN 465% 'fhc,Obcrvcr POBoxQ 
Pa1oJ.ic~ po11agc: p~d u Noc~ D.mt' Nou-c DilmC, IN i.6556-0n'J and adJmonal mailin_g offim. 
11.e ObKrvcr n a mnnf>c!r af the Ancxi;1,ud Press. All reprodu.:rioJI righu ~ m..:rv~d. 

Center helps to build community 
A couple of blocks down the street at the corner of Eddy and Howard sits a colorful building known as the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Developed after a six-month long process that 
Richard
involved community leaders, residents Friedman and community organizations, the 
A Skewed
Center, which 
Perspective
opened in 2001. was designed to be an outreach by the University to the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend. 

According to the Center's Mission Statement, the Center was designed to build trust through partnerships that stimulate community revitalization, thus strengthening the interaction between the Northeast Neighborhood and the University. It goes on to state that the Center was designed to enhance the area's life and gifts by providing teaching and learning opportunities through a range of educational, health and faith­based initiatives. 
In order to accomplish all of these goals, the Center has eight full-time staff members who are responsible for over­seeing and maintaining the overall direc­tion of the Center, as well as running the adult programs. In addition to this staff, the Center also has 100 student employ­ees and volunteers from Notre Dame. 
It is as a student employee that I have had contact with the Center. Since October of last year I have been volun­teering at the Center twice a week as a tutor for the after school program. Not quite sure what to expect at first, I must admit that I was somewhat uneasy about the whole idea of trying to tutor children from South Bend. I was unsure about how I would be able to connect with these children whose backgrounds seemed to be so different than mine and what it would be like to try. As I sat there through the tutor training sessions, how­ever, I began to get somewhat excited. After listening to the directors talk about how much the children looked forward to the tutors' arrival and how much the tutors helped, I realized that this was a unique and valuable opportunity. 
My first day of tutoring only served to further my excitement. I could not believe the excitement on some of the kids' faces when their tutors arrived. 
They were so excited to tell how their day was, so excited to just have someone who was there specifically for them. As my relationship grew with my assigned child I began to experience that glow and excitement from the inside as well. 
I began to realize that what so many of these children need is some stability and knowl­edge that someone is tak­ing time out specifically for them. It is hard to imagine that helping a child do simple math problems or taking the time to play a few games of Connect Four a week can make a difference, but I can assure you it 
01 
A•,''t"" h . h h ·ct

does. "!O'e+8 .fa1Pfik' ave wit t e res1 ents That is not all to say L Whf "''q@lW and it lets us take part in that the work is always : ht£ :\i.1( ~J,..:/ helping them improve 
' 

easy, because it is not. With such a relationship comes responsibility, and these children hold you to your word. Seeing the disappoint­ment on some of the children's faces when their tutors cannot be there one day can be painful. And, of course they do not always want to work. But despite all the challenges and the extra responsi­bility, there is no doubt that it is worth it. 
This semester I have been lucky enough to have had even more of an opportunity to work at the Center. Due to more schedule flexibility, I am able to get there at the same time as the children and interact with them for an hour before the rest of the tutors arrive. What I have found through this experience is that the more time you spend at the Center, the more you come to love it and 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Don't eat the veal 
Could you imagine a small puppy being taken from his mother at birth, doomed to spend the rest of his life tied to a crate so tiny that he can't even turn around or lie down com­fortably? He is kept mainly in the dark and in total isolation. Because these conditions are so unnatural, to prevent illness, he is pumped full of drugs and antibiotics to keep him alive. At just 20 weeks, left so weak that he can barely walk, he is slaughtered. You probably can't fathom an innocent little puppy being subjected to these conditions, and in fact, if you did this to your dog, you could be prosecuted for breaking anti-cruelty laws. Yet, these are standard methods for rais­ing veal calves in the United States. 
As the public has slowly become aware of the gruesome truth behind the production of veal, there has been a recent outcry to ban this inhumane and cruel practice. Many estab­lishments have pledged to stop serving it. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame Food Services still offers veal in the children. The more comfortable they become with you, the more open they are and the more you can see how much their time there and their relationship with you means to them. 
As tutors we give these children some­one to look up to and a sense of stability. something they may not get anywhere else. Just to know that you mean so much to a child, just to know that what you are doing is making such an impact, is unbelievable, and truly an experience that everyone should have. 
Overall, the Robinson Center has made a large impact in my life here at Notre Dame and changed the way I view South Bend. The Center 

allows us as students to really get involved with the community and to 
take part in helping to revitalize it and to make that difference that everyone talks about wanting. 
:,1~/H:/ It allows us to see the ',•JJ.f ,.:· connections that we can 
.,,..,,,,,:. t,-'o'// their lives. · It is something that I would encourage everyone who has the time to do, because there is nothing quite like it. So, as you plan your schedule for next semes­ter, think abut leaving from 3:30 to 5:30 open on either Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday so that you can volunteer at the Robinson Center and have an opportunity to help and really connect with the community. 
Richard Friedman is a senior double majoring in architecture and psychology. His column runs every other Thursday and he always welcomes your comments or suggestions at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
the dining hall. This year, the student group ND For Animals has been working to get veal out, and so far, we have collect­ed over 1,200 signatures from students who feel the same. But because some students still want to see it served, this may not be enough. We need your support. Please fill out dinning hall comment cards letting Notre Dame Food Services know that Notre Dame will not tolerate such injus­tice, send an email to kalili.l@nd.edu and most importantly, don't eat the veal! 
If you would like more information on the treatment of veal calves, visit www.noveal.org. With your help, we can get this University to stop supporting animal cruelty. Thank you. 
Carolyn T ampe President, ND For Animals senior April 8 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Teresa Fralish Himanshu Kothari Andrew Thagard Viewpoint Kurt Bogaard Graphics Andy Devoto 
Sports Bryan Kronk Heather Van Hoegarden Joe Lindsley Scene Christie Boisen 
Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that women are sufficiently rep­resented in the University's administration and faculty? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"America is the only country that went from barbarism to decadence without civilization in between. " 
Oscar Wilde writer 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 page 17 
Challenging ROTC to see other view-s 
Those in HOTC at our schools can justifiably find many reasons Lo swell with national pride. We are inspired by lhc many unnamed soldiers who have put their face in the dirt to pay the price for our liberty. As Colin Powell has said, "Over the years, the United States has sent many of its fine young men and women into grnat peril to fight for freedom beyond Andrew our borders. The only amount or land DeBerry we have ever asked for in return is enough to bury those that did not 
ND Changing 

r1iturn." 
Times

Such soldiers have set a high stan­dard for us who follow. We can be faithful to them by hearing the chal­lenges presented by the very citizens whose freedom we regard so highly. Doing so can only make us better offi­cers. 
While it is agreed that Saddam Hussein is a harsh dicta­LOr. we must scrutinize our leaders also. According to CNN, our president, vice president and national security adviser all have strong personal ties to energy industries: "Bush is a former director of Harken Energy Corporation, Cheney served as chief executive officer of Halliburton Energy Services Corporation and National Security Council Director Condoleezza Rice served on the board of directors of Chevron. The top 100 officials in the Bush administra­tion have the majority of their personal investments, almost $150 million, in the traditional energy and natural resource sectors." These facts seem worthy of at least some thought in our discernment about the war. 
According to the CIA's World Factbook, our military expenditure is over $276 billion, which is roughly one third of the world's total military expenditure. The U.S. fig­ure is 210 times that oflraq, which puts $1.3 billion towards its military. However, President Bush's press sec­retary /\ri Fleischer said, "This is about preserving the peace and saving the lives of Americans." 
On the other hand, such arguments can be interpreted to support the war effort. The president can couple virtuous intents with their economic expertise to reconstruct a bet­ter, stronger Iraq. And Iraq's $1.3 billion can still cause irreparable destruction against the United States or its own citizens under Hussein's direction. Also, despite the Pope's grave concerns about the war, he has made clear in his Catechism that without official government intelli­gence, he is not the proper authority to declare a war just. 
Having neither the top secret information nor the gift of insight into politician's hearts. it seems difficult for anyone lo concretely assert they know our leaders' motives. And that's where the health skepticism should arise for us who will serve. 
/\!though our military does receive annual training about just conduct within war, politicians deciding the war efforts as a whole are fallible people with important prac­tical and economic concerns who many not exclusively fol­low the Church's teachings that the laity is to animate. Therefore, we ironically seek out and learn from those who are frustrated by our government because we love uur nation and the values we want it to embody. Engaging the issue will make us and the teams we lead more grounded in the integrity and moral courage our military is to exemplify. 
Figures at Notre Dame act as our models to follow. Various instructors in ROTC and the Kroc Peace Institute have recurring lunches for dialogue. They learn by their relationship. During a recent meeting with Peter Quaranto, a student leader in Pax Christi, and an ROTC officer, open dialogue was praised for the educated, moral foundation is helps to build. College is an appropriate opportunity for such discourse as a time to let one's intellect explore deep and wonderful areas. As the officer noted, there is a prob­lem if HOTC students are not able to address the argu­ments presented to them. 
Consequently, next week's Pass In Review will present a special opportunity for us to hand each other along during this precarious ethical journey. ROTC students will gather in parade before Father. Malloy. Pax Christi will gather also to promote challenging viewpoints worthy of ROTC's consideration during their process of developing leader­ship excellence. Perhaps we can demonstrate our common patriotism and regard for peace by coming together in dia­logue and joint service projects in days to come. 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior aerospace engineering major in Air Force ROTC with a brother deployed overseas. He sends his appreciation to all in the community who contin­ue to pray for peace. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What about the environment? 
My friends often make fun of me because I take why this void of dialogue? Perhaps some would say newspapers out of the trash and put them instead in that students here don't really care. But I think the a recycling bin. And while I know that I am not envi­real problem is that we fail to see these environ­ronmentally friendly at all times. I often wonder mental issues as a priority because our attention is why it is so difficult for some people to walk those focused elsewhere. We currently are engaged in a few extra steps in order to recycle. Why, even at a devastating war that affects each of us: our nation is university particularly concerned with social issues, dealing with many other issues or terrorism and do students fail to show strong concern for poverty. It is understandable that as stu­the environment? I could probably . dents, we neglect to see the environ-count on two hands the number of ment as still important in light or all Viewpoint articles addressing envi­this. ronmental issues in this year's However. we cannot keep set­Observers. Why is there this ting aside environmental issues lack of dialogue about these because we fail to see them as matters that so clearly affect immediate problems. To do us? so is to endanger the quality 
Perhaps the reason is that or our lives, for we desper­there is no problem with ately rely on the safety and our current ecosystem. preservation of our ecosys­Maybe our environment is tem. If we are fighting a doing just fine, and there is war on terror and poverty no need to talk about it. to preserve the well being . This is simply not true. of our society, we too must Environmental experts fight a war to save the have made strong cases environment. The prob­that our planet presently lems of our ecosystem may faces some serious prob­seem unsolvable at our lems. Pollution levels are ris­level, but we can make a dif­ing, global warming is ference with the small things: increasing, energy shortages reading and engaging in dia­are looming on the horizon and logue about current environ­population rates are becoming mental issues, writing to govern­ever more threatening. The list goes ment agencies and even recycling. on. All of these issues prove to affect We are told time and again that as the quality of our lives and the lives of students of the University of Notre future generations. Dame, we are the future leaders or the world. 
Another possible cause for this seeming lack of As such, we must take an interest in our ecosystem. interest in environmental issues is that students We make the choices about the air we will breathe here just don't know about them. Again, I would say and the water we will swim in the future. We decide this is false. Notre Dame is a distinguished universi­whether we will visit national parks or live in ty made up of intellectual students. Thus, as stu­crowded smog-ridden cities in our retirement. So dents of this fine institution, we are expected to make the effort, do a little trash picking and start have a general level of knowledge about the world, talking about the environment today. including our environment. And so although not everyone knows every detailed issue, most students Abigail Braun here probably know of the broad environmental sophomore problems. Cavanaugh Hall 
Ir there is a problem, and most of us know of it, April9 
Examining graduation rates 
In his April 9 letter "Unjust ath­many other issues? player. Both Juan Dixon and letic programs hurt African­While I thank Derocher for his Lonnie Baxter, two seniors who Americans," Michael Derocher letter and agree with it in princi­were instrumental in Maryland points out the alarmingly low ple, I don't think he gave enough winning the NCAA title last year, graduation rates of the black bas­information to explain why the were selected after Chris Wilcox ketball players at many colleges graduation rates are so low. The -a sophomore who was not as and universities, especially those situation is a lot more complex important to Maryland's success. who fared well in recent NCAA than Derocher makes it seem. These examples show that it is tournaments. The letters starts The graduation rates do not practically mandatory to leave out by naming specific schools include players who turn pro school early to have an NBA and graduation rates. Derocher early, like Carmelo Anthony, who career. goes on to suggests that a "win at surely will leave Syracuse early, Still, there is no excuse for all cost" attitude from the college nor do they account for players some of these schools having zero athletic programs, have created a who transfer to other schools. So graduation rates among its black situation where the schools and a player like Dan Miller will not players. There is plenty of blame coaches rake in millions of dol­count toward either the to go around for the low gradua­lars and the athletes are "left out University of Maryland or Notre tion rate, but the primary respon­to dry." Dame's graduation rate. sibility lies with the NCM, the 
Derocher has a legitimate con­Also left out was the current athletic programs and the coach­cern, but he goes a little over­trend of players who almost have es. It seems to me that since they board when he labels this situa­to leave school early or risk los­are the ones who make up the tion "modern day slavery" and ing millions of dollars. And it's rules and make the money. they says that the two people who not just the black players. Players have to get together and decide should be most enraged by it are like Troy Murphy or Mike whether or not they are going to Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton. Dunleavy, who probably would enforce laws that say the players First, l don't know what modern like to have stayed in college for have to be both students and ath­day slavery is, but to imply that four years, leave early to maxi­letes -meaning that graduation this is anything like the slavery in mize their draft position. For is important -or they have to this country before the Civil War some strange reason, NBA gener­stop the hypocrisy and start pay­is entirely offhase. Secondly, al managers penalize most play­ing the athletes. wouldn't the Revs. Jackson and ers who stay for their senior sea­Sharpton's involvement in this sons. A player like Shane Battier, Jucain Buder situation lessen the urgency and who as a senior was the National Research Technic1an credibility, since Jackson and Player of the Year at Duke was Dcp1. of Engineering Sharpton were also accused in selected after three high school April 9 the letter of being involved in too players and an international 
THE OBSERVER 

page 18 Thursday, April 10, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'View from the Top' a new low 
By MARY SQUILLACE Scene Movie Critic 
"Please fasten your seatbelts and return your seats to their locked, upright position; we will now be experi­encing some turbulence." This warning should be issued before anyone should 

be subjected to viewing Bruno Barreto's "A View from the Top." After stumbling through corny dialogue, a trite screenplay, and failed attempts at comedy, his film ultimately crashes and burns. 
Donna Jensen {Gwyneth Paltrow) is a small town girl who 
"View from the Top" 

Director: Bruno Barreto Writer: Eric Wald Starring: Gwyneth Paltrow, Christina Applegate, Marc Blucas, Mark Ruffalo, Kelly Preston, Mike Myers, Rob Lowe, Candice Bergen, Stacey Dash 

aspires to see the world. In an attempt to fulfill this dream, she takes a job as a stewardess with a small airline that boasts of "big hair, short skirts, and service with a smile." Soon after, deter­mined to move-up in the world, Donna and her best friend Christine (Christina Applegate) enroll In flight attendant school with an upscale airline. 
However, Donna's dreams of working in first class are shattered when she is assigned to work out of Cleveland. 
Nevertheless, in a typical cinematic twist of fate, it is here where she reunites with love-interest Ted (Mark Ruffalo). In the end Donna must decide between staying in Cleveland with Ted and pur­suing her dreams. 
While the premise of "A View from the Top" appears to be promising grounds for some quality satire, screen-writer 
Eric Wald's cheesy dialogue and ovorly dra­matic warm-and­fuzzy moments thwart any attempt at humor he may have made. It's as if he can't decide whether he'd like to deliver laughs or a heart-warm­ing message. Furthermore, the plot is too thinly spun to ade­
quately support the storyline between Donna and Ted, so the film also fails as a romantic comedy. 
As if to counteract the obscenely cliche filled screenplay, Barreto packs "A View from the Top" full of big names such as Gwyneth Paltrow, Mike Myers and Candice Bergen. Unfortunately, neither Paltrow's superstar status nor Myers' humor can revive this film. 
In her role as Donna, Paltrow attempts to shed her characteristic grace and poise to don pastel mini-skirts and bright pink lipstick. However, she is unconvincing as a tacky, working-class girl, and her outrageous outfits provoke the only laughs of her performance. In addition, Paltrow's wistful looks and teary-eyed endeavors to appear emo­tionally torn are exaggerated and seem out of place in the context of such a triv­ial story line. 

Myers' performance is equally disap­pointing. His initial appearance as the lazy-eyed flight-school instructor pres­ents a glimmer of hope; however, by the end of the film even Meyers' jokes are far too repetitive to be funny. 
Other recognizable actors advertised in previews, such as Rob Lowe and Kelly Preston, almost appear more onscreen when their names roll during the closing credits than when their faces appear during the actual film. 
On a more positive note, at a mere 87 minutes, "A View from the Top" is mini­mally time consuming. In addition, it's so intellectually cushy that it might be just what mentally frustrated college students need in the wake of end-of­semester stresses. However, under any other conditions, seeing "A View from the Top" should plummet straight to the bottom of all priority lists. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 


THE 

OBSERVER 

Thursday, April 10, 2003 page 19 
TAKE Two 
Incurable insanity: Drug culture in Hollywood 
Kate: Well, kids, we were hoping to bring you our normal wholesome movie review. Ilowevcr, we were not willing to watch any or thn movies showing at Movies 14. 
Maria: At the risk of seeming pretentious becawm we lik~ foreign movies, we clccidnd to write an 
article on the won­
drous evolution of illegal substances in movies in anticipa­tion of "City of God." /\!though we have not seen the critical­ly acclaimed lilm debut of Brazilian director Fernando Mcirelles' movie that dflals with poverty and the drug trade in Rio de Janeiro. we would still like to address its significance in the portrayal of drugs and drug cul­ture in the history of motion pictures. 
K: Plus nothing ,.vitl get a college student to read an article faster than Lhc word "drug" in the title. To understand just how much the por­trayal of drug culture has changed since Lhe advent of movies, we have to go back to the beginning -the original drug cul­ture movie. Yes. I am talking about "Hccfer Madness." This "documentary" from 1936 is perhaps the most inaccu­rate portrayal of marijuana use known to man. It labels marijuana as a "violent narcotic" which can cause "incurable insanity." 
M: Anyone with stoner friends or cable knows that people under the influence of cannabis arc less likely to go on a violent rampage than eat an entire box of Cheese Nips in five minutes. But in the early days of film, accuracy was less important than scare tactics in addressing any aspect of drug culture. Even accurate portrayals showing the negative sides of drug use seem to have been strictly taboo in favor of over-exaggerated anti-narcotic hype. 

K Modern directors have abandoned the idea of marijuana as a ghastly menace, and use it as a comic tool instead. Cheech and Chong's 1978 film "Up in Smoke," featuring a van made entirely of marijua­na, is a far cry from the sensationalism of the 1930s. In the last decade, however, we've seen the rise of a new genre of drug culture movies that are much dark­er. 
M: Where the directors of the 1930s used spurious tactics to instill their message in viewers, directors such as Danny Boyle and Darren Aronofsky go the opposite direction and use genuine life experi­ences for much the same purpose. "Trainspotting" and "Requiem for a Dream" show the disintegration of the lives of lives of people addicted to heroin and other narcotics. Unlike "Reefer Madness," "Trainspotting" and "Requiem for a Dream" both take us inside the heads of drug users. "Trainspotting" frankly addresses heroin use as the greatest pleasure addicts have known in showing exactly how hard it is to quit using the drug, while "Requiem for a Dream" uses graphic images to depict the addict's slide into harsh reality. The shocking frankness of both films is a huge departure from what was accept­able in early days of film, with the bizarre subject material emphasized through rapid camera shots and other surreal filming techniques. 
K: While there has been a tendency to look at drug use as something casual or fun, the recent spate of film detailing the 
less chic side of 
addiction takes the focus from the perspective of drugs as recreation and focuses on the much nastier reality of life as an addict. The idea of "heroin chic" becomes a lot less appealing with images of the conse­quences of serious use staring you in the face. The dead baby crawling on the ceil­ing in "Trainspotting" removes any smidgen of coolness from heroin use. While Cheech and Chong look at drug use as a source of laughs. "Trainspotting" and "Requiem for a Dream" leave little opportunity for comedic enjoyment. 


M: Drug culture movies also took a differ­ent turn in 2000 with a look at the supply side of the drug trade in Steven Soderburg's "Traffic." Although the film was arguably less successful portraying the lives of drug users, it was an interest­ing foray into the national and interna­tional issues involved in drug sales. The ftlm was a step forward in examining all sides of an issue that has often been inco­herently addressed by writers and direc­tors. Movies revolving around the issues of drugs and drug cultures have become increasingly insightful and accurate since the genre emerged, and especially in the last few years. None of the previous films have been able to offer what "City of God" accomplishes by examining the drug trade abroad without any American perspective on the issue. The film focuses on the violence and poverty that promote and surround narcotics before they ever reach the United States. If watching the lives of drug addicts is an exposure to harsh reality, being emerged for two hours into the worst districts of Rio de Janeiro is even more so. 
K: Modern movies provide a much more realistic picture of addiction and they show there is a much more honest dis­course now about the issue of drug use. Directors arc still using scare tactics, but they're using tactics based on what really happens. This is an example of how much more effective honesty can be in making any important point. I lowever, it's still a Hollywood version of addiction. These actors go home and are no longer addicted. Volunteering at a homeless shelter will provide a far more realistic picture of the life of a drug addict than a movie will ever be able to do. Or, if you really don't care. go sec "A View from the Top." 
The opinions expressed in their col­umn are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Kate Williams likes pina coladas and getting caught in the rain. She can be reached at kwilliam@nd.edu. 
Maria Smith can be reached at 


"City of God" portrays the drug trade abroad, with Its violence and poverty, before the narcotics ever even reach the msmith4@nd.edu. United States. It accomplishes a level of reality American movies could not reach. 
• 
Thursday, April I 0, 2003 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Prior gets first shutout as Cubs top Expos 3-0 at Wrigley 
"Prior! Prior!" with Liefer at

Associa1ed Press 
the plate. Prior now has double-digit
CHICAGO 
strikeouts in seven of his 21
Mark Prior pitched his first major league starts. 

major league shutout, striking 
out 12 and outdueling Javier 
Vazquez as the Chicago Cubs Brewers 3, Pirates 2 
beat the Montreal Expos 3-0 Geoff Jenkins wanted to 

Wednesdav. prove he was all right. Todd 
Prior (2-0) scattered four hits Ritchie wanted to prove the 

and walked none in the second Pittsburgh Pirates were all 
complete game of his young wrong. 
career. Jenkins, playing for the first 
The 22-year-old right-hander time since tearing up his right retired 16 straight batters at ankle last season. hit a two-run one point. He allowed only one homer to support Ritchie's extra-base hit. a double by strong start and the Milwaukee Orlando Cabrera in the seventh Brewers beat the Pirates 3-2. inning. It was a comeback night for 
Vazquez (1-1) lost despite Ritchie, who ended a nearly striking out a career-high J 4 in yearlong road losing streak, seven innings. He also walked and Jenkins. who spent months none and gave up five hits, in rehabilitation after tearing including a two-run homer by ligaments inside a.nd outside Damian Miller. his dislocated ankle June 17 in 
Prior added an insurance run Houston. 

in the eighth, faking a bunt and After Jenkins homered twice 
then swinging away for an RBI Tuesday for Double-A 
single. Huntsville on a rehabilitation 
Miller also had a single and a assignment, manager Ned Yost triple off reliever John Foster in ing his first.start of the season, for the third straight start, and double, finishing the day 3-for-said he wished Jenkins saved the eighth. allowed two runs on five hits in Pat Burrell and Jim Thome 
3. the homers for Pittsburgh. seven innings. each homered twice and drove 
Great things have been Jenkins must have listened. Marlins 3, Mets 2 Burnett was projected to be in five runs to lead the expected of Prior since the Jenkins grounded out weakly Ivan Rodriguez homered and Florida's opening day starter, Philadelphia Phillies over the Cubs picked him second overall in his first two at-bats, then fol­drove home the winning run but he began the season on the Atlanta Braves. in the 2001 draft. lowed Richie Sexson's single off with a two-out single in the disabled list because of tendini­Maddux (0-3) is off to his 
And he didn't disappoint Josh Fogg (1-1) in the sixth bottom of the ninth inning, tis in his right elbow. worst start since 1989, when Wednesday. with a drive into the right-cen­leading the Florida Marlins New York starter Steve he also lost his first three deci­
He set the tone with his first ter field seats -his first homer over the New York Mets. Trachsel allowed one run on sions for the Chicago Cubs. batter. needing only three since the day before getting Rodriguez made the key six hits in six innings. He Maddux was touched for 10 pitches to strike out Endy injured. defensive play, too. After allowed one run in seven runs, seven earned, and 12 hits Chavez. He gave up a single to Not only did Jenkins pick up Armando Almanza hit Mo innings in his only appearance in 5 2-3 innings. left to Henry Mateo, then shut the offense, Yost said he gave Vaughn with a pitch to start the against Florida last season. He struck out seven, but the Expos down tight. the Brewers a lift just by walk­ninth, pinch-runner Joe Rey Sanchez, who came into walked three and made a 
He was perfect through the ing into the clubhouse. McEwing was picked off first the game with only three hits in throwing error, a rare mistake next 5 1/3 innings, retiring 16 Jenkins apparently wasn't as base by Rodriguez, a perennial 27 at-bats, drove in New York's for the Gold Glover. straight. Prior struck out seven confident as his manager was Gold Glove winner, second run with his second sin­The four-time Cy Young win­during that stretch, and the he could do that right away. Marlins closer Braden Looper gle of the night. ner has now allowed 18 earned Expos could get only two balls And for Ritchie. traded by the (1-0) struck out the only two The Mets took advantage of runs and 30 hits in 14 2-3 out of the infield. The closest Pirates to the White Sox in a batters he faced for the win. Burnett's wildness to take a 2-1 innings, leaving him with an they came to a hit was Michael five-player deal 16 months ago. Mike Stanton (0-1), who lead in the seventh. Ty 11.05 ERA. In his last outing. Barrett's chopper down the The trade was much criticized hadn't allowed a run in his first Wigginton, was hit by a pitch, the Marlins pounded him 17-1 third base line in the third. in Chicago as Ritchie went 5-four appearances of the season, then moved to second on a wild Saturday night. 
But umpires ruled that the 15, while the Pirates got a com­took the loss for the Mets. pitch, before advancing to third Burrell homered twice off ball had bounced foul before it bined 24 wins from Fogg and The Marlins won after their on Burnitz's groundout. Maddux. reached third base, and Barrett Kip Wells. ninth started with two quick Sanchez's single put the Mets Thome hit his first two home went back to the plate. He Ritchie wasn't tendered a outs. Juan Pierre extended his ahead. runs for the Phillies, connecting wound up hitting a fly ball to contract by the White Sox after hitting streak to nine games The Marlins answered in the both times off rookie reliever center. a season in which he was 1-10 with a bloop single and moved bottom of the inning on Joey Dawley. 
The Expos finally got another on the road. and he subse­to second on Luis Castillo's sin­Castillo's two-out single. Phillies starter Vicente hit off of Prior in the sixth, quently signed with the gle. Castillo drove in Alex Gonzalez, Padilla (1-1) allowed 10 hits in when Chavez singled through Brewers. Rodriguez followed with a who opened the inning with a seven innings, fanned nine and 
t the hole between third and It was Ritchie's first road vic­liner to right-center. The double and advanced to third didn't walk a batter. short with two outs. tory in 10 decisions since beat­Marlins snapped a four-game on a groundout. The hit extend­The only runs against him 
Prior allowed only two more ing Oakland on April 28, 2002. losing streak against the Mets, ed Castillo's hitting streak came on Gary Sheffield's RBI hits the rest of the way, and Ritchie retired the first 16 dating back to last season. against the Mets to 19 games. doubled in the third and Robert finished the day by striking out batters before Jack Wilson sin­Jeromy Burnitz homered for Fick's RBI single in the seventh. Jeff Liefer with his 113th pitch. gled and he led 3-0 when lifted, the Mets. Phlllles 1.6, Braves 2 The Phillies scored three runs The crowd was chanting but Kenny Lofton hit a two-run Florida's A.J. Burnett, mak-Greg Maddux was hit hard in the first inning, all unearned. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621  HOUSE AVAILABLE furn 4b2ba,  Student Rental House  ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are  
NOTICES  WANTED  New Schwinn w/lock $100. Call  walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com  3-4 or 5 person 2 story.  you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open-hearted. finan•  
Mark@ 4-2061  8 blocks from campus.  cially stable woman would like to  
Study Abroad with CEA. England, Italy, Spain, France, Australia. Request a Free Catalog www.GoWithCEA.com  Spend a great summer in NY. ND alums in Westchester County looking for live-in help this summer to help with the care of their children including their autistic daughter.  JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE. WALK TO ND GILLIS REALTY 272-6306  DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR­WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS· STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY  New everything. Wired for computers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235-3655 -LIVE IN A GREAT NOT  consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824­7006.  
Person will be trained in the princi- Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/loll up.  SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE  QUESTIONABLE AREA JUST  
3-6 BDRM HOMES. $195.PP/MO.272-6306  pies of applied behavior analysis.  2 baths. Asking $88,500. Mike @ 330-393-1584.  STAFF ON CALL­WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL  NORTH OF ND 2n3091  Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each way all taxes included! If you can  
Leaving town? We II buy your car. 574-243-0000.  Job will include ABA therapy & childcare responsibilities. Weekends free, private room.  98 HONDA CIVIC EX COUPE 2D; LOADED; 5 SPEED MANUAL; 58000 MILES; $8250;  TODAY· HOUSES GOING FASTl!I-CON­TACT KRAMER (574) 315-2436· ALSO LEASING FOR  PERSONAL  beat these prices start your own damn airline! Book on line www.airtech.com or (212)219­7000.  
Oeaimaker Auto Sales  Call 914-241-9238.  574-631-6295  2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE @  Unplanned pregnancy?  THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  
...,  52081 933 No. So. Bend, IN  For Sale  FOR RENT  WWW. DOMUSKRAMERCOM  Don t go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support  THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­DAY, APRIL 30.  
Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages 2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk. 2 morn., 1 eve. $7/hr Robyn @ 271 -3646.  Ranch home. 3 bdrm, l.5 bath, fire­place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage, fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 288-2001  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com  2 BDRM House, A/C. close to cam­pus. 269-699-5841 1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price negotiable dboudon@nd.edu  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer.  Move from Notre Dame to Chicago's Lakeview. Two bed­rooms, Near Wrigley and el. Heated, alumni owned, $1040 BOO· 323-8144 x640  


Thursday, April I0, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
-
Royals retnain undefeated as Tigers remain w-inless 

A.soci.tcd Pres• 
DETROIT 

Dec Brown hit his first career grand slam and Brent Mayne added a lhrec-run shot as the unbealen Kansas Cily Royals downed the winless Detroit Tigers 9-6 Wednesday. 
The 6-0 start is the best in lloyals' history. 
/\t 0-7. Detroit became only Lhe sm:ond team in major league his­Lory to start successive seasons with at least s1wnn straight loss­PS. Tim Tigers wcrn 0-11 last year. 
The 1%2-63 New York Mets were 0-<J and 0-8 in their lirst two seasons. 
New manager Alan Tramrnell's team missed a chance to bring the tying run to lhc plate in the ninth. Tigers star Bobby lligginson. running from first base, was hit by Carlos l'ena's grounder for the final out of thn game. 
Jeremy Affcldt (1-0) allowed live runs. live hits and struck out six in 5 2/3 innings. Mike MacDougal pitched the ninth for his fourth save. 
Yankees 2, Twins 1 
Mike Mussina allowed no earned runs in eight innings to beat the Minnesota Twins for the 19th time in 21 decisions and the New York Yankees got home runs from Jorge Posada and Haul Mondesi. 
Mussina (2-0) allowed one run and six hits in eight innings and improved his winning percent­age against the Twins to .905 ­the highest for any active pitcher 
ANT TD DRAW ACOMIC? 
Do you open up the back page of the Observer and say, "I can do better than thisl" ? 
Well, you'd be surprised how hard agood 
crossword puzzle is to make, believe me. But if you know you'd like to do acomic for next year's Observer, here's what to do: 
example strips and adescription of your comic ta editor Andrew Soukup no later than TUESDAY, APRIL 15th. 
against any team. 
Mussina outdueled Kyle Lohse (1-1) on a crisp 40-degree night at Yankee Stadium where the ball didn't carry well to the out­field. 
Lohse retired the first nine bat­ters and didn't allow a hit out of the infield until Posada and Mondcsi homered in the fifth. 
That gave the Yankees 19 homers in their first eight games -one shy of the AL record, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The Yankees set the record in 1932 and Seattle matched it five years ago. St. Louis holds tho major league mark of 23 in 2000. 
Indians 5, White Sox 2 
Brian Anderson won his first appearance with the Indians at Jacobs Field since the 1997 World Series, leading Cleveland over the Chicago White Sox. 
Only 14,841 -the smallest crowd in the Jake's 10-year his­tory -attended in near-freezing temperatures. It was the fewest fans to see an Indians home game since Sept. 20, 1993, at Cleveland Stadium. 
Anderson (2-0), who earned a save in Game 4 against Florida in the '97 Series in his first stint with the Indians, allowed two runs and seven hits in six innings. 
Rookie Brandon Phillips hit his first career homer off Jon Garland (0-1 ). Phillips added a double, stole third and scored on a short sacrifice fly to center for the Indians, whose bullpen final­ly did the job. 
Jose Santiago pitched 1 1/3 innings and Danys Baez got five outs for his third save. 

Paul Konerko homered for the White Sox, who had their win­ning streak stopped at four games. 
Blue Jays 10, Red Sox 5 
Vernon Wells hit a grand slam as the Toronto Blue Jays rallied for their fifth straight victory, beating the Boston Red Sox. 
Mike Bordick doubled twice and drove in three runs for the Blue Jays, who haven't lost since dropping their first three games of the season to the New York Yankees. 
Manny Ramirez extended his career-high hitting streak to 22 games with a three-run homer for the Red Sox, who have lost three offour. 
Ramirez's homer gave Boston a 3-0 lead in the fourth, but Toronto's Dave Berg homered off Casey Fossum (1-1) in the bottom half and the Blue Jays scored five runs in the fifth. 
Toronto starter Tanyon Sturtze (2-0) won his second straight start. 
Devil Rays 10, Orioles 7 
Rocco Baldelli hit a tiebreaking RBI triple in the seventh inning as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays came from behind for the second straight game to beat the Baltimore Orioles. 
Tampa Bay trailed by four runs in the second inning and three in the fifth, but Baldelli's triple off Willis Roberts (0-1) gave the Devil Rays an 8-7 lead. Aubrey Huff followed with a run­scoring single against B.J Ryan, and Carl Crawford added an RBI single in the eighth. 
Marlon Anderson hit a three­run homer and matched a career high with four RBIs for Tampa Bay. Huff knocked in three runs. 
The Devil Rays fell behind 6-0 in the second inning Tuesday before coming back for an 8-7, 10-inning win over Baltimore. 

... 
page 22 Thursday, April 10, 2003
The Observer . SPORTS 
.. 
NHL 
Islanders upset Senators 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 

Dave Scatchard, Alexei Yashin and Shawn Bates scored, and Garth Snow earned his first career playoff shutout to lead the New York Islanders to a stunning 3-0 victory over the top-seed­ed Ottawa Senators on Wednesday night in the opener of their first-round series. 
One day after New York coach Peter Laviolette proclaimed his eighth-place team was better than the Presidents' Trophy-winning Senators. the Islanders backed him up. 
Despite finishing 30 points behind the Senators who had 113, New York got goals from Scatchard and Yashin in the first period. Bates then scored midway through the second. 
Yashin, the former Senators captain who was jeered whenever he touched the puck, gave the Ottawa fans some­thing new to boo about at 11:35 when he scored his 10th career playoff goal. 
Oilers 2, Stars 1 
Ryan Smyth popped a short-handed goal between Marty Turco's legs, and Shawn Horcoff beat the record-setting goaltender's glove on a 2-on-1 break. sending eighth-seeded Edmonton past top-seeded Dallas in Game 1. 
Turco turned away seven first-peri­od shots and was bolstered by a 1-0 lead on a power-play goal by Mike Modano. 
Then Turco allowed two goals with­in a 3:48 span early in the second period and Dallas never recovered. A spurt of penalties in the third left the Stars down at least one man the final 4:06, draining their comeback hopes. 
Edmonton's Tommy Salo stopped 20 shots to earn just his fourth win in 16 playoff games. Turco made 21 saves in his playoff debut. 
The Stars and Oilers are meeting in the playoffs for the sixth time in seven years. 
Maple Leafs 5, Ayers 3 
Mikael Renberg scored a power-play goal with 5:39 left, leading Toronto over the Philadelphia in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals series open­er. 
The Flyers outshot the Leafs 31-15 but Toronto scored four goals on its first 13 attempts against Roman Cechmanek. Alexander Mogilny had three goals, for his first playoff hat trick, and Tie Domi also scored for the Leafs. 
Ed Belfour made 28 saves for Toronto. which has won four straight first-round series. 
Eric Desjardins, Donald Brashear and Eric Weinrich scored for Philadelphia, which has been eliminat­ed in the opening round four of the last five years. That trio scored only 18 regular-season goals. 
Devils 2, Bruins 1 
Jamie Langenbrunner scored twice and Martin Brodeur had 26 saves to lead New Jersey over Boston in the opener of their first-round playoff series. 
Bryan Berard scored for the Bruins in the series that matches teams com­ing off embarrassing first-round losses last year. 
There were plenty of hard hits, and both teams played with a chippiness that could make this an interesting series. 
.-.. ,,.•..•,•··.··.··. --·-..·. 
. .. . ' ·.::.. · -.-.. ·._: ::,:::_·. ,,:· ,.,:-: . 
.-··:··.· ::·.:·, ·:·:·:>: ·:·::=:::: i::\·· :::::·· .­
··········•···•···········••···••············•···•············/············••···••···········••··••·•············· 
·..··......··· ..·.·. .·.·.·.. · ..··....·..··. ···· ·· 
. . 
· ·· · · 
..·..-.--.--. 
·· ·· ·· ·· .. ·.·· ••. ··· 

NBA 
'Bullets' lose on anniversary 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Calling themselves the Bullets once more, the Washington Wizards spoiled the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the franchise's lone NBA champi­onship by losing 87-83 Wednesday night to the Boston Celtics. 
Rookie J.R. Bremer scored 20 points on 8-for-11 shooting, including the win­ning 3-pointer with 19.4 seconds to play. Antoine Walk13r scored 24 and Paul Pierce had 20 as the Celtics clinched a playoff berth and sent the Wizards clos­er to elimination. 
Washington fell 2 1/2 games behind eighth-place Milwaukee in the East. 
After Bremer's basket, the Wizards trailed 85-83, but couldn't get the ball to Michael Jordan on their final possession. Tyronn Lue missed a tough 16-foot fade­away, and neither Kwame Brown nor Christian Laettner could get the tip. 
Jordan scored 21 points for Washington. 
Bucks 112, Clippers 92 
Toni Kukoc scored 26 points, tying his season high, and had 10 rebounds. The Bucks reduced their magic number to one for the final playoff berth in the East: One Milwaukee victory or a Washington loss puts the Bucks into the playoffs. Milwaukee has three games to play and Washington has four. 
Sam Cassell had 22 points and Gary Payton 21 for Milwaukee, which 
bounced back from an overtime loss at Chicago in which the Bucks led by 19. Elton Brand scored 21 points and Corey Maggette 20 for the Clippers. 
Magic 88, Raptors 82 
Tracy McGrady scored 37 points and 
had a spectacular two-handed dunk to 
help the Magic snap a four-game losing 
streak. McGrady shot 1l-of-18 from the 
field, including 4-of-7 from 3-point 
range, and was 11-of-16 at the free 
throw line. He surpassed 30 points for 
the 48th time this year. 
Coupled with Washington's loss, 
Orlando's magic number for a playoff 
berth fell to one. 
Toronto got 15 points from Alvin 
Williams. 
Hawks 97, Nets 92 
Ira Newbie hit a go-ahead 3-pointer 
with 1:38 left and the Hawks held off a furious rally. Shareef Abdur-Rahim added another 3-pointer late in the game to extend the margin to six, and . after Jason Kidd made a layup on the other end. Atlanta's Dion Glover made a 
free throw for the final margin. 
Jason Terry scored 24 points for the 
Hawks, and Abdur-Rahim added 18 
points and 15 rebounds. Newbie, who 
started in place of Glenn Robinson, fin­
ished with a season-high 16 points. 
Kidd had his fourth triple-double of 
the season, totaling 23 points, 12 assists 
and 11 rebounds. The Nets lost for only 
the second time in eight games, but are 
just 16-23 on the road. 


. 

.. . 
· · ··· · · · · · ·· .·.·. ·.·.· ·· 
· · · 

. --' .. ' -. ' . ·,· ,-,-... -,--.-.-..-·,·. 
·· ··· ·· · · ·· ·· · · · ·· · · ·· · ·· · 

AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 23 
Major Leagti;ji~~!~!~!i;ilil[~I 

American Le3gue. ~"t;; 

team record 
NV YankflQ 1+ · 
Boston •S.:-3 
TOtOlilO .4;-3
~:~~!:' ;:~ ,2fli . .,: t~~:2~:1; .. 
team 
Ame:~=-d~p::~;::,,1~;1;;•••••;?';••:j\li 

~~. HJ;~1&1 
American League· W~t··= ........:··=<:.::()t 

team Oaklalld Saatlla 
Anaheim 
Texu 
team 
NY Mets 
Plllladelphla Montreal 4.4 ,500 4.4 Atlanta 3-s .s1s a~1v:; 

National League Central .... 

team record 'peti; lru;;.tJQ{ Houst&n 4'"2 ~~,1-.-=: ..--.>·•+t:::-:-..:/ St. Lou!, ·4,-2 ;~~,. 4;~ } 
Chlca90 Cubs 
.~: .•:::rt< I:>

Pittsburgh 
Cln~innall N 429 ·34 
Milwaukee z:.t, .....·.:2so. a4, Y 
team 
San Francisco. Colorado 
Lu Angeles 
San Diego Arizona 
1 2 
record .• ~(?. ••l~ll:J{l•;/;;:<:i{ ;;:;: 
6-1 •· .857· $-1 i• :J:< 
4,,3 .571 : . . 4,;f:'.' :z 2•5 .286 .· 2,5 ... 4< 2•5 .286 ., '2j!$ ) >~'. 
i/ 
National League E8$t . · r· r(1cord perc. i.t$t 1Qf..,:,Qff : ;{ 
::: •::~·\ .. :!'.;' ' 
GQ ··••····•·· :::..-.:~===·:·.·.-· 
L L 
.::r:: 
U.< 
a > 

4 Syrac11se
3 GetJrgetDwn l.<?tt\';Jlil'i'll!i1i!)t1~j!i!i/!I'
5 Maryliml 6 Vlrqlnla 
7 Massaebu~tl$ 
8 Nortb Carollna 9 lOW$Ull . 
10 Rutgers 
11 Comtll. 
12 Duke· 13 Loyola 14 Ohio stalo . 15 Navy 16 Hofstra 17 Bucknell 
UMBC 19 'talf 20 VIiianova 


around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS Detroit at Anaheim 6 p.m., ESPN Colorado at Minnesota 8 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE HOCKEY FINAL FOUR Cornell vs. New Hampshire 11 a.m., ESPN2 Minnesota vs. Michigan 5 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

Atlanta at Philadelphia 2 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Philadelphia at Boston 6:30 p.m., TNT 
Sacramento at LA Lakers 9 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

"T 

KAT Photo Former University Kansas Athletic Director Al Bohl Is surrounded by the media outside his home In Lawrence, Kansas Wednesday. Bohl was allegedly fired as a result of past conflicts with basketball coach Roy Willlams. 
Kansas fires athletic director Bohl 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE, Kan. 
The University of Kansas fired athletic director Al Bohl on Wednesday, and he said basketball coach Roy Williams was behind it. 
"I believe the Kansas bas­ketball coach had the power to hold his athletics director in his hand like a dove," Bohl said. "And he had a choice to either crush me with his power of influ­ence or let me fly with my vision for a better, total pro­gram. He chose to crush me." 
Bohl has had numerous clashes with the popular Williams. whose Jayhawks 
IN BRIEF 
Court rejects Burk's request 
to permit protesters 
A federal appeals court rejected Martha Burk's emergency request to allow protesters outside the front gate of Augusta National Golf Club. 
The ruling Wednesday by the U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals came just hours before the Masters was scheduled to begin Thursday morn­
ing. 
Burk, who heads the National Council of Women's Organizations, plans to protest Augusta National's all-male membership during the third round Saturday. 
She wanted to place picketers at the front gate of the exclusive club, but Sheriff Ronald Strength would only approve a site a half-mile away. He said it was unsafe to gather in front of the club because of heavy congestion during the golf tourna­ment. 
The three-judge panel refused to grant Burk's emergency request to block Monday's ruling by U.S. District lost to Syracuse in the national championship game Monday night. Bohl was hired in 2001 to replace longtime athletic director Bob Frederick, a close friend of Williams. 

Williams is expected to he a leading contender for the coaching job at North Carolina, his alma mater. Williams turned down the position three years ago, but he has faced frequent questions about the opening since Matt Doherty resigned. 
Kansas Chancellor Robert Hemenway denied that he fired Bohl to convince Williams to stay. 
Bohl, however, is con• 
Judge Dudley H. Bowen Jr. 
Bowen upheld the city ordinance granting Strength the power to regu­late protests and also approved the sheriff's application of the law in handling Burk's request. 
Burk said her group had no other legal means to overturn the decision before Saturday, though it will con­tinue to fight the constitutionality of the city ordinance in court. 
Burk wanted to post 24 demonstra­tors outside the front gate of Augusta National and 200 more across the street. 
She believed that would be the most effective way to demonstrate against Augusta National, which said again Wednesday that it has no timetable to admit a female member. 
In any event, she said her group would not do anything illegal at Saturday's gathering. 
Hall of Fame cancels 'Bull 
Durham' celebration 
Stung by anti-war criticism from vinced that the decision to remove him was made by Williams, not Hemenway. 
"It is bad when a basket­ball coach can have the ability to hire and fire someone," Bohl said. "There's no question I have been beaten up malicious­ly." 
Williams said Bohl tried "extremely hard," but he acknowledged that the two had their differences. 
Hemenway said North Carolina athletic director Dick Baddour contacted him about speaking with Williams. 
Williams has led the Jayhawks to four Final Four appearances in his 15 

Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon. the baseball Hall of Fame has can­celed a 15th anniversary celebration of the film "Bull Durham" that was to feature the co-stars. 
Hail president Dale Petroskey sent a letter to Hobbins and Sarandon this week, saying the festivities April 26­27 at Cooperstown, N.Y., had been called olT because of their remarks. 
Petroskey, a former White llousn assistant press secretary under Ronald Reagan, said recent com­ments by the actors "ultimately could put our troops in even more danger." 
Reached Wednesday night, Hobbins said he was "dismayed" by the deci­... sion. He responded with a iettlir he planned to send to Petroskey. telling him: "You belong with the cowards and ideologues in a hall of infamy and shame." 
The weekend affair, planned 
..
months ago, was also to feature "Bull 
Durham" actor Robert Wuhl and non Shelton, who wrote and directed the 1988 film. 
years. 
Hemenway appointed A. Drue Jennings, a Kansas graduate, former football player and the former chief executive of Kansas City Power & Llght. to take over as interim athletic director. 
"On the basis of these conversations and my own evaluation of the situation. I came to the conclusion a change of leadership was needed at this time," Hemenway said. adding that he made the decision before the end of the bas­ketball season. 
During a pep rally at the Final Four in New Orleans, Bohl was booed by Kansas fans. 
page 24 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 10, 2003 
The Notre Dame Law School 
Natural Law Institute presents 
LAW'S MORAL FOUNDATIONS HAS IT ANY? 


I I ...,. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I ... 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 
4:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
ABOUT MORALITY AND THE NATURE OF LAW 
JOSEPH RAZ 
UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD AND 
FELLOW OF BALLIOL COLLEGE 
Friday, April 11, 2003 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
ROOM 100-104 

9 a.m. 2:15 p.m TOWARDS A JURISPRUDENCE OPEN TO BEYOND THE HART/DWORKIN DEBATE: (ANTHROPOLOGICAL) REALITY THE METHODOLOGY PROBELM IN 
JURISPRUDENCE ·· Jude Chua Soo Meng National University of Singapore Brian Leiter University of Notre Dame University of Texas 
10:15 a.m. 4:00 p.m. THE REASON OF THE LAW 
ANNUAL NATURAi.) LAW LECTURE 
Timothy Endicott . Balliol College University of Oxford LAW AND WHAT I TRULY SHOULD 
DECIDE 
11 :30 p.m. 

ON MORALITY AS A NECESSARY OR JOHN FINNIS SUFFICIENT CONDITION FOR LEGALITY NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD 
M. H. Kramer University of Cambridge 

Co-sponsored by the Olin Foundation 
,,,. 
, l 
page 25

Thursday, April 10, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 
Rocker may go to Tampa 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG. Fla. 

.lohn Hocker wants back into baseball and could rind a new home with the Tampa Bay Devil Hays. 
The l'ormer Atlanta, Cleveland and Texas rclinvnr worked out Wednesday at Tropicana Field and was impressive enough that Devil Rays manager Lou Piniella feels it would bn worth signing 
Hocker to a minor "He wasn't totally He also was 1-0 in six 11:ague contract and pleased with his effort, games at Triple-A i;tiving him a chance to Oklahoma and 0-1
bat I think he showed

work his way up to the with a 13.50 ERA in 
majors. enough to warrant an three rehab outings "lle's chomping at opportunity." with Double-A Tulsa. the bit to get back in Rocker spent time baseball and get back on the disabled list
Lou Pinlella

to the big leagues," with left shoulder and Piniella said, adding Devil Rays manager neck pain in July. He 
wouldn't speculate on whether the pitcher will be signed. LaMar said a couple of other teams had looked at Hocker, too. 
Rocker, who returned to Atlanta after the workout, is 13-22 with 88 saves in 278 major league appearances with the Braves, Indians and Rangers. 
The 28-vear-old left-hand er was released by Texas in October after going 2-3 with a 6.66 EH.A and one save in 30 appearances with the Rangers last season. 

that Hocker would be assigned to Triple-A Durham if he docs sign with Tampa Bay. "I think it would be a good gamble." 
Piniclla and Devil Hays general man­agPr Chuck I .aMar said Rocker -whose career has plummeted since a Sports Illustrated article before the 2000 sea­son in which he made disparaging remarks about gays, minorities and oth­ers -proved that he's healthy. 
"lie threw the ball OK," Piniella said. "lie wasn't totally pleased with his effort, but I think he showed enough to warrant an opportunity." 
LaMar said he's had some discussions with Hocker's agent, Joe Sambito, but 
reported recurring 
pain following his 
rehab assignment at Tulsa in August and did not pitch again. 
LaMar, who was in the Braves' front office when Rocker signed with Atlanta, said he talked to Rocker about the prob­lems the pitcher has had in the past and made it clear that the Devil Rays would expect "professionalism" from him both on and off the field. 
Piniella said he didn't have a problem with taking in a player with Rocker's background. 
"When I look at a player, I don't look in the past. I look at the present and the future," the manager said. "I think he's learned from those things." 

NASCAR 
Cheever opts out of Indy 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Eddie Cheever Jr., the 1998 winner of the Jndianapolis 500. announced Wednesday that he will not drive in this year's race -although his team will enter at least one car. 
His decision ends a streak of 13 consecutive starts at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, the longest among active drivers. Cheever, 45, was care­ful not to say he was retiring, instead calling it a "self-imposed sabbatical." 
'Tm not sure what I'm going to do in the future," he said in a statement released by Red Bull I-lacing. "All I know right now is that I have too much going on." 
Cheever was unavailable for com­ment Wednesday because he was traveling to England, and no replace­ment was announced for his No. 51 car. 
He cited increasing travel, which included seven trips to Europe this winter, as much of the reason for his announcement. He said he had not had much time to prepare for the race. 
Cheever lives in Phoenix but was 
born and raised in Rome and has 
traveled there more frequently since 
he and John Menard, another IRL 
team owner, purchased TWR 
Engines, an engine-design company 
based in England. 
Cheever already had announced a 
cutback in the number of races he 
would drive this season but had said 
he would compete at Indianapolis. 
But just because Cheever is not in the driver's seat does not mean he will not have a stake in the race on Indianapolis' 2 1/2-mile oval. 
His team's No. 52 car will be driven by Buddy Rice. 
'Tm not certain about the future," Cheever said. "Hight now, I'm con­centrating on running the team and on the acquisition of TWH Engines." 
He has been an owner or co-owner of his car since 1996, when he was one of the better-known drivers who opted to stay with the Indy !lacing League following its split from CART. His gregarious demeanor made him one of the series' fan favorites. 
Cheever shares the series record for most consecutive starts, 69, with Buddy Lazier, the 1996 Indy 500 win­ner. Cheever's July 2001 victory at Kansas Speedway was only the sec­ond for an Infiniti-powered car. 
Cheever qualified for his first Indianapolis 500 in 1990, when he drove for Chip Ganassi's team. lie was named Rookie of the Year but never won a CART race. 
From 1978-89, Cheever drove in 132 Formula 1 races -the most of any American driver -but without a victory. His first win came in a rain­shortened race at Orlando, Fla., dur­ing the 1996-97 season. 
Cheever won one race each of the 
next four years, his biggest being in 
1998 at Indianapolis. 
Cheever also drove in Formula 2 
from 1976-77 and Formula 3 in 1975 
as a teammate of 1985 Indy 500 win­
ner Danny Sullivan. 

What mal<.€s Colin Fan€{ ticl<.? KEOUGH ITTSTITlJTE FOR IRISH STUDIES UndE:1graduat€ ComsE:s for Fall 2003 
HISTORY 
4213/IRST235:01 Irish American Experience (Dolan) 
The Irish nre one or the great success stories In American history. They have moved from the 
shantytowns or urban America to the boardrooms or Wall Street, leaving a mark on politlcs, llterature, 
rC?llglon, and th~ IAbor movement. The first part of the cour-se examines the history or modern Ireland. 
After studylnrJ the raml:ne or the l 840s the course will turn to @mlQratlon and the great themes of trlsh 
American history -poUtks, literature. rellgton and labor. 
4321/lRST326B:01 I'rlsh History J: (Smyth) 
Thls course explores the main themes In lrlsh history rrom the plantatlon of Ulster, In the early 
seventeenth century~ to the rebelflon ol' 1798. Attention tocus@s on plantation colonization and 
rellg!ous conrllct; the CromweUlan eplsode, the WUllamlte war, the anti-Catholic penal laws and the 
rise or the Protestant ascendancy. 
4451/IRST3B1:01 Nineteenth-Century J.reland (Mac sulbhhe) 
Drawing on monographs end gcner11I studies, this course Invites students to consider how different 
~or:1~1 groups experienced the proround chenges that transformed nineteenth-century Ireland. 
f\lthough the rour~~ traces pollticc1I deve-lopments, It pnys equal dttent:lon tc, sodoeconomlc and 
cultural Issues. lnclucflng the shift from hlch fertlUty to se)(ual restrl'llnt; patterns of emlgustlon, 
consumf'}tfon nnd social unrest; Improvements In @du-cation and llteracy; llngul?;tlc change; changing 
devotlonHI pr.a;ticcs and cultural 'revival' In the late tBOOs. 
ANTHROPOLOCV 
5'252/JRST228:0t I..-fsh and Am~rlcan Tap Diltncc (HcKenna) This course teaches a range or fundamental American tap steps In addition to at least two finished tllp ffanr:~ pl~C:f!!'i ~~t to CD music. Several hard show Irish t;,p rlances, will be ti.ughr anrl dependlnq on the ahlflly or tile sturtents, several other compleled danc:cs are pos.s,ble. Although the class Is lntef'lded tor students who hfwe never learned tflp, both f!le:mentary and middle nmge !'itudents have rnund the 
clAs-. suited to their needs 
UTl!'RATURE 
46G5/IRST302:01 Crime In the Nlnetet!lnth Century Novel (O~BrJen) lJ!!iln0 th(' dosf"ly rf'l,,tecl Vlc:torll'ln c:onc~pts of c,.-1rne c1nd progrrss as il h-<ln,e ror-cl.'lssroom dr-hate and l'ln;,lysls. thl!:: course focus<!s on social issues $iuch as poverty, women•s suffrage, colonlzatlon. and 
thf" na,r.ent !de..t or human rights.. Readings wlll Include works by Dickens WUd~ Ellot D~vltt Yeat~ 
t,.nd COno!ln Doy!!!!. Course woi k w!II Include sevenJI brief essays and a re~~21rch p~per.' ' • 
§07'1/lR~T305!01. Ir1~h Poetr·y In Trnnsf.dioh (McKibhen} 
This c:ourse ex,:,mh1 es por:try w,.-ltten In Irish rrom the late nineteenth century. students will work on clo~e reading using Enqllsh tr11nslatlons, with Irish texts given In racing text. No previous knowledge of Irish Is rt'qoln•d. Rc[]uln•ments wtll Include response piipers, two short essays, ,-,,,nd or,e longer e$Slf'IY, 
50RO/JRS't;J09:01 The Hidden rreh,nd (6 8uRchalla) Thi!'. rours!'! e'X~rnlnes asr,ects of tile corpus of 18th century poetry In the Irish [angL1age Jn the light of D~nlel COrkP.ry s rlldct,m /rel.!md ( 192-1), .., da:sslc analysis of the literature and society of lrlsh­~flr.,,.,h:lng MUn!>ler, and ~l1bscquent reus.ses!;rnents of that anafysls, Selections from the corpus or poetry wlll be taken frorn 6 I uama and Klnsella, An Duana;,·e.· poems of the dispossessed (1981). 
61.-s,/JRST37'1:01 Moder" Brltl!::t, 21nd Irlgh Drama (Mc'Intosh) This course e><amlncs the vtolent ruslon of politics and performance In British and tr/sh drama of the twrntleth c-:entury, focusing on the ways thl\t Ireland's struggle for H.ome Rule shaped the Anglo-Irish rlramc1tlc tradition. ,studr.nts wlU r~a,d nopular melodramas hy Dion Bouckault ,:1r,d J. w. Whitbread and thr.n SllJdV tf1e increas1ngly rtmblvaient responses of subsequent dramatists to the romantlclzatlon 
or lrelnnd'5 social am1 porttlc-"f crls~s. 

5463/IRST373A:01 Writing and Polltlcs In Northern Ireland (Burgess) This course explores the politics of culture, and the cultures of polltlcs, In the North of lrnlnnd during the twentieth century. Uslng a multiplicity of genres -drama, nctlon, poetry, rum, painting and documentary material -It unravels the history behind partition, th~ causes of the Troubles, ;,nd the nature of the conflict. Certain key themes stretch through the semester's work. Among the!oc am: sectarianism; the relatlonshlp between violence and culture; borders; Identity; Issues of soclaf and polltlcal justice, 
5460/IRST382:01. Tw@ntl@th-Century lrfsh Uterature (WaUncc) This course explores the: cultural and polltlcal factors which have shnpcd Ireland's cxtraordlnnry literary achievement, paying particular attention to decolonbaUon and the Northern Trouhtcs. We wlll re;,d major works by Shaw. Yeats, Joyce, Bowen, Frlel, Heaney and Deane. In conjunction with our ree1dlngs. we will view John Huston's The Dead and Neil Jordan"s The CryJnr, Game. 
5293/XRST429:01 Postcolonlal L1teratur@: A Comparative Introduction (WIison) This coor!':e lrwestlgates the development of Ute,.-.aturcs from the l'ormer cotonh'!~ of vr1rlou~ empires, btJt prlnclpally the &rltlsh ar,d French. Authors rnay Include Chlnua Achebe, Marlanut Ba, Buehl Emechct1', Anita o~sal, Bessie Head, George Lamming, Salman Rushdie, Wofe Soylr,ka, Vlkrnm Chandra, Derek Wal,:::ott~ and Thlch Nhat Hanh, among others. Theor·lst;~ Include r-r1tntz ranon, E":dw11rd Said. Gayatrl Spivak, Ngugl we Thlong'o. 
6017/IRST41'1.!01 Leaving the Emp,re! lrlsh Writing, 1900-1930 (Deane) This course concentrates on the critique or the British Empire anrl of EmplrP. as such as It ts m.an1rc,;t~d In the work or some of the best~known Jrl5h wrltt>r:'l of the perlocl. ThP. nctton or Joyc:P (lnrhullng U/'f'SSr-s), a selection C'.lf poems from the dlfferP.nt phases or Yeats'!!. caref!r, plays and PrerncP.s (r?!;!li'lys) by Shaw and ni:tlon and dr3ma by Beckett wl1I Cl"')nstitote the cor~ reAdlng!!;. 
~355/IRST471D:01 Modern Irish Or;ama (t-4ards) This course concerns both the dn,rna producnd by the playwrlghts of the Irish lltcrnry rrn.ctls!-?Jtice ­Yeats, Synge, Gregory, and O'Casey -and th~ potltlcai strugqlP. for rr1sh lnd~pcndence th,ot was taking pl~ce at the same time, Stu'1ent"J read the texts or the ·plRys nlnngsld~ the rr.vlews thoy generated and the detmtes t.!1,--.t we!"e t;;iklng placP: 8t the time In th!'.! nntloni'lllst r,ress. P'1111h:ulnr 11ttentlon Is p-ald to the relatlonshlp betw~en national and se>cu<'II politics. And how repr'!sentfttlom• of Qender -and audience responses to them shaped it. 
5358/IRST475:01 Anglo-J:rl:!ii-h. Gothic.: (Walton) 
This cour~e Is <'In attempt to Interpret the usf's or the uncanny i1nd thf' sunnrn?Jlliral In l\nqlo· (rl!ih fic:tlon ot the ninetee!nth century. Readings wUI Include ghost ~torfps as wcU as Gothic and 'Rig Housr.' fiction {some or It In Cngllsh disguise). Burke's treatise on the Sublime wlll serve as prologuP.. Jninrs Joyce wlll haunt the premises. 
LANGUAGE! 
4089/IRST101 Begfr,nlng lrlsh J {McQullhsn) 4269/IR5T101 Begtnnlng Irish I (Mckibben) 4704/JRST101 i:leglnntng J:rlsh t (6 Cnnchubhalr-) 43:l0/JRST102 Beginning Irish II (6 Conchubhalr) 409:Z/IRST103 l:nterrnedlat:e Irish (McQulllan) lrlsh Langl1age Is on"ered at three levels. Beginning Irish r Is ~n Introduction tn n,odern spoken and written Irish, !ncludl11g the bas-le principles of gr.arnmar and sentence structure, ~s w~II R"i cnr~ 
vocabulary. Emphasls ls placed on the appllcatlan of these p.rlnclplrs lo every-day sltu,,rlnns~eei~~~~i~;~s:; ~:r•:~.es more emphasis on reading slmplC! texts: and Intermediate trl!ih Jnci;,ttl"s 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS lhursday, April l 0, 2003 
PGA 
Torm.ented by Tiger, Els chooses ne-w approach for Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. 

It's hard to imagine Ernie Els getting worked up about any­thing. Hey, he's the Big Easy, the guy with the sleepy eyes, the comfortable grin, the sooth­ing demeanor. 
Truth is, the South African has been tormented by his pur­suit of Tiger Woods, allowing it to affect every 
went on to win four straight majors. the first player to do that in the modern era. Els wondered if he would ever get another chance. 
"My focus wasn't channeled in the right direction," he said. "It was more channeled toward players instead of the golf course and the shots that I have to play." 
Els brought in famed coach David Leadbetter to work on his swing 

aspect of' his and, just as
"Ifyou start playing

game. important, Els jokes Tiger on Thursday from Belgian psy• 
about the "lit­the first tee, that's the chologist Jos 
tle guy" on his Vanstiphout
wrong way to go about it.

shoulder, the to work on demon who You 're going to beat his psyche. 
tells him to go yourselfup and not play "The first 
for shots that thing I told
your normal game. " 

have little him was to chance of forget about working, who Ernie Els Tiger," keeps whisper­Vanstiphout
golfer

ing "Tiger, 
Tiger, Tiger" 
in his ear. 
"If you start playing Tiger on Thursday from the first tee, that's the wrong way to go about it," said Els, expected to be one of Woods' main chal­lengers at the Masters after taking two weeks off to heal a sore wrist. "You're going to beat yourself up and not play your normal game." 
A year ago at Augusta National, Els let his preoccupa­tion with Woods ruin any chance of winning the tourna­ment. 
Woods was leading on Sunday when Els went to No. 13, hoping to take a big chunk out of the deficit with an eagle on the par-5 hole. He pulled out a 3-wood and tried to steer his tee shot around trees hug­ging the left side of the dogleg. 
Instead, Els yanked the ball into the woods. To make things worse, he tried two impossible shots from the foliage, putting them both in Rae's Creek. He wound up taking a triple-bogey 
8. 
"I was trying to really get it around the corner and have a shot at eagle and all that stuff," Els said. "But after the tee shot, I was dead. And then I just made mistake after mistake. After that first mistake, I was 
said. "Tiger 
wasn't the 
issue. He was the issue. Instead of changing the person, you have to change the way the person thinks." 
So far this year. the results are evident. 
While Woods was recovering from knee surgery, Els became the first player in 14 years to win the first two PGA Tour events of the season. He won twice more against good fields in Australia. 
Then came a reality check. Els and Woods went mano-a­mano at Bay Hill in the third round. It wasn't really a fair fight -Els had the sore wrist, Woods had a four-shot lead ­but the world's best player solidified his spot by finishing the day with a to-stroke lead. By the end of the next day, Woods was 19 shots ahead. 
Els, it seems, is still a work in progress. 
"Whenever Tiger gets into a tournament, pow!" Vanstiphout said. "There's five times more press, more security, more attention. Ernie has got to learn to live with it, and he will." 
Make no mistake, though: Els is learning. With his career threatening 
to drift off course last summer, 
he came 
through 

trying to rectify "My focus wasn't with his it as quickly as I third major
channeled in the right 

could. victory at 
Subsequently, I direction. It was more the British just got myself channeled towards 0 p e n . 
deeper in a W o o d s
players instead ofthe

hole." wasn't a 
It doesn't take golfcourse ... " factor, a psychology shooting a degree and a wind-swept
Ernie Els

couch to figure 81 on
golfer

out why he is so Saturday,
preoccupied with Woods. 
At age 24, Els won the first of two U.S. Open titles. He was the rising star in the world of golf: imposing in size (6-foot-3, 200 pounds). dashing in looks and immensely talented. 
He never really got a chance to enjoy his reign. In 1997, Woods signaled the start of a new era with a 12-stroke victo­ry at the Masters. Since then, this sport has been Tiger's World -everyone else just has a tee time. 
Over the years, Els has fin­ished second to Woods in six tournaments around the world, more than anyone else. Two of those came in 2000. when Woods romped to record­breaking victories at the U.S. Open and British Open and 
but Els still had to over­come his mental demons. 
He had a big lead on the back nine until a double-bogey on 16 left him one stroke behind. It's not farfetched to say Els was at a crossroads. 
He had a remarkable birdie at 17, then parred the final hole of regulation to force a four-man playoff. After four extra holes, only Els and Thomas Levet were left. Els parred the next hole to claim the Claret Jug. 
"The British was definitely the start of maybe the resur­gence of my golf game," Els said. "If I didn't get through that tournament, if I didn't win that tournament, I think I would have been a different player right now." 





www.nd.edu/"'vocation 
ANSWER '."of;: 
TIIECALL W 

-'==========-=--=-=--=--===-:===--=-=--=======================-----­
Thursday, April I 0, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MLB COLLEGE HOCKEY 
Kent's RBI bails out Miller's error as Astros edge Reds 4-3 
Talented Cornell top 
seed in Frozen Four 
A,sodatcd Pr,,ss 
HOUSTON After an embarrassing error, Wade Miller just · wantod to disappear. Jeff Kent and the rest of his Houston teammates bailed him out. 
Miller's throwing error to an uncovered third base allowed three runs to score. but Kent's tiebrnaking sacrifice fly in the seventh inning sent th,1 Astros to a 4-3 victory over the Cincinnati Reds on Wednesday night. 
"I wanted to dig a hole behind the mound and crawl in and hope no one would see me," Miller said. "! thought my best option was to throw to third base. but I had other options. I chose the wrong one." 
The Astros pulled it out anyway by loading the bases in the seventh against Josias Manzanilla (0­
2) on singles by Craig Biggio, Jose Vizcaino and Jeff Bagwell. Gabe White struck out Lance Berkman before John Hiedling came on to pitch to Kcnl. 
The 2000 NL MVP hit a deep fly to center field, scoring Biggio easily with lhe go-ahead .run. 
"I was trying to simplify the game a little bit," Kent said. "You just try to put one out there. That's all it was." 
Billy Wagner worked the ninth for his second save. Ile walked the first two batters before retir­ing Jason LaRun. Felipe Lopez and Barry Larkin to end it. 
Brad Udge (1-0). who replaced Miller in the sev­enth, went two scoreless innings for his second major league victory. 
"Wade pitched a good game and gave us a chance to win," Astros manager Jimy Williams said. "You are always trying to do the right thing and sometimes it doesn't work out. It wasn't from a lack of effort." 
The Heds were trailing 3-0 in the fifth inning when Miller's mistake allowed them to tie it. 
AI\Pr striking out the first two batters, Miller hit LaHue with a pitch, walked pitcher Jimmy Anderson and hit Larkin with a pitch to load the bases. 
Aaron Boone then hit a slow roller toward third and Miller threw without noticing that third base­man Morgan Ensberg also was trying to field the ball instead ofcovering the bag. 
Miller struck out Adam Dunn for ihe third time to end the inning. Reds manager Bob Boone agonized over bob­bled balls by his own defense. 
"When you are playing against Miller, you have to make those plays, you can't be giving them extra outs and extra bases," he said. "When you don't hit, it means you've got to do some work or you've got to change some players. 
Rockies 9, Cardinals 4 

La.rry Wa.lker and Preston Wilson each drove in three runs, and the Colorado Rockies built a big early lead Wednesday night in a 9.4 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Wilson and Bobby Estalella each hit two-run homers as Colorado opened a 9-0 lead after three innings. 
Nelson Cruz (2-0), making his second straight start because of injuries to Denny Neagle and Denny Stark, went six-plus innings for the Rockies, allowing two runs and five hits before he was ejected. 
Cruz was tossed in the seventh by plate umpire Mike DiMuro after hitting Tino Martinez with a pitch. Cruz plunked Jim Edmonds earlier, and DiMuro issued a warning to both benches after Brett Tomko threw a pitch behind Todd Helton in the third. 
Tomko (0-1) gave up nine runs on nine hits in six innings. Edgar Renteria hit a three-run double for St. Louis, and Scott Rolen added a solo homer. 
The Rockies got to Tomko early. scoring four runs in the first inning and five in the third. 
Helton and Walker had back-to-back RBI dou­bles in the first, and Wilson followed with a 445­foot homer to right-center, his first of the season. 
Jay Payton led off the third with a single and Helton walked. Walker, a three-time NL batting champion who entered hitting just .172, drove a two-run triple to right-center. Wilson hit an RBI double over the head of left fielder Albert Pujols, and Estalella hit his third homer ofthe season. 
THE 

Asoociat~d Pn:ss 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 

Minnesota and Michigan have the history, but Cornell might have something better -an edge in talent. 
That was the consensus Wednesday, a day before the NCAA Frozen Four hockey championship was set to begin with top-seeded Cornell playing New Hampshire. Defending champion Minnesota will face Michigan in the other semifinal. 
The Golden 

and two-way forward Stephen Baby (6-5, 235). 
That adds up to Cornell being the team to beat, even if the school is making its first Frozen Four appearance since 1980. 
"I think it's our tournament to win," Murray said. "We put pressure on ourselves to win." 
New Hampshire coach Dick Umile isn't counting his Wildcats out. but he certainly respects his opponent. 
"[ think both teams are very, very similar. But we don't have the monsters that they have out 
there," 

Gophers and the Wolverines have combined to win  "They're the No. 1 seed in this tournament, and  Umile said. "They're big and  
12  champi­ they deserve to be. "  strong, and  
onships in  the  we're going  
tournament, which began in  Red Berenson  to have battle."  to  
1948. Yet both  Michigan coach  N  e  w  
are  taking  a  Hampshire  
back seat  to  a  (27-7-6)  

Cornell team that is eager to will play without leading scorer complete an impressive season. Lanny Gare, who dislocated his 
"They're the No. 1 seed in right shoulder in the Wildcats' this tournament, and they quarterfinal victory over Boston deserve to be," Michigan coach University. Red Berenson said. "Obviously, if he was able to 
The Big Red are 30-4-1, and play it would be a bonus for they're unbeaten in 15 games us," Umile said. "He's a kid (14-0-1). They have one of the who's done a lot for the pro­country's best defenses. gram." Leading the way is sophomore New Hampshire is making its goaltender David LeNeveu, who fourth final four trip in six has an NCAA-best 1.14 goals­years; last season the Wildcats against average and nine eliminated Cornell in the quar­shutouts. terfinals. 
Cornell also has the advan­Like Cornell, the Wildcats arc tage in experience, with seven known for their defensive play. seniors, and in size, led by They're led by junior Mike rugged defenseman Doug Ayers, whose 2 .14 goals­Murray (6-foot-3, 240 pounds) against average is second to 
LeNeveu. Overall, their defense ranks third in the nation. 

The other semifinal features
THE CUSHWA CENTER 
STRING CHEESE INCIDENT 
teams trying to outdo each -__...J.s;.pr~....._,_~_. 
FOR THE STUDY OF 

other for the label of underdog; both Michigan and Minnesota consider themselves fortunate 
., 
presents 
to have made it this far. 
"Everyone else has made us underdogs; we like that role," Michigan captain Jed Ortmeyer said. 
Minnesota captain Grant
"The New Faithful: Why Young Adults Are 
Potulny responded by saying: "I don't even know if you can call
Embracing Christian Orthodoxy" 
a favorite in this game." Minnesota (26-8-9) has the tournament's most potent
By Colleen Carroll 
offense, averaging 4.2 goals a game -third in the nation. The Gophers are led by fresh­
Saturday, April 12, 2003 
man Thomas Vanek, who had 29 goals and 58 points. They also possess an offensive-mind­
9:00 a.m. 
McKenna Hall Center for continuing Education 
ed defensive corps, featuring
Room 100-104 
Keith Ballard and Paul Martin. who have combined for 21 goals and 80 points. 
Minnesota's weakness might be in goal, where sophomores Travis Weber and Justin
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum 
Johnson have combined for a 
2.78 GM, which ranks 17th in the nation -the worst among the final four teams. 
"He's won some big games over the course of this year," 
Daniel Stowe, director 

emu.sic oftfje <Counter 9Reformation 
Minnesota coach Don Lucia
'morlts 5_y Cj:)afestrina. <!3esuu(bo, anti ;£a.ssus 
said. "I told him today, 'Here's your chance. You don't have to be better than the other guy, you just have to stop one
Thursday, April 10, 2003 
more."' 

Michigan (30-9-3) became just the 14th school to make 
7:45 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel 
University ofNotre Dame 
three straight final four appearances. But the Wolverines haven't won a semi• 
Free and open to the public 
UNIVERSITY OF 
final game since 1998, when
NOTRE DAME 
they won a tournament-record ' 
DF.PARTMENT OF MUSIC 
ninth title. 

r--­
I 
I I 
I 
' page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 2003 
i 
NBA 

Shaq's practice absence draws Jackson's ire 
Associated Pres• 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. 
Shaquille O'Neal skipped practice Wednesday, and coach Phil Jackson was not satisfied with his excuse. 
"He called, although he didn't call a number that reached any of us," Jackson said after the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers held a light workout and watched film in preparation for Thursday night's game against the rival Sacramento Kings. 
"He didn't call. he had some­one call for him," Jackson said. "Flat tire is what he said. That's all I know." 
A flat tire in the O'Neal house­hold would not seem to be an insurmountable obstacle. The 7­foot center is known to have a vast supply of automotive 


"He didn't call, he had
options in his intended audi­oversized someone callfor him. ence. garage -far O'Neal has
Flat tire is what he said, 
more than a been playing
that's all I know." 
dozen vehi­his best ball of cles, accord-the season ing to one Phil Jackson 1 a t e I y , team employ­notwithstand­
Lakers' coach
ee's estimate. "It bothers me, yeah," Jackson said. 
At the same time, Jackson inferred that he would not make a big issue of O'Neal playing hooky, saying the team would move on and concentrate on the task of trying to become the first team in nearly four decades to win four consecutive NBA titles. 
With four games remaining, the Lakers are in sixth place in the Western Conference and have a chance to improve their playoff seeding if they finish 4­0. 
Portland, fighting it out with Minnesota for the No. 4 spot in the conference, had its lead over the Lakers slip to one game after the Blazers lost to San Antonio 84-79 Wednesday night. 
The Lakers will play at Portland on Sunday before fin­ishing the season against the Nuggets and Warriors. 
First, though, come the Kings, who have defeated the Lakers twice this season. 
It will be the last regularly scheduled installment of the league's best rivalry, one that has included a preseason fight between Rick Fox and Doug Christie, a Christmas night vic­tory by the Kings at the Staples Center, and a game last month in Sacramento in which O'Neal scored his 20,000th career point. only to find an obscene message written on the game ball when the Kings presented it to him. 
"They don't need to win this ballgame. they've sewn up the Pacific Division," Jackson said. "If we want to move up in the standings, it's a must-game for us to win. Any loss now pretty much eliminates our chances of moving up to a different brack­et." 
At practice, Jackson had planned to emphasize a few offensive themes that he felt the Lakers were lacking the last time they played the Kings. But O'Neal's absence deprived Jackson of a big part of his 
ing his 14­
point output Tuesday night against the Dallas Mavericks and their zone defense. 
He always plays well against the Kings, relishing the opportu­nity to dominate Vlade Divac ­a center O'Neal often proclaims is the league's biggest flopper. 
Jackson knows O'Neal well enough to be confident his cen­ter will be ready at tipoff, yet that didn't mitigate the bother­some nature of his blowing off practice. 
Jackson has seen his team meander through this season with less focus than they've had the two previous times they defended the title. Only 3 1/2 months ago they were 11-19, but the Lakers have turned things around to such an extent that they've won nine of their last 10. 
But just when things were seemingly going so smoothly, Shaq's flat tire put an unneeded bump in the road. 
"Something we wanted to do as a team was to kind of push ourselves here and create a playoff atmosphere for our­selves," Jackson said, "so it's a little bit Gf a setback for us." 


CAPUCHIN FRANCISCANS 
Shanghai Garden 
J: iliIJl ffl
r------,
BAI-JU'S I $1.00 Off 
I Dinner Only 
Lunch Special 
L---~-...,..J Mondav Pepper Steak $ 4.50 including tax Sweet & Sour Chicken 
d General Tso's Chicken we Deliver Lunch Free For Notre Tues av O d s · M ,
Chicken Mixed Vegetable ame an amt ary s Sweet &Sour Chicken Students/Faculty/Staff d General Tso·s Chicken
W d
e nes ay Lunch Special Cashew Shrimp Still Includes Friend Rice, 2 Sweet & Sour Chicken Eggrolls 
ThursdaGeneral Tso's Chicken 1Y You have to order 1 hour ahead 
Beef with Broccoli Sweet &. Sour Chicken 
Min. Delivery $1 5 
• General Tso·s Chicken
Friday
Shrimp with Vegetable Sweet & Sour Chicken General Tso's Chicken 
Tel. 574-271-0125 

Thursday, April 10, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
NBA 
Spurs hold off Blazers to win 10th in a row 
. Win ensures San Antonio share of Midwest Division lead with Dallas 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

Neither Tim Duncan nor Rasheed Wallace had much of a game on offense in Wednesday night's matchup between Portland and San Antonio. That was because both played so well against each other on defense. 
Duncan's teammates, howev­er, outperformed Wallace's, enabling the Spurs to cling to a 84-79 win in the face of a strong second-half comeback by the Trail Blazers. 
The victory was San Antonio's 10th straight, and ensured the Spurs would at least retain the best record in the league and a share of the Midwest Division lead with Dallas. The Spurs and the Mavericks each began the day at 57-20, best in the NBA. 
Stephen Jackson made a pair of free throws and Tony Parker added one in the game's wan­ing monents to clinch the win for the Spurs, who saw a 15­point advantage in the first half shrink to two by the final minute. 
Duncan, defended physically by Wallace for most of the night, had trouble getting close to his comfort zone near the basket. He was just 3-for-14 shots for 11 points, less than half his season average. 
"It's good to be able to have a game like this tonight and the team still find a way to win," Duncan said. 
Wallace, averaging nearly 19 points. was held to eight on 4­for-16 shooting. 
"They both canceled each other out," said Portland guard Bonzi Wells. "Rasheed guarding Tim, Tim guarding Rasheed. That's just two big guys having a big game [on defense]." 
The Trail Blazers, trailing by 12 at the half, trimmed San Antonio's lead to 81-79 on two free throws by Wells with 1:28 left. But Portland's rally stalled as the team missed its final three shots. 
Manu Ginobili's l 7 points off the bench led six Spurs in dou­ble figures. Parker added 15 and Bruce Bowen 13, all in the first half. Duncan led all rebounders with l l. 
Ginobili also had two key offensive rebounds in the final 
1:04 to help the Spurs run time off the clock. 
He passed the second rebound to Jackson, who was fouled by Derek Anderson with 
10.6 seconds left and made both. 
"I don't play 40 minutes like Tim and Tony -I'm fresh," said Ginobili. "The best thing I can give the Spurs is energy." 
Jazz 94, Rockets 73 
The Utah Jazz picked the right time to end a three-game losing streak. 
Getting ready to play the top three teams in the Western Conference and coming off one of its worst losses of the season, Utah took advantage of some poor shooting and beat the struggling Houston Rockets. 
"It was huge because we're heading into a tough schedule and you want to get that feeling of winning back before we play these tough .teams," said Matt Antonio and Sacramento. Harpring, who led the Jazz with "We needed to get some kind 23 points and eight rebounds. of rhythm going into the play­"We've lost some games that offs," Malone said. "We're we should have won but that locked in at seven so we know happens. We broke out of it and where we're at. But we've got we're ready to move on." some things to work on. 

Andrei Kirilenko added 15 "We were right there in the points and three blocks, and thick of things, then we lost Karl Malone had 10 points and three in a row. To get a win like seven rebounds in three quar­this is very important for us." ters as the Jazz recovered from The Rockets, who tied the 
an embarrass- franchise low  
ing  128-102  in  shooting  
loss Tuesday night at Golden State. "We're still  "Yesterday we did afew things well. Tonight, I don't think we did  percentage and points by shooting 29.5 percent in an  
there. We've showed we can  anything well."  81-66 loss at Portland on  
play with the best around,"  Yao Ming  Tuesday, nearly set  
said Kirilenko,  Rockets center  even  lower  

who got a few stitches after the game for a cut he sustained when he banged his chin on the floor while diving for a loose ball in the final minute. "We're ready to fight and we will fight." 
The Rockets might not have a chance to fight much more. Houston's playoff hopes contin­ued to drop after its fourth loss in six games. 
The Rockets trail eighth-place Phoenix, a winner over Dallas, by 2 1/2 games. 
Greg Ostertag, who finished with 11 rebounds, and Calbert Cheaney were the only Utah starters to play in the fourth quarter. 
Utah is bound for a 20th straight postseason and can fin­ish no worse than seventh in the Western Conference, but also will have a difficult time moving up. The Jazz close out the season against Dallas, San 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Nicholas Boyle, University ofCambridge 

Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
"Literature as Bible" 
April I 0, 2003 Rewards and Fairies: The Idea ofEngland and 
The Lord ofthe Rings 

The lecttrre will begin at 4 p.m. and is expected to be two hours in length (with a refreshment break). It will be held on Tuesday inthe auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
m a r k s 
Wednesday. The Rockets avoided new lows by going 10-for-23 and scoring 27 points in the fourth quarter, but were still just 28-for-89 
(31.5 percent) overall. 
"I really can't explain it. We just can't put it in the basket. We just can't score," acting coach Larry Smith said. "Our main guys are getting good looks and we're coming up with zero." 
James Posey and Maurice Taylor led Houston with 10 points each. Yao Ming finished with just six points and five rebounds, both well below his averages of 13.7 and 8.3. 
Houston was just 5-for-23 in the first quarter, with only one field goal, a layup by Kelvin Cato, that wasn't a 3-pointer. 
"Yesterday we did a few things well," Yao said. "Tonight, I don't think we did anything well." 
Suns 112, Mavericks 89 
Penny Hardaway got his first triple-double in 1 1/2 years and Shawn Marion had 31 points and 15 rebounds as the Phoenix Suns widened their lead for the West's final playoff berth with a rout of the Dallas Mavericks. 
Dallas lost for the third time 
in four games to drop one 
game behind San Antonio for 
the Midwest Division lead and 

It's the first time the Mavericks have not been at least tied for the division lead all season. 
Hardaway had 10 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his sixth career triple-double and third with Phoenix. Ilis last was against Denver on Dec. 29. 2001. 
Phoenix won for the fourth time in five games and increased its lead over Houston for the West's eighth and final playoff spot to 2 1/2 games with four to play. 
The Suns never trailed. shot 51 percent and, for the first time this season. had six play­ers in double figures, including all five starters. Stephon Marbury scored 20 points, Amare Stoudemire 17 and Joe Johnson 14. 
Bo Outlaw, who started at center, scored 11 before getting an elbow to the face from Raef LaFrentz with 7 :02 left in the third quarter. 
He had a bruised left jaw and a cut on his left cheek that required three stitches. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 26 points and Nick Van Exel 22 for the Mavericks, who had no one else in double figures. Marion scored 11 points and the Suns shot 63 percent (15-for-23) in the first quarter, outscoring the Mavs 14-5 over the final 3:21 of the period to take a 36-25 lead. 
Van Exel scored seven in a 10-3 Dallas run that cut the lead to 43-39 on his 19-footer with 6:35 left in the half. 
But the Suns outscored the Mavericks 14-5 the rest of the quarter to go up 57-43 at the break. 
The run-and-gun Mavs had no fast-break points in the first half. 
Phoenix twice led by as many as 17 in the third quarter before Van Exel scored 10 con­secutive Mavericks points, the first six on 3-pointers, to cut the lead to 74-62 with four minutes to go in the period. Dallas never got closer. 
Jake Voskuhl banked in a hook shot and Marion sank a 3­pointer to put Phoenix up 83-66 with 2:07 left in the third peri­od. The Suns led 86-70 going 
________...;_...;...________
the No. 1 spot in the playoffs. into the fourth quarter. 
GRA.DUA.TE THE"N C:ELEBRA.TE! GC> ­EXPA.ND YC>UR HC>RIZC>NS•.. 
EURO.PE AJ-VAITS.f 
Hey Senie>.-s! 
Only one more month until t:he big event.. . gr.a,du.a,r;ia,n! VVould n ·t it be great t:o relax and travel before you get: st:artE>ci in the re21I vvcnld? 1--lovv does a seventeen day. Four country tour oF EuropE> sound? The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association is presenting the official 
Alumni G..-aduation Tou..-"Classic:: Eu..-ope." IVlay 29-June 74, 2003. See England. France. lta.ly and Greece. all For Just $1946 (plus air)I To learn mor<e about: t:he tour designedJust For you. please come 
to our C::,pe,n Ha,us--P.lus. IF you stop by. sign up and pay land&alr in Full by April 1 a. you·11 sa.ve $751 
Ge::, Irish/ 
Monday. April 14 5-8 pm '100 Eck Center 574.63'1 .8724 
':II'-...... ....,,.......~•• 
. NJ~· 
N (::) J1 1'4 If 1(:11 _.,, 111,,• 1( 
page 30 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Ex-Kansas AD blasts Willia1ns 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE, Kan. 
The news was about Al Bohl. 
He was out as Kansas' ath­letic director. 
But the reaction -including that of Bohl himself -was only about basketball coach Roy Williams. 
"I believe the Kansas basket­ball coach had the power to hold his athletics director in his hand like a dove," Bohl said after he was fired Wednesday. 
"And he had a choice to either crush me with his power of influence or let me fly with my vision for a better, total program. He chose to crush me." 
When making the announce­ment, Kansas Chancellor Robert Hemenway tried to deflect attention away from his wildly popular basketball coach and onto the athletic director he'd hired less than two years ago. 
He said he had discussed leadership of the department with Bohl during the past few months, as well as with coach­es, other athletic department staff members, alumni and donors. 
"On the basis of these con­versations and my own evalua­tion of the situation, I came to the conclusion a change of leadership was needed at this time," Hemenway said, adding that he made the decision while returning from the Final Four. 
But Hemenway took pains to say Williams never asked for Bohl's removal, a move he stressed was not necessarily intended to placate the basket­ball coach -who is expected to receive an offer any day to return to North Carolina to coach at his alma matter. 
"This is not a Roy versus Al decision," Hemenway said. 
Bohl, however, said other­wise. In an extraordinary news conference 30 minutes later at his home, Bohl blamed his fir­ing squarely on Williams. 
"It is bad when a basketball coach can have the ability to hire and fire someone," Bohl said. 
Hired in 2001 to replace Williams' close friend and longtime Jayhawks athletic director Bob Frederick, Bohl clashed early and often with Williams. 
Bohl's dismissal has been viewed as an almost foregone conclusion since rumors sur­faced in February that UCLA would pursue Williams, whose Jayhawks have won nine con­ference championships and more than 400 games in 15 years and lost to Syracuse in the NCAA title game Monday night. 
But the speculation intensi­fied after North Carolina coach Matt Doherty resigned before the Final Four, opening the position that Williams -a for­mer North Carolina assistant and protege of Dean Smith ­passed up three years ago. 
And now that Hemenway has acted, when will Williams? 

Thursday, April 10, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
We designed our corporate ladder to make it easier to succeed. 
At Ernst & Young, you will be given the best tools to work with, such as the latest technology, information and resources. And our challenging, high-paced environment will stretch and grow your capabilities, increasing your opportunities fo; leadership all along lhe way. Step on. 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR C"'J 

Quality In Everything We Do 
.· •••• ! ~. q 

II• Ill uu Ill• Ill 1111 ... , Ill Ill .... Ill· Ill lllt Ill• Ill <Ill .... Ill Ill ......., Ill Ill '
:1~11:HH ..:llil~-l t;1;,1J 

'----------------------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, April IO, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
Axford 
continued from page 36 
One inning later, a fly ball to right field off the bat ol' another Western Michigan batter seemed destined for extra bases. llowever, Kris Billmaier, looking directly into the sun and fighting a stiff breeze, reeled in the ball to prevent the game-tying run from getting on base. 
"The play by BU!maier lead­ing off the 8th inning ... again in a 2-1 game ... he makes a play to stop a rally before it even began," Mainieri said. 
· However, the story for the Irish was the dominating pitching duo of Axford and 
J.P. Gagne. 
In addition to his 12 strike­outs. Axford also allowed only one earned run on six hits while walking none. 
Gagne came in to relieve Axf"ord in the top of the eighth, with only a two-out single in the ninth preventing Gagne from retiring the side in order both innings. 
"J.P. Gagne is our security blanket, he is so poised and has such great composure," Mainieri said. "lie just comes 
in throwing strikes." 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer It was more than enough for Left fielder Cody Rizzo tracks down a fly ball In foul territory the Irish to win their 12th during Wednesday's 7-1 Irish victory over Western Michigan. 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

straight game, as they pushed 
Don Woznlca of Four Fingers and a Thumb hoists his boom 
five more runs across in the left fielder on the play, plated which is quite a statement 
box In the air trlumphantly after his team's victory. 
bottom or the eighth to seal three more runs and more because he's thrown some 
the victory. than enough insurance for great games for us." 
opponent to minimal shot Two walks and a single Gagne to close out the The Irish, now 21-6 on the 
opportunities. Dominating
Bookstore 

on the glass, Nunc HBI single by Sanchez '"'I think the story of the tomorrow at Eck Stadium, 
loaded the bases before an Broncos. season, face a doubleheader 
continued from page 36 Dimmittis sent the outlet brought in the first run. game was John Axford and meeting Chicago State at 4:05 
pass out quickly to get Cody Hizzo was hit by a J.P. Gagne, particularly and Bowling Green immedi­
Nunc Dlmmlttls 21, numerous transition bas­pitch to drive in another run, Axford.... [Pitching coach} ately following. 
Booyahl In Your Face 8 kets and advance in the before a bases-loaded single Brian O'Connor said after the 
No. 18 Nunc Dimmittis tournament. to left by Matt Macri, com­game that that was as well as Contact Bryan Kronk at 
just dominated Booyah! In bined with an error by the Axford has ever thrown, bkronk@nd.edu 
Your Face by playing tough Mllf Hunters 21 

defense and limiting its Stop that Dog! It has my Gum! 19 

Down 11-8 at the half, the Milf Hunters knew they had to do something differ­
11111 SIRIILL 

ent. 
Switching from their 2-3 
zone to a more convention­
al man-to-man defense, the
ND vs. Stanford 
Milf Hunters were able to complete the comeback
Sunday, 4/13 
with more success on the defensive side. Limiting
Noon 
Stop that Dog! It has my Gum! gave the Milf Hunters
Moose Krause Field 
enough chances on the
First 100 ND Students 
offensive end to win this 
get a SHAMROCK HATI intense contest.
PANERA BREA 

First 250 fans FOR THE FIRS gd a BOTTLE JERSEY Contact Matt Lozar at 
200 FANSI 

mlozar@nd.edu 
-----------------------I 
II 

I ATTENTION! 
II I

I Now Taking Applications for Student Manager 
II 

Positions for the new Legends ofNotre Dame™ 
II 

Restaurant and Pub that will Open August 2003. I
I I
I J\11 st11dcn t managers for Legrmrls must be 21 years of age on or before August 1, 2003. I Casual dining cxpe1·iencc would be helpful. Employrnent will begin August 200~t I 
II 

Please Fax your rcsnrne to: 574-631-7994, Attention: Jeff Crotty or rnail t.o: 
I

I Jeff CnJLty, General Manger Legends, 215 South Dining Hall, Notre Danie, Indiana. 
II 

All resumes must be received no later than noon on Tuesday April 15th. 
II 

For quc;;tions about the student manager positions or J,egenrls in general, 
I

I pk,tsc contact.Jeff Crotty at 631-0108. 
- - - - - - - - --­- - ·-­- 
r-­ 
I I  page 32  The Observer . SPORTS  Thursday, April I 0, 2003  

I I I 
i I OLYMPICS 
I 
I 
I I I USOC predicts $8 million short£ all through 2004 
Asso,iated Press 
DENVER The latest turmoil surrounding the 

U.S. Olympic Committee wasn't a big problem until it affected the bottom line. 
The USOC is predicting a revenue shortfall of about $8 million through 2004. in part because recent scandals have turned donors away. according to two sources within the Olympic move­ment. 
"There's no question in my mind it's [turmoil) hurt their fund-raising abili­ty." said Ben Nighthorse Campbell. part of a Senate committee investigat­ing the USOC. 
"They've got to regain the confidence of the public. The only way that you're going to be able to do that is prove to the public that you're going to have good, solid, fair leadership where the main is goal is going to be to help young Americans." 
The shortfall is in a $491 million budget that covers 2001-04. 
About 60 percent of the gap is blamed on a drop in public donations after three months of turmoil led to the resignations of eight top officials and drew the ire of Congress. 
The figures are detailed in a report to be delivered to the USOC at a meeting this weekend in Fort Worth, Texas, said the sources. who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
"Direct mail and major gifts we think are going to be down through Athens because of all of the turmoil." one source said. "And until we can get our­selves back on track and get things 
out, we're making a conservative forecast." 
Other hits to the budget include declines in fees from broadcasting rights, retail sales and a smaller con­tribution from the Olympic Foundation, the sources said. 
The USOC is moving to make up the shortfall by savings in administrative costs, mostly because the organization has not replaced the highly paid top officials who have resigned, the sources said. 
The difference between revenues and expenses in the budget is about $3.5 million. including a $2.8 million sur­plus USOC officials hope to carry through the Athens Games next sum­mer. 
Figures related to deficiencies or sur­pluses in previous quads were not immediately available. 
The news was no surprise to Campbell. one of the USOC's harshest critics through the latest flareup. 
"The moms and pops who send in their 10 or 20 bucks, they didn't send it in for the hierarchy to take first-class trips around the world to stay in five­star hotels," Campbell said Wednesday. "They sent their money in because they thought the money was going to go to the athletes." 
The USOC receives about 5 percent of the annual assets of the Olympic Foundation. a nonprofit corporation that provides funding for sports in the Olympic movement. The Olympic Foundation's revenue is down because the sour economy has affected invest­ments. 
Savings in salaries stem from the decision to not replace chief executive Lloyd Ward, chief operating officer Fred Wohlschlaeger and chief market-


Zuma Press 
Sen. Ben Whitehorse Campbell, part of the USOC Investigation, talks with an Olympic athlete at the U.S. Olympic Training Center In Colorado. 
ing officer Toby Wong. 
All three resigned after conflict-of­interest charges against Ward in December set off a series of attempted coups, resignations and power strug­gles behind the scenes. 
Ward made about $550,000 a year, while Wohlschlaeger and Wong earned a total of about $500,000. 
"We will have some unfilled budget positions that will make us more responsive in terms of the amount of resources we spend and amount of 
*SHOVELIWG, MOWIWG, HAUL/WG, PRUWIWG. WATCH OUR STAFF COMPLETE 
1HESE 
1ASKS FROM YOUR WIWl>OW AWi> SW/Cl(E.R. *FREE PARKIWG FOR YOU AWi> YOUR GUESTS *2'1-HOUR EMERGEWCY SERVICE *OUR WA1ER 1ASTES GREA1 AWi> IS LESS FILLIWG. *WE WELCOME. Sf'AALL AWi> LARGE PETS. *PA1l0S AWi> BALCOWIE.S 

BOWUS 11'S FREE!!!!!! 
resources we turn over to our govern­ing bodies," acting CEO Jim Scherr said in a conference call Wednesday. 
Despite the revenue shortfall. USOC officials still hope to hang on to a $2.8 million surplus that came from the Salt Lake City Games. 
"We've always been shooting for a 
2.8 surplus reserve at the end of the quad and we're still shooting for that." one source said. "We're trying to man­age. We've got a salary freeze, got lots of things going on to get to that 2.8 

*CE.WTRAL HEA1" AWi> Al R uw,1s Wl1H 
RE.MOl>ELE.I> Kl1CHE.WS STILL AVAILABLE. 
*RE.FER A FRIE.WI> AWi> RE.Cf/VE. $15 o 
OFF YOU WEXT MOWTHS RE.WT 
*CEILIWG FAWS 
*2.11-HR OW•Sl1"E LAUWl>RY FACILITY 
*BLINl>S AWtJ CARPET INCLUl>El> 
*YOU WEE.I> 10 SE.E. VIHA1 VIE. HAVE. 1HA1 'tfHE.Y" l>OW'1 HAVE 

*FULLY EQUIPPE.l> KITCHE.WS WITH l>ISHWASHfR, L>ISPOSAL, FRll>GE., ANI> 
STOVE. 

*SPACIOUS FLOOR PLAWS 10 ACCOMMOl>A1f All YOUR GUE.51S 
*A GREAT f'AAWAGEME.WT AWtJ FRIE.WtJLY MA//t/TfWANCE. STAFF 
*CLOSE 10 1HE TOLL ROAi> AWi> MAJOR SHOPPIWG AREAS 
*OWLY:, BLOCKS FORM CAMPUS 
*AWESOME. MAWAGE.ME.WT 

*POOL Wl1H OVER ~o,ooo GALLOWS OF VIA1ER FOR YOU 10 COOL OFF IW 




Thursday, April IO, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
MENS LACROSSE 
Irish hungry to halt recent losing streak 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sporrs Writer 
When you dig a hole for your­self, you have to dig your way out. 
The whiteboard in the Notre Dame mens lacrosse locker room could have read something similar at the beginning of this sea.son. The Irish no doubt entered the spring reluctant to let another 5-8 season pass them by after being less than two years removed from the NCAA national semifma.ls. 
Su a quick start was in order, and the team responded to coach Kevin Corrigan's preseason preparation. A 3-0 start became a huge step up from the team's 1-2 opening record after three games last year. The Irish redeemed themselves against Penn St. and Penn and beat No. 7 North Carolina on the road. The for­tunes of Kevin Corrigan's team seemed to be changing for the better. 
Since the North Carolina victory, however, Notre Dame has lost 4 of its last 6 games. The losses include 9-8 defeats to current No. 11 Loyola (Md.) and current No. 14 Ilofstra and blowout losses to No. 19 Ohio State {11-5) and No. 6 Virginia (14-8). 
Notre Dame looks to end their losing stretch Thursday as they host the Butler Bulldogs at Moose Krause Stadium at 3:30 p.m. Butler returns eight starters from its 5-8 team of a year ago. 
Corrigan, who was frustrated after the disappointing Ohio State loss, is anxious his team has not settled into any type of comfort­able zone or style of play on the field. I le is unsure the team can handle the various tempos that top teams have been throwing their way. 
Granted, the schedule has not been kind to the Irish, as seven of their nine opponents so far have been ranked. Playing without leading point man Matt Howell. as he recuperates from an appendec­tomy, does not help Notre Dame either. 
Still, the expectations Corrigan and the team had for this season were way above a 5-4 record at this point in the season. 
Even more significant than the record on paper is the way the team has been playing of late. A lack of fundamentals and learn defense has led to disastrous con­sequences. The play of freshman Pat Walsh and junior Dan Berger have kept the Irish close, but the team is still struggling to find a niche. 
"We need to find a rhythm and we haven't done that yet," Corrigan said. 
On a positive note, Notre Dame is 3-1 at home this season. The last time the Irish hosted the Bulldogs in 2001, Notre Dame spanked Butler, 12-3. Last sea­son's game was closer, but not by much. The Irish tallied four goals in the first quarter and Dan Berger scored three on the day as the team came away with a 12-8 road victory. 
Notre Dame is 9-1 all-time against Butler, a statistic that bodes well for the men's chances Thursday. 
Then again, they had also won nine of the last ten against Ohio State before Sunday. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Notre Dame Apartments 
Hop on down North Notre Dame 
Avenue and check us out ! 
Look at what we're doing ......... 
We're undergoing some updating .............. Let us show you !II!!! 
•2 Bedroom/ 1Bath -1,000 SF 

•If you're looking for space &convenient location, ND Apts are for you! 
Call today to make an appointment "'"' 574-234-9923 
Tclark@cbresb,com 

MENS TENNIS 
Hungry for a win, Irish prevail 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

After a. losing two matches in a row. the Irish regained their confidence and bright­ened hopes for the rest of the season when they defeated Ball State 5-2 Wednesday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Although the Cardinals, 13-7, began the match by winning the doubles point, the Irish won three straight singles matches to pull ahead, 3-1. The three remaining matches all extended to the third set -the seventh time this has happened to the Irish in eleven matches. 
In the end, the Irish won two of those as they moved to 7-11 on the season and pre­p are to face off with No. 13 Kentucky Sunday in their regular season's penulti­mate event. 
Tri-captain Luis Haddock was once again in position to clinch a match Wednesday, and his 6-4, 5-7, 6-2 triumph over former St. Joseph (South Bend) High School player Chris Varga gave the Irish the much sought-after victory. 
Haddock, ranked 97th nationally, has contended with several ranked players of late and has seen some successes, including his recent wins over No. 55 Johan Brunstrom and No. 63 Thomas Haug, dur­ing Irish losses to Southern Methodist and Minnesota, respectively. Since spring break began, he has had two losses to ranked players -No. 14 Todd Widom of Miami and No. 67 Marcus Bernston of Boise State. 
Patrick Buchanan was the initial player to direct the Irish towards their 14th straight victory over the Cardinals. He easily top­pled Ball State's Klint Knable,6-4, 6-1. Then tri-captain Brian Farrell defeated Matt Laramore in 6-3 straight sets before tri-captain Matt Scott put Notre Dame with­in a point of victory and gave Haddock the opportunity to clinch. 
Scott obtained his eighth win in his last 11 matches playing at the No. 2 flight by topping Matthew Baccarani 7-6 {7-5), 6-3. 
Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo, playing in the last match on the court, topped Patrick Thompson 6-3. 3-6, 7-5. 
Brent D'Amico yielded the Cardinals their only singles victory of the day when he was defeated by Kevin Burnett, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. With Burnett's win, the Cardinals brought the score to 3-2 with Haddock's and Lopez­Acevedo's matches still undecided. 
The Cardinals swept the Irish in doubles. At the top of the lineup, Baccarani and Burnett top the duo of D'Amico and Scott 8­
5. Then Knable and Andy Rhodes defeated the junior/sophomore pair of Ben Hatten and Paul McNaughton 8-5. After the dou­bles point was clinched, the Cardinals added to their initial domination with a 9-8 (7-5) victory over Farrell and Haddock at the No. 2 flight. 
Notre Dame's next opponent, Kentucky. recently defeated the 19th-ranked Auburn Tigers 4-2 at their home courts. The Wildcat roster includes 13th-ranked Jesse Witten and 65th-ranked Karim Benmansour, who both were defeated in their singles matches against Auburn. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
Read Observer Sports every day. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles fall to Albion in conference match 
By LISA REIJUl.A 
Sports Writer 
A strong Albion squad defeated the Saint Mary's April 8 by an 8-1 score. The Britons {13-4) won five of six singles matches to remain unbeaten in the MIAA confer­ence with a 3-0 record. 
With the loss, the Belles dropped to 2-2 in the MIAA and 10-3 overall for the spring season. The Belles haven't lost two conference games in one season since the 2000 season, when the Belles finished 5-2. 
Junior co-captain Kaitlin Cutler was the lone singles winner for Saint Mary's on the afternoon, as she beat Albion's Betsy Netherton 6-4, 6-2 at No. 3 singles. At the No. 1 singles spot, Briton senior Amiee Greene defeated Saint Mary's Jeannie Knish 7-6 (7­4), 6-2. 
In the second flight match, Albion's Katie Tornga won over Kristen Palombo 6-4, 5­7, 7-5 in a close battle of two freshmen players. At No. 4 singles, Karen Dumas outlast­ed Saint Mary's' Kris Spriggle 6-2, 2-6. 6-2. The loss was Spriggle's first of the spring season. 

In No. 5 singles, Briton sophomore Emily Dumas defeated Elisa Ryan 6-1, 6-1. Albion continued their near­s weep in the No. 6 singles match, when Caitlyn Campbell won over Angela Sandner 6-2, 6-2. 
In doubles action, the Britons swept the Belles to ensure their victory. At No. 1 doubles, Albion's Emily Dumas and Greene beat the Belles' Knish/Palombo pairing 6-4, 6-3. At the No. 2 spot, the Belles' duo of Cutler and Byan lost to Tornga and Netherton by a 6-1, 2-6. 3-6 score. Rounding out doubles play was Albion's victory at No. 3, as Karen Dumas and Amy Esh defeated Spriggle and Lindsay Cook. 
The team will have several days to refocus until resuming play at the Midwest Invitational in Madison, Wis. this Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

Thursday, April I 0, 2003 
SOFTBALL 
Irish claim their first Big East victories in doubleheader 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finally got their first two Big East matches of the season out of the way Wendesday, and thanks to some timely hitting, managed to also come away with their first two Big East wins of the season. 
The Irish won the first game of a doubleheader against Pittsburgh 5-4, thanks to a five­run seventh inning rally for the victory. Notre Dame completed the sweep by beating the Panthers 4-1 in the second game, behind near-perfect pitching from freshman Heather Booth. 
The Big East victories have been a long time coming for the Irish, who have had their first six conference matches post­poned due to inclement weath­er. 
The Irish offense was sparked by a bases-loaded double by Andrea Loman in the seventh inning of game one. Mallorie Lenn hit her second home run of the season in the second game, a two-run shot. 
In game one, the Irish fell behind early, as starting pitcher Steffany Stenglein was victim­ized by the home run. Francesca DiMaria led off the bottom of the first with a solo shot, and Casey Pickard fol­lowed, giving the Panthers back-to-back home runs and a 2-0 lead before the Irish had even recorded an out. 
Stenglein worked a scoreless second inning, but did not last past the third, as Heather Andrews hit a two-run double in the third inning to give Pittsburgh a four-run advan­tage. 
Pitcher Carrie Wisen entered the game in relief for the Irish and shut down the Panther offense for the rest of the game, allowing only one hit over 4 1/3 innings. 
Panther starter Nikki Gasti kept the Irish offense at bay for most of the game, allowing only one hit over the first six innings. With only one inning left in the game, the Irish finally solved Gasti in the seventh. 
Shortstop Andria Bledsoe led off with a single, but was thrown out at second on Liz Hartman's fielder's choice. First-baseman Lisa Mattison then reached on an error by the Panther second baseman. 
Pittsburgh's shaky offense continued when Lenn then reached base on an error by the third baseman, which allowed Hartmann to come home and score the first run for the Irish, while Mattison reached third and Lenn moved up to second on the throw home. 
Nicole deFau came up next, but hit a weak pop-up to short that put the Irish one out away from losing. Megan Ciolli kept the rally alive with a perfect squeeze bunt that allowed Mattison to score. 
Kellie Middleton, pinch-hit­ting for senior Alexis Madrid, drew a walk to load the bases for Loman. 
Loman came threw with a double to centerfield that scored all three runners and gave Notre Dame a 5-4 lead. Meagan Ruthrauff grounded out to end the inning, but solid pitching by Wisen in the bottom of the seventh made the win stand up for the Irish. 
The Irish offensive surge con­tinued into game two of the series, with Notre Dame jump­ing on top early in the first with two runs off a double by Ruthrauff. 
Pittsburgh would score in the second after an error by the Irish, but it would be the only run the Panthers would get off of Rooth. Booth pitched all seven innings, only allowing three walks and one hit. 
The Irish scored two insur­ance runs in the fourth to put the game away. Mattison drew a walk before Lenn launched a shot over the fences to give Notre Dame a 4-1 lead. 
The team returns home for two more Big East doublehead­ers this weekend, facing the two teams currently tied for first in the conference. 
The Irish face St. John's on Friday at 4 p.m. and Seton Hall on Sunday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Passion (Palm) Sunday April 13, 2003 

We will celebrate with one Campus-Wide Mass at 1:30 PM 
Church ofOur Ladyof Loretto 
NO MASSES WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS 
Office of Campus Ministry 
. Saint M:sColleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 


CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
Irish pitcher Heather Booth winds up at Ivy Field during one of Notre Dame's losses to 
Northwestern in a March 28 doubleheader. 
ALCOHOL: 
where do 
Yo u draw the linel 

FREE Alcohol Screenings 
Thursday, April I0, 2003 LaFortune Student Center 
3 I I LaFortune 
Walk-in times: 
2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. 

No appointment necessary. All information is confidential. To learn more, call Madison Center at (574) 283-1 130. 
a cooperative effort between: 

The Notre Dame Office of
• MADISON CENTER 
Alcohol and Drug Education 
Thursday, April I 0, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. There's no future 

In this job
PAMCH 
I I I 
C2003 Tribtme Media Servicea, il"IC. All Rights Reaenied. 
DUESE 

b 

RESNAW j 
AFTER A LONG 
DAY Of HAUL.ING REFU5E, THE GAR­~AGE'MAN WA5--­
CII I I 
wwwJumbkl.corn

tBOYDUL Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

IJ I I I Answer: rII XJINTHE( XXI IJ 
(Answers tomorrow)

I Jumbles: MAXIM LEAFY FILLET BEFALLYesterday's Answer: 
When the mechanic got sick, his boss was ­LEFT IN A "FIX" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIE5 BORN ON 1lllS DAY: Olivia Brown, Steven Seagal, Omar Shari( Oare Boothe LlllX! 
Happy Birthday: Stop putting your own needs on the back burner and start doing what's best for you. It's time to stop being a martyr and start being a winner. This is your year to do what you want to do. You will end up gaining respect from the very people who were holding you back. Your numbers are 3, 5, 18, 25, 31. 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll end up in an awkward position if you've been brutally honest and outspoken. Brace yourself, as opposition is likely if you have bem alittle uocaing or harsh 1rlc TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Act quickly and finish as much as possible early in the day. You will have the strength and the desire to outmaneuver any competition you encounter. tttt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to save rather than spend mone; today. You've been too generous with others and too extravagant with yourself It's time to budget ~ CANCER (June 21.July 22) You will be hard to read today. One minute you'll be 
happy and the next you11 be upset You arc likely to take things the wrong way today Sudden changes in your ham: will be a little lll1relVing. tt LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is a good chance that someone is just playing with your emotions. Ifsomeone isn't treating you properly, be prepared to cut him or her out ofyour life. tt'k VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Don~ hesitate. When you get the opportunity to oo something worthwhile for others, take the plunge. Involvement with agroup that has the same beliefs and standards a5 you will be to your advantage. -frlrlrlr LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct 22): Be careful what you wish for today. You may be striving to obtain one tlnng and you may get something completely different. Focus on money. work and gating~ tt SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Expand your knowledge and learn about different cultures and traditions. The more you discover, the better you will understand. Your excellent memoiy wiU help you with projects. 1rlr--ktt SAGrrfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Alterations to your home will pay off It may be necessary to help someone you care about with his or her financial or legal 
problems.~ 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22.Jan. 19): You may have to do a little finagling ifyou haven~ been paying enough attention to loved ones. It's time to put everything else aside and m.1111ire the relition.5hips Iha m=i the most to you tt'k AQUARIUS (Jan. 111-Feb. 18): This day will get ~ively more exciting. Socialii.e ifyou wish to meet new friend. or lovers, but ifyou want to nwturc an existing relationship. kJcU5 on the pel'IDn you w<llt to imiress. tt'k PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): Use your imagination and you will accomplish the most today. Being creative will inspire you to follow adirection that you have only dreamed ofin the pa5t. 1rlrlrlrlf 
Birthday Baby: You will always look out fur the underdog and you will be there when oo one else is willing to go the distance. You will prove your strength of character and 
v.ill gain the respect of1hose you encounter. 

Check out Eugenia's Web sites al amroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
WE~L, JIM smrzvnJGt ! OIi )ES~)'! ITS SD 
ITTSff)lOTHE NldID~E ALL "lt>U DIN!NC, HALL AND YDUNt{ Pfl:PLE OU1­t~Fa::-6UT ~ME: StVE DFTHE DIN!lv4 'NE.W OPTIONS'.••
.----.... HAlL! 
D~'I. .. 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
On second 
thought, no. 
That"s not Whal 
I want at all. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Ellubelh C. Gor1kl 
36 Bugs, briefly 42 "Myra Breckinridge"38 Construction 
star 
crew 
46 Single-masters 39 It's not free of 
48 Yuletide offering 
charge 

make_•
50 Nomination
40 "What's this _ 

approver 60 Defense grp. 
... ?" 

51 Doings 61 "You said it!" 41 Philosopher's study 52 Cancels 62 Get-up-and-go 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554 Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
j 
j 
..... 
., 
.,. 
Yo11r narrative structun, Hems Ler, not be negative. Tell me, to h11ve fallen apart, Jack. What :-'\ .~hllt would you rather your 
do you think th• problem Is?  :;J  cQffllc be Ilk&?  
You assume I had  I want It to be more of a...  
n the firat pJac  you know, a  real chusic.  

doctor. 
. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Miffed 5 Early in the 
morning 11 Bit of sugar, say: Abbr. 14 Historical chapters 15 Big_ (German gun in 
W.W.I) 
16O1ive_ 
17 Slangy dissents 
18 Vinegary 
19 Baton Rouge 
campus 20 A driver may 
come to it 23 Pay back? 24 Number of 
weeks per 
annum 25 Brownish­orange 
27 "28 Days" subject 29 Funny Philips 
32 Great plays may be seen in it 33 TV dial: Abbr. 35 Sportscaster Cross 37 Far or down follower 38 Sound on a winter's night 41 Apple not for eating 
43 Sawbones 44 Word repeated in the Beatles title· Said Said" 
45 Teasdale and others 47 Bridal-notice word 
49 Robert Devereux's earldom 
53 Stick one's nose (in) 
55 Fed. construct ion overseer 
57 Second person 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
/ 
58 Five-foot wading birds 62 Potpie morsel 
63 Shell figure 64 "Look_ hands!" 
65 Superlative finish 66 "Newhart" actor 
Tom 
67 Old accusation 68 Scores: Abbr. 69 Flunky 70 Catbird seat? 
DOWN 
1 Motion detector 2 One with a 
vision 3 Gung-ho 4 In_ (actually) 5 Adders 6 Computer whiz 7 Afternoon hour 
in Bonn 8 Memo abbr. 9 Old bloc in 
Parliament 10 Cheesy snacks 11 It's not free of 
charge 12 A6-Down may oversee them 

ll!ll~~;,.+;,+.;;,fl!l"'l-;-!~•...,..1-=+-=+-::-1 13 Opposite of

sing. 21 Piece of pipe -:-t-':'"t-::-w....i 22 Francis and Dahl 
"'!"1-,;,+,,-+,:,...t-:-1i-=+-:-t-:::-t 26 Home land? 
~;,;+;,,;..i.;;-fl!!l~f-::+-rl-:~ 28 Shade of green 30 Not use plainly 31 Web address 
ending -,,+,.,.+-,-+=+=-1 34 Legal scholar's deg. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Irish Baseball & Men's Lacrosse 
r.·.. , :t >·-...... ··:i Baseball: Free Hot Chocolate 

lacrosse: Free Adidas Gitt
ll~\-courtesv of Tile South Bend to First100 Fansll! Chocolate com an 111 
··································--·······································-········· 


PORTS 
Thursday, April 10, 2003 
BASEBALL 


Axford K's his way to 12th straight Irish win 
By BRYAN KRONK Senior S1affWri1er 
When the hitting got cold for the Irish. John Axford got hot. 
The sophomore right-hander struck out 12 batters, and some key defensive plays kept the Irish in the game before a late offensive rally boosted Notre Dame to a 7-1 victory over Western Michigan at Eck Stadium Wednesday night. 
"[Assistant coach David Grewe and II both thought that it was going to be a low-scoring game," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "That kid (Broncos' starter Keith] Perez is a good pitcher -he beat us in Kalamazoo a couple years ago. We just had the feeling it was going to be a low-scoring game." 
And it was a low scoring game for much of the duration. The Irish were able to manu­facture single runs in the first and fifth innings, while a solo home run in the third for Western Michigan tied the game for a while. 
Not that either team didn't produce any opportunities. 
Two key scoring opportunities by the Broncos late in the game were thwarted by impressive defensive plays by the Irish. 
With a runner on second and two outs in the top of the seventh, a Western Michigan player singled to center field. The runner rounded third as center fielder Brennan Grogan fired his relay throw, which arrived in plenty of time for catcher Javi Sanchez to tag the runner out at home. 
"Grogan made a major league play throw­ing the guy out at the plate," Mainieri said. "Perfect throw, hit the cutoff man on one bounce, great catch by Javi. Kept the game 2-1 and kept Axford in line for a win." 
see AXFORD/page 31 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 

Frigid Bookstore courts get rowdy in first round 
• Boom boxes, plastic penguins and thwarted thongs all decorate Wednesday's first-round games 
ByMAITLOZAR Associare Sports Ediror 
They both had boom boxes. 
They both had beverages on the court. 
One team was drinking from a two-liter bottle while the other was using the tradi­tional blue plastic cup. What separated these two teams were their mascots. 
Four Fingers and a Thumb had a plastic Christmas penguin while Verdad o Falso? We're Bowed? had a six-foot inflatable penis. 
On the court, Four Fingers and a Thumb was able to overcome all of these distrac­tions and win 21-13 in the first round of the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 

The plastic penguin routinely sat at the top of the key on offense and defense for Four Fingers and a Thumb. 
Meanwhile, the inflatable penis stayed mainly on the sidelines and was used to hit some of Verdad o Falso?'s players as needed. 
Despite the 30-degree temperatures, a small pool was courtside filled with water for any potential swimmers -there were no takers. 
Hoop While Rap 21, Team Thlz 12 
Thankfully it was cold. Originally, Thiz planned to play wearing nothing but thongs from the waist down. 
Due to the cold temperatures, Thiz kept their shorts on and only attempted to pull down their shorts in order to distract the opposition. 
Hoop While Rap stayed focused on the bas­ket and took advantage of its height in using the inside game to defeat Thiz and move on to the second round. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 31 



ND SOFTBALL  SMC TENNIS  MENS LACROSSE  MENS TENNIS  
Notre Dame Pittsburgh  5, 4 4, 1  Albion Saint Mary's  8 1  Butler at Notre Dame Today, 3:30 p.m.  Notre Dame Ball State  5 2  
After much delay, the Irish opened  The Britons eked out several dose  After getting off to a 3-0 start, the  The Irish capture a key win over  
their Big East season with a sweep of  matches to seal the victory over the  5-4 Irish are looking to get back on  the Cardinals in the intrastate rival­ 
the Panthers.  Belles.  track.  ry.  
page 34  page 33  page  33  page 33  




