
VOL. XXXVII NO. 119 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ROTC professors deployed to Iraq war 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
University engineering pro­fessor Jeffrey Talley, a mem­ber of the Army Corps of Engineers Heservcs, was deployed to the Middle East in early February. The second­Y('ar professor, who is afliliat­ccl with lhe Deparlmenl of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, was called up for training in December of last year, prior to his recent U.S. departure. 
Talley. an Army Heservc !ir.utcnant colonel, is currently in Iraq with the 416th Engineering Command. Peter Burns. chairman of the depart­ment of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, said that Talley has not disclosed his exact location in Iraq. 
"Since the beginning of the war, his e-mails have been sporadic," said Burns. "But he has checked in with us so we know he's okay." 
Burns said he has no knowl­edge of a faculty member in the College of Engineering over having to temporarily leave the University for military service. 
The Army Corps of Engineers, Burns said, is most likely working to build bridges for the advancing U.S. and British forces and securing infrastructure for troops and for Iraqi citizens. Assuming 
U.S. and British forces are vic­torious, he said, the Corps will probably also play a part in 
reconstruction efforts at the conclusion of the war. 
He added that with the threat of chemical and biologi­cal weapons being used by the Iraqi military, Talley's exper­tise in environmental engineer­ing may become even more important in the war effort. 
Three professors in the Army ROTC program have also been recently deployed. Two are in the Middle East to support the ongoing operation in Iraq. The other is a civil affairs officer in a reserve unit that was sent to Kosovo as part of a peace­keeping mission. Army ROTC Lt. Col. David Mosinski said he was not at liberty to release the names of the three ROTC 
see ROTC/page 6 

.... 

Groody bound for national championships 
Theology professor, priest, blends Scripture with ski slopes 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
N"ws Wrirtr 
Over half his life ago, Daniel Groody sat during his family's vacation to Vermont glued to a television. On the screen, he watched as an Austrian downhill skier named Franz Klammer soared down the mountain at the 1976 Olympics. Groody loved the 75 mph velocity at which Klammer rocketed down the hill as he toed the line line separating self-control from reckless abandon. 
Klammer won the gold medal in the downhill. Groody desperately wanted to duplicate Klammer's success. 
That night, Groody went to bed and prayed to God for the chance to ski in the Olympics. "And if it's not too much trouble, I really want to win a gold medal," Groody remembered praying. 
Today, twenty-seven years after he uttered that prayer, Groody will tug on his skin-tight racing suit, strap on his parabolic skis and pull his goggles over his eyes at the top of the mountain at a former Olympic resort in Salt Lake City. Today, Groody will be skiing in the national championships in the giant slalom. 
Ironically, the prayer Groody uttered over a quarter of a century ago became a metaphor for the rest of his life. 
No, he never made the Olympics. He became a priest. 
Now 38 and a theology professor at Notre Dame, Groody is a full-time priest and educator whose min­istry, research and teaching are his top priorities. Skiing is litlle more than a hobby, albeit an unusual one for a person who devotes his life to God. The fact that Groody qualified for the national championships with almost no training speaks volumes about his tal­
see GROODY/page 4 

Saint Mary's rises to goal in Lilly Challenge 
vate philanthropic foundation, three constituencies at Saint $1,500; a Mardi Gras Potluck By LAUR.EN O'BRIEN allocated a potential $138 mil­Mary's that are able to donate: Luncheon in February, raising News Writer lion in the "Initiative to alumnae, faculty and staff and $1,025 and Wednesday's Hard 
Strengthen Philanthropy for students and parents. Hat Tour of the new Noble 
Saint Mary's faculty and Indiana Higher Education The College's Lilly Faculty Family Dining llall, which staff have made significant Institutions." Each institution and Staff Campaign has set a raised an estimated $200. progress since June toward has the possibility to receive goal of $250,000. In addition to participating their goal for the Lilly up to $3.5 million in matching Fundraising activities for the in fundraisers, faculty and Challenge that matches each funds. campaign have included a staff can also contribute to the dollar donated to the school. In order to raise $3.5 million Holiday Bake Sale in 
Lilly Endowment. Inc .. a pri-by December 2003, there are December, which raised see LILLY/page 6 
Visitation welcom.es students 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associat" Nc:ws Editor 
In an effort to increase minority student enrollment among its freshman class, Notre Dame will welcome over 150 minority high school seniors to campus this weekend for Spring Visitation. 
The program, which is sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, brings high school seniors who have already been accepted to the University but are undecided about whether they will enroll to Notre Dame for a taste of student life. Students began arriving on campus Thursday, said Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, which helps coor­dinate the Spring Visitation program with the admis­sions office. 
"The numbers look really, really good," said Outlaw. "Our challenge now is to convince the students that Notre Dame is for them." 
Three student coordina­tors, Margaret Mason. Richie Dang and Stephen Arevalo, have worked with MSPS and the admissions office to plan activities that emphasize diversity at Notre Dame. Dang and Arevalo could not be reached for comment and Mason refused to comment. 
Over the weekend, the visitors will attend work­shops on financial aid and student life at the University and talk with administra­tors and alumni about Notre Dame. A student organization fair highlight-
see VISITATION/page 6 
Friday, M:uch 28, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE

INSIDE COLUMN 
''If you ~ant peace... II 

When the war with Iraq began, I was pretty uncomfortable about it. I thought that I wanted peace, so nat­urally I tried to work for justice. But it seems justice didn't want me to work for it. It was Mike very uncommu­
Chambliss

nicative, it didn't let me know what it needed done. it 
Wire Editor 

didn't pay me anything. 
Me: What do you want me to do? 
Justice: Screws? 
Me: No. do. Do. What should I do? 
Justice: Nah-uh. Not here. Use the 

bathroom. 
After that. I was unemployed for a few days, but I stayed positive about what else was out there. which I think was my secret. 
I stayed "with it." I decided to ignore the war with Iraq and join a war that is more my speed. I joined the war on drugs. 
Drugs are bad -that seems to be pretty well accepted. I say no to them all the time. They don't even ask me anything and I say no because I know that anything they ask me will be bad (like them). 
So I hopped a bus to Detroit as my alter ego, Chad Underhill. I planned on using my body to turn drugs into not-drugs, but first I had to pur­chase some product. I asked around in Detroit and eventually I was pointed to a man in a puffy coat. 
I regained consciousness in a. nearby alleyway to find a man named Barry nuzzling me. 
"Want to ride up to Detroit with me?" asked Barry. 
What? Wasn't I already in Detroit? 
'Tm krunked up," stated Barry. 

My ears perked a little bit when I heard this. It meant that Barry and I were fighting the same war. plus he sounded really enthusiastic. 
Barry produced a bottle and shot me a knowing look. 
"This stuff has got to be drugs, this is the real deal," I thought, "Liver do your thing!" 
We both took a swig. 'Tm set for 

the day!" proclaimed an awed Barry. 
I, on the other hand, was shocked. 
Right then, I knew that Barry 

wasn't like me. I told him off big time, "The war is not nearly over. You don't just stop fighting like that. I don't think I'll be joining you in Detroit." 
I quit fighting soon after my dis­heartening encounter with Barry. I'm actually back working for jus­tice. Yeah, I know, but it's better than nothing. 
Besides, the drug war was consid­erably cutting into the time I had free to spend looking at Japanese­style anime pornography at the vari­ous computer labs located around campus. J/K. TTYL! 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mcham­
bli@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the caption to the picture of Ralph Nader pub­
lished Thursday, the loc:ition of Nader's speech was misidentified. The lecture was held in the Jordan Auditorium in rhe Mendoza College of Business. 
In Thursday's story "Review unlikely to return to Sou1h Quad.," rhe arcicl" should have stated that only Student Senate resolutions perraining to the Office of Student Affairs must be forwarded to rhe Campus Life Council. 
The Observer regrets these errors. 

CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTSNEWS NATION NEWS 
"Too much to


"Medea"
ROTC Pass

American
CoalltlonCollege plans 
handle"

loosed at technology 
and Revieweconomy still

bombingto add $200 

Saint Mary's fee 
deservesstrugglingrocks outdoor 

location Baghdad 
The men's bas­ketball team was Saint Mary's stu-The sacrifice ofThe already-slug-Baghdad saw itsSaint Mary's 

dents will perform technology fee to 
gish American 
ROTC students
most intense born-announced a new 

trumped by be added to tuition 
Euripides' chilling 
should resonate

economy continues 
bardment in days 

Arizona 88-71 to go into effect in 
tragedy on campuswith Notre Dame
to suffer from anafter coalition 
Thursday, eliminat­the 2003-2004 acad­
this weekend. 
and Saint Mary'searlier slump andforces attacked the ing the Irish fromstudents.

the effects of warIraqi capital 
uncertainties.
Thursday night. 
emicyear. 

page 7
page 5
page 6 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
"Shadows ol' War, Visions of Poaco" conference all day at Iksburgh Center 

. 
"Cartography and Irish Homanticism," Clain~ Connolly :1 p.m. at 424 Flanner I lall 

. 
Student Plavers (> p.m. at McKcnna Ilall's ETS Theater 



WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Shrimp spaghetti, gorgonzola sauce, tomato pizza, cheese French bread pizza, seafood supreme pizza. cheese and vegetable pot pie, broccoli-cheese-rice casserole, French green beans. apple cobbler, cheddar­crumbed scrod, Swiss oatmeal, cherry blintz, sunshine french toast, salmon and crabmeat burgers, fried clam strips, buffalo shrimp. hushpuppies 
Today's Dinner: Seafood Normandie, long grain and wild rice, apple cobbler, cut corn, winter-blend vegetables, sliced carrots, cut green beans. salmon and crabmeat burgers, jumbo fish sandwich, crinkle fries, onion rings, thai fried rice, tomato pizza 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Stuffed shells, mush­room marinara, tomato pizza, bianco pizza. vegetable calzone. macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, Cajun-baked orange roughy, cheese and vegetable pie, long grain and wild rice, fried clam strips, small grilled pizza. grilled mahi-mahi, fishwich, battered wedge fries, onion rings, fried tofu rice, cheese enchilada, baked potato, cut corn 
Today's Dinner: Cheese lasagna. black olive marinara, fried buffalo shrimp, breaded cheese sticks with marinara sauce, Seminole red snapper with oranges, fishwich, battered wedge fries, onion rings, egg foo yong surimi 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 


c::: 
w
:c 
ti 
w 
~ 
-' 
ct 
(.) 



0

.... HIGH 65 HIGH HIGH HIGH 39 LOW 31 LOW LOW LOW 29 



the NCAA tourna­ment. 
page 24

page 13
page 10 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


Student receives harassing call 
A student reported receiving a harassing tele­phone call at Welsh Family Hall Thursday. 

Student loses wallet 
A student reported losing her wallet at an unknown campus location Wednesday. 

Student's bike stolen 
A student's bike was reported stolen from the east side of DeBartolo Hall Wednesday. No sus­pects have been named in the incident. 

Student vehicle towed 
A student's vehicle was towed for violating a parking code in the COl Student South Stadium Lot Wednesday. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta, marinara, eggplant and pepper tostada, butternut squash, Italian vegetable hero. garden fresh saute, fish and chips bar, ziti parmesan casserole. cheese pizza. California stromboli. honey lime crab loafer, roasted turkey breast. spicy hummus, almond cookies, lemon bars, garden vegetable soup, cuban veg­etable soup. carrot and onion cole slaw 
Today's Dinner: Grilled Kenyan tilapta, potato pancakes, garden burg­er, pasta marinara, baked apples, chocolate fondue bar, chicken breast parmesan, home style vegetables, BBQ chicken pizza. cheese pizza. tortellini casserole. vanilla mousse, marble cake 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 66 / 54 Boston 51 / 41 Chicago 55 / 27 Denver 34 / 17 Houston 68 / 46 Los Angeles 77 / 55 Minneapolis 37 / 24 New York 55 / 46 Philadelphia 57 / 50 Phoenix 75 / 51 Seattle 55 / 44 St. Louis 56 / 33 Tampa 81 / 64 Washington 63 / 55 
Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Foley outlines Student Senate's achievements 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
After a slow start this year, the Student Senate has proven they can take on major issues and begin to make real and important 
changes in student life. 
"The year started off tough with the alcohol p () 1 i C y changes. {Senate! got 


a slow start Foley because they focused so hard on that," said Trip Foley. Student Body Vice President. 
Mter dealing primarily with the alcohol policy issue for somn time and attempting to represent student opinion on the issue, something Foley said they did very well, the Senate began to tackle other key issues. 
The primary issues this year's Senate has been involved with are Teacher­Course Evaluations. the pro­posed Flex-1O plan, a resolu­tion on in-hall dances and the split of the Economics Department. 
Foley said that conversations on these issues will continue into next year, but that the Senate has made good progress on all of them. 
Foley said that he, Sorin Hall Senator Jeremey Staley and Jim Hyan of the Academic Council will meet next week with the Faculty Senate to dis­cuss TCEs. They have already met with representatives of other departments involved with the TCE decision. 
Foley said that this is an important issue to the current Senate, and it will continue to such a plan. They will also be a point of discussion within look for new sources of fund­the incoming Senate. ing. 
"Pat Hallahan and Jeremy The debate on this issue, Lao are going to follow up with Foley said, is also one that will this," said Foley, "and Jeremey likely continue into next year. Staley will continue to work on "It's sure to stay on people's it also." radar in the coming year," he 
While any changes to the said. "Pat and Jeremy put in a TCE policy would probably not lot of work on this, and I know take effect this year. Foley they will follow up with it said, "I'd like to have the because it is an issue that is Facultv Senate act on it before important to students in gener­the end of the year." Such al." action would make it easier for Foley said the Senate did an changes to take place earlier effective job of representing next year. the student body perspective 
The proposed Flex-10 plan, on the issue of the Department an issue that was part of last of Economics split. year's presidential campaign They sent a letter to Father for Foley and current Student Edward Malloy, University Body President Libby Bishop, President, asking that the is also of major interest to stu­administration bear in mind dents. This issue, however, student opinion and reaction in was not discussed until early all future decisions that affect this semester. them. Malloy replied to their 
"It took a while to get on the letter, agreeing that student right people's radar," said opinion is important, and he Foley. said that the administration 
Foley said that ND Food shares the Senate's goal of act-
Services  will  ing in  the  
conduct  a  best inter­ 
broad  survey  "There are issues they've  ests of stu­ 
soon, lo gauge how students utilize their food plans in  {Student Senate] been working hard on -TCEs and Flex-10. What is  dents. A n agreement w a s  
general. Through the survey, he said, Food Services  important to remember is that it takes time to effect change. They've laid the  worked out and a good compro­mise was  
will look for areas in which they can scale back and things  ground work and I think we'll see the changes from that next year "  reached," Foley said. The in­hall dance  
students would  policy is  a  
be willing to trade in order to obtain a  Trip Foley Student Body Vice President  major issue that recent­ly resur­ 
Flex-10 plan.  faced  in  
"It's certainly  Senate  

a money issue," Foley said. By debate. A resolution was cutting back in certain areas, passed Wednesday, to be sent he said, Food Services may be to the Campus Life Council at able to provide students with their meeting on April 14, ask­ing that in-hall dances be rein­Other major issues have stated for a probationary peri­come to the table in Senate od of one year. meetings this semester. 
Foley said that the Senate One such resolution, passed believes that the changes in Wednesday with the in-hall the alcohol policy have dance resolution. involved a reduced incidents of alcohol request that Naval Science 
poisoning on  classes be con­ 
campus.  side red  a  
" A n y moves to that end are g o o d  ''The year started off tough with the alcohol policy changes. {Senate]  minor. This sugges­tion will go to Father John  
moves," Foley said. He said the Senate  got a slow start because they focused so hard on that."  Jenkins, the director of mili­tary affairs in the Office of the  
hopes  that  Provost,  for  
the positive changes toward  Trip Foley Student Body Vice President  consideration. It will also most likely go before  
more safety  the  Academic  
and respon- Council  for  

sibility for students will cause debate. the administration to reconsid­"I would think there's going er putting the dances back in to be more discussion on this," the dorms. Foley said. 
"Most people can agree that The distribution of' student the dances this year have not football tickets, an issue that been successful at all, and we Foley said arises every year, need to get them back in the came up again at Wednesday's residence halls," Foley said. Senate meeting. 
The issue will be discussed at Howard Hall senator Brin the Campus Leadership Anderson gave a report that Council meeting April 14. If the outlined new processes for resolution is passed, the ticket distribution in response administration will most likely to student complaints. closely examine the in-hall "They're going to have to dance policy. look at that. I imagine there's 
A second resolution on the going to be more discussion," agenda for the CLC on April 14 said Foley. deals with weekday parietals, The Senate has tackled and it was passed by the some major issues this year, Senate last week. and Foley said that they have 
The Senate's resolution accomplished much. called attention to the number "There are issues they've of students studying in groups. been working hard on -TCEs This number has doubled since and Flex-10. What is important 1993, Foley said. to remember is that it takes 
The Senate suggested that time to effect change. They've students have resources in laid the ground work and I their rooms conducive to think we'll see the changes studying that justify later from that next year," he said. weekday parietals. 
"There really is a need to consider having an extra hour Contact Maureen Reynolds at during the week," said Foley. mreynold@nd.edu 


Friday, March 28, 2003
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Groody 
continued from page 1 
ent. 

Yet Groody admits that as 
much as he loves to ski. his first 
priority is to his duties as a 
priest. In fact, he readily admits 
that the competitive nature of 
skiing appears to directly con­
tradict the principles of Jove and 
compassion central to the 
priestly ministry. 

For a time, Groody didn't think he could ski and be a priest at the same time. Then again, he had a hard time believing that he should be a priest, too. 
An avid skier even after he broke his leg the first time on the slopes in third grade, Groody first joined the Notre Dame ski team as an under­graduate in the mid-80s and thought he might become a businessman. 
But after several unfruitful summers working as a publicist, Groody started feeling a calling for something else -the semi­nary. 
"I resisted it at first," he admitted. "I ran away in the other direction, and it kept com­ing up. Finally, I wasn't at peace." 
Groody had good reason to resist at first. He had a girl­friend. a comfortable life and a promising career. To enter the priesthood, Groody thought, meant everything -even his love of skiing -had to be left behind. 
"I had," he said, "to divest myself of images of what a priest was -never get married, not interested in women, didn't ski." 
Still unsure of his decision, Groody entered the seminary believing he had to cast aside that which he enjoyed before entering the priesthood. That meant his fanciful childhood dreams of qualifying for the Olympics, of flying down a snow-covered mountain faster than a car on a freeway had to be exchanged for a life of no women and lots of prayer. 
But after a year in the semi­nary, he took a cross-country bike trip from Portland, Ore. to Portland, Maine with a friend. He left with lots of questions, but returned with even more answers. 
Journey of a lifetime 

"All kinds of terrain, moun­tains, valleys, people running us off the road -that sort of became a metaphor for life," he said. "As I was sweating through the questions I had about priesthood, that gave me a good way of looking at it, a way to think about the vast ter­rain of life. When I saw priest­hood as an adventure, it really became a challenge." 
Content with his decision, Groody began deciding how he would fulfill his responsibilities as a priest. But he still didn't think skiing could be a part of his life. 
However, one of the require­ments before a priest may take his final vows is that he take a 30-day retreat by himself. The silence is intended to help the future priest both develop a deeper connection with God as well as understand their own personality better. 
Fittingly, Groody took his 30­day retreat in Colorado. the heart of ski country. There, he said God revealed a way to con­nect his love of skiing with the love a priest must possess. 
"I remember God revealing to me that the same things I devel­oped in skiing were the same things I could bring to myself as a priest," he said. "When I first 
"I don't," he simply said. 
In many ways, Groody truly did give up skiing when he entered the priesthood. The only occasions on which Groody thinks he skis come when he attends various events on the University's behalf. Often, he'll go to a conference, give his talk, and then take a few extra days to ski a local mountain. That's it. 
Since he entered the priest­hood, Groody said he has never taken a vacation solely for the purpose of skiing, and he knows he is not nearly as good as he could be. 
But from time to time, Groody does catch himself briefly -­very briefly -wondering how good he could be had he stuck with skiing. 
For example, in early January, Groody gave a talk at Santa Fe, N.M. and then headed 

entered the seminary, it was like I had to leave it behind, I really felt that's what God said. 
"But in Colorado, it felt like God was saying I want you to approach the priesthood the same way that you approached ski­ing. But the gold medal is no longer going to 
"A gold medal, I have them over my head but it doesn't mean a lot in the long run. What does mean a lot is the quality ofthe heart, which can touch people's lives and make them for the better. " 
Father Dan Groody Theology professor 

be a gold medal. It's going to be in your own heart, and that was the shift for me." 
More than 20 years after his retreat, Groody still defines his ministry as one of the heart, where he uses compassion and love to explore the lives of the less fortunate. Skiing is but a hobby, something the priest says he is lucky to do five times a year. 
Instead, Groody devotes the bulk of his time to his teaching ­he currently teaches three class­es at Notre Dame -and research that is based on his experiences working with migrant workers in the Southwest. His experiences in California led Groody to publish a book examining how the migrant community accepted Christianity and how they could help the Church as a whole. 
"I put this loosely, but my life has been a ministry to people who are losers in the eyes of the world," he said. "But in my eyes, they are winners in the most fundamental ways. They are the ones who have really a tremendous faith and diversion to God." 

Natural talent 
So in the midst of his devotion to his faith, how does Groody manage find time to train at a level that allowed him to qualify for the national championships? 
to Taos Mountain, where he planned to enter a race that w as n ' t scheduled to end for a n o the r 
t  w  o  
months.  
T  h  e  
rules  of  

the race were sim­ple. Ski down the 
hill as fast as you can, and, if your time is among the top three in your age group at the end of the time period, you go to the national championships. 
Groody remembers going to the top of the hill and standing in a parka and his brand new skis. He watched as the guy ahead of him, who was decked out in the latest racing apparel, ski the fastest time to date on the mountain. 
Then the priest went down the hill and skied the second-fastest time. 
From then on, checking the times on the Taos Mountain site became as much a daily routine for Groody as praying, "my little reward for ending the day," he said. 

Championship bound 
When his time held up and the priest learned he qualified for the national championships, an excited Groody made reserva­tions for Salt Lake City. There, he wrn ski against racers who ski hundreds of time a year on a course where the time will be set by U.S, Olympians. Depending on how close his time is within a certain percent­age of the Olympians. he will get a gold, silver or bronze medal. 
Then it's back to Notre Dame to teach. 
"It's fun to think about," what might have happened had he devoted himself entirely to ski­ing, he said. 
But Groody is foremost a priest., not a professional skier. "My whole definition of success has been turned around," he said. "A gold medal, I have them over my head but it doesn't mean a lot in the long run. What does mean a lot is the quality of the heart. which can touch peo­pie's lives and make them for the better. That's the way I look at my definition of success." 
But that doesn't mean Groody separates skiing from the priest­hood. In fact, he integrates the two to form who is as a person. For a man who describes skiing as a metaphor for his life, Groody appreciates a certain ironic twist. When he's hurtling down a mountain at 65 mph. spiritual concepts like trust flash through his mind. When some­thing unexpected happens in life, Groody imagines himself on a ski slope to recapture his con­fidence. 
Even Groody's office reflects the dual psyche within the priest. A picture of the priest shaking hands with the Pope 

Another technological 
hangs next to a Latino religious painting while winter land­scapes flash as a screensaver across his computers. 

Just like Groody can't imagine skiing without being a priest, neither can he imagine being a priest without skiing -although he knows the combination is odd. "It is so against the grain of what my life is about," he said. "But it is competing against yourself, trying to bring out the best person you can be and bring out the glory of God by using everything you can." 
Today, Groody will stand at the top of a ski slope for the national championships, appro­priately dressed in a Notre Dame-blue racing suit with yel­low boots. At the resort where the 2002 Olympic skiing compe­tition was held, Groody's modest dreams are far from the gold medal visions Klammer inspired 27 years ago. 
But Klammer helped inspire something else in Groody, too. 
"Something about the way Franz Klammer skied that downhill was something about the way I wanted to live my life. I sometimes feel I live the way I ski," Groody said. "Life is a ter­rific adventure. To really get everything out of life, you have to give everything you have to it, even if it's kinda risky. 
"To bring that competitive sense into other areas of my life would be positively destructive," he continued. "But it's nice to know that it is still a part of my life, that there is a part that can kick into that gear when it needs to." 
At that, the priest cracked a wide grin. For he knows that deep inside him, next to the man who devoted his life to God, still exists the young man who whispered a prayer asking for a shot at the Olympics. 
Groody might have grown up. but that young man never did. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asou.kup@nd.edu 

innovation brought to you by Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ... 







Online 
.... 1 ;t ~ f~~". ..w.,· ,.,,~.. /,, ~­
4 
.,,,'.}i\,t:heck Imaging 

Save time, save money. Get your check images online, free! Just log on to our home banking web site. 
'6J 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
www.ndfcu.org 
Q
Independent of the University 
LENDER 




WORLD & NATION 
f-riday, March 28, 2003 COMPILEI;l FROM THE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Coalition bombing rocks downtown Baghdad 
Associated l'ress 
B/\GIID/\D 
Ttrn trnavicst bombardment in days, including an attack on 01w of Saddam II ussein 's pres­irfr n lia l compounds in the h1•arl of Bagbdad, rattled the capilul late Thursday night with tlam1:s and smoke f'illing tlw night sky. 
Bnforo the attack, the Iraqi dcl'cnsc minislf'.r warned U.S.­Ind forces would have to fight for the city street by street. 
"Tlw enemy must come insid!' Baghdad. and that wilt be ib grnvc," Defense ~linister Sullan Hashem Ahmed told a rwws conference in a down­town llotd. "We l'enl that this war must be prolonged so the nrwmy pays a high price." 
Tim braggadocio was fol­lowed by the latest series or missile attacks on Baghdad, including one of the strongest blasts felt in days. Shortly after 11 p.m. Thursday {3 p.m. JiST). the heart of the city was rocked by explosions. 
/\ building inside the "Old Palace" complex -a presiden­tial compound hit in earlier attacks -was targeted in the precision bombing strike. The compound, on the west bank of the Tigris River. includes a camp of the Republican Guard; it was also targeted last week. 
One massive blast sent flames and dense, orange smoke reaching into the sky. In addition to the attack in the center or the city, other very strong explosions were heard southwest of Baghdad. 
Iraq's satellite television channel was cutting in and out after the airstrike. The U.S. forces had hoped to knock out Iraqi television and radio to disable Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's propaganda outlets. 
There also was bombing in the Mosul area in northern Iraq beginning about 10:30 
p.m. (2:30 p.m. EST). 
Hours earlier, loud explo­sions were heard in and around Baghdad, with witness­es saying an unknown number of people were killed and injured in an attack on a hous­ing complex for employees of a weapons-producing facility. 
The Military Industrializa­tion Authority of Iraq complex is in the Al-Youssifiah area, about 12 miles south of the capital. 
An explosion a.bout 700 yards west of the Information Ministry sent scores ofjournal­ists fleeing. Anti-aircraft guns on the roof of the ministry opened fire, witnesses said, but there was no word on damage or casualties. 
One of Baghdad's main tele­phone facilities also was hit early Thursday, causing ser­ing a day earlier. vice disruptions. "They are targeting the 
Iraqi officials, speaking human beings in Iraq to before the late night attacks, decrease their morale," Iraqi said 36 civilians were killed Health Minister Omeed Medhat and 215 injured in U.S. bomb-Mubarak said of the air 

attacks. "They are not discrim­inating, differentiating." 
The American military said there was no proof the deaths Wednesday were caused by 
U.S. missiles. 
Faith-based 1neasure fails, law-makers look to tax breaks 
A..ociatcd l'rcss 
WASHINGTON 
Unable to pass even a watered-down version of the president's faith-based ini­tiative. congressional sponsors said Thursday they would remove all efforts to open government programs to church­es and other religious groups from the bill. 
Their legislation instead will just pro­vide tax breaks for donations to chari­ties. including religious groups. 
"I would have liked to have gotten the whole enchilada, but in the United States Senate Lhis year. you're lucky to get any­thing, and I'll take anything," said Sen. Hick Santorum, H-Pa. "We just thought it was a great trade off." 
Santorum said the Bush administration has succeeded in rewriting government regulations to open programs to religious groups, making legislation less urgent. I-le also said the tax provisions will aid charities, including many that are reli­gious. 
Santorum said House Republicans had agreed to go along with the scaled-back bill -a remarkable shift since the leg­islative effort began two years ago. 
The initiative, at the center of Bush's "compassionate conservative" agenda, met stiff opposition from the start. 
After a bitter debate. a divided House approved Bush-supported legislation opening a dozen new social programs to religious groups. It allowed these groups to hire or fire based on their religion, 
and allowed them to skirt state anti-dis­
crimination laws. 
The bill was strongly opposed by civil rights groups and others, and when it got to the Senate, sponsors Santorum and Sen. Joe Lieberman, O-Ct., scaled it back. 
Their bill initially offered tax breaks· and made it clear that religious groups may not be excluded from government contracts for reasons such as having a religious name or displaying religious symbols. 
Still, critics objected. 
Some Senate Democrats -argued that the bill specifically should bar groups from using federal funds to proselytize. They said it should expressly prohibit groups from getting tax dollars from dis­criminating against beneficiaries or employees of other religions. Without this clarification, the administration would interpret the law on its own to allow these things, argued Sens. Jack Reed, O-R.I., and Dick Durbin, D-111. 
Unable to overcome these objections, Santorum said he was stripping the con­tested language from the bill. 
Reed said Thursday that he was encouraged by the move but was waiting to see exactly what would pass Congress. 
A prominent opposition group was less restrained. 
"This is a huge step in the right direc­tion," said Rev. Barry Lynn of Americans United for the Separation of Church and State. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Serbian cops shoot suspected assassins 
Belgrade police shot and killed two major suspects in the assassination of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic as they resisted arrest late Thursday, Uw government said. 
Dusan Spasojcvic and Milan Lukovic were leaders nf tho Zemun Clan. a crime gang that has been accused of masterminding the March 12 assassina­lion of Djindjic, the Interior Ministry said in a state­ment. 
E.U. states move to ban some oil tankers 
European Union governments agreed Thursday to bun all single-hulled tankers by 2010 in an attempt to reduce the risk of spills like the one that befouled the coast of northwestern Spain last year. 
The ban would be phased in, with a ban on sin­glP-hullcd tankers carrying heavy crude oil taking effoct in .July if approved by the European Parliament. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Shuttle data recorder may yield clues 
Salvaged tape from Columbia's data recorder may hold vital information up until just a few sec­onds before the shuttle disintegrated over Texas, accident investigators said Thursday. 
While the 9,400 feet of magnetic tape was being duplicated at Kennedy Space Center this week, a time tag on it confirmed that some type of imprint exists until 18 seconds past 9 a.m. on Feb. 1, the board said. After that. the tape is blank. 
Sniper suspect to get psychiatric tests 
Lawyers for sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad received permission Thursday to hire a psychiatrist and a psychologist to evaluate his mental health. But the judge temporarily denied requests to hire private investigators. 
The mental health experts were not identified durjng the 45-minute hearing before Prince William Circuit Judge LeRoy Millette Jr. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Jury awards $l 4M in '98 car crash case 
A jury has ordered the state and a Clark County man to pay $14 million to the families of four people killed in a 1998 automobile accident at an intersec­tion in southern Indiana. 
The Clark County jury agreed with the plaintiffs' contention that motorists were not adequately warned about the danger of the intersection, which was essentially blind to drivers coming up a hill. 
Bloomington enacts public smoking ban 
The Bloomington City Council approved a ban on smoking in public and most workplaces. but gave private clubs and over-18 clubs extra time to comply. 
The panel passed the ordinance by an 8-1 vote Wednesday night. 
Council members also approved an amendment that would exempt private clubs and 18-and-over businesses with lawful smoking areas from the smoking regulations until Jan. 1. 2005. 
Friday, March 28, 2003 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Lilly 
continued from page l 
campaign through payroll deduction or a direct gift. The donor may determine where their donation and the Lilly matching dollars are desig­nated. 
"It doesn't matter what you give," said Kay Ball, Saint Mary's Director of Development. "You just par­ticipate at whatever level you can." 
Faculty and staff have met 60 percent of their $250,000 goal. with nearly $150,000 contributed so far. Ball said she fully expects them to meet or exceed their goal this vear. 
• Student campaigns are also actively progressing toward their goal in the Lilly Initiative. 
Traditionallv, each Saint Mary's senio·r class has 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
professors, nor the locations where they are now stationed. 
With the departure of these three professors, only two remained to in the Army ROTC department. 
Mosinski said the deployed professors had to leave quick­1 y, but the remaining two 


Visitation 
continued from page 1 
ing campus cultural clubs will be held this afternoon from 
3:30 -5 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Additionally, many social events sponsored by campus groups are planned for this weekend, which began raised money for a Senior Leadership Fund. The fund is allocated to the area of senior choice. 
Last year. the Class of 2002 donated funds to the con­struction of the future Student Center. A plaque will be mounted in the building as a tangible reminder of their generosity. 
The Lilly ChaUenge pre­sents a unique opportunity for students to begin donat­ing to their Senior Leadership Fund earlier than usual, at a time when Lilly Endowment is willing to match their con­tribution. 
"We hope that this will establish a pattern of giving after students graduate," said JudeAnne Wilson, Assistant Director of the Annual Fund. "Everyone across the board is rising to the occasion." 
The Quarters Campaign is another component of the ini­tiative that has generated strong student participation. 
have made a smooth transi­tion. 
"They are experienced instructors and they enthusi­astically took on the extra workloads and each picked up extra classes," said Mosinski. "They did a tremendous job and we didn't miss a beat." 
The department was short­handed for about five weeks until two temporary instruc­tors joined the department last week. An adjunct profes-
Thursday evening with "Lumpia Night," sponsored by the Filipino American Students Organization. 
Students will also have the opportunity to attend "Latin Expressions" tonight at the Century Center in downtown South Bend and the Black Cultural Arts Council's Fashion Show, themed "Tell It Like lt Is," which will be held Saturday evening in the 

Like news? 
The campaign committee will collect quarters door0 to­door in the residence halls during the second week of April. lt is anticipated that this will bring each class closer to their 100 percent participation goal. 
Alumnae are also expected to exceed their goal of $3 mil­lion. Many alumnae who already donate to the College have increased their dona­tions to take advantage of the Lilly Initiative. 
Although the current totals for the student and parent and alumnae campaigns are not yet available, the amount raised for the Lilly Initiative has reached $3,450,000 with nine months remaining in the campaign. 
"This campaign has really inspired people, especially with the economy the way it is," Ball said. · 
Contact Lauren O'Brien at obril648@saintmarys.edu 
sor has been hired to teach Talley's class this semester. as well. 
None of the professors in the Navy or Air Force ROTC programs have been deployed for duty. Students participat­ing in ROTC cannot be deployed because they are contracted with the ROTC program. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
Stepan Center. 
Though these events are usually held sometime in the spring, MSPS works with stu­dent cultural clubs to plan the events during Spring Visitation so that minority stu­dents are presented with a wide variety of activities for the weekend, said Outlaw. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Who wouldn't! Call Meghanne at 631-5323. 



College plans to add $200 technology fee 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's has added a $200 technology fee to the 2003-04 student tuition to raise necessary funding for ongoing technology upgrades and campus software licens­ing, 
The College's Department of Information Technology decid­ed to update its network capacity, in a move that will affect both on-and off-campus students. 
"Much of our maintenance licensing expired 1.ast summer, so basically we've been using older software," said Keith Fowlkes, Saint Mary's dirnctor of Information Technology. 
Fowlkes said that his office has facilitated upgrades to Microsoft programs only. Others. such as Macromedia and Adobe, arc slated for future upgrades. 
In addition to the College's need to upgrade its programs, initial funding comprised of grant funds and a 1998 bond issue ran out in the summer of 2001, further necessitating the addition of a technology fee. 
"It takes money to keep up with new technology," Fowlkes said. "We're round­ing the corner right now on five-year upgrade needs for our campus network." 
To build on the campus net­work's infrastructure, the Department of Information Technology will install a cal­endaring system, user infor­mation database and a new system for e-mail -a signifi­cant improvement from the IMP system upgrade last month. 
Current Internet connections will be enhanced, providing on-campus students with a faster Internet connection. Off-campus students will be accommodated with a "pack­age shaper," enabling faster and more flexible access out­side of campus. 
Proceeds from the fee will also help to cover operation costs within the Information Technology Resource Center. 
A grant from the Huisking Foundation will pay for addi­tional ITRC renovation costs. 
New computer-based audio/video production will make the ITRC the hub for the "campus channel," a television channel featuring student-pro­duced programming. campus news, world news, sports and weather. 
The ITRC is in the process of forming a Cable Television Advisory Board and is plan­ning to initiate the. campus channel during the 2004-05 academic year. 
A cable television channel was instituted at colleges where Fowlkes previously worked. Based on its success on other campuses, Fowlkes said he is optimistic that the channel will thrive at Saint Mary's. 
"We have so many incredible offerings on this campus for technology and we just want to keep them up," he said. "We're doing this primarily for students so they can be exposed to the latest technolo­gy, so when they graduate, they'll be ready to use whatev­er software is placed in front of them." 
Other colleges and universi­ties around the country have an additional technology fee outside of student tuition. 
Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio has a $120 per semester fee. At Ball State L'niversity, the fee is $130 per semester and at Indiana University, Bloomington, it's $400 per year. 
Saint Mary's will continue to underwrite the bulk of the technology costs. 
"The $200 will help us pro­vide more and better technolo­gy for our students," Fowlkes said. "We hope students will understand that technology is expensive, and to maintain the technology we have on cam­pus is crucial to the education of students here at Saint Mary's." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

ROOM PICKS? NAH! 
Pick your room at TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS! Pick your room the day you apply; GUARENTEED UNITS AVAILABLE! TURTLE CREEK has 4 person Th's for as low as $280/MO PER PERSON. 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Call for details: 272-8124 Visit us at WWW.TURTLECREEK.ND.COM 
Enjoy contemporary Italian appetizers and entrees from our 
Seafood Celebration 
menu such as: Salmone alla Griglia, Capellini and Crabmeat and Shrimp Sizzlelini0 
ALIAN KITCHEN 

Unmistakably Italian. \unbelievably Good. 
Reservations Accepted 

Hours: Sunday -Thursday 11 a.m.-10 p.m. Friday -Saturday 11 a.m.-11 p.m. 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka 
574-271-1692 


Friday, March 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSFRVEH WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch March 27 
Dow Jones 
8,20 I .45 • -28.43 

N4SDAQ 
1,384.25 • -3.20 

S&P500 
868.52 .. -1.44 
AM.EX 
824.32 +3.44
e 

NYSE 
4,829.71 
-14.92 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI) +2.83 +0.02 0.69 
NASDAQ ~·•100 ·rNbEK(QQQ):: ~iizi]I;Jtiizl:;:;1
=·=•::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:;:::::::::······························· 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.83 -0.2125.04 

SPDR TRUST .. SER f~BY~:I!!lil:l:l;l;!:l:~:ll!illill 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.17 -0.1613.50 
IN BRIEF 
Crude futures spike on supply fears 
Oil prices rose above $30 a barrel Thursday for lhP first time since war broke out in Iraq, as concPrns about worldwide supplies replaced early hopes for a quick end to the military con­flict. 
The price of oil on futures markets has risen ,warty 13 percent since last Friday. when it dropped Lo a three-month low. 
Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.74 on Thursday to close at $30.37 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after trading as high as $30.45. Oil is up 13 percent from lasL Friday, when iL closed at $26.91. 
Lenk to head Gap online presence 
Clothing retailer Gap Inc. announced Thursday il has entrusted its online division to fallen entrepreneur Edward "Toby" Lenk, who engineered one of the Internet's biggest richcs­to-ruins stories. 
Tlrn 41-ycar-old Lenk founded eToys Inc.. an online pioneer that soared to a $10 billion mar­knl value in 1999 and then crashed into bank­ruptcy court in early 2001. As part of its liqui­dation. eToys sold its name and other intellec­tual assets for $3.4 million to KB Toys Inc. 
In his new job, Lenk will run the e-commerce situs ror one of the world's best-known retail­ers. llis responsibilities include oversight of online sales for Gap, Old Navy and Banana Hepublic. as well as the retailer's customer call cnntrrs. 

ConAgra profits fall in 3rd quarter 
ConAgra Foods reported Thursday its third quarter earnings fell 5.8 percent, citing costs related to the September sale of its fresh beef and pork business, lower foodservice sales to fast-food restaurants and lower margins for spice products. 
The nation's second biggest food company earned $161 million. or 30 cents a share, in the three months ended Feb. 23 compared with $171 million. or 31 cents a share, a year ago. 






U.S. economy still struggling 
. Some analysts forsee another recession in '03 
Associated Pre,s 
WASHINGTON 
The economy that turned sluggish at the end of last year isn't doing much bet­ter now -and may well be doing worse -as war uncertainties and the stag­nant job market make con­sumers and businesses more cautious. Some ana­lysts worry about a slide back into recession. 
Since the 2001 recession, the economy has tried, unsuccessfully so far. to get back to full throttle. 
Optimistic analysts believe the economy in the current January-March quarter has grown al a below-normal annual rate of' around 1.5 percent to just over 2 percent. More pessimistic economists are suggesting growth of under a 1 percent rate, and some believe the first quarter could show the economy shrank, a step toward recession. 
"I don't think anybody really wants to make sig­nificant financial commit­ments in view of the jobless recovery, the geopolitical situation and higher ener­gy prices, which are eating into purchasing power," more bearish, forecasting economic growth has been 5.8 percent in February as said Sung Won Sohn, chief 0.5 percent growth rate. jagged, with a three-month the economy lost a whop­economist at Wells Fargo. "The chance of having a period of strength followed ping 308,000 jobs. 
The broadest measure of negative first quarter is by a quarter of weakness. Economists believe the economic health -gross very real," he said. That muddled climate -jobless rate moved up to 6 domestic product -slowed The government will along with concerns about percent in March and may from a decent 4 percent release its initial estimate the war, higher oil prices creep higher in coming annual growth rate in the of first-quarter GDP on and a turbulent stock mar­months. The employment third quarter of 2002 to 1.4 April 25. ket -has made businesses report for March will be percent in the final quar-On Wall Street, stocks reluctant to make major released next week. ter, the Commerce moved lower. The Dow financial commitments, In the fourth quarter of Department reported Jones industrial average namely capital investment 2002, consumer spending Thursday. lost 28.43 points to close at and hiring. That is the grew at a rate of just 1.7 
That final quarterly esti­8,201.45. biggest factor restraining percent, a sharp pullback mate was unchanged from In a second report the economy's recovery. from the 4.2 percent rate a month ago. GDP mea­Thursday, new claims for Although businesses in the third quarter. Some sures the total value of unemployment benefits last largely have restrained economists believe con­goods and services pro­week fell by a seasonally spending. consumers have sumer spending in the first duced within the United adjusted 25,000 to been the main force keep­quarter may have slowed States. 402,000. a two-month low, ing the economy going. further. 
While Sohn believes the the Labor Department said. But recent economic "Higher energy prices economy will grow at a Even with the drop, claims reports show consumers arc basically picking the lackluster 2 percent rate in are at a level suggesting are becoming more cau­pockets of consumers," the first quarter, Carl the job market remains tious, especially as the job said Stuart I IolTman, chief Tannenbaum, chief econo­sluggish. market has worsened. The economist at PNC Financial mist at LaSalle Bank is Since the end of 2001, unemployment rate rose to Services Group. 

Taubman caught in takeover war 
Simon and Westfield are trying to Douglas Crocker 11, trustee and vice 
Associated Press 
overcome a corporate governance chairman of Equity Hesidential; 
INDIANAPOLIS structure at Taubman that has so far Hoberta Karmel, a law professor and 
Simon Property Group Inc. and stymied a $1.7 billion buyout offer. former commissioner of the U.S. Westfield America Inc. on Thursday Simon Chief Executive David Simon Securities and Exchange proposed four nominees to the board and Westfield America's Peter Lowy Commission; and Michael Koeneke, a of Taubman Centers Inc., the latest issued a statement saying they trust­former mergers and acquisitions bid to gain the upper hand in a hos­ed Taubman would not delay its head at Merrill Lynch and First tile takeover battle among rival shop­annual meeting and "will allow Boston Corp. ping mall companies. shareholder democracy to proceed." Indianapolis-based Simon, North 
Simon and Westfield are seeking Taubman responded with a news America's largest shopping mall election of the nominees at release accusing Simon and Westfield owner, began its hostile takeover bid Taubman's annual shareholders of "subjecting the company to a in November. Taubman is a much meeting, which has not yet been proxy contest to elect their nominees smaller rival based in the Detroit scheduled but occurred May 30 last solely to advance their own agenda." suburb of Bloomfield Hills that owns year. In addition to Civiletti -an attor­high-end mall properties Simon 
In offering a slate of board nomi­ney general in the Carter administra­wants for its portfolio. nees that includes former U.S. tion and now chairman of a law firm Taubman 's properties include 30 Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti, -ihe proposed slaLe includes shopping centers in 13 states. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 28, 2003 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.ed u www.nd.edu/-ministry 


Campus Ministry C-M 
• 
sC....::,~'----=-G-e=t1'f·nv"--ol---=-!!--=--d0g---'-~--'--on-a-re-tr-ea_t_-----l Freshman Retreat #47 -----.~G_r_a_d_u_a_t_e_S_t_u_d_e_n_t_R_e_t_~_e_at____..
-=, 
Retreat Date: April 4-5, 2003 Retreat Date: April 4-5 
wh t' h 
tr;dav J.2s 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
Junior Retreat #2 
Friday and Saturday Potato State Park 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday and Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
sunday 1.10 
RCIA Session 
10:00-11:00 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
Senior Night 
Follow up to Senior Retreat 
4:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. 
Sacred Heart Parish Center Sign-up 
. 
tuesday 4.01 
Confirmation Session #13 
7:00-8:45 p.rn. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
wednesday 4.02 
When Did I See You Hungry? 
Film-Screening & Meet the Director 
7:00 p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 

through March 31 Sign-up through March 31 contact Fr. John Pearson: 631-7953 or pearson.1@nd.edu 
Pickup info & applications in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 


considerations.... 
Women's History Month 

Where are the 'W'Otnen? 
by Chandra Johnson 
Assistant to the President & Assistant Director, Cross Cultural Ministry 
I traveled to Cuba over Spring Break. As part of with the theology class, "From Power to Commun­ion," we met with various leaders in the Havana community-priests, young adult and elder lay ministers, scholars, social service administrators, journalises, and a foreign ambassador. They each had their own distinct opinions on Castro's leadership and Cuban society. We were fortunate, though. Before we left rhe U.S., Fr. Bob Pelton led us through Latin America's implementation of Vatican Council II documents in both glowing and critical terms. He was honest and up front about its successes and failures in the Americas. The course preparation was an exercise in patriotic formation with an understanding ofgospel values and Christian diplomacy. As American citizens, we were challenged co enter Cuba with open minds and a willingness to learn from the Cuban people. 
While sining in che Miami airport on our return home, I asked Fr. Bob how he got to be chis way. "What way?," he said. I said, "You know ... you see everyone the same. There's a creative tension driving your theology and 
ecclesiology that keeps you open co difference." He thought for a moment and responded, "Probably Chile-I spent a lot of time there." "Ic has to be something more," I pressed. He thought again and said, "Ic was my mother. I watched her nor be afraid co see ochers as equal. She 
caught me how to 
be a Christian." 
Even then, Christ's message of liberation and
I have thought about Bob's respect of human dignity drove the behavior mother many 
and prophetic actions of women who were in
times in the past week, as the U.S. the wrong place at the right time. troops led the war effort in Iraq simultaneous to the close of Women's History Month. I find myself wondering how she would respond to the recent events and what she would teach her son about being borh an American and a Catholic. I wonder about our Notre Dame women, and how the current events are shaping our roles as Christians ~nd American citizens. Where are we in the whole scheme of things? 
Like all prophets, you will find us in the most unlikely places. We're standing atop a beautiful building as the patroness ofour great University. We're at Enron, WorldCom and the FBI, alerting hierarchies of the eminent death of organizations if current practices and policies don't change. We're flying jets and populating brigades co protect our country. We're in rhe Christian canon, among raucous crowds of thrill seekers, waiting for Jesus to pass so we can wipe the dirt from his face. We're at the foot of the cross, holding steady his pierced head and broken bones as he's placed in the comb. We're up at dawn, returning with burial cloth, and accepting the directive to receive and proclaim che message of salvation. And last but not least, we're in Bethany with our intuition and our oil. Out of place once again, we pour nard over Jesus's head in sorrowful anticipation of his persecution and death. Even then we knew the value of sacred assertion, as the use of New Testament oil sparked an interest echoed in the current debate over che use of Old Testament crude oil. Even then Christ's message of liberation and respect of human dignity drove the behavior and prophetic actions of women who were in the wrong place at the right nme. 
The Rosary for Peace began in Sorin Hall Monday night and I thought of Fr. Bob's mother, che 
· corporate whisdeblowers and che many women throughout Christian history who have nor been afraid to do what they knew to be right and good and pleasing to God. With my eyes closed, 1 listened to the prayers and heard the voices of many Notre Dame women. We were there, praying hard for a peaceful resolution to the world's discontent. As 21st century women whose power and influence is embedded in God's love for us, our lives must continue to be the prophetic voice of che gospel's truth. The world needs our assertive intuition and holy boldness now more than ever. As we close out Women's History Month and continue ou_r lenten observance, let us not be afraid to bt: used by God. 

mass schedule 
basHica of the sacred heart  Fourth Sunday of Lent  
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  11:45 a.m.  
Rev. James Foster, c.s.c.  Rev. James Foster, c.s.c.  Rev. James Foster, c.s.c.  
around campus (everv Sunday}  
1:30  p.m.  5:00  p.m.  7:00  p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
Zahm Hall Chapel  Law School Chapel  Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge  

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: 2Chr 36: 14 -16, 19 -23 2nd: Eph 2: 4 -10 Gospel: John 3: 14-21 

hi<lay, March 28, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 

·------· r--------• r------.. r------• p------·
I I I I I I I $15 I $26 I I $69 I I $69 ~ $69 
I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights,
1 Mens Cut I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style 
.. ______ JI .. ______ ..I .I I I., ______ ..I
I I I I One Process ______ ..


·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
VAUD WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Se,vices Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi· -Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2
ATRIA SALON 
Not\,Jklfur,;plr.lip:tn11~ Lur1gortlr1wdhai1add$10. Nna.l....lfdio.llJUnlSapply. Oi:x>fl•iOrnf'L'Wning::;, ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N, Ironwood Dr. 
\Jon rt.<~t•fVl~ 1J., MKl,t to wliw.· ""'viwto,1ny dl,mt "-lKrt' f1;1lr,·'4'lrl!tion l\j11ntf1!at;lblt• Next to Sprint Corner of f:dl.,on 
271-8804 
289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-03 Less than 1 mile from campus 
University Web Administration Summer Positions 
Come join our team and work on the University Web Site! 
There are two Web Page Programmer positions available. Requirement: Fluent in HTML and JavaScript. Familiar with Cold fusion and Dreamwcaver/Firework or PhotoShop a plus. 
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week will work around student's class schedule 

SMC students win recognition 
Hy MEGHAN CASSIDY 
New, Writer 
Five Saint Mary's students and a professor were recog­nized for their writings on the Af'rican-Anwrican experience al this year's Southern Conference on African­American Studies, Inc., held Ft,b. 19-23 in Charleston. S.C. 
"These awards announce Saint Mary's College as an up­and -coming presence in /\f'rican American Studies." said AII\Xis Brooks-DeVita. an English professor and the fac­tll ty delegate to the confer­pnce. 
Brooks-DeVita invited stu­dents Cyd Appelido, Novella Brooks-De Vita. Jessica Domingo, Danielle Greer and /\pryl Underwood to attend the confnrnncc, based on ossays tlwy had written as an assign­ment in her "African-American 
Police arrest 215 war protesters 
A<sociatcd Press 
NEW YORK 
About 2I 5 protesters were arrested Thursday after they lay down on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue, blocking traffic in the latest of a series of demonstra­tions against the war. 
The "die-in" temporarily closed the avenue between 49th and 50th streets. near St. Patrick's Cathedral and the Saks Fifth Avenue store and across the street from Rockefeller Center. Most of those arrested face charges of disorderly con­duct and obstructing govern­mental administration, police said. 
Anti-war groups had called for civil disobedience, hoping to draw more attention than the largely lawful protests held daily in the city since hostilities began 
Women's Autobiographies" class last semester. 
.,I wanted to take a group of ethnic minority students to hear what experts in this field would say about their work," Professor Brooks-DeVita said. "For a minority student here, she can feel like her work is irrelevant. so to not only hear what African American schol­ars arc saying, but to be recog­nized by the best of them was a feat." 
Saint Mary's competed against Morehouse College, the nation's prominent all-male school for African American studies, along with other schools of the same caliber. 
"Al first. everyone was all asking. 'Who are these Saint Mary's girls? We've never heard of them before,"' Domingo said. "It was very positive to then see them so affected by what we said." 
Judges awarded the Saint 
in Iraq. 
"Nothing else gets attention," Fordham University student Johannah Westmacott said as she jotted down officers' badge numbers. 
The protest drew hundreds of demonstrators, filling a block of Fifth Avenue in the midtown business district. As helicopters hovered overhead, the protest­ers -some beating drums ­chanted "Hey-hey, ho-ho, Bush's war has to go~ and "Peace now!" 
Officers arrested those who refused to rise. They cuffed many with plastic restraints before half-carrying them into waiting police trucks. 
The "die-in" was intended to symbolize Iraqi war victims, said organizers of M27, the ad-hoc coalition behind the event. 
It was one ofa number of scat­tered demonstrations Thursday in New York as part of a "no Mary's group The Heanitsa K. Butler Memorial Scholarship. 
"Saint Marv's set a whole new standard. We didn't exactly know the rules, but we went in. ignorant and brave and offered an important dynamic they had not seen before" 8rooks-DeVita said. "I was thrilled they had such an impact on the conference." 
Senior Novella Brooks­DeVita won The Lillie Newton Hornsby Memorial Collegiate Essay Award for her essay, which will be published in SCAASl's scholarly journal. The Griot, this spring. 
"It was nice to see such a strong reaction," she said. "Everyone there was so intense and passionate about what they study, so to get their recognition was pretty impor­tant." 
Contact Meghan Cassidy at cass0593@saintmarys.edu 
business as usual" protest theme. A dozen people demon­strated outside Tiffany & Co., and five were arrested after a scuff1e with police near CNN's offices. 
Protesters were sporadically heckled by passing businessmen and construction workers. One man in a red-white-and-blue bandanna and hardhat plas­tered with ironworkers' union and Harley-Davidson stickers argued toe-to-toe with a pony­tailed protester with long side­burns. 
One counter-demonstrator held a sign that read: "Traitors, have you forgotten Sept. 11 ?" 
Police Commissioner Hay Kelly said Wednesday that anti-war protests were costing millions of dollars in overtime and drawing police resources away from crime-fighting and anti-terror­ism operations. 


Bush, Blair pledge to preserve vVar in Iraq 
Associated Press 
CAMP DAVID, MD. 

With Iraqi troops dug in around Baghdad, President Bush pledged Thursday to bat­tle Saddam Hussein's forces "however long it takes to win." Bush and British ally Tony Blair said the U.N. could help rebuild postwar Iraq, but left uncertain who would create and run a new government. 
Blair, standing alongside Bush at the president's moun­taintop retreat, declared in words similar to Bush's that "Saddam Hussein and his hateful regime will be removed from power." 
During their overnight meet­ing in Maryland's Catoctin Mountains, the leaders dis­cussed conflicts in the Middle East as well as Iraq. Strategy sessions about the Iraq battle and postwar plans conjured grainy images of a Camp David retreat 60 years ago, when President Roosevelt met Winston Churchill during World War II. 
"For nearly a century, the United States and Great Britain have been allies in the defense of liberty." Blair. Britain's prime minister, said. "We shared in a costly and heroic struggle against Nazism." 
The leaders asked the United Nations to restart its oil-for­food program, which fed about 60 percent of Iraq's 22 million people until war shut off the flow. Bush said the issue "must not be politicized." 
That was a dig at France, Russia and other anti-war allies who are arguing over how the program should be administered, aides said. 
They suggested the allies were using the issue to under­score their opposition to the war. 
Bush and Blair refused to put a timetable on war, mind­ful that stiffer-than-expected resistance in southern Iraq and the looming battle for Baghdad could test the patience of their constituents. Amid concerns that the war could last months, Bush said fighting will continue "howev­er long it takes to win." 
For months, the president avoided talk of how long and difficult the conflict could be as he tried to rally Americans against Saddam. Looking tired on Thursday, the president bristled at repeatod news con­ference questions about the potential length of fighting. 
"llowever long it takes. That's the answer to your question, and that's what you got to know," ho said. 
Thumping his lectern, thP president added, "This isn't a matter of timetable, it's a mat­ter of victory. And th11 Iraqi people have got to know that, see. They got to know that they will be liberated and Saddam Hussein will be removed, no matter how long it takes." 
Joining the president in front of a field of British and American nags, Blair said he and Bush had decided to seek new U.N. resolutions on humanitarian relief. postwar plans for Iraq and a promise to keep Iraq's territorial bound­aries intact. 
Blair, under fire at home for backing war in Iraq, has advo­cated a more aggressive role for the United Nations in administering postwar Iraq than has Bush. 
"No doubt the United Nations has got to be closely involved in this process," Blair said. 
A senior White House ofli­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Bush and Blair agreed in private talks that the U.N. should play a key humanitarian role in Iraq. 
They also agreed that the U.S.-British military coalition fighting in Iraq must be in charge of the initial efforts to bring security and stability to Iraq, the official said. 
Beyond that, the official said Bush and Blair put off key decisions about political reforms -including who cre­ates and controls an interim government -and long-term security issues until later in the war. Or even after it. 
"There are huge numbers of details to be discussed with our allies as to exactly how that is going to work," Blair said. "The conflict is not yet over." 
The leaders discussed plans for postwar Iraq after receiv­ing a joint briefing by their war teams, including by satel­lite from London, Washington and Qatar. They also spoke by phone with leaders of Australia and Poland, the other nations with combat troops in Iraq. 
Submit application at http://www.nd.edu/-finaicl/jobboard/on campus/ ,, 
'j 


O
THE 
BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, March 28, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Darn<. I~ 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scon Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smirh 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Karmar 
GRAJ•HICi EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MMY's EDITOR• Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINl~'TRATOR: Jason Creek CoNTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangerr 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............. 631-7471 FAX.................. , .......................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING ....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd ed u EDITOR IN CHIEf........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....... .............631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICF.........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........................... ......................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE...................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's .........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISfRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publishe<l in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 


POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The:. Oh§Cf\'l'r (USP:-. 59'9 240) U puhli~hcd Monday through F1ida.)' accpt during c:xun uid v.-;.uion period~. AluhKripciori ro Th.c OhiCrvn i~ STOO ror om: acadcmit: ~u: S55 for ant" w.-mcul!f. 
lltl' Oh;,;;rvcf i, pulil11.hi:-.J. ~t: 1.00STMASTER i124 Sm.Hh Dinir1g Hall Stnd .iJdrLu unrcctiom to: Noire Damc, 1N 465)6 The Observer 
P.O. Rm1 Q r~Trn,diu.l pou.;iv r..iJ ;al Norn~ Lh.mc Nur!'C' Darnc, IN 46$5(,-0771j mJ ,dditional Hu,ilirig uffiU.'i. 
Tht' ObK:m-r i, a m1:mhcr of rht Auociilf(.-d Pro.1. All ri.1'rn,duction rig.hum: mcrvcd. 

ROTC Pass and Review deserves outdoor location 
As students enter the final push of this academic year, other 18-to 22-year-olds are piloting helicopters, firing mis­siles and operating tanks in the war in Iraq. Their sacrifice should particularly resonate with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, as the faces they pass on the way to class each morning aren't very different from those now march­ing to Baghdad. l)espite the vigorous disagreement between those who support and oppose the war in Iraq, both sides should find common ground in the need to support the ser­vicemen and women in Iraq and around the world who are serving on behalf of all 
OJhe

Americans. userver respect for their civilian commander. ROTC cadets drill fur months to achieve the proper organizational discipline for this event, which also includes the presentation of awards to senior cadets and speeches by Malloy and former President Father Theodore Hesburgh. Historically held out­doors, the Pass and Review was moved inside several years ago because of inclement weather -and, some have con­tended the threats of protestors who oppose ROTC's pres­ence on campus have kept the Pass and Review inside. 
Regardless of the reason for the move 
indoors, now is the time to move the Pass and 
Review back outside. Holding the ceremony 

This appreciation for members of the mili­on South Quad will convey the appropriate tary should extend to those who represent it on respect for the cadets who work hard while this campus: the cadets and officers in Notre at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to prepare

Editorial 
Dame's ROTC program. The University can decisively communicate its respect and support for every­one serving in the U.S. Armed Forces and the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studentc; who will serve after graduation by moving the ROTC Presidential Pass and Review back to South Quad. The Pass and Review's current location ­tucked out of sight inside the Loftus Sports Complex -does not show the proper respect for both the ROTC prugram and others on campus by limiting community participation in the event. It is not right for those who oppose the military to be able to protest out in the open for all to see while ROTC is kept under wraps and out of the public's view. 
The Pass and Review ceremony brings together the Air Force, Army and Navy branches, who march before University President Father Edward Malloy in a show of 
for the challenges of military service they face after graduation. It serves as a way to honor the ser­vice and sacrifice of those now fighting in Iraq, including Notre Dame graduates like Marine 1st Lt. Dustin J<crrell, who was wounded Saturday in the line of duty. The outdoor location will also allow other members of the Notre Dame community to attend and participate, whether they come to honor the cadets or tactfully protest the organization repre­sented. Such openness is critical for stimulating debate and discussion, which are both essential components of the lib­eral education the University strives to provide for its stu­dents. 
By respecting those who may one day soon be fighting for America, they can prove that the University's time-honored motto, "God, Country, Notre Dame," still holds true today. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Don't condemn opposing opinions 
In the debate over the war in Iraq, "freedom of speech" has become a very controversial term with its meaning used on both sides of the debate. However. a recent trend has been developing that is, at least to me. disconcerting if not down­right McCarthyistic. When someone makes a public state­ment -exercising their free speech -that you disagree with, you essentially have two options: offer a rational or rhetorical rebuttal or criticize the statement itself. It seems that the latter option has become increasingly popular of late. 
This is not inherently bad -if speech is inappropriate for someone's role in society, that is grounds for their criticism. If for example, a respected news anchor, ethically bound to rel­ative objectivity, such as Peter Jennings or Dan Rather, were to publicly speak out in either opposition or favor of the war, that would be inappropriate. 
But where do we draw the line? Are celebrities obligated to remain mum on their stance? If so, where does one cross the border into celebrity? When does it cease to be a job like any other and come with rules regarding your opin­ion? Would you be offended by a local plumber speak­ing out against the war? Perhaps a prominent lawyer or entrepreneur? I would hypothesize that mere notoriety does 
not obligate one to quiet dissenting opinions. In the example 
of the news anchor. Tom Brokaw is expected to be objective, 
but surely the Dixie Chicks are not. But wait. Isn't criticism of a statement free speech in and of itself! Possibly, but when a group of citizens engages in an organized attempt to silence a particular person or group or attempts to damage a person's career because of their views, that violates their 
free speech. Remember, a violation of free speech does not have to be an act of govern­
ment. Whenever a crowd of people purposefully attempts to drown out 
a speaker, boycott a musical group or publicly protest a celebrity appearing in a movie because of their opinion, that violates free speech. You can call anyone you'd like, including your radio station, to tell them you disagree 
with the Dixie Chicks, but to threaten a boycott of stations that play their music is to threaten their career. This is called blacklisting. It was wrong during the Red Scare, when the government was responsible for it and it's wrong now with citizens responsi­ble for it. 

Jeff Skarski 
staff 
March 27 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghan Martin 
Joe Trombcllo Matt Bramanti Viewpoint Teresa Fralish Graphics Chris Naidus 
Sports 
Matt Lozar Bryan Kronk Justin Schuver 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Lauren Forbes 


NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think people should protest the war in Iraq? 
0 Yes • They are exercising their freedom or 
...,· speech 32% ~, Yes -I oppose the war 15% lffl No -Protests take police resources away from .,. Iha war on terrorism 8% """ No -I support the war 15% 
¦ No· ll sends the wrong message to our troops 33% 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 259 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The military don't start wars. Politicians start wars. " 
William Westmoreland former U.S. general 
O
THE 
BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 28, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
One last view of Iraqi officialdom 
During spring break a group of 13 Notre Dame students wmit to Washington. D.C. on a CSC seminar called "Christian Bcsponsos to a Violent World." I was a part of this group which met a number of opinion makers in Washington and discussed with them various aspects of lhc impemling war. Our meetings greatly enriched our knc,wledgc of the subject matter and made us more informed, alert. understanding and responsive to the world around us. Once in Washington I tried to contact the Iraqi lnt1•rest Ofl'ice. the unofficial Iraqi embassy in the Unilcd Stales. to talk to them about the current situation. Though Iraq cannot have a formal embassy in the United Status, it maintains an Interest Office in the Algerian embassy. 
My call to the Iraqi Office confused them initially for they wcrn not able to decide whether or not to meet us. liventually. after speaking with a couple of officers they allowed me. the lone non-American, to come to their otnce. after which they would decide about meeting with the whole group. 
The next morning I almost missed their office for it nei­ther had any visible security nor a front office -the entrance was through a back door. I knocked on the door, but got no response. I was on my way out when a man approached me from behind and greeted me in Arabic. I replied to his greeting and he continued in Arabic to which I responded that I do not know Arabic. He smiled and knocked at the door which immediately opened. 
Once in, he asked me my purpose. After listening to my request he conversed with the other Iraqi. a woman. in the otnc11 and replied that there was no one in the mission that could speak to me and that I should leave. Saddened by this refusal I took my leave when someone drove into the parking lot. This person pointed me towards him and said that maybe he could be of some help to me. 
Immediately. I leapt to the parking lot and greeted this person. lie asked me why I had come here and after lis­tening to my request asked me to follow him inside the office. This person was so courteous that he even shared his umbrella with me (it was raining) and held out the door open for me to enter. Once inside he said that I could meet the Principal Officer if I could wait until 11 a.m., to which I agreed. 
I waited in this small makeshift office room with those two people I had initially met, who soon started watching the Arab Al-Jazeera TV network. Both of them were visi­bly scared and worried about what lay ahead for them and their country and talked anxiously amongst themselves. 
Eventually, after a wait of about an hour I was called up tu the office of the Principal Officer. It was a lavish, oak­wood olTice with a picture of a youthful Saddam Hussein and an Iraqi flag at his back. He was watching an Arab soap opera and greeted me warmly when he saw me come in. Ile was delighted to know that I was from a Catholic university and suggested that the timing of the recent priest scandals that hit the U.S. Catholic Church were specifically planned by the Bush Administration to mini­mize the impact of Vatican opposition of a war in Iraq. 
He also noted that the Christians in Iraq, especially the Catholics. are not anti-Saddam for they feel much safer under a secular government which respects their religious freedom -something which I later found out to be quite true. He lamented United States interference in the inter­nal malters of his country and asked "Can we tell Bush how to run his country?" He said that the fate of Saddam was a matter for the Iraqi people to decide and not for a person who got elected in a fraudulent election. We talked about issues for a while and then after getting his agree­ment to meet my peers I took my leave. 
/\ftcr that meeting I tried to contact the Principal Officer multiple times during the rest of the week but was unable to get through. Apparently, he had "diplomatic flu" and could not meet us. I was sad that my peers could not meet the Officer for this meeting gave me a unique perspective of the Iraqi regime which I saw was not composed of evil. blood-thirsty megalomaniacs but of normal humans like us who also feel emotions of pain, anxiety, fear and doubt. The meeting reinforced in me the Christian values to hate the sin but not the sinner. making me realize that people can always change and that peace, gift of God, can only be achieved through non-violent means. 
Yaqoob Bangash 
sophomore Keough Hall March 27 


It would be worse without Bush 
One of the most disturbing Osama bin Laden. In receiving Just imagine if Sept. 11 aspects of "Operation Iraqi this information. Clinton and his occurred during the administra­Freedom" has been certain crit­advisors thought it would be bet­tion of Bill Clinton or Al Gore. The ics' portrayal of the incompetence ter politically to resolve the scan­attacks were a flagrant strike of the Bush Administration. We dal first and then deal with this against the United States and an must understand that our current notorious terrorist. Some months unmistakable indication for mili­leaders are faced with one of the later, the USS Cole was bombed tary retaliation. Granted. Clinton most difticult administrations that in Yemen. Who was responsible? would respond to this attack. but any presidency has ever encoun­None other than Osama Bin with what measure? With what tered. In contemporary America, Laden. resolve? With what swiftness? we are faced with an escalating Bill Clinton is accredited with Instead of concentrating effort in economic recession and the much more praise as an adminis­eradicating Al Qaeda and the watershed of a new era of war­trator than he deserves. His two Taliban, I could picture Clinton fare -a war on terror. After the consecutive terms were blessed on his back, lying next to Monica. tragic attacks of Sept. 11, our with international harmony (for in a calm, complacent manner, nation's path was altered dra­the most part) and economic trying to phone up Osama bin matically, but I am confident that prosperity. While I acknowledge Laden and work out a peaceful our government officials are tak­Clinton as a self-made, intellectu­resolution. ing the necessary steps to ensur­al administrator. he sacrificed the In our current situation with ing the pursuit of life, liberty and security of our nation in order to Iraq. I can see Clinton bending happiness. appease crude terrorists. As a over to the will of France. Russia 
Despite any issues the critics member of the ROTC here and and China and neglecting our might have with Bush. take a future serviceman in the fleet, I country's responsibilities of help­moment and put the situation would be apprehensive of a presi­ing to maintain world security. into perspective. What if the dent such as Clinton or Gore. Yes, this might be exaggerated, attacks of Sept. 11 had occurred Teddy Roosevelt once said, but it illustrates my primary during Bill Clinton's administra­"Speak softly and carry a big premise: be grateful and respect­tion? Even worse. what if Al Gore stick" in regards to international ful of our current president, for was our current president during relations. In proclaiming this, he chooses to ensure peace this new war on terrorism? In Roosevelt stressed the impor­through strength. He chooses to evaluating these possibilities, I tance of first addressing diplo­make war so you can make love. believe that the security of our matic measures and then resort­He chooses to protect our country country along with the world ing to military action if necessary. through swift action and not sub­would be much more threatened Unfortunately, Clinton did not live missive words. He chooses our if Bush was not in power. up to this wonderful adage. In a interests, and not those of our 
While Clinton was rolling way, he spoke "too" softly and adversaries. To all of you anti­around in the mud and dirtying allowed for potential adversaries Bush critics, just think -it could his sheets with his classy intern to walk all over him. The United be worse. Monica Lewinsky, military spend­States became soft and extremely ing was cut and intelligence suf­vulnerable during his administra­Matt Somma fered. During the impeachment tion. The art of diplomacy is only freshman trial, the CIA presented a golden as strong as the clenched fist that Knon Hall opportunity to Clinton to act on backs it up -and our power was March 27 
an intelligence lead and eradicate not respected under Clinton. 

Nader inspires 
It's not often that I am inspired by politicians and too often that I am discouraged by them. Ralph Nader's lecture March 26 at the Mendoza College of Business on the topic of legislat­ing corporate ethics inspired me. I have heard our President George W. Bush speak. I have heard my governor speak. I've spoken with congressmen, listened dutifully to the banter of rock stars and talking heads. Never has a speaker called me to greater sense of personal responsibility and moral forti­tude than Ralph Nader. except Pope John Paul II, who told the shivering crowds at World Youth Day in Rome to "be the saints of the next generation." 
Ralph Nader was articulate, animated. and extremely well prepared. He challenged the auditorium at every turn. When was the last time a politician recommended a book to you and assumed you were literate enough to read? Nader rec­ommended 10. He reminded me why I came to Notre Dame in the first place -to become educated and to change the world by being a better citizen in it. This fall I sat through one freshmen orientation speaker after another, one football metaphor after another, and I learned two things. 
First, life's a game and you've already won it by getting into Notre Dame. Second, since we've grown up with corporate­brand-name ethics, the only important thing is having the University of Notre Dame on your diploma. Of course we know that this is not the only important thing about Notre Dame, nor is it the only perspective that the University espouses. 
The vast majority of Notre Dame students came here because they worked incredibly hard in high school to get the best Catholic education this country has to offer. Too often we succumb to apathy and bourgeois mediocrity. Nader reminded us of how privileged we are to be here, at this University and in this country. Here's to the administration for bringing Ralph Nader and speakers of his caliber to chal­lenge us. Herc's to students of all political persuasions for coming out just to be educated. It feels good to be inspired. 
Anna Nussbaum 
freshman Farley Hall March 26 


Fight for freedom 
Paul Graham's March 26 column focused on the high cost of the war against Saddam Hussein's regime and the alternative domestic projects that may consequently suffer from lack of funds. When debating the pros and cons of any war, price should not be an issue. 
As Americans, we are fortunate enough to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities that many countries do not have. At times, we must fight to preserve these freedoms. There is no price too high to protect our country from potential biological, chemical or nuclear terrorist attacks made possi­ble by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. While protecting ourselves. we are also liberating an oppressed country from tyrranical rule and pro­viding them with the ability to pur­sue the freedoms and opportunities that we often take for granted. 
War calls for sacrifices. Our brave men and women in the military are potentially making the ultimate sac­rifice, and we need to make sacri­fices on the homefront in order to preserve our freedoms and opportu­nities for the future. It is wrong to even consider sacrificing freedom based on the cost necessary to pro­tect it. 
Benjamin Schoen class of '00 March 27 

THE OBSERVER 

us 
page 12 Friday, March 28, 2003 

Razzle dazzle' elll 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company brings Broadway to Notre Dame 
By MARIA SMITH 
s~ene Edi tor 

Contrary to what some people may believe, everyone should have a few Broadway show tunes in their lives. 
With New York 700 miles away, stu­dents can still take advantage of the chance to see popular Broadway num­bers performed by students this week­end at the "Pasquerilla East Musical Company Musical Revue 2003: A Night on Broadway." 
The numbers, taken from musicals like Grease! and Les Miserables, were 
prepared by students who audi­tioned for the show before spring break. The gr_oup has ha'd barely three weeks to pull the show togeth­er and learn four group numbers. 
The show has encoun­tered a few snags along the way, including pianist L a u r e n 

quality at auditions," said Monson. "Others needed a little more work." 
For opening night, however, all the acts will be up to snuff and beyond. The show opens with a cast rendition of "Razzle Dazzle" from "Chicago," and as they remind you, "What if, in fact, you're just disgusting? Razzle dazzle'em, and they'll never catch wise!" 
After opening with a bang, the show slows down a little with some ballads and solo performances. Numbers like "I Enjoy Being a Girl" from "Flower Drum Song" performed by Natalie Mar,tinez and "Your Daddy's Son" 

Pasquerilla East Musical Company 
Director: Brian Grundy and Shawna Monson Playwright: Compiled by Notre Dame students Managing Choreographer: Erin Porvaznik Starring: Tom Anthony, Katie Draycott, Jeff Snow, John Dee, Becky Ford, Matt Palricoski, Tim Gibeau, Natalie Martinez, Caitlin Kennelly, April Trimble, KC Kenney, Erin Porvaznik, Tommy Curtin, Ramin Saghali 
Friday March 28 and Saturday March 29 at 8p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 at the door or at the Lafortune Info Desk. Ca/1631-8128. 
f r o m "Ragtime" performed by April Trimble are favorites with audi­ences every­where and are per­formed pow­erfully in the Revue. 
As in any musical review the comic num­bers are some of the most fun. 
M r Cellophane" and "Cell B l o c k 
Prieto spraining her hand a week Tango" from "Chicago," performed by
before the show. Since break, student KC Kenney and a group of six girlsdirectors Brian Grundy and Shawna from the cast respectively, light up the Monson have been working to organ­second half of the show. 
ize the show and get the numbers up The highlights of the show are to their final performance level. undoubtedly the larger group num­"Some of the acts were performance bers. The cast learned "Razzle 
Dazzle" and most of the group numbers and cho­reography by Erin Porvaznik in the weeks since spring break. The guys may leave the stage after "Let if Go" from "The Full Monty" wearing more clothes than the guys from the Keenan Revue, but the act is entertaining nonetheless. 
One of the independent . 
group numbers includes ·. an original musical skit called "The Prodigal Son" 
by cast member Tommy Curtin. The senior music major composed the skit for a series of summer camps for high school students organized by the Notre Dame Vocational Institute last summer. 
"The Prodigal Son" not only features an appear­ance by the devil and his consorts but also a singing cow played by Ramin Saghafi. The skit will be a hit with anyone who enjoys "VeggieTales." 
The numbers in this year's Revue are divided into titled sections in honor of this year's theme, "What are you 

trying to say?" The sec­tions, including "Concerning Love," "Concerning Leaving" and "Concerning Philosophy," are preced­ed by inspiring or at least relevant quotes on the subject. 
This is the second year PEMCo has put on a musical revue, and the group hopes to continue the tradition in future years. 
"There are important things that need to be said, and one of my favorite ways to say them is with musical theatre," said Grundy. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 




Friday, March 28, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


Irish want to depend on ~o' just one more time 

By KATIE McVOY 
Senior SraffWritcr 
When her team lost 71-54 to the Boilermakers on national television in January, Irish coach Muffet McGraw labeled that the low point of the season. Now, as they head into the Sweet Sixteen to face Purdue once again, the Irish are riding high. 
"I think for us looking back at that game, we were very disappointed with the outcome," McGraw said. "We're not talking about it, we're not going to show any film of that game. But we all know we can play better than that." 
In the last week, Notre Dame has done the unthinkable -twice. The No. 11 Irish upset No. 6 Arizona and No. 3 Kansas State, a far cry from the unstable Irish that faced Purdue ear­lier this season. Sunday, the Irish will need the best of that improved team to turn the tables on that earlier low point and keep riding the high. As the 
"I kind oflike being the 
underdog, they can McGraw said. go in and give it their underdog in this "We've really all. done what we set
situation because you 
"I kind of like out to do." 
can go into the game 
being the underdog But Notre Dame in this situation, with nothing to lose. " is going to have its because you can go hands full with into the game with Purdue. Leading
Megan Duffy 
nothing to lose," the balanced 
lrlsh guard 
freshman Megan Boilermaker 
Duffy said. 
The possibility of the Irish defeating No. 2 Purdue is not unreasonable, in fact, it's not such a long glance back in the history books to see the last time that hap­pened. In 1996 the No. 12 Irish upset No. 5 Purdue in the first Irish NCAA tournament win. But, as they head into the third round of this year's tournament, McGraw would rather face a team she isn't so familiar with. 
"I would [like to play someone new]," McGraw said. "It was exciting for us to play Kansas State, who we never played before. At the end of the year you want to go outside your league, because you see them on TV but you don't know so much about them." 
COACHING 
McGraw has coached her No. 11 Irish past

IJJ 
two teams that were

:E 
supposed to beat Notre

ca: 
Dame. Since January, the Irish have settled 

Q 
IJJ 
down and won ten of

c::: 
l­
their last 13, and 

o 
McGraw has a lot of

z 
tournament experi­ence. 

What the Irish do know is that Purdue enters Sunday's game with a prolific offense, similar to the ones the Irish faced in Arizona and Kansas State. Once again, it's the Irish defense that is going to have to step up and shut down the Boilermakers. 
The Irish know that a good defense will set the tone for their offense. After Tuesday night's victory, Le'Tania Severe said that a good defense makes a good offense and the Irish are hoping their defense can win the game one more time. 
"A defense can always regain con­trol," forward Jacqueline Batteast said. " ... If the defensive end stops them from scoring we can win by scoring less points." 
In their last outing, Notre Dame's defense held a team that normally scores 75 points to just 53. Against Arizona, the Irish only allowed 4 7 points to a team that usually scores 72. 
"I think our defense has been out­
standing the last 
couple of games," 
attack is Shereka 
Wright, who scores an average of nearly 20 points a game. While Wright aims to score inside the paint, the Irish will have to watch out for Beth Jones who could be trouble from outside the arc. 
"They have great balance," McGraw said. "I think that Beth Jones is someone you really have to guard on the perimeter. Even if she doesn't take the shot or make the shot you have to have someone guarding her." 
Action gets under way Sunday at UD Arena at 2:30. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


POST PERIMETER 
STYLE OF PLAY 
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
Notre Dame's trian­gle offense has been of little importance. Of later, their style has been to shut down the opponent, holding both tournament opponents to more than 20 points under average. With that done, they scrap it out under the hoop. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= 
Curry is only in her 

Purdue puts up big
fourth season at 

numbers on offense,
Purdue, but she has led 

IJJ 
relying on a balanced
::::, 
the Boilermakers to 

inside and outside
Q 
success all four years. 

game. They have con­
a:: 
The Irish have strug­

::::, 
sistently defeated
gled against the

C. 
opponents by 20
Boilermakers every 

points. dominating on 
year since Curry took 

points and boards. 
over. 

The Irish post players have not been scoring as consistently as earli­er this season. However, LaVere has really stepped up for Notre Dame in the post season, scoring in dou­ble figures in both Irish victories. 
Wright is enough to cause trouble for the Irish in the paint. The junior scores nearly 19 points a game and has grabbed important dou­ble-doubles. Coupled with the rest of the Boilermaker post play­ers, it could spell trou­ble for Notre Dame. 
If the same Notre 
rn 
again,

fl) 
a 

~ 
the

ca: 
has

z 
all the

c( 


Ratay was on fire in game one, but the Irish have not consistently been able to rely on the 3-point shot. With Batteast struggling, Ratay needs to have an on game if they are going to score outside the arc. 

BENCH 
The Irish bench is deep -several Irish 
.players have come in to put points on the board and play good defense. 
INTANGIBLES 
The Irish are riding a high. They have upset both of their NCAA opponents and are looking for a little revenge for the loss Purdue dealt them earlier this season. They have been suc­cessful away from home. 

::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::= 
Purdue had Notre Jones will require a 
Dame's number earlier defender, regardless of 
The Boilermakers 
this season. The whether or not she is 
rely, for the most part, 
Boilermakers have been shooting and scoring. 
on their five starters. 
consistent all season, That will draw some of 
But top reserve Heikes 
losing only five games. Notre Dame's defense 
has added a serious 
They have a chance to away from the post, a 
portion of the offense. 
go all the way and big plus for Purdue. 
they're going to play like they do. 

:========.......--------------------------...-========::::::: 

Tqi)rish ar~ playing 'MHJfJ,1qthing to}ose.
Both Jones and Ratay 
They )lave m-...·.· ...·'.';:;io 

can be dangerous out­topplef.W

side the arc and will remove at least one 
::i ~!!S 

defender from the 
ptf

team's inside game. 
try· more. 

Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 



Ahead of their time 
Duffy and LaVere may be freshmen by name, but in the NCAA tournament 
they have played like anything but 
said. "She is somebody that
By KATIE McVOY 
never hangs her head after 
Senior Sra!T Wricer 
a mistake." 
And Duffy is confident with 
When she heads home to that role. Dayton Sunday, it's an older "I think during the season, Megan Duffy that will greet we had a stretch where we her family. In fact, it seems needed leadership and I'm that, despite the fact that just going in with the atti­First Yuar of' Studies is still tude that whatever this team next to her name in the needs, I'll do it," Duffy said. campus phone book, Megan "I guess whether they like it Duffy has left her freshman or not. it's kind of some­status behind. thing that I think it's my 
In the last two games, role as appoint guard and games that are big enough something that I need to lo make a seasoned veteran do. " nervous. Notre Dame's Duffy 
Coming up big
and classmate Courtney 
For Lavere, hitting the big
Lavere have played like shots when it matters isn't
anything but freshmen. In 
so new.
fact. ii seems that Irish 
"[LaVere] has stepped upcoach Muffet McGraw has 
in every big game that weadded two more seniors to 
have had this year,"
her team. 
McGraw said. "She has had
"They don't play like 
a big game and had double­
freshmen," McGraw said 
doubles in about every big
Tuesday. " ... Those two 
game."

freshmen really play like 
The freshman post player
seniors." 
made her first start as the Going home going strong new year turned, as the Duffy will head home on Irish struggled through that Sunday, hoping to add one month, -becoming the light 
more win to her 4-0 record in the darkness. 

at UD Arena. And she will "I think that when we go home playing what is were struggling, someone Above: Megan Duffy drives 
arguably her had to step down the court during an 
best basket-up and I 
ball all sea­was confi­Irish victory against
"They don't play like d e n t
son. Pittsburgh. Duffy, the 
"Megan freshmen. . . . Those two enough to 
know I freshman point guard, had
has had a 
freshmen really play like 
great tour­could help 10 points, including four
seniors.

nament," the team 
McGraw win the clutch free throws, against 
said. Muffet McGraw games," Kansas State. Duffy has La Vere
Irish coach Right: Courtney LaVere
stepped up said. l'or the Irish La Vere, drives inside against Seton this March. who start­
Hall in March. La Vere,
Against Kansas State, the ed the season as a bench l"reshman point guard player, joined the starting who has alternated starting scored 10 points, four of line-up, and then found her­
and playing off the bench,
witch came when it really self back on the bench, has mattered. played several roles for the has provided a sparkfor the In the final 60 seconds of a Irish. Although she started 
Irish. She has scored in 
very close match-up, Duffy against Kansas State stepped to the charity stripe because Katy Flecky was double figures in both !'our times. She sent the ball 
injured , she provides an tournament games the Irish 
straight home all four times. excellent spark from the "I feel really good about bench. have played, totalling 29 her being on the line," 
Offensively, LaVere makes points for the post-season.
McCraw said. "She's not 
shots when she needs to. someone who really allows "If we're struggling offen­
pressure to get her." 
sively, I feel like I can . 
Playing well in pressure 
score," she said. "So I want 
situations isn't new to Duffy. 
the ball and I'll call for it." 
This season she has found 
What's even more impor­
some success playing when 
tant for the Irish, she has 
PHOTOS BYANDY
the heat is on. For that rea­
been consistent. In the early
son, McGraw isn't that sur­KENNAAND
season, Notre Dame had
prised that she has been 
trouble finding a consistent LAUREN FORBESable to step up this tourna­
scorer until La.Vere stepped
ment and find success 
up. Despite a few games
amidst the oppositions' 
La Vere struggled through
screaming !'ans and with the 
due to illness, she has been ''On offense our first look 'Tm settling in, but it took
eyes of the nation upon 
someone the Irish can rely is in the post, that helps," me awhile to get used to it,"
them. 
on. LaVere she said.
"She has played well all 
" S h e ' s
year long in pressure situa­said. "I just Finding some seniority
always been
tions. She's had a lot of suc­"We get along so well. I think that The two freshman have
there and
cess already," McGraw said. think we really balance our team is made their presence known,
has been our
"Sh~,'s a very confident per­doing pretty and not for freshman mis­
most consis­each other well. " 
son. well and takes. LaVere and DuffyWhat's more, Duffy has tent player," making the have come up big for the begun to step up to the kind McGraw Courtney Lavere r i g h t Irish in big upsets. Really,of leadership position that is said. shots." they're not even freshman

Irish forward
required from a guard. The Lavere By the anymore.freshman, who needed some credits her time the "When you look at those timl' to adjust to Notre success on tournament 
two, they are not really

Dame's triangle offense, has N o t r e rolled 
freshman anymore,"started to be vocal on the Dame's team as a combina­around, LaVere, who needed 
McGraw said. "Once you get 

noor. tion of the triangle offense some time to adjust, was 
to the NCAA tournament, I "I think Megan·s got lead­and the recent success of really feeling like she knew think you have to think of c rs hip potential," McGraw the whole Notre Dame team. where she belonged. 
them as sophomores." 


But Duffy and LaVere are just having a good time. And they both feel like they're building a relationship that won't just end with the tour­nament. 
"We get along so well," ..... LaVere said. "I think we really balance each other well. We have a really good relationship on and off the court which will carry us the next four years." 
But in three years, they'll actually be seniors. not just playing like them. 
Contact Katie McVoy at rucvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Friday, March 28, 2003

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

They think they can 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
If you thought the Irish wom­ens basketball team would still be playing on the second week­end of the NCAA Tournament, you're either Miss Cleo or you knew some­thing that the rest of the college basketball community didn't. 
Because, after watching the Irish this season, they shouldn't have stood a chance against two very good basketball teams -Arizona and Kansas State. 
But no one told Notre Dame they couldn't do it. For all they knew, the Sweet Sixteen was reachable. And they were going to get there -no matter whom they had to take out on the way. 
The week before the NCAA first round games, Notre Dame's first opponent, Arizona, nearly won the PAC-10 Championship game, falling just short to Stanford 59-49. Meanwhile, Kansas State barely lost to highly-ranked Texas Tech in the quarterfinals of the Big 12 Tournament. It was only Kansas State's fourth loss at that time. 


While their future opponents played solid basketball, the Irish scored a dismal 39 points in a loss to Villanova in the second round of the Big East Tournament in their last game before the postseason. 
Not exactly the way you want to enter the tournament. 
But Notre Dame and coach Muffet McGraw didn't seem too worried after the game. They had struggled shooting and lost to a good team. But McGraw knew that her team had still managed to win 8 of their last 11 games and had shown signs of promise, especially on defense. 
So after losing, the Irish got a whole week to practice and improve. They worked on bet­tering their game and playing solid defense. They tried to find a way to peak for the tourna­ment. 
After watching them hold two opponents under 55 points in back-to-back tournament games, it's safe to say they got better in both areas. 
It was interesting watching the Irish in that first tourna­ment game against Arizona. They shot horribly in the first half, but no one panicked. The Irish looked confident in the second half. They looked like a team that expected to win. 
Once they upset Arizona, only God could have known they were about to snap Kansas State's 22-game home winning streak two nights later. Mere mortals simply can't make those types of predictions. 
But there Notre Dame was, 48 hours after upsetting Arizona, beating a Kansas State team that had never lost at home during the 2002-03 season. 
And if you looked at the Irish players, you could see that con­fidence in their eyes. 
The Irish didn't care what the odds were, they were proving to the country just how well they could play. 
A 22-game home win streak? Who cares. 10,000 purple and white colored fans? Bring it. No chance against 29-4 Kansas State? Think again. 
Now the Irish face an even bigger challenge Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. -Purdue. Notre Dame played the Boilermakers at home on national television ear­lier this year and lost 71-54. McGraw later said it was the low point of the season. 
But the Irish will be in famil­iar territory again against Purdue. 
No one is giving them a chance. No one thinks they can win. No one believes they can pull off another upset. 
But after their first two tour­nament games, no one should be surprised when a confident, determined Irish team takes the floor in Dayton, Ohio this week­end. 
And especially when that same team gives the Boilermakers all they can han­dle. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

THE SWEET SIXTEEN 
MIDEAST REGIONAL EAST REGIONAL 

THE 
0BSERVIR 

Friday, March 28, 2003 page 13 
Medea loosed at Saint Mary's 
One Corinthian woman said, "Death is here.. " 
By KRISTIN CORDOVA 
Scene Writer 
An eerie music loiters across the black silence, portending unnatural acts and tantalizing first-time viewers of the "Medea." Haising questions about revenge. the nature ofjustice and natural laws, Medea rocks Greek culture. She brings out Greek arrogance against for­eigners and questions the very founda­tions of their culture. 
The Saint Mary's Department of Communication Studies, Dance and Theatre presents Euripides' chilling tragedy. "Medea," adapted by Hobinson Je!Ters. this weekend in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. An introduction to Greek cul­ture precedes the play, beginning about half an hour prior to the main perform­ance. 
For those of you who aren't familiar with the "Medea". it makes "Oedipus the King" look like a bedtime story and puts the rage of Achilles to shame. Medea is a lierce Asian princess, who married the Greek hero, Jason the Argonaut. For love of Jason, she murdered both her father and her brother. As the play opens, she wails inside the house because her beloved husband dropped her /'or a new princess, younger model and more cash. When we see her for the first time, her eyelids droop as if in a trance and pain seems lo wash over her body like the lap­ping Lide, licking her wounds in repeated rhythm. There is witchcraft, violent mur­ders and cruel cackling from Medea. But you'll have to show up at Saint Mary's this weekend to see the rest. 

Going to see Merideth Pierce. a senior theatre major, rage about the intimate stage setting, in truly tormented Medea­fashion, is worth the trip alone. Before she ever appears onstage, the agony in her unseen cries pierces the nervous opening speech of her faithful old ser­vant, played by sophomore, Betsy Brown. 
Merideth admitted that she was "scared Lo death" of Medea at first glance but has come to understand how a larger-than-life character, like Medea, could be perverted by this "downward spiral" to such extreme, unnatural acts. First-time Saint Mary's 
Director Leigh Taylor also noticed Merideth's increased understanding of her role. Despite being originally con­cerned about how a 21-year-old girl was going to achieve the depth of a character like Medea without any life experience that could even come close to compara­ble, Taylor found herself well pleased with the results. 
Because of all the conflicting issues in this work, Taylor hoped to leave the audience in "wonder" about "how far a person can be driven." Although Medea never seems quite human during the play, her supernatural qualities are reemphasized by the fact that she seems to be exempt from divine justice at the end of the play. 
Because the play is acted and staged on the auditorium stage, this presentation of the "Medea" has an intimate feel. The scenery, created by Thomas Boelman, helped add to the conception of Medea's character as "larger than life." Large columns coiled with snakes, huge doors that always open of their own accord, tall black walls and raised golden images that one would imagine on 

Greek pottery, decorated Medea's house. The scenery was excellent because it pro­vided the necessary setting, while not drawing the audience's attention away from the intense dialogue that demands their focus. 
There are some great lines in this play, and this presentation definitely does it justice. Medea says, "Hate is a bottomless cup that I shall pour and pour ..." If that's not enough incentive to go check it out, in the closing lines, Medea gives Jason a callous response when he asks her what 
.... 

he should do. She says, "Go out under the stars; it's not me they scorn." 
"Medea" will be performed Friday March 28 at 8 p.m., Saturday March 29 at 2:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. as well as on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Contact the box office at 284-4626 to purchase tickets or for further information. 
Contact Kristin Cordova at kcordova@nd.edu 
... 


Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
NBA 
Wade's 20 second half points puts Marquette in Elite Eight 
.,.. 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Marquette is back where it hasn't been since the days of Al McGuire. 
Dwyane Wade scored 20 of his 22 points in the second half to lead the third-seeded Golden Eagles to a 77 • 7 4 victory over No. 2 seed Pittsburgh in the Midwest Regional semifinals Thursday night at the Metrodome. 
Chevon Troutman scored seven of his 15 points in the final 
2:56 to lead a furious Panthers rally, but Marquette hung on and Pittsburgh was eliminated in the round of 16 for the second straight season . 
Marquette (26-5) will play top· seeded Kentucky on Saturday, with the winner advancing to the Final Four in New Orleans. The Wildcats beat Wisconsin 63-57 earlier. 
Brandin Knight led Pittsburgh (28-5) with 16 points. His 3-point attempt with about four seconds to go could have tied it, but he came up short. 
Diener, who scored 55 points in the Golden Eagles' first two victories over Holy Cross and Missouri, was held to four points on 2-for-8 shooting. 
Trailing by 10 with 3:56 to go, the Panthers scored nine straight points -seven by Troutman -to pull within one three times. But Wade made sure Marquette didn't lose the lead. 
With the shot clock running down. he drove the lane and sank a twisting layup high off the glass to make it 75-72 with 23.4 seconds remaining. 
Knight -a 53 percent free­throw shooter for his career ­made two foul shots to cut the lead to 75-74. 
Scott Merritt -who had 17 points -hit a pair of free throws on the other end, bumping it back to 77-74 with 11.4 seconds to go. 
Knight dribbled down the floor, pump-faked Wade in the air and launched a 3, but it banged off the rim. Todd Townsend grabbed the rebound and passed to Diener, who was fouled. 
Diener missed both foul shots with 2.3 seconds left, but Carl Krauser's attempt from halfcourt at the buzzer sailed over the basket as gold-clad Marquette students stormed the court. 
Kentucky 63, Wisconsin 57 
Keith Bogans stood in front of the bench and cupped his hands together, silently pleading for his Kentucky teammates to pull through without him. 
As they have all during a remarkable winning streak, the Wildcats showed their balance and power Thursday night and gave the injured Bogans his wish. 
With Bogans out because of a sprained left ankle, Marquis Estill scored a career-high 28 points and the Wildcats ran their winning streak to 26 games, holding off scrappy Wisconsin 63-57 in the Midwest Regional semifinals. 
Bogans, the Wildcats' top scor­er and floor leader, was hurt late in the first half. The star guard's status for Saturday was uncer­tain. 
Top-seeded Kentucky (32-3) will try for another trip to the Final Four when it plays Marquette. 
If Bogans can't play, the Wildcats will need another big game from the 6-9, 240-pound Estill. who hit 12-of-18 shots. 
Bogans sprained his ankle with 3:32 left in the first half. Wisconsin's Kirk Penney lost the ball under the basket, turned around to run back down the floor and fell over the Kentucky star. 
Bogans winced on the bench during a timeout, lobbied to get back in and then limped on the court with just under two min­utes left. But hampered and in obvious pain, he headed to the locker room with 53 seconds to go in the half. 
He didn't take part in warmups before the second half but finally limped to the Kentucky bench five minutes in. 
When Bogans finally rejoined the bench, the Wildcats went on a 12-4 run and held Wisconsin without a field goal for more than six minutes, taking a 50-44 lead with 9:19 left and looking as if they were ready to pull away. 
But the fifth-seeded Big Ten champs, bolstered by thousands of thundering red-clad fans who had an easy drive across the Wisconsin state line to the Metrodome, wouldn't go away. 
Kentucky's defense also tight­ened up in the second half on Penney, who had 17 first-half points and then just three the rest of the way. 
The Badgers made their last surge when Mike Wilkinson had a layup and Devin Harris made two spectacular driving baskets to cut the lead to two with just under seven minutes left. 
Again the Wildcats went inside and Estill muscled in for another basket and then hit two free throws as the Wildcats regained a six-point lead. 
Wisconsin rallied to within one when Harris hit a 3-pointer and Wilkinson drove for a basket with 1:33 remaining. 
But Erik Daniels tipped in a miss by Estill with 1 :03 left to give Kentucky a 58-55 lead. And after a traveling call on Wilkinson with 49 seconds remaining, Estill made one of two foul shots with 32 seconds left, pushing the lead back to four. 
After Wilkinson missed twice from the line with 23 seconds remaining, Kentucky hit four free throws in the closing sec­onds. 
Kansas 69, Duke 65 
Nick Collison played the game of his life. And that's what Roy Williams needed to get that elusive win over Coach K. 
Collison scored a career-high 33 points and had 19 rebounds while playing all 40 minutes to lead the Jayhawks over Duke 69-65 in the semifinals of the West Regional on Thursday night. 
A 6-foot-9, 255-pound forward Mike Krzyzewski tried to recruit to Duke, Collison scored seven straight points to give second­seeded Kansas a 63-57 lead with 
5:41 remaining. The Jayhawks were on top the rest of the way. Collison made 14-of-22 shots, scoring mostly from inside. 
Kansas (28-7) will face Arizona on Saturday with the winner going to the Final Four. Kansas led Arizona by as many as 20 points before losing a 91-74 decision to the Wildcats in Lawrence, Kan., on Jan. 25. 
Williams, in his 15th year as coach of the Jayhawks, was 0-3 in matchups with Krzyzewski, including a 7 2-65 defeat in the national championship game 12 years ago. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets coach Baylor diagnosed with bone tnarrow-cancer 
Associated Press  every 28-to-36 days therapy.  as initial  cell replacement and missed the final three weeks of the  Stottlemyre said in Tampa. "I suggested to stay busy if he  give then high doses of chemotherapy before giving  
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla.  "There's  a  fairly  high  regular season and the post­ can do it. I think what I've  Baylor back his  own  stem  
New York Mets coach Don  upfront success rate,  some­ season.  Doctors  will  use  done is probably the best solu­ cells.  
Baylor has been diagnosed  where  in  Baylor's stem  tion to keep your mind free.  The cancer was detected  as  
with cancer in his bone mar­ the vicinity  cells for his  There's  been  advances.  I  a  result of spring training  
row but hopes the chemother• apy treatments won't cause him to miss any games. "I know what I have to do  of 60-70 percent," Dr. John Olichney  "He had a lot ofquestions. I suggested to stay busy ifhe can do it. I think  treatment. "My family will give me comfort, but  assured him things are better today than three years ago in the application of chemo and that sort of thing. He sounded  physical last month and an examination determined Baylor had an abnormal mon­oclonal protein. He underwent  
and I plan to do it," Baylor said Thursday. "It's a good time to get it done and get it behind me. It's treatable, so why not treat' it now?"  said about the possibil­ity of com­plete remis­sion. "The  what I've done is probably the solution to keep your mind free."  I have to do this alone," Baylor said. Stottlemyre returned to  very positive, which I think he needs to be. One of the good things about him as intense a competitor he was, he's the right type of person to go  bone marrow tests in New York on March 12, and the tests determined he had an overgrowth of abnormal white blood cells in the marrow.  
Baylor, 53, will undergo four days of oral and intravenous chemotherapy beginning  problem is that there are recur­ Mel Stottlemyre Yankees coach  the team the next spring and still is  through it." The stem cells can be taken out, separated from the blood  Baylor told the team Thursday. Olichney agreed that the chemotherapy  
Monday  - when the  Mets  rences."  the Yankees'  and frozen, treated and given  wouldn't hinder the former  
open the season against Baylor's former team, the Chicago Cubs -to treat the multiple myeloma. The treat­ Yankees pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre was diagnosed with the same type of cancer in April 2000.  pitching coach. Baylor talked with Stottlemyre about his experi­ences.  back at a later time. The treat­ment tries to reduce the malignant plasma cells in the bone marrow so doctors can  Cubs and Colorado manager at the start of treatment but said it might cause him to miss some road games as the thera­ 
ment will be repeated  once  Stottlemyre underwent stem  "He had a lot of questions,"  remove the healthy cells and  py progresses.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 
NOTICES BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER 
OOMUS PROPERTIES· HAS 3 OR FALL. 235-3655 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS-STU• 
FOR SALE 
DENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECU­
RITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE 
STAFF Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire-
Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229-3333 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus mmmrentals@aol.com 272­1525 www.mmmrenlals.com 
Very nice 3 bdrm h<lme. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins @ 273­0002(h)or 514·0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­ ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are  
TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  you pregnant and dont know what  
OF ND 2773097  to do? Loving, open•  
hearted, financially stable woman  
2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area.  would like to consider adopting a  
Spa,tanning bed 229-3333.  baby. Free  
counseling, living expenses and  
medical expenses. This can be a  
good thing for  
PERSONAL  you and your baby. Discreet and  
legal. Call 904-824-7006.  
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  The current Mario record is 5  

ON CALL· WASHERS/DRYERS place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage, alone. If you or someone you love minutes, 19.1 seconds CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR needs FASTIII -CONTACT KRAMER 288-2001 apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.• RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC confidential support or assistance, Bill is back on top 
(547) 315-5032 OA (574) 234-2436 sminutes from 532-1896 please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, 
-ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins campus/good neighborhood. $350 CSC, at 1-II wasn't so sweet tonightVISIT OUR WEBSITES @ for P.A. $75. a month. 1-Bdrm apts 112 mile from ND. 7819. For more information, see our DOMUSKRAMER.COM 631-5195 Call 229·1691 $500/mo. 283-0325 bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Scott watch your rear-end 
Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
paces the lloyas with a .464 average and 15 HBI, followed by outnclder Hobert O'Hare, who has hit .41 O in starting 10 of Georgetown's 18 games this the hill. 
The Irish continued to see solid production at the plate in the two midw<1ek games, with Notre Dame cranking out 20 hits and plating 16 runs in the two games. 
Freshman Cody Rizzo contin­ued to impress, with his 4-for-6 performance at the plate in the 
year. 
Georgetown's pitching, meanwhile, has been sus­pect, as the staff has post­ed a team EHA of 6.58 for the season. The top threat on the mound for the Hoyas 
pair of midweek games. pushing his average to .358 for
"Our players know that the season. 
it's important that we get Rizzo also drove in five
the job done at home ... " 
runs and crossed the Paul Malnlerl plate three times in the
Irish coach 

home-open­ing games. Second baseman Steve 
could come from freshman righthandcr Warren Sizemore, who is 3-1 on the season with a 
3.56 EHA. lie leads Georgetown pitchers with 30 1/3 innings on Sollmann improved from his 1­for-13 performance in the Big East opener with a pair of 2-for­5 days Tuesday and Wednesday. The junior still leads the team in batting with a .367 average. 
After the pair of games, Mainieri gave his team a day off Thursday to gear up for the important weekend series. The Irish coach realizes the impor­tance in taking these early con­ference home games. 
"When you're at home, you've got to take care of business," Mainieri said. "Our players know that it's important that we get the job done at home, so we [took] Thursday off, and we will get back to practice on Friday and get ready for Georgetown." 
Play is scheduled to begin Saturday at noon with a seven­inning opener of the double­header before the full-length nightcap at 3 p.m. 
The teams wrap up play Sunday at noon at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Special rebate offer: 
Enroll now and get 
$100back! 
Time is running out! March 31st deadline! 
Receive $100 back through Kaplan's Rebate1 when you enroll in an LSAT, MCAT, GMAT, GRE, DAT or TOEFL: classroom course between March 1st-March 31st ­
Call or visit us online for more information or to enroll. 
KAPLAN' 
. 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
•

kaptest.com/rebate 
•rest name• a,a rq1ste11111<1 lrdrJemark5 or lhali re-1.pac.uvo owner:s.. !To be ellglb!c, you must enroll betweeri Marcr-i 1-31, 2003. Other restrictions ar,oiv. ca111-800-KAP-TEST or v1a11 k•pteat.c;o,n/.-.b•" for details. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish traveling all over the country 

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame track and field teams look to continue to enjoy the outdoor season, as they travel to three sites this weekend. 
The Irish track team trav­els to Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif. for the Stanford Invitational. 
For the women, Lauren King and Molly Huddle will run in the 1,500-meter race Saturday. Also running Saturday is Kerry Meagher, who will be competing in the 800 meter race. Meanwhile, Ana Morales will start off the Irish on Friday, running in the 1,500 meters as well. 
On the men's side, the Irish have significantly more com­petitors. Friday, Vinni Ambrico will run in the 1,500 meters. Saturday will see Thomas Chamney com­pete in the 800 meters, and Eric Morrison and Kevin 
Somok in the 1,500-meter race. 
Also competing for the men is John Keane, who will run the 5,000-meter race. Chris Staron will compete in the high jump, and Godwin Mbagwu will enter both the long jump and the triple jump. 
In other action, some of the Irish women will travel to Gainesville, Fla. to compete in the Florida Relays. Tiffany Gunn will compete in the 400-meter hurdles. The Irish will also have teams for the 4x100-meter, 4x200-meter and 4x400-meter relays. 
Finally, while their fellow teammates are enjoying the sun, more Irish athletes trav­el to Western Michigan for the Western Michigan Invitational. 
The three meets are both today and Saturday. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY"S COLLEGE DEPARTMENT of COMMUNICATION STUDIES, DANCE & THEATRE 
presents 

Euripides' classic tale of betrayal, revenge, and murder . 
March 27 -28 at 8:00 p.m. • March 29 at 2:30 & 8:00 p.m. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage "'"'"'.,,.,c.,,,.,~ 
Limited to 120 seats per performance. 
~M8fRE½.. /Advanced purchase of tickets is FOR TH£ ART s suggested. HOTIIE DAMI!, IN 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
S74/184-4616 

page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 28, 2003 Priday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

MENS GOLF SMC SOFTBALL 
Cold Kentucky avVaits Irish 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
Could the University Club of Kentucky be the site of an Irish resurgence? Notre Dame invades the University of Kentucky's golf' cnurse Saturday with aspirations of their first victory of the spring season. 
The Irish have had two meets since 'tournament play resumed After finishing eighth in the rain-abbreviated Big Red Classic, Notre Dame placed 12th in the Conrad llchling Alabama Spring Invitational. Two weeks of practice later, the Irish are looser. more confident, and 
rust off du ring the two meets over spring break." 
Mark Baldwin, Brandon Lunke, Eric Deutsch and Gustafson are expected to anchor the Irish this weekend. Preshman Tommy Balderston, who had established himself as one of the team's top golfers, might not make the trip. After finishing second on the team at the Conrad Rehling Invitational, Balderston has been ham­pered by "golfer's elbow." 
"The doctors are not sure how to treat it other than painkillers," Gustafson said. "lie might not go." 
If Balderston cannot compete, either sophomore Ryan Marshall or junior Bill Mccaughan will assume his place. Both golfers have been pushing the top five squad, yet have not broken into recent tournament lineups. • 
None of Notre Dame's four freshmen has played at the University Club, yet inexperi­ence is something that the team has over­come all season. In addition to windy weather possibly playing a factor at the fairly wide-open course, frigid temperas turcs await the Irish. Saturday's high is predicted to be 48 degrees. but Sunday's high is forecast at a chilly 33 degrees. 
"It's definitely something that we'll have to adjust to," Gustafson said. "Whenever we golf, we come prepared for all differ­ent conditions." 
Notre Dame might be more prepared for the conditions than anyone else. Gustafson 
and Deutsch are from 
Minnesota, while 
Baldwin is from New
"Whenever we golf. we
poised lo return to their 
Hampshire. Every team 
fall season form. come prepared for all 
will be playing under 
"We're getting back Lo 
different conditions." the same conditions 
wh,ire we were before 
over the weekend, but 
the winter break," fresh­
the Irish have the 
man Scott Gustafson Scott Gustafson 
advantage of condition­
said. "We worked the freshman 
ing in chilly climates. 
After this weekend, 
only two more meets remain for Notre Dame before the Big East championships. Each of the 54 holes moves the team one step closer to a chance at an automatic NCAA berth. But the Irish have more on their minds than worries of peaking at the right time. This weekend, they have a tournament to win. 
"Winning the Big East Tournament is our best chance to advance -it's in the back of our minds. We're building up to it," Gustafson said. "But in each tourna­ment we definitely do the best that we can. Every [tournament] is big." 
The first two rounds of the Johnny Owens Invitational begin at 8 a.m. Saturday. The final round begins at 8 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu. 


Cheese & 1 Topping 


Medium Pizza 
Cheese & 1 Topping 

M-4 ~-·ACCEPTED HERE 
Must prOYide credit card inlormation when o·dering lor delivery. FRiE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Deilve • Nol Valid With An Other Offer. Limited Time On! . 
--tt;;t'~c-..,,..-Carryout & FREE Delivery 
5 2 7 50 IN 9 3 3 Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 

I, 574-143-1111 
326 N. Ironwood Comer of Ironwood &McKinley 
574-143-1111 
'Eager' Belles kick off MIAA season at home 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball program has gotten off to a tremendous start this season. Going into the weekend, the Belles stand at a respectable 10­6-1 record. 
With a young cast and only one senior, much of its early season suc­cess could be attributed to the new coaching style of first year manager Anna Welsh. 
Taking over a 
University, 3-2. in the first of two match-ups between the two teams. 
Yet the team struggled at the platn. It took an all-around great individual performance from freshman Kate Sajewich -on the mound and at the plate -to put Saint Mary's over the top against Olivet Nazarene. 
But with 10 wins under their belt, the Belles have proven they can at least compete on the road. The next step is bringing the early season intensity and the offensive produc­tion seen on its Fort Myers trip to 
team that has league play.
"/ teach the 

struggled, particu­Saint Mary's
fundamentals of the
larly offensively, in begins MIAA the past, Welsh game as well as the league play this 
has gotten the strategies ofthe game weekend, as they 
most out of her host Olivet College
that will give us the edge 
players in a major­Saturday at 1 p.m. ity of the Belles on the competition. " Welsh is confi­games so far. dent her team can The Belles are bounce back from
Anna Welsh

averaging over the challenging
Belles coach

four runs per game, scoring 73 runs in their first 17 contests. 
All indications are the women are eager to play and win under their new coach. 
"My coaching style is that of a very aggressive, strategic and fun nature," Welsh said. "I teach the fun­damentals of the game as well as the strategies of the game that will give us the edge on the competition." 
Recently, the Belles went 1-3 in a tournament in Indianapolis, defeat­ing No. 10 Olivet Nazarene 
tournament of last 
weekend and 

show what they are capable of at home on Saturday. 
Hitting from junior Katrina Tebbe, senior Susan Kutz and freshman Greta Linde will be key for the Belles. 
"I have instilled an attitude in my team that consists of working hard, having fun and learning the game," Welsh said. 
And, she hopes, an attitude of win­ning. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 


,Since 1923 eLuxury Buses 

,Group Services •Professional Drivers 
•Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 
. DIALTOLL FREE 
1-800-348-7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 
Delivery or Carry Out, Open 7 Days 2720 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend, IN 46615 
M-Th 10:30lm-11:00pm 
rj~,..f.,.,
-~,/f'Jl.''
1' ,, I 
Fri & Sit 10:30-11m \\.~•· , i 
~--.~.. . \ ·,, Sun N0<'>'•\/~'11 .<:~;:\
·.-.·.~:-.:.::::_:.t~\~:•-,~.., 
Buyor Sell yourHome with aGrad from the Dome Call ~!aria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVERETl'/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 


Arizona senior point guard Jason Gardner defends Notre Dame sophomore point guard Chris Thomas Thursday night at the Arrowhead Pond. 
Friday, March 28, 2003

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
Future 
continued from page 24 
it's a sign that the program is rapidly moving among college basketball's elite. 
In a locker room filled mostly with dry eyes and dreams of what could have been. Matt Carroll gave his teammates one linal piece of advice before the team became somebody else's team. anybody else's team. but not Matt Carroll's team. 
"Fellas, look what we've done this vear." Carroll told his team­mates after the 88-71 loss. "You guys have ended the season on a lot of momentum. You have to use this to get ready for next sum1~er and get ready for next year. 
It's what Irish teams have done before. 
Two years ago, Notre Dame foll in the round of 32 because they lacked the tourney maturity to avoid getting wowed. The memory of that defeat motivated them over the summer to set a goal of making some noise in the tournament, not just making the tournament. 
And so the next year, Notre Dame hung tough against top­seeded Duke before falling because they didn't know how to close out top teams. The narrow loss helped galvanize the Irish toward wanting to make the Sweet Sixteen. 
And so this year, Notre Dame made the Sweet Sixteen before losing to a much more talented, much more experienced Arizona squad that knew how to handle itself in March's final weekend. 
For one team in the Arrowhead Pond Thursday night, the Sweet Sixteen was just a stepping stone for larger dreams in the present. 
For the other, the Sweet Sixteen was a stepping stone for the future. 
Arizona's experience advan­tage was no more obvious than early in the first half. After Torin Francis threw down a fast-break dunk to give the Irish a 26-25 lead -the last lead the Irish would hold -the Wildcats put a choke hold on Notre Dame from which the lrish could never escape. 
Suddenly, a one-point Irish lead turned into a one-point Wildcat lead. Then a three-point lead. Then a five-point lead. 
And after Matt Carroll missed a wide-open 3-pointer, starting a trend when the Irish would miss four very quick, very bad shots, Arizona continued its 22-3 run and the Irish were toast. 
"We," Brey said, "kind of buried ourselves." 
In another year, in another season, maybe the Irish will have the experience to stay with a sharp-shooting talented team like Arizona. But they didn't Thursday, and so the guard changed faster than anyone wearing blue and gold wanted it too. 
Out went Carroll and Dan Miller, who set a team goal in the summer of making sure the Irish made the Sweet Sixteen ­and then made sure the Irish met that goal, too. They finished their college careers shooting a combined 8-for-27 in their final game. 
But in came Francis and Chris Thomas, who showed they might be able to lead the Irish up another step in another year. 
While Thomas busily scored 20 points despite facing a tough Wildcat defense, Francis enforced his will on the Wildcats frontcourt. He scored a career­high 25 points on 10-for-11 shooting, including a 3-point bomb in the game's final minute. 
"We might have to run some more plays for him to shoot the 3," Thomas cracked after the game. 
"We will," Brey added shortly after he pulled Francis into the shower room and told him the Irish needed him to be a leader more than ever next season. 
The Irish accomplished tremendous things under Carroll and Miller's leadership. They helped pull a team many thought was destined for the NIT into the Sweet Sixteen. 
Now, where will their succes­sors go? "The bar has been raised," Thomas said. 
"Hopefully coach will give us a couple days ofT, then we'll be right back working on next sea­son. 
At this, Brey and Francis ­the only two others at the post­game press conference as the Irish seniors symbolically stayed in the locker room -smiled. 
Notre Dame's present may have ended Thursday night. Meanwhile, their future began. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

'Zona 
continued from page 24 

after Torin Francis made a fast-break dunk to put the Irish ahead by one. Arizona's Hassan Adams came off the bench and provided a spark for the Wildcats, making back­to-back layups to put Arizona in front 29-26. Adams had six points and three steals during the run. 
"[Notre Dame] came out and shot the lights out early," Olsen said. "All year long. we've been a team that's been able to put together really good runs and really good runs usually happen as a result of our defense." 
toughened on defense that made the difference. They forced the Irish into 19 turnovers for the game, nine more than the Wildcats, them­selves, had. Arizona also held Notre Dame to only eight sec­ond half field goals and 3 3. 3 percent shooting. 
The second half started out strong for Notre Dame when Chris Thomas drilled a 3­pointer, pulling the Irish with­in 10 points. But Arizona responded with a 10-2 run to extend their lead to 63-45. Salim Stoudamire and Gardner each nailed 3-point­ers during the run for Arizona. 
The closest the Irish got dur­ing the rest of the game was 
12 on a Dan 
Miller free 

By the throw with
"Nobody's crying in that 
time it was 1 1 5 5
locker room. We had a
over, the remaining, Irish trailed great year. " but Arizona 47-29 and went on could never another 16-3
Mike Brey
recover. run to go up "During Irish coach by 25. Luke 
that run we quick-shot a couple of times and they went down and scored so quick, we kind of buried ourselves," Brey said. "They're so hard to stop because they come at you from so many different angles." 
Notre Dame stayed within striking distance thanks to Francis, who canned all eight of his field goals, including one with 22 seconds left in the half to get the Irish within 53­
40. The freshman ended the game with a career-high 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. 
The Wildcats shot 53.5 per­cent in the half and 5-of-8 on 3-pointers. The Irish hit 48.6 percfmt of their shots and half of their 10 3-point attempts. 
But it was the way Arizona 
Walton Jed 
the Wildcats during that stretch, scoring eight points for Arizona. The Wildcat lead reached as many as 26 in the second half. 
Matt Carroll and Miller each had 11 points on 4-for-14 and 4-for-13 shooting, respective­ly, in their final games in Irish uniforms. 
Brey was proud of the way his team played, especially over the course of the season. 
"Nobody's crying in that locker room," he said. "We had a great year. I'm really proud of this basketball team, given where we started and how we were thought of back in October." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MENS LACROSSE 
Key GWL stretch awaits Irish 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sr.nrisWriter 
!\ftP.r Mding a three-game losing streak last weekend with a 17-3 clobbering of unranked llartford, the No. 13 Irish (4-3) will host Great West11rn League rival Denver Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium in the hopes of regaining its early season momentum. 
The Irish fought hard against an early season schedule that featured six ranked teams in Notre Dame's first seven games. Notre Dame jumped out to 3­0 with wins over Penn State, Penn and North Carolina, but thn Irish fell to Lop-ranked Virginia, Loyola and Hofstra Lo send the team to the .500 murk at :-3-3. 
The 4-3 record, however, does not do head coach Kevin Corrigan's group justice. Two of the three losses were ducidnd by one goal. Loyola 
needed a Craig Georgales goal with 41 seconds remain­ing to fight off a ferocious Notre Dame comeback and win, 9-8, and Ilofstra got a rare seven-goal performance from Jim Femminella to edge ihe Irish, 9-8. Notre Dame cou Id very well be 6-1 at this point. 
"We look at every game like we should win it," Corrigan said. "We're disappointed if we don't [win it1. but lif we lose] then we ask ourselves what we could have done dif­ferently. We've talked about that we didn't shy away from playing anybody in the early season, and that's why our kids come here, I think, to play people like thal." 
The Hartford match came just in time for a team that was used to seeing one top­ranked contender after another. 
"It was mostly a good break from the tough loss [to Hofstra] on Friday night," Corrigan said. "It was nice to 
G,ttee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
TuesdaY, Aoril 1, 2003 

...and every ~rst tuesday of the month 

7:00 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites 
Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members ofthe Notre Dame family, their 
friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the 
Co-Mo. 

I Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. . > .' •Coffee and refreshments will be served* 

'flie 'linioeraa~ of J'i:lre <Dume CfwrJ11 ~ CJ-amber Orciiealro fil......J.:.. ®..JJ.i. J;..,d.,,. 
&.J...t Mu1n -J••J>hJiwt.ln 
,,)fun< cf);matu -J-f•im Wnner ;L.mmnma>m 
Caru:nlc r-JfooT V1diru -G.""l <fM'l'I' "T.lemonn sfl c~., 1m..l ,-L 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
8:00 pm, Basilica of thf' Saned Heart 
Free and open to the public Call (574) 631-6201 for information 
not have to come back to practice and talk about the loss. We said, 'Let's just get back there and play again."' 
If anything, the tough early season schedule will motivate the Irish to continue to domi­nate teams like Hartford, and, hopefully, Denver as well. 
Now, the Irish look to con­struct a winning streak of their own as they face Denver. Notre Dame leads the career series against Denver with a 6-0 record, and has never failed to score in dou­b Ie-digits against the Pioneers. Notre Dame leads Denver in head-to-head goals, 
97-42. 
"The next twenty days is a huge stretch for us," Corrigan said. "We have five league games in twenty days. We'll find out what we have in the next couple of weeks." 
The game is scheduled for Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
WOMENS LACROSSE 

Hokies host Irish in conference clash 
. Road-tested Notre Dame meets struggling Virginia Tech 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Wricer 

Coming off two close loss­es to ranked teams, the womens lacrosse team will look to get back on the win­ning track as they head to Blacksburg, Va. to face the Virginia Tech 1-Iokies Saturday at 1:00 p.m, 
For the Irish, returning to life on the road will be familiar. as they've played only one of their first five games at home. In all. seven of iheir first nine games are on the road before they play five consecutive home 

Would you like to be a math major and a future physician? How is mathematics useful in biology? Interested yet? 
If you'd like to know, Mu Alpha Theta will hold a meeting on 
Monday 31" of March, 6pm, in 117 Hayes-Healy. 
Dr. Mark Alber, Director of Center of Biocomplexity and a math professor here at Notre Dame will be giving a talk on the applications of math in biology. His team is currently doing research on chick embryo development with the aid of mathematical formulas. 
Come join! This is the LAST meeting of the year, and we will also be holding officers ellections. Don't miss it. Pizza and refreshmens will be served. 
FACULTY CELLO RECITAL 
KAREN BURANSKAS 
SUNDAY, MARCH 30th @2:00pm University of Notre Dame Anneberg Auditorium Suite Museum of Art 
games. 
The match-up against Virginia Tech will be the second Big East game for the Irish this season, as they already have a win at Boston College. Virginia Tech has struggled to a 1-7 record early in the season, including 0-2 in the confer­ence. The Irish are 2-3 overall, with all three losses coming to teams ranked in the IWLCA Rankings. 
For the Hokies, this could be a bad time to face the Irish, who have lost their last two games, in close fin­ishes to Yale and Ohio State. 
The Irish, now ranked No. 14 in the IWLCA after beginning the season in the top 10, will look to respond as they did after their first defeat when they went out and beat Ohio 19-4. 
For the first time in the program's history, the Irish have a nominee for the Tewaaraton Trophy that goes annually to the top player in men and women's lacrosse. Senior all-American candidate Danielle Shearer is one of 21 nominees, and leads the Irish with ten goals and nine assists through the first five games. 
Against Ohio, Shearer also became the second player in Notre Dame history to reach 100 goals in a career, and is chasing the Notre Dame records for goals (122), assists (68) and points (190) all held by 2001 graduate Lael O'Shaughnessy. Heading to Virginia Tech, Shearer has 105 goals and 49 assists, for 154 points. 
After battling the llokies, the Irish will travel to Syracuse for a game against the Orangemen, giving the Irish another chance to knock off a highly ranked opponent. The Irish return home to face Connecticut on April 5 . 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, March 28, 2003 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
THIRD ROUND NCAA TOURNAMENT Oklahoma vs. Butler 7 p.m., CBS Texas vs. Connecticut 7 p.m., CBS Syracuse vs. Auburn 9:30 p.m., CBS Maryland vs. Michigan State 9:30 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

Phoenix at Detroit 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
Dallas at Portland 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Chicago at Minnesota 8 p.m., Fox Sports 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

ATHENS, Ga. 
Georgia coach Jim Harrick resigned Thursday amid a scandal in the basketball program that also cost his son a job as an assistant. 
Harrick was suspended with pay March 10 pend­ing a joint investigation by the university, the NCAA and the Southeastern Conference into alleged academic fraud. 
The scandal prompted the school to ban the No. 25 Bulldogs (19-8) from playing in the SEC and NCAA tournaments. 
The decision came after it was discovered that at least one player received an A in a class taught by assistant coach Jim Harrick Jr. despite never attending. 
University officials said that under a resignation agreement, the elder Harrick will receive his rema1mng base pay, broadcast payments and a Nike payment, which total $254,166. 
"This entire situation has been, and is, regret­table for the athletic pro­gram and the university," athletic director Vince Dooley said in a statement. 
"Coach Barrick is an accomplished coach of the game of basketball; how­ever, I believe his resigna­tion and retirement at this time to be in the best interests of the athletic association and the uni­versity, and coach Harrick obviously believes it is in his best interests, as well." 
Harrick was fired by UCLA in 1996 -a season after winning the national title -for lying about an expense report. 
Harrick then went to Rhode Island and took that school to the regional finals of the 1998 NCAA tournament. He was accused of improprieties during his two years there. 
A former secretary at 
Rhode [sland said Harrick had grades changed for players, had student man­agers write papers for players and arranged for players to receive lodging. cars and money from boosters. 
In addition, Harrick Jr. was accused of falsifying hotel and meal reports for recruits when he worked for his father at Rhode Island. 
The Georgia investiga­tion began after Tony Cole, kicked off the team last year, accused the younger Harrick of paying his bills, doing schoolwork and teaching a sham class on coaching. 
IN BRIEF 

Bennett undergoes foot surgery 
Minnesota Vikings running back Michael Bennett will have surgery Friday on his broken left foot and is expected to be sidelined for six weeks. 
Bennett felt discomfort while working out at the Vikings' practice facility on Tuesday, coach Mike Tice said in a statement released by the team Thursday. Bennett was diag­nosed with a fracture, and is expect­ed to make a full recovery following surgery and rehabilitation. 
A message left with Bennett's agent, Patrick Dye, was not immedi• ately returned. 
Last season, Bennett became the first Vikings running back to play in the Pro Bowl since Robert Smith in 1998. 
Bennett rushed for five touch­downs and 1,296 yards last season, his second in the NFL after being drafted by the Vikings in the first round out of Wisconsin in 2001. He tied for third on the team with 37 receptions and ranked third in the NFC in yards rushing. 
Andretti enters final race as driver 
Michael Andretti entered four cars for the Indianapolis 500 on Thursday. What made the task unusual for Andretti is that his name was appearing on the paperwork for the final time as a driver. 
Andretti, who co-owns the new Andretti Green Racing team, plans to retire after the May 25 race and run the team with drivers Tony Kanaan, Dario Franchitti and rookie Dan Wheldon. 
"This is a bit of a strange feeling for me," said Andretti, who delivered the entries to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway himself. "This is the first time J've had to do this, and I'll say it feels kind of odd to be handing in the one for my very last race." 
Andretti, a former CART champi­on, has led the most laps (398) of any driver who has never won at Indianapolis. His best finish at Indy was second in 1991, behind Rick Mears. 
"We're extremely excited to be fielding four cars for this race," said Andretti, the 40-year-old son of 1969 Indy winner Mario Andretti. "The one goal I still have [as a driver] is to win this race. f've tried 13 times to win it, and for one reason or anoth­er, I never had. I'm going into this race with my heart and mind set on winning it." 
Sonics suspend Forte for one 
game 
The Seattle Supersonics suspended guard Joseph Forte for one game Thursday for conduct detrimental to the team. 
General manager Rick Sund did not provide any details about the conduct that led to the penalty. 
Forte will miss Friday's game against the Memphis Grizzlies. 

Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 

Irish to face Hurricanes 
• Win at Miami would improve team's chances of making NCAA Tournament 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sporn W riu:r 

After a win over Virginia Tech last Sunday that put the Irish atop the Big East conference standings, Notre Dame will face it<; second -and last -con­ference opponent of the regular season Sunday when they travel to the domain of the 25th-ranked Miami Hurricanes. 
Miami's match against Notre Dame will be the Hurricanes' 10th consecutive home match, and it will give the Irish more outdoor playing experience as they prepare for tho Big East Championships. 
Additionally, Notre Dame needs to beat some highly ranked teams in order to increase its case for entry into the NCAA tournament. 
If they do not win the Big East Championships in lat(~ April, the Irish will have to rely on their ranking to earn them an at-large bid. 
Notre Dame has two opportunities to greatly improve their rank, starting with Sunday's bout with the Hurricanes. Then on April 13, Notre Dame will trav­
el to Kentucky, which is currently ranked 12th. 
The Irish will also have a few oppor­tunities to improve their record, with matches approaching against Ball State and Indiana State, ranked 62 and 63 respectively. 
The last time the Hurricanes compet­ed, they defeated Dartmouth 5-2. They were supposed to host Tennessee last Sunday, but that match was postponed and eventually cancelled due to down­pours. 
Fortunately for the Irish, one of Miami's stars, No. 18 Todd Widom, will likely miss the match due to illness. Widom has not played since the Hurricanes' Mar. 13 upset of Texas Christian. 
In last year's Big East tournament, Widom, ranked 22nd at the time, upset Notre Dame's Javier Taborga, who was ranked 14th. Despite that, the strong Irish squad was able to defeat Miami 4­1, adding to a 6-1 triumph earlier in the season. 
Notre Dame's performance this week­end could give a likely indication of how they will finish in the Big East Championships. A win Sunday will sig­nificantly increase their odds of reach­ing the NCAA Tournament, while a loss will most likely require them to seek vengeance on Miami come late April. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Tough road stretch ahead 
• Match at No. 35 Ohio State is first of 3 against ranked opponents for Irish 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
With no more matches on their home courts for the rest of the rea­son, the Irish womens tennis team is preparing to face a string of highly· ranked teams on the road before entering the Big East Championship in late April. 
The final stretch of a challenging season begins Saturday at No. 35 Ohio State. 
The Buckeyes, returning home after sevon road matches, arc 9-3 overall and 3-0 in the Big Ten, and are com­ing off two consecutive losses to Louisiana State and Central Florida. 
Like the Irish. the Buckeyes have had many close wins and close losses. A large proportion of both team's matches have finished up 4-3. 
Notre Dame is fresh off two confi­dence-building wins over Big Ten opponents Purdue and Michigan, and the Irish are looking to continue that domination Saturday, although a tougher match is expected. 
The Irish are used to playing formi­dable opponents though, as their schedule has been full of nationally­ranked competition. 
Notre Dame has played 11 out of their 17 matches against ranked opponents, and each Irish loss has been to a ranked team. 
Both the Buckeyes and the Irish defeated No. 33 Michigan at the respective home courts, and Notre Dame also scored a big win over Texas, currently ranked 30th. 
The Eck Pavilion has generally been favorable to the Irish, who are 8-3 at home. however, Notre Dame has only gone 2-4 on the road. 
Ohio State may be aching for some vengeance against the Irish. Last year, when the Buckeyes visited Notre Dame, the Irish won 5-2. despite Ohio State starting ahead by winning the doubles point. 
Wednesday, Notre Dame will face one of the nation's best teams -No. -~ 17 Illinois. Then, after a trip to Indiana, Notre Dame will travel to Miami to take on the No. 19 Hurricanes, their last opponent before the Big East Championships, which are also in Miami. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Warmer weather providing Irish ample practice time 
on the unusually warm weath· boats," said Stone. "Just as in day since last year with this over a full 2,000 meter course,
. Indiana and 

er conditions as it prepares for any other weather-dependent goal in mind," said Erica and hope to move one stepPurdue among this weekend's Indiana Classic. sport, we work best when the Drennen. It's certainly an closer to the NCAA opposition at Before its Spring Break conditions are favorable. We attainable goal, but one that Championships. 
regattas in Tennessee and have been learning from our will take continued hard work "I personally have high
Indiana Classic 

South Carolina, the team had races, rotating rowers, and up until the end." expectations for our 2003 sea• only practiced in the boats identifying areas to work on. In West Lafayette, Drennen son because I know our once since November. The row• The girls have been very recep­and the other rowers will take team has the ability to achieveBy CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG ers quickly acclimated them• tive in practice." on Indiana and Purdue. At last them," said coxswain Kacy
Sports Writer 

selves to the water, though, Practices out in the boats year's classic, Notre Dame won Mccaffrey. "I am very excited and garnered victories at both enable the rowers to both the varsity eight race by almost for the racing opportunities 
The sun has been shining Tennessee and Clemson, and solidify team unity and hone 15 seconds and the varsity four that lie ahead of us, and I know over Notre Dame and womens most recently, raced side by technical problems. The rowers had an equally impressive win that the training and the heart rowing coach Martin Stone side against Michigan last are determined to challenge by 20 seconds. that this team has will take us couldn't be more pleased. weekend. their noteworthy 2002 spring The rowers are confident far." 
The team, which has only "The weather makes a huge season performance and return that they will have another been on the water for a little difference and has given us the to the NCAA Championships. strong showing. They will final­Contact Christine Armstrong at over two weeks, is capitalizing opportunity to get out in the "We've worked hard every ly implement their race plan carmstro@nd.edu 


TJ.,erapeufic Massage In my office: 1/2 hour $35-1 hour $60 (on-site & outcalls available) JnfrodtAcfion fo ;\ltedifafion 4 Week Class Begins April 22, 2003 Lypossage All Natural Body Contouring System Pennie Chl"istie, CMT Ce,tified Lypossage Practitioner 574-247-0661 E-Mai~ T ouchright@aol.com The Power of To..ch t:.)( puience it today  




page 22 Friday, March 28, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 
'Confident' Irish begin defense of Big East crown 


'W/,l,/,/IV.l/l/,IT/l/.11'/l/l/l/l/,IIVl/1/IVl,W/I/.I/I/I/I/IYI/.IYl/l/l/#/l"/l4/T/.IY~Aif:_,ilr,/l/.l'/I.J7/671,All?l/l/#l'l/,IT&IT/l/l/.17JIX#'/.17141'/l'/.l'/.IY.l~l/.l'/I/IYl/l4JK,',l7,IIYl/,ll'Y.I}~IQlmmll -.-,l,Wl/l/l/l/l/l~I/I/L/l/.,IIV#/,#/I/.J/r.#/l/,,11/lr/1'711W/l/#/l/l/.l/.l"/l/#/.,:.,l/217,i//T/l/#/#/I/~ 
Sumrlief Service lnternsh.ips 
Boston, Massachusetts1'1aza Cincinnati, Ohio: Local~toden Frankfort, ~~~qtucky~~J~~jind uf'Hc w1 Fort Lauderdale},FIQcida;/§IJ[p11eoc1ra -...... ..e Osh Kosh, Wiscon'si';'~itlat,IJ_g_r, carr'ls e . _e,r.,f d<"'~' 
.. :,··~ , "-"·c: ,c _c.,,,,_ :. ·f'.''. , ~ .· .,,.T:.,,..... 
Jackson, MiJ!liYi,. ~.eEf1J:J~.~fcli~:!1~1~cl/
Kansas Cit 'J'M1ss· . :.;:7$fialomHouse {Cat 
Los Rngl'i~~:ralj~iiffl~-i.ilJ;(IJr,i~j(IJ]~;.'.~,­
R I buquerqu~, ~i4(:SJi-]~l)JiOJ)c:t.Sherih . nders)
••-"': ·' c••••••c"••••-••,'-:•·•••.1•1•"•~•• •~••~ , ·.. ·•• ·• '•' •ca·,. .. • ·• ..•:, -" • 
st. Joe ua1n:fy,,11fdi~9JJ. J:~apparfee e,i'ys a 
Park City, Utah:! Ji"fyI .. . -· 1,,isJries),<~-};:; 
Waterloo•;;•Jgiya ::~~~::.~~-~·e[S~otts:2e,~~.··. 
.,~,r~~~l(SAN~LEAR_2 MANU ,,-. .. Ot,IWftlLE
• 

EARN1Nlfis2:ootfsc1-1oliARsu1k ANoiHREE ELEc11vE cii1:01rHot1" .. -rH1s·suMMER 
-,.,0::,_;;,,r _-=-,c:·,='"· -.-. -~--:·__:e:~~-,"ffi,;:i::.'"--. c"'_/'f-,[;,il! ~ ,.. •·· ,,_ .. -~-· ~~';'~-~ 
Rp;;icti'f 
11, e avanX1e\ ~!tjhe c:sc-applg now~ 
. . _.,i;.-:.,._·) 
CENTER FOR '1
ealendeid:, ma,ch sI
, . .
SOCIAL 

QtJe$+ion,7 Ca(I TRAC~Jl.01 or Stie af 1·iB67
CONCERNS 


ByMATTLOZAR 
Associa[e Spom Editor 
The Irish softball team has gone from hunter to hunted. 
Notre Dame (10-11) will begin its Big East conference schedule this weekend, travel­ing to Pittsburgh Saturday and then to Virginia Tech Sunday. 
Northwestern swept Notre Dame in Wednesday's home opener for the Irish. A bright spot for the Irish was third baseman Andrea Loman, who had a home run, three RBIs and made some of her trade­mark stellar defensive plays at the hot corner. 
"I thought she played pretty well. She made some great plays at third base, and obvi­ously the home run helped," Gumpf said. "Unfortunately, it wasn't enough to win, but Andrea is just a solid, solid player." 
The Irish will need similar performances from the rest of the team in order to overcome the pressure of retaining its perch atop the Big East. 
"[We feel] pressure but are confident," Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We might have a little more pres­sure but we have confidence to carry us through." 
That confidence comes from the Irish having won a Big East regular season crown in all seven years the team has been a member of the confer­ence. The Irish have also won three of the past four Big East postseason titles. 
Last year, the Irish compiled an 18-2 conference record, and clinched the regular sea­son title at home on Senior Day ·with a doubleheader sweep of Villanova. 
This year, the goal is the same. 
"We emphasize conference play. We have to win the Big East Championship and that's what we are gunning for," Gumpf said. "We have to play great in every conference game we play." 
Coincidentally, Notre Dame started its Big East regular season schedule at Pittsburgh last year as well. The Irish easily swept the Panthers, 13­1 and 9-2. 
Pittsburgh is 14-14 on the year, has won nine in a row and is a perfect 8-0 at their new home field. 
In their last game against Cleveland State, Pittsburgh pitcher Nikki Gasti allowed just one hit in five innings and tied her school record of 11 strikeouts. 
For the year, Gasti is 10-7 with a 2.99 ERA and has 117 strikeouts in 105 1/3 innings pitched. 
The Hokies head into the weekend with an 11-15 record, winning their last six games, which have all been at lenge for the Irish. 
"It doesn't matter [when we play them] because we have to play them all at some point," Gum pf said. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

home. The Irish also easily beat the Hokies last year, 10-0 and 8-0, but the Hokies returned the favor in the Big East Championship. 
At the Big East Tournament. the lrish dropped the first game to Virginia Tech, but fought through the loser's bracket and beat the Hokies twice to win the postseason title. 
While the Panthers appear to be a cupcake, the Hokies could present a good early season in-conference cha!­
Friday, March 28, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
r···r;r7frrJ 
Cl2002 Ttibune Media. Servicee, Inc.
fi~fl 


Ans1,.m" here : A 

"r I I I J" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: JOUST LOGIC FETISH VANITY Answer: That comedy show kept the sewing club -IN STITCHES 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 18 -To order, Hnd your name, addreu and $5.45 end make chtt<k p1Yoble to Trlbuno M.dia Servlc,o ¦ , P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL IIOIII0-4330. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE MAID ASKE:D FOR TO 
C.L-E=AN THE 
Mi=55Y HOU5E', 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Rehl McFntire, Karen Kain, Vmce Vaughn, Julia Stiles 
Happy Binlvlay: OJange is roming your way. F.nmre it aoo IIllke the d1angrs you koow in your lraltare best fi:r yw. Live fire.di day am lmk in the pc!iitive that SU110UOOS yoo It's your llDn to floorish aoo do thing; browse they suit you best Your nwrlx:Js are 2, 19, 27, 33, 36, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will stand out in the crowd today because of your ability to offer llllique aoo aiginal suggestions. Toke part in volunteer w<lk Your fW1-loving agruich IDlife will craw OOlelli ID your side today.~ TAURUS (April :W.May 20): You can expect to face sonr problem, at work or when dealing with yourp:m. Sortwre won~ re telling the whJlc 1111th. Stay cool: your rq,Jlalioo is 
atSlake. tt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It doesn't matter what you decide to do today -you are 
tound to learn som:lhing. You will gravitlle to WlfumiJiar SUIIUUlxlings. Gn:aler sclf-awarere;s 
will fullow tre ~you have today. tt-Hrl< CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't count on anything or anyone. Empty promises regarding financial mattm are likely. Look over kgal docurrnits dosely. Protect yourself aooywras.se1s.-lrlrl< LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): What you want ID hear may nct re flI1hcoming, cspecially if it's pertaining to yOW' per.;onal situation. Don1 allow yowsclf to be taken for granted. 1rk VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-SepL 22): Put in a full day's work aoo you will feel proud of your accomplishments. You11 grab the attention of someone who has been watching your ~fiunlhesiliim;. 1(-/rlt( LIBRA (SepL 2.1-0ct. 22): You will be in a very creative and productive rrood today. 
Make sonr changes to your living quarters, but don't count on getting too much help liornliierds. jririrlrir; SCORPIO (Oct. 2..1-Nov. 21): Problem; in the home are likely to develop today if you confront a situation that has been bothering you. You will prohtbly have ID go through sorre tumril in amto llDn lhing, arnuro. tt SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let harebrained ideas daunt you. If you are practical you can actually nun anything that is being offered into something workable. Braimtmning with fiimls will !Jingresults. tttt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-J31L 19): You can make some financial moves today, bu1 ooly ifyou do your lurework am undernand exactly what you arc getting your.,dfinto. This is OC( the lure ID be~wi1h ywrmn:y.-lrlrlc AQUARIUS (J31L 20-Feb. 18): Your intuitioo is w leading you 351ray. If you see the real {XIUe you will han:lle lhesitualicn you fare nu:hdilfmnly. Be~ID IIllke change;. 1rk PISCES (Feb. 19-:March 20): Don1 allow anyrne to mtllle in your Jiivate affilirs. Ifyou share your personal dilemmas with others you can expect g=ip to result Situations are not as they appear and for the tim: being you should probably remain quiet *** 
Birthday Baby: You will re sensitive IOWard ooxn. able to offer suggestioos aoo trip. You will re crelllive in your apircm1 to life aoo able to ranain nue 10 yourselfaoo bJ ywr beliefs. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGIIT2003 UNI\IFRSALPRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 No-loss, no• 
gain situation 5 Modeled 9 Bleed for 
13 Sermon's conclusion? 
14 Lost 15 Chocolate source 16 A man's "better half" 18 Ivy League school, familiarly 19 LOER·PRICED BOOK 21 Better 
22 Bring action against 
23 Intraoffice linkup: Abbr. 
25 Walker, for short 
26 Gilbert & Sullivan princess 
29 II may come in buckets 
32 Where water is poured on the rocks 
34 1985 Literature Nobelist Simon 
35 SAIN LOUIS BASEBALL SQUAD 
38 Fish preparer's task 
39 Booze 
40 Worked in a judge's office 
42 Due before five? 
43 Where, to Caesar 
46 Morse E 
47 ·-pro nobis" 49 Range rover 51 ACCOR S6 Ancient 
assembly area 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

K N E ___...... I F V R 
i-+-,,.+,,,+-+-,,,1 


E R I ~.;;.&,.;;;;..,.. H E SUR ~~~ READ 
57 Indicated 58 Early 20th· century leader 59 Like some 
batters 60 Immensely 61 Kind of course 62 1998 National 
League M.V.P. 63 Bar 
DOWN 1 Moist towelette 2 Not out 3 Three sheets to 
the wind 4 Confine 5 Target or some 
humor in The New Yorker 6 Peak in Thessaly 7 Signs on again s Relax 9 Hemingway sobriquet 10 Cirrus, say 11 Ale holders 12 "Silent Nighr adjective 15 62-Across, e.g. 17 Lettering liquid 20 Come again? 24 Storm heading: Abbr. 27 Castle section 28 Symbol of industry 
30 Money put on a horse to finish ~ond 
WILLSHORTZ 

PuuJ. by Joe OIPlello 

31 Meticulousness 41 Room 52 Stalactite darkeners producer
32 The cooler 43 In the habit of 53 Golfer
33 Sighed sounds Woosnarn

44 High society
3S Opposite of ·~rom now on" 54 Convoy lineup
45 Chant 
36 Kind of 48 As much as you 55 "A Day Without correspondence Rain" singer
like 37 Chow down 
so Start of a 56 Mont Blanc, for 38 Alphabet trio clarification one 
For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
~ Notre Dame Ath,letics . Ufil 



PORTS 
Friday, March 28, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Too much to handle 
. 22-3 first half run allows Arizona to take big lead and end Irish season 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Edicor 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Lute Olsen called the game between No. 5 seed Notre Dame and top-seeded Arizona a track meet. 
The Irish played well early. racing to a first half lead. But they ran out of gas, just when the Wildcats were hitting their stride. 
After trailing 26-25 with 12 minutes, 11 seconds left in the half, Arizona showed the nation why they were ranked J\{o. 1 for 13 weeks this season. 
Five Wildcats scored in double figures. led by guard Jason Gardner's 19 points and six assists and Arizona used an impressive 22-3 first-half run to end Notre Dame's season. 88-71, in the Sweet Sixteen of the NCAA Tournament. 
"We were beaten by a heck of a basketball team," Irish coach Mike Brey said. ''I'm very impressed with Arizona. They were a little too much for us to handle this afternoon." 
The huge first-half spurt began 
see 'ZONA/page 18 


. Sweet Sixteen loss serves as a stepping stone for future successes 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Don't blame Notre Dame for run­ning into a freight train last night -a train cleverly disguised as the Arizona basketball team. 
After all, 
they had already achieved the goal they set way back in June by mak­ing the Sweet Sixteen for the first time in 16 

years. They've set a standard  Andrew Soukup  
on which  
future teams can improve by setting  Sports Columnist  
summer goals  
of winning  

three, not two NCAA Tournament games. 
The standard for Notre Dame's success seems to be set in the sum­mer. And after the Irish meet goal after goal, year after year, they don't quite know what to do next. 
And so they end up with another summer to think. 
That's not a bad thing. Instead, 
see FUTURE/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Good weather needed to start Big East home schedule 
The Irish opened play at home during
. Irish looking to contin­
the week with a pair of victories comingue winning play at home against Toledo 8-3 and in-state rival against 6-12 Hoyas Purdue, 8-5. 
Notre Dame also got off to a solid start 
in Big East play last weekend, taking two 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

of three games on the road from Sports Writer 
Villanova. After dropping a tough 13-inning 3-2 While colder weather looms, the Irish loss in the opener last Sunday. the Irish 
are hoping to be able to dodge the 
closed out the series with a double-head­
snowflakes and hit the er sweep Monday. 

field this weekend 

The Hoyas have when they open the "We need to go out struggled of late, suffer­home portion of their there and do ing a three-game series Big East schedule sweep at the hand of
the job.,. 
against the 6-12 Connecticut last week­Georgetown Hoyas. end to fall to 1-5 in con­"Hopefully the Paul Malnlerl ference play. 
weather's going to Irish coach A pair of batters hit­clear for us. and we're ting over .400 lead the going to be able to get Hoyas at the plate, who these games in," Irish have hit a solid .316 as 
coach Paul Mainieri said of his team's a team for the season. chances about getting all three confer­Georgetown catcher Michael Lombardi ence games in Saturday and Sunday. "We need to go out there and do the job." see BASEBALlJpage 15 

.,.. 
en 
SOFTBALL 
WOMENS TENNIS 

ROWING 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
MENS GOLF 
ND WOMENS HOOPS 
a:s LLI
1--u Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 

Indiana Classic 
Notre Dame at 
Johnny Owens 
Notre Dame vs. 

Sunday, All Day
Virginia Tech 
Purdue
Ohio State 

Virginia Tech 
Invitational 
Sunday, noon 
Saturday, :t p.m. 

Warm weather is giv-
Saturday, :1 p.m. 
Saturday-Sunday 
Sunday, 2:30 p.m. 

ing Irish more time than 
c,:: 

The Irish begin their 
A tough stretch on the 
usual to get in practice 
The road trip contin-

The Irish are traveling 
Familiar foes meet in
au !cc Big East schedule. 
road starts for the Irish. 

time on the water. 
ues for the Irish. 
to Lexington, Ky. 
the Sweet Sixteen. 

en 
page 22 
page 21 
page 21 
page :19 
page 17 
Irish Insider 





