
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marj's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 7 
Housing project underw-ay 
Developers plan to start off-campus complex this year 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
/\ new housing development is 
being planned for the residen­
tial area directly east of Notre 
Danw's campus. 
Dev1dopers Dan Foley and Nicholas Tyszka. who boast five Notn~ Dame degrees between tlwm. plan to build a subdivi­sion of upscale duplex villas and single-family homes called "Irish Crossings." 
The development. contingent on a Sept. lJ St. Joseph County Council vote. is slated to be located on an 8.2-acre lot between Burdette Street and Willis /\venue. Between 30 and 60 units would be constructed on the lot, ranging in price from $189,000 to $300,000. 
The lot was last the site of a prior attempt to build an exclu­sive tailgating park by develop­er Kay Pangraze of Go Park Enterprises. Due to strong objections from community members. many of whom profit from game-day parking busi­ness, the tailgate area proposal was voted down by St. Joseph County Council. 
Foley and Tyszka claim that every horne in their design would be owner occupied, thus helping prevent deterioration or the possibility of turning into student rental property. Tyszka anticipates that the develop­ment. estimated at a total value of $12 million. will be horne to many Notre Dame faculty mem­bers. administrators and alum-
sec HOUSING/page 6 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Locked doors heighten donn security 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
1\s move-in weekend drew to a close and the steady flow of futons. fridges and 24-packs of blue Powerade entering Notre Dame residence halls dwindled, many students were surprised to find their dorms locked last Tuesday. 
According to a new directive from the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing. all entrance doors to both male and female dorms must remain locked 24 hours a day, with a student lD necessary for access. 
Unlike previous years. stu­dent residents and nonresi­dents do not have to enter their birth date when opening a door before parietals; after hours, however, the code is required and only dorm resi­dents may enter. 
The final change applies to students visiting residence halls that are not their own. Previously, students could enter through any door before parietals with a quick swipe of their lD card. This year, visit-
see DOORS/page 6 

Hours added to SMC/ND shuttle schedule 
service on the weekends, leaving that adding hours on Friday and By ANGELA SAOUD the shuttle running nearly 30 Saturday was most important." News Writer hours less than it did last year. Shuttles will now run until 2 
Saint Mary's refused to com­promise safety for schedule reor­ganization of the shuttle between the College and Notre Dame, taking on the sole financial bur­den of extra weekend hours. 
Earlier this semester, Linda Tirnm, Saint Mary's vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, received an e-mail detailing cuts in the 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will continue to share the cost of shut­tle operation, but Saint 
Mary's will solely cover the cost of 
"My concern is that our students use the shuttle often on the weekends." 
Linda Tlmm vice president for student affairs 
a.m. on Saturday and Sunday morn­ings. 
During shuttle schedule reor­ganization, Timm received several parent phone calls regarding stu­
budget allowance for shuttle the additional hours it requested. dents' safety. 
services. The new plan sched­"My concern is that our stu­"It was comforting to be able uled shuttles until 10 p.m. dents use the shuttle often on the to tell parents that we were Monday through Friday with no weekends," Timm said. "We felt already looking for ways to 
accommodate our students," Timm said. 
In the event that Saint Mary's students need transportation after shuttles stop running, they may call Saint Mary's security from the Grotto. Timrn and other school officials are considering moving the call location to a more secure area with better lighting. 
Regardless, Timrn advised that "students should try their best to get back during the time the shuttles are running." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@nd.edu 
ANDY KENNAffhe Observer 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will replace many of the services offered by the defunct Cashier Services Office, formerly located in the Main Building, said associate controller Tom Guinan. 
Guinan said University officials agreed to close the Cashier's Office at their spring meeting and operations ceased June 30. 
The decision was made based on a variety of factors, Guinan said, although the addition of a Notre Dame Credit Union branch to the LaFortune Student Center made the services of the necessary. 
"The arrival of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union to the base­ment of LaFortune last year resulted in duplication of certain functions performed by both the Cashier's Office and the Credit Union, particularly as they per­tained to student banking servic­es," Guinan said. "The Credit Union indicated that they would also be willing to perform other key functions handled by the Cashier's Office, namely process­ing departmental deposits and student tuition payments." 
"With the Credit Union pro­cessing such payments, deposits and payments would be placed in the bank a day earlier and armored pickups at the Cashier's 
the change will ultimately prove beneficial to all parties and noted that additional services, such as hours until 7 p.m. on Thursday and Friday at both the LaFortune and the Douglas Rd. branches, will improve the serv­ices offered. 
"We're hoping that, after the transition period is complete, students, faculty and staff will find that the Credit Union and the University have developed plans to not only maintain the key services formerly provided by the Cashier's Office, but also to enhance them," he said. 
Michael Cruise, vice president of branch operations for the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, said the credit union is 
A sign outside of Cashier Services In the Main Cashier's Office -including fee­Office would no longer be neces­expecting an increase in business Building notifies members of the campus community free cashing of student personal sary," he said. that transactions will now be handled in LaFortune. and work checks -no longer Guinan said that he believes sec SERVICES/page 6 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The perfect day for 21 
Almost everyone has a crazy story to tell about their 21st birthday. 
After years of drinking with an underage label, and having to bug older friends to go to the store for me, the day that Mike Harkins had been marked on the calendar 
Graphics
was finally here: 
Editor
Monday, Sept. 1, 2003. No longer was I barred from the bars. It was time to enjoy my freedom in the world of alcoholic beverages. 

My day started out great. I had to wake up early in the morning to go to class on Labor Day. While admin­istrators at Notre Dame and friends from state schools were enjoying their day off, I was in class on my 21st birthday. Perfect. 
No problem; I could make it through a day of school. All that mattered was what was to come afterwards. My mom, dad, brother and 2-year-old nephew took the time out to come out to South Bend and treat me to lunch. It was great to see the people I'd grown up with for my 21 years and to share this milestone with them. 
When they were gone, it was time to throw down a few with friends. We had been talking about this day for months, about how much fun it would be to all go out to the bar together. All the friends I'd been looking forward to partying with came by to say "Happy Birthday" ­and that they had homework to do and would not be able to go out. Perfect. 
No worries; a couple of my friends were cool enough to go out regard­less. So we drove out with hopes to hit bar after bar in the attractive city of South Bend, getting the sat­isfaction that comes with flashing your real driver's license. And drive from bar to bar we did, only we couldn't get into any of them because they were all closed. Oh yeah, it was Labor Day. Perfect. 
Fortunately, we were welcomed into the friendly confines of Belmont Beverage. After stocking up, we came back to campus to cel­ebrate on our own. We popped in "Old School," sat back and enjoyed the movie. And we did a lot of drinking during it. Okay, only I did a lot of drinking during it. Although it wasn't at a bar, I had ultimately reached the initial goal for the night. The rest of the night is a blur, but several people have let me know that they saved IM conversa­tions with me from that night. So to all of you who did, I'm looking for­ward to reading them. 
I knew turning 21 would be an experience I will never forget, and also one I will partially never remember. And to those people that made it happen on what turned out to be the most un-perfect day, thank you 
Almost everyone has a crazy story to tell about their 21st birthday. Now I have my own. 
Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins@n d. edu.-The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal-. ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE BOOM IN THE SQUIRREL POPULATION ON CAMPUS? 

Liz Luther Colleen Traeger John Dee John Abdo Joe Heleck Kyle Lin 
Senior Junior Senior Junior Junior Senior Off-Campus Walsh Hall Keenan Hall Keough Hall Keough Hall Siegfried 
"There will be "More things to ''I'm excited "I like it; I like "Great big gobs "It's mating more spicy sea remind me of because I have furry little ofgreasy, grimy season by the nuggets in the my little sister." I 7 new friends fellows." gopher guts. " radiation 




dining hall. " already." 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 
Students circulate among tables at Tuesday's Activities' Night held In the Joyce Center Arena. The annual event allows both on-and off-campus organizations to display their activities and services. 
OFFBEAT 
Man In Thailand promotes "Diet of worms" 
BANGKOK, Thailand -A worm a day keeps the doc­tor away -at least for a firefighter in central Thailand. 
Paisit Chanta, 39, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that he has been eating a live worm every day for nearly three decades, and that it's been the secret of his health. 
His story was featured Tuesday in a major news­paper, Thai Rath. 
Paisit's unusual habit started when he was fish­ing in his native village in Nakhon Nayok province, 
TODAY 
a:: 
60 miles northeast of Bangkok. 
"One day, I was sitting there waiting for a fish to eat my bait for hours and was starving. Suddenly, I realized fish don't die from eating worms so I shouldn't either. I ate them until I was full," Paisit said in a telephone interview. 
He now loves worms, and has become accus­tomed to chew them instead of swallowing them whole. 
"Brldezllla" fined $90 for wedding rage 
MANCHESTER, Conn. ­A woman dubbed "Bridezilla" after police said she went on a ram­page at her wedding recep­tion pleaded guilty Thursday to a reduced charge of creating a public disturbance. 
Adrienne T. Samen, 18, was fined $90. 
Samen, of North Haven, was arrested on criminal mischief and breach of peace charges on Aug. 16 after police responded to her wedding reception at The Mill on the River restaurant in South Windsor. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

building again. " 
IN BRIEF 
Tryouts for student speakers for this Friday's Pep Rally for the Washington State game will be held today in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune at 7 p.m. Questions? Contact Bill at wbon­ner@nd.edu or Erinn at erigney@nd.edu. 
Have your chance at tickets for the Michigan away game through a lottery in the Gold Room of North Dining Hall today from 3 to 5:30 p.m. 
"El jardin de Eden" will be pre­sented by the Kellogg/ILS film series, Looking Out, Looking In: Latino and Latin American Perspectives on today from 7 to 9 
p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. 
Learn about Saint Mary's clubs and organizations at Activities' Night today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the basement of Regina Hall. 
Enjoy free food from all LaFortune eateries at the Taste of LaFortune today from 9:30 to 
10:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Join the ND Right to Life Oub for great music and free food at the ND Right to Life Concert Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Dillon's annual pep rally will take place Thursday from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in front of Dillon Hall on South Quad. 
Enjoy the talents of campus musicians at SUB's AcoustiCafe Thursday from 9 p.m. to midnight in La.Fmiune. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~ 

77 

LOW 54 LOW 
57 

LIJ ::1: 
~ 
LIJ 
..J 

~
~ 
== <C 
(,) 
0 
..... HIGH 80 HIGH 68 HIGH 70 HIGH 74 LOW 72 LOW 55 LOW 52 LOW 51 
Atlanta 84 I 69 Boston 68 I 60 Chicago 78 I 57 Denver 84 I 54 Houston 89 I 70 Los Angeles 96 I 68 Minneapolis 72 I 50 New York 70 I 66 Philadelphia 76 I 68 Phoenix 103 I 82 Seattle 84 I 58 St. Louis 81 I 64 Tampa 85 I 75 Washington 82 I 70 
• 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CWIL grants 10 fello-wships 
By ASHLEY DYER News Wrircr 
Saint Mary's has granted I 0 fellowships this year through the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). 
The fellows, all of whom are women, 
study a vari­
"It is exciting to be a part
ety of aca­ing to demic fields. ofan intellectual learn." 
ranging community embedded in Hancock 
from psy­also serves 
a community of
chology to on the social work activists. " board of to women's directors of studies. the Prevent
Isis Nusalr 

Each fellow Child Abuse 
faculty

is required Council. 
Indiana's policy regarding abuse in foster care. Hancock has previously served Saint Mary's as an adjunct profes­sor in the social work and anthropology departments "I enjoy [the fellowship] immensely," Hancock said. "I love teaching in the depart­ment of social work because the students come want­
to incorpo­rate CWIL's intnrndating components through her medium of study. These include scholar­ship and research, leader­ship and change, and teach­ing and learning. In addition, each component is to be comph~ted in context of gen­der affecting culture and society. 
Professor Patricia Hancock of Saint Mary's social work department is beginning the second renewed year of her fellowship, investigating 
I s i s 
Nusair joins the CWIL fellowship program as a faculty member in the women's studies department. 
"It is exciting to be a part of an intellectual community embedded in a community of activists," Nusair said. 
Nusair is currently com­pleting her dissertation ana­lyzing three generations of Palestinian women and their relationship to Israel in con­text of generational prob­lems. Before coming to Saint Mary's, Nusair received a 
Peace Studies degree from the University of Notre Dame. She also served as a researcher on the Human Hights Watch as well as the Euro-Med Human Rights Network. 
Belinda Laumbach comes to Saint Mary's from Hainsville, New Mexico. Laumbach has an extensive background in teaching, spe­cializing in the scope of bilin­gual education. She has worked on the university level for nine years and is furthering her study in minority participation on school boards. Her current work focuses on determining if women and men have equal leadership positions within the Latino culture. Laumbach is helping to supervise education students with their final graduate preparations and student teaching. 
All but one CWIL fellow have offices on the first mez­zanine in the Cushwa­Leighton library. They emphasize their availability to both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities. 
Contact Ashley Dyer at dyer 1865@saintmarys.edu 
SMC alu111na receives Austrian Fulbright 
By NATALIE BAILEY News Wrirer 

Leticia Baltes, a Saint Mary's alumna, departs for Weiz, Austria this month as part of the Austrian Fulbright Program. 
Baltes received one of the one hundred nominations to the U.S. English Language Teaching Assistantship Program in Austria. This program differs from other Fulbright programs in that grantees are insured and paid through the Austrian government, not the U.S. State Department. 
Baltes earned a Bachelor of Arts from Saint Mary's in 2001 with a major in humanistic studies and minor in public relations, in addi­tion to a minor in German from Notre Dame. 
Six months following graduation, Baltes volunteered with the Holy Cross Associates, serving in a homeless shelter in Phoenix, Ariz. She then returned to her home­town of Dayton, Ohio and worked as a substitute teacher until accepting the position of assistant general manager of the Dayton Courtyard by Marriott. 
However, it was her experience studying abroad through the Notre Dame Innsbruck program sopho­more year that turned Baltes towards other abroad opportuni­ties. 
"Coming back to Austria will be like coming back to a familiar place," she said. 
Baltes enters the program hop­ing to break down common stereo­types many Europeans hold of Americans. 
"I hope to teach my students to look beyond the media. to think for themselves and to keep an open mind," she said. 
Baltes also plans to seize this opportunity to submerge herself in the Austrian culture. 
"I really want to immerse myself in Austrian life and I think that will be possible, as I will be the only American teaching in the small town ofWeiz," she said. 
Graduating seniors or recent graduates are encouraged to apply for various Fulbright programs. The campus application deadline for the Fulbright Study Grant, which requires a University nomi­nation, is Sept. 18. The Austrian Fulbright Teaching Assistantship application deadline is Feb. 15. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saintmarys.edu 
Have You Made Your Mark? 

Fan Break Sem'inars October 19-25,.2003 
Ap,pat.adda Semin;alf 

:·~ :~~::::,:~::~~·~:.~;;~~!~;:;;::;::~:.~!+(:;:::~:;:;~:::~~;~· 
)!pp,lJl(hiJ H1fkJ:H, CfiH;s:;> ;J(i[} 

Gotpt.4 ot Lift s.miMJ tnn-,u~(~h· J ''';Jeftf {:d pti)Jf,i. ~:f:~.~t·~· ~:~ t:t\l~h. ~)"#~~t~~h·h:· ·tt~:~l:l:~l~.i::~~i::i-,. ~~·hJUo t:'~·tt. :::~~:r::~:~J~~~:~ ~:hK:){:~~~i::~=~-~~ :~~~~ 'h.'>1hbyr~, I);J .. U;Hb ~lmwl'\, ktt"h!hr.,, utd .l})~~ *~:tttNsftMn~d ;_::{::~?l:~:~:~rt.::;::~:.::~:·B==~:-. ~;~rb~}!:;J :·Jt:~:f~i 

.. l:wltmali;Dht1umy s.mtur @tifM:dttKt d:~t ii:hwu:ht-of l:\'1tW 




s;~::¢ 

hb~:t ~4th '(~dh(ilk !MihK; f\<ky {*t;f.<;J:t:~~~:~~}l~~~:Atr#.:~ ~~t~th~::~J~-:~. ::~~fM~~: 
::::~:.~;,;-·::;~~.:::::t:.:,:r:~=~,~ ';.;,~·~~:~~~;;::~r,;::::~· 
1m th~ •m,,&L{fhtd :M$lf1'Jt.,$ FtY®) 

n;....,.,.,.:..'L. "''" ..~, :n,.................,...,l.,;.,.... ilf'.if.-10.. ·-,,1. 
~~~::~a:;:J'""R...f~:~ ~~:. 
Hafth l11~~tM S.md~ kntntfh: P\WtttH Jahtt.hhttlW itttd 
·ht~¥-l~:~!~:~:;:~~:~~::· ~:f~:1h;:r.~m~J: ~At; (ful*j::· ;j{~:::#.~~]}*~:~d 
NMh1r Awwiik:;mlt${WfMkm bt 
tkmth [)&:h4lh n"lb;'t• $td} 
. .. ~ . . . . . ~ :. .:..· ·.· .. 
.... . I·~-· . =· 
., ·. ·.... ·...··· n , .
CSb
!,;; ~-~ H'~ ~i!d I_.
'''** t<C--1 .... 
SO,CIAt... 
...........!~IW:lii!IQQ~IIa:Qlla 
CONCERNS 
J!,.,;;;,•&.> .li<it"Jfri· ;.,.,,,,,~~ ,,, L.L,, 
-~~~:~·tr-.: ...;.?. 'W.t:::-.J·~~f.J~. 
#! J.h~·C<i1MWr mtmht~ ·('tftlli'~-t:kkoot:jf!tl}.i~.tdu 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
'Examining Identity' exhibit opens at SMC 
By MARIA FONTENELLE 
News Writer 
The exhibition "i.d./a.d./2003" is currently being presented at Saint Mary's Moreau Art Galleries, one of nine venues collabo­rating with the Michiana Museum Consortium in a project entitled "Examining Identity 2003." 
The project began in July and will end next spring; the Saint Mary's exhibition start­ed Aug. 29 and will continue until Sept. 26. The other eight venues involved in the project are Michiana area museums, galleries and aca­demic institutions. 
The number and variety of the institutions involved reflects the complexity of identity, said Marcia Rickard, Saint Mary's interim associ­ate dean of faculty and direc­tor of the Center for Academic Innovation. 
"To add to that complexity, each of these institutions has a different constituency to address, from the university audience to the inner-city neighborhood," she said. 
The project is connected through coordinated pro­gramming, publicity and speakers, she said, "to encourage connections and awareness among all of the exhibitions for all constituen­cies." 
Each gallery, museum or academic institution involved in the Museum Consortium will present exhibitions, films. lectures and classes revolving around the com­mon theme of identity. 
An artist reception and opening for "i.d./a.d./2003" will be held at M.A.G. Sept. 19 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Participating artists include Amy O'Neill, Greg Stadler, H. Hammond-Hagman, Jessica Bader, Kathryn Long and Kristin Powers-Nowlin. The art takes many forms. but each work deals with the idea of identity. 
"[The exhibition] explores identity as a heterogeneous idea rather than a homoge­neous entity," said gallery director Krista Hoefle. Each piece should provoke ques­tions and should allow con­tradiction, "for the viewer and the artist alike," she said. 
"Examining Identity" is not only the Consortium's theme, but also Saint Mary's aca­demic theme for the upcom­ing year. Each year, faculty members decide on a theme for first-year students to explore in their classes. Each corresponding discipline then implements the theme. 
The Department of Art at Saint Mary's will continue the theme in a series of events throughout the semester. 
An upcoming performance by the Guerilla Girls will fol­low the "i.d/a.d./2003" open­ing reception on September 
19. The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL). in conjunction with 
M.A.G. and the art depart­ment, is sponsoring their visit as part of the identity series. The Guerilla Girls are a group of anonymous female artists, film makers, perform­ers and writers who expose issues such as racism and sexism. Since 1985, they have toured throughout the United States, publically appearing in gorilla masks to hide their identities in their fight against discrimination. They use the names of deceased women artists as pseudonyms and performers are rumored to be famous. 
M.A.G.'s last exhibition for the year will begin in November. giving first-year art students a chance to show their projects dealing with the academic theme. The fall schedule at Moreau Art Galleries provides a wide range of events open to the public. 
Contact Maria Fontenelle at fontOO15@saintmarys.edu 

GRAND OPENING TODAY­
GOLDEN DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE JN" 
54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 (US 23 next to Subway) 
Tel: (574)271-8899 
We deliver Fax: 271-3399 for menus 

N elV courses incorporate service 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Last spring, the Center for Social Concerns allocated four $2,500 grants to faculty members devel­oping courses that combine com­munity service and research proj­ects. 
The faculty members selected to receive the grants were: assistant professional specialist and concur­rent lecturer in Romance lan­guages and literatures, Isabel Jakab, philosophy professor and fellow of the Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values, Edward Manier, visiting assistant professor of anthropology, Kimbra Smith, sociology graduate student, Xochitl Bada and assistant profes­sor of anthropology, Karen Richman. 
Using the grant, Jacob expanded her Conversational Spanish course, allowing students to build their oral proficiency while servic­ing the area's Hispanic community. 
Through the Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) students participate in weekly experiential learning ses­sions with native speakers off­campus, doing such work as teaching English as a Second Language at the CSC-sponsored Robinson Community Learning Center, tutoring Hispanic students, working as an interpreter at the Saint Joseph Clinic, the Indiana Health Center, and the Memorial Hospital, or teaching Spanish to the children of Notre Dame's fac­ulty and staff at the Early Childhood Development Center. For those who wish to remain on­campus, opportunities for teach­ing English to Hispanic members of the University's staff are also available. 
A native of El Salvador. Jakab has been integrating experiential learning into her classroom since she was a 1983 Notre Dame grad­uate student, believing that such interaction suits the needs of both the Hispanic and student popula­tions. 
"The Latin community needs to learn the language of this country to be successful," she said. "They cannot work in an office, or even a factory sometimes. We have here American people who know their language and want to learn a sec­ond. It is an exchange of lan­guages. Both groups benefit." 
After a year of busing prisoners from the St. Joe County Work Release Center to Sunday Mass, Manier decided to develop a course in which students could visit and work with recovering addictS in institutions throughout the community. 
Manier feels that the course, entitled "Addiction, Science and Values", will not only get students interested in how the brain works, but will serve as an invaluable learning experience. 
"Working with recovering addicts is like going to boot camp to learn why human beings need the virtues," Manier said. "These students will need to learn how to be real friends to the less fortu­nate, as college educated 'depend­ency workers.' That will require and provide a lot of self-knowl­edge." 
As of yet, specifics of the train­ing program and community work are undefined, but there have been strong initial responses from such local organizations as the Life Treatment Center, the St. Joe County Court Substance Abuse Program, Michiana Dismas House, and the Rescue Hope Mission. 
Smith and Bada used their grant to create a course aimed at finding the root of unemployment and discrimination problems with­in the heterogeneous immigrant community of Elkhart. 
Working collaboratively with the anthropology and sociology departments, the Center for Social Concerns, the Institute for Latino Studies and Kristin Shrader­Frechette's course on Environmental Justice, students will hold extensive interviews with immigrants and "conduct ethno­graphic research to find the best ways of advertising labor clinics to aflected populations." 
Their fmdings will be outlined in policy recommendations given to those community organizations that serve the immigrant popula­tion, such as the local Catholic churches and La Casa of Goshen. 
"Eventually, we hope to start a community-based organization that will be internally run." said Smith. "The policy recommenda­tions are intended to help us accomplish that goal." 
Richman's grant course will explore the Mexican migrant pop­ulation of South Bend through the use of ethnographic research of the community's households. busi­nesses, media organizations and social service agencies. 
These new additions to Notre Dame's academic offerings will open up new opportunities for stu­dents of all years and improve relations with the university and community. 
"We know that student learning is enhanced in community-based learning courses," said Mary Beckman, associate director of academics at the CSC. "We also want to encourage in students a commitment to become involved in their own communities, not only while they're in school, but when they leave the university as well." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Pilv~.;y~~ fb.qagb.t about -~ t·~ ..:llc···~:;"-g····.· .JE>.~,l··;g·
·.·. :t·o···11': a·"""d
.. ~:.~· ..l..l,,t.jJ,J, :. ~~· Ji. : .. · ...\l;.J. ·..·... t..J; ·.· 
lf y~>u can uns\ver Y&S to any or aU ofthese questions, ct>me t1nd out t:n<:).te :about being a· rRt.J.~a!.ot.~-:r~u&htr. <)r Retre~tt 'l'eani l&ader 
1111/JOrtao~zt llzforlt.tatiolt :~.\#eetiJtg;..· . Tltttl~tlt~Y,-. St?ptetllber 4 
•. . .. ... ' : ... ·_: i:.

S 00 6 O·o P. \1..
...... : .:_._ !W':_):... .... . : : •i:.. :· -~ 

C·a.l··.l·• .. ·····on·n··..• ·o• . . ..r·· .· •1.'~ .·D•'J·.-.I.I.t>··-n·.•. ~~]it·.· 6·3·..·1·-7..._..
·. . -~: .. s·:: .. '•~'.:.1"':!~-:a
. ...•·.· :· 









ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 Colv\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israelis call for rubber bullet ban 
JEHUSALEM -The Israeli army must remove rubber bullets from its arsenal, a human rights group said Tuesday, after a commission of inquiry ruled they are too deadly for crowd control. 
The Israeli military considers the rubber­coated steel pellets non-lethal and soldiers routinely fire them at Palestinian stone throwers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Dozens of Palestinians have been killed by rubber bullets in the past 15 years, Israeli and Palestinian researchers said. 
The use of rubber bullets was reviewed by an official commission that issued a report Monday on the killing of 13 Israeli Arabs by police in riots in October 2000. Three of the protesters were killed and dozens wounded by rubber bullets. 
Guatemalan drug gangs flourish 
LOS /\MATES, Guatemala -Starting as a small-time smugglN deep in the countryside, a trucking company boss has become Central America's most-wanted drug suspect, using platoons of pilots, !ishermen and truck driv­ers to turn Guatemala's sliver of Caribbean coast into a major pipeline for Colombian cocaine. 
U.S. and Guatemalan officials say Otto llerrera succeeded in building a small but powerful smuggling gang because Guatemala's government did little in recent years to stop the drug trade. 
Now, facing increasing pressure from Washington, Guatemalan President Alfonso Portillo is taking steps to crack down on drug smugglers. But even one of the country's top drug investigators acknowledges more needs to be done. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

At least I 00 death sentences tossed 
SAN FHANCISCO -A federal appeals court threw out more than 100 death sen­tences in Arizona, Montana and Idaho on Tuesday because the inmates were sent to death row by judges instead of juries. 
The case stems from a 2002 decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. in which the high court found that juries, not judges, must render death sentences. 
In an 8-3 vote. the San Francisco-based <Jth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said all CtJildcmned inmates sentenced by a judge should have their sentences commuted to life in prison. 
The ruling affects approximately 3 per­cent of the 3,700 people on death row in the United States. 

AmeriCorps bids for more funding 
WASIIINCTON Supporters of ArneriCorps, the federal program that pro­vides stipends and scholarships to mostly young people in exchange for community service, began a 100-hour speech-a-thon Tuesday in an effort to win more funding. 
The rally, which began in a Senate office building and was to run around-the-dock through Saturday afternoon, will feature more than 600 speaknrs -lawmakers. ArneriCorps alumni, university professors and representatives from nonprofit organi­zations. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Plane crashes in Allen County 
OSSIAN -A woman and two of her c.hil­dren were killed when a plane they were using for a family trip struck a telephone pole during landing, crashed and exploded in a Wells County !ield. 
Stephen llatch, who was piloting the plane, radioed Fort Wayne International Airport about 8 p.m. Monday to report problems just before the crash about 15 miles south of Fort Wayne. Sheriff Barry Story said. 
!latch told the tower he was low on gc>.s, according to police reports. 

Kerry announces candidacy 
Associated Press 
MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. -John Kerry, maintain­ing that "George Bush's vision does not live up to the America" the decorat­ed war hero once defend­ed, officially declared his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination Tuesday. 
Using the aircraft carri­er USS Yorktown as a backdrop, the Vietnam War veteran presented himself as the alternative to the Hepublican leader -and the Democrat with the credentials to emerge from the crowded field of nine aspirants and seize the party's nomination. 
"In challenging times we need leadership that knows how to make America safer, that knows how to put America back to work," Kerry told the crowd. "The president has misled America and he has made our path more difficult as a result." 
The four-term senator made his formal announcement after months of campaign-style appearances and debates with fellow Democratic presidential hopefuls. 
"I reject George Bush's radical new vision of a government that comforts the comfortable at the expense of ordinary While the bulk of his the U.S.-led war against former Sen. Max Cleland Americans," Kerry said. speech was aimed at Iraq. Dean, who has of Georgia, who lost both "George Bush's vision Bush, Kerry also took aim called for repealing all of legs and an arm in does not live up to the at his Democratic foes. Bush's tax cuts, vaulted to Vietnam combat. It is all America I enlisted in the "Some in my party want a 21-point lead over Kerry part of Kerry's core argu­Navy to defend." to get rid of all tax cuts -in New Hampshire. ment that his military 
John Forbes Kerry has including those for work­"Today, with confidence experience gives him the initials of a one-time ing families," he said. in the courage of our peo­unique credibility among Democratic president -"That's wrong. We need to ple to change what is the Democratic con­JFK -and a comparable be on the side of wrong and do what is tenders to confront Bush pedigree -Ivy League America's middle class right, I come here to say on national security education, commander of and I've proposed a tax why I'm a candidate for issues. a small Navy craft during cut for them because it's president of the United "I am running so we can wartime and the right way to strength­States," Kerry said. keep America's promise­Massachusetts senator. en our economy." Kerry was joined by to reward the hard work Perceived as the front­Dean, the former crew members of a Navy of middle class Americans runner early on in this Vermont governor, has gunboat he commanded in and pull down the barri­campaign, that notion used an aggressive anti­Vietnam, where he won a ers that stand in their way evaporated in the heat of Washington theme to gain Silver Star, Bronze Star and in the way of those rival Howard Dean's sum­momentum, coupled with and three Purple Hearts. struggling to join them," mer surge. his staunch opposition to Introducing Kerry was Kerry said. 

IRAQ 
Bo111b explodes near Baghdad police station 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A car bomb explod­ed near the headquarters of U.S.­trained police in Baghdad Tuesday, wounding many bystanders, a day after a roadside bomb killed two 
U.S. soldiers. Another U.S. soldier was killed in a helicopter crash south of Baghdad. 
The bloodshed came as hundreds of thousands of mourners con­verged for the funeral of a slain religious leader who had urged Iraqis to be patient with the American occupiers. The cleric's son warned Iraq was entering a new, more dangerous era. 
Witnesses said many people were wounded in the Baghdad blast, one seriously, but Iraqi police Maj. Bassal al-Ani told The Associated Press there were no fatalities. 
There was little damage to the police building. 
No group claimed immediate responsibility for the attack. Al-Ani said he could not blame any group "until the investigation is com­plete." 
He also said there were a few U.S. military police in a nearby academy as trainers for Iraqi police. None of the Americans were hurt, he said. 
Huge plumes of black smoke rose above the scene and U.S. military police and Iraqi police cordoned off the area. 
One man, who had a shrapnel wound in his left arm, said he saw a hand lying in the road. 
"There was debris blown every­where," said Raad Majid, 27. who was about 30 yards away when the blast occurred. 
Acting Baghdad police chief Hassan al-Obeidi has offices in the headquarters building and is close­ly associated with the U.S.-led occu­pation authority, especially former New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik, who put al-Obeidi in his position. Kerik has been in Iraq to rebuild the country's police force. 
Al-Obeidi was shot in the leg at the end of July during a weapons raid in downtown Baghdad. The day after the raid, he moved a bed into his office so he could continue to command the police force. 
The police headquarters is not far from the Iraqi Interior Ministry building. 
Also Tuesday, a Black Hawk Ull­60 helicopter crashed south of Baghdad. killing one U.S. soldier and injuring another. The accident took place at around 12:30 a.m. and was a "non-hostile" incident, said Spc. Anthony Heinoso. 

Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Services 
continued from page 1 
at its LaFortune branch and has added additional staff to compensate. 
"With our campus office locations at Douglas Road and LaFortune, as well as 11 on-campus ATMs and Internet on-line banking, we are able to conveniently serve the banking needs of the students," Cruise said. 
He said students will not be required to open an account at the credit union. The union will allow stu­dents to cash personal checks up to $200 per day, in addition to work-related checks made payable by Notre Dame. These services will not include a fee and students need only bring a valid student identification card. 
Students displayed mixed reactions regarding the effect the closing of Cashier Services will have on them. 
Morgen Doty, a junior in Welsh Family Hall, said the change will not affect her. 
"The closing of Cashier Services has had little effect on me," she said. "The serv­ices I used 

we provide the groups of the Student Union," he said. "With the return of students back to campus and the increase of traffic to NDFCU. 
we have seen a slow-down in the service NDFCU is able to provide, but I expect that this will change." 
Catherine Dulcet, senior student service representa­tive in the Office of Student Financial Services and for­mer University Cashier of Cashier Services, said the adjustment was initially dif­ficult for her. 
"It took some getting used to the idea that we would no longer have our offices and our positions anymore," she said. "We miss seeing all of our students and staff." 
Dulcet said that she feels fortunate to have retained her position as an employee of Notre Dame, although the job change has meant she must learn a variety of new skills. 
''I'm learning a whole new process here than [what] I was doing at Cashier Services," she said. 
Dulcet said the three other employees of Cashier Services have been employed by the Notre Dame Credit Union, yet have not retained 
their status 
that were a s
"It took some getting
provided by University 
them have used to the idea that we employees. 
now been would no longer have our She said taken over by that one
offices and our positions 
the Notre former Dame Federal anymore." employee Credit Union. works in I simply go t h e
Catherine Dulcet 
there instead LaFortune
senior service representative
of the Main branch of 
Building." 
Student Union treasurer Don Norton, however, said the change has definitely impacted his office because they frequented Cashier Services. 

"My office used Cashier Services on a daily basis to deposit funds from the dorms, groups, clubs and other organizations that we monitor and advise," he said. "The closing of the Cashier Services has forced us to change the way we operate." • 
Norton said that, although the change from using Cashier Services to patroniz­ing the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has been "a fairly seamless transition," he has noted a decrease in the speed of the banking services. 
"At this time it is difficult to gauge how this will affect our office and the services 

the Credit Union, another in the Douglas Branch and the third as a teller who floats between branches. 
"When NDFCU took over the functions of our office, they offered jobs to all of us. It was very generous of NDFCU [to do so]." she said. 
Guinan said all four employees maintained the same salary and benefit lev­els as they had in their posi­tions at Cashier Services. 
Dulcet noted that the Credit Union will not com­pletely take over all tasks performed by Cashier Services. For example, while students could add funds to their Domer Dollar accounts in the Main Building, they may now only do so in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

NOW HIRING: 
~ove.rl Coutiyoouse some extra cash? 
~'i~\t.cmc:ud ~·,kr.tt~;mt-ctw$~4.'~ 
~m'it»if~m:• -t<t~~t\ -~~~@ oo·Cl.tM$ll 
l'fflw>:#;i~·~ll!>¥$~~ 1l,i\Mx'A.l4~SJ ~~W~·~~M:~j>,I#.IJ4.~•t~*~~~ 
P'Jea~e app4y mparsom ~.... 
=~~s~~,~~~·~.~w.t laD' 
:(~: :::;:;;;.;:::;;;;;;;;;;.;:;:::;::..... )j:~:~~:-~:-~:tt·~· 


Housing 
continued from page 1 
ni. 

Optimistic about the long-term success of the project, both Tyszka and Foley have reserved homes themselves to be among Irish Crossings' first residents. 
The University is taking a neu­tral stance on the project, 

Doors 
continued from page 1 
ing students' access to each hall is limited to one main door that has been designated with a green dot sticker as a gener­al access entryway. Only at this door can a nonresident's ID card be used to enter. 
While the policy came as a shock to some, it had been in the works for over a year, said Scott Kachmarik, associate director of Residence Life and Housing. 
"We couldn't implement it until all 27 residence halls had some kind of card access," Kachmarik said. 
Computer systems were finalized over the summer, enabling the campus-wide poli­cy to be put in place. 
"It's really a continuation of last year's security," Kachmarik said. "The thinking is that having one main door for people to come and go will be sufficient. It may not be as convenient, but I would think it's better than in the past when students were scram­bling to call upstairs so others could come down and let them in." 
Kachmarik also emphasized the importance of having a standardized. consistent policy for all dorms across campus. 
able feedback," he said. "The neighbors understand that it will make their homes exponen­tially increase in value." 
Although wary of the prospect of another unkempt rental prop­erty complex, local property owners are hopeful that Irish Crossings will benefit their neighborhoods. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 
although Tyszka claims that Univer~ity officials have offered largely positive responses dur­ing initial discussions. 
"We are neither for or against it," said University spokesman Dennis Brown. 
The plan, which has already garnered half a dozen inquiries, is geared to work to the benefit of the university and the neigh­borhood residents, Tyszka said. 
"We have only received favor­
"In the past, residence halls had the power to unlock their own doors during the day at their discretion," he said. "Now that it's all controlled by a computerized system, we have a more standard across-the­board policy that should be easier for students to under­stand." 
Des,pite the initial confusion, most rectors echoed Kachmarik's opinions. 

"Of course it's less conven­ient, but we're living in the real world," said Sister Patricia Dearbaugh, rector of Cavanaugh Hall. "It's like living in an apartment building where you have to buzz up to be let inside. We like to think it's different at college, but it's probably a lot safer this way." 
"It's clear that Student Affairs has the good of the whole campus in mind," she said. 
Father George Rozum, rector of Alumni Hall, found the changes in his dorm to be min­imal. He said that, aside from the newly computerized door at Main Circle, the "other doors are as they always were. Key access is still available at all hours, but to hall residents only." 
Rozum and Dearbaugh both said equality among dorms is important. 
"Every student must have equal access," Rozum said. 
"It's nice to be able to enter any hall during the daytime." 
While the new entrance sys­tem promotes equality and security, many students have found it inconvenient. 
"I don't know what it accom­plishes," said Sorin junior Dave Blakeman. "We all think it's unnecessary, especially during the morning and afternoon hours when you are just trying to get into your dorm." 
Shannon Leemings, a sopho­more from Howard. agreed as she struggled to balance her books and umbrella while swiping her ID card Tuesday afternoon. 
"I understand the reasons for doing it after parietals, but during the day it just makes things more complicated," she said. 
In an effort to promote stu­dent understanding of the new policy, Kachmarik said that ResLife planned to send out an e-mail by the end of this week to explain the details. 
Kachmarik also said his office plans to discuss alarm bells with a campus locksmith. "Right now, they all sound between zero and 45 seconds," Kachmarik said. "Once again, the goal is to have a standard way of dealing with this." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 




Seniors 
Applying for the Fulbright Scholarship 
This information session will attempt to answer all of your application questions and discuss the procedures necessary for securing the university's nomination regarding this great award. 
Wednesday, Sept. 3rd in 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:00 
If you are unable to attend, please contact the Fellowship Office (fellows@ nd.edu) if you have any questions. 
Scholarship Questions? Visit our website at 
www.nd.edu/scholarship 
for information on a variety of different awards. 

--------~-----------------------­
THE ()BSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
9,523.27 +107.45
jones 
i~ Snmt Gnnposite Vol11me: 28 0 if~ 2,267,956,000 
AMEX 978.24. .if}}/9 NASDAQ I ,841.48 +31.03 NYSE 5,732.27 +72.11 S&P500 1,021.99 +13.98 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ORACLE SYSTEMS (ORCL) +4.36 +0.56 13.39 MICROSOFr CP (MSFT) +2.79 +0.74 27.26 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.52 +0.15 28.74 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.35 +0.45 19.59 SUN MICROSYS (SUNWl +2.31 +0 09 3.99 
IN BRIEF 
Dollar and euro fall against the yen 
NEW YOHK -On a day dominated by Asian 
exchange rate policies, the dollar and euro fell 
sharply against the yen Tuesday as U.S. 
investors, returning from a long holiday week­
end, tested the resolve of the Japanese govern­
ment to keep its currency weak to help a nas­
cent export-led recovery. The challenge 
appPared to be met in early New York after­
noon trade, when strong bids from Japanese 
banks pushed the yen back slightly from a 
three-month high against the dollar and a five­
month pnak against the euro. 
Traders pushed aas, oil futures down 
Energy traders observed Labor Day, the 
unofficial end of the summer driving season, 
on Tuesday by pushing gasoline and crude oil 
futures down sharply. 
Unleaded gasoline for October delivery fin­
ished the day at 85.2 cents per gallon, down 
7.6 cents. or 8 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
The expectation of softening demand for gasoline triggered a selloff in October crude futures. which declined $2.16, or 7 percent, to $29.41 per barrel. 
A week ago, gasoline futures traded at $1.08 a gallon. while crude futures traded at $31.95. 
It could take a couple of weeks for the post­Labor Day dropoff in gasoline futures prices to filter down to retail markets, but analysts said the worst is most likely over for motorists, who saw average nationwide pump prices skyrocket to $1.75 per gallon last week. 
A year ago. retail prices averaged about $1.41 per gallon. 
"There's absolutely no question that we're way past the highs for the year," said Tom Kloza. din~ctor of Oil Price Information Service, a Lakewood. N.J.-publisher of industry data. 
That may be true for gasoline, but tensions in the Middln East, Venezuela and other crude­producing regions could keep prnssure on oil pricns longer term. That could be bad for con­sumers who rely on heating oil, <:.crude deriva­tive. once the home heating season begins. tra­ditionally at the end of October. 
U.S. secretary talks to Olinese officials 
BEIJING-The U.S. treasury secretary said Wednesday that he had "good, frank, open" discussions with Chinese officials about con­cerns over their tight currency controls, and that both sides will likely make progress on the issue. 
John Snow, who was in Beijing for a two­day visit, met Chinese officials including the country's finance minister and central bank governor. 
A main point in the talks is the Chinese gov­ernment's control over the yuan currency. Critics say its fixed exchange rate is a protec­tionist attempt to keep down the price of China-based exports in the world market. 
"I think we had good discussions and good, frank. open review of the issues, and that's a foundation for progress, Snow told reporters Wednesday morning. "We're laying out our point of view and (the Chinese] are listening and responding." 
Notre Dame selects licensing finn 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has chosen 
the Collegiate Licensing 
Company to be its trade­
mark licensing firm in a 
three-year deal reached 
earlier this year. 
While the agreement focuses on protecting the integrity of the Notre Dame brand and trade­marks, CLC will also advise the University on licensing and retail mar­keting initiatives. 
Pat Battle, president and CEO of CLC, praised the agreement on behalf of his firm. calling Notre Dame "a tremendous addition to the CLC family of colleges and universi­ties." 
"Notre Dame is one of the most recognizable brands in the world," Battle said. 
That brand includes such famous symbols as the Leprechaun, the inter­locking ND. the Fighting Irish team name and the Golden Dome. Royalties from sales of licensed merchandise provide mil­lions of dollars annually to the University's general fund. 
The University will con­tinue to set its own licens­ing policies, including its specific financial informa­not affect Notre Dame's and merchandise related code of conduct, which tion, but said that the deal authority over its trade­to the University's athletic aims at improving work­made economic sense. marks, adding that the programs. ing conditions for employ­"We concluded that University's current on­"From a student's ees who manufacture CLC would provide Notre campus licensing depart­standpoint, nothing has Notre Dame-branded Dame with the resources ment will remain in oper­changed," Barr said. merchandise. and relationships needed ation. That department In becoming part of the 
David Harr, Notre to take the university's licenses Notre Dame Atlanta-based consortium, Dame's vice president for licensing program to a trademarks for student. Notre Dame joins over auxiliary services, said new level of success." faculty, and departmental 200 other colleges and the arrangement had Harr said. use, including club T­universities, as well as been in the works for "We got a very favor­shirts. major bowl games and quite some time. "We did able deal for the universi­Nor will the CLC the NCAA. a year-long review," Harr ty." arrangement affect adi­said. Harr emphasized that das' deal to provide Notre Contact Man Bramanti at 
He declined to provide the contract with CLC will Dame-themed apparel mbramant@nd.edu 

Nasdaq soars to 17-month high 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The Nasdaq com­posite index soared to a 17-month high Tuesday following a string of upgrades of such tech heavyweights as IBM Corp. and Dell Inc. The buy­ing intensified late in the day and spread across the market, sending the Dow Jones industrials up more than 100 points in the final hour of trading. 
Analysts attributed the rally ­which also lifted the Dow and Standard & Poor's 500 to new 14­month closing highs -to momen­tum and increasing optimism. 
"The technical (investor] types are jumping on board, because the mar­ket averages are making new highs," said Larry Wachtel. market analyst at Prudential Securities. 
For much of the day, the market moved unsteadily, rising initially but then dipping lower before recover­ing in the afternoon. Analysts blamed the market's meandering on the fact that stocks have been rally­ing for nearly six months, trading well above the lows they hit in mid­March. 
"The market anticipated most of that (positive datal earlier in the year," said Matt Brown. head of equity management at Wilmington Trust. 
Shaking off an early loss of 6.15, the Nasdaq jumped 31.03, or 1.7 percent, to 1,841.48, its fifth straight gain. The Nasdaq hasn't seen a high­er closing level since April 1, 2002, when it finished at 1,862.62. 
The Dow rose 107.45, or 1.1 per­cent, at 9,523.27, its highest closing level since June 19, 2002, when the blue-chip average stood at 9,561.57. 
The S&P 500 advanced 13.98, or 
1.4 percent, to 1,021.99. The last time the S&P stood higher at the end of the day was June 18, 2002, when it was at 1,037.14. 
The Dow's biggest winner was IBM. which soared $3.75 to $85.76 after Goldman Sachs upgraded com­puter hardware stocks. Dell, includ­ed in that upgrade, rose 97 cents to $33.59. 
Goldman Sachs also raised its rat­ing on software makers, which lifted Microsoft Corp. by 74 cents to $27.26 and PeopleSoft Corp. by 62 cents to $18.67. 
The upgrades appeared to offset 

some early selling on doubts created by a mixed economic report. 
The Institute for Supply manage­ment reported that its index tracking activity in the manufacturing sector rose in August for the second con­secutive month. But the incremental improvement got a lukewarm recep­tion from investors. 
Wall Street was also unhappy with a poor showing in the report for employment in the manufacturing sector, suggesting that a recovery in that key area of the economy may be some ways off. 
Analysts cautioned against reading too much into Monday's rally, saying it was driven more by momentum than improving economic fundamen­tals, especially where tech was con­cerned. 
"Tech sometimes has a life of its own on a momentum basis," Brown said. "As that happens you need to watch valuations." 
Outside technology, shares of Vivendi Universal SA climbed $1.35 to $18.25 and shares of NBC parent General Electric Co. rose 87 cents to $30.44 on news the companies were in exclusive talks over the sale of Vivendi's entertainment assets. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

e, here at Campus Ministry, 
would like to 

welcome you to 
Notre Dame ••• 
if you're a freshman back from studying abroad if you transferred here back from a rejuvenating summer back from an exhausting summer if you're a first year Grad student if you are a new member of the faculty or staff if you're still reading this 

and invite you to.•• 
sing in a choir go on a retreat this year join an Emmaus faith-sharing group get involved in the faith life of your residence hall mass visit our new website at campusministry.nd.edu be a sponsor for someone who is being confirmed or becoming Catholic go with some friends on the Sophomore Road Trip -Destination:Unknown teach religion to young children in parishes around South Bend serve in the Basilica as a lector, eucharistic minister, altar server or usher play bells in the Notre Dame Handbell Choir explore culture and ethnicity on a Learning to Talk abour Race retreat lead a Confirmation retreat in an area parish pray with us at Interfaith Christian Night Prayer take a one-credit Know your Catholic Faith course 
& come to the CoMo for our 
Campus Ministry Open House on Wednesday from 5:30-7:30 
eat some snacks get some info sign-up for stuff meet the staff 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
File-sharing searches tnay have been illegal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Lawyers for 
a New York woman accused of 
unlawfully sharing music over 
the Internet suggested Tuesday 
the recording industry acted ille­
gally when it investigated her 
online activities and that a search 
of music files on her computer 
may have been unconstitutional. 
The lawyers -Hichard S. 
Ugclow, Glenn W. Peterson and 
Daniel N. Ballard -arc asking a 
federal magistrate to delay at 
least until Sept. 10 ordering the 
woman's Internet provider to 
turn over her name and address 
to the Hecording Industry 
Association of America, the trade 
group for the largest labels. 
In court papers, the lawyers 
said they may argue that the 
HIAA violated state and federal 
laws by intercepting the woman's 
Internet address as its investiga­
tors scoured file-sharing net­
works looking for songs to down­
load. 
The woman, identified in court papers only as "nycfashiongirl," is contesting a copyright subpoe­na served by the music industry ·on her Internet provider, Verizon Internet Services Inc., to turn over her name and address in 
preparation for filing a lawsuit. 
She is the first to resist such a 
subpoena. 
The HIAA, which has served 
more than 1,300 such subpoe­
nas, accuses "nycfashiongirl" of ofl'ering more than 900 songs by the Rolling Stones, U2, Michael Jackson and others for illegal download, along with 200 other computer files that included at least one full-length movie, "Pretty Woman." 
The defense team said it also may argue that the music indus­try was improperly affiliated with law enforcement and thus its perusal of music files allegedly available on the woman's com­puter violated Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable searches. 
RIAA vice president Matt Oppenheim called the defense arguments "surprisingly shal­low," adding that the claim rais­ing questions about the woman's Internet address "reflects a fun­damental misunderstanding of how the Internet works." 
Oppenheim also said the RIAA was not affiliated with law enforcement, so restrictions against unreasonable searches do not apply. 
"The Fourth Amendment clear­ly doesn't apply to private par­ties. You learn that in first-year law school," Oppenheim said. 
An outside lawyer agreed. "Those are two more straws to grasp at," said Evan Cox of Covington & Burling, who has worked with the Business Software Alliance on piracy. "They're not going to get any­where with that." 
Griffith adds dazzle to ''Chicago'' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -This sum­mer, Melanie Griffith has been something of a working girl. 
Instead of sunning at a lux­ury beach resort, she came to this steaming, teeming city. Instead of lazy evenings, there have been cartwheels, show tunes and climbing lad­ders in her underwear. 
"It's tough, it's tough," says Griffith, sipping a frothy cof­fee drink and inhaling deeply on a cigarette a few hours before transforming into the latest murdering, celebrity­crazed Roxie Hart in the long­running "Chicago" at Broadway's Ambassador Theater. 
"I just turned 46, and I imagine if you're 20 and you start this, it's a whole differ­ent deal. When I started the first show, I was wheezing and I couldn't get enough air and I was exhausted," says Griffith, a movie celebrity who, by her own admission, hasn't danced or acted on stage in decades and who has never publicly sung. 
"It was like jumping on a freight train." 
The star of such movies as "Working Girl" and "Something Wild" has compa­ny on Broadway; her hus­band, Antonio Banderas, works across the street, star­ring in a revival of the musi­cal "Nine" at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre. 
"Chicago" tells the tale of Hart and Velma Kelly, two murderers at the Cook County Jail. Hart has killed her boyfriend, tries to frame her husband and then fakes a pregnancy to win publicity. 

"Roxie is the underdog. She's the one who's least like­ly to succeed. She's the one who is pushed into a corner. She's the one who's had to fight and claw. But at the same time, she's been dealt a bad hand -it doesn't mean she's a bad person. I think she has a big heart," Griffith says. 
When the curtain rose on her first performance, Griffith had some choice words for herself. .''I'm so stupid. What do I think I'm doing? Who do I think I am?" she recalls, raking a hand through her spiky, blond hair. "I was so scared the first night that time was suspended at that point. 
"But I like challenges. And you know what'? I feel like now I could do anything. I don't think that I'm the great­est singer, dancer or Roxie that's ever lived. But I get into it really heavy and I know I make people feel something. And that's more important than looking good." 
Some reviewers have agreed, others have not. Though ticket sales are more than healthy, some sniffed that slotting Griffith into the role defined in the Bob Fosse musical in 197 5 by Gwen Verdon and in this 1996 revival by Ann Reinking was little more than a gimmick. 
The New York Post declared Griffith the worst Hart ever seen, while Newsday said she "has no business" being in the dance-driven musical. But The Associated Press said she "brings something new" to the role, "an appealing inse­curity born out of a weird mixture of desperation and drive." 
The New York Times was even kinder, declaring Griffith "sensational." While warning she "has only minimal com­mand of the skills traditional­ly associated with musical comedy," the Times said, "The vultures who were expecting to see Griffith stumble ... will have to look elsewhere." 
Griffith has read only the Times' review, mainly because her husband excited­ly woke her up on the morn­ing it hit the street and read it to her aloud. She tried to read another review, but put it down when it got nasty. 
"I thought, 'It's hard enough to get out there every night and believe in myself and hit a couple of notes that are not right and keep going,"' she says in her tiny, baby-doll voice. "I don't need to go through that." 
Griffith, who makes her home in California, was ini­tially approached to play Roxie Hart a few years ago, but declined because she did­n't want to be far from her three children or her hus­band. 



Speak in front of 10,000 ND Fans at the Washington State Pep Rally 
TRYOUTS TONIGHT@ 1PM Norra Dame Room ollafonune 
All Students \t'lclcomc to Tryout 
C4ln't !\'lake it? Contact Bill (wbonner@md.cdu /574-287-6296) or Erinn (crigncy@nd.cdu /574-247-5784) 
THE 0BSER\'ER 



IEWPOINT
Page 10 Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
·THE OBSERVER 
SAINT MARrs Eorroru Annelie:se Woolford 
. . 


Debating satne-sex tnarriage 



The legal recognition of same-sex marriage will be an issue this year. Mention here of some details may help to put the discussion in context. 
In Lawrence v. Texas, the Supreme 
Court held  
unconstitutional  
a Texas law that  Charles Rice  
forbade as a  
crime "deviate  
sexual inter­ Right or  
course," as  Wrong?  
defined in the  
statute, between  

persons "of the same sex." Justice Anthony Kennedy held that the con­viction denied "due process of law" because it sought "to control a per­sonal relationship that ... is within the liberty of persons to choose with­out being punished as criminals." Justice Sandra Day O'Connor con­curred in the 6-3 decision on the ground that the convictions deprived the defendants of the "equal protec­tion of the laws". 
One can oppose the Court's decision without approving the statute which dissenting Justice Clarence Thomas called "uncommonly silly." The law served a symbolic purpose despite the rarity with which such laws were enforced. But as Thomas Aquinas said, "human laws do not forbid all vices." Otherwise, the law would be unenforceable and "despised" and "greater evils" would result. Such a potentially intrusive prohibition could be harmful to the common good. 
The highest court of Massachusetts is expected soon to rule that same­sex couples are entitled to marriage licenses under the state constitution. If it does, the Supreme Court will decide whether another state may refuse to give "full faith and credit" to such a "marriage." Lawrence indi­cates that the Court will rule uncon­stitutional the restriction of marriage to heterosexual unions. The Lawrence Court said the case "does not involve whether the government must give formal recognition to any relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter." Dissenting Justice Antonin Scalia said of this disclaimer, "Do not believe it." Scalia's predic­tion is a good bet. "Today's opinion," he said, "dismantles the structure of constitutional law that has permitted a distinction to be made between het­erosexual and homosexual unions, insofar as formal recognition in mar­riage is concerned." 
An effective legal response to Lawrence requires a constitutional amendment. The federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) defines mar­riage as a union between "one man and one woman" and provides that no state is required to recognize a same-sex marriage from another state. As a statute, DOMA can be held unconstitutional, as can the 37 "state DOMAs". The text of the Constitution wisely left the definition of marriage to the decision of the states. But Lawrence indicates that the Court is poised to mandate the content of that definition for every unit of govern­ment, state and federal. A merely statutory response will not suffice. 
The Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) (H. J. Res. 56) provides that "Marriage in the United States shall consist only of the union of a man and a woman. Neither this Constitution or the constitution of any state, nor state or federal law, shall be construed to require that marital status or the legal incidents thereof be conferred upon unmar­ried couples or groups." 
The FMA would prevent courts from construing any constitutions or laws to require that "marital status or the legal incidents thereof' be conferred on same-sex couples. But it unclear as to its effect on legisla­tures. The proponents of FMA dis­agree as to whether it would permit or forbid state legislatures to enact "civil unions" enjoying the legal inci­dents of marriage, so long as such unions were not called "marriage." 
The legal incidents of marriage, defined by each jurisdiction, include entitlements dependent on marriage, such as retirement benefits, inheri­tance and property rights, immunity to testimonial compulsion and others. Vermont law recognizes same-sex "civil unions" entitled to all the legal incidents of marriage. 

An alternative Marriage Protection Amendment would prevent legisla­tures as well as courts from confer­ring the name of marriage or any of its legal incidents on any same-sex union: "Marriage in the United State shall consist only of the union of one man and one woman. Neither the United States nor any State shall rec­ognize any other union as a marriage or as entitled to any of the legal inci­dents of marriage as such incidents are defined by law." 
The Catholic Church teaches that the inclination to homosexual acts is not sinful but is "objectively disor­dered" and that persons with homo­sexual inclinations are entitled to respect and should not be subjected to unjust discrimination. But the Church also teaches that homosexual acts are intrinsically wrong. In June 2003, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith with the approval of the Pope, declared that Catholic politicians are obliged to oppose "[!]ega! recognition of homo­sexual unions or placing them on the same level as marriage [because such] would mean not only the approval of deviant behaviour, with the consequence of making it a model in present-day society, but would also obscure basic values which belong to the common inheritance of humani­ty." 
I hope that mention of these points will contribute to useful discussion. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nece­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many games will the Irish win during this football season? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Government is not reason, it is not eloquence. it is force; like fire, a troublesome servant and a fearful master. Never for a moment should it be left to irresponsible action. " 
George Washington president 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 
EDITORIAL CARTOON

The great downloading war 

Two immovable forces stand on the brink of mutual destruction.!\. world waits with bated breath as hordes of lawyers fight over copy­right laws.!\. lone Kazaa user thinks, "Screw them. it's not 
like I'm Brian Wagner 
shoplifting from 
a store," while 
a music indus-The Columbia 
try exec happily !Jaily 5peclalor 
counts his mil­
lion-dollar 
bon us. The tone has been set for 
the final showdown -or has it? 
The battle of wills and lawyers that rag1~d between the Hecording Industry Association of America and people who download music seemed to be endless. 
Napster had been disabled, yet Kazaa had sprung up to fill the void. People following the legal struggles prophesied death, destruction, and the mass crimi­nalization of the Internet genera­tion. 
Yet the situation has taken a I RO-dngree turn in the past few months. Hncent events have led to the most improbable of improba­bilities: !\. compromise, an under­standing. an online peace. 
The Internet has become home to a newly successful form of music seller, the MP3 retailer. Stores like Apple's iTunes and BuyMusic.com have finally helped realize the dream of the Internet generation: Music at your finger­tips, all legal. Creations such as BuyMusic have not come easy, though, as the two sides have con­tinued their legal battles. 
The HI/\/\, whatever its numer­ous failings, is standing on the legal high ground when it comes to music downloading. 
The-mainly-young adults who share music online are com­mitting copyright infringement, so the RI!\.A has a right to bring suit in court. But from a business standpoint, the RIAA will never win if its solution to the problem is to release its attack dogs at every infraction. 
The industry will be much more successful in finding common ground with customers if it focus­es on creating online ventures that allow users to access all types of music at reasonable prices, as opposed to following the advice of United States Senator Orrin Hatch, who sug­gested that the U.S. government usc a virus to destroy download­ers' computers. 
Music downloaders. however, must also adapt. The advent of Napstcr and Kazaa was a sort of Internet boom that created the best situation possible: free music. But as with the stock mar­ket boom, this bubble had to burst, and now the more reason­able downloaders are realizing· 

that they will be better off if they 
pursue music in ways that do not 
lead to rampant copyright 
infringement and precipitous 
drops in the revenues of the 
recording industry. 
!\. recent survey by the Pew Center found that 80 percent of downloaders don't care if they are sharing copyrighted music, which indicates a serious problem. Copyright laws are some of the most commonly invoked laws in our country, yet they are also some of the least understood. The Motion Picture Association of America, also a victim of down­loaders, is taking a positive step by developing an ad campaign explaining the importance of copyright law and of protecting intellectual property. 
The people who ignore -or are ignorant of-these laws turn to downloading because they want to get a few songs without having to buy the entire CD, don't want to pay at all, or are trying to find music they can't find in their record stores. People like those at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who believe that swapping music shouldn't be ille­gal since 60 million people are doing it, have a dangerous view of how law works. The Internet gen­eration must realize that the Internet, as a CNet columnist wrote, is not a legal vacuum. While there may have been little law enforcement in the past, the Internet is not exempt from the laws of governments. 
Still, the RIAA, long playing the role of the technological dinosaur, has begun to thaw in its stance and to accommodate the younger listeners who want instant access to music. The RIAA must accom­modate these extremely powerful consumers if it wants to survive. Downloaders cannot understand how they can pay $0.99 for a song online, meaning they can buy a whole album for $12 or less, while still paying $18.99 for the average retail CD. The packaging isn't worth $6.99 to Internet­savvy individuals. 
Online music stores are the retailers of the future, yet they will only flourish if the RIAA mod­ifies its business to embrace the online medium and if download­ers modify their habits to pay for what they get. The RIAA has a legal right to fight for its business, but it has a moral obligation to serve its customers. Downloaders have a moral right to expect good service from the music industry, but they have a legal obligation to obey copyright Jaws. Thfl two for­merly immovable forces have recently proven to be more open­minded than was expected, but revolutions take time and effort­and make no mistake, we are wit­nessing both an Internet and a music revolution. 
This column first appeared Sept. 2 in The Columbia Daily Spectator and appears here courtesy ofU­Wire. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

GUEST COLUMN 

Bush protnotes negative legacy 
In 2000, Bush campaigned upon mean­ingless slogans and the fact that he was a former president's son. His true vision for America did not appear until after Sept. 11. 
Looking at past presidents, those who entered into office with a firm vision of 

Paul Campbell
where they wanted 
America to be when 
they left became the 
The New
most successful in 
Mexico Daily 
achieving their agen­
Lobo
das. 
Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson and Bill Clinton are just a few presidents in the last century who have been able to dream of a better America before taking office. All of these presidents have come from complete­ly different eras with completely different problems, environments and situations that surrounded them as they took office. And yes, each of these presidents has had indi­vidual faults. As different as they are, the common thread that sews these great pres­idents together is that they had the charac­ter to challenge Americans to be even greater than what we were before. When these presidents left office, they left America, as well as the world, a much bet­ter place for future generations to build upon. 
What is the current administration going to leave behind for future generations? By playing upon the fears that Americans have concerning terrorism, the Bush administra­tion has been able to get what it wants by simply calling opponents "evil." 
As a result of this political strategy, Bush shoved the Patriot Act through Congress, which happens to be one of the largest des­ecrations of the Bill of Rights. Need I remind Bush that it is the Bill of Rights that separates our American Republic from Saddam's Iraq and Kim Jong-Il's North Korea? This raises the larger question that if we are taking away our civil rights, what are we fighting for? 

When Bush leaves oftice next year, he will not leave behind a better or stronger America. In fact he will leave behind a much weaker and poorer nation. When Bush was selected into oftice, he inherited more than a $5 trillion surplus and has turned it into a $4 trillion deficit. What does he have to show for it? Only tax breaks for the richest Americans and a war in Iraq that costs $1 billion a week, not to mention the Joss of an American soldier's life almost everyday. Bush will leave behind 25 million Americans without health care, an economy that has only become worse since he came into oftice, an educational system that is ready to fall apart and a Veteran Affairs Department cut by billions. 
After Sept. 11, the President missed the opportunity to ask Americans to dream of a safer and more secure America. Bush could have echoed the message that Secretary Tom Ridge told Pennsylvanians when he resigned as their governor, "Do what you do every day, but only do it bet­ter." Bush could have asked Americans to take an even deeper part in each of our own communities by volunteering at local food banks, schools, hospitals and commu­nity centers. Bush could have asked Americans to join organizations such as Teach 
For America and AmeriCorps. Bush could have firmly told America that even though terrorists had attacked us on our homeland and took the lives of loved ones, they will never, never take away the freedoms, liber­ty and justice that make America so infi­nitely better than any other country on the face of the planet. 
Only we could take away what it means to be an American and Bush slowly is. 
This column first appeared Sept. 2 in The New Mexico Daily Lobo and appears here courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Ben Lee changes his tune 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Cri ric 
Ben Lee first broke onto the Australian music scene in the early '90s, fronting the band Noise Addict; within a few years, he left the group to pursue a solo career. His catchy acoustic folk songs and witty lyrics earned him the distinct honor of being a teenage music hero, even though his first album, Grandpaw Would, was not immensely successful outside of his homeland. Australia. Lee didn't itrike gold overseas until the single "Cigarettes Will Kill You," off his third album, Breathing Tornadoes, became popular on the radio. Then Lee took some time off to reflect and write his latest album. Hey You, Yes You. 
Lee said that, on his latest album, ''I'm trying to express on this record the same things I'm trying to express in my life right now. It's all about leav­ing rough edges, keeping it dirty, not judging it." 
But Iley You, Yes You doesn't have a rough edge to be seen. In fact, it is a perfectly smooth and polished pop album. Lee teams up with producer Dan the Automator, known for his work with the Beastie Boys and his rap skills on Goritlaz's hit song "Clint Eastwood." His pairing with a produc­er known more for his work with hip­hop groups gives Lee's music a fresher feel. 
The album starts off with the hook­heavy "Running With Scissors," which immediately shows off Lee's amazing ability to write catchy pop songs seemingly at the drop of a hat. Hey You, Yes You is a very accessible pop album, which is shown perfectly through "Something Borrowed, Something Blue." This track is a sure­fire radio hit with a catchy chorus and an infectious guitar riff. layered over a heavily synthesized drum loop. Other tracks, like "Music 4 the Young and Fresh" and "Dirty Mind," draw heavily on producer Dan the Automator's hip­hop background, featuring heavily sampled drum and keyboard loops. These heavy drum loops contrast very nicely with Lee's acoustic guitar riffs. 
The first half of the album showcas­es Lee's pop sensibilities very well. but Lee gets sensitive on the second half. The majority of the songs on the first half could easily be hits on any pop radio station, such as "After Taste," on which Lee sounds like a dead ringer for Damon Albarn in a Goril!az song. But fans of Lee's earlier acoustic music don't have anything to fear from the poppy, radio-friendly first half. Songs like "No Room to Bleed" and "Chills" showcase Lee's softer side. Both songs feature a beautifully played piano and light acoustic guitar. In the later songs, Lee strays from his self-centered lyrics to more romantic and contemplative pieces. Even though the second half seems less 
Hev You, Yes You Ben Lee 
F-2 Music 

poppy and radio-friendly, fnake no mistake about the sound. The songs are still very heavily produced and layered heavily with drum loops and keyboards. 
Lee uses the studio setting perfectly. Every track on Hey You, Yes You is seamlessly pieced together and layers hip-hop beats with acoustic guitars wonderfully. The extras on the album show just how much Lee used the stu­dio to his advantage. A live version of "Chills" is included on the album, and it differs greatly from the actual stu­dio version. The live version features only Lee and his acoustic guitar and a piano. which contrasts greatly with the drum machine, acoustic guitar, violins, keyboards and multiple sam­ples used on the studio version. 


Overall, this is a fun and refreshing pop album. Every song on this album could essentially be a hit on the radio. Lee doesn't miss a step in this latest release and flawlessly creates a won­derful pop gem. Fans of any musical genre, from hip-hop to folk, will appreciate Lee's incredible ability to write foot-tapping good tunes. 
Contact Ryan Raffertyr at rraffert@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Led Zeppelin wails on live release 
By EMILY TUM BRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Easily one of the greatest bands of all time, Led Zeppelin has had a lasting impact on music since the release of their self-titled debut in 1969, and their influence and popularity continue to this day. 
However, until only very recently, fans of Led Zeppelin, especially those of a younger generation, could only experi­ence the band's music -through their studio releases. There was no live album in existence that truly captured the essence of the Led Zeppelin live experience, and fans who were too young to have the privilege of witness­ing the band in concert were left com­pletely in the dark about the truly epic 
How the West Was 
Won Led Zeppelin 
Atlantic Records 

proportions of Led Zeppelin's ability to perform. Luckily, the wait for enlighten­ment is over. How the West Was Won is a three-disc set of two 197 2 perform­ances that Jimmy Page, guitarist for the band, re-discovered as he was gather­ing materials for a DVD. These per­formances showcase the band's talents during their heyday, just after the release of their masterpiece Led Zeppelin IV and immediately prior to Houses of the Holy, and feature songs mainly from these two albums. 
During the nearly three-hour jam ses­sion that forms How the West Was Won, Page's talents on guitar truly come to life. Recently named one of the top 10 guitarists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, Page definitely lives up to his reputation, especially on "Dazed and Confused" and "Whole Lotta Love." 
With each approaching the 25-minute mark, Page is given free reign of the stage with lengthy guitar solos that showcase his skill. John Paul Jones' addition of a mandolin to the acoustic classic "Going to California" is another interesting touch that sets this live per­formance apart from anything ever released by Led Zeppelin. John Bonham's extended drum solo on "Moby Dick" gives this talented drum­mer the recognition that he deserves in a way that is only hinted at in the stu­dio recording. By listening to each of these talented musicians in this live for­mat, it becomes clear that they thrived in the loose environment of live per­formance. an environment that allowed them to wail in a way that is impossible on the more restrained studio albums. 
With a trac.k listing that includes such classics as "Black Dog," "Over the Hills and Far Away," "Going to California," "Whole Lotta Love," and "Stairway to Heaven," How the West Was Won is an obvious choice for those who are fans of Led Zeppelin. The changes to many of the songs highlight the band's talents and also further illustrate their many influences, including blues, bluegrass and Celtic folk music. The 23-minute version of "Whole Lotta Love" contains short covers of music by Elvis Presley, Muddy Waters, James Brown and oth­ers, and allows the band to pay homage to their roots. Though this release is a few decades late, How the West Was Won is definitely worth the wait. Those who have even the slightest apprecia­tion for Led Zeppelin's music will bene-



Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com 

Jimmy Page was recently named one of the top 10 guitarists of all time. 
fit from experiencing their music in live performance. The noticeable variations between the live and studio-recorded versions of the songs included on How the West Was Won definitely make this album a worthwhile purchase. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumbrink.l@nd.edu 
~rHE OBSERVER 






CENE
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
Page 13 
Radiohead concert other worldly 
British Band dazzles Wisconsin audience with live performances from their recent release 

By DANIEL McSWAIN Scene Music Cri<ic 
With Mars posed threateningly in the night sky. Hadiolwad emerged in front of a packed Alpine Valley Amphitheatre. a mammoth structure nestled in the Wisconsin l'iPlds right between some­placl~ and nowlwre. The ominous stage having lwPn set by Mother Nature and StephPn Malkmus (Hadiohead's opener for the ev1•ning who. in favor of an early lwdtinw. went on way before schedule murh to tlw crowd's dismay) Hadiohead w1•nt to work. As the band launched into thPir opening number, "2 + 2 = 5", their elaborate stage set up whirred to lifo. A clwckerboard or lights in the fourth dinwnsion act1~d as the sixth member of tlw band. as its pulsat­ing dance perfectly romplemnntPd the musical calculus that unf'oldPd in front of it. 
percussive spectacle in store for the rest or the night. 
The band moved from jagged to jocu­lar. smiling and snarling at alternate takes. Older, quieter songs like "No Surprises". "Lucky". and "Just" carried live the same timeless feel that makes Hadiohead's early catalog so strong even in the light of their more recent opuses. Their quiet songs are quiet, sure, but they serve as the perfect counterpoint to Hadiohead's alter ego: walls of thunder­ous cacophony and sweet, sweet chaos. 
"Myxomatosis" which Yorke intro­duced as a "dirty song for dirty people," owns a bass-line so disgusting and inter­nally damaging that it should make Flea want to change instruments. While the band had been criticized lately for aban­doning guitars for a more tangential 

While the band had been
As tlw ll'mpo of the 
song gained momen­criticized lately for 
tum. tlw focus shifted abandoning guitars for a to the angular 
more tangential interest 
onslaught of .lonny 
in electronics and
<;rPenwood and lid O'Brit~n's guitar work. programming, both and the night's lurid 
musical al'enues received 
ITPation began. 
equal billing. 
The band. displaying 
tlwir finely tuned clock-like dynamic, lwgan to draw the crowd into their pri­mordial ooze of sound, light, and mad­ness. As Hadiohead moved seamlessly into "Sit Down. Stand Up", the crowd wit­nessed Thom Yorke, the band's singer, forg1~ and mold and begin to create. Dn~ssed in oversized shirts (at least three of them), Yorke hammered out the haunting minor-key piano melody from where the rest of the song grew, blos­somml. and IWentually exploded and just flat mrlted down. The rest of the band n~sponded in similarly spectacular fash­ion, as the jungle lilt of Phil Selway's drums and Colin Greenwood's bass orchestrated the entropy. hinting at the interest in electronics and programming, both musical avenues received equal billing, and in spectacular form. Thorn Yorke may be one of the guitar world's unsung heroes, second only to Hadiohead 's knob­twidd ler/axe-wielder extraordinaire, Jonny Greenwood. Jonny took the feedback laden parts of classics like "Paranoid Android", as well as newer songs like "The National Anthem" and 
"Backdrifts" and made them expand with a kind of frightening space time schizo­phrenia that cannot be expressed any­where but the live setting. 
While the Greenwood brothers, along with O'Brien, continued on their Cerberus meets Hendrix guitar excur­sions. Yorke filled the stage with, well, dancing. Sort of. It was like someone laced his Ecstasy with ants. And electric current. A lot of it. Whirling Dervishes don't hold a candle to Yorke's exercise in epileptic auto-exorcism. The only thing scarier/more entertaining than what Yorke did with his legs was what he forced out of his face. llis voice mimicked his head-slapping, facial contortions. running the sonic gamut from sick­ened spite. to mock­happy, to just plain dis­gusted. 
True love waits, and while the band won't be accused of prudishly saving themselves at any point during the night, the two encores provided the most mov­ing moments of the evening. In a setlist built to both shock and awe. the band began to close their sensory war with the think-piece of the evening. Perched like a marble gargoyle on his piano stool, Yorke issued his subversive invitation to the crowd (and others not present) during "You and Whose Army?" a "call against arms" that Yorke's lazy eye and lazier delivery made you feel so guilty all you could do was smile sheepishly and pretend he didn't know everything. 
As the band regrouped for the sec­ond encore and began its closing number, "Everything In Its Hight Place". the reality floor began to give way underneath. As Jonny Greenwood took to the ground, coaxing conversations out of a series of small computers and effects pedals strewn about his feet, Yorke's vocals were manipulated into a haunting polyphony. As the band exited, the manipulated sounds only grew, and they were joined by the word "FOREVER" scrolling in white across the backdrop of lights. All of this life, and not a human to be seen 

·­
making it. For a moment. to borrow a phrase heard elsewhere, there seemed to be an epileptic at the crank. The whole night lit up in stop motion. When it finally stopped. we found ourselves again in one of those anonymous fields, Mars over­head, not knowing if we should leave. 
Contact Daniel McSwain at _dmcswain@nd.edu 


-· 
Thom Yorke, lead singer of Radlohead, demonstrates his ability on plano for many of the band's songs In addition to his talents as a guitarist and vocalist. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs and Cards split day-night doubleheader 
('"'' 
Associated Press 
Cubs 4, Cardinals 2 (1st game, 15 
innings) 
Cardinals 2, Cubs 0 (2nd game) 
Matt Morris outpitched Kerry Wood and Jim Edmonds hit his second horner of day as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Chicago Cubs 2-0 to split their day­night doubleheader Tuesday night. 
.... Sammy Sosa hit a two-run horner in the 15th inning to give the Cubs a 4-2 win in the four-hour, 47-rninute opener. 
Morris (9-4) allowed five hits in seven scoreless innings. He got his first win since June 25 and ran his career record against the Cubs to 10-2, including 3-0 this season. 
Jason Isringhausen pitched the ninth for his 17th save in 18 chances. 
Cubs reliever Antonio Alfonseca and left fielder Moises Alou were ejected in the eighth inning after an angry con­frontation with third-base umpire Justin Klemm. In the bottom of the sev­enth, Klemm had called Alou's bases­loaded drive down the line just foul. 
As the Cubs took the field in the eighth, Alfonseca charged out of the bullpen area along the left-field line and screamed at Klemm and then so did Alou, who had to be restrained by teammate Kenny Lofton. 
--
Edmonds, who also homered in the opener, led off the second with his 36th of the season. He left in the eighth with a bruised right knee. The Cardinals added a run in the sev­enth when Cubs third baseman Ramon Martinez made a double error on Morris' easy bouncer, missing the grounder and then picking up the ball and throwing it past third as Tino Martinez scored. The Cardinals restored their lead over the Cubs in the tight NL Central to 1 1/2 games. Houston, which was tied with St. Louis at the start of play Tuesday, faced the Dodgers on the West Coast. Sosa didn't play the second game after giving the Cubs a dramatic win in the first one. "My goodness. I think it was one of the longest games we've played," Sosa said after hitting his 32nd homer. It was his ninth career game-winning homer, 
seven with the Cubs. 
"After you play 15 innings, I don't think you have any energy left. But that was a big one for the team. We played so hard to be where we are." 
Augie Ojeda, recalled from the minors Monday, was 0-for-21 with the Cubs this season when he singled to left off Jeff Fassero (1-7) to start the bottom of the 15th. 
One out later, Sosa connected on an 0-2 pitch. 
Fernando Vina doubled to lead off the 14th-the Cardinals' first hit since the seventh -and moved to third on a fly ball before Mark Guthrie (2-3) retired Mike Matheney on a comebacker to end the threat. 
Palrneiro saved the Cardinals in the bottom of the ninth, leaping into the vines in left field to make a spectacular catch of Martinez's two-out drive with the bases loaded. 

Pirates 3, Marlins 2 
Jason Kendall had four hits and two RBls as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Florida Marlins. 
Kendall, who went 6-for-11 in a three-game sweep of the Marlins last week, had three singles and a double for the Pirates, who snapped a two­game losing streak. 
Kip Wells (7-7) allowed two runs and six hits in seven-plus innings to beat the Marlins for the second time in less than a week. 
Julian Tavarez pitched two innings of perfect relief for his fourth save. 
Dontrelle Willis (11-6) fell to 0-4 in his last five starts for the Marlins, whose four-game winning streak was stopped. Florida began the night one game ahead of Philadelphia in the NL wild-card race. The Phillies played Montreal on Wednesday night. 
Willis, who had two hits and an RBI, allowed three runs -two earned ­and six runs and struck out eight in 6 2-3 innings. Willis, who made the All­Star team as a rookie, has three wins in 12 starts since July 2. His last win came on Aug. 6. 

Phillies 5, Expos 3 
Chase Utley's bases-clearing triple with two outs in the eighth inning lifted the Philadelphia Phillies to a victory over the Montreal Expos. 

The Phillies have won four of five since losing six straight, and moved intc a tie with Florida for the NL wild-card lead. 
The Expos have lost five straight since sweeping a four-game series against the Phillies in Montreal last week. 
After Endy Chavez gave the Expos a 3-2 lead on an RBI infield single in the eighth, the Phillies came back against Javier Vazquez (12-9). 
Jim Thome walked with two outs in the eighth and Mike Lieberthal doubled. Ricky Ledee was intentionally walked to load the bases and Utley followed with his first career triple, a liner to left-cen­ter. 
Rhea! Cormier (5-0) pitched the eighth for the win, and Dan Plesac worked the ninth for his second save. 
Thome hit his 38th homer and Amaury Telemaco allowed two runs in seven innings for the Phillies, who are in the middle of a stretch of playing 27 consecutive days. 
Vazquez hadn't allowed a run in his last three starts, spanning 26 innings. He gave up five runs and eight hits in eight innings. 

Brewers 4, Reds 3 
Keith Ginter hit a two-run homer and Eddie Perez drove in two runs as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cincinnati Reds. 
Perez hit a tiebreaking double, his third hit of the game, off Danny Graves (4-15) in the bottom of the eighth after the Brewers squandered a 3-0 lead. 
Milwaukee has won 13 of 15, includ­ing a 10-garne winning streak. 
Cincinnati tied it in tl,e seventh on a two-out, two-run homer by Wily Mo Pena off Wes Oberrnueller, who was bidding for his first major league victo­ry. 
He had allowed only three hits in the fourth inning until Pena connected. He struck out four and walked four over seven innings. 
Scott Podsednik led off the first inning with a single and Ginter followed with his 11th horne run of the season off Paul Wilson. The Brewers added a third run on an RBI single by Perez that fol­lowed walks to Richie Sexson and Wes Helms. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Diniug Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES  Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd grade boy after school & evenings. Reliable car needed (will need to  
take child to activities).  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  
PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­ Call574-210-3142lve name & no.  
DENTS COM  Interviews done ASAP.  
STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base­ Babysitter/playmate wanted for tod­ 
appt. Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svc/sales.  dler,(8.30-1.30), flexible days if  
No D-T-D/No Telemkt. Fun work  needed, in NO profs home, very  
schol./interns. cond. apply. work  close to campus. $7 an hour; own  
w/other students  car needed.  
574-282-2357  Phone 287 8843, or 631 0456.  
www.earnparttime.com  

I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTEC­TION AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE GUARANTEED BEST BUY 1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID OR CA$H START­lNG WITH FIRST BOOKING MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK EXXTREME EXXTREME VACA­TIONS, INC. 1-800-336-2260 
WANTED 
Wanted:D.J. For Saturday Nights 9­3 For Local Nite Club. 
Call 287-7379. 

SUMMER RENTAL WANTED Retired Arizona couple looking to rent/sub-lease apt./home for sum­mer of 2004. 
Call574-289-8800. 
LEGENDS OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT SECURITY AND BOUNCERS NEEDED Thurs.,Fri.,& Sat. Nights plus foot­ball weekends Shifts: 8:30p-12:30a 12:00a-4:30a Multiple shifts all day on football weekends (8:30a-4:30a) E-mail leg­ends@nd.edu or call 631 -2973 for more details. Positions available immediately. 
FoR SALE 
Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles, 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue Cover,Custom Red,$9,900. 258­0520. 
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for HUGE Garage, New: Roof, NC, a few good men and women who Furnace, Carpet & Kitchen. wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment. A new store will 1719 Dorwood Dr $119,900. be opening up in early October. We (574)233-9947 have aggressive pay. Hrs from11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2 mgmt available. Call Andy at 574-BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T 277-0850 for interview. LAST LONGI 574.243.3911 OR 
574.532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1 Experienced babysitter for one boy (age 2 years) Part time. Walking LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO distance from NO (prof. home) FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. $8/hour. Phone: NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­
ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED.$94,500. 233-9975 (evenings) 631-3770 Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to ND. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Desirable neighborhood. $550/mo + LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. fOR RENT utilities. 57 4-233-1604. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 

2-bdrm house close to NO. 269-NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-Furnisned apt. close to NO. 1 bdrm, 699-5841. BALL GAME. PLEASE no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili-CALL 674-6593. ties included. 255-1738. 
Please sell me your extra NO foot-2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. TICKETS ball tix. 574-289-8048. Thank you. 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. immediately. 273-4555. NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. Selling NO vs Wash St. and other 
CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR home game football tix. 574-289­2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO TOLL FREE 877-773-8048. CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 3911. MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-Pair of season football tix wanted. 1525 TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX 233-3618 
OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE­FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 TION ASSURED. 654-8018. mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys­tem, NC. Available lmmed. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-PERSONAL $650/mo. Call 220-0499 or 614-ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­353-5889. 2378 PM 288-2726 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR not go it alone. If you or someone 04/05.FURN.272-6306 SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288 you love needs 
2726 confidential support or assistance, Private furnished condo for NO please call Sr. Mary Louise home games. 1 mile from stadium. Help! I need 2 tix to every NO home Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more sleeps 4. $595 per weekend football game. Please call 288-information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
2877. The Observer. 
call 273-6262 

NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY. WILL Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast TRACE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU, s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring has space available for footbaiVpar-OR 3 TOGETHER MS campus reps. Call for discounts: ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, TIX. 289-1993 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Go Thrashers 
Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­
9487. 0964. I knew you'd read this, Brandon. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 


Athletics go extra innings to extend winning streak to 10 

Associated Press against llentgen came in the the couple's first child, Ismael Jr.. fourth. Eric Chavez singled with on Saturday night in McAllen, 
BALTIMOHE -Mark Ellis one out and took third on a two­Tex. Valdes rejoined the Hangers drove in the liebreaking run with out double by 1-Iatteberg before on Monday. a 12th-inning sacrifice fly and Hamon Ilernandez hit a fly ball to Ryan Drese pitched three Chris Singleton added an HBI sin­left. innings of shutout relief then gle as the Oakland Athletics won The 1'\s missed a chance to take loaded the bases in the ninth with their lOth straight Tuesday night, the lead in the second when none out. 2-0 over the Baltimore Orioles. Tejada was thrown out by Mora Cordero relieved and gave up a 
It was the ninth consecutive while trying to score on Erubiel sacrifice l1y to Angel Berroa, an 
loss li>r the Orioles. four of which Durazo's lly. HBI double to Joe Handa and a have come against Oakland. In the bottom half, the Orioles two-run single to Mike Sweeney Baltimore is 0-7 against the A's used two walks and a single by before finishing for his 12th save 
this season. Brook Fordyce to load the bases in 21 chances. 
Miguel Tejada led ofT the 12th with two outs, but rookie Tim Sweeney homered and went 3­with an infield hit oil' Jorge Julio Haines looked at a third strike to for-4 with four HBis for the (0-7) and took second on a walk end the threat. Hoyals. to Scott llatteberg. A tapper to In the eighth, Baltimore got a 
Twins 12, Angels 6 
the mound advanced the run­runner to second with one out 
Hookie Michael Ryan hit a 
ners. and a four-pitch walk to before Zito struck out Haines and 
three-run homer and Cristian 
rookie Bobby Crosby loaded the Brian Hoberts. 
Guzman had a three-run triple as 
bast~s. 
the Minnesota Twins beat the 
Ellis lofted a fly ball to left field Rangers 8, Royals 7 Anaheim Angels. 
on the 12th pitch of his at-bat. Laynce Nix hit a three-run 
The Twins, who moved within a 
and Tejada scored as Melvin homer and Mark Teixeira drove 
game of the AL Central-leading
Mora's throw went to third base. in three runs, and the Texas 
Chicago White Sox, built a 12-1 
Earlior in the game, Tejada was Hangers held on to beat the 
lead after four innings and fin­
thrown out at the plate by Mora Kansas City Hoyals. 
ished with 14 hits to make a win­
on a lly to left. The Hoyals scored four runs in 
ner of Kyle Lohse (12-10). 
Singleton then singled off the ninth. but fell short when 
Minnesota gave up 21 runs in 
Buddy Groom for a 2-0 lead. Francisco Cordero struck out 
its previous two games -both 
llicardo Hincon (8-4) got the pinch-hitter Aaron Guiel and losses. 
final out in the 11th and Keith Haul Ibanez to end it with a run­
Shawn Wooten went 2-for-3 
Foulke worked the 12th for his ner on second for their fourth 
with two runs scored and two
38th save. straight loss. Kansas City fell 
HBis for Anaheim, which lost for 
AI Wire

Oakland outfielder Te.-rence three games behind the Chicago 
the frrst time in four games on its Oakland second baseman Mark Ellis turns a double playLong was ejected by plate umpire White Sox and a game back of 
road trip. against Baltimore Tuesday night. 
Marvin !Judson after striking out Minnesota in the AL Central. 
Corey Koskie went 3-for-5 with 
for a third time in the eighth. The Rangers have won the first 
two runs, Torti Hunter was 2-for-
Aflnr the ejection. Long gave the two games of the three-game leading New York Yankees. vious week ­
3 with three runs and Matthew yet was spotted out 
umpire a chest-bump despite series after losing the first six Chicago's lead in the AL Central Saturday night. Then when little
LeCroy went 2-for-3 with two 
being restrained by A's first base meetings between the teams this asked him to pinch-hit Monday, 
walks and an HBI for the 1\vins, is now down to one game. 
coach Brad Fischer. season. who knocked Angels starter Manny Hamirez wasn't in the Ramirez said he was still "too Tejada scored the winning run Nix's sixth homer put the Aaron Sele (7-10) out in a six-run lineup for a fifth straight game. weak." long after a tense duel between Hangers in front 4-3 in a four-run even though Boston manager And the Red Sox didn't need
third. 
starters Barry Zito and Pat fifth inning after the Royals had Grady little said the slugger was Ramirez. llentgen. both of whom pitched taken a 3-0 lead after three Red Sox 2, White Sox 1 healthy enough to play DH. Little Burkett has been trying to get eight shutout innings. innings. Trot Nixon and Gabe Kapler hit said Ramirez wasn't being pun­his 10th win since Aug. 12, going 
Zito allowed four hits, striking Hangers starter lsmael Valdes solo home runs, and John ished, but it's clear the Red Sox 0-2 in his last four starts. He was­out seven and walking two. (8-8) allowed three runs and six Burkett finally got his lOth win as aren't happy with him. n't his sharpest Tuesday, hitting 
llentgen yielded just three hits. hits over five innings. He struck the Boston Red Sox beat the Ramirez missed the weekend three batters, but he was still too The right-hander struck out six out two and walked two. Chicago White Sox. series with the New York Yankees much for the White Sox. and walked three in his best out­Valdes was away from the team It was the ninth win in 12 with pharyngitis -the same ail­Burkett (1 0-7) scattered three ing of the season. over the weekend to be with his games for the Hed Sox. who are ment that forced pitcher Pedro hits and a run over six innings, 
Oakland's most serious threat wife. Karina. who gave birth to four games behind the AL East-Martinez to miss a start the pre-striking out four. Byung-I-Iyun Kim pitched the ninth for his 12th save in 15 chances. Bartolo Colon (12-12) was daz­
zling, allowing only a walk and fhf offlr:lal antn«~m uf the IUt'OptN:fn Ut!lQn~~n.:u~ to Joy/ eom~$i fn~m 
fljiiiliiiiil!iiliiii';•:••·······"''•;.;.ii:-:.;~.-:.;·~ilf·'·,··.;.;.~:.;.:.:.~~:O:·~·:O:I,..-'.-:.:>:-:-~~~-;.•.;.;,•,•,w~n"""'"""""''-----------------~-~--,.,.,.,"""""""",.,.,.,.,..,.,.,.,~~----.....,_-...,.._~......., 
two hits. But both hits were 


QUOTES&. fi\CTS 
homers. spoiling his line effort.

fh., Ott;)lf mott~fJHlnt or ludwig uan seetnoue1l's S.tnc.h :iympbonlh 
Still, White Sox fans gave him a

t~tmposl!Hl in UlZrs~ Befl'lhou~m JIJl!t Ul\'1 mQ$Jc: t~ a poem un1tten in
Ttl~ NnNJV:¢ h~&tt\Mt 
standing ovation when he left the 

t{)( Em~~~~ St!JO:iwfo> l185 by friedrtet• S:thdtler~ "'ftn die lr~ude. ~ ltHi I'U\1~m f!l(prn~$t'l$ 
field after pitching in the ninth 

Y4WW.r'd ..fidw?""i'~f~'~ s,ta-tote1"'1 ht~ausUt Pbton or the lhUrrHctill rae• joining naruts as o11le 
inning. 

,,,.,~ tlliS~on See1:n•uen shared.
I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.!!!!!!I!L~-»'--~--~~~~~.··~_,.,,,,,v.>'·'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•W.•.•.•.•.·.·,·:'•,•,•,•,•...-.·.•:'•:'•.•:'•.•.·.•.•:'·.•.•:'•.•:'•:'•"'''''·:':'•:'•>:'•:'•:'•,•:'•:'•:'•.•.•.•:'•.•.•.•:'•:'•:'•:'•.•.•.•:'•:'•.•:'•:'•,•,•.•.•.•.•.•:'•:'•:'•.·.•,•.o.<.•.•:'•.•.•.•,•,•>:'•,•:'•:'•:'•:'•. 
Tigers 8, Indians 6 
Even good things turn bad for the Detroit Tigers this season. 
Cody Ross. who was called up from Triple-A Toledo on Monday, hit a grand slam for his first


AnENTION: 
major league home run then needed to be carted ofT the field with an apparent serious left



FIRST YEAR STUDENTS! 
knee injury in the eighth inning, and the Detroit Tigers beat the Cleveland Indians. 
Hoss was injured after stepping on first base in the eighth, beat­ing out a sacrifice on Cleveland

Please consider serving as student hosts for the OHice of 
reliever Jack Cressend's throwing error. Ross was writhing in pain,

Undergraduate Admissions! 
holding both knees while Tigers personnel attended to him. lie was taken off the field on a flatbed cart. 
Dmitri Young hit a tiebreaking

Share vour Notre Dame experiences hv welcoming prospective 
homer in the fifth as the Tigers won their 35th game of the sea­
son. Detroit needs to go at least 8-17 the rest of the way to avoid matching the 1962 New York Mets' record of 120 losses in a season. 
The teams combined for six home runs. Brian Schmack (1-0) pitched 1 

students into vour residence halls! 
If interested, please email: hosting@nd.edu 
1-3 innings of scoreless relief. 


NBA 


Bryant's lawyers making preparations for trial 
Attorneys subpoena hospital to see rape accuser's medical records 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Kobe Bryant's lawyers have subpoenaed a hos­pital to see his accuser's medical records -the first indication they might make her mental health an issue if the sexual assault case against the NBA star goes to trial. 
The subpoenas were disclosed in a court filing by a hospital in Greeley where the 19-year-old accuser was treated in February after police at the University of Northern Colorado determined she was a "danger to herself." 
Campus police have refused to say whether the woman attempt­ed suicide, saying only that the hospitalization was for a mental health issue. 
Attorneys for the North Colorado Medical Center and its psychiatric care center asked a 


0 
=NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREOtl UNION 
You con bonk on us to be better 

s741631 ~822:2 • www.ndfcu.org 
• 
FREE Checking! 

• 
FREE Online Banking! 


• 
FREE ATM a Visa'* Check Cards! 

• 
Student Account Payments! 

• 
9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! 

• 
Branch in LaFortune Student Center! 



Wednesday, September 3, 2003 

·~Banks didn't value any
.. business and they don~t have .nine ATMs on campus··~,--Nolrt• 
Dante Federal Credit Union does. I can even make Student Account Payment~ at the I.aFonune Branch.~· 
judge to quash the subpoenas and destroy the records already sent to him, citing medical priva­cy laws. 
The woman's attorney told the hospital she has "explicitly not waived her medical privilege," the filing said. 
Calls to the accuser's attorney and Bryant's defense team were not returned Tuesday. Attorneys for the hospital also did not return a call. 
Bryant is charged with sexual­ly assaulting the Colorado resort employee June 30. The Los Angeles Lakers star has said the sex was eonsensual. An Oct. 9 hearing will determine whether there will be a trial. 
Information about the woman's mental health might never be presented to the jury if the case goes to trial, a legal expert said. 
"WhethP.r that would be allowed depends on whether there's anything else there other than [attempted] suicide, some other indication of mental insta­bility or something that would point toward her being an unre­liable observer or witness," said Christopher Mueller, a professor at the University of Colorado law school. 
Meanwhile, an Iowa college student pleaded innocent Tuesday in federal court in Denver to making a death threat against Bryant's accuser in a profanity-laced telephone mes­sage last month. 
John Roche ignored reporters outside the courtroom. He remains free on $250,000 bail. 
U.S. Magistrate Patricia Coan barred Roche from drinking alcohol and limited his travel to Colorado and Iowa. A Nov. 3 trial was scheduled. 
Roche's attorney, Nathan Chambers, said there was a good chance of a plea bargain, but he would not elaborate. 
Some Web sites have disclosed the identity of Bryant's accuser, and the judge in the case has said some letters sent to authori­ties included death threats. Also, the father of Bryant's accuser called police at least twice in recent weeks to report suspi­cions incidents. 
Roche, a University of Iowa student, is accused of leaving a message on the woman's answering machine July 27. The caller threatened to assault the woman with a coat hanger and repeatedly vowed tu kill her. 

L.A. Lakers star basketball player Kobe Bryant rises in the courtroom at Eagle, Colo., County Justice Center Aug. 6. Bryant's lawyers recently subpoenaed a hospital to see his rape accuser's medical records. 
NCAA 

Study shows athletes graduate at better rate than peers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Division I college athletes are graduating at a record rate of 62 percent and are more likely to graduate than non-athletes, according to an NCAA study. 
The report showed athletes with a 2 percentage-point over­all increase in the graduation rate compared with last year and a 3 point advantage over the rate of non-athletes. 
The study covered athletes on scholarship who entered college in 1996 and measured the per­centage of students who gradu­ated within six years. 
The NCAA has tracked gradu­ation rates since 1984, but this was the first study compiled since more stringent academic requirements took effect. 
"This shows that academic reform is making progress," NCAA president Myles Brand 

said. "But it is not yet com­plete." 
The numbers showed almost across-the-board increases. The only declines were among white male basketball players (52 percent) and white football players (61 percent). Both rates dropped by 1 percentage point. 
But it was mostly good news for the NCAA, which has been hit by numerous scandals in the past year. Two schools, Georgia and Fresno State, withdrew their men's basketball teams from postseason play last win­ter because of academic fraud. 
Richard Lapchick, director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida, was opti­mistic but not convinced that the NCAA study was reflective of a broader trend. 
"This is a one-year snapshot," he said. "We try to look in the longer term, like four to 10 years." 
Female athletes had a 70 per­The greatest progress came in cent graduation rate, a 1 point men's basketball, where scores increase from last year, accord­have traditionally been the low­ing to the NCAA study. Male est. athletes wHre at 55 percent, The report showed a 6 per­also a 1 point increase. centage-point improvement to 42 percent an1ong all men's basketball players and a 10 point increase, from 28 to 38 percent, among black players in the highest echelon, Division I­
A. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 8, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic-Training Room. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 page 17
The Observer+ SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 




USC happy with impressive start to the season 
Coach Pete Carroll wants to make sure lzis team doesn't get too arrogant 
Associatc:-d Press 
LOS ANGELI~S-Impressive as it was. Southern California roach Pete Carroll wants to makn sure the Trojans don't get too giddy over till'ir () rw ning a big deal to us, to play our lirst home game. We know that to have a great season, you have to be strong at home." 
USC plays BYU (1-0) at the Coliseum on Saturday, then is home again against llawaii (1-0) the following weekend. 
The Trojans were underdogs at Auburn. but showed they could handle the hostile crowd, the pressure of playing on national television, and the Tigers, who entered the game ranked No. 6. 
This weekend, USC will be at 
home and is 
favored by three 
victory. touchdowns, so
"We're really pleased
USC picked Carroll is con­
up right where to get off to that kind cerned about a it ldt oiT last 
of start." letdown. 
snason. beating "That's always Auburn 23-0 a thought," he 

Pete Carroll 

on tlw road on said. "However, Saturday. The USC coach we need to find 
win. which Ill o v !HI tlw Trojans up four spots to No. 4 in tlw national rankings, was their ninth in a row. 
"Wn'n• n~ally pleased to get oil' to that kind of start and get oil' to a big day at Auburn. A lot of good things happened. a bunch of positive things and a lot of opportunities for us to teach our football kids how to get better in all areas," Carroll said Tuesday. 
"Jiopnfully we can put that game in iL-; place. take it in stride and get really directed and pumped up for coming home. It's out if this year's 
team uPder­stands how to stay focused and come back. W1~ really learned how to do that the last couple of years. I'm proud of that, that we could play on a consistent basis. 
"That is paramount to our suc­cess, if we can figure that out and not be up and down with our performance. We need to stay focused, not just for BYU, but to handle it all the way down the schedule." 
Carroll mentioned a number of young players he thought played well against Auburn, including 


Looking for a fresh & honest conversation about college life, faith and everything else that really matters? 




Interfaith Kiclfoff 

quarterback Matt Leinart, a red­shirt sophomore who has taken over for lleisman Trophy winner Carson Palmer. 
Leinart. who played in three games last season but didn't throw a pas;;, wa~ 17 -of-30 for 192 yards and a touchdown at Auburn and didn't commit a turnover. 
"He managed the whole thing extremely well, played like a poised upperclassman and veter­an guy, we were thrilled about that," Carroll said. 
Offensive coordinator Norm Chow was similarly impressed. 
"I thought the Auburn game was outstanding for our young quarterback and our young foot­ball players," Chow said. "In 
what you would expect from  a  
quarterback in  managing  a  
game, he was terrilic.  


"Unfortunately, we can't linger on that and enjoy it. The next one is coming up," added Chow, a longtime assistant at BYU before joining Carroll's staff at 
usc. 
The Trojans finished fourth in the final poll last season ­Carroll's second as their coach­going 11-2 including a surpris­ingly easy 38-17 win over Iowa in the Orange Bowl. 
R.o.BtNsoN Coi'1,1MUNl.T\" .LEARNING C.ENTER 
• .\lood~y & \\',~<hwsd;~y Y3<o-s~~J 
OR 

Tuc:id:ay & Thw::~day ~k~O 5:·>0 
+ Wbr.k SW(t)' :and 
V-1.:d1m*~~~::r p~~~i1kHI;ic 
an1ihbk 

• 1hlining.smr-rii< St:pn:mbt~r 8th -­Sign up tlO\'li! 

+ ·rr:a~:l:t>fKl:ttation c~ul be: 
ptT~<'<:idt·:d hr Tr;:1r1~rn· Bu;:; m: hy <:ltpool 
RlHHN~ON CO}t¥MUNTl"l! LEA.t'lt'HN(( Cl~NT.K~. 
·9.21 Ncnth Eoar Str-oot &.utll Swd. m 4·6617 
CIOint!lc~ t~;rt$(1< MU#lr, Vnhanb!M ~orrliMWr ;a~;: 
Cel~brating learning... 

page 18 Wednesday, September 3, 2003
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Couch beginning to cope ·with nevv role as backup QB 
Former No. 1 overall draft pick willing to sacrifice playing time for good of the team 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -No injury hurt Tim Couch as much. No loss has been as tough for him to forget. 
When Couch was stripped of his job as the Cleveland Browns' starting quarterback a few weeks ago, his world briefly crumbled. lie had not been a backup since his first game as a rookie, and the 1999 No. 1 overall draft pick did not handle the demotion very well. 
But time has helped, and 

Couch  has  finally  come  to  
terms with his  new  role  as  
Kelly Holcomb's backup.  

"It's never an easy thing," he said. "But this is where I am and I'm going to do the best I can with it. I just realized there is no reason to go through this season miser­able," he said. "Even though it's a tough time, you've got to be upbeat and you have to be positive and you have to do what's best for the team. 
"This team isn't about how I feel." 
Instead of practicing with the first-team offense, Couch is on the sideline watching Holcomb hand off to William Green and fire passes to Kevin Johnson as the Browns prepare for their opener Sunday against the Indianapolis Colts. 
Couch isn't in this week's game plan. The Browns are Holcomb's team now. They have been since Cleveland coach Butch Davis decided to go with his "gut feeling" by naming Holcomb as his starter to begin the year. 
Last week, Couch admitted Davis' decision was a blow he never expected. He struggled to accept it, trying to figure out what he had done wrong to lose his job. 
He acknowledged he allowed the decision to affect his preparation for an exhibition game in Detroit. Couch replaced Holcomb in the third quarter and fumbled his first snap. On Cleveland's next pos­session, he 'hrew an ugly interception. 
Couch's body language that night at Ford Field said it all. His shoulders drooped, and his chin was down. 
"I wasn't into the game emo­tionally," he said. "I just felt like I was going through the motions, and that's not some­thing that I was trying to do. It was just a tough week for me." 
To survive this season, he knew he had to change his out­look. Teammates helped with words of encouragement, and Davis gave Couch a huge boost when he said the Browns would probably need hirn at some point this season if Holcomb gets hurt. 
"That was a wakeup call, for sure," Couch said. "I think everyone in this league real­izes you have to have two good quarterbacks to get through a season. Even though it's tough standing over there and wait­ing your turn, you have to be ready when it happens."Couch playing elsewhere in 2004. played much better i~ last Until then, or until the week's preseason finale against Browns need him, he'll be the Atlanta, going 7 -of-8 for 144 highest-paid backup ($6.2 mil­yards, including a 57-yard TD lion salary) in the league. pass to Dennis Northcutt. Couch has taken enough hits in 
As Northcutt tiptoed into the four seasons to know Holcomb end zone, probably Couch raised won't make it
"Even though it's a
his index fin­through all ger in the air tough time, you've got to 16 games. and sprinted "I have to
be upbeat and you have 
the length of be ready," he 
to be positive. " 
the field to cel­said. "If ebrate with his something teammates. happens to
Tim Couch 
It was as if Kelly, I'm
Browns backup quarterback
nothing going ~o changed. come in and 
"I really needed that, to get we're going to win football back on the football field and games. Right now, I have a pos­have fun again," he said. itive attitude about everything. "That's what I missed the most; I'm working hard at practice, it hadn't been fun for me for a and I'm just trying to get better 
Icon SMI

while." and get myself ready. 
Cleveland Browns quarterbacks Kelly Holcomb and Tim Couch
Couch isn't worrying about "If something happens and I 
next year. Depending on how go in. I don't want to be the look over plays during Cleveland's exhibition game at home this season unfolds, he knows reason why we lose. I want to against the Atlanta Falcons Aug. 28. Couch, a former No. 1 it's likely he or Holcomb will be be the reason why we win." overall draft pick, was recently named the backup to Holcomb. 



Looking for a fresh & honest conversation about coUege UfeJ faith and everything else that reaUy matters? 
..·.··.·.·.. ·.··rn··.· .··'.·, l(i ·····ii······.·, ·· .. ··.··.···r··,··.·
•n.:.tt·:.···e······· ,·············a··.,·.............'.'.,.·t··:·11····· .. .··, ..···,·CJ····. o·· ··~·· 
0 

0 00 00 00 
0 
0 
00 
0000 
000 
0 
0 
0

IIIf :•.•.... '.. 
··H·:: : O •• ' .::' : ' ••••' •••·',,· •• •• • :: o:: •••••• •••• o , • : ° 
00 

00 00 0 0000 00000 
~·: ·M·,:.··.u·r.l·,c· .. l .. T ..i ... ::... 
~~ • COMMUNITY • PRAY~ 
:-:·:·::-.:-:·:'~·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·i·::~:;:::::J.~~;.;::::::::::::::.-::::::.;:::::::~:::~;:;:-:·:·:..:-:-:-: -:·:·:-:·:·:·:-=-:~:·:~---:-:-:·:·.·:~»'!;;::·:···:··..:·:-:---··· 
We have an exci"ting opportunity for YOU 'to heip prevent youth violence in South Bend! Learn ways to help reduce: violence while having fun itrter-acting with children
Talk. It Out •• ~ 
irl area schools ~ 

w•atk lt Out.~~ 
• Becon1e a rnen•bcr ofa Take Ten tcan1 an,<i
'\'V'ai:t n Out • ~ • 
spend an hour a week in an area school Please: C\:mtac.t: 
• Various schools, ag•e groups~ and n1eeting
Kim Ov(Jrdyck at. 1akt.:'f¢n.ltii.:lm:1..t~du thnes to tit your schedule Or at. 
• IV1ultiple training opportuniti-es to learn.
631-9424 
tnore about violence and how to \vork with 

children 
Take advantage of this opportunity to leave an everlasting impact on the youth of South Bend! 
HELP MAKE OUR SCHOOLS VIOLENCE FREE 
ZONE.S 



Wednesday, September 3, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Bonds returns home after exhaustion attack 


I I 

II IISign Up on the Internet NOW 0 p 
l!


www. La·-· renStudios.com I i
o .,• .-••w ••••,·,, • , .... •
.·.··.~--··,,,, u·-·•·-,,,__. .,•,·........,.... 
to ensure your place in your 2004 Dome Yearbook! 'l 
-~---...-...--...0·0"'"-----------... 

Closs of 200A
•a= 

•EI: ~dures taken Sept. I · Sept. 19 111111: la forlune lO~ 
.1

WhJ: To Be In tne 2004/Jome l 
Bonds returned to Pacific Bell before taking the field for bat­a Phoenix hospital, but they'll
As.ociatrd Press 
Park on Tuesday night for his ting prar.tice 2 1/2 hours before keep an eye on the superstar !'irst home game with the San the Giants· game against slugger during San Francisco's 
SAN FHANCISCO -Barry Francisco Giants since the Colorado. five-game homestand. Bonds took a seat in his big death of his father, Bobby, on The Giants don't anticipate Bonds had a rapid heartbeat, leather recliner and let out a Aug. 23. any reoccurrences of the shortness of breath, dizziness contented 'iigh. lie was home He relaxed on the big chair in exhaustion that prompted and chest pains when he was again. front of his bank of lockers Bonds to spend Sunday night in scratched from the lineup a 
SMC ·wind Ensemble announces ...  
SAINT MARY'S  Openings for  
COLLEGE NOTRB DAMB, IN  Winds, Brass, Percussion  

Who: Open to students and faculty at Saint Mary's & Notre Dame Where: Campus of Saint Mary's College, Moreau Hall, Room 114 When: Tuesdays & Thursdays, 7-8:30 p.m. How: Auditions begin Thursday September 4th... 6-9:00 p.m. For More Info & to schedule audition: Call Dept ofMusic at SMC at 284-4634 
Look for the S SMC Wind Ensemble at ... ND Activities Night-Tues, Sept 2 (JACC, Notre Dame, 6-9:00 p.m.) SMC Activities Night-Wed, Sept 3 (Regina Hall, Saint Mary's, 6-9:00 p.m.) 
Be a part of the musical excitement at SMC! 
few moments before Sunday's game. He wondered if he was having a heart attack during batting practice, and the Giants sent him to the hospital. 
An EKG exam revealed atrial fibrillation, and he was kept overnight for observation. But 
the symptoms had disappeared by the time he got the game­winning hit in the ninth inning of San Francisco's win over Arizona on Monday. 
"I think the emotion trig­gered a few things, but he's pretty good at checking those emotions," trainer Stan Conte said Tuesday. "I think it's still more about the exhaustion. In a situation where it's potential­ly dangerous and potentially life-threatening, you want to be as careful as possible." 
Bonds had blood tests in the hospital last weekend, and the results will be revealed later in the week. Conte will do "noth­ing special" to keep an eye on Bonds this week, he said. 
Bonds initially returned to the Giants last Saturday, hit­ting his 653rd career homer off Handy Johnson. He's just seven homers shy of tying his godfather, Willie Mays, for third place on baseball's career list. 
But he has barely slept since Aug. 14, when he took his first stint on the bereavement list to spend time with his father. who had been ill for nearly a year with lung cancer, a brain tumor and other ailments. 
·-ooOooUo;;;, ,y,-.·,•o'oo •,, 



Wednesday, September 3, 2003

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
TENNIS 


Agassi advances to quarterfinals of U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A long, rainy day turned into a short one for Andre Agassi. 
The two-time champion moved into the U.S. Open quarterfinals Tuesday night when Taylor Dent quit because of a hamstring injury with Agassi leading 6-7 (5), 6-4, 7-5. 
It goes into the books as Agassi's 200th career Grand Slam match victory. If he wins the tournament, he'll tie Pete Sampras at 203, the third-most in the Open era behind Jimmy Connors and Ivan Lend!. 
"To see him injured is outright disappointing for everybody. It doesn't matter if it's my 200_th or first match. That's not Wd.Y you want it. to end," Agassi said. "It started to become apparent he was struggling with the leg. I was surprised he was unable to continue." 
Their match was the first one that started and the only one completed because of off-and-on showers. 
Top-seeded Kim Clijsters and No. 5 Amelie Mauresmo were sent home at 5 p.m .. when their quarterfinal was postponed. Other matches pushed back until Wednesday: No. 3 Lindsay Davenport vs. No. 24 Paola Suarez, No. 2 Roger Federer vs. No. 13 David Nalbandian, and No. 7 Carlos Moya vs. No. 22 Younes El Aynaoui. 
There also was another post­pone;nent: the retirement ~ere­mnny for Micha.el Chant< that was supposed to be held between the night matches at Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
The tournament referee's otlice was the site of the biggest buzz of activity Tuesday after­noon. Rain washed out chunks of action for a second day, and offi­cials said thf> tournament might not fmish on time. 
"The forecast right now is not all that optimistic," said Arlen Kantarian, U.S. Tennis Association CEO of pro tennis. He was talking about the weather, but he might as well have been referring to the logjam of delayed matches. 
Shortly before 6 p.m., the top­ranked Agassi and unseeded Dent went out on the court to warm up. They played 34 min­utes, long enough for Agassi to go up 5-4 in the first set, before rain returned and they walked off. A little more than an hour later, the match resumed, with Dent breaking back to 5·5 and then winning the set on a 109 mph second-serve ace while rain fell. 
During the changeover after the set, referee Brian Earley carne out to check the court, say­ing to Agassi and Dent: "If you guys both want to stay out here, we'r<! willing." But eventually play was stopped again. 
Then, at about 8:40 p.m., Agassi and Dent were playing the second set. It took nearly another hour, though, for match­es to start on other courts. including Todd Martin against French Open champion Juan Carlos Ferrero, and No. 5 Guillermo Coria against Jonas Bjorkman. Crowds of 100-to-200 spectators were at those encoun­ters. 
When Agassi and Dent resumed, they traded service breaks early in the second set. That's when Dent began favoring his right leg-which he original­ly hurt in practice a few days ago -and was massaged by a train­er during two changeovers. He relies on a booming serve that can top 130 mph. but that speed dropped because he couldn't get a full push from his legs, and Agassi broke once more in the set's last game. 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Purdue features younger players in key roles on team 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue will open the season with 16 returning starters and a fresh look. 
When the 16th-ranked Boilermakers host Bowling Green on Saturday. five fresh­man will be playing key roles and coach Joe Tiller will have a new running back -sopho­more Jerod Void. 
Void was a surprise choice over Brandon Jones, who appeared to be the front-run­ner when Joey Harris was declared academically ineligi­ble last month. The plans changed when Void outplayed Jones in practice. 
"We feel like Void has had a little better training camp than Brandon," coach Joe Tiller said 
ATTENTION: 

Tuesday. "It wasn't 5ignificant. but in the head-to-head per­formance, it was a little better." 
Void's job, for now, is to be the Boilermakers' feature back. 
He replaces Harris, who ran for 1,115 yards and eight touchdowns last year after wresting the starting job from Montrell Lowe. 
It· seemed a foregone conclu­sion that Janes, a sophomore, would get the first shot after running 127 times for 668 yards J.nd three TDs last sea­son. He was Purdue's second­leading rusher. 
But Jones hurt his shoulder and was held out of contact drills for a few days last week. Void took advantage by winning his first college start. As a freshman, he gained 156 yards in 45 carries. 
Void won't be the only new-
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS! 
Please consider serving as student hosts for the Office of Undergraduate Admissions! 
Share vour Notre Dame experiences bv welcom­ing prospective students into vour residence hallsI 
IIinterested, Please email: hoslin @nd.edu 
~ NP ~pt.of~~k PHI~a.-1J 
The Murasaki Duo 
Etlc: Kw. ccitlo ' Mili;o KtHJ)~Mml;, p~no : 

· Ftaturlng the \Vortd Premh::mt : of Co-~ert Duo by : NO Pr.gt. Eth1An H;~;hno i 
ledYrefFhK~tal Concert ! "How to Unen to Sunckly, Sept.'1.,. 200) ! Cort(f!'i't Duo" l:OO pm, Annft!nkrg Aud~ ! 
Friday;. Sotpt. s~ 2003 SnitdAuuurn ; l:lO pm, Annenberg Au~Ht. Wotb by Hahno. Stravinsiky sn•te hhneum 111ndGrJ~ · 
BOTH EVENTS FRE.EA:NO OPEN TO THEPUBUC 
comer lining up Saturday. 
The Boilermakers two-deep depth chart is littered with freshman who will likely see significant playing time. 
The most intriguing prospect is Kyle Ingraham, a 6-foot-9, 221-pound wide raceiver who has impressed the coaches with his hands, speed and intelli­gence. 
"The only thing about Ingraham that remains is how he handles the game," Tiller said. "The fact he came in at 221 instead of 210 has been a big help. It's one of the reasons he'll be on the field Saturday." 
Ingraham will be joined by a handful of classmates, includ­ing tight end Garret Bushong, defensive end Ray Edwards, strong safety Bernard Pollard and defensive end Doug Van Dyke. 
Tiller, starting his seventh season as Purdue's coach, did not say how much playing time he expected the freshman to see, but acknowledged all five are likely to see significant action throughout the season. 
For a team loaded with veter­a,1s, it's a different tact. And Tiller says he can't remember the last time he's had so many freshmen so high on the depth chart. 
Part of the explanation is that Tiller needed depth, but the bigger issue was that they earned the jobs. 


Michigan Game Ticket Lottery in the Reekers Hospitality Room from 3-6pm 
(ID Required) 

Fun on the Quad: Inflatables 
North Quad (rain location in Stepan) 2-Spm 
Sno Cones and Popcorn Machines Fieldhouse mall 2-Spm 
Coming Up This Week: 
Thursday: Ac,oustic Cafe 
LaFortune 9pnl-Midnight 

Friday: $.1 movies on / 0 
Old School Debartolo 101 @lOpm 
Saturday: Comedy Hypnotist Dale K 
Washington Hall @9pm 








TODAY 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 Cotv\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER. WIRE SERVICES page 21 

toarn 

1 UClA 2 Maryland 3 Wake Fote$t 4 Saint LouiS 5 Indiana 6 stanford 7 SMU 8 North Carolina 9 NOTRE DAME 10 11 Rutgers 12 Creighton 13 14 15 16 Northeastern 17 Hartwick 18 19 Clemson 19 Seton Hall 19 St. John's 22 South Carolina 23 24 Connecticut 25 Duke 

team 

1 usc (65) 
2 Hawaii 3 florida 4 Stanford 5 Nebraska 6 Northern Iowa 1 uc Santa Barbara 8 Peppenline 
9 Penn State 
10 Arl~ona 
11 UClA 
12 Georgia Tech 
13 Minnesota 14 Kansas state 15 Long Beaell State 
16 louisville 
17 North Carolina 
18 Ohio State 
18 Missouri 
20 Santa Clara 
21 NOTRE DAME 
22 California 
23 Washington 
24 Wisconsin 
26 Michigan State 


around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 11 a.m., USA 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL St. Louis at Chicago Cubs 1 :20 p.m., WGN Atlanta at New York Mets 12 p.m., ESPN Boston at Chicago White Sox 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Ohio State athletic direc­tor Andy Geiger said Tuesday night that he doubted sophomore tail­back Maurice Clarett would return to the defending national cham­pions this season. ''I'm not optimistic about any number of games at this point," Geiger said. Earlier Tuesday, coach Jim Tressel said Clarett would no longer practice with the team until ques­tions about his eligibility are answered -an abrupt reversal from 10 days earlier when he was allowed to work out with 
the second-ranked Buckeyes. 
For the first time, Tressel said Clarett would miss much of the season. 
"It appears ... the sus­pension is going to be sig­nificant. It's going to be long," Tressel said. 
On Aug. 22, Tressel and Geiger announced Clarett's suspension from the team. However, they said Clarett would be per­mitted to practice with the Buckeyes while the NCAA and an Ohio State panel looked into off-the-field problems and charges of academic fraud. 
Clarett watched Saturday night's 28-9 vic­tory over Washington from the bench. 
Geiger said Clarett was suspended for multiple games because he misled investigators, a violation of NCAA Bylaw 10 that deals with ethical behav­ior by student-athletes. 
"We put great stock, as does the NCAA, in forth­rightness and straightfor­ward answers to questions that are bathed in truth. We have yet to get there, which is distressing," Geiger said Tuesday. 
Geiger also said Clarett violated NCAA's Bylaw 12, which deals with ama­teurism, "improper bene­fits and all those kind of 

IN BRIEF 
Lions' Stewart out for year 
ALLEN PAHK. Mich. -Detroit Lions running back James Stewart will miss the season after separating his right shoulder in the final exhibi­tion game. 
Stewart was placed on injured reserve by Detroit. which acquired Olandis Gary on the weekend to replace him. Detroit's leading rusher the past three seasons was hurt dur­ing Thursday's preseason game against Buffalo. 
Coach Steve Mariucci said the next day he hoped Stewart would return by the sixth week of the season. Tuesday's move eliminated that pos­sibility. 
Stewart, 31, spent five seasons with Jacksonville before joining Detroit in 2000. The Lions' running game was devastated by the sudden retirement of Barry Sanders just before training camp in 1999. 
"The best thing for James and for the team is to put him on IR," Lions president Matt Millen said. "Looking at the injury, he is going to require surgery at some point in time. We have been told there is an 85 percent chance the thing would come out again. 
"The best thing to do is to get the surgery now, because it has to be done." 
Within minutes of Stewart's injury, Millen was talking to Buffalo presi­dent Tom Donahoe about acquiring Gary, who now will carry the brunt of the team's rushing assignments. He rushed for 1,159 yards in 12 games as a rookie in 1999, but knee and leg injuries have limited Gary to 455 yards over the past three sea­sons. 
Koch activated from DL 
CHICAGO -The Chicago White Sox activated former closer Billy Koch from the disabled list before Tuesday night's game against the Boston Red Sox. 
Koch went on the disabled list Aug. 12 with a sore right elbow. In a four-things." 
The NCAA and Ohio State began an investiga­tion in July into Clarett's claim that more than $10,000 in clothing, COs, cash and stereo equip­ment was stolen in April from a 2001 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that Clarett had borrowed from a local dealership. Clarett later said he exaggerated the value of the items stolen. 
Geiger said if Clarett had told the truth from the beginning. "This might have been over in July." 
Clarett's attorney. Scott Schiff. did not immediately return telephone mes­sages seeking comment. 
game rehab stint at Triple-A Charlotte, he was 0-1 with a 4.91 EHA. 
"It went well. My arm feels good, which is No. 1," Koch said. "The last two times out I felt real good out there. I threw the ball where I want­ed to, which is the biggest thing. My mechanics were good, arm didn't hurt, and like I said. that's the biggest thing." 
Koch was the AL's top reliever last year. going 11-4 with a 3.27 ERA and a career-high 44 saves for Oakland. But he's struggled in Chicago, and lost his closer's job in early July. He is 5-5 with a 5.55 EHA. and hasn't had a save since June 24. 
He is 11-of-15 in save opportuni­ties this year. 
While Koch still wants to close, he's unlikely to get that job back this sea­son. Tom Gordon has made nine straight scoreless outings. and ranks among the top AL relievers in strike­outs, fewest homers per nine innings and wins. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2003
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Jones has an offensive role, but only the coaches know 
Willingham keeping quiet about how he will use two-time leading rusher 
ByJOE HETTLER Sporrs Editor 

Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham is keeping quiet about the role of returning run­ning back Julius Jones, which doesn't surprise anyone. 
"I prefer not to give away exactly what those are," Willingham said. "Traditionally, as a coach, I'm reluctant to do that because as soon as I say how many minutes he's playing, and he doesn't play it, he's very disappointed. I've learned you don't get into that area. It will happen. You know we want to get him in." 
Jones returned to the Irish after being dismissed in the summer of 2002 from the University after his third season on the field. He was reinstated this past summer after spending time working out and taking classes at Arizona State. 
Willingham welcomed Jones back to the football team and definitely has a plan for Jones and 1,000-yard rusher Ryan Grant. 
"I can't shed any light on what the role will be, but Julius has had an excellent camp," Willingham said. "He's done all of the things that I've requested of him and that the university has requested of him. 
"He's put himself in a position to be a major contributor for our team. We've got a pretty good combination to work with." 
From walk-on to backup 
Last week, fullback Josh 

Schmidt fully realized how far he came from being a spring season walk-on his freshman year to the backup behind Rashon Powers-Neal this season as a junior for the Irish. 
Schmidt was walking in from practice and was unsure whether his name had been called for an interview in the press room. Instead of asking, Schimdt simply assumed it was someone else's name because he was never interviewed before. After the reporter waited for over 40 minutes, a Notre Dame sports information official went looking for Schmidt and found him eating dinner. Finally realiz­ing that his name had actually been called, Schmidt raced downstairs only to see that the reporter had left for the day. 
Fortunately, Schmidt was able to give his interview later that week. 
But for a guy that wasn't on the team during his freshman fall, the experience of being a definite figure in Irish football has been exciting. 
"There are a lot of differences. From strictly running just scout team work to being with the first offense is a big difference," Schmidt said. "It's nice not hav­ing to go against the No. 1 defense." 
Schmidt was on the fourth­team last season and played late in the game against Rutgers. But his steady improvement, along with the loss of several fullbacks to graduation left the door open for Schmidt to become a integral part of the team in 2003. 
Offensive line coming together 
Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick knows his offense is ready for Saturday's contest against Washington State. He believes the team has made solid improvement in recent weeks. 
"We're excited to get started. I think we've had a very good camp and I know we're really excited to get on the field and just get to a game," Diedrick said. 
Diedrick also added that quar­terback Carlyle Holiday has looked impressive in practice and that the offensive line is continuing to show improve­ments. 
"With Carlyle's progress, he's continued to make progress during camp and I feel very, very positive that he feels very confident and comfortable now within the offense," Diedrick said. "With the offensive line, we're beginning to get that chemistry together and our rotation is looking good. We're not as far as we want to be and we'll be farther along by mid­season, but we're so much far­ther along then we were before fall camp." 
Hilliard likely will play for Saturday 
Nose tackle Cedric Hilliard has missed the last few practices with a sprained left ankle, but the fifth-year defensive lineman said he will be ready for Saturday against Washington State. 
"[The left ankle] is feeling pretty good and I'm ready to go play football again," Hilliard said. 
Hilliard, who started the past year and a half for the Irish alongside Darrell Campbell, was named to the All-American third team by Athlon last season after recording two sacks and 31 total tackles. Senior Greg Pauly will also see action at nose tackle against the Cougars. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

experience to the line and able experience that will help ing the quarterback even Washington State three days want to end their careers on a him in his second year as an more important. away, Mattison knows his unit
D-Line 

high note. Campbell recorded Irish starter. He will be oppo­"Coach Mattison always is eager to play against an six sacks last season, while site Tuck at left end. harps that a good defensive opponent.
continued from page 24 

Hilliard added two sacks and Senior Greg Pauly will unit starts up front," Campbell "They're probably thinking and was used as a pass rush­five tackles for a loss. The two switch in and out with both said. "It always starts up front to themselves that they can't ing specialist for most of last have played together the last interior lineman and is so we need to make it easier wait to play someone differ­season. two years expected to contribute signifi­for [the defensive backfield] to ent," Mattison said. Tuck's together on cantly to this year's unit. He capitalize on miscues by the improvement the line. played in just under 100 min­offense." Contact Joe Hettler at in stopping "[Cedric] utes last season in 13 games. With the first game against jhettler@nd.edu
"It always starts up
the run has and I are Campbell understands the helped him front so we need to always in success of the entire defense become an make it easier for the trenches begins with the front four. The every down all the defensive line had success last
[the defensive backfield]
player. t i m e , " season by pressuring the "It's easy to to capitalize on miscues Campbell quarterback throughout go run and by the offense. " said. "We're games, without the aid of a get the quar­battleworn blitz. This freed up the Irish 
Bookmaker's Pub &Sports Bar 
terback. But and ready. secondary and allowed them
Darrell Campbell 

when you In his first to have an extra player roam­[formerlv Coach's J have to stop Irish defensive tackle year as a ing on pass plays. and play run starter, This year the defensive and take on Budinscak backs have to replace players blockers had three like Shane Walton and along the way, that's some­sacks and six tackles for a loss Gerome Sapp, making the 
Completelv Remodeled . ) 
thing that's not natural if in 2002. He also gained valu-defensive line's job of pressur­
2046 So. Bend Ave.
you've never played that before," Mattison said. "So the 1. 

574-272-1766
biggest key is to show him how to use his ability and his leverage to learn to stop the run." 
Tuck may be somewhat 

Opening Sept. 411:00 AM 
inexperienced as an every­play lineman, but Cambpell New owners and Hilliard give the Irish 
0 
plenty of experience, with both returning for their fifth years. The duo brings a com­

Great food -Great fun-You bell 
bined 4.5 years of starting I 

Wednesday, September 3, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 

JUMBLE 
~J]J)1[! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
i'ro,~~~~;· r 
1 
rJ _J 
C2003 Tribune MacHa Services, Inc 
H~J~;-t
r 1 J
t-RHODIA± 
J r J
1 www jumble com
t-KNEALT 

J rJ I I 
Answer: 

A 'l I I I )rI I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: IRATE UNCLE GASKET CROUCH Answer: The review of royal finances turned out to be a -"REIGN" CHECK 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
WHAT THE: C.R.E:ATUR.E:5 OF THE: DEE:P C.AL.L.ED THE: WINNING 

..,
PL-AYER. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Out of port 67 Newcastle's river

1 Mute Marx 36 Don't make them! 68 Next in line? 
6 "Hop_!" 38 Flat floater 69 Smidgen
10 Tempest in a teapot 42 It helps you see plays
14 The bounding DOWN main 44 "Sexy" lady of a 1 Part of HBO Beatles song 
15 "I see." 
2 Etcher's fluid facetiously 45 Oberhausen 
3 Burnout 16 Charles barker 
"oh" 

treatment 17 Don't mess with 48 Don't say this! 4 Butter portion him! 51 Believer 
5 Low digit 20 D.C. summer 53_Gay 
6 Chiang Kai­sett1ng (W.W. II plane) 

shek's capital 21 Conversant with 
54 Fountain 

7 "This can't be!" 22 Done 
favorites 

8 Copyright page 23 Secret store info: Abbr. 
55 Introduction to science?

26 nue locale in a 9 Low digit Cheech Marin 57 Kindergarten 
10 Flatters, withmovie break "over" 

27 Don't burn 60 Don't give me 11 Familiar with 
them! that! 12 Hard
31 Olive with a 64 Read rapidly little salt? 
13 Biblical65 "That's righr 
footwear

32 Ones foaling 
66 Line to the 
18 Essen basin 

33 ncked off audience 19 Rib 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24 Fields 25 "Survivor" network 26 Comics cnes 
1-r!-,::;+.:;.--. .,.._~;..foi,,j,j.:,.~+=-1 27 Singer Sumac 28 New World grp. 
29 Result of a bad shot, maybe 
30 Coli. senior's test 34 Say "y'all," say 36 Refuses to ~.;.;+ri-,;~~~ 37 Te-_ cigars ~.;..;+,=-+-;+; 39 "Oklahoma!" gal 
I.;....L;::..L.;.;~ 40 Needle holder 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

41 Danson of  49 Marilu of  58 Current choice  
"Becker" 43 Cow catcher 44 B'way sign  "Evening Shade" 50 Lady of "Idylls of the King"  59 Cheat, in a way 81 Like a certain  
45 Maximally  52 ·c·est moi" to  power  
46 Like a  us  82 Perp  
blackboard  55 Grimm villain  prosecutors,  
eraser  56 Haleakala's  briefly  
47 Repressed  locale  63 Venom source  

For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leeming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip________ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: William Holden, John Oates. Sugar Ray Leonard, Harry Reasoner  
Happy Birthday: You will be highly creative and imaginative in all that you do. You will gain popularity and you'll receive help when you need it. Keep things in perspective and know what your limitations are. Moderation will be the route to follow. Your numbers are 6, 14, 22. 31. 37. 40  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prepare to take on more responsibilities than you have time for. It's a good thing that you are speedy and can think standing up. Remember the early bird catches the worm. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You must not allow anyone to manipulate you. Your frustration will lead to a disastrous argument. Don't make a hasty decision that will affect your personal life.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Aquiet, restful day will help get you back on track. Stop putting off the things that arc good for you. You need to take better care of yourself. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's all about you and your personal goals today. Start by reassessing yourself and consider changes that will make you feel better both physically and mentally. Social activity will lead to some interesting connections. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't neglect your family today. If you ignore the ones who love you, expect to face discord. Do what's best for everyone involved. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can gain support if you get together with friends. Try to be objective regardless of the situation. You can learn a lot by observing. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be tempted to overspend today. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. C'heck over your personal papers for possible changes. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You won't be seeing things too clearly today, especially at an emotional level. Check out your own actions before you accuse someone else of doing something wrong. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should try to keep things to yourself today. If you let a secret be known, it is likely to cause some problems for you later on. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Attend a function that will attract prominent people and you will meet someone who can help you further your goals. Your outgoing nature coupled with some innovative ideas will win you approval. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful that someone doesn't take credit for the things that you do. Be observant, reevaluate your present situation and set new goals. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can tum your dreams into a reality. Let your imagination take over and you will discover how much you have to offer. *****  -- 
Birthday Baby: You will stand up for your rights and you will fight for whatever you believe in. You will have strong opinions and will never back down.  
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com.  
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE  



,------------~------­
THE 0BSER\'ER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 3, 2003 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Ready at a moment's notice 
Practices focus on developing depth for season's unexpected 

ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Darrell Campbell knows what makes a good defensive line become a great one. He also knows the Irish have that See Also element 
Jones has an 

this season. 
offensive role,

" Y o u r defensive but only the 
line is only coaches know as good as the guy page 22 behind y 0 u . Campbell said. "Anybody can go down at any time, so it's 
important  to  "Your defensive  to  replace  
have everyone on the same page just as  line is only as good as the guy  graduate Ryan Roberts, who lead the  
good as the No. 1 guy. From that  behind you.,  defensive line with eight  
standpoint, everybody has to be as good as  Darrell Campbell Irish defensive tackle  sacks. To fill that void, Mattison  
or  better than  moved  in  
the guy ahead of  Tuck,  who  

them when they go in there." converted from linebacker 
The Irish return three 
see D-UNE/page 22 

starters from a year ago: 
-
Belles go on the road looking to go 3-0 
By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
The undefeated Saint Mary's soccer team will travel across Indiana today to face Taylor University of Grant County as the Belles continue their tough early road schedule. 
Last weekend at Marietta College (Ohio). Saint Mary's got off to a solid start, defeating State University of New York­Brockport (SUNY) 3-1. SUNY has been successful the past three seasons. recording dou­ble-digit wins in each of those years. The Belles built off that momentum to defeat host Marietta 2-1 in double overtime 
Today's opponent, Taylor (1­0-1), won a Massachusetts tournament over the weekend and scored five goals in one game. Taylor joins the MIAA next year. 
"We'll approach this as a con­ference game to set the tone [for the conference schedule]," coach Peter Haring said. 
Saint Mary's should be at full strength. The Belles are injury-free and will be bringing a few extra reserves on the short road trip. Ai this early point in the season, the team's rotation remains a work in progress. 
"We're trying to get pieces to fit," Haring said. "I got a good indication of who to rely on [over the weekend] ... After two games I'm beginning to see who is comfortable playing with one another." 
Saint Mary's will continue to rely on Jen Concannon for scoring. The junior already has three goals in only two games. Freshmen Ashley Hinton and Carolyn Logan each have goals, and Logan also had two assists. The freshmen's early contribu­tions came as no surprise to Haring 
"A lot of recruiting last year was emphasized on players for the attack," Haring said. 
The Belles hope to do what no Saint Mary's team has done before-open the season 3-0. 
Saint Mary's plays at Taylor today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
Staff Report 

Two Saint Mary's soccer players participate In a scrimmage last month. 
Campbell, Cedric Hilliard and Kyle Budinscak. They also have experience in jun­ior Justin Tuck and senior Greg Pauly, who will rotate in the interior. 
One of defensive line coach Greg Mattison's goals for practices was to improve not just the starters, but their backups, too. 
''I'm really pleased with the development of some of the younger kids," Mattison said. "That's what we tried to get out of camp -to try and establish a kind of two­deep rotation of some sort, and I think we're heading closer and closer to that." 
Last year's 
unit will have 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Injuries test Belles' depth 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will have to deal with more than just a boring ride on the road when they open their MIAA season at Albion College today. 
According to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, three of the Belles' key players might miss the Albion game. 
Libera Anne Cusack has strep throat and will more than likely miss the game. Outside attackPr Michelle Turley has a foot injury and will probably also miss tlw contest. 
Outside attacker Alison Shevik sustained an ankle injury and will probably miss the match. but her coach said there is a slight possibility she may still play Wednesday. 
Regardless of her starting ros­ter, Schroeder-Biek feels her team has the capability to deal with the adversity. 
"We've got good depth and I feel that people will step up," she said. 
Albion (3-1, 0-0 MIAA) is com­ing off a weekend tournament in which they placed third with wins over Ohio schools Heidelburg and Bluffton. The Britons also lost in five games to Franklin, Ind. 
The Britons are led by Eliza Lee, who dished out 905 assists in her first year with Albion. She was also the team leader in serv­ice aces (67) and second in digs 
(230) in the 2002 season. 

Krystie Weeks had an equally impressive season last year and is expected to help pace the Britons offensively this season. Weeks led last season's team with 243 kills and ranked second on the team with 56 blocks. 
Saint Mary's (0-1, 0-0 MIAA) has previously had several com­petitive matches with Albion, and Schroeder-Biek doesn't see any reason for that to change this year. 
"They are very comparable to us as a team," she said. "We're each at about the same stage of growth." 
Schroeder-Biek believes that opening conference play on the road will be a good experience for her young team. 
"I do like traveling early in the season, because it's a good bond­ing experience for the girls," she said. "We love playing at home with our crowds, but there's also a good group of parents that fol­lows us when we're on the road." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

en 
U.S. OPEN 
MLB 
NFL 

Al WRAP
NBA 
Nl WRAP 
c.,)

1--z w 
Cleveland Browns
Andre Agassi 

San Francisco out-
Kobe Bryant's lawyers 
The Athletics defeat 
The Cubs and 
advances to the quarter-

quarterback Tim Couch 
fielder Barry Bonds 
subpoena his accuser's 
the Orioles 2-0 in 12 
Cardinals split a key
= 
::5 
talks about his future
=c:s finals in a soggy day at 
returns to the lineup 
medical records. 
innings to run their win 
divisional doubleheader 
after his demotion to the
Flushing Meadows, N.Y. 

after a bout with 
at Wrigley Field. 

streak to 10 games.
cr: 

second team. 
exhaustion.
am ~ 
en 
page 20 
page 19 
page 16
page 18 

page 14
page 15 



