
VOL. XXXVII NO. 136 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
200 students face lawsuits for Boat Club citations 
By TERESA FRAUSI I 
Av1u1.1.1te ~,:w~ t,titm 
Ov.-r 200 Notn· Danw and Saint :Vlary's studPnts arn each bdng-sLwd for $J,OOO plus court i'PPS for lwing cil,•d during thP .Ian. 24 policl' mid of Tlw Boat 
!:lub. 
i\ copy of a caus1i oblainml by Tlw ObsNvPr stated that th(1 "l><d'11 1Hla11l knowingly mad(\ f'alsP stall'llinlllS ... or tlwir agn l'or purpos1•s of' inducing Plaintiff to allow lfrf1•1Hlanl to gain c1d111ission to defendant's busi­11nss 1istablishme11t ... landl Llw Plaintiff has sustained damages. expenses, losses, cost.-; and attor­ney fons dtH~ to the fraudulent actions ol'the Defendant." 
The suits am each being brought individually by the Millenium Club. although it is unclear huw that organization is conncctiicl with The Boat Club. 
Thn students receiving sum­mons wen~ ussignod a time for a court hearing and wern instruct­ed to appear at the Srnall Claims Division of' the St. Joseph Superior Court. 
Whilo several Boat Club employees conlirmed that Mike McNeff, the owner of The Boat Club at tho time of the raid. is still the owner of the bar, the cause stated that the "Plantiff ... upcrates a restauranUtavern at 106 North llill, South Bend," which is The Boat Club's address. 
However, neither McNeff nor Boat Club managers returned repeated phone calls seeking comment. 
Mitchell Jleppenhcimer, the 

attorney representing the Millenium Club. did not return phone calls seeking comnwnt. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said that Notrn Dame will provide some guidance to the students receiving court Sl\m­mons. 
"We do plan to refer sludcnts, through Student Affairs .. to appropriate resources, primarily local attornevs," Brown said. 
One student who received a court summons said he ques­tioned the validity of the law• suits. 
'Tm shocked," said freshman Evan Walsh, who was cited in the raid. "I think it's a very poor case. I don't sec it having any success." Walsh said he would also be looking inlo retaining a local attorney. 
In the Jan. 24 raid, 213 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were cited tor the Class C felony "Minor in a Tavern." Notre Dame students also received sanctions from the Ollice or Hcsidence Life. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at 
tfralish@nd.edu 


Chris Matthews spoke at Stepan Center Wednesday as part of the college tour for MSNBC's "Hardball." Over 1,000 people attended the hour-long llve program featuring Arizona Senator John McCain. 
McCain, Matthews visit campus 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
MSNBC's '"I lardball with Chris M,1Ulwws" was 1.e!Pvised live from Notre Dame's St1•pan Center Wcdnnsday and over 1,000 slu­ciPnls and community members atlend<'d Lhe show Lhat allowed Lhem to int<!ract with Sen. John McCain (H-i\riz.l. the show's guest. 
Tlw hour-long show featured McCain's views on foreign policy following the U.S. victory in the war in lrnq. McCain is a former Vietnam pri<;oner of war and sup­ported tfw war in Iraq. 
"I think thn President ha.s done a great job leading the country. don't you all'l" McCain asked. 
"ISaddam'sl crimes are up there with the worst in history," he said. 
McCain said the victory in Iraq does not signal an end to the war on terrorism, however. 
'The war on terrorism will go on for a long time, as long as there are Arab men on the streets without jobs Ithat can be recruit­ed to hate America]," said McCain. "We will have a breeding ground for terrorists." 
The format of the show allowed McCain to respond mostly to Matthews' questions, although students also had the opportunity to ask McCain questions. 
One student asked McCain what would happen ii' the Shiite Muslim majority was to win an election in Iraq and try to create a theocracy similar to the one in Jran. 
"That would be a bad out­come," McCain said. "It is a com­plicated situation -the people have never known democracy. The country's lines were drawn in the sand by a British colonel in a tent at the end ofWorld War IL" 
The Senator also spoke about the post-war reconstruction of Iraq. 
"I said the war would be quick, but I never said the post war peri­od would be easy," he said. "We need help l'rom every nation in Europe and the world." 
McCain minimized the rm the media has presented between Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfcld and Secretary or State 
see HARDBALL/page 9 

ACADEMIC COUNCIL 


Group discusses salary equity 
By KATE NAGENGAST Sc·nior Staff Wrim 
Thn Univcrsity-Acaclmuic Council h<•ld il-; final meeting of tlm acadP­mic ynar Wcdrwsday and dis­cussed ,istablishing a commitlt>t' lo I\X,t1llinc salary equity at Notre I)anw. 
/\!though Lhc Council tabled its tinal d<icL<;ion about whelhcr or not to estnblLc.;h such a committl'c until next fall, the proposal, presented by the Council's Faculty Affairs Subcommittee Salary Disclosure Group, was debated by Council members, somn of whom suggest­Pd the that the committee proposal clcscribns L,; too vaguely defined to be clfoctive in practice. 
i\ccounting professor Tom Frncka, finance professor John Alllnck-Craves and economics pro­fessor Teresa Ghilarducci, who was unabln to attend Wednesday's meeting, comprise the Salary Disclosure Group. 
Frccka said the Group was split 2-1 against full disclosure of faculty salaries and thus decided to exam­ine the fairness of the processes the University uses to address salary issues instead. The Group's proposal recommends that a Salary Equity Committee, estab­lished by the Provost's Advisory 
see COUNCIL/page 9 

ND wo111en faculty express tenure concerns 
Editor's note: This is the sec­them. We should hire the very ond in a three-parl sf:'ries luok­best people and give tlwm the ing into the issues that face support to make it happen." female faculty members at Part of allowing them to Notre Dame. make it happen. Sayers said, is 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 

In 2001, women made up 42 percent of all tenure-track professors at Notre Dame, but many female professors worry that some figures can be deceiving. 
"We have a lot of women, but what people don't realize is that we're still behind," English professor Valerie Sayers said. rel'erring to the only 18 percent of female fac­ulty who hold tenured posi­tions. 
Sayers, who was initially hired as an associate professor 10 years ago and tenured after two years of teaching at Notre Dame in a practice that is rare but possible in the hiring of already-senior faculty, expressed her relief that she was initially hired with the understanding that she would be quickly promoted to a tenured status. 
"I haven't had to go through the agony that my non­tenured colleagues have gone through," she said. "A univer­sity like Notre Dame should have a commitment to acade­mic justice -they should hire people they feel completely capable of tenure, and support to let tenure-track faculty know where thl'y stand before decision time rolls around. 
The majority of tenure-track faculty, officially deemed "teaching and research facul­ty," sign a three-year contract when they are hired, with the understanding that their per­formance will be reviewed at the end of that period, during which a decision is made to either oiler another three-year contract or terminate the can­didate's employment. 
Tenure decisions are made after the second three-year term. when faculty members submit a tenure packet of specified materials to their respective department's Committee on Appointments and Promotion. comprised of the applicant's peers. The CAP reviews all materials, includ­ing outside reviews of' research, TCEs and adminis­trative and committee work, called "service." The CAP sub­sequently votes as to whether or not the faculty member should be considered for tenure. 
The results arc submitted as a recommendation to the department chair, and the same process is continued through the relevant college's 
see TENURE/pagr 6 

ND Tenure Statt1s 
>­

Mt-n Tern11ed 
:i­

M.-n Or. Traci, 
~ 

Wome-n Tenured
u. 

WomenOnT111C!< 0 
'+­
.... 
-25 
E 
:J 
z 

·aa '89 ·90 91 '92 •93 ·94 •95 ·9s '97 ·9a ·99 ·oo ·01 
Year 


Thursday, April 24, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Getting a fake ID? 
"Don't you have a fake ID yet?" 
When your 56 year-old mother who epitomizes the term "conservative" asks you this in your last phone conversation. things are bad. 
As a junior whose 

Anneliese
Zlsl birthday 

Woolford
doesn't come until November ofmy senior year (pity Saint Mary's wouJd be an appro­Editor priate emotion right about now). I have yet to get a fake. 
Weekends are becoming a bit of an old habit and a good fake is somehow diffi­cult for a blonde to fmd. Believe me, I've been looking. 
Out ofmy group offriends, I am the last to become legal. It started with the first of 12 to reach that breakthrough age last Oclober. Since then, the pro­gression has been rapid. 
Thank God I made it to Boat Chili with a borrowed ID first semester before it got busted. The joy of discovering 51 pitchers made the adventure somewhat worthwhile -a pitcher was glued to my side the entire night. 
Other than that and screaming my lungs out to Bon Jovi's "Llvin' on a Prayer," the experience was nothing like I had imagined. Searching for friends amidst the crowd, weak drinks, waiting in line for a bathroom ,vith no toilet paper and pushing townies away from dancing with me was, in my opinion, not worth it. 
Of course now that they are legal, almost evervone I know whether at Notre Darn~ or Saint Marv's has moved on to bigger and better things. 
v\'hile they're out socializing at Corby's or Heartland, I'm stuck desperately call­ing those few friends I have who are in the same position as myself. Three-quar­ters ofthe time, we are unsuccessful in the search for a decent party and make a run to Blockbuster. 
I recently wrote an article including a freshman's complaint about the lack of social life on either ofthese campuses. It's pathetic that. being a junior, I'd have to agree ,.,ith her. 
Other college campuses are different. If you don't believe me, visit one, espe­cially a state school. Whether it be at a fraternity or sorority house or student apartment, there is almost always some­thing happening off-campus aside from the bar scene. 
I visit my high school friends at col­leges and universities in Michigan. and they're content sitting around with friends drinking, maybe dancing or maybe watching TV Why isn't that the case here? 
I'm not accepting the excuse that it's a Michigan thing. 
I understand the problem for students living on-campus; there's not much you can do because of the alcohol policies. For those ofyou off-campus, I see no policy holding you back. Getting a cover for beer expense seems to be no prob­lem. 
Instead ofbeing so dependant on bars, there should be a compromise every once in awhile. 
· Now that nice weather has finally arrived, maybe take into coru.ideration those stuck in my positio n-at least until November. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Cvntacl Anneliese Woolford at woolR338@saintmarys.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i rself as ,1 professional publica­rion and suivcs for the highest standards uf Journal­ism ar all rimes. We <lo, however, recognize thar we will male~ mistakes. [f we have made a mistake, pl~~se wntacr us at 631-454 l so we can 
correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VlEWPOlNT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Scene reviews 
Baseball honorary 
Arafat, Abbas Oil production ND seniorND names 10 
defeats degree 
plan for new resumes in considers life 'Real Girls' 
Cleveland recipients 
and 'PhonePalestinian Iraq after after StateBooth'cabinet wartime halt graduation 
'Real Girls' scores 
The Irish defeat­will award hon­
Engineers pre­Viewpoint
The _Universvity 
Yasser Arafat four and a half 

ed the Vikings 13-1 orary doctorate 
pared Wednesday columnist Andrew
and Mahoud 

at Frank Eck degrees at 
shamrocks while
to begin operating Deberry looks
Abbas moved for­

'Phone Booth' 
Stadium Commencement 
Irag's oil wells back on his four
ward Wednesday 

Wednesday. exercises in May. 
scores four sham­
again for the first years at Notre
with plans for a 

rocks. 
Palestinian cabinet. 

time since the war Dame and the
reorganized 

began. friendships he has 
developed. 
page 14

page 7 page 12
page 4 

page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ NO 
. Baseball vs. IUPU-Fort Wavne 
5 p.m. at FHranck Eck Stadium 
. 
"Unfair Competition" sponsored by ND Cinema 7 p.m. at Ilesburgh Library Auditorium 

. 
Glee Club Concert 


8:15 p.m. at Sacred Heart 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Activities Board SMC Tostal Spring Festival 3 p.m. at Library Green 

. 
SMC Tostal Band Shaking Tree 

5:30 p.m. at Library Green 

. 
ECDC Staff Meeting 6 p.m. at Early Childhood Development Center 


WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Zahm student finds University 


street sign 
A Zahm Hall student notified NDSP Wednesday that he discovered a University street sign in his room. The sign was transported to the Security Building for safekeeping. 
Intoxication,. possession of hard 

alcohol yielo citations 
NDSP issued University citations for public intoxication and possession of hard alcohol in Siegfried Hall Wednesday. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
NDSP issues two minor in 
consumption citations 
NDSP gave two University citations for minor in consumption of alcohol in Howard and Badin Halls Wednesday. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
-Compiled from NDSP crime blotter 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Meatloaf, scalloped corn casserole, brown sauce, chicken gravy. whipped potatoes, petite carrots in honey-orange sauce. cherry cobbler, grilled tilapia, potatoes with spinach, baked potatoes, broccoli spears, oat­meal, sausage patties, scrambled eggs, fried potato triangles, steakhouse fries, Szechuan vegetable stir-fry 
Today's Dinner: Roast top sirloin, zum zum potato salad, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, peas and pearl onions, cherry cobbler, lemon-baked perch, rice valencienne, curried vegeta­bles, cut corn, sliced carrots. broccoli, baked potatoes, curly-q seasoned fries South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Cheese and veg­etable pie, winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, Cajun-baked pollock, roast top round, baked sweet potatoes. whipped potatoes, long grain and wild rice, cut corn, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, peas, cut green beans, grilled 
ham and cheese on white bread, steak­house fries, soft pretzels 
Today's Dinner: Potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, beef-stuffed peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast, whipped potatoes. baked sweet potatoes, cut corn, bread stuffing, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, peas. cut green beans 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu available. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
% 
~ 
LLI 

== 
..J 


~ 
<C 

•
(.) 

0 -'  HIGH  63  HIGH  43  HIGH  59  HIGH  62  HIGH  67  HIGH  75  
LOW  40  LOW  40  LOW  40  LOW  42  LOW  47  LOW  55  
Atlanta  68 I 54 Boston  54 / 42 Chicago 58 / 40 Denver 58 / 40  Houston 81 / 63 Los Angeles 66 / 54 Minneapolis 58 / 40  

New York 64 / 48 Philadelphia 66 / 44 Phoenix 83 / 60 Seattle 54 / 42 St. Louis 66 I 51 Tampa 81 / 69 Washington 68 / 48 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Anthropologist pens novel on genocide 

,\ 111'\I hook liy llniV!'rsity ol' Not I'<' !);i lllf' an Lhropologisl \'irtoriil Sanliird lran:s th(' sur­vival of \lava vi!'lims ol' lll!' (;ual1·111alati gP1wridl' in tlw l1iSOs. 
l'ublisl11•d by Palgravc• l\forntillan, "Buril'd S<'crl'ts: Tru ti! ancl I !u man High ls in <;ual<'llHtla" was n•lnaS(\d this 111011th anti is availabl<• in book­ston•s and onlirw. 
B1:l\,\"t'Pll till' lat,• 1970s and lh!' latn I IJ80s (;uat1•rnala was Lorn by cxtn·mc slatP violence agninst flw Maya. 
Massacn·s in <>2b rnmmuni­tins ldt morn than 200,000 
l\'1aya dt•ad in a campaign of Lnror 110w t1tlribulcd lo tile 1;uat1•111alan military and n:1'1:rn•d to as "genocidal acts" by lhn (;uatc-111ala11 Truth ( :mnmission. 
Mor(' than I(,() ('Xhumations 11 l rlunrlcsli1w n•mctPrins hav!' now IH·<·n co1Hlurl<'d in an 1•lforl lO help bring truth. justicP 
and  community healing  to  
Maya survivors.  
"Victoria Sanford IPads  us  

into a powerl'ul and lwartbn•ak­ing history ul" testimonies," said Michael Ondaalje, author ol' "The English l'atiPnt." "lier journey into this war zone -a world normally depicted by men -is clear-eyed, haunting and, above all. close Lo the ground." 
'v\'orking directly with a team of fort'llsic anthropologists since 11JCJ4, Sanford helped ,~xhunw skPll'lons. took li'slimonies from some 400 survivors and workPd on a r<'fJmt Lo the Guatemalan Truth Commission. The anthro­pologists continue to receive dPath thn•als as tlwy uncover 1·\id1•JJu' for legal cases against prcsPnf and l"ornwr leaders of c;uawmala. To date, no one who ordon!d thmm mass killings has bnl'n prnsl'cutnd. 
'" ll urind SucrnLi;' is signHkant because i.t ch:monstratm; quite clearly why what happened in Cuat11mala was a genocide committee! by the army," Sanf'ord said. "The book was V<'ry painful to write. The sur­vivors trustccl me with their sto­ries. The 1m10tiona! weight and moral responsibility were, at times. overwhelming." 
In addition lo Sanford's testi­111011 ial narrative, "Buried Sc•crc•ts" includes intnrvicws with members of' the forensic team. human rights leaders. high-ranking military ofTiccrs, guerrilla combatants and gov­nrnment ollicials. 
Sanford, an assistant profes­sor of anthropology and a facul­ty follow in th<! Kroc fnstitutc for lntnrnational Peace Studies at Notre Dame. joined the University's faculty in 2000 af'Ler previously teaching and conducting research at Stanford University. She has served as a Bunting Peace Fellow at 1larvard's Radclilfo Institute for Advanced Studies, a Kellogg Fellow at Notre Dame and a Hockel'cller Fellow at the Virginia Foundation for the Ilumanities. She has worked with Maya refugees since 1986 and in Maya communities since 
1993.  In  addition,  she  co­ 
authored  the  Guatemalan  
Forensic  Anthropology  

Foundation's report to the Commission for llistorical Clarification. 
John I toward Yoder l)ialogues on 
DANCING DILLON DUDE 


College supports essay contest 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students announced the winners of the Women's History Month Essay Contest, which they helped to sponsor, at a reception held Tuesday night at the College. 
Students were asked to write 500-word essays on the theme "Women Pioneering the Future." 
The contest was open to all mid­dle and high school students in the Michiana area and was sponsored by The South Bend Tribune's "Newspapers in Education" pro­gram and the womens studies program at the College. 
Although The South Bend Tribune held the contest last year, 


Nonviolence, Religion and Peace \ 


Gandhi's Non-Violence: 
The Political Dilemmas of a Religious Vision 





Judith M. Brown 
l3eit r>rofessor of Commonwealth History University of Oxford 
Friday, April 25, 11 a.m. •2 p.m. Lecture -· Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium Buffet Luncheon and Dialogue• Hesburgh Center 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
it was not very well received by 
students in the area. 

"Last year, information was sent 
to local middle and high schools, 
but zero entries were received," 
said Astrid Henry, womens studies 
professor. "After Saint Mary's 
became involved. I gathered 25 or 
my students to go around to the 
schools to give presentations on 
women's history." 

The winners gave interactive presentations on the advance­ments women have made in busi­ness, politics and other profession­al arenas. Presentations also included discussions with the stu­dents. Topics included the lack of women directors in Hollywood and the small number of minority politicians. 
Sophomore Leah Gillock gave a presentation and also judged the entries. 
"I was surprised at how knowl­edgeable the students were," said Gillock. "They were able to give us a lot of good examples of women they could look up to for represen­tation." 
The students that Henry gath­ered then began the process of judging the 240 entries. 
"All of the essays were wonder­ful, but it was the students who put passion as opposed to statistics 
into their essays that caught my 
attention," said Gillock. 

Katherine Perkins, a high school sophomore. won first place for an essay about her mother. Perkins was unable to attend the reception but will receive a $200 savings bond. 
Jeanie Clement, a junior at Edwardsburg Iligh School. won second place and a $100 savings bond. Clement first heard about the contest from her high school publication adviser. 
"I wrote about Golda Mayer because she represents who I am as a woman," said Clement. "She helped lead the world to believe what she was passionate about, and I admire that." 
The purpose of the essay contest was to promote Women's History Month and to make students aware of women's accomplish­ments throughout history. orga­nizers said. 
"There is little information about women's history in high school text books," said Henry. "It's important to make students aware of women's accomplishments at a younger age in order to get them interested." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saoud0303@saintmarys.edu 

Proudly Presents 

The RecSpys 
"Notre Dame's annual campus sports awards" 
•....•••.••..••..••••....••...••.......•.....•• 
Vote online April 21-25 at www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 
For more information about each candidate, please visit the voting website. All RecSpys will be presented a1 the Dinner of Champions on :Vlay I 
Attendance is by invitation only. 
Umleri:rnduale Female of the Year 
Abbey Coons -PE Erin Nasrallah -Lewis Jenny Yee -Welsh Family 
Grad/Fae/Staff Male of the Year 
Carlos Abeyta Steve L1ckus Eric Woodward 

'Cnderi:raduate Male of the Year 
Bill Bingle -Siegfried Dave Marques -Stanford James Waechter -Keough 
Team of the Year Farley Football St. Ed's Baseball Vanilla Thunda 
Grad/Fae/Staff Female of the Year 
Jill Bodensteiner Alison Dekoschak Schalyn Hin1 
E.ans ofJhc Yt•ill" Fisher Hocke) P\V Basketball Siegfried Football 
Game of the Year 
Alumni v. Keenan -Men's Soccer Championship Cavanaugh v. Welsh Family -Flag Football Playoffs Studs & Chicks ~·-Knights of the Court -CoRec Volleyball Playoffs 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, April 24, 2003 

States face $21 billion in budget shortfalls 
Associated Press 

With only a few months left to patch up their tattered bud­gets, more than half the states still have shortfalls -totaling $21 billion nationwide -and two-thirds report they are out­spending their already scaled­back plans. 
A report released Thursday by the National Conference of State Legislatures found that despite cuts, layoffs and tax increases, states continue to suffer severe financial difficul­ties for the third straight year. 
And if April tax returns fail to provide a boost -which is what happened last year ­"this could throw precariously balanced ... budgets into a tail­spin," the new report said. States "are far from turning the corner on budget prob­lems." 
There is a bit of good news; The overall gap between the money that states are bringing in and what they're spending has narrowed. Nationwide, the total deficit dropped from $25. 7 billion three months ago to $21.5 billion this month, the report said. 
"I'm sensing more hope," said Scott Pattison, executive director of the National Association for State Budget Officers. 
But serious problems remain as most states face an end-of­June deadline for lawmakers and governors to pass a bud­get: 
. 27 states still have budget shortfalls, with 13 of them greater than 5 percent of their total state budget. 
. 
Spending is outpacing bud­get plans in 34 states; 28 of them say Medicaid or health care programs are to blame, at least in part. 

. 
37 states said their already low expectations for tax and other revenue were too opti­mistic and they've failed to meet their goals. 


"Right now, we're hoping that we're just bumping along the bottom," said Marty Brown, Washington state's budget director. "Our forecast­ers sav it'll be at least much of a year before WC get ... an improvement in our economy." 
For the states that rely on income taxes, this month is critical. Throughout the coun­try, personal income taxes pro­vide 3 7 percent of state rev­enues. 
"This tends to be the sort of make-or-break, whether states reach their revenue estimates or not," said analvst Nicholas Jenny at the Nelson Rockefeller lnstitute of Government in Albany, N.Y. 
Last year's April returns were as much as 25 percent lower than the previous year's, and it essentially made a bad situation much, much worse," Jenny said. 
So far, states have made sweeping efforts to rein in spending, the report found. 
Nearly half the states are considering significant cuts for K-12 education, while 26 states are looking for savings in higher education, with most weighing tuition hikes. More than half the states are seeking to curb Medicaid costs; 19 states are seeking cuts in their prison budgets. 
~laVIE~ 
presents 



SMC athletic director wins award 
practice. In 1976 she played onBy MEGAN O'NEIL the school's national women's
N~ws Writer 

team and later became team cap­tain. 
Lvnn Kachmarik, athletic direc­At the time Kachmarik was one tor·at Saint Mary's, will become of few women playing water polo. 
the first woman inducted into the "I had all male coaches and no 
Collegiate Water Polo female role models," Kachmarik Association's Ilall of Fame. 
said. "I was lucky. I had a coach Ceremonies will be held today at who treated men and woman the 
the Women's same. He 

Eastern 

em pow­
Championship 

"Over my tenure we went e r e d 
Awards Banquet 

woman
from playing at
at Harvard when that 

University. international tournaments 
was simply
The associa­

to world championships. not going
tion's surprise 

on." 
phone call !n 1984 

informing her of Lynn Kachmarlk 
she was 
the award took Saint Mary's Athletic Director 
hired by
her back to her playing and coaching days, said Kachmarik. 
"Honestly, I don't think about my water polo playing days a lot. My kids don't even know about it really. It gave me the opportunity to look back and remember those good times," said Kachmarik. "It was a very big part ofmy past." 
Kachmarik first encountered water polo as a high school senior at her swim club in Philadelphia, Pa. 
"This coach decided to intro­duce us to the sport of water polo as a way to give us conditioning prior to the beginning of our long swim season," Kachmarik said. "It took me about ten minutes of our first practice to fall in love with this new sport." 
Water polo was played nearly exclusively on the West coast in the United States in the 1970s. However, Kachmarik was deter­mined to play water polo in col­lege and enlisted the help of her guidance counselor to find a school with a program. 
Kachmarik eventually chose Slippery Rock University and spent her time there in rigorous 
BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE 


ime Correction: 
THURSDAY 
10:00PM 
Friday & Saturday 8 and 10:30 PM 
101 DeBartolo Hall $3 
Bucknell 
University as head coach of the men's water polo team and at the time she was the only female head coach of any NCAA men's team. She was later named head of the Bucknell men's swim team. 
Kachmarik and her teammates watched water polo fwolve from an obscure game to a respected 
OPEN 
LUNCH 

DISCUSSION sport were able to play a major role in that change. 
"Over my tenure we went from playing at international tourna­ments to world championships. The only thing we didn't achieve was Olympic team status," she said. 
Water polo first became an Olympic sport at the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, Australia. The team included Kachmarik's l'ormer teammate Maureen O'Toole. 
Kachmarik has served as the athletic director at Saint Mary's since 1999. She said that the sole­ly female atmosphere was very different at first and threw her off balance initially. 
"Now I have the opportunity to go and impact the lives of women," she said. 
Kachmarik hopes to eventually start a water polo team at Saint Mary's. 
"The day we open our new aquatic facility is the day we start women's water polo," she said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


on the WAR in Iraq 
South Dining Hall, Hospitality Room 
THURSDAYS in April llam-2pm 
April 24 
Get lunch as usual and enter this forum where you can Jump in a conversation exclusively about the war 
Brought to you by the Center for Social Concerns and Student Government Contact: Peter Quaranto ( ) or Andrew DeBerry (adeberry@nd.edu) 

Come To A FREE 
VEGETARIAN DINNER 
During Earth Week 
~~ 
Featuring veggie burgers and hotdogs, lasagna, deserts, and morel 
When: Thurs. April 24th Time: 7:00 Where: Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Going vegetarian is the best thing you can 
do to help ~vironment! 
Sponsored by Students for Environmental Action, ND for Animals, and Lewis Hall 





WORLD AND NATION 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER wnm SERVICES page 5 
WEST BANK 
Abbas, Arafat announce formation of new Cabinet 
HAMAL! !\II 

'r'.lss<'r l\rafol and bis prinw minisll'r-dPsig11aL1•. Mahmoud .\blms. <11Hlt•rl Lht>ir llilt<'r stand­off ovnr Lill' ro111posilio11 ol' a iww Cabinnl on WPdrwsdav, rlt•,tring Llw way for a n/w Mi(kast 1wac:ci initiativ(i backnd hy Washington. 
Tlw loug-awailt!d "road map" holds out llw prospect of f\llding ] 1 111011 ths of' lsnwli-l'ales1.inian fighting and establishing a l'al<!stinian statu. !t also would rPspond lo prnssure on the llnitNI Slates by Arab and fa1rnpn.111 rnun tr ins lo pronww MidPast p1\ac11 ut a time wlwn ils troops occupy Iraq. 
Ttw Unitml Stalns and lsnwl havn boycoltl>d /\rafaL, accusing him of' links to tnrrorism. l'r1•siclP11l Bush said lw would unvl'il tht> plan only af'Lpr ttw l'orrnal t!StablislrnH•nt of" i\bbas· govnrnmt•nt -which U.S. and lsra!'li ol'fil·ials hopP will amount to a nwans of sidtdining /\rat'at. 
"When that happens we will officially provide the road map to the parties soon tlrnrt>aftPr," White llousc press sccrclary Ari filnischnr said Wt\dncsdav. 
Wedrwsday's deal was made possible when /\rafat backer! down undn intcrnw intcrna­lional pressuro and withdrew his chall<'nge to /\bbas' security team in nxchangn !'or a promise Im would be consulted on major decisions -including, presum­ably, a crackdown on l'a!cstinian militias. 
Israeli Primo Minister Ariel Sharon responded cautiously Wcdrwsday night. saying only lhal it was. "o!' course, verv important that on the other sido there should be a person whose wish is for an end to terror and f'or pnacc." Israel, he said, "will make every ('('fort to reach a diplomatic agreement Lhal, God willing, will lead t.o peace." 
lkputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmcrt said "one should judge the deeds and not the declara­tions." 
"We have to wail and see if tlw nmv Cabinet will, in fact, be sworn in and how it will act, taking into account Arafat's staunch resistance to it and his capacity lo undermine any process of reform," he told CNN. 


U.S. captures top Iraqi officials 
Associated Press 
WASl!INGTON 

/\merican forces in Iraq captured four top officials of Saddam llusscin's former governmcint Wcdncsclay, including th(! air defense force commander and the l'ornwr head of military intcl­lig1•11ce. 
Tiw higlwst-ranking o!Ti­c:ial in thn group is Muzahirn Sa'b llassan al-Tikriti, who hPaded Iraq's air defonscs under Saddam. Ile was No. IO on tlw U.S. list ol' the top :,5 most wanted officials from Saddam's regime and the quer.n ol' diamonds in the mililary's deck of playing rnrds !isling those oflicials. 
/\1-Tikriti, who was from 
Saddam's ho mu town clan which made up much or the former Iraqi inner circle, also reportedly helped train the paramilitary Fedayeen Saddam forces. U.S. officials have accused Fedayeen forces or committing war crimes including using civil­ians as human shields and killing Iraqis who wanted lo surrender. 
Pentagon officials said Wednesday it was too early to determine whether any uf the officials would be tried for war crimes or other vio­lations of inlornalional law. 
The latest captures bring to l'I the number of top for­mer Iraqi officials in U.S. custody. Another three in the top 55 are believed to have been killed, Pentagon offi­

cials say. 
Gen. Zuhayr Talib Abd al­Sattar al-Naqib, the former head of the Directorate of Military Intelligence, surren­dered to U.S. troops Wednesday, a senior Pentagon official said. 
The directorate monitored the loyalty of Iraq's regular army, provided security at Iraqi military facilities and collected intelligence on mil­itary forces opposing Iraq. The Pentagon official said Naqib's American equivalent would be the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. 
Naqib was No. 21 on the 55 most wanted list and was the seven of hearts in the deck of cards produced by the U.S. military with pictures of Saddam's associates. 
Media, soliders s-wipe Iraqi cash, artifacts 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Members of the news media and U.S. soldiers are being investigated for taking art, artifacts, weapons and cash from Iraq, with criminal charges already brought in one case, federal officials said Wednesday. 
At least 15 paintings, gold­plated firearms, ornamental knives, Iraqi government bonds and other items have been seized at airports in Washington, Boston and London in the last week, according to the bureaus of 

Customs and Border Protection and of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. 
None of the items displayed at a news conference were priceless antiquities looted from Iraqi museums. Still, Customs and military officials stressed there will be no tol­erance for American service personnel or civilians bring­ing Iraqi souvenirs or war tro­phies back to the United States. 
"This is theft," said Jayson Ahern, a senior field opera­tions official at the Customs and Border Protection bureau. "We are there to lib­erate. This must cease." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Beijing schools close for two weeks 
China ordernd all public schools in its capital closed WPdrwsday. l11avi11g almost 2 million students to study at honw following a major jump in the m11n­bcr nl' re ported Si\HS cases in the city. Tbe rise in SAHS cases in China and Canada led the World l11:alth Organi1atinn on Wednesday to warn against u111wc:1•ssary trav1d to parts of' China and Toronto, ,•,twrn ol'licials said tlw advisory was not warranted bccausc1 lh<' disc1as(: is being brought under control. 
Afghan soliders battle Taliban fighters 
Afghan sulditm.; batlll'<I suspPctnd Taliban fighters Wndiwsday, trading mortar and roclwt firo across thP Afghan-Pakistan lwrd1:r, an Afghan commander said Tlwr.-wnro no i11111rndiale roports or casual­ties. The ball!!'. c,t11Hi as Afghan President llarnid Karzai was 011 a two-day state visit to Pakistan, when: he said Wednesday he would give Pakistan a "most-wantNI" list of Taliban f'ugitives. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush meets with Uruguay's leader 
Not a member of President Bush's "coalition of the willing" on Iraq, Uruguay President Jorge Batlle on Wednesday offered the United States help with post­war humanitarian aid. The two leaders, meeting in the Oval Office for about 40 minutes, also agreed on cfforL-; lo expand trade between their countries. The Bush administration is involved in 34-nation talks to create the world's largest free trade zone, covering lhc Western Ilcmisphcre. 
Feds, judge disagree on proceedings /\ federal judge gave terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui the right to question a senior al-Qaida captive in a closed-circuit hookup but the government says the judge cannot legally do so, according to a Justice Ucpartmcnt pleading released Wednesday. The order would be a boon to terrorism defen­dants if allowed to stand. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man killed when car rolls over him 
An Indiana man was killed when the sport utility vehicle he was riding in ran olT Interstate 74 and rolled over him early Wednesday. The driver lost control of the 1999 Isuzu Hodeo at about 1 a.m. and it ran olT the highway's westbound lanes, hit several trees and rolled over, ejecting passenger Mark Orschell, Hamilton County sheritrs olTicers said. Ofiiccrs said that Orschcll. 21, of West llarrison. Ind., was dead at the sc1me. 
Michigan City school principal resigns 
An elemr.ntary school principal criticized for dressing up antl acting as an Iraqi ol11cial during teievL,;ed school announcements has resigned. Coolspring Elementary School Principal Ken Hohrer's resignation was accepted Tuesday by the board of the Michigan City Area Schools. Rohrer came under fire following an incident on April 11 in which ho dressed up as an Iraqi, and made announcements over the school's closed-circuit tele­vision system. 
-----------------------------------------------------. 
page 6 Thursday, April 24, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Service is loosely defined as pie who ask their junior col­service is a problem, adding Provost Nathan Hatch said he 
committee or administrative leagues to perform specific ser­that, for whatever reason, has made recommendations to




Tenure 
continued from page 1 
dean, the Provost's Advisory Council, the provost himself and ultimately the final decision to grant or deny tenure remains i.n the hands of the president of the University. 
University policy mandates the evaluation of teaching, resean;h and st>rvice on an equal scale, but as to whether the letter of the law is put into practice, Sayers is doubtful. 
"Service," she said, "can actu­ally count against women at tenure time. Certainly what I've observed at Notre Dame is that women in administrative jobs have been very time-intensive in people-to-people interaction. They're very generous with their time, especially with students. Unfortunately, when it comes to tenure. time spent with under­grads is not as important as time spent finding the right pub­lisher for vour book." 
All tcm_;,rcd and tenure-track faculty are required to perform some service to the University in addition to their teaching and research obligations. 
work and i.s often requested by department chairs or senior fac­ulty. 
One professor said that a University mandate requiring every University committee to include at least one woman, while well-meaning in its inten­tions, has only spread the female faculty unreasonably thin. 
"There arc not very many women in the departments," she said. "Departments. on the out­side, want to look gender bal­anced, and ask their junior fac­ulty to perform sen•ice. The bur­den is going to fall dispropor­tionately on women. The women on these committees are often ... falling behind in the research that they will eventually need to get tenured." 
A number of professors said that it is basically understood within departments that every junior faculty member will, at one time or another, serve in an administrative capacity or do substantial amounts of commit­tee work. 
The fact that department chairs and senior faculty within departments are often the pco­vice tasks puts many tenure­track faculty in an uncomfort­able situation. 

"It's hard to sav no," eco­noinics profes­sor Ten~sa Ghilarducci said. "Thero's a perception that you're not being colle­gial." 
"Unfortunately. when it comes to tenure, time spent with undergrads is not as important as time spent finding the right publisher for your book. 
Valerie Sayers Associate Professor of English 

She added that the issue of ment. 
women are often called upon more frequently than men to serve in a capacity that deals directly with stu­dents, a task t h a t inevitably requires a considerable time commit-college deans regarding lighten­ing the burden of' service placed on junior faculty members. 

"We've pressured [deans! from this ofTice that junior facul­ty should be free from heavy service requirements." he said. "I think we've tried to be atten­tive to that issue. of junior facul­ty and service demands ... I think it's understood that bcforn tenure, people's job is teaching and research." 
Contact Mcghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 
National Average of \Von1en Earning Ph.D. . s 
Arts and Letters Business Engineering Science 
Total 
vs. \Vomen Faculty at ND 
Difference 




Notre Dame awards honorary degrees to 10 recipients 
By NICOLA BUNICK 
News Writer 
Ten distinguished individu­als will receive honorary degrees from the University during the May 18 Commencement ceremony. 
In addition to Senator Richard Lugar, R-lnd., who 
will be the principal speaker at the Commencement, nine other individuals will be hon­ored with doctor of laws, let­ters and engineering degrees. 
This year's recipients include Kathleen Andrews, a member of the Board of Trustees, University fellow and director of the Andrews McMeel Universal Foundation; 




Andrews Broad 





Chamblee Hu-DeHart Mandelbaum 




Robertson Scirica Yzaguirre 


Molly Broad, the president of the University of North Carolina; Roland Chamblee, a South Bend physician; Evelyn Hu-DeHart, Brown University history professor; Allen Mandelbaum, an internation­ally acclaimed scholar on Dante; Leslie Robertson, one of the lead structural engi­neers for the World Trade Center; Cardinal Oscar Maradiaga, the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras and well known human rights 
activist; Anthony Scirica, a judge of tho Third Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals; and Raul Yzaguirre, a civil rights leader and president of the Hispanic organization National Council of La Raza. 
"In giving honorary degrees, the University seeks to honor a variety of people who have distinguished themselves in their various fields or endeav­ors," said Dennis Brown, a spokesman for the University. "[The degrees] provide an 

opportunity for us to recognize great achievements." 
Brown said that honorary degree recipients are seiectPd in a variety of ways. 
"Some people have worked with various members of' the University in the past," said Brown. "But the common point is that they have all made significant achievements in their selected fields." 
Contact Nicola Bunick at nbunick@nd.edu 

Domus 

PROPERTIES 



OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 2003-2004 2004-2005 

SCHOOI., YEAR 
VISirl, OUR WEBSlrl-,E A'l~ www.domuskramer.com 
ORCAI,L 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRA.MER 
O
TIIE 
BSERVER 
BUSINESS 
I'hursday, April 24, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 23 
DowJones 

8,515.66 +30.67
t:J 
NASDAQ 

1,466.16 ~ +14.80 
S&P500 

919.02 +7.65
tr 
AMEXe

853.88 +3 .08 
NYSE 

5.135.12 +33.31
tr 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +0. 30 +0.01 3. 37 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.5l+G.4$l$\48 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.07 +0.0114.33 
MICROSOFT CP {MSFT) ~0,08 ~a)$!2ii$~12 
NEXTEL COMMS (NXTL) +10.66 +l.32 13.67 
IN BRIEF 
Greenspan says he will accept offer 
/\Ian Grnc11spa11. expressing apprecialion for 
l'rcsid1•11t Bush's vote or confidence, says he is 
n!ady lo scrvP a fifth term as chairman of the 
F1~deral Hcsc1-vn. 
111 a brio!' stawmcnt Wednesday. Greenspan. 
77. said lw would accept Bush's nomination for another term ,L'i chairman. a position he has held sinui August 1987. 
"The presid,mt and I have not disrussed this, hut I greatly appreciate his confidence," Grnenspan said. "If President Bush nominates me and the Senate confirms me, I would have every intPntion of serving." 
Bush's annotmcement Tuesday that he believed Gn\cmspan was doing a good job and deserved another term came a lew hours before the Fed chairman underwent surgery to correct a non­cancProus rn1largcd prostate. 
Tho Fod said that Greenspan, who was treated for the samn condition in 1994, had returned honw Wednesday al'tcr an overnight hospital stay and planrwd to bH back at work later this week. 
Bechtel begins Iraq reconstruction 
Bechtel National Inc. is sending ships to survey and drndgc the southern Iraqi port city ol' Umm Qasr to make it uasier !'or humanitarian supplies lo get through, an t!arly stup toward rnbuilding the war-dam­aged country. 
Tim port work is the beginning of 11 mas­sive reconstruction projoct that could total ~%80 million over I H months and bring 11umorous subcontractors to Iraq under Bechtel's supervision. 
GP1inrators and other equipment are being 
1ssnmblcd. but the San Francisco-based Bcchwl must assess Iraq's needs before nwst construction can begin. company and gov­ernment officials said Wednesday. 
Companies interested in subrontract work, based all over the globe. are registering with Bechlnl through the company's Internet site. said company spokesman Howard Menaker. 
IRAQ 

Oil resumes flow with a trickle 
• One of Iraq's largest oil fields could reach prewar levels within weeks 
Associated P rcss 

BASHA 
Engineers began restoring the lifeblood of [raq's shat· tercd economy Wednesday. pumping crude oil for tho first time since tho war. Although the oil is not for nxport, the quick startup means one ot' Iraq's largest fields could be back to pre­war production levels within weeks. 
U.S. Brig. Gen. Robert Crear turned the tap at a storage facility outside the southern city of Basra and wutched as slick black crude dribbled from the spigot and oozed between his lingers. 
"Now we're in the oil busi­
ness," Crear said, laughing. 
The oil will be used for domestic production only, and the meager flow sprang from just four of hundreds of wells in Iraq's southern oil heartland. 
But the rekindled petrole­tun production is a sign that Iraq is already capitalizing on its biggest natural resource and top economic hope. 
Once transformed into refined products such as tions. Crear said it was signs they could start com­near a section of the fuel oil, the petroleum will unclear when exports might ing back soon. When back pipeline made it unfeasible. be distributed throughout resume. up, they can produce about Workers hope to clear away the southern part of the Any loss of oil from Iraq -900,000 of the 2.8 million the ordnance and get the country for use in vehicles, home to the world's second­total barrels. crude there by Saturday. power plants and genera­largest oil reserves -To reach those production It will take three days of tors, olTicials from the U.S. crimps supplies for import­levels again, experts esti­treatment to turn it into fuel. Army Corps of Engineers ing countries, including the mate it will cost between $3 "Our focus in restoring the said. United States, which gets 2 billion and $5 billion over oil is to give the biggest ben­
Twelve wellheads in the percent of its imported two years. efit to the Iraqi people. That Rumeila oil fields were crude from Iraq. U.S.-led teams of means restoring the infra­believed to have been sabo­Iraq shut down oil produc­American, British and Iraqi structure," Crear said. taged by retreating Iraqis, tion in mid-March ahead of oilhands tapped four wells It could take anywhere who blew up some and set the war. Before that, the Tuesday in the Rumeila from six weeks to almost fire to others. The fires are country was pumping field. On Wednesday, they four months to get the out, but workers are still around 2.8 million barrels a pumped the oil 38 miles Rumeila oil field back up to assessing which wellheads day, or 3 percent of global across the desert from a producing 1.1 million bar­can be salvaged. supplies. More than half gas-oil separation plant to rels a day, Crear said. 
Money from international came from the huge storage tanks just outside However, analyst Haad oil sales is expected to be Rumeila and other fields Basra to await refinement. Alkadiri of the Petroleum the major source of income near Basra. Engineers had hoped to Finance Co., a consulting to help Iraq rebuild after Oil fields near the north­pump the oil all the way to firm in Washington, called three wars and more than a ern town of Kirkuk are still the Basra refinery. but that forecast a "best-case decade of economic sane-shut down. though there are unexploded ordnance lying scenario." 

Investment banker faces charges 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
A former star investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston was arrested Wednesday on charges alleging he obstructed justice by directing other workers to destroy evidence. 
Frank Quattrone, 47. of Menlo Park, Calif.. was released on his own recognizance after a brief court appearance. He declined comment. 
His lawyer, John Keker, said Quattrone is innocent and called the government's evidence "pretty thin gruel" on which to base crimi­nal charges. 
U.S. Attorney James Corney said the charges of obstructing justice and witness tampering were a warning for anyone "throwing roadblocks in the way of the inves­tigators trying to find facts." 
"In the privacy of your office, you may think that no one will ever know. If you do that, you're playing with fire," he said. 
During the dot-com boom, Quattrone wielded enormous inllu­ence and his annual salary neared $100 million. He presided over lucrative initial public offerings of companies such as Amazon.com Inc. and Netscape Communications Corp. 

After the technology industry went bust in 2000, regulators and prosecutors took a closer look at the firm's !PO practices. 
Corney said that probe was ham­pered when Quattrone on Dec. 5, 2000, encouraged CSFB employees to clean out their files even though he had learned two days earlier that a grand jury and the SEC had asked for documents in those files. 
"Today, it's administrative house­keeping. In January, it could be improper destruction of evidence," warned an e-mail endorsed by Quattrone, the federal complaint alleged. 
page 8 Thursday, April 24, 2001
The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
Campus Ministry C-M 
TRAVELING ----­

Tonight's Location: 
Cavanaugh @ 9:00pm
Rosa 

(Friday Night: Breen-Phillips Hall) 
FOR PEACE 
Every nitJhf, in a 1iall chayel aroirnd camyus, members of our Notre Dame community will he 
gathered in aPRAYER F?R PEACE. ylea.5e Join us. 
wh t' h 
thursday 4.24 
An Evening of Hndu Centering Prayer 
7:00 -7:45 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Co-sponsored with GSU, International Student Services & Activities, Theology 

friday 4.25 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
Marriage Preparation Retrea 
Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
sunday4.21 
RCIA-Moming of Reflection 
10:00 a.m. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
Faith Rocks Concert 
4:00 p.m. South Quad, in front of Dillon (Rain location: Co-Mo Lounge) Sponsored by Iron Sharpens Iron, 
Campus Ministry, 2004 Class. 
. 
monday 4.2s 

Sacrament of Confirnation 
7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
tuesday 4.29 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 4.Jo 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 

Conversation with Sr. Sue 
about Vocation to Religious Life 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
campus celebration 
Join us in celebrating 
from the Notre Dame 
Jami/y receive the 


Sacrament of Confirmation. 
Monday, April 28th at 7:30 p.m. 
in the Basilica a/ the Sacred Heart 
mass schedule 

OFFICE HOURS: CoMo room 114 8. 319, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations... 
A Real Hoosier's Story 
by Fr. Jim King, c.s.c. 

Director, Holy Cross Vocations 
Once upon a time, a Hoosier high school senior named Tommy dreamed of attending Notre Dame. When his Notre Dame acceptance letter finally arrived in the spring of 1991, Sacred Heart Church had recently become "the Basilica;" a war with Iraq had just ended (though a different Bush was planted in the Oval Office); and a shrimpy guy named Holtz commanded the gridiron battlefield here. But time passed quickly. 
As a freshman, Tommy became Tom, then spent his sophomore year in Mexico City as Tomas. At the end of his junior year, Fr. Gaughan picked him to be an RA in Stanford, and before he graduated, he won the hall spirit award. As the youngest of fourteen kids with ten sisters, he was a great resource for guys who couldn't figure out why a girl gets upset when you are completely honest about why you are breaking up with her. 
A few years after graduating, Tom/Tomas' Spanish got even better after eighteen months in Chile and a couple more in Peru. He received a master's degree last May, got a new job, and moved to Phoenix a couple of months later. His whole family, including forty­nine nieces and nephews, are coming up for a big Basilica ceremony this weekend, but he isn't getting married. In fact, chances are he'll wind up back here soon enough on a more permanent basis because this Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Deacon Tom Eckert, C.S.C., ND '95, '02, will become the thirtieth Notre Dame graduate to be ordained a Holy Cross priest on campus since he arrived from Huntington, Indiana nearly a dozen years ago. 
A lot has changed in the world, but not the need for good Notre Dame men to become great priests. During his senior year, Tom waited a long time before summoning the nerve to call our office. In fact, he stalled so long about telling his parents he was going to be a priest that his room and board bill for the fall semester at Moreau Seminary arrived home first! They were overjoyed anyway. They still are, especially because they feel so much at home when they visit Moreau. They've become part of the Holy Cross family, which is even larger, louder, and more competitive than the Eckert clan. 
Like the rest of our parents, Winnie and Tom Sr., have pictures of Tom when he was young, making goofy faces and doing typical kid stuff. Friends tell us they have college pictures that are even funnier, but he managed to keep them out of sight during his years in the seminary. We hope some of those resurface this weekend to embarrass him a little, since a priest should always be humble, especially on his ordination day despite the cheering and applause. That will be the greatest moment of his life, but it will also begin his greatest challenge to live up to the privilege of being called Father Tom. 
On Sunday, Father Tom will celebrate his first Masses, including one at Stanford Hall at 10 pm, where he will finish what he started with a phone call to the Vocation Office eight years ago. Some people might think a Hoosier kid coming to ND and growing up to be a priest is an unusual story, but here it's not rare at all. A graduating senior feels unworthy and a little scared about what he is giving up, but he takes a leap of faith and comes to Moreau Seminary anyway. The rest is his story today, but all it takes is a phone cal\ and it 
could be your story tomorrow. Yours in Notre Dame, Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. 
Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C. 
Holy Cross Vocation Office 
Second Sunday of Easter 
basiljca of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. John H. Pearson, c.s.c.  Rev.  John H. Pearson, c.s.c.  
11:45 p.m.  
Rev. Tom Eckert, c.s.c .  


around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
. ·,,,.fl: . . . . . 

· Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Acts 4: 32 -35 2nd: 1 Jn 5: 1 -6 Gospel: John 20: 19 -31 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The ObJerver . CAMPU~ NEWS page 9 
Following a question from a we don't have democracy." challenge an incumbcnL president Jlardball "lint Scat" Challenge st11d(1nt about how the war would McCain. in 2004, but what would you and trind to answnr as many triv­
Hardball 
continued from page I 
Colin l'owdl. 
"II. is good for tlw pwsid!\lll to g!'l opposing Vi(•ws," McCain said. "I a111 protul ,\111prica produces m1·11 lik1• this. Tl11• l'rPsidPnt is blPss<•d to l!av,, I\\ o <'.\Ll'l•n11'lv 1al­1•11!1·d p1•oph• working for hini." Ill' said 
Ma\lh1,\\S pl;lyl'd two rnk.s tlur­ing t!w show -both asking tough q111•slior1s of MrC.Lill and provid­ing hu111or during comnwrcial hr<'ab. 
"ff' you c•wr wo11dPr why I yl'll 1111 tPl1•vision. it i.~ lwcaus<' some­OIH' is yPlli11g in niy i-ar," Matllwws said. 
Council 
continued from page l 
Cmmr:il. comprisfld or a majority of' nl(!CtHcl foculty 1111•m!JPrs, annually assnss tlw nwthods which arc usnd by tht' Uniwrsity admi1iislration lo P!lSlll"I' l'ainwss of faculty Si!larics and to idc:nlily alld corrcrL salary 
irwq11ilit•s. i\crnnling to its proposal. LIH' ( ;roup <'Xami1wd data from cOO 1­
0:L l'or disparity bPL\\'t'l'll lll('ll's and WOJllPIJ 's salarit•s in tlw col­h•gi•s. Finding nu dPlilliliv1• disrn•p­a11ci(•s hasPd upon g(•rtclt-r. th(• 
group rc·comm1·1H!Pd !'acuity 
i11volvP111P11L in f'ulun• salary l"PViPW !)f"DC('SSPS. 
i\lLl10ugh tlw (;roup l'ound tl1e Univ1irsity 1n·ocPssos -which inrlud!• normal hierarchical r<'vi1·ws !Jy dcpartnwnl chairs. d1•1rns and the Provost's Oflicc -to b,i "reasonably ('lfoctive," accord-affect U.S. foreign policy in the l'uluw, McCain explained why he bl'lifwed preemptive strikes might now UP necessary. 
"We livn in a different world today. For 200 years, there were two ocm1.ns separating the Uniled Statns from the rest of tl1e world. Now you lmvn weapons thal can n•n<·li 11s without warning." said :vtcC:aili. "This nwan:; you sonw­ti11ws IH\Vli lo resµoml pnw.mp­tively in rPsponso to thrna1s.'' 
Promptnd by a question from MatLhPws about the press, McCain said members of' the press are "equal opportunity attackers." 
"The job of Lhe press is to keep Ipoliticians! honest. Without that. 
ing to iLc; proposal, it believes facul­Ly participation in the salary lair­1wss rPvim-v proC(\SS would allcvi­atc some concerns. 
"!Salary i1wquityl is a problem of perception of equity,'' said John Welle, qprof'essor of Homance Languages and Literature and Film, Tnlovision and Theatre. "Mon' inh>rmation can dispel what may be misp(•rccpLlons.... If such a commillen can provido more information. it might show thcro L<; not as much inoquity as limy think." 
llownvcr. Carol Mooney, vice presidPnt and associatn provost, said the proposed commitLee 's charge seemed too broad. when she b,~linvcd iL'i original intent WaS to find inequity in race and gender. nut to examine all possible salary inequalities such as salary com­pression or salary increases based on oulside olfors. 
'Tm greatly in favor of [the pro­posed ideal because there are mis-

The final portion of the show was more light-hearted. Matthews asked McCain whether he supported Notre Dame or the University of Southern California, the alma mater of his wife, Cindy McCain, in the annual football game. 
Eliciting cheers. McCain said be usually rootf"d for Notre Dame, bul said be roots for his alma mater, the Naval /\cademv, when they match off against Notre Dame, even though it L'i "normally not much of a contest." 
A student wearing a :vlcCa.in 2000 T-shirt questioned McCain about his future presidential aspi­rations. 
"It might be a. little dilncult to 
perceptions that this information has an opportunily to correcL," Moorn.>y said. "Hut I fear the com­miltec's charge could be too broad ... and could be accused of not doing itsjob." 
One member uf the Council. how­ever, suggested broadening the committee further to include the salary concerns of special profos­sors, library and research faculty. 
As a private institution. Notrn Dame is not required to publish i1s faculty salaries. 
Ilowever, according to the Salary Disclosure Group proposal. Instilu tional Hesearch annually calculates the average salary and compensation by faculty rank ­professor. associate professor. assistant professor and instructor -and reports it internally in the University "Factbook." 
That data is also reported to the American Associate of University Professors and the Chronicle of Higher Education to be published 
think of running in 2008?'' the student asked. 
McCain responded jokingly, quotu1g former Congressman and 1976 presidential candidate Morris Udall. 
'"If you arc in the Senate, unless you arc under indictment or detoxificaLion, you consider yourself a presidential candidate.' But seriously. I am not consider­ing it," McCain said. 
Matthews continued this humor in his response to McCain. 
"How about Ilillary -can you take her down? You were a POW and so was she for a while," Matthews said. 
At the end of the show, senior Brad Rager participated in the 
along with equivalent data from otl1er wliversities. 
Currently, there is no reporting of average salaries by department or college and in the past various groups have called for the disclo­sure of additional salary informa­tion. 
In 1993, a faculLy Senate survey showed that 75 percent of 359 !'ac­uity respondents favored the release of additional salary infor­mation my college or department. 
The issue has also been contro­vc rsial among women faculty members. 
An ad hoc committee of tenured faculty women, also formed in 1993. called for additional disclo­sure; and in 2000, WATCII, a group concerned with promoting the status of women faculty, the quality of education and research at Notre Dame ½Tote to University Provost Nathan Hatch to recom­mend public disclosure of faculty salaries. 

ia questions as possible in 90 sec­onds. Hager answered 14 corrncl­ly -one short of' the record cur­rently held by a student at lhe University of Chicago. 
The "I lardball" broadcast was part of The llardball College Tour, when the show is broadcast from a different college each Wednesday. The Changing Times foundation, an organization that aims to provide college sludcnts with information on careers thal help serve the world community, brought the broadr:a ..st to campus. The Student Union Board orga­nized the logistics of the event. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
In other Council news: 
. 
Tho Council's Craduate Studies Subcommittee said it was no longer sure of its !'unction on the Council and proposed thP forma­tion of' an ad hoc committee to reorganize the Council's subcom­mittees in the fall. 

. 
The Undergraduate Studies Subcommittee is still working 011 iLo; Scheduling Committee proposal but will bn ready by next fall. 

. 
The Faculty Affairs Subcommittee i'> examining !'acuity discipline and grievance proce­duros and will complete il'i propos­al by next fall. Thn committcn will also discuss the possibility of hon­oring Labor Day and Prnsid(mt's Day as holidays for faculty. slaff and students, but due to possible adjustments to the University and master calendars cannot address the issue until next fall. 


Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 
Bruno's Pizza All-you-can-eat 'Buffet *Pizza *Pasta *Salad Every Thursday at 5 2610 Prairie·Av,eriue._ --•· 288-3320  

page 10 The Oburver. NEWS Thursday, April 24, 2003 
CHINA 

Griffiths dies at 91 
N. Korea begins talks -with U.S. 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
North Korea accused the United States of leading the region toward war Thursday in an apparent attempt by the communist nation to increase pressure on negotiators hold­ing a second day of talks on its nuclear programs. 
There was no indication 
have a strong military deter­rent. Officials from Seoul and Washington say the swift U.S.­led victory in Iraq prompted North Korea to agree to the nuclear talks. 
North Korea also said it was ready to setile the dispute over its suspected nuclear weapons programs and that tho "master key" for successful talks was for the United States to drop 
its hostile 
policy
"The situation on the
whether any toward progress had Korean penisula is so Pyongyang. 
come from the tense that a war may L a t e 
first day ot' Wednesday,
break out at any moment
meetings in Chinese China on due to the US. moves." Foreign Wednesday, Minister Li the first high-Zhaoxing
North Korea KCNA
1evel U.S.­
a n d 
news agency
North Korean Secretary of 
contact in six months. The lJ .S. Embassy would say only that the three sides spent the day "partici­pating and expressing their views." 
But North Korea continued to try to ratchet up the pres­sure and is believed to want economic aid in exchange for concessions. 
It's leaders are outraged over U.S. moves to cut off oil shipments because of its sus­pected nuclear weapons pro­gram, and fears it is next on Washington's list for military action. 
"The situation on the Korean Peninsula is so tense that a war may break out any moment due to the U.S. moves," said the North's KCNA news agency. 
It said relations with the United States had hit "rock bottom" because President Bush named North Korea as part of an "axis of evil," along with Iran and Iraq. 
KCNA said the war in Iraq had shown the only way for a country to protect itself was to 
Stale Colin 
P o w e I I 
talked by phone and agreed that the Beijing talks were beneficial, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported. 
North Korea and China fougbt against the United States in the 1950-53 Korean War, which ended without a peace treaty. North Korea and Washington have no formal relations and are still techni­cally at war. 
In a likely reference to North Korea's demand for a nonag­gression treaty with Washington, KCNA said: "The 
U.S. should settle the talks from a sincere stand and strive to settle the essential issue." 
Washington has refused to offer a formal treaty but says it would consider some sort of written assurance. 
China, the North's ally and major aid donor, nevertheless says it doesn't want Pyongyang to acquire nuclear weapons and has appealed for a negoti­ated settlement to the crisis. 
The talks are being led by Assistant Secretary of State 
..:i-,~. -. ·=.,··..;, .. . . .}··::;. ;:.:'I: 
.-:•;o 
=-1• 
;~;-"i 
'_\_ 
-=-';< 
Greyhound has Indiana covered. 
Greyt,ound, makes it easy to travel across Indiana, to Chicago, or across the country. Our fares are always affordable and you never 
need to plan ahead to get a good deal. Plus, students can save even more with special travel and shipping discounts with your Student Advantage Card. 

South Bend Bus Terminal located at: 
South Bend Regional Airport 4671 Progress Drive 574-287-6542 
-~ 
REVHOUND 

LANSING, Mich.
James Kelly and Ri Gun, 
Martha Griffiths, a former
deputy director of' American 
congresswoman who used a
affairs for North Korea's 
feisty personal style and
Foreign Ministry. China's dele­
sheer determination to shep­
gation is led by Fu Ying, direc­
herd landmark equal rights
tor general of the Asian Affairs 
legislation during her 10
Department of its Foreign 
terms in the Huuse, has died.
Ministry. 
She was 91.

The United States hopes 
Griffiths' most notable
eventually to include Japan 
achievements were her lead­
and South Korea in the talks. 
ing role in congressional
Kelly briefed South Korean 
approval of the Equal Rights
and Japanese diplomats in 
Amendment and a speech
Beijing following Wednesday's 
she delivered that led to the
discussions, the lJ,S. Embassy 
banning of sex discrimination
said. He is scheduled to visit 
in the 1964 Civil Rights Act. 
Seoul for meetings immediate­
She died Tuesday at her
ly after the Beijing talks. 
home in Armada, Mich.

Washington says the North 
Typical of" Griffiths' blunt
revealed during a visit by Kelly 
approach was a letter she 
to Pyongyang in October that it 
once wrote to an airline 
was trying to develop nuclear 
president after he defended 
weapons in violation or a 1994 
policies requiring stew­
pledge. The North has disput­
ardesses to be young and
ed the U.S. claim. 
petite.

The North likely wants aid 
"Just exactly what are you
for its economv, which has 
running -an airline or a
been crippled by the loss of 
whorehouse'?" her letter
Soviet subsidies and years of" 
said.

drought and mismanagement. 
Rep. Carolyn Malonoy, D­
Since the latest nuclear ten­
N.Y., said Griffiths will be
sions erupted, Pyongyang has 
remembered for her courage.
become the first country to 
"Her commitment and
withdraw from the nuclear 
determination to advance
Non-Proliferation Treaty and 
opportunities for women will
restarted a plutonium-produc­
be felt by generations or
ing reactor. 
young women who will never know her, but are living the dreams she fought so long and hard for," Maloney said in a statement. 
Griffiths said earlier pio­neers of equal rights gave her the strength to fight. 
"I would not be sitting in this seat today if it were not for the women who went to jail so that all of us could vote and for women who have worn their shoes out helping me get elected," Griffiths once said in explain­ing why she pushed to outlaw sex bias in the Civil Hights Act. 
Congress overwhelmingly approved the Equal Bights Amendment in 1972, but it has since been ratified by only 35 slate legislatures. three short of the number needed to add it to the U.S. Constitution. 
"I think part of thf~ problem is that it's also associated with rights for minorities. and you'd be surprised how much racism there still is in this world," Griffiths said in a 1990. interview. "Another thing, some men resent tremendously the idea of a woman coming into their ol"fices and really having a chance at promotion." 


May 1 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  l\'lidnight Snacks!  
May 2 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 3 Times:  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 4 Times:  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 5, 6,7, 8:  8am to 3:00am  

36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: 
May 1 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 2 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 3 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 4 Times: 1:00pm to 3:00am May S, 6, 7, and 8: 5:30pm to 1:00am Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266,369. 

Coleman-1\lorse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1 :00pm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 7:00am-1 :00am. Rooms:108,109,203,203A,204,206,207,208,209. 
Snacks courtesy ofStudent U11io11 Board 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Georgia House prepares legislation for new flag 
/\T!J\NT/\ 

i\s tl11· (;porgia llouse prr­p1tr1•s 10 d1dmW wlwtlwr to crn­alP tlw statp's third 11ag in two years. black lawmakers urc plt~dging a lilil)Ustnr lo kill the lngislation. 
TIii' hill would C'.rnatn a tempo­rary llag that includl's lhe slate sPal in the top lel't corner and thn•t• red-and-whitl' stripes lo tlw righl. To bnconrn permanent. llw tlnsign would have be approwd by votl'fs rwxt March. 
If' voters rPj1•ct ttw 
"At this point we need to

design, the bill culls for bring closure, and I'd just anotlwr rel'­
rather settle it." 

H run du rn 
with two choices -an Teresa Greene-Johnson Parly Georgia state representative of Georgia 
flag or the Confodnratc hann1•r adopted by t.hc all-white Lrgislalure in 1956. 
Black legislators oppose the bill b1•causP it could lead to the sec­ond rnfort•ndum -and allow the revival of tile old Confodcratn ba111wr dominated by the rebel cross. 
The~ Scnatt~ approved the bill Tuesday with amendments that mean it must return to the I louse for review. The llouse will take up the matter Friday, on the last day of lhn legislative session. 
Any altPm pl'i Lo filibuster will dep11ml on I lousn Spc~akcr Terry Coleman. who oversees debates and can intnrprct the rules. Coleman met with black lawmak­(irs Wednesday. but said he wasn't µr1rsumlcd tu belµ block tlw bill. 
"They were offended. They continue to be hurt," Coleman said. Later, he said, "I would prn­dir.l we'll probably come togeth­er. Nobody's happy with all of it." 
llep. Teresa Greene-Johnson, a black Democrat who argued against the nag bill, said the goal is to be done with the issue. 
"At this point we need to bring closure. and I'd just rather settle 
it," she said. 
If the legisla­tive session expires with no flag bill, it could die until next year or it could be revived in a possible special session on the budget. 
Ceorgia's !1ag saga began in 2001, when black lawmakers led a movement to change the 1956­issue state !lag that was dominat­ed by a large Conl'cderate emblem. 
Then-Gov. Hoy Barnes pushed a new flag through the Legislature in less than a week with no public hearings, creating a backlash that f'igured in his del'cat to Gov. Sonny Perdue. 
Perdue became Georgia's first GOP governor in 130 years in part because he promised a vote on the !lag. 

Blacks face undue executions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Blacks and whites are murdered in about equal numbers. but what happens to their killers can be for dif­ferent. Those who murder whites are much more likely to be executed than killers of blacks, Amnesty International USA said Wednesday. 
The human rights organiza­tion, which opposes the death penalty, said 80 percent of' lhe 845 people executed since the United States resumed the practice in 1977 were put to death for killing whites. 
A dispro­
portionate 
"A jury ofone's peers is 
number of those exe­supposed to be broadly 
cuted were representative ofone's 
black and 
peers.

many were 
convicted by 
juries con­WIiiiam Schulz 
taining no 
Amnesty International executive 
blacks, the 
director 

group said in a report. 
Amnesty International contended the findings, compiled from gov­ernment statistics and its own tracking, show the death penalty is applied unfairly. 
It released the report now because 290 blacks have been put to death as of April 10 and at least 10 more black inmates were scheduled to be executed by the end of July, which would bring the total to 300. 
Kent Scheidegger, legal director of the pro-death penalty Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, blamed racial differences on fewer prosecutors in heavily minor­ity areas willing to seek the death penalty. 
"Prosecutors in more con­servative counties use the death penalty more often," Scheidegger said. "That pro­duces an effect that it's used more often in white victim cases. But that's not discrimi­nation. that is politics." 
Blacks comprise 12 percent of the U.S. population, but 41 percent of those on death row and 35 percent of those exc­c u ted between 1977 and 
convicted by any blacks. 
2001 were black, accord­ing to the Justice Department's Bureau of Justice Statistics. 
Amnesty's r e s e a r c h found one in five blacks executed was a jury without 
"A jury of one's peers is supposed to be broadly rep­resentative of one's peers," said William F. Schulz, the group's executive director. 
The Supreme Court ruled in February that Texas death row inmate Thomas Miller­El, who is black, deserved a new chance to press his claim that prosecutors stacked his jury with whites and death 

penalty supporters. 
A Justice Department report in 2000 found that between 1995 and 2000, almost three-fourths of the 183 federal defendants facing the death penalty were minorities, and 43 percent of the del'endanls came from just nine of' the 94 U.S. attor­ney districts: Puerto Hico; the Eastern District of Virginia; Maryland; the Eastern and Southern districts of New York: Western District of' Missouri; New Mexico; Western District of Tennessee; and Northern District of Texas. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft attributed the fig­ures to differences in state laws, prosecution decisions and geography. 
"Them is no evidence of racial bias in the administra­tion of' the federal death penalty." Ashcroft told feder­al lawmakers in June. 
Some recent studies have concluded otherwise. 
An Illinois study found juries were three times more likely to sentence a person to death if the victim was white rather than black. Gov. George Hyan cited those find­ings in January when he commuted 167 death sen­tences. 
A Pennsylvania Supreme Court-appointed commission reported last month that black defendants more likely to be sentenced to death and recommended a moratorium on executions while the issue was studied. 

welcomes the following Fightin' Irish to our team! 
Full-time Summer Intern 
Timothy Brennan Jennifer Monn Sallymarie Accumanno Brent Lawton 
Daniel Buttke Tara Murphy Mark Bellantoni Brian MacKinnon Cristina Ceballos Jackie Nesson Preston Benson Kristen Mackrell Kerrie Cleveland Erin Nigh Nick Chimerakis Kara McClain 
Patrick Conway Janelle Picciano Sarah Colson Matthew McDonald Stephen Curasco Justin Pogge Stephanie Cook Jamie McEldowney Emily Daley Marc Pribaz Ann Dillhoff Thomas McTaggart Brett Gansen Daniel Probst Patrick Dillon Zitlalih Molina 
Claire Gorman Sarah Raehl Jennifer Dobosh Natalie Morgan Christina Grimmer Erin Riopko Joseph Gartner Lauren O'Brien Jacob Hansen Liz Seibold 
Federico Garza Leslie Odmark Andrew Hess Shalyn Shritz 
Vito Giovingo Rebecca Palka Angela Janor Sapan Singh Jill Godbout Jessica Panza Brian Kornmann James Smith 
Robert Goedert Matthew PiggottValerie Kruse Rene Sopiarz 
Julie Gulyas Megan Ryan
Brian Kunitzer Ryan Steel 

Sean Hanle Kevin Schumm 
Kristen Lesesky Marc Striowski 

Eric Hedin Daniel Sirken 
Steven Lickus Christopher Toppin 

Alicia Hehr Mark Smeraglinolo
Keri McCarthy Susan Varnum 

Andrew Heinlein Monica Smith
Allan McDonald Kelly Walsh 

Patricia Hinojosa Shelby Strong
Jacqueline McKenna Penny Wolf 

Christopher Holdener Michael Viola
Bradley Metzinger Richard Ysasi 

Abby Holtz Brendan Welteroth 
¢1 2003 lleloltre &Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & Touche LLP and related entities. 
Deloitte National 
Leadership Conference 
Elizabeth Cain Christine Donnelly Cristina Espino Michael Flanagan Kenneth Kosman Kathryn Landsberg Tara Weiler 
~,<A
,i,:,. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, April 24, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
1Ju lndcpmdtru, 011ifJ N,iu;paptr Scrvu1g Notre D1m1t •ud ~AitJt Mary's 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0.24 Sou,h Dining Hall. Notte Dame, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MII.NAGING EmTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scou Brodfuehrer Lori Lewa.lski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VrnWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS E'.OITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCFNF EDITOR: Mari;1 Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim K:icmar 
GRAPHICS EUITOR: Mike Ilarkins 
SAINT MARV'S EOJTOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVF.RTJSING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Tcd Bangerr 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .... ........631-7471 FAX...... ........................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF . ...................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME.................. .631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. .....................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT... ......................................... 631-5303 observer.viewpoin1. l@nd.edu SPORTS................................ .......................631-4543 observer.sports. \@nd.edu 
SCENE...... .. ..........................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's. .........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the sruden ts of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free e><pression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohscmr (USrs )1)9 24\#) i,. pub!iVl,c:J Monday through i;riday &.-x..:crc Ju.ring l·um 4(1J vacation p,.;rimJ,-, A}llh.,criprion ro ·1·h-c.· Oh!>Crvcr i, li!(JO for one ai.:ad..:mic yru: -S55 for one >Cffil'~tn. 
ThcOh~cr n ;puhlii.hc.."U n: P<JSt"MAS'i"ER 024 Suu1h Dining H.11 ~nJ .adJn'3oi. i:orn-cltotu, 1u; 
Notre Dami:, IN 46556 The Ol»crvc.­
1'.0. lkm Q l'niudi.:a.l r(~\ug~ p::uJ ;u Num• Dame Nmh.' I)aml.", !N 4(15%-0779 11iJ aJJitwn..J m.1J li11tt oflkr.~. 
TJ-.c Ohl,(_"fV<1" (1 il ml·mh,·r or rh~· A~,oi::i.t(c..~l Prn.•. All rcrroJua1rn1 riihrs ,It( 
tt'\{'fYtd 

Leaving friendships after graduation 
1--'our years ago Casey Bouton addressed a circle ofdisoriented faces. This was Frosh-0, and in its short history Keough Hall had developed a tradition for an upperclassman to give a speech about what it meant to be at Andrew Notre Dame. His DeBerry words rang through the night's darkness 
ND Changing 
on God Quad before 

Times
the shining Dome: "Look around! Here you'll find the best man for your weddingr Here you'll find people you'll know the rest of your life, people that you would die for!" Four years later, he is serving in the Middle East with the Army, and the Class of 2003 has followed his path, ponder­ing over everything from career decisions to marriage pro­posals in the remaining intense weeks before its own graduation. 
Now looking back, seniors reflect on the friendships that have shaped their years in college. Some friendships have kept strong since freshman year. Others came later through the dorm, in class, at parties or just by random circum­stance. Some friendships make perfect sense; others defy logic outright. 

Many have come to Notre Dame and have found a spirit reverberat­ing through its revered halls and in the heart of the commu­nity here. Others just don't buy into all the hype having been disillusioned from leaders and peers they see as disin­genuous. But in whatever way, those here define a real life faithfulness that forms the substance of friendships. 
In the time at college, we've met peo­ple whose friendships have carved a place in our hearts. They not only share their riches with us, but also show us our own, believing in us when we've ceased to believe in ourselves. These souls have listened closely and have found the song in our souls, responding in perfect har­mony and reminding ns of the tune when we've lost the words. 
With these people we sharn what the heart holds inside, its tears and laugher. its joys and broken dreams, all without passing judgment and trusting until the end. They have a deep concern for us with courage strong enough to tell us when we're wrong. When we have made a complete idiot of ourselves, they laugh and keep pushing us forward. They pick 
us up when we are down if they can, or else they lie beside us and share the pain. One Arabian proverb says 
that, "A friend is one to whom one may pour out all the 
contents of one's heart, chaff and grain together, 
knowing that the gentlest of hands will take 
and sift it, keep what is worth keeping and with a breath of kindness 
blow the rest away." And yet, if we were to die know­ing only this love, it would not be enough. An age old voice poses a challenge in noting, "Ifyou love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Love 
your enemies, do good to them ... and your reward will be great." People have suffered for our welfare; St. Escriva has called us to follow: "Now, it is your turn to do the same, with one person, and another -with everyone." 

We leave from our protected campuses to plunge into our world's pains. We may find our life's mission in meeting needs an ocean away. Or, we may find that the Calcutta calling our life's energies is in our own hometowns or in our own fami­lies. We feel an innate drive to befriend those most in need and use our skills to confront the troubles that call specifically to us. 
The older we get. the morn we will need the people we knew when we were young to keep our souls alive. Connections to our alma rnaters help us bridge the gaps and geography and lifestyle while still challenging us to be more through our lasting status or "alumni." 
One alumna in London noted during Notre Dame's Day of Service last semes­ter how she made friends she was sur­prised she never knew in college. Friends can have their entrances and exits in our lives. Some bump into each other and continue with the same sense of humor enjoyed years befom. Yet, there are still thosP special few that keep a lasting con­nection to our hearts. We leave from our common home here to return to these people in in new lives in renewed rela­tionships. 
In the meantime, the Old Irish Blessing can keep these friendships alive through time and distance: 
May the road rise to meet you 
May the wind be always at your back 
The sun shines warm upon your face 
The rains fall soft upon your fields 
And until we meet again ... 
May God hold you in the palm of his 
hand 
May the Lord bless you and keep you 
May the Lord cause his face to shine 
upon you 
And give you peace. 
Andrew De/Jerry is a senior engineer­ing major. lfis column appears every other Thursday. lie can be contacted al adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
No such thing as too much anger 
I read John Litle's April 11 column with interest and a laugh. Like all generalizations, it was partly inflammatory and partly true. Those who have written to protest its pub­lication apparently disavow American freedoms and should move elsewhere to make room for the millions worldwide who would gladly move to America and enjoy free speech. 
I am also fascinated by the anti-war movement's inabili­ty to make a real argument. Letter after letter reads, "War is bad and we must find a diplomatic solution." Yet not one letter proposes such a solution, which reaffirms the neces­sity of the war: there is not another answer. If there was, surely one of the anti-war people would have mentioned it by now, instead of this endless repetition of, "Violence is bad." Yes, it is. but sometimes it is the only option. 
For those who would question the vehemence of Litle's anger. hear this. I look out my of'fice window onto the empty pit which was the World Trade Center. The people of the Middle East are ignorant through no fault of their own. But that fact cannot allow us to be passive in fighting their ignorance, because ignorance plus fanaticism equals one ugly hole in the ground, shrouded by the souls of threr~ thousand. Litle is not too angry. There is no such thing. 
Michaela Murray-Nolan New York. New Yc1rk dass of '() 2 
Arni 21 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Joe Trornbello Andrew Thagard Viewpoint Kurt Bogaard Graphics Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Joe Lindsley Charee Ilolloway Scene Christie Boisen 
Lab Tech 
Chip Marks 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was the administration justified in changing the contracts assistant rectors are required to sign? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The opposite of a correct statement is a false statement. But the opposite of a profound truth may well be another profound truth." 
Niels Bohr Danish physicist 

O
THE 
VIEWPROINT 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 page 13 
Saying goodbye 
! IHLV(' six lll(ll"P days ll'{'l in my village and L\\o w1wks loft 
in th(• country. My two yrntrs of' PPaco Corps aml living in 
i\l'rica an• grn11·. I IHtv1, started to give away ulmosl every­
thing I haw l•:v1•ryday I l«•ll l'rinnds that I will go home to 
/\nwrica soon. Tlwy, of' coursl\ arc shocknd and sny I just 
goL lt(•l'I\. ThPy want lllP lo stay longer . 
. \!though. thPy add. if I rPally 11nml to Maite Uranga 
).\II lwmn could I bring rnw of their 
d1ildn•11 wi!l1 1111' or marry tlwir so,1 
In llw last lhv wP1·ks l liavc dorw 
111any Lhings hPr<'. all with tlw knowl-J,~fe in J\.frica 
Pdgl' that it is t/11• last !illl<'. I mu along 
tltP SP11ngal Hiwr al surnwt when tlrn 
lwrdns bring ltw c·ows home as I 
clodgl, among llw horns. I still love the irony ofan American 
with lwad phcHll's amongst tlrn African cattle herders. I have 
apprnciawcl my last full moon in Africa for a while. I read a 
book in my halllmock. I have sprnlL large ,unounls or time 
with my family and esp1icia!ly thf' kids. I went to my friend's 
village anJ skpl on his rnof. 
In all ol' tlwso l'Wnlc; I expected some amount or sadness, but this is just not happening. I have tried to figure out how f rnri spend two y,iars hnrn and simply walk away. Probably bcrnusn it all still sc,•ms lik<' a dream. l am comfortable hcn1. I can work. live and cormnunic:alc in this cullure and this I\IlVironmcnt But I still cannot belinve that I live in i\frica and that I live with a host family in a village. I cannot lwlinv1i that I do uol havti running water, a car or a bed. In a way it seems likl\ an extended game or a long sociology 1•x1wrimcnt. Take sonwonc out of their natural environ­nwnt, drop tlwm somewhere, entirely different, expect them to thrivP and once tlwy linally do, send them back. In terms like thmw it Sl'l\lllS cruel. or course this person would want to go b,tck to Uwir natllrnl environment. 
!'crimps my sadness is simply overwhelmed by excite­nwnt. I am al the point that Jillie kids reach -the point at which they arti so happy that they start to bounce or shake bncaus11 th1iy have no other way to express their energy. I get to sec my family in a couple weeks. I look forward to actually umforstanding almost everything that is happening around me. I am excited to blend in and not be the center of attention everywhere I go at all hours of the day or night. I can cat a burrito and then go to an air conditioned movie. In a sense l am ddirious when I think about the comforts that I lnft two years ago. !\ncl also I feel at peace when I imagine waking up in my bed after the uncertainty of everything 
here. · 
In about three and a hall' months from today I will start law school. And my days, weeks and years in !\frica will s1wrn like a long past dream. I will forget a lot of the pain a,~d lrnll_ of il all. Most likely I will have a picture on my desk of me with my host sister. It will remind me of this time and place. And also serve as a motivation to continue on through the strains or lirst year law. It will be late one night. and I will have read on and on about some uninteresting subject. but l will look up and see her face. In that moment Peace Corps will ht! real and in that moment I will be sad for everything that I ldt behind. 
Too :'H.1~:h has happc'fl<~d in the last two years to fully grasp tl. Ih1irn are so many happy memories but all in a very trying situation. There is such a melange of good and bad that I cannot be sad to go right now. But throughout the rest or my lifo whether I consciously realize it or not this place will be a part of me. Over time iL will become less and less apparm1t. In this lime and place I cannot fully grasp what happerrnd in the last two years, but I have gained cxtremn amounts of' paLinnce. And with this patience I will watch and see over many years what really happened here. IL will come out in the bedtime stories I tell my future chil­dren. nioces ancl nephews. It will appear when I watch Mauritania's lirst truly democratic election. It will happen when I twar a song. Now I have six days to go. 
Maile Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology nm/ qooemment major. She is currently a Peace Corps 11olunteer in the Islamic Republic cif Mauritania. 
The viell's e.t:pressed in this column are those ofthe nuthor and not rweessarily those ofThe Ohserver. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

I am writing this to address not only the large number of factually inaccurate arguments which I have heard regarding the war in Iraq, but also to attack the spirit of academic irresponsibility which allows these specious arguments to breed and multiply. 
After a recent discussion with a professor, I came to realize some­thing rather disturbing: if one is to be well-informed about the war in Iraq, it is necessary to fight a war of one's own. I mean to say that the normal means used to discuss the war here, especially the American media and the on-cam­pus fora, are not enough to dis­cern the true causes and course of action necessary in this conflict. 
One of the things that imparted this idea on me was a story this professor told me. Some time ago, The New York Times published a photograph ofa Jewish boy who had been beaten by some Palestinians. The caption which they inserted under the photo­graph stated instead that a Jewish officer had beaten a Palestinian boy, simply because there was a Jewish officer in the photograph (who was actually trying to protect the boy). How did the professor know this? He recognized the boy and verified his identity by talking with some of his friends in Israel. 
This bothers me for two rea­sons. First, the article was on the front page of The Times. Second. it is not an isolated incident (I would be happy to direct the read­er to other examples). The media used to check sources, then check them again. Apparently they no longer reliably do this. That this 
illustrates a general trend is terri­
fying, for it implies that the news 
media regularly allow some sort 
of agenda to compromise their 
duty to truthfully inform the peo­
ple. 
So, in the way of remedy, I tried to create a way to learn about the war without bias. The professor of whom l spoke gave me some ideas for doing this. I had some ideas of my own as well. First of all. I tried to consider both sides by studying not only translations of Palestinian periodicals and publications of Palestinian extremists, but also many sources in America which I found to be more reliable than the mass media. 
At times it was necessary to read between the lines. I learned pretty quickly not to trust any source with all my confidence. because many ofthe views pre­suppose diametrically opposed things not just about morality but often about the course of sup­posed "facts" in history. I studied especially those beliefs which opposed my prevailing sentiments, and I have switched sides several times. I found that switching sides may come from not reading skep­tically enough, but more often it meant that I was truly weighing benefits and drawbacks rather than simply reacting emotionally or superficially. 
This method is stringent. but it seems to me an effective means to combat deceit and misinformation in this type of affair. I left these statements general because I mean them to be applicable to future problems as well. 

You may have noticed that I have not offered you any of my views on the war. only my method for studying it. This is because I want to promote research rather than reaction and to let reason lead emotion to the most moral and best actions. What motivates one person's emotion may not motivate another's in the same way. Hence, nothing is more fruit­less than having arguments which proceed from emotion rather than reason. 
Americans, Israelis and Palestinians have two things, at least. in common: first. we deserve better than to bleed for arguments which aren'tjustilied. Second. all of us arc obligated to uphold what we believe are justi­fied doctrines. That blood is being spilt is evidence enough that we all ought to treat these events with absolute seriousness. but remem­ber that serious matters are pre­cisely the most important ones in which to avoid mere emotional reaction and party identification. We ought to deliberate more and react less, lest reasonable argu­ments come to be redefined as. "those arguments which the pre­disposition of a person causes his or her reason to attempt to justi­fy." 
I am more than happy to respond to any inquiries regard­ing the facts of this war: 
Vincent Laufer 
sophomor< Siegfried Hall April 23 

Rebuilding Together thank you 
The Board of Managers for Rebuilding Together of St. Joseph County (formerly Christmas in April) extends its sincere appreciation to Lhe students of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame for their hard work on April 12."Several low income homeowners in the Miami Village neighbor­hood now have cleaner, safor, more comfortable homes because of your voluntecrism. This organiza­tion values the energy, skill and commitment you bring to the effort year after year. Thank you. 
Melanie Engler Board of Managers Rebuilding Together of St. Joseph's County April B 
Seniors, share your favorite campus memories, lessons and experiences in The Observer's Senior Week Edition. Send your letters to viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 

MOVIE REVIEW 

An honest look at 'Real Girls' in love 
By BRIAN BIRCHER 
Scene Movie Critic 

"/\11 the Heal Girls'' is an intimate look at one romantic relationship that examines 1,vhat holds people together. It is an carnPst. look at the idea of' true love. one that docs not shy away from any aspect of relationships and as a 

result is more affec­tionate, tender and heart wrenching than many movies of today. 
In a very honest way co-writer and director David Gordon Green por­trays the relation­ship of Paul (Paul Schneider) and Noel (Zooey Deschanel) in a small town in stronger by the fact that he is well aware of Paul's history. 
In addition to this main storvline. the supporting characters also ·serve to enrich the l'ilrn. Paul's mother Elvira (Patricia Clarkson), with whom he is close, lixes old pianos and works as a clown at a children's ward of a local hospital and at parties. Providing comic relief is Paul's friend Bust-Ass 
(Danny 
McBride), who
'"All the Real Girls" 

has some of the Qi, best lines i11

:B.,­

~ ' ·) the whole \.·. ;J
;. movie through his earnest dia-
Director: David Gordon Green 

1 o gu e and
Writers: David Gordon Green and Paul 

altempts to
Schneider 

impress Noel.
Starring: Paul Schneider, Zooey Deschanel, 

The heart and
Patricia Clarkson, Shea Whigham 

soul of the 
North Carolina. Paul is the oldest, known around town !'or his womaniz­ing and his "love 'em and leave 'em" attitude. Noel is the younger sister of Paul's friend Tip (Shea Wigham) and has just returned to town from years spent at boarding school. Despite their differences in romantic histories, the two easily start a relationship. Easily, except for Tip's anger regarding this development which is made all the movie. howev­
er, is Paul Schneider's performance as the easy­going Paul, who comes across as gen­uinely wanting to make a change. 
"All the Real Girls" is most striking in its sheer honesty. The story, charac­ters and dialogue alL combine to cre­ate a naturalistic world where an ide­alization of true Jove is utterly believ­able. Green himself grew up in North Carolina and used the setting for his first film, "George Washington" (2000). 

Paul's mother Elvlra (Patricia Clarkson) Is one of the supporting characters that Is closest to Paul. 
His knowledge of such an environment is evident in the situations and the set­ting he chooses to focus on. Dialogue that would sound trite or over the top coming out of the mouth of Ben Affleck or Reese Witherspoon feels perfect in this film. It is directly because the dia­logue is not polished that it succeeds. 
While the story follows Paul and Noel's developing love, the film could not be more unlike a typical romantic comedy or comedy. To begin with, the film does not feature any glamorous setting such as New York City but is grounded in the rural backwoods of North Carolina. Green beautifully cap­tures the surroundings and the reality of the environment. Secondly, while the story follows the struggles of Paul and Noel's relationship it is not a question of whether the guy and girl will end up together, as is the center of so many romantic comedies. but whether these two people will be able to sustain their relationship. This is an issue normally ignored by movies, making "All the Heal Girls" unique in its approach. 

In the end, the film is an affectionate look at its characters that keeps the viewer interested and engaged. It is a thoughtful and entertaining film that should be seen by anyone who has ever been young and in love. 
Contact Brian Bircher at bbircher@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

Thursday, April 24, 2003 page IS 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Phone Booth' delivers suspense, originality 
Hy MARY SQUILLACE 
sl L'lll' rv1DVJ1.• ( :ri UL 
In tl11• midst ol' llw prt•-hlod:busl1!r 111ovi1· s1·aso11. "l'hon1• Booth" t·nrnrgcs from Uw brnadf/1 of low-budgnt, over­dolH' and downright lt>tTibln movins as a t:rt>ativ1• and raptivating f'lick. With i1111ovativP stylistit' tnrhniques. direc­tor Jot'! Schumacl11·r procluct!S some­thing riofnishinl{ly original and dnnply susp1•11spf'ul. 
Coliu 1:,trn•II plays Stu Slwpnnl. a smooth-talking, Armani-w,~aring, 1•go­1btiral NPw York City publidsl. l•:very d av at l h" s II Ill" t. i 111 t• h P 111 a kt• s a ph;llll' rail from a s ltTPt conw r ph otH' booth to l'a111 (Kalit• llolnws), an aspir­ing artrt•ss with whom lw is having an affair. 
llo\\'t•wr, alfrr hanging up with l'arn on this particular day, Stu answPrs thn ri11ging pl1011P, only to find a rnysLPri­ous 1111111 (KiP1'1•r Sutlwrland l witb a snipPr rill«· and impPt·.raulP aim on tlw ollll'r Pill!. Willi Pach passing minuto and tl11·ough suhtl<' plot t,vists, Stu 11111st n•1•valuatP his lift' and decidt~ whPtlwr tll stay llll lhl' lint' and comply with lhP ralln's n~qupsts or lo risk «'V<'rythi11g by Lrying lo t\scapP the phorw booth. 
Mon· intriguing than his invcnlivn r111H·1•pt is tit«• way in whic-11 Sch umarh Pl' pn's<•n ls il. i\l lho ugh tilt' loses its effect. Probably one of the most stylistically performance. Disguising his Irish l'ilm is light 011 action, it still d1divers In addition. Schumacher utilizes unique aspects of "Phone Booth" is accent, he makes a believable trans­all of' tlJ,, sus1H'llSP ol' a psyrhological variations in cin-Schumacher's use formation from a foul-mouthed, New thrilln. Addilionally, tlw sporadic and e m atog rap h y to of a picture within York City tough-guy to a man cowering
"Phone Booth"
subtlt• us,• of comic reliPf and irony maintain the a picture. This in desperation -not to mention the n-liPV!' soml' ol' thP film's tP11sio11 with­!'ilm's rapid pace. 
technique enables fact that he's pretty easy on the eyes. out taking away from llw drama. While nearly all ~;:;}~) the viewer to con­True to its previews, "Phone Booth"
O'f,J
"Phont• Booth" is primarily a Olli' ol' the scenes are tinuously watch keeps its viewers on the edge of their man show and occurs c11tir1-ly in n•al­centered on Stu Stu while also seats until the last second with its
Director: Joel Schumacher
tinw. Whill' this approach 1·,nild ('asily in the phone remaining aware unique and engaging plot. For fast­
Writer: Larry Cohen
slip into drawn-oul monotony, booth, by quickly of the constant paced entertainment, students will
Starring: Colin Farrell, Kiefer Sutherland,
Schurnarlll~r 111ttnipulatcs a range of cutting lo shots action surrounding want to be sum to stay on the line.
Forest Whilaker, Katie Holmes
Pl<'rnPnts of' thP film that propnl it into taken from vari­the phone booth. l'ull s1H·1·ri. Ill' drws11 't waste any time ous angles and Farrell con­gPlting into llw sLory, nor docs lw pro­distances, Schumacher preserves the tributes to the success or the film as Contact Mary Squillace at long l111• sus1w11sP to llw point wlrnrn it overriding vibrant velocity of his film. well, delivering an overall impressive msquilla@nd.edu 



-
... 

As Stu communicates over the phone with a sniper, the tension builds and Farrell's tough-guy portrayal dissolves Into desperation. 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Reitsma proves worth as Cincinatti defeats Los Angeles 
Less than two vears after hav­

Associated Press 
ing elbow ligament replacement surgery, Eaton struck out a CINCINl'\ATI career-high 12 Wednesday, Chris Reitsma sure looked like pitching the San Diego Padres he belonged. to victory over the Chicago 
The spurned right-hander Cubs. pitched eight impressive innings "I had good location early, but and had a bases-loaded single it seemed like it got better. I Wednesday night, leading the was able to hit the corners real­Cincinnati Heds to a 3-0 virtory ly well," said Eaton, who won over the Los Angeles Dodgers. for just the seco.nd time since 
When he was sent to the the surgery. "I had a couple of minors during spring training, a good games last year, but today livid Reitsma insisted he should was definitely a special day." be in the big leagues. He made San Diego took advantage of his poinl with a one-man show. Kerry Wood's wildness, scoring 
"Reitsma threw a great two runs off his mistakes, and game," said outfielder Brian Eaton (1-1) took care of the Jordan, who had one ol' the rest The Padres stopped a six­Dodgers' eight singles off him. game losing streak and handed "Give him a lot of credit. He had the Cubs their first shutout loss a good changeup. When he this season. needed a double play, he got it. Eaton began his career with a 
"Today he proved he belongs promising start, jumping from in the major leagues." Double-A to the majors in 2000. 
The Heds sent him down in He started the next season 6-2. \1arch because he was the onlv and was leading tho Padres in pitcher left in camp with wins (eight) and strikeouts (109) options -no consolation for before surgery on Aug. 21. Reitsma, who began wondering 2001. where he fit in the team's While it takes most pitchers future. more than a year to recover # 
With the Reds (7-14) off to from the surgery, Eaton was 

Sheffield hit back-to-back also homered for Arizona, four days' rest. Myers respond­their worst start since 1997, back in the majors last Sept. 1. 
homers off Matt Morris in the which improved to 3-2 on its ed by striking out nine in six
they called him up and gave He started that night, and went him one chance to show his 1-1 with a 5.40 ERA in six first inning for Atlanta. Giles nine-game road trip despite the innings as the Philadelphia 
stuff. Manager Bob Boone was starts. 
and Sheffield also drove in runs absence of its two ace starters. Phillies beat the Colorado in the eighth against Jeff Johnson was put on the dis­Hockies 6-4 Wednesday night
noncommittal before the game Fassero to extend the lead to 4-abled list Monday with a "I think it helped me, coming
about whether Reitsma would 
Braves 4, Cardinals 2 

0. strained right knee. Schilling off the last outing when I threwget more than one start or move 
This was vintage Greg 

Those runs proved to be valu­will also miss the series after 100 pitches." Myers said. "I feltto the bullpen. 
Maddux: no runs, no walks and

He won't be going anywhere able when Jim Edmonds hit a undergoing an appendectomy fine. 1f'clt strong." 
a quick game. 

two-run homer off Darren Saturday. Myers ( 1-2) allowed one run
after his performance 
Maddux, who got off to a dis­

Wednesday -eight harmless Holmes in the ninth. The Braves "Obviously, we have to step and three hits, all singles. He
mal start this season, pitched

singles, one walk and four dou­brought on John Smoltz, who up," Gonzalez said. "When you left with 5-0 lead after Jose 
three-hit ball over seven innings got three outs for his NL-lead­Jose two No. 1s like we have in Hernandez's leadoff single in

ble-play grounders induced and the streaking Atlanta
from one of the NL's weakest ing eighth save in eight chances the last couple of weeks with the seventh. Bobby Estalella fol­
Braves beat the St. Louis 

-and 24th in a row dating to Randy and Curt out, our young lowed with a home run offlineups. 
Cardinals Wednesday night. 

"This win was all about the last season. guys are coming and doing a Carlos Silva that bounced off
The 2-hour, 10-minute game

Reds, it wasn't about me," great job for us. Elmer pitched the left-field facade, the first 
was Atlanta's eighth victory in

Reitsma said. "This team need­Diamondbacks 6, Expos 2 a tremendous game for us." homer allowed by the Phillies in 
nine games and pushed the

ed a win, and I wanted to pitch The Arizona Diamondbacks After drawing 36,879 -the 90 innings. 
Braves into first place for the

well." Expos' biggest home crowd in "Myers threw unbelievably,"
first time this season. They are are learning to win without 
He also wanted a shot at the Randy Johnson and Curt two years -for Tuesday's Phillies manager Larry Bowa
in a three-way tie atop the NL Olympic Stadium opener, just said. "The [weather] conditions

Reds' first complete-game East with Montreal and Schilling. 
6,380 fans turned out for the out there were miserable. He
shutout since his 2-0 victory Philadelphia. Luis Gonzalez hit his sixth sec-ond game of a six-game did a great job."
over Milwaukee last July 15. homer of the season and drove
"Tonight was good," Maddux homestand. 
Pat Burrell hit an RBI

in two runs to lead Arizona over
Reitsma threw only 104 pitches said after Atlanta's fastest game the Montreal Expos Wednesday grounder off Justin Speier inthrough eight innings. of the season. "I was thinking 
night. Phillies 6, Rockies 4 the bottom half that made it 6­about pitching instead of think­
Elmer Dessens (2-2) pitched Brett Myers didn't mind the 2, but Colorado cut the deficit in 
Padres 2, Cubs 0 ing about how to throw pitches. half off Terry Adams in the
six solid innings and helped wait at all. Adam Eaton is going to That's a step in the right direc­himself at the plate with two Myers was given an extra day eighth on Mike Lieberthal's run­remember this game for a tion." hits, including an RBI double. off between starts to allow scoring passed ball and Larry while. Marcus Giles and Gary Chad Moeller and Steve Finley Kevin Millwood to pitch with Walker's RBI single. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America  1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at  Summer Sub-lease, 1 bdrm,  
NOTICES  WANTED  time share apartment for full week during the footbal I season. Choose  Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price negotiable dboudon@nd.edu  fully furnished, good neighborhood,  TICKETS  
week of 2nd or 4th ND home game  rent negotiable.  
every year. Units accommodate up  Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per­ 229-1691  Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613  
Study Abroad with CEA. England,  Small school seeks part-time  to 4. Purchase at great savings  son 2 story. 8 blocks tram campus.  David Belczyk  
Italy, Spain, France, Australia.  middle-school math teacher  from owner who must sell al  New everything Wired for comput- CHICAGO ROOM available  
now thru summer.  least one unit. Great accommoda­ ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235­ for summer lease  
- Request a Free Catalog WWW GoWithCEA.com  Experience with Saxon and Math-U-See a plus.  lions tor visiting ND. Can be exchanged tor resorts worldwide Call Bob (954) 349-1880  3655 House: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334;  and/or longterm lease. 3 ND grads as roommates.  PERSONAL  
Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages  800-966-8399  Unplanned pregnancy?  
2, 6, 8. 1 0-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1  273-3010 or  95 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport  Near Wrigley Field.  Dan t go it alone.  
eve.  unitydayschool@aol.com  78,000 Miles $4,500  Very nice 3bdrm home. Avail.June  Available starting anytime in May.  If you or someone you love needs  
$7/hr.  1st for summer/fall. East Race dist.  Call  confidential support or assistance,  
Robyn @ 271-3646.  For Sale: Futan-$60 Desk-$80  near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch.  773-871-8893.  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING  FOR SALE  Book case-$40 Bed-$160 Dresser­$50 All in excellent condition. Call  Incl. Alarm syst, washer/dryer. Can email picts/floor plan.Call Joe  2 bdrm apt  CSC. at 1-7819  
TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL  243-9988  Crimmins@273-0002(H) or 514­ summer sublease  For more information, see our  
SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR  Oak Hill Condo.  0643(cell) or  at Turtle Creek.  bi-weekly ad in The Observer  
PAID)Discretion Assured. Call:277-1659 Thank you.  574-243-2621  FOR RENT  JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com $650/m negotiable.  Contact·  ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE  
2 Computers­ macdonald 18@nd.edu or  Are you pregnant and dont know  
Kaplan GRE Preparation Class  $150 & $225  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  Two bedroom cottage in good stu­ 273-4668  what to do?  
Starts This Week!  homes 1/2 mile from campus.  dent area. $350 per month. Dave  Loving, open-hearted, financially  
Call 1-800· KAP-TEST to enroll  (574) 229-3100  rnmmrentals@aol.com 272­ 243-5353  3-6 BDRM HOMES.  stable woman would like to consid·  
1525 www.mmmrentals.com  WASHER/DRYER  er adopting a baby  
"­ Retiring Notre Dame Professor sell- JUDAY LAKE  Newly remodeled house for rent. 4  $175PP/MO.  Free counseling, living expenses  
irig 1 Bedroom Condo in North  HOME ON LAKE.  HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba,  bdrm, central air, fully carpeted,  272-6306,329-0308  and medical expenses.  
Shore Complex.  WALK TO ND.  walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com  security system, off street parking,  This can be a good thing for  
In good condition and includes 1  GILLIS REAL TY  walk to school. Available immedi·  1 bdrm apts for summer close ta  you and your baby.  
Car Garage Call Doris at 299-2000  272-6306,  2 BDRM House, NC, close to cam­ ately. Call 289­ ND$450  Discreet and legal.  
tor additional information  329-0308  pus. 269-699-5841  4074.  283-0325  Call 904-824-7006.  

Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Teams visiting Toronto warned about SARS exposure 
A.,ociatcd l'rc•• 
NEWYOHK 

When thn Kansas City B.oyals play in Toronto on Friday. they'll be cautious about where they eat meals. with whom th<iy spend time, and how they sign auto­graphs for lims. 
M,~jor J,nala{uc B1L-;nball warned teams to take precautions when playing the Blue .lays in Canada allcr health ollicials posted udvisorins about Urn clangers ofSAHS in tho an•a. 
!'layers Wt!!"P told to avoid crowds and contitcl with fans m; thP dly deals with 140 cases or sewrc acut1· respi{·atory syndrome and H, dnaths 
Canada has bP1m tlrn most SAHS-alfoctl'd an•a ouL-;ide /\sia. 
"Tlw fact is S,\HS is them," said Dr. Elliot 1'1·llnrnn, Ml.B's rrn~dical adviser. "The otlinr !'act is tlwrc arn 11 1/2 million people in Ontario, 2 l/2 million in the greater Toronto arPa. Takti those ligures and it's nol an PpidPmic or the blat:k plague. With propnr prncaution Llmrn is vnry little risk. Is there sorrni risk? Yes." 
Teams will bP tuld to avoid crowds, hos­pitals and public transportation. ff they want LO sign autographs, Pellman said, playnrs should USI\ tlmir own p(ins. 
"While it is a concern. tlw risk of attual in!i•clitm is still incrPdibly small," said Hob Manl'r(~d. Pxecutiw vice prcsidr.nt of labor ndations for the co111111issioner's ofliccr. "The advirl' wt''rn giving to tlw tPams is basic hPalth advice!: wash vour hands, avoid sharing food." · 
Toronto pitdwr Tanyon Sturtw agn•1is with tlw 1m•1:autions. 
"l think right now we' haw to back off a liltlu bit and makc• sum nverybody stays sale• until tlwy find out what's going on," he said from Tampa, where the team is play­ing through Thursday. 
"I think [fans] should understand what's going on because people are dying from this thing. It's not like people are just sick. People have died." 
Hcprcsentatives of baseball's players' union planned to meet with the commis­sioner's orticc Friday to discuss SARS. Medical consultants will also attend. 
"I think we're on the same page," union spokesman Gene Orza said. "The impor­tant thing is lo makB sure the players have a good fol'! for what's going on." 
The 1:Uue Jays open a nine-game homes­tand Friday. beginning with the Royals. and thcrP are no plans to postpone the games. 
But Paul Godfrey, president and CEO of the Blue Jays, said the SABS scare has alrnady had an impact on the team's bot­tom line. 
"There arc people who are concerned. Our patronage is off. We've lost in excess of 5,000, close to 10,000 in group sales.'' he said. "And that doesn't count people hold­ing back who have second thoughts. We can tell walkups are down 500 to 1,000 a game." 
I le aJso thinks there's been an overreac­tion to tile SARS eases. 
"Toronto is not quarantined," he said. "As a city. it's OK. It's business as usual. We'r(! still open for business." 
Other games are being played; most recently the Maple Leafs were in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
"II' you go back and follow it carefully, arenas have been packed and we've had no reported cases." Pellman said. 'This is brand new. We're not sure where it's going. My advice is we need to be cau­tious." 
To emphasize that. he planned to talk to head trainers or each of the 10 teams 

scheduled to visit Toronto through the All­Star break in mid-July. Signs of the SARS scare are evident in Toronto. 
When Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees dislocated his shoulder on opening day in Toronto, he wore a mask while being examined at a local hospital. 
"I try not lo think about it," Sturtze said. "I try to be careful on things I do and places I go. It's scary seeing people walk down the street wearing masks. It's scary hearing about hospitals being quarantined. It's not an everyday event for us here in the United States. 
"It is a little bit unnerving." 
Kansas City pitcher Kyle Snyder. making his first major league start Friday night. consulted with his father, a cardiovascular surgeon in Sarasota, Fla. 

"My dad called me this morning and he just wanted me to be aware of some things," Snyder said. "He told me to be sure to take some disinfectant up there and some special hand soap. Jle told me to get my hands as clean as possible." 
Snyder's father also advised him to wear a mask in crowds. 
Meantime, the World Health Organization advised travelers to avoid Toronto, as well as other sites in China, because of SARS. Dr. Paul Gully of Health Canada said the organization will appeal the WHO's decision. 
John McCain is interested... Why aren't you? 


-

Changing Times Magazine 
Be a part of the entirely student-n1n. non-profit organization that has the attention of 
U.S. Senators. ronnnc 500 C'E()'s. and htunan rights advocates. 
Apply for a variety of positions including: Public Relations, f)istribution, Ylagazinc Editing. ()nline Editing. (iraphic Design, Cirant\vriting. \Veb Technician, Photography~ ~tfarketing and Advertising. 
Join Changing Tirncs by applying onlinc at ,v"r""•.c.bangingtimes.org Deadline: April 28th 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2003 
INDIANAPOLIS 500 
Andretti uninjured after crashing during practice 
in his place. Kanaan would

Associated Pre•s 
start at the rear of the 33-car field. lNDIANAPOUS 'Tm not starting a career 

Mario Andretti crashed dur­again," Andretti said. "This is ing a practice session for the something that's a great Indianapolis 500 Wednesday, opportunity Michael gives me, sending his and he 
car sailing knows I'm
"It could have happened

through the always up air and flip­to anybody. The debris for a chal­ping end over lenge. I may
was in front of him. It

end. be able to 
The 63-was just there." till in a void year-old for­until at least mer Indy win­one of the
Carol Wilkins 

ner walked walking
Andretti Green Racing

awav from the wounded 
spokeswoman

cras'h unhurt, comes back a spokes­in action." woman for his Andretti, racing team said. the oldest driver to ever test 
"Jie's fine. He walked away an Indy car. drove more than fine," said Carol Wilkins. 50 laps Wednesday and spokeswoman for Andretti turned a top lap of 225.4 Green Racing, which is co­mph. owned by Andretti 's son Last year at Indy, the 33rd Michael. car in the field had a qualify­
Andretti did not suffer any ing speed of 227 .096. soreness after the crash. He 

was traveling more than 200 mph when he hit debris between turns 1 and 2. 
The debris launched the car into the air, where it flipped at least twice and landed on all four tires, Wilkins said. 
Andretti was checked out at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway's hospital but was unhurt, Indy Racing League spokesman John Griffin said. 
The debris apparently was left on the track after a crash involving Kenny Brack, who hit the wall coming out of Turn 1. 
He also was not injured, Griffin said. Andretti, was testing the car for son Michael's racing team. 
Mario Andretti retired from Indy car racing in 1994, but he might try to qualify one of his son's cars for team driver Tony Kanaan, who has a bro­ken arm. 
The crash has not changed those plans. Wilkins said. 
"He proved he can drive the car, and the debris wasn't his fault. It could have happened to anybody. The debris was in front of him. It was just there," she said. 
Andretti has driven at Indianapolis 29 times, the second-most in history, and he was happy to be back behind the wheel Wednesday. 
"I have great memories here, no question," he said following a session earlier in the day. "l can tell you I've enjoyed this joint, a lot. The way it looks from the cockpit is the way I remember it." 
The final day of qualifying at Indy is May 18. 
Kanaan is expected to be ready for the race on May 25, but even if Andretti qualifies 
Notre Dame Law School 2003 Distinguished Lecture Series Legislating Corporate Ethics 
Harvey J. Goldschmid 
Commissioner, U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission Dwight Professor ofLaw, Columbia University 
Friday, April 25 
2:00 p.m. Room 120 

The Distinlfuished Lecture Series has been made possible through the generosity of Robert T 74 JD. and Ann Therese Darin Palmer '73 B.A., '75 M.B.A. 

Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-
BOXING 
Tyson and Lewis need each other 
Associated P re>S 
Unless Mike Tyson becomes ill -or needs an emergency facial tattoo -it appears he and Lennox Lewis will get wgetlrnr once again June 21 in Los Angellis. 
Tlrny won't be lighling each other. bccausn Tyson wants no parl ol' that. He'd prefer to wail unlil Lewis is too old and stiff' f'rom inactivity bof'orc he gets back in the ring with a lighter who beat him up so badly the last time they met. 
Inslcad, Tyson will bncomc tho higtwst paid undnrcard l'igh lPr PV<'r. bringing his Lrnvl'li11g l'rcak show lo town Lo prop up a ti,\avywcight ch:unpion who can't carry tlw card 011 his ovvn. 
That is, everyone hopes he will. Tyson was still balking at terms late Wednesday, even though a press confer­ence was already scheduled for Thursday in Los Angeles. Promoter Gary Shaw said Wednesday night ho was "cautiously optimistic" about Tyson appearing on the card. 
Maybe it's Tyson's way of paying Lowis back !'or saving him from another whipping by not insisting that he follow the terms of their original contract and fight him in a rr.match. 
Or maybe these two flawed heavyweights simply need each other to finish their careers. 
Without Lewis on the card, Tyson's fight with Oleg Maskanv is just another chanco to make millions 


w/purooau of
asodWICh of l(lUal Of 
w/crnm 1.hnt• of
1f2 dot, b$g$1~
graat&r wluff. 
equal or greater \lllue 
TStnotlrdidilC, ilml! l 
Tlil not lnckldtd, §ml! 1
Tax not tnclll:1td. ilmit 1 
Good thru June 1
Good thru June 1Good thru June 1 

while lighting a guy who goes down more often than Clifford Etienne. Boxing fans saw that 49-second act in February. and it's already wearing thin for all but the most die-hard Tyson admir­ers. 
Lewis needs even more help. In hibernation since knocking Tyson out last June. he'll fight Kirk Johnson in what promises to be a yawn­er of a heavyweight title defense if there ever was one. 
Johnson, you might remem­ber, is the guy who looked so awful before finally being disqualified last year when he got his first big chance against John Huiz. Lowis is only fighting him because, depending on whom you believe: 
. 
lfo wants no part of No. 1-rankcd Vitali Klitschko. 

. 
Klitschko's promoters want too much money to fight Lewis. 


On its own. a Lewis­Johnson fight sells a rew thousand tickets and fills an hour or so on HBO's Saturday prime-time schedule. By itscl[', a Tyson-Maskacv fight is sold to some gullible town (Memphis. anyone?) where residents are so star-struck they'll dig in their pockets just to sec Tyson in person. 
Put the two fighters togeth­er, though, and the fight will sell on pay-per-view for $49.95 or so, and the Hollywood types will line up to try and get free ringside scats. 
BOXING 

Lewis to fight Johnson in June 
Associated Press 
Lennox Lewis will defend at least one version of his heavy­weight championship June 21 against Canadian Kirk Johnson at Staples Center. 
What's uncertain is whether former ch ampion Mike Tyson will fight on the same card. 
Promoter Gary Shaw announced late Wednesday that Lewis and Johnson will appear at a news conl'crence Thursday to officially announce the first world heavyweight championship fight in Los Angeles since Floyd Patterson stopped Hoy Ilarris in the 13th round Aug. 18. 1958 at Wrigley Field. 
Shaw said Lewis. the WBC and !BO heavyweight champi• on, will be defending the IBO version of his title. Lewis missed a deadline last week set by the Wl3C to clarify his plans to tight Vitali Klitschko or risk being stripped of his title. No such announcement has been made. 
Johnson is listed as the No. 8 challenger by the WBC. 
It will be the first major heavyweight bout in the area since Muhammad Ali regained his North American Boxing Federation championship against Ken Norton on Sept. 10, 1973 at the Forum in sub­urban Inglewood. 
Hegarding the possibility of Tyson appearing on the card. Shaw said: "I'm cautiously optimistic. My understanding is he would fight Oleg Maskaev." 

It's been speculated for weeks that Lowis and Tyson would fight June 21 against different opponents. What was unclear until earlier this week was where they would fight. 
The 37-year-old Lewis, 42-1 with 31 knockouts. will be fighting for the fin,t time since stopping Tyson in the eighth round in Memphis last June. 
The 30-year-old Johnson, 34­1-1 with 25 knockouts. stopped Lou Savarese in the fourth round March 15 in Dallas to win the WBO intercontinental heavyweight title. 
Tyson is 50-4 with two no contests and 44 knockouts. Lewis has never fought in California. 
"That's why he's so excited, to have everybody sec him in Los Angeles," Shaw said. "lie is very excitnd about coming out to the Wost Coast. 
"I think it will be a grnat card." The fight will be shown on IIBO pay-per-view. 
Only two boxing cards have been held at Staples Center _ Shane Mosley beat Oscar De La Hoya in tho headliner on a card in June 2000 and Hoy Jones won a unanimous deci­sion over .Julio Gonzalez in the headliner on a card in July 2001. 
BMW 
Certified Pre-Owned 
Certified mover 


hUIYW\liJ:1.l;t")fYt ThoUNlm.te 
f.lJ(J(!.:J11 ..1l'!MW °'1vtng Maohln«r 
Certified shaker 
Certified no more mac & cheese 
Certified acceleration 
Certified rush 
Certified freedom Certified bring it on Certified Pre--Owned BMW 


T 1$11t'llt · II' r 1ti It ::u 11 1 II It T II r HI
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. ·, 
=Certified Pre-owned = 
Get warranty protection• up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get floxlble leasing a\ld financing options. Got pure BMW. -iililiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiil 1>1 IIMW ... ' ............ search up-to-data, axtensiva invantwy at bmwusa.com 
'IIOl('(;l!on r~nfl p1o~ld11~ l!OVl)fll!'' lor Ill) lo? 1/llll!S or !i0,000 n1llos (wl1k:lt1ll/fll COfllflS f~!;I) l/0111 tho (IIHO ol lho ox,~rnlloll ol 11~1 /4. yoflr/!i0,000 mlkl llMW l\low\-t1hk;k1 I hnUnd W1u11111ly. Sou llHllldpnllrin IIMW (WISSllll(~K <:HI cnntnr 1111 ilo!Hfls. Im rnorn lnfommllon, call l-flOO-'.l:!4-IIIIMW, or11lsl1 bHJWIISH.COIII 1(;,:.>()().l l!MWol Noilh /\1111~lcH, I LC.1hn IIMW 11~1110 11ml 101,> llrn llllllsl011xl lirt(flllllfllk~. 
-AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER wnrn SERVICES Thursday, April 24, 2003 
NBA 


page 20 

around the dial 
STANLEY Cup PLAYOFFS Anaheim vs. Dallas 7:30 p.m., ESPN Tampa Bay vs. New Jersey 7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Red Sox at Rangers 1 p.m., ESPN Padres at Cubs 1 :20 p.m.. FOXCH Cardinals at Braves 6:30 p.m., WTBS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

Pacers at Celtics 5 p.m., TNT Nets at Bucks 7:30 p.m., TNT Timberwolves at Lakers 10 p.m., TNT 
Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Ben Wallace of the Detroit Pistons won the NBA's Defensive Player of the Year award for the second straight season Wednesday. 
Wallace became the sixth player to win the award in consecutive years, receiving 100 out of a possible 117 first-place votes from a panel of sports writers and broad­casters. 
"It means a lot to me," Wallace said. "One thing that I pride myself on is playing defense. 1 guess this shows I'm doing a good job." 
Ron Artest of Indiana, Kevin Garnett of Minnesota, Tim Duncan of San Antonio and Doug Christie of Sacramento rounded out the top five. 
The 6-foot-9, 240-pound Wallace averaged a league-best 15.4 rebounds, the highest regular-season average since Dennis Rodman's 16.1 in 1996-97. Wallace averaged 3.15 blocked shots, second to Atlanta's Theo Ratliff, who averaged 3.23 blocks. 
Sidney Moncrief, Dennis Hod man, Hakeem Olajuwon, Dikembe Mutombo and Alonzo Mourning also won the award in consecutive sea­sons. No one has won the award three straight times. 
"I guess that's something to shoot for," Wallace said. 
Artest, who received two first-place votes, com­plained that the honor should have been his. 
"There's a lot of good defenders out there. but I still feel I should have won the award," he said. 
Last year, Wallace was a nearly unanimous choice after becoming just the fourth player to lead the league in rebounding and shot-blocking. 
"Ben has proven himself to be the most dominant 
defensive player in the league again this year," said Joe Dumars, the Pistons' president of bas­ketball operations. 'Tm happy to see that people around the league have recognized him once again." 
Wallace, who averaged a team-high 39.4 minutes, helped Detroit limit oppos­ing teams to a league-low average of 87.7 points dur­ing the regular season. 
The 28-year-old Wallace became the lirst undrafted player to be voted an All­Star starter this season. lie played in the game one day after his mother's funeral. 
IN BRIEF 

Jeter makes throws to first 
Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter on Wednesday made throws to first base for tho first time since dislocating his left shoulder. 
Jeter is set to begin swinging a bat Friday as he works his way back from the injury he sustained in the Yankees' opener March 31. 
Jeter fielded 20 grounders at short­stop and then threw the ball to first. Ile started fielding ground balls on the infield grass Saturday, but didn't make any throws. 
'Tm doing good," Jeter said. 
Jeter hasn't swung a bat since being injured in a collision with Toronto catcher Ken Huckaby, who was released by the team earlier this month. 
This is the fourth time Jeter has been on the disabled list in his career. He never missed more than 16 days the first three times. 
Meanwhile, Antonio Osuna joined fellow closer Mariano Rivera and Steve Karsay on the disabled list Wednesday, a day after straining his right groin. 
Osuna, acquired from the Chicago White Sox during the offseason. was hurt in the eighth inning of the Yankees' 8-3 win over Anaheim on Tuesday. The 30-year-old right-han­der is 1-1 with a 1.59 ERA in nine games. 
Rivera had his second extended spring training start pushed back one day to Thursday. Rivera, who started the season on the 15-day disabled list with a right groin strain, allowed one hit during a scoreless inning in an extended spring game Monday against Toronto. 
Pabner and Bengals deal 
The Cincinnati Bengals believe they are closing in on a contract agreement with lleisrnan Trophy winner Carson Palmer. 
The Bengals plan to use the No. 1 pick in Saturday's NFL draft on the Southern California quarterback. Coach Marvin Lewis has madfl it clear he wants a deal done with the top pick before the dral't. 

"I wouldn't say it's imminent," Lewis said Wednesday. "but things are going very smoothly." 
David Dunn, the agent for Palmer, is in Cincinnati as negotiations continue. He didn't return phone messages. 
The team also talked with the agents for Marshall quarterback Byron Leftwich and Kansas State cor­nerback Terence Newman before deciding to negotiate with Palmer. 
Palmer would be the third quarter­back drafted by the Bengals in the first round in the last 12 years. They've also taken David Klingler and Akili Smith, but rushed them into the lineup as unprepared rookies and watched them struggle with poor sup­porting casts. 
Smith, taken third overall in 1999, was given less than one full season before his demotion to a backup. He's been the third-string quarterback in each of the last two seasons, starting a total of two games. 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Sweep 
continued from page 28 
prPvious SPason and that's lwlped lf'roshman starlcr lkatlwrl Booth to mature and get bdtcr hcrs«M because she has two great pitclwrs ahead ol' her." Loman said. 
Loman gave the\ Irish two early runs in gume one wilh her monstrous honw run over the scordmnrd. 
The ll'ish {1xplodcid in the sec­ond inning f'or eight runs, putting the gan111 out ol' reach c·arly. Liz llarlmann led off Lhc in11ing with a singln and advancNI to sncond on a sacri­fice bunt by Mallorie Lenn. Nicole dPFau /'ollowt!d with an Hill single that scored llarlmann and allowed deFau to advance to second on the throw lwnHl. 
Ciolli f'ollowud duFau with h,!r <n'vn Hill single, also advancing to sPcond on the throw home. Alexis :vtadrid gro1md11d into a ficldN's choice and Loman walkrd to put run­1wrs 011 tlw conwrs with two outs. 
Mragan Hulhruuff hit un BBi single that allownd Madrid Lo ;,core and Loman to advance to third base\. Andria Bledsoe fol­lowed with yet another single that allowed Loman and Huthrau!T to both come home. 
1.,~nn and d1+au would even­tually come up to bat again in the inning and onw again col­1Pc l BB! singles lo help the Irish move to an early 10-0 lead. 
The final Irish run wus pro­vidt~<l by Mattison. who launclwd a solo home run ovm the ldt !fold wall fur her fourth homer ol' the s1•ason. 
Irish starling pitcher llcalhr:r Booth struck out six through three innings and reliever Carrie Wisen came on Lo linish tlw contest. coll«~cting une strikPoul in two innings of 

inning and five for the game. 
the top of' the 

"The freshmen we had 
fil'th, when 

last year proved
Valparaiso led of'!' the inning themselves the previous with a solid 
season and that's helped 
base hit. 

[Heather} Booth to
The second game was mature and get better another deci­
herself... " 
sive Irish victo­ry, but all seven runs scored in Andrea Loman the third inning senior third baseman were unearned. Valparaiso 
N o t r e 

Dame  col­ 
lected  runs  
in  all  four  

innings; including Ciolli's solo home run in the fourth inning. The Irish plated four runs in the first inning, two in the sec­ond, seven 
committed l'our errors in that in the third and two in the 
fourth. 
Wisen started the game and collected the win, but had a rough time with control as she walked three and threw a wild pitch that allowed the lone Valparaiso run to score. Wisen left the game in the fourth inning. giving way to Jessica Sharron, who pitched two innings of perfect relief. 
Notre Dame will be on the road Thursday evening to face Illinois-Chicago in a double­header. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Calvin cancels 
•
again 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wri1er 
Saint Mary's College and Calvin College postponnd an important league doublrhcad­er fbr the second limo this sea­son Wt\dnesday. 
The Belles (15-13-1. 4-4 MIMl and Knights; { l 6-11 . 4­4). who arc tied f\ir filth place~ in the league. wern originally scheduled to play /\pril 16. The teams postpune<l that game due to imposing weather con­ditions. Wednesday's games were rescheduled for today due to similar imposing condi­tions. 
Still. Saint Mary's could use a day off after dropping two ganrns Tuesday to non-confor­en ce opponent Marian by scores of 11-2 and :. -1, respm:­tively. 
The Belles need to recuper­ate, and they need to do so right away. Two wins at home over Calvin would mean much more than the two losses Tuesday to Marian. A sweep of the doubleheader not only would vault Saint Mary's past Calvin into fourth place, it also would send the Belles into the third spot. ahead of Olivet College (14-15, 6-5). who split a doubleheader with first place Alma College Monday. 
Today's first make-up game is scheduled to start at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Congregation ofHoly Cross 
With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of 
Rev. Mr. Thomas J. Eckert, C.S.C. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria: 
Saturday, April 26, 2003 
1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, /.3) 



www.nd.edu/-vocation 
page 22 The Observer . sPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2003 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Cle1nens grabs 297th vVin as Yankees doininate Angels 
Associated f>ress 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Roger Clemens held Anaheim lo five hits to earn his 297th win, and Alfonso Soriano led off the game with one of three New York homers as the Yankees beat the Anaheim Angels 9-2 Wednesday night. 
The 40-vear-old Clf'mens (4­
0) struck.out six and walked none in eight innings, allowing a pair of unearned runs. He lowered his ERA to 1.59. 
New York outhit the Angels 18-5 and exlende<l its fran­chise-best start to 18-3. It was the Yankees' second straight one-sided victory over the defending World Series cham­pions, who beat them in the first round of last year's play­offs. Now York won the series opener 8-3. 
Orioles 7, White Sox 1 
Jason Johnson essentially had one effective pitch. but was still was good enough to beat Bartolo Colon and the Chicago White Sox. 
Johnson pitched six innings of one-hit ball and Jeff Conine hit a three-run homer as the Orioles cruised to victory Wednesday night. 
Johnson, who came in with a career 8.10 ERA against the White Sox, gave up one run, walked four and struck out two in winning his third straight start. The lone hit against the right-hander was a leadoff sin­gle by Paul Konerko in the fifth. 
Johnson (3-0) was lifted in the seventh after walking lead­off hitter Magglio Ordonez and going to a 2-0 on Konerko. Kerry Ligtcnbcrg then gave up two hits over two innings and Willis Roberts ·worked the ninth to finish the three-hitter. 
Devil Rays 4, Blue Jays 3 
B.occo Baldelli got the go­ahead hit and a shaving cream pie in the face. 
The rookie center fielder hit a tiebreaking RBI single during a four-run eighth inning as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays rallied to beat the Toronto Blue Jays Wednesday night. 
"Rocco has shown all spring and he's shown so far this vear he's the kind of guy that noth­ing phases him," said Tampa Bay's Marlon Anderson, who got Baldelli with the pie during a postgame television inter­view. 
Toronto starter Mark Hendrickson carried a four-hit shutout into the eighth, but the Devil Rays came from behind for the second straight game. Tampa Bay also trailed by three Tuesday before a 4-3 win. 
Rangers 6, Red Sox 1 
John Thomson had to wonder if he'd be able to adjust to a new league. 

Thomson pitched seven solid innings for his first /\L victory, Ryan Christenson hit a Ieadoff horner and Juan Gonzalez had a two-run single as the Texas Rangers beat the Boston rted Sox 6-l Wednesday night 
Thomson (1-2) allowed one run and six hits in winning for the first time since last s,,pt. 8 for the New York Mets against Philadelphia. lie also spent 4 seasons in Colorado before signing with Texas in the off­
season. 
Gonzalez's two-run single in a three-run sixth inning gave Texas a 3-1 lead. Ramiro Mendoza walked Michael Young with the bases loaded to make it 4-1. 
Tigers 4, Athletics 1 
It'd be difficult to inveut tougher circumstances than the ones Jeremy Bonderman faced on Wednesday night -and afterward, he couldn't really explain how he overcame them for his first major league win. 
Bondcrman retired 17 straight batters as the Detroit Tigers got their second victory 
in  19  games,  beating  the  
Oakland Athletics.  
Just  how  unlikely  was  

Bonderman's spectacular eight­inning performance? He had an 0-3 record and a 
10.22 ERA entering his fourth major league start on the road for the worst team in baseball. 

Faculty Performance 
Featuring 
DON SAVOIE 
Thursday April 24th 
9pm -11pm 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom Free Food Will Be Served 

~An evning of music presented by faculty and students-

Sponsored by Student Activities 
Contact the Student Activities Office at 1-7308 for nore infonnation 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA 
Mavericks' Big Three play key role in win over Blazers 
this ganw. going up by four four fouls in the third quarter.
Associllcd Press 
early in the l'ourth period al'ter "I don't try to compare myself' trailing throughout the second to what he did," llamilton said.
D1\LLAS 

and third quarters. Even with "We're two different people. IDirk Nowitzki knew he 
the Mavs making 10-uf-14 shots put pressure on myself to help
couldn't keep doing it alon11. 
in Lho linal period. Portland still the team. This is the time ofSttivc Nash and Michael Finley tied the game at 98 with 48.2 year when players arc made."
mack sum hn didn't have to. 
seconds left on a three-point McGrady's teammates com­
With oach rnmnbPr or Dallas' play by Dal<: Davis. bined for just 31 points.
Big Throe 1;oming through in 
"We feel bad," said Drew
tlw rlutc:h. llrn Mav1~ricks with­
Gooden. who had just four
stood a carncr-lJest 45 points Pistons 89, Magic 77 
points after srnring 18 in Gamefrom Bonzi Wnlls and beat thn Nobody in Detroit is debating 1. "We left him on a limb hang­
l'ortlancl Trail Blawrs I 03-<J<) tlie Jerry Stackhousc-f'or­
ing by himsell'." 
Wt!drrnsday night lo take a 2-0 Hichard llamilton trade any­l lamilton had plenty of help.
lnacl in Llwir first-round series. more. 
Chauncey Billups scored 15
Nash had 11 of his 28 points llamilton scored 30 points to points, and Corliss Williamsonin Llw fourth quarter. Nowitzki lcacl livr playrrs in double lig­added 13.
scornd 2!i and Finley add11d 17 u rcs as the Pistons beat the as Llw Dallas movBd halfway to Orlando Magic 89-77 on winning ils IH~st-ol'-7 malchup. \\'cd11csday night in Game 2 -76ers 90, Hornets 85 (;am<' 3 is l'riday night in cl,ispit<> Tracy McGrady's 46 The New Orleans Hornets Portland. points. found a way to contain Allen 
This was more like what The series h; tied 1-1 heading Iverson. They couldn't stop Dallas l'XJH'C'.lS from its trio or to Orlando on Friday night. Kenny Thomas. stars, unlikP Camn I, when Many questioned the maj(lr Coming off a 55-point perfor­Nowitzki had 4(, µoi11ts, a move l,tst summer when Joe mance in the series opener. carn<·r bnsl and lnam playoff Dumars. the president of bas­lvPrson had 29 points, and n~cord. and l."inley and Nash ketball operations and a former Thomas added 17 points and 16 cumliinncl for 2:{. sLar guard for the Pistons. sent rebounds, leading the 
"That ga11w was min t'or the the team's lone star tu l'hiladclphia 76crs to a 90-85 agns in Mavericks history. We Washington !'or llamilton. victory Wednesday night. can'l nxpr.t:t him to do that "It takes a lot ol" guts to make "Thomas had a super night. <'V<'ry night," said Nash. who that trade," Orlando coach Doc That really hurt us." Ilorncts was 5-ol'-b on :{-pointers and HivPrs said. coach Paul Silas said. had Pighl assists. "Tonight was In Lhll lirst two playoff games Philadelphia took a 2-0 lead 111on• indicalivP of tlw balance of' llamilton's three-year NBA in the best-of-seven Eastern WI' IWl'd." career. he has scored 58 points Conference quarterfinal. Game 
Ttw Trail Blaz<'rs have lost on a combined 17-ol'-33 shoot­3 is Saturday in New Orleans. nirw straight playoff gamPs elat­ing. Stackhouse made just 32.1 Overall, teams that have won ing to ;moo and 1trl! in jlmpardy pnrcPnt of his shots in 10 play­the first two games in a best-of­of gelling SW('()L out of the play­off ganws last season and was scven arc 145-7. offs !'or Lill' l'ourth tinw in l'iw at his worst when Detroit need­Derrick Coleman had 12 yPars. ed him most. points and six assists and Keith 
"Being down 0-2 is really When the Pistons faced elimi­Van Ilorn added 11 points for tough, IJut we're def'initely nation in Game 5 against the Sixers. Thomas, Van Horn going Lo try to get this thing to Toronto in the first round, and Coleman -Philadelphia's come back to Dallas." said Stackhouse made one of 10 starting frontcourt -combined Wt•lls. who broke Clyd<! shots. When they were eliminat­for 11 points in Game 1. They DrPxlnr's tPam playoff n•rord of ed in the nnxt round. he made had 40 Wednesday night. 42 points. "\Vn'ni not goin!,{ to just tlm•c of' 18 shots and didn't "I kind of want that whole giv1~ up." attack Boston star l'au I Pierce 155-point performance! to be 
The' Blazc'rs pruvPd that in ,v!wn lw was guarding him with over with and for it not to come 
3rd Annual Notre Dame Chess Club Tournament 
When: Sunday April 27t\ 12:45 P.M Where: Notre Dame Room. 2nd Floor 
LaFun! 

The Notre Dame Chess Club will be hosting their 3rd Annua1 Tournament. 
Prizes offered for Top Undergrad, Top 
Fe1nale, Top "Rook"ie, and n1any other 
prize categories, so everyone can win! 
Everyone wi1I play four ga1ncs of chess, and will play those of sitnilar strength to assure everyone has a chance to win! 
Contact Mike at ndchess@nd.edu or 4-0867 to register or for rnore details 

down to me scoring like I did that night," Iverson said. 
David Wesley had 24 points and Robert Pack added 15 for New Orleans. Jamal Mashburn scored 14, but he had only one point after chipping a bone in his right middle linger and dis­
locating it. He sat out the final 6:49. 
The Hornets were without 
Baron Davis, their second-lead­
ing scorer, who was out with a 
left knee injury. He and 
Mashburn are day-to-day. 
Despite missing its two best players, New Orleans trailed only 79-73 after Hobert Traylor hit a jumper with 7:40 left. 
But Iverson answered with a 
15-footer and a long jumper 
that made it 83-73 with 4:25 


rema111111g. Coleman set up Iverson' second jumper, diving to gather a loose ball and draw­ing a standing ovation from a Philadelphia crowd that once vilified him during his first tour with the Sixers, from 1995-98. 
After a pair of free throws by Coleman made it 86-76, Iverson hit another long jumper with 
2:29 left. The Hornets didn't get closer than seven until making the last basket. 
"Their big men did a good job. Their support players stepped up, Thomas, Coleman and Van Horn," said P.J. Brown. who had just six points and four rebounds. "We were just jump­ing jacks out there. We just didn't play very good defense against those guys." 
lTnplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, t-'1819 Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: :?.3,i-3111 



page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 24, 2003 

FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR~ 
ey.com/us/careers 
,

' 
/ 
,' 
,, 
,I 
, 
,I 
, 
I I I 
I ' 
I ' 
I 
I' 
1 I I I 
I 
I I
, 
I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I I 
I I 
I' 
I I 

I I Now it's time to put on
I 
I I 

I your thinking cap.
I I I I I I I I I 

I •
I I I 
I I I I I 
I I I 
'I 
I I I 
I 
'I 
I I I 
'I 
I I 
I ' \ 
' 
•I ' \ 
\ ' I 
\ \ 

It's time to start thinking about graduation and 
putting yourself to good use. At Ernst & Young, we 
offer achallenging, stimulating environment where 
you will be given many opportunities to use your mind 
and stretch and grow in your career. Start here. 
s.!/ f RNST& YOLJNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 j 'he Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Ogilvie 
continued from page 28 
"It folt good to be back out there," Ogilvie said. "IL was a big game for our confidencn as far as g<'tting back on track and playing tlm game the right way. Our hittnrs hit th!' I.Jail and we scored a lot of runs and our pitchers keep doing what w«~·vc l.>1ien doing. The oHwr guys came in and did grnaL." 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri was thrilled to sec Ogilvin throw such a good outing after missing so much game action. 
"Primarily the positive thing about today was seeing Pete go out there and pitch for us," Mainicri said. "It's going to ue a rnal shot in the arm for us to get him back. lfo's !men onn or the top pitchers in our program the last two years." 
The Irish welcomed Ogilvie back by scorching the Viking pitching staff and taking advantage or numerous Cleveland StaUl blunders. 
Notrn Dame opcnr.d the scoring in the sccond inning, when catcher Javier Sanchez drill<'d a double that scored right liPlcler Kris Billmaier and first baseman J\.latt Bransfield to give the Irish an early 2-0 lead. Sanchez th1m stole third on the next pitch and trottcd homo on an over­th row by Cleveland State's catcher to n1ak1\ it 3-0. 
The Irish added two more runs in the fourth inning after Branslield reached on an 1•1-ror. th(m advanced lo third on sec­ond baseman Tim Murray's double. 
Murray started at second base in place of regular Steve Sollmann, who had a slight right wrist strain, according to Irish coach Paul J\.fainieri. Greg Lopez, who got the start at shortstop, dropped a single into center field to scor<\ both Bransfield and .\1urray, increasing the Irish lead to 5-0. 
After adding one more run in the l1fth on a Billmaier single that scored right fielder Cody Rizzo. Notre Dame blew the game wide open with a seven-run sixth inning. Sanchez opened with a single bef'oro Murray and Lopez both recorded outs. Left Helder Brennan Grogan walked and Hizzo kept the inning alive with a run-scoring single to right field. 
Third baseman Matt Edwards drilled a double down the left field line that scored Grogan. After a Cleveland State pitching change, designated hitter Stove Andres was hit hy a pitch. Billmaier hit a double to left, scoring Edwards and Hizzo, to push the Irish lead to 10-1. 
Bransfield then singled to left to score two more runs before pinch hitter Mike Holba walked and Murray added another HBI hit. When it was over, Notre Dame had a 12-run cushion, which was plenty for the rest of the Irish pitching staff. Right hander Ryan Doherty went 1 2/3 innings, allowing no hits and striking out !'our. Martin Vergara earned the save by pitching three innings and yielding no runs on two hits. He struck out four. 
Mainieri, who was concerned about his team's hitting in their 3-1 loss Tuesday to Ball State, was pleased with their perfor­mance against Cleveland State. 


TWO MEN ANDA TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 

• 
Residential 

• 
Commercial 

• 
Packing Service 

• 
Insured & Bonded 


• 
Local & Long Distance 

• 
Boxes & Packing Supplies 

• 
Loading & Unloading of Rental Trucks Available 


(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenondot,uck.com 
Visit Out Box Sto,e! 

11590 McKinle)j, Suite D • Osceola, IN Ll6561 

,4 weekend retreat experience for Notre Dame graduates and grad students 
We invite you to take J weekend away with fellow young ND alums and grad students in the South Bend area to refiect upon your faith journey and listen to God's call in your life. 
When: Fri., May 9, (evening)-Sun., May ll, (morning) Where: Rosewood Pointe Retreat Center in Holland, Michigan Cost: $95 (includes room and meals) 
To reserve your place or get more information, please visit the Vocare website at w11·w.11d.ed11!~11d1•i/. 

If you have any questmns, please contact: 
Kathy Fanning ­ Fanning.8@nd.edu  
Gerry Ohnger ­ Ohnger.-l@nd.edu  
Nicole Shirilla­ Sh11ilb. l@nd.edu  

"I was very disappointed with our team last night," Mainieri said. " ... I just don't feel like our kids met the challenges last night and we have to be better than that. So tonight I decided to give a few guys a chance that haven't been playing." 
Those guys -specifically Murray and Bransfield -combined to go 4-for-8 on the day and helped the Irish break open the game in the middle innings. 
Notre Dame will now focus their atten­tion on a makeup game against IUPU-Fort Wayne tomorrow at 5 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Huddle 
continued from page 28 
the evening for me, but it was great." 
In order to qualify for an American Junior Record, the athlete must be under 20 dur­ing the calendar year. Huddle, 18, said she had an advantage because of the unique stipula­tions of the type of record. 
"The 5K is not run in high school, so there are not as many athletes that have the chance to break it," Huddle said. 
Huddle wasted no time set­ting a new record, as it was 
Notes: 

. The win was Notre Dame's 30th of the season, and marked the third fewest number of games an Irish team had taken to get 30 wins. 
The 2001 team got to 30 victories in 36 games, while the 1989 team reached 30 in 38 contests. 
. With their three runs in the second inning Wednesday, the Irish have now outscored opponents 54-8 in the second inning of games this year. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
the first 5,000 meter race of her career. She has now run the 5,000 meters faster than any American junior before her. 
"I went into the meet feeling no pressure at all. I knew I was in a race with good run­ners, and all I wanted to do was hang with them," Huddle said. "The [Mt. SAC] Helays are prestigious, but since nothing is on the line, there was no pressure on me." 
Huddle looks to take this momentum into next weekend, where she will compete in the Big East Conference meet in Connecticut after taking this weekend off to prepare. However, she is ready to run 

after a successful trip to California. 
"Since it was my first 5K, it gives me confidence going into the Big East," Huddle said. "However, I know it's not always going to be like that, especially in the Big East meet." 
Despite what Huddle claims, the Irish look forward to hav­ing Huddle compete for them in the Big East Championship, as well as for the next four years. 
After all, records -even unknown ones -are meant to be broken. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
NDe~Corner 
[ttd-of-

CJ(Af BAZAAR 

page 26 The Obsm1er . SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2003 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Despite challenge, No. 1 AdWorks tops White Chocolate 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Spom \v'rirer 
AdWorks 21, White Chocolate 16 
In an aggressive showing by both teams. no. 1 AdWorks and White Chocolate met in a tough game. Both teams played well offensively and defensively, but AdWorks. the overall bigger team. was able to dominate under the basket. Through a combination of outside and dri­ving shots, AdWorks was able to end the first half 11-G. 
Early in the second half, AdWorks was able to hold White Chocolate. forcing them to take outside shots, while driving to the basket and scoring themselves. White Chocolate rallied to bring the score within three. marking the smallest point margin for the rest of the half. 
White Chocolate managed to hold AdWorks at 20 for a long time at the end of the second half, but they could not come through with the points on offense. The game ended with a drive to the basket by AdWorks, 21-16. 
Senior Brian Ostick of AdWorks credited his opponents' perfor­mance. 
"I want to give credit to the other team. They were by far the str~~gest team we've played so far. 
Ostick also analyzed his team's playing. "We have a good inside­outside combination. and that usually works pretty well for us," he said. 
Ndtoday.com 21, Team44115 
No. 2 ndtoday.com and Team 441 played a long, intense game in which defense turned out to be the key. Both teams had strong defenses, and each held the other to many failed shots, play after play. 
Offensively, both teams had a good mix of inside and outside shots, though each had difficulty making baskets. Both teams played a good first half, but ndto­day.com was able to come through offensively. They ended the half 11-7. 
Team 441 srored the first point of the second half. although it was followed directly by a point scored by ndtodav.com. Team 441 stepped up d~ring the {irst part of the second half. using good offense and a very strong defense to bring the score to within one point, at 15-14. After that rally, however, ndtoday.com dominated offensively and defen­sively, and Team 441 was only able to score once more in the half. Team 441 fouled seven times during that half, which gave ndtoday.com the opportuni­ty to score on a free throw. ndto­day.com ended the game 21-15. 
Irvin Jones 21, Killer Boots 13 
What began as a close-scoring game soon turned into anything but as Irvin Jones took to the basket for an eight-point win over Killer Boots. For the first few minutes, the game stayed either within one point or tied. 
Irvin Jones soon stepped up their game. aggressively driving to the basket, but still taking and scoring many outside shots. Killer Boots did not play as aggressively as Irvin Jones, and it showed in the score. Irvin Jones had a seven-point lead at half­time, making the score 11-4. 

During the second half, Irvin Jones scored three points before Killer Boots scored their first point of the half. Irvin Jones went on to dominate the second half with no less than a margin of seven points. However, for a por­tion of the late second half, Killer Boots was able to hold Killer Boots at 19. but they did not come through offensively. and the game ended 21-13. 
Senior Pat Ryan of Killer Boots commented on his team's loss. 
"We didn't play well at all, and we weren't making any shots ... What ever we were doing, it didn't work." he said. 
Five Jamonies 21, Growers not Showers 18 
Five Jamonies and Growers not Showers played a close game 

..  
'E II (/) II..  .c.,, ii  II....,, :, .c u Cl)  ~  
a.  ==...  II  
Ill II.. Q, 0,, C ,,  'E 0:s C Cl Cl)  ~ >, ..c a. <1l.. en 0  .? 0 (/) II E :::J... "'  ¦ ~·  
C "' 0 '0  >, i:.::  ~ 0 ..c 0  0 0  Ob  
::, E 0  ¦ -0\I\) .,  '­ 
ION  0::,:,  
¦ • •  fJ) ~ 0 (I) !l!. CQ ::l ! ,ii; !. 3 DI :I  0 0 :i 0. C n Q C. 0 ';I'::r >,,•;;.: 0 1/1  :!l iI (I) C, ';I' 0 :fl !. CL  


Tickets: S6 reseNec1 seating, sa sen,ors/stuclenls. Available at the LaF~rtune Box Office, (574) 631-8128 

No. 1 Adworks 
8:30 

THE SWEET SIXTEEN 
No. 16 Beat Us ­Go to  
Hes Lifo  ,______  

No. 5 La~/'-Bov Furniture GaUefics  
7:45  

No. 12 Drrelict  


No. 4 Hoosier Racing  
8:30  

No. 13 Half man  


No. 8 RBC  
7:45  

No. 9 Irvin Jones  



before a large crowd early in thP evening. The game began with both offensive and defensive domination by Five Jamonies. They drove aggressively to the basket and played strong defense to bring the score to 9-4. 
However, Growers not Showers rallied late in the first half by stepping up on both sides of the game. They held Five Jamonies scoreless while hitting outside and inside shots to bring their team within one point. The first half finished at 11-10 with a shot by Five Jamonies. 
The entire second half was very dose with both teams play­ing well offensively. Each team aggressively drove against the other's defense, and the scor<\ tied at 16-16 in the middle or the second half. Both teams fouled seven times in the second half, and gave each other opportuni­ties to score on free throws. I Iowcwr. the game ended at 21­18 with an offensive drive by Five Jamonies. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

North Food Court's 
Last Shout 
Sponsored by: Lamb Wesson & Tyson Foods Wings & Fries of ALL SORTS!! 

....-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
1~~ FIGHTING IRISH BASEBALL m~ 
-~· ",W,.,, 
tL 

·• . .......~":'..i• ,-,,r:-..:~:•-:~ r, •,
;i 


CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
No... Hey, tM'e cote. So,Hot. Just tan me Mr. Se•-OH COME ON! 5.2?1 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A P S G L E 
E A N 
-,-+....+-,+,-,+-,,-i 

A L T V 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
WILLSHORTZ 
51 Shoe style 
52 It may be close 55 Friendly greellng .,.,,.......__ 
57 Homophone of 7-Down 
58 Kind of plant 
59 Singer Amos and others 
60 _ Lingus 
61 Deal maker 
62 "A Modest Proposal." e.g. 
63 Partner, with "the" 
DOWN 
1 Caring 
2 Constantine 1s its third-largest city 
3 You can't park here 
Puzzle by Dt¥id J. luhn 

4 Minnesota city 23 Otten villainous 36 Start of a boast 47 Deflect 1n "Fargo· operatic roles 
37 Treats gently, 48 Some 5 Running water 26 Downhill racers with "on· swingers 6 Iniquities 49 Visionaries
27 Pique 38 Deck feature 
7 Comic book cry 28 Western 39 Cutter 52 Place for sweaters
monikeraLeast pleasant, 

42 Get the better weatherwise 53 Glutton
30 Designer's of 9 A Lille love focus 54 Blow away 
45 Loren of 10 Popular family 33 Set, 1n a way "Lady L" 56 Lobos vehide 
11 Put in For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554.
12 Brooks of Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayBroadway 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-? •ACROSS. 13 Arch Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pasr puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
21 Hand-counting method, 1n Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, bridge nytimes.corn/leam1ng/xwords. 
Print anl,"\>,18r here: 

[IIIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles· WEARY WAGER FUTILE SAFARIYesterday's 
Answer: What a burglar wants to do after a break-in ­"STEAL" AWAY 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Barbra Streisand, Shirley MacLaine. Stanley Kauffman, Eric Bogosian 
Happy Birthday: You may find it difficult to make up your mind this year. It will be important for you to follow a regimented routine so you can assure yourself that you will make progress. This isn't the year to expect great achievements, but the returns you get down the road will be spectacular. Your numbers are 8, 13, 15. 22. 25. 34 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have more to offer than you think. You will develop new and lasting friendships if you get involved in a group with a cause. This is your chance to give back and feel great alxiut it. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have to be honest with your.;elf and evaluate your motives carefully today. Don't blow situations out of proponion. Extravagance and exaggeration will be your downfall. ** GEMINI (May 21-Jmie 20): Take part in talks or seminars. A trip to the museum or science center will spark new and ~Teative ideas that could lead to selling a new 
trend. ***** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you work out a reasonable budget you can gel rid of your debts. Losses will occur if you try to continue living a lifestyle that you 
really can't afford. *** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Partnerships will take on a whole new meaning today. Social activity will lead to friendships with individuals who can get you thinking and spark enthusiasm in you. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Work shouldn't be the most important thing on your mind. Other areas of your life arc equally as important. It's time to add balance 10 your life. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): This is a perfect day to start something new. You have the discipline to drop any bad habits 1f you put your mind to it. Start today an<l you won't be sorry. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Be careful what you say lo a loved one today. Someone may try to cause friction or mislead you. Postpone important decisions that will affect your future. ** 
SAGrrfARRIS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pick and choose whom you spend time with today. You will communicate well with acquaintances. but will experience difficulties discussing personal matters. Avoid one-on-one conversations. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make the deal ofa lifetime if you arc quick to pick up on an opportunity that is being presented to you. You can make career moves that will put you in agreater position ofresponsibility. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Speak up an<l lel your feelings be known. Your ability to gel your point across will be appreciated even if the person you are addressing is not in agreement with you. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You are attracting all the wrong people today. Just because someone has a good sob story doesn't mean you should bend over backward for him or her. Compliments will be insincere. *** ­
Birthday Baby: You will be creative, imaginative and someone who gets noticed. You will always do what you know in your heart is the best thing for you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites al astroadvicc.com, cug,:nmlasl.<'Om, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
.... 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
RIBBE 
I I I [] 
C2003 Tribune Medl;ei Servicea, Inc AU Rights Reserved. 
RAMEK 
I [ J 
GRAIND 
URBED 

j
I ( I I I 
~---------~--"'-"----'--~ 
" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


,f-Z"f' 
HOW DAD FEL.r AFTE:R FIXING THE C.L..OOGE:r 51NK. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
. ACROSS 
1 Lyricist_ David 4 Boxer, for one 
9 Subject of a 2001 best• selling McCullough biography 
14 "Shine a Little Love• grp., 1979 
15 Colorado or Missouri 
16 Work for a designer, maybe 
17 Khan 
18 How twins often dress 
19 Askew 
20 Get sharper. militarily 
22 As snug as _ 
24 Groups of three 
25 Dish served on toast 
29 Coastal feature 30 Prefix with concert 31 Perry Como 
classic 32 Golden·_ 33 Components of 
a 2.0 average 34 Butter overseas 35 They're hidden 
in 8·, 10-, 21­and 33-Down 38 Starting 40 Cluster 41 Met display 43 Support for the elderly? 44 Show 45 Water polo squad 46 Filly : horse _ :sheep 48 Back-to-back, in France 50 Constantly 


PORTS 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 
BASEBALL 

Back with a vengeance 
. 7 Cleveland 
State errors help 
Notre Dame cruise 
over Vikings, 13-1 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
This time, the Irish IN their 
opponems make the key mis­
takes. 
A day after losing on a late­inning error to Hall State, Notre Dam~~ (30-9) bounced back to pound Cleveland State, 13-1, thanks to seven Viking errors. timely hitting and solid pitching 
at Frank Eck Stadium 
Wcdnesdav. The seven errors were the most ever by a Notre Dame opponent at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Pete Ogilvie (1-2) went 4 1/3 innings on a pitch count and struck out a career-high eight batters while allowing one earned run. As a team, Notre Dame tied an Eck Stadium record by striking out 16 Cleveland State batters. 
The right hander had been injured for several weeks with a sore shoulder and made his first start since a March 12 outing against Jacksonville. 
see OGILVIE/page 25 


WOMENS TRACK 

Huddle breaks record in 5,000 meters 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 
Freshman Molly Huddle didn't even know the American Junior Records existed. 
But that didn't matter this weekend when Huddle broke the American Junior Record in the 5,000-meter run with her fifth-place finish at the well-known Mount San Antonio College Relays. 
"It was shocking," Huddle said. "I didn't know there was a record for that until the girl who held the record before me told me because the record falls into a strange catego­ry." 
Huddle ran the 5,000 meters in 15:36.95, breaking the record by almost 15 seconds. Previous record-holder Lauren Slcshnan of Stanford ran in the race with Huddle, finishing second in a race that saw the first four run­ners finish in a pack, followed by a second pack of runners. 
"I was amazed to find out that I broke a record," Huddle said. "It was the surprise of 
see HUDDLE/page 25 


SOFTBALL 
Irish crush Valpo in sweep 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spons Writer 
Against a team aptly named the Crusaders, the Irish achieved their greatest margin of victory in ovor a decade. 
The Irish completed their most prolific doubleheader since 1989, defeating in-state oppon(~nt Valparaiso 11-0 and 15-1 in games that were both called after only l1ve innings. 
Notre Dame has won 18 games in a row and has yet to lose in April. They just missed tying the school record for runs scored in a doubleheadPr. which was set against Boston CollPgP in the 1989 season when the Irish scored 28 runs in two games against the Gold<'n Eagles. 
Senior third baseman Andrea Loman has seen her team play WPll in April for the third straight year in a row. 
"11 _just seems like every year around this time we have a stretch where we get things going," she said. "Just getting outside and being able to play on actual dirt allows us to become a better team." 
Although the 1989 record was not broken, Loman set her own individual milcstonf' by becoming the first Irish player to hit a home run over the scoreboard at Ivy Field. 
'Tm just seeing the ball real­ly well now," she said. "It seems like everyone's clicking. At the beginning of the year you would have one hitter who might carry the team each game, but now everybody is doing their job." 
The Irish offense was simply unstoppable, collecting 29 hits in just eight innings. Every starter in each game scored at least one run. 
Megan Ciolli paced the offense with a six-for-eight afternoon at the plate, includ­ing three RBIs and a home run. 
Lisa Mattison, who was recently named Big East player of the week, continued her hot hitting by going four-for-seven with four HR! and a home run. 
The young Irish pitching staff continued its own stellar per­formance this year, with the only Valparaiso run scored off a wild pitch from Carrie Wisen. 
"The freshmen we had last year [Steffany Stcnglein and Wisen] proved themselves the 
see SWEEP/page 21 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBAU.. 
SMC SOFTBALL
en LU 
ta-c., 
Calvin at Saint Mary's
z 
postponed
s 

C, The field of teams was whittled down even further Wednesday night, as 
The Knights postponed the game for the second time in a week due to fore­
... 
the final teams -including the No. 1 and No. 2 seeds -qualified for the 
casted inclement weather. The two team& will attempt to make up the dou­
cc 
round of 16. 
bleheader today at 3:30 p.rn. 

page 26
en ~ 
page 21 








