
VOL. XXXVII NO. 117 HTTP://Ol\SERVER.ND.EDU 
Marine graduate injured in Iraq war 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Senior SL1ffWri1rr 
First Lieutenant Dustin Ferrell, a ;woo Notre Dame graduate and U.S. Marine, was recently 
inj tm\d in I r a q , according to rPporl<; from t h (' Associated Press and Fcrrell's rnolher-in­


law, who Ferrell writes for llrn Michigan City (Ind.) News­l)ispatch. 
Thr AP reported that Ferrell had to receive a field tracheoto­my after a Ilumvee accident that caused chest injuries and broken bones. The operation involves cutting a hole in the threat to allow air to pass through. 
"People that have tra­cheotomies, they survive," said Patti Null, a local charge nurse at Mr,morial Hospital of South Bend. 
As of Tuesday, it was reported that Ferrnll was recovering in an Air Force hospital near Frankfurt, Germany. 
Ferrell's mother-in-law, Deborah Scderberg, wrote about Ferrell Tuesday for the Michigan City paper, explaining how he was injured. 
"The details remain sketchy, but it looks as if Dustin and sev­eral other Marines were in an accident in a Humvee. A field tracheotomy by a Navy corpsman s,tved his life. His trachea had been crushed." Sederberg reported. 
Sederberg also wrote abom Ferrell's involvement at Notre Dame, where he was active in the Navy ROTC program, which had given him a scholarship. 
"Between his academic classes and his military obligation, he seemed to be running or study­ing nearly every minute of his four years at Notre Dame, on his way to a degree in business and a stint with the Marines," Sederberg said in the article. 

Some current Notre Dame Navy ROTC students who worked with him also referred to his leadership. 
"I remember him as being a great leader, and also, he had a great sense of humor," said senior John Seiter, who worked under rerrell when he held the position of public affairs officer in Navy ROTC. 
As public affairs officer, Ferrell edited the Navy newsletter. He also wrote a series of columns in The Observer that incited student reactions during his time as an assistant viewpoint editor. 
"They did elicit good dialogue," said former Observer managing editor and 2002 graduate Noreen Gillepsie, adding that. "He really wore the responsibility that they teach you in ROTC in office." 
Ferrell, an accounting major originally from California, was living in North Carolina with his wife, Rachel, a Saint Mary's graduate, before he was sent to the Middle East. The two were married in August at the Basilica. 
In the Air Force hospital, Sederberg reported that Ferrell has to use a ventilator to breathe. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
Ralph Nader to speak on campus 
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
New, Wriccr 
Consumer advocate Halph Nader will address the Notre Damp community today at 3 µ.m. in thn Jordan Auditorium of' the M1\11doza College of' Business. 
Titled "Legislating Corporate Hhics," the talk is spon­sored by the Notre Dame Law School and is part of the business lec­turt~ series. 
Nader ran for presidr,nt in 2000 as a Green Party candi­date and has been a prominent figure in consumer issues. He founded organi­zations respon­plausibility of legislating ethics at the corporate level and the effect that such legislation would have on the business world. 


Nader has recently headed an effort to create a new organiza­tion to set standards for corpo­rate accountants. 
Lisa Casey, a Notre Dame law professor, said Nader will most likely address Wall Street scan­dals that have occurred over the past year and the need for legislation that will better pro­tect consumers and their inter­ests. Since the admission of false profits and the demise of Enron last year, the accounts of other major corporations have come under close scrutiny and more scandals have been revealed, leading many to ques­tion the integrity of corporate America. 
Andrew Casad, the facilitator 
of Notre 
D a m e 
Greens,

sible !'or the "The progressive issues 
said that 

establishment don't get enough he's veryof several 
attention on campus, so excited to 
major federal 
h e a r

it should be a very
consumer pro­
Nader's tection agen­interesting lecture." thoughtscios, including 
on respon­

l h e 
sible busi­

Andrew Casad
Environmnntal n e s s 
Protection facilitator of Notre Dame Greens 
Agency.  the  
Occupational  
Safety  a.nd  Health  
Admi.nistration and  the  

Consumer Product Safety Ad ministration. 
Numerous other consumer­actions groups, such as the Center for Auto Safety. Public Citizen. thr, Clean Watf'r Action Project, Disability Hights Center and the Project for Corporation Hnsponsibility, WP.re all started by the Study !'or Hesponsible Law. Nader's original research organization. 
Organiz<'rs said that Nader is nxpected to speak about the 
ethics, 
especially 

s i n c e Nader is commonly regarded as "America's most well-known consumer advocate." 
"The progressive issues don't get enough attention on cam­pus, so it should be a very inter­esting lecture," Casad said. 
Nder received his undergrad­uate degree from Princeton University in 1955, and gradu­ated from Harvard Law School in 1958. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 
How SWEET IT IS 


Jill Krause, Karen Swanson and Anne Weese celebrate the womens basketball team's 59-53 victory over Kansas State, which put both the mens and womens basketball teams Into the Sweet Sixteen In the same year for the first time. See "Severe Upset," page 24. 

College posts emergency plan 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
While the risk for terrorist attacks on schools is low, Saint Mary's is responding proactively by creating an Emergency Response Plan. 
.Rosemarie Harris, Saint Mary's Interim Director of Security, displayed the nine­page action plan Friday on the College's homepage. 
"I want to strongly empha­size that we have not received any notification thus far to implement the plan," Harris said. "However, we are responding proactive­Iv to the threat. This is sim­ply to make students aware of our heightened state of alert." 
The heightened security alert encourages students to 

increase awareness of their surroundings. Students are asked to watch for suspicious circumstances and report any behavior they find out of the ordinary. 
Harris said students should not be fearful, simply alert. 
The Emergency Response Plan would only be put into action under certain instances. These circum­stances include a red alert issued by the government or a biological or chemical attack. 
The plan suggests that stu­dents equip their rooms with supplies such as bottled water, non-perishable food items, first aid supplies, a radio and a flashlight. Students may want to pre­pare a kit that can be easily taken with them. 
If the plan is implemented, students will be notified through e-mail. telephone calls and personal contact. 
Upon receiving notification of a terrorist attack, students and staff should proceed to the basement of Regina Hall. preferably through the tun­nels running below the cam­pus. Signs have been placed directing students to appro­priate locations, where fur­ther instruction will be given upon arrival. 
Security suggests that stu­dents share this information with their families. They will set up additional phone lines for family members to call and receive news updates on the campus' condition. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dancing

king 

Two days ago, a female finally spoke the words that I had been waiting to hear for some time: "You're a good lead." 
Wait. Let me explain. Her com­ments were not in the context of a Joe Trombello parietals violation or a role-playing 
News

activity in a gen­
der studies class. 
Production 
You see. I am currently enrolled in Latin Dance as part of my physical education requirement, and in addition to performing the endless turns. twists and steps at a pace seemingly faster than the Concorde. I have the added respon­sibility of leading. 
Leading a dance means that the man must know the move that he and his partner will perform about 10 steps ahead of time. For someone who has difficulty remembering the clothes he wore two hours ago, this kind of foresight proves problematic. 
f'm really not equipped to deal with these kinds of decisions, and I often find that my brain is forced to work overtime, a risky proposition for any college student. 
Compounding matters. dancing and I have never been best friends. Suffice to say that Soul Train has not really come calling for an audition, and I haven't exactly been holding my breath either. I'm not sure how well they would respond to a person with two left feet and an uncanny ability for stepping on toes, tripping and face planting. Sometimes these mishaps occur simultaneously and they certainly would not win any style points with Sinbad. 
In spite of these adversities, I find myself really enjoying the class. The music is often energizing, my instructor is blessed with an inordi­nate amount of patience and I get the pleasure of meeting a different dance partner every class period. I'm now able to spice up SYR dances in ways that don't involve a large consumption of alcoholic beverages. As an added bonus, I get to use my hands in ways that would normally result in a prompt slap and a sexual harassment lawsuit. 
I also had to consider the alterna­tives: Volleyball (if only the net were lower), First Aid (Pamela Anderson and her Babewatch babes would not be present -what's the point then?) and Handball (non-existent hand­eye coordination would prove prob­lematic). Latin Dance really seemed the best option. 
Besides, there is hope for me in sight; I'm taking Ballroom Dancing next rotation. 
l figure I'll get the hang of this dancing thing eventually. Right? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and mives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however. recognize rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Feminist Symposium shows 'The Righteous Babes' 
Students at Saint Mary's viewed the feminist documen­tary "The Righteous Babes," and discussed con­temporary percep­tions of feminism with filmmaker Pratibha Parmar. 
page,6 
WORLD& NATION 
U.S. forces kill at least 150 Iraqi soldiers near Baghdad 
U.S. Army forces attacked south of the Iraqi capital. Casualties are esti­mated to be between 150 and 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Fox News leading rival CNN 
Conservative television network Fox News has drawn a larger war audience than CNN with 4 mil­
VIEWPOINT 
War focus has led to neglect of domestic concerns 
Columnist Paul Graham argues that the war in Iraq is has caused cuts in domestic spending to pay for the war. 

SCENE 
Telling it like it is 
Student models prepare for the annual Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show. The theme is 
SPORTS 
Severe upset 
Notre Dame's women's basketball team beat Kansas St. 59-53 in the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tour­

"Notre Dame: Tell 
nament to advance it like it is." 
to the Sweet Sixteen. 

page 11 page 13 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee finds unauthorized signs 
A University employee contacted NDSP Monday after discovering unauthorized signs in DeBartolo Hall. 

NDSP investigates Stadium burglary 
A burglary at the Notre Dame Stadium was reported Monday. Police are investigating the case. 

Vehicle damages maintenance garage 
Property was reportedly damaged Monday after a vehicle backed into a support column inside the maintenance garage. 

CSC reports harassing phone call 
NDSP is investigating the Monday report of a harassing telephone call to the Center for Social Concerns. 

Worker claims off-campus vehicle theft 
A University employee reported to NDSP Monday that a theft from his vehicle occurred when the vehicle was parked off campus. 
-


Student injured on basketball court 
NDSP took a student to St. Joseph Medical Center for a sports injury that occurred Monday at the West Quad basketball courts. 
500 on the Iraqi side. 
page 5 
Madclcva Hall 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Baked manicotti, pep­peroni calzone, honey-mustard chicken breast, green beans amandine, cherry crisp, cheese and vegetable pie, baby lima beans, scrambled eggs, sausage pat­ties. Texas french toast, hash browns. ltalian beef sandwich, chicken and pea pod stir-fry, completa moderno feijoada, fiesta corn and black beans 
Today's Dinner: Baked manicotti, Cajun pasta sauce, pepperoni calzone, beef tips and mushrooms, kluski noodles, broccoli cuts, cherry crisp, grilled salmon fillet. mushroom quiche, corn, peas, cau­liflower au gratin, egg foo yong surimi, beef fajita and Lone Star rice 
TODAY TONlGHT 
a: 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 
==
...I 
<
(.) 

0 
...I HIGH 54 HIGH 43 LOW 46 LOW 37 

lion viewers to CNN's 3.57 million. 
page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Halph Nader speaks on "Legislating Corporate Ethics," 3 p.m. at Mendoza College Jordan Auditorium 

. 
Coffee Ilouse l'ur Peace featuring senior Ernmdine Schoen, musician and songwriter; and poetry readings, 8 p.m., Coleman-Morse Lounge 

. 
Student Senate agenda: Stepan Center resolution, Graduation Letter to Malloy, Naval Science minor. winter approval of BOT topic, hall dances; 6 p.m., LaFortunc Notre Dame room 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Talk by Manifcsta Authors, 7 p.m., Madcleva Ilall, Carroll Auditorium 

. 
SAB Comedian -Megan Mooney, 7 p.m., Moreau Center for the Arts, Little Theatre 

. 
Student Academic Council meeting, 7 p.m., 304 Holy Cross College 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting, 7 p.m., 317N 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, Bianco pizza, Greek pork loin, white beans with ham. cornbread, hot chunky applesauce, sauteed julienne vegetables, turkey pot pie, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, steamed spinach, chicken nuggets, chicken macadamia and cheese enchilada 
Today's Dinner: Bianco pizza, pep­pered flank steak, lentil and barley stew, black beans with tomato and cilantro, Buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, BBQ rib sandwich, onion rings, peppered tan­gerine chicken, spicy grilled chicken, flame-roasted fiesta corn and black beans 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 55 HIGH 61 LOW 44 LOW 32 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No Information available. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

$ " 
••t •*•• ' *** .*




·'* * 

HIGH 44 HIGH 36 LOW 21 LOW 27 
Atlanta 65 / 52 Boston 59 I 38 Chicago 54 / 32 Dallas 69 / 47 Denver 59 I 32 Los Angeles 69 / 56 Minneapolis 54 / 38 New York 62 / 47 Orlando 82 / 58 Phoenix 86 I 59 Seattle 50 / 43 St. Louis 63 I 46 Tampa 83 / 63 Washington 66 / 40 

Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

GET A TASTE OF LIFE AT THE Tor. 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
A Marine Corps pilot is coming to campus 
who can take you up for trial nights. We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill -as well as the desire -lo become Marine pilots. 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civil­ian night training, maybe even $300 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra Ah. 
or F/ A 18. l'f
Get a taste of what I e is like at the top. 'Ine flight's on us. 
~~~~
tl.!:._,,,,,::,
--1,~~
(/}4•,~_,•·,.~.­
-y~­
,,~-.-..IJ 
I~ } .......... 
'''"· ~ 

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
To reserve your seat on April 9th for a free orientation flight over Notre Dame, contact 
CAPTAIN JOHN WILLIAMS 1-877-299-9397 OSOLAF@9MCD. USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
Georgetown University 2003 Summer Sessions 

Pre-Session: First Session: Second Session: 
Call 202-687-5942 for a catalogue or visit our website. On-campus housing is available. 
lH/,:,t¥A Georgetown University
i,~~ · ')~-f-4_ School for Summer & Continuing Education " J. 
website: www.georgetown.edu/ssce/summer email: summer@georgetown.edu 
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution 
May 19-June 13 June 2-July 3 July 7-August 8 

Online service helps enforce Honor Code 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
After introducing a number of sweeping changes to the Honor Code at the beginning of this academic year, the University Honor Code Committee recently compiled a set of statistics to evaluate this year's Honor Code cases and violations. 
The statistics are represen­tative of all Honor Code cases heard from the beginning of the fall semester through Feb. 3, Some cases were also draw.n· from the 2002 spring semester. 
Across the University's vari­ous colleges, the College of Arts, which had 14 Honor Code violations brought before its Honesty Committee, far exceeded the number of cases in the College of Business and the College of Science. The College of Business had three violation cases and the College of Science had one. 
Of these 14 Honor Code 
cases in the College of Arts 
and Letters, 13 violations were 
related to Internet plagiarism. 
Professor Thomas Flint, fac­ulty Honor Code officer, said the statistics and the number of cases involving Internet pla­giarism did not surprise him. 
"With my involvement in the Philosophy Department, I have seen the whole issue of Internet plagiarism become more and more serious," said Flint. "A significant number of cases involve basically good people who made bad deci­sions because the Internet was just two clicks away." 
One of the most notable additions made to the Honor Code this year was the University's decision to con­tract the services of Turnitin.com, an online pla­giarism-detection company. 
Turnitin.com enables profes­sors and faculty members to submit a student's paper and to receive a set of "Originality Reports" within 24 hours, revealing if any Internet docu­ments or resources are used in the student's work. 
While the most contested aspect of the plagiarism-detec­tion company is the direct sub­mission of students' work without any prior indication of plagiarism, Flint said that only a few professors are currently submitting all students' papers to Turnitin.com. 
Turnitin.com was used to detect three of the 14 Internet-plagiarism violations in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Flint said that most profes­sors and faculty members use Turnitin.com in conjunction with various other search engines to detect student pla­giarism, 
To date, 63 Notre Dame fac­ulty members arc registered with Turnitin.com. In total. 535 students' papers and reports have been submitted to the service. 
The University has extended its contract with Turnitin.com for the next academic year. 
With the incidences of com­puter-related cheating on the rise across college campuses throughout the country, Flint said he realizes that there is no easy way to combat this widespread problem. 
"In the most idealistic sense, it should be the aim of every­one in the Notre Dame com­munity to pursue truth and goodness," Flint said. "Plagiarism cuts right at the heart of this idea by falsely presenting work which is not one's own. It goes against what we are and should be about at a Catholic universi­ty." 
A series of other changes made to the Honor Code in the past year involve the organiza• tional structure of the Honor Code Committee and increased student involvement. 
Under the new provisions of the Honor Code, departmental honesty committees, which are now comprised of a majority of students, preside over Honor Code violation hearings. 
While the broad provisions set forth in the Honor Code Handbook guide the students serving on the honesty com­mittees, the committees ulti­mately determine the specific type of the penalty based on the nature of the offense. 
"The code is working very well procedurally. I have sat in on quite a number of hear­ings, and I am always impressed with the serious­ness with which the honesty committees are conducted," Flint said. 
While no new changes will be made to the Honor Code immediately, Flint cited that some additional issues, such as the implications of the honor code in study abroad programs. will be addressed in the years to come. 
"In respect to our Honor Code system at Notre Dame. I would say it is far preferable to what many other universi­ties have," Flint said. "There is no panacea for cheating or Internet-plagiarism because there will always be people who will take the short and easy way out, even at Notre Dame. 1 am hopeful that the Honor Code will encourage students to continue to remember what we're about as a University." 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
Doctor lectures on early childhood brain developn1ent 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 

Pediatrician and author Patricia Keener spoke on the brain and its development dur­ing early childhood in Tuesday's presentation titled "Surviving the Wonder Years." The event was the second in the Mini-Medical School Lecture Series. 
Using a combination of slides, video clips and passing out copies of her reference book, "Caring for Kids," Keener focused on neural anatomy and how certain func­tions like language emerge in young children. 
"I think it's one of the most exciting fields in medicine," she said. 
According to Keener, collabo­ration among professionals involved in different aspects of neural development has recently revolutionized the understanding of brain struc­ture and function. 
"We have neurologists talk­ing to psychologists," she said. "There's a great sharing of information." 
Keener discussed the new­born's brain, a structure she said is only partially assembled at birth. 
"Brains aren't like comput­ers," she said. "[Infants] are not born hardwired. The vari­ous connections are wired after they're born." 
The majority of the synapses that link neural cells together form after birth and their development is based on the environment. According to Keener. newborns have approximately 50 trillion synapses. The number peaks a year later at 1,000 trillion and then drops to 500 trillion by age 20. This makes toddlers ideally suited to learn, she said. 
Caretakers need to be aware of this critical time and atten­tive to the child's emotional state, she said, adding that impersonal day care facilities can have adverse affects on a child's development. 
Keener warned against the temptation of replacing human contact with toys designed to provide human-like stimula­tion. She said that in 1997. only 10 percent of toys relied on electronics. By the year 2000, the pe rcentagc had jumped to 60. 
"I think it's a problem when parents are spending money on these things instead of a rock­ing chair," she said. 
Keener also focused on cer­tain behaviors and functions that are time sensitive, using vision and language as exam­ples. 
"Cataracts in a newborn are removed very early," she said. "If you don't take that cataract out early that child will not be able to make the connections in the visual cortex and will not see." 
Language, Keener said, is another function that 1'16qWres early exposure. At birth, new­borns have the potential to rec­ognize and differentiate between every sound or phoneme in every human lan­guage. Early in development, however, associations for cer­tain sounds are strengthened while the ability to distinguish between others is lost, as they are not reinforced. 
Keener also spoke of the uni­versality of "parentese," or baby talk, which leads parents to speak in a higher pitch, using shorter phrases and accentuating the vowels. This type of speech, she said, along with the babbling noises a baby makes, facilitates the success­ful development of language. 
Keener is a professor of clini­cal pediatrics and assistant director for Medical Service Learning at Indiana University School of Medicine. From 1989 to 1992 she served as medical director of the Indianapolis Campaign for Healthy Babies, a program that addressed infant mortality problems. 
The Mini-Medical School Lecture Series is presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education and the Indiana University School of Medicine and is sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation. Next Tuesday, Michael Vasko will present a lecture titled "Pain: Why does it hurt?" 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagacd@nd.edu 


TUE UNIVEKSIT't OF NOTRE DAME DEP,.RTMENT OF Mui.JC PREliENT5 
~benbMUSIQVE 
CONCERT XX: MUSIC FOR THE TRIDUUM & THE CROSS 
9t1,Q) ~cfjofa 9:Ylusicorum 
WED., MAR. 26, 2003 
9:30 PM, BASILICA 
OF THE SACRED HEART 
FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC 

CALL (574) 631-6201 FOR MOPE INFORMATION 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Dr. Patricia Keener speaks about early chlldhood brain development on Tuesday as part of the .Mini-Medical School Lecture Serles. 
·-r 


·------.. ·-------.. r-------. r------~ r------• 
I I I I I
I $69 
I $15 I I I I I I $69
$26 $69
I I I I Color, Cut & I I I 
Highlights,I Mens Cut I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I

.. ______ .. Cut & Style
I I.. ______.I I One Process I I I .. ______ .. 
·------· ·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY~ 
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2ATRIA SALON 

Not valid for spiral pcm,s. l..cng orllntcd halradd$10 NoO!hcr dlscounts apply. Open sorr, """~-ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Sa!oo"""""' !ho rijJl1t '°'"""'""""' wany d~nt who., hai!-coodiUon bw11roa0a>le. Next to Sprint
Corner of Edison 
271-8804
289-5080 

OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-03 
Less than 1 mile from campus 

Apply for the 
'Rotfney :f'. (janey, 'Pn.V. 
Collaborative Community-Based Research Mini-Grant 
The Center for Social Concerns is offering a Mini-Grant in the amount of $5000, awarded in two phases, to support a joint faculty-student-community research partnership addressing a social challenge articulated by a community organization. It may support the planning and development of a new project, the expansion of an existing one, the assessment of a project, or the dissemination of findings from a project that is ongoing or in its final stages. 
The purposes ef the a1JJard are to fasterfacuiry-student-communiry partnerships that 
* 
result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area; 

* 
reflect the investment of faculty expertise in the local community; and 


* offer students community-based learning opportunities that promote civic responsibility. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. forces kill 150 Iraqi soldiers south of Baghdad 
the area, and the U.S. troops 
used thermal-imaging equip­
ment to kill a large number of WASIIINGTON Iraqis as tho sandstorm raged, 
U.S. Army forces killed the second official said. between 150 and 500 Irnqi The 7th Cavalry is part of the troops Tuesday in a fierce light Army l'orcc driving loward after coming under altack near Kaghdad. Some elements of the thf' ctnltral Iraqi city of /\n force are farther north, near Najal', a senior dcf'cnst1 official Ka.rba.la, wilh only the Medina said. armored division of the 
No U.S. casualties were llcpublican Guard between rnporwd, although the official them and Baghdad. rautiorwd that l'ew details were U.S. intrlligcnce, meanwhile, imm1\tlialPly available. has picked up signs suggesting 
l•:lnnwnts of lh11 7th Cavalry the closer ground troops get to Hegimnnt Vl'!\rc cast ol' An Najaf Baghdad lhe greater the wh(Hl they suddenly came chance they will face chemical under fire from rucket-pro­weapons, Defense Secretary pellecl grenades, the official Donald Humsfeld said Tuesday. said Thn Iraqis were on foot The Army's 3rd Infantry and it was not clear whether Division has drawn to within they were from regular army about 50 miles of Baghdad, units, paramilitary forces or with the Medina armored divi­the Hcpublican Guard. sion or Saddam llusscin 's 
Some of' the 7th Cavalry's Hepublican Guard in its path. Nfuiprrn~nt was damaged in the Elements of the 1st Marine attack, the official said. Division are approaching the 
Farly J~stimatcs of the num­capital from a more easterly ber of Iraqis killed in the fight direction, and some analysts varkd widely, from 150 to 500. believe the Army's 101st The Amnricans fired mainly Airborne Division, now in 
the 25mm guns on their southern Iraq, will join the bat­Bradley fighting vehicles, tle for Baghdad. according to another U.S. offi­Asked about reports that cial. Republican Guard forces ring­"who knows how accurate they was the central reason Secretary of State Colin The U.S. troops were hun­ing Baghdad have been given are," he said. President Bush went to war. Powell, jn an interview with kered down during a severe authority to use chemical Iraq denies it has any chemi­Gen. Richard Myers, chair­France 3 television, cited spec­
sandstorm when they were weapons, Rumsfeld cited cal or biological weapons. The man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ulation that "there is a box attacked by a combination of "scraps" of intelligence sug­Bush administration insists it said the commander of U.S. around Baghdad, that if we H1\publican Guard and para­gesting that. the closer the 3rd. has both and is trying to gain forces fighting the war, Gen. penetrate that box," Saddam military Iraqi troops, another Infantry gets to the capital, the nuclear weapons. The risk of Tommy Franks, has plans in would unleash a chemical 
U.S. official said. greater the danger. Iraq using chemical, biological place should Iraq use chemical attack. "If he did," Powell 
The attacks suggested the I le did not offer details of the or nuclear weapons or provid­weapons. He would not elabo­added, "it would not stop the location of Iraqi strongholds in intelligence indicators because ing them to terrorist networks rate. IU.S.l assault." 

CHINA 
9 passengers contract deadly disease on flight to Beijing 
Associated Press 
HONG KONG 

Adding to fears that a deadly nu-like illness is being spread by air travelers, Ilong Kong of'ficials said Tuesday nine tourisl'i apparently came down with the deadly disease after another passenger infoctcd them on a !light to Beijing. 
The World Health Organization insist­ed air travel is safe but said its scientists are investigating each case to make sure the disease is not spread through venti­lation. 
In recent weeks severe acute respira­tory syndrome, or S/\HS, has sprnad 
beyond hospitals, where dozens of health care workers became infected, into at least one workplace, to air trav­elers and some schools have been closed as a precaution. 
!long Kong officials said the nine tourists became sick after a mainland Chinese man with SARS infected them on a March 15 Air China flight to Beijing. · 
If SARS can be more easily spread through the air -rather than by close contact with infected people who cough or sneeze -it could force travel and other restrictions to contain the disease. 
"We would want to be sure .that it was people sitting next to that person and not the ventilation system In the air­plane which was spreading the disease," said Dr. David Heymann, head of com­municable diseases at WHO. "We have no evidence of the latter right now." 

For one thing, he said, health investi­gators have followed thousands of pas­sengers who flew with SARS-infected travelers and did not become sick. 
However, he said that if they find there are cases that did not involve close contact with someone sick or at high risk, "we will then be very con­cerned that this might have become air­borne." 
The airplane cases seem similar to how the disease got its start here ­from une hotel guest who spread it to six strangers staying on the same floor. One expert theorized it might have spread through the air-conditioning sys­tem. 
From the Hong Kong hotel, the exposed tourists took the disease to Singapore, Vietnam and Canada. 
The disease has spread most rapidly through Asian hospitals, some of which lacked the surgical masks and goggles needed to prevent catching the disease from patients. The WHO has been dis­tributing such equipment. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Thai police kill 42 in massive drug raid: 
Police said Tuosday tlwy shot and killed 42 people dur­ing a seven-week-old crackdown on drugs that has drawn prntest l'rom human rights groups. Since the campaign began, police have arrested more than 42,000 drug suspects and seized 12 million ampheta­mine pills and assets worth more than $12 million, said police spokesman Maj. Gen. Pongsaphat Pongcharocn. 
Security Council calls emergency meeting: 
The Security Council, rPsponding to Arab and nonaligned nations that dcma.ndod an end to the war in Iraq and the withdrawal of U.S.-led troops, scheduled an emergency 111n<1ting for Wednesday. Guinea's U.N. Ambassador Mamady Traoro, the current council president, announced Tuosday that he had received letters from both groups asking for an open meeting where any of the 1 'JI U.N. mr.mbcr slatr.s can speak on the situation in Iraq. The meeting will begin Wednesday afternoon and is likely continue into Thursday, he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hopeful Americans buy yellow ribbons: 
Sales are booming for yellow ribbons, as people across the nation are reviving the traditional show of hope for American combat troops' safe return, retailers and manufacturers said Tuesday. As yellow ribbons began popping up on trees, poles and homes in communities of all sizes, the nation's largest ribbon manufacturer has added shifts to keep up with demand. "Yellow ­by far -is No. 1 right now," said Nancy Schott of BelWick Industries in central Pennsylvania. 
Bush issues order to maintain secrecy: 
President Bush issued an executive order Tuesday that will delay the release of millions of historical documents for more than three years and make it easier to reclassify information that could damage national security. Bush signed the 25-page order three weeks before the govern­ment's April 17 deadline for declassifying mil­lions of documents 25 years or. older. 

Ethics panel charges Kentucky governor. 
A state ethics panel Tuesday charged Kentucky Gov. Paul Patton with doing favors for his lover, saying he intervened to make her construction company more likely to get state aid. If the four charges from the Executive Branch Ethics Commission are upheld after a hearing, Patton could face a $5,000 fine and a public reprimand. He has acknowledged having an affair with nursing home owner Tina Conner but has denied her allegations that he used his office to help her dur­ing the affair and hurt her after their breakup, 
NASA may limit crews, increase robot use: 
NASA may have to live with a risk factor of two catastro­phes for every 113 shuttle flights, so it should limit its crew size and use robots and unmanned rockets whenever pos­sible, a missile and rocket expert said Tuesday. Aloysius Casey, a retired Afr Force lieutenant general, also recom­mended to the Colwnbia Accident Investigation Board that space shuttle flights reswne as soon as possible. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
Feminism Symposium sholVs 'The Righteous Babes' 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Senior Scaff Writer 
Saint Mary's Third Wave Feminism Symposium held its third event Tuesday evening, showing the documentary film, "The Highteous Babes." 
The movie is a documentary by filmmaker Pratibha Parmar that focuses on female recording artists and how feminism has been incorporated into mainstream music. The film was released in 1998, and even though some of the artists are out­dated due to the continuingly changing nature of the music industry, it showcased such artists as Ani DiFranco, Tori Amos, Shirley Manson, Sinead O'Connor, Chrissie Hynde ("The Pretenders") and Queen Latifah. 
Through interviews with musicians, writers, profes­sors and journalists, the film explored how female record­ing artists are also feminists and express this through entertainment. The film states that these women "trash the idea that we are supposed to be sweet and kept backstage." 
The film also critiques the recording industry's recent use of selling "girl power," with such groups as "The Spice Girls." Artists such as DiFranco and O'Connor dis­miss "The Spice Girls" as having nothing to do with girl power. 
The critique of "The Spice Girls" led into a discussion after the film about feminism on Saint Mary's camp\is''in the music industry and whether pop icons, such as 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal officials are investigat­ing whether the smallpox vaccine contributed to the heart attack death of a Maryland woman and brought on heart problems in six others. 
The vaccination has never been associated with heart problems before, but health officials are now recommending that people with a history of heart trouble refrain from being vaccinated while authorities investigate a possible link. 
"It's a balance, and I think we want to err on the side of safety," Dr. Julie Gerberding, director of the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, said Tuesday. 
Three of the seven people under investigation suffered heart attacks. including the Maryland woman who died, another woman who is now on life sup­port and a third woman who was hospitalized and released. All three were health care or public health workers in their 50s. 
Two other people developed angina, or chest pain. All five of these patients had 
risk factors for heart disease before the vaccination, such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension or use of tobacco, Gerberding said. 
The other two patients under investigation suffered from heart inflammation, which is not asso­ciated with those risk factors. 
Based on historic data, a small number of people who receive smallpox vaccinations will die and a few will develop life-threat­ening complications. 
Those complications have never included heart problems, but the data were gathered during a time when most people being vaccinat­ed were young children who were not likely to have heart trouble, Gerberding noted. 
"We acknowledge that we don't have a lot of epidemiological or scientific information about the relationship between vaccine and cardiac illness in persons who are older," she said. 
The CDC planned to gather car­diac experts on Wednesday to consider whether something in the vaccine might be triggering heart problems in people who already have risk factors. 
Health officials also plan to compare the rate of heart prob­lems in the pool of smallpox vac-

Madonna and Britney Spear, female gender and how those were feminists. women were subordinate to "Anti-feminism is palpable their men," Saint Mary's 
on this campus." Saint Mary's senior Susan Almeda said. 
English  Other mem­ 
a  n  d  bers  of  the  
women's  "[It goes back] to the role  discussion  
studies professor Astrid  that is expected of women ... to conform to  attributed a lack of educa­tion to the  
H e  n  r  y  '50s and '60s female  fact that many  
said. Members of the dis -cussion  gender and how those women were subordinate to their men. "  members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame  
agreed  communities  
w i t h Henry's assess­ Susan Almeda student  arc leery of the word "feminist,"  

ment that feminism is a word that students are wary of using. 
"[It goes back] to the role that is expected of women ... to conform to '50s and '60s 

Vaccine n1ay cause heart problems 
cine recipients with the rate expected in a similar population of people who have not been vac­cinated. 
Under the new guidelines, peo­ple who have been diagnosed with serious heart disease such as coronary artery disease, con­gestive heart failure, heart attack and angina are being told not to get the vaccine. 
Gerberding emphasized that the program must move forward as the nation prepares for the possibility that smallpox could be used as a bioterror weapon. She said she does not expect the new guidelines to significantly affect the number who wind up being vaccinated. 
-·.-¦ ¦-¦¦ -¦ ¦-··-··-· 
and said that 

this could be changed through reading. speaking and learning about the feminist movement. 
"It's my second semester of my senior year and for the 
first time I was asked what my definition of feminism was," Saint Mary's senior Katie Vincer said. "I had to sit down and think about it first." 
Members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munity can learn more about feminism at the concluding Third Wave Feminism pre­sentation this evening at 7 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Authors Amy Richards and Jennifer Baumgardner of "Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism and the Future" will lead the talk, "Can I be a Feminist and ... Shave, Love My Boyfriend, Get Married, Make Money, Be Pro-Life?" 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


~ Rebuilding Together ~ Benefit Run 
l formerly Christmas in April 
Saturday, March 29, 11 :00 AM 
Stepan Center 
SK & 10K Runs 
2 Mile Walk 
T -Shirrs to all Registrants Register at Rec;Spcrts by 3/28. 5:00pm $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race 

All Proceeds to Benefit U9 b Ll 1Jr;,jj :n ~ 'fo ~ ~.d i'1?J r  


Sponsored By 
R~~ 


¦-¦¦-•• -¦¦ -¦ ¦-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-¦¦-• 
Out and Back: Ho\N Notre Dame 
Prepared Me -for '' Rea I '' Wo r Id 
Mark Massoud 
Notre Dame BA '99 MA ·oo 
Founding member of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs: 1996-1999 
Welsh Family Hall Lounge 
4:45 p.m. Thursday, March 27th 
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
the 

Tllr ~TAHt'll,_t""~ c.;.(")wMITTr::"lli" n ... 
G,AYAND L~SBIAN 5TUDKNT N11!:11!D5 

-··-·-~-.-··-·.--¦ ·-··-··-··--•• -··-·--··-··-··-··-··-¦• -··-··-·¦-•• 

Wednesday, March 26. 2003 COMPILED FROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch March 25 
Dow Jones 

8,280.23 ~ +65.55 
NASDAQ 

1,391.01 ~ +21.23 
S&P500 

874.74 +10.51
~ 
AME¥ 

820.78 +3.33
~ 
NYSE 

4,862.01 
+60.43 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI)+l7.76+0.10 0.63 
NASDAQ~·lf10 INDEX(~tl~ll::lll!1i~:;!!!:!il!llti:11i1!'. 
BOOTS & COOTS (WEL) +5. 45 +0. 06 1.16 
suN MICROSYSTEM ti11::J!J:@~1:11;;:~111:::1r 1;r;111: 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +0. 79 +0. 20 25. 49 
IN BRIEF 
Complaint filed against H&R Block 
Several consumer groups filed a complaint Tuesday with the Treasury Department. cha~­ing I l&H Block with improperly marketing mort­gages and other financial services to taxpayers who use an Internal Revenue Service Web site to access the company's free tax preparation ser­vice. 1 l&H Block said it adheres to a 1999 law that allows financial institutions to share cus­torner information with their affiliates. That law rept~aled the Depression-era barriers that sepa­rated banking, insurance and securities systems. "The consumer groups' claims are inaccurate," I l&H Block said in a written statement. "In fact, ll&H Block secures its clients consent twice." 
Great Plains Airlines stuck on ground 
Great Plains Airlines planned to have two dozen planes in the air by now. But almost two years after its lirst flight. the carrier leases just two small jets. has never earned a profit and serves only rive inland cities. The Tulsa-based airline is losing about $800,000 a month. The company's latest setback came in late February, when financing stalled for four additional Fairchild Dornier 328 jets that could have led to Great Plains' first profit and served its first coastal desti­nation, Washington. Knight and David Johnson, chairman of Great Plains' executive committee, blame the carrier's struggles on lenders wary of airlines' shaky finances following the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. 
Tiny discrepancy found in land suit 
I\ study of mountains of records from govern­ment-managed American Indian land found a sin­gin discrepancy or less than $61 between what was owed and what was paid to the lando'vV!1ers. That amount is much smaller than that claimed by the Indians in a tederal lawsuit, but their attor­ney says the report, which was commissioned by Congress and cost $20 million to produce, is based on inaccurate document<;. The report summarizes royalty payments from oil and gas mining, timber • harvesting, grazing and other uses of land owned by four /\merican Indians from 1915 to 1999. 
Fox News leading rival CNN 
. Fox bests one­time leader in war coverage 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Fox News Channel has outdrawn CNN in the rat­ings through the first five days of Lhe war, a further proof of Fox's audience appeal and a blow to CNN, which was hoping to revital­ize the reputation it built during the first Gulf War. 
Through Monday, Fox News Channel has averaged 4 million viewers each day to CNN's 3.57 million. Fox's audience was bigger when the war began March 19, and every day through Monday. according to Nielsen Media Research. 
While Fox has been the top-rated cable news chan­nel for more than a year, industry experts wondered whether that lead would hold during a big breaking news story. CNN overtook Fox, for example, on Feb. 1 when the space shuttle dis­integrated. 
Despite CNN's overwhelm­ing advantage in reporting manpower, more Americans -at least so far -want to watch the war unfold on Fox. 

"[ think it's a pretty big surprise," said Erik audience in the world," she anchorman Shepard Smith frequently shifting channels Sorenson, MSNBC president, said. wore a flag pin in his lapel to find more action, on Tuesday. Because of CNN has planned meticu­on Tuesday. Thompson said. CNN's experience with the lously for its war coverage, Fox's fans seem to like the A survey released first Gulf War, "I think peo­hoping that it would turn network's style more than Tuesday by the Pew ple thought CNN would win, the tide against Fox. With the traditional news cover­Research Center for the at least in its early stages. Nie Robertson and Rym age of CNN, said Alex Jones. People and the Press found One of the executives there Brahimi, it had the last two director of the Shorenstein that nearly four of every five said they would own the staff members of an Center on the Press. Politics people gave the press good story, and I don't think they American TV network in and Public Policy at Harvard marks for its war coverage. do." Iraq until they were University. The survey found that peo­
CNN spokeswoman expelled on Friday. The conservative ideology ple who agreed with the Christa Robinson down­A Fox News Channel that drives its prime-time decision to go to war were played Fox's ratings advan­spokesman didn't return a programming seems to be happier with the coverage tage, saying Nielsen shows call for comment. spreading more into its than those who disagreed. that more people at least Fox's war coverage tends news coverage, he said. During the busy first three sample some of CNN's cov­to be more uplifting, empha­"The Fox view is a useful months of the year, Fox's erage during the day. Fox's sizing the positive and trying one to have out there," viewership has grown by 75 ratings are higher because to beef up morale and Thompson said. "It's not as percent over the same peri­its viewers watch for a national identity, said if they are hiding it or pre­od last year, Nielsen said. longer time. Robert Thompson, professor tending that it's not there. Fox and TNT are now tied 
CNN also draws viewers to of media and popular cul­You have three networks for second behind its Headline News and has a ture at Syracuse University. out there, they don't all have Nickelodeon as the top­greater presence overseas The network usually to be doing the same thing." rated basic cable channel. than Fox, Robinson said. maintains an American flag More viewers are watch­CNN's audience has grown 
"We're perfectly comfort­graphic on the upper left ing war coverage with itchy 53 percent year to year and able having the biggest corner of its screen, and fingers on their remotes, MSNBC's 32 percent. 

Stocks rise with prediction of victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Wall Street moved moderately high­er Tuesday as President Bush's pre­diction that U.S.-led forces will prevail in Iraq prompted investors to pick up bargains following Monday's steep decline. 
Analysts said investors seemed to take heart from a variety of develop­ments, including a somewhat positive consumer confidence report and reports of a civilian uprising in south­ern Iraq. Volume also was light, cre­ating sharper price swings. 
"We had a bunch of small stories that have added to the stronger-than­expected economic data which has helped stabilize the market." said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trad­ing at Wells Fargo Securities. 

"The market is sort of settling into a feeling of while war is going to take a while, we're back in control," he said. 
The Dow closed up 65.55, or 0.8 percent, at 8.280.23 after declining 307 points in the previous session on disappointment about war develop­ments over the weekend. Monday's loss was the largest one-day point drop since Sept. 3, 2002. 
Earlier Tuesday, blue-chip stocks had climbed as much as 123 points before losing some momentum after the Senate unexpectedly voted to cut Bush's proposed $726 billion tax cut in half. 
The broader market also finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index gained 21.23, or 1.6 percent, to 1,391.01, after Monday's loss of 52 points. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 10.51, or 1.2 percent, to 
874.74. having dropped 31 points on Monday. 
On Tuesday, U.S. and British forces slowly edged closer to the Iraqi capi­tal, hampered by swirling sand­storms. U.S. Air Force Gen. Richard Myers and British Prime Minister Tony Blair said the war would be a tough fight with likely difficult days ahead, 

Wednesday, March 26, 2003

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 

Boston, Massachusett § zatus:HO-:···~. Cincinnati, Ohio: Lo 
ent~11i~g l~;r~2~2i-'
:::~~::r:~rd\!~~uck 
~~"'°"" ·cu-~:•~"" ·...... ·-c ... ti;~~~ 
' . . 


~,_ !(-~.. -.~ ··•·.• ~ .;~,1#;.'~0? ·~"' 
Applice11ion
(_e available .al ·.lhe CSC· applg now! 
;~)_.,,t }'.;\~i&:,,.:}T~(2:,i1:::~: ~ 
CENTER FOR 

ealended: march SI'' 
SOCIAL 

QtJe1'-tion1'7 Cal( TRACY.~f 631.i;J/-02. or Sue a-t 1•iB6i
CONCERNS 

Jury deliberations begin in Tyson case 
Associated Press 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. 

A federal jury began delib­erating Tuesday in the immi­grant-smuggling case against poultry giant Tyson Foods. 
A Tyson attorney said in closing statements that the nation's largest meat produc­er and three managers who are co-defendants tried to fol­low immigration law with a voluntary employment screening program endorsed by the government. 
Tom Green, an attorney for Springdale, Ark. -based Tyson, told jurors that immi­gration laws allow a company to hire a "refugee from the North Pole or the man from Mars" if the worker has iden­tity documents that look gen­uine. 
Earlier, Assistant U.S. Attorney John MacCoon said Tyson'.s top executives knew illegal workers were being hired at poultry plants in a corporate scheme to "keep the chickens moving, the profits flowing." 
"Headquarters had a mil­lion red flags that things were not right," MacCoon said. 
The federal jury began deliberating Tuesday after seven weeks of testimony, but adjourned a short time later. 
Since the case began, U.S. District Judge Allan Edgar has dismissed 24 of 36 charges stemming from a three-year undercover inves­tigation of Tyson. Remaining are charges of conspiracy, transporting illegal immi­grants and fraudulent docu­ments. 
Tyson and three of its man• agers are accused of seeking illegal immigrants to boost production when they couldn't find Americans will­ing to work the $7-an-hour jobs. Executives testified the company does not encourage the hiring of illegal workers, and the managers who did so acted against corporat~ ooU; cies. 
Six managers were charged with Tyson in a December 2001 indictment. One fatally shot himself a few months later; two others made plea agreements in January and testified for the government. 
Robert Hash, 50, a regional vice president and the high­est-ranking current Tyson official on trial, faces seven charges, including two con­spiracy counts. 
A single conspiracy charge remains against plant manag­er Keith Snyder, 44. 
Gerald Lankford, 64, is accused of conspiring to vio­late immigration laws and obstruct their enforcement. 
The managers face jail time and fines if found guilty. If Tyson is found guilty, the company could face millions of dollars in fines. 
Air Force Acaden1y tnakes changes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Four top officers at the Air Force Academy will be replaced -at least two of them by women -after a series of rape reports and allegations by female cadets of an academy culture that blames victims for assaults. 
"The evidence indicates now that we need to have some changes in leadership at the top," said Sen. Wayne Allard, R-Colo. "I think they're moving in the right direction." 
Air Force Secretary James Roche briefed the Senate Armed Services Committee in private Tuesday to discuss the military's response to allega­tions that female cadets at the academy were ostracized and reprimanded after they report­ed they were raped. 
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., said Roche told sena­tors that four leaders at the academy would he replaced and at least two women would be moved into top spots. She said the changes show progress, but more needs to be done. 
"We don't send [cadets to the academy] to become part of a fraternity where they defend one another and protect one another against criminal activi­ties that keep going on, so it's not just a change in leadership. It has to be a change in values from top to bottom," she said. 
The Air Force has identified 56 cases of rape or sexual assault reported at the Air Force Academy since 1993. Allard says 50 cases have been reported to his office. many by women upset with the way the academy handled their com­plaints and a significant portion occurring within the last two years. 

Roche would not answer questions as he !Aft the Capitol on Tuesday. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner. R-Va .. said per­sonnel changes would be made, but would not elaborate. 
A congressional source said the four who will be replaced are Brig. Gen. S. Taco Gilbert III, the commandant of cadets and second in charge at the academy; Col. Steve Eddy. vice superintendent; Col. Bob Eskridge, vice commander, and Col. Sue Slavec, training group commander and the highest­ranking woman at the acade­my. 
Lt. Gen. John R. Dallager is expected to remain as superin­tendent and the top official at the 4, 100-cadet institution until his scheduled retirement in June. 
Gilbert, who declined to com­ment, is scheduled to leave the academy this summer after completing a standard two­year tour. 
According to Rep. Joel Hefley, R-Colo., other changes will include clustering together female cadets' dormitory rooms and providing round-the-clock security; training medical per­sonnel how to respond to sexu­al assault cases; giving amnesty to people raising allegations of sexual assault; allowing only juniors and seniors at the acad­emy to discipline freshmen; and expelling any cadet found to provide alcohol to an under­age cadet. 
The academy also will remove a prominent sign that says "Bring Me Men ... " from its spot near the campus court­yard and parade area. 
The Air Force scheduled a news conference on Wednesday to announce the changes. 
Allard said he also expects new directives affecting record­keeping and the way rapes and sexual assaults are reported at the academy north of Colorado Springs. Air Force officials were vague about the timetable for the changes. Allard said. 
Roche also met Tuesday with the Air Force chief of staff, the secretaries of the Navy and Army, the superintendents of the Naval Academy and West Point and other officials. 
"They discussed our agenda for change at the Air Force Academy and shared observa­tions for best practices on the service academies," said Lt. Col. Dewey Ford, a spokesman for the Air Force. 
Also on Tuesday, Rep. Grace Napolitano, D-Calif., Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., and 18 other female House members sent a letter to Roche seeking a meet­ing with the secretary and urg­ing the Air Force. to provide more support for victims of sexual assault and harsher sen­tences for the perpetrators. 


__,. -----------­
... ________________________________ 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 page 9 
The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS 

NASA panel fears for crews 
. Safety panel wants ejection seats installed in shuttles 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Unless NASA installs a crew ejection system in its space shut­tles, it can expect to lose at lel.l.5t one more astronaut crew before 2020, a safety panel told the space agency's top officials Tuesday. 
Sidney M. Gutierrez, a member of NASA's Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel who flew Columbia during a 1991 flight. said the agency's record of two shuttle disasters violates NASA's own safety margin requirements. The Feb. 1 Columbia accident rndur.ed safety margins two mag­nitudes below NA..'iA's minimums, he said. 
"Ifwe fly this vehicle until 2020, we can be assured we'll lose another vehicle and maybe two," he said. 
Gutierrez said upgrades to other parL-; of the complex shuttle program would not bring the spacecraft in line with those safety requirements. Only a crew ejec­tion systnm uffered that promise. 
"The gut fooling is, we're losing people too often in space," Gutierrez said. 
The safoty panel on Tuesday presented ilc; latest report, which covered the months immediately preceding the Columbia shuttle accident. The 106-page report noted that it was finished before the Feb. 1 accident and that no changes were made because of Columbia. 
The report also concluded that NASA should re-examine the way it certifies shuttles as safe to launch because of increasing problems discovered last year blamed on the shuttle fleet's age. But it concluded that safety for the shuttle program has been a prior­ity "first and foremost" at the agency. 
Gutierrez challenged NASA to conduct new studies for designs of crew ejection systems, which could include individual ejection pods for astronauts or a rein­forced, pressurized crew cabin designed to separate safely from a dis1.15ter. 
Gutierrez said the safety panel does not believe NASA must install crew ejection systems before the shuttle's next flight. 
NASA's associate administrator for safety, former astronaut Bryan O'Connor, said he was anxious to see studies on whether improved ejection systems can be installed on the shuttle. O'Connor, who was pilot on a 1985 flight of Atlantis and crew commander with Gutierrez aboard Columbia's mis­sion in June 1991, participates on the safety panel as an ex-officio member. 
NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe noted that the agency is developing an orbital space plane that can be used to fly astronauts to the International Space Station. Once that vehicle is flying, the shuttle could be used merely to haul cargo, O'Keefe said. 
Gutierrez said that deferring the ejection system until the space plane is flying was "not accept­able." 
The panel cited some minor problems during the five shuttle missions in 2002 that it blamed on the fleet's increasing age, It said cracks, leaks and other failures "provide evidence or this degrada­tion and indicate the need for re­evaluation of the certification cri­teria" for shuttle parts. 
The panel found that these flaws "escaped detection by stan­dard preflight tests and were found late in the launch process," causing launch delays. The failed systems had adequate backups, and "no significant safety impacts resulted from these events." 
The board investigating the Columbia accident already has indicated it is looking into whether Columbia's age played a role in the breakup. Admiral Harold Gehman, heading the investigation, declined to com­ment Tuesday on the safety panel's report, saying he had not yet read the findings. 
Columbia, the oldest of NASA's four shuttles, was built in the late 1970s and made its first flight in 1981. But O'Keefe noted at a con­gressional hearing last month that Columbia just underwent an 18­month structural inspection, and that it returned safely from one flight in 2002 since that review. 

Alleged al-Qaida 
trainee pleads guilty 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

An American of Yemeni descent pleaded guilty Monday to training in an al­Qaida camp in Afghanistan, becoming the third defen­dant to reach a deal with prosecutors in a case that sent shock waves through the Buffalo suburb where they live. 
Yahya Goba, 26, is one of six men charged with provid­ing support to Osama bin Laden's terrorist organiza­ti'l'J'I'li by training at the camp in spring 2001. 
The men. all in their 20s and American citizens of Yemeni descent. lived within blocks of one another in Lackawanna. 
Goba's plea agreement, in which he detailed his trip to Afghanistan, said four unidentified men 'helped steer him and his five co­defendants to Afghanistan. His plea deal was the first to mention the four unidentified men. 
He described two of the men as having recruited the Lackawanna group to pre­pare for jihad, or "prepara­tion for a possible battle against people not of the same faith," as prosecutor 
William Hochul described it. 
Federal prosecutors 

declined any further com­
ment on the unidentified 
men. 
Goba's plea came one day after co-defendant Shafal Mosed pleaded guilty to the same charge: providing material resources to a for­eign terrorist organization. A third suspect, Faysal Galab, pleaded guilty in January to a lesser charge of supporting al-Qaida. 
Prosecutors said they would seek a seven-year sen­tence for Galab, eight years for Mosed and the maximum 10 years for Goba, whom they believe to be one of the group's leaders. The original two-count indictment carries a maximum 15-year sen­tence. 
Prosecutors and defense attorneys said negotiations were continuing to reach plea agreements with the other defendants. 
Investigators will rely heavily on the defendants' cooperation, Hochul said. 
"Every time somebody has pied guilty, there are some additional details that can be brought to the table and can be followed up and pursued by the FBI and the Joint Terrorism Task Force," Hochul said. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Score Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR, Meghanne Downes 
VIEWJ>OINf EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herder 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 

SAINT MAR\"S EDITOR: Anneliese W<Jolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Tcd Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAG.t:RIGENI:RAL INFO .............•631-747 l FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVFRTISTNG...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIBF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmTORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENr:......................................................... 63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s... . ..................................... 63l-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO............... ·······················•····· ...........63]-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire athttp://observer.nd.edu for daily upda1es ofcampus news, sportS, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer po!icia should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thi: Ob,mcr (USPS 5,9 2. 0) is publi1hcd Monday through Friday except during exam and v.icadon perioch.A H&hscriptio11 fD ThcOl»crver is SIOO furonC' academic year: $5'$ foro11r lffllitsltr, 
The OhK.rva i, puhliJN;d .u; l'OSTMASTEK 02 . Sau.th Dining H;JI Send .-,ddrnf U1r«:1;.U{lm tu: 
Now D~mc. l'N 4(?,~li TheObavrr 
P.O. SmiQ 

J'e'riodi.:al pa11• piiid •• NouT Dm1t' Nam: D;unc, IN 465S6-on9 md add1Uon1I mailing afl!Cc,. 
Th~ Obscr;c, ii a member uf the ..-.Uoa.i:tcd Jll'ffl.. All rq,mducnon nghu iff" Tcund. 
Forgive and forget or forget forgiving? 
When it comes to cheating in a rela• tionship. when should you forgive and forget and when should you forget for­giving? 
We all enter into relationships with varied expectations and project different levels of commit­ment to our signifi­cant others. For example, some cou­ples make the de~i­sion, mutually, to ~ • become exclusive. Some relationships, however, are simply mutually exclusive. The larger question may be: In a world of break-ups, make­ups and random hook-ups, what even counts as cheating these days? 
Could it be simplified down to the num­bers and be directly proportional to the length of time you've been dating? For example, if two people have been dating for a month or so and then one of the parties get.s a little more than chemistry notes from their lab partner one night, is that considered cheating or simply dat­ing around? 
The line is blurred and the terms are vague. When exclusivity has never been discussed within a new relationship, we often consider it perfectly acceptable to test the waters or at least give others a watered down version of our relationship status with our current love interest. However, when a relationship hits that proverbial let's-talk-about-us stage, the boundaries are often set and the idea of cheating takes on a larger, more omi­nous implication. 
Cheating has always been a part of the dating scene. It's practically biblical­after all, the prophet Abraham had dozens of wives. Cheating is a notion that 
U.S. presidents have embraced, song­writers have put to music and the Academy has given Oscars to for best actor in their various philandering roles. 


However, though cheating may be bibli­cal, presidential and even cinematic, it's usually not quite forgivable. 
After all, can you really forgive some­one who has stolen your heart? 
The funny thing about cheating is that, in the real world, cheating and stealing are criminal offenses. When we cheat on a test, we fail the class, or at least are guaranteed a date with Bill Kirk. \Nhen we steal from a store, we suffer the con­sequences, ala Winona Ryder. However, when someone steals our hearts and then cheats on us, it is the cheated that often suffers the consequences. The cheater may be left feeling guilty, but the cheated is left hurt, confused and angry. 
Let's be hon­est. Cheating on someone isn't painful. Being cheated on is. Flirting isn't cheat­ing. Looking isn't cheat­ing. Admiring isn't cheat­ing. However, when the ante is upped and we begin to play for keeps in a relation­ship, the misdemeanors can add up. 
Yes, people do make mistakes in their relationship endeavors -ones that they can be very sorry for. And sometimes, depending on both the people and the specific relationship, cheating is forgiv­able -or at least correctable. After all, many relationships survive it, some are defined by it and some never encounter it. 
However, in any situation, it's still not considered the way to properly behave in a relationship. And the worst thing possi­ble L,; to try and downplay it. No matter what kind of spin we put on our actions -blaming it on the atmosphere, the attraction or even the Amstcl Llght ­rationalizing cheating by is really just adding insult to injury. 
That said, there very well could be a simple, quick solution to the problems we have with cheating -mainly as a means of deterrence. It's been said that in the old days, if a man were caught stealing, they would cut off his hand to make him pay for his crime. Now imag­ine what they would cut off if he were caught cheating on his wife. 
Just a thought. In a perfect world no one would cheat or be cheated on -nor would they even want to. We would be happy with our­selves and our rela­tionships and never 
be found wanting. However, we don't live in a perfect 
world and we're not a perfect peo­ple. We make mis­takes. We are for­
given for some of them. Others we are not. We simply have to learn from 
them and endure the consequences. With cheating, it's not 
easy to forgive and almost impossible to forget. As pro­portional the cheating scale is to 

time and commitment, it's not a mat­ter of numbers divided and offenses corr.­mitted. And no matter what the result, we always take it as an equation of the heart. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American Studies major andjournalism minor. You may contact her atjbrow­der@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Look at history before making change 
This letter is written in response to the suggestion by junior class presi­dent Meghan O'Donnell that the Executive Cabinet should receive more power under the Constitution and that the Senate is not representa­tive of the opinions of the Student Body. 
I had the privilege to work on the original revision of the Constitution as a District Senator during the 1993-94 school year. At that tirne, the compo­sition of the Student Senate was very similar to the current composition of the Executive Cabinet. One of the rea­sons behind the change in the compo­sition of the Senate to its current form was to make it more representative of student opinions and a more effective advocate of those opinions. Moreover, there was a recognition that student government was responsible for both advocacy and programming, The cur­rent composition of the Senate and the Executive Cabinet is reflective of this division of duties. 

I do not wish this letter to discour­age Ms. O'Donnell or any interested student from trying to take a more active role in effecting positive change at Notre Dame. However, I encourage students to be aware of history before attempting to change the structure of the Student Government. Moreover, if someone truly feels that the Senate is not adequately representing student opinion, they should strongly consider running for a position on that body. 
Mark Leen 
class of '99 March 19 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Helena Payne Will Puckett Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 

Claire Kelley 
Graphics 

Katie McKenna 
Sports 

Matt Lozar Pat Leonard Charee Holloway Scene Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kacmar 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Do you think people should protest 

"Peoples and governments have never 
the war in Iraq? 

learned anything from history, or acted upon principles deducible from it." 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Georg W. F. Hegel German philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 26 , 2003 page 11 
War focus has led to neglect ofdomestic concerns 
As our nation advances towards Baghdad, let us continue to pray for lhosc who suffer directly or indirecily from the war. This war affects families in Iraq as w!jlll as families here in South Bend. Both pro-war and anti­war people can, at the very lea!jt, sim­
Paul Graham 
ply pray for all 
those in the Middle 
East, for peace and 
Another

for a quick end to 
Perspecti1Je
the war. 
It is imperative that everybody honor the women and men of our mili­tary. But as we continue to pray during the lighting in Iraq, we cannot neglect issues that trouble our economy. We cannot overlook the cosls this war bas on our nation and the questionable solutions put forth by the Bush admin­istration. 
There is little question that this war will financially cost our government a great deal. Laurence Lindsay, former economic advisor to President Bush, estimated that this war could cost up to $200 billion, not including reconstruc­tion. 
At the same time that these war costs grow, the strain on the national budget increases. Just recently, the Bush administration estimated a deficit of over $304 billion for the 2003 fiscal year. The national surplus has already fallen around $4 trillion, from over $5 trillion in 2001 to about $1 trillion in the 2003 fiscal year. On top of the depletion of the national surplus, the administration's proposed tax cuts are looking to cut $1.3 trillion between fis­cal years 2004 to 2013. With all the spending on the military combined with the lack of resources, funding for social programs will be cut or eliminat­ed. 
This means sharp cuts in Social Security, education, Medicare and other social programs, leaving millions of Americans helpless. According to the Economic Policy Institute. in 2001 an estimated 41. 2 million Americans did not have health insurance, meaning millions of citizens were, and still are, unable to afford doctors or necessary medicine or medical supplies. To com­pare the cost of the war with the prob­lem of the uninsured, the estimated $200 billion that will be spent on this war is enough to provide health care to 
. all uninsured children in the United States for the next 10 years. School systems and teachers will suf­fer as well. Teachers are one of the most valuable resources of our nation, with an average starting salary just under $29,000. Much research on classroom population has concluded that smaller classroom sizes are more conducive to learning. But in Indiana, 1,500 teachers were laid off for budget reasons. The American Federation of Teachers estimates that an additional two million qualified teachers must be hired to reduce classroom sizes. For 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Concern for effects ofwar 
I am proud of my country. I am sad for what is about to come. My immigrant grandparents came to this country with the hope of a better life and love of what America stood for. As part of a generation that was torn apart over Vietnam, I am faced with a war that has long lasting consequences for my daughter's genera­tion. 
Just for the record. I do not make apologies for my country's economic and military leader­ship. We are a great nation, strengthened by our diversity and pursuit of our national destiny of personal, religious and economic freedom. 
President Bush came into office promising to be "a unitur not a divider," and he kept his word. Ile has united France, Germany, Russia and China (hardly historical friends) against us. Ile has demanded the leader of a nation to leave his country within 48 hours or face the consequences of war. 
I am not delusional about Saddam Hussein ­he is evil. The doctrine of "first strike" under these circumstances will echo for generations. I respect and admire our military. No one demonstrates a more basic love of our country then these outstanding men and women. Jlowever, 1 grieve at the prospect of the price they will pay. 
Our new doctrine of "first strike" is reason­able only if there is no alternative. Our presi­dent has failed the American ideal by pushing us into a conflict that we will win in the short term, but I fear history will judge us most harshly. 
Joseph A. Cari, Jr. 
class of '74 chairman of che Kroc Insicuce advisory board March 19 
this to happen, Bush must take a 
stronger stance on education and pro­
vide the money necessary. 
While these programs suffer, Bush is pushing for more and more tax cuts. These attempts to stimulate the econo­my will in the end benefit nobody but the rich of our country. and fail to boost our economy. According to The Institute for Taxation and Economic Policy. the bottom 60 percent in our nation's income bracket, families earn­ing less than $46,000 per year, would receive on average a $1~1 tax cut. The top 10 percent, fq.milies earning more than $104,000, would receive on aver­age a $5,578 tax break. Tax cuts for this income bracket receive 60 percent of the total share in tax cuts. 
These tax cuts will not help those that really need the money. These tax cuts do not create jobs. They do not improve education. They do not help the uninsured afford medical care. lt seems as if Bush is not only attempting to fight a war in Iraq, but also a war against the poor and working America by cutting strained social programs and giving the rich major tax cuts. 
This "War against Labor" can be seen in the administration's active stance against workers' legal right to organize. On Jan. 9, the Bush adminis­tration, in their constant efforts to make our nation secure, revoked the right of baggage screeners at airports from unionizing by declaring that "col­lective bargaining conflicts with national security needs." On Jan. 30, collective bargaining was also revoked from 1,300 workers at the National Imagery and Mapping Agency. Adding to this, the 170,000 plus public service employees that work for the Homeland Security Department and the Justice Department have been stripped of their right to a union. 
Collective bargaining is one of the few ways in which workers can incor­porate democracy in the workplace through negotiating fair contracts that help determine wages. seniority, work­ing conditions and more. This is a right protected under the National Labor Relations Act of 1933. Labor is in no way a threat to national security. It is tragic that Bush ~ould use the rhetoric of fear and violence to advance a sys­tem of greed. 
As we think about the implications for this war, we cannot overlook what is happening here domestically. We cannot be fooled that the suffering of the working poor is for security rea­sons. We must pray for our troops, but we must also act here in our own coun­try. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Defending Velasquez and Azteca 
The Observer recently published an appeal from the Progressive Student Alliance and an editorial written by Paul Graham, both regarding a labor dispute at Azteca Foods in Chicago. Both the appeal and the editorial asked Arthur Velasquez, the owner of Azteca Foods and a distin­guished alumni of Notre Dame (class of 1960) to "negotiate a fair deal with his workers." 
From my per­spective, Mr. Velasquez and his negotiating team have acted fairly while the striking workers have resorted to unethical tactics to promote their side -and only their side -of the issue to the Notre Dame community and to the gener­al public. 
I have the good fortune to work at Azteca Foods in a sales manage­ment capacity and have been employed by the company for over 12 years. I came to Azteca after l5 years in the Mexican food and gro­cery industry. The reason I decided to accept Azteca's employment offer was the respect that I had for Mr. Velasquez, his father and his whole family due to their many acts of philanthropy and support of the Hispanic community in Chicago and 

at Notre Dame. My experience at Azteca has, if any­thing, only deep­ened my respect for the Velasquez family and for their 
community service efforts. The per­sonal nature of the attacks 

on Mr. Velasquez and the half truths and inaccuracies in the appeal and in Mr. Graham's edi­torial were disheart­ening to see in print and 
made me wonder about the journalistic principles espoused by the current Observer staff for allowing such articles to be pub­lished without further investigation. 
Plant employees of Azteca Foods earn wages at the very high end of the tortilla industry pay scale, enjoy benefits such as generous vacations (3 weeks plus on average), are given a health insurance package better than all others in the indus­try and recieve overtime pay in accordance with their current con­tract. Plant employees have enjoyed these benefits for many years. 
Most other tortilla manufacturers offer few if any of the above bene­fits. In addition, Mr. Velasquez was instrumental in helping many of the plant employees earn permanent resident status and eventually U.S. citizenship, dating from back when it was a standard industry practice to exploit undocumented workers and abandon them when immigra­tion authorities would crack down. Mr. Velasquez hired an attorney and paid all legal fees for the work­ers who filed for permanent resi­dency. 
A number of plant employees chose to go out on strike while a new contract was being negotiated. At no time were they prevented from returning; in fact, they were encouraged to return from the first day while the negotiations contin­ued. Five months now have passed, the new union has been unable to present a workable new proposal and now apparently out of despera­tion the union negotiators have begun a campaign to try to smear Mr. Velasquez's good name and rightly deserved high reputation in the Chicago and Notre Dame com­munities. Shame on those misguid­ed individuals. 
I agree with Mr. Graham that "the workers need our help;" they need our help, though, not to protest against Mr. Velasquez, but to realize that they have been mis­led by a small group of disgruntled employees and a union looking for notoriety. 
Fred Zeilner class of '76 March 12 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
'Beyond Therapy' 
Everyones a little bit crazy when the Student Players present Christopher Durang 
Bucklcv) never giv-flls the couple serv­

By MARIA SMITH 
ice, she decides to give tho romance a 

s~enc Edi.or 
try. Bruce and Prudence don't seem to be 

In the spectrum of insanity, can there having any more luck getting help ever really be a line drawn between from their therapists than from the therapist and those in therapy? suspiciously absent waiter at the 
Anyone who's ever wondered exactly restaurant. Charlotte (Candace what it means to be a little over the Adams), Bruce's psychologist, can edge might find a few answers in the barely formulate a sentence, let alone Student Players' performance of remember the details of her patients' Christopher Durang's "Beyond lives. Stuart (Jake Imm) is too busy Therapy" this week. trying to put the moves on Prudence to 
The play tangles patients and doc­offer her any kind of insightful advjce. tors together in an indistinguishable Though Bruce and Prudence struggle twirl and with their quite a therapy, dif­quirky little "Beyond Therapy" ferences and love story. 
emotional Bruce (Chris hang-ups, it Nygren) and S O O 11 Prudence becomes 
( T a r a The Student Players clear that Murphy). the two have two thirty­something so me th in g Director: Dan Fisher 
that draws 

singles in Playwright: Christopher Durang 
them togeth­

search of Stage Manager: Liz Melly 
er. In the 

love. begin Starring: Tara Murphy, Chris Nygren, Jake Imm, process of to try out Candice Adams, Paul Sifuentes, David Buckley trying to personal ads decide 
Wednesday through Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. and
when their whether ultimately goodhearted. "There's a lot of cast chemistry and
Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. in the EPS Theatre in the
love lives they should Durang's humor, ranging from dry to bonding."
basement of McKenna Haff. $5 General admssion.
refuse to get together all out slapstick, makes "Beyond Although the performance is not work out to and how Therapy" a fun play not only for the flawless, "Beyond Therapy" is good for any sort of that should audience but for the actors and direc­a few laughs and some introspection.
satisfaction. happen, all 
tor. Students could do far worse than to 
Prudence, an uptight perfectionist the characters in the play learn a little "The play's lighthearted and farci­spend an evening exploring the confu­working for People Magazine, is not more about how they want to deal with cal," said director Dan Fisher, a senior sion of aging, dating and psychology in entirely sure Mr. Right exists, since the world. art history major. "It's a bit of the modern world. 
Leonardo DiCaprio is too young for "Beyond Therapy" has the same dark escapism from schoolwork." 
her. Bruce, who cries at the slightest but optimistic humor typical of At times the witty word play requires Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu provocation, compliments Prudence on Durang's work. The Yale graduate, actors to almost be her breasts almost immediately, and once described by former Dean of the able to read 
has not yet worked out the situation Yale School of Drama as a "Catholic Durang's mind as to with his live-in male lover Bob (Paul lapsarian," doesn't let anyone off the what their charac­Sifuentes). hardly makes a good first hook of being a bit crazy. Unlike ters are supposedimpression. But when Prudence acci­Prudence, who vehemently states that to be. The cast, fea­dentally answers another of Bruce's she "see[sJ no reason not to be embar­turing some of ads and meets him in the same bizarre r asse d at being human," Durang Notre Dame's most 
restaurant where the waiter (David accepts his characters as flawed but active student actors, generally lives up to the chal­lenge. 
"The part [of Charlotte] requires divorcing yourself from logic," said Fisher. "Candace does a fantastic job." 
With such convo­luted conversations, the actors have had to learn to work well together onstage to connect with each other and with the audience. Working together since early February, the cast has developed a good rapport onstage. The small McKenna hall the­ater also helps the cast keep the inher­ently personal play personal. 
"I liked that it has such a small cast," said Fisher. 



THE OBSERVER 


-
us 

Wednesday, March 26, 2003 page 13 
Telling it like it is 
The Black Cultural Arts Council highlights Notre Dame culture for prospective students 
from local stores such as 
By COLLEEN BARRETT ­
D.E.M.O., Casual Corner, Gingis, Scene Writer 
Day Furs, Inspire Me and the llammcs Bookstore, all of which 
Say Urn word "DeBartolo" to a donated the clothes for the rww frnshman, and he thinks, length of the show. "Classroom building." Say the The students involved in the word "DcBartolo" lo a seasoned show 11nd different motivations upperclassman, and he thinks of for their involvement. Junior Lile jungl<~ of people that plants Sonjia Stanley has been doing il;;elf immcdintely outside the the show for three years, and main doors of tlw building. said that her all-time favorite 
i\t the annual BCAC Fashion part of doing the show was the 
Show this Saturday, visiting actual performance. prospects will see a side of "You just get a rush being up Notre Dame from those who there under the lights with all of cxpcrirncc il lirst-hand -those your friends clapping for you," 
wbo know it well enough to poke said Stanley. "It's such an adren­fun at the idiosyncrasies that aline rush." make Notrn Dame what it is. Fifth year senior Yogeld Andre "Tim show is a hummous look was also upfront about why he is 
at lil'P at Notrn Dame," said participating in the show. Veronica Berger. president o!' "My girlfriend," said Andre. the Black Cultural t\rts Council. Her involvement resulted in '"'It's nrnant to be taken lightly his. and he will be dancing an 
and t•11,iuyed." updated version of the tango "Lifo at Notre Dame: Tell It come this Saturday. 
Like It Is" is a fashion show with Tickets for the BCAC fashion a story line. The models do not show arc $6 dollars for students speak, so through the help of a and $7 for non-students, which 
PowerPoinL back screen depict­include the price of dinner. The ing instant messenger conversa­doors of the Stepan Center will tions or texl messaging, the While the show does parody experi­able for diversity on campus. open at 7:30 p.m. and the show audience follows Notre Dame students ences that the broad spectrum of Freshmen Fabiola Quinones and starts at 8 p .m. through the inevitable: spring visita­Notre Dame students undergoes, such Rhea Boyd as well as many others Quinones promises a good time for tion. first day or classes, Boat Club and as sweaty, under-age groping at the attended the BCAC Fashion Show last all who attend, whether they are graduation. Each scene is a parody of local dive, some elements specifically year as high school seniors and prospective students or seasoned vet­the event from the students' perspec­target what it is like to be a minority thought it was funny. DeVries reported erans at breaking parietals. tive. at Notre Dame. Berger and deVries that in surveys taken by prospects It will be a laugh," she said. "I can't 
"In some aspects it has to do with report that a scene in the show will after Visitation Week, the BCAC tell you why. If you want to know. you African American life at ND," said one depict a freshman swimming class ranked as one of the favorite activities. have to come and find out." ol' tlw show's coordinators, Andrea comprised of mainly minorities, and Those involved with this years show deVries. "But it really has to do with expect that while non-minorities will are determined to maintain that sta­everybody." understand the parody, minorities will tus. Contact Colleen Barrett at 
appreciate it "We have been working for three cbarrett@nd.edu because they have hours at a time. experienced it. two times a week. 
The models rep­and sometimes on resent a cross sec­Saturday since tion of students, January," said many of whom par­Boyd. "The people ticipated in Asian in the show are all Allure this past fall. working hard to do Iris Outlaw, direc­a good job and tor of Multicultural make sure people Student Programs have a good time." and Services at Outlaw would like Notre Dame, feels to see the Notre that the BCAC show Dame community has been much come out to sup­more inclusive as a port the efforts of' result of the its peers, as well. African American "It will be enter­students at Notre taining, and will Dame becoming not univ celebrate much more the · African involved in the American presence community. on campus," said 
"They encourage Outlaw. "Ii also their friends to be raises funds for the models, and the Thurgood Marshall diverse group scholarship, which reflects a greater is given to a female unification on cam­and male African pus," Outlaw said. American non-ath­
The show takes lete each year." place during Though the focus Visitation Weck, of the show will be which is not a coin-the Notre Dame cidence. Notre experience, it is Dame wants still a fashion show, prospects to see the and the models will opportunities avail-be wearing clothes 




-
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Bryant scores 15 in the fourth and leads Lakers to win 
points for the Lakers, finished Cleveland opened a 97-80 lead 

Associated Pres, 
with a season-high five steals. with just over eight minutes left. Los Angeles forced 21 turnovers The Warriors fell apart after ATIANTA and committed only 10. that, missing on several quick 3­
Fans in Atlanta are so starved Bryant, who had six assists pointers. for a decent NBA team that they after getting none in a nine-point The Cavaliers opened the third turned to a proven winner. loss Sunday at San Antonio, quarter with a 6-0 run, but Unlike the hometown Hawks, credited the victory to the Golden State tied it at 74 with Kobe Bryant did not disappoint. Lakers' ability to get the ball 5:23 left on four straight points 
Bryant scored 15 of his 28 inside to O'Neal, who did the from Troy Murphy. poin.ts in the fourth quarter, rest. Darius Miles gave Richardson 
prompting Atlanta fans to chant a little payback, too. He was "MVP! MVP!" as the Los Angeles charged with a flagrant foul for Lakers pulled away for a 108-91 Cavs 124, Warriors 103 grabbing Richardson's shoulder 
victory. The Cleveland Cavaliers and knocking him to the floor on "It felt good," Bryant said. "It's remembered the way Jason a fastbreak. good to have fan support." Richardson embarrassed Carlos Richardson made one of two Shaquille O'Neal scored 31 Boozer during All-Star weekend. free throws for a 75-74 lead with points in 32 minutes and was Boozer had 19 points and a less than five minutes left in the 
-able t.o rest the entire fourth game-high 14 rebounds as the third quarter -the Warriors' quarter. The Lakers won for the Cavaliers won consecutive first lead since the first quarter. third time in their last eight games for the first time this sea­It didn't last long. 
games away from Los Angeles. son, beating Richardson and the Davis took over the game, tak­Bryant turned the sellout Golden State Warriors. ing the Cavaliers' next five shots crowd of 19,280 in his favor as Richardson showed off at and hitting all of them. 
he hit four consecutive 3-point­Boozer's expense last month "I was trying to bury them. ers to turn an 11-point lead into during the rookie-sophomore They were puliing in close ­a 99-80 margin with 4:59 game by bouncing the ball off just trying to take over," Davis 
remaining. Boozer's head, then hitting a 3-said. After miss1ng his last 3-point pointer as time expired. 
. attempt at the 4:20 mark, The Golden State guard said Bryant left with a team-high 10 before the game that he apolo­Tlmberwolves 108, Heat 91. rebounds and six assists. gized to Boozer during All-Star The Minnesota Timberwolves 
"In the first half, they scored weekend, but the Cavaliers won a home game against a 51 points," Bryant said. "We let clearly didn't forget. struggling team, and saw it as a the Hawks get back in the game, "They wanted to win for sign of growth. but we felt like we had a pretty Boozer," coach Keith Smart said. Kevin Garnett and Wally good set and rhythm. It was a Ricky Davis scored 28 points Szczerbiak scored 26 points matter of tweaking things a little and Zydrunas llgauskas added apiece as Minnesota moved 20 bit." 23 as Cleveland shot 52 percent games over .500 with a victory 
Glenn Robinson scored 22 and played aggressively all the over the lottery-bound Miami points to lead the Hawks, who way, outrebounding the Heat. had won two in a row and five of Warriors 54-40. The Timberwolves are 20 eight. Jason Terry handed out "I appreciate it," Boozer said. games over .500 (46-26) for the 16 assists, but three of his five "We definitely needed another first time since March 5, 2002, turnovers came in the third win. It's great to get two in a when they were 40-20. quarter as Atlanta fell behind for -row." Szczerbiak made 10 of 13 shots good. The Hawks never led after The Cavaliers led most of the and Garnett went 10-for-15. Robert Horry hit a pair of free way and took over in the third Garnett added eight rebounds throws to make it 67-65 with quarter when Ilgauskas started and eight assists, ending his 
4:09 remaining. an 11-3 run with a no-look flip franchise-best streak of 19 "Obviously, the turnovers in pass over his head to Davis, who straight double-doubles. He 
and the Wolves went 7-for-10 in the first quarter. The third-year
the second quarter gave them slammed it borne. leads the NBA with 60 double­a 20-4 run that gave them a 21-guard finished with career highsmomentum, and we couldn't get That sparked Davis, who hit doubles this season. 
14 lead. in assists and rebounds. 
out of the hole," Atlanta coach his next four jumpers -includ­Miami has allowed at least 96 "The key is you have to come Malik Hose added 18 points for Terry Stotts said. "It seemed like ing two 3-pointers -for an 88-points in each of its last five out and grab it from the begin­the Spurs. 
the turnovers took away from 77 lead late in the third. games. 
ning," Troy Hudson said. "I think Sam Cassell led the Bucks with any flow that we had offensively, The lethargic Warriors missed Marc Jackson had 10 points we did that. We kept our compo­19 points. Desmond Mason hadgave them some life, gave them their first six shots in the fourth and 10 rebounds for Minnesota, 
sure." 17, Tim Thomas 15. Michaelsome easy baskets. It's hard to quarter as the Cavaliers expand­fighting Portland for the fourth Redd 15 and Gary Payton 12. 
push it when they're on the free­ed their lead. spot and home-court advantage Spurs 1.07, Bucks 94 
The Spurs swept the season
throw line." "There had been a lot of trash in the first round of the playoffs. Tim Duncan scored 31 points series from the Bucks for theO'Neal gave the Lakers their talking, at least between acouple The Wolves have won four and Speedy Claxton had 12 first time since the 1997-98 sea­
first double-digit lead with two of guys," said Antawn Jamison, straight after beginning March points, 11 assists and nine free throws. The Hawks never who led Golden State with 23 with a 3-5 record. rebounds to lead the San son. got any closer after Bryant stole points. "So we knew they were Caron Butler scored 21 points Antonio Spurs over the San Antonio led the entire way the ball from Terry at the top of going to come out with a lot of and Anthony Carter had a Milwaukee Bucks 107-94. and took its largest lead of 21 the key and soared for a toma­energy." career-high 15 assists for Miami, Spurs center David Robinson, points at the 4:24 mark in the hawk dunk for an 87-76 lead. Golden State fell 3 112 games which has lost 10 of 12. who plans to retire after this fourth quarter, when Rose hit a 
"It was a nice, soulful crowd, behind Houston for the final The Wolves started slow but season, was honored at halftime 15-footjumper. and hopefully the Hawks will get playoff spot in the Western took control by the middle of the and after the game for his 13 The Spurs shot 50 percent it together because the city will Conference. first quarter and never relin­years with the team. He scored from the field and made 22 of 26 support them," said O'Neal, who Gilbert Arenas had 21 points quished it. 10 points. free throws. maintains a part-time residence and Richardson scored 17 of his Minnesota missed its first six Claxton came off the bench to Milwaukee tried to make a run in Atlanta. "If I was here, then it 20 in the first half. shots, and the Heat scored seven replace starting point guard but could only cut the deficit to wouldn't be a problem." Ilgauskas had 10 rebounds. of the game's first eight points. Tony Parker, who left with a 11 when Cassell hit a 3-pointer 
Derek Fisher, who scored ·12 Davis added 11 assists. But Szczerbiak scored 10 points sprained right wrist at the end of with 51 seconds to go. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. a1 the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus rnmmrentals@aolcom 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com 
Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.­5 minute from campus/good neigh­borhood. $350 a month. Call 229-1691 3.4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 

1-Bdrm apts 1 /2 mJ!e from ND $500/mo 283-0325 
Summer Sublease-Great House 4 Bedroom 3 Bath A/C Garage Call 243-9753 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT OUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OFND 277-3097 
2 Rms(1 fum),Lg house.nice area. Spa.tanning bed 229-3333. 
Lakeview Ashland/Belmont two good-sized bedrooms, nice closets, Hardwood Floors, bright apartment, near el, heat included! May/1, $1100/mo or 1340 (rehabbed) 773/472-7775 
FOR SALE 
Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229-3333 
Two speakers 18 inch Bass Vins for PA $75. 631-5195 
NOTICES 

DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FASTl!I CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 
8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are you pregnant and dont know what to d,:,? Loving, open-hearted, finan­cially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824•7006. 

Taking the LSAT? GRE? MCAT? GMAT? DAT? Enroll in a Kaplan Course by March 31st and get $100 back. Call 1 ·800-KAP-TEST today! 
Hoovies 2016. 

I cannot wait lo see Erin and Genny this weekend. 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Visions o 



&l' ~-. i_' · · · ·· · ·, ...''*_· &-~
t .,. ,,.,

e. t li .m'i-~~ 
···· f' .."'.;·····.. a.·······-. c· ·.· .·. =.·. •.,.,.·.. T"~_,f"".· '.l-·_ ••~-h··.. ·.'•f ;.; r.•.
·e· ....·e· ·. .. ,_,.··,..@':•-·;.• ''T_'W. es
,,.:·"l:l····!!~...i·.•· ... . ~ . ~ :i " ..¥ li * :ll: ~ -..· . 
''(\,:""• ·o , .'., .• ij. :•· , , I ;: ,. ,.. '¾.t · •·•'l!/ %. •.: .; /t l! ,,: . ~-­
,,...,,, 

Friday, March 28, 8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
And over 25 Saturday workshops on peacebuilding, conflict resolution and current events. 
\lision u)·ithou·t action 1.s a i1aydrearn. Action toi!{hout vision Ls a nigh trnare. 
,,.Japa..tH:}fJe f>rot)erb 

-
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Teams not graduating athletes 
.------­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
. Ten of sixteen remaining teams under SO percent in recent years 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

For all the profits and fun of the men's NCAA basketball tournament, too many players wind up with nothing more than memories. 
A study released showed that 10 of the schools in this week's round of 16 have failed to graduate even half of their players in recent years.
-Black players are less likely than whites to finish their careers with degrees, accord­ing to the study of NCAA graduation rates. Butler posted the best num­bers and Oklahoma had the worst. They play each other Friday in the East Regional semifinals. Butler. a small private school in Indianapolis, gradu­ated 86 percent of its basket­ball players and all of its black players over a six-year period starting with the 1995­96 season. Oklahoma had a zero graduation rate, although the school chal­lenged the criteria as mislead­ing. A school is credited with graduating students within six years of their freshman year, and is not credited for trans­
fers or junior college players who may get their degrees. 
"Our graduation rate is 100 percent," Oklahoma coach Kelvin Sampson said. "That freshman class (1995-96) was Bobby Joe Evans and Michael Cotton, and they both gradu­ated -Bobby Joe from here and Michael from Boston College. 
"They can stereotype us all they want, but the bottom line is our kids are graduating." 
Calling the results "disturb­ing," the study by Richard Lapchick of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida found: 
. 
Five of the 16 teams had graduation rates a third to a half lower than the school's overall athletic graduation rates. 

. 
Six schools had gradua­tion rates for black basketball players a third to three-quar­ters lower than overall athlet­ic rates. 

. 
Only three schools ­Butler, Duke and Kansas ­graduated at least two-thirds of their black basketball play­ers, while just those and two others -Marquette and Notre Dame -graduated at least two-thirds of all basket­ball players. 

. 
Only six schools graduat­ed at least 50 percent of all basketball players, and seven graduated at least half of their black players. 


Men's basketball, where 57 
' 
percent of the players are black, has the worst gradua­tion rates of all college sports, Lapchick said, with 58 of the 328 Division I teams failing to graduate a single black player in six years. 
"It is a nightmare waiting to be fixed," said Lapchick. one of the nation's leading sports sociologists. 
The study lends support to NCAA president Myles Brand's drive to reward or punish schools by tying the number of scholarships to graduation rates. 
"It confirms what we've known for some time," Brand said. "It shows why we need to take steps in order to cor­rect the situation through a clear and fair policy of incen­tives and disincentives." 
Lapchick said schools would "do themselves an enormous favor" if they used the type of system Brand favors. 
"I think he's got a moment in time, where there have been enough scandals hap­pening, to try to mobilize col­lege presidents to say this is an embarrassment to us as a group. We have this window here, let's use it to do some­thing real. 
"The challenge is that there are going to be a lot of power­ful coaches who will argue that this would deny opportu­nities, particularly to African­American students who. wouldn't be able to come to their schools." 
NFL 

Officiating,changes made to postseason 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX 
The officiating gaffes in last January's playoffs have pro­duced a dramatic change in NFL policy. 
Postseason officials will now come from cohesive crews who spent the season together instead of those who were rated the highest at their positions. 
In other words, the difference between a team and a collection of all-stars. _~ 
"The commissioner said, 'We can't stay status quo,"' director of officiating Mike Pereira said Tuesday. "One way of doing it is to revamp the evaluation sys­tem." 
Under the new policy, the eight highest-rated crews will officiate the 11 playoff games, two fewer crews than in the past. The three that are rated at the top will do two games -a wild-card or divisional-round game, plus one of the divisional championship games or the Super Bowl. 
The result is that 56 of the 119 officials will work the play­offs instead of 70. 
In the past, crews were put together for the playoffs based on the ratings of each official. These all-star crews, though, sometimes lacked cohesion. 
"We have always hammered home the importance of being a 
I 
crew, of teamwork," Pereira said. "But the ultimate reward, the playoffs and Super Bowl, was individual. We think this system reinforces what we want to do." 
The change was motivated in large part by commissioner Paul Tagliabue's rare public criticism of the officiating. It came follow­ing San Francisco's 39-38 wild­card victory over the New York Giants. 
With six seconds left, the Giants lined up for the winning field-goal attempt. the snap was botched and holder Matt Allen threw a desperation pass down­field. The Giants were called for an illegal receiver downfield, but tapes showed the 49ers should also have been called for pass interference. 
That would have resulted in offsetting penalties and allowed New York a second shot at the winning field goal. The next day, Tagliabue issued his statement. 
The crew involved in that game was made up of officials from different crews and includ­ed two of the three second-year officials who received playoff assignments. Normally, first­and second-year officials do not make the playoffs. 
That policy will continue. First-and second-year officials on crews that qualify for the postseason will be replaced by veterans who score the highest at the various positions. 

'' Legislating Corporate Ethics '' 
A lecture by 
RALPH NADER 
Consumer Advocate 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
3:00 p.m. 

Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Jallles the fo·cus of McDonald's All-Atnerican gatne 
Associa1-,d Press 
CLEVEIAND 

LeBron James tore through another high school basketball season, leading his team to a 25-1 record and a third Ohio state Litle in !'our years. 
Now he's about to take on some players who arc a little closer to his exceptional talent level. 
James will be the marquee attraction at the McDonald's All-American lligh School Basketball Boys Game on Wednesday night. James, a 6­foot-8 senior from Akron St. Vincnnt-St. Mary lligh School in Akron. probably won't stand out the way he did during the Ohio Division fl season. when his games packed gymnasiums and drew national TV coverage. 
His fellow All-Americans· can't help but be somewhat in awe of him. though. 
"He's amazing," said J.R. Giddens of Oklahoma City. "This kid, he's really the real deal." 
Giddens went up against James in Monday night's slam dunk contest, which James won by soaring well above the rim for slams. Giddens. who is headed to Kansas, said he wants another shot at James in the McDonald's game. 
"Maybe I can guard him and he can guard me a possession," he said. "Evcrybo(!y's got to go after the top dog to try to take him down." 
.lames. who's expected to be the No. 1 player selected in this year's NBA draft, will be a heavy crowd favorite. The game is being played in the 20,562­seat Gund Arena, about 40 miles from Akron. His presence could help set an attendance record for the game, which was set last year with 16,505 at Madison Square Garden. 
James plays for the East team, and West coach Gary Ernst said his players are eager to match up with the superstar. 
"There's three or four kids who've already come up and said, 'Coach, I want to work against him,"' said Ernst, who is from Mesa, Ariz. "They want the chance to see how they stack up against him. That's pretty impressive to accept that kind of challenge." 
East coach Ron Hecklinski of Anderson, Ind., said he didn't design any special plays for James during the two days of practice. 

"He has a tendency to take over the game naturally," Hecklinski said. "l don't think you have to run a lot of sets for him." 
James, who has been named the McDonald's National Player of the Year, said he doesn't feel any pressure to impress. 
'Tm just going to go out there and p!ay my game," he said. "I think I'll put on a good enough show for the people that have paid their money to come and watch us play." 
The McDonald's All-American staff limited reporters to ques­tions about the game during a 10-minute news conference Tuesday with James. That request was made by James' family. 
A McDonald's staff member wouldn't let James answer a reporter's question about whether he felt he needed to impress NBA scouts in the game. 
Cameras snapped before the news conference as Jamcs ate lunch with players from the McDonald's girls' team. James joked, "What do I look like?" when one of them asked him to get up and grab some drinks off a nearby beverage table. He returned smiling with a couple of sports drinks. 
"He's cool," said Ivory Latta. winner of the girls' 3-point 
..
competition. "He'll make you laugh." 
Coach loses job for rewarding players' defensive play 
A.socia1ed Pres• over, I wouldn't do it, obvious­"I said, Tll tell you what. I'll was over he figured that he maybe $10, and that violates ly," Carson said. "11. was foolish. give you a dollar for every time owed $23, divided among 12 the amateur intent. We collect­DAUAS I was trying to motivate them." you take a charge,"' Carson players. Within two days, ed the money back, so it's not 
Earl Carson wanted his high Carson was the coach at said. "I never really intended to Denison athletic director Bob going to affect anybody's eligi­school basketball team to play Denison High School, about 70 pay the kids, to tell you the Brown told him there was a bility." better defense, and he had an miles from Dallas, near the truth. 1just wanted to get their problem. Carson appeared before the idea: Every time a player drew Texas-Oklahoma border. He attention. Well, we started Brown checked with the Denison school board March 5 a charge, the coach would pay spent nine years there and has keeping a chart on it. The kids University Interscholastic and presented a letter of resig­him a dollar. averaged more than 20 wins a started to focus more on League, which governs athletic nation, which was accepted. 
The team did play tough season during 17 years overall defense, and we started playing and academic competition in He's teaching physical educa­defense, but the ploy had other as a coach. better." Texas public schools and was tion until the end of the school consequences. Carson resigned The 56-year-old coach began After starting the season 3-told the offer violated amateur year. as coach, cited for violating talking to his players after 10, Denison won 12 of its last rules. Carson hasn't applied for amateur rules. Thanksgiving about the $1 17 games before losing in the Carson said that some of his another coaching job yet, but 
"It was a frivolous thing, poor reward for drawing offensive playoffs. players got $1 and "some of he is putting a resume togeth­judgment, and if I had it to do fouls. Carson said when the season · them got quite a bit more, like er. 
Do You Know an Outstanding Student? Do You Know an Outstanding Teacher or Staff Member? Nominate them for: The Irish Clover Award The Irish Clover Award is presented to two outstanding members ofthe Notre Dame Community. Students, Faculty and Staff are eligible for nomination. The award is based upon outstanding service to the students ofNotre Dame. Frank O'Malley Teaching Award The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award is given to an outstanding member ofthe Notre Dame faculty. The award is based upon outstanding service to the students ofNotre Dame. Any faculty member is eligible for consideration. To make a nomination, please type a brief statement describing your nominee and include your name and contact infom1ation. Nominations are due by 3:00 pm on Friday, March 28th . You can tum in or mail the nomination to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Nominations can also be emailed to studegov@nd.edu. For more information, call 1-7668 or check out www.nd.edu/~studegov Sponsored by Student Government  

AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
-


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Second Round NIT Tournament North Carolina vs. Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN2 Georgia Tech vs. Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Heat at Bulls 8:30 p.m., FOXCH 
Lakers at Rockets 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
SURPRISE, Ariz. 
Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez went 2-for-8 with a homer and handled four fielding chances cleanly in a minor-league game Tuesday, his first game since being diagnosed with a herniated disc in his neck nearly two weeks ago. 
Rodriguez batted once an inning and played seven innings in the field for Triple-A Oklahoma against Portland, San Diego's Triple-A team. Rodriguez said he felt fine after he was done, and would be ready for the season opener Sunday night at Anaheim. 

'Tm right on schedule," Rodriguez said. "My timing was a little off, but it was really good to get out there. I got in eight solid at-bats. It was good to be able to see some live pitching." 
In addition to his two-run homer. Rodriguez had a sin­gle and drove in two other runs. He struck out just once. All of the fielding chances were routine plays. 
"I was so happy to be out on the field. I felt like I got stronger as I went along. I was a little unsure at first, but it got easier," he said. "If this had been opening day, I would have been ready to play. This has been really tough for me. I have to keep telling myself not to do .too much." 
Rodriguez, baseball's highest-paid player, has played in all 324 games the past two seasons in Texas since signing his record $252 million, 10-year con­tract. 
The Rangers weren't sure what the next step would be, and whether Rodriguez would play in another game Wednesday. If he does play, it was unclear if he would play in another minor­league game or with the major-league squad. 
After Tuesday's game, Rodriguez spent about an hour in the batting cage and then about 40 minutes in the training room getting treat­ment on his shoulder. 
"I didn't see this game as a test," he said. "It was more of a benchmark of where I am and what I still need to do. I'm feeling good." 
Rodriguez hasn't played a major league spring game since March 12, after he experienced fatigue and stiffness in his left shoulder following two straight games. The five-time All­Star and AL home run leader the past two seasons returned to Dallas for tests that revealed a small herni­ated disk in his desk. 
He resumed limited work­outs March 17 after rejoin­ing the team in Arizona. 
IN BRIEF 

Jurevicius' infant son dies ing this time. The last few months out, but said players typically need 
The infant son of Tampa Bay have been both joyous and difficult for three weeks to recover from groin Buccaneers receiver Joe Jurevicius our family," Jurevicius said. problems. has died nearly 10 weeks after being ''Michael was very courageous and "Unfortunately I think he'll have to 
born prematurely during the he enriched our lives for the short be disabled," Cashman said. "If we Buccaneers' run to the Super Bowl. time that he was with us. We want to play this thing wrong, we have more 
Michael William Jurcvicius, born on thank all of the doctors and nurses ... than a short period of time that we Jan. 14, died Monday night at St. Louis for their help and care, and all our can damage here. We could jeopar­Children's Hospital. fans for their support. Now we just dize a much longer period of time. so 
The receiver's wife, Meagan. gave need time to grieve." we'll take the safe approach." birth gave birth to the couple's first The baby also received care at St. Rivera felt discomfort while making child five days before the NFC champi­Joseph's Women's Hospital and his final pitch in the ninth, an inning­onship game. Jurcvicius missed three Tampa General Hospital. ending double play grounder by Travis days of practice following the baby's "The thoughts and prayers of the Chapman in Detroit's 4-2 win on birth, then flew to Philadelphia to help entire Buccaneer organization are Monday night. the Bucs defeat the Eagles 27-10. with Joe and Meagan over the loss of "I've been treating it," Rivera said. 
Jurevicius' only reception in the con­Michael," Bucs general manager Rich "That's all they're going to do. It's a lit­ference title game, a 71-yard catch­McKay said. tle sore. It's better than last night." and-run, set up Tampa Bay's first Rivera spent time on the disabled list touchdown. Rivera to open season on DL last June with a groin strain in the 
Jurevicius had four catches for 78 New York Yankees closer Mariano same area. He exercised Tuesday, but yards in the Super Bowl, including a Rivera is expected to open the regular is not throwing a ball. 33-yarder that led to a TD in Tampa season on the disabled list with an Rivera was also on the DL last season Bay's 48-21 rout of the Oakland injured right groin. with a shoulder injury. He has been Raiders. Yankees general manager Brian dominating this spring, allowing one 
"Meagan and I want to thank every­Cashman said Tuesday there is no unearned run and striking out 12 bat­one for their support and wishes dur-timetable for how long Rivera will be ters in 3 innings. 


Wednesday, March 26, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMENS LACROSSE 
Lackluster first half too tnuch for Irish to overcotne 

Junior captain and leadoff hitter Steve Sollmann touches races down the first base llne In today's game against Toledo. Sollmann began two rallies for the Irish. 

TELL IT LI KE IT IS!! 

Saturday March 29, 2003 Stepan Center Doors open at 7:30 pm Show Starts at 8:00 pm $6 for ND students $7 for non students 
**Food will be served** 
Irish an 8-2 lead. Rizzo and Lopez combined to
Baseball 
drive in five of the eight Irish 
runs. 
"A lot of the freshmen did the third. Aner Sollmann took sec­job tonight for us," Mainicri ond on a botched pickoff said. "We got big hits from attempt, Grogan followed with Lopez and Rizzo." a similar bunt. placed perfectly Martin Vergara replaced between the pitcher and third Doherty in the top of the fifth in baseman. The defensive indeci­a planned rotation move, thus siveness cost the Rockets, preserving the win for Doherty. allowing Grogan to reach base Vergara allowed only one run and Sollmann to advance to on four hits while striking out third. four in four innings of work. 
Sollmann "I thought then scored , we played on one of "After I 7 games on the pretty well." Kovacs' five Mainieri 
continued from page 24 
road, our guys were so
wild pitches. s a i d . 
W i t h excited about being back on "Doherty 
Grogan on our home turf You could and Vergara third after a both pitched
see there was a little extra
stolen base, well." 
and Billmaier bounce in their step, and Senior 
on first after they were genuinely excit­Matt Laird being hit by a pitched the
ed about playing." 
pitch, Javier ninth, allow­S a n c h e z ing one hit
Paul Malnlerl 
smacked a but finishing
head coach
single off the through the Rockets with left side, relative scoring ease. Grogan. Now 12-6, the Irish will face 
Two batters later, Cody Rizzo Purdue in an intrastate rivalry knocked Billmaier home with a match tonight at 5 p.m. single to center to give the Irish "Purdue's playing really good a 4-2 lead. ball right now," said Mainieri. 
In the fifth inning, Rizzo once "There's a rivalry between the again came through; bringing two schools in all sports, so home two more runs on a tow­we're looking forward to the ering double to left-center. challenge." Greg Lopez knocked in his freshmen teammates Rizzo and Craig Cooper with a single Contact Bryan Kronk at through the left side, giving the bkronk@nd.edu 
NEED A JOB FOR THE 2003-2004 ACADEMIC YEAR? 
~o\)' 
<to~ 
~+G 
\-00 
~~~~ 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS MOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors 
Building Set Up Crew 
Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Coke Service 
ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants 
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune or on-line ot www.nd.edu/~soo/office/jobs. 
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 28. 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spores Wriler 
Forced to play from behind after trailing 3-0 six minutes into thn game, Notre Dame was unable to pick up its first win ovnr a ranked team this season in falling to No. 17 Ohio State l 2­y this allernoon at Moose Krause Sl/tdium. 
Despite a number of' valiant trim; to catch the Buckeyes, the Irish l'Pll just short or a ranked fon for the second straight game. 
"I think WC kept kind or push­ing it," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We had our chances, the goalie made some good saves and that's just the way it goes sometimes." 
After the early delicit, the Irish came back to within one goal on three different occasions, the last of which came in the middle of the second half when a goal from Anne Riley pulled the Irish with­in 9-8. Consecutive goals from the Buckeyes pushed the lead back to three at 1l-8 with only a few minutes remaining. 
"There were a lot of aspects of our game that I was pleased with," Coyne said. "It's just a matter of putting it together for 60 minutes. We had spurt<; today where we played very well. It's jusl a matter of starting out strong and maintaining." 
Ohio State was led by sopho­more midfielder Regina Oliver, who scored four first half goals to push the Buckeyes out to the early lead. 
"Regina .is a very good player, she's very athletic and has very good speed and quickness," Coyne said. "I think we did a bet­ter job in the second half of con­taining her, but a player like Regina is difficult to completely shut down." 

The Irish offensive effort was paced by senior Danielle Shearer who registered two goals and an assist, while junior Lauren Fischer added two first half goals. 
After being down 3-0 after six minutes, the Irish responded with two goals to cut the deficit to 3-2. Ohio State pushed the lead back to 7 -4 on Oliver's third goal of the first half. before Shearer and Meredith Simon scored to get the Irish within one at 7-6. Oliver's fourth score put Ohio State up by two at the break at 8-6. 
The Irish now have three con­secutive Big East showdowns beginning with trips to Virginia Tech (1-7) and No. 8 Syracuse before coming home to face Connecticut. 
Contact Andy Trocger at atroeger@nd.edu 

' ­
I I I 
page 20 Wednesday, March 26, 2003
The Observer . SPORTS 
ThoIDas 
continued from page 24 
"In the pickup games, that matchup was intense," Brey said. "They are great friends, but they arc the kind of guys Lhat when they are between the lines they want to tear each other's heart out." 
Thomas said that when his Pike High School team played Gardner's North Central squad, Thomas' team emerged with a 3-1 record. And while the Irish point guard isn't one to focus on individual matchups -"It hurts the team," he simply said -the spotlight will shine brightly on both players Thursday. 
Gardner enters Thursdav·s clash averaging 14.3 points and just under five assists per game. One of many seniors on a veter­an Wildcat team, Gardner passed up the opportunity to turn pro a season ago for the chance to win a national title with Arizona. 
ln some ways, he represents the kind of point guard Thomas could become in a few years. 
"He's been to the Final Four. He's been to the championship game. He's played against the Lop players," Thomas said. "He's a leader and a captain, and is what makes that team go." 
The same could be said about Thomas for the Irish. Often the sparkplug for Notre Dame's offense, Notre Dame tends to win when Thomas plays well and lose when Thomas plays poorly. 

Cognizant of that fact, Brey spent much of the time before the NCAA Tournament challeng­ing Thomas to work on manag­
ing the game. Whatever Brey said paid off tremendously in Notre Dame's first Tournament games. 
Against Wisconsin­Milwaukee's full-court press. Thomas played all 40 minutes and committed just five turnovers. But he was even bet­ter in Notre Dame's 68-60 win against Illinois. 
In the first half, when the Irish seemingly couldn't miss from 3­point range, Thomas was instru­mental in pushing the ball up the court quickly. But when the Irish had trouble getting points in the beginning of the second half, Thomas settled the Irish down into more of a half-court offense. And in the final minutes of Saturday's game, the Irish often let the shot clock wind down to under five seconds thanks in part to Thomas' role in controlling the tern po of play. 
"As I've always said, he's a work in progress as a point guard and is learning," Brey said. "But I thought he was 
great in Indy." 

Thomas, whose happy-go­lucky personality disappeared as Notre Dame struggled down the stretch, seems to be in a much more jovial mood in the NCAA Tournament. Ile orchestrated Notre Dame's mass head-shav­ing -even saying Monday he mighL have to bring out the clip­pers again -and is back to cracking the occasional joke in press conferences. 
When Notre Oame got off the bus Saturday, the players got to watch the last few minutes of' the Arizona-Gonzaga double­overtime game. And as Thomas watched, he knew what team he wanted to win. 

"I was hoping in the back of my mind that we would gel Arizona," he said. "That would be my only chance to play against Gardner and it would be a great step for this program." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
'C:. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 

574/239-6611 , 800/522-661 I 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4 540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site: at www.ndfcu.org. 
The perfect home: That's been your dream. 

Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame  
Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your  
specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly,  
with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality.  G) [QUAL HOUSING LENDER 

._____________________________
~~~~ 


I • I 
I 
I I I I 
I 
I 
I ~ 
I 
t 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL .... 
No problems in beginning the home season this year 

By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Spom Editor 
Last year, the Irish played their first home game 12 days after their home opener was ini­tially scheduled. 
This year, there will be no wait. 
With today's forecast calling for mostly sunny skies and a high of 54 degrees, Notre Dame will begin its home campaign against No. 24 Northwestern this afternoon at Ivy Field at 3 p.rn. 
"We are very excited. At this point of the season, just getting games in is what we want since we have missed eight already," Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf said. ult is exciting to be looking outside and seeing the sun." 
Just like any team, the bene­fits to playing at home are the same in softball. 

STUDENT OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 


Do You Know Where You're Living Next Year???? 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS HOUSING AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
APARTMENTS FROM AS LOW AS $280/mo per person! 
Town homes, 2-Bedroom, I -Bedrooms and Studios Available Stop by or call today! 272-8124 www.turtlecreeknd.co1n 
Congratulations Fighting Irish! You made it to the Dance! 
Put your organizational and communication skills to good use in the career you've been searching for. Progressive Insurance is hiring Claims Rep Trainees in multiple offices across the country. Our Claims Reps learn the business; they're our customer ambassadors. 
We offer: 
• 
Competitive pay • Comprehensive benefits • Great culture 

• 
Ongoing training • Latest technology 



• Career advancement opportunity You need: 
• 
Bachelor's degree or equivalent experience 

• 
Ability to work a flexible schedule, including evenings and weekends 

• 
Good driving record 

• 
Strong time management, judgment and problem resolution skills 


Visit jobs.progressive.com, search on Job Number D0000laand submit your 1esume. 
Equal Opportun1rr E.mptoyu. M/f/ON 
"There is nothing like playing at home," Gumpf said. "You arc comfortable, people are in the stands cheering for you and we get to sleep in our own beds afterwards." 
In the 2002 season, the Irish were 18-2 at home and had a home winning streak of 26 games snapped against Syracuse in April. 
So far this year, the Irish arc 10-9 and the comparisons to last year's 8-12 start have started. In 2002, the Irish won 36 of 41 games to end their season and finished one game short of the College World Series, losing to Nebraska in the regionals. 
"It is very similar, I just hope the finish is similar. If we can just win one more game at regionals, that's our goal," Gumpf said. "Starting the way we started isn't what we want­ed. These girls know they can still do it. The start of our season was spring training and we need to learn from it." 
Notre Dame started the regu­lar season portion of its schedule last weekend in sweeping a dou­bleheader at Western Michigan. In that game, the Irish came out and scored five runs in the first inning of game one and five runs in the first three innings of game two. Taking control of the game early, as they did last weekend, needs to happen today against the Wildcats. 
"We need to hit the ball. If we hit the ball well. that takes them out of their comfort zone," Gumpf said. "If we score in the first inning, that changes momentum like we did when we scored in the first two innings at Western Michigan." 

Northwestern (13-6) and Notre Dame haven't played since the 1997 season. Its top win this season came Feb. 28 when Northwestern defeated defend­ing national champion California 4-3 in eight innings. 
To stay with the higher­ranked opponent this afternoon, the Irish need to take care of the basics. 

"They are very aggressive, very well-coached, very disci­plined and do the little things well," Gumpf said. "Our pitchers need to be in control for seven innings and we need to play strong defense. If we play well in those three areas, then we should have a good chance at winning the game." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
McGraw said. "We wanted to get her driving the baseline against

Women 
their zone." continued from page 24 Where she left off, Lavere 
picked up. The freshman center, points, took control herself and who had already scored 15 drove to the basket to grab some points in the first game of the very important lay-ups for the NCAA tournament, added 14 Irish. more to her 
Notre Dame's total, including speed was an "[Severe's speed] was two free throws 
advantage for in the final 60
one ofthe things we
the Irish tonight seconds of the 
-an advantage talked about at prac­game. they're not used tice. We wanted to get Those charity 
to. But Severe shots, coupled
her driving the baseline 
made use of that with 4-for-4 speed on her against their zone." shooting in the way to the bas­final seconds ket. from fellow
Muffet McGraw 
"(Severe's freshman
head coach
speed] was one of the things we talked about at practice," Irish coach Muffet 
rr~~!Jl!!?i ­
251-0007 
Delivery or Carry Out, Open 7 Days 2720 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend, IN 46615 


Go Madonna, It's your birthday, We're gonna party like it's your birthday 
Happy 21st! 
Love, 
The girls 
Duffy, spelled 
the six point 

difference between the victorious Irish and the defeated Wildcats. 
"Courtney's played great in games all year long and Megan had a great tournament," McGraw said. "Those two fresh­man really played like seniors." 
The Irish take on second-seed­ed Purdue in the Sweet Sixteen on Sunday in Dayton. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 



page 22 --... --··-· -------Ti-'he-0-bs-er-ve_r_._S_P_O_R_T_S____
,-­
' . ., ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 
=============================================================================================================================== 
Doubles teams lead Notre Dame to win over Michigan 
Stastny.
By JOE LINDSLEY 

Playing at No. 2 doubles, SpomWrit~r 
freshman Lauren Connellv and junior Alicia Salas survived Jen When the No. 27 and No. 28 Duprez and Kim Plaushines 9­teams met on the hardcourt 8 (7-3) to give the Irish the Tuesday, a close match was advantage heading into singles expected. play. Airnther junior-freshman 
Notre Dame pulled ahead duo -Caylan Leslie and from the start and prevented Jennifer Smith -contributed Michigan from securing an to the doubles point as they upset as they won 5-2 in their defeated Joanne Musgrove and second to last home game of Chrissie Nolan, 8-3. the season. Defeating Michigan in dou­
"It was a really close match," bles gave the Irish confidence Irish senior captain Katie heading into the second por­Cunha said. 'Tm really proud tion of the match. of everyone." "l was really impressed with 
Despite the score, there was their doubles," Cunha said of a point in the match when the the Wolverines. Wolverines had a prime oppor­The doubles team of Cunha tunity to rally. Cunha destroyed and Stastny has been a key Michigan ·s hopes as she component of Irish success this defeated Leanne Rutherford 6-season, but of late they have 3, 7-6 (7-4) to had some bring the struggles. score to 4-1 "It was a really close "We didn't and to guaran­play all that
match. I'm really 
tee an Irish bad," Cunha victory. Cunha proud of everyone." said uf their also scored a perfor­personal victo­rn an c e
Katie Cunha 
ry by ending a against the
Irish senior 
four-match Wolverines. losing streak, "I think we CHIP which was were a little Senior captain Katie Cunha returns the ball In Notre Dame's 5-2 win over Michigan Tuesday particularly impressive against tentative in the beginning of 
afternoon at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Rutherford, who has gone 15-1 the match. We got down in a this spring. hole pretty early, but then we Then it was up to either After the match was decided, 54 Purdue at 4 p.m. today in 
The afternoon began in the played a little bit better. Cunha, Leslie or sophomore the older Connelly achieved their last home match. Given favor of the Irish from the start [Stastny] and I make a great Sarah Jane Connelly to hand her fifth straight victory when that Boilermakers beat the when the No. 2 and No. 3 dou­pair, but we're in a little big of Notre Dame the win. she triumphed 3-6, 6-0, 7-6 (7-Irish last year, there is some bles teams won their matches a rut." Leslie, ranked No. 51 nation­3) over Musgrove. Connelly is desire for vengeance among to obtain the doubles point for In singles, Lauren Connelly ally, was nearly the clincher, proving herself to be adept at Notre Dame's players. the fifth consecutive time on put the Irish up 2-0 with her after she had won her first set rallying from behind -each of "A lot of us want to seek a lit­their home courts. The doubles efficient 6-1 straight-set halt­6-1 against Dacosta. In the the last four times she has lost tle bit of revenge," Cunha said. portion was close though, with ing of Duprez, who had been second set she become ill and the first set, she has bounced the clinching No. 2 match com­riding on a six-match winning was forced to retire. back to secure a win. ing down to a tiebreaker after streak, Then Michigan earned Consequently, Dacosta was In the midst of a week full of Contact Joe Lindsley at the Wolverines' Michelle its first point when Plaushines afforded the win. matches, the Irish will play No. jlindsle@nd.edu Dacosta and Rutherford had defeated Stastny in straight upset the 27th ranked duo of sets, 6-3, 6-3, but No. 65 Salas Cunha and freshman Kristina overcame Nolan 7-5, 6-3. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles hope for good w-eather at Valparaiso 
Riddle 9-0. Their other loss wasBy LISA REIJULA to St. Louis University, by the 
Sporrs Writer 

score of 5-2. With only six players listed on The Saint Mary's tennis team their roster, the Crusaders don't 
is hoping for a little cooperation appear to be an extremely tough 

from the weather as they travel ,1
opponent for the returning 

to Valparaiso in the second MIAA champion Belles. attempt at playing a match with 
Valparaiso will also be playingthe Crusaders. On March 19, the 

their second match in two days.match was postponed due to The Crusaders faced Indiana 
Ji~~
rain. 
State on the road Tuesday. 

"Last week we only played one "[Valparaiso] is a good team, game before it started pouring," 
so we want to play them and 
junior Kaitlin Cutler said. "We 
have the competition," said 
were disappointed, so hopefully Cutler. 
we'll get to go this time." 
In preparation for this week's The Belles (5-1) come into the matches, the Belles have been 

matchup with confidence stem­concentrating on communica­I • ming from a 9-0 pounding of 
I tion and teamwork in their dou­Tri-State University Sunday. All bles pairings. six singles players and all three 
"We did so well in singles over doubles teams won their match­

break, so we've been working es. more on doubles in practice,""I thought we did really well said Cutler. "The No. 1 and No. 
on Sunday," Cutler said. "I was 3 teams are new partners and it happy with the outcome. We 
takes a while to get used to 
hadn't played outside in awhile, 
playing together. It's coming 

so it takes getting used to the along well.'' windy Indiana weather." 
The Belles face the Crusaders Valparaiso enters the contest of Valparaiso today on the road 
with a 2-3 record overall in at 2:30 p.m. at the Brown spring play. The Crusaders 
Courts. 

defeated Bradley 7-0 and Wisconsin-Green Bay 5-2. They were shut out by both Arkansas­Contact Lisa Reijula at Little Rock 7-0 and Embry-lreiju1a@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 
I~D!Z:5SED 1-'5 $0 SSFUI.., FIil.ST, ll1£ 

HAPPY TOWN 
131JTICAl'J'T I "1A'I E'lbU 'Sl-tOUlDm >MOl(lM§-.lfIWAS~•, • ITt..nTct./L'i IZEJA-,..e:.s '/OU,OOT 11 S~E:SSED,HCN/ WIU..1ltJTYDU~ 1EE.TH10MATlH WOUlt> r LOO~ 11-lAT ~N~Kll<T. THIS f:t(X>P/? 
JACK MONAHAN 


JUMBLE 
JJ~J])TIJ!
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RYCED 
t 
rIJJ 
Ol:002 Tribune Mec!Ja Servicea, lnc:. 
All Rlgh!s Reserved 
VEYON ± 
I I r J
tOXENTS I
I 
WWtN .jumble.com 
I POLUCEj
() ( [J 
HENRI ARNOLD 

-1 ' 
i
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
This Is my work wlltl bikini rnooels 


THE: GALLE:RY RE:­..E:C.TTP 17--lf: Pl-01"0­Gf<APHl=R'S WORK 
6Et.AUSE IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Pns, 

r x x 1 Jr111x x x J 
(Answers tomorrow)I Jumbles. MUSIC PEONY RATHER MASCOT Answer: What the demolition derby turned into for the teacher -A "CRASH" COURSE 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, ¦ end your n ¦ m¦, addre ¦• and S5.16 1nd 
make check payable to Tribune Media Servictl•, P.O. Box 4330, Chkago, IL OOleo-.433(1, 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 37 Clear ot the sea 68 Nuclear fuel bottom holders
1 Diplomat Deane 40 Moulin Rouge 69 Mountain
6 Lancia performance nymphcompetitor, for 
short 41 Advice, part 3 
45 Buck's mate DOWN
10 Tee off 46 Long story 1 Evades
14 Prepared to be dubbed 47 Reasons to 2 Imbue (with) cram
15 Cash in Qom 3 Dutch cheese 51 Garden 
4 Lotion16 1950's British ornamentals ingredient
P.M. 
54 Beer may be on 5 1950's-70's 17 Advice to a it senatordriver, part 1 

55 Waters on Symington, for 20 Hardly genteel stage short 
21 Court feat 58 Polo Grounds 6 Small toucan legend
22 Hardly genteel 7 One of the front 59 "Dumb" comics four
23 Literary girl
monogram 8 500-pound, say 60 End of the
24 Park 9 Apiece, in
advice

(Manhattan scores 64 Director
neighborhood) 10 Put in hot oil 
Rohmer 

again 65 Tech support 
27 Barcelona title 11 Brainchild29 One-in-a-million caller 
Puzzle by Ed E1r1v

12 "Why not?!"
30 Botanist Gray 66 Actress Anne 36 Jet black 49 First first lady 57 One who's got it 13 Son of Seth
33 Advice, part 2 67 "Why not?!" coming
37 Tag on 50 Neutered

18 "This means 38 A suitor may 51 British coppers 59 Shy creature
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'" pitch it 

61 Start of many a beginning 1887 39 Suffix with ethyl Culbertson ' Catholic church ..,..,.+-,+,,+,,.+.,.,-1 24 Some shorthand name
53 J.D. holder:42 Mer contents Abbr.

25 Pitching stat 43 Disregarded 62 G.l. entertainer
55 Farm females26 React violently, 44 Skiers' leggings 

-+--+-~+,,-1-=-1 in a way 56 Like some 63 Telephone 48A.S.A.P. traffic interrogatory
_......,.-r.::+.,-1-:-1 28 Final notice 
30 Sector boundary For answers, call 1 ·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
31 Rwy. stop 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday liiiil•iiir.-=h:r.:-r.:-1~~,..,+;.+.:,;+-,+,;~ 32 Writer Rand crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. -=+-=+::,+.=-1 34 Write for Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000

R u D I E T R E another 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions {$19.95 a year). I M I N S H U N 35 Clotho and Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, L A N G T A T E others nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Diana Ross, James Caan, Martin Short, Leeza Gibbons 
Happy Birthday: Don't waste your time or your energy on trivial matters or those who don't back you or· agree with you. Stay intent on accomplishing your goals. If you take the positive out of any negative situation, you will expand your horizons because of the adversity you have faced. The best is yet to come. Your numbers are 3, 5, 8, 17, 23, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't rely on others or make promises you can't deliver. Be reticent and don't make comments based on conjecture. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you believe in something, follow through. Hidden secrets will be easily revealed, so don'! try to avoid issues !hat need to be rectified. Be honest.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't believe what you're told, especially if it has to do with money. An investment will not rum out to be as promising as you had hoped. Don't let a relative take advantage of you financially. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have to deal with some personal problems if you have been moody and difficult to get along with. Do a little soul-searching to discover the reason for your unhappiness.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relationships will develop through work-related activities. Don't overstep your boundaries; your emotional reaction may be more revealing than you imagine. Watch your step. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't deny yourself the chance to do something different even if it does cost a little more than you wanted to spend. You will gain so much by deviating from your normal routine. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Someone may be trying to put the blame on you. If someone overreacts, back away. Don't overspend on household items or services for your home. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Chat up the person next to you no malter where you are and you will find out valuable information. Your friendly demeanor will go a long way today. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be a wanderer and an adventurer today, but you mustn't overspend. Taking a financial risk will not pay off and will probably end up getting you into trouble with loved ones. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to take things one at a time today. Don't let trivial things bother you. You will feel so much better if you take a little time to relax. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There will be underlying situations taking place today, so don't be too sure about what others are doing or thinking. You will have to keep your wits about you and prepare for the challenge. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Gauge your time and your talent and don't promise more than you can possibly deliver. Be straight with others and you'll be able lo accomplish what you want. **** Birthday Baby: You will be impatient, always wanting to be first and to get things done quickly. You will be bright, active and very aware of what everyone else is up to. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 



,_
' 
I 
'
I 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
. Severe scores 1 7 on way to Irish upset of No. 3 seed Wildcats 
By KATIE McVOY Senior Scaff Wricer 
The few hundred Notre Dame fans in Manhattan. Kan. Tuesday night were making more noise than nearly 12,000 Kansas State fans. Due to another out­standing Irish defensive effort, the Wildcats' 22-game home win streak broke right along with the Wildcats' tournament dreams. 
The final No. 3 seed in the NCAA tour­nament fell Tuesday night and No. 11 seed Notre Dame kept its NCAi\ dreams alive, upsetting Kansas State 59-53 on the way to the Sweet Sixteen. 
"We knew that we were better than an 11 seed but we must not have shown the selection committee that during the year so we're showing that now," Severe said. "We're reaching our poten­tial now." 
In the final minutes of the game, Kansas State just couldn't collect the points it needed. Whenever the Wildcats brought the game within two. they would foul the Irish. With Megan Duffy and Courtney LaVere perfect from the charity stripe in the final minute, the Wildcats could not bring the game with­in one possession when they controlled the ball. 
The Notre Dame defense is mostly to blame for breaking the 22-game home 
PORTS 
Wednesday, March 26, 2003 

Severe upset 
win streak the Wildcats had heading into Tuesday night's game. In a similar fashion in the win against Arizona on Sunday, the Irish forced a messy offen­sive game and let their defense do the talking. 
A Kansas State team that averages more than 75 point.5 a game scored only 53. 
"We knew we had to get up on the shooters, especially Koehn because she can hit it way out," Severe said. "We knew what we had to do and we knew we could do it." 
The "Big Four" -Kansas State's Kendra Wecker, Nicole Wecker, Megan Mahoney and Laurie Koehn -were the only Wildcats who could score points, grabbing all 53 of Kansas State's points. Despite the fact that the Irish could not control Koehn outside the arc as she went on to 23 points, no other Wildcat hit a single trey. 
Offensively, Notre Dame again showed that when it counted, someone would step up and get the work done. Notre Dame's leading scorer, Jacqueline Batteast, fell short again offensively, hitting only one of 10 shots, raising her total for the NCAA tourna­ment to 2-of-26 from the field. 
But where Batteast fell short, her teammates stepped up. Severe, the junior guard, took a role she usually doesn't take for the Irish -she scored and scored and scored. Severe, who usually dishes the ball to teammates and often grabs more assists than 
see WOMEN/page 21 


BASEBALL 
Doherty impresses in opener 
By BRYAN KRONK Senior SraffWricer 
A new season at Eck Stadium began with a new face on the mound performing the same old dominating rou­tine for Notre Dame. as fresh­man Ryan Doherty hurled his way to a win in his first career start in the 8-3 Irish win over Toledo in the home opener for the Irish Tuesday night. 
"I was really happy for Ryan, his first career start, and he pitched real well out there," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. 
The homecoming was a wel­come sight for the Irish. who returned home after an 11-6 record in a month's worth of road games. 
"It was a lot of fun being out there tonight," Mainieri said. "After 17 games on the road, our guys were so excited about being back on our home turf. 
You could see there was a little extra bounce in their step, and they were genuinely excited about playing." 
An opening day crowd of over 1,400 witnessed the victo­ry for the Irish. which saw the home team start the game with a familiar sight -an early run. 
Leadoff hitter Steve Sollmann popped a double down the right-field line that was just out of reach of a charging Toledo fielder. After freshman Brennan Grogan sacrificed Sollmann to third and Matt Edwards walked on four pitches, senior Kris Billmaier hit a sacrifice fly to get the Irish on the board first. 
While the Irish would take advantage of shaky Toledo pitching all night, the Rockets were held stagnant by Dohertv, who struck out six of the firs·t eight batters he faced. 
"[My performance) was good," Doherty said. "We just came off a real good weekend at Villanova. so it was just my job to get a good start in there." 
Doherty was poised to retire the side in order for the third straight inning in the top of the third, until an error by short­stop Matt Macri extended the inning for Toledo. After allow­ing a single, Doherty walked the bases loaded before allow­ing a two-run single to give the Rockets a 2-1 lead. 
Doherty was able to recover, striking out one more Rocket batter to close out the top of the third. . 
Notre Dame capitalized on another poor outing by Toledo starter Brian Kovacs. Once again, it was the junior captain Sollmann who started the rally, this time by reaching base on a perfectly executed bunt down the third-base line to lead off the bottom of the 
see BASEBALL/page 19 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Old friends Thotnas and Gardner to meet 
. Irish point guard impresses coach with his improved control of tempo 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spores Writer 

They first met on an Indianapolis basketball court. One was two years older than the other, but that didn't stop them from becoming fast friends even as they clashed at rival Indiana high schools. 
One won Mr. Basketball hon­
ors and headed to Arizona. Two 
years later, the other one won 
Mr. Basketball honors and 
headed to Notre Dame. 

They played often in the sum­mer and worked out together. And last July, both served as counselors at Nike's basketball 
camp. But little did Jason Gardner 
•and Chris Thomas know that when they met for the first time in college, the loser would be heading home for the season. 
"We always played in the 
same leagues growing up, and 
we played on the same team 
[when I was in] seventh grade," 
Thomas said, jokingly adding of 
the 5-foot-10 guard, "I think he 
was the same size as he is now." 
Gardner and Thomas, two of 
the nation's top point guards 
and two close friends, will clash 
Thursday when fifth-seeded 
Notre Dame takes on top-seeded 
Arizona in the West Regional 
semifinal. 
But all Irish coach Mike Brey can think back to is when the two played each other at the Nike camp in July. 
see THOMAS/page 20 


ND WOMENS TENNIS SMC TENNIS ND SOFTBALL Nil WOMENS LACROSSE 
Notre Dame 5 Saint Mary's at Valparaiso Northwestern at Notre 
Ohio State :12 Dame 
Notre Dame! 9Michigan 2 Today, 2:30 p.m. 
With their last match-up against 

Today, 3 p.m. 
-The Irish lost to the No. 17 BuckeyesThe No. 27 Irish took an early 
the Crusaders postponed due to 

Tuesday afternoon at Moose KrauseThe Irish will play a doubleheader
lead and held on to defeat 
· Stadium.
weather, the Belles hope to get their against the No.24 Wildcats at IvyMichigan. 

match in today. 
Field. 
page 22 page 22 page 19page 21 






