
God, Country and Notre Dame football 
The Independent-Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
A look behind the scenes 
put on a show, but I was there
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
at 5 a.m. to unlock the gate." 
Associate News Editor 
While fans are still waking up, Gagnon and hundreds of others Mel Williams began singing will be at the stadium Saturday "God Bless America" at Gate D morning, getting it ready for the of Notre Dame Stadium right 80,795 fans expected to passafter Sept. 11 two years ago. It through its gates for this week­began as a solo, a subtle tribute 
end's sold-out game against
before the raucous throngs that Washington State. 
would follow, but has since With the 5 a.m. opening ofbecome a chorus, a new pre­Gate B, game day has officiallygame tradition at a place where 
·begun, and Gagnon and his
such thing8 are held sacred. 
small army of ushers, ticket­
Williams, who has been an takers and other personnel will
usher at the stadium for the 
have to hit the ground running, past seven years, has since been as the day begins to run off its joined in song by a number of own momentum.
his co-workers, and their pre­"At 7, I unlock Gates A and D,game performances have gener­the tunnel, and the press box,"ated their own following of fans he said. "The team equipmentand fellow ushers. 
people come around 7:15 ... the"All those people get there press people come in at 9."
early to come and sing with us," 
The rest of the morning is
he said. 
spent meeting with ushers,
Williams and the Gate D ush­addressing logistical issues that ers are simply a handful of the arise and ironing out the finalnearly 4,000 people who will be details of the day: 
admitted to the Stadium on 
"By noon, we've got to have it Saturday without tickets, those ready so that by the time wefor whom Irish football games open the gates you guys think are all in a day's work. 
it's always been that way,"
"Logistically, it's a big under­Gagnon said. 
taking," said Russell "Cappy" While Gagan said that the
Gagnon, stadium personnel 
week leading up to each game
coordinator. "Joe Fan thinks he just comes in at 12:30 and we see FOOTBALL/ page 4 

AU l*"l ' 
\ 

Hilmi l> All Categorie5 
B..i~ s..rch 
1-'""'ur..,.su•••••·•~•"..o'!'t!.t.•M jll;.>l" lllllr'WI t.>olbct:l ':') '" Iitie> IJ -mpto~; (sl!<~r~ ~~1 l!lliM ,..., 
Tlckett 0) 
lvt~\ ~¥Q~ 
-.~·~---·* e 
~: 
Astq!IODI euvuHow 
All Categories 

17!lt:em!> fc.xmd !;>~ noire dame football tickets S>)ll r;y ilem~·>. ending flr~>ll DII'My lltt!d l!sMnt O!'lced 1hlq!Mt Df!Ctd 
Plctu,.~ . Featured -Item Title 
8NOTBf, Dr\ME fQQT8AlL TICKETS VS PURDUE 9-27 
Above, student managers paint helmets Thursday night. Right, members of the facilities staff unload boxes Thursday in prepara­tion for Saturday's game against Washington State. ~ 
•

PHOTOS BY ·•.
-··•.1•\ 

TIMKACMAR 

Tickets marked up on the Web 

eBay Notre Dame football tickets often find their way to Ebay and sell for several times higher than face value. However, the University Is trying to halt this practice. 
Q}Qyntjonl 


8ida TIM! l.!ft 14 ld 2011 1hn 


Irish Inquisition aims to provoke discussion 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
Something medieval is in 
the air at Notre Dame, and it's 
not just the Gothic buildings 
sprawled across campus. 
Starting in late September, a 
new campus program called 
Irish Inquisition will bring all 
the suspense, intrigue and 
strategy of a medieval court­
room into the Oak Room 
above South Dining Hall. 
The Irish Inquisition pro­
gram has been in the works 
since last semester, said Ed 
Cohen, Notre Dame· Magazine 
associate editor and Irish 
Inquisition advisor. 
In December of 2002, Cohen 
noticed that many of his fel­
low faculty and staff members 
had strong opinions on the 
war in Iraq; however, only 
those in political science and 
directly related fields ever got 
the opportunity to participate 
in panel discussions on the 
topic. 
"We didn't want anyone to be stifled," Cohen said. "The idea was to have a relaxed public place for them to speak their hearts and minds about these issues. Bringing people in one after another drew ·comparisons to a courtroom setting, which turned into the 
metaphor of an Inquisition." 
The setting of a mock 

medieval trial also provides a 
change from the usual_ discus­
sion backgrounds of class­
rooms and lecture halls. 
"We wanted to keep it irrev­

erent and lighthearted." . Cohen said. ··u·s partly sar­castic, Saturday Night Live and Seinfeld-type humor. stuff 
that students like. But it was 
also important to preserve the 
original idea of giving people 
a place to speak their minds." 
In a unique twist on most 

scheduled campus discus­
sions, the Inquisition process 
is actually initiated by stu­
dents. A current issue -any­
thing from the war in Iraq to 
abortion to the latest strug­
gles of the Irish offense -will 
be announced around campus 
weeks in advance of the trial 
date. Then. if a student is 
particularly eager to hear the 
opinion of a faculty or staff 
member on this issue, he or 
she may issue a summons to 
that individual. The summons 
will be sent anonymously via 
e-mail and will request the 
employee's appearance at a 
public gathering to contribute 
his or her thoughts on the 
announced topic. 
That's where the Inquisition 
see IRISH/page 4 · 

By MATI BRAMANTI News Writer 
With the beginning of the Notre Dame football season just a day away, everyone wants tickets. Hundreds can be found on Internet auction sites like eBay -for a hefty price. 
A search of eBay revealed sellers across the country offering dozens of tickets for every Irish home game this season. Some, for tomorrow's opener against Washington State, are still up for grabs, fetching over $80 apiece. 
The more high-profile games of the 2003 campaign -against Michigan, Florida State, and USC -are already commanding stratospheric prices, in some cases upwards of $500 each. These prices are expected to rise even further as the rivalry games draw nearer. 
Demand for tickets, while always high, has spiked since the arrival of head coach Tyrone Willingham and Notre Dame's "Return to Glory." Fans from around the coun­try are eag.er to pay hun­dreds of dollars for the chance to be part of the famed sea of green. 
The apparent profiteering has not escaped the notice of Notre Dame policymakers. In May, the University revised its policy regarding the resale of tickets. Under the new rules, anyone caught selling a season ticket for more than face value will face the loss of ticket privi­leges for "a minimum of five years," while selling single game tickets garners a two­year suspension. Repeat offenders risk the permanent revocation of their right to buy tickets to any Notre Dame sporting event. 
A recent e-mail from Alumni Association executive director Chuck Lennon warned students against sell­ing tickets. "If, for any rea­son, they turn up on eBay or are scalped, your ability to 
see TICKETS/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The tradition 
continues 

With another football season upon us, I can only write my column on the tradi­tions that go hand 
in hand with Irish football. So what if I'm only a sopho­more ... I have been watching Notre Dame foot­ball since I was a little girl. 
Have I always been an Irish fan? 


Not exactly. But I Sarah Vabulas have always been a 
sports fan, particu­larly a football and Scene Editor 
baseball fan. Since 
arriving here in South Bend over a year ago, I've quickly learned the goings on around campus in regards to football. 
It's an incredible tradition to learn the cheers, dance the Irish jig and boost the closest and bravest person around you into the air for push-ups, hoping not to drop them. It's also a tradition to make fun of the freshmen as they fumble around to learn the dances and the cheers. (I wish you the best on that, freshmen. If you need help, just turn to the upperclassmen section and do your best to copy.) 
Some-crazy people, like my group of friends and me, even dress up for the big games. (I'll be the girl painted green sit­ting in section 33, so don't mind me.) 
But the question remains, why do we do all this? Why do we buy "The Shirt?" Why do we spend a large sum of money to attend the games? Why do we stand in the extreme temperatures watching a group of guys knock each other around, chasing after a ball made out of pig skin? 
I guess it all boils down to the fact that it is just purely fun and entertaining. I mean, who wouldn't laugh at a group of girls walking down the street painted green? I'm not exactly a tall person, so I couldn't be considered the Jolly Green Giant or anything cool like that, but it's just about having a good time and enjoy­ing the so-called "best years of my life" that my parents always remind me I'm living. 
I choose to live these years as a crazy, but grounded, woman, living a respectable life, or at least trying as hard as I can. I choose to participate in the silly traditions of being a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student. 
So I shall spend my precious weekend watching football -both Notre Dame football and the many NFL games flood­ing the television. (Okay, so some of the weekend will be about baseball, but only if it is the Atlanta Braves, my home team.) And if I'm lucky, which I hope I am, I'll be able to catch my Atlanta Falcons beating up the Dallas Cowboy, even though I'm all the way in Indiana. 
So tradition and a weekend full of sports, here I come. Go Irish. Beat the Cougars. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a production error, the headlines "Sorin College loses three RAs" and "Training schedule conflicts result in termination" were misleading. Only two RAs from Sorin lost their positions as a result of training conflicts. The: Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize: that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, September 5, 2003

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTiON OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 

Katie Jackson John Duffy Dan Weber Andrew Panglllnan Julie Pearce Dennis ldowu 
Freshman Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Junior Badin Hall Sorin Hall Dillon Hall Dillon ·Hall Farley Off-campus 
.. 

'"Notre Dame·s "28 to 10 Notre '"!saw ..We ·re going to "Notre Dame ·s '"Notre Dame all going to win by Dame. Vontez Washington kill them. That•s totally going to the way. 





wzn. definitely. " 
IN BRIEF 

Irish Fighting for St. Jude, a service club that raises money for the St. Jude Children's · Hospital in Memphis, Tenn., will sponsor a Krispy Kreme donut sale today. The sale begins at 
8:15 a.m. outside DeBartolo Hall. 
Cheer for the Irish during the first football pep rally of the season. The rally begin_s at 6 
p.m. tonight at the JACC. ·: 
Moreau Galleries will present the SISTAR Grant Project by Sandi Ginter and Lisa Ritter during their regular hours today and through Saturday. 

Notre Dame professor of music and composer Ethan · Haimo will present a lecture titled "How to Listen to Concert Duo." The event takes place today at 3:30 p.m. at the Snite Museum Annenberg Auditorium. The lecture is open. to the public. 
A special viewing of "Rudy" will be shown on North Quad this evening. The movie begins at 10 p.m. 
The Midnight Drummer's Circle will take place tonight at the Fieldhouse Mall and the Main Building Steps. The per­formance begins at 11:30 p.m. Pizza will be served. 
Enjoy music and dancing at Legends of Notre Dame. The music starts tonight at midnight and continues until 4 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 75 HIGH 
80 

LOW 55 LOW 
60 

two Duffwill be a State•s about it.·· 
touchdowns. •• standout on scrimmages and defense... rd be surprised ifthey got more 
than three points. They were terrible.·· 

TIM KACMAA!The Observer 

Students sit on South Quad outside Dillon Hall Thursday to watch the dorm's annu­al pep rally. The event, which featured comedy, music and speakers, kicked off the start of Notre Dame's first football weekend of the season. The Irish play Washington State Saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
Pentagon OKs digital device to play taps 
WASHINGTON -Short of musicians for military funerals, the Pentagon has approved the use of a push-button bugle that plays taps by itself as the operator holds it to his lips. 
Only some 500 buglers are on active duty on any one day, but about 1,800 people with military serv­ice die across the country each day and are eligible for honors ceremonies. Air Force Lt. Col. Cynthia Colin, a Pentagon spokes­woman, said Thursday. 
So the Defense Depart­
ment worked with private industry to invent the "cer­emonial bugle," which has a small digital recording device inserted into its bell to play the music. 
A member of the honor guard at the funeral simply presses a button on the device. A five-second delay gives the guards time to raise the instrument to their lips as if they are going to play it. 
Man charged for wearing skimpy swimsuit 
CADDO VAllEY, Ark. -A man's skimpy swimsuit was too much -or too little ­for Taco Bell workers. 
Employees at Taco Bell called police Sunday when the man walked into the restaurant wearing only a tiny black Speedo swim­suit and a cut-off T-shirt during the Labor Day weekend. 
Caddo Valley Police Chief Hiram Latin said his attire, or lack thereof, was a little too revealing. 
The man faces a $750 fine and possible jail time if convicted of indecent exposure. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0:: 
LLI
::c 
!c( 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
4 

(J 0

_. HIGH 69 HIGH 71 HIGH 78 HIGH 80 LOW 52 LOW 61 LOW 55 LOW 55 
Atlanta 85164 Boston 76162 Chicago 74 I 54 Denver 86156 Houston 90170 Los Angeles 95 I 66 Minneapolis.78 1 58 New York 77 I 63 Philadelphia 78 I 60 Phoenix 104 I 82 Seattle 82 I 56 St. Louis 78 I 58 Tampa 88 I 77 Washington 80 1 62 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 3 
The Oburver + CAMPUS NEWS 
Registrar's office offers online degree audit 
ByWILLPUCKETT 
News Writer 
This fall marks another addi­tion to IrishLink's repertoire, as students returned from summer break to find an online Degree Audit available. The feature, currently available to sopho­mores, juniors and graduate stu­dents, is slated to become avail­able to all students next fall. 
"We staggered the rollout in an effort to make sure that first, any bugs that cropped up could be taken care of, and second. seniors would still be sure to use their advisers," Doug McKenna, degree audit specialist at the Registrar's Office, said. 
The rollout has not been com­pletely without problems, how­ever. According to McKenna, there are two major known bugs. 
"There are some known prob­lems with the service, two major ones, the first being that dual degree students can only display one of their degrees at a time, and the second that study abroad classes are given class designations that the computer can't handle very well," McKenna said. 
McKenna str~ssed that most problems that have been report­ed to the Registrar's Office have not been technical issues, and that students should go to their adviser before contacting the Registrar's Office with what they believe is a problem. Advisers are able to edit the Degree Audit output, and have more resources available to them, so they are able to resolve most questions. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said the product stu­dents are using now was the result of several years of work. 
"It really started several years ago, in February 1997, and we spent quite awhile trying to cover all the colleges in the University with one interface that would show what students needed to do in order to get their degree," Preacher said. 
The computer-based and then online Degree Audit were at first used only by advisers in all the colleges, who relied on it as an advising tool. That role is intended to remain unchanged today, according to Preacher. 
"We really want this to be a tool for advising, not a replace­ment for the adviser them­selves," Preacher said. "It's been a long process, but we feel like it's very useful." 
In fact, advisers no longer use paper to outline scheduling requirements for students, except in the case of transfers. The confidence in the interface and underlying technology has grown, although accuracy is still a concern. 
"That's our biggest concern, accuracy," Preacher said. "It's never going to be completely accurate, but it is improving." 
One concern with this is the frequency with which the "snap­shot" of records that is taken to build the Degree Audit is updat­ed. Preacher estimated that any changes should show up within a few weeks, while McKenna specified that there are going to be approximately four or five updates each semester, coincid­ing with "big dates" on the Registrar's calendar, such as the last day to add or drop classes. According to McKenna, the last update to the "snapshot" was August 11-13, and the next one is scheduled for early next week. 
Both Preacher and McKenna said that the feedback they had received from students was largely positive. An e-mail was sent to students eligible to use the online Degree Audit, in hopes of raising student aware­ness of the new option open to them. However, some students were still not aware of the new program. 
"I don't know what it is, real­ly," sophomore Owen McGonigle said. 
Several other students echoed his comments, or said that they had not heard of the website. 
"What's that? I haven't heard of it," sophomore Jessica Woessner said. 
Some students have used the webpage, or are at least aware of its existence, but have not fully utilized it. 
"I checked it out the other day, I didn't really think much about it," said junior Kirk Gomsak. 
Also, at least one transfer stu-dent expressed questions about how up-to-date and useful the program was. 

"I looked at it, but it was already so far out of date, espe­cially since I was a transfer stu­dent, so I didn't really find it much help," junior Colin Sharkey said. 
While there does appear to be some knowledge out there about online Degree Audit, it is still a young technology option for stu­dents. The primary source for help in scheduling should, as reiterated by Preacher and McKenna, remain advisers. 
In the future, however, McKenna hopes that as more students use it, it will go as smoothly as the recent rollout did. 
"The first rollout went very smoothly, and we hope that as more students are able to use it, that that goes smoothly as well," McKenna said. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 

Friday, September 5, 2003 
page4 The Observer + NEWS 


Price difference 
' 
' 

puzzles students 
hasn't lost its mystique for him. "We have one guy who comes "There's something about up from Kentucky for every
Football 
walking in there on Saturday game," fellow usher Jim morning before the stadium Foghino said. Foghino works at
continued from page 1 
fills up -you can just feel it ... the top of the stadium in is particularly hectic, prepar­it's just unbelievable, the Section 130-135, which he ing for football season is a con­excitement in the stadium on refers to as the "overflow sec­
stant undertaking. Dan Brazo, game day," he said. tion" because it is often used to athletic facilities manager for Brazo said the same holds relocate fans from elsewhere in the Athletic Department, true for other teams as well, the stadium. agreed. whether they would like to Foghino, like many of his col­
"There are a million things to admit it or not. leagues, said he was drawn to do," he said. "On game week, it "Whenever a team comes to the Notre Dame usher program really starts on Monday and play at Notre Dame, they get so seven years ago because he 
lasts all week." hyped, just because it's Notre liked football. particularly Irish 
Brazo oversees all University Dame," he said. football. athletic facilities on campus, Student managers for the "The best game I've seen in and is responsible for the football team can attest to that this stadium was the Michigan­maintenance and upkeep of the sentiment, as well. As a per­Notre Dame game, when stadium, particularly during sonnel manager, senior Matt Rocket kept running it back," the fall season. Kerls is responsible for coordi­he said, referring to former 
Brazo and his crew of twelve nating the 21 juniors and over Irish flanker Raghib "Rocket" were busy all summer prepar­100 sophomores who are par­Ismail. "They kept trying to get ing for this weekend's game, ticipating in this year's pro­it past him, but Rocket just improving the looks of the sta­gram. For Kerls, the job of a kept running it back." dium, with waterproofing and manager is never complete. Stories and memories repainting seats and fertilizing "[Thursday] night we're abound among this group, the and mowing the turf itself. wrapping and painting the hel­largest usher program in the After Saturday, Brazo said, the mets to get them ready for the world, and established by improvements will become game," he said. "On Saturday, Knute Rockne at the more routine. we set up the locker room to University's old Cartier Field in 
"For each individual game, get it ready for the players 1930. The original 1,000 ush­it's a matter of repairing the when they get back from the ers recruited took the place of field from the last game: mow­Basilica." the Boy Scouts that had for­ing the field, raking the field, Once the team arrives at the merly seated fans at Irish foot­re-turning it," he said. "We Stadium from their traditional ball games. started painting the lines this team Mass, Kerls said that the The program has come a Wednesday, and it takes two managers are long way since its days to finish. Painting on responsible for establishment, but Wednesday gives us the best­making sure the ..There are a Section 19-24 looking lines on Saturday . . . If game on the usher Eudell Spon
million things to
we've planned properly and sidelines runs said it's all about
do."
the weather's good, we're 90 smoothly. the love of the percent ready by Saturday." "We basically game. Often, Brazo and his crew just help out Dan Brazo ''I've always are finished with their work by wherever we been interested in
athletic facilities 
Friday afternoon, when both can," he said. football," he said. 
manager
the home and visiting teams As a senior "Most ushers are conduct a "walk-through" on manager, Kerls there because they the field. spends his games on the side­want to be at the game." 
"The individual teams will lines, where he is likely to Spon, who has been an usher come down ... and walk bump into usher Dean Payne, at the stadium for 33 years, around on the field," he said. the field supervisor. said the best part of his job has "It gives them a chance to get a Payne manages the 33 ush­been to interact with the fans, feel for the field ... and they ers on the field, who maintain mostly season ticket holders, in usually run a few plays in ten­the bandstand and the home his section. nis shoes . . . They get to be a team and the visiting team "We make sure all the fans part of the hype." benches. are greeted when they get in," 
On game day, Brazo and his "Our job is just to make sure he said. "We want to make crew -plus a few additional everything goes smoothly on sure they know they are wel­temporary workers he has the field," he said. come at Notre Dame." brought on to help during foot­Payne has worked as an That kind of dedication is ball season -will arrive at the usher for nine years, during what Gagnon likes to hear. stadium hours before even the which time he said he has met "If you go to another stadi­most stalwart of fans begin to ushers from as close as South um, for better or for worse. it's tailgate. They address all of the Bend and as far away as different -you don't get the last-minute details that California. Five hundred and kind of attention and service inevitably arise, he said, and fifty of the stadium's 875 ush­you do at Notre Dame." he then prepare themselves for ers are volunteers who make said. the game itself. the football-weekend pilgrim­
Even after eleven years, age to Notre Dame as devoted­Contact Meghan Martin at Brazo said the stadium still ly as many fans and alumni. mmartin@nd.edu 
AnENTION: FIRST YEAR STUDENTS! 
Please consider serving as student hosts for the OUice of Undergraduate Admissions! 
Share vour Notre Dame experiences bV welcoming prospective students into vour residence halls! 
IIinterested, please email: hosting@nd.edu 
By ANNE MAHONEY 
News Writer 

As Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students purchased sea­son football tickets last week, many saw a significant differ­ence in the amount they paid compared to that of Notre Dame students. 
The price difference of $48 has caused some controversy at the three campuses as students questioned the difference in prices. Students have speculat­ed over the real reason for the price difference and whether it is fair to the students at Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
"It's frustrating when we are paying for the same seats, especially when the schools are so closely-knit and have a his­tory of over 150 years togeth­er," said Saint Mary's junior Chrissy Dunham. 
Notre Dame students receive a 50 percent discount off of the regular ticket price whereas Saint Mary's and Holy Cross pay two-thirds more than Notre Dame students, according to Jim Fraleigh, assistant athletic director of ticketing. 
"The fluctuation [in the price difference] is based solely upon the percentage of price increase each year for Notre Dame," he said. 
As for the conjecture that Notre Dame is slowly trying to out-price Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, Fraleigh noted that despite higher prices, ticket sales are at their highest level in six years. 
Although the tickets are expensive for any student, some students say the price dif­ferential may create a rift between the schools. 
"If the trend continues, Notre Dame sports teams might lose support from their friends at Saint Mary's," said Notre Dame senior John Raih. "We should­n't allow a gap to grow between the schools." 
Other students, however, were less sympathetic. 
"Notre Dame students pay for tuition at Notre Dame and shouldn't have to pay as much as those students who attend different schools," said Maria Destino, a junior at Notre Dame. "The lower prices are a privilege that Notre Dame stu­dents deserve for paying tuition at Notre Dame." 
Contact Anne Mahoney at maho9505@saintmarys.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
part begins, as the summoned are each given 10 minutes in the Chair of Truth -a cozy recliner -to speak their feel­ings and opinions. Modeled after the Spanish Inquisition, the next step is to put this testi­mony up against the questions of the Grand Inquisitor, who cuts an imposing figure as emcee, the three-member Tribunal. who wear monks' robes, and the student crowd. 
Although the -threats of beheading and ostracizing have been left behind in this version, the questioning phase of the Irish Inquisition is expected to be theatrical and unpre­dictable, including guest appearances and surprise gags. 
"It's not just another lecture," Cohen said. "We're trying to bring in the whole community, so we want to make it enter­taining and fun." 
After the questioning is com­plete, the Tribunal will decide the fate of the summoned fac­ulty member. Depending on the verdict, the victim will receive a free T-shirt reading, "I was condemned as a heretic at the Irish Inquisition" or "I got off on a technicality at the Irish Inquisition." The next testifier is then invited to step up to the chair. 
The Inquisition will make its long-awaited debut with a VIP demonstration Sept. 17. The topic will be "What are the first things you'd do if you were president of the United States?'' Notre Dame student body pres­ident Pat Hallahan will intro­duce the concept to about 80­150 assembled student and administrative leaders, and the first Inquisition will follow. Soon after it takes place, a date and topic will be announced for the next session, which will be open to the public. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Friday, September 5, 2003 COMPILED FROJ\1.rHE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
4,500 French artists go on strike 
PARIS -More than 4,500 French enter· tainers protested across the country Thursday, vowing to disrupt cultural events unless the government reconsiders planned reforms of artists' unemployment benefits. 
Hundreds of protesters turned out in the cities of Bordeaux, Dijon, Lyon, Rennes and Strasbourg. In Paris, police reported at least 4,500 actors, stage hands and artists marched to the Culture Ministry. 
The center-right government approved a plan last month that tightens a long-standing system of generous unemployment benefits for artists. · 
In a futile attempt to stave off the reform, performers mounted protests and strikes in June and July that devastated the summer festival season and led to cancellation of a theater festival in the southern city of Avignon. 
U.S. wants increase in Iraqi troops 
BAGHDAD -American officials want to speed up training for Iraqi security forces, including· former members of Saddam Hussein's military and intelligence services, Defense Secretary Donald· Rumsfeld said Thursday. 
Making Iraq safe is a job for Iraqis, and no more U.S. troops are needed in the country, Rumsfeld said after meeting in the capital with top military and civilian officials of the American-led occupation. 
"Security is a problem, but it's a problem that, ultimately, the Iraqi people will deal with, with the help of coalition forces," Rumsfeld said at an impromptu news confer­ence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Estrada withdraws nomination 
WASHINGTON-Miguel Estrada, whose nom­ination became a flash point for Democratic opposition to President Bush's judicial choices, withdrew from consideration for an appeals court seat Thursday after Republicans failed in seven attempts to break a Senate filibuster. 
President Bush called Estrada's treatment 
"disgraceful." But Senate Democrats said he 
was a casualty of the White House's insistence 
on stacking federal appeals courts with conser­
vative ideologues. . 
"This should serve as a wakeup call to the White House that it cannot simply expect the Senate to rubber-stamp judicial nominees," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the lead­ing opponents to Bush's nominees .. 

Concern about Iran nukes grows 
WASHINGTON -Concern about Iran's nuclear program is prompting the Bush administration to consult with other nations on how the international watchdog agency can apply restraints. 
The result could be a proposed resolution for the meeting next Monday in Vienna of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
"We would look for the board to take appropriate action," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Thursday. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mother receives 40-year sentence 
NOBLESVILLE, Ind. -A judge on Thursday sentenced. a woman to 40 years in prison for leaving her 5-year-old son in the bed of a pickup truck, where he died from the heat. 
Mary Edwards was given consecutive 20-year sentences on two counts of felony child neglect. A jury convicted the 24-year-old woman in June. 
David Lynn Edwards III died in July 2002 after being left in a pickup truck for at least an hour, on a day when temperatures reached the high 90s. 




France, Germany reject U.S. draft 
Iraq resolution circulated at U.N. 
Associated Press 
DRESDEN, Germany­France and Germany refused Thursday to sup­port a U.S. draft resolution that would spread the bur­den of running postwar Iraq, but said they believed a compromise was possible. 
French President Jacques Chirac and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder demanded that Washington give the United Nations more influ­ence in Iraq's political future. Their stance threatened to reopen a barely healed trans­Atlantic rift over their ardent opposition to the Iraq war. 
Under the draft resolu­tion circulated Wednesday at the United Nations, Washington seeks money and troops from other countries but would not cede political or military control in Iraq. 

Chirac seemed particu­larly critical of the U.S. ini­tiative and was adamant that the draft foresee the United States' giving up control of the political process in Iraq. France is one of five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, meaning it has veto power over council actions. 
Yet Chirac and Schroeder, meeting in Dresden for informal con­sultations, struck a concil­iatory note. They said they saw a chance to negotiate a compromise at the United Nations, where talks over the draft are expected to be tough and lengthy. 
Schroeder also said the proposal fell short, but ·welcomed it as "showing 
there is some movement." 
"We are naturally ready to study it in the most pos­itive manner," Chirac told reporters. "But we are quite far removed from what we believe is the pri­ority objective, which is the transfer of political 

AFP Speaking at a joint press conference, French President Jacques Chlrac and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder rejected the United States' draft of a U.N. resolution on "Iraq. Both countries said, however, that the draft showed some promise. 
responsibility to an Iraqi government as quickly as possible." 
Schroeder added: "I 
agree with the president 
when he says: Not dynamic 
enough, not sufficient." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell noted that Chirac and Schroeder didn't pres­ent a timetable for Iraqis to take control of their country. Still, he said Washington is "more than happy to listen to their suggestions." 
"I don't sense from their statement that they said what exactly they are look· ing for or who they would turn it over to if we were turning it over right away," Powell said in Washington. 
The United States favors having Iraqis themselves come up with a political transition plans, Powell said. 
Chirac and Schroeder sidestepped questions about whether they might send troops to Iraq under any condition. 
Russian Defense Minister Sergei ivanov said Thursday he would not rule out sending peace~ keepers to Iraq as part of an international force, a strong signal that Moscow's stance was edg­ing closer to Washington's. 
"It all depends on a spe­cific resolution. I wouldn't exclude it outright," Ivanov was quoted as say­ing by the Interfax· news agency. 
France, Russia, India and other countries, including Arab nations, have ruled out contribut­ing soldiers to Iraq unless the United Nations author­izes a a multinational force. 
Germany has said it is ready in principle to help rebuild Iraq but has no plans for a military engagement in Iraq. 
·Addressing the point more directly, German Defense Minister Peter Struck, speaking in Strasbourg, France, said no German troops would be sent in under the cur­

rent U.S. proposal. 
"For the German side, I can say that the situation has not changed even with this reflection by the Americans," Struck told a news conference. "So long as the legal situation in Iraq has not changed ... there is no point in dis­cussing this subject" of German troops. 
Syria, a staunch oppo­nent of the war in Iraq and the only Arab member of the Security Council, cau­tiously welcomed the U.S. proposal, saying it should be looked at positively. But the commentary on state­con.trolled Damascus Radio also called the draft "inad­equate" for insisting on keeping U.S. military con­trol of postwar -Iraq and refusing to give the United Nations a "full role." 
At the United Nations, Germany's Ambassador Gunter Pleuger said the 
U.S. draft was a good basis for negotiations, a view shared by many other Security Council members. 
U.S. softens stance toward N. Korea 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Showing new flexibility, the United States is pre­pared to make concessions to North Korea in advance of that country's elimination of nuclear weapons pro­grams, a senior State Department official said Thursday. 
North Korea "would not have to do everything" before getting something in return, said the official, who briefed reporters on last week's six· nation meeting in China on the North's nuclear activities. 
The official's comments suggested a softening of the previous U.S. position that North Korea would have had to dismantle its nuclear programs before the United States would be willing to offer concessions. 
That stand was based on the U.S. perception that offering concessions in advance would reward North Korea for violating international com­mitments not to produce nuclear weapons. 
Last week's meeting, in addition to North Korea and the United States, brought together China, Japan, South Korea and Russia. 
The official, who asked not to be identified, described the three days of talks as a good beginning that set the stage for progress when the discus­sions resume, probably in Beijing before the end of the year. 
On the other hand, the official said that North Korean statements over' the past several days have failed to take into account the flexibility that he said the U.S. delegation in Beijing had demonstrated. 
The U.S. presentation was intended to persuade the North Koreans that it is in their interest to turn away from nuclear weapons, the official said. 
In its first official public comment on the discussions, North Korea said in a statement last Saturday: "The talks only reinforced our confidence that there is no other option for us but to further increase the nuclear deterrent force." 


Friday, September 5, 2003
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Pacific Coast Concerts 

QUOTES & FACTS 
.. In all matters of opinion our aduersaries are insane.n
The Nanovic Institute 
-Oscar Wilde (1854-1900), Irish playwright and poet
for European Studies www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
Fall .Liturgy Workshops 
at the Basilica cifthe Sacred Hea_rt 

LECTORS' 
WORKSHOPS: .. 
Sunday, September 7th, 8:15pm 
(following Vepers) 
Tuesday~ September 9th~ 8:30 pm 
Attendance at one ofthese workshops is recommended. 

BUCHAKISTIC MINISTERS' 
lNORKSHOPS: 
Sunday, September 7th, 3:15 pm 
.Tuesday, September 9th, 10:00 pm 
Attendance at one ofthese workshops is mandatoryfor extraordinary ministers r.if the eucharist. 

Campus Ministry 

.. ··tw:&~fkr-t;':i-·• Morris Performing flrts Center ~...:;;:.....;.,::-L:.:~J South Bend# lndlano 
Tkkets on sale Satorday August 301 ot 10:00 a.m. ot MorriS Box Officer. CbGrge by phon• 574-235-9190 or Online Cit 
www.morriscvnter.org. 



Saint Mary's gets a new endowed chair 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Nc:ws Wri[er 

Saint Mary's has established the school's first endowed chair in the sciences, the Denis DeBartolo York Faculty Chair of Science.
~ 
Dorothy Feigl, long-time chem­istry professor and former vice president and dean of faculty has 
'!-. 
) 
been appointed as the inaugural
1. 
J 
chair holder. 
.·,, 
-~­
' Officially announced at the con­
,, 
clusion of last semester, the chair 
} will have a special emphasis on science education. It is intended to support a faculty member who is committed to both the field of science and students. 
Feigl, regarded as a scientist dedicated to education by many on campus, said she was sur­prised to hear that she had been selected as the first chair-holder. She said that she anticipated the position to go to a professor in the early stages of his career. 
"There are very good teachers and very good scientists in this department," Feigl said. "For me to be picked out is a real honor." 
Feigl, who has taught chemistry at Saint Mary's since 1966, said she is enthusiastic about the addi­tion of an endowed chair to the science department, and the pres­tige it will bring. 
"It is a kind of marker which speaks of the quality of the pro­
,I 
gram," she said. "You can use it as a tool for the future." 
She said she is also pleased that the focus of the chair is on science education-something that she says validates her life-long pas­sion of teaching chemistry. 
"The greatest satisfaction for me is when teaching and learning mix. You can be a scholar and a teacher," Feigl said. 
The Saint Mary's Science Department has a long history of instructing women in the sci­ences. The college was among the first to provide instr.uction for women interested in the field of medicine. In 1903, Saint Mary's began to offer the first pharma­cology degree available to women. The College was also the first institution to provide a bacte­riology course in the state of Indiana. 
Denise DeBartolo York, a 1972 Saint Mary's graduate, and her husband Dr. John York sponsored the $1 million chair through the Marie Denise DeBartolo York Foundation. The endowment, DeBartolo York said, is a reflec­tion of her family's dedication to promoting women in the field of sciences. 
The Denise DeBartolo Chair becomes the sixth endowed facul­ty chair at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
New citizenship oath takes effect 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Immigrants will gladly raise their hands to a citizenship oath that elimi­nates a reference to princes and potentates, an immigrant advocate predicted Thursday. But a critic said the rewrite removes the oath's majesty. 
Immigration officials will use the new oath for the first time in a naturalization ceremony Sept. 17. Eduardo Aguirre Jr., director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, has said that the oath needed to be updated so its language makes "more sense to the brain." 
In the current oath, immi­grants swear to "renounce and abjure" allegiance to princes and potentates. 
In the new oath. they "solemnly, freely and without any mental reservation ... renounce ... all allegiance to any foreign state." 
The new oath is similar to one contained in a 1997 immi­gration report to Congress writ­ten by a commission led by for-
Regardless, the laws of supply and demand still
Tickets 
apply, and Notre Dame tick­ets remain the hottest com­
continued from page 1 
modity around. 

The scarcity of tickets and purchase tickets to any Notre the corresponding high Dame athletic event will be prices have caused com­revoked," the e-mail read. plaints among students. 
mer Texas Congresswoman should be taught the meaning Barbara Jordan. That commis­of the oath when they study to sion suggested that the oath be become citizens. revised, said Russ Knocke, In the current oath, immi­spokesman for Citizenship and grants swear to support and Immigration Services in the defend the Constitution and Homeland Security Depart­U.S. laws and to bear arms on ment. behalf of the United States 
"That's a beauti­ when required  
ful  thing,"  said  by law. That is  
Angela Kelley, National Immigration  "That·s a beautiful thing.,,  rewritten in the new oath as: "Where and if  
Forum  deputy  lawfully  
director, after the oath was read to her. "The hun­dreds of thousands  Angela Kelley National Immigration Forum deputy director  required, I fur­ther commit myself to defend the Constitution  
of people waiting  and laws of the  
in the [naturaliza- United States."  

tion] backlog will gladly raise Krikorian said some employ­hands their to it." ees within the immigration 
But Mark Krikorian, execu­agency are concerned the new tive director of the Center for language limits the require­Immigration Studies, which ment to defend the Constitution wants to curb immigration, said and the United States to gov­the rewrite "takes away some ernment employees. of the majesty of the oath by The immigration agency will simplifying the language." He collect public comment for 60 called the rewrite "a gratuitous days after the oath is published change." in the Federal Register Sept. 
Krikorian said immigrants 17. 
Scalpers have driven prices out of students' reach, said Knott Hall freshman Liam Zakko. 
"They're just too expen­sive," he said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


Friday, September 5, 2003 Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
Jones 9,587.90 +19.44 
.>:~:
.. ••..
··.: •
... 
m 

.AMZ?K' 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P500 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +1.73  +0.35  20.59  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.35  +0.38  28.60  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.46  +0.13  28.43  
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU)  +2.79  +0.1 0  3.69  
ORACLE SYSTEMS (QRCU  -029  -0 04  13 72  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. productivity rate soars 
WASHINGTON -America's businesses pumped out more with fewer employees last quarter in a big boost for productivity, and new claims for unemployment benefits are ris­ing, underscoring the strains facing workers even as the economy gains momentum. 
Productivity-the amount an employee pro­duces for each hour of work -soared at an annual rate of 6.8 percent in the April-to-June quarter, marking the largest increase since the first quarter of 2002, according to revised fig­ures released Thursday by the Labor Department. That was even stronger than the government's initial estimate of a 5.7 percent growth rate. 
The productivity gain comes as 170,000 jobs were shed during the second quarter and businesses squeezed more efficiency out of the workers they kept. 
In another report from the department, new applications for jobless benefits rose last week by a seasonally adjusted 15,000 to 413,000, the highest point since the middle of July. 
Crude oil drops to two-month low 
The price of crude dropped below $29 a barrel for the first time in more than two months on Thursday, as government data revealed an unexpected increase in nation­wide supplies of oil and gasoline. 
While commercial inventories of both oil and gasoline are roughly 6 percent below last year's level, crude imports have been relative­ly strong for the past month, and demand for gasoline is expected to taper off now that the summer driving season is over. 
Analysts say oil prices could drop further, although that will partly depend on how much heating oil homeowners use in the upcoming fall and winter. With heating oil inventories already low, an early cold snap could drive crude prices higher. 
Crude for October delivery declined 51 cents to $28.98 per barrel Thursday on the New York Mercantile Exchange-the lowest closing price since June 24, when crude futures were at $28.78. 
Since Labor Day, crude futures have dropped $2.59 per barrel. 
McDonald's franchizers reject plan 
CHICAGO -McDonald's Corp. owner-oper­ators are challenging the company's plan for them to pick up most of the tab for refurbish­ing older restaurants. 
The National Leadership Council, which represents 2,300 owner-operators in the United States, is negotiating with manage­ment about the required modernization of about 5,000 U.S. restaurants -more than a third of McDonald's U.S. total. 
A franchisee representative said the group will hire a top law firm to study whether the Oak Brook. 111.-based company can legally force them to pay most of the rebuilding costs, which are estimated at $800,000 to $1 million per store. 


Back-to-school booze boosts Belmont 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

The back-to-school alcohol purchased by st_udents has helped to boost profits at Belmont Beverages. Last week, the store sold 107 kegs of beer, enough to provide one beer for each Notre Dame student, professor, administra­tor, and trustee. The establishment Is In Its 7oth year and the chain sells $12 million In beer each year. 
Avenue just south of cam­ended up at the Turtle .. If I lose my license,
By MATT BRAMANTI 

pus. According to Creek apartment com­lose my house." News Writer plex, where students Despite the risks,
Beverage Retailer maga­
flock to "Rally in the Belmont is here for the
zine, a trade publication,
As students returned to Alley" at the beginning of long haul -this year, it
the 25-store chain sells
campus for the first week every academic year. 
celebrates its 70-year

more than $12 million
of classes, they were Along with booming 
anniversary.

worth of beer annually.
faced with mariy chal­business, however, comes And Lang continues to 
lenges: club meetings, If the first week's sales trouble. Lang said the 
welcome student busi­new roommates and class are any indication, the incidence of underage ness, especially during

schedules all jockeyed for store is looking forward students attempting to the Irish football season. 
attention. to a great year, says buy alcohol is on the rise, "The mood depends on if But as the weekend manager Mary Beth and phony IDs are get­we're winning or not,"
approached, thoughts Lang. 
ting closer and closer to s he said, but a I c-oho I 
"It was a very good
soon turned from chem­the real thing. She wor­sales are up either way.
week," Lang said, noting
istry and philosophy to ries about the future of "They're either going to 
that her store sold 107
that empty refrige·rator her business, noting that cry in their beer or be
kegs of beer last week.
in the corner. the state has stepped up happy in it," she said.
That's a lot of beer, over
The folks at Belmont 
1,600 gallons, or enough enforcement actions "But it's always nice to 
Beverage are working against establishments see happy students."
for every Notre Dame
hard to fill that void. who sell to minors.
student, professor,
Belmont, the closest "I really wish [the stu­
administrator and trustee 
liquor store to Notre to enjoy a cold one. dents] would stop with Contact Matt Bramanti at Dame, sits on South Bend Many "of those kegs the fake IDs," she said. mbramant@nd.edu 


U.N. says foreign investment falls 
Economists regard foreign direct more than half of the total loss 
Associated Press 
investment as an important factor among the 108 countries that GENEVA -Investment in foreig_n in boosting a country's growth. recorded a drop in 2002, UNCTAD markets fell to $651 billion in 2002, China is now the largest recipient said. Developed countries saw for­
a drop blamed on the slow global of foreign investment, UNCTAD eign investment fall by 23 percent. The drop in Africa was 55 per­
economy, the United Nations said said, but when compared with 
cent, but that came after a record
Thursday. countries' gross domestic product, 
year of investment in 2001, the
More than half the world's coun­the list is topped for the second year 
tries saw investment decline, with running by Belgium and studv said. Investment declined for the United States and Britain hit Luxembourg. the ~third straight year in Latin hardest, the U.N. Conference on Oil-rich Angola jumped into sec­America and the Caribbean-by 33 Trade and DevP.lopment said in its ond place ahead of Hong Kong. percent. Asia recorded only a mini­
mal decline because of the record
annual World Investment Report. Ireland was fourth and Malta fifth. "The main factor behind the The study said UNCTAD expects investment levels in China. 
UNCTAD said most of the fall indecline was slow economic growth similar low levels of investment in 
investment was in manufacturing
in most parts of the world and dim 2003, but it hopes to see a rebound prospects for recovery, at least in in 2004. and service industries. Investment the short term," the study said. It Investment declines in the United continued to rise in the mining, also cited a drop in merger values. States and Britain accounted for quarrying and petroleum industries. 
Friday, September 5, 2003
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Democratic candidates slam Bush in first debate 

who says 'bring 'em on' does not
~sociated Press 

bring our troops peace or safety." Added Gephardt: "We have a
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -In a 

president who has broken up
mostly cordial televised debate, 

alliances that Democratic and 
Democrats. vying to replace 

Republican presidents have putPresident Bush brushed aside together over 70 years." their own differences on Thursday The gathering at the University and roundly condemned his han­of New Mexico was broadcast live dling of the economy, Iraq and on public television with a Spanish immigration policies. translation available and will be "This president is a miserable aired Saturday on Univision, the failure," said former House nation's largest Spanish-language Democratic leader Dick Gephardt network, in a nod to the rising of Missouri, repeating the line influence of Hispanic voters. New twice and blaming Bush for the Mexico has a large-Hispanic popu­loss of American jobs and pres­lation -about 42 percent -and tige. a Hispanic governor, Democrat Former Vermont Gov. Howard Bill Richardson. Dean, who achieved front-runner In his opening remarks, status after a summer surge in Richardson challenged "Hispanics the polls and in fund raising, had across the country to mobilize and expected to be a priii!ary target of energize our communities for next his rivals. But the contenders year's election." spent most of their time assailing Among the issues put to the the president's policies rather contenders were proposals to 
than each other. overhaul immigration laws, par­They welcomed Bush's decision ticularly to allow the estimated 3 to finally seek U.N. help in stabi­million undocumented immi­lizing postwar Iraq, but argued grants from Mexico to remain in that he should have done it earlier the United States. Relaxing cur-
and  sug­ rent  law  
gested his delay has  ..Why would we want to keep  drew broad support from  
jeopardized  anything ofthe Bush tax  t  h  e  
U.S. rela­t i o n s around the  plan? It's a miserable failure.··  Democratic rivals. "This  
world.  country is a  
N  o  w  Richard Gephardt  melting pot,  
Bush must"go back to  Democratic presidential candidate  a fabric," Gephardt 
the  very  s  a  i  d  

people he humiliated," said Dean, 

"Immigration for me is not justwho by the luck of the draw got 
another issue. It's me, it's my fam­the first question at a televised 
ily," said Connecticut Sen. Joe 
debate among eight of the nine Lieberman, noting that his ances­

Democrats seeking the party's 

tors, like those of.most Americans, 
presidential nomination. 

had come from overseas.
Sen. John Kerry of 

"He [Bush] has used 9-11 as anMassachusetts, who had cast him­
excuse for not doing what he
self as the early front-runner, said that "the swagger of a president promised to do in reforming 

. . . : -:-:-::--:­
AUTHENTIC IRISH PUB FAIIIL'Y·FRIENDLY becMeIVIRYONI-It welcomein aPublic House~l·t 

Ffb~leR'& 
..·..a.···R···-f.:·.b·.·.·.·.. 
'. . .. . ..: ~ . . . . ... ': .... -. ~
He.

UVE. CELTIC EfffERf.aTFRf& SAT HIGHT fRIDAY •&pmiiRA~t· tpmDYED IN TH~E WOOL 
SAMIJAYOEtESRA110Ndlftla.tfpm-1WOS1A6E$11 Inside: ltiNNIDY'S IUTC:H-EN Outldt: , FONNMHO=R 
CelebratetheIris~~ tinwiththeOft:~ ... ~.. . . . . . .·' ··.· . . . · .... -.... t
C· cld s· 4 dA -~ ,-•
.UI:IROIS · · 0' . ..·· taa_ar . -rllr .. Ill (fifeorilGoldStllKfinl pintItt theNl 
immigration laws," Lieberman cizing Bush's tax cuts and sug­New York by poor weather and added. · gested that his policies had help could not participate -stood at 
Hispanics, who number 38.8 eliminate U.S. jobs. individual podiums arranged in a million according Sen. John semicircle on the stage. All eight to the latest cen­Edwards of North wore dark suits; all the men but sus, represent ..They are a party Carolina also sug­Dean wore red ties. He preferred about 7 percent of gested that Bush's blue. ,
divided. They have 
the voting popula­attempts to woo Former Illinois Sen. Carol
differing positions 
tion nationwide. Hispanic voters was Moseley Braun, the only woman In 2000, about 7.5 on everything from shallow. candidate, reminded the audience million Hispanics Iraq to tax cuts. "The president that Osama bin Laden, architect were registered to goes around the of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
The one thing they 
vote. country speaking against the United States, The candidates were unified on Spanish. The only remained at large. "We haven't did air some dif­was their Spanish he speaks· been looking for him because we ferences on trade when it comes to got off on the wrong track [in
negativity and
and on tax poli­jobs is hasta Ia Iraq]," she said. cies. their attacks on the vista," Edwards said, Ueberman, who like Gephardt 
Gephardt, who president." borrowing a line was an early supporter of the war counts organized made famous by with Iraq, said he would send labor as a crucial actor and California more U.S. troops to help safe­
Ed Gillespie 
constituency, con­GOP gubernatorial guard those there now and to help tinued his attack Republican Party candidate Arnold stabilize the country. on his rivals for Chair Schwarzenegger. Dean said foreign troops are supporting free­Kerry noted point-needed in Iraq and "ours need to trade pacts. edly that the stock come home." Aides said after­
Tlie candidates sparred briefly market had risen sharply over the ward Dean believes an influx of over whether their respective past month. "You know, it's inter­foreign troops would allow U.S. positions on trade agreements esting that the Standard & Poor's reserves to leave Iraq and create would protect workers rights and went up to 1,000, and the Dow shorter rotations for regular-duty environmental standards. went up to 9,400, which proves troops. 
Several of the Democratic con­that good things happen when Sen. Bob Graham of Florida, the tenders advocate rolling back George Bush is on vacation, only senator seeking the nomina­Bush tax cuts, but lieberman said folks." tion who voted against the Iraq he disagreed "with Governor Republican Party Chairman Ed war resolution last fall, said he Dean and others" who advocate Gillespie belittled the Democratic voted that way because "I thought undoing the full Bush tax plan to forum. "They it was the wrong war pay for other priorities, including are a party against the wrong universal health care coverage. divided," he said. enemy." ' 
..We have an 
. Gephardt has also called for such "They have dif­Despite his consis­
obligation to
a repeaL fering positions tent opposition to the 
Lieberman said that only cuts on everything support those war, Graham said he benefiting upper-income taxpay­from Iraq to tax troops., would support the ers be repealed and suggested the cuts. The one administration's health insurance plans advocated thing they were request for an esti­
Bob Graham 
by Dean and Gephardt were too unified on was mated $60 billion to expensive. their negativity Democratic $70 billion to help "Why would we want to keep and their attacks presidential candidate cover continuing anything of the Bush tax plan?'' on the presi-costs. _asked Gephardt in response. "It's dent." "We have an obliga­a miserable failure." · The eight candidates -the tion to support those troops," The candidates joined in criti-ninth, Al Sharpton was delayed in Graham said. 

John Nash isn't the on1y famous mathematician... 

Come see tQday's Beautiful Mind 
Join your friends and professors at Hayes-Healy on Monday, Sept 8 at 4:30 for a talk with Professor John Conway of Princeton, one of the biggest names in con­temporary mathematics. His lecture, "What's new about polyhedra and polytopes?" , is open to .all. The admission and pizza are free, but the experience is priceless! 

Friday, September 5, 2003 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
MEXICO 
such as agriculture and tariffWorld Trade reduction on manufactured products like textiles.
Organization set to 
While their ancestors practi­cally invented corn, farmers
meet in Cancun 
here are not competitive any­more. Plots in this town are 
~sociated Press 
small -usually one to five 
TLAXCALA -The verdant acres. farm hamlets in Mexico's cen­Some blame American, tral highlands have become a Japanese and European farm front line in the battle over subsidies, and call for a WTO globalization ahead of a World agreement eliminating subsi­Trade Organization meeting in dies in rich countries and giv­Cancun. ing preferential treatment to 
These farms, hundreds of farmers in the developing miles from Cancun, lie in the world. ancestral heartland of corn, a "There is no way we can crop now flooding in from the compete," said farmer Bacilio United States at lower prices Flores, 53. "Farmers in the under 1994's North American United States have 500 Free Trade hectares [1,200 Agreement, or acres], and they NAFTA. get thousands 
Trade ministers of dollars a year
"There is no way

from the WTO 's in government 146 members will we can compete. •• payments. We meet in. Cancun can never beginning Sept. 10 match that,
Bacllio Flores 

to discuss a trade even in our
farmer

treaty cutting tar­dreams." iffs and subsidies Corn is an and further open-important cul­ing markets to for-tural symbol eign trade. The meeting is an here. A few miles east are the important stage in attempts to 1·.200-year-old ruins of create a binding treaty by the Cacaxtla, with murals depict­end of next year. ing human beings sprouting 
A World Bank report full-grown from an ear of released Wednesday said the corn. A few miles further east trade talks are stalled over is Tehuacan, where corn may disagreements that are impor­first have been domesticated tant to developing -countries, 4,000 years ago. 
Fears over free trade abound before meeting 
Even in Mexico City, buses out of the summit talks," farm Coldplay, which supports the bear a government-sponsored activist Rafael Rodriguez said. Make Trade Fair activist cam­ad: "Without "Agriculture isn't paign, is scheduled to visit corn, there is just another kind of here Saturday to discuss its
"There are some
no country." merchandise. It's a belief that opening agricultur­But molding, farmers who way of life, a cul­al markets to free trade drives cone-shaped ture, a relationship small farmers out of business.
benefit from free 
stone grain. with the land and The band will perform Sunday
trade.··

silos are all the environment. and Monday in Mexico City. that's left here "If we lose it, we But a third path between a of the govern­can't replace it." free-trade future and a return
Rafael Perez 
ment distribu­Activists bristle at to a difficult past also is being
tomato farmer 
SAMPLE MENU ITEMS 
Turkey Veggie: grilled sourdough bread with warm lean turkey, fresh veggies and melted combe cheese 
Harvest Benedict: two poached eggs delicately placed on a bed ofsauteed spinich, veggies and cream cheese placed on an English muffin and covered in a creamy hollandaise sauce 
Down Home Sausage Pie: Peasent potatoes lay­ered with a hawg-wild sausage, green peppers and onions, a ladle ofsausage gravy and a sprinkle of combo cheeses, two basted eggs and a pinch ofchives 
tion agency . that once bought corn at preferential prices. It was shuttered in the early 1990s as Mexico negoti­ated NAFTA with the United States. 
"There are some farmers who benefit from free trade, like those who grow mangoes and avocados," said Rafael Castaneda Perez, 70, who tends afew acres of tomatoes. "But we need government help and better conditions to do that." 
Even with preferential treat­ment, Mexico's small. anti­quated farms probably still would be swamped by the vast, mechanized corn fields of Iowa. That has prompted calls for no agreement at all at the Cancun summit. 
Farmers like Flores and Castaneda say they simply should not be forced into a mercantile economy, and rather should be paid to pre­serve their way of life. 
"We want agriculture taken 
the idea of these 

rural hamlets oper­ating under free trade -and with fewer farms. Many agri­cultural workers driven from the countryside end up in the United States as undocument­ed migrants, while others are forced to work at maquiladora assembly plants that special-cleared. 
On the outskirts of Mexico City is a tortilla cooperative, where farmers owning the plant sell their grain directly for Mexico's staple food, cut­ting out the middlemen and raising profits. 
A mechanized production line with stainless-steel vats 
ize in U.S. exports. 
But maquilado­"Agriculture isn't 
ra plants are 
just another kind
leaving Mexico 
ofmerchandise...
for countries with even lower wages, like 
Rafael Rodriguez
China. Some fear 
farm activist
displaced farm­ers simply will have no place in 
rolls out as many  
as  360,000 tor­ J  
tillas per day according to the traditional, pre­Hispanic dough  I  
recipe  -using  1  
chalky lime from  
whole  kernels.  
The  cooking  
takes  up  to  20  
hours.  

l 
the modern economy. 
"No country in the world could. provide jobs for this many people in the farm sec­tor," Humberto Jasso of Mexico's economy department said last year during a protest by thousands of farmers. 
The British rock band 
"This is the traditional method, but using modern technology," said Jose Domingo Martinez, 47. the cooperative's assistant manag­er. 
"It gives the farmers a better price, and it preserves the tra­dition." 

Celebrate an irish win at Le Peep in downtown South Bend across from the College Football Hall of Fame, or ou~ newest location next to the Super 
Target in Mishawaka. 
VOTED BEST LUNCH AND HONORABLE MENTION BEST B 
~T! 
Weekdays 6:30am-2:00pm Weekends 7:00am-2:00pm 
...........................................................................··-....................................--.............-...................--.. ---·--.....................................................--...............................................................----........--.. -..........-......---.. 

Purchase one. entree get 
. $3.00 
. 

. offthe second entree! I! ~~~ 
:......................-........................; --... ----.........................--........................-.... ---.............................--.......---............--........................---....--....................................---.. -... --...............--.............---................... 
--~---­
-

-~  
I  
\  
I  
\  
\  
~  
l l  page 10  The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT  Friday, September 5, 2003  

\ 
J 
I 
! 
t 
I 

"RETURN TO GLORY captures the spirit and excitement that Tyrone Willingham has generat·ed since arriving at the Golden Dome." 
-Dick Vitale, ESPN/ABC TV · basketball analyst 
"A terrific book .... RETURN TO GLORY is like the season of 
. 
Notre Dame football it enhances steady, satisfying, with bursts of brilliance." 
-Ralph Wiley, co-author of 
Best Seat in the House 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Verizon, unions reach agreement 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A tenta­tive, five-year agreement was reached Thursday night between Verizon Communications and unions that provides raises and job protections for 78,000 East Coast telephone technicians and operators. 
The deal comes more than a month after contracts expired and the unions threatened to strike. Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service Director Peter Hurtgen joined the con­tentious talks to successfully avert an Aug. 3 walkout. 
Members of the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electricai Workers still must approve the agreement, which includes 27 separate local contracts. 
"I think everyone was mind­ful of the enormous stakes, not just for labor-management in this situation, but for its potential effect on telecommu­nications in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic," Hurtgen said in a statement. "I think everyone involved recognized how vital it was to reach an agree­ment." 
Preserved in the deal are existing provisions that pro­teet workers against layoffs and prohibit transfers out of communities without employ­ee consent. However, workers hired after the contract takes effect will not have those pro­tections. 
The agreement also provides for annual, structured talks on jobs and wages to "mutually assess changes in the econo­my and the competitive envi­ronment and to balance any basic wage increase above 2 percent against the needs of the company to reduce the size of the work force," Verizon said. 
But the contract will remain in place if both sides do not agree on changes. 
"This landmark agreement is fair for employees and at the same time helps Verizon remain competitive in these very challenging times," said Lawrence Babbio, Verizon's vice chairman and president. 
Workers will receive imme­diate cash bonuses of 3 per­cent, or an average of $1,600, upon approval of the con­tracts. Base wages will then increase 2 percent annually, for a total of 8 percent during the contract. Cost-of-living increases are possible in years four and five, depending on inflation. 
Oregon wildfires threaten homes 
Associated Press 
CAMP SHERMAN, Ore. ­Two big wildfires jumped con­tainment lines Thursday in central Oregon, again forcing the evacuation of about 300 residents of this mountain community, officials said. 
The fires were "large and getting larger. In terms of acres, it's probably close to 80,000," said firefigh ting spokesman Tom Lavagnino. The blazes were fueled by heavy undergrowth, combined with low humidity and high winds. 
Authorities said the fires were threatening to merge. 
The evacuation marked the second time in less than a month that Camp Sherman residents were forced from their homes. They were allowed back Saturday after a 12-day evacuation. 
A 10-mile, westbound stretch of U.S. 20 between the town of Sisters and Camp Sherman was closed to allow passage of firefighting equip­ment, said Dave Davis, spokesman for the state transportation department. 
The Red Cross was setting up a shelter at a church in Sisters. John O'Neil, an American Red Cross volun­teer, said he could see a giant plume of smoke from the church. 
"It's really blown up. The fire's just rocking and 
rolling," O'Neil said. 
A message at the Camp Sherman Country Store said: "It's 3:40 p.m. now. Evacuate now. The sirens you're hear­ing are the evacuation sirens. Evacuate now, don't wait. Good luck. Bye." 
Along the Columbia River east of Portland, the tourist town of Cascade Locks escaped a 470-acre wildfire that burned up to its outskirts and forced evacuation of about 200 homes. . 
Evacuees were allowed to return late Wednesday, and a 4 7 -mile stretch of Interstate 84 that had been closed a day earlier reopened. 
A former bed and breakfast and an abandoned house and barn were the only buildings destroyed despite flames that had licked at underbrush just feet from dozens of homes. 
In northern California, fire­fighters reported progress Thursday against scores of wildfires sparked by light­ning. 
Two firefighters suffered heat-related injuries from a blaze in Lake County that, at 2,500 acres, was the biggest of the more than 200 fires that began Wednesday, said California Department of Forestry spokeswoman Karen Terrill. 
The Lake County fire was 50 percent contained by Thursday afternoon, but still threatened about 200 struc­
tures outside Middletown, 
about 70 miles north of San 
Francisco, she said. 
Firefighters said they had contained 175 of the 239 fires in the region, and expected to contain most of the rest by Sunday. Acres burned were said to be in the thousands, but officials did not have a precise figure. 
In Montana, the last two families forced from their homes by dozens of fires that had burned across the state were allowed to return Thursday in Tom's Gulch near Lincoln. 
"They've been coming in twice a day every day to see when they can go back in," said fire information officer Bob Brousseau. "They had been living in a tent the whole time" -more than two weeks. 
At the fire season's peak, hundreds of Montanans were chased from their homes by blazes that have charred more than 570,000 acres this summer. 
Even as firefighters gained the upper hand against Montana's biggest fires, offi­cials remained wary of flare­ups. 
"We don't want to let our guard down," said Linda Slater with the Northern Rockies Interagency Information Center. "We real­ly have to be paying attention to the weather." 



Fall2003 Schedule 
Experienn• an intimate discussion witll Notre D'JnW1Smost engaging fanllty speakers on some of lhe most pressing issues of our times. 
~~~

rJ. 916-Washington State Gustavo Guti(:rra~. Projes.~or of.11umlogy, 
.fohn Cardinal OJHara Chair iu Tbeology 
'liberation Theology for the n~ CenttiLY , .. 
(.. ~ 
~VI' 
~ 9/20-Michigan State
9 
.... Actors from the London St:.1gt\
~­

:;''From P~tge to Stage': An int~T~Ktive audience performance experience' 
~"~

rk 10/18-llSC John McGreev~:, Department Chairperson, ]obn A. O'Brien Assofiate Prl~f{?ssor qf History 
··catholicism and American freedom" 

11/1 -Florida State C-1t:o!yn Norcbtronl, Associate Pr(~fb~~or (~{Antlm~pologv 'living on t:he Front Lines: An Anthropologist Looks at · the Realilk:) of 'X~tr" · 

11/8-Navy 

.ilt!l McAdams; Prf.~{essor ofPolitical Science: The D1: W1lliam JJ. Scholl Chair in httenzatil.mttl Politics ''Big.... Hrcnvser: Ar<: \W bein:z'-J watched?" 

11/15-BYU 

AlasJ~tir Macintyre, Pmfessor of Pbilosopl~v 'Truth Telling and lying'· 
1

' • I ,.
_,_ " 1'_'·J 1lours~ lX'1orc~· Ktck·o1···r, ar tIit! f111::sI)l.i rg 1 C('ntcr ,.\U(1·uonvm.. r('f l1l(JfC information. 1.-isit http:/Isaturd.ayscholar.nd.edu
*+ U_N I V .E R S I T Yy 0 F 
~ NOTREDAME 
"­
\.[) 'jlibemti111111Hml(Jgy
If'\ 
tr1 
~ for the 2t\'t Cet1tury"
\0
~ 
~ ~ Gustavo Gutierrez 
z Pttlfl'.~sor af .Theolog,;
~ 
-]oi:Jn· Carditu.1l <YHtlra Cbait
<U 
in 17:wolo..ftJ' 

~ ~ 
~ 
?,, 
< 

"Liberation Theology for the 21st Century,~ with Gustavo Gutierrez, John Cardinal O,Hara Chair in Theology and author ~ ofthe foundational· text for liberation theolo$.y, ~A Theology 
p:: 
ofLiberation..~• The movement launched by Gutienezts work 
~ ~ 
rapidly became one ofthe most influential in <?Ontemporary 
~ I"\
,..,., 
theology by calling attention to tbe Church's vocation to resist ~ 2, the oppression ofthe poor. Gutierrez will consider an understanding ofChristian doctrine from the viewpoint ofthe 
~ t 
oppressed. 

>-­
Guti6rrcz is also the author of"On Job: God..Talk and the 
~if; v-• Suffering ofthe lnnocen~"" "The Truth Shall Make You Freet" 
(,) ;.w 
"The God ofLife,n and ULas Casas; ln Search ofthe Poor of 7.: Jesus Christ.'" He is the recipient ofthe 2003 Prince ofAsturias ~ :r: Award for Comntunications and the Humanities, which honors 
,.. 
...., 

scientific, c·ultutatand social work c:onducted internationally by individuals, groups and institutions whose achievements represent an example for mankind. 
·For further information visit the Saturday Scholar website at 
<:).0 
http:l/saturdayscholar.nd.edu. 





Friday, September 5, 2003

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 12 

HAMMES 






NOTRE DAME -BOOKSTORE 
IN THE EcK CENTER 
PRESENTS BOOK SIGNINGS THIS WEEKEND 
FRIDAY 
. ,· .·I. 


SATURDAY 
I 
SATURDAY FROM 10:00 TO 12:00 5TH ANNUAL BENEFIT 'I I ARA PARSEGHIAN MEDICAL 
:f 
'( REASEARCH FOUNDATION 
'l 
( 
·: 
., 
'{ 'r 
., 
• 

TED MANDELL, NO '86 4:00 TO 5:30 P.M. 
HEART STOPPERS AND HAIL MARYS: 100 OF THE GREATEST COLLEGE FOOTBALL FINISHES (1970-1999) 
FR. BILL MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. 2:00 TO 4:00 P.M. Go FORTH AND Do Gooo: MEMORABLE NOTRE DAME COMMENCEMENT ADDRESSES 
SR. JEAN LENZ, O.S.F. 3:30 TO 5:00P.M. 
LOYAL SONS & DAUGHTERS 
CONNIE MCNAMARA 9:00 TO 11 :00 A.M. MY FIRST NOTRE DAME WORDS: Go IRISH BOB GOLIC NO '79 9:00 TO 11 :00 A.M. 
FIGHTING IRISH: THE MIGHT, THE MAGIC, THE MYSTIQUE OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
PAUL F. GULLIFOR 10:00 TO NOON 
THE FIGHTING IRISH ON THE AIR: THE HISTORY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL BROADCASTING 
ALAN GRANT 10:00 TO NOON 
RETURN To GLORY: INSIDE TYRONE WILLINGHAM'S AMAZING FIRST SEASON AT NOTRE DAME 
SR. JEAN LENZ, O.S.F. LOYAL SONS & DAUGHTERS JASON KELLY, NO '95 10:30 TO 11 :30 A.M. 
MR. NOTRE DAME: THE LIFE AND LEGEND OF EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE 
FR. NICHOLAS AYO, C.S.C., NO '56 -10:30 TO 12:30 P.M. 
SIGNS OF GRACE: MEDITATIONS ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
COACH GERRY FAUST 11 :00 TO NOON 
THE GOLDEN DREAM 
FEATURING: COACH ARA PARSEGHIAN BOOKSIGNING COACH WILL SIGN ONLY COPIES.OF NOTRE DAME'S GREATEST COACHES WITH 100% OF THE PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT HIS FOUNDATION 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 13
The Observer + STATE NEWS 
Mcintosh drops out of Indiana gubernatorial race 
Associared Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Citing swelling support for Mitch Daniels that includes backing from President Bush, Republican David Mcintosh ended his 2004 gubernatorial run Thursday and endorsed Daniels. 
"The team is coalescing around Mitch Daniels and I'm a team player, have always been a team player and I want to be part of the team," Mcintosh said during a news conference at state GOP 
Study*·in Tokyo 
visit to Indianapolis, but his support for Daniels already seemed a certainty. Daniels stepped down as White House budget director in June to run for governor. 
During a speech in Indianapolis in May, Bush referred to Daniels as "my man Mitch" and said, "Washington's loss will be the gain of the people of Indiana." 
Mcintosh said his decision was not based on fund-rais­ing concerns, and he had supporters who "could pro­
*{Anthropology, Art History, Business, History, Literature, Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Political Science...and, of course, Japanese!} 
-:-.. 

Spring 2004 

No previous study of Japanese language required! For more information: atSHayes·Healey September 9at 5pm 
' 

vide the financing that could had become clear that get us there." But he said he Democrats would field a had called the White House "strong team" in the gover­and was told by someone that nor's race, and it was impor­Bush would endorse Daniels. tant for Republicans to run 
"It matters to me what he as a team. State Sen. Vi thinks," Mcintosh said. Simpson and former state 
Mcintosh served six years and national Democratic as a congressman for eastern chairman Joe Andrew are Indiana and won the party's seeking the Democratic nomi­nomination for governor in nation. 
2000,  but  he  Mcintosh said  
was  soundly  he did not know  
defeated by Democrat Frank  "The team is  what his role in the Republican  
O'Bannon.  He  coalescing around  team might be,  
became t h i r Republican  the d to  Mitch Daniels and rm a team player.  but he hoped to help formulate proposed solu­ 
drop out of the  have always been  tions  to  state  
2004 governor's race in recent months.  a team player and I want to be part of  problems, including the property tax  
State  Sen.  the team."  reassessment.  
Murray Clark of  Daniels joined  
Indianapolis dropped out June 9 and  David Mcintosh former candidate for  Mcintosh at Thursday's announcement  
became Daniels'  Indiana governor  and thanked him  

headquarters. 
In a telephone interview earlier Thursday, Mcintosh campaign manager Jason Beal said the decision "was based entirely on us hearing from [White House adviser] Karl Rove that President Bush would endorse Mitch Daniels." 
"We feel that would all but preclude us from raising money for the Republican primary," Beal said. 
It was not clear whether Bush would make an endorsement Friday during a 
campaign man­ager. State Sen. Luke Kenley of Noblesville ended his campaign a few weeks later and also threw his support to Daniels. 
Conservative lobbyist Eric Miller, Petersburg Mayor Randy Harris and Indianapolis businessman Bob Parker are still seeking the nomination. 
Mcintosh had said he was in the race to stay, too, and he had aired some television commercials this summer. 
He said he had earned widespread name-recognition during his first campaign and was the best-known candi­date in the field. Seventy­three percent of those sur­veyed in a WISH-TV poll taken in July knew of Mcintosh, while 42 percent recognized Daniels' name. 
But Daniels, a former Eli Lilly and Co. executive, wa~ still considered the front-run­ner and was expected to raise much more in campaign cash than Mcintosh. Daniels also enjoyed support from other prominent Republicans, including Sen. Dick Lugar and former state GOP Chairman Mike McDaniel. 
Mcintosh said Thursday it 

SubmiC to: Erin Flynu:. Admiuiont Coul'ddor .t1vnn..-46rihntf:.f.'dy 
for his decision. 

"I had no heart for running against this man, given my admiration for him and the service he has pro­vided in the past," Daniels said. 
Mcintosh also was joined by 
his wife Ruthie. 
When a reporter reminded Mcintosh that he had better name ID in the recent poll, Ruthie Mcintosh leaned to the microphone and said, "If the election was held today, David would win." 
Mcintosh chuckled and said, "But it won't be. It will be held in May." 
David Holt, who helped manage Mcintosh's successful 1994 campaign for Congress and joined his staff when he took office, said he was proud Mcintosh was getting out. 
"I think David fought the good fight in 2000 and it came up short -it came up too short -and David just didn't have the time to reha­bilitate himself from the loss that he had," Holt said. 
Mcintosh based much of his 2000 campaign on a "guaran­tee" to cut property taxes by 25 percent. But it took him months to detail his plan, and he acknowledged later that it might not have worked given the state budget crunch that hit. 
WANT TO lEARN TO DRIVE 1 
CALL 

-·'~·FRIEND'' 
DRIVER TUTORING 
(574) 250-2761 

JNDIVlOUAL TRAINING INTERNATIONAL PEOPLE Free Pick-up atYour LocaUon 
le1.111 to Drive witta 11A•FiliiNfJ" 
--------······--·-··· 
TRANSPORTATIONSE~CE 
Will Transport YOU,I"AMILY &FRiENDS To and from Airports I Other Destinations Will Deliver Items from Stores &Storage 
D•pend on 11A-FJUIND" 
www.afrnd.com 



... 
-----------~--~ 

THE OBSERVER 
1lo l~~ :D,;(y ~&nn~No"' o...~-' $M".t ~~~ 
. P.O,;&:r: Q, N~r<: o~dtte, rN 46~56 . • .•.. 
0?4 S()u~-Qi~i~g l:titll, Notr~ ~e;.IN 4~5~ 
Scott Brodfuehrer 
Am'. MANAGlNG Eouolt Sheila: Flynn · 
ADVEim~ MANAGER;· Maura Cenedella •· •••·­AD DFsJGN MANAGER: Tol11 Haight -.. SYS'rnMS ADII.uooS'faA_ro}l; l'ed Bange~t • W:Es ADMINtSl"IVJ()lU Jason Creek · GoNT~uiR! Mike flanagan 

Re-evaluate RA orientation policies 
The administration loves to promote Notre Dame as a well­if the information from the training can be obtained other rounded community that is home to ambitious and capable stu­ways. dents who excel in academics, extracurricular activities, serv­What's more, since RAs are leaders, chosen to guide other 
ice and other areas. students, younger classes should look at Pope and Craig's pur­
But when Doug Pope and BJ Craig were forced to decide suit of academic achievement as an example of what to aspire whether they would continue as resident assistants by choosing for, not as a penalty to serving them in the dorm. to either attend resident assistant training or attend other aca­Dismissing and replacing RAs for inconsequential reasons demic-related activities and lose their positions, creates a rift in the family atmosphere the it suggested that Notre Dame might be more OJhe University tries to cultivate. And the RA orienta­
use rver 
committed to unwavering and unreasonable tion couldn't have been as important as student adherence to minor technicalities. life officials say it is -Pope and Craig's replace­Pope and Craig claim they were released as ments attended even less of the training than the 


Editorial 
RAs during RA orientation because they could not attend certain training sessions. Most people would consid­er their excuses legitimate -Pope had an interview for a post­graduate scholarship, while Craig had to participate in an MBA orientation. Other students say some RAs were given a choice between taking the MCAT and attending orientation. 
But Student Affairs officials did not find these excuses legiti­mate. Even though Pope and Craig informed the administration about these conflicts in advance -and tried to make arrange­ments to avoid these conflicts or make up the missed sessions -they say they were still given an ultimatum: attend RA orien­tation or forget about being an RA. 
If Notre Dame is an institution dedicated to preparing stu­dents for their futures, why would the administration force stu­dents to put their futures on hold? Tests and scholarship inter­views are just as important as RA training sessions. especially 
two original RAs would have and had to make up the sessions they missed-an opportunity that Pope and Craig were denied. 
RAs sign contracts that require them to attend all the orien­tation sessions, and Notre Dame has a responsibility to dorm residents to enforce the importance of attending RA training. But it shouldn't be so unreasonable that it makes RA candi­dates choose between their training and their future. 
The University should re-evaluate the RA training policy. If it decides to adhere to its current policy, it should explicitly inform all future applicants of the strict, unforgiving nature of this policy and also tell them of events that have been conflicts in the past-such as the summer MCAT administration -and tell them they cannot participate in these activities. Better yet, the administration should allow students to complete these capstone events and make-up the RA training they miss. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
University policy promotes double standard 
The "Student Life Policies" section of with their unmarried partners and chil­3. Notre Dame is a Catholic University. the 2003-04 Graduate and Professional dren provide some evidence that this is One might think that this idiosyncratic Student Handbook lists rules describing occurring. Routine social interaction with policy concerning extramarital sex exists behaviors the University "will not toler­graduate students and their loved ones because the University chooses to incor­
'· ate" (p79). The rules include reasonable provides confirmation. porate Catholic moral views into its prohibitions on "possession of When our recruiting efforts are suc­behavioral regulations. For this,cxplana­heroin" and "physical violence." Those cessful, these students enroll in our pro­tion to make sense, we would need to found to violate these rules may receive grams and continue living their personal hear why the policy doesn't find its way punishments of disciplinary suspen­lives as they see fit. Most of these into the Faculty or Staff Handbooks and sion or permanent dismissal. 
----why this regulation is the only regulation 
Also subject to these in the book of this sort. same punishments are One searching the relevant pages of the graduate students who Handbook (pp79-85) will not find other violate the following instances in which distinctively Catholic 
,. 
policy which also moral claims are imported into the 
I 
' 
allegedly describes Handbook. There is, for example, no reg­
'.{ ';( behavior the ulation stating that the use of artificial University will not birth control is intolerable. Other rules tolerate: concern matters such as obeying the 
·, "Because a gen­criminal law and not selling football tick­uine and com­ets for profit. 
' 
'i plete expression In correspondence concerning this :}, of love through rule, Student Affairs administrators 
.:::·: 
sex requires a claim that "the University" will not hesi­~ :···· commitment to a tate to enforce the policy. Interestingly, totallivjng and this is not the position the Graduate 
:i 
.·.:·-· .. 
sharing together School takes when discussing the issue ~ of two persons in with departmental directors of graduate 
marriage, the study. Student Affairs administrators fur­J University believes ther note that the University has not yet { I that sexual union attempted to coordinate its "behavioral 1.( should occur only in expectations" with its "recruiting proce­·l marriage" (p82). As one dures" nor made any attempt to require 
who thinks that this rule that faculty assist with enforcement. 
should be eliminated, I raise the Apparently the mostly 23-83 It's a good thing that the University has '.j following three issues. year old administrators, faculty and staff not yet attempted to do either of these 
I 
1. The Graduate and Professional at Notre Dame are adult enough to make things. It would be an even better thing if 
• OOStMAS'tU .· ·< • . • .

.~ ·.~ >d4rc:u ~ti<i.u f<>j ·.. schools enthusiastically recruit, fund and their own choices about sexual matters the University would agree that the pri­
( 'i~~•. · . 'I . P-C), II<><Q . . .. . . ..• welcome students known to violate this free from the threat of University disci­vate sexual choices of its adult graduate 
••••.. 814.~'ilu.~Hd-.••.. 

policy. If "the University" really believed pline, but our mostly 23-35 year old and professional students should be no
~·~,,IN.46SS(l.&t7~ 

that sex outside of marriage was "behav­graduate students are not. This is not more subject to University discipline than ior we will not tolerate" (p79), the because Notre Dame is silent on employ­the private sexual choices of faculty, staff Graduate School and the various gradu­ee discipline issues. The University and administrators. ate departments would not, or would not apparently does not think that sex out­be permitted to, recruit students known side of marriage is intolerable behavior Fritz Warfield to live in violation of this policy. when it involves the lives of staff, admin­philosophy professor 
Prospective students who visit campus istrators or faculty.News Graphics Andrew Thagard Mike Harkins ···• MaureenReynolds Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 
Will Puckett Chris Federico 
one loss (12%)
Joe 'frombeHo Heather Van 

How many 
Viewpoint· ·Hoegard~n ·· 

:·-·.· games will .. TeresaFralish Justin Schuver 

the Irish 
Illustrator· Scene ____::_ undefeated (20%)
win during 
Pat Quill 
Sarah Vabulas 

this football season? 
4 or 5 losses (12%) 
*Poll based on 
over 6losses (4%)
494 respondents. 
---------~ ---------------.. ---.... --------.. -­
Sept. 4 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure ofa man is not where he stands in moments ofcomfort, but where he stands at times ofchallenge and controversy." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights activist 



Judging a fellow citizen 
LETTERS TO THE. EDITOR 


Fans react to ticket policy 
Questioningfairness 
I'd personally like to thank the geniuses at the Student Union Board for the fantastically organized Michigan ticket lottery. After standing in line for over three hours, hundreds ofindivid­uals were left out in the cold. This was not for game tickets: mind you, but for the chance to be ent~red into a lottery for the right to purchase actual game tickets. SUB managed to take a procedure that in past years had taken approximately 15 minutes and, to my knowledge, never shut out anybody, and turned it into a near riot amongst infuriated students. 
The individual who claimed to be the organizer of the event 
cited supposed "Indiana laws" and possible "racketeering charges" necessitating the halt of the lottery at precisely 
6:07 pm and leaving myself and hundreds of others who had been in line for over three hours stand­ing there empty-handed. Ifthere is anyone who should be prosecuted it's the bozos running that operation. It was the most poorly run and communicated process that I've ever had the misfortune of experiencing. 
There was absolutely no prior notice indicating that the procedure had been changed from last year or to express what would be required ofstudents once there. The published ad simply stated, "Bring Your ID." Not until students arrived were flyers handed out explaining the painfully slow new process. On top of that, SUB put no limit on the number ofIDs per per­son, resulting in the lucky few people at the front of the line stockpiling lottery tickets while others were shut out completely. The head clown challenged protesters to come up with a better plan. . 
Well, I can think of about a hundred better ways to have conducted it and would be more than happy to pass them or.. 
A lottery is supposed to give everyone an equal opportunity to win. If the goal was to reward the individuals who show up first, then why even have a lottery? Just sell the tickets out­right -first-come, first-serve. SUB claimed the process was overhauled because 40 people were cheated last year. Well, I can assure them that number was a whole lot more than that this time. 
Dan Heider '99,MBA '04 Sept. 4 
MICHIGAN en. Indiana law does prohibit lot­
teries as a form of illegal gambling, 
according to Indiana Statutes 35-45-5-3. However, the distribution of a voucher to receive an entry in a drawing, the winners of which will have the opportunity to purchase football tickets, is not an illegal lottery. An illegal lottery is a scheme in which individuals pay money to receive prizes based upon chance, according to Pruitt v. State, 557 N.E.2d 684, 690 (lnd.App. 1990). 
Students did not pay money in order to enter the drawing. Consequently, the voucher distribution was not an illegal lottery. Moreover, SUB's explana­tion that Indiana law prohibited SUB from continu­ing the distribution for longer than three hours is puzzling. If the ticket distribution were an illegal .lottery it would be prohibited regardless of whether it was conducted for three hours or 300 
Limit IDs allowed per person 
The Student Union Board's use of an incredibly slow and inefficient process to distribute vouchers for an opportunity to be selected to purchase Michigan football tickets was apparently aimed at rectifying improprieties that were associated with similar systems in· prior years. While SUB's goals were admirable, their implementation was woeful. contributing to the worst debacle I have witnessed since the last time Bob Davie coached football. 
SUB asserted that Indiana state law and NCAA regulations required that the voucher distribution be suspended at 6 p.m. My brief search of . NCAA regulations was unable to locate any regulation confirming or contra­dicting SUB's assertion that distri­bution is limited to three hours. Even assuming that this is 
true, a more efficient process could have been devised to insure that more students could have received vouchers for participation in the ran­dom drawing for eligibility to 
purchase tickets. SUB's characterization of the drawing as an illegal lottery is • hopelessly confused and mistak­
'IS. 
hours. 

An SUB representative also attempted to explain to students that SUB would be forced to stop the distribution after three hours because of RICO. RICO is a federal statute, not a state law and seems wholly inapplicable the distribution at hand. I sus­pect that SUB members were typically confused with respect to this assertion as well. 
Assuming that SUB's sole remaining excuse for the fiasco-NCAA regulations-is a valid one still does not explain the inefficiency that plagued it. To say that the system was glacially slow would be an insult to glaciers. 
People who got in line at approximately 3:15 p.m. did not receive tickets. The Observer reported that 700 vouchers were distributed. At that rate, less than four vouchers per minute were dis.tributed. 
Why did it take longer than 15 seconds per voucher? The shoddily planned and organized characteristics of the distribution system surely contributed. Students wrote down the names and/or afs IDs of the cards they presented on pieces of scrap paper. One person scanned identifi­cation cards, tore off vouchers and stacked the vouchers, J.D. cards and scrap paper in haphazard piles. One person wrote the corresponding names on the vouchers. One last i'ndividual manually typed the names and corresponding voucher num­bers into a notebook computer, presumably on some sort of database such as Excel. 
SUB representatives confrontationally challenged students to come up with a better system. Unfortunately, I am limited to 600 words and my responses to that query could easily consume 600 pages. Frankly, the challenge would be to come up with a worse system. SUB showed a lack of prepa­ration and leadership and I would encourage SUB to be accountable for their mistakes and devise a system better suited to future distributions. A start­ing point would be to limit the number of ID cards each student is allowed to bring. 
Dustin Beckley second year law studenr Sept. 4 

Each autumn when students return to campus, the most asked question is, ,"What did you do this sum­mer?." My answer is that I sentenced a 26 year..:old man to life in federal prison. 
On the last day of July, I, along with eleven other jurors, walked for the final time into a crowded courtroom to announce our ver­dicts. For me, it was a unique moment after sitting each day for four months on a special Federal trial in an almost empty courtroom. I felt like I was ascending Notre Dame Stadium's tunnel before a capacity crowd prior to a national championship football game. 
While each juror knew we were charged with an enor­mously serious matter, none of us was prepared for the'tllectri­cal atmosphere of the court­room on that final day. Some jurors sat shaking nervously as curious and anxious spectators anticipated our verdicts. Jurors who had avoided eye contact with the. defendant during our four months still could not look at the defendant while each of the 75 counts was read. My adrenaline abruptly skyrocketed, and my mouth went dry when my eyes locked onto the defendant's eyes. 
Subconsciously I knew the possible con~equences of our deliberations, but the amplitude of my responsi­bilities did not strike me until the moment our fore­man began his announcement of our verdict. Initially the defendant remained emotionless with the same eerily relaxed expression he had displayed through­out the four-month trial. His demeanor was one that suggested an extremely casual indifference, almost as though he was an observer rather than a partici-

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
pant in the process. 
Seldom throughout the trial had the defendant changed his expression. On the first day of the trial he and I had established eye contact. I watched as his casual expression changed to an icy cold stare for a moment before he snapped back to his relaxed look. He remained detached while the entire courtroom gasped during the replay of a 911 emergency call from a woman who had been shot. 
When the courtroom sat mesmerized, he barely looked at an 18-year-old high school senior who testi­fied that she had been ambushed and shot five times in an alley when she was 15. 
After sitting for four months as a juror, I filled five notepads with notations regarding testimony, obser­vations and my conclusions. Thanks to the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Police Department, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, I reviewed countless undercover videotaped transactions and telephone wiretaps. I know how to "cook" and "stretch" powder cocaine into cocaine base (crack). I also now under­stand latent finger prints versus "prints of value" along with the ballistic references for shell casi,ngs and bullets. 
For me, the defense suffered on three days during the trial. One morning a witness described how he was kidnapped, tortured and beaten by the defen­dant. That afternoon another witness, a perceived rival by the defendant, identified the defendant as the person who shot into his car and killed his passenger. This day was followed by an impartial neighbor testi­
. fying that he saw the defendant shoot the passenger. On the second day that hurt the defense, the prose­cution paraded several ballistics and fingerprint experts who tied shell casings from several shootings to guns confiscated during four search warrants on the defendant's home. Additional testimony from a rival gang member who admitted almost shooting the 
defendant, and testimony from another impartial city 
government worker placed the defendant at the 
scene of another shooting. 
Finally, the third day that crippled the defense occurred when the defense called its first expert wit­ness. On cross examination the prosecution master­fully got the expert to admit to several ascersions the prosecution had contended during his presentations. That day was one in which every law student should have been observing the U.S. Attorney's textbook per­formance. 
On our final day when our foreman responded to the judge whether we had found the defendant guilty or not guilty on the various charges and whether or not the government had proven or not proven the racketeering elements of those charges, I fixated on the defendant's eyes. When it was announced that we found the defendant guilty on drug distribution and distribution within a thousand feet of a school, the defendant maintained his relaxed glare. When we found him guilty on murder, he transformed into a cold, mean stare. As we pronounced him guilty on attempted murder, conspiracy, obstruction ofjustice, perjury and firearms violations, his eyes changed from cold to disbelief to colder to indifference. 
Last summer, for the first time in my life, I sat on a jury. It was an experience of a lifetime that helped me understand the beauty and wisdom of our judicial system. I am absolutely convinced that we rendered the correct verdicts and that we should remove that young man from society. If I had a choice, I would have preferred running out of the football tunnel to face three-hundred pound linemen. 
Gary Caruso served as a blah in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
page 16 

Friday, September 5, 2003 







The Gold Rush Continues 
Seniors share a saddened sentiment, but with excitement for their last season both as students and players 
By STEPHANIE CHAMBERS 
Scene Writer 
The once student-filled campus now 

encompasses the presence of moms,\ dads, brothers, sisters and grandpar­} ents alike. Masses at the Basilica, fol­
(~ 1.\ lowed by the triumphant processions of 
I 
i~ the Notre Dame marching band, pre­game practices and the Irish prayers sound again. This pre-game ritual, 
which dates before Rudy's time at Notre Dame, commences with the first 

l ~ game of the 2003-2004 football season this Saturday against Washington State. 
The flocking of devoted spectators from across the country may fill the ~ seats on Saturday, but the team has occupied the stadium since August
'· 
I 
lOth. While many students were enjoy­ing their ending days of summer, the team spent many grueling hours partic­ipating in two practices a day. The two­a-day practices ended two Saturdays ago, in exchange for one intense two­hour daily practice, hours of watching films as a team and then again as an individual and lifting three days a week. Watching the films a second time individually g~ves the players more insight and concentration on the game. The vigorous efforts put forth by the team may explain senior Jerome Collins' positive attitude towards this years upcoming games. 
"Practices are going well and I wouldn't change the habits of the team from last year's routines. Everyone grows from year to year. The offense is better this year, too. Last year, the defense stopped offense a lot. This year, Carlyle is more accurate in prac­tice. He's performing his quarterback position even better at every practice. There really is no one person to look 
'II
.( 
t 
l
I 
/. 


for this season. You never know because practices go great, but react­ing to game situations is completely dif­ferent," said Collins. 
The team as a whole sounds like they are ready for the big day. But, how are­the freshmen football players adjusting to the new wonders of Notre Dame football? The freshmen graduated from high school being named the top-notch players by scouts. "They are now the bottom line again, feeling as if they are nobody's," said Collins, describing how he felt during that year, as well. 
"They get used to it, along with the rigorous team schedules and practices. But, we try to keep them awake and moving when they get tired." 
Collins said that he "can't wait to get that first hit in" because practice is growing routine. "Hitting the same per­son day in and day out gets old." 
The team may grow accustomed to playing one another, but his positive assertion of the team confirms the team status. "Coach tells us to be the best whenever we can," and that will take the team to dominating .rankings. 
Currently. Collins said he is not wor­ried about future games, saying he takes it "one game at a time. Otherwise, you're not focused on the team. We need to put our worries on the present game." 
"Getting the ring and being National Champions will only happen by being the best we can be." 
He says that making each game the focal point as it nears will lead the team all the way despite any criticism from outsiders. 
"The team went 8-0 last year in light of criticism regarding coaching changes. We kept focused and .finished 10-3 at the Gator Bowl. This was our greatest accomplishment [and it showed the true] testament of the 
team's resolve to be the best." 
Focusing on each game as it comes appears to be the best way to tackle the sea­son, along with the help of the fans. 
Collins applauds the fans for their outstand­ing motivation. 
"It wouldn't be fun if 20,000 fans weren't cheering." He said the fans help keep the enthusiasm among the team members because the adrenaline from students and fans in the stands aids in the rush of excitement experienced on the field. 
Player Anthony Fassano said he agrees with his teammate. 
"We are playing in front of the best fans in the nation!" Fassano said. 
The players are not the only ones who enjoy the out of tune crowd chanting. Many seniors have already begun to realize the beginning of this sea­

son is twofold, as it is their last season, too. It 

TIM KACMAR I The Observer 

Courtney Watson fights Pittsburgh for possession during the game last fall as students cheer and enjoy the game as they watch at Notre Dame Stadium. 
is the last year to enjoy kegs and eggs with their closest friends at 6 in the morning every Saturday, the last year to be engulfed in a sea of kelly green T-shirts designed by the students of Notre Dame, the last year to engage in the unbalanced jig dances thrown off by those who are "unstable" and their final push-ups after each and every point is added to the scoreboard. These are not emotions any one per­son wants to focus on, but many say they cannot help feel the way they feel as opening day approaches. 
Saint Mary's senior Daniella Ernst developed these feelings as she pulled in from the toll road this year. 
"The atmosphere of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame makes the pre-game and after games experiences memorable. Yeah, I can still watch the game on TV next year, but the experience when watching the game with my friends is what counts." 

Saint Mary's senior Meg White agrees. She said what she will miss the most is the fun she had as football manager. She said she made many close friends, and watching the games without them won't be the same. "I definitely want to come back when I can," she said. 
But, neither players nor seniors want to focus on the end and are excited to begin another season, fol­lowing the team motto of "Play like a Champion." 
Contact Stephanie Chambers at cham27 49@saintmarys.edu 


---·---·--------------------­
------------------~-------------------------------­

Friday, September 5, 2003 Page 17 

Freshmen prepare for first game 
As the first football game of the season approaches, 
freshmen have feelings of excitement and awe 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA Scene Writer 
It has been two weeks since the Class of 2007 stepped onto campus and into life at Notre Dame. No doubt, it has been a challenge negotiating the dining hall, finding classes on time and trying to get the attention of that one particu­lar girl (or guy) in First Year Composition class. Granted, it is tough enough for freshmen to get used to a campus of 10,000 students, but their biggest challenge now lies in having to share their space with the student body and 70,000 of their closest friends. This Saturday's season opener against Washington State promises to be an experience that will intimidate both legacies and novices alike. 
Sure, there are plenty freshmen out there who have never been to a Notre Dame football game. There are even a good number of people who have never watched one on TV. But imagine having never seen an American football game ever, and having this Saturday as your first e~perience. That honor belongs to many·ihternational students, like Juan Pablo Lauz, a student from Peru. 
"I have never seen American football before," admits Lauz. "[My roommate] tells me it's not only about the football part, it's. about the atmosphere ... to see Notre Dame Football come to life ... all the students cheering and the whole feeling towards it." He also acknowl­edges the popularity of the Irish in Peru, and realizes that if you were· to see football for the first time, there is no better way to see it than this. 
On the other end of the spectrum is freshman Tommy Kemp. A seasoned veteran of standing through many a game in the spectator section, he knows it's going to be different moving to the Northwest corner. 

"The atmosphere ... it's just nuts in the student section," says Kemp, "It's somewhere I've always wanted to stand." One in four of this year's fresh­man class is a legacy, so many will know the cheers and the traditions inside and out. 
To measure the level of anticipation among the freshmen concerning this week's game, one need not look further than Debartolo Hall, but most notably the classrooms on the west side of the building. Walk into any freshman class and the eyes of those along the window seats are fixed not on the professor or the PowerPoint presentation, but on the stadium, where all week window wash­ers, interior cleaning crews and lawn­mowers have been preparing the grounds for this weekend's festivities. There is also little doubt of the impact Irish football has on this year's class based off the admissions process alone. Whether the Office of Admissions chooses to acknowledge it or qqt, this past year's biggest applicant pool ever undoubtedly was affected by last year's surprising season. 
An even more unique perspective of this Saturday's game comes from Bill Gallagher, a freshman member of the Band of the Fighting Irish. After going through hellacious practi~e sessions from dawn until dusk from the moment they stepped on campus, Saturday's game is the culmination of a work ethic that rivals that of the varsity players themselves. 
"[It has been] a lot of fun, but a lot of work," according to Gallagher, but when it comes to opening day, he believes the mood is "more exciting then nervous." 
Perhaps the biggest responsibility of any freshman concerning this week's game belongs to Ryan McSpadden, one of this year's Dillon Hall "Teen Wolves," a staple at the annual Dillon Hall Pep Rally that kicked off the foot­ball weekend Thursday night. 
"I really wanted to put my all in it ... show my true self," notes McSpadden of the intense tryout he had to undergo to receive this great honor. "I gotta get crazy, I gotta get people there ... I gotta put on a performance." 
Finally, there are those first year stu­dents for whom this Saturday is an event they have been waiting for their entire lives. They are the ones who when asked about why they wanted to come here, all they could reply was, "I've just always wanted to come here." So many of the freshmen at Saturday's game have watched hun­dreds of downs from their television sets, and have dreamed of the opportu­nity to see a live game for many years. 
In case some of the freshmen did not know coming here what they were get­ting themselves into, they quickly learned by waiting in the ticket line last week, or by simply going on eBay and seeing what those $25 dollar seats are really worth. 
All Notre Dame freshmen, though, are considered full-fledged members of the sea of green, however, and their role in Saturday's game does not go overlooked, even by coach Tyrone Willingham. Willingham spoke to the freshmen at the "Spirit of ND" event during Orientation Weekend in the Joyce Center and encouraged everyone to go out and get this year's "The Shirt" for the first home game. 

This weekend's game promises to be an event like none other, win or lo ... well, forget that last part. Coming off one of their best seasons in years, the Irish have high expectations placed on them this year. The ·roar of the crowds, the sounds of the band, and the screeching of Air Force jets overhead will quickly initiate this year's freshmen into the Notre Dame Football experi­ence. Just one piece of advice from the upperclassmen: Don't sit down. Don't ever sit down. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 


Friday, September 5, 2003 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

\ ·\ l. 
Sosa ejected, Cubs take four of five froln Cardinals 
apparently made a comment Associated Press 
about a third strike call. "I was cursing myself and he threw me out of the game," Sosa
CHICAGO-Now that was a 

said.
series, five games of spirited 

Baker argued, then returned tobaseball that the Chicago Cubs the field two pitches later whenturned into four emotional victo­Mark· Grudzielanek was calledries over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
out on a close play at second.
"If you weren't a fan and you In the fifth inning, Hohn ejected watched this series, you became 

Rothschild, who was in theone," Tony Womack said 
dugout.
Thursday after his RBI single 

Sosa was the third Cubs playerpushed the Cubs to a 7-6 victory to be ejected during the heatedand moved them within a half­five-game series. 
game of the NL Central lead. 

The series featured a little bit of everything: a rain delay of more Phlllles 6, Mets 5 than four hours Monday; a day­Mike Lieberthal made sure night doubleheader that included Jose Mesa didn't cost the a 15-inning opener; the ejections Philadelphia Phillies another of three Cubs players, including game. Sammy Sosa on Thursday, and Weberthal's two-out RBI single pitching coach Larry Rothschild; in the ninth inning lifted the a shouting match between man­Phillies to a 6-5 victory over the agers Dusty Baker and Tony La New York Met.s. Russa; and a stunning comeback The Phillies overcame another by the Cubs to win Wednesday blown save by Mesa to win for after trailing 6-0. the sixth time in seven games Mesa doesn't speak to Marlins manager Jack McKeon Marlins remained tied for the 
The Cubs trail Houston by a and remain tied with Florida for reporters. angrily voiced his displeasure wild-card lead with the half-game, while the Cardinals first place in the NL wild-card Randy Wolf gave up three runs from the dugout. Philadelphia Phillies. are a game behind the Astros in race. The Marlins beat the -two earned -and four hits, One pitch later, Cabrera was Carl Pavano limited the Pirates 
third place. · Pirates 5-1 earlier Thursday. striking out seven in seven out of his slump and back in the to seven hits and one run -on Baker and La Russa, whose "We really needed to pull this innings. The All-Star left-bander manager's good graces. The Matt Stairs' 17th homer-in 6 1­had allowed 16 runs in two starts rookie singled to drive in the go­3 innings. 
blowup centered about pitching one out," Ueberthal said. · before beating the Mets 4-2 last ahead run in a four-run seventh Castro,who was charged with
inside and hitting batters, met for Prentice Redman, playing just several minutes behind the cage his fourth game in the majors, led Saturday. inning, and Florida beat raping a woman in his Pittsburgh \ during batting practice and shook off the ninth against Mesa with "1\vo positive starts definitely Pittsburgh 5-1 to remain tied for hotel room last week, pinch-hit in 
helps out," Wolf said. 

hands. his first career homer to tie it at the NL wild-card lead. the seventh and hit his fourth Their teams don't play again in 5. Tom Glavine allowed four runs "He redeemed himself," home run. 
and eight hits in six innings. McKeon said. "He wasn't in the "That made me feel a lot bet­the regular season. It was Mesa's second blown 
"Every game could have gone save in four days and his fourth The Mets scored an unearned doghouse." ter," said Castro, who has said either way and it went their way of the season in 28 chances. run off Rheal Cormier in the Actually, Cabrera said he knew he's innocent. except one," La Russa said. Mesa, who needs to fmish 10 of eighth to cut it to 5-4. he had the take sign. Salomon Torres (5-4) retired 
Womack, who entered in a the next 22 games to guarantee Mets rookie shortstop Jorge "I want to swing, you know?" his first nine batters before Pierre double switch in the top of the his contract for $5.5 million next Velandia drove in two runs. he said with a smile. pulled a pitch over the wall to put seventh, singled in the bottom season, is 5-7 with a 6.26 ERA. "Our kids battled an uphill fight With the hit, Cabrera ended a Florida ahead. 
;r 
half off Mike DeJean (5-8). Phillies manager Larry Bowa most of the way," Mets manager 1-for-35 slump. Alex Gonzalez, Torres departed with one out in 
DeJean then got out of a bases­said he'II consult with pitching Art Howe said. who began the game in a 1-for-the seventh and the score 1-all, loaded jam by slipping a third coach Joe Kerrigan before decid­25 slump, followed with his 16th but the next four batters reached strike past Randall Simon called ing if Mesa will remain the closer. Marlins 5, Pirates 1 home run. against the Pirates' bullpen. by plate umpire Bill Hohn.He Fans have completely turned When slumping Miguet·cabrera Even more surprising was a Torres, who gave up four hits and ejected Sosa as he was walking on Mesa, booing him whenever ignored a take sign on a 3-0 pitch home run by Juan Pierre, his first was charged with two runs, is 0­back to the dugout after Sosa he enters the game. and swung and missed, Florida in 572 at-bats this season. The 2 in his past seven starts. 

The Observer a"eprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is.3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER RENTAL WANTED  Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles,  FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1  TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX  
NOTICES  Retired Arizona couple looking to rent/sub-lease apt/home for sum­mer of 2004. Call 574-289·8800.  5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue Cover,Custom Red,$9,900. 258­0520.  mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys-tern, A/C. Available lmmed. $650/mo. Call 220-0499 or  OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRETION ASSURED. 654-8018.  PERSONAL  
PART· TIME WORK EXCELLENT PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­DENTS.COM I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today!  SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment. A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for interview.  Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, HUGE Garage, New: Roof, A/C, Furnace, Carpet & Kitchen. 1719 Derwood Dr $119,900. (574)233­9947 OAKHILL CONDO FORSALEI2 BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T LAST LONG! 574.243.3911 OR 574.532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1  614-353-5889. 2·bdrm house close to NO. 269-699-5841 . 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & 04105.FURN.272-6306 Private furnished condo for NO home games. 1 mile from stadium. sleeps 4. $595 per weekend  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT· ED·TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM • 232-2378 . PM • 288-2726 Help! I need 2 tix to every ND home  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? OQ not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi~weekly ad in The Observer. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
..  Happy B-Day, Alicia! u R the best 'tree' in the forest! Wang! Wed be missing our other 1/2 w/o you·U R definitely R favorite "member"! Love is like oxygen and U let us breathe. Go Wild, You 18 yr old! Luv, A,A,nA,rA WANTED Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd grade boy after school &evenings. Reliable car needed (will need to take child to activities). Call574-210-3142 lve name & no.  Experienced babysitter for one boy (age 2 years) Part time. Walking distance from ND (prof. home) $8/hour. Phone: 233·9975 (evenings) 631-3770 LEGENDS OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT SECURITY AND BOUNCERS NEEDED Thurs.,Fri.,& Sat. Nights plus foot­ball weekends Shifts: 8:30p-12:30a 1 2:00a-4:30a Multiple shifts all day on football weekends (8:30a-4:30a) E-maillegends@nd.edu or call 631-2973 for more details. Positions available immediately. Babysitter wanted for 2 kids. Car is preferred. Please call Susan 271­9634.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 89 Buick Regal V-8, automatic, 1­owner, 61 ,000 mileage. Sharp look­ing, sun roof. New brakes, calipers, battery, ignition, tires. Runs like new. $2,900. 272-8151 . FOR RENT Furnished apt.close to ND. 1 bdrm, no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili­ties included.  call 273-6262 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbaiVpar· ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles trom campus. Toll Road, Exit #1 07, 1·800·418·9487. Clean 2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to NO. Desirable neighborhood. $550/mo + utilities. . 574-233-1604. Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for NO home games. 1.4 miles to NO. $595 per weekend. 269·684-6409.  football game. Please call 288-2877. NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY. WILL TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU, OR 3 TOGETHER MS TIX. 289-1993 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME.  campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648· 4849 or www.ststravel.com I can curl my tongue You are wearing 'the Shirt' Experience 'the CD"! Available in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Listen online at: www.pianobrothers.com and there is a magic in the sound of their name, HERE COME THE IRISH Of Notre Dame! You are wearing 'the Shirt" Experience "the CD'! .5 games back, Let's go Cubbies it's our year. ..chocolate shake":)  
Interviews done ASAP. Babysitter/playmate wanted for tod­dler,(8.30-1 .30), flexible days if needed, in NO profs home, very close to campus. $7 an hour; own car needed. Phone 287 8843, or 631 0456.  FoR SALE 1997 MERCURY GRAN MARQUIS EXCELLENT CONDITION, LOADED GREAT CONDITION ONE OWNER $5,500 (WHOLE­SALE PRICE) 282-2228  255-1738. 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. immediately. 273-4555. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOLCOM 272-1525  Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 Foster St., .$590/mo. 57 4-784-3275. TICKETS NO FOOTBALL -BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 8n-n3-3911.  PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Selling NO vs Wash St. and other home game football tix. 574-289-8048. Will trade 2 WSU, 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tickets. 574·289-8048.  If you're gonna play in Texas you gotta have a fiddle in the band. They're dirty. My meat on your grill. Some days you eat the bear, some days the bear ... well, he eats you.  

. . . . ­

-....... -.. . -. .• .;.. . ;. .... ~... ..\-­
--.... " .. .. 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Contreras, Yankees avoid sweep in 3-2 win 
Associated Press because my last outing wasn't good at all," Contreras said. "I had everything working today. 
TORONTO -Contreras felt he 
needed to win. including the changeup and some forkballs. I was able to
Contreras rebounded from his worst start, and Karim Garcia hit throw my fastball inside and out­
side, which I wasn't able to doa go-ahead double in the eighth last outing." 
inning as the New York Yankees beat the Toronto Blue Jays 3-2 Thursday night. Devil Rays 1, Mariners 0 
Alfonso Soriano homered and Two years ago, the Seattle Garcia went 3-for-4 with two RBI Mariners converted Jorge Sosa for the Yankees, who are 3.5 from an outfielder to a pitcher.
games ahead of Boston in the AL On Thursday night. he showed East. his former organization that it "I knew that the team needed was probably the correct move. to get a win. especially going into Sosa pitched a four-hitter and the weekend against Boston," the Tampa Bay Devil Rays again
Contreras said through an inter­blanked the Mariners, 1-0. preter. "Also because we lost the Combined with Doug previous two games against Waechter's two-hitter in his first Toronto. Thankfully, things major league start Wednesday, worked out and I had a lot better the Devil Rays posted consecu­outing." tive complete-game shutouts for 
The teams begin a three-game the first time in their six-year series Friday night at Yankee history. Stadium, with Pedro Martinez "Two wonderful games," pitching against New York's Andy Tampa Bay manager Lou Piniella Pettitte. said. "It shows you, if you make 
Yankees manager Joe Torre pitches, you focus, you concen­
Reuters Photo 

trate and trust your stuff. you
held a team meeting before the Injured Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter congratulates second baseman Alfonso Soriano after his 
game and told his players not to can do these sort of things. Both 
solo home run In the third Inning of New York's 3-2 victory over Toronto. 
get frustrated. The Yankees were excellent ballgames." 
5.5 games ahead of Boston after The Mariners had just two run­
Royals and snapping the followed with a single up the back bid by the 1\s in a 7-5 victo­taking two of three from the Red ners reach third base. 
Diamondbacks' five-game losing middle. ry Thursday. 
Sox last weekend, then lost the 
streak. "I was just trying to make a The defeat was Oakland's sec­
first two of their three-game Diamondbacks 6, Royals 5 
"I haven't thrown that many play, and it didn't work out for ond straight loss after a 10-game
series in Toronto. Fifty-one pitches is generally a 
pitches in three or four years," us," said Matos, who entered in winning streak. The A's, who lim­Contreras, who gave up seven series' worth of work for a closer. 
said Mantei, who started the the seventh inning as a defensive ited Baltimore to 10 runs in win­runs in just three innings against For Matt Mantei, it was one ninth and stayed on through the replacement. "There's really . ning the first seven gamesBoston last Friday, allowed only outing. 
1Oth. "They made me throw a lot nothing more you can say about between the teams, were two runs -one earned -in Mantei blew a save in the ninth of those pitches, though. I'd get it." outscored 16-5 in the final two. 
seven innings against Toronto. inning Thursday, ending a ahead of a guy, 0-1, 0-2, but I Alex Cintron's RBI single ofT AI "The Orioles played hardThe Cuban right-hander struck career-best streak of 14 convert­couldn't fmish them ofT." Levine in the eighth inning gave against us all year," Oakland 
out a season-high seven and ed opportunities. He got the win Counsell led off with a bunt the Diamondbacks a 5-4 lead, manager Ken Macha said. "Thewalked three. h· in the 1Oth when Lyle Overbay's single against Kris Wilson (5-3) but Ken Harvey's sacrifice fly off games we beat them, they were"I worked so hard during the pinch-hit single scored Craig and went to second when second Mantei (5-3) tied it at 5 in the 
tough and hard-fought. We were

week in the bullpen so I could Counsell, lifting Arizona to a 6-5 baseman Julius Matos threw the bottom of the ninth. 
fortunate to come out on top.

have a better outing this week victory over the Kansas City ball away for an error. Overbay With one out, Mantei walked They've got some good pitching Carlos Beltran and Raul Ibanez. 
over there, and some talented Both moved up on a double steal, players."and Beltran -after a slow start Melvin Mora had two hits and 
from third -slid under Chad scored twice for the Orioles, who Moeller's tag after Harvey's short won their second straight after a

~-.~~. 
fly to right fielder Danny

~· ...... ~ 
nine-game skid. 
Bautista. 
"We're on a hot streak," Orioles 7, Athletics 5 Baltimore manager Mike 
As strange as this might sound, Hargrove said with a grin. the Oakland Athletics are Billy McMillon and Eric Chavez delighted to have seen the last of hit successive homers in the 
the Baltimore Orioles. third inning against Orioles 
Brian Roberts and Larry Bigbie starter Damian Moss, who didn't had two RBI apiece, and the get out of the fifth despite being Orioles' bullpen blunted a come-staked to an early 4-0 lead. 


10:00 am t:o 12:30 pm Sat:u:rday 
in 

.l!;Ec.I(:enna .ELaLl PL.ea.se e1z.L-er acrL,~,.s rlze s~reer ''•r01ugh Tlze .i't4"LJrrLs _r,.,.. 
..E:To~ & Cold Bu;,LYe~ Roas~ Bee:,f, Clzzckerz, Salads, F.re,.ch n~£LAY~, Eggs, Sausage:." Pas'-rLes a1'7-d .A-Lore.... 
$19 ... 95 + ra.;JC AduT~s $9.95 + ra.x -ChzZdrel'l-12 a,_d ~l"'.de .$2 ti:<>rn e<.lch c;rcltllt <..7nc.l $./,front each child ticket· .s·up...vorrs t·he Notre .DaTne AILIU:lt:J.i A.ssc:~c·jatic~n :~~ C"7Qrnrrlz_<nitv Service ,Progran-z 
R..eservat:ions are not required 

.. ···:.·.·o.·,·.·,·,·,·o~.-.·~.·.·r......-,...•., : 
~:ii..::: ::.:.:.1.:::::: . : 
CampztS Bz&i,e S·rztoy (CBS) 
.Ft.RST Atee'TtiJ:(;,,. 
l 0
Tue.sflay1 seureo1!~e~ ~ 
,. f' 
7:00-8:00 1'-~01. 11·4 Coleo.unt---1\-ltn:se '""" .· f'~'·•~d.,,,~a. ..lfU
·R· ,
Lt)"f r ..,. ,..,_~. t. -~ .~.t " .. "' 
Aft stu~ents welo:>m·e'! 

...
No prerequl:stes. No registration required~ 
Just come 
f. · ·... · '· f. mat·~
For .urt~ !ief" 1n 0>r . · .. .. .. . .. . . 
ccmt~"..t~ 
F:r-. AI: D Alonzo. C".SC· 631-4616 
or 
Campus. ~'tinistry 631-..1300~ 

CM 
~--··-·.·.·,·,·.-...-.............,·,-.............-.·.·.·.·.·.·-:-·-·.·.·,·,·.·;-;-.-.·.···-·.·.·.·.·.•,·.·.·.·.··· 
.. ···.:,.,-.·
. ==J li; 


! page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 5, 2003 ~ L 
\ ) 
~ ~ 
I 
\ 
I 
I 
\ ' 

I 
l 
! 
I 
. ~ 
• ~ 
i 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
j 
~ 
.. --­

~.~ f%{j w~ 
....~­
(.j)(£ ~'710 

'(Jf~N 1Jf)N'~ Ml~~ ~H~­
~INfl J!IC,J!Iff flrt Prti~~~~AN~ 7~u1J~N~~ 
Sunday, September 7th 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. 

r 
Coleman-Morse Center Lounge 
• 
Meet Protestant upperclassmen 

• 
Find out about on-campus bible studies, fellowship, praise & worship 


• Find a ride to a local church 
·( • Get answers to your questions about Catholicism 
Mu~l~ f!Ji '(.#~ v~v~fJfllr'fiDN V.#Difl= 
1?/AIAI"PK & lt'PF-K~t;#A.f"PA!r
sEC 8( 
P!!OV/1?~1)

fDTl 'f.#~ ~D'I~ : 

For more info email Frank Santoni at fsantoni@nd.edu 
Co-sponsored by Iron Sharpens Iron, Baptist Collegiate 


(-t)

Ministry, Graduate Christian Bible Study, Interfaith Christian Night Prayer and Campus Ministry 
., 
_.. 
-
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Hall takes revenge on Jets in season debut 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. -The J etSkins let their feelings be known when the grudge game was finally over and they had won. 
Kicker John Hall confessed that he dreamed "the whole off­season" about making a game­winning kick to beat his old team in the NFL's season opener. He did just that Thursday night, nailing a 33-yarder with five sec­onds left to give the Washington Redskins a 16-13 victory over the New York Jets. 
"It's pretty much one of those stupid things you do when you're done practicing," said Hall, who also had kicks of 50 and 22 yards. "You make up those situa­tions where you have this or that -and I'm sure you know which team it was against." 
Guard Randy Thomas, who has spoken politely of his ex­teammates, snatched a moment of glee as he watched the ball sail through the uprights. 
"To see those guys with their faces down when the kick went in, it was a lovely feeling," Thomas said. 
The other two J etSkins -the spoils of an audacious offseason raid by Redskins owner Dan Snyder -did their parts in an instant rivalry created by the off­season player tug-of-war. Laveranues Coles danced and scowled his way for 106 yards receiving on five catches -all in the first half, and Chad Morton was solid in his debut as the Redskins' return man. 
"Thank goodness Mr. Snyder went out and got us a heck of a kicker," said coach Steve Spurrier, who went through three kickers last year. "The way our kicking situation was last year, I don't see us winning this game." 
Patrick Ramsey, not the most nimble quarterback, set up the winning score with a 24-yard scramble to New York's 31-yard line. Ladell Betts carried three times for 17 yards to wind down the clock for Hall's attempt. 
"It's tough because when it's tied up, you'd like to win it," New York coach Herman Edwards said. "For the most part we stayed in the game. We weathered the storm early, got some turnovers but had to kick field goals." 
Ramsey completed 17 of 23 passes for 185 yards, but only 29 yards came after halftime as Spurrier's Fun 'n' Gun offense went surprisingly conservative. Ramsey also turned over the ball twice in the second half. setting up two Jets field goals that tied the game. 
"When we threw the ball in the second half, nothing good was happening," Spurrier said. "I got sort of afraid to go back there. Our defense was playing so well, we just put in on the ground." 
Vinny Testaverde, returning to the starting job after a presea­son wrist injury to Chad Pennington, completed 15 of 24 passes for 105 yards for New York. 
Of the four ex-Jets, Coles was the only one to voice any real animosity toward his former team during training camp. He found Hall's game-winner to be a perfect ending. 
"It just goes to show that sometimes the grass is greener on the other side," Coles said. 
Redskins linebacker La Var Arrington was a terror, chasing down players in the flat to turn potential long gains into short ones. His stats -six tackles and one batted pass -didn't begin to show the difference he made as the Jets were held to 158 total yards in the NFL's second annual Thursday night opener. 
The J etSkins made their pres­ence known right away. Morton returned the opening kickoff 23 yards. Coles made a 25-yard catch over the middle and cele­brated with a mini-dance. Thomas helped pave the way for the 12-play drive capped by Hall's first field goal. 
But the Jets went all the way on their opening drive, with Edwards successfully gambling on fourth-and-goal from the 1­yard line. He took top rusher Curtis Martin out and gave the ball to LaMont Jordan, who leaped over the pile and into the end zone. 
Spurrier did his own fourth­and-1 trick on the next drive, with Betts converting with a short run at the Jets 27. Darnerien McCants finished the drive with a 4-yard TO catch to put Washington ahead 10-7. 
"I want simplicity. With nine ATMs on campus, Notre Dan1e Federal Credit Union understands tny wants and my needs." 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 

to be better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 



r-----------------~


: WELCOME BACK: 

:  STUDENTS AND FACULTY!  :  
: I 1  in Notre Dame Specials!  ! I 1  
: I  Bring this coupon into Kinko's and receive the following discounts:  : I  
I I I I I I I  I I I I I I I  

I 2202-C SOUTH BEND AVE. • PH: 271-0398 I 
I 
Discounts not applicable with any other offer. Must present coupon when placing order. Offer does not I onclude Express Pay"IM coptes or computer time/pnnts. Coupon expires on 9/30/o:J.




·-----------------· 
Friday, September 5, 2003

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Erickson relishes opening day atmosphere 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -The trip from Montana's Billings Central High School to the San Francisco 49ers took more than 30 years, but one thing hasn't changed. 
Dennis Erickson still loves opening day. 
"I don't care where you are, that feeling then as a head coach is no different than it is now," he said. 
Erickson, who won two national championships in a stellar college coaching career, will be on the sideline at Candlestick Park on Sunday to begin his second shot at an NFL title. San Francisco faces the Chicago Bears in Erickson's first game since being hired to keep the 49ers on the path to title contention. 
Erickson's wife and family might be nervous, but the coach doesn't expect butterflies-only anticipation. He doesn't even plan to say anything profound to his players before his debut. 
·"My speech is everything I do during the week in prepara­tion," he said. "I think that the pregame speeches are highly overrated. If they're not ready by the time we come out of that locker room or by the time I get to talk to them, then we have a problem. 
"Knute Rockne, I'm not. If we had a Gipper, then we'd be all right." 
That cool professionalism is just one reason 49ers owner John York and general manager Terry Donahue decided Erickson could keep the team on track after York fired Steve Mariucci last January. 
While Erickson enjoys his new beginning, Chicago coach Dick Jauron might be nearly out of fresh starts. The Bears plunged from an NFC-best 13-3 record in 2001 to a 4-12 mark last sea­son, and Jauron hasn't delivered a playoff victory in his four sea­sons running the team. 
His job security is a topic of major speculation in Chicago, but the coach is used to it. 
"Every year is a big year for our team," Jauron said. "We don't look at any year or any game as being more particularly vital than another. Our goals are always the same: to win that week, and to play well that week." 
The Bears are making their first trip to San Francisco since 2000, when Owens set an NFL record with 20 receptions in Jerry Rice's final home game with the 49ers. Chicago avenged that 17-0 loss with a 37-31 over­time victory at Soldier Field in 2001, winning on Mike Brown's interception return for a touch­down. 
The 49ers' offense under Erickson is expected to have key differences from the schemes Chicago faced in the teams' ear­lier meetings. San Francisco will use more downfield throws and aggressive play. 
The same is expected of the Bears and new quarterback Kordell Stewart, who has prom­ised to make the Bears more versatile. Stewart arrived from Pittsburgh as a free agent 3.fter eight up-and-down seasons. 
While San Francisco searches for continuity, Chicago hopes to change nearly everything about last season. The 49ers believe they can maintain their steady revival, but the Bears think last season was an aberration caused by injuries and their one-year exile downstate while their stadium was rebuilt. 
"The main thing is that we are healthy," linebacker Brian Urlacher said. "We're back at Soldier Field. We're confident, and we have a new quarterback who is confident." 


Limbaugh makes ESPN debut on pregame show 
I 
r Associated Press priateness of Limbaugh's first He then got into a good­Umbaugh also didn't wait long back Vinny Testaverde would I I name. natured debate with Berman to stir the pot. He claimed the perform well while starter Chad II Rush Limbaugh made his "You've got a football name," regarding the status of the show's analysts-Tom Jackson, Pennington is hurt merely
i, 
'I ESPN debut at a fitting location Berman said in the broadcast Buffalo Bills of the early 1990s Michael Irvin and Steve Young because he was a nice guy that 1; -Washington, D.C. leading up to the season's open­as a dynasty. -were predicting Jets quarter-the analysts like personally. 
'I Actually, it was Landover, Md., ing game between the New York in the parking lot of FedEx Field Jets and the Washington but it was still familiar territory Redskins. for the right-wing radio host Limbaugh then gave a spoken best known as the host of the essay regarding the lure of foot­politically focused "Rush ball and the hold it has on its Limbaugh Show." fans -mixing in just the "This is sort of like the fulfill­faintest bit of politics. ment of a dream for me," "Essentially my friends, foot­Limbaugh said Thursday night ball is something you can invest after being introduced on total passion in without conse­ESPN's "Sunday NFL quence. Try that with a woman Countdown." Host Chris Berman or another man, whatever," even commented on the appro-Limbaugh said. 
( 
'. 



STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME

a,,.,,,,, 
HOLY CROSS • 271-7272
' 


Mon-Thu 12-12 Fr, Sat 11 am-3am Sun 12pm-1 am 

Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 
r----------• r-----------.. ·-----------..
:LATE NIGHT: :one Large One: I I 
•One Large One. 

I SPECIAL I 1 Topping for 1 I T . I
opp1ng,

I AFTER10pm I I $8.99 I 1 1 
I . I • Breadsticks •
I or I

1 2 Orders of Breadst1cks 1 
I I 1 and a 2 Liter 1 

I and 2 Liter Coke I 1 2 Large One • 
1 1 : Coke Product : 
I Product I : Toppings : 
I $12.99 I 
.. ___________ ..

I $ 7.97 I 1 $14.99 1 I I 
·----------· ·-----------· 
Offers expire 10-28-03 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 23
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Ramirez struggles not limited to health issues 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -When Manny 
Ramirez left one of his prodi­
gious, uncashed paychecks lying 
around, or when he held up a 
game to look for a $15,000 dia­
mond earring, the response was 
always a shrug and a smile and 
the same expression: "That's 
Manny." 
These days, though, the smile 
has disappeared. 
No longer resigned to the 
eccentricities of their $160 mil­
lion slugger, the Red Sox are try­
ing to lure Ramirez out of his 
own little world and into the one 
more traditionally inhabited by 
ballplayers 
"You can have the ability to 
play this game, but if you don't 
work ... you're not going to get 
what you want," said Red Sox 
first baseman David Ortiz, per­
haps Ramirez's closest friend on 
the team. "He'll be back. 
Everybody knows what the guy 
can do." 
Ramirez was benched this past 
week after he missed a crucial 
series against New York with a 
sore throat and fever but man­
aged, in the middle of it, to pull 
himself out of bed to reminisce 
with Yankees infielder Enrique 
Wilson about their Cleveland 
days. On Sunday, Ramirez didn't 
show up to for an appointment 
with the Red Sox doctor, and 
when he joined the team on 
Monday he sat on the bench but 
said he was "too weak" to pinch­
hit. 
Declining to comment directly 
on Ramirez and his illness, gen­. eral manager Theo Epstein told the Boston Herald, "We really appreciate the way Johnny Damon sucked it up and got in 
the lineup. That's the kind of effort we need from everyone on the club." 
Billed as a laid-back hitting machine who acts the same whether he's 0-for-4 or 4-for-4, Ramirez's demeanor was seen as a benefit when then-general manager Dan Duquette signed him to an eight-year, $160 mil­lion contract in the winter of 2000. At the time, it was thought that a player who could ignore the catcalls from the Fenway bleachers after he misplayed a fly ball was the guy you'd want if, a couple of innings later, he was batting with a chance to win the game. 
Sure enough, after leaving a cocoon in Cleveland to come to the crucible of Boston, he hit .306 with 41 homers and 125 RBis in 2001. Last year, he won the AL batting title with a . 346 average while hitting 33 homers and driving in 107 runs. 
But Ramirez is so laid back at times, he's sometimes viewed by sportswriters, the fans and occa­sionally his teammates as apa­thetic. 
Ramirez has not talked to reporters for most of the season, but others in baseball steadfastly defend him. 
''I'm a big fan of Manny Ramirez. I think ifyou ask any of the Latin guys who have inter­acted with him, they would say the same thing," Carlos Pena said. "With American guys, he seems to be a little shy. He's been nothing but a humble gen­tleman with me. 
"I know he's a superstar, but once he said, 'Carlos. Keep an eye on me. I think I'm pulling off the ball at the plate. Let me know what you see.' Then I was thinking, 'You're joking, right?' But he was dead serious. Here's a guy that has done incredible things and he's asking Carlos Pen a to see if he's pulling his shoulder? That showed me how humble he is." 
Baltimore manager Mike Hargrove said Ramirez always .played hard ·for him in Cleveland. 
As much as that, though, Ramirez is remembered there for the time he asked a sports writer if he could borrow $60,000 -on the spot -so he and pitcher Julian Tavarez could buy motorcycles. Or the day police were chasing O.J. Simpson and Ramirez thought they were chasing Indians pitch­er Chad Ogea, whose name is pronounced "O.J." 
Since coming to Boston, it has been more of the same. · 
During the 2001 season, Ramirez had a falling out with manager Joe Kerrigan and left the team for two days. That win­ter, Kerrigan went to Ramirez's house in Florida to drop off a videotape, but the slugger snubbed h1m. 
Last year, he violated baseball etiquette when he barely left the batter's box on a groundout. He apologized to his teammates ­and went on a hitting tear that clinched the batting title for him. 
With Ramirez on the books for another five years and more than $100 million, the Red Sox couldn't get rid of him that easi­ly, even if they wanted to. But there a,re worse things: Heading into this weekend's series with the AL East-leading Yankees, Ramirez was batting .318 with 31 homers and 90 RBis. 
After all, that's Manny, too. 



C II 


8pm and 10:30pm in Debartolo 101 
OilY81 TONIGHTI coming up on Saturdav: 
COI18dV HVPDIIiSI Dale K 
Washington Hall at 9pm (FREEn). 
Old s,chiOI · 

8pm and 10:30p·m in Debartolo 101 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Dusty Baker and Tony La Russa met for six min­utes behind the batting cage Thursday, one day after a heated shouting match at Wrigley Field. 
Their informal get-together ended with a handshake, but no one knows if they totally settled their differences a·fter their latest blowup. 
"He has an opinion and I have an opinion. What was right, what was wrong. It's a big series and a lot of emotions are high," Baker said. · 
Baker and La Russa, two of the most respected managers in the majors, got into the screaming match Wednesday after Cubs starter Matt Clement was hit by a pitch from Dan Haren -who had been hit by Clement's pitch the previous inning. 
Thesday night, Chicago's Kerry Wood twice knocked down Cardinals pitcher Matt Morris but didn't hit him. Last week in St. Louis, Wood hit Albert Pujols. 
Baker began pointing and ges­turing toward La Russa and their exchange escalated. They also had a screaming match last year in the opener of the NL champi­onship series when Baker was managing the Giants. 
Wood and La Russa have been exchanging barbs in newspapers this week over Wood's tight pitch­ing. La Russa said Thursday he was just defending his te'am. 
"When somebody says stuff like they are saying, you respond to it," he said. 
"I can understand his and their frustrations of being tired of going and eating dirt, too. Nobody likes to be going down .... I'll take care of mine, you take care ofyours." 

GRAND OPENING TODAY 
GOLDEN DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 
54533 Terrace lana South Bend, IN 46635 [US 23 next to SubwavJ 
Tel: [5141211-8899 We Deliver 
Fax: 271-3399 for manus 

-------~---~--~ 
----~-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------... 
page 24 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 5, 2003 

I I I' I 

FREE INCOMING CELLULAR CALLS  
400  Cellular Minutes (outgoing)  
Unlimited  Direct Connect"" Minutes  
Free  Nationwide Long Distance  
$5999  A Month  

ASK ABOUT ADDITIONAL MOBILE FEATURES m Email Services m Two-Way Messaging m AOL• Instant Messenger"' service 
AOL and Instant Messenger are registered trademari<s or trademarks of America Online, Inc. 

Taxes, fees and other charges apply. 
· , Minutes from Campus ASK ABOUT OUR ·. Across from Nick's Patio · SPECIAL 1639 N. Ironwood Drive NOTRE DAME/ rr~ 1,,iill~~ South Bend, IN 46635 
SAINT MARY'S 
(574) 243-3818 phone 
OFFERS!! 
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE 

Offers expire September 30, 2003. Nationwide D~ect Connect (als use the Dre<t Connect minutes in your pion orxl incur on odditiollill access charge of either: (i) 1OC /minute mul~p~ed by the number of porti<iponts on tile coli; or (n) omonfh~ flol fee if you ~gn up for U~imited Nationwide Direct Connect occess. Nanonwide Direct Connect coils ore charged to the call ininator. Charges for Nationwide Direct Connect access w~l opp~ beginning Augustl, 2003. Availability of service su~ect to rcll-out schedule. Free l11coming Calling Plan: Requires lwG-yeor 
·, 
service agreement and credit approval. 5ZOO eor~ termination fee opp~es. Set11p fee of $35 per phone, up to 570 moximt.m per account appfies. Free Incoming coils ore col~ received while in !he U.S. on the Nextel Notional Network. Free Nationwide Long Distooce includes domestic long distonce only. Direct Coooect minutes ore ovo~o~e in your loml c~lillg oreo on~. Unlimited Direct Connect mnutes do not ilc~de Group Conned col~. whi<h me 50.15/min. Direct Conned ond Group Connect coorges ore cokuloted by mulhpl~ng the miootes of use, number of porticiponls ond the opp~cob~ role. Group Conned con 011~ work with members of the some network whi~ in the~ home market. Nationwide serrice is not ovoiloble for Group Connect cols. C~lulor overoge is $0.40/min. (~lulor calls round to the next full mioole. Unused minutes do not ocrurnulote to the next bAling cycle. Nights ore 9:00pm to 7:00am. Weekends begin Fri. ot 9:00pm and end Mon. ot7:00am. Additio1al charges may cpply and may vory by morkel, induding stole and federol taxes, aUniversal SMARr DRIVERs S81Vice Assessment of either I.20% or .75%, olRS ch11ge of opprox..07%, osloi!Hequired E911 fee, and oFederal Programs Cost Recovery fee of $1.55 or $2.83 for one or 11101e of the following: E911, number pooling ond wir~ess numbel porto~6ty. Otktr Ter11s: lau wm Nextel reserves the right lo modify or terminate these offers atony lime. Offers moy not be cvoi~~e in oil morkels. Other conditions moy opp~. Reod setvice agreement for details. ©2003 Nextel (ommunicooons, Inc. All r~hls reserved. Nextel, the Nextellogo, Ored Connect .. and the Driver Sofety logo ore hodemorks, service marks ond/or registered marks of Nextel Communicllfions, Inc. MOTOROLA ond the Stylized MLogo ore registered in the U.S. Potent &Trademark Office. All other product or service names me the property of their respe<live owners. 
Friday, September 5, 2003 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NCAA 
-
Claretts consider filing suit against the NFL 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Maurice Clarett and his mother are considering suing the NFL for a chance to enter the league a year early, the family's attorney said Thursday. 
That's one of several options for the sus­pended Ohio State tailback, according to Alan Milstein, a lawyer in Pennsauken, N.J. 
He painted a picture of a contentious relationship between Ohio State officials and Michelle Clarett and her son, the lead·­ing rusher for last season's national cham­pionship team. 
Clarett's mother is "distraught" at the way her son is being treated by Ohio State, Milstein said. He called Clarett "a good kid who has tried to cooperate" with investiga­tors and university officials but is being held accountable for discrepancies in his statements after almost 11 hours of inter­views over at least four days. 
"We're looking at all the options," Milstein said when asked if the Claretts might sue to allow Maurice to enter the 2004 draft. "It's obviously one of the options." .. 
The NFL does not permit players to be eligible for its draft until they have been out of high school at least three years. Clarett is a sophomore and, under the rule, could not be selected until the 2005 draft at the earliest. 
Milstein said he did not believe that a court test of the NFL rule would take years and years. NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue has said the league will fight any underclassman who tries to overturn the rule. 
"When a player decides to do that, I think it's going to be a legal issue and decided rather quickly by the court," Milstein said. "There's no facts in dispute. It's just, is the rule lawful or not?" 
Clarett, one of Ohio State's top players during its run to the national title last sea­son, is suspended from the team while the NCAA and the university investigate his behavior off the field. 
Ohio State athletic director Andy Geiger said Clarett was suspended because of allegations of accepting improper benefits and for misleading investigators. 
Ohio State has been working for the past two weeks on a response to "several pages" of allegations sent by the NCAA to the university. Geiger said then that he thought the university would have a response fmished last week. 

Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett celebrates from the sidelines during the Buckeyes' season-opening 28-9 victory over Washington. Clarett and his mother are considering suing the NFL to allow him to enter the draft a year early. 
-
BCS takes beating in hearings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Just two weeks into the new college foot­ball season, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee said Thursday that the system in which a national collegiate champion is determined needs to be changed. 
"I think you're throwing the baby out with the bath water by allowing this to continue," Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said of the NCAA's Bowl Championship Series, which excludes many schools from automatic bids to compete in the lucrative bowl postseason. 
But even one of the most vocal opponents said Congress should not get involved. 
"Whatever issues may exist, it really. should be worked among the university presidents without the intervention of Congress," Tulane University's president, Scott Cowen, said in advance of Thursday's hearing. He founded an anti-BCS organization designed to get schools such as Tulane a better shot at one of the big year-end bowl games. 
Former NFL quarterback Steve Young, who played in college at Brigham Young and for the San Francisco 49ers, among other professional teams, said the dis­parities hurt recruiting since athletes will sometimes choose to attend schools with a better shot of going to a bowl game. 
"In soccer, basketball, base­ball, tennis, golf, etc., equal access is granted. Not so in foot­ball," he said. 
In the system's five-year histo­ry, no team from a non-BCS con­ference has played in a BCS bowl game. BYU has been the only school from a non-BCS confer­ence other than Notre Dame to win a national championship since Army in 1945. 
Cowen's Presidential Coalition for Athletic Reform and BCS rep­resentatives will meet Monday in Chicago to discuss the series' future. The current BCS contract expires after the 2005 season. 
Participants hope solutions will emerge within the next six months to a year. Proposals expected to be brought to the table include adding another one or two bowl games to the sched­ule. 
Neither supporters nor detrac­tors of the bowl system expect legislation to result, although the threat of an antitrust suit brought by a non-BCS school looms. 
BCS supporters say the system does not violate antitrust rules because it is open to all schools through two at-large bids. Cowen said Thursday that an antitrust suit is possible if upcoming talks with BCS officials do not yield satisfactory results. 


Dennehy case moves forward on 2 fronts 
Associated Press 
WACO, Texas -The investi­gation surrounding a slain Baylor University basketball player is moving forward on two fronts, with Texas Gov. Rick Perry signing a warrant seeking extradition of Patrick Dennehy's ex-roommate and members of a university com­mittee giving prosecutors audi()tapes detailing the former head coach's attempted cover­up of the victim's finances. 
A warrant signed Wednesday by Perry seeks the extradition of Carlton Dotson, the former roommate, from his home state of Maryland. Dotson, 21, was indicted last month by a McLennan County, Texas grand jury in the murder of Dennehy, also 21. The indictment alleges that Dotson shot Dennehy on or about June 12. The Baylor for­ward's body was found in a field near a rock quarry south­east of Waco on July 25. 
Dennehy died of two gunshot wounds to the head, according to an autopsy report. 
The Baylor committee inves-· tigating allegations of NCAA violations in Baylor's basketball program turned over the audiotapes, recorded four weeks ago by former assistant coach Abar Rouse. On the secretly recorded tapes, former Bears head basketball coach Dave Bliss is heard trying to portray Dennehy as a drug dealer in an effort to conceal questions about the player's finances. 

THAI RESTAURANT 
"We invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, thar will excite your five senses, sweet, sour, salty, spicy and natural." 
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am -2pm 
Dinner: Man-Sat 5pm .-9pm 
211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 NOW HIRING 

-

\ 
t \ 
\ 
~ 
'1\ 
!1 
,':1.., 
:i 
Page 26 
~: 

I I I I 
• 
J 
: l I 
I 
I 
>­

I I 
~t 
i) around the dial
(I 
' 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Pirates at Braves (game 1) 3:30 p.m., TBS Pirates at Braves (game 2) 6:30 p.m., TBS Red Sox at Yankees 6 p.m., ESPN Indians at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Oregon St. at Fresno St. 9 p.m., ESPN 

Co1v\PILED l-·R0/\-1. THE OBSERVER \VIR£ SERVICES Friday, September 5, 2003 
U.S. OPEN 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The U.S. Open went from the sub­merged to the ridiculous Thursday. 
On a fourth straight day of rain and start-stop­start-stop action, organiz­ers scrambling to finish the tournament on time were deprived of a show court because the Grandstand had absorbed too much water and couldn't be dried enough for play. 
Oh, and a women's fourth-round match that began Monday finally fin­ished, but not before being interrupted when the chair umpire was hit and hurt by a ballboy's throw. 
There was good news: The weather cleared up enough for 2001 champi­on Lleyton Hewitt, French Open winner Juan Carlos Ferrero, No. 5-seeded Guillermo Coria, No. 12 Sjeng Schalken, No. 13 David Nalbandian and No. 22 Younes El Aynaoui to reach the quarterfinals. Nalbandian knocked off Wimbledon champion Roger Federer 3-6, 7-6 (1), 6-4, 6-3. 
And No. 1-seeded Kim Clijsters and 1998 Open champion Lindsay Davenport set up a semifi­nal meeting. Clijsters beat No. 5 Amelie Mauresmo 6-1, 6-4, while Davenport defeated No. 24 Paola Suarez 6-4, 6-0. ­
There even was time for the twice-postponed Michael Chang retirement ceremony. 
'Still, not your average big-time sporting event, huh? 
"This was the weirdest situation that I've ever experienced in a Grand Slam tournament," two­time major champion Mary Pierce said. "It was really, really weird to wait four days and play 20 minutes to finish the match." 
She lost 7-6 (2), 6-1 to No. 7 Anastasia Myskina, who later was scheduled to return to the court and face No. 2 Justine Henin­Hardenne in a quarterfi­nal. 
Also asked to play more than once Thursday was No. 29 Francesca Schiavone, a 6-7 (5), 7-5, 6-2 winner over No. 15 Ai Sugiyama. Schiavone was supposed to play a quar­terfinal against No. 6 Jennifer Capriati at night. 
At least tennis was being played, though: A total of only four matches were completed from Monday through Wednesday. 

IN BRIEF  
Armstrong to divorce his wife of  Miguel Indurain.  the first time last season, was  
five years  Jogi Muller, a spokesman for  injured while blocking on a special  
AUSTIN, Texas Lance  Armstrong's U.S. Postal Service ~earn  teams drill. He will be replaced by  
Armstrong and his wife are working  told The Associated Press, the cyclist  backup Nate Webster, who will make  
on a divorce settlement after trying  and his wife attempted to patch up  his second career start in Monday  
to reconcile during the summer in  their marriage during the entire  night's season opener at  
hopes of saving their five-year mar­ summer.  Philadelphia.  
riage.  "But somehow, now in the month  "The reality of it is, he'll probably  
The five-time Tour de France  after the Tour, it just didn't work  miss a few games," said coach Jon  
champion and his wife, Kristin, sep­ out," Muller said. "They tried proba­ Gruden, who didn't estimate when  
arated two weeks ago, soon after  bly for the children, for themselves."  Quarles might return.  
moving back to Austin from Girona,  -Armstrong and his wife have three  "Knowing the kind of kid he is,  
Spain. They are staying in separate  children. They announced in  he'll be knocking on the door tomor­ 
homes in Austin.  February they had been separated  row morning trying to play. But he  
"The craziest thing is, we're closer  for a month, then reconciled.  has fractured his forearm, he'll miss  
now and better friends than ever  this game ... and he'll probably miss  
before," Lance Armstrong said in Thursday's Austin American­ Quarles likely out several games with forearm injury  a couple following that." Nose tackle Anthony McFarland  
Statesman. "We're truly committed  TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay middle  missed four games last season after  
to maintaining a good relationship,  linebacker Shelton Quarles likely  breaking his right forearm in a  
but not a marriage."  will be sidelined for several games  game at Carolina.  
Armstrong overcame cancer on his  after breaking his left forearm  Quarles had his best pro season a  
way to becoming one of his sport's  Thursday in the Buccaneers' final  year ago when he moved from  
greatest riders. His fifth straight vic­ practice in pads before the regular  strongside linebacker to the middle  
tory in the Tour de France in July  season.  after the Bucs lost Jamie Duncan to  
tied the record held by Spain's  Quarles, a Pro Bowl selection for  free agency.  

Friday, September 5, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Preseason rankings reveal several career highs 
Special to The Observer was 64th. In doubles, Salas and· the season 40th. Leslie deliv­Connelly and Salas played the Big East Championship title sophomore Lauren Connelly ered nine wins over ranked together most of last season, match tied 3-3 with just one were 37th and the team of jun­opponents, including victories compiling a 17-9 record and doubles match remaining on 
A pair of Notre Dame singles ior Sarah Jane Connelly and against Duke's Amanda being ranked 59th in the final the court, the team pulled out players and two doubles teams 
sophomore Kristina Stastny Johnson, who was ninth in pre­rankings. The team finished the an 8-6 victory to top Miami and gained career-high listings in was 44th. season rankings, and William & season strong with consecutive clinch the championship for the the Intercollegiate Tennis After missing 14 months due Mary's Candice Fuchs. upsets of top-15 teams in NCAA Iri_sh.
Association's to a shoulder Salas moved up to the top two tournament action, knocking Georgia's Agata Cioroch was 
preseason 
injury, Leslie singles positions in 2002-03 off Missouri's 15th-ranked pair the unanimous No. 1 in singles,women's sin­returned in after playing mostly Nos. 4 and before topping the No. 3 team while Stanford's Lauren gles and dou­
January 2003 5 as a sophomore. She finished from Vanderbilt. Barnikow and Erin Burdette bles rankings 
to have an with a 24-15 record, including Despite only playing eight gained every first-place vote in released impressive 9-5 at No. 2 singles. Among her matches together a year ago, doubles to secure the top spot. today. spring sea­six career wins over ranked Connelly and Stastny earned The Irish open their season 
Senior son, finishing opponents was a victory over mention in the preseason rank­Sept. 2 5-28 in Peachtree City,Caylan Leslie 17-11, Northwestern's Cristelle Grier, ings. The pair first teamed Ga., in the adidas Invitational. 
led the way, 
including 9-5 who was fourth in preseason together in late March and The lone home event for Notre ranked 26th Salas at No. 1 sin-rankings. Salas was ranked as played as a team the remainder Dame this fall is an exhibition in singles, gles. Ranked high as 65th before finishing of the season, winning on five match against Southern while classmate Alicia Salas as high as 33rd, she finished the season 98th. occasions at Nos. 2 and 3. With Califo!'nia on Oct. 1 7. 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Haddock, D'Amico top Irish rankings 
Special to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame singles play­ers and one doubles team were listed in the Intercollegiate TeiJ.nis Association's preseason 
men's singles and doubles rankings, released today. 
Senior Luis Haddock and junior Brent D'Amico each earned career-


high singles D'Amico listings at 64th and tOOth, respectively. D'Amico and senior Matthew Scott also broke into the doubles rankings for the first time, at 50th. 
Haddock played No. 1 singles for the Irish in 2002-03. Overall, he was 21-14 in singles to 

improve his c a r e e r record to 71­
30. He was ranked as high as 72nd throughout the season before fin­ishing 
Haddock 1 0 2 n d . 
Haddock has a career 12-13 record against 

ranked players, including seven wins a year ago. After playing singles in only 
. four matches as a freshman, D'Amico made the jump to No. 3 a year ago and excelled. He won his first six matches at that posi­tion and finished 11-7 there. In all, he was 21-18, including four victories over ranked opponents. D'Amico, who earned his first career ranking of 118th late in the season before dropping out of the final listings, was honored at the end of the season as the team's MVP. D'Amico and Scott paired together for two matches in fall '02 before teaming up through­
out the spring at No. 1 doubles. They compiled a 13-10 record, including 12-9 in dual matches. The pair had two wins over ranked opponents. 
Baylor's Benedikt Dorsch was the unanimous No. 1 in singles, while Rice's team of twins Richard and William Barker gained every first-place vote in doubles to secure the top spot. 
The Irish open their season a week from Thursday, heading to Houston for the Crowne Plaza Invitational Sept. 11. Notre Dame has two home events this fall -the Oct. 3-5 Tom Fallon Invitational and an exhibition match with USC Oct. 17. 

WATCH OUT ... 
NATE'S TURNING 
30! 
If you see Nate Ebeling '96 on campus this weekend, wish him a Happy Birthday! 

NOW HIRING. 

.. Slmnds ovu! Coukl you me some• Cltlcasb? 
~'~••·~ (M-'kNer~·mt~e~m~~ N:tt)ff'.n~r~. •Q'f·~~~-~d!.cai{Ml.w.~.w ~·Wt8atd#;;..'<i!~~-;~~t 
~'*~ *'k•A*~~·· hit! ~·C=wH.~t ~~ 
Pleaso opply in penon: •..· .
~ 

.Am.f3fl~$ NaGH~ ORW. & 8AR · . . . : 3703 t:~.~~ ~· ~-N @l$ . . . . · · · 
~(¥.· . Ml>l't~$~oli4-·~Uht 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belle's seek year's 1st victory 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball 
team is crossing the border, in 
hopes of bringing back the 
spoils of victory. 
The Belles travel to Wooster 
College in Ohio this weekend to 
participate in the 2nd Annual 
Kilt Classic. The eight-team 
tournament will take place Sept. 
5 and 6 and features schools 
from Ohio, Pennsylvania and 
Indiana. 
Saint"Mary's (0-2, 0-1 MIAA} 
will compete in the second 
bracket, against Heidelberg 
(Ohio) College (2-2), LaRoche 
(Ohio) College (0-0} and 
Westminster (Pa.} College (0-4}. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek 
believes this will be a competi­
tive tournament, and one that 
will help prepare her team for 
the MIAA season. 
''I'm hoping to have everybody 
healthy," she said. "I have no 
doubt in my mind that we can 
win this tourney." 
The team is hoping to have 
libero Anne Cusack and outside 
attacker Alison Shevik back at 
100 percent. Cusack missed the 
Albion game with strep throat 
and Shevik played only back 
row after sustaining an ankle 
injury. 
Sophomore middle hitter Michelle Turley, who joined the team after transferring from Marist College, is probably out for the season after injuring her foot earlier this year. 
. Despite the injuries, the Belles 
played valiantly in their loss to 
Albion to open MIAA play 

-
Wednesday, winning the first set 
but eventually falling to the 
Britons in five. 
The Belles will compete in at least two matches Friday and at least one Saturday. They may play additional matches depend­-.. ing on their performance at the tournament. 
"It's going to take 100 percent from the team to get this done," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

page 28 Friday, September 5, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC GoLF 

After strong opening, Belles ready for another test 

ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Coach Mark Hamilton and his Saint Mary's gold team wanted to finish in the top five out of the 19 team field at the Ferris State Invitational last weekend. 
Led by Julie Adams' sixth place finish, the Belles accomplished that goal by finishing with a 663 team total for fifth place overall. 
The team now takes on its fust head-to-head competitor when they travel to Illinois to challenge Knox College at 12:30 p.m. Saturday. 
Tourney 

. I 
continued from page 32

\ 
\ 
-~ Dame won the match in five games. Houston was 19-13 last 
~ 
season, finishing seventh in ~· Conference USA, and return four 
: ' 
letter winners. However, this 

/) 
year will see the Cougars look to .....' freshmen for help at the net. Saturday's game will be anoth­
.' 
i 
)) er test for the Irish, as they face the preseason No. 23 Texas Longhorns. Texas (1-2) looks to
~ 
rebound after a tough opening at

\ ._
·, the Mizuno Invitational last 
\~
\. weekend. The 2002 season saw 
\\ \' the Longhorns go 23-9 and reach the second round of the NCAA tournament. They were one win away from finishing in the top 25 teams. The Longhorns return eight letter winners, including five starters from last year's 

~~­
team. 

I 1 ;I 
Both games will showcase the new Irish offense, led by setters

\) I I 
Kristen Kinder and Kelly Burrell. Kinder, a senior, is the veteran, 

!i' 

The Belles worked hard in the off-season, and that practice has already begun to show dividends. Hamilton said the team has really come along well in the early year. 
"We're starting to see the fruits of our labor," Hamilton said. "We're real close to putting our­selves over the top." 
· Knox has one of the better golf teams in its conference and played solidly in its first match of the season. In the BUC Classic, the team fired a 386 to finish fourth out of seven teams. They improved in their next invitation­al, taking fourth again in I.C. 
while Burrell, a sophomore, is gaining valuable experience along the way. Besides Loomis and Kelbley, this duo will look for senior Katie Neff and sophomore Lauren Brewster to help offen­sively, as both were .forces last weekend in Malibu. 
The Irish begin the weekend Tournament. Crystal Fox and Allyson Cooper, who both fired 86 to finish in a tie for second place, paced Knox. The team's 375­stroke fmish was 11 better than its first tournament finish. 
The Belles will look to put together another solid team effort, much like they did in their first invitational. Besides Adams' 156 stroke fmish, defending D-Ill national champion Stefanie Simmerman took 28th place with a two round score of 87-81. Chrissy Dunham finished 33rd, followed by teammate Megan Mattia's 37th place finish. 
Friday at 5 pm. Saturday's game is at 7 pm. Notre Dame makes its home debut Tuesday night against Valparaiso. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Suz-man, aka the Knitmaster: Hope your B­day is better than finding Nessy 



) 
~ 
t 
I I 
I 
l
I, I 
I. I I~ I I'
,· 

Get, T:he Obs,erver· 
fll·"" 
in your lnbox 
~I 
·.-'J{ 
~f 
R.,ltrt8r now· on our ~ta and a~mie•lly r~ve
/i
i. 
an Eman Edition of the paper· with ·eve.t'f fl1eiH h~5Uc. 
! 
Hi5ildth·•r: ~5 " Cottage Sportm ~-Ca~us C.aht!n~ 
( 
l 
local~~ D•Uy Horoscope
I 
)' 
i 

f 
~ 
~ I 
www.ndsmcobserver..com 
f 
~ . 
' 
I. 
j I I 
Saint Mary's will have added pressure this season as head-to­head matches begin, because the team placed fourth in the nation at the D-Ill national champi­onships last season. 
The have also had the luxury of not playing in any competitive 

: 'nt · ··
· · 
' 
1 .1"%. n
v11Ce~ . · it. ~ 

Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic of Tea Joseph xhmidfs Chocolate from San Francisco 
Niu~"i-f:i 7a:m·-:nom/Sat l~l:am·mt<m (SP£-·dill Bm.::'5 tor\c{om:"l't.td<m· Ev(nt'sat: MQtris Pb'f(;·nnin~ Arts c~:rM:i) 

133-Cafe NO\V Hiring 
GRAND INDIAN BUFFET 
onSR 933ilNorlhVllaUe Malacrossfrlld10lel& 
DEliCIOUS INDIAN AND PAKISTANI FOOD 
Dinner Bonet 11am -2:30pm 
lunchBunet 
4-9pm 
$5.49 
$6.99 
OPEN TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 
273-9992 
----------------------------------------------------------------------,I 
Universitv Hair Stvlist 
Open M-Th 9-9 Fri 9-7 Sat 9-4 
University Hair Stylist welcomes you to our full service unisex salon celebrating our 25th year on campus! Located in the lower level of LaFortune, our 11 stylists offer great hair care at reasonable prices. We also stock your favorite hair care products such as American Crew, Paul Mitchell, Head Games, Ice, and Biolage. 
Freshmen--$2 off your first haircut! (through Oct. 1) 
Appointments Recommended but Walk.:.ins Welcome 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
rounds this week and should be fresh for their match against Knox. 
The Belles next play at Monmouth on· sept. 12. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
·e·cn.. ,... ~ (· rv.,-;:::,. ~,
I 

Friday, September 5, 2003 page 29
The Observer + SPORTS 

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish look to build on last season's success 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish begin their season at the Valparaiso Invitational Friday, they embark upon what they hope will be a continuation of last sea­son's successes. which culminated with a third place finish in the NCAA Championship. 
Friday's race will not feature the team's top athletes, to give other runners some key race experience, while also allowing time for rest for those who had track seasons that extended into the summer. 
Nevertheless, the Irish are taking today's race seriously. 
"I think that any race you run is really important.". sophomore Stephanie Madia said. "I think that for now [Coach Tim Connelly] is just giving us some time to recover. Molly [Huddle] and Lauren [King] had a really ·tong track season. He wants to race everyone when he knows that they're ready." 
Madia, who as a freshman became a key runner for the Irish last year. will not be running today, nor will the team's top one-two combination, King and Huddle. both of whom have earned All­America honors. 
"[Today's] race is a learning experience, to see where you are at in the season," King said. "Our main goals lie at the end of the season, but this is a really impor­tant process in our training and our development. I think it'll be a great start of the season, and it'll barely touch what we are capable of this year." 
Senior Maggie Nelson, junior Jackie Heap, sophomores Jean Marinangli and Jenny Walsh, freshman Jenny Richard and oth­ers will represent Notre Dame. King has confidence in her team. 
"I've been impressed with the whole team," King said. "It seems like everyone has come in knowing what we achieved last year. and that with the right attitude and the right training we can achieve even greater results. I think the attitude among the team is amazing." 
King views last season as a turn­ing point for the program. Although the team had no idea last August how much they would accomplish by season's end, it was the most successful season in the history of the Notre Dame women's cross country program, and the Irish do not expect to let last year's momentum fizzle out. 
"Last year was a big step for our program," King said. "Everyone can see it's possible to be up there. That is driving everyone." 
Madia believes the team is even more focused on doing well this season, now that they realize what they are capable of achieving. 
"I think all of us are looking to do things better this year, to not cut corners on the little things," she said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish runners get opportunities 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has the capacity to easily take first place at Saturday's Valparaiso Invitational. Instead the top ten Irish runners will sit out the season's first race. as they coo­
t i n u e t h e i r training regimen and give freshmen and oth­ers the opportu­


nity to Longo compete and. they hope, to realize the fruits of summer training. "This race is good because it helps everyone gain some experience, especially the younger guys who haven't been able to experience a collegiate race before," sophomore Tom Longo said. Longo will be among the run­ners temporarily moving up to the varsity level for Saturday's contest. Having only lost one senior to graduation, and returning a healthier group complemented by a key freshman recruit, the Irish are looking forward to what they expect to be an improvement of last season. Last year, Notre Dame fin­ished 22nd at the NCAA Championships after barely qualifying. This year. the Irish 
have set as their goal a top 10 tion to be different this season. finish at the National "Last year, [Mobley] was Championship meet. planning on being the leader, 
Sophomore Tim Moore. the and he got injured, so we didn't team's top runner at the Big have a real leader on the East and National team," Moore said. "Last year Championships last season, has we were only one season noticed a change in overall r~moved from having big guys attitude among the Irish harri­like [All-Americans] Ryan Shay ers. and Luke Watson around to 
"We definitely think that lead us and show us how it's 
[our] goal is  done.  We  were  
realistic after  just  inexperi­ 
being here with the guys for the first two weeks,"  ..This race is good because it helps everyone gain  enced and not really confident." Additionally. with Mobley now  
Moore said. "Everyone's in  experience ... ,,  healthy, the Irish are expecting to  
better physi­cal shape  Tom Longo  be aided by the services of fresh­ 
compared to  Irish sophomore  man  Kurt  

last year. It seems like the mental attitude is more posi­tive. Guys are working together more. It seems like we're ready to succeed. We don't really have any apprehension or nervousness about the upcom­ing year, which is always a good thing." 
Last fall. former All­American Todd Mobley, now a senior. was supposed to be the team's leader and top runner. but because of leg injuries that plagued him most of the sea­son. Mobley's involvement in several races was limited. With their top runner and leader injured, the Irish morale began to suffer. and that struggling was expressed on the course. 
The team expects the situa-
Benninger, who 
was a silver medalist this summer at the Pan-Am Junior Games in the 1500 meters. 
"I expect a lot from [Benninger)," Moore said. "He is smart as far as how he trains. A lot of freshmen come here. and they want to work hard every day. He will pace himself. I think he'll fit in nice­ly." 
For this weekend. though, the Irish will be focused on . their less experienced runners, who are looking to prove that this season's team has a good amount of depth to their squad. in the event any injuries arise. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


-

Friday, September 5, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

·' 

:{;,, 
~l; 
): 
':~ ' 
:'
.-. 

Big East 
continued from page 32 
St. John's is 0-2 to start the season after falling 2-1 to North Carolina and 3-1 to Wake Forest in the Wake Forest Classic. 
The Irish, meanwhile, tied Alabama-Birmingham 0-0 in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic and defeated California 2-1 in double OT. 
Senior forward Devon Prescod has been fantastic so far for the Irish, scoring both goals in the California game and taking advantage of a healthy start to this season. Last year, Prescod was injured for a good portion of the season, forcing his for­ward partner Justin Detter to move to midfielder. 
This year, Detter and Prescod have reunited on the front offensive line to provide a pow­erful goal-scoring tandem for the Irish. 
"The nice thing about Devon and Justin is that they're a good tandem up front," Clark said. "I think every game they're getting more attuned with each other." 
Prescod and the rest of the Irish offense have a formidable opponent in the Red Storm defense. Red Storm defender Chris Wingert was named pre­season Big East Defender of the Year. 
Wingert also chipped in offen­sively last year, scoring three goals and dishing out two 
BBall 
continued from page 32 
Plus, the Barbados trip will give Irish coach Mike Brey the opportunity to test new line­ups and help younger assists in 21 games played. 
The Red Storm retains their top two scorers from a year ago in junior midfielder Andre Schmid, who collected 16 points in 2002, and junior midfielder Chris Corcoran who had 15 points. 
Despite the fact that the match will take place shortly after the opening game of the football season, Clark isn't wor­ried about any possible distrac­tion to his team's focus. At the same time, it is a perfect setup for a positive home field atmos­phere. 
"I think that this is a big game for us, and it would be nice to get a great atmosphere," he said. "We'd like to have a lively, loud environment. We had a great crowd at the Michigan scrimmage, and we'd love to see a lot of those guys come back and watch us Saturday." 
While he tries to downplay any extra significance for this weekend's game, Clark still realizes that this contest is a tremendous opportunity for the Irish to impress. 
"I think this is a good oppor­tunity to show people that we're a good side," he said. "It's an opportunity for us to send a message out that we're one of the best teams in the nation. 
"Hopefully, we'll take advan­tage of that opportunity." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

four juniors and seniors play­ing this fall Jones, Timmermans, Thomas and Cornette -captains, Jones knows how vital the early start on the season will be in the search for key contributers. 
"We have a lot of young 
players gain "This will help guys get experience. 
adjusted to their new
Traditionally, 
positions and their roles 
Brey has given fresh­on the team,, men plenty of playing 
Torrlan Jones 
time in the early exhibi­Irish captain 
tion games to acclimate them to college basketball. 
"The nice part about doing the foreign tour during the school year is that the incom­ing freshmen are here, so we can take them on the foreign tour," Brey said earlier this year. "If it was during the summer, then [the freshmen] would not be able to attend it." 
Starting practice early will 

,· also give the Irish a chance to plug holes vacated by gradu­ates Matt Carroll and Dan Miller. Notre Dame returns four players who started at least 10 games last year ­guard Chris Thomas and for­wards Torin Francis, Jordan Cornette and Tom Timmermans -as well as 
-::. Jones, who was Notre Dame's sparkplug off the bench. But the ra'nks of Notre Dame's upperclassmen are thin. Although Brey named all 
guys get adjusted and come together better for when the real games start in September." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Snh·eMusnm

ATHLETIC TRAINING 
guys, guys playing new and extended roles," Jones said. "This will help guys get adjusted to their new positions and their roles on the team. 
"I think it's gonna help 
TIM KACMAR!The ObseNer 

Senior mldflelder Kim Carpenter passes the ball In fall practice. The Irish will be challenged this weekend as they host No. 13 Arizona State and Oklahoma In the Notre_ Dame Classic. 
some top teams in the Big 12 in recent years. Arizona State
Debut 
is really climbing. They are a top Pac-10 team; they have a
continued from page 32 

few national team kids, and Arizona State or Oklahoma, so they'll have a lot of speed and none of the teams will know be good offensively. It will be exactly what a big test to expect out for us." 
"This year's team is very
of each other. N o t r e 
Arizona unique·· D a m e State opened joined some their season in selective
Kim Carpenter 
Hawaii with company
Irish midfielder 
two convinc­this week, ing wins, 4-0 as both the over Hawaii men's and and 5-1 over Bowling Green. women's soccer teams are They return almost their ranked in the top five in the entire team from last season, Soccer America polls. UCLA when they lost in the first and North Carolina also have round of the NCAA 
Tournament to Santa Clara. 

Oklahoma opened the sea­son with two wins at home, beating Arkansas 3-1 and New Mexico 2-1. 
"We don't really know all that much about either team," both teams in the top five. 
The Irish plan to be up to the challenge, as they come in playing with confidence after last week's strong showing. 
"This year's team is very unique," senior Kim Carpenter said. ''We have much more depth than we've had in the past, and we're extremely athletic, which allows us to play high pres­sure defense for the full 90 minutes. We also have a great mix of personalities that mesh well on and off the field, and I think that is a key aspect of being a great team." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Irish coach Randy Waldrum 
. , Fftturing the Wodd Ptml•~ .


said. "Oklahoma is a good, solid team that has beaten 
l•c:ture/Redtal "How to Usten to Conc.ert Duo¥J Friday, Sep1. S~lOOl .J$0 pm, Annenlwrg Audl1~ 
Thti HOOtptt>fMmk ~nu 
The Murasaki Duo Eri< Ktm:, teUo Mlko Kt)rtd~~ pla!no 
ofC.on«tt tJ® by NO Prof. EthanHaimo Concert Sunday, S.pt. 7~ 2003 
2:00 p:m, A.l\nenbef9 AuG. Snilte Museum 
Workt by H11lmo:~ Stn'irlnsky· and Grl;eg 

& SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, Sep_tember 8, at 
4:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
BOTH EVENTS FREE ANI> OPEN TO THEP"UBUC 
ATTENTION: FIRST YEAR STUDENTSI 
Please consider serving as student hosts for the OHice of undergraduate Admissions! 
Share vour Notre Dame experiences bv welcom­ing prospective students into vour residence halls! 
If interested, please email: hostin @nd.edu 


Friday, SeptemberS, 2003 page 31
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


choosing who goes up for fourth quarter push-ups at tomorrow's game. 

Perfect. It's Oompa time. 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
IXTYS 
riJ rJ 
C2003 Trbune Media Servicea, Inc. 
All Rights RasBfVed. 
FASHE 
1 
rJ t JtENDTOE j 
WHE:N HE: TOl-D THE:M ABOUT THt=
J (I 
WHOPPER., HIS
www.jumble.com 
PAL-S SAID IT--­
I SAURES j 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
rir 
1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
k 
"[II I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: TYPED OPERA MURMUR NOBODY Answer: The math team lost the competition because they were -"OUTNUMBERED" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 lnits. in 70's· 59 Nothing, slangily 80's rock 
1 Book that tells 60 The Panthers of of the reign of 39 Could be the Big East Cyrus reached at the 
61 Hitching place 5 Gem holder office 9 Freezes, 40 _ Sea (saline 
DOWN
perhaps lake) 1 Immigrant's 14 Calypso, for one 41 "Eat!" 

class: Abbr.

16"_Mio" 
42 Shiny, in 2 Series ender 17 Former name of product names 

3 Ruled
34-Across 
43 Curtain-parting 

4 Any of les trois 18 Squelched time mousequetaires19 Summer 
46 Actor who made phenomenon in 

5 They may
his film debut in 34-Across 
accompany
"Kid Galahad," 
rolled eyes

21 Hug 1962 6 Leaking
25 Existing 48 34-Across tourist 7 Many a
26 Show, but not attractions Guinness listing 
prem1ere during 19-Across 8 Michael who
27 Treasure map distances 51 Cleo of jazz wrote "The Neverending
29 Chapel part 52 Noted Story"
34-Across 9 Curiosity30 Bros 
attraction, with

31 • Young" "1he" 10 Conventions
(Nat K1ng Cole #1 song) 57 How many trust 11 Naphthalene • targets
34 City founded 58 Soapmaking May 16, 1703 compound 12 Printing woes 
-------------13 Pick up
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 15 Gabrielle_ of 

"':""'"l:-t"':"r.":'1 "Seent of a Woman" ~~+:-4 20 More luxurious 21 Take out lines? 22 Setting in ...,....~~ "Raiders of the Lost Ark" 23 Watch brand 24 Form of security ~orP.~ 27 Leader born in 17-Across ~~~ 211 Former British colony ~.,.,...~'l"t 30 First name in SO's TV 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 City where 42 101 50 Place with a Lancia is based takeout line
43 Unrehearsed 32 Spiel 
44 One doing 53 Blacken 33 Lustful sort heavy lifting 
54 Suit's bottom 

35 Ship's cabin 45 Subarctic forest features, maybe 46 Cousin of a 55 It's played with 36 Doctor's aid bittern two hands 37 Tijuana 47 Resign, as a job 
56 Japan's
attractions 

49 Denny's medieval_ 41 Disliking competitor Castle 
For answers. call 1-900.285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ali MacGraw, Debbie Reynolds, Annette OToole, Phillip Schofield 
Happy Birthday: You are likely to hit a stumbling block if you don't take the time to iron out any tedious little problems along the way. Take aggressive action and be honest and diplomatic in your approach. Your ability to pick yourself up and continue along the path you've chosen will be your saving grace. Your numbers are 13, 22, 26, 31, 38, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone may try to derail your sense of confidence. Refuse to give in to comments made by this person. Use other people's venom to spark your enthusiasm and sheer will to succeed. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your involvement in something secretive may come back to haunt you. Don't expect someone who has made you a promise to live up to his or her part of the bargain. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Times are changing and choices must be made. Listen to what experienced individuals have to offer before you make your move. Be thorough in your research. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your effort into getting ahead in business. Be careful not to come across as a know-it-all or the very people you expect to buy into your idea will backaway.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your attentive audience will be able to offer you what you need to boost your morale as well as help you to progress with your plans. A business project will tum into a worthwhile venture. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on your health, wealth and future direction. If you aren't happy, start to make the necessary adjusunents. There is nothing you can't accomplish if you put your mind to it. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There will be lots of action in the romance department if you interact with others. Relationships and partnerships can flourish. The connections you make today will.be worthwhile in the future. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The way you treat colleagues will determine how well you will do today. Lend a hand, refrain from criticizing and you can build a very strong alliance with your colleagues. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look into some form of entertainment. Consider setting up a competitive game of racquetball with one of your friends. The challenge will satisfy your needs.***** • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't eKpect everything to run smoothly. You may be interested in making some changes at home, but if you proceed, things aren't likely to pan out. This is no time to add more stress to your life. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your unique ideas and genuine concerns will spark enthusiasm in those you encounter today. Your help will be valued and lasting friendships can be made. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your work ethics will be strong and your ability to accomplish will put you ahead of any competition you face. Make changes regarding your professional direction today. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will always prefer to be where the action is. You will be steadfast and detennined to make your own choices and follow your own dreams. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eug~nialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, September 5, 2003 Page 32 

NO SOCCER 

Starting off on the right foot 
' 
I; 
·! 
:1 
I ·) 
·! 
'Jj 
\ 
!f ,,IIj) 
)n 
I ' 
: ' }l
r 
i!l ! ' 
I 
.'i 
;f 
,I 
I I li I }
'il·I 
I\. 
I :
I 
)
~ 
! ri i 1l
:L 
I. 
f,t', ' 
I,. 
I ~ : I/ : 
I ) ' 
: ~ ~ :~<{~'. 
II'·(~
I<, I'· I ; f 
) 
. I 
I 
I I 
I .. 
(­
' \ _.; 
r 
:)~ 
')~I
:. 
I 
I . I 
I I 
~­
I 
Big East powers No. 4 Notre Dame and No. 13 St. John's will tangle at Alumni Field in the Irish home opener 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 

Despite a calm forecast Saturday, the Irish still have a Storm to weather. 
In what might be the most-hyped game of the -season, No. 4 Notre Dame (1-0-1, 0-0-0 Big East) faces No. 13 St. John's (0-2-0, 0-0-0 Big East) at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field Saturda~ night -a battle between the two highest ranked Big East t_eams. 
The Notre Dame-St. John's rivalry is one that has resulted in three consecutive 1-0 scores over the last three meetings, with the Irish winning once -in 2000 -and the Red Storm taking the 2001 and 2002 matches. 
The two teams are considered the forerun;. ners to take the 2003 Big East conference title, if a recent poll of Big East coaches is to be believed. The conference preseason poll was. released earlier this month. with Notre Dame finishing behind St. John's. 
Regardless of the hype surrounding the game, Irish coach Bobby Clark maintains that his team is looking at the matchup like any other game. 
"In this league, you can lose anywhere, any­time," he said. "It's a very tough league, and even though this is a big game and an impor­tant game, it's no less important than any of the other games." 
see BIG EAST/page 30 

Irish women will return to 
Alumni Field to face Oklahoma 
and No. 13 Arizona State in 
the Notre Dame Classic 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a strong performance after its tournament in Connecticut, the women's soccer team will look to continue its good play at home in the Notre Dame Classic this weekend. 
The Classic will kick off this afternoon with Rutgers facing Oklahoma at 5 p.m. No. 5 Notre Dame will follow against No. 13 Arizona State about 30 minutes after the first game's completion. Sunday, Rutgers battles Arizona State with Notre Dame tak­ing on Oklahoma. 
Notre Dame received a number of acco­lades after last week's tournament. Senior Amy Warner, junior Mary Boland and sopho­mores Erika Bohn and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir were all named to the all­tournament team, while Boland also was named Big East Co-Offensive Player of the Week. She became the first women's soccer player in history to win both the Offensive and Defensive Player of the Week awards in her career. 
All four teams in the Notre Dame Classic will enter the action undefeated, with Arizona State being the most highly regard­ed of the three teams competing with the 
TIM KACMAR!The Observer 
Irish. Notre Dame has never played either 

Junior mldflelder Kevin Goldthwaite drives past a Michigan defender In a scrimmage earlier In the season. see DEBUT/page 30 
ND VOLLEYBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Early start may benefit Irish 
Irish look to build 
ByANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

September. Basketball. The two don't exactly go together. 
But Thursday, one-by-one, members of the Notre Dame men's basketball team shuf­fled into the locker room at the Joyce 
Center. T h e y emerged a half-hour later, dressed in practice uniforms, and headed 


to The Pit· Brey for prac­tice. 

"It feels a little different," senior Torrian Jones said. "It's a lot earlier than we've practiced so far, but it's fun and exciting." 
Normally, teams can't begin 
NO CROSS COUNTRY VaiP.arasio 
Invitational Saturday 

Young Irish will com­pete in opener. 
page 29 
practice until Oct. 18. But In addition to Thursday's 
on successful opener

NCAA regulations allow teams practice, the Irish will prac­
to play a foreign tour as part tice Saturday morning and of their exhibition slate once Sept. 20. That last practice in every four years. On years September, held the Saturday 
By HEATHER when teams do take trips, the of the Michigan State game, is 
VAN HOEGARDEN NCAA allows a squad to 10 open to the public. Notre 
Sports Writer practices to prepare for the Dame won't practice again 
until Oct. 
After storming out of the gates 

7, and 
last weekend. Notre Dame has 

then the 
high expectations going into this 

team will 
weekend's Longhorn Classic. 

work out 
Following a season opening 

s e v e n 
upset of No. 10 Arizona, the Irish 

times in 
find themselves ranked 21st in 
11 days. 
this week's USA Today/AVCA 
Coaches Top 25.

T h e 
The weekend commences

e a r 1 y 
Friday night against Houston (2­

practices 
last weekend to go along with 14 blocks. She led the way in the upset of the Wildcats at the Four Points Sheraton Classic in Malibu, Calif. 
Loomis, however, didn't take full credit for her hitting success . 
"Our offense depends on pass­ing," she said. "We were put in great positions, and we were able to come together." 
Middle blocker Lauren Kelbley also had an outstanding week­end, making all-tournament team as well. Kelbley had 39 kills on .360 hitting on the weekend. Friday's match against Arizona saw her notch a career high 16 kills to go along with six blocks. Kelbley has registered 1 0-plus kills in 10 consecutive matches going back to last year. 
The Cougars and Irish have not faced off since 1997, when Notre 
see TOURNEY/page28 
trip. 
That's why Notre Dame, which has two exhibition con­tests scheduled in Barbados over fall break, is starting practice before the football 

..We ·re going to get an upper hand on a lot of teams ... •• 
Torrlan Jones Irish captain 
season even kicks off. 


Just how early are the Irish starting? The game floor in the Joyce Center Arena hadn't yet been laid down Thursday. 
"We're going to get an upper hand on a lot of teams who won't be able to work together and mesh together this year," Jones said. 


will give the Irish a chance to see how freshmen guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter fit into the Irish system. The third Irish freshman, forward Omari Israel, may sit out the 2003-04 campaign while he recovers from knee surgery. 
see BBALL/page 30 
1). This match will feature two teams that run a 6-2 offense. Notre Dame (2-1) is led by hitter Emily Loomis, who earned Big East Player of the Week honors last week to go along with her all-tournament team honors. Loomis was a dominating force upfront, registering a team-high 42 kills (.365 hitting percentage) 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
VaiP.arasio I nv1tational Saturday 

Irish women look to gain key experience. 
page 29 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mar_y's at Wooster College Friday 
SMC will compete in the second bracket. 
page 27 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's at Knox College Saturday 
Saint Mary's and Knox face off in a dual meet. 
page 30 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish atop preseasonran kings 
D'Amico, Haddock and Scott break into the rankings. 
page 27 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Five Irish sit atop preseason ITA ran kings 
Several career highs are reached as Leslie is ranked 26th in singles. 
page 27 

-------------------------------~ -------------­

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER ·Friday, Seprember 5, 2003 
Fans' expectations even highe-r 
Somewhere between the glory of the past and the expectations of the future, Tyrone Willingham tries to coach a Notre Dame football team in the pres-• ent. 
He holds a job in which the stan­dard for success equals perfec-Sports Writer tion and where his every decision is analyzed by millions of fans across the nation. He is stuck trying to return a tradition-filled program to the level set by coaches like Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian. He feels pressure from fans who, instead of asking, "When are we going to win a national champi­onship?" ask, "Why can't we win a national cham­pionship this year?" 
But Willingham, a mas­ter at making the most cliched cliches sound like Chinese proverbs, says he doesn't notice. He says he is focused on winning the next game. He ignores statistical trends -like the fact that, since 1996, Notre Dame teams follow three-loss seasons with six-or seven-loss seasons -in favor of discovering what his team can do next. 


Whether anyone 
believes him is another 
question. 
On Willingham's second 
day as a Notre Dame 
employee, a half-hour 
into his introductory 
press conference, the 
new Irish coach glanced 
at his watch. He had 
grown tired of standing in 
front of the television 
cameras, and the sudden 
glance to his left wrist 
told reporters his time 
was almost up. 
But even as Willingham looked at his watch, Notre Dame fans started looking at their calen­dars. While Willingham measures time in minutes and seconds, Notre Dame fans measure time two ways-how long since the Irish last won a national championship, and how long until their next one. 
Willingham's successful inaugural season under the Golden Dome only served to whet the appetites of Irish fans hungry for success. The Irish last ended the sea­son at the top of the polls a decade and a half ago, and they have only flirted with title dreams twice since then. 
But even as Willingham tries to lead the Irish back among the nation's elite, he also must deal want to be." with fans who want what • The spring before Willingham wants, but Tyrone Willingham 
faster. became a household 
"Our fans have individ-name, the Irish coach ual games they want us to wandered from dorm to win," the coach said ear-·dorm telling students the lier this month. "But as a team had to get rid of an coach, you can't get "Eeyore Cloud" that, just caught up on that." like the donkey from 
In Alan Grant's book Winnie the Pooh, hung a "Return to Glory," in negative attitude over which the author and for-anything Willingham mer Willingham protege wanted to do. spent a: season following Willingham chased the the Irish coach around clouds away in one sea-
campus,  son, and now  
Grant  fans who fell  
writes of a  But even as  in love with  
time when Willingham received a  Willingham tries to lead the Irish back  the man play­ers call "The Prophet"  
request  to the nation's elite,  wonder if he  
from a fan to sign a jersey  he also must deal with fans who want  can summon a No. 1 rank­. ing just as  
already embla­ what Willingham wants, but faster.  quickly. Earlier in  

zoned with signatures of Parseghian, Devine and Holtz. 
Willingham has some­thing in common with each of those men -all offered Irish fans a glimpse of a national tit.le. All but Willingham have captured a national title. 
Yet Willingham shrugs off comparison~ to past teams, only wanting the Irish to win their next game. "And if we win 12 of those next games," he said earlier this month, "we'll be right where we the week, 
someone 

asked the Irish coach to identify his favorite spot on campus. Was it the Grotto? The Basilica? The Dome? 
Nope. "The Stadium," the coach answered. 
But even there, the expectations don't change. 
The opinions of this col­umn are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"I am definitely anxious {to start]. The good thing is that we are at home. " 

Buzz Preston Irish coach 
"fl!t:inning] will be a thrill, I would by lying ifI didn't say that.·· "If we can win by a half point, ifthey allow it, I would take 
l"t. " 

Billy Palmer Irish tight end 
"We want to be able to continue pressuring other teams in the kicking game. , 


''The~'s a magie in the sound ol their name••• Here Come the Irish ol Notre Dame'' 
''The Shirt'' 2003 
Smalls, Mediums, -
Sold for $15 at student con­Larges, X-Larges, cession stands, the Bookstore, XX-Larges are all Varsity Shop and LaFortune available! Information Desk Proceeds benefit student clubs, organizations, and ''The Shirf' Charity Fund 
Create the ''Sea of Green'' 

Friday, September 5, 2003 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Finishing the-job 
SHAWNA MONSON/The Observer Notre Dame running back Julius Jones returns to Notre Dame Stadium as a player Saturday after­noon after missing last season due to academic problems. Jones spent last year taking classes at Arizona State and working out with his brother Thomas, an NFL running back. 
ing care of things and getting 
things done, I wasn't really on 
top of that." 
For his part. Willingham ­
who had said all along that 
Jones would be an integral part 
of the Irish if he came back to 
South Bend -maintained he 
set no criteria for Jones to 
rejoin the team. 
"He made a mistake," 
Willingham said. "But he was 
man enough to admit he made a 
mistake and man enough to do 
what he had to do to correct 
that mistake." 
By June, Jones had cleared most of the University's aca­demic requirements for re­admission and enrolled in sum­mer classes. When summer school wrapped up in early August-and Jones had passed his classes -he was back on the Irish for good. 
"What kept me going?" he said. "My brother. My family. I knew I had let them down, and I wanted to prove to them I could get back here." 
Moving forward 
The Notre Dame team to which Jones returned was dras­tically different than the one he left. No longer were the Irish a squad that lost more games each season than it won. Instead. Jones noticed a disci­plined team fanatically bent on_ success. Practices were faster and more intense. The offense was completely different. 
And Jones realized he was no longer the top running back. That honor -at least for this Saturday -went to Grant, who had a year under his belt in Wiilingham 's complicated 
..:;;:··· 
offense. 
But Jones, too, was different. 
While many of the Irish are hes­
itant to describe Jones pre­
exile, many now will praise his 
heightened work ethic and 
improved attitude. 
"I think it wasn't that he had 
a bad attitude before," Grant 
said. "I think maybe he didn't 
approach things the right way 
in terms of going all out. 
"But that's all behind him, 
and he's going forward." 
Willingham said he now con­
siders Jones one of the team's 
leaders. even as the coach 
dodges questions about how 
much the senior running back 
will play. Yet the coaches know 
how pivotal Jones is to Notre 
Dame's potential success. 
"I don't know what the past 
was," running backs coach Buzz 
Preston said. "All I know is that 
the young man is coming back 
here and is doing a good job." 
The soft-spoken Jones now appears happier than before he left. In the days leading up to Notre Dame's season opener again·st Washington State, he grinned broadly when describ­ing his anticipation about run­ning out of the tunnel -"I remember it, but it's gonna be sweet when I do it for real. It feels like it's been 10 years since I played. 
"I missed it a lot," he added. ..Anytime you have something taken. away from you that you love doing, it hurts pretty bad. 
"It's like that sometimes. You learn from your mistakes. and I think I've done that." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

After sitting out the 2002 season, Jones returns to the Irish Saturday to end what he started 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
At Notre Dame's animal foot­

ball media day three weeks ago, 
Ryan Grant sat alone patiently 
waiting for a reporter to 
approach him. After all, would­
n't somebody want to talk to 
Notre Dame's first 1,000-yard 
rusher in five years? 
Under normal circumstances, 

Grant's table would have been 
surrounded by all kinds of 
media types. 
But on this particular day. ' 

Julius Jones had planned to 
speak publicly for the first time 
regarding his forced exile from 
the Irish. So while Grant sat 
mostly by himself. the crowd 
around Jones' table stretched 
three deep. They waited for the 
player once named to a future 
NFL all-decade team to explain 
his academic-related absence. 
And they wanted to hear him 
explain why he came back. 
To understand why some con­
sider Jones' return the equiva­
lent of the Second Coming, it's 
easier to show crowd-pleasing 
clips featuring his electrifying 
kick returns and ankle-breaking 
moves from his first three years 
at Notre Dame. 
But to explain who Jones 
became after he got booted by 
the irish, it's easier to explain 
what he did in his own personal 
purgatory -away from the 
Irish, away from the television 
cameras, away from everyone 
but his family 
Making a mistake 
Jones first burst onto the field 
at Notre Dame Stadium as a 
freshman in 1999, wowing fans 
with his explosive speed and 
devastating quickness. As Notre 
Dame's primary kick returner 
for most of the season, Jones 
tallied 798 return yards for the 
Irish, the second-highest season 
total in Notre Dame history. 
He quickly became popular with fans for his big-play poten­tial, which he demonstrated a year later against No. 1 Nebraska when he started his first game at running back and returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown to help send the game into overtime. Just as conducting the band during the 1812 Overture is second nature for Irish fans, so too was lifting their arms. crossing their wrists and raising two fingers raised on each hand to symbolize Jones' uniform number each time he ran onto the field to return a kick. 
But off the field, few things were perfect for Jones. He missed spring practice one year thanks to a University suspen­sion, and some teammates qui­etly grumbled about the star running back's work ethic. His reputation fo-r dodging inter­views with the media was so legendary that one day, a hand­ful of reporters started a pool on whether Jones would show up to speak to them (he didn't). 
By the time Jones had returned to the playing field for his junior year, he had added 20 pounds at the coaches' urging. Sure, he was a bigger back, but he had lost the burst of speed 
that made him such a danger­
ous threat in the first place ­
even though he went on to lead 
the Irish in rushing that fall 
with 718 yards. 
Then, the summer before his 
senior year, disaster struck. 
Jones, a film, television and 
theater major, met with his par­
ents and academic officials from 
Notre Dame to discuss some­
thing neither party has been 
willing to talk about. But after 
the meeting, word had trickled 
out that Jones was going to be 
suspended for a year. 
..I was pretty hurt and upset," 
he said. "But you have to look 
forward and try to make the 
best of it." 
The Irish, and their new head 
coach Tyrone Willingham, 
weren't fazed. At one point dur­
ing the summer, when someone 
asked Willingham if he consid­
ered Jones a leader, the Irish 
coach said simply, "No." 
Looking to his family 
When Jones learned he had 
been booted from the 
University, the running back 
was the emotional equivalent of 
a tornado. He flirted with enter­
ing the supplemental NFL draft. 
He tossed around the idea of 
transferring. 
But in the end, he realized he ·wanted to go to Notre Dame. 
"I started here, and I want to finish things I started," he said. "I came here for a reason, I 'ca.me here to graduate and I didn't feel comfortable going somewhere else." 
Jones moved to Arizona to live with his brother and best friend Thomas. then a running back with the Arizona Cardinals (he has since been traded to Tampa Bay). He en rolled in 
"He was man enough to
classes at said he consid­Arizona State to admit he made a ers one of his maintain his best friends ­
mistake and man 
college eligibility Jones traded
enough to what he had
while thriving in fat for muscle the relative to do to correct that and laziness anonymity as mistake., for dedication. just another "When I first regular student got the news 
on the Pac-1 0 Tyrone Willingham about not campus. Notre Dame coach being able to 
Meanwhile, back in South Bend, the Irish had charged to an 8-0 start in Jones' absence. Grant was on his way to gaining 1,085 yards as Notre Dame's featured back and Vontez Duff's kick returning abilities had all but made Irish fans think, "Julius who?" 
But Jones hadn't forgotten the Irish. As much as it hurt, he watched every game on televi­sion -"I was one of the biggest cheerleaders," he said. He even made several trips to South Bend to visit with his girlfriend and his teammates -and saw a campus feeding off the success of the football team. 
"It just looked so fun last year," Jones said. "They were winning and having a good time, and I wasn't a part of it." 
In between trips to Indiana, Jones rebuilt himself academi­cally and athletically. Watching his brother showed him the 
come back to 
Notre Dame, it 
really hu.rt," 

Jones said. "But as I look at it, it · was kind of a chance for me to 
grow up a little bit, to get hun­
gry and to get ready to come 
back here and take care of busi­
ness." 
By the time a chiseled, 210­

pound Jones appeared on an 
ESPN interview in February, 
saying he wanted to return to 
Notre Dame, he appeared 
stronger, more determined and 
-most of all-more mature. 
At one point, Jones met with 

Willingham to find out what he 
had to do to rejoin the football 
team. While Jones doesn't want 
to talk about the substance of 
the discussion or what exactly 
he had to do to return, he 
acknowledged he had quite a 
bit to change. 
"I had to change my attitude," 

he said. "I didn't really have a 
bad attitude, but as far as tak­work ethic necessary to succeed in the NFL. He changed to a high protein diet. He rarely touched a football, choosing instead to work out in weight room four times a week. 
And under the guidance of his brother -whom Jones 

page 4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 5, 2003 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 0-0 AP: No. 19 Coaches: No. 16 
Tyrone Willingham 
NOTRE DAME 2003 Schedule  
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST. Sept. 13 at Michigan Sept. 20 MICHIGAN STATE Sept. 27 at Purdue Oct. 11 at Pittsburgh Oct. 18 usc Oct. 25· at Boston College Nov. 1 FLORIDA STATE Nov. 8 NAVY Nov. 15 BYU Nov. 29 at Stanford Dec.6 at Syracuse  

NOTRE DAME 
second season at 
·OFFENSE 
Notre Dame 
LEFT TACKLE CORNERBACK

career record: 
TAILBACK 70·Molinaro 15-Paymah · 4-Grant 79-Mattes 
21-Teems
54-39-1 

11·Wilson 
at Notre Dame: 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
10-3 
48-Genatone 46-Bennett

against Washington State: 5-2 
:~ 
FULLBACK
Roster 
16-Powers-Neal 
26-Schmidt 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 230 SR 
2 Freddie Parrish DB 6-1 195 FR 
4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 JR 
5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 207' so 
6 Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 194 JR 
SAFETY 
24-Williams

7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 SR 
TIGHT END 28-Abdullah
8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 180 SR 
85-Palmer

8 Quentin Burrell FS 6-{) 180 JR 
1-Ciark FREE SAFETY 27-Coteman 

9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 SR 
9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 JR 
26-Bohannon

10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 210 FR 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 199 JR 13 Nicholas Setta K/P 5-11 184 SR 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR 
OUTSIDE 15 PrestonJackson CB 5-9 177 SR 
LINEBACKER 16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 227 JR 
51-0erting 
42-Davis16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 1.83 JR 17 Geoffrey Price P 6-3 180 FR 18 Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 211 SR 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 192 JR 20 Travis Thomas RB 6-1 200 FR 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 221 so 22 JuliusJoncs RB 5-10 210 SR 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 190 FR 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 177 JR 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 224 so 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 197 SR 26 JoshSchmidt FB 6-1 220 JR 27 Lionel Bolen SS 6-0 206 JR 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 208 SR 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 229 SR 28 · Tom Zbikowski DB 6-{) 185 FR 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING
29 LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-10 180 FR 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 188 so 31 Jake Carney DB 6-D 180 so 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-{) 211 so 33 Courtney Watson II.B 6-1 234 SR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 194 SR 
Willingham brought 
Holiday has made great 
Notre Dame returns 
An offensive line com­

35 Ashley McConnell FB 6-{) 240 FR 36 Isaiah Gardner DB/RB 5-10 190 FR 
Notre Dame football back 
strides from this time last 
1,000-yard rusher 
posed of four relatively
LLI

37 Matt Mitchell OB S:9 184 so 
to life last year by leading 
year. He has become a 
Grant, who is finally 
new members could

39 Brandon Hoyle ILB 6-{) 226 JR 
:E 

39 David Bcmendcrfcr · SS 5-11 195 SR 
the Irish to an 8-0 start, 
better passer and has 
healthy after battling 
present some problems 
Q ~ 

40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 165 SR 
ending the season 10-3 
grown familiar with 
nagging injuries last 
for Holiday in the pocket.

41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 SR 42 Ambrost~ Wooden WR 6-1 190 FR 
with a 28-6 Gator Bowl 
Willingham's offense. The 
year. Jones, who returns The Irish return a trio of
LLI

43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 226 so 
loss to North Carolina 
departure of Chris Olsen 
to the Irish lineup after experienced receivers in
0::

44 Jus tin Tuck DE 6-5 246 JR 
1­

State. He will likely have45 Carl Gioia P 5-11 165 FR 
leaves the Irish a little thin 
missing all of 2002, 
Jenkins, McKnight and 

46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 238 JR 
0 

his troops thinking they 
should Holiday get injured, 
should provide some 
Stovall. The health of

47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 210 FR 
z 

can have that kind of 
as he did in all or parts of 
explosiv.eness and48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 250 SR 
Godsey could become a 

49-Derek Curry !LB 6-3 228 SR 
start again in 2003. 
four games in 2002. 
excitement. 
factor at tight end. 

50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 295 SR 51 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 290 so 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 215 FR 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 271 so 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 281 JR 

Kegel has a lot to live up 
Washington State's four 
The Cougars mustA South Bend, Ind.,

56 Nick Borst•ti LB 6-1 205 FR 
to in filling in for Jason 
seniors on the defensive 
replace cornerback

native, Doha returns to
57 Dw~ht Stephenson LB 6-3 237 FR 58 Pauljancha LS 6-1 245 so 
Gesser, Washington 
line will provide a formi­Marcus Trufant. They got 

the area to · lead 
59 James Bent OL 6-2 253 so 
State's career passing 
dable test for the 
to the quarterback threeWashington State in just

60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR 62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 300 so 
z 

leader. After a sub-par, 
unproven Irish line. At times against Idaho lasthis second game at the 

64 Casey Dunn OTlOG 6-4 255 JR 
0 

12-for-21 performance 
320 pounds, Tupai will week and are experi­helm after the departure

65 Sean Milligan OG 6-4 291 SR 
1­

66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 265 so 
against Idaho, Kegel has 
be a force in the middle enced up front with four

of Mike Price. This is
CJ 

68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 270 FR 
z 

his work cut out for him. 
of the field against the 
.seniors. Williams grabbed just Doha's first season

69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 JR 
-

::z:70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 301 SR 
But the fifth-year senior 
Irish run. The Cougars 
two interceptions lastas a head coach, and 

(/)

71 David Kowalski 0G 6-2 249 SR 
captain is a respected 
yielded only 83 rushing 
weekend and Turner

this will be his first road
71 James Bonelli OG/OT 6-6 282 so 72 Jeff Thompson C/OG 6-4 287 JR 
leader on his team. 
yards to the Vandals. 
added another. 
game. 

73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 JR 
~ 

74 Dan Stevenstm OG 6-5 297 JR 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 264 so 76 Bob Morton C 6-4 299 so 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 291 SR 
Holiday is improving, but 
It's difficult to give the
The Irish have an

With nine years of head
78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 280 FR 
he is still far from the 
untested offensive line edge to the Irish here in

79 Brian Mattes OT 6-6 250 so 
coaching experience 

player he could become
80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 SR 
that may have trouble the first game of the

under his belt,
81 Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 190 FR 
and his coaches would 
opening h()les,but.. th~y 
season. after Notre

8~ Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 JR 
Willingham has the 
li~cltint tP bc,,J<~gel is83 Jeff Samardzija WR _ 6-4 190 FR 
also have two solid tull­advantage here. He and­

Dame ranked 91st last

84 MikeO'Hara WR 5-10 174 so 
ajl unprqvenfsenior try;­
ners in Grant and Jortes.

84 Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 so 
his staff have breathed year with 174.2 yards
ing to climb out from 
The 'Cougar defense is85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 SR 
life back into the NQtre 
per game. Washington

87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 242 so 
behind the shadow of big, deep and experi­
Dame program. Last88 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 ' 243 SR 
State's opening game

the most prolific passer 
enced. They only yield­88 Anthony Fasano 1'E 6-4 253 so 
year's 8-0 start was
89 John Carlson TE 6-6 210 FR 
against Idaho gives it

in Washingto.n State his­
ed 83 yards to Idaho,

impressive.
90 Brian Beida tsch DL 6-4 283 JR 
the advantage.
tory. 
but that was Idaho.

91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 165 so 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 270 SR 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 270 so 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 245 FR 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 264 so 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-2 290 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 256 SR 
Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief 


Carlyle Holiday will surprise Notre Dame 
The defensive line will be the key for Notre fans with his execution of the Irish Dame. If the line can stop a solid Washington offense, but Washington State will still State rushing game, and pressure the quarter­
Irish 

have some success moving the ball against back with a four man rush, Notre Dame should a relatively raw -bus still talented -contain the Cougar ofl'ense. lloliday will begin Irish secondary. Home-tield advantage will his breakout season with a strong performance 
experts tip this game in Notre Dame's favor. in the opener. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Joe Hettler
Washington State 13 Washington State 10 Sports Editor 
Friday, September 5, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

WIDE RECIEVER 
3-Moore

WASHINGTON ST. ~ 
88·Harvey

OFFENSE iJ1W 
TAILBACK 30-Green 

LEFT TACKLE 
67·Armstrong~· 77-Atrf 
SPLITBACK LEFT GUARD 88·Harvey 50-Parrish 
35·Lunde 64-Nelson INSIDE 

LINEBACKER 
33-Watson 46-Mays 

WIDE RECIEVER 
1-Darling 2-Jordan 
OUTSIDE 
LINEBACKER 49-Curry 48-Collins 

LEFT END ~._; CORNERBACK 

Nov. 15
34-Dun
44·Tuck 

NOTRE DAME
15-Jackson
95·Abiamiri 

DEFENSE 
Nov. 22 

COUGAR RUSHING COUGAR PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
..... 
::c 
ITI 
c 
l> 
3: 
ITI 

The front seven will be the strength of the Irish defense as five starters return in Budinscak, Campbell, Curry, llilliard, Tuck and preseason All­American Watson. Boyte has plenty of experience, as he started the first two games of 2002 behind Watson.  The secondary is an area of concern for the Irish as new starters · step in and injuries nag some players. Earl and Duff have All-American potential. Beckstrom will likely start at the other corner spot, and Bible should fill in the other safety position.  Duff and Jones could form the most dangerous kick return tandem in the nation. Setta struggled at times last season with field goals and finished 14-of-25. He will also handle punting and kick­off duties this season.  Notre Dame has won 14 of its last 16 season openers, and have horne field advantage. The stu­dents, fans, alumni and players should all be excited to finally get the season under way, especially since most schools began their sea­sons last week.  
The Cougar running  Kegel, a fifth-year sen­ Dunning showed consid­ Doha got his first game  
backs turned some heads  ior, takes over under  erable strength in nail­ out of the way and got a  
last week against Idaho,  center for Cougar great  ing four field goals in  win. Now he must coach  
as Washington State  Jason Gesser. Kegel did­ the Cougars' opener  his first big game.  
racked up 339 yards  n't have a great showing  against Idaho last  Washington State has  
rushing. Smith ran for  last week, going just 12­ weekend. Basler aver­ never played in Notre  
160 yards on 16 carries,  for-21 for 108 yards, an  aged only 34.7 yards on  Dame Stadium. The  
and Bruhn added 118  interception and no  three punt attempts  Cougars have the advan­ 
yards on nine carries.  touchdowns. Darling is  against the Vandals.  tage of having one game  
The Cougar offensive line  the big threat for the  Smith and Moore should  under their belts before  
averages 302 pounds.  Cougars.  handle return duties.  facing the Irish.  
While the Cougars did rack up a ton of yards last week, the Irish run defense is their strength. Nobody questions Notre Dame's depth on the line with the Irish going two deep. Controlling the run will allow Kent Baer·s de fens~~, to do other things.  Both teams have ques-· tions in this matchup, as the Irish must replace All-American Shane Walton .and Gerome Sapp, but the Cougars must replace career passing leader Gesser and last season's top receiver Jerome Riley.  With Duff and Jones back together. on kick­offs and Duff returning punts, a return for touchdown is always a possibility. Even though Setta struggled at times last year. he still has one of the strongest legs in the nation.  Homefield advantage should be a factor for the Irish, as the crowd will likely be electric for the first home ga.me of the 2003 season. The Cougar~ have never played in Notre Dame Stadium and their first year head coach has his hands fulL  




WASHINGTON ST. 2003 Schedule 
CORNERBACK 
Aug. 30 
9-Beckstrom 24-EIIick 
Sept. 6 
Sept. 13 
Sept. 20 
Sept. 27
FREE 
SAFETY 
19·Earl 8-Burrell 
Oct. 4 
Oct. 18 
Oct. 25 

STRONG 
SAFETY 
26-Bible 27·Bolen 
Nov. 1 
Nov. 8 


Washington State 
Cougars 
Record: 1-0 
-AP: NR 
Coaches: NR 
Bill Doba first season at Washington State career record: 
1-0 
at Washington State: 
1-0 

Bill Doba
against Notre Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Devard Darling WR 6-3 213 JR 2 Chris jordan WR 6-1 205 FR 3 Sammy Moore WR 5-11 194 SR 4 Matt Kegel QB 6-5 227 SR 5 jonathan Smith RB 5-10 195 SR 6 Marty Martin WR 5-11 182 so 8 Kyle Basler 6-3 235 .SO
p 8 Chris Hurd QB 6-2 213 so 9 Isaac Brown DE 6-2 229 SR 9 josh'Swogger QB 6-5 238 FR 10 Drew Dunning K 5-11 170 SR 10 Aaron Wagner LB 6-2 248 so 12 Ira Davis LB 6-0 213 SR 12 Dayton Dennison QB 6-5 216 so 13 Adam Braidwood DE 6-5 264 so 13 Mike Reilly QB 6-2 188 FR 15 Karl Paymah DB 6-0 198 JR 17 D. D. Acholonu DE 6-3 245 SR 18 Alex Brink QB 6-2 191 FR 18 Graham Siderius K 6-.l 196 so 19 Odell Howard DT 6-3 272 FR 20 Kevin McCall RB 5-11 199 FR 21 McKenzie Hansell WR 6-0 200 SR 21 Alex Teems DB 5-11 181 so 22 Lavell Anderson RB 5-7 174 JR 23 Husein Abdullah DB 5-11 178 FR 24 Virgil Williams DB 6-1 192 SR 25 Don Turner DB 6-0 177 so 25 Rafael Bolton RB 5-10 192 so 26 Jeremy Bohannon DB 5-10 203 JR 27 Erik Coleman DB 5-10 205 SR 28 Hamza Abdullah DB 6-3 209 JR 28 Kealan Smith RB 6-0 205 SR 29 Jason David DB 5-9 180 SR 30 Jermaine Green RB 6-0 228 SR 31 Steve Mortimer WR 6-3 208 SR 32 Omowale Dada DB 5-10 195 so 32 David White KIP 5-11 · 177 FR 33 Chris Bruhn RB 6-3 215 )R 34 Christian Bass DB 6-2 204 FR 34 Jonathan Larson WR 6-3 195 so 34 Alex Oyer K 6-3 190 JR 35 Scott Lunde WR 6·2 213 SR 35 Spencer Shelman DB 6-0 200 FR 36 Andrew Fernandez DB 6-0 215 FR 36 Jevon Miller WR 6-0 190 so 37 Eric Frampton DB 5-11 198 FR 38 Tvler Sellers DB 5-10 173 FR 38 Allen Thompson RB 5-lO 205 JR 39 Brian Skjci LB 6-3 195 FR 40 Aaron johnson TE 6-6 283 FR 41 Blair Hawkins RB 5-6 172 JR 41 Aaron joseph DB 6-2 200 so 42 Scott Davis LB 5-10 225 FR 43 Brian Hall LB 6-2 243 FR 44 Mark Ahlbl'rg TE 6-5 280 JR 44 Josh Shavies DT 6-6 316 SR 45 Brian Winter LB ·6-1 209 JR 46 Pat Bennett LB 6-0 229 JR 47 Nic Scott DB 6-1 201 so 47 Jesse Taylor TE 6-3 250 FR 48 AlGenatone LB 6-0 229 SR 49 Steve Dildine LB 6-1 212 FR 50 Josh Parrish OL 6-7 324 SR 51 Will Derting LB ·6-0 237 so 52 Don Jackson LB 6-0 231 SR 53 Raymond Bonnell DE 6-1 238 so 54 Paul Stevens · LB 6-2 254 FR 55 Dane Bassett DE 6-3 207 FR 55 Charles Harris OL 6-6 280 FR 56 Chris Baltzer LB 6-0 216 FR 57 Tom Tribbett LB 5-11 197 FR 58 Matt Mullenix DE 6-5 235 FR 59 Reyshaun Bobo DE 6-2 196 FR 60 Robbie Hyslop OL o-4 240 FR 61 Josh Duin OL 6-3 302 FR 62 Chris Paulson LB 5·9 228 so 62 Mark Matthey OL 6-2. 260 FR 63 Mike Shelford OL 6-2 269 SR 64 Steve Nelson OL 6-2 280 SR 64 Thomas Clement!, LB 6-3 193 FR 65 Dan Iovine OL 5-11 281 FR 66 Nick Mihlhauser OL 6-1 287 so 67 Calvin Armstrong OL 6-7 311 JR 68 Zach Ingham OL 6-7 2411 FR 69 Keola Loo OL 6-1 285 JR 70 Bobby Byrd OL 6-7 281 FR 71 Billy Knotts OL 6-7 282 SR 72 Spencer Hollison OL 6-5 283 FR 73 Scan O'Connor OL 6-5 282 FR 74 Russell Foster OL 6-7 311 FR 75 Sam Lightbody OL 6-9 319 FR 76 NorvelTHolmes OL 6-3 304 so 77 Patrick Afif OL 6-7 319 JR 78 ·Riley Fitt..Chappell OL 6-5 314 so 79 Bryan Olson OL 6-6 282 so 80 Cody Boyd TE 6-8 240 FR 81 Troy Bienemann TE 6-5 252 so 82 Adam West TE 6-6 243 so 83 Jason Hill WR 6-2 190 FR 84 Robert Franklin WR 6-2 195 FR 86 Tramainc Murray WR 5-10 172 JR 87 Thomas Ostrander WR 6-1 205 so 87 Kevin Williams DT 6-4 275 JR R8 Trandon Harvev WR 5-11 187 JR 89 Brett johnson ' WR 5-11 195 JR 92 Joel Crawford DE 6-0 243 so 93 Jon Conlin DE 6-2 240 FR 

-
94 Mkristo Bruce DE 6-5 249 FR 94 john Rasmussen WR 6-5 216 FR 95 Jeremy Williams DT 6-4 288 SR 97 Faafetai Tupai DT 6-5 320 SR 98 Bryan Boyer DT 6-4 255 so 99 Steve Cook DT 6-3 293 JR 


-
The biggest concern on offense is the line. 
Washington State quarterback Matt Kegel is no Jason If it can keep Holiday upright and provide Gesser. But the once high-flying Cougar passing attack Grant and Jones with enough holes, the may yield to running back Jonathan Smith, who rushed ofl'ense will score points. The opportunistic for 160 yards on just 16 carries last week. The experi­defense will create chances and lead the enced Notre Dame defensive front \'\ill provide a much Irish to ruining Bill Doha's homecoming. greater challenge to the Cougars than last week and the 
Irish defense returns to its dominating 2002 form. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 Washington State 13 Chris Federico Washington State 10 Sports Writer 
Matt Lozar Associate Sports Editor 

Friday, September 5, 2003

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
KEY MATCHUP

Sizing up the Irish and Cougars 
with Anne Mulcahy 
TilE DOCU'VIE\T COMPANY 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Xerox Corporation 
XEROX,, 

Come listen to Anne Mulcahy, chairman and chief executive officer of Xerox Corporation, speak about the Xerox turnaround and return to profitability. Anne is credited with bringing Xerox back from the brink of bankruptcy and is considered one of the rising stars in corporate America. 
Mulcahy will touch on the challenges of transforming a major corporation ... from restructuring, refinancing, cost cutting, sales, prices and new products and services. Of particular interest will be Anne's comments on the future of Xerox, the challenge of women executives in business, ethics and corporate governance in America, and of ~ourse 
~·, opportunities at Xerox for Domers. Experience firsthand Anne's straightforward approach
<lb 

on how she energized employees during the-turnaround while making tough decisions. 
Xerox is a partner with Notre Dame Athletics with a strong brand and a vision for helping Notre Dame students. Throughout its difficult times, Xerox continued to support scholarship 
.•/ grants and employment opportunities for Notre Dame students. The company has $15.8 billion in revenues with 65,000 employees worldwide and ranks number 116 in the Fortune 
500. Xerox is building a bright future around its customer focused and employee-centered core values, augment~d by passion for innovation, speed and adaptability. 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowe 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored points allowed 

NOTRE DAME'S 2002 OFFENSE 
vs 

WASH STATE'S 2003 DEFENSE 



NoTRE DAME WASHINGTON STATE
'· 
. DEFENSIVE LINE
OFFENSIVE LINEWASH STATE'S 2003 OFFENSE 

vs 

NOTRE DAME'S 2002 DEFENSE 

After losing four starters to the NFL Draft, the Notre Dame offensive line is working on finding the necessary chemistry to be a cohesive unit. The line needs to protect Notre Dame quarter­back Carlyle Holiday and keep his jersey clean. 

Washington State's defensive line only gave up 83 yards to Idaho last week. While the Vandals' attack isn't very threatening, holding a college team under the century mark always causes some concern for next week's opponent. 
by the numbers 
number of games Washington State's Bill Doba has been acollegiate head co~ch 
1 
134 
different opponents for Notre .Dame after it plays Washington State for the first time Saturday 
Notre Dame wins in its past 16 season openers 
14 
page 7 

Friday, September 5, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Grant doesn't mind playing in the shadows 
has gotten a little bit bigger this By CHRIS FEDERICO year. He's a lot faster than he 
Sports Writer 
was, and he's healthy and that's the biggest factor right there." 
As a sophomore last season, Grant, who wasn't content to 
Irish tailback Ryan Grant 
sit on the accomplishments and amassed 1,08 5 yards on the accolades of the 2002 season,
ground, becoming only the sev­knew there were several areas 
enth Irish back to accomplish of his game he could improve to the feat. 
become a better running back. 
But when running back Julius "I worked on all aspects of myJones -who was expelled from game. It wasn't a matter of justthe University in the summer of fixing one," Grant said. "I felt 2002 for academic reasons ­like I had to work on everythingannounced he would return to so I could dominate on the field 
Notre Dame for 2003, many for­and be the type of back I know I 
got about Grant and his nine 
can be. 'I worked on speed,
touchdowns. 
strength, agility, catching balls, And Grant would have it no pass routes. blocking, protection other way. 
-all types of things."
"You're only as good as what Working out together during you do now." he said. "I've got to the summer and, later. compet­go out this year and dominate ing with each other during fall and perform on the field. Julius practices. Grant and Jones have is a great player. and the way I 
pushed each other and made see it, if the defense concen­
themselves even better runningtrates on him and sleeps on me, backs. 
I'd rather that anyway. Let "We complement each other 
someone else.get the media." 
very well," Grant said. "During
But when Jones returned to 
the summer we worked to make 
Notre Dame for fall practices, each other complete backs and 
many assumed he would fall 
become more well rounded. But 
back jnto the starter's position it's just competing that makes us he vacated before last season. 
better. 
But Grant, who sat out spring "When we make good plays,practice· while recovering from we watch to see what the other 
shoulder surgery, has impressed person did well. If I make a goodthe Irish coaches in fall practice 
play he asks me about it, and if and currently sits atop the depth he makes a good play I ask him. the Irish teams from the early Julius has great quick feet, can suspense and reveal them in his chart heading into Notre Dame's We all do a good job of commu­'90s. make people miss, can really own manner. first game of the season. nicating with each other." "[Grant] has been playing very accelerate and get north and "I have goals, but I can't 
"I think its probably as much But with Grant and Jones well in camp, but you also right south and has the ability to take reveal them right now," Grant -· maintaining the job," offensive together in the backfield, the now inject Julius and [tailback] it to· the house." said. ''I'll keep them to myself coordinator Bill Diedrick said. Irish could enjoy a versatility at Marcus [Wilson] and it gives you With one 1,000-yard rushing and let you all see them on "Ryan has had a very solid that position they haven't seen a pretty good combination," season already under his belt, Saturdays." camp, and he hasn't done any­in years. The tandem gives Diedrick said. "Ryan is more of a Grant has further plans for suc­thing that would take away from Notre Dame a complement of ·downhill power runner but has cess with the Irish, but he would Contact Chris Federico at him losing the starting job.... speed and power reminiscent of the ability to stretch it ou~side. rather keep the football world in cfederic@nd.edu. 
Cougars' first-year head coach returns home 
Doba grew up an Irish fan afternoon, he'll see the team he · Doha, who still considers South Bend Wash. from 1994-97 and offensive cheered for while growing up from the his hometown, went to high school in coordinator and quarterbacks coachand started his coaching opposite sideline, something even New Carlisle, Ind. and received a Bill Diedrick held the same posts with 
Doha never imagined would take place bachelor's degree in physical educa­the Cougars from 1989-90. career at Indiana schools even when falling asleep many years tion from Ball State. He coached high Having spent 12 seasons at ago. school football in Indiana from 1962-Washington State coaching the offen­
"It will be a thrill, I would by lying if 76. Doba held a variety of assistant sive line, McDonell developed a rela­By MATT LOZAR I didn't say that, being born and raised coaching positions at Indiana from tionship with Doba that still persists Associate Sports Editor there. So much of my family was Notre 1977-82 and at Purdue from 1983-86. throughout the offseason. 
Dame fans and I was to as a kid," Doha became a "It was a good 
To put it simply, this weekend is a Doha said. "My mom got out the rosary member of the relationship. He's a dream come true for Washington State about kickoff time and prayed those Mishawaka Hall of great man. He's a first-year head coach Bill Doba. beads until the game was over for the Fame in 1986 and great coach and a
"/had a lot of

Like every other kid who grew up Fighting Irish. was recently induct­good friend. He still under the shadow of the Golden Dome. "It is something neat to get to go ed into the Indiana people back [in South is a good friend," the South Bend native's favorite foot­back there and I never thought it my football Hall of Fame Bend] telling me good luck. McDonnell said. 
ball team was Notre Dame. Saturday wildest dreams it would ever happen." in 2001 after coach­"We talk once every
except for one game. ..

ing football in the couple months and state where basket­get caught up and ball rules, for 25 Bill Doba those kind of years. things ...
Cougars coach 

"I used to go watch Besides the con­·­practice. I can nection to three remember watching coaches, Doba will Ara [Parseghian] and Dan Devine's have numerous famHy members in the practices as & high school coach," stands this weekend. He has a son Doha said. "They were a great staff traveling from Indianapolis and and very hospitable to let us watch daughters coming in from Evansville, spring ball." Ind. and North Carolina. Overall, Doha 
When Doha joined former will have five grandchildren cheering Washington State coach Mike Price's him. staff in 1989, he coached the lineback­During his time in South Bend ers. Two years later, Doba earned the throughout the summer, Doba spent title of assistant head coach and in time with some old friends who gave 1994, he became the Cougars' defen­him encouragement for his first year sive coordinator. as head coach. Last weekend, he made 
When Price left Pullma.n, Wash. for his family and friends proud leading Alabama last December, Doha finally Washington State to a 25-0 victory moved up to what has become, one of over Idaho in his first game as a colle­the top jobs in the Pac-10. giate head coach. 
"It's one of the good stories as far as Doha's friends cheered from his last the coaching ranks go for a long time week and for the rest of the season­veteran to finally get his chance to except for three hours Saturday after­right his own ship," Notre Dame offen­noon. sive line coach John McDonell said. "I hope they are rooting for their old 
McDonell is one of three current buddy," Doha said. "I had a lot of peo­coaches on the Notre Dame staff to ple back there telling me good luck. spend part of their coaching career at except for one game." 
Washington State coach Bill Doba Instructs at a practice last December prior to Washington State. Running backs the Cougars' matchup In the Rose Bowl against Oklahoma. coach Buzz Preston was in Pullman. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 



page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMEN-T Friday, September 5, 2003 



I 
..

. i 
,, I
,, )~ 
' l
:~ I
I 
I
....,. 
I 

I 
::. 
"':. 
i 

.·. ~·~-J:i'
.! 
l .e 

·~.~ ,,-~ r-~ 
G 
I 
f 
l 
~­
_,.._ 

~'}·:'-->":":~:><;. . ~ .,.j, ' -\~ -~;._, • .< 
' t 

! 1 
I 
..• ' 
-,.

I i
! 
l5 .. ,. 
·I 
---. ·. 

il 1 . ­
', 
I 
., 

r:
,. 
'ri 
~ I 
~ 
rj •,. 

l5 
I 
I 
.;_ ..
l5I·

I 
i! 
I ! 
I 
~ 
I 
i l5 f 

I ' .
·question. compare-your. 
'~~~~~ \~ ·,
j 

~ • opinions with others. ­
)~. 
~­
explore what matters at pwc.com/lookhere. '' 

i s 

./f 
• 

I 
-~1 ~ 
-4Jg

I . 
1) 
~! 
--;t 
I ~ 
0 






