
VOL XXXVII NO. 79 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND and SMC announce presidential cadidates 
• ND anounces six candidates for office 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
Ne,ws Wricer 
Six candidates running for student body president have submitted petitions to the Judicial Council, and one more candidate may still enter the race. 
The presidential candidates include Mike Bott, Charlie Ebersol, Ryan Gagnet, Pat Hallahan, Joe Muto and Drew Updike. 
Elections will be held Feb. 10 and the two tickets with the greatest number of votes will have a run-ofT election on Feb. 13. 
Ebersol, a sophomore from Keough llall, and his running mate Lauren Meagher, a junior, have adopted the motto, "Make the choice. See the change." They claim to be fresh faces and proactive indi­viduals who have researched Student Government exten­sively so they can take into consideration the feasibility and power it has to carry out various issues. They want to make First Year of Studies a more fulfilling experience and host more service-oriented events, such as concerts with "big-name talent raising money for a good cause." Ebersol and Meagher encour­age students to get excited about these elections. 
Muto, a junior and president of O'Neill Hall, and his run­ning mate Mimi Matkowski, a junior and president of Lyons Hall, feel the roles of the stu­dent body president and vice president should be to make Notre Dame a more fun, relax­ing and enjoyable place to go to school. They plan to empower students by "fighting to get SYRs and tailgating back at the same time we start new traditions." They will unveil their full platform this weekend. 
Hallahan, a junior from Sorin Hall, and his running mate Jeremy Lao, a sopho­more from Stanford Hall, believe in "putting students first" since they are the reason the University exists. They feel students should see the results of the teacher/course evalua­tions so they can make informed academic decisions. They would also work to ensure that the money the school raises goes to student endowments, and they want to bring back hall dances. 
Mike Bott, a junior from Alumni Hall, and his running mate Mike Kirsh, a sophomore from Alumni, aim to make our campus more student-oriented by giving students what they want. They plan to do this by improving the dining hall sys­tem, expanding LaFortune, placing printers in all the dorms, and offering services such as shuttles for off-cam­pus students. 
Drew Updike and his run­ning mate Eric Tarnowski are both sophomores from Zahm Hall. Their major platform ideas include revamping AnTostal to make it the biggest week on campus by distributing funds to the dorms, changing the current meal plan system and getting cable in the dorms. They also want to change the seating arrangements in the Joyce Center so students sit around and near the court to promote a home-court advantage. Updike and Tarnowski plan to hold a press conference next week, because they want stu­dents to become more informed about and connected to Student Government. 
Ryan Gagnet, a junior from 
see ND/page 8 
"I wanted someone else to

. Only one SMC 
run, but it doesn't surprise meticket on ballot for that there has not been a lot of third in a row people running [for student 
body president and vice presi­dent]," Jablonski-Diehl said. 

By SARAH NESTOR 
Jablonski-Diehl is running

Saint Mary's Ediwr for student body president with 
running mate Brown as viceTickets running for Saint 

president on the platform

Mary's student body president 
t h e m e

and vice presi­"Leadershipdent officially that works,"
began cam­"We'd like to think that we 
emphasiz­

p a i g n in g are running unopposed 
ing their

Wednesday, 
because they {students] 
past experi­

but for the 
think we're doing a great ences and
third year in a involvement
row there is job." 
with studentonly one ticket 

govern­

seeking office. Elizabeth Jablonskl-Dlehl 
ment.

The sole ticket 
student body presldentlal "One of
seeking office 
candidate the great
is composed of current stu­dent body vice president Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl and sophomore class president Sarah Brown. 
"We'd like to think that we are running unopposed because they [students] think we're doing a great job," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Jablonski-Diehl attributes the huge time commitment as one of the reasons student shy away from running for student body president. 
things about 
S a i n t Mary's is they bring a leader out of every Saint Mary's stu­dent," Brown said. 
If elected Jablonski-Diehl and Brown plan to continue a lot of the work this past year's administration began. This includes working on the Heading Day proposal, improvements to the Board of Governance website and 
see SMC/page 8 



More Flex Points, less meals says Senate 

LAUREN FORBES/ The Observer Senator Dave Brenner of DIilon speaks on a resolution about a new meal plan,whlch was approved by the senate In llght of the fact that the average Notre Dame student consumes only 9.2 meals a week. 
By MEGHANE DOWNES 
As•ociate News Ediror 
Student Senate asked Notre Dame Food Services to expand meal plan options in a resolu­tion that passed unanimously Wednesday. 
The resolution called for Food Services to include a meal option with a 10-meal plan and a proportional amount of Flex Points. The resolution cited that 97 percent of students choose the Flex 14 plan and that an average student with this plan eats 9.17 meals per week. 
The resolution said, "The cur­rent mean plan options neither meet student desires nor the reality of average student usage." 
Sarah Bates. Pasquerilla West 
see FLEX/page 3 
N e-w shirt design to be revealed soon 

By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 

Designs for the 2003-04 version of "The Shirt" are now being finalized by a com­mittee overseen by Student Activities. 
This is the 14th year a T­shirt has been designed to raise money for clubs and organizations and to assist students faced with unexpect­ed costs associated with acci­dents or tragedies. The idea of a shirt that both helped students and unified the com­munity was so popular that it became a tradition to sell a shirt every football season. 
Students were given an opportunity to submit designs for the new look of The Shirt in a contest that ended before the Winter Break. Ever since then. the committee has been reviewing all of the submitted designs and will soon announce whose design will be worn by students, alumni and fans next football season. 
Dave Brenner is president of the committee that directs the student-run initiative. 
"As with many of the past shirts, we are looking to tie past traditions and excellence with the present and the future in a creative manner. Hopefully we can accomplish this." he said. 
"The final decision should be reached over the weekend. 
We received many quality entries, so there is still some work to be done in selecting a final design," said Brenner. 
Because of the success of the 2002 campaign, students were encouraged to submit designs for the 2003 design. 
"We had close to 30 entries this year which greatly sur­passes previous years. There is a lot of excitement about the project, and IthisI is con­tributing to [the program's] success," said Brenner. 
Many students have won­dered if kelly green will again be the color of The Shirt due to the tremendous success the 2002 "Heturn to Glory" T­shirt, but the committee has yet to make a final decision on that aspect of The Shirt. 
Brenner said, "The color issue has not been resolved. Currently the focus is on the graphic and an attractive slo­gan." 
Ile went on to say that many of the designs incorpo­rated football coach Tyrone Willingham, but in general there were a variety of graph­ics submitted supporting dif­ferent aspects of Notre Dame football. 
Last year Carl Elkins' design was chosen and the slogan "Hcturn to Glory" became synonymous with the Irish season, and the success 
sec SHIRT/page 9 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, January 23, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Welcome to the jungle 
Desiring nothing more than to fend off the inevitable boredom that accom­panies the winter months at school. many students decide to take a stab at sustaining the life J ti K 1 1 k 
of a creature or us n r v c as 
two. From bearded 
lizards to sea mon -Assistant 
keys, a wide array News Editor of creatures is rep­resented through­out the hallowed Notre Dame Residence halls and surrounding area. For many, the idea of leaving home without a pet can be difficult, and per­haps that's why Fluffy the hamster was whisked away from his shoebox to spend some time in your apartment liv­ing on Cheetos and leftover beer. 
That said, owning a pet while living on campus can pose many unsightly dilemmas. Students aren't allowed to bring animals into the dormitories, and for good reason I might add. I don't know about you, but I certainly wouldn't be too thrilled with the idea of goats or swine roaming the halls, although from the smell of things, they already do. Perhaps even a moose or two would lay claim to your section's bathroom or a community of sloths would decide to nest in your room­mate's desk. So unless you're planning on hiding your ostrich Oswald in your closet, you'd better leave him at home. 
To help the dormitories avoid turning into zoos, but at the same time let a lit­tle creature cohabitate their rooms, some students have turned to aquatic life, allowing the emotionless stare of a fish substitute for a more emotive pet. These creatures can range from an everyday goldfish to unknown crea­tures swimming around in the mouths of certain bio-lab students. Not into fish? Caring for a frog can be easy and just as rewarding. Just name him Ed and feed the amphibian daily. Just don't get the notion to kiss him. 
But, there is hope for land dwellers as well. Once off-campus, most stu­dents have the opportunity to have some sort of creature if they choose to do so. If the landlord permits or per­haps is ignorant of the fact, animals such as dogs or even snakes can enter the picture and be a part of the college experience. 
I don't recommend going overboard on the matter and asking Michael Jackson to lend you a pet chimp, but then again that might be a cool pet too. If that doesn't seem like fun, a pet wal­rus shouldn't be too difficult to care for, and you'll be the life of any party with stories of how that blonde in French class made out with it. If you live in a house and want to flood a few rooms to give some needy crocodiles a second home, I'm all for any endeavor to break a water main. 
When owning a pet, it goes without say that there is a lot of responsibility attached to caring for them. It's not like a hardy plant that will just need a gulp of water after being neglected for three weeks during Christmas Break. Most of these animals require attention many times daily. If this is too much for you, it's probably better off to get a little green leafy substitute and name him Ralph. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Yesterday's photo ofseveral dancers rehrarsing was incorreccly labeled. Dancers for the Murin Luther King, Jr. celebration will perform at 7 p.m. tonight in the Keenan/Stanford chapel. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
OIT'S Darwin 
Abortion 
server 
opponents,attacked by 
advocates
Trojan horse, march in
twice 
capital 
Pro-life advo­cates march in 
OIT'S Darwin serv­

er was the target of Washington on the
a hacker, prompt­30th anniversary ofing OIT to replace 
the Roe v. Wade
the server with a 
decision legalizingstand-in while the abortion. 
original server is rebuilt to provide greater security. 

PageG 
Pages 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Judge tosses McDonald's suit 
A judge Wednesday threw out a lawsuit that blamed McDonald's for obesity, saying it was common knowledge that fast-food was high in calories and fat. 
Page 7 
. 
ILS Presentation: Artist Fernando Salicrup, Hoom 208 McKenna I I all at 5:30 p.m. 

. 
Martin Luther King-Light for the Journey, Mass of Celebration, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. · 

. 
Sign-up Senior Hetrcat #8, all day in room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Heligious studies dinner, 5 p.m. in the President's Dining Hoom. 

. 
Kaplan Test Prep., 6 p.m. in 315 N Madeleva llall. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Pining Hall 

Today Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, southern-fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped pota­toes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, Italian rice pilaf and sliced carrots. 
Today Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, cherry turnover, breadsticks, grilled pork chops, broccoli-rice casserole, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp, grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, california-blend veg­etables and baked potatoes. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0:: 
IA.I 
X 
~ 
IA.I 
~ 
.... 
ti( 
(.) 


South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Changing lives through service 
Andrew DeBerry analyzes the amount of service that could be done by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents and how this could improve the lives of many peo­ple. 

Page 1.0 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
.9 HIGH 68 HIGH 68 HIGH 20 HIGH 22 LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 13 LOW 15 
SCENE 

Movie Reviews 
Scene reviews the new blockbuster releases ''Catch Me if You Can," "Guy Thing'' and "Adaptation." 
Page .12 
SPORTS 
Give Lavere the ball 

Freshman Courtney LaVere is a bright spot among a struggling Irish squad. 
Page 24 
Cars towed for illegal parking 
A student's vehicle was towed in the Bookstore lot for a parking violation on Monday. 

Student feels sick in class 
A student was transported by NDSP from DeBartolo Hall to the University Health Center for treatment of an illness on Monday. 

Sports injury causes slowdown in game 
NDSP transported a student to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 

Visitor's car towed 
A visitor's vehicle was towed for a parking viola­tion at the South Dining Hall on Monday. 

Property lost on campus grounds 
A student reported losing his wallet at an unknown campus location on Monday. 
Today Lunch: Spaghettini meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, noodles romanoff, mixed veg­etables, roast beef hash, sauerkraut, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, cherry crisp, blaz'n sea nuggets and fries. 
Today Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni cheese pizza, peperoni pizza, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, noodle Rromanoff, mixed vegetables, roast beef hash. sauerkraut, turkey broc­coli bake, pork loin with apples, hot applesauce and cherry crisp. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Compiled from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: French fries, deli bar, chicken soup, rice, hamburgers, salad, cookies, cake, bananas, pears, cheese pizza, pepperoni pizza, sausage pizza, baked potatos, chicken, chili bar, broc­coli, peas, corn and cream of potato. 
Today Dinner: French fries, deli bar, chicken soup, rice, hamburgers, salad, cookies, cake, bananas, pears, cheese pizza, pepperoni pizza, sausage pizza, baked potatos, chicken, chili bar. broc­coli, peas, corn and cream of potato. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 26 HIGH 37 LOW 20 LOW 30 
Atlanta 29 / 14 Boston 17 / 13 Chicago 12 / 2 Denver 45 / 31 Houston 48 / 30 Los Angeles 70 / 52 Minneapolis o / -6 New York 18 / 14 Philadelphia 21 / 8 Phoenix 76 / 50 Seattle 50 / 42 St. Louis 15 / 2 Tampa 57 / 27 Washington 23 / 15 

Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Notre Dame Federal Credit Union donates big bucks to Kaneb center 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
New, Writer In what is becoming an annu-
FORTUNE. 

100 BEST 

COMPANIES8 
TO WORK FOR~ 
ey.com/us/careers 

,
,,
,,, 
I I 
I
, 
I 
I I 
I' 
,I 
I' 
I 
I I I I 
I I I I I 
I I 

'I I Now it's time to put on 
I I 

I I your thinking cap.
I 
I I I 
I I I 
'I 
I 1 I I I I 
'I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I 
' I 
' ' 
'I 
I ' \ 

t 
' ' \ ' \ 
t ' I 
I 
' 
al tradition, the Notre Dame The gilt, the third in as many Federal Credit Union has years, will provide resources to donated $16,000 to the Kaneb expand the center's library and Center for Teaching and conduct workshops for now fac­Learning at Notre Dame. ulty members. 
,, ­
,,,' ,,,'
,,
,, 
,I 

I I
, 
,I 
,
,
,, 
' 
The Kaneb Center was estab­lished in 1996 by a gift from John Kaneb, a Notre Dame trustee and chairman of Gulf Oil Co. The center's mission is 
It's time to start thinking about graduation and putting yourself to good use. At Ernst & Young, we offer achallenging, stimulating environment where you will be given many opportunities to use your mind and stretch and grow in your career. Start here. 
/J}} ERNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
to help faculty members and teaching assistants improve the quality of their instruction through collaborative work­shops, scholarly research and technology training. 
The center also presents the Kaneb Teaching Awards, given to faculty from each college in recognition of excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mhramant@nd.edu 





Flex 
continued from page I 
Hall senator. said Food Services should consider and pursue this option in order to keep with the program's mis­sion of "being responsive to the changing needs of stu­dents." 
Bates said f<ood Services has not provided hard information on Flex Point compensation with a Flex 10 program but the resolution would hopefully lead to negotiation. 
Dave Brenner, Dillon Hall senator, said the community atmosphere the University prides itself on would not diminish because students could eat together at other campus eateries and the din­ing halls would not become obsolete. 
The Flex 10 meal option originally appeared on Libby Bishop and Trip Foley's cam­paign platform when they ran for office last year. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Senate approved an amendment, which changes the Club Coordination Council's structure and adds a performing arts division. Amy O'Connor, CCC chair, said, "We saw about 20 clubs that we could put into a new divi­sion in order to better serve them and allocate funds." 

. 
Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council president, updated Senate on the upcom­ing election and said, "Online elections will be successful if all goes as planned, but we will have paper ballots on hand." 

. 
Senate unanimously con­firmed the Election Executive Committee. 

. 
Kaitlin Redfield. Pangborn Hall senator, was named as the new Student Senate alter­nate representative to Campus Life Council and replaced Blake Haan, Keenan Hall sen­ator, who had a class conflict. 


Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

page 4 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 

Students worry as grads teach 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 

The recent economic down­turn has spurred on rumors that the Universitv's values are in trouble. The most pervasive rumor stems from observations that more graduate students are teaching, in place of profes­sors, to much larger classes. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of Arts and Letters, and Gregory Sterling, associate dean of Arts and Letters, were on hand to discredit the rumors and set the record straight regarding the recent scramble for classes. 
If there appears to be a short­age of professors and not enough classes, it's because there are far too many classes being taught between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. Monday through Thursday, said Preacher. 
"The problem we are facing is not so much a shortage of classes per se, but rather that students have difficulty sched­uling classes because they are all taught at the same times," she said. 
It would seem a simple task for administrators to schedule classes throughout the day, but as Sterling explains it, course scheduling is much more com­plex than that. 
"It involves a large number of factors such as curricular needs, curricular conflicts, classroom availability and fac­ulty preference," said Sterling. "Most departments work out schedules through an elaborate process that at varying times includes consultation with the not impede our long-term abili­faculty, the administrative staff ty to build the necessary infra-of the department, the adminis­
structure to
trative staff of 
support our
the College 
"[ am optimistic that they faculty and
and the 
will not impede our long­eventually to
Registrar's Office." term ability to build the nec­expand the fac­
ulty beyond its
Both deans essary infrastructure to sup­
current level,"
agreed that 
port our faculty and eventu­
he said.
rather than 
ally to expand the faculty Sterling
deteriorating, 
the student­beyond its current level.,, believes that the opportuni­
to-professor ties that they
ratio has Gregory Sterling 
offer faculty
improved 
associate dean 
members, from
because of 
Arts and Letters the time that
the unprece­dented rate of faculty hire in the past few years. While there may be a slowdown now in hiring, cuts won't be made to the faculty, said Preacher. 
"We will all be under budget constraints, but we're not cut­ting back on professors in the classrooms right now to meet budgetary problems," she said. 
Currently, while there arc adjustments being made within most departments, Sterling agreed that the 3 percent cut from their already slim budget would not affect current faculty members. 
"We will have to eliminate 
some faculty lines in order to 
make our budget cuts, but 
these are open lines, i.e., posi­
tions that are currently unoccu­
pied by faculty and for which 
we are not presently search­
ing," Sterling said. 
Although the cuts may be 
problematic in the next several 
years, Sterling is confident that 
the University will be in even 
better shape in the future. 
"I am optimistic that they will 
they start at the University, will serve to sus­tain academic values far into the future. 
"We provide every new facul­ty member with a small research fund when they begin," Sterling said, "We try to make H possible for them to have good experiences during their first few years so that they will flourish," he adds. 
Without a doubt, more gradu­ate students arc teaching class­es, many more than Sterling has seen before in his 14 vears at Notre Dame, but this is rnorc as a means of attracting them to employees than it is a result of budget cuts. 
"There has been an 
increased emphasis on pro­
viding pedagogical training 
and experience to graduate 
students in recent years," 
said Sterling. "Some depart­
ments have elaborate peda­
gogical training programs 
that graduate students go 
Contact Natasha Grant at ngrant@nd.edu 





DeBolt pleads innocent in case 
"I had too much to drink and By ANDREW SOUKUP should have acted that way," News \Vriter DeBolt said. according to a 
police report. Chad DeBolt might be When asked if DeBolt allowed to pay a fine or per­planned legal action against form community service as the Jacksonville Sheriff's Department,
part of a plan being dis­t h e
"Certainly that possibility 
Associated prosecutors exist." Press report­in an effort to Craig Williams ed that 
cussed with 
Williams

have DeBolt's Chad DeBolt's attorney trespassing s a i ct
when asked If DeBolt will 
''Certainly
c h a r g e 

dropped, his pursue legal action against that possibil­the Jacksonville Sheriff's ity exists." 
attorney told a judge Department T h e 
Wednesday. 
Attorney Craig Williams also entered an innocent plea Wednesday for DeBolt at a Jacksonville, Fla., hearing for an incident last month involving the former Notre Dame football player. 
DeBolt, a graduate-level stu­dent, is studying in London this semester and was not at Wednesday's hearing. 
DeBolt was arrested Dec. 27 for failing to leave a Jacksonville nightclub when he was in town for the Gator Bowl as a member of Notre Dame's football team. He got into a fight with guards at Duval County Jail, where jail officials had to use pepper spray and forced the 6-foot, 202-pound special teams play­er into a restraint chair. 
DeBolt's booking photo 
showed cuts, bruises and 
swelling on his face. 
Florida State 
Attorney's office said there was not suffi­cient evidence to launch an investigation, The sheriff's office said it is still conducting its own internal investigation. 
Prosecutors and Williams said they are working on a pretrial intervention program, where defendants typically pay a fine or perform commu­nity service in exchange for getting misdemeanor-level charges dropped. The details of how the exchange would work are still being negotiat­ed. 
Duval County Judge Tyrie 
Boyer scheduled another 
hearing for March 31, but 
Williams told the AP he 
hoped to have the case 
resolved by then. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

=i:----:i-~-t~<=>:::r--~=--=--~~ :~ ~=----t= 1.-=-._
<==-c====JII :::r--~~=r--I :c===ia =--~ 
¦ :_=---=----=--~1 c::::::> ~ ~::r--~ 
1 J

IVIC>~C>.A."V,., J.A.~U.A.~"V 27TH 
PUBLIC l-:IE.AcLTI-1: C:>PPOR.T'l..JNITIES 
c_~~Lreer.~ J.-,viLlzi,r L1"Le C,.,enLers for ~.i..seLZse C.. L L d I" · 

5:00 -6:00 P-~-738 LJhBAR'T"<>'-•~ o,z r<.> a:n . revenilz<>r7 (CDC) 
Learn more about the rederal agency that: hel

abro.ad., pro"Vidfng credibte. inForma~ion to e ~.s prot:=:c.t health ~-nd saFet:y o"F all people ~ at home and :5'tr-o_ng part:ners:hips. Learn more about . n anc~ ealth dec•~ions, and promoting health t:hre>Ltgh ,nst,t:ut:es, and oFFices oF t:he CDC. internships and Full-t:1me opportunities at: the 12 centers, 
ADVERTISIN<3 C>PPORT'l..JNITIES 
c·areers vVith l-lill/.rlolliday 
5':3r; -6:30 p_A,T_ J36 .Dr,13ANTC>T CJ 

~unkin' Donuts, CVS, or .John Hanc:ock_ ..sound f ·1· -;, -­
increased sales due t:o the creative erro t . am, ,ar. All or t:hese H1II/Holl1day client:s have shovvn you oF what: they have t:o offer you! rs or H1II/Holl1day. Representat.ives of' Hill/Holliday vvill inForm 
PVBI:-IC POLICY /THINK TANK PRESENTATION 
A,nerLca:n Enrer,r:,,rise Insrirure Th C r C'

6:00 -7:00 l'.l\,T_ G-.2<,) _r-,_AN~1,u e a;,c er enrer. <~ The I-lerirage £-i'oundari<>n 
Are you interested in vvorking vvith Forei AFf · 

Natjo_nal ~ec~rity, Human Rights.,. or H~'::Jth ~::.sr'e~e~~e Studies and D;.spute Re.solution~ Educ:at:ion, vvork1ng vv,thu, the environment of poHt:ic:a• sch r -n you see ye>ursetF re.searching,. editing or Bork, Lynne Cheney, ..James Glassman or for oars suc:_h as NeV\J't Gingrich, Edvvin Meese III, Robert: C':'rt:e~? IF so,. t:his Panel Presentation is For o ~er Pres,den~ and Nobel Peace Prize \A.finner.,. ..Jimmy '\Ntll discuss their diF'f"erent approaches to y t_u -~epresentat,ves 'From t:he.se Public: Policy/Think Tanks t:he.se issues1 and hovv you c:an participate ~-==:t:::,o~~ an.d glob~I publ!c policy issues, what they do vvith 
em in making a dtf"f'erence in public pOlic:y! 
ENO.INEER.INO. / CHElvl / I3IC>CI-1:E1Vl / l3IC>LOG-Y C)

C.'ar<c>ers ,v;Lh C.'a:rgi,ll I:>ou, PPORTUNITIES 
6:00 _-8:00 !'-A-f-_ NL> f<C><>IW/JvFONbU.',' INN 
Cargill Dovv s primary business is t:he · r du · 

starch-Everything rrom biodegradabie o u ct:101~ oi polylactlde (PLA), vvhlch is derived f'rom corn produced. R.epre$enf:atives from CargillcDb~ ~n_ll dott:les to high-quality shirts and pJllovvs can be 
engir1eering rlrm. 1 ,scuss Internship & career oppor·t•.~nit:ies V-Jltt---.irl t:heir 
lV[tJSEU1V{ c:.>PPC')R'TUNITIF.::S c_.-£r.l--e·er:•,t ,vz'Ll,i. l rlzc-.'."' ..~·,ni.1h.~o,zia,, lrz.~-Li~1.1ee 6:.30 -7:.30 ~•-~~-J38 Dh13AT~T<"U,c~ 
!?orothy's ruby :slippers, Abraham Lincoln's hat h 

-Kcrrn1t the Frog'"--· Got your al:tentio1? t at !7e vvore vvl,en he vvas assasc-,:;inat:.ed,. the origin.at internship & career opportunities w·t:h'. -thReprese:ntat,ves r,-om t:he Smithsonian '\Nill be here t:o discuss
• 1n ,s nat:,on.c=it t:r-easu;-e_ 
S~C>RTS JV[ ARKETINC.-ANr:> I3t:..JSJNESS C::.~PERATIC>N~

adu1a.,· an,d ~~·ar,-,rnon ~ C.>PPC>RTUNITIES 
7.-00 -8:00 P_Ar. J.36 r::n-:L./AR7YJF_<:,) 
Sport crosses boLJndartes. VVhile drivin 

across social, pollt:lcal and geographic '7 :';t:h~etes t:o nevv peaks or performance, sport can also reach to hear about: exciting opportunit:ies vv-=:th ~~.;;:;~, aa~!::,e~~';1~n,~~~Je con,tr1ur1it:ie:s and countries. .Join us 

Spe>,-.,5=-C>RE:Cll .EJV THE: C~REE:F? C::E:~TE~ 


WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER "'lRE SERVICES page 5 
Abortion opponents, advocates march in capital 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON 

Opponents and supporters of abortion rights rallied at the nation's symbols of freedom Wednesday, both sides in the debate energized by llepublican promises to curb the procedure 30 years after the Supreme Court legalized it. 
Dueling protests are a ritual in the nation's capital on the anniversary of the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. Both sides said there was greater urgency this year with the GOP now control­ling Congress and the White I louse. 
Abortion opponents see their bnst chance in years to erode if not overturn Roe. 
"It just seems like it's more optimistic this year after the November elections," said Dennis Voglesong, 50, of llagerstown. Md., who has attended the anti-abortion March for Life for five years. He and others bundled against the bitter cold said they see a surge against abortion rights among a new generation. 
"Every year it seems the youth gets to be a larger part of the movement," he said. 
Abortion rights advocates, meanwhile, pledged to hold the line as they gathered for a Wednesday evening rally at the Supreme Court. 
"We will not be the genera­tion that both won and lost reproductive rights in our life­time," said Kim Gandy, presi­dent of the National Organization for Women, one of the groups that planned a competing rally later in the day. 
The flashpoint comes as abortions become less common in the U.S. -particularly amung teenagers -in part because of better contracepiion. The over­all abortion rate fell from 1994 to 2000 -from 24 abortions for every 1,000 women of child­bearing age to 21, according to the nonprofit Alan Guttmacher Institute. 
As is traditional, President Bush broadcast a message to the anti-abortion rights rally, saying Americans "must pro­tect the lives of innocent chil­dren waiting to be born." 
Bush. who was in St. Louis to give a speech on his tax-cut plan, noted that the gathering on the National Mall was near the memorial to Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of lndependence. 
"The March for Life upholds the self-evident truth of that declaration -that all are creat­ed equal. and given the unalienable rights of life, liber­ty and the pursuit of happi­ness," he said. 
Bush and the new Republican-controlled Congress have fueled the debate with promises to curb access to some abortions. First on their agenda is a ban on late-term 


Reuters Live Photos 

Pro-life advocates march toward the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. Wednesday. This week marks the 30th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision legallzlng abortion, a practice that Is expected to come under scrutiny due to Republican control of both Houses of Congress. 
abortions. Congress passed justice who opposes abortion such a ban in 1996 and 1997. rights, thereby turning the but President Clinton vetoed it court from a 5-4 majority in each time. Bush has said he favor of abortion rights to 5-4 would sign it into law. against them. 
The prospect of a resignation The debate rages in legisla­on the Supreme Court also has tures across the nation, as raised the stakes because it states fight over measures that would allow Bush to appoint a would protect or erode abor­tion rights. In Utah, for exam­ple, a state lawmaker marked the 30th anniversary of the Roe 
v. Wade decision by introduc­ing a bill to define at what stage of a pregnancy an abor­tion becomes "infanticide" and to set criminal penalties for such cases. 
U.S. official urges U.N. sanctions against North Korea 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

A top U.S. official said Wednesday he will push for the U.N. Security Council to consider sanctioning North Korea for its nuclear programs, even as a U.N. envoy said the North would consider sanctions "an act of war." 
But Western diplomats on the Security Council said the issue likely will not come before them anytime soon since it still is being debated by the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency in Vienna, Austria. 
U.S. Undersecretary of State John Bolton, in South Korea to rally support, said officials there agreed to take the nuclear issue before the Security Council. He also said Britain, France and most likely Russia would support such a move, and China had not voiced any opposition. 
"It's not a question of if it goes before the Security Council, it's only a matter of time," Bolton said. "We hope it will get there by the end of this week." 
The International Atomic Energy Agency currently is debating whether to refer the matter to the council, an offi­cial said. 
"If there isn't movement on the part of North Korea, ultimately this will have to go to the Security Council," IAEA spokesman Mark Gwozdecky told The Associated Press. "I think by the end of the week we will certainly have a better lay of the land." 
But a British delegate at the United Nations noted that the IAEA may post­pone its Friday session. 
Pyongyang insists its nuclear dispute is purely with Washington and does not involve other parties. It made that stance clear during recent talks with 
U.N. envoy Maurice Strong, a special adviser to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
"They have even used the expression that they would regard action by the Security Council to impose sanctions or any simiJar punitive action as an act of war," Strong said after returning from Pyongyang and briefing Annan. 
Asked if he would be reporting to the Security Council soon, Strong said, "l report to the secretary-general ... and he has not asked me to report to the Security Council." 
The issue "is not on the Security Council agenda at this point." 
"As you know, there are a lot of efforts going on, a lot of diplomatic efforts now under way, to deal with and seek a solution to the nuclear crisis. And, therefore, I think it would be inap­propriate and unhelpful of me to be dis­cussing it," Strong said. 
Tensions escalated in October when the United States said North Korea admitted having a secret nuclear pro­gram in violation of a 1994 agreement with the United States. The United States and its allies suspended oil ship­ments to the North, and Pyongyang responded by expelling U.N. inspectors and preparing to restart a 5-megawatt nuclear reactor to generate badly need­ed electricity. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Kuwaiti arrested in murder of American: 
Saudi border guards Wednesday arrested a Kuwaiti suspected of killing one American and critically wounding another in an ambush in Kuwait, the offi­cial Saudi Press Agency reported. The agency quot­ed an unidentified Interior Ministry official as say­ing the Kuwaiti was arrested "sneaking into Saudi Arabia from Kuwait." "The initial investigation revealed that he was the assailant who fired on the American citizens on Tuesday," the report said. 

Mexican earthquake kills 25, injures 300: 
Emergency crews dug into piles of collapsed cement and brick Wednesday to reach victims trapped by a powerful earthquake that killed at least 25 people, crumpling walls like paper, turning brick into pow­der and leaving steel reinforcement bars scattered like straws. At least 300 people were injured in the 
7.8 magnitude quake that hit western Mexico, civil defense officials said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Senate votes Ridge department chair: 
The Senate confirmed Tom Ridge as homeland security chief Wednesday with a unanimous vote ­and a strong message that it would be watching carefully as he molds a makeshift operation into one of government's largest agencies. "With today's historic vote, the Senate has demonstrated our shared commitment to doing everything we can to secure our homeland," President Bush said after the 94-0 vote to make Ridge, former Pennsylvania governor and the president's top adviser on domestic terrorism, the first secretary of the new Homeland Security Department. 
Attackers slay girl, stab sister in Utah: 
Attackers killed a 3-year-old girl and repeatedly stabbed her 10-year-old sister with a butcher knife early Wednesday outside a Mesquite casino where their mother was gambling, authorities said. Three people were being held in Utah. 
Bush issues stern warning to Hussein: 
The tens of thousands of U.S. military troops gather­ing in the Persian Gulf could wait for months with­out losing their war-fighting edge, the nation's top military officer said Wednesday. On a day in which President Bush warned of "serious consequences" for Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein should the United States attack his country, Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters that American forces have the training and flexibili­ty to initiate combat operations at any time. 
Grand jury indicts Malvo on homicide: 
A grand jury indicted 17-ycar-old Lee Boyd Malvo on murder charges that could bring the death penalty for his alleged role in the sniper attacks that terrorized the Washington area. The indictment, issued Tuesday and made public Wednesday, stems from the Oct. 14 slaying of FBI analyst Linda Franklin outside a Home Depot. 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 page 6 



OIT's Darwin server attacked by Trojan horse, twice 
Dobbins said the fact that the basic implementation of "It will serve as a reasonable be exposed to the Internet SCOTT BRODFUEHRER original Darwin server was left Tripwire, the security software replacement while we make until all security measures Associate News Editor in place after the December OIT is implementing on all sure that the original system is are in place. (HT has not yet 
hack made it more likely to be servers to alert system admin­more secure." said Dobbins. estimated how long it will 
System administrators at the Office of Information Technologies discovered Tuesday that the Darwin serv­er had again been breached by a hacker, prompting OIT to replace the server with a stand-in while the original server is rebuilt to provide greater security. 
The breach was similar to the one that occurred last month and involved a hacker replacing the POP daemon, which is used to retrieve e­mail. with a Trojan horse that might have collected pass­words of users who attempted to retrieve their e-mail, accord­ing to Gary Dobbins, OIT infor­mation security director. The breach did not affect the vast majority of campus users because most users do not use Darwin, a general-purpose server that can be used to access files on or off campus. to retrieve e-mail. 
"Anyone fetching mail from Darwin would know it. A user whose e-mail account was set up within the past four or five years would generally not be using Darwin to retrieve e­mail, unless they specifically chose to do so," said Dobbins. 
However, as the breach is still under investigation and the full extent of the hacker's activities have not been discov­ered, OIT urges all users who have used Darwin in any way to change their password. 
hacked in the future. Last istrators to security breaches Darwin will be rebuilt with take to rebuild the server. week, following the second such as this one. The specifica­a full implementation of the which will have a higher level hack, Darwin was replaced tions of the stand-in server are Tripwire software, the latest of security than the stand-in with a stand-in server that is comparable to the original software patches and a num­implemented Wednesday. more secure, containing cur­server and the switch might ber of other security mea­rent patches for operating sys­not result in any noticeable sures using clean room prac­Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at tems and other software and a decrease in performance. tices, which means it will not sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Apply Now! 
Spring Break Seminar to 
C-M
SOCIAL 



Coachella, California Campus Ministry
CONCERNS 

Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, and the people of Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish invite you to explore the many dimensions of Hispanic Ministry through a week-long immersion in southern California's rural Coachella valley. Seminar participants will experience the Church's option for the poor through an encounter with the spirituality, culture, and economy of the community of Coachella. 
Please join us for a 15-minute informational meeting Monday, Jan. 27th, beginning promptly at 6:30 in the CSC classroom. 
You can pick up your application at Campus Ministry, 114 Coleman-Morse, or at the CSC. Application deadline is Wednesday, Jan. 29th. 
Questions? Please contact Kevin Sandberg at 631-4147 or Kelly Rich at 631-3390. 
Our Lady's January 2, 2002 message to Mirjana in Medjugorje! 
"Dear Children, as a mother invites her 
children, I invited you and you responded 
to me. Allow me to fill your heart with 
love, so that it becomes a heart of love 
that you will be giving to others without 
reserve. ·1n that way, you will best help 
me in my mission of converting those of 
my children who have not yet experi­
enced the love of God and the love of my 



Son. Thank you!" 

ANNOUNCEMENT 
Saturday, January 25th IN THE CRYPT In response to Our Lady's call from Medjugorje 11:00 AM ROSARY 11:45 AM MASS 12:15 PM -1 :30 PM Kathleen Martin will answer questions 
From 1987 through 1994 Kathleen lived with the visionary Marija in Medjugorje. She was the only non Croatian member of the young people's prayer group that Our Lady formed and lead -with practical advice: how to prevent a war that seems imminent; how to discern your vocation, etc., etc. Kathleen will answer questions in the basement of the Presbytery On January 25th Our Lady will give another message to the world. To receive it, email your email address to <dnolan@childrenofmedjugorje.com> (Medjugorje Rosary for students every Friday night... rides from the main circle leave at 8:00 PM) 


Thursday, January 23, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch Janiiary 22 
Dow Jones 

8,318.73 • -124.17 


N4SDAQ 

1,359.48 • -4.77 

S&P500 

878.36  •  -9.26  
AMFX  
819.93  •  -3.44  
NYSE  
4,962.98  •  -53.30  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +7.74 +0.13 1.81 
~1i~;:1~J:1.NP.·.••.•·.:.·:..
:.·.·~.·:.:.X1.'..·•·:.:.•.:.·.~.r.:.·•.:...
bQQ.:.:·.·.·.::.·•.·.•··.·.:.·:•.••···;'tl;l.·.•.•••:·:·i.4.••.'.··.·+~t:f:i!:11tI21tia:
•,•,:,·,•,:,:•-•:•:•·-::;:::;;:::;:.;:;:;.; 

CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.57 -0.22 13.96 

iiijJ~i!f;:i[lil;i:ilii;;if;:i!li1;11;1;1;:fJi1ii 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.43 +0.05 11.62 
IN BRIEF 
Dockworkers approve new contract 
The labor dispute that shuttered West Coast ports for 10 days last fall and hamstrung Pacific trade formally ended Wednesday when dock­workers and shipping companies overwhelming­ly approved a new six-year contract. 
Nearly 90 percent of International Longshore and Warehouse Union members who voted approved the multi-billion dollar deal, which should bring labor peace to 29 major ports that badly need to modernize -and should do so under the pact. 
Slightly more ihan 7,400 members voted for the deal, while nearly 900 voted against it -the largest margin of victory for any longshoremen's contract, according to union officials. Voter turnout was 85 percent. 
"They had union meetings to question the negotiators about it and plenty of time to debate ii among themselves," said union President Jim Spinosa. "They understood the terms of the con­tract, the times it was negotiated in and the vic­tory it represents." 

Banks report weak earning results 
llurd-hit by sour loans and regulatory penal­ties, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. on Wednesday reported a wider loss in the fourth quarter than had been expected by Wall Street ana­lysts. 
The Bank of New York, meanwhile, missed by a penny its reduced earnings target as it wrote off loans and leases to ailing United Airlines and other carriers. 
The results underscored the difficulties the money center banks experienced in 2002, as weak markets depressed investment banking earnings while the staggering economy pro­duced more business and consumer loan loss­es. 
The weak earnings reports from J.P. Morgan Chase and the Bank of New York came a day after Citigroup, the nation's largest financial institution, reported a 37 percent drop in fourth-quarter profits, in part because of the costly settlement with federal and state regu­lators over analyst bias. J.P. Morgan Chase is paying a share of the settlement, too. 






Judge tosses McDonald's suit 
. Judge rules that fat in fast• food is common knowledge 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Saying the law is not intended to protect people from their own excesses, a federal judge threw out a class-action lawsuit Wednesday that blamed McDonald's food for obesi­ty, diabetes and other health problems in chil­dren. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet said the plaintiffs failed to show that the fast-food chain's products "involve a danger that is not within the com­mon knowledge of con­sumers." 
The lawsuit was filed against McDonald's last summer and sought unspecified damages. 
"If a person knows or should know that eating copious orders of super­sized McDonald's products is unhealthy and may result in weight gain ... it is not the place of the law to protect them from their own excesses," the judge said. "Nobody is forced to eat at McDonald's." 
Plaintiffs' attorney Samuel Hirsch filed other, similar lawsuits last year. In one, a 270-pound city maintenance worker 
A Boston customer walks out of a McDonald's restaurant last Friday. A Judge
alleged that eating 
Wednesday threw out a lawsuit that blamed McDonald's for obesity, saying that It
McDonald's, Wendy's, 
was common knowledge that fast-food was high In fat and calories.
Burger King and KFC had caused him health prob­beginning that this was a may generally understand "They have targeted chil­lems. Those suits had been frivolous lawsuit. Today's that fast-food burgers and dren," Hirsch contended. dropped or put on hold ruling confirms that fact." fries are not health food, According to a while Sweet considered On Wall Street, but do not realize just how McDonald's Web site, a Big the lawsuit against McDonald's stock rose 2 bad such fare can be. Mac packs 590 calories McDonald's. cents to close Wednesday He cited the case of a 13-and 34 grams of fat, while 
The lawsuits became a at $15.36 on the New York year-old New York City a large order of french lightning rod for pundits Stock Exchange. boy who said he ate at fries has 540 calories and and editorial writers who Hirsch said the lawsuit McDonald's three or four 26 grams of fat. jeered that they were the will be amended and times a week and is now 5-Riker said McDonald's latest example of a liti­refiled within a month. foo t-4 and 278 pounds. has been providing nutri­gious society in which peo­Hirsch had argued that Other affidavits filed by the tion information about its ple abdicate personal the high fat, sugar and parents of obese children food for 30 years. He said responsibility. cholesterol content of claim they never saw McDonald's food "can fit 
"Common sense has pre­McDonald's food is a "toxic posters or pamphlets into a healthy, well-bal­vailed," McDonald's kind of thing" when eaten inside McDonald's restau­anced diet, based upon the spokesman Walt Riker regularly by children. rants describing the nutri­choice and variety avail­said. "We said from the lie said that consumers tional content of the food. able on our menu." 
Majority of Americans own stock 
1998 after removing the effects of 25.4 percent to $7,900. By contrast,
Associated Press 

inflation. the typical family in the highest 10 WASIIINGTON Family incomes were up as well in percent of income levels saw its net 
Slightly more than half of U.S. 2001, with the median family. the worth increase by 69.3 percent to households owned stock in 2001, com­midpoint for all families, earning $833,600. pared with about a third only a $39,900, a gain of 9.6 percent from The gains in household wealth and decade earlier as the Wall Street 1998. incomes were attributed to a variety of boom of the 1990s pushed stock own­In both the case of net worth and factors including the Wall Street boom ership to record levels. incomes, the richer did far better than of the 1990s. Stock prices peaked in 
The big rise in stock prices plus the those at the bottom of the income the spring of 2000 and since then longest economic expansion in history scale, a trend that has been under investors have suffered three straight helped to boost family balance sheets, way for some time. losing years on Wall Street, something the Federal Reserve reported "We are richer than we used to be, that last happened at the end of the Wednesday in the government's most but the gap between the rich and the Great Depression in the 1930s. extensive look at wealth in the coun­poor appears to be growing," said The Fed survey was taken from May try. David Wyss, chief economist at through December of 2001. so it does 
The typical family's net worth -the Standard & Poor's in New York. not capture the high point for stock difference between household assets By net worth, the typical family in portfolios. It would reflect fatter bal­and liabilities -rose to $86,100 in the bottom 20 percent of income dis­ance sheets for many investors than 2001, a gain of 10.3 percent from tribution saw its net worth rise by they now have. 

Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 8 
ND 
continued from page l 
Stanford Hall. and his running mate John McCarthy, a junior from Keough Hall, say their main goal is "to build a 'chun­nel' under Saint Mary's Lake" to improve the school's trans­portation system. 
All undergraduate students, including seniors, are encour­aged to vote. Matt Corgan, vice president of elections. is aim­ing for online elections but has dorm representatives ready in 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
improving dialogue between 
students and student govern­
ment representatives. 
"Being in office for a second 
year I will know what has hap­
pened in the past. a lot of the 
work we have done will carry 
over. It's not going to be us try­
ing to start all over again," 
Jabonski-Diehl said. 
The only way Jablonski-Diehl 
and Brown won't win is if a 
majority of students abstain, 
which would result in a vote of 
no confidence and force the 
election process to begin again. 
Active campaigning ends on 
Monday, January 27 at 11 :59 
p.m. but the candidates will be 
Im! 
""
;I 
all the dorms in case they have to do paper elections. 
After a week of gathering signatures, they turned in their petitions last night, which needed to have at least 300 signatures. When Student Activities verified they are all in good academic standing and that they do not have ResLife violations. Judicial Council President Danielle Ledesma then released the official list of the six candidates running for Student Body President. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 


9-BALL BILLIARD 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. JAN. 24 8:30pm at 

ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level, LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 1st Place: $100 gift certificate from BEST BUY 2nd Place: $50 gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift certificate from BEST BUY (Opportunity to compete at regional tournament) 
Space limited to first 16 people who sign up-­
Sign up at ND Express. (Open to ND STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
allowed to passively campaign during elections. At midnight elections will begin with online voting, which will continue for a 24-hour period. Students will be able to vote from their own personal computers and from any computer on campus. The election should prove to be interesting just because of the recent revisions to the constitu­tion's election process, includ­ing the initiation of online vot­ing 
Meet the candidates night will be held on Monday, January 27 in Haggar at 7 p.m. At this time students will be able to ask questions and hear the candidates platforms. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintarys.edu 
:i: ,:, ::::: }: '"= :;'c ,,,,,: "'" 
,i' 


want to be more than 
•

player ID the world's largest and best 5 on 5 basketball tournament? 

Fill out an application to be a Bookstore Basketball Commissioner. Applications are available starting January 21st and are due January 31st. Applications can be picked up and returned to the Student Activities Office (315 Lafortune) or the Club Resource Center (314 Lafortune). 
Congregation ofHoly Cross ' 





Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FRANCE 
France and Germany still want peace in Iraq 
Associated Press more closely in favor of a peaceful solution of the Iraqi PARIS 
crisis." Countering blunt talk of war Chirac said both nations by the Bush administration, agreed that any decision to attack Iraq should be made
France and Germany on Wednesday insisted that they only by the U.N. Security 
arc committed to a peaceful Council, after U.N. weapons inspectors have reported their
solution to the Iraq crisis. "War is not inevitable," findings. "For us, war is always the
French President Jacques 
Chirac told a historic joint ses­proof of failure and the worst of sion of the French and German solutions, so everything must be parliaments. "The only frame­done to avoid it," Chirac said. 
France, onework for a 

legitimate of the five per­
"For us, war is always 

manent mem­United the proof offailure and bers of the Security 
solution is the 
Nations. the worst ofsolutions, so 
Council, hint­

The state­
everything must be done 
ed this week

ment -made during a cere­to avoid it. " that it could mony marking use its veto 40 vears of 
power on the
Jacque Chirac 
issue, while French President Schroeder has 

reconciliation 
between the once-hostile nations came as the top U.S. military commander declared American forces could stand by in a high state of readiness for months if necessary. 
But Gen. Richard Myers, U.S. chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. said in Washington that American troops were poised for action. 
"We're ready now. The Iraqi regime should have no doubt," he said.After a joint meeting of the French and German Cabinets, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said the two coun­tries "are entirely in agreement to harmonize our positions 
made plain 
that Germany will refuse to back an Iraq war resolution in the council. 
Britain -the closest U.S. ally on Iraq -has said it would prefer Security Council support. But Prime Minister Tonv Blair said Wednesday his country would back a U.S.-led war with­out United Nations support if any countries imposed "unrea­sonable blockage" of a Security Council resolution. 
France has the current lead­ership of the Security Council. Though Germany has no veto power. the country will assume a key role in Iraq war diploma­cy when it takes over the coun-Gil chairmanship in February ­just after U.N. arms experts are to submit a progress report on Monday. 

Chirac said France and Germany were working closely in the council "to give peace the utmost chance." 
Both nations are also key members of NATO, which is currently discussing a request from the United States to pro­vide backup should war break out in Iraq. 
Meanwhile, U.N. arms inspec­tors ran into 
protests at 
"We 're ready now. The
B a s r a gathered at the University in Iraqi regime should have Versailles palace Iraq with no doubt.,, outside Paris. dozens of "This huge students ensemble of 450 
Gen. Richard Myers
gathering to million people demonstrate U.S. Chainnan of joint chiefs of will face risks the 1963 signing of a treaty that sealed their friendship after fighting three wars in just 70 years. 
Chirac and Schroeder announced a series of initiatives to bring the former enemies even closer and give them a leading role in building the European Union as it expands to take in 10 new members next year. 
An enlarged Europe "will need the French-German engine," Chirac said in his speech to the lawmakers 

against the  staffs  
inspections.  
"No  war  
for  oil,"  read  one  sign  in  

English, reflecting a common Iraqi view that U.S. threats to attack Iraq have more to do with American designs on Iraqi oil than with concern over its weapons. 
The White House, meanwhile, denied an Iraqi claim that its air defenses shot down an unmanned American spy plane. In New York, chief inspector Hans Blix complained that Iraq was balking at allowing the United Nations reconnaissance overflights. 
The French-German push for a peaceful disarming of Iraq came as their nations marked and challenges," 
Chirac said of 
the European Union. "It will need to find a center of gravity." 
Schroeder echoed the need for closer cooperation: "Few things get done in Europe if France and Germany don't agree." 
In a dramatic show of friend­ship, the two leaders also pro­posed an idea unthinkable to generations that survived two World Wars: granting French and Germans shared nationali­ty. Schroeder said he and Chirac agreed dual nationality would be offered. 
"in the long term" to Germans and French who live in the other country. 

Shirt 
continued from page I 

of The Shirt campaign catapult­ed the student-run fund-raiser into the national spotlight. 
Elkins said, "The Shirt pro­gram is so worthwhile because it not only funds all student 
activities, but it adds to and becomes a part of the incredi­ble school spirit we have here. Now adding this year's shirt to the tradition and creating the sea of green that has garnered attention nationwide, I think that there is an even stronger bond, if that's possible, between students during football games and higher spirits among alum­ni as well. Seeing that kind of unity here definitely feels great." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
got news? call Helena at 631-5323 and tell her your story. 



LaForlune Ballroom 9 pn1 
$8 Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk 

www.secondcity.com 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 23, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR lN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Lori Lewalski 

Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Loza, 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

SAJNT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ceneddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTR.OLLER: Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. .................................. ..........................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 

SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSIEMsiWEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questinm regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
llK UWC,v¢r (USP:i 599 240} is pu.blii;l,w Mondi!.)' ,hrough Fri.J.i.y except during ei:am and vacation period,. Asuh'Cription mThl: Oh~Ml'is $100 for OM audernic year: $5'j foroncscmntcr. 
The Oblcnc, i1 p1.1bli1hc.i ar. POSTMASTE.R 
024 So1,1th Dining: H;JJ SmJ ,.Jdrcu corrcctiofU tu: 
Nmn: O;wic:, IN 46SS6 The: Ob.a-v:r 
r.O. BoxQ Pt'l'ladical pmtagr paid :ar Nattt Dame-Noue D.une, IN 4655f..0779 :u1d dJiciona! m•ling office,. 
Tht Obseoier ir :i. memba of the Auoci.aled Prcu. All rq,roducrion righn m 
"""'"!. 

In 20 years Notre Dame can graduate over 50,000 students. 
There are over 11,000 students at the University now. In four years. Notre Dame will have another 11,000 walk­ing her campus. 
Andrew
Therefore. in 20 

DeBerry
years, Notre Dame can graduate 55,000 students. ND Going 
Saint Mary's 

Global 
College currently has 1,800 students, and Holy Cross College has 600 students. In two decades our three schools together can send out close to 70,000 graduates. If we each used our professional skills to pursue just one social cause, Father Sorin's founding vision would be real­ized. In pulling our capabilities togeth­er, our community's impact "cannot fail to succeed ... It will develop on a large scale." 
There is much power in this simple statistic. This is multiplied when cou­pled with recent momentum on college campuses towards civic engagement and servant leadership. While some view service as abandoning one's cur­rent path to pursue an alternative lifestyle, others have a perspective of service that is quite different but just as powerful. 
A fall course on Leadership and Social Responsibility led by a professor at the Center for Social Concerns has students interact with local leaders who live this special kind of service, people who embrace their talents and apply them to positively impact society through their work and ideas. 
One leader in athletic leadership our class met is a co-director of the Mendelson Center for Sports, Character & Community, an organization that "brings social scientists and sports practitioners together to build charac­ter and promote civic responsibility through sports." 
Notre Dame is abundant with "ser­vice capital" in athletic talent, and the center works with students and talent­ed professionals to tap into the great passion in sports. For example, soon they are having a conference on Sports, Character and Responsible Citizenship, which will Mexplore the theme of civic engagement and the value and practi­cality of using sports as vehicles to pro­mote and strengthen commitment to, way of life." What a fantastic idea. 
Another area in which some profes­sionals are strengthening their contri­butions to society is corporate social responsibility and ethics. The Mendoza College of Business has an exemplar in Dean Carolyn Woo. Her education by the Maryknolls in China and persever­ance through her studies in America has added to a perspective that breathes life to the idea of business. When done at its best. Woo views the work in her field as stewardship. Maybe it is this values-oriented leader­ship that has led to the ethics courses that are taught in the college, gaining it the No. 1 rank by Business Week for business ethics. 
There are few limits to the good a person having practical working skills can do. As Woo says, "In the life of faith, God is always transforming our boundaries outward." 
A group of leaders at the South Bend Heritage Foundation (SBHF) also give a unique and superb example of fully using various professional skills for the benefit of the greater community. Our class visited their offices in South Bend, and we discussed their innovative and grassroots methods to bolster support for revitalizing local neighborhoods. 
The work the SBHF has done and builds on is remarkable. They have pressed connections they had with the local politicians to gain their attention and support. Notre Dame architecture students needing jobs were hired for projects. Banks collaborated with the group to work on financial issues. The SBHF has made pressing arguments based on solid, researched legal grounds. The media has publicized the group's community efforts. Ministers, schools, churches and community organizations who believe in fair hous­ing have lent their support. 
Most importantly, the SBHF has involved the residents themselves in the leadership, people who have not had much prior experience with such matters but who simply have the pas­sion and sense of citizenship to give to their community. 
Because of the integration of diverse professional skills and passions, crime in the improved neighborhoods has sig­nificantly decreased. More affordable houses in better condition have been put in place, and schools have benefit­
ed. 
Those at the SBHF feel their work is a shared calling: "It's a team; we're all in this together." Other cities offering high salaries have asked them to leave South Bend and help with the chal­lenges in other areas. But the group has chosen to remain in at home. 
Sometimes having the greatest impact on the world involves simply taking your abilities and focusing on local concerns. 
The visit to the South Bend Heritage Foundation was intensely inspiring and made me determined to promote the great impact one can have on society by embracing one's professional skills. This inspiration led me to The Observer. 
Meanwhile, a good friend and fresh­man roommate was discovering a simi­lar passion. While I pursued a column, he gathered a talented team of stu­dents to start a non-profit magazine called "Changing Times" which debuted across the nation Tuesday. His magazine and this column share a sim­ilar goal to challenge and inspire tomorrow's leaders to connect their passion and talents with ways to con­tribute to the greater community. After a dinner last Thursday at the dining hall, we decided to work together from different fronts on this key idea. 
We who have come to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross will leave with a special power to embrace our talents and change the times. lf we each pursued just one social cause and joined efforts, Father Sorin's vision would be fulfilled, and our community would become "one of the most power­ful means for good in this country." 
Only time will tell if he is wrong. 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior in Aerospace Engineering and the Hesburgh Program. He sends a shout­out to all those back from being abroad, especially the chaps from the Fall 2002 London Programme. Contact him at adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler Himanshu Kothari Joe Lindsley Joe Tromhello Lisa Reijula 
Viewpoint Scene 

Kristin Yemm Maria Smith 
Graphics Lab Tech 

Andy Devoto Lisa Velte 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should colleges be allowed to use race as a factor in admissions decisions? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I am a little pencil in the hand ofa writing God who is sending a love letter to the world." 
Mother Teresa 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 page 11 
Notre Dame should respect America by recognizing national holidays 
Notre Dame is often referred to as a bubble. Students often seem to be removed from the world and unaware of what is going on outside of campus. They also have the reputation of often caring only about 
Richard

themselves and not recognizing Friedman 
the outside world. While in many 
A Skewed

cases that reputa­tion is inaccurate, Perspective sometimes it is true. rt is fueled by both our actions as students and by the Administration's. 
One such example would be Notre Dame's disregard for national holi­days. "God, Country, Notre Dame" is inscribed above the side door of the Basilica and is meant to remind the Notre Dame family about all the bless­ings that they have received. It is also meant to be a symbol of our dedication to those causes. And yet, national holi­days do not seem to qualify for official recognition on campus. 
This past Monday was Martin Luther King Day, a national holiday. Banks were closed, there was no mail and in Indiana, at least, all public schools close for either Martin Luther King Day or Presidents Day. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, does not officially recognize either of these days. There are the events that are organized by students and clubs on campus for this week in order to cele­
brate King's life and its significance, 
but nothing really official. 

Martin Luther King Jr. was not just a symbol for minorities; he stood for equality and respect for all races and all types of people. These are both things that Notre Dame, especially given our Catholic nature, should be proud to celebrate and stand behind. 
Even if you disagree with Martin Luther King, you probably identify with someone who is a member of the general work force. Labor Day was set up to recognize the significance of the labor force and the contributions that American workers have made to the advancement our country. It is because of these struggles that we are afforded most of what we have today and why our country is as great as it is. 
Yet, Notre Dame also fails to recog­nize this day. While some people may claim that it is acceptable that we do not get off for Labor Day because we get off the Monday before it for "enrollment day," that is really true. Whatever the reason that Notre Dame gives us a whole day to fill in a bubble­sheet (or now even just go to a web-page), it is probably not meant to sym­bolize the same thing. 
And. as if ignoring Labor Day is not bad enough. what most people do not realize is that if you take summer classes, you are required to be in class on the Fourth of July. Now, how can you deny that there is something wrong with making students attend class on the day that celebrates our nation's independence? Going to class distracts us from recognizing the sig­nificance of the day while at the same time prevents us from participating in the events which are meant to be sym­bolic of our nation and all that we stand for. 
While parades, barbequcs, parties and fireworks may seem to just be fun things to do with friends and family, they also hold within themselves a dis­tinct feeling of patriotism and national spirit. Somehow, I did not quite get the same feeling and sense of being proud to be an American while I was sitting in my statistics class. 
Notre Dame needs to start to recog­nize the importance and significance of national holidays. While I recognize that there may be scheduling problems and a required number of class days, do these few days really make a differ­ence a difference in the overall acade­mic calendar? 
I checked a number of other univer­sities' calendars and I could not find one -public, private, Catholic or oth­erwise -that was in school on Labor Day or Martin Luther King Day. If every other school can fit them in, I would think that Notre Dame could do so as well. 
We are given ample time to celebrate our Catholic holidays, and we certainly have a spirit of Notre Dame through­out campus, so now let's add in the missing piece and start to bring in more of a respect for our country and recognize national holidays. Not can­celing classes serves to diminish the importance of the days and sends out a message to everyone that we do not care about or respect national holi­days. 
I do not think that that is really true at all, so let's start to send out the cor­rect message continue to try to remove another part of the Notre Dame bub­ble. 
Richard Friedman is a senior double majoring in architecture and psycholo­gy. His column will run every other Thursday, and he always welcomes your comments at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
How should Notre Dame treat homosexuals? 
Homosexuals deserve respect, tolerance and understanding 

Respect. Tolerance. Understanding. These are the ideas we recall when celebrating Martin Luther King Day. Yet Charles Rice did away with these ideas in his Jan. 21 column, "University strays from Church homo­sexuality stance." 
Professor Rice's assertion that homosexual acts are contrary to the natural law is questionable enough in itself, but to say that the Catholic Church's outlaw of such acts is in unity with "millennia of moral teach­ing" is outrageous. Catholic doctrine on the subject was set up not in unity with but instead to counter the morals of Rome, which allowed for such things as homosexual relations and mass orgies. 
And as one friend pointed out to me, Hice needs only to read Plato's Symposium to see how ancient moral teaching shows the decency of homo­sexual relationships. In fact, perhaps Hice should sit in on a few "Gender Core" classes to gain a better under­standing of moral teachings on homo­sexuality. 
Also, to put homosexuality in the same category as eating disorders and smoking is simply ignorant. An eating disorder is a very serious type of dis­ease, one from which many men and women suffer. and not simply an "inclination to overeating." Smoking is both dangerous and a serious addic­tion, one that requires support to quit. 
Like the above two "inclinations," homosexuality is definitely a serious issue and requires an extensive sup­port system. 
But it is not something that needs to be fixed, as Rice seems to think. Notre Dame already deals with homosexual­ity more harshly than most uni­versities of intellectual learning. Yet as most of America makes strides towards acceptance of homosexuals, Rice wants fur­ther restric­tions here at our University. 
I do not attempt to offer a simple solution to the current condi­tion of homo­
~::::;~~~:RI can 

offer is this Ben Harper lyric; "My choice is what I choose to do, And if I'm causin' no harm it shouldn't bother you Your choice is who you choose to be, And if you're causin' no harm then you're all right with me." 
Chris Planicka sophomore Sorin Hall Jan. 21 
Attacking homosexuality harms individuals and community 
Charles Rice's Jan. 21 column is an outrage to the Notre Dame community and the family that we are. His judgment ofthe homosexual community has always been less than loving, but now he begins to directly attack students' hard work and prin­
ciples of inclusion and acceptance that form the Notre Dame community. The ~----students and faculty of the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs are there to promote education and understanding of the homosexual community in respect to gay and lesbian 
students. The Church teaches loving of your brothers and sisters in every way. The judgment Rice passes on the 
University's gay and lesbian students basically calls for their banning from campus like a bad habit. If you sit in judgment are you not a sinner? Certainly Rice's column and sentiments like it pro­
duce much more harm than good. Every year hun­dreds of gay teenagers commit suicide due to hate language proliferated by people such as Charles Rice. Also, hate crimes against gay and lesbian indi­viduals occur daily. I have had to talk multiple gay 
students out of making irrational decisions because they hate themselves from what Rice has said. Promoting hatred of others due to di!Terenccs is one 
:;r-'·,i~~,::w/:>:W:'f::i{ :a:st:~~~~~~romoting self-hatred may be one of the 
..·A~V:::: .. L:, .• .. ·· "Men and women [with] homosexual tendencies ...j!~;l;!-·······•,.•:,,;,,;,::,,r> must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. 
.. 

t · '"'. ··-· •·· .. •· Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided." Yet Rice tries to argue against this statement. How can this be a logical and loving form of action? How many gay stu­dents have to suffer self-hatred, hiding in paranoia and enduring suici­dal thoughts for Rice to stop his crusade against gay students? 
I am a gay Catholic. My devout Catholic parents love me, my Christian, Jewish and 
agnostic friends love me and the Notre Dame family is trying to love me. Why can't 
Charles Hice love everyone in God's family? I hope that you, the reader, can. 
Brad T. Manzer 
senior Fisher Hall Jan. 22 

THE OBSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, January 23, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'A Guy Thing': Something to do 
mistake before marriage. 
By EMILY HOWALD 

The problem arises when his fiance, 
Assistant Scene Ediior 

Karen. (Selma Blair, "Cruel Intentions"), introduces him to her Looking for yet another mindless cousin, Becky (Julia Stiles, "Save the romantic comedy to occupy your time? Last Dance"), who shockingly enough, 
Well, then "A Guy Thing" is for you. 
It's the typical "should he get married or should he not" story. The story begins with Paul Morse (Jason Lee, "Mallrats") at his bachelor party. He wakes up the next is the very same woman who woke 

"A Guy Thing" up in his bed davs earlier. 

The rest of the movie focuses on the attraction 
Director: Chris Kock between Stiles Writer: Greg Glienna and Lee, as well Starring: Jason Lee, Julia Stiles, as his struggle to Selma Blair determine if this marriage is fit for him. He also has 

morning with a strange woman in his to run circles around hiding the truth 
bed and is unsure of what happened. from his fiance, as well as avoiding
She leaves and he writes it off as a Stiles' neurotic ex-boyfriend. Lee con­tinues to get himself in and out of trouble while battling with his own complacency. The chemistry between Stiles and Lee is not only a humorous one, but their sarcastic and cynical personal­ities match well on screen. Stiles does a good job of playing the risk-taking, lofty girl who moves from one job to another. Blair plays the ideal controlling 

fiance, and it matches her put-together and unfaltering demeanor. 
Lee is torn between whether he should let go of the safe life and live a bit more like Stiles or continue on with the routine. 
Although it is a familiar plot, director Chris Koch ("Snow Day," TV's "Malcolm in the Middle"), does a good job of trying to incorporate new ideas and a lot of humor. It is the typical mindless comedy that doesn't leave too much to the imagination for surprise, nor does it make you think -at all. 
The plot is a familiar one, and there is nothing about the film that makes it stick out as Oscar-worthy, but it brings a smile and beats doing nothing. It's good for both guys and girls as well because it seems as though both sexes can relate to the fear of the commit­ment and appreciate the humor of it all. 

Simply, it's been done before, and probably will continue to be done, but at least "A Guy Thing" adds humor and some originality. Bottom line: If you 're really bored, knock yourself out; other­wise just wait for the rental. 
Contact Emily Howald at ehowald@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Adaptation' unlike anything else 
to work writing a cliched thriller The sheer com­
By BRIAN BIRCHER script. The ease with which Donald plexity of the sto­

Scene Movie Critic 

writes, combined with his cute girl­ryline, which man­friend, just serve to further demoralize ages to bring Writer Charlie Kaufman and director Charlie, in his attempts at both writing together the three Spike Jonze of "Being John Malkovich" and love. In either a desperate or threads of have teamed up again to create their brilliant movie, Charlie finally decides Kaufman, Orlean latest film, "Adaptation", a hilarious that the only way to write the script is and Laroche, is and complex look at the process of to put himself into it and ultimately mind-boggling. The screenwriting. "Adaptation" follows seek out Susan Orlean for help. narrative goes screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's To tell more of the story would back and forth in (Nicolas Cage) struggles to adapt the detract from the joy of watching it time, but without non-fiction book "The Orchid Thier· by unfold on screen. Nicolas Cage does annoying flash­
writer Susan Orlean some of the best backs. In a movie (Meryl Streep) into a acting work he has that features such screenplay. "The "Adaptation" done in years as scenes as a mon­Orchid Thief" fol­
Charlie and Donald. tage of evolution of lows an orchid Cage is entertaining life on earth and a poacher, John and believable as scene of Charles Laroche (Chris the unflappable and Darwin writing Cooper), who steals Director: Spike Jonze consistently upbeat "The Origin of rare orchids for a Writer: Susan Orlean, Charlie Donald yet also Species" this move­living. Charlie has Kaufman, Donald Kaufman captures Charlie's ment through time no concrete ideas of Starring: Nicholas Cage, Tilda self-loathing and is part of the rules how to turn the Swinlon, Meryl Streep, Chris Cooper doubt. The charac­established by the book about this ters are so distinct film. "Adaptation" eccentric character and interact so well has as many lay­into a film but he is certain that he that you almost feel that Nicolas Cage ers, if not more, does not want it to become trite has a twin who also acts. Strep gives a than "Being John 
Hollywood fare. passable performance as Orlean but Malkovich". Consjder that Charlie al nature of this movie. "Adaptation"Charlie's doubts and inability to Chris Cooper is superb as Laroche, Kaufman actually was hired to write a is a brilliant, entertaining movie that 
work stand in stark contrast to those managing to be funny and eccentric screenplay based on the book "The is guaranteed to be unlike anything
of his twin brother, Donald (Nicolas yet also capable of sorrow. The per­Orchid Thief" and produced the you have seen before. 
Cage). Donald decides on a whim that formances are part of what makes screenplay for "Adaptation" instead, in 
he is going to become a screenwriter "Adaptation" stand out from some of which he writes about Charlie also. After attending a weekend other offerings in theaters, such as, Kaufman trying to adapt "The Orchid Contact Brian Bircher at 
screenwriting workshop, Donald sets oh, "Kangaroo Jack". Thier• and you get a hint of the surre-bbircher@nd.edu 

THE 
OBSERVER 

Thursday, January 23, 2003 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Catch another film if you can 
By JOHN DONNELLY Sc•n• Movie Criric 
Artists often strive to tie form to con­
tent. "Catch Me If You Can" excels in 
this endeavor by suggesting a breezy, 
fun ulm about a con man that cons the 
audience. Yet plodding morality cheats 
the promise of the film. 
"Catch Mc If You Can" is the "based 
on real adventures" story of Frank 
Abagnale Jr., played by Leonardo 
DiCaprio, who lived quite the life 
before his 21st birthday. Abagnalc 
passes himself off as a substitute 
teacher, airplane pilot, doctor, and 
lawyer, all while cashing millions of 
dollars worth of forged checks. Tom 
Hanks. playing FBI agent Carl 
Ilanratty, doggedly pursues Abagnale 
throughout the film. Christopher 
Walken steals the show as Frank's 
father. 
The film has a lot going for it, and 
not many movies can boast of having 
Oscar-nominated actors in its three 
lead roles. Of the three, DiCaprio and 
llanks turn in serviceable performanc­
es, though save one memorable 
moment in a car with his partners, 
llanks is wrong for the part. Walken is 
wonderful, but his role is one of the 
major problems of the film. 
"Catch Me If You Can" was adapted from Abagnale's book of his exploits ­the book is a quick read, with Abagnale's ego running rampant. His exceptional self-assurance is what makes him a successful con artist. One cannot imagine an ordinary Joe casu­ally strolling into an airport and hop­ping on a plane as a pilot. The film errs by expanding the role of Frank's family and flanratiy to pump up the narrative. The book is an unabashed 
joyride. Abagnale makes no apologies for his behavior -the people he cons should have been more cautious. The moral of the book is that a fool and his money are soon parted; the moral of the film, that Frank is lonely because of a broken-home life and tries to be 

other people because he is not happy with himself. Melodrama drags "Catch Me If You Can" down. The 
sued, where perhaps only a fine line separates them. The film is a compromise. Half the time it gleefully 
relationship follows Abagnale
"Catch Me If You Can"
between Abagnale as he dashes from Sr. and Jr. is 
scheme to touching, particu­scheme, the other larly in meetings half tries to justi­between the two fy his behavior. 
in a fancy restau­Director: Steven Spielberg The rationaliza­Writers: Frank Abagnale Jr., Stan Redding,
rant and a run­tions for his life 
Jeff Nathanson
down bar, but has of crime are nei­
no place in a Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hanks, ther entertaining movie that cele­Christopher Walken, Martin Sheen, Nathalie nor moving. The brates the luxuri­Baye haphazard mix­ous lifestyle of a ture of daring con artist. The same can be said of the crime and lament for a lost happy relationship between pursuer and pur-childhood greatly slows the pace of a film already too long. 


Movies can be breezy and entertain­ing. There is nothing wrong with that. This film, at a long two hours, twenty minutes, could have been far more entertaining by chopping out the dead­wood melodrama and emphasizing the fun that Abagnale had living his extravagant life. ff the film wanted to stress his punishment for a life of crime, then his time spent in a French prison could have been played up. By the end of the film, one is unsure whether Abagnale is to be liked or pitied. 
Contact John Donnelly at jdonnel2@nd.edu 
·­

-.. 
Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks) follows the paper trail left by the wlly and elusive Frank Abagnale, Sr. (Christopher Walken) tries to follow the antics of his son Frank Abagnale, Jr. as he deals with his own divorce. 
Thursday, January 23, 2003

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Jordan takes third place on all-time NBA scoring list 
throws," was all he had to say as lation. Anderson, Portland's best 
Associated Press 
he uncharacteristically left the free-throw shooter, missed two locker room quickly after the foul shots at the 14.9 mark, and
NEW ORLEANS game. Atlanta, after calling timeout, got 

Jamal Mashburn scored 24 
Magic coach Doc Rivers didn't a thunderous dunk from
points and Jamaal Magloire 
blame his star. With Grant Hill Benjamin to take a 96-95 lead
added 16 points and 14 
out indefmitely because of recur­with 4.9 seconds to go.
rebounds to lead the New 
ring ankle problems, the load tooOrleans Hornets to a 103-94 vic­often falls squarely on McGrady.

tory over the Washington Indiana 101, Toronto 98 
with little support from his team­

Wizards on Wednesday night, Isiah Thomas is going to the 
mates.

spoiling a milestone for Michael All-Star game as the coach of the 
Mike Miller scored 17 points 

Eastern Conference team, and
Jordan. 
for the Magic, and Shawn Kemp 

Jermaine O'Neal showed
Jordan scored 18 and sur­
and Darrell Armstrong had 12

passed Wilt Chamberlain as the Wednesday night why he'll likely 
apiece. But Orlando shot only

NBA's third all-time scorer. He be joining him in Atlanta. 
38.5 percent.

passed Chamberlain's total of O'Neal had a rare triple-double
The Magic scored only two

31,419 points with a minute left with 18 points, 10 rebounds and
field goals in the fourth quarter

in the first half when he dribbled 10 blocked shots, and made the
and only nine altogether in the

laterally with his back to the winning three-point play with
second half. Though they held a

basket and drilled a fallaway 3 .2 seconds left as the Indiana
73-60 lead with 2:29 to play in

jump shot from the right elbow. Pacers beat the Toronto Raptors 
the third quarter, they didn't hit

But Jordan would score only Wednesday night. 
another shot from the field until

four points the rest of the way The win means Thomas will
Andrew DeClerq was credited

and his team fell behind by as coach the East in next month's
for a layup with 1 ;47 left in the 

many as 22 before rallying in the All-Star game in Atlanta. The 
game.

fourth period to keep from get­coaches are determined by ting blown out. Jordan was 1-which team has the best record for-7 in the second half. Portland 112, Atlanta 110 in the conference as of this com­
Jerry Stackhouse, who Bonzi Wells had no trouble ing Sunday. Detroit's 92-83 Joss returned after missing four putting his game-winning basket to Philadelphia allowed Indiana games with groin pull, led in perspective. to clinch the best record. Washington with 26 and helped "The biggest shot I've hit since "I was more excited about get Washington within striking I've been this league," he said. them losing and putting a little distance early in the fourth. 'Tm just happy I went from hav­more distance between them," 
Etan Thomas hit a pair of free ing the worst game to having a Thomas said. "It's a great honor. throws to bring the Wizards pretty good game. That's how Not many people get a chance to within 91-81 with about 8 min­the NBA is." coach an All-Star game. I'm very utes to go. But Baron Davis Wells banked in a running excited about it." responded with a jumper and one-hander with 1.4 seconds left He can thank O'Neal for this 
in the second overtime to give victory.
David Wesley found Magloire for the Portland Trail Blazers a vic­O'Neal set career and Pacersa reverse jam to push the lead to tory Wednesday night over the records for blocked shots. He14. Washington never got closer Atlanta Hawks. had four blocks in the first half,than nine after that. 
Wells was dribbling at the top and three each in the third and
Wesley scored 19 for New 
of the key when he drove past fourth periods. 
Orleans, hitting four 3-pointers, Corey Benjamin and hit a 6-foot­He tied the franchise recordwhile Davis finished with 14. 
er to give the Blazers their set by Darnell Hillman in theLarry Hughes added 14 for fourth win in five games. ABA.
Washington. 
"We had a chance to take this "That's very rare air," Thomas team out early," said Scottie said. "That's David Robinson,
Orlando 94, Chicago 91 
Pippen, who led Portland with Bill Russell. Guys who have The load is getting so heavy seven assists. "We just didn't made their mark in this league." for Tracy McGrady in Orlando, 
play the kind of basketball we that he doesn't even want to talk needed to put this team away. 

MIiwaukee 106, Boston 97
about it anymore. 
"When you're on the road, you Ray Allen and Sam Cassell "I didn't do anything" differ­Pierce with 30 points, WalterMcGrady scored 31 points, have to play smarter, and I don't dominated for Milwaukee while ently, he said. "I tried to be McCarty with 22 and rookie J.R.

handed out seven assists and 
think we played smart basketball Antoine Walker watched help­aggressive. We penetrated and Bremer with 18. 
played 42 minutes, all team­
when we had the lead." lessly from the Boston bench. got a lot of good looks." "I was able to get some of the highs, as the Magic held off the Atlanta lost its sixth straight. Allen scored 34 points, Cassell Cassell had 14 points, 16 shots that (Walker) gets,"Chicago Bulls Wedne_sday night. 
Derek Anderson had 21 points had the second triple-double of assists and 11 rebounds, and McCarty said. "Paul and J.R.
It was the fourth straight game to lead the Blazers, who led by his career and the Bucks capital­Michael Redd added 16 points. made great passes. They werethat McGrady scored over 30 as many as 18 midway through ized on a rare injury to Walker The Bucks shot very well all looking for me." 
points and the third straight vic­the second quarter before allow­to defeat the Celtics Wednesday despite aggressive Boston But the Celtics missed Walker,tory for the Magic. But the NBA's ing the Hawks to go on 29-10 night. defense. They hit 53 percent of sidelined with a sprained right
leading scorer wasn't happy 
run that ended with Shareef "Ray had a great roll going," their shots and 12 of 24 from 3-knee, only the 11th game he's about either of those positives. 
Abdur-Rahim's tip-in with 6:50 Milwaukee coach George Karl point range. Allen was 13-for-23 missed in his 6 NBA seasons and He hit only six of 12 free-throw left in the third quarter. said. "It's great to have a guy overall and 5-for-9 on 3-point­the first this season. 
attempts in the fourth quarter, Less than two minutes later, like that to go to on the road." ers. "They still penetrate and look and the Magic were only 15 of 
Glenn Robinson, Atlanta's lead­Allen had 14 points in the third "We just ran into a buzzsaw for the 3," Milwaukee's Anthony 24 from the line in the final peri­ing scorer, was ejected for argu­quarter when Milwaukee with their ability to knock down Mason said. "He's a big talent od, helping keep Chicago in the ing with official Scott Wall, but stretched a 56-54 lead to 84-76. shots," Boston coach Jim O'Brien loss, but they still have some game. McGrady was so disgusted the Hawks led by as many as five After Paul Pierce led a Celtics said. "We did a nice job of mov­good shooters out there." that he booted the basketball on Abdur-Rahim's 15-footer with surge that cut an 11-point deficit ing the basketball. not quite as The Celtics had won their pre­into the upper deck after the 11 :54 left in regulation. to 98-93, Allen hit the Bucks' nice as they did, though." vious game, 100-99 at game. The lead changed hands twice next two baskets for a 102-95 Boston, which ended a four­Philadelphia on Monday night. 
"I never missed that many free in the final 35.1 seconds of regu-lead with 1:33 to go. game "'inning streak, was Jed by 

The Observer accepts classifieds every busines.s day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day chissifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED
• 
Senior Finance major at IUSB 
needs tutor for Applications in 
Finanacial Management class (sirni­
ar to FIN 476 Cases in Financial 
Management at ND). Please call 
Kristin at 291 -3240. 
Part time work, lull time money. Energetic student to pass out our rewards catalog. Call tor details 877-652-2566 SERVER WANTED Club LaSalle is hiring for a serving position. Club LaSalle is a martini/Jazz Bar serving LaSalle Grille's Dinner Menu. We are local­ed on the 3rd floor of LaSalle Grill. Part or Full time work is available. Must be able to work weekends. Must be 21 to apply and previous experiences is a plus. but not required. Earning Potential is approxiamately $400.00 per week. Applications may be picked up at LaSalle Grill in Downtown South Bend. 3pm to 5pm, Monday ­Saturday. 115 West CoHax South Bend, IN 46601, 288-1155 
FOR SALE FOR RENT 
1989 Toyota Corolla 4DR 5 speed 148K, runs good $1,300. ca112n-3189 
Oak Hill Condos for sale. 2 bed, 2 bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 
574-243-2621 CastlePoint room for rent for female roomates (Sp03 Semester), apt fully furnished. Please call 243­4537 if interested. 

TICKETS 
Need 1 ticket for Q.Town game. 2n-0372 
PERSONAL 

Acapulco's #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance" Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800-875-4525. 
www.ebreaknow.com 
North Carolina, raise up 
Reported Thievery: 3 eggs from Badin Hall are missing 
at least it isn't going to be a 4:45 night again 
don't be hater 
2nd to last classified 
sweet ifinished the page 

Thursday, January 23, 2003 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
C-M Caml)us Mjnistry 
Retreat & Seminar applications are available in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to
sign up now 
5 p.m. and CoMo room 111 Sunday through Thursday 4:00 p.m. to Midnight
Get involved, go on a retreat 
Senior Retreat #8 
Retreat Date: Jan. 31-Feb. 1 Sign-up deadline: Jan. 27 

wh t' h 
thursday 1. 23 
MLK-Light for the Journey Mass of Celebration 
7:00 p.m. 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
[riday 1.24 
Learning to Talk About 
Race Retreat #24 
Friday and Saturday 
Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #45 
Friday and Saturday 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m Coleman-Morse Hammes Student Lounge 
sunday 1.26 
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
Sankofa Academy Open Discussion Group 
2:00-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Center 
monday 1.27 
JPW Auditions for Lectors 
4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
. 
monday tcont., 
Coachella Spring Break Seminar Info Meeting 
6:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns classroom 
tuesday 1.2a 
JPW Auditions for Lectors 
4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the '.;ci.::,cd ::ea~ 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 ·8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 1.29 
Coachella Spring Break Seminar Application Deadliine 
Return applications to Campus Ministry or CSC 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 

mark your calendar 
In the midst of a noisy culture, ever find yourself desiring a chance for quiet contemplation? Bet you never thought the rosary might be a way to find some of that peace? Come join the 
University community for a night of quiet prayer and song. 


The Folk Choir will be singing, Student Government officers 
will lead the prayers, and we expect a great turnout. 
Consider yourself invited to the quiet, and to the 
contemplation.... 
Tuesday, February 11, 7 p.m. @ the Basilica 
mass schedule 
Fourth Sunday of Ordinary Time 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. Sean McGraw, c.s.c.  Rev. Sean McGraw, c.s.c.  
11:45 a.m.  
Rev. Peter Jarret, c.s.c.  

Notre Dame Encounter Coachella Spring Break Seminar with Christ #75 Info Meeting 
6:30 p.m.
Retreat Date: Feb. 28-March 2 Center for Social Concerns classroomSign-up dates: Jan. 27-31 
The CM Welcome Centrr·in 111 CoMo is open Sunday.~ -T,hursday, 4pm to midnight
' ..... L. ........._____---~-•------~-----------I 1 
considerations .... 
Dr. King Celebration 
Making your Mark~ Speal<lng your Mind 
by Chandra Johnson Assistant to the President 
Instead of flying-in a high-priced peace activist or organizing a multi-ethic talent show, we tried something new this year. We sent_ out an e-mail to about 50 students and asked if they would be interested in participating in a dinner discussion in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. All but a few said" yes." Your response to our invitation confirmed our suspicions: you've got something to say. 
The New York Times and Meet the Press are becoming primary sources for theology essays and Sunday homilies. The convergence of current events with Christian values is both forming and challenging your social perspective, and there is an awakening of sorts in your minds and hearts. Throughout the past few months, The Observer has been peppered with viewpoints prompted by world and national events. Whether in class assignments or impromptu conversations, your passionate discussions on racism, affirmative action, the environment, abortion, the war on terrorism, and other social matters are not crisis-driven as in the past when misunderstandings about race fueled campus-wide unrest. Your opinions are now interest-driven. For some, you're praying more. For others, you're paying close attention to the nightly news and daily web casts. On a Christian Catholic campus, this response to the realities of your daily life is called faith in action. You're responding to your world and talking to each other about solutions. 
The Dr. King Celebration Dinner held yesterday was a Light for the Journey -Mass of Celebration new way to respond to Dr. 
All are Welcome
King's message. The students we asked to participate were Keenan-Stanford Chapel selected by members of the 
7:00 p.m.
University's MLK Committee, peers who felt confident in identifying members of the student body who have solid opinions on war, race, economics and other hot topics which touch the heart of the human condition. The setting was the second floor of the Main Building with the Columbus murals as the backdrop. The controversial pictorials of our country's founding prompted discussions which we hoped would yield informed and thoughtful commentary among peers. There were six tables of eight, and each table was assigned a topic: war, affirmative action, gender equity, economics and social class, the hiring of Coach Willingham, and a topic self-selected by graduate students. I wish I could tell you that the event was a success, but I can't. This article was due on Tuesday and the dinner was last night. I'll let you know in this column next month. However, as we planned, what we knew for sure was that as a University committee comprised of students and adminis­trators, we were confident that the opportunity to share a meal while sharing insight would reveal the depth ofour beliefs and active response to stabilize an uncertain world. · But we didn't stop there. 
Tonight the conversation will be moved from the dinner table to the altar. Take your place at the Lord's Supper as we conclude our Dr. King celebration with Mass at 7:00 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Everyone is welcome! With Fr. J. Steele leading us in prayer, and the Celebration combined choirs leading us in song, we will profess our commitment to leadership through love and rekindle the spirit of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy. His message is timeless-it continues to inform and chal­lenge us. Making your mark is believing you have something worthwhile to say. Leadership is not being afraid to say ic. 
By the way: the Dr. King Celebration Dinner will be opened to everyone next year. Space will be limited so be sure to sign up early! Better yet, contact me if you'd like to be a member of the committee. 
Around Campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 


.. 
Thursday, January 23, 2003

The Observer . SPORTS
page 16 
NHL 
Fleury seeks help, regrets "bad choice' 
notified of the incident. Fleury is Associated Prc.ss 
under the supervision of two doc­tors as part of the NHL's after­
CHICAGO 
care program.
Theo Fleury said Wednesday 
Sgt. Brent Mull, spokesman for 

he'd made a ''bad choice" and 
the Columbus. Ohio police was ready to accept the conse­

department, said officers quences after Ohio police said he 
received a call from an attendant was intoxicated following an at a gas station across the street altercation at a strip club. from the Pure Platinum strip 
"I made a bad decision,'' said club about 4:45 a.m. Sunday. A Fleury, who was suspended for group of men had used a pay the first 25 games of the season phone at the station to call a cab, after violating the NHL's sub­and Mull said the attendant was stance abuse aftercare program. concerned because one of the 
"Whatever the consequences men looked as if he'd been are, I'm fully aware. I'll deal with assaulted. the consequences when they The cab was gone by the time 
happen." 
the police showed up. but anoth­Blackhawks coach Brian Sutter er officer, Jason Gunther, saw said the matter was being han­
the cab and stopped it. "Sure enough, those were the

dled internally. "Something happened that we 
people the attendant had called regret and it's being handled 
about," Mull said. 
According to Gunther's report,

internally,'' Sutter said. "Do we like it? No, but it's being handled 
Fleury was "intoxicated" and said he'd been "hit several times 

internally." Fleury met with Blackhawks 
by about nine bouncers" at the strip club. He refused medicalgeneral manager Steve Smith on attention for a cut above his left

Tuesday. NHL spokesman Frank Brown would not comment on 
eye, and refused to give his whether the league has been 
address or phone number. 
euteN·NWI 
. 'YOUR ~AMftY FUN CENTER" 
f8111CI N·ICHT 
Thursday: Unlimited bowling $7.95 per person 
Don't forget Mon. night 
BEACON BOWL 4210 Lincoln Way West Near the airport (574) 234-4167 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 
FILM 
FESTIVAL 
'2 0 0 3 
•()an :reu pleas-e c•t ta.!#@%! 
boom mic out~ n.... fr&nef• 
HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM 
7:30 & 9:45 P.M. S4.00 ADMISSION THUR, FRI.SAT &MON JANUARY 23, 24. 25 & 27 
TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM. TELEVISION. AND THEATRE 
www.1111.edu!-lttlstudentWms.shtml 





Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
GOLF 
Sorenstam eyes the PGA tour 
her game. Combs said the tour has no regu­
Associated Press ''If I got an invite, I would say lations against women playing, 
yes in a heartbeat," she said at and that tournaments have the
0IUAND0, Fla. 

Bay Hill Club and Lodge during flexibility to use their exemptions /\nnika Sorenstam has domi­an appearance for Callaway Golf. to round out the field or to create
nated her competition on the 
"It's a great challenge. It's not interest.

LPGA Tour the last two seasons. 
something I want to do regularly. He said it was "conceivable"
Her next challenge might be 
But it would be a great learning that a tournament would offer
against the men. 
experience." Sorenstam an exemption.
Sorenstam said Wednesday 
Her agent, Mark Steinberg of The topic came up whenshe would relish the chance to !MG, said the chances of that Sorenstam, who won 13 timesplay a PGA Tour event, provided happening this year are "very around the world last year andshe received a sponsor's exemp­possible," as long as it's the right set or tied nearly two dozen
tion and the tournament was 
tournament, tho right course,

held on a golf course that suits records, was asked about Suzy
and ii. fits her LPGA Tour sched­
Whaley.
ule. 

Whaley, a Connecticut club
"I suspect that after today, 

pro, won a PGA Sf)Ctional from a there will be more than one tour­shorter set of tees than the men nament that is very interested," 
and qualified for the Greater
he said. "There are going to be Hartford Open in late July. Sheseveral tournaments that will not will be the first woman to play on even consider it. That would be the PGA Tour in the modern era.

my guess. But there will be quite Whaley will have to play froma few that express someinterest." 

the championship tees with the
Eric Mehl, tournament director of the 84 Lumber Classic of men. 

"I think she's very brave,"
Pennsylvania, said it is too early 

to determine how the new event Sorenstam said. "She's doing this 
will use its sponsor's exemptions to show her daughters that any­
in September. thing is possible. I heard in an PGA Tour s ookesman Bo h interview that she rloP.sn 't. mrnP.ct

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
INTERVIEWS: 
COME FORAJOB INTERVIEWTO WORKAT:  Notre Dame  
CAMP SWEENEY  Winter Career & Internship Fair  
a residential sports camp In North Texas  Tuesday, January 28th  
rar children who lrave diabetes  Flanner Hall  
Wednesday, January 29th  
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  9:00 am to 5:00 pm  

Disc La imer: Notre Dame Student Union Boa1-d does not encourage any of the activities portrayed in this movie. Watch at your own risk! 

$3 
DBRT 101 

to break 90. At least she has a goal set, and she knows what's going to happen." 
The 32-year-old Swede has higher goals if she ever gets that chance. 
"If l pick the right course, I 

think I would do well," she said, adding that she could only com­pete if the course wasn't exces­sively long, had tight fairways and punishing rough, which she rarely gets into as the LPGA's best driver. 

Friday 2:00PM-5:00PM Saturday 1:OOPM-4:00PM Sunday 1:OOPM-4:00PM Rockne Memorial Pro Shop 1-6809 
RENTAL RATEf $5.00 FOR DAILY RENTAL $7.00 FOR OVERNIGHT RENTAL $9.00 FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 23, 2003 
MLB 

Marlins catch I-Rod for $10 Inillion 

Associated Press 

MIAMI 
The Florida Marlins and 10­time All-Star catcher Ivan Rodriguez agreed Wednesday on a $10 million, one-year contract. 
Rodriguez played 1,479 games with the Texas Rangers, hitting .303 with 215 homers and 829 RBI and developing a reputation as one of the best catchers in base­ball. 
The Rangers refused to offer the 31-ycar-old Rodriguez salary arbitration last December in a payroll-slash­ing moving. Rodriguez received a $2 million sever­ance payment from the team as the end of his previous con­tract. 
Florida will pay Rodriguez $3 million this year, with the remainder deferred without interest. The Marlins will pay him $3 million on June 1, 2004, and $2 million each on June 1 in the following two years. 
His deal with the Marlins includes a no-trade clause and an agreement that the Marlins will not offer him salary arbi­tration after the season. 
Rodriguez missed nearly two months early last season because of a herniated disk in his back, but hit .314 with 19 homers and 60 HBls in 108 games. 
He replaces sluggers Cliff Floyd and Preston Wilson in the middle of the lineup and working with a young and tal­ented starting rotation that includes A.J. Burnett, Brad Penny and Josh Beckett. 
The Marlins traded catcher Charles Johnson to Colorado in November as part of a six­player deal that brought left­hand er Mike Hampton and outfielder Juan Pierre to Florida. Hampton was then traded to Atlanta. 
Jim Beattie, Baltimore's executive vice president of baseball operations. had been trying to sign Rodriguez. 
"I thought Ivan was a very good fit for us, playing in the AL, where he could be a desig­nated hitter when he wasn't catching," Beattie said. "But he lives in Miami, and I'm sure those were among his consid­erations. We spent most of the day talking about a three-year deal, but I guess he wanted to go with more money and a shorter term. I would have been discouraged if we paid more money than we were comfortable with. The offer we made was what we thought was an appropriate amount of money. I'm satisfied with our effort. The offer we made made sense for us." 


Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
TENNIS 
Roddick prevails in marathon Grand Slam match 
Associated Prcss 
MELBOURNE, Australia 

They bowed to the crowd and walked off the court together well after midnight, exhausted after playing one of the longest and most riveting matches in Grand Slam history. 
In a match that lasted a minute shy of five hours, Andy Hoddick overcame a cramping Younes El Aynaoui 21-19 in the fifth set Wednesday to reach the Australian Open semifinals. 
"Strategy was out the door; it was just pure fighting," Roddick said. 
Hoddick won 4-6, 7-6 (5), 4-6, 6-4, 21-19 in a match lasting 4 hours, 59 minutes. So weary were the players that at 19-all in the fifth set. they handed their rackets to ballboys for a quick rest. 
On El Aynaoui's last service game, his left leg was shaking with faligue. 
"My legs were feeling a little bit heavy at the end," he said. "Andy kept serving really hard.'' 
At 2:23, it was the longest fifth set in the Open era, which began in 1968. It topped Mark Philippoussis' 20-18 win over Sjeng Schalken in the third round at Wimbledon in 2000. The U.S. Open is the only Grand Slam that plays a a forehand volley following an tiebreaker in the fifth set. exchange at the net. The pair 

The 83-game match was the embraced over the net. They longest at the Australian Open took a deep bow and left the in more that 30 years. The court together hand in hand. longest Australian Open match "My respect level for him just 
in terms of time was 5:11 -grew and grew through the Boris Becker's victory over match," Roddick said. "We Omar Camporese in 1991. could see each other 10 yearsThe longest Grand Slam down the line and know we 
match was 5:31 when Alex shared something special."
Corretja  beat  The  20­ 
Hernan Gumy in the third round of the  "Strategy was out the door; it was just pure  y ear -old American becomes the  
1998 Open  French -but  fighting.,.  youngest semifinalist  
that match was played over two  Andy Roddick  a t Melbourne  
days because of  tennis player  Park  in  11  
rain. Things were far less dramat­ years, advancing to the last four  

ic for Serena Williams, who at a major for the first time. 
defeated Meghann "This match is the kind you Shaughnessy 6-2, 6-2 to reach have to win in a Grand Slam ­the Australian semifinals for these are the big matches." the first time. She moved with­
He'll meet Rainer Schuettler in two wins of completing her in the semis after the German "Serena Slam." ousted Wimbledon runner-up 
Williams will face Kim David Nalbandian 6-3, 5-7, 6-1, Clijsters, who gained her sec­6-0 in the other quarterfinal. In ond consecutive Australian the other semifinal. Andre Open -semifinal with a 6-2. 6-4 Agassi plays Wayne Ferreira. win over Anastasia Myskina of Roddick had lost in the quar­Russia. terfinals twice at the U.S. Open, 
The Roddick-El Aynaoui but had never advanced this quarterfinal ended at 12:47 far in a Grand Slam outside his 
a.m. when the Moroccan netted home country. 
Roddick was the youngest player into quarters this time, 
rallying from two sets down against Russian Davis Cup star Mikhail Youzhney. 
EXPANDED BUS SERVICE l~ NOIRE !!IE CIMPMS 
Convenient bus access from Library Circle and Notre Dame Avenue Circle, with service Monday through Saturday.* 
*Check #7 Notre Dame/University P,uk Mall schedule for times. 
Getting to class is just -···t _-.
[;:_. or area restaurants. So 
one of the many reasons  -~  ____::__:__  .  check out TRANSPO,  
students ride public  - ,..,  ~-­ ·  offering bus service  
transportation every day. They also  throughout South Bend  
ride it to go to the mall, the movies,  and Mishawaka.  

For route & schedule information please call: 
t2~~ . t2~~~ 
~-[f/!i,Yi'MJ:~ 
Wherever Life Takes You 


The Office of Undergraduate Studies 1n the College of Arts· and Letters is pleased to announce the opening of the _;2lLcove an Educational Resource Center and Gallery for Undergraduate Students located in 102 O'Shaughnessy Hall Open Daily from 8.00 am to 5.00 pm  


AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 20 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wake Forest at Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN2 UCLA at Stanford 10:30 p.m., FOX CH 
NBA BASKETBALL Mavericks at 76ers 7:30 p.m., TNT 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Australian Open semifinals 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 

MENS NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duke in his career _ his ed a 9-0 run that would started the spurt with a 
Associated Press 

only win coming in the turn the game around. He three-point play, while 1997 ACC tournament. But hit a twisting layup, and Scooter Sherrill and RALEIGH, N.C. the Wolfpack (10-4, 3-1) Crawford followed with a Crawford nailed 3-pointers, Clifford Crawford scored pulled off the upset with 3-pointer and a layup as forcing Mike Krzyzewski to 21 points and Julius Hodge some clutch outside shoot­the Wolfpack went up by call a timeout to try to quiet 
added 18 as North Carolina 10. the crowd and regroup his
ing and Crawford's overall State snapped a 13-game play. The Wolfpack, the sec­club. losing streak to No. 3 Duke Crawford came in 3-for-ond-best free throw shoot­The Wolfpack faced 
with an 80-71 victory 12 from 3-point range this ing team in the ACC. then adversity seconds later 
Wednesday night. season, but the senior went 13-of-16 from the foul when Melvin picked up his The Blue Devils (12-2, 3-guard was 4-of-5 from long line over the final 1 :42 to third and fourth fouls in a 2 Atlantic Coast 
range in this one, and his seal it. 10-second span and the Conference) were the defense in the second half Marcus Melvin was 9-of-Blue Devils went on a 9-0 nation's top-ranked team a on Duke 3-point ace J.J. 10 from the line over the run to regain the lead, set­week ago, but lost their Redick was key. last 2:03 as the Blue Devils ting up a tense final 10 second straight conference Redick burned the dropped two straight for minutes in the 219th meet­
game for the first time Wolfpack with 20 first-half the first time since the ing of the rivals. since 1997. Duke lost to No. points, but was held to four opening two games of the Duke took a 17 -7 lead as 12 Maryland by 15 points in the second half as Duke 1999-2000 season. the Wolfpack didn't score on Saturday. faded down the stretch. N.C. State used a 14-3 for the opening 4:34 before Wolfpack coach Herb N.C. State led 59-58 with run to start the second half making seven of eight shots Sendek was 1-15 against 5:56 left when Hodge start-to take its first lead. Hodge to get back into it. 
IN BRIEF 

Sakic out two-to-four weeks Northwest Division, but Granato behind the Oilers' bench late in with broken foot said he won't rush Sakic back. Monday's game. Colorado Avalanche captain Joe "We're at a critical point of our "Usually he's our seventh man, Sakic will be out two-to-four weeks season, but the most important but this time perhaps he went too because of a broken right foot. thing is he gets healed up, gets back far," team spokesman Peter Hanlon Sakic was injured in the second to 100 percent and comes back rest­said. period of Monday night's 1-1 tie ed and ready for the stretch run," Hanlon said the team was not con­
against Dallas when he was hit by a Granato said. tacted by the league and no griev­shot from Sergei Zubov. Sakic The injury is Sakic's second in a ance was filed. returned to the ice and finished the month. Harvey has been the team mascot 
game. notching an assist for the sev­"It's frustrating. You get injured, for 19 years. According to a Flames' enth straight game. come back, play eight games and get Web site, he is 6-foot-6 and 200 
"Usually when you get hit in the injured again," said Sakic, who has pounds. He was expected to be at foot, you feel it for bit and it goes 19 goals and 22 assists in 37 games. Thursday's home game against away. This one didn't go away, it "The stretch run is after February Phoenix. was aching," Sakic said Wednesday. until the end of March, and by then The Flames were leading the "I never took the skate off. As soon it should be 100 percent." Oilers 4-0 with seven minutes left in 
as I took the skate off, it really third period when Harvey drew swelled up." Edmonton coach lashes out Edmonton's ire by hanging over the At the time, coach Tony Granato at Calgary mascot bench. said he hoped the injury was no Harvey the Bound is in the dog­MacTavish said the mascot was worse than a bruise. On Tuesday, house for his incessant yapping that taunting the team. He ripped out 
Sakic left the Avalanche practice prompted Edmonton coach Craig Harvey's red, foot-long tongue, facility carrying crutches, although MacTavish to rip out the Calgary threw it into the crowd and then he wasn't using them. mascot's tongue. threatened to hit the hound with a 
Colorado is 17-14-10-5 and 12 Harvey was reprimanded by the hockey stick before a trainer calmed points behind Vancouver in the Flames on Tuesday for his behavior the coach. 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
"Residing in a World of Ideas" 
The College ofArts and Letters 
and 
The Office ofStudent Affairs 
are pleased to announce an initiative to engage 
faculty and students in serious discussions 
within our residence halls 

Any matters ofpressing importance (international, national, and local), ofconsiderable cultural currency (new and influential works in the arts, in scholarship, and in literature) of great religious importance (decisions by international religious leaders, the actions oftheocratic states, the workings of religiously-inspired popular movements) or of great ethical concern (cloning, globalization, environmentalism) 
The successful application should include; 

• 
A brief descnption of the topic to be addressed, with some indication that a diversity ofopmion will be aired. 

• 
Names and departments of the faculty speakers (at least one must be A & L), and, if applicable, names of the student speakers. 

• 
Signature of support from at least two students, one rector, and one senior staffmember of the Office of Smdent Affairs. 

• 
Evidence that tht: discussion could draw twenty or more students. 

• 
Dates, times, and locations for the discussions. 

• 
An estimated budget 



Proposals WIil be accepted and reviewed throughout the regular academic year. Please send them to; 
Hugh R. Page Jr., PhD. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies College ofArts & Letters 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 


Top 20 Reasons to Attend the 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Social Concerns Festival 

20 Years of celebrating the CSC :.::·-<·:-. '.
* ·.. ·~'w,··_: . 
Attend the 
* .:/1!:f! .<'·
* ..(r~... ·.· 
Sotial concerns Festival
* ,.. -'. 
1? Minute drive !~.:~ere Are Children Here}~'to find out ~ow you can 
: :~ _M makead1fferenc.=e.~ 
10 Minute walk to the Robinson Community Leaming Center * 
* 
TONIGHT!!!
7 Days aweek students can volunteer in South Bend * 
* 
JANUARY23
4 Years ND students reside in South Bend 
7:00-9:00 PM
3 Full months to be avolunteer this semester Tu -tors needed every day AT 1 Person to make adifference 
THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

LaVere 
continued from page I 
back injury, set the freshman up for her first start against Marquette. During that game, she proved that starting her had not been the wrong choice. 
"We didn't have anyone out there with the exception -of Courtney who was saying, 'Hey. give me the ball and I can score,"' McGraw said after the game. 
Marquette was one of four double-doubles that LaVere has had since the 

when her team is down, she wants to take control. 
"Jf we're struggling offen­sively, I feel like I can score so I want the ball, I'll call for it," LaVere said. 
The style of Notre Dame's offense has also been benefi­cial. As a post player in the triangle offense that revolves around getting the ball into the post, LaVere has the bene­fit of being the first look from her teammates. And as far as they're concerned, there's no one else they'd rather look for. 
"I love to give her the ball as much as I can," Duffy said. "She's a great post player." 
And the 
_-,. teams that 
Tennessee 

"If we 're struggling Notre Dame. 
game, Her 

offensively, I feel like I aside from
other dou­Connecticut,

ble-doubles can score so I want the 
hasn't really
c a m e 

ball, I'll call for it." 
been able toagainst top 
respond.

10 Purdue and against Courtney Lavere Connecticut St. John's coach Geno
Irish forward 
l a s t Tuesday. 
"It's crucial for our team that Courtney almost get a double-double," Duffy said. "And she's capable of doing that every night_" 
And what she did before she earned herself a starting spot was only the beginning. Since her start against Marquette on New Year's Eve, LaVere has been celebrating the new year in style. She is averaging 15,9 points and 8.4 rebounds a game, shooting 56.6 percent from the field and is in the top 20 in the Big East in scoring, rebounding, field goal per­centage and blocked shots with 18 blocked shots in 16 
Auriemma was 

impressed by LaVere's play on Monday when the Huskies beat the Irish 72-53. 
"LaVere's going to be a great player," Auriemma. "I love the way she plays." 
Although her teammates may describe her as being "goofy" off the court and tease her about the change from Southern California to the snowy South Bend weath­er, LaVere is has proven that Notre Dame is for her. 
Lucky for the Irish. she is for Notre Dame. 
games. 

LaVere knows that if she can Contact Katie McVoy at get the ball, she can score. So mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Fencing 
continued from page 1 
returns, the Irish suffered huge losses at sabre with cap­tains and All-Americans Andre Crompton and Carianne McCullough graduating. Rather than having untested freshmen fill the voids, two former All-Americans have returned to the program. 
Natalia Mazur missed the 2002 season due to an illness, AI; a freshman, Mazur reached All-American status with a 10th-place finish at the NCAA Championships. Junior Destanie Milo needs to over­come past disappointments in the last two national champi­ons hip meets to become an All-American in her third attempt. 
On the mens side, Gabor Szelle returns to the Irish as one of the most accomplished fencers in Notre Dame history. Szclle's .940 winning percent­age ranks third among all weapons. Szelle was an All­American as a freshman and national champion as a sopho­more, Szelle combines with senior and 2002 NCAA Championship participant Matt Fabricant to claim the top two sabre positions. 
At foil, the Irish have three All-Americans who will com­pete for the two spots on the NCAA Championships team. Senior captain Ozren Debic aims to join Jan Viviani as a four-time All American. Debic ranks first in foil and fifth overall with a .942 winning percentage. Sophomore Derek Snyder recovered from an in­season illness to earn All-American honors at the NCAt\ Championships. Senior Forest Walton returns to the team after spending last season abroad to give the Irish three All-American foilists. 

The sophomore duo of Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament can do no better this season after combining for a 45-1 record at the NCAA Champions -the only loss was Ament's to Kryczalo, who won the individual title by defeating Ament for a second time. 
Epee captain Viviani looks to become the first four-time All­American in Notre Dame epee history. Viviani has the best winning percentage (.894) of any mens epeeist in school history. Sophomore Michal Sobieraj compiled a 26-1 reg­ular season record, but fin­ished a disappointing 10th at the NCAA Championships. 
National champion Kerry Walton c~rrently stands fourth in the U.S, senior epee rank­ings and looks to repeat in her second season of collegiate fencing. Captain Anna Carnick can become another four-time All-American for the Irish. The senior from Mishawaka, Ind. is currently fourth in school history with a .795 career winning percentage. 
This weekend, the Irish start their season at the Ohio State duals with their toughest com­petition coming from the fourth-ranked Buckeyes. Next weekend, top-ranked and defending national champion Penn State face the Irish at the Notre Dame duals. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mloza­er@nd.edu 
page 22 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 23, 2003 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 

Freshmen aid Irish in victory 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
In their first true match of the season, the freshman came through for the womens tennis team. 
The Irish, ranked 22nd nation­ally, improved to 9-1 in their past 10 home openers as they defeated the Western Michigan Broncos, 5-2 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Three freshmen -Jen Smith, Lauren Connelly, and Kristina Stastny -proved that despite its youth, this Notre Dame squad is a worthy opponent. The trio contributed four of the Irish points through both their dou­bles and singles play. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback, beginning his 14th season with Notre Dame, was pleased with the performance, and was par­ticularly uplifted by the team's rookies. 
"I think we overcame inexpe­rience for a first match," he said. "That first match. especial­ly for the freshmen, is tough. They don't know what to expect." 
Stastny admitted being a little nervous. 
"Of course, nerves kick in the first two, three games, but after that it was nice and comfort­able," she said. "It was fun. Every match. I'm hoping to build confidence." 
The Irish began the match by winning the doubles point, with the duo of junior Alicia Salas and Connelly winning 8-1. Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly, the elder member of one of two sets of siblings on the team, and freshman Smith won their match 8-2. 
Statsny, the younger Connelly, Smith, and Salas all won their singles matches in straight sets. Additionally, freshmen Kelly Nelson and Liz Donohue emerged victorious from their exhibition singles matches. 
"Especially !being al first match with three freshmen in the singles line-up, it was good," Louderback said. "It was good 
for our fresh­men to get that first match out of the way." 
For Smith, winning yes­terday was an important mental victo­ry. 
"My fall was really tough, and I 

"/ think we overcame inexperience for a first match. That first match, especially for the freshmen, is tough. " 
Jay Louderbacker Irish coach 
was really nervous," Smith said. "I just put too m:uch pressure on myself. Coming into today, I just wanted to focus on having fun and just playing like I've been practicing." 
Smith went on to defeat the Broncos' Rattiya Hiranat 6-2, 6­
3. The freshman Connelly won with the same score over Shamim Mayanja. Stastny rounded out the youth rebellion against the Broncos with her 6­0, 6-2 triumnh nvPr \/,,J.,ria 

Stoilova. 
Playing at No. 1, Alicia Salas, ranked 124th nationally, quickly ended Western Michigan's Melanie Peters outing, 6-0, 6-2. 
Junior Caylan Leslie lost 6-4, 2-6, 1-0 (10-5) in her return to the courts after 14 months of recovering from a shoulder injury. 
The reason for Notre Dame's home opener win-streak, according to· Louderback, is "probably easy scheduling early." 
Easy scheduling ceases for the most part after the first few 
matches. Over the course of the season, the Irish will play at least nine teams currently ranked in the top 16 national­ly. 
"Our kids are afforded a lot of good opportuni­ties to play some really 
good teams," Loudkerback said. "We're starting at 22 and our goal as the year goes is to keep climbing. We want to climb the rankings." 
On Sunday, the Irish will face Wisconsin. Last year, the Badgers knocked Notre Dame out of the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at ilindsle@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to last in conference -with loss 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Both Calvin and Saint Mary's came into Wednesday night's game at Calvin Fieldhouse in desperate need of a win. However, the hot shooting of the Knights proved to be too much for the Belles as they lost their fourth straight game, 64­50. 
Calvin (11-5, 2-3), was led by senior forward Emily Beard with 12 points while sopho­more guard Kristen McDonald had ten points. Also contribut­ing was senior Tricia Dyk who had six points, four assists, and three steals. 
Calvin's success could large­ly be attributed to a strong performance by their bench. as 12 Knights got on the score­board. Calvin's reserves scored 28 of the team's 64 points in the game. 
The Knights proved to be too much for the Belles' defense, as they shot 52.3 percent from the field en route to snapping a two-game losing streak. With the victory, Calvin moved to fifth place in the MIAI\. 
Saint Mary's, on the other hand, struggled from the start. Calvin scored the first seven points of the game. and their scrappy defense limited the Belles to 30 percent first half shooting. Calvin built a strong first half lead, scoring the final five points of the first half to give themselves a 34-20 lead going into the break. 
However, Saint Mary's was not about to give up without a fight. After the Relles were down by as many as 22 points, sophomore forward Emily Creachbaum, who led the Helles with 12 points and eight rebounds, ignited a 13-5 run in the second half. However. it was not enough to overcome the poor first half shooting. Saint Mary's finished shooting 
39.3 percent for the game. Also contributing for the Belles off the bench was Audrey Gajor, who finished with ten points. 
With the loss, Saint Mary's dropped to a tie for last place in the conference with a 1-4 record. The Belles are tied with Olivet, who they defeated on the road earlier this season, and Adrian, who the Belles play Saturday. 
The Bulldogs are 8-8 overall, and 1-4 in the MIAA. They have struggled of late, drop­ping their last two MIAA games. It looks to be a battle, as both teams are hungry for a win. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Thursday, January 23, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

rn~.:\,,n fc1i1 ~ 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ~ ~ ~~~ by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Jetter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YAGIL 
(IJ
"2003 Trroune Med'" Serv/ca6, Inc. 
All Righls Raaerved. 
BROEP 
rJ I h 
I BLOMIE 
(IJ
www.juni>la.rom

tENJUKT I 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as

IIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A"( IX X )" rnr XX J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles· LEAKY HABIT LAGOON BUTTON Answer: He couldn't stop this when he quit smoking ­TALKING ABOUT IT 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  31 "Heroic  64 Arm bone  
1 Out ol business 5 Like lions 10 Eyes  Stanzas," for one 37 Rainbow: Prefix 39 "Exodus• hero  65 Mr. of 19th­century fiction 66 Hanker (for) 67 Where the  
14 Singer Amos 15 Celebrity's  Ben Canaan 40 TV's _ Gillis  Rhone and the SaOne meet  
concern  41 Putting the  
16 Tide variety 17 Pg. in a photocopier 18 Kind of chart 19 Paul feminizer  squeeze on 44 Nick at 45 Realm 46 Trying experience 48 Quit  DOWN 1 Put aboard 2 Round dance 3 "Exodus· author 4 Penny pinchers 5 Was sociable at  
20 Thought favorably ol 22 Magnate 23 Like most  52 Siouan people 53 Con_ (lovingly) 54 Gimcracks  a party 6 • and the Night Visitors" 7 Growing alliance  
N.B.A. stars 24 Marzipan ingredient 25 "Prove it!" 28 Learned one 30 Leonardo da Vinci's "_ and the Swan·  59 Kudrow of "Friends" 60 Fictional ringbearer 61 Ridge on a guitar neck 62 Map 63 Extend  8 New York archbishop Edward 9 Vina Mar 10 Late bedtime 11 Like bell­bottoms 12 Conductor's wand 13 Be the opposite of 4-Down 21 " a Rock" (1966 hit) 22 Amalgam 24 Time in history 25 Boo-boo  Puzzle by Alan Al1Mlaleld 35 Meter maid of song 36 It goes from stem to stern 38 River that feeds the Missouri 42 Samovar 43 Was natural and unrestrained,  47 Caviar 48 Designer Lauren 49 Watson of "Gosford Park" 50 1960 Everly Brothers hit 51 Angry 52 Closer to  54 Lacking plans 55 Mrs. Chaplin 56 Paris taxi destination, maybe 57 He's seen late SI Hockey great Mikita  
26 German "Mr."  slangily  retirement  60 Swelter  
27 Cartoon dog  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a28 Mideast land credit card, 1-800-814-5554.29 Situation Annual subscripltons are available for the best of Sundayfavoring the crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. server 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more ltian 2,00032 Hard to find 
past puules, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 33 Awe-inspiring Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 34 Theater award nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 11-IlS DAY: Tiffani-Amber Thiessen, Anita Pointer PrimssOndine, RutgY Haw-
Happy Birthday: Nothing will stand in your way this year ei(Cl:pt your own laziness Yoo are ck:vo" and artia.thleand yrurll"5teffil15 will l:Jing(Xliitil\! results and rewards. This can be a wonderful year if you make the changes necessary Yoornurroosare2, 13, 17,29,33,41 
ARIES (March 21-April l~ifllWli'ff ~,~pick a fight er waste your rim. 
arguing with someooe who ¥ill 'never scitthings "y"our way. Progress will be yoo anlicbe toanythingmmycre w!Dd::e.J\agree 'Mll1 )UL-k-k TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can enhance your reputation if you are willin! to compromise and show others that you are adaptable. When it comes to persona mJfS yrum1y rave to satthing5cuby )Umielf. --ktt GEMINI (May 21-JWJe 20): Fnleltrinment should be high oo your list of thing, to oo Make purchases that will spruce up your wardrobe. Good conversation with interestin! 
liierxls willSjBk all mscfid::as. 1rlrirlrlc CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your thoughts to yo=elf. Family member. especially may not be eager to follow your suggestions. Do your own thing. *;. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone is prorably jealous of your succes.5. Your ability tl do thing, with such finesse will put you above anyone who tries to compete with you Rfuwyrurmnt. tttt VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've got what it takes to get ahead today. Presen your ideas to people who can make a difference to your future. An opportunity fo: n:mioce is evrln Make ire fustnuve. **-k LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): This is a great day to be introspective, quiet and sort ou your own problems. Be quick to make whatever adjustments are necessary. **;. SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Favor.; will be granted if you present your case will passion. Your intent should be to make your home life more satisfying. **-;. SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Doc 21): Don't take out your fiustratioo and wony on tJx ooes you love the ITilil. Limitati0l1S are likely to slow you 00\.\-11, but if you are detennina toget~d::neyouwillsoo:=I. ...... CAPRICORN (Doc. 22-Jan. 19): As long as yoo're willing to accept what's going or around you it will end up being beneficial. You will get th: help you need if you presen yarilils v.ell. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can excel if you put your mind to it If sonmm tries to stand in your way you should be questioning your connection to this person. It'i tim: to ledfmv.ntlaoo leave treµl51 lxiw ***"** PISCFB (Feb. 19-March 20): Your personal life may be confusing you today. A pas panner may try to come rock into your life. Remember why this relatiooship didn't ell( ~gcingilllywh:re. --ktt 
Birthday Baby: You will be compassionate, loving and a wondcrlul organizer. YO\ will re able tok:dcfu::ls in a jnitive way, but will rnveto give ~Ifapu5h in crcbtoget stD1fd 
Oleck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
PORTS 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
A diamond in the rough 
. Freshman finds starting role, surprises struggling Irish 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
If the last several weeks have been rocky for the Irish. then Courtney LaVere has been a diamond in the rough. 
In the last four home games. the Irish have recorded zero victories and left nearly every game 
ing players competing at the guard position, Lavere had a large group of talented, experienced players ahead of her. The idea of Lavere starting seemed almost foreign tci any analyst or fan at the beginning of the year. It seemed uncertain even to LaVere herself. 
"I really didn't think so," Lavere said. "I knew I'd come in and help contribute but I didn't know to what extent." 
LaVere began the season coming off the bench. playing behind post players Katy Flecky. Teresa Borton, Jackie Batteast and Kelsey Wicks. LaVere wasn't sure when her chance would come to step on the court first for the Irish. Rut the freshman from Ventura. Calif. managed to find herself a 
b a c k 
door into
"We didn't have anyone 

looking frustrated. 
the Irish 

But among those out there with the 
startingfrustrations. there exception of[LaVere] who lineup. 
are a few glim­
was saying, 'Hey, give me "I think 

mers of the possi­
she kind 

bility of success. the ball and I can score."' 
of snuck 

Lavere holds in," Duffy one of those lights. 
said. "At
Muffet McGraw 
"[LaVere] 
t h e
Irish head coach

deserves all the beginningminutes she's 
of the 

playing and all the year all glory she's getting because the coaches said to Courtney she's a great player," said and I that we're going to take 
teammate Megan Duffy. it slow ... but I think we both As one of only two freshman caught on quick." on this year's Notre Dame Over the holidays, the Irish 
team, LaVere was slated to 
"/ was confident enough 

start off slow. Unlike to know I could help the her class­
team." 

mate Duffy, who didn't have as Courtney LaVere many return-Irish forward 
began to first struggle and then to lose confidence in their abilities. They were looking for someone who would step up. LaVere made it perfectly clear that if 
she could get the ball, she could get some things done for the Irish. 
"I think that when we were struggling someone had to step 


up and I was confident enough 
Dame's Dec. 28 loss to Tennessee that LaVere made her first statement that was loud and clear. That statement was that she would get the job done. 
Against the Vols, LaVere had a game-high 17 points and 11 rebounds. That, coupled with the aggravation of Flecky's 
see LAVERE/page 21 

to know I could help the team win the games," LaVere said. 
Although she had made solid contributions for the Irish before, it was during Notre 
FENCING 
New coach, same elusive goal -a national championship 
was a little surprised. Auriol never could -win a a team. Fencers become team," Bednarski said. "When
. Bednarski wants 
"We have a good image so national title. accustomed to being on their you bout for a team, you show to balance maybe they gave us a little bit Returning 10 of the 12 own out on the strip and your real personality as a teamwork and of credit and we are going to fencers who participated in Bednarski knows creating a member of the group. Then 
try to accomplish what they the 2002 NCAA team-first attitude is neces­you can fence better and
individuality 
expect from Notre Dame," Championships, Bednarski sary to compete for the nation­accomplish better results then Bednarski said of the team's looks to use that experience al title. fencing on your own. -ByMATTLOZAR No. 2 ranking. "We have to be and leadership to capture the "Fencing is an individual "It is really interesting to see Spores Editor patient. This team is unpre­team's first national champi­sport even when you bout as a people change when bouting dictable. but they can win." onship since 1994. team, you are off on your own for a group." When the national team Bednarski replaced retired One of the main challenges against your opponent. There While most of the team rankings came out, first-year Yves Auriol in May and looks of a fencing coach is getting is something when you are head coach Janusz Bednarski to accomplish something the team to act like that -as bouting for yourself and for a see FENCING/page 21 
-

ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame 5 Western Michigan 2 

Three freshmen contribute to winning effort in the Irish home opener. Notre Dame has lost only one home opener in the past 10 years. 
page 22 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Calvin 64 Saint Mary's 50 

The Belles are now tied for last place in the MIAA standings after their attempt to rally against the Knights fails. 
page 22 






