
VOL XXXVII NO. 87 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Senate calls for Bishop to stand firm on hall dances 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
Senators called on Libby Bishop to give them a copy of her Board of Trustees report and to stress the reinstatement of in-hall dances for a yearlong probationary period at Monday's emergency Student Senate meeting. 
Eight senators submitted a petition on Friday for an emer­gency meeting to discuss the content of Bishop's report because of concern that Bishop would not accurately represent student opinion regarding in­hall dances. 
Bishop said at the beginning of the meeting she was glad senators called the meeting to hear their opinions but did not attend in order to argue the issue. 
"I have been frustrated by the way this meeting has been called and how this was gone about," Bishop said. "As much as I appreciate your input, I have been entrusted to make the report and in the end it is my report and I feel you have to respect that." 
Bishop said the report was not completed on Friday as originally intended and that she decided to take the addi­tional time to reflect and make changes. She said the report will include opinions she received from dance commis­sioners, the freshman class council and students. and that she still must draft her conclu­sion. Bishop said her report is 
more informational and she removed the clause regarding a proposal for one in-hall dance per year per dorm. 
Bishop does not want to "put all of her eggs in one basket" and said, "I am not asking for anything. I am conveying to them how students feel." 
Senators were divided on what the role of the Senate should be with regard to directing Bishop on her report's content. Erin Cushing, off-campus senator, said the Senate :;hould trust Bishop to express student opinion, wait to hear the results of the Board of Trustees meeting and then decide whether another step is necessary. Blake Haan, Keenan Hall senator, said it was not the duty of the Senate to direct Bishop on this matter and the Senate should work through channels on campus in order to apply pressure to the Office of Student Affairs, rather than bypass Bishop and 
show a  lack of confidence in  
her.  
The  Student  Union  

Constitution states the Senate must approve the topics and content for the fall and spring Board of Trustees report made by the student body president. Jeremy Staley, Sorin Hall sena­tor, said, "The only reason why we don't have input is because the constitution is not updated and had it been updated, would that have changed the discussion and content?" 
Bishop said her position as student body president grants her the right to gauge student 

opm10n and determine the Hall senator, said, "Whether focus of her report. Rick this is our last chance or not Harris, Siegfried Hall senator, [to make a plea for in-hall said Bishop. as the ex-officio dances]. I don't think it is representative to the Board of unreasonable to ask to see it." Trustees does not necessarily Bishop said a check on the hold a monopoly on student student body president from view. the Senate was not appropri­
Harris made a motion to ate. "What I think you want is direct Bishop to release a copy more input, but the flaw is that of her Board of Trustees report you are taking away from the to senators so that potential power of the student body issues could be addressed president. What about a reso­directly. Jason Creek, Knott lution where we can meet and discuss. A check is not neces­sary," Bishop said. 
The motion initially failed but was passed later during the meeting in a 20-4 vote. Senators said they wanted to receive a copy of the report before Wednesday's Senate meeting. Bishop said the report will be sent to the print­er today and she did not know when it would be given to sen-
see SENATE/page 6 

Judge sets new rape trial date 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Associate News Editor 
The trial dates for two for­mer Notre Dame football play­ers accused of sexual assault were rescheduled at a status hearing last month. 
St. Joseph Superior Court Judge Roland Chamblee Jr. rescheduled Abram Elam's trial from Feb. 24 to March 31 and Justin Smith's trial from March 31 to April 28, said the St. Joseph County Clerk's office. Mark Lenyo, Elam's attorney, said Chamblee reset the trial dates because of scheduling conflicts. 
Another potential conflict arose in the prosecution of these trials as county Prosecutor Michael Dvorak appointed Ken Cotter, Lorenzo Crawford's former defense attorney. to be one of his deputy prosecutors. 
Last week Lenyo said 
see TRIAL/page 4 
Economics department to split in two 
. Many faculty 
oppose division despite dept. conflicts 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
The Blue Ribbon Committee, a distinct group appointed by Notre Dame Provost Nathan Hatch, recently recommended that the Economics Department would function better if it split into two sepa­rate departments. The Committee called for the exist­ing department to be renamed Economics Thought and Policy and for a new Department of Economics to emerge. 
John Affieck-Graves, profes­sor of finance and chair of the Blue Ribbon Committee, said that in a situation where there is no perfect solution, the split is the best solution. Affleck­Graves believes the difficulty lies in having heterodox and neoclassical economists in the same department. 
The central conflict in the Economics Department focuses on ideological differences chance for both neoclassical between neoclassical, or ortho­and heterodox economics to dox, economics, which has a flourish at Notre Dame," he more mathematical emphasis, said. and hetero­dox econom­
ulty and the Arts and Letters College Council's vote at its Dec. 29 meeting. Even though the College Council did not endorse the rec­ommendation, 
ics, which is less quanti­tative, such as Marxism. 
After men­tioning the split in 
December. Hatch informed the Economics Department of the final decision during a Faculty Senate meeting in January, said Mark Roche, dean of the College of 



voting 14 in favor and 25 against with one abstention,
:~faculty 


Roche and other administrators were not deterred in their goal. 
Faculty mem• hers such as Amitava Dutt, a heterodox econo­mist who works in development and macroeco­nomics, agrees with the College Council's deci­sion. Dutt isn't as much concerned

DVAlttlaHf 
with tenure and

Of EemroMlts 
job security as 
·Arts and 
Letters, who agrees with the 

change. Dissension 
Roche, though originally But the split may not fall into skeptical of the split, said it is place as smoothly as adminis­worth the financial costs. "In trators would like because of short, the split offers the best strong opposition from the fac­
he is with acade­mic freedom, which he believes the administration would violate if it moved for­ward with the split. 
see ECON/page 6 

Tuesday, February 4, 2003
page 2 The Ohserver . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 



HaRPY
New Year! 
Happy New Year! I know it has only been a month since we celebrated New Year's Eve but you can start 2003 all over again by cele­brating the Chinese New Year. Just when you had for­gotten about all of your New Year's resolutions and are getting used to the idea of 2003, you can celebrate it all over again. 
This year the Chinese New Year was celebrated last Saturday, February 1, beginning the year of the black sheep. 

Last weekend I actually pre-maturely celebrated the Chinese New Year when friends of mine had a party, but I don't think anyone minds repeating the New Year just one more time. My friends did actually get into the spirit ofthe occa­sion by placing lanterns around the house, [which in retrospect probably wasn't the best idea considering the amounts of alcohol and drunk people weaving around the small paper bags and candles] pulling out champagne and counting down to midnight. 
Ofcourse one of the best parts about the Chinese New Year, at least for me, is getting to open fortune cookies. I know they are generic and made so that they work for anyone, whether you're a 5 year old or 50 year old open­ing the cookie, they are still fun. But there are ones that just fall in the cate­gory of being ridiculous. Some recent gems I have found are "Anything worth doing is worth overdoing" and "It makes sense, when you don't think about it." 
If you want to get your own fortune cookie, well a virtual fortune cookie, by logging onto the site www.new­year.co.uk/chinese/year. The site has loads of fun information to help you cel­ebrate your Chinese New Year [no I don't work for the site or anything it's just the best one I found]. I found out that I was born in the year ofthe mon­key, and they were very flattering. This is what they have to say about all the people born in 1981: 
"Ifyou are born in the Year ofthe Monkey, you are very intelligent, well liked by everyone, and will have success in any field you choose." 
For those ofyou born in 1981, you're not too bad off either. Here's your life's fortune: 
'The sign ofthe Rooster indicates a person who is hard working and defi­nite about their decisions. Roosters are not afraid to speak their minds and can therefore sometimes come across as boastful. They make good restaurant owners and world travelers." 
For everyone else you can find out your Chinese zodiac prediction to see what the future holds for you, but before you do that remember to ring in the New Year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofSarah Nestor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  VIEWPOINT  

Guest colum-
Students NASA Bush sets 
nist questions 

organize engineers $2.23 trillion 
the validity of 
summer camp overlooked budget 
war with iraq 
for children damaged 
shuttle tiles 
The first in a
Notre Dame 

The Columbia President Bush 
series of columns
juniors Dan 

Shuttle was cov­sent lawmakers in 
that will offer vari­
Doherty and Adam 

ered in more than Washington, D.C. 
ous views weigh­
Dell have started 

20,000 thermal tiles, his 2004 govern­
ing in on Iraq and
the not-for-profit 

some of which ment budget, 
the possibility of
business Camp 

were damaged which seeks new 
war.
Kesem for children 
during lift off and tax cuts.
of parents who suf­
may have caused
fer from cancer. 
an explosion. 

page 4 page 5 page 7 
page 8 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Coffen and Conversation for Gav, Lesbian. Bisexual and Questioni11g students at Notre Dame 7:30 p.m. at Colcman-l\lo1~se 316 

. 
Last Lecture Series Professor Philpott 8 p.m. at Pangborn Basement 

. 
Ballroom dance lessons 8 to 10 p.m. at Hockne 301 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Biology Department Lecture Dr. Donald lluisingh 7 p.m. at LeMans llall, Stapleton 

. 
Class Election Information Session 7 p.m. at Haggar College Center, Welsh Parlor 

. 
Jobs Outlook 2003 7 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara.four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, southern-fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped pota­toes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, Italian rice pilaf, sliced carrots, Italian-blend vegetables, baked potato, oatmeal, sea nuggets 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, cherry turnover, breadsticks, grilled pork chops, broccoli-rice casserole, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp, grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Meatless baked• ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, pasta primavera, spinach, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, London broil teriyaki, garlic mashed potatoes, Philly steak sandwich, steak­house fries, onion rings, sweet and sour chicken, chicken chimichanga 
Today's Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni. supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, pasta primavera, spinach, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, London broil teriyaki. garlic mashed potatoes, Philly steak sandwich 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
w
:c 
~ 
w 
3 
...I 
C( 
(.) 


0 



SCENE 

Scene reviews Folk Implosion's new album 
Folk Implosion releases their new album The New 
Folk their 1999. 
Implosion, first since 
page 10 
SPORTS 

Wicks leaves womens basketball team 
Sophomore guard Kelsey Wicks is the third player to leave the team in the past 
year. 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
No new information on the 
NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
page 20 
Today's Lunch: Falafels, saffron rice, marinated cucumber salad, vegetable lasagna, parmesan muffins, omelets cooked to order served with hash browns, ravioli bar, cheese, beef, green bean salad, zucchini, hot baked bread, hot open faced turkey, sandwich, whipped potatoes, carrots, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, bread sticks 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, corn­bread, fried plantains, sautced chicken and vegetable alfredo served over fettuccini, taco and burrito bar, beef, beans and chicken, carved ham, au gratin potatoes, vegetables 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 
.,J HIGH 31 HIGH HIGH HIGH 18 19 HIGH LOW 27 LOW LOW LOW 8 15 LOW 
Atlanta 53 / 32 Boston 45 / 29 Chicago 25 / 3 Denver 35 / 14 Houston 58 / 35 Los Angeles 72 / 47 Minneapolis 12 / -5 New York 50 / 28 Philadelphia 53 / 28 Phoenix 71 / 42 Seattle 50 / 32 St. Louis 30 / 12 Tampa 73 / 51 Washington 56 / 32 
32 
16 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members react to Keenan Revue 
Katie Harrison. a student gov­
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
ernment representative whose 
News Wriccr 
Emotions ran high as Board of Governance members dis­cussed last weekend's Keenan Hevue. the annual comedic vari­ety show put on at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium by Notre Dame's Keenan llall residents. 
The show's content has tradi­tionally been laced with sexual humor and frequently utilizes stereotypes in skit plot lines. That concerned some Saint Mary's students. Two con­cerned Saint Mary's students, Katie Harrison and Jessica Bland, spoke to board members about what they found to be objectionable in the program. 

I'm having 
ResNet problems. Can you HELP? 
name and e-mail address appeared on flyers of protest distributed on the steps of O'Laughlin, explained to board members that she would draft a letter of review about the Keenan production. 
"We are looking at how this fits into the mission of this col­lege," Harrison said. 
Jessica Bland, co-author of the distributed flyers, was par­ticularly distressed about the reference to the College's patron saint as "Saint Mary Magdalene, patron saint of whores." She described it as "hate language." 
The board members them­selves were concerned with the content of the show, as well as communication between Saint Mary's and the Revue's organiz• ers. 
"The whole thing started off on the wrong foot. They never let us know when they were going to have the Revue. We had to hunt it down and show up," said Student Body President Kim Jensen, in refer­ence to the preview perfor­mance that Saint Mary's requires ofKeenan participants. 
Board member Ellen Burns also raised the question of whether the Revue should even remain at Saint Mary's. 
"If it is so negative, is it some• thing we should keep on cam-
see BOARD/page 4 

EXECUTIVE CABINET 

Freshrrtan class council presents strategic plan 
By MATT BRAMANTJ 
News Writer 
Executive Cabinet members 
convened briefly Monday 
evening to discuss upcoming 
events and the strategic plan­
ning initiative. 
Judicial Council President 
Danielle Ledesma presided 
over the meeting in the 
absence of Student Body 
President Libby Bishop, who 
was speaking at an emergency 
meeting of the Student Senate. 
Dave Baron, freshman class president. presented his class council's strategic plan, con­tinuing the planning drive that began last fall. In his remarks. themed "Building on Tradition," Baron focused on increasing unity and participa­tion among members of the class of 2006. 
"After six months, we can see what tradition has been built here at Notre Dame over 160 years," Baron said. "Our job is to continue that tradition and build upon it." 
Baron addressed charges of rampant apathy among first­year students, particularly in regards to student govern­ment. 
"A lot of people don't know what we're doing, but when they do know, they care," he said. 
Baron said his aim was to educate freshmen about class council events, primarily through the new class Web site, www.nd.edu/-class06. Baron stressed that student government requires the par­ticipation of its constituents. 
"Only 27 people are in [freshman] class government, but we have 1,900 students with something to offer," he said. 
The council is planning an open forum meeting to aUow students to discuss class activi­ties and issues. 
"We want to encourage peo­ple to come, raise their sug­gestions and voice their com­plaints," Baron said. 
Baron also addressed stu­
dent concerns about safety 
and security, in light of recent 
events. 
"The disappearance of our classmate Chad Sharon has introduced an element of fear," Baron said. "We want to produce fun events on campus. ... We don't want students to feel that they're being pushed off campus." 
Baron went on to promise improvements for future class­es. He proposed incorporating a questionnaire into the room­mate selection process, so that more compatible students may be matched up before they arrive on campus. 
"We owe it to the Class of 2007 to improve student life," he said. 
In other Exec Cab news: 
. 
Student Union Board man­ager Steve Christ encouraged students to attend the Sophomore Literary Festival. which begins Wednesday. "The commissioners put a lot of work into it, and it's going to be a great event," Christ said. 

. 
Student leaders will meet this weekend for a workshop titled "Celebrating Diversity." Members of the Hall Presidents Council, Executive Cabinet, and Student Senate will aim to improve leadership by bolstering communication across cultures. The workshop will be facilitated by faculty members Ramzi Bualuan and Micki Franco. 

. 
The cabinet welcomed two new members, senior Katie Stolz and junior Seth O'Donnell. Stolz represents the service division of the Club Coordination Council. while O'Donnell represents the CCC's athletic division. 


Contact Matt Bramanti at hramanti.l@nd.edu 


YES WE CAN!!! 
We are available 
Sunday, 3:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Monday -Wednesday, 6:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. Thursday, 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
Contact the ResNet Support line at 631-7610 
Don't come to us, our friendly RCA's will come to you. 
Interested in becoming an RCA (ResNet Computing Assistant) for the 2003 -2004 academic year? Fill out an online application at http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/ernploy. 



LAST CALL 
Interviews in progress. To be considered for fall 2003, applications must be in by February 14 at the latest. For information and application forms please call Dr. Pullapilly at 284-4468 or e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 
-1%1­SAINT SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 OR 273-5973 MARY'S 
COLLEGE

e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarvs-edu NOTRE DAME. lN 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 






CLC reviews previous semester of hall dances 
Building. "That's dramatically difTerent sharing the fall dance with would fund the maintenance of
By HELENA PAYNE 
However, rectors and students from my experience as a stu­another dorm, Rakoczy said it the Web site. 
News Editor 
said freshmen seemed less inter­dent," said Pangborn Hall rector would cut back on competing . Progress to put the Academic 
ested in hall dances. Although Heather Rakoczy, who was an dorm dances and free up the Bulletin online might not be real­

Student Body President Libby members did not come up with undergraduate at the University popular venues. ized for a few years. Bishop called on members of the one consensual reason for this in the 1990s. Then, she estimat­"That increases attendance . The Academic task force has Campus Life Council to provide pattern, they offered ideas such ed, hall attendance was at 90 and makes it more manageable, spoken to Louise Litzinger, assis­feedback Monday on hall dances as the backlash of upperclass­percent. but it definitely takes a third tant dean of First Year of in preparation for her Board of men, the intimidation of a formal Rakoczy said upperclassmen party," Rakoczy said, adding that Studies, regarding a possible Trustees report later this week. off campus or outside of the were s-:.ill considerably interested the Office of Student Activities or mentoring program utilizing the 
The meeting focused mainly on dorm and competing campus in hall dances, but the participa• student government could work current Peer Advising program. attendance patterns as rectors activities. tion often faltered because many to pair up the halls. . Member Hick Harris updated evaluated freshman participation A repeated sentiment from residents opted to attend dances the council on its leadership and venue popularity. rectors was decreasing hall in male residence halls. poster. Other members suggest­
In other CLC News:

Overall opinions were favor­attendance. Rectors said they As a solution, Rakoczy pro­ed mailing the information to
. Member Jane Ong announced

able on dances after the 2002 often have to lower the required posed to have halls pair up dur­incoming first-year students. 
that the University was continu­alcohol policy change that hall attendance percentage to ing the fall semester, a busy time ing its progress with the under­banned in-hall dances, rectors Jess than half of residents in for campus activity, and host one th edome .com Web site for stu­and students noted the more order for the dance commission­dance per dorm. Usually, dorms denlc;. David Moss, assistant vice 

optimistic resident response to ers in dorms to sell enough tick­have two dances, often one Contact Helena Payne at
president for Student Affairs, 

venues such as the Main ets for a dance. informal and one formal. By payne.30@nd.edu
told members that the his office 

Students work to raise funds for children's camp 
having cancer." said DelI. 'This "Often when a kid's mom or month. chats" where children will talk By LINDA SKALSKI is something I can relate t(), and dad is in the hospital, all the "The cost of hospital bills, about topics such as who their 
News Writer 
I know that a lot of times those focus is on the parent, and the medicine and all the other role model is and what makes needs go unaddressed." focus is taken away from the expenses is immense, and we them happy or sad. Children will 

Notre Dame juniors Adam Dell Dell initially looked on campus kid," said Doherty. "You can't would hate for a child to not be not be directly asked to talk and Dan Doherty are close to for programs that addressed the tell when the kid is upset able to attend for that reason," about topics they may not be realizing their dream as they issue of cancer, but he did not because there is no physical dis­said Jenny Nokes, camper Care comfortable with, but these strive to raise the remaining find any long-term, large-scale ease that you can see." Committee Leader. chats might lead to deeper funds to run their Camp Kesem efforts. Instead. Dell and Doherty The camp has an approxi­At Camp Kesem children will issues, according to Dell and project. officially opened a business mately $28,000 budget to fill, of participate in typical summer Doherty. 
The project is a weeklong through the Indiana state gov­which $8,000 has currently been camp activities, such as swim­"Sharing in each other's expe­summer camp for children ages ernment and applied for non­raised through individual dona­ming, drama, art and nature riences and building off each 6 to 13 in the South Bend area profit status through the Internal tions and the University's Alumni activities. This provides children other's experiences will help let who has a parent who has suf­Revenue Service so that all Association. with the opportunity to go out them know that they are not fered or died from cancer. The donations would be tax­Doherty is optimistic that they and have fun, getting away from alone," said Dell. camp is the first of its kind local­deductible. will be awarded the remaining other stresses, said Doherty. ly and a needed addition, Dell They modeled Camp Kesem money through grants they are "The main goal is for the and Doherty said. after a successful camp opened currently applying for and campers to have a really fun 
"I had a personal reason for by Stanford University students through a collection that will be week and enjoy the simple joys 
Contact Linda Skalski at

looking into the issue, because of in summer 2001 for children of taken at Mass during Junior of childhood," said Dell. 
lskalski@nd.edu

my experience with my mom parents suffering from cancer. Parents Weekend later this There will also be daily "cabin 
Trial 
continued from page I 
Dvorak's office is pursuing the case and that he and the other defense attorneys are waiting to hear if the prosecutor's office will continue to prosecute the cases, or if a special prosecutor will be necessary. "I am not asking for a special prosecutor," said Lenyo. "He is not in any way involved with any decision-making with respect to the case." 
Crawford's trial is scheduled for March 10, said the St. Joseph Superior Court Clerk's office. Andre Gammage replaced Cotter 
Board 
continued from page 3 
pus?" she said. 
The BOG, along with Harrison and Bland, will continue discus­sion along various avenues to achieve what they believe will be improvements in the show's production and content, they said. 
In other BOG news: 
. The board also discussed the use of online voting in last week's student body elections. Everyone agreed that the new method was successful. Notre Dame student representative Lindsay Evans recommended that a confirmation screen should be added so that students know that their vote did in fact go through. 
as Crawford's attorney. 
The trial date for Donald Dykes has not been set and the next sta­tus hearing is scheduled for Feb. 
26. A Notre Dame student alleged the four former football players raped her off campus last spring. After a disciplinary hearing through the Office of Residence Life and Housing, the former football players were expelled. Former Prosecutor Chris Toth brought charges of conspiracy to commit rape against all four and charges of rape against Crawford, Dykes, and Smith last summer. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
. 
BOG granted the Saint Mary's Affiliate of the American Chemical Society $1,500. The money, the maximum sum awarded by BOG, will help spon­sor 14 Saint Mary's chemistry majors attend the American Chemical Society Meeting in New Orleans. 

. 
After much discussion, the board denied the Counseling and Career Development Center their request of $150. The money would have help bring a local eating disorder and body image expert to campus to speak to the student body. Because Counseling and Career Development is not a student club or organization, however, BOG members did not believethey had the discretion to allot the money. 


Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@stmarys.edu 

The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 Oshaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday1 February 2812003 





WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
NASA engineers overlooked damaged shuttle tiles 
Associated P rcss 
HOUSTON 

While Columbia was still in orbit, NASA's "best and bright­est" minds analyzed the potential damage done to its thermal tiles hy a piece of debris during liftoff and concluded that ihe flight was in no danger. agency officials said Monday. 
lligh-levcl officials at NASA concurred with the engineering rcporl, which was issued on Day 12 or the doomed 16-day flight, the officials said. 
On Monday, 48 hours after the disaster, NASA's top spaceflight official, William lleaddy, said the damage done by the broken-off piece of fuel-lank insulation is now being looked at very care­fully as a possible cause of the tragedy. 
"Although that may, in fact, wind up being the cause -it may certainly be the leading candidate right now -we have to go through all the evidence and then rule things out very methodically in order to arrive at the cause," he said. 
The shuttle broke up 39 miles over Texas and fell to Earth just as it was experiencing maximum re-entry heat of 3,000 degrees. All seven astronauts aboard per­ished. 
Columbia was covered with more than 20,000 thermal tiles to protect it from burning up while re-entering Earth's atmos­phere. During liftoff Jan. 16, a hard piece of' foam insulation hit the spacecraft's left wing 80 sec­onds after launch. 
That led NASA engineers to conduct thermal analyses and a frame-by-frame examination of the launch footage. 
Hon Dittemore. the shuttle pro­gram manager, said Monday that photos showed the piece of insulation was about 16-by-6-by­20 inches in size and weighed about 2.67 pounds, and could have smashed into the thermal tiles on the underside of the left wing area. 
"We are making the assump­tion fr.om the start that the exter­nal tank was the root cause of the problem that lost Columbia," Dittemore said. "That's a drastic assumption and it's sobering." 
Analyses were performed for different scenarios, including dif­ferent weights for the debris and the possibility of tile damage over an area of about 7 inches by 32 inches, NASA said. 
The engineering report cited by Readdy indicated "the poten­tial for a large damage area to the tile." But it went on to note that the damage should be limit­ed to the coating on the tiles and have no effect on the mission. 
"These thermal analyses indi­cate possible localized structural damage but no bum-through and no safety-of-flight issue," the Monday with Readdy. report concluded. Readdy said he also was part 
"We were in complete concur­of the discussions held through­rence," Michael Kostelnik, a out the flight on the matter. NASA spaceflight office deputy, "The best and brightest engi­said at a news conference neers we have who helped 


Associated l'rcss 
BAGHDAD 

Iraq took the unusual step of issuing an explanation for a missile warhead discovered Monday by U.N. arms inspec­tors -before the monitors themselves made the news public. 
The inspectors found the abandoned case of a small rocket and a "modified, damaged and abandoned warhead" at a missile parts factory south of Baghdad, the Iraqi News Agency said, describing it as a Russian-made Luna -a short­range rocket permitted under U.N. reso­lutions. 
Iraq, however. rarely reports on what the inspectors find. The report appeared timed to give Iraq's version of events before the discovery was publicized by the United Nations. 
The discovery last month of 12 empty chemical warheads -which the Iraqis considered an oversight on their part ­was cited by the United States as an example of Baghdad failing to comply with terms ofU.N. Resolution 1441. 
Iraq is especially sensitive to such alle­gations ahead of Secretary of State Colin Powell's appearance before the Security Council on Wednesday. Powell plans to present evidence that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has retained his arse­nal of weapons of mass destruction. 
Photographs of mobile biological weapons installations and transcripts of overheard conversations among Iraqi oflkials are part of the evidence Powell will present to the council Wednesday, a Bush administration official said. 
Iraq denies holding any banned bio­logical, chemical or nuclear weapons but is under pressure to improve coop­eration with U.N. inspectors. 
The United States and Britain insist Saddam still is hiding banned weaponry and say they will disarm Iraq by force if necessary. The United States has 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli party leader denies Sharon offer: 
The leader of Israel's Labor Party turned down an appeal Monday from Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to recreate their centrist partnership, pushing Sharon closer to a hawkish government instead. Without Labor, Sharon would have to depend on hard-line parties to make up a majority coalition. a govern­ment that would likely take even harsher military steps against the Palestinians, including expulsion of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Sharon, whose l.ikud Party handily won last week's election, receiving 38 seats in the parliament to 19 for Labor, still needs to sign up partners to achieve a majority in the 120-seat parliament. At his meeting with Labor Party leader Amram Mitzna, Sharon appealed for a broad-based, stable government with Labor because of the security and economic crisis the country faces after 28 months of Palestinian-Israeli violence, said a statement from Sharon's office. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
US may deploy troops in Korea region: 
The Pentagon is considering new deployments in the Pacific Ocean to signal North Korea that the United States remains capable of blunting an attack in Korea despite its focus on possible war in Iraq. No decision has been made, but Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is considering options including sending an aircraft carrier to the waters off the Korean peninsula and adding bombers in Guam. officials said Monday. The United States has 37,000 troops stationed in South Korea, where it has maintained a force since the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a truce. Tension between Washington and Pyongyang over North Korea's nuclear program has been rising since October, however, and officials said they want to deter the North from provo­cations during any war to remove Saddam Hussein as Iraq's president. 
design and build this system looked carefully at all the analy­sis and the information we had at this time, and made a deter­mination this was not a safety­of-flight issue," Kostelnik said. 

IRAQ 
Iraq issues statetnent claiming warhead was pertnitted 
deployed almost 90,000 troops in the Gulf region, a number that may double soon. 
Hoping to avert war, the two chief 
U.N. weapons inspectors travel to Iraq later this week in an attempt to win meaningful concessions from the Iraqis on reconnaissance U-2 flights and pri­vate interviews with Iraqi scientists ­two of the issues the inspectors say have stalled progress so far. 
Saturday's talks will come just before chief inspector Hans Blix and chief nuclear inspector Mohamed ElBaradei make their next important report to the Security Council on Feb. 14. 
New Jersey doctors hold work slowdown: 
More than 1,300 New Jersey doctors rallied Monday and others closed their offices early to protest rising medical malpractice insurance premiums and pres­sure state government for help. Many hospitals reported twice the usual number of patients coming into their emergency departments, mostly with minor injuries, flu and fever. But no major disrup­tions were reported as the three-day slowdown began and some events were canceled or scaled back because of the space shuttle disaster. Physicians across the state withheld nonemergency services. 
Gallup poll reveals trust in Powell in Iraq: 
Asked whom they trust more on Iraq policy, more people said they were more likely to trust Secretary of State Colin Powell, 63 percent, than the 24 per­cent who said they were more likely to trust President Bush, a new poll says. 
-------------~--------­
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
respectful dialogue between "What good scholars will members of the faculty and the want to come to a department
Econ 
Going mainstream Freedom

administration," he said. in, such chaos? Scholars like
Roche said there's been con­A major point of contention 
freedom to do work without

continued from page 1 cern for years that students are among faculty is the risk of los­
administration telling them

At the bottom not receiving the tools that they ing academic freedom after the 
what to do," he said. 

"Do they really know the Roche said the Economics need for the continuation of split. 
Dutt said that the resultingnuances of each department? Department was found to be their studies. He believes that if Affleck-Graves does not see conflict, namely a lack of inter­

No. What they have are quick the only department in the they wait any longer, the gap this as an issue, however, and est in Economics Thought andfixes not necessarily what is fourth quartile during the last will become even greater. said faculty members would Policy, which is not a recogniz­good for the department," he review of the College of Arts Department chair Richard have complete freedom to do able major. would be too great
said, adding that administra­and Letters. He attributes this Jensen agrees. whatever research they want and not worth the risk.
tors should demand better per­to changing theories in eco­"My own opinion is that the and teach what and how they Affleck-Graves does not see it
formance from the depart­nomics and the inability of recommended split is the best see fit. He said academic free­that way and said it's impor­ment's professors. members of the department to way to allow both groups to dom is only an issue when 
tant that the department call

Dutt said the problems are keep up. As Roche puts it, "the prosper, to provide undergrad­administrators tell faculty what itself something that accuratelynot as severe as the Blue discipline of economics has uates with the vibrant and con­research they want them to do. 
describes what it does.

Ribbon Committee is making moved in a direction that our temporary courses they "Only the name is being People "will do things that
them out to be and that the department on the whole, has demand and deserve and to changed to reflect what they do 
excite them," he said. They

administration is acting with­not moved." provide graduate students with better," Affleck-Graves said. 
won't care what it's called." 

out sufficient communication Hence, Roche believes that the training they need to learn Dutt and Betson both believe 
Other reasons why Betson

with faculty. that split would help in improv­how to comprehend and con­that some questions need to be 
disagrees with the split

"I think in this case, one has ing the department and making tribute to the frontiers of the asked, but each focus on slight­includes the eventual shunningto be careful how changes are it more attractive in terms of discipline," he said. ly different areas. 
of people who are not neoclas­made. One must bring all peo­recruitment, so that thev can Jensen said that the provost "There are really two ques­sical into another department,

ple together and set goals that bring in faculty members who was in agreement with the · tions," Betson said. "Does our 
and the thought that one

make the department better can more fully realize their committee that the differences department need to improve? 
department will receive all

and gain recognition for the vision. between the faculty were irrec­The answer is clearly yes. Is 
resources while the other

department," Dutt said. "Although the Department of oncilable. this recommendation the right starves.
David Betson, who is consid­Economics at Notre Dame has "He also stated [at the way to go? Based on the letter 
For now, Jensen said that

ered an orthodox economist in a great vision ... Notre Dame December meeting] that he my colleagues wrote and the tenure would remain intact and the public sector, agrees that does not have a strong voice in thought this would be the best vote of the College Council, the that anyone wishing to couldthere needs to be more com­the profession," Roche said. way to recruit mainstream answer is clearly no for the apply to the new department.
munication and that rather Accessibility to graduate stu­scholars while allowing both simple reason it violates the As Jensen puts it, "The 'finalthan placing blame, members dents, according to Roche, is groups to prosper," Jensen spirit of academic freedom." 
say' rests with [University

of the department should take another benefit of the split. said. On the other side, Dutt 
President] Father [Edward]

the time to evaluate how they "The Graduate School has "The differences in main­looked at what the split would Malloy."
can move forward. made a determination in its stream and non-mainstream bring and whether it can be 
"The appropriate place to strategic plan that it does not research methodologies are so avoided altogether. Ile doesn't discuss the path we need to intend to foster programs that pronounced that recruiting see much of what the adminis­take is not in the public domain are in the bottom quartile of exceptional senior scholars has trators speak about as coming 
Contact Natasha Grant at 

but should he through a graduate programs nationally." been very problematic." from the split. 
grant.20@od.edu 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
ators. Bishop leaves for the Board of Trustees meeting in Naples, Fla., before Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
Katie Boyle, Cavanaugh Hall senator, made a motion to reconsider the failed resolution from Wednesday's meeting. This resolution was a letter addressed to the Board of Trustees asking for in-hall dances to be reinstated for a one-year period. The resolu­tion failed again in a 10-12 vote. 

The Senate introduced a res­olution to direct Bishop to stress to the Board of Trustees the reinstatement of all in-hall dances for a probationary peri­od next year and anything less would be inaccurate of student body and Senate opinion. The resolution states that because the Senate "shall formulate and advance the position of the student body on all issues con­cerning student life" its opin­ion regarding in-hall dances is legitimate and must be heard. 
Bishop said, "I will be strong, but I will judge how strong I 


SIGN YOUR HOU~ING CONTRACTS WITH 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS! 
OUAR.ENTEED OPENING~ FOR 

lBEDROOMS AND TH'S 
FOR 100J,l004 ACEDEMIC YEAR! P~CE~ fROM A~ LOW A~ m~ PER PERSON! CALL u~ NOW! m,ijll~ OR 
~~IT US AT!WW,Tt!TLECREEKND.COM 
will be. I urge you not to pass this resolution." 
The Student Union Constitution states the student body president must approve a resolution within a week after it is approved in order to be adopted. Some senators ques­tioned the purpose of passing the resolution because Bishop could opt not to sign it and Senate would not be able to take action to override her veto before the Board of Trustees meeting. Harris said passing the resolution would make a statement anq show Senate's opinion regarding the report. The Senate passed the resolution in a 17-9 vote. 
Bishop said after the meet­ing, "Just reflecting on the 
division in the Senate that became clear this week and last week, it becomes clear why I am recognizing a divi­sion in this report over opinion on in-hall dances." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
I
I 


(USA, 2001)
Ii 
~ 
I I
!Latino & Latin American Perspecthtes Film Series I I "Looking Out Looking In" ~ 
; I ~ 
I I 
ii Fehruary Theme: Poes1a Urhana/Urhan Poetry II 
I I
i I 
~ I 
; I i ~ Tuesday February 4, 2003 I ;; 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium ;
I ~ ;I ~ 

Institute for Latino Studies -Kellogg Institutes for ;
I 


International Studies I

I 
~(!I 


Tuesday, February 4, 2003 CoMPltED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 3 

DowJones 

8,109.82  +56.01  
1,323.79  NASDAQ1't  +2.88  
S&P500  

860.32 +4.62 



AMEX 
820.59 +0.10
~ 


NYSE 
4,884.79 +16.11 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.82 +0.11 13.48 





1119~:iffl:l~il1!:i;g~:;1!!l~!~l:::g:~li-I:12l:~1is 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) +3.24 +0.10 3.19 
lm,IIIlllf ·····••-•·,·:1:li!!:l!li!ili!lli!ll1illL 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +2.32 +l.10 48.56 
IN BRIEF 
January car sales fall 1.8 percent 
The automotive industry reported Monday that U.S. vehicle sales fell 1.8 percent in January from the same month a year ago, fol­lowing an incentive-led sales blitz that drew buyers into showrooms in the final days of 2002. 
The results came amid expectations that a hangover from December and a potential war with Iraq would lead to a sluggish start for 2003 sales. But analysts said the industry held up better than expected after low-financ­ing rates and other incentives boosted sales 15 percent in December. 
"You did have relatively good consumer spending in January." said David Healy, an analyst with Burnham Securities Inc. "I think the lower prices, higher incomes and ease of buying a car is helping." 
General Motors Corp. 's sales were off 2.5 percent compared with January 2002, while Chrysler Group sold nearly 12 percent fewer vehicles. But Ford Motor Co. bucked the trend. reporting an increase of 4.8 percent as its redesigned Lincoln line showed strength. 
Bush seeks record $841 mil. for SEC 
President Bush asked Congress on Monday for an $841 million budget for the Securities and Exchange Commission, marking the biggest jump in the agency's history as it investigates and prosecutes a heavy load of corporate fraud and accounting deception. 
The SEC, already strained in recent years by an exodus of attorneys and accountants to the private sector, has been unraveling the accounting failures at a variety of businesses including Enron, WorldCom, Xerox, Rite Aid and Adelphia Communications. The agency has taken enforcement actions against a num­ber of big companies, often in tandem with the Justice Department. 
In addition, the SEC has responded to last year's corporate scandals by stepping up its routine reviews of companies' annual reports and other periodic filings. 





Bush sets $2.23 trillion budget 
. Plan includes record deficits, deep tax cuts 
Assodated Press 
WA.;,HINGTON 
President Bush shipped lawmakers a $2.23 trillion budget for 2004 on Monday bearing record deficits and seeking deep new tax cuts, an ambitious expansion of Medicare and bolstering security at home and abroad at the expense of domestic programs. 
Though Republican majorities in Congress mean Bush's plans will get a better reception than last year's did when Democrats ran the Senate, some ele­m ents will clearly be reshaped, like his call for a fresh 10-year, $1. 3 trillion tax cut. Whatever happens, the proposal sets the stage for a partisan battle over fiscal priorities likely to rumble right into next year's White House and congressional elections. 
Democrats said the bud­get would deepen govern­ment debt just as it should be shoring up Social Security and Medicare for the approaching retire­ment of the 76 million­strong baby boom genera­tion. 
"Buried in President and our national security proposed cuts included The highest deficit on Bush's budget is a plan to interests are met." some Army Corps of record was $290 billion in dismantle Social Security One item sure to get spe­Engineers water projects, 1992, when Bush's father and Medicare," said Rep. cial attention on Capitol rural development, high was president. Charles Rangel of New Hill was Bush's proposal to technology aid to business, Less than two years after York, the House Ways and give NASA a modest 3 per­and state grants for fight­Bush projected $5.6 trillion Means Committee's top cent increase to $15.5 bil­ing drugs in schools and in surpluses for the next Democrat. "By demanding lion in the fiscal year that for clean water. decade, on Monday he esti­large tax cuts again even begins Oct. 1. While Bush predicted last mated $1.08 trillion in though there are no longer The budget, completed year that the government cumulative deficits for the surpluses, the administra­before Saturday's space would dip its toe into coming five years alone. tion will starve the govern­shuttle Columbia disaster, deficits for just three years, The budget mostly project­ment of funds." included $3. 97 billion for Monday's spending plan ed five years ahead instead 
The president said his the shuttle. The adminis­acknowledged hefty short­of the 10 years customary plan focused on the most tration said that was 4.7 falls as far as the eye can recently, with administra­important challenges fac­percent more than it see -a projection both tion officials saying longer ing the nation. expected Congress to parties fought to turn to forecasts are guesswork. 
"A recession and a war approve for 2003 when their advantage. Democrats said Bush was we did not choose have led lawmakers finish this Bush projected deficits of avoiding showing the full, to the return of deficits," year's overdue spending $304 billion this year and bleak picture. Bush said in a message bills. $307 billion in 2004, eas­"You'd think in the face accompanying the five-vol­The Justice and Labor ing to $190 billion in 2008, of a reversal like that, ume, 13.5-pound blueprint. departments were the only the final year shown. Not they'd offer a process or "My administration firmly Cabinet-level agencies factored in was a possible plan to right the budget. believes in controlling the whose overall budgets war with Iraq likely to cost There is none," com­deficit and reducing it as would decline. But to con­at least tens of billions of plained Rep. John Spratt of the economy strengthens tain burgeoning red ink, dollars. South Carolina. 


American Airlines near bankruptcy 
months, particularly from employ­For the moment, the company's

Associated Press 
ees, to avoid Chapter 11. saving grace is the $2 billion in 
NEW YORK The situation has put employees unrestricted cash it has on hand. 

American Airlines is burning and shareholders under intense But even chief executive Don Carty through $5 million a day with little pressure, while fliers have had to has repeatedly said that American, relief in sight, making industry adjust to more limited flight offer­which lost a record $3.5 billion in experts nervous that the world's ings from the Fort Worth, Texas­2002, is operating at a level that is largest carrier is increasingly at risk based carrier. "unsustainable." 
of following United Airlines and US Analysts anticipate sharp conflicts "The key thing is their employees," Airways into bankruptcy court. between labor and management, said Ray Neid!, an airline analyst at 
The financial problem at American and the uncertainty has pushed the Blaylock & Partners in New York, is fairly simple to understand: the stock price of American's parent summing up the popular wisdom on money it takes in from passengers is company, AMR Corp., below $3 a Wall Street. down sharply, but the company has share -a level that implies a bank­Without combined savings of about not cut expenses fast enough to keep ruptcy filing is a real possibility. A $2 billion. or 25 percent a year, up. What is difficult to gauge is company's stock typically becomes from its various labor groups, AMH whether executives at American can worthless during the bankruptcy "could be in bankruptcy by next wring enough costs in the coming process. winter, or even sooner," Neid! said. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom, Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McK.enna SAJNT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB AoMINISTRATOll: Scon Brodfuehrer CoNTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENER.AL lNFO..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .............................. , ...... 63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR !NCHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS Orncr........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.............................................. ...631-5 303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS....................................... .................631-4543 observer .spores. J@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer. scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observl'T.nd.edu foe daily updatc,s ofcampus news, sport5, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre D.une du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisuacion ofeither institution. The Obseiver reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edicorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe au than and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lettm ro the Edi cor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qurrtions regarding Observerpoficia shuuld be direct­ed mEditor in Cb~fJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Titc Ol»c-rvcr (USPS 599 240} 41 publi.hcd Monday Ulrough Friday except during a.am and ,~nperiod,. A•uhscripcion ID Thie Obscn·ais $100 far one academic year, S55 fur one ~ester. 
The Qb5e,va ~ publish£-d at: POSTMASTER 

024 .louch Dining Hill Send ac:ldrm oon«rion, to: 
Noc« Dam(\ IN 46SS6 Th,oi.-, 

f.O.RoxQ rcrtudk..il poitage ~d "Notte D.amc Nou-t DatlK', lN 46556-0n9 and ~irio11;l) muling o~. 
The ObMCJ\"cf' Ii;;. nmnh.:r of the Astocla~J Prcu, All reproduction righa arc 
...,,..,d. 


Has the case for war been made? 
A'i you will have noticed, Saddam Hussein, the murderous dictator of Iraq, is defying the United Nations by refusing to demonstrate that he has complied with a resolution passed by the U.N. Security Council in 1991, following Iraq's defeat in the Gulf War. The resolution demanded full disclosure of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction and full disarmament by Iraq. Seven years of inspections ended in 1998 amid complaints by 
U.N. weapons inspectors that Iraq was not complying. 
In November 2002, the U.N. Security unanimously passed Resolution No. 1441. which offered Saddam a "last chance" to disarm voluntarily. A false disclosure, coupled with "failure by Iraq at any time to comply and cooperate fully," the resolution warned, would be considered a material breach that should trigger consideration by the council of "serious consequences." 
The serious consequences seem to be upon us, whether or not the Security Council endorses them, in the form of a pre­emptive military strike against Iraq by the U.S. and its allies. 
Several complex moral, political and legal ques­
tions arise -questions that evoke and challenge the principles of Catholic teaching on war and peace. Is war the best, or only, way to disarm Iraq? Would an attack upon Iraq provoke Saddam to use whatever weapons of mass destruction are at his disposal? What would be the regional and international consequences of a U.S.-led war in the region? On the brink of war, what are the respon­sibilities of an informed citizenry, the media, a 
Catholic university? 

To address these and related issues, faculty and students have been participating in a forum entitled "Peace and War 2003: Debating the Issues." This two-part essay reports on the major themes that arose in the first two sessions. 
The choice of peace or war, being a life and death decision, has led historically to the development of legal and moral tradi­tions which impose severe restrictions on killing and warfare. The burden of proof has typically fallen on those who wish to wage war, not on those who preserve the peace. 
Sketching critical moments in the history of international law, with reference to the thought of Francisco de Vitoria, Hugo Grotius, and Immanuel Kant, political philosopher Fred Dallmayr argued that war can be waged only in self-defense, in defense of allies or in retribution for inflicted wrongs. As the late philosopher John Rawls believed, "Free and democratic peoples ... have no right to instigate war for reasons other than self-defense." Accordingly, Article 51 ofthe U.N. Charter grants to member states the right of self-defense only in the case of a direct attack. 
Yet self-defense and defense of allies does not cover every possible just cause for war in our age of potentially genocidal ethnic, religious and civil conflicts. The world community ­Europe and the United States in particular -failed to inter­vene to stop mass murder and genocide in Rwanda in 1994, when 800,000 Hutus and Tutsis were slaughtered. The moral hand-wringing over the lack of intervention continues, appro­priately, to this day. 
Political scientist Keir Lieber finds the legal case for war per­suasive. As Hans Blix, the head of the U.N. inspection team, reported on Jan. 27, "Iraq appears not to have come to a gen­uine acceptance, not even today, of the disarmament which was demanded of it." Saddam has failed to cooperate in numer­ous ways, not least by blocking U2 surveillance flights and pro­hibiting or restricting interviews with Iraqi scientists. 
To understand the inspections as a hunt for a "smoking gun," for direct and irrefutable evidence of a program to build and deploy weapons of mass destruction, Lieber argued, is to con­cede the interpretation of the U .N. resolution to Saddam. That resolution is clear: Inspectors are in Iraq to review and confirm Iraq's disarmament. They are not there to prove Saddam's case; Saddam must provide proof of it. 
The liberation of Iraq from a brutal dictator is itseU' a moral imperative. "We cynically dismiss such language as having ulte­rior motives of power or empire or oil," Lieber said, "but humanitarian intervention of this kind, against a dictator who has repeatedly 'shocked moral conscience' is not in violation of the spirit of Just War theory." 
International law is not always morally binding, but there is a strong prima facie moral obligation to respect positive law, Professor Vittorio Hosle argued, lest in violating it, even for morally acceptable reasons, we set a dangerous precedent. The overwhelming majority of international jurists hold that the charter of the United Nations, while not regarded by all states as a "constitution of the world," is legally binding on all states 
that have joined the U.N. 
What we have in international law, however, is 
not a law of and for the people, but a law of and for 
states. It does not protect people from their own 
states. 

In the case of Iraq, however, by 1991 there were 
binding limitations on Iraqi sovereignty because 
Iraq had waged two wars, including one against 
Iran tp.at featured Iraqi use of chemical weapons ­and various kinds of support from the United States. 
Hosle, citing a document issued by the White House in September 2002 (and easily available on the web), nonetheless expressed reservations about the administration's justifications for war with Iraq. That policy document, "The National Security Strategy of the United States ofAmerica," reserves to the United States the "right" to launch a pre-emp­tive strike. 
This policy runs directly counter to international law as it has developed in the twentieth century. The Kellogg-Briand Peace Pact of 1927 challenges the legitimacy of pre-emptive war, and the U.N. Charter fails to recognize it. (Indeed, toward the end of the eighteenth century Kant asserted that a pre-emptive war could be justified only against a nation that is too powerful for the others-making pre-emptive war a dangerous principle, per­haps, for the United States to advocate.) 
Nonetheless, the U.S. National Security Strategy document contends that "our [U.S.] forces will be strong enough to dis­suade potential adversaries from pursuing a military build-up in hopes ofsurpassing, or even equalling, the power of the United States." • 
Does this mean, Professor Hosle asked, that if another coun­try, such as China, tries to build up a military power commen­surate to their growing economic power and comparable to the military power of the United States, that the United States has a right to declare a pre-emptive war against China? This inter­pretation of current U.S. policy alarms many people around the world, he observed, and accounts in part for a rising anti­Americanism. 
Scott Appleby is a professor ofhistory and director ofthe Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. His column is the first in the series "Viewpoint: Iraq," which will examine the pos­sible U.S. conflict with Iraq from a variety ofperspectives. To comment on this or any column in the series, write to view­point. I@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sarah Nestor Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger Viewpoint Dolores Diaz Graphics Andy Devoto 

Sports 
Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Charee Holloway 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 


NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you agree with Saint Mary's decision to fund a student trip to a pro-choice conference in Washington, D.C.? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"War is not a life: it is a situation, One which may neither be ignored nor accepted. " 
T.S. Elliot poet, critic 

O
THE 
BSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 page 9 
Title IX's benefits outweigh its costs 
The smell of freshly cut grass evokes memories of the years I spent on a soccer field. For thirteen years I was obsessed. If asked to name a role model, I would reply. "Mia Hamm" or "Julie Foudy," both members of the 
Joanna

United States' 
Mikulski

women's national soccer team. 
During some fall seasons, I played on Tuesday Voice three teams. Weekends were lilied with tourna­ments. Weekdays ended with practice. 
Although today I kick around a soccer ball only occasionally, my participation in the sport played a pivotal role in shaping Lhe person I am today. 
I am not alone. At this University, many female students were molded by their participation in athletics. They are confi­dent, disciplined team workers -proof of the benefits of pushing teenage girls into sports. 
The women of this University have Title IX to thank for their athletic opportuni­ties. Women's participation in sports has skyrocketed since President Nixon signed the legislation into law over thirty years ago. 
In the National Collegiate Athletic The 13 members who attended the 

most recent meeting asserted that cuts to 
men's teams should be the last resort in 
attempts to comply with Title IX, and 
rightly so. No one wantc, to tell a male 
athlete that his dream of pursuing a par­
ticular sport in college is no longer possi­
ble. 

Schools need to look to alternatives to 
cutting whole programs, such as reducing 
program size -particularly men's foot· 
ball programs. 
Yet, even with the loss of certain sports, opportunities for men to participate in athletics abound. Furthermore, could it perhaps be men's lack of interest in these sports that truly led to their demise? 
In the end, the benefits of Title IX far outweigh the legislation's negative conse­quences. It's not perfect policy, but the women at this University arc walking (and running and kicking) proof of its importance. 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German Major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at jmikulsk@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending SMC trip to NOW Conference 
Conference addressed leadership on a controversial issue 
As the faculty member who accompanied the students to the NOW Student Conference in Washington, D.C., I want to clarify a few points. 
These students were courageous enough to become informed on an issue -abortion -that is divisive and controversial not only in the Catholic church, but in society. They were well organized, they used their time wise­ly and they were very serious about learning. They did not travel first class as needlessly insinuated. Their meals were not paid for. They had no recre­ational time. They did homework to keep from getting behind in their class­es on the airplane. 
At the conference, they learned that supporting Roe vs. Wade is a difficult matter no matter what your position on abortion. They learned that "abor­tion as a choice" is really only an issue for the economically privileged, not for the poor or informationally marginalized. They listened to presentations about issues in maternal health all over the world and to leaders describing health concerns for racially and economically marginalized women in this country. Senators talked about how to be politically active. Women leaders from older generations passed on techniques and experience in developing leadership skills and expressed their pride in the emergence of a new gen­eration willing to be activists. Most of all, students listened to each other. What do they want to take on in the field of human rights? What is impor­tant? Those are questions that each of you should be addressing. 
None of us want either maternal or infant death. I do not choose abortion as my central political issue; as a specialist in maternal health, there are many other issues that demand my attention and my priorities. But I could feel the pain of each one of us in the taxi that returned us to the airport ­five women listening to one man scolding us. He claimed that he would rather sec his [potential] wife die than permit her to have an abortion in a pregnancy where her life was at stake. 1told him I hoped the issue would remain theoretical for him for the rest of his life. 
As a CWIL fellow. dedicated to students who seek knowledge, empower­ment and skills in leadership. I accompanied these students to make their journey possible. I can only hope that more students {and adults, for that matter) would move out of abstract and theoretical principles and into pas­sion about pain and life choices that become real to them and the people they love. 
We have a war confronting us. It is no time to rest on moral platitudes or waste time arguing about issues theoretical to our lives. Being informed, and being a leader in bringing about change are urgent and compelling skills for all of us. 
Dr. Marcia Good Maust 
Saine Mary's Cencer for Women's lnterculcural Leadership 
Feb. 3 
Saint Mary's fosters understanding, not judgment 
Eric Glass's Jan. 31 letter targeted four girls who attended a pro-choice rally in Washington. D.C. Although l believe that it is immoral to abort a fetus after the moment of conception, I think it is impor­tant for me to be accepting of everyone else's views. God gave us all free will, and I support that freedom. 
Furthermore, one cannot assume that those who are pro-choice encourage or accept the act of abortion. Being pro­choice can also mean being pro-freedom. It is sort of like America's drinking age. Underage college students are going to drink despite the fact that there is a law against it. 
I believe that abortions are going to hap­pen no matter if there is a law or not. I believe that educating others is the answer, not writing letters showing little sensitivity to others and their views. Also. Glass later explained that because four girls at Saint Mary's College are pro­choice, one can see why Saint Mary's girls are thus viewed as "immoral and igno­rant." 
Not only did he use a generalization and a stereotype that was completely unneces­sary, but he also used a judgment. Is that not an immoral act in itselr? And is it not immoral to target the person, rather than the action? I agree that the act of abortion should be frowned upon, but let that be up to God Himself. 
Maybe Saint Mary's did go a little bit overboard in supporting this anti-Catholic issue. Meanwhile, is it not a healthy thing to have a little bit of controversy and con­flicting views over the political aspect of this serious moral issue? I give our girls credit for standing up for something they believe in. I would rather see four girls voice their say in something they feel strongly about than witness a whole dorm full of men without backbones put loads of effort and money into a show that fosters the humor in making fun of minorities and saints. 
Despite the school's support on this issue, l support Saint Mary's College wholeheartedly. Never once in my days here have I questioned the mission and values of this institution. Our school is, indeed, founded on Catholicism and I believe that Saint Mary's students carry out Catholicism's greatest mission: to love. Looking around me, I see each girl accept­ed and treated as special and unique. Everyone smiles and says "Hi" on the way to class. There exists a wonderful cama­raderie of girls here, excited to make a difference in the world. There is a true sincerity and beauty that I see everyday. Beauty, that is, on the inside. 
However, although our school has its roots in Catholicism. we are also a school of higher education that fosters learning and the stimulation of the mind. As a lib­eral arts college, we are bound to get "lib­eral" opinions that do not coincide with the Pope's. I think that it is a good thing that Saint Mary's isn't all wrapped up in trying to make everyone think like a Catholic. 
We need differing views to strengthen us. to enrich us. and to help us understand and accept one another. Saint Mary's College is anything but narrow-minded. By fostering open-minded thinking. and supporting the acceptance of different views. we as a body are able to learn and grow in unity and love with all of our brothers and sisters. 
Jacqueline Cuisinier sophomore Le Mans Hall Fcb.3 

THE 
OBSERVER 

page 10 Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 



Folk Implosion's music implodes 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 

Although Folk Implosion has not released an album since1999's One Part Lullaby, it is a bit pretentious of the band to name its latest album The New Folk Implosion. Granted, some major changes have occurred since the band's previous release, but naming the album The New Folk Implosion implies that those changes were positive, suggesting a new and improved sound. 
However, the newness of Folk Implosion was definitely not by choice, and from the sound of things, the changes that made the band "new" also 
new drummer
The New Folk Implosion 
and gui­

tarist. 
Davis's
The Folk 

departure as well as a

Implosion 

severe case 
of writer's 
block great­
iMusic Records 

ly delayed its release. 

"Our col­laboration was basical­ly the basis made the recording of this album a very long and arduous process, a process that, overall, was not even that success­ful. When listening to The New Folk Implosion, it is important to realize that this is not really Folk Implosion, it is the one remaining member of the origi­nal Folk Implosion with two new mem­bers. 
.In the early 1990s, a musician named John Davis sent Lou Barlow of the indie-rock band Sebadoh a tape of his music that spawned correspondence between the two that eventually led to the creation of Folk Implosion. In 2000, Davis quit the band, in theory ending its existence. But despite this major set­back, Barlow began working on anoth­
er album 
with a 
for Folk Implosion," Barlow told VH1. "Now that the record is in such a weird state, I sometimes think, 'Why the hell did I even try to do this?"' 
So now that the album is finally out, the question remains, was it worth all the trouble? 
It sure doesn't seem like it. 
When listening to The New Folk Implosion. the importance of the collabora­tion between Barlow and Davis becomes evident. Without Davis, Folk Implosion sounds common­place, dull and mundane. By stripping away the samples, a prominent feature of previous Folk Implosion albums, the tracks no longer contain the other­worldly and upbeat quality. The tracks no longer shimmer. Instead, they come across as dark and whiny. 
But there is no need to get too disillu­sioned. It's not as though Barlow sucks without Davis. He is still a very talented songwriter. But by releasing this album under the band name Folk Implosi9n, Barlow has obviously set himself up for comparison with the other Folk Implosion albums. And the fact of the matter is, the sound of The New Folk Implosion has very little in common with the older material. 

Perhaps if the album had been released under a new band name, as Barlow has been apt to do in the past, the expectations might be different, leading listeners to concentrate on the album's merits rather than its short­comings. As it is, it is impossible to sep­arate the idea of The New Folk Implosion from the original version, leading fans of Folk Implosion to wish that the new sounded more like the old. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumbrink. l@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 



Z-wan gives a m.assive debut 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 

Only three years after the Smashing Pumpkins said farewell and good­night, former front man Billy Corgan's newest project Zwan was born. 
After the release of the Pumpkin's commercially unsuccessful final album, Machina: the Machines of God, the Chicago quartet called it quits in 2000. Shortly afterward. Corgan, along with Pumpkins drummer Jimmy Chamberlin began to collaborate with fellow Chicago rocker David Pajo, who formerly played guitar in both Slint and Tortoise. They soon added gui­tarist Matt Sweeny, from Chavez, and Paz Lenchantin, from A Perfect Circle, to form Zwan. Their first release, 

of the Sea's first single.
Marv Star of the Sea 
''Honestly," t a k e s advantage of the trio of guitars, featuring heavily lay­ered gui­tars and a perfectly Corgan gui­tar riff. But what makes this song so Mary Star of the Sea, contains the sig­nature Pumpkin's sound of heavy-lay­ered guitars, but Corgan brings back some of the more thoughtful songwrit­ing that he began to explore on Adore and Mellon Collie & the Infinite Sadness. 
While Mary Star of the Sea sounds very similar to the Smashing Pumpkins, don't expect hard rock anthems like the Pumpkin's "Bullet with Butterfly Wings," or "Cherub Rock." Zwan's sound is very mellow. despite their three guitars. Also, don't mistake mellow for slow, depressing music. Zwan still rocks hard, but it's not as overwhelming as the Smashing Pumpkin's sound was at times. Zwan's songs are very radio friendly and pop­oriented. The entire album is sprin­kled with catchy guitar riffs and lyri­
cal hooks. 
Mary Star wonderful isn't the guitars; it's the lyrics. Lenchantin adds some needed back-up vocals that relieve the listen­er from Corgan's sometimes-annoying voice. 
"Honestly" is just one of the many gems on Mary Star of the Sea. The album's first track, "Lyric," is carried by Pajo's lightly picked guitar and Chamberlin's driving drums. "Of a Broken Heart" is another standout track that is mostly acoustic. This soft ballad adds another aspect to a pri­marily electric album. The best track on the album is "Yeah." The song begins with a restrained electric gui­tar. Corgan and Lenehantin's voices then enter, and it soon explodes into a rocking anthem with an amazing guitar riff floating throughout the entire song. 
The lyrics of Zwan differ very great­ly from the Smashing Pumpkin's lyrics. Corgan has matured signifi­cantly as a songwriter, and it shows on Zwan's first album. There is a pri­marily religious feel to all the songs. The album begins with the lyrics, "Here comes my faith," setting the stage for the brilliant music that fol­lows. One song, "Jesus, I," even draws heavily on a hymn. 
Overall, this is a fantastic album. Any hardcore Smashing Pumpkins fan should pick this up to hear the ever­evolving musical genius of Corgan. Any music fan should get a hold of this album, too, because of its pure pop-rock beauty. Judging by the 

Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com 
Billy Corgan's new band Zwan gives 
a taste of layered guitars and expert 
songwriting. 
sound of Mary Star of the Sea, Zwan will be around for a long time, and they may even surpass their predeces­sor, the Smashing Pumpkins. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Tuesday, February 4, 2003 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Indigo Girls serenade the Bend 
By KATE WILLIAMS 
Scene Mu.~ic Critic 
Promoting their new album, Become You, The Indigo Girls appeared Sunday night in downtown South Bend. The Morris Civic Auditorium was the second stop on their tour of the Midwest. 
Indigo Girl Amy Hay finished a tour with The Butchies in mid-January, and joined Emily Saliers to promote their new release in an acoustic tour. Their set featured 20 songs, including some from their new album as well as many past hits. 
Atlanta natives Ray and Salicrs grew up together, attending the same ele­mentary school. Both graduated from Emory University. They released their debut album, the independ­tour. Richey released Rise, her new albu-m with Universal in October. Featuring an Aimee Mann-esque style, Richey per­formed a variety of songs, rang­ing from upbeat folk to sultry jazz. More information on Kim Richey can be found at www.kimrichey.com 
The Indigo Girls took the stage around 9 p.m .. beginning their set with "Become You," the title track from their new album. The Girls alternated between crowd favorites and new material, moving from familiar upbeat songs to more somber selec­tions. They switched from gui­tars to mandolin and banjo for "Get Out the Map," a hit from their 1997 album, Shaming of the Sun. They contin­ued with the first sin­

ently produced "Not many musicians in gle, "Moment of Strange Fire in the USA are politically or Forgiveness" from 
1987. In 1989, their new album.
socially active, but it is 
they joined One of the brighter with Epic just part ofwho we are. " moments of the con­
records and 
released their 
Emily Sallers 
first studio album, The musician Indigo Girls. 
Since then, they have released a number of recordings through the Epic label. The duo first enjoyed widespread fame with their platinum-selling album, Hites of Passage, in 1992. 
Their most recent release, Become You, is their eighth album to date. The Indigo Girls blend feisty guitar parts with beautiful harmonies and evoca­tive lyrics. Ray provides a low, rich sound, while Saliers brings a lighter, softer element to their performance. 
The concert began with a mellow performance from the opening act, Kim Richey, an artist who will perform a total of six times on this Indigo Girls cert came with the performance of "Closer to Fine," from 199 5 's Curfews. Known for their laid­back and intimate 
stage presence, The Girls encouraged audience participa­tion, turning the chor.us over to the crowd. Throughout the con­cert, the Girls took requests from the audience. 
Though Saliers declined a request for their song "Power of Two," telling the crowd that a cold she was fighting would pre­vent her from singing her part, Ray suggested that they try an "experiment" and let the crowd sing the song instead. The Girls turned the microphones around, and provided back-up for the audience. 

Their encore performance of "Galileo," 
one of their most popular songs, from Rites of Passage, brought nearly all the auditorium to its feet, singing along and danc­ing. Well known for their activism in political issues ranging from gay and lesbian issues to environ­mental issues to gun control, the Girls often use their live per• formances to publicize their causes. This per­formance was no exception, as The Indigo Girls took opportunities to speak out against a war in Iraq and performed songs about accept­ance. In the lobby after the show, flyers for peace rallies were passed out and anti-war bumper 
stickers were sold. On their web site, www.indigogirls.com, The Indigo Girls offer twenty reasons to not to invade Iraq and encourage participation in anti-war activities. "Not many musi­cians in the USA are politically or socially active, but it is just part of who we are. Our music and activist work are married," Saliers says in an interview with musicOMH.com. 
Toward the end of the performance, the Girls announced that they would begin recording their final album with Epic Records in June, with a release date set potentially for September. Though they did not announce what their future plans will be, there is speculation that they may join Ani DiFranco's label. Righteous Babe Records, or perhaps record on Hay's label, Daemon Records. 
Despite illness, moderate technical difficulties and the lovely winter weather that South Bend had to offer, the Indigo girls gave an impressive performance. blending rock and folk into a gratifying combination. As always, the Girls showed why they have enjoyed unusual success through eight albums. crossing genres and pro­ducing unique music during a career that has spanned 14 years. 
Contact Kate Williams at kwilliams@nd.edu 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Nets hold off Supersonics 109-108 in overtime 
. Martin, Kidd lead New Jersey to home victory 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Kenyon Martin scored a career-high 35 points and Jason Kidd hit a 3-pointer

.... 
with 1:31 left in overtime to lead the New Jersey Nets to a 109-108 win over the Seattle Supersonics on Monday night. 
Desmond Mason scored a season-high 30 points but missed a 3-point attempt at the buzzer in a disheartening loss for Seattle, which rallied from a 17-point deficit in the second half. 
Martin added 12 rebounds and a last-second block of Rashard Lewis' shot at the end of regulation. Kidd fin­ished with 20 points and 12 rebounds, winning his point­guard matchup with Gary Payton, who had 12 points and seven assists. 
Lewis added 25 points and eight rebounds for Seattle. 
Kidd gave the Nets a 109­106 lead with his 3-pointer with 1:31 to go, and then the game got a little spotty. 
After a turnover by Seattle, Martin had a shot blocked underneath. 
Former Nets guard Kenny Anderson got Seattle within a point with a driving layup with 30.4 seconds to play. 
Kidd missed a long 3-point­er with 10.2 seconds to go, and then things got interest­ing. 
Coming out of a timeout, Lewis appeared to have a layup off an inbounds play, but Lucious Harris provided weakside help and batted the ball out of bounds with 4.7 seconds to go. 
On the ensuing inbounds play, Richard Jefferson gave a foul just before Payton hit what would have been a go­ahead baseline jumper with 
3.4 seconds left. 
Seattle set up a third time and Mason got an open look, but his shot bounced off the rim, only his 12th miss in 25 attempts. 
Seattle beat New Jersey earlier this season on a 3­pointer by Brent Barry in the final seconds. 

Mason scored 10 of the Supersonics· final 12 points in regulation, including a 3­pointer with 55 seconds to go that tied it at 100. 
Neither team scored the rest of the fourth quarter, but Seattle had a couple of chances after Nets turnovers. 
Payton missed a jumper with about 20 seconds to go, and Martin blocked Lewis' shot near the foul line. 
After trailing by as many as 17 points early in the third quarter, Seattle got back in the game with a 15-3 spurt that spanned the end of the third and the start of the fourth. 
Heat 99, Hawks 79 
Eddie Jones scored 26 points. including 5-of-8 shooting from 3-point range, as the Miami Heat beat Atlanta to end the Hawks' three-game winning streak. 
Reserve forward LaPhonso Ellis added 15 points and Mike James had 13 as the Heat bench outscored Atlanta's reserves 39-15. Brian Grant got his 19th dou­ble-double of the season with 11 points and 14 rebounds. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim had 19 points and 10 rebounds, but poor shooting by his teammates left the Hawks short of scoring. Jason Terry was 5-of-13 for 13 points, and Glenn Robinson shot 5­for-18 from the floor for 12 points. 
The Heat went on a 17-0 run in the first half, their best of the year. They added a 10-0 spurt in the third quarter, and an 11-0 surge in the fourth. 
Miami scored 24 points off 20 Atlanta turnovers. 
The Heat led by only one point at halftime, then outscored the Hawks 30-15 in the third quarter. It was Miami's first double-digit win since the last time these teams played, a 107-73 Heat victory on Jan. 1 in Atlanta. 
It was the last game before a weeklong layoff for the Hawks, with the All-Star game in Atlanta on Sunday. 
The Boston Celtics could not handle Jamal Mashburn. Now they will have to handle a season-high losing streak. 
Mashburn collected 30 
points, eight assists and six 
rebounds as the New Orleans Hornets dealt the Celtics a season-worst fourth straight defeat, 103-96. 

David Wesley added 18 points and P.J. Brown 12 and 12 rebounds as the Hornets, who had lost four of five, avoided falling below .500 for the first time this season. 
The Hornets went on a 28-7 run bridging the first and second quarters and took their biggest lead, 43-27, on a pair of free throws by Jerome Moisa with 7:27 left in the half. 
The Celtics got within 69-68 on a 3-pointer by Paul Pierce with 3 :09 left in the third quarter but New Orleans scored the final five points of the period and Boston got no closer than three points over the final 12 minutes. 
Pierce scored 27 points and Antoine Walker and rookie 
J.R. Bremer 20 points apiece for the Celtics, who had not lost four in a row since February 21-March 1. 
Boston had won the first two meetings between the teams this season, including a 93-83 triumph here on January 8. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Oak Hill Condo for Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574­243-2621 
Acapulco s #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance" Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low priceI Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800­875-4525. www breaknow.com 
New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, au appli­ances, fire place Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. 

Rooms For Rent $250 month includes utilities 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
Walk to school. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreis­land.com 
Dallas bound? Will pay for transport of baby bassinette NO alum 2145590868 ciclb@aol.com 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Gray wool scart in or around South Dining Hall. Please call 634­2757 if found. 
FOR SALE 
JUOAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY 272-6306 
Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Good seats on main floor. $45 each. Please call 271­9539. 
Brand New Everything. 2-story rental house with porch and yard just blocks from campus. Off-street parking. 3,4 or 5 students. Summer or fall availability. 235-3655. 
1990 Honda Civic, Super depend-I'll hang around as long as you will able and very clean. California car. let me. Paul ph. 256-2998 PERSONAL 
You never even call me by my name... Chemistry Tutoring. Call 360-1983FOR RENT You know what would be really nice 
SOCCER Officials Wanted Apply w/ right now? BK... RecSports by Feb. 4th Clinic: Feb. 5 @ 7pm RSRC More info: My 10:40 leaves me exhausted... Hadams@nd.edu 
My friend stepped on a worm and I Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it was like, "LAY DOWN!" alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis-Lawrence, when you walk into work 
lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise on a Monday and you're not not 
Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more feeling so geat does anyone ever 3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC information, see our bi-weekly ad in say to you "sounds like someone's SYS. WASHER/D 272-6306 The Observer. got a case of the Mondays?" 
22 days until our EiC can return to I'm counting and I'm only seeing 15 
the State in style. pieces of flair... Four bedroom house tor rent: CALL Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896 Hey, Rob. I'm done. ;) Waitress I need 2 more boat drinks. 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
BOYS HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 


LeBron James apologizes for accepting gifts 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

LcBron James has yet to appeal his banishment from playing high school basketball, keeping the 18-year-old super­star off the court. 
James had been expected to appeal the decision Monday, but OHSAA spokesman Bob Coldring said the organization did not hear from him or his lawyer by late afternoon. 
"Everything is status quo," Goldring said. "We have not heard anything about an appeal or any legal action." 
James' attorney. Fred Nance, did not return phone mes­sages. 
James, regarded as the nation's top player and the next No. 1 NBA draft pick, was ruled ineligible on Friday by the Ohio High School Athletic Association for accepting two free sports jerseys worth a combined $845 from a clothing store. 
As of late Monday afternoon, Nance had not filed for a tem­porary restraining order with Summit County Common Pleas Court, which would block the order so James could continue playing. 
If James plans to appeal the decision by the OHSAA, he must do so to the agency in writing. The appeal would be heard by a state panel on Feb. 13 in Columbus. 
James sat out the first game of his career Sunday, and his Akron St. Vincent-St. Mary teammates barely won without him, beating Canton McKinley 63-62. 
J\fterward, University of Akron police and James' own security personnel kept reporters away from him. He agreed to an exclusive inter­view with former NFL star Dcion Sanders for CBS News' "The Early Show.'' 
In the interview, scheduled to air Tuesday morning, James expresses remorse for accept­ing the trendy retro jerseys. 
"lf l had known I was violat­ing anything, I would've never done it," James told Sanders. "I would've never jeopardized my eligibility. I would've never jeopardized my team." 
"When I went in (the store), you know, I was just going in there as being, you know, another player, and they was trying to reward me for my good grades," added James, who has said he has a 3.5 grade-point average. 
"Yes, I'm sorry," James also said in the interview. "There's nothing I'm more sorry about, you know, than disrespecting my teammates. I love them to death. I'm so proud of them, you know, to be able to stick it out for me." 
The OHSAA found that the Cleveland store gave James the Gale Sayers and Wes Unseld jerseys for free, in exchange for James posing for pictures to be displayed on the walls. 
In addition to ruling James ineligible, OHSAA commission­er Clair Muscaro ordered his school to forfeit its Jan. 26 win over Akron Buchtel. 
The Fighting Irish (14-1) entered Monday ranked No. 1 by USA Today but could drop in Tuesday's rankings because of the forfeit and James' ineli-gibility. 25 high school teams national­only appeal his punishment 

James' team is scheduled to ly. but win. play Saturday night at the Isles Martin Johnson, president of ''I'm optimistic about the Prime Time Shootout in the Isles, Inc., a nonprofit com­chances of LeBron playing Trenton, N.J., a charity tour­munity development group. here this weekend," Johnson nament featuring 11 of the top said he expects James to not said. 
CMCUt-1 . ACAPUl.CO . JAMAICA 'BAflAfMi . Fl(!),il'OA 
Sill TRIPS, 
EARNWH, 
GO FREE! 

Dr. Mario Livia "The Golden Ratio" 
Head of New Institute Science Division at Space Telescope Science Institute 
Popular Lecture on February 5th 
7:00 prn 

at Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Ref'reshments Provided 
Book Signing Available Before and After Lecture 


"...cefe6rating the yower efthewritten word... 11 
ll,1~ COYIJ 's1 Nil 

Wednesday, February 05 •155 DeBartolo Hall, 7:30 pm Aulhor of HardbaK, reception in lhe Coleman-Morse lounge lealuring music of sludenl acappella group B~ Yeflow Taxi 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF 167ND 

lhur1day, February 06 -Lafortune Ballroom 7:30 pm Aulhor of loyal SO/ls and Dal/f}hlers of Nolte Dame: AMemoir ofNot,e Dame, co-sponsorro by Cavanaugh Cof1eehouse, featuring lhe music of fema~ acappella group Harmonia, book signing, and rekl!shmenls 
NIKl<.1 <,IOVANNI 

Saturday, February 08 • Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza COBA, 7:30 pm Poel of OUdting fhe Black-Eyed Pea and Love Poems, inb'oduclory remarks by ND head foolbah coach Ty Willingham Co-sponsored by lhe Hammes Notre Dame Bookslore. lhe College of Ms &Lellers, Gender Sludies Program, Departmen1 of English, lhe Creal~e Wriling Program, and lhe Departmenl of African and African-American Sludies 
STUDENT SLAM Sunday, February 09 -Washington Hall, 7:30 pm Fealuring sludenl slam peels and spoken-word art1sls in amull-media slyle. followed by an open,mic: session 
JOE GARDEN 

Monday, February 10 • Washington Hall, 7:30 pm Ore or IOUOOfl<J ~Ihers of The Olrion, inlrOduclory remarks by ND professor of art Robert Sedlack reception to fonow in lhe basement of Zahm Han 
KtumcOYnE 

Tuesday, February 11 • Washington Hall 7:30 pm Alllhorol Domer,, reception in laForlune Bal~oom featuring the music of male acapPela group The Undenooes 
JOH/,/ BUFFALO t-'AJL£R 

Wednesday, February 12 -Washington Haff 7:30 pm Pla)Wlir'1acior ol "Hello, Hemian', reception in lhe Lafortune Ballroom to follow 
ND UNPLUGGED II 

lbursday, February 13 • Laforlune Huddle, 9:00 p.m. -1:00 a,m. Sludenls and facully of lhe Universily of No~e Dame, Holy Cross Col~ge and Saini Mary's College showcase ther work as singer-S0119wnters, poels, ficl~n and non-fiction wnters, spoken-word artists. essa~sls, and ~sual artists 


donations wilt b•n•flt fh• SI. JoHph C"ounty Lllfff.cy Council. I for mom lnlorm•Uo_n~.~~~!•cl M•ghan Martin (mmarlln@nd.fldu) or Joanna cam-.wll (/cornw.1@nt:l.fflu} 
~ni.edtl%lEISla/1SW11ebpage!l1/lea~slJOf)htt'Sot!l11.1,jroe103.Nm 
r 
I page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 4, 200,
I I 


S.~ a ~-Centerfior Socia( Concerns ..a,,1 & 
~iN~~RAN~ ·.1tT~-n~ oo ru [P [P CB oo n oo ~ ~ rn~~..,.Jl­
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
. ~s ..........................
N PThe National Youth Sports Program : 
(NYSP) is a 5-week summer day camp : that serves over 200 disadvantaged youth from the local : community. Student Leaders receive a $1,500 Stipend, : Housing, and 3 Theo Credits. ¦
•
APPLICATION DEADLINE EXTENDED! Due THIS FRI, FEB 7th. 

Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP) applications available at the CSC. An eight­week long summer internship. Interns exposed to and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of the community. 
Applications due 

Wednesday, February 12th 
Summer Service & ACCION Internships! 
ACCION Internship Info Session -Thursday, February 6th 
6:00 PM Room 121 MCOB 
For Junior Business Majors Interns are placed in micro-lending offices. 
Summer Service Internship Deadline of February 12TH is soon approaching! 
Tum in your application and sign up for your 1st interview! 
& their families. 
Saturday, February 15th 
Stop by anytime between 
2:30-4:30 PM! 
Directors of various CSC programs will be present 


You Are Invited ... 
To join a weekly time for faith-sharing and prayer with Center for the Homeless guests. 
Every Monday morning, 7:00 -8:oo AM At the Center for the Homeless 
All ND/SMC/HCC 
students are welcome! 
Students are needed to serve as musicians, facilitators, and members ofa faith-sharing community. 
For more information Email Kelly Rich at Rich.9@nd.edu 
Holy Cross Associates 
Informational Meetings TODAY, Tuesday, February 4m at 8 PM TOMORROW, Wednesday, Feb. 5m at 8 PM 
Both meetings will be in the CSC Coffee House **Come anytime between 8-9 PM** 
If you have not had a chance to talk with an HCA 
staff person yet to learn more about the applica­
tion and placement process, this will be a good 
chance to do so! 
!Encuentro Chicano 
ENCUENTRO CHICAGO applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. Join us for a weekend immersion into the Mexican immigrant community of Pilsen in Chicago. February 15th-16th. Applications due TODAY, February 4th. 


C~Ye-nt"Vol.unteer Opporiunit:Y?N 
Mentors 

A mentor is needed for a 17-year-old girl at Madison Center for Children. The commitment would be every other or every week for one or two hours. A student with a car would be preferable. Contact Kristen Walsh @651-1255. 
Children 

Seeking energetic students to teach physical education class at Good Shepherd Montessori School, a new elementary school in our community currently serving children ages 6-9. Student teachers must be available on Mon and Wed afternoons and able to provide own transportation. Contact 276-3152 or email GoodShepherdMS.aol.com *Also seeking playground monitors for GSMS, Mon thru Thurs from 12-12:30 PM 
Elderly Hospice of St. Joseph County is dedicated to providing support and comfort for persons and families facing the end of life. Volunteers are trained to serve as caregivers in patient 
Post-l!raduate Senice Programs 
St. Joseph Worker: Women of Faith Committed to Social Change Info Session: TOMORROW, Wednesday, February 5th 4:00-5:30 PM at the Center for Social Concerns T~is is a unique program for women that combines direct service with training in community organizing and 
leadership. It is a one-year program in St. Paul, MN. 
Visitation Associates Information Session Thursday, .February 6th at 5:00 PM at the CSC This is a teaching program at the high school level for women only. 
homes, assisting patients in nursing homes and working in our Hospice House (inpatient setting). Four-hour patient matches may be made 7 <lays a week in the morn­ings, afternoons and evenings for volunteers. Next semi-annual training is going to be offered from 9-noon at the Hospice office on the following days (the training session is 21 hours; all days are required to be trained): Feb 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 25th. For more info, contact Jackie Boynton at 243-3127. 
Tutoring A tutor is needed for a 12-year-old boy who has special needs. He can be tutored any day after 4:30 at Hes burgh Library. Contact Thanh Le @ 631-8018. Tutors are needed for athletes at Clay High School. Tutoring happens on Tues and Thurs from 3-5 PM at Clay High School. Contact Scott Dactelides @ work 243-7006 or@home 287-3597. 
Questions on the above volunteer opportunities? Please email cscvols@nd.edu. 
...... ,, ..... ...
~ 

--------------------------:---------------~------------------------­
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Manning calls Vanderjagt an 'idiot kicker' 
Associ2ted Press 
HONOLULU 

Peyton Manning called team­mate Mike Vanderjagt an "idiot kicker" at the Pro Bowl on Sunday, three days after Vanderjagt apologized for mak­ing disparaging remarks about the Indianapolis Colts quarter­back. 
Manning made the comment during a live interview on ABC. He also claimed Vanderjagt was "liquored up" at the time of the Canadian cable TV 
'The sad thing is, he's a
interview ear­well enough." lier this week good kicker. He's a good Dungy said in which he late last week
kicker. But he's an idiot."
said Manning t h a t should show Vanderjagt's more emotion. Peyton Manning future with "llcre we Colts quarterback the Colts rest­
are," Manning said. 'Tm out at my third Pro Bowl. I'm about to go in and throw a touchdown to Jerry Hice, we're honoring the Hall of Fame, and we're talking about our idiot kicker who got liquored up and ran his mouth off. 
"The sad thing is, he's a good kicker. He's a good kicker. But he's an idiot." 
A message from The Associated Press was left at the office of Vanderjagt's agent, Gil Scott, on Monday. 
Vanderjagt also criticized Colts coach Tony Dungy in the interview with The Score. a Toronto-based cable sports net­work. 
'Tm not a real big Colts fan right now, unfortunately. I just don't see us getting better," Vanderjagt said during the interview. 
"Coach Dungy, he's just a mild-mannered guy. Ho doesn't get too excited, he doesn't get too down and I don't think that works. either.... I think you need a motivator, I think you need a guy that is going to get in somebody's face when they're not performing 
ed with the 
veteran kick­
er. 

"It's not in doubt because of what he said," Dungy said. 
Vanderjagt, the most accurate field-goal kicker in NFL history, apologized Thursday to Dungy, Manning and the rest of his teammates. He signed a $7.75 million, five-year contract extension with the Colts in November 2000 -at the time making him the league's high­est-paid kicker. 
"When I get home, I'll deal with it," Manning said. "If he is still a teammate, we'll deal with it. That remains to be seen." 

· 
API Photo 

After having several disparaging remarks made towards him by kicker Mike Vanderjagt, Colts quarterback Peyton Manning retorted that his teammate was "an Idiot." 


DON'T LET COLLEGE PASS YOU UP WITHOUT THE EXPERIENCE OF Off,CAMPUS UVING AT TURTI& CREEK, 
ALL FOOR PL!~~ A,VA.ILABLE FOR iOOJ•W~! 
CALL l'~ NOWf 17Hl140R 
VISIT U~ AT WWW,TURTLECREEKND.COM 
-
TURTLE CREEKAPARTMENTS 
"WHERE FRIENDS AND MEMORIES ARE MADE." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 




Burrell resigns for $50 million 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Left fielder Pat Burrell and the Philadelphia Phillies have agreed on a $50 million, six­year contract, in the latest big move by the team this offsea­son. 
Coming off a 14th losing sea­s on in 16 years, the Phillies have been one of the most aggressive teams, signing first baseman Jim Thome and third baseman David Bell and trad­ing for pitcher Kevin Millwood. 
The Phillies, hesitant to spend money in the past, have com­mitted nearly $162 million to 
~ ? 
,-~ ~~:~ ~€-, 
~~ ~ a 'lrf-81'!2 
" fut Pl it "~ N~ p~ ''l~l. 
flt:t ~f!l.d-81rtlltft'&ritl-eti fJ./lit~ lti au-epffl{! logo i.~1191r6 ./ol' tft.e 1rtfll 
L'tfGENP5 ,,(h~lt5fNlff$,4f). 
i2/JIJpri~-t_ It, tkt wllflfi1r9i-e,~,,, 411(tlr.t /.,e.f;~/(f_f' 5pltm 4/(4 hgP {IJ/((6t i{'f'/~itiftlt'd If~ "t~ ii ,, ~tu~ a. hom PIJhM 6™~"t'n M/n,,tta. ,~fi,,.J /( *· 
P~o_tffl1rt ~/),. 5rm,,,tftt1r9 lo!P i-ee;Jre ti uli4f(, &6,u.uf2(. p,,o/l Pit -elfMt~ tr, tlr.t-6rnit/ff,4tftt,,tt/-e,; fJ#ltt, !Iflml'tAA-e. FP, WitiPlfttfilf/D1'111aitn,, ~1rt~ftftt-~f'dt-1rtlltf/e,,tfi-&e fJ#ltt, u!t-7!/Jtr, 
the four players as they try to build a championship team when they move into a new ballpark in 2004. 
'Tm glad to be a part of the big puzzle they put together this offseason," Burrell said. "With the team we have now, we should be winning." 
Burrell, 26, hit .282 with 37 homers and 116 RBIs last year -the best offensive perfor­mance on the Phillies since Mike Schmidt had 37 homers and 119 RBIs in 1986. Burrell also struck out 153 times. 
He is coming off an $8 mil­lion, five-year contract that paid him $1,275,000 last year. Burrell was the first pick in the draft in 1998. He was picked as a third baseman, but the Phillies moved him to first base and eventually to left field. 
"This city has taken me in and been really good to me," he said, adding that he's looking at buying a home in the area. "I think the organization has treated me better than I ever could have imagined." 
Burrell gets a $1.5 million signing bonus, of which $1 mil­lion is payable upon approval, $250,000 on Jan. 15, 2004 and $250,000 the following Jan. 15. He gets annual salaries of $1 million in 2003, $4 million in 2004, $7 million in 2005, $9.5 million in 2006, $13 million in 2007 and $14 million in 2008. 

The Phillies have given out the two biggest contracts of the offseason: the $85 million, six-year deal for Thome and < Burrell's $50 million contract. 
I 
I 
I I 
_j 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS
page 16 
NBA 



Thomas believes NBA treating Pacers unfairly 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana Pacers coach Isiah Thomas doesn't think the NBA is targeting his team for their recent combative behavior. However, he does wonder if the league is treating their outburst Wlfairly. 
Thomas said Monday he didn't agree with the NBA's decision to suspended him for two games for escalating an on-court alterca­tion and not acting as a peace­maker during a fight with 

the Pacers coach left his seat and got into a shouting match with Peterson. 
Thomas was restrained by Raptors coach Lenny Wilkens and ejected by referee Steve Javie. Thomas admits that after 
Peterson cursed  at him,  he  
cursed back, but that was all.  
Then  came  the  news  on  

Saturday that Stu Jackson, NBA senior vice president of basket­ball operations was suspending Thomas. 
"Coach Thomas did not act as 
peacemaker during this inci­d e n t , " Jackson said. 
"I don't understand it Thomas.
the Raptors. 
Indiana's

"I don't and I think it's been very 
third-year
understand it 

excessive." coach, said ho
and I think it's 
was stunned. 
been very 
"I've been

excessive," he Isiah Thomas 
in this league
said. 

Pacers coach 
Thomas will m i s s Tuesday's game against the Los Angeles Lakers, but is allowed to coach practice and. will lead the East team at the All­Star game in Atlanta on Sunday. The Pacers lead the Eastern Conference with a 34-14 record. 
The trouble for Thomas began Friday when he became involved in an altercation between Toronto's Morris Peterson and Al Harrington. 
Peterson tripped Harrington ­on purpose, Thomas said -and when no flagrant foul was called, 20 years and I 
don't remem­
ber a time 

where a coach or players have been sus­pended for multiple games for arguing," Thomas said. 
Thomas also was angry with the four-game suspension levied against forward Ron Artest for confronting the Miami Heat bench and brushing up against coach Pat Riley during a victory Jan. 27, then making an obscene gesture toward the Miami crowd. 
Artest however, has a pattern of bad behavior and his punish­ment came just a few weeks 





of all ND Students 

after he was suspended for hurl­ing a TV monitor and smashing an expensive camera after a close loss in New York. He also was fined $10,000 for shoving Dallas· Raja Bell. 
Thomas said the league was correct in suspending Artest for breaking the camera but had a beef with the Miami· incident. 
"Nobody threw a punch. Nobody swung at anybody," Thomas said. 
Thomas referred to lac;t season when Lakers .guard Mitch Richmond was only fined $5,000 for making an obscene gesture toward fans in Detroit. He won­ders why the punishment was much more severe for Artest and said prior incidents shouldn't be a factor. 
"I don't think you can be tried for the same crime twice," Thomas said. 
Artest said he won't change the tough, physical way he plays, but will think twice before act­ing. 
"I just can't be doing things to insult people. That's it," he said. 'Tm going to still play the same way.. I'm still going to be aggres­sive." 
Artest also said his style of play put him on the receiving end of cheap shots that he hasn't retali­ated against. That could change 
soon. 

"Luckily, I'm kind of big and it doesn't hurt too much," he said. "If we get about 10 games over in first place, five games over, I dare somebody to give me a cheap shot." 


Drink 
·of all alcohol consumed here 
~o 

-
--=-­


-





if>!ilf>~!:· :·! 


team 1•••• .;ei,~~ectl¢!1t 


11.: farid•t~llt-•••••••• 
,u isant, aijrlia·••·
20 was111iioioa · 

tt  Wlic: 6~81\  
22  VlllallDVl ...  
2:1  Bii$1.Q11 coi1e9  

t4 Oklitioma· 

. 2~ ohi~Stalt 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Providence at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., ESPN2 Florida at Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Bulls at Nuggets 9 p.m., FOXCH 


AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

STORRS, Conn. 
Connecticut men's coach Jim Calhoun has prostate cancer and is leaving the team to undergo surgery. 
"I want to attack this thing," Calhoun said Monday at practice. ''I'm going after it... 
The 60-year-old Calhoun will take a three-to-four week medical leave, with assistant George Blaney tak­ing over as coach on an interim basis. Surgery was scheduled for Thursday. 
Calhoun's doctor, UConn Health Center urologist Peter Albertsen, said the cancer was detected early and was "relatively low-grade." 
"Coach Calhoun's condi­tion appears to be very treatable and we anticipate his return to normal job­related activities within three or four weeks," said Albertsen, who will perform the surgery. 
In his 17th season at Connecticut, Calhoun led the Huskies to national promi­nence, capped by an NCAA title in 1999. With a career record of 637-290, including 14 seasons at Northeastern, Calhoun is among the top 10 active Division I coaches with at least 600 career 
wins. 
The 18th-ranked Huskies (13-4, 4-2 Big East) play Wednesday at Virginia Tech. 
The Huskies are coming off a 95-71 loss to Boston College on Saturday, their worst loss ever at Gampel Pavilion. 
"We can handle what we have to handle," said Blaney, in his second season at UConn after 22 years as head coach at Holy Cross. "He's one of the strongest guys I ever met. I know that he will fight it that's not been a question." 
Calhoun said his cancer was detected through rou­tine prostate screening and touted the benefits of the procedure. 
"Do your family, do your loved ones a favor, and make sure you get yourself screened," he said. 
Calhoun told the team about his rnness shortly before meeting with reporters. 
"My mouth just dropped," said guard Taliek Brown. "All my prayers are with him. Everybody will just play his hardest for him." 
Last season, UConn won its seventh Big East regular­season championship under Calhoun. The Huskies then captured their fifth Big East tournament title. 
Calhoun is the only coach in Big East history to have been named the league's top coach four times. -The Braintree, Mass., native is also a member of the New England Basketball Hall of Fame. 
IN BRIEF 

Future uncertain for Sabres 
Buffalo businessman Mark Hamister suspended his bid Monday to buy the bankrupt Buffalo Sabres and said he may withdraw completely. 
Bamister said at a news conference that partner Todd Berman, president and founder of New York City-based Chartwell Investments, had with­drawn. 
"Given the uncertainty and complex­ity of the entire process in addition to Chartwell's decision, I need to step back and re-evaluate whether it makes sense to move forward," Hamister said. 
"I will be speaking with my advisers over the next several days as well as with potential new equity partners to determine if I should continue or with­draw all together." 
Hamister also said he is not seeking another extension from the NHL. The league had given Hamister until 5 p.m. Monday to sign an asset purchase agreement for the Sabres. 
A news release from Berman's com­pany said Chartwell pulled out due to a poor economic climate and the proba­bility of no financial help from govern­ment. 
'The lack of government assistance has greatly reduced the attractiveness of this investment ... the time for mak­ing this deal has lapsed," the state­ment said. 
Rochester billionaire and failed gubernatorial candidate B. Thomas Golisano has continued to express interest in buying the Sabres, even though his initial bid was rejected by the NHL last November. 
Hormoz Mansouri, a member of Golisano's ownership group, said Golisano is still willing to buy the team. 
Robbins has bipolar disorder 
The agent for Barret Robbins con­firmed Monday that the Oakland Raiders' All-Pro center has bipolar dis­order, and that he expressed "remorse and deep sadness" for missing the Super Bowl. 
Robbins remains hospitalized because of his condition, agent Drew Pittman said in a statement to ESPN. 

"Barret would like to express his remorse and deep sadness for the events surrounding the Super Bowl," the statement said. "He knows many people have been hurt by his actions, including his family, his teammates, the Raider organization, the Raider Nation, and the game of football." 
The statement, which also acknowledged that alcohol was a fac­tor in Robbins' troubles, marked the first time he has commented publicly since he disappeared Jan. 25, the day before the Raiders' 48-21 Super Bowl loss to Tampa Bay in San Diego. 
Adam Treu started in his place. 
The 6-foot-3, 320-pound Hobbins has a history of depression and reportedly had stopped taking his medication. A friend who told a newspaper he'd been drinking with Robbins the night before the game said Robbins was despondent and talked about suicide. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
INDOOR TRACK 

Watson qualifies for NCAA Championships 

By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

The Irish track and field teams had another impressive weekend as senior Luke Watson qualified for the NCAA Championships in the 3,000 meters at the adidas Indoor Games in Boston and the Irish mens and womens teams defeated Michigan State at the Loftus Sports Complex. 
Watson automatically quali­fied for the NCAAs by finishing 10th with a time of 7 she made the provisional mark. 
"Jaime did a great job," said coach Joe Piane. "Not only did she qualify in the pole vault, but she did very well in the triple jump." 
In addition to Volkmer, Tameisha King posted three vic­tories against the Spartans, win­ning the long jump, 60 meters, and 60-meter hurdles. 
Other winners for the women were Emily Loomis in the high jump, Meghan llorn in the shot put, Tiffany Gunn in the 500 meters. Jennifer Handley in the 3,000 meters, Rose Brakcl­
minutes, "Jaime did a greatjob. 
Picrcc in the 
55.78 sec­

Not only did she qualify 400 meters 
onds. His and Kristen

in the pole vault, but she 
qualification Dodd in the 

becomes did very well in the 
200 meters. more impres­triple jump. ,, " T h e 
sive because women are 

the strong 

looking really field included Joe Plane 
tough," said 
an Olympic Irish coach Piane. 
champion and profes­sional athletes. Watson finished third among Americans in the meet and third among colle­gians as well. He will be looking to improve on his third-place finish at the 2002 NCAA Championship. 
In addition to Watson's per­formance in Boston, the men and women combined to win 22 events against Michigan State as the men knocked the Spartans 93-54, while the women won 94-67. 
In one of the most impressive performances of the evening, Jaime Volkmer broke her own school record in the pole vault by clearing 3.9 meters. Her height puts her in consideration for the NCAA Championship and 
Led again 
by Selim Nurudeen, the men claimed a number of victories as well against Michigan State. Nurudeen swept the 60-meter hurdles and 60 meters, while Trevor McClain-Duer took the 500 meters and Godwin Mbagwu won the triple jump. 
The men dominated the dis­tance events as well, with Kevin Somok taking the 800 meters. Eric Morrison winning the mile and John Keane taking the 3,000 meters. Ryan Postel won the 400 meters and Jules Vandersarl won the 200 meters. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women grab 1st place in slalom 
Special to The Observer 
The women of the Notre Dame ski chili continued their winning ways with first place finishes this weekend in both the slalom and giant slalom. In Saturday's slalom event, Molly Munsterer, 62.88; Mary Butler, 62.94; and Alanna Lungren, 64.02, placed fourth, fifth, and eighth to lead the squad in a tightly bunched field. The Irish edged Michigan State, 189.84 -189.93 for first place. Western Michigan, Michigan, and Grand Valley State rounded out the field. 
In Sunday's giant slalom, Munsterer's total time of 52.33 for the two runs earned first place, while teammate Leigh Hellrung's 52.55 garnered third and Mary Butler finished fifth with a 53.45 result as the Irish again topped Michigan State by the slightly more comfortable margin of 158.33 -161.11 
The mens team wasn't able to build on last week's momentwn. After capturing first place last weekend in a non-league slalom event in Ohio, the squad dropped third place medalist last week, led the club in the slalom with a combined time of69.09. 

Mens Water Polo 
Tampa, Fla.'s beckoning warmth provided the perfect venue for outdoor water polo this weekend as Notre Dame squared off against some of the toughest competition in the country in the Gasparilla Classic. The Irish opened bracket play with an 8-5 victory over the Orlando Men's Club behind a sold defensive performance. In second round action, the club fell behind at the half to Florida Coast Club Team. The Irish ral­lied to knot the score at 9, before falling by an 11-9 count. 
Advancing to the semifinals because of a goal differential advantage, the Irish then played the nationally ranked Miami Raiders. The Irish played well in a 15-9 loss. Third place was a battle against Austin Men's. Once more the Irish trailed early, 3-1, before clawing back to a 5 all tie at the end of regula­tion. A scoreless overtime peri­od, and a 2-2 tie in the second 
to fifth among six schools this overtime, led to a penalty shot weekend. Bill Liemkuhler, a shootout. 
offee and Conversation for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
.. and every first tuesday of the month 
7:30 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome. and confidentiality is assured. 

Coffee and refreshments will be served 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
#$%'%11 That's the lhlrd 
shot In the waler today
to form four ordinary words. 
What klrxl of batt /
INNOO 
j
I I r 

102003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reae.ved. 
GINOG 


j 
tHINSIF 
WHAT HE: ENDED
J I I b 
UP DolN.G WHl=N Hf: 
WWW.jumble.com 
WENT GOLFING. 


tLAHMYNj Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I t 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print~ oore: 

lII I ~ X_ I J 
Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FEIGN RIGOR WEAPON COOKIE Answer: When he married for money, he ended up doing this -WORKING FOR IT 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
li,tJtUrtorklbu, I
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No. 1217 
ACROSS 32 Like apples, 62 Wood-dressing 1 Almanac say, during the tool fall
contents 63 Grind, as teeth 6 Book of 34 You can lend rt 
64 Come after memories, or bend ii 65 Where to hearmaybe 35 Blaster's need 
10-Down 11 Big shot, for 36 Book in prison? 
66 _Domingo
short 38 It's hailed 

67 007, !or one
14 Love to bits 41 Rep.'s
15 Numbers-calling counterpart

game DOWN 
42 Over again

16 67.5', to 1 Furbys, once mariners 
44 Flies, ants and 2 Hoo-hasuch17 Grant provider 3 Escape from47 The Beatles'

18 Route to prison?
•Hey_•
prison? 

4 Hot water, so to
48 Like Nash's

20 Campus locale speak
lama22 This very 5 Word repeated
49 Nay sayer

moment alter "Que" 23 Concertgoer's 
50 Neigh sayer 6 Epitome of keepsake 51 Track shape 

simplicity 25 Engl1sh race 52 Unofficial ticket 
7 Celestial felineplace source e Pickers' 
28 Load of bunk 54 Desperate instruments 
29 Fall (over) 

56 Money in 9 Full-length30Courts prison? 
10 Cows' chorus 34 Go beyond the 43 Ship's securer 53 Cribbage needs 31 Fracas 59 X-rated, say bounds of 
44 Mathematician 55 Light bulb's 
------------11 Of the spring 37 Puts a stop to Blaise signification, inANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Shoe part cartoons
45 Make cryptic
57 World record suffix
sestet

.;.,+,+.,;~ 19 Out-and-out 39 Geometric 
58 P on a fraternity47 Michael who
r::+.::ioo..,. 21 Former "Family calculation 
housewas five-limeFeud" host 40 Period ender N.B.A. M.V.P. 60 Winery cask
Richard ..,..,,,t,,,.b.:1 23 •s.N.L." bit 
41 Pink-legged bird 50 Salon color 61 "Is tt soup_?" 
24 T.V.A. part: 1-::-1-::+.r'-._ -::r':'"h:-t'::c1-::1r-=-1-=---Abbr. For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
~,;.+;~i-,:+;,1 26"A~ydaynow 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 look around a Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000prison? 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).31 Chess ending 
Crosswords !or young solvers: The Leaming Network, 33 Ideal serves nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Clint Black, Alice Cooper, Pamela Franklin, Dan Quayle 
Happy Birthday: If you focus on what's really important to you, success should be in your comer. Take control of your situation and your life. You don't have to rely on others because you have the gcxxi> to follow through with your ideas. Your nwnbers are 9, 15, 27, 33, 38, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Financial gains can be made, bul you must take a consel'lative approach. Engage in conversations with people in the know and attend financial strategy seminars. Avoid risky venlW'es. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be swept off your feet by someone who is a real player. Be careful and keep in mind that the way this person treats his or her own family is an indication of how you will be treated in the future. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your work and your emotional problems separate, or you may not do the best job. A fellow worker has a vested interest in you. Be careful that it's to your advantage. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take time out from doing for everyone else and do for yourself. Pamper yourself and make those improvements you've been contemplating.*****
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Don't close your eyes to any minor ailments that have been lingering. An older relative will need your guidance. Your effort and your time will be appreciated. *** VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sept. 22): Take the initiative and make things happen. Everyone will appreciate the plans you have taken the trouble to make. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your business plans in motion. You will meet some exciting people. and any extra effort or time you invest in your career will not be wasted *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): Share your knowledge with others. Your creative outlook and talent are obvious, and it's time to believe in yourself and follow your 
dreams.***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): Matters relating to how you earn your living 
may be UllStable. Don't be afraid to modify or change completely your professional 
direction. ** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to interact with new people orjoin new groups. Relationships will evolve if you are open and talkative with people you meet along the way. Do as much socializing as ~ible. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of any issues that have been eating away at you. Illness is likely to follow if you allow everything around you to take its toll. Stop letting others walk all over you. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Romantic encounters are looking good today. Don't hesitate to take a position of leadership. Others will see your genuine wannth and 
com~ion. *** 

Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive toward others and will always lend ahelping hand You will be dedicated. loyal and willing to go the distance for agood cause. Your strong beliefs will guide you throughoot your life. 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGfIT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


PORTS 
Tuesday, February 4, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Wicks leaves womens basketball team 
tion director. ligent and caring individual did not travel with the team to also named to the 2002 Big
. Sophomore is 

Wicks, a native of Gillette, with a lot to offer," Irish coach Miami for the Jan. 2, 2002 East Academic All-Start Team. third player to Wy., played in 16 games this Muffet McGraw said. "We're game against the Hurricanes. Wicks connected on 33.3 per­leave in past season for Notre Dame and disappointed that she will not This season, Hcrnanadz began cent of her 3-point attempts 
averaged 2.8 points and 2.6 be with us any longer, but we practicing with the team, but is during her career and was a 
-
13 months 
rebounds 
all certainly wish her the best. still not on the roster. 72.7 percent free-throw shoot­
per game. She has a bright and promising Bustamante elected to leave er. ByJOE HETTLER She started future ahead of her." before school began this sea­During her high school Sporrs Ediror twice dur­Wicks did not return phone son. She averaged 4.6 points career, Wicks was on six state 
ing her 45-calls seeking comment. per game last season for Notre championship teams and was 
For the third time in the past g a m e Wicks follows former Notre Dame, while playing in 24 an all-state selection in three 13 months, a Notre Dame career and Dame players Monique games and starting two. sports. She was Wyoming's womens basketball player has had a Hernandez and Allison As a freshman Wicks played Miss Basketball her final prep
t"' decided to leave the team. career-high Bustamante who both have left in 29 games and averaged 4.7 season, averaging 20.7 points 
Sophomore guard Kelsey 16 points Wicks the womens program in the points and 3.3 rebounds per and 8.4 rebounds per game. Wicks became the latest Irish against last year. contest. Wicks' only start of player to quit, leaving the Irish Connecticut Hernandez played in Notre that season came against Seton for personal reasons, according on Jan. 21, 2001. Dame's 79-50 victory over Hall. when she scored five Contact Joe Hettler at to an assistant sports informa-"Kelsey is an extremely intel-DePaul on Dec. 31, 2001, but points. The sophomore was jhettler@nd.edu 
MENS TENNIS 

--Struggling Irish hope to notch first victory 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
With four losses and no vic­tories so far in the spring sea­son, the Irish mens tennis team is banking on a win to come its way soon. 
The squad's next chance is today at Wisconsin. The No. 34 Irish have lost to two top 25 teams, and half of their losses were near-wins, with the Irish losing 4-3 to both Florida State and Indiana. 
The Badgers are unranked, and the Irish have emerged the victors in the last 11 matches between the two teams. Nevertheless, Wisconsin is 2-0 and returns four lettermen, while Notre 

.... Dame lost six of nine letter­winners from last season's team that advanced to the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
"It's a tough place to play [in Madison]." Irish captain Matt Scott said. "[With our team] going in there without a 

....-win, [the Badgers) might be a little over-confident. Since we haven't won. they might think we're no good this year." Given Wisconsin's relatively easier schedule -with wins against DePaul and Northern lllinios -the Badgers may today be facing their toughest opponent yet. While the Irish are young, their lineup still boasts some talented, and some potentially promising players. Junior Luis Haddock is cur­
rently ranked 72nd national­ly, and Scott is 119th. Additionally, the dou~les pair of Scott and freshman Brent D'Amico finished the fall sea­son 14th in the Midwest regional doubles standings. In dual-match play this spring, D'Amico stands at 4-0, the reverse of his team's record. 
Brian Farrell's No. 4 singles win against Florida State was the senior's first victory in 11 months. He missed the major­ity of last season because of a shoulder injury. 
But the worst start in Notre Dame tennis history is not a mark of pride for this team. The Irish realize that their work is cut out for them if they hope to turn the season around. 
"We've made some changes, and we've been having some really good practices." Scott said. "We just have to go and get a 'W' on the board." 
Last year. the Irish tri­umphed over the Badgers 6-1. but the current squad, in quite different shoes, is expecting more of a fight this time around. 
"Every match we're going to expect a battle," Scott said. "This time we're going to go out there and we're really going to give it our best and hopefully bring back a win." 
Unless their fortunes change considerably, the chances of the Irish earning a dual-match victory likely will decrease as the week pro­gresses. In what Irish coach 

Bobby Bayliss called an After the contest with the "exciting week," the Irish will Blue Devils, the Irish will head to No. 44 Purdue have played three teams in Saturday. Then No. 10 Duke the current top 25, and they visits Notre Dame at the Eck likely will have two more top Pavilion Sunday. 25 opponents -Minnesota 
and Kentucky -in the months ahead, 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


WOMENS BASKETBALL 
INDOOR TRACK 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women 189.84 Michigan State 67 
Women 94
Wicks leaves Irish Michigan State 189.93 
Citing personal reasons, sophomore Kelsey Wicks decided to quit the Irish squad. 
The women of the Notre Dame Ski Club took
Men 93 
Michigan State 54 
first place in both the slalom and giant slalom last weekend. 
back page page 18page 18 




