SMChosts presidential candidate 
First candidate to meet with students at noon today 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Saint Mary's took a step forward in its presidential search as the College wel­comed the first of four presi­dential candidates to campus Thursday. In the culmination of the lengthy and meticulous search process, the candidate met with administrators and answered questions posed by faculty members on the first day of the two-day visit. 
Today, the candidate is scheduled to meet with any students who are interested at noon. 
In order to maintain a fair interviewing atmosphere for each of the candidates the presidential search commit­tee asked that The Observer not publish the candidate's name or personal informa­tion. However, each candi­date's name and biographical information was made avail­able online for College stu­dents 24 hours prior to his or her visit. 
"If you keep the candidates confidential you will draw a much stronger pool of candi­dates," said search commit­tee consultant Nancy Cook. "That's why we hold many of our meetings ofT-campus." 
The candidates, when they arrive at the College, start at the Welcome Center. In an hour-long PowerPoint pres­entation, candidates will be provided with a brief look at the heritage of Saint Mary's, including some of the notable accomplishments of past 
see SMC/page 4 
.., 
· · FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 7, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Applications remain high despite football woes 
By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 

Although the football team has struggled to win games this fall, the admissions office has not had much trouble winning applic:.nts for the Class of 2008. 
An applicant pool of 12,100 last year -the largest number of applications Notre Dame ever received in a single year -led to 2,002 freshmen enrolling at the University this fall, the sec­ond-largest freshmen class in school history. 
"We're still processing early action applications from the Nov. 1 deadline," said Bob Mundy, the University's director of admissions operations. "[The numbers] look very similar to last year's, and last year was an all-time high." 
According to Mundy, the num­ber of early action applications is around 3,000 -"not far ofT from last year's," he said. 
In fact, according to an article in the spring edition of Notre 
see NUMBERS/page 3 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 

Housing crunch hits transfer students hard 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 

When this year's transfer stu­dents received the news that they were admitted to Notre Dame, they were also told something more disheartening: there were no guarantees that they could live on-campus. 
Due to the increased size of the freshman class, there were few remaining empty rooms available for transfer students. Many were left scrambling to find other options, a process that only added to the many adjustments of their first few weeks. 
"It's been hard," said Jeffrey Shoup, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
"Accommodating first year stu­dents has always been our pri­ority ... In July, after we sent out everything to the freshmen, we realized that the housing situation would be especially tight this year." 
In response, Shoup and the Office of Admissions co­authored a letter warning transfer students that it would be unlikely for them to receive on-campus housing during their first semester at Notre Dame. Transfers then had the option of adding their names to a wait­ing list, which entered them in a lottery for any dorm spots that opened up. 
"We had a garbage bag with all the names in it in my office," Shoup said. "The advantage was, the earlier the student [contacted Residence Life], the more chances they had and the more times their name went into the bag." 
However, transfer students' housing problems did not just evaporate when their names were pulled. Several who had taken the precaution of making arrangements to live in off­campus apartment complexes such as Turtle Creek Apartments, College Park and Lafayette Square Townhomes found themselves locked into lease agreements for at least the entire semester. 
Colleen McCotter, a sopho­more who transferred from Bentley College, said that she felt discouraged about the pos­sibility of on-campus housing after calling and e-mailing Shoup's office several times over the summer. 
"They told us that the likeli­hood was pretty slim for females, so I signed a six-month lease in Turtle Creek because I wanted to get on-campus in the spring," she said. However, along with the shorter lease came an extra payment of $50 per month, and McCotter is no closer to living on-campus than she was in August. 
"ResLife still hasn't let me know anything about being on­campus next semester," she said. "It's inconvenient because I have to let Turtle Creek know if I'll be renewing in the spring. I asked them for a 20-day extension, but if I don't hear 
see HOUSING/page 4 
Students use rallies, dorm events to bolster spirit 

By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 

Though many students are disheartened by this year's football season, pep rallies and dorm events try to revive student spirit. 
"The football team is not performing," said David Guthrie, a Sorin freshman, "and our spirit is lagging because our team is strug­gling." 
Justen Cheers, a Knott freshman, had a different per­spective. 
"I go to the pep rallies because they're fun," he said, "and even though the team is down I'm still behind them one hundred percent." 
Hall presidents are working diligently to keep students enthused and supportive of the Irish this season. 
"The Cavanaugh girls go to the pep rally together for the one we host -this year is the first one," said Valerie Ralph, a sophomore and co-president of Cavanaugh Hall. "It's frus­trating, as a president, to put together groups to go when spirit isn't high and large turnouts are rare. It's hard to plan to get spirit act together when people are so disap­pointed." 
Matt Kinsella, a junior and co-president of Keenan Hall, 
see RALLIES/page 4 
Friday, November 7, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


True fans stand out 

Try listening to 80,000 people jeer as you struggle to get your game back on track. Try dealing with instant celebrity and crushing pressure when, as a fresh­man, you become quarterback of one of the most recogniz­able college football teams in the nation. Try playing hard-core, top­ranked teams in the middle of a sea­son that has been far from the best, boasting nothing more than injured players, glaring mistakes and a coach still getting his feet wet at the University. 
I've heard a lot of students say that they could do better on the field than the current Notre Dame football team. They claim the players aren't trying-one of their flimsy excuses for lea \ling the Stadium early in disgust. 
So you try it, I say. I'd like to see you do better. 
Yes, our football team has been disap­pointingly atrocious this season. They know it. we know it, and anyone who fol­lows college sports knows it. But that doesn't mean they're not trying. The majority of these guys waited their whole lives to play Notre Dame football, and, for them, it hasn't lost its mystique, appeal or honor. They're trying their best for the school that they love -unfortu­nately, their best is not good enough at this point in time. 
But that weakness motivates some fans -not the true ones -to lose faith in the legacy that is Notre Dame. One terrible season has separated, quite obviously, the fair-weather fans from real ones. The fair-weather fans leave. They boo their players. They shirk the Notre Dame sense of family and support that differen­tiates our University from all others. 
They give reasons for this behavior, arguing that they, in actuality, are the true fans. They claim they're the ones who love Notre Dame football too much to watch it being disgraced. The current team is not fitting for a Notre Dame foot­ball program, they say, and it hurts them to see the Irish lose so embarrassingly. 
The real fans feel the same way. But their respect for Notre Dame football­the historical pinnacle of college sports -is bigger than the game, bigger than the team and bigger than themselves. The real fans are the ones who stay and suffer, supporting the team despite the fact that every moment of the spectacle is almost physically painfuL They stay until the end, when the players present their helmets and the band plays the alma mater, so the team -their friends, class­mates and roommates-will not have to bear the additional blow of facing an empty section after a horrible game. They stay, knowing that thousands ­millions -of people would give their right arms to see a game in Notre Dame stadium. They stay because they know that Notre Dame is a family-uncondi­tionally supportive, through good times and bad. 
The team has struggled before. It has overcome. It can again, and the true fans will be there when it happens. The [air­weather fans, though, may have sold 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd. edu. 

Sheila Flynn 
Assistant Managing Editor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional pub~carion and suives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 







Agustin Gargalo Mark Bescher Peter Langer Rachel Endress Zach Ortiz 
Senior Senior Sophomore Senior Sophomore O'Neil Sarin Alumni Pangborn Carroll 
"'We're going to ''Navy is going "'! think we are "'Our men in ..Cold with a 
,, 

wzn. to sink.·· going to win uniform are slight chance of two to nothing. " going to beat Carlyle.·· 
their men in uniform.·· 

Man pleads guilty to shipping self In box 
FORT WORTH, Texas ­A former shipping clerk pleaded guilty in federal court Thursday to shipping himself from New York to Dallas in a wooden cargo crate. 
Charles McKinley, 25, pleaded guilty to stowing away on a cargo jet, a mis­demeanor. Possible punish­ment ranges from proba­tion to a year in prison and up to a $100,000 fine when he is sentenced Feb. 4. 
McKinley declined to comment after the 20­minute hearing. His attor­ney Bill Glaspy said he advised McKinley to plead guilty because "he told what he did to every news­paper and television station in the country, I think." 

Couple with combined age of 183 to marry 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand -A couple with a combined age of 183 will tie the knot in New Zealand. 
Jim Gorringe, 99, and Dinah Leach, 84, plan to wed Sunday at the St. James Rest Home in the southern city of Christchurch where they both live. 
St. James' nurse manager Barbara Stanton said Thursday the home was trying to shield the couple from some of the intense public interest the wedding had generated. 
"We're even fielding calls from the [United] States," asking whether they are 'robust enough to fly over to appear on television,"' she said. 
Gorringe has been mar­ried once before, while it will be Leach's third wed­ding. Great great grand­children will be among the guests. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LIJ 

3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 



0 

...... HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH 45 HIGH LOW 22 LOW LOW 27 LOW 



IN BRIEF 
Watch the women's volley­ball team take on Miami Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Stop by the Clarke Memorial and watch ROTC members perform the Tri-Military 24­hour Vigil in honor of Veterans' Day. The vigil begins at 4:00 pm on Monday and ends on Tuesday at 4:00 pm. A Veterans' Day Ceremony will be held upon completion of the vigil, with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh as the guest speaker. 
Ralph Wood of Baylor University will give a lecture entitled "Why Jesus Throws Everything Off Balance: Flannery O'Connor and Catholic Culture." The lecture will be held Monday from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo and is part one of a series entitled "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists." 
Part two of the "A Reason to Write" lecture series will be givin by Benjamin Alexander of the Franciscan University of Steubenville. Alexander will give a lecture entitled "Just Another Wednesday Afternoon: Walker Percy and the Faith" on Tuesday from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo. 
Legends will host a Monday Night Football Game Watch from 9 p.m. to midnight Monday. Come watch your favorite teams and enjoy the great Legends food and atmos­phere. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to o/;Jsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH LOW 


Atlanta 70 I 49 Boston 54 I 35 Chicago 40 I 22 Denver 46 I 30 Houston 70 I 52 Los Angeles 70 I 54 Minneapolis 31 1 16 New York 59 I 43 Philadelphia 56 I 38 Phoenix 78 I 56 Seattle 52 I 38 St. Louis 47 I 29 Tampa 86 I 71 Washington 60 1 39 
Friday, November 7, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Lecture focuses on AIDS 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Wrirer 
The fight against HIV and AIDS does not appear as a key issue on the agendas of many black politicians, said lecturer Cathy Cohen. 
Cohen talked Thursday about the topic of "HIV and AIDS in the 21st Century: Life, Death, and Black Politics." 
Cohen spoke on the issue of AIDS and HIV in black com­munities with a special emphasis on the political response to it. She discussed the lack of political interest in the disease and what needs to be done to improve it. 
"The effort in the U.S. is falling off the political radar," said Cohen. 
Cohen first talked about sta­tistics on AIDS among various groups in the United States. She explained that while the number of AIDS cases has declined over the years, the proportion of cases among African Americans has contin­ued to increase. 
"This is not a new story," said Cohen. 
Cohen explained that 63 percent of AIDS cases among women are black, making the disease the third leading cause of death for these women. For black men ages 35 to 44, AIDS ranks as the leading cause of death. 
Because of these statistics, Cohen questioned why African American community leaders 
SOFIA BALLONfThe Observer Cathy Cohen spoke Thursday at the Hesburgh Library on the current status of the batttle with HIV and AIDS. 
are not speaking out on this issue. She answered this with her theory of marginalization. In response to this question, Cohen said the black commu­nity is marginalized because it is "isolated, segregated, lacking means of control ... that shape the quality of life, people are masked ... pushed to the outside." 
Therefore, Cohen explained that efforts to communicate with such groups are needed media sources should be used to discuss AIDS rather than mainstream media sources, she said. 
"[The slow response in these communities] has everything to do with a stigmatized view of HIV and AIDS," said Cohen. 
"To increase awareness of the AIDS problem, black lead­ers must recognize AIDS as a major concern and emphasize it over more positive issues." 
so they can understand the Contact Anna Gelhaus at issues. African-American agelhaus@nd.edu 
Numbers 
continued from page 1 

Dame Magazine, last year's admissions statistics surpassed the record by 19 percent. 
The article attributed the sharp rise in applications to an increase in financial aid, more admissions counselors visiting high schools, expanded pre­college programs and, as the Magazine wrote, the "positive image projected by first-year football coach Tyrone Willingham, the first black head coach in any sport at Notre Dame." 
It is impossible to deny that Notre Dame's football team puts the University squarely in the national spotlight, regard­less of the team's record. 
However, the connection between the team's success and the number of applications is tenuous at best, Mundy said. 
"I don't think I see any huge connection there," said Mundy. "One example I do remember is the year after we won our last national championship [1988]. We actually saw a decrease in applications ... so I'm not convinced of the rela­tionship." 
Difficult losses like those to USC and Florida State don't seem to have an effect on stu­dents visiting campus, either. 
"We have large visits on foot­ball weekends," Mundy said, "but any weekend in fall tends to be quite busy." Despite the losses, "it hasn't affected us early on ... our pool looks pret­ty similar to last year, when we were 10-3." 

The profile of incoming stu­dents also closely matches that of last year's-the University's strongest class in academics and diversity. 
"It's rare for students to cite a very specific item [such as the football team] on their application," said Mundy. "The most common is that they've had a great desire to come here 'ever since I was a kid.' They clearly note the spirit they feel when they visit and the special sense of community present here." 
In other news, this summer Notre Dame Magazine report­ed that Notre Dame ranks in the top 10 of student's "dream schools"-a Princeton Review survey of over 1,000 students, asking where they would choose to attend if cost and admission weren't issues. The University ranked eighth, behind Stanford, NYU, Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Duke and Columbia and ahead of Brown and MIT. 
Although the football team is an undeniable part of the life and spirit at Notre Dame, it is by no means the yardstick measuring the University's suc­cess. 
A variety of other factors entice students to come here, and in turn mean that very few students choose to transfer. 
"With the great academic challenge [here at Notre Dame], we get the gamut of things," said Mundy when asked why students choose Notre Dame. "It's the academic challenge, but challenge within a family-like atmosphere." 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


L
l 
<.0 
"' 
!..'')
Fall 2003 Schedule 
lJ') 
fuqletience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging ~ <.0 
....,..
faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 
'q.V~ ~
916-Washington State z
~ ,......
Gustavo Gutierrez...Pr(~f'essor ({11Jeo1Dg)', 
~ 
jolm Cmrliual 0'Hara Cbait in Tbeology 
"Liberation Theology for the 21Sl Century" ~ ~ 

"'-1~
9/20 -Michigan State Actors from the London Stage <t: "'From Page to Stage': An interactive audience D performance expetience" 

10/18-usc john McGreevy, Department Chairperson.. · john A. O'BrienAssociate Professor of Histv(r ''Catholicism and American Freedom" 
11/1 -Florida State 

•
Carolyn Nordstrom, Associate Professor ofAntbropology "( "Living on the Front Lines: An Anihropologist Looks at tl1e >­Realities of War" 

~(I)
11/8-Navy 

Jim McAdams, Professor r~f PoHtical Science. ~ 
~ z
1I11! Dr William M. Scboll (]Jair in lntfJIWlional Politics ,..,... 
.....
';Big Browser: Are we being watched?" 

f ... 
v
q) 11/15-BYU ::J Alasdair Macintyre. Pn~(essor ofPhilosophy 
~-<t "Trutl1 Telling and L~1ng· ..,...
q) ...... 
3-1/2 hams before kickoff. at rhe Hesburgh Center Auditmium. ~. (/) 
"' 

For more information. visit http:/Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu 
~ 0
*+ U N I V E R S I T Y 0 F ~ 0 
0 
\..)

ffi NOTRE DAME 
,.....; 
·v~ 
~~ 



{~lUg Hrot.rser: Are 
we beiug Jratcbetl?'' 
Jhn ~lci\.datns Pn~{essor qf Political Science_. 
11Jc D;; lflffltanl-!lf. Sc!Jolf CfHtlr 
in International Politics 
"Big Browser: Are we being watched'?" with Jim McAdams, The Dr. \Villiam M .. Scholl Chair in International Politics. Little more than a decad.e after the fall ofcotnmunisnl, experts arc already equating the Inten1et's invasive and all-encompassing reach with a new form of authoritarian control over out private lives. McAdams will explore the revolutionary consequences the Net has had for the relationship between humans and their computers, the new generation of controllers and controlled, and our own conJlicted feelings about 
the Net's purposes. 
Jim McAdams is a professor of international affairs and director ofthe Nanovic Institute for ·European Studies. A long-time' student of authoritarian politics who lived in East Germany before the fall ofthe Berlin Wall. McAdams is now conducting research on the topie of l:nternet surveillance in the U.S., Great Britain, and Germany. 
~ For further infonnation visit the Saturday Scholar website at ~., ~~ http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu ~A~ 
--~------~--~------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 7, 2003
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Housing 
continued from page I 
anything [from ResLife], I'll be stuck in Turtle Creek again." 
McCotter added that her housing situation made her feel isolated from campus life. 
"I would understand [the housing shortage] better if I wasn't a sophomore and a transfer," she said. "But I don't really know anyone on-campus or anything going on there ... I feel like after next spring it wouldn't even be worth it, because by jun­ior year every­
one has friends 

..I wish everyone 
and a dorm life pus housing and ... living off-cam­could get on "would come on­pus has made campus ... I told campus tomorrow 
me feel on the if they had the
parents. ifI could 
outside even chance," he said. more." build spaces. I Shoup attributed 
Other transfers would.•, the disparity in the who were lucky availability of enough to be rooms in men's 
Jeffrey Shoup 
offered spots in and women's resi­
Office of Residence dence halls to a
residence halls expressed simi­Life and Housing greater number of lar anxieties. director male upperclass­
could stay with him for a week or so.'' Mooney said. 
A week later Mooney learned he could take departed quar­terback Chris Olsen's place in Morrissey Manor. 
Shoup said that the quick turnaround in Mooney's situa­tion was typical of his office's efforts during the first few weeks. 
"We did a good job this year of quickly identifying no­shows," he said. 
More than halfway though the semester, all of the men who requested on-campus housing were accommodated, Shoup said. Fourteen women still seek on-cam-· 
"They told us before the school year that only 12 spots were available," said Jennifer Caston, a sophomore transfer from Saint Mary's. 
"I found out that I had a room only 10 days before school ... even at the welcome dinner at [transfer] orientation, they said that only one spot for a girl and one for a guy had opened up." 
Marty Mooney, a sophomore who transferred from Yale, was originally offered a dorm room, but turned it down because he intended to return to Yale for another semester. When he changed his mind and called back, he was told that it was too late and he had to find his own housing. 
"I knew someone in the admissions office who said I 
men moving off-
campus at the end 
of last semester. 

"There were actually more men [among transfers] who requested on-campus housing this ye.ar," he said. "But since more men had moved off after last year's room picks, they left more spaces open than the women." 
Even with these successes, Shoup said that he wished the situation could be easier on transfers and their families. 

"We converted all of the lounges, all of the study spaces," he said. "I wish every­one could get on campus ... I told parents, if I could build spaces, I would." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
the first pep rally and last week's as well. Residents

Rallies 

showed their spirit by wear­continued from page 1 ing kilts, costumes and blue­and-white face paint. agreed with Ralph. Some students are enjoying 
"One thing we do [to get the football season, despite spirited] is bike joust," he the team's disappointing said. "It's pretty much what record. 
it  sounds  like  - we  use  ''I'm having  a  great time  
crutches  and  with the football  
joust  at  each  season,"  said  
other while rid­ing bikes." ESPN's The  nThe football team is not performing  McGlinn fresh­man Tiffney Gulick. "I'm  
Season taped the men of Keenan bike jousting last week. "It's rough to  and our spirit is lagging because our team is struggling. ••  with friends th,.at I can have fun with and, as a wise woman told me once, the great thing  
get the guys to come out for the  David Guthrie  about Dame  is  Notre that  
pep  rallies,"  student  even  if  this  
said  Kinsella.  present  is  
"But if you get  unpleasant,  we  

them out front, they get pret­can still live in the past." 
ty pumped up." Although the season has Like most dorms, the been difficult, students still Keenan men dressed up for keep faith in their team at 
SMC 
continued from page I 
College presidents. 

The candidates will then met with ihe Administrative Council and current faculty members in two separate 90-minute ques­tion and answer sessions. Administrators and professors will ask candidates about everything from her past lead­ership experience to her visions for the future. 
Despite the restrictions, how­ever, the search for a new pres­ident has been defined by the open and inclusive attitude of the search committee. Assembled shortly after current President Marilou Eldred announced her retirement last March, the committee has wei­pep rallies, and prove them­selves lifelong fans. 
''I'm from South Bend, and I've been going to [Notre Dame] games since I was six; first with my parents, and now as a student," said Sarah Cunningham, a McGlinn senior. 
"I'm lucky in the sense that I've seen some awesome sea­sons and firsthand witnessed plays by Jerome Bettis and Rocket Ishmael. But it is sad that my last year as a stu­dent will not be remembered as a good one. I hoped we would win a national cham­pionship while I was a stu­dent. Still, some of my favorite memories are from football weekends. Now I hope my sister, who is a freshman, will get to see Ty lead the Irish to a national championship." 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
corned input from all the con­stituencies of Saint Mary's. 
"I anticipate that the campus will ask a lot of good questions to evaluate the candidate," said Trustee and search committee member Debbi Schwiebert. "I· am hoping it will be a wonder­ful exchange." 

A particularly warm hand has been extended to the student body. Board of Governance President Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl sits on the committee as the student representative. Moreover, the committee is hosting student-candidate dis­cussion sessions in order to introduce the candidates and students to one another. 
The opportunity has created quite a buzz on campus. 
Freshman Jill Blanchard said that the visits have been well publicized and she looks for­ward to participating. 

''I'd like to see a president, who is outgoing enough to go out and meet the students on a personal level," said Blanchard, "and also someone who has a real desire to make the school a better place." 

The selection process has even generated excitement among seniors, although they may never attend school under the new president. 
"I realize that the new President won't affect much in just one year," said senior Molly Halm. "But you need to think about the women in the future." 
The College will also sponsor a student discussion with the presidential candidate today at noon in the Noble Family Dining Hall's west wing. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixiew · S., S.B. 574-272-7376 

Christmas Open House 
Friday, November 7, 2003, 9ah'l·6pm 
Saturday, November 8, 2003, 9am-3prn 
Notre Dame and Saint Mar{s Students: 
+. 

PLEASE JOIN OUR MERR!MtNH · : ..· ..···.·.. Book an appointment for a complimentary 5-minute massage. !-minute rnanicure. amake up touch up or a scalp massage to get you feeling and looking your best for the holidays! Gifi Certificate~ will be 10% olf on Friday and Saturday only. great stocking stutters! 
We will hove refreshments, music by Lynn Kline, or.d complimenjary somplesr Came see Erlcko Jaye lrorn Mogle 95.7 and her permanent eyeliner on Friday! 
,,.................w.Th•&•Si•m•pH•c•l~•o•f•GI•vl•ng••................. 

FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
Well maintained houses near campus 
* Washers and Dryers Provided *Security Systems 
*24-Hour Maintenance Staff *2-, 4-, 6-, &8-Bedroom Houses Available 
Only 4 left for the 2004-2005 school year Also leasing 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-, 8-, 9-, &1 0 bedroom houses for the 2005-2006 school year 
Call today, houses are going fast! 
Contact Kramer at DOMUS PROPERTIES: Office 234-2436 or Cell 315-5032 
Esthetics by Isabella 
SCllon and Day Spa 340 WCleveland Road · Granger. IN 46530 
Pfl: (574)273·66tl0 


Visit our Website at www.domuskramer.com 

friday, November 7, 2003 (=OJ\1PllED FRO/vt THE ()HSERVER'S \VJRF SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Poland suffers first Iraqi casualty 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-Poland suffered its first combat death since the aftermath of World War II when a Polish major was fatally wounded Thursday in an ambush south of Baghdad. Two American soldiers died in attacks near the capital and along the Syrian border. 
In al-Assad, a windblown desert base 150 miles northwest of Baghdad, hundreds of soldiers, some wearing ceremonial spurs and black regimental hats, remembered the com­rades killed last weekend when their heli­copter was shot down in the deadliest single attack against U.S. forces since the Iraq war began March 20. 
Aid package to benefit elderly 
PARIS -France's prime minister announced Thursday a $10.8 billion pro­gram for the aged -financed in part by eliminating a national holiday -to improve health care and guard against catastrophes like the summer heat wave that killed nearly 15,000 people, many of them elderly. 
Rival politicians and health care profes­sionals criticized the plan from Prime Minister Jean-Pierre RafTarin as too little, too late. Also, France's bishops complained about the loss of the holiday, which falls on the Monday after the Christian festival of Pentecost. 
Spanish Prince selects his Queen 
MADRlD, Spain -Crown Prince Felipe formally proposed to his TV-anchorwoman girlfriend Thursday, riveting Spain as a thor­oughly modern couple enacted a centuries­old tradition. 
King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia greeted relatives of journalist Letizia Ortiz at the Zarzuela Palace in a ceremony known as the "peticion de mano," in which the groom for­mally asks his beloved's parents for her hand in marriage. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ferry captain invokes the Fifth 
NEW YORK -After avoiding interviews and ignoring a subpoena, the captain of the Staten Island ferry that killed 10 people when it slammed into a pier finally met with investigators Thursday -but refused to answer any questions about the deadly crash. 
Capt. Michael Gansas provided his name and age, but repeatedly invoked his Fifth . Amendment right against self-incrimination when it came to questions about the Oct. 15 crash, National Transportation Safety Board Chairwoman Ellen Engelman said. 
Anthrax scare closes mail service 
WASHINGTON -The Postal Service closed its government mail facility Thursday night while authorities ran tests to determine whether anthrax was detected at the Navy site that handles mail for federal agencies. 
Postal Service spokesman Azeezaly Jaffer said the V Street mail facility was closed as a precaution. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Opponents call bake sale racist 
BLOOMINGTON. -A bake sale in Indiana University's Dunn Meadow drew a crowd ­and a debate -when it offered cookies for sale at different prices depending on the buyer's race or gender. 
The sale Wednesday was organized by a conservative student group called the Committee for Freedom, who said the event was intended as a protest of affirmative action. 
White males were charged $1 per cookie. The price was 75 cents for white women, Asians and Pacific Islanders; 50 cents for Hispanics and American Indians; and 25 cents for blacks. Conservative groups have held similar protests at several colleges across the country in recent months. 



New deployments announced 
85,000 active troops to be sent to Iraq early next year, 43,000 reservists put on alert 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
Pentagon announced plans 
Thursday to send 85,000 
Army and Marine combat 
forces to Iraq early next 
year to relieve troops com­
pleting one-year tours -a 
rotation that when com­
bined with another 
switchout of troops in 
Afghanistan will be the 
Army's largest sequence of 
troop movements since 
World War II. 
In addition, 43,000 
National Guard and 
Reserve support troops 
have been alerted that 
they may be sent as well. 
The moves are part of a rotation plan that assumes Iraqis will be capable of contributing enough to the battle against the anti­occupation insurgency that the number of American troops in Iraq can be reduced from 131,600 today to 105,000 by May, senior officials said. 
In an added twist, the Army announced that sol­diers in every unit desig­nated for deployment to Iraq next year -whether active-duty or reserve ­will be prohibited from leaving the service during a period beginning 90 days before they go to 90 days after they return. 

That measure, known in the military as "stop-loss," which helped spearhead Fort Hood, Texas, a Secretary Donald H. does not apply to the the invasion of Iraq last brigade of the 2nd Infantry Rumsfeld told the news Marine Corps, which said spring. Division from Fort Lewis, conference he is assuming it will dispatch about The Army will send the Wash., and a brigade from the two multinational divi­20,000 Marines to replace equivalent of three combat the 25th Infantry Division. sions in Iraq now -led by the Army's 82nd Airborne divisions to replace the National Guard infantry Britain and Poland and Division in western Iraq, four there now. brigades will be attached totaling about 24,000 including the Fallujah area The rotation, combined to both the 1st Infantry troops -will remain where anti-occupation vio­with a switchout of troops and 1st Cavalry. through next year. 
lence has been strongest. in Afghanistan -the 25th Those units will replace The Pentagon had been 
Lt. Gen. Jan C. Huly, Infantry Division replacing the 82nd Airborne, the 1st counting on a third multi­deputy commandant of the the 1Oth Mountain Division Armored Division, the 4th national division, possibly Marine Corps for plans and in April -is the largest Infantry Division and the led by Turkey, but that has operations, told a news sequence of troop move­101st Airborne Division. not materialized. conference that the ments for the Army since First to depart Iraq will be The Bush administration Marines would spend World War II, Lt. Gen. the 101st Airborne, which has set no timetable for seven months in Iraq, then Richard Cody said in an is the only one of the four withdrawing American be replaced by another interview. He is the Army's divisions there now that forces from Iraq. President 20,000-Marine contingent deputy chief of staff for participated in the drive to Bush delivered a messagefor seven months. They operations. Baghdad last spring. to the troops on Thursdaywill come from the 1st The 1st Infantry Division The net result: 20 per­via the American Forces Marine Division, based at will go from Germany, the cent fewer U.S. troops will Radio and Television Camp Pendleton, Calif., 1st Cavalry Division from be in Iraq by May. Defense Service. 


WEST BANK 
Negotiations stall, violence continues 
Associated Press  West Bank and one in Gaza. Early Friday, people in the central  sible action against violent groups. Arafat has blocked Qureia's choice  
RAMALLAH -The Palestinian leadership cns1s intensified Thursday, with the internationally respected finance minister staying away from his office in protest over political maneuvering that has delayed formation of a new Cabinet. The deadlock between Vasser Arafat and Prime Minister Ahmed  Gaza village of Aim usader said Israeli special forces entered a house and exchanged fire with gun­men. There were no reports of casu­alties. Israeli military officials said the ·soldiers were attempting to prevent attacks on a nearby Jewish settle­ment and fired at two armed  for the job, Gen. Nasser Yousef, in part because he does not want to relinquish control over the security services. Qureia's successor, Mahmoud Abbas, was pushed out by Arafat over the same issue. Arafat and Qureia met Thursday along with leaders of the ruling Fatah movement, but failed to  
Qureia is also holding up renewal of high-level contacts with Israel, and it might derail a conference of inter­national donors who have been sup­porting the cash-strapped Palestinian Authority. In violence Thursday, three Palestinians were killed, two in the  Palestinians. The officials denied that soldiers entered a village. At issue in the Palestinian Cabinet dispute is the appointment of an interior minister who would consoli­date the security forces -some of which are under the command of Arafat ­and play a key role in pos­ resolve the dispute. The United States has been push­ing for consolidation of the security forces under control of the prime minister as a precursor for action against militants. Qureia has said he prefers a negotiated end to violence, not a crackdown.  


page 6 Friday, November 7, 2003 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Canada-U.S. drug firm shut down 
Associated Press 
TULSA -A federal judge granted the government's request Thursday to shut down a U.S. company that helps cus­tomers buy cheaper prescrip­tion drugs from Canada. 
The decision is a blow to cus­tomers who use Rx Depot's 85 storefronts nationwide to buy less expensive medicine. It also could affect cities and states that are considering allowing employees to import drugs to 
cut prescription costs. 
U.S. District Judge Claire Eagan wrote that the Tulsa-based company, also known as Rx Canada, offers lower prices only because it facili­tates "illegal activ­ity determined by Congress to harm the public inter­est." 
Only manufac­turers are allowed 
to bring medicines into the country. The judge found that Rx Depot "openly and notori­ously" violated the law. 
Americans have long flocked to Canada to fill prescriptions that can cost less than half the drugs' U.S. price because of currency exchange rates and government price controls. But what began with patients cross­ing the border to buy their own drugs has developed in the past year into a booming Internet and mail-order business. 
The FDA and U.S. drug com­panies have criticized the prac­tice, saying they can't guaran­tee the safety of Canadian drugs. 
"This ruling sends a clear sig­nal that those who would put profit before safety will not be allowed to threaten the public health," the Food and Drug Administration said in a state­ment Thursday. 
Carl Moore, Rx Depot's founder, said he had not seen the ruling Thursday but would 

"This ruling sends In a letter to the 
company, the FDA 
a clear signal to 
acknowledgedthose who would that it has limited put profit before enforcement 
jurisdiction, but
safety will not be 
said it will review 
allowed to threaten its options and the public health ... forward the infor­
mation to Canadian authori­
Food and Drug 
ties. 
Administration C a n a R x statement President G. 
comply in shutting down the stores immediately. He also pledged to appeal. 
"I'm going to do my part to see drug prices lowered in this country," Moore said. "If I have to change my way of thinking to comply with the judge's ruling, I'll do so." 
Also Thursday, the FDA accused Ontario-based CanaRx of shipping illegal drugs into the United States, misleading consumers about safety and 
putting people at 
risk. 
Anthony Howard 
said his company is "not breaking any laws in Canada or in the United States." 
The mayor of Springfield, Mass., the first city to allow its employees to buy drugs from Canada through CanaRx, said the city won't be deterred by the FDA. 
..We are not intimidated in Springfield, Mass., and we are not going to be intimidated," said Mayor Michael Albano. He dismissed the idea that drugs 1 bought by his city's employees from Canadian pharmacies were unsafe. 


-ataQonia
exclttSively 
at~·
Sminute~ ~ 
from OUTPOST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Cowardice charges dismissed 
Army interrogator corpse, Pogany says he began here is a consequence of the shaking and vomiting and changed character of an all­now charged with feared for his life. Soon, volunteer force," Goure said. Pogany says. he had trouble "The strain gets worse whendereliction of duty sleeping and started suffering you have longer deployments what he thought were panic or multiple deployments or 
Associated Press 
attacks. changing deployments." 
FORT CARSON, Colo. -The Six weeks later, Pogany, 32, Assigned to the lOth Special Army dismissed a cowardice was charged Forces Group, charge and filed a lesser count with cowardice, Pogany was against an Army interrogator a count that he "What is tragic attached to a who sought counseling after said was filed team of Green
about this is the 
he saw the body of an Iraqi after he sought Berets on Sept. 26
message being sent 
man cut in half by American counseling. when he departed fire. Pogany denies to other soldiers.·· for Iraq. He Staff Sgt. Georg-Andreas that he acted in declined to dis­Pogany was charged with cuss his responsi­
a cowardly way. Georg-Andreas Pogany 
dereliction of duty, according "What is trag-bilities, citing 
to a statement released ic about this is Army staff sergeant security issues. 
"I \vant simplicity. Witl1 nine ATMs on campus, Notre Datne Federal Credit Union understands my wants and my needs." 
~ 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • W\V\v.ndfcu.org 

9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 
-----------------·----· ... ~--··-· ·--~--...._············------------l 
Three days later, he was standing in a U.S. compound near Samarra north of Baghdad when soldiers brought in the Iraqi man's bloody body. The soldiers told Pogany the man was killed after he was seen shooting a rocket-propelled grenade. 
Pogany said he was shaken, couldn't focus and kept vomit­ing. He told his commanders he believed he was suffering from panic attacks or a nerv­ous breakdown and requested counseling. 
At least one officer suggested he consider what such a request would do to his career, Pogany said. When he sought help, "I was told that I was wasting their time,'' Pogany said. 
Pogany was examined by psychologist Capt. Marc Houck, who concluded he had signs consistent with normal combat stress reaction. Houck recommended Pogany be given a brief rest before returning to duty, but he was sent home to Fort Carson in mid-October and charged with "cowardly conduct as a result of fear." 

Thursday afternoon by Fort 
Carson officials. A military 
court hearing set Friday for 
Pogany was canceled. 
The new charge was filed by the company commander after military judges dismissed the cowardice charge, officials said. "He believes that this charge is most appropriate to address the alleged miscon­duct based upon the evidence that is currently available," an Army statement said. 
Army officials did not imme­diately return phone calls for comment. Neither did Pogany nor his attorney. 
Attorney Frank Spinner, a retired Air Force colonel who handles military cases, said dereliction of duty is a minor offense that, if disposed of without a court-martial, usual­ly is penalized by loss of pay or reduction in rank. 
With a court-martial, the maximum penalty is several months confinement, said Spinner, of Colorado Springs. Whether a court-martial is held depends on the military judiciary. 
After seeing the mangled 
the message being sent to other soldiers," Pogany said recently. "It's not about me." 
Cowardice violations can be punished by death. Military code does not include a mini­mum sentence. 
Army officials have declined to discuss the case. 
Cowardice charges are rare. The last such conviction in the Army occurred during the Vietnam War. Charges were filed against a married couple during the Gulf War, but reduced to mistreatment of public property, said Eugene Fidell, president of the National Institute of Military Justice. 
"You have to look pretty hard to find any of these cases," Fidell said. "We have a well-trained army that is a motivated one." 
Pogany's case and others that are similar suggest Iraqi deployments are wearing thin, said military analyst Dan Goure of the Lexington Institute, a Washington, D.C.­based think tank. 
"I think what you are seeing 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 9 856.97 +36.14 
Jones ' 
···> Same: ~ Composite Volume:
1;893 192 ..,._..,,, 1,406,0~016 
NASDAQ 1,976.37 +17.00 NYSf 5,985.24 + 18.66 AMEX 1,065.20 +0.64 S&P 500 1,058.05 +6.24 NIKKEl (Tokyo) 10,552.30 0.00 
FTSE 100 4,324.20 +20.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +5.05 + 1.10 22.90 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.83 +0.35 12.70 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.50 +0.13 26.23 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.42 -0.06 4. 17 liNTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.13 +0.38 34.12 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND + 1.20 +0.62 52.42 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.56 +0.68 44.18 S-YEARNOTE +2.19 +0.73 34.00 3-I'1QI\ITH BILl -0.64 +0.06 9.27 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bti) -0.04 30.26 GOLD ($/Trcy oz.) -2.00 381.00 PORK BB.lJES (anslb.) +1.70 87.80 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 110.2 EURO 0.8765 POUND 0.5998 CANADI,4N$ 1.342 
IN BRIEF 

Sony, Bertelsmann to merge 
FRANKFURT, Germany -Bertelsmann AG and Sony Corp. announced a preliminary plan to merge their music businesses Thursday, setting the stage for a music company that would vie for world primacy with Universal Music Group. 
A merger of Sony Music Entertainment and Bertelsmann's BMG, if it comes to pass, would bring together the world's No. 2 and No. 5 music companies as the industry struggles with losses blamed on music piracy. 

The new company. to be called Sony BMG, would be equally owned by Sony and Bertelsmann and run by Andrew Lack, chair­man and chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment. Rolf Schmidt-Holtz, the chair­man and chief executive of BMG, would serve as chairman of the board. 
Bertelsmann didn't say whether the two companies had agreed on financial terms in their letter of intent or what issues remained to be worked out before a final agreement could be struck. Patrick Reilly, a spokesman for BMG, said the two companies had agreed to hold exclusive talks, but he did not say for how long. 
Kroger to negotiate with union 
INDIANAPOLIS -Kroger Co. and the union representing workers at 58 of the chain's cen­tral Indiana supermarkets resumed negotia­tions Thursday, two days after agreeing to a seven-day contract extension amid threats of a strike. 
Kroger spokesman Jeff Golc declined to dis­cuss whether negotiators were making progress toward a settlement and would not say whether the parties had made conces­sions. 
The two sides signed the contract extension Tuesday night -hours before the contract had been set to expire-after a federal medi­ator persuaded them to give negotiations another chance. 
Golc said he did not know whether the medi­ator was directly participating in Thursday's talks, which involve the Cincinnati-based chain's 4,000 central Indiana employees rep­resented by United Food and Commercial Workers Local 700. 
Associated Press 
ROME -Russian President Vladimir Putin sought to reassure the European Union on Thursday that the legal case against his coun­try's largest oil company was fair and would not threaten the econo­my -a grave concern for nations with strong financial ties to Moscow. 
Putin tried to strengthen ties to the EU before the bloc's eastward expansion next year, but his talks at the 15-nation summit revolved around last month's jailing of Yukos oil giant founder and chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky on fraud, forgery, embezzlement and tax evasion charges. 

-

Friday, November 7, 2003 page 7 




Big deficits burden economy 
Greenspan calls for deficit reduction, but notes improvements in job market 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Soar­ing government budget deficits threaten the econ­omy in the long term and must be brought under control, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Thursday. But in an upbeat assessment of cur­rent conditions, Greenspan said the odds "increasingly favor" the creation of new jobs. 
In a speech to the Securities Industry Association; Greenspan delivered his ·most detailed assessment of the state of the economy since testi­mony before Congress last July. 
He struck an optimistic tone, noting a growing number of signs of strength in recent months and said that even the weak job market should soon start to show improvement. 
··The odds ... do increas­ingly favor a revival in job creation," Greenspan said. 
However, in his remarks delivered by satellite to the gathering in Boca Raton, Fla., Greenspan also gave his most blunt warnings to date about the federal budget deficit, which hit a record $37 4 billion in the just complet­ed 2003 budget year and deficits rather than raising cuts or increases in other means taking reduced is projected to top $500 taxes. taxes, a rule that would benefits. billion-in 2004. ··Tax rate increases of make it hard for Bush to Asked about Greenspan's 
If the red ink is not sufficient dimension to achieve one of his top eco­concerns, White House brought under control by deal with our looming fis­nomic goals, making the press secretary Scott the time baby boomers cal problems arguably tax cuts permanent. McClelland said, "The start retiring, Greenspan pose significant risks to The Fed chairman also president believes that the said it could have economic growth and the urged reinstatement of deficit, where we are right "notable, destabilizing revenue base," Greenspan limits on the amount that now, is manageable, and effects" on future growth said. discretionary government that's why he has a plan in prospects as increased Democrats have blamed spending could rise in any place to address it and payouts for Social Security the deficit explosion in year. bring it down.". and Medicare collide with large part on President Greenspan said the Analysts said they rising interest payments Bush's three rounds of tax nation's budget problems believed that Greenspan on the national debt. cuts, while Republicans would become more acute decided to step up his crit­
Greenspan, a lifelong contend the tax cuts made in just five years, when the icism of Congress and the Republican first appointed the recession less severe. first wave of baby boomers administration for failing Fed chairman by Ronald Greenspan once again hits the age of 62, the time to deal with the budget Reagan, came down urged the reinstatement of when about half of deficits now that the econ­squarely on the side of budget rules that require prospective Social Security omy appeared to be cutting government spend­any future tax cuts to be beneficiaries choose to mounting a sustained ing to deal with the offset by either spending retire even though it recovery. 
ITALY 

Putin reassures EU amid charges 
A large chunk of the company's shares also were frozen. 
Putin pledged that Russian law was not being applied in a discrimi­natory way. 
"Nobody is beyond the law," Putin said after the summit in a Renaissance villa in Rome ...No matter how complicated and con­tradictory laws can be, they still have to be respected." 
Putin has taken a hard line in the $1 billion case against Khodorkovsky, insisting that the allegations be investigated thor­oughly. Critics at home and abroad have seen the probe as an attempt to curb Khodorkovsky's financial and political clout and to retaliate for his funding of opposition par­ties. 
Putin said Russia's actions regarding Yukos would not affect Russian policy or its economy. 
"Our activities are guided by the fact that we want to put our house in order," Putin said. 
Putin criticized illegal actions during post-communist privatiza­tions but indicated that Russia would not void such deals because "the consequences would be even worse." 
EU Commission President Romano Prodi said, "We have been reas­sured that the Ia w will not be applied in a discriminatory manner. We wanted this assurance because this is key for further cooperation in the economic field." 
I I I I I I 
, I 
I I I 
~ 
~ ~ 
I 
~ 
I I 
~ 
I I I 

Friday, November 7, 2003

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Friday, November 7, 2003 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Bush pushes for democracy 
President wants to spread democracy in the Middle East 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Repudiating decades of U.S. 
policy, President Bush said 
Thursday the United States 
and its allies have been wrong 
in "excusing and accommodat­
ing" a lack of freedom in the 
Middle East. He prodded 
Saudi Arabia and Egypt to 
lead Arab nations toward 
democracy. 
Mindful of widespread anger and mistrust in the Muslim world toward the United States, Bush also said that as democratic governments emerge in the Middle East, they should reflect their own cultures and "will not and should not look like us." 
He said it would take time for democracy to spread and the United States would be "patient and understanding." 
Bush's speech appeared aimed at complaints in the Arab world that the United States has long tolerated cor­rupt, undemocratic regimes in return for stability and a reli­able supply of oil. Washington began to rethink its policy after the terrorist attacks of Sept 11, 2001, and the emer­gence of deep hostility in the Mideast toward the United States. Fifteen of the Sept. 11 hijackers came from Saudi Arabia. 
"Sixty years of Western nations excusing and accom­modating the lack of freedom in the Middle East did nothing to make us safe -and in the long run, stability cannot be purchased at the expense of liberty," the president said in a groundbreaking conclusion. 
"As long as the Middle East remains a place where free­dom does not flourish," he said, "it will remain a place of stagnation, resentment and violence ready for export. And with the spread of weapons that can bring catastrophic harm to our country and to our friends, it would be reck­less to accept the status quo." 
Bush spoke before the National Endowment for Democracy, an organization formed during the Reagan administration to promote global freedom. In another step crucial to his policy in the Middle East, Bush later signed into law an $87.5 billion increase dangers to the American people and extin­guish the hopes of millions in the region," he said. 
While a few governments have made moves toward democracy, most countries in the region are ruled by authoritarian regimes and royal families. "Basically every Arab country has an autocratic regime," said Judith Kipper of the Council on Foreign Relations. "Some are more benign than others but there's no real democracy in the Arab world." 
Bush said some 
skeptics assert the 

package for "It should be clear traditions of Islam military and are incompatible
to all that Islam ...
reconstruction with representative efforts in Iraq is consistent with government. 
a n d democratic rule ... "It should be Afghanistan clear to all that "With this act Islam -the faith of
George W. Bush
of Congress, no one-fifth of human­enemy or U.S. president ity -is consistent 
friend can doubt that America has the resources and the will to see this war through to victory," Bush said. 
Middle East scholars said Bush's appeal for democracy lacked any followup programs. 
"No new programs announced, no new money for promoting democracy -just rhetoric," said Martin Indyk, who had been assistant secre­tary of state for the Middle East in the Clinton administra­tion 
"The rhetoric isn't going to move the hardliners in Iran, Vasser Arafat or the govern­ments in Saudi Arabia and Egypt who are now scared of the consequences of the kind of political liberalization that the president is preaching to them," Indyk said. 
Bush put Iraq at the center of hopes for democracy. 
"The failure of Iraqi democ­racy would embolden terror­ists around the world, 
with democratic 

rule," the president said. He said democratic progress has been found in predominantly Muslim coun­tries including Turkey, Indonesia, Senegal, Albania, Niger and Sierra Leone. 
There was mixed reaction to 
his speech in the region. 
In Amman, Jordan, busi­nessman Khalid Salim said: "I support completely President Bush's speech concerning democracy in the Middle East and hope that his words will be in effect soon." 
However, worker Samer Hussein said angrily: "With the justification of democracy, 
Bush and the Americans plan to occupy Arab and Muslim lands. We tell him, we do not want his democracy." 
Bush said the absence of freedom in the Mideast has had terrible consequences, including widespread poverty and denial of school and rights for women. 
Regula tors seeking pop-up ad changes 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Regulators disclosed a new legal cam­paign Thursday against an annoying method for deliver­ing unwanted "pop-up" Internet advertisements, accusing a California company of "high-tech extortion" in its offers for software to block the very ads it was sending. 
The courtroom effort by the Federal Trade Commission could dampen some of the most irritating practices by Internet marketers, who have learned ways to display intru­sive messages on computer screens using a technology built into most ver­model." 
The FTC asked the judge to block D-Squared from sending any more advertisements or selling its ad-blocking soft­ware. It also wants D-Squared to repay consumers who bought its software, whkh Beales said represents "hun­dreds of thousands" of dollars. 
The head of D-Squared Solutions, Anish Dhingra, declined to comment on the government's accusations. His lawyer, Jacob C. Reinbolt, did not return repeated telephone calls to his office from The Associated Press. 
Windows Messenger Service 
-unrelated to 
Microsoft's 
instant-messag­

sions of ing software
"This is a shot 
Microsoft Corp.'s that uses the 
across the bow. ,
Windows soft­same name ­ware. commonly "This is a shot Mark Rasch allows network across the bow," technology law expert administrators 
said Mark Rasch, an expert on technology law and former head of the Justice Department cyber-crimes division. 
The FTC obtained a tempo­rary restraining order against D-Squared Solutions LLC of San Diego from a U.S. District Court in Baltimore. The FTC's legal papers accuse D­Squared of unlawfully exploit­ing Microsoft's "Windows Messenger Service" feature by sending unwanted ads to Internet users as frequently as once every 10 minutes. 
The director for the FTC's bureau of consumer protec­tion, Howard Beales, said company executives were "creating a problem and try­ing to charge customers for the solution." He called that "high-tech extortion" and "a fundamentally unfair business 
to display mes­
sages on a 
user's computer 

screen, such as a warning that a company's Internet connection might be having problems. 
But some Internet mar­keters have seized upon the technology to display ads for software and pornography, unless computer users manu­ally turn it off or use firewall software to block out unwant­ed messages. 
It takes seven mouse clicks to disable the messenger serv­ice; the FTC said typical con­sumers don't know how to do this. 
The FTC's legal papers allege the advertisements caused "substantial injury" to consumers, citing lost data, crashed computers, frustra­tion, annoyance and harass­ment. 

•
THE JOHN MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL 

GREAT FOOD -14 SCREENS 
*I miss my Mommy Buffet Home cooked food every Sunday 5-8pm, starts Nov. 9 *Carryout/Tailgate Trays Available-Call ahead and make us your Gameday Headquarters *LIVE MUSIC -Daryl Buchanan and Easy Ed, Nov.7, 9pm-? 
272-1766 
Friday, November 7, 2003 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Righteous Brothers Judge blocks abortion ban 
singer found dead Ruling puts hold on 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The most-played song in U.S. radio history, "You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling," pulsed anew over the airwaves Thursday as fans mourned the death of the Righteous Brothers' Bobby Hatfield. 
Hatfield, who with partner Bill Medley were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame ear­lier this year, died Wednesday in a hotel room in Kalamazoo. He was 63. 
Hatfield's body was discovered 45 minutes before the duo was to perform at Miller Auditorium on the Western Michigan University campus, manager David Cohen said. He was pro­nounced dead at 7:02p.m. EST. 
Preliminary results of an autop­sy conducted Thursday at 
Sparrow Hospital in "Jt·s a shock. a real Hatfield organ­
ation of abortion providers in 

Lansing indicated shock ... ized singing and 
the United States and Canada ­

Hatfield died of a instrumental 
says that its members perform 

heart attack, the groups in high 
half of abortions nationwide. 

David Cohen 
Kalamazoo school while 
The new law outlaws a proce­

manager
Department of helping his par­
dure generally performed in the 

Public Safety said in a statement. 
Hatfield was a smoker, but Cohen said he was not aware of any chronic health problems afflicting the singer. 
"It's a shock, a real shock," Cohen said, adding that Medley was "broken up. He's not even coherent." 
The Righteous Brothers, whose other hits included "Unchained Melody," "(You're My) Soul and Inspiration" and "Rock and Roll Heaven," were in Kalamazoo to kick off four days of performances in Michigan and Ohio. 
The duo's signature 1965 sin­gle, "You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling," has been frequently cited as the most-programmed song in American radio history. The inclusion of their songs in films such as "Top Gun," "Ghost" and "Dirty Dancing" repeatedly re-established the Righteous brand. 
Hatfield's soaring tenor and Medley's polished baritone were wrapped around pop tunes dur­ing the ascendancy of guitar rock. Their style was dubbed "blue-eyed soul." 
"Sometimes people with blue eyes transcended the limitations of what their color and culture can actually be," singer Billy Joel said during the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction cer­emony for the duo. "Sometimes white people can actually be soulful. This was a life-changing idea. It changed my life." 
Speaking to reporters in March, Hatfield recalled that the "blue-eyed soul" label came from disc jockeys. not him or Medley. 
"It's kind of goofy," Hatfield said. 
Robert Lee Hatfield was born Aug. 10, 1940, in Beaver Dam, 
Wis. His family 
moved to 
Anaheim, Calif., 
when he was 4. 
law to block certain late-term abortions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In a ruling with potentially coast-to-coast effect, a federal judge blocked the gov­ernment's new ban on certain late-term abortions Thursday in a rapidly escalating legal battle that began even before President Bush signed the measure. 
The ruling was the second such setback for the Bush administration in 24 hours. 
U.S. District Judge Richard Casey granted a request by the National Abortion Federation and seven doctors to prevent enforcement of the ban until a challenge to the law's constitu­tionality can be heard. 
While the ruling applies only to the plaintiffs, it is expected to have broad application: The fed­eration -a professional associ­tions using every resource neces­sary." 

"It means that
Douglas Johnson, a partly born babies spokesman for 
will continue to die 
the National 

at the point of
Right to Life 

Committee, said 7-inch scissors., the New York judge's ruling 
Douglas Johnson 
was "not surpris­

National Right to Life
ing but it is dis­tressing." Committee 
"It means that spokesman partly born babies will con­
ents with their 
dry cleaning 
business. 
An avid athlete, Hatfield con­sidered a career in professional baseball, but found his true call­ing in music -a love he pur­sued while attending Long Beach State University, where he formed a band and performed at bars and proms. 
Hatfield teamed up with Medley in 1962 as part of a five­piece group called The Paramours. According to the Righteous Brothers Web site, a black Marine called out during one of their performances, "That second or third trimester in which a fetus is partially deliv­ered before being killed, usually by puncturing its skull. Anti­abortion activists call the proce­dure "partial-birth abortion." President Clinton twice vetoed similar bills. 
The ruling follows a separate decision Wednesday by a feder­al judge in Nebraska who also blocked the ban, less than an hour after Bush signed it. Opponents of the ban had sued even before the measure became law. The Nebraska rul­ing covered four doctors, who together are licensed in 13 states across the Midwest and East, and their staffS. 
A San Francisco judge has also scheduled arguments in a similar challenge. 
Abortion-rights advocates expect a showdown over the law with the Bush administra­tion at the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The Justice Department said in a statement that it "will con­tinue to strongly defend the law prohibiting partial birth abor­is necessary to protect some women's health. He said there is a good chance that those chal­lenging the law will succeed. 
The ruling should have an effect nationwide, said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. 
"It's hard to imagine the fed­eral government would try to enforce the law against anyone who might be providing abor­tions but is not a member of the protected group," Lieberman 
said. 
American Civil Liberties Union attorney Talcott Camp said it "would be quite troubling indeed if the Justice Department attempted to enforce" the ban while the chal­lenges are pending. 
"Many physicians were indeed pan­icked at the prospect of having 
tinue to die at the point of 7­inch scissors," he said. "Certainly these judicial orders severely impede the govern­ment's ability to protect these premature infants." 
Opponents of the law said it is overly broad, lacks any exemp­tion for the health of a woman seeking an abortion and could outlaw several safe and com­mon procedures. They also con­tended it is the first step in a larger campaign to ban all abor­tions and undo Roe v. Wave, the Supreme Court's 1973 land­mark decision establishing a woman's right to an abortion. 
The federal judge in New York said it is clear that some doctors believe the outlawed procedure to face criminal prosecution for providing the absolute best medical ·care they can," she said. 
In addition, legal observers said the Nebraska ruling might be more sweeping than first thought. 
They said the ruling is worded in such a way that it could allow abortion doctors across the country to skirt the law. 
While the judge stopped short of saying his order was to be enforced nationwide, he said it applied to the four doctors who filed the suit and their "col­leagues, employees and entities ... with whom plaintiffs work. teach. supervise or refer" patients. 

was righteous, brothers!" They renamed themselves the Righteous Brothers before the 
CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING 
release of their first album in 1963. 

AND RACISM
"You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling," the template for pro­ducer Phil Spector's "wall of sound" technique, was released just as British rock 'n' roll was 
A LECTURE BY

beginning to dominate U.S. record charts and airwaves. 
PROFESSOR MARGARET PFEIL





halimar 
~l&iEI•ifllml) 

9-t',l<~ ~ Chttkirllc 6~'-L:.s•.l.J>Ie 
508 \V_ Mc.Kinlev Avt>mn, Mishawaka, IN 46S45 

574-254-9070 Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
.,...._..-.-.w..,·.~ ..-.........-·-·-......-r-"1 
., D~
DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! ~. ~. 
~--~·~ 

:: ''/1 K-M~~ !t
Monday -Sunday 11:30 -2:30 pm :l L-~-j 1t> 
Dinner Hours I '~~~~'..ti 
THEOLOGY., ND 

AUTHOn OF PUBLICATIONS ON SOCIAL SlN, SOCIAL RECONCILIATION, DEVELOPMENT OF DOCTRL"'E, AND ACTI'\>"E NONVlOLENCE DR. PFEIL HOLDS DEGREES FROM NOTRE DAME AND WESTON J-ESUIT SCHOOL O.F THEOLOGY. SHE HAS WORKED AS A LAY MISSIONARY IN CHILE AND WITH LATINOS IN OHIO. HER BOOK. NAMING SOCJA.L SIN. WILL APPEAR Jo'ROM NOTRE DAl\~.E PRESS. 
GAME DAY NOV.8 12:30-1:15 
HESBURGH INTERNATIONAL CENTER AUDITORIUM, ALL \VELCO.ME 
Sunday-Monday 5:00pm-9:30pm <................................................~..-·.w>-v.··~~' FUTURE LECTURES, ALSO SPONSORED BY 1\'D THE PROGRAM fN CATHOLIC SOClAL TEACHING Friday & Saturday 5:00pm-IO:OOpm 
ll-15-03 "'\-"\>TiO IS MY NEJGHBOR? SUBlJRBAN Sl'RAWL, CATHOLIC SOCIAL THO!fGIIT, AND THE COMC\10l'i GOOD,"
r,-------.-------..... -~-..... ~ ....,-......... -------·­
~ 
PROFESSOR VIJ..;CL"Vr ROUGEAlJ, ND LAW SCHOOL 
Jfl.t~~-01u: Di.on(·t i:ntn~~~ ! 1501 OFF ,$1 OQ OFF f 
I l.>d ,, 'ws_ :..sm5 l:.n!nx· t 1() t " -• -1 fJU:VlOUS U:Clt:JY;; I 1/2 0 FF ' C< ,._) t .~ ' AU you can edt I
t : _an~ <u oruer : DJily Lunch Buffet 1 9-20-{13 "CATHOUC TEACJIJ:-.IG Al'iD l.ABOR: THE WAR 01'\ WAL,fART WORl(ERS," I'ROFESSOR THERESA t"'\th"<t~ -~)!').' : ( ·:·~>.; ..:•)) :x: :;.,$:.;. f;-h)f,·-~•\ ;:·~·,. l (_\'-''f"-•(\ ~'1\:: l•N• . . . . I CIULARDVCCI, ECO~O,UCS, ND
I .... : ....... 1 ....tilt'.,,..~ .. ··\~' -:h-4'" ..;;:.r I ~'~ '-~-~~ .... -:s1> ;..jw .:4t.-J.:f J~~ ·>,:ut I ,.:v t<:t: 1 ~l'\.,:·plc ~.;t,s,<:~u: vnh.·: 11·1-03 "KILLING THE POOR: CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING, PL'"BLIC llEAl.TH, & E~Vm.0~.\1£!'-.TAI. JUSTICE." I ·, ......., ... ·~. . ..... ·).·. . I .·..~ '· '·· ...•,...,.........,~., ...... ~'••.-t -~~....:. t ."".. t···l<-~; -«~~-s ,,.,,!, .,.• ~,..JL.:, ,:,.~)'.<(4-...t I PltOFF.SSOn KlUSTI!'I SHI~\DER-FRECHETTF.., PHILOc'>Ol'IIY/810 LOGICAL SCJESCES. :'liD 
L --~~!:.:r ~~~~ ---'----~!P.S ;;,'!~~"'-·..;..;.. ;,..'---,.!!~..t!:.._~..:...-~ _J 
~----------------~-----·------~~w~r~----,-~~--------------------~-~----~------~ 
Friday, November 7, 2003 page 11
The Observer + ADVERSTISEMENT 

Meet John C. Lungren Jr. LECTURE 
..Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
c; 
., ' 
I 
1 
Friday November 7 4:00p.m. 


BOOI( SIGNING 
Saturday November 8 

10:00 a.m.-Noon in the Hammes 
Dr. john Lungren, Sr. was Richard Notre Dame Nixon's personalphysician, friend and confidante for 40 years-from 1952 Bookstore until Nixon's death in 1994. Considered a valuable contribution to presidential history, Dr. Lungren ' portrays Nixon as a paradoxical. .. and ultimately tragic man . 
.. H A M M E ·s 


IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Open to the public • Convenient parking 

THE. OBSERVER : .... 


Fans shouldn't be criticized 
·. .: . . ···.·.·· . .• .. ·:· 
RO. BoJ!: Q< Noue .()am~ 1N 46S5<l <> . 024 Sot1tlfDj~itii Hall. Not:R l;)~~IN ~6~~ • · 
· . · EOIJOR ~N Clmf .·.· Andr~w Saukup 

MANJ\GING EDITOR BOSlNESS MANAGER . . Scott.Brodfuehrer Lori Lcwa!Ski 
. AssT. MANAGING EDITOR. · Sbdlaflynn 
·••••· NmEoiroJU Meghann~ Downes 


. . VIEWPoiNT EDITOR: Teresa Fralish 
.. SPORTS ED!J'()~ J9~ }'lcttier ··. : .·:·Scl!Nt EDrroli: S:iiahVabulas 
. . .. 

.Si.INT MARY's Eolroi: Annellese Woolford 
. . . ........ . 
GRAPHlCS EDrroR:. Mike Harkins · · . 

ADVER'llSJNc MANAGJ!ft! Maura Ceiiec:lella . AD OOJGN MANAG£R: TQ~nHaight :. Sl$1'BMS APMJNJSrMTORr. 'fed Bangert ·: · 
·WEB ADMINISTRATOR;. JasAil: Gi#k .·. CoN1'ROWR: Mi~ nal11ilgilll. 
·POLlCtES 

·pub~~~~r:n~ ~~no~e~~ :!:~~< <
< : 

~:;:;~~io~:::~·~~~~~~.··~··············. ~i.~£;,&~~~ff:!;: ·•• ·. pos~~~~ler~~~Sn7J:cttffif~ras•.•• •·· 
dte majocity i:!fthe Edifur iu Chief. M~g Editt»"; .·. · Assistant Managillg Editor ana d.epaninenr e<ihors~ .·••. · · Comment:arla, Jette!'$ and ~olumns present the views Q[ the authors and nor n~ytlwse offhe-.·· ·. .· ObsefWt.:..·.· ·V'IeWpOinu~ is aV:Ulitbk tQ all ~~rs:''fhe free ··•·• ·· . expression ofaU opmionuhrough letters is eru::oorag&t l.etttrs to the Editor rnustbe signed andmustiilclw:ie 
conract informatiol'l; . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . 
.. :· :_·:·: ,.. ',<. ._:._ .· ..· .....:... :.:··:.....:.. 

..•• PosT OFF~i INFORMATION ·····•··• •·····•······ .·. . Th<o..-<V$i>-j~',!!j l·~~ .. ~~n<i.y tb....fndoy~d~·"" .·:::===A~~!ol~~~fUllil()l~~i<·· 
ThfOt.._.;;.,~~·~~ · ·· > rosr~a . 
1124 Sollt'ls tlWRi Hill. · · ... • s...<t ..tdta.....,,;.,rions ~ ~o......t)ii#S~.·.. ·.Tli.'~~m · ... · l'l:tk>&al·..,.,.....•..··.~<!..'$.~.. ..D~· · · ilo lio~Q ·. · .... 
.... d ..LI~~T.r.lii~, ofllo.>:t, >/ < .:·. :O:iis..iwtl n&.~Hall •.••.•>.·. . · 
NoM~ Po-•.IN ;6~54'~7.79
·:: :·: .. ···:. . . .· . . . . . . 

. . :.:~~~-~~.,.~·~~~hll~iionriiAit~ 

. 
. . . ·. . .·. ... . 
··••· TODAY'S STAFF·.. 

News .. Graphics MaureenReynolds Graham Ebetsch Will Puckett Sports. Megan O'Neil. Chris Federico Viewpoint HeatherVan· Nicole Clery Hoegarden Illustrator Scene Vanessa Saenz Jonathan Retartha · 
Last Saturday, Notre Dame welcomed Florida State to South this game was not just any loss. Coming into the game, Notre Bend for what fans knew would be one of the season's tough­Dame had little left to play for but pride. Few students serious­est games. Though the Irish have struggled much of the year . ly believed that the Irish would end up with a victory. Still. students and fans hoped to see their team make they flocked to the game to support the Irish and a valiant effort against the No. 5 Seminoles. see them put up a valiant fight against a premier They gathered at Notre Dame Stadium to cheer OJhe football team.
userver 
on their team just like at any other game. Instead. students witnessed Notre Dame's Only this wasn't like any other game. No mat­worst defeat in almost 50 years -or for some ter how hard the student section cheered, the students. the first 50 minutes of it. As a result of 

Editorial
Irish seemed bamboozled by the Seminoles . Saturday's loss, Michigan replaced Notre Dame Notre Dame players looked helpless, and many students won­as the team with the all time highest winning percentage. dered what happened to the "Fight" in Fighting Irish. For the Thousands grow up loving Notre Dame, and this University first time in 25 years, a team shut out the Irish at home. is based on the level of excellence the Irish exemplify both on Students were dying to find anything to cheer for, even doing and off the field. This is what created the Notre Dame mys­the traditional scoring pushups for first downs and punts. But tique. It didn't always bring victory to the Irish. but there was the Irish only earned their second first down in the third quar­always the feeling that those boys in the blue and gold were ter of the game and ultimately failed to score in seven consec­playing with all their might. It is a feeling that some consid­utive quarters at home. As the clock ticked down in the fourth ered nonexistent last Saturday. quarter and the team continued to make devastating mistakes, It's shameful that Notre Dame fans left Saturday's game distraught Irish fans and students began to find it too painful early, but the level of performance at which the football team to remain and watch their beloved team get mauled. As a is playing is as equally upsetting. While it's easy to argue that result, a considerable amount of students headed for the fans should support their team through good times and bad, exits. those that don't want to watch a sub-par Notre Dame team 
At Notre Dame, leaving early is considered sacrilegious. But flounder this year shouldn't be criticized when they leave 
Revise ticket procedures 
In the.last three years, the Notre Dame men's basket­now change future distributions so all students receive a ball team has won at least 20 or more games three fair shot at purchasing tickets. times, reached the NCAA tournament three times, made There are several options the University could adopt. the second round twice and earned a Sweet There could be a lottery for tickets, which Sixteen berth once. The Irish consistently would give all those interested in buying
OJhe
enjoy success at the Joyce Center, losing tickets a fair chance to purchase them. The
userver
only two home games last year. ticket distribution time could also be This remarkable success, after years of changed to later in the day or to the week­struggling, has elicited a positive response end, so students could purchase tickets


Editorial 
from the student body. Last season, the 2,800 student tickets booklets sold out by noon of the second day of sales. which was in record time -until this year. Due to last season's success, even more stu­dents want tickets. and all student booklets sold in a mere four-and-a-half hours. This swift sell-out, com­bined with confusion over the distribution procedures, caused problems for students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for various reasons. This included class conflicts or other commitments. 
Saint Mary's students who attempted to purchase tick­ets faced additional confusion. Many students waited in line at the Joyce Center, only to be told they were not eligible to purchase tickets. Additionally, only 125 book­lets were available for St. Mary's students to purchase. 
Though it was unlikely the University could have pre­dicted how quickly the booklets would sell out, it must 
without missing class. The final option could be to sell a limited number of student tickets for individual games a day prior to the game, and then release any remaining tickets for purchase by the gener­al public. Students would then control whether they received tickets based on who chose to wait in line the longest. 
In light of the strong interest at Saint Mary's, the University must also allot more tickets to those students and provide clear instructions on how to obtain them. 
As the men's team continues to achieve high success and generate increased enthusiasm among fans, the University must understand that more than 2,800 stu­dents will want to watch the team at home. It must · adopt an improved distribution plan that will make the ticket allocation fair for every student who wishes to attend the games. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Don't limit business majors 
I was disturbed to read that Notre Dame is considering limit­ing the number of students who can enroll in the undergradu­ate business school because the proportion of business majors at Notre Dame is "extremely high relative to the average per­centage of undergraduate business majors at Notre Dame's top 20 peer institutions." according to a Nov. 6 article. 
We have an outstanding business program. It's very popular among students, and it's producing successful people. How is this a problem beyond assuring that there's enough cla,ssroom space and professors? 
Well, it's a problem at Notre Dame because the universities we want to emulate, our "aspirational peers," don't have the same enrollment mix. We don't have the pride and self-respect 
• 

OBSERVER POLL 
How often do you meet with a professor outside of class? 
a. 
At least once per week 10% 

b. 
At least once per month 25% 

c. 
At least once per semester 30% d. Never 35% 


*Poll is based on 77 responses. 
to acknowledge that we have something great. a business pro­gram that our very own students are telling us is better than other schools' programs by choosing the major in record num­bers . 
Are we so self-conscious about acceptance among the alleged best universities that we assume it's a problem to be difl'erent from them? When will we stop trying to emulate the Ivy League schools, Stanford and Duke and appreciate that we already have a great university on its own merits? 
Kevin O'Neill class of7G Nov. G 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I tell the truth. it is not for the sake of convincing those who do not know it. but for the sake ofdefending those that do." 
William Blake 
poet 




Israel, the bane of Europe 
The European Commission recently conduct­ed a poll asking citizens in its member states which country poses the greatest threat to world peace. Any guesses who took first prize? The United States? North Korea? China? Luxembourg? No, no, no and no. The most dangerous country, hell­bent on world domina­
Bill Rlnner

tion is in fact Israel. 
Polls should usually be taken with a grain of salt, particularly ones A Voice of that only gauge opinions Reason and sentiments instead of potential voting habits, but this one is quite astounding. Who would have thought that Israel, a small country virtually surrounded by nations who resent its very existence, could strike such fear into the hearts of men and women alike? 
Unfortunately, this does not seem to be an aberration, as reports of this nature simply echo the rise of a new European anti-Semitism. Personally, I figured that post-modern Europe had moved beyond such antipathy after its last bad experience which started out as a whole "let's gang up on the Jews" movement, but recent incidents prove otherwise. 
A swarm ofanti-Semitic crimes is on the rise, ranging from verbal abuse and monument defamation to the firebombing oftemples and synagogues. Normally, one must remain skepti­cal about the popularity ofsuch movements that could represent only a fringe ofthe population, but incidents on a national level raise eyebrows as well. At least five countries have banned kosher food production, central to the orthodox spiritual lifestyle. Germany decided to halt all arms sales to Israel, despite being a steadfast supporter for decades. An international confer­ence on sanctions and divestment in London last year endorsed a boycott of Israel "not dis­similar to the campaign \}'hich contributed to the end ofapartheid in South Africa." 
After Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad boldly proclaimed that "the Europeans killed six million Jews out of 12 mil­lion, but today the Jews rule the world by proxy," the European Union considered but ulti­mately decided against condemning his igno­rant, hateful remarks. After instances ofthis nature, much ofthe world's Jewish population justifiably fears that the most powerful European officials are turning a blind eye towards blatant anti-Semitism. 
Admittedly, these decisions stem from a vari­ety of political factors with non-bigoted ratio­nales. The issues of Israeli sovereignty and Palestinian statehood are hotly debated throughout the world, as anyone who hears an argument against radical Islamic suicide bombers could counter with a list of alleged 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Support tradition of winning 
This is in response to Kathleen Tallmadge's Nov. 4 letter. While I understand her love for the team and wish to cheer them on through the darkest times, I think she fails to see the most important point. 
At Notre Dame, the most important tradition is winning. Not at all costs, but winning the right way. That is how Notre Dame football became as popular and as traditioned as it is today -they win, and they win the right way. 
Does anyone really think that the Notre Dame football tradition would be the same if we had 0 national championships, 0 Heisman winners, but we just tried our best each and every year? Of course not. All our traditions, from the gold helmets to the band to Touchdown Jesus and so on, stem from the fact that we are historically the winningest team in college football, ever. 
If, as Tallmadge says, "The achievement is in the journey -whether or not we ever reach the pinnacle of success is irrelevant," then the football tradition is endangered. If seasons continue the way this one has, then all Notre Dame will become is a past glory who can't keep up anymore. 
Banking on past traditions is important and expected, but it must be complemented by continued success on the field. If you don't believe me, ask the former greats of the college football world: Navy, Army, Princeton and the University of Chicago. 
Justin Spack junior Dillon Hall Nov.6 

Israeli human rights violations and vice versa. 
But come on, my European friends. Almost 60 
percent ofyou have filled your nightmare-void 
left vacant when the "evil" Soviet Union fell with 
Israel? There must be something in the water. 
No level of political enmity towards Israel can validate this alarming statistic, so one must con­sider anti-Semitism as a potential explanation. When one carefully scrutinizes our national news sources, from The New York Tunes to MSNBC, Europe comes off as the most enlight­ened continent in the world with moral authori­ty so high that many a peacenik object to America's foreign policy because European sen­timents are not in our favor. While seriously considering our allies' positions on global affairs is an important goal, questioning the Old World's rational and intellectual integrity should be as well. 
The poll is heavily skewed against Israel, but anti-Americanism is almost equally rampant throughout Europe. Correlation between the two is not unreasonable by any stretch ofthe mind, which could partially explain why Europeans now hit the streets in droves to protest attacks in Afghanistan and Iraq. These two countries, one a theocracy and the other a secular dictatorship, both opposed Israel for their own respective reasons, and American action in the region aims to discourage the rise of military power in Syria, Iran and other coun­tries with an anti-Israeli agenda. 
On the other hand, these poll results may sim­ply reflect overwhelming anti-Americanism, with Israel as the temporary scapegoat. A European might consider challenges to world peace from the United States and its enemies to be rooted in America's strong support of Israel, and this relationship leads to crisis after crisis in the Middle East. This argument has some merit, as hating the big bad guy America seems mar­ginally more rational but fails to account for such the strong Israel-fearing majority that the poll suggests. 
The European Commission knows that the poll results make the continent look terrible, and early press reports thwarted an attempted suppression of their findings. Whether this por­tion of Europeans is resoundingly anti-Semitic or just plain anti-American, the most obvious conclusion to draw is that their opinions on international affairs may be more rooted in xenophobia or naive hatred than we previously believed. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major study­ing at the London School ofEconomics. His col­umn appears every other Friday. He can be con­tacted at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
How many more body bags, President Bush? 
President Bush contends that the number ofdead American soldiers has no connection to how well the Iraqi campaign is progressing. Yet the number of killings in Iraq lies in the hands of the man who ordered American soldiers into 
Gary Caruso 

harm's way. 
Regardless 
ofthe rea­
sons given to Capitol 
persuade Comments 
the 
American 
public or the world to support the 
U.S. invasion, our troops are on Iraqi soil. More reservists are scheduled to serve long terms in Iraq, and American soldiers will remain as walking targets. It is so because they are there. 
It is also laughable to watch the president's new public relations blitz against the "bad news" com­ing from Iraq. Where is Fox News, the same network the president proclaimed as his favorite news outlet? Could its "fair and bal­anced" reporting be dependent on television ratings? Surely had Al Gore been president on Sept. 11, Fox would today be running a ban­ner at the bottom ofits screen 
screaming, "Day 788 ofbin Laden still at large" and "Day 191 since the president declared major hostil­ities ended in Iraq and Hussein still at large." 
Not showing those banners each day should be good news for Bush. Or maybe, even Fox cannot ignore the average 10 injuries per day Others contend that Clinton could 
have done more against Osma bin 
Laden. Clinton did believe that 
Hussein had weapons of mass 
destruction and did threaten to use 
military force against Iraq. Clinton 
also fired missiles at bin Laden's 
training camps. 
Where Clinton differs from Bush is that Clinton knew how to engage the international community. Yet Clinton could not adequately address foreign terror threats while he lost more than a year defending himself against impeachment. At the time, Republicans were por­traying his actions as diversions or "wagging the dog" stunts. 
Bush's bullying of the United Nations and unilateral invasion with a small coalition with few troops and little money for Iraq is Bush's own undoing. The presi­dent's actions cannot be undone by any public relations effort. To many foreign observers, Bush's parsing of words to scare Americans to sup­port an immediate invasion of Iraq was as masterful as Clinton's defini­tion of"is." 
Bush should have contended that it was his personal judgment for the timing and urgency of the inva­sion. The American public would 
not have doubted him as much as they are today for his assertions that Hussein would soon attack or give his weapons to terrorists. Bush also molded a blurry connection between Sept. 11 and Hussein, for which he has since had to deny. 
One year from this week 
Americans will judge Bush at 

troops surrendered early in the conflict? The British BBC reported that the general had turned himself in but nobody knew if any of his 3,000 troops would surrender since many of his officers were loyal to Saddam Hussein. The White House used the American media for false good news then but criticizes the media for true bad news now. 
At the war's height, many anti­war prot~sters relied on foreign reporting. Conservative commenta­tors scoffed at the notion ofthe for­eign press being more truthful than the American press. Today those conservatives seem to have reversed themselves since they complain about the negative truth aired by American outlets. 
Some have chastised Democrats and President Clinton for their past assertions that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. 
also holding this president accountable for the number of American soldiers dying in Iraq by asking when the body bags will cease from Iraq. 
Democrats know the answer. When a new president enters the White House in 2005 and engages the international community unlike Bush will or can, only then will the United States be respected in the Middle East. Only then will help be on the way for U.S. troops in Iraq. 
Gary Caruso served as a public and legislative affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hot­line@aol.com 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
and more U.S. soldiers killed since their favorite viewer landed G.I. George style on an aircraft carrier than during the war. 
When the United States invaded Iraq, the White House sought "good news." Bush never corrected false reports of Jessica Lynch's cap­ture because he wanted a hero. A 69­year-old Korean War Navy veteran won­dered why her capture qualified her as a hero. He said, "Now Audie Murphy was a hero." 
Did the White House cor­rect U.S. reports that an Iraqi general and his 3,000 
page 14 Friday, November 7, 2003 

Unique design and strong acting hig 
Because of this unique setup, the actors
By JONATHAN RETARTHA and 
often have their backs turned to one part of
SARAH VABULAS 

the audience or another, though Little 
Scene Writers 

Theatre allows for all of the voices to be heard clearly.
Even though a week has passed since 
Painstaking effort was put into the pro­
Halloween, tales of witchcraft are still fill­
duction of the set, which incorporates an 
ing the halls of Little Theater at Saint 
inside setting (for Proctor's house, Parris's Mary's College this weekend where Saint house, and the court) and an Mary's students and professors, along with outside setting (for the night­
professional actors are staging their pro­time sequences). The indoor duction of Arthur Miller's "The Crucible." "The c•
setting reflects 17th -centuryThe play is set during the Salem witch trials colonial Massachusetts, with 
of 1692, where hundreds of women were aged walls and wood scaf­
accused and 20 eventually were hanged folds. The stage addition also 
after being found guilty of practicing witch­

allows for another entrance 
craft. Saint I 
along stage right. The out­
At the beginning of the play. a minister in door setting, taking up most College~Salem. Rev. Samuel Parris (Daniel R. 
of stage left, has as its cen­
Lehner) stumbles upon his daughter and terpiece a giant tree, reach­Director: Mark Abram-C her friends dancing in the woods at night ing from the ground to the Playwright: Arthur Mill• while his slave, Tituba (Dana Shelton). Stage Manager: Regir
top of the theater, surround­Above, Ashley recites incantations over a cauldron. The ed by various rocks and logs, Starring: Greg Melton, l 
girls are frightened off, and in the calamity, a Terry Farren, Daniel R. Leh
providing seating for cou­
Peltier as Mercy Parris's daughter, Betty (Victoria Abram­ple scenes. MacKenzie, Dana Shelton; Copenhaver) faints, and will not wake up. Peltier, Johnnie Quigley, V1
Stage lighting also provides
Lewis, Liesl Yost as Once word spreads around the town of a unique addition to the set­Linda Janke, William SveiA these mysterious acts, rumors of witchcraft of Crucible." David Stefancic, Jeff Simlli
ting "TheAbigail Williams begin to surface. · Because there are both day­DeDario, Betsy Brown 
In order to calm these fears, Parris calls 
time and nighttime scenes.
and Johnnie in witchcraft expert Rev. John Hale (Terry the backdrop is lit accordingly with blue or Farren) to prove that the devil does not 
purple shades. During the clima~ when the
Quigley as inhabit his daughter. Hale convinces Tituba accused are to be hanged at sunrise, the to confess having interacted with Satan, and 
backdrop lighting is accented by white
Susanna Wollcott. calls upon her to name the others involved 
lights along the floor, which slowly brighten
with these demonic prac­
· as the scene progresses.

At left, Jeff Simms tices. Parris's niece, In the outdoor scenes,Abigail Williams (Liesl 
lights strategically placedas Ezekiel Cheever. Yost). who was involved lights filter through the 
with the incident and 
tree and cast shadows

Below, Daniel originally tries to cover it 
that mimic real moon­

up, also saves her own ..Greg Melton, in the role of 
light.

Lehner as Reverend life by confessing and John Proctor, is the The costumes are the"naming names."
Samuel Parris and dominant and commanding most impressive element 
While many in the town 
of the design of "The 

are quick to point the fin­presence in every scene with 
Crucible." The charac­

Linda Janke as 
ger and have the girls which he is involved. The 
ters have beautiful cos­

hanged, several skeptics
Ann Putnam. audience sees him as a tumes that reflect the
exist among them. One of 
dress of the colonial peri­

scolding cynic at the onset of
these men, a farmer 
od, without falling into

named John Proctor (Greg the play and a forceful patri­
the stereotypical and
• 

Melton). refuses to be
PHOTOS BY arch in the household. , often silly Thanksgiving
involved in the controver­
pilgrim. Many produc­

sy until he discovers that
ALLISON tions also choose to dress
his servant Mary Warren 
the characters very much

NICHOLS {Maria Corso) was present alike, but the Saint at the alleged incident, 
Mary's production gives

and that his wife, Elizabeth (Marianne Rutz) 
each character their own style.
is one of the accused. 

Proctor exemplifies the role of a farmer in 
Proctor realizes that the only reason his 
a shirt and cloak that is a mix between the 
! ' 
devout wife is accused is because Abigail 
characters of Robin Hood and the ranger,
Williams was her accuser. Abigail used to Strider. Hale has a beautiful black suit that
I I be the Proctor family's servant, but 
I recalls many traditional pilgrim images,
Elizabeth dismissed her after a love affair 
with the hat to match, but he fits very well 
f between Abigail and Proctor was uncov­
into it, and it does not stand out among the
f ered. Proctor and Elizabeth reconciled to a 
other characters. The dress of the women is 
degree, but Abigail confesses her undying
f also very reserved, with whites and tans 
love to Proctor and celebrates the fact that 
f dominating the blouses, along with lightly
after Elizabeth is hanged, the two of them colored aprons and bonnets. 
~ will be together. This revelation disgusts 
The final design element that adds a 
Proctor, who has already repented for his
r unique perspective to this staging of the 
lechery, and he goes on a quest to save his
I play is sound. The scenes begin and end 
I wife and uncover Abigail as a fraud, even if 
( with drums that mimic heartbeats, which 
it means revealing his sins in public. 
grow and intensify as the plot thickens. 
"The Crucible" is one of the most well Outdoor scenes are full of the sounds of 
known plays of the 20th century. Performed crickets and owls, along with a whistling on countless high school, college and pro­

wind that fills the theater before the playfessional stages across the world, it some­
starts. 

times becomes difficult to stage it in a new of these are
All elements, however,
and unique way. In the Saint Mary's produc­crowned with the exceptional performancestion, director Mark Abram-Copenhaver has of the actors involved. Melton, in the role of 
added his own unique touch in the set 
Proctor, is the dominant and commanding
design of the play. 

presence in every scene with which he is 
Aside from the usual horizontal stage, the involved. Melton is incredibly multifaceted stage has an extension attached on the left 
as an actor. The audience sees him as a 
side, covering a section of seats, which adds scolding cynic at the onset of the play and a much more room for movement and action 
forceful patriarch in the household. His
for the actors. 

character undergoes the greatest transfor­



( 
I 
I 
' 

Friday, November 7, 2003 Page 15 
vitchcraft to the stage 
~hlights this weekend's performances 
mation in the play, turning from a head­strong farmer into an introspective, philo­sophically tormented man searching for his redemption and purpose in the world. The anger Melton displays when Proctor's wife is taken from him is enough to create chills. His emotional outcries reflect the passion­ate performances of Sean Bean. His inner torment to save his own life or his soul is deeply invoca­rucible" tive of the character of Sir Thomas Moore in "A Man for All Seasons." His perform­ance demands dominance because he is one of the only characters not blinded by

Wary's 
lies or stifled by the religious

Theatre 
culture of the period. Another character that 

~open haver 
changes dramatically in the ~r play is that of Hale. Farren 
na Stefancic 
literally puts on two per­

_iesl Yost, Marianne Rutz, 
formances in the role. In the

1ner, Maria Corso, Louis 
first part, Hale is still the

Terry Dawson, Ashley 
devout minister who knows

'ictoria Abram-Coenhaver, 
witchcraft when he sees it. 

noe, Shannon Wojcik, 
Because of this knowledge,

1s, John Coyle, Vini 
he is very good at convincing the girls to confess. Many of the ministers of the period 

were known for having passionate sermons predicting fire, brimstone, and eternal suf­fering when God inflicts his vengeful wrath on the wicked. Farren chooses to connect that character with a contemporary audi­ence by using televange­lists as his inspiration. A mix between Ned Flanders and those Sunday morning preachers, Farren suc­be worse than dying. 
Another commanding male performance is turned in by Louis MacKenzie, who plays Deputy Governor Danforth. He is responsi­ble for trying and convicting the accused girls. He has a stern demeanor, yet not overly powerful, and is fair without being merciful, as the role demands. He is very controlling in the courtroom, as any judge would be, and is very contemplative, yet shows no emotion. MacKenzie plays the role with a controlling presence but also as a character that possesses a lot of self-con­trol. His role as the Deputy Governor con­trasts very well with that of Vini DeDario, who plays Judge Hathorne. DeDario plays the role with a brash outspokenness that highlights the controlled demeanor of MaeKenzie as Danforth. 
Perhaps the most vocally demanding role is that of Mary Warren, played by Maria Corso, the servant to the Proctor family who is caught in the middle of the conflict between Abigail and Proctor. She spends some of the first part, and much of the sec­ond whimpering, crying, or wailing:-three things not easily done for long periods of time in the acting world. She is very con­vincing though, in her suffering, and adds depth to what could simply be played as a superficial character that screams all the time. 
Other' strong supporting roles include Proctor's friend Giles Corey, an honest, eld­erly man played by Terry Dawson. Linda Janke plays the role of Ann Putnam along with William Svelmoe as her husband, Thomas. Janke and Svelmoe add much 
cessfully draws a compari­to the opPning scene of
..The story is less about a 
son that helps the audi­the play, providing sup­
historical perspective ofthe
ence to understand the port for the rumors of religious atmosphere of events ofI 692. and more witchcraft among the the time. The second part girls.
about the place ofauthority
of the play shows a man Lehner, as the some­
in religion, the means by
who realizes the goodness what jaded preacher in Proctor as well as the which to gain redemption Parris, who is also mistakes he has made in Abigail's uncle, plays his
and salvation. and the 
preaching condemnation role in a manner unique
search to find goodness in a
of evil deeds over positive from the rest of the cast. reinforcement as a cata­world ofevil and lies ... He tries to be firm, yet 
lyst for change. All of the 
hangings have filled his 
soul with guilt and he 
wants to purge that guilt 
through saving the lives of 
the condemned. He turns into a passionate, 
desperate man who wants Proctor and the 
others to confess, if only to save their lives. 
He provides a sharp contrast with the "holi­
er than thou" figurehead of the first part of 
the play and now places himself on the level 
of the prisoners. 
Yost perfectly incorporates the two-sided 
nature of Abigail in her performance. When 
she is alone with the girls, she is a cocky, 
wicked leader of the incident, who is out to 
save her own skin. In front of authority, she 
plays the innocent girl, who is repentant for 
her transgressions. When Abbey is with 
John Proctor, she is a seductress who will 
stop at nothing to get her man. Yost clearly 
defines and beautifully balances these per­
sonas. 
Rutz, in the role of Proctor's wife 
Elizabeth, uses traditional views of colonial women as her motivation. She is quiet, firm, and devout with her faith. She is very reserved around her husband, as anyone would be around an adulterous spouse. One of their earlv scenes alone at the dinner table is reminiscent of the distant relation­ship of Charles and Emily at the end of the dinner table scene in "Citizen Kane." Her role slowly transforms, and Rutz becomes a wife desperate to save her husband, but ·resolved to the fact that confessing would 
somehow struggles to 
convince the audience of 
his role in the play. 
"The Crucible" is a 

unique theater experi­ence highlighted even more by powerful performances. In the end, the story is less about a historical perspective of the events of 1692, and more about the place of authority in religion, the means by which to gain redemption and salvation and the search to find goodness in a world of evil and lies. 
Arthur Miller wrote the play during the Red Scare of communism to mock what was very similar to the Salem Witch Hunts of early America. His work proves to show both the silliness and frustration behind accusing people for belonging to groups without proper evidence along with the skewed roles that authority, particularly the courts, have in society. 
'The Crucible" plays at the Moreau Center for the Performing Arts at Saint Mary's College Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30p.m. Tickets are $8.50 for general admission, $7.50 for senior citizens, $6.50 for faculty and staff and $5.50 for students. Tickets can be purchased from the Saint Mary's Box Office at (574) 284-4626. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu and Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintrnarys.edu 

-. 
-. 
Above, Greg Melton as fohn Proctor and Terry Dawson as Giles Corey. At right, Ashley Peltier as Mercy Lewis. Below, Shannon Wojcik as Rebecca Nurse and Victoria Abram-Copenhaver as Betty Paris.
•
PHOTOS BY ALLISON NICHOLS 



Friday, November 7, 2003 

page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Palffy' s last second goal gives Kings overtime victory 
Associated Press time. Palffy hit the crossbar one beat Weekes halfway through the minute later. first. 
TAMPA, Fla. -Ziggy Palffy "We went for the win in over­The Hurricanes rebounded had the last chance and made it time," Kings coach Andy Murray with Josef Vasicek's team-leading count. said. "We played three forwards seventh less than two minutes 
Palfl'y scored with 7.7 seconds and one defenseman in one out after the Kovalev goal. Rookie left in overtime to lead the Los of every three shifts. It's a non­Eric Staal scored on a rebound Angeles Kings to a 1-0 victory conference opponent, so you try 18 seconds into Bobby Holik's over the Tampa Bay Lightning. to go for it a little bit more." roughing penalty. 
Palffy beat Lightning goalie John Grahame from the slot Hurricanes 6, Rangers 3 Flyers 4, Capitals 2 while being pulled down. Light-scoring Craig Adams had Tony Amonte and Jeremy 
"I was a little bit lucky," Palft'y two goals for Carolina, enabling Roenick each had a goal and said. "I just took a shot. I knew the Hurricanes to snap a three­assist, leading the Philadelphia there were a couple seconds left, game losing streak with a 6-3 Flyers to a 4-2 victory over the so I just put it on the net. It was victory over the New York Washington Capitals. under his pad and went in." Rangers. Robert Esche stopped 20 shots 
Los Angeles' Roman Carolina beat the Rangers for for his fourth straight win, and Cechmanek made 30 saves for the first time in six games in the Flyers remained unbeaten at his second shutout of the season earned just its third win with a home (4-0-2) with their fourth and 22nd overall. season-high goal total. win in five games. Vancouver (6­
"We try to play hard every The two goals by Adams were 0-1) is the only other NHL team game," Cechmanek said. "This is his ninth and lOth in 170 career unbeaten at home this season. our job, and we did it." games. Justin Williams and Keith 
Grahame had 19 saves. The Erik Cole finished off the Primeau also scored for backup has allowed just two Rangers with an empty-net goal Philadelphia. Joel Kwiatkowski goals in 156 minutes this season. · with 49 seconds left. and Brian Sutherby had 
"Both goalies played super," The Hurricanes, with the worst Washington's goals. Tampa Bay's Brad Richards said. power play in the NHL, had four The last-place Capitals, coming "It was one of those games that straight man-advantage opportu­off a 5-1 win over previously was going to be a battle and the nities in a nine-minute span in unbeaten Tampa Bay on Tuesday slightest mistake might be the the second only to come up night, are 3-9-1, . difference." empty. Roenick set up Amonte's goal 
The Lightning lost their second But Adams pounced on a with a sensational play midway to a 3-2 victory over the winger Eric Nickulas at 3:57 of straight game after opening the rebound off Sean Hill's shot with through the first period. He took Vancouver Canucks in a match the first period as Nickulas dart­season with an eight-game 4:16 left in the period to give the a pass in stride from Eric between first-place teams. ed from his blue line on a break­
unbeaten streak. Tampa Bay 7-Hurricanes a 3-2 lead and Weinrich, skated through two Tkachuk, who scored in over­away. Jovanovski dived and used 1-1-1 has earned standings momentum heading to the third. defenders and broke in against time on Tuesday when St. Louis his stick to upend Nickulas. points in nine of 10 games. Ryan Bayda handed the Capitals goaltender Olaf Kolzig. beat Anaheim, leads the Blues Nickulas shot high on the 
Los Angeles has won four Hurricanes some breathing room After drawing Kolzig over, with seven goals this season. In penalty shot, putting the puck straight road games. The Kings 3:09 into the third when Aaron Roenick threaded a pass to 47 games against the Canucks, over goalie Dan Cloutier, who has also snapped a six-game winless Ward's shot from the point Amonte, who fended off a Tkachuk has 46 points. stopped four of the six attempts streak (0-4-2) against the deflected off his shin pad and defender for an easy shot into an The Blues, in frrst place in the he has faced. Lightning. past Jussi Markkanen, who shut open net. It was Amante's fifth Central Division at 8-3-0-1, have Vancouver rookie Jason King 
After a lackluster first period out Dallas on Tuesday but wasn't goal in nine games, and gave the won seven of nine. Vancouver, scored a power-play goal at that had a combined eight shots, sharp in this one. Flyers a 1-0 lead. the Northwest Division leaders at 13:26 of the first period. From the teams picked up the tempo in The Rangers closed to 4-3 mid­Williams made it 2-0 with a 9-3-2, had its five-game winning behind the net, Daniel Sedin fed the second. way through the third when for­power-play goal early in the sec­streak snapped. The loss also King, who used his backhand to 
Grahame kept it scoreless by mer Carolina forward Jan Hlavac ond. Marcus Ragnarsson took a broke the Canucks' nine-game beat Blues goalie Chris Osgood. It making an arm save at the 3-was awarded a questionable shot from the point that was unbeaten streak. was King's seventh goal in 13 minute mark during a break­penalty shot and beat Kevin knocked down by Flyers forward St. Louis improved to 2-3-1 in games. away by Palffy. Weekes between the legs. John LeClair in front of the net. its last six meetings with the It was the 13th time in 14 
Cechmanek made a glove save But a minute later, a wide-open In the scramble, Williams Canucks overall. At home, the games that Vancouver scored soon after on Andre Roy's left­Adams took a feed from Rod whacked at Kwiatkowski's stick, Blues are 5-l in the last six first. circle shot and stopped an in­Brind'Amour and gave Carolina pushing the puck past Kolzig. games against Vancouver. However. St. Louis tied it 50 close chance by Dmitry its second two-goal lead of the Kwiatkowski spoiled Esche's The Blues allowed the Canucks seconds later at 14:16 when Manasenkov. game. shutout bid with his first goal this one power-play goal in seven Pavol Demitra scored in a scram­
Grahame also made a strong Again, Carolina got off to a season and second of his career chances. St. Louis has killed 25 ble in front of the net. save on Luc Robitaille's shot from miserable start at home when midway through the third period. of 27 penalties at home this sea­St. Louis took a 2-1 lead as the low slot with six minutes left Bayda and Bob Boughner took son. Steve Martins scored an unas­in the second. penalties less than six minutes in Blues 3, Canucks 2 St. Louis earned the win sisted short-handed goal at 17:48 
Robitaille had a shot from the as the Rangers dominated early. Keith Tkachuk scored his sec­despite failing to score on an when he ripped a shot from the left circle turned aside by The shot total favored New ond consecutive game-winning early penalty shot. Vancouver's top of the right circle over Grahame with 3:40 left in over-York 9-1 before Alex Kovalev goal. leading the St. Louis Blues Ed Jovanovski tripped right Cloutier's glove hand. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
JUDAY LAKE HOME.  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  Spring Break 2004 w/STS,  HEY LADIES! Single, very success- 
NOTICES  ON LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS.  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­ -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726  America s #1 Student Tour Operator.  ful, very disease-free male dorm seeks caring, sophisticated female  

 272-6306  2005 SCHOOL YEAR.  Hiring campus reps.  dorm for companionship. Must love  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  614 S. ST.JOSEPH  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Call for discounts:  aquatic mammals. Serious  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  99 Chevy Lumina LTZ.  8 BEDROOMS­ SALE AM -232-2378  800-648-4849 or  inquiries only-tired of playing  
www.sunchase.com or call  4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,  214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS­ PM -288-2726  www. ststravel. com  games. Please no wild women or  
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  3.8-litre V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg.  718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED- calls before noon. 4-0TIR or visit  
$5500. 283-0708.  ROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234·  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  us online at www.lonelyotters.org  
***ACT NOW!  2436 OR 315-5032  TOP DOLLAR PAID.(574)232-0964.  Hottest prices  
Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+  FoR RENT  HOTEL ROOM·BYU game; SAT  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties  Home game for the Browns this weekend. Holcomb looks to get in  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190  LOWEST PRICES.  sunsplashtours.com or  the end zone.  
800-838-8202.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  no markup.  (574)251-1570.  1800-426-7710  
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  Steve 51 8-330-3818.  The home crowd could turn hostile.  
Vector/Cutco  MMMRENTALS@AOL COM  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  ADOPTION:  
workforstudents.com 574-282-2357  272-1525  4 Rooms -3 mi. NO.  Pay Top Dollar$$  Irish, affectionate, childless, stay-at- Wrestle time.  
Best location.  1-866-808-0990  home mom and environmentalist  
Doglegleftnews.com 'Putting the  2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two  Football & graduation.  dad, dream of sharing love with  Don't you wish you knew what really  
Pathetic in Apathetic' Brought to  signle. Immediately East of the  547-287-4545.  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick- Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  goes on?  
you by ND Students and Alumni  Campus for Game Weekends Only.  ets 574-289-8048  through adoption.  
$80 per person/per night.  4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison.  Legal & confidential.  Welcome Hugh and Ashley.  
WANTED  Call 272-0928  Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard.  **LOdKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX** ND@Cuse Need at !least 2.  Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484-6754,  This is out o f control  
2 Bedrooms, Immediately East of  Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or  Will pay BIG$$$$ to get these.  PIN: 8642  
Movie Extras/Models Needed.  the Univ. Less than a 1/4 mile.  Matt (216) 408-07 44 if interested  Call 212.723.6585 or 917 846.8865  Go Cubs?  
NO exper required  Football weekends only.  it uhay~ ti~ tQ ~~~~  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW  
All looks and ages Earn $1 00-$500  $80/night/person. 574-272-0928  Condo-footbaiV J PW /Grad-sleeps  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ••••  Are we going to lose for the first  
a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187  3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  8+, 1/2 mile to campus. Domercondo@ yahoo.com  PERSONAL  Build your dream home next to Notre Dame.  time since Roger?  
FoR SALE  LOW$$. 272-6306,329-0308  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  A limited number of home sites are available.  Magical.  
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ TICKETS  Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential  For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  HVH and Federico Tag Team  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI- support or assistance, please call  We're good  
NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD·  TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL  Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1­ Happy 23rd to our terrific  
ELED FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900.  ANLAN PROPERTIES  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  7819. For more information, see our  CPEG/MBA!I!  This little guy?  
Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  532-1896 -··­ TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  Loads of Love, M,D,F & B  I wouldn't worry about that little guy.  
-------­ 

Friday, November 7, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Johnson leads Pacers to win over former team 

New Jersey's Jason Kldd gets run over by former teammate Anthony Johnson In the first period of Indiana's 87-81 win. 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Instead of backing up Jason Kidd, Anthony Johnson got the best of him. 
Johnson hit two straight three pointers to hold off a late rally by his former New Jersey team­mates and the Indiana Pacers won their third straight game, 87-81 Thursday night. 
"It's not personal." -said Johnson, who had 17 points in 22 minutes ofT the bench. "You always want to show a team what they had and what they let get away." 
Johnson spent the last two seasons as Kidd's backup, help­ing New Jersey win consecutive Eastern Conference titles. 
While the Nets re-signed Kidd, they let Johnson go and he signed with the Pacers. 
"A situation came up over the summer and they decided to go in a different direction," Johnson said. "You pick up and go and 
move on." Kidd wasn't surprised to see Johnson win the game. 
"A.J. is very confident," Kidd said after the Nets wiped out all but two points of a 19-point deficit. "He loves to hit the big basket or find the open guy. That's the A.J. I know." 
Ron Artest had 21 points and Jermaine O'Neal 15 for the Pacers who built their big lead by holding the Nets to 12 sec­ond-quarter points. 
"I am stunned," Nets coach Byron Scott said. "I do not understand why we are not play­ing with the type of energy that we are accustomed to seeing." 
Kerry Kittles had 23 points and nine rebounds to lead the Nets, who struggled with their shooting for the second straight game. Richard Jefferson added 18, and Aaron Williams had 15 points and 11 rebounds. Kidd finished with 10 points and eight assists after a 4-for-13 shooting night. 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS SPRING 2004 COURSES 
Classical Antiquity 


CLAS 150 01 lNTRO TO GRECO-ROMAN MYTHOLOGY McLaren (MWF I 0:40-11 :30) . This cout·se surveys the n"lythologies of Greece and Ron1e and traces their transm.ission and influence down to the present day. vVe will examine Greek and Roman myths as embodied in a wide vru·iety of ancient Inedia. as wellas the way in which these sto1·ie;:s and dH1-rncte1·s survive and are transformed in later literuttne ru1d the visual arts. 
. <?J-AS, 3,9~ 01 (l~l~ST ~19, POLS 358C) ROMAN LAW AND GOVERNANCE T. Mazurek (T H 9:30~10:45) Study ali branches ot Rotnan government. with specia:l emphasis on the judiciary and t:he developn"lent ot-Rornan ho.w from the XII Tables to Justinjan's Digest. Gain a thorough understanding ofthe bureaucratic operation of the ancient Roman state. 
CLAS 313 01 (STV 313) CLASSICAL ORIGINS OF MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY Ladouceur (T H 12:30~ 
I :45) Classical origin-s of medical language. Scientists have long recognized that considerable learning in science is based on education in vocabulary. Over 95% of medical technical terminology is drawn from Greek and Latin. This course will introduce you to the elements of Greek tmd Latin sufficient to dissect and decode even the most lU1USUal tei"TI'lS. 
CLAS 357 01 (HIST 357N, IIIST 357M) CICERO & ROMAN POLITICAL TRADITIONS MacCormack (T H 9:30-10:45) In this course. !ean; how the different branches of CiCero's life and work fit together, why he thought that pl1ilosophy, law and religion we1·e a·elevant to politics, and why and how ethical considerations should condition one's private and public life. 
CLAS 372 01 (l-UST 4721Vl, THEO 382) THE ROMANS AND THEIR GODS Bradley (T H 11:00-12:15) An int1·oduction to the way in which the Romans conccived of, worshipped, and communicated with the myriad gods of their pantheon. The course will focus first on conventional religious rituals and their cultural value, and secondly on the success of Roman polytheism in adapting to changing historical and social conditions. 
CLAS 455 01 (ENGL 4l3A, LIT 512) CLASSICAL EPIC Schlegel (MWF 3:00-3.:50) Homer's Iliad aild Od_yssey and Virgil's Aeneid stand at the head of the tradition of Em·opean literature. ·n1e work of Dante, tviillon, and many other major European wdters is substantially influenced in both fonn und theme by the classical epics, and contemporary literature and film continue to explore. the questions posed sharply by these Greek and Ron11.111 epics. We wHl read Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Vergil's Aeneid and Ovid's Metamorphoses. 
CLAS 460 01 (ENGL 413E) GREEK TRAGEDY E. Mazurek (T H l2;30-L45) The Greeks invented tragic dranm to eKpress their tragic view of life and invented philosophy to overcome it. Which prevailed? How does the perennial struggle about the deep truths ofthe human condition contiitue now? Lemn. about the religious drama of Aeschylus, the existential theater ofSophocles, the subversive art of Eurjpides. and Plato's counterattack~­all fundamental to the course of Western literature and philosophy. 
CI~AS 471C SEMINAR: TOPICS IN ANCIENT ART: THE EARLY TKMPLE OF ZEUS AND HERA AT CORINTH: STUDY AND EXHIBlTION Rhodes (T H 3:30-4:45) Come examine in detail the first truly monument;_tl temple in Greece, including the methodology of its rec<)nstruction, and to plot strategies and details of its fonhcon"ling exhibition. 
Greek and Latin Language an.d Literature 
CLLA 102, CLGR 102 BEGINNING LATIN AND GREEK II A continuation of first semester introductoJ·y courses. 
CLLA 118 01 INTENSIVE LA'l'IN E. Mazurek (MWF 3:00-3:50, also meets T H 3:30,-4:20) This accelerated course is designed to cover the material of none-year course in Latin in n single semester. 
CLLA 325 01 (MI 325) LATIN LITERATURE & STYLISTICS Krostenko (T H 2:00-3:15) Rep1·esentative re<.ldings from Cato the Elder to Apu1eius, with emphasis on the history of i:atin prose. 
CLLA 362/462 01 (MI 372/4728, LIT 513C) OVID'S METAMORPHOSES Wouters (T H 3:30-4:45) Translate and discuss selected passages from the Metamorphoses, Ovid's idiosyncratic poetic histot·y of the world. 
CLLA 465 OJ (Ml 465) ST. AUGUSTINE'S CONFESSIONS Krostenko (M W 11:45-1:00) Au introduction to St. Augustine's Confessions. through reading of extensive selections froan the Latin text and a careful reading of the entin:: wo1·k in English translation. 
CLGR 325 01 GREEK LITERATURE & STYLISTICS McLaren (MWF 12:50-1:40) This course will provide a close reading of representative texts in prose and poetry. a review of Greek gran1mar and an introduction Lo the analysis of literary style. 
CLGR 450 01 EARLY GREEK POETRY E. Mazurek (MWF 1:55-2:45) This course offers the opponunity to read two central works by Hesiod. Theogony and Works and Days. in their entirety in Greek. 
CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CI_jASSICS AT 1-7195. http:IIclassics.nd.edu 
Johnson took over ·after Jason Collins hit two free throws with 
3:48 to play to get New Jersey within 76-74. 
With Kidd leaving him open in 

an attempt to double the ball, 
Johnson stood deep in the left 
corner and nailed a 3-pointer to 
put the Pacers ahead 79-74. 
After Kidd turned the ball over 

at the other end of the floor, 
Johnson went back to the same 
corner and waited. O'Neal found 
him open with a cross-court pass 
and Johnson hit nothing but net 
again. 
Kidd said he was hoping to get 

a steal or pick up an offensive 
foul. 
"We have to live with A.J. making those shots," Kidd said. "He hit them at the wrong time for our case, but the right time for them. I'm happy for A.J. Indiana picked up a good bas­ketball player." 
Raptors 77, Mavericks 71 
Vince Carter had 19 points and 

the Toronto Raptors held Dallas 
to its lowest-scoring game in 
nearly six years, beating the 
Mavericks 7i-71. 
Dirk Nowitzki led Dallas with 

27 points, but had just four in 
the second half. It was the 
fewest points the Mavericks have 
scored in a game since they 
were held to 67 in a loss to the 
New York Knicks on Dec. 22, 
1997. 
Antonio Davis had 13 points 

and 12 rebounds, and Morris 
Peterson added 12 points for the 
Raptors, who rebounded from 
the lowest-scoring game in fran­
chise history. Minnesota beat 
Toronto 73-56 last Saturday. 
Antoine Walker had 14 points 

and 17 rebounds for the 
Mavericks, but also committed 
nine turnovers. Michael Finley 
went 4-for-13 from the field for 
11 points. 
Dallas was without point 

guard Steve Nash, who sat out 
with a strained left shoulder. 
Carter's put-back dunk gave Toronto a 70-67 lead with 4:25 left, but Nowitzki followed with two free throws. 
Toronto's Milt Palacio then had 
a fast-break layup, but Finley 
made two free throws to cut the 
lead to one with 1 :02 left. 
Carter fed Peterson for a layup to give Toronto a 74-71lead. 
After Walker missed a 3-point­er, Carter missed two free throws with 21 seconds left. · 
Tony Delk's inbounds pass to deflect off Nowitzki's hands, and Carter picked it up. He was fouled before making one of two free throw attempts for a 75-71 lead. 
After Walker missed a long jumper, Peterson made two free throws with 12 seconds left to seal the win. 
Nowitzki scored eight points in the last two minutes of the first half when the Mavericks cut an early Toronto lead to two. Rookie Chris Bosh guarded Nowitzki during his scoring 
spnrt 
LfPg'YJ!'tsts
<}( !argestselection on!yat~ • 
Sminutes a 
{!om CUTPCST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

CoU 259-1ooo for more details 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 7, 2003 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Return to UNC is not all smiles for Williams 
Associated Press Carolina won't be, either, 
although many of the faithful 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-He was don't want to believe it. giving a big speech that day, so Williams takes over a team he wore a Carolina Blue neck­that lost 36 games in the last tie, and yes, the color really did two seasons, missed the NCAA look good on Roy Williams. tournament both years and fell 
The fairy tale version of the to the middle of the pack in the story is that Williams was des­Atlantic Coast Conference. tined to be here -dressed in a Since Dean Smith retired in Carolina Blue, heading to a 1997 from a program that was luncheon, getting ready to chat a model of stability, the Tar with folks about the Tar Heels Heels have shown what can team he cheered for, then happen to a team when coach-
worked  for,  es turn over  
and  now  too quickly,  
leads. But while Williams is  "I had some North Carolina people criticize my actions  boosters get impatient and players  
happy to be back, the 53­year-old coach con­ at the press conference because I wasn't standing on the table doing  rebel. By many accounts, Williams'  
cedes  the  cartwheels."  predeces­ 
return to his  sor,  Matt  
alma mater has been something  Roy Williams Tarheels coach  Doherty, essentially got run out  
short  of  a  of town by  
fairy tale.  unhappy  

In fact, had he known what players who threatened to he was going to go through to leave. make it here from his comfort­Under Williams, many Tar able spot in Kansas, he might Heels talk as if it's guaranteed not have come. that Carolina Blue will domi­
"Some people misinterpret nate again soon. this, but they can handle it any "He's going to get the guys way they want," Williams told playing together and playing The Associated Press, his hard every night and playing friendly Southern drawl bely­unselfishly and good things will ing the much more intense happen if you play that way," man behind it. "But had I former star Walter Davis said. known what I was going to feel Current junior guard Melvin like telling my players I was Scott said: "He just gives you leaving, there's no way I could confidence right away, just lis­have done it. It's the first time tening to him." in my life I've ever felt dirty." As soon as he arrived as 
The coach says leaving North Carolina's coach, Kansas was not easy. And he Williams realized how much insists that rebuilding North had changed at the school he has always adored. 
"I had some North Carolina people criticize my actions at the press conference because I wasn't standing on the table doing cartwheels," Williams said. "But I told them it was because, six hours before, I'd just had the most difficult meeting of my life." 
That was the meeting where he said goodbye to Kansas, the school he nurtured for 15 sea­sons. He took the Jayhawks to 14 NCAA tournaments, four Final Fours and two title games, including a 81-78 loss to Syracuse last season. 
Three years ago, when Bill Guthridge left as Smith's replacement -he didn't quite live up to standards despite two Final Four trips ­Williams was the top choice to replace hi:r:n. He almost took the job, but ultimately declined. 
It was a gut-wrenching deci­sion, and the one thing he regrets is what he told Kansas fans when he announced he was stayil)g. 
"I told them if I ever had another press conference like this, it'd be because I was either retiring or dying," Williams said. 
Instead, three years later, he had one to announce that, yes, this time, he really was leaving. 
Why this time? 

"There was the feeling that I'd been very unhappy off the court the last year and a half," Williams said. The coach was in a well-documented spat with former athletic director AI Bohl, who was fired after the Final Four in what many viewed as Kansas' final 

attempt to make Williams happy. 
Another reason was Smith, who Williams claims never put overt pressure on him to return. But, after Doherty was asked to resign, Smith called his protege. 
"He said, 'We need you more this time,'" Williams said.. 
So, he ended up back at his old stomping grounds, where he played freshman ball, then worked as an assistant. 
"I was a Tar Heel born. When I die, I'll be a Tar Heel dead,'' he said the day he became the North Carolina coach. 

J/ 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
r 

Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sull.. andMon closed) 
___________,...... ~t..·:"'~ .,.....;.....·------­
~~~ 
We offer.... ---Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie 
and many delicious dishes ... How about some Baklawa dessert to complement your meal.. 
***************** 
Our address: 115 Dir.ie Way North South Bend, IN 46637 (574) 277-7239 
We are located within few minutes from campus, 
CONDOMINIUMS 
FOR LEASE 
FOR THE 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
109 Hill St. Across from Boat Club 
*3 Bedrooms, 2.5 Baths *Living and Family Rooms *Fenced-in Parking * Washers, Dryers and Dishwashers 
All Units Are Like New 
Contact Kramer at DOMUS PROPERTIES: Office 234-2436 or Cell 315-5032 
Visit our Website at www.domuskramer.com 
in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Friday, November 7, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Brovvni~plorestea~ 
to stop inner fighting 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -As the 
longest-tenured member of the 
Oakland Raiders, Tim Brown 
decided it was about time he 
talked to his frustrated team­
mates. 
The message: Shut up and play. 
Brown addressed the Raiders (2-6) this week in an effort to get them back on track after the franchise's worst start in 39 years and the public criticism cornerback Charles Woodson had of second-year coach Bill Callahan. 
Callahan initiated a meeting with Woodson on Wednesday, saying they worked things out. Woodson called Callahan stub­born and said he had lost control of his team and that the Raiders were falling apart. He last went ofT after Oakland's 23-13 loss at Detroit last Sunday. 
"There will be no more com­ments about all this stuff that has been happening," said the 37-year-old Brown, who's been with the Raiders since they drafted him in the first round in 1988. "I think that was the right thing to do, the smart thing to do, and the best thing to do for this team, which is more impor­tant. 
"Talk about football, talk about the Jets, talk about football games, but all this other stuff is not going to get us anywhere at this particular point." 
The Raiders have been looking for leadership at a time they seem so vulnerable. Quarterback Rich Gannon is injured, and so is backup Marques Tuiasosopo, leaving third-stringer Rick Mirer to start Sunday's game against the New York Jets. Many vocal members of Oakland's offensive line -Mo Collins, Frank Middleton and Lincoln Kennedy -have been battling injuries. So have several defensive stars, such as John Parrella and Dana Stubblefield. 
"You can say whatever you want to say in this locker room, there's freedom of speech," Middleton said. "Nobody is mad at C-Wood and nobody is mad at Bill Callahan. They're two guys who have different feelings about each other. I'll leave it at that." 
Brown believes the Raiders were approaching "a very divi­sive situation" only eight games removed from their Super Bowl loss to Tampa Bay. The Raiders are ofT to their worst start since beginning 1-6-1 in 1964. 
"I have seen some divisive situ­ations around here," Brown said. "And at this point in my career, I do not want to be going through that kind of stuff. It was­n't just me. There were other guys speaking, too. I think at some point you have got to trust a veteran's judgment in that kind of a situation. It's not like you've got people who want to run to the microphone and say things. We don't have that going on." 
Brown even offered to let his teammates blame him for all the problems instead of their coach­es or other players. About 10 of the Raiders watched the Patriots-Broncos Monday night game at Brown's house. 
PGA 

Howell, Perry sit atop tourney 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Ten minutes after he watched his par putt spin out of the hole to end an aggravating day, Tiger Woods changed into shorts and a sleeveless shirt, then strapped on his fingerless gloves to go lift weights. 
"It might be a little heavier this time," Woods said of his workout. 
If anything, he needed to work off some steam Thursday. 
In a pressure-packed finale of the PGA Tour season, Woods had no trouble distancing him­self from chief rival Vijay Singh in the first round of the Tour Championship. 
It's the other dozen guys ahead of him that present the problem. 
Charles Howell III and Kenny Perry led the way Thursday, each with a 4-under 67 in the tricky breezes at Champions Golf Club to tie for the lead. 
Woods was tied for the lead at one point after a brilliant start in which he put five strokes between him and Singh after the first five holes. 
But he let a good round get away with three straight bogeys on the back nine, including a three-putt on the par-S 13th, for a 1-under 70 that left him tied for 13th. 
"I hit two bad shots, and that was it," Woods said. "The rest were mostly putting mistakes." 
Singh was even worse, using his putter 36 times in a round of 73 that kept him at the bot­tom of the leaderboard throughout the day. 
"I let the putts get away from me," Singh said. "And I got very tentative after that." over Woods and knows what 
At stake in the final tourna­he has to do this week. ment of the PGA Tour season With an enormous gallery are the money title -advan­lining both sides of the fairway tage Singh -and player of the from tee to green, it had the year, with Woods,Singh, Mike atmosphere of match play. He Weir and Davis Love III in the is not one to be intimidated, hunt. All of them likely could although he looked nervous win the award with a victory over the first few holes and at Champions. never got it going. 
Love finished He three-with a double putted from 35 
bogey and a '"[hit two bad shots feet on the sec-bogey for a 73. and that was it. ond hole, and Weir, the Masters took another
The rest were 
champion, was 1 three-putt bogey
mostly putting 
over on the par on the par-3 
5s, made four mistakes . ., fourth, both bogeys in his last times leaving 10 holes and shot himself about 8
Tiger Woods 
72. feet for the par
golfer
This week putt. 
means just as much to Howell, who is des­perate not to end the season without a victory. 
"Am I frustrated for not win­ning this year? Yeah, a little bit," Howell said. "I don't think you can ever give yourself an 'A' for the season without a win." 
Perry, who had eight consec­utive finishes in the top 10 this summer, had the only bogey­free round at Champions. 

"Hopefully, that ball will keep flying at the flag and I keep making putts," Perry said. 
Fred Funk, Jerry Kelly and Chris DiMarco all had a 3­under 68. 
Only 16 players in the 31­man field of top money-win­ners managed to break par. 
Most of the focus was on Singh and Woods, a final pair­ing that figured to set the tone for the week at Champions. 
Singh has a $768,494 lead 
Woods, mean­time, looked more determined than he has all year. 
He hit a 4-iron over a canyon into 10 feet on No. 4, then moved to the top of the leader­board with a S-iron from 225 yards that landed softly on the flat part of the green and stopped 2 feet from the cup at the par-5 fifth for a tap-in eagle. 
Woods appeared to be mak­ing a statement: Hold onto those PGA Tour player of the year ballots, and don't take his name off the money title tro­phy just yet. 
But it all fell apart on three holes. 
With one swing -a drive that sailed to the right and into the trees on No. 11 -all the momentum was gone. Woods whipped his body around and slammed his club into the ground, and bogeys started appearing on his card with alarming regularity. 
He had to chip out and 


Better Ingredie11ts. 
Better Pizza.  
NOTRE DAME  STMARY'S  
31'1.~111"1  LATI. MICiHT  HOLY CROSS ~1l~n1~  
SPICIAL  


DUTPDIIT 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
missed a 20-footer for par. 
On the par-3 12th, he barely got his bunker shot out of the trap, and beat the rake handle with his wedge. Woods had to make a 6-footer just to save bogey. 
The real shocker was on his final par 5, No. 13, which was playing downwind. He drove into the left rough, hit into a bunker and then three-putted for bogey from 35 feet. 

Flipside's Lafonune 
Takeover 
Friday 11/7 begi!1ning at 10:30pm 

Euchre Tournament in the Lafortune ballroom 
.... 


Pool Tournament at 
ND Express, 
.d 

Games all night!!!!
~ 

~ Prizes awarded for all ---"~tournaments plus free 
~o\e 
t..13\' ' 

cat'~' eoS· ~e t\'J ~e Mon-Thu 11am-1am 
,,.. ~3 3
~ov' Fr-Sat 11am-am 

Sun 12pm-1am 
1 Large Topping 
$6.99 
after 9pm 
.Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 7, 2003 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Carroll, Chow have USC winning with game plan 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The lights
' 
on the second floor of Heritage Hall burn late into the night while they plot and scheme, map out moves and consider contingencies. 
USC coach Pete Carroll, offen­sive coordinator Norm Chow and the Trojans' staff have shown a knack for hatching winning strategies. 
A lot of x-ing and o-ing? "Always," Carroll said, smil­ing and nodding. 
The players take note of the midnight oil-burning in the coaches' room -and its results. 
"You don't win by accident," said wide receiver Keary Colbert, one of only four seniors on the Trojans' high-powered offense. ''I'm impressed with their ability to call plays for cer­tain situations. It's kind of like they know what the other peo­ple are going to do. 
"They're here all day, all night. I tip my hat to them, fully respect them for what they do." 
The Trojans (8-1, 4-1 and tied atop the Pac-1 0) are second behind Oklahoma in both The Associated Press poll and the Bowl Championship Series standings. It's their highest ranking in the poll since they were No. 2 for a while in 1988, and their highest ranking yet in the BCS standings. 
USC moved up one slot in the poll and two in the BCS by beat­ing then-No. 6 Washington State 43-16 last weekend, a victory that came in seemingly typical fashion. Ahead 15-10 at half­time, USC stuck to its game plan, made a few small halftime adjustments and outscored the Cougars 28-6 in the second half. 
The Trojans are off this week­end, their second of three byes this year. They play at Arizona on Nov. 15. 
Carroll, who enjoys relating to the players and enjoys that part of his job, obviously also likes the strategy end of it. 
"We do a great deal of self­scouting and we go about it as our opponents would," he said. "You always want to know what the other guys know. So we hopefully know what they know -and more, if we're fortu­nate." 
The game itself then becomes a bit of a chess match. 
"When you know what you've got and what you're doing, then you know what other people have to do to attack you. When you know that, you can see it coming, or at least respond quickly," Carroll explained. 
"A lot of it is waiting for them to do the things they should do, then adjusting as they go through it." 
Carroll, 51, brought a rich coaching background to USC when he arrived in 2000, including 16 years as either a defensive coach or head coach in the NFL. 
Trojans athletic director Mike Garrett has called Carroll a "defensive genius, one of the few around." 
Chow, 57, is considered an offensive guru, particularly in developing quarterbacks. He spent 27 years on the staff at Brigham Young where he tutored Steve Young, Jim McMahon, Marc Wilson, Ty Detmer, Gifford Nielsen and Robbie Bosco. Chow then spent the 2000 season at North Carolina State, where he helped develop Philip Rivers as a fresh­man. 
Last year, Chow's third at USC, Trojans· quarterback Carson Palmer won the Heisman Trophy. This season, redshirt sophomore Matt Leinart has become one of the nation's best passers. 

Hall's suspension could leave Hokies vulnerable 
Associated Press 25 Panthers for fighting with back Carnell Wilds to a knee concerned with what his players Auburn, No. 22 Missouri trave!s Miami's Antrel Rolle last week. injury and leaves No. 5 Virginia do than who is defending them, to Colorado, No. 23 Northern 
PITTSBURGH -If he had his Fitzgerald's three touchdown Tech (7-1. 3-1 in Big East} with saying, "When the ball is in the Illinois plays at Buffalo, and No. choice, Virginia Tech coach catches led Pitt to a 28-21 upset only two experienced corner­air, it's [Fitzgerald's]. We just 24 Minnesota hosts Wisconsin. Frank Beamer probably wouldn't victory over then-No. 3 Virginia backs, Vinnie Fuller and Eric have to get him the ball." Pitt's problem heading into its bench cornerback DeAngelo Hall Tech last season, a breakout per­Green. The lack of depth may In other matchups between first game against a ranked for a single play against formance against a previously cause Beamer to move free safe­ranked teams this weekend: No. opponent this season isn'f who Pittsburgh receiver Larry undefeated team that signaled ty Jimmy Williams to cornerback 6 Miami hosts No. 18 Tennessee; can catch the ball, but who can Fitzgerald. his arrival as a major star. and play backup Mike Daniels at No. 14 Michigan State visits No.7 run it. 
One misread coverage, one Before that, Fitzgerald had safety. Ohio State; No. 10 Iowa plays at Last season, Brandon Miree's false step, one missed tackle is four touchdown catches in eight Count on Pitt quarterback Rod No. 16 Purdue; and' No. 11 Texas 161-yard night helped Pitt rush all Fitzgerald needs to transform college games. Since then, the Rutherford (25 touchdown pass­plays at No. 21 Oklahoma State. for 27 5 yards, allowing the a routine play into a touchdown, sophomore has caught 24 touch­es, five interceptions) to throw Also Saturday, No. 1 Oklahoma Panthers to secure the lead as the Hokies know from experi­down passes in 13 games -16 frequently to the side where Hall hosts Texas A&M. No. 3 Florida Fitzgerald's scoring catches gave ence. in eight games this season -and normally plays, at least during State plays at Clemson, No. 12 them. But Miree has a stress 
No wonder Beamer can't help has emerged as a top contender the first half. Washington State hosts UCLA, fracture in his foot and hasn't but feel nervous knowing Hall for the Heisman Trophy. "I expect we'll see a few balls No. 17 Florida hosts Vanderbilt, played in six weeks, and Pitt (6­must sit out the first half of Hall's 30-minute suspension in the air," Beamer said. No. 19 Nebraska plays at 2, 3-0) hasn't found a suitable Saturday's game against the No. follows the recent loss of corner-Pitt coach Walt Harris is more Kansas, No. 20 Mississippi visits replacement. 
• _r 


at e 

#5 Meri's Soccer 
THAI RESTAURANT 
Quarterfinal· BIG EAST Game vs. 
ccw~ L-Ywue,;yo-w t:"o-tvy wor1..<L ~ 
#25UCONN 
~ Th.a-V~ that-waL 
**Kick-Off is at 1:00 PM** 
~~yo-t,.t.y rw~ ~ K\-Uee:t", j01A.Y_, ~y_, ~{,cy ~~eLL_, 
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11am-2pm 
Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm -9pm 
211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 
N 0 W HIRING 

Friday, November 7, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
. -. . 
}'• 

INCLUDES; -;:UNL,IMJTEO nights & weekends 
. ~..;.' ·--·.
for 

just •. .~-··Nationwide long distance · 

*fOr the first siX months with a 2-year service agreement. 
FREE 
COLOR SCREEN 
PHONES 



All now available with 

easy~dge. 
~US. Cellular 

Get directions, news, sports and more on the go. we make it easy with easyedge:" 
FREE FREE 
(s249.95 value) (S239.95 value) 
(All phone prices after s3o mail-in rebate) 
I Valparaiso Wai-Mart, 2400 Morthland Dr., (219) 465-4286 
Mishawaka wai-Mart, 316 Indian Ridge 
Mishawaka Premier, 514 w. McKinley 
Schererville Urban Media Group, 7178 Main St. 
South Bend Premier, 117 N. Main St. 
south Bend Premier, 4615 Miami Rd. 
Airtime and phone offers valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $40 and higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a two-year contraCt on plans of $40 and up. Promotional phone subject to change. Phone pric1ng includes a $30 mail-in rebate. Customer is responsible for all sales taxes. Offers may expire if you change your calling plan. Night and weekend minutes are valid M-F 9pm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available in local calling area only. Roaming charges, fees. surcharges and taxes may apply, including a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Activation fee is $30. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. Offer valid in Illinois and lnd1ana only. Not valid in Rock Island or Henry Counties in Illinois. <02003 U.S. Cellular Corporation 

OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 22 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES Friday, November 7, 2003 



MLB 


. \ 
' ~ 
' ' 

I I 
1 around the dial
( 
I 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Arkansas at Kentucky 7 p.m., ESPNC 
NBA 

Timberwolves at Magic 8 p.m., ESPN Trail Blazers at Supersonics 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF PGA Tour Championship 1 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Closer Trevor Hoffman was so intent on staying with the San Diego Padres that he was willing to take a big pay cut. 
The Padres had a $10 million option on Hoffman for next season but had no intention of picking it up after he missed the first five months of last season while recovering from two offseason shoulder opera­tions. 
Instead, they bought him out for $2 million and agreed to a new deal with a $2.5 million salary next year and a chance to make another $500,000 in incen­tives. 
"It's an opportunity to show the team that I am going to be healthy and that I plan on pitching a few more years beyond this contract," Hoffman said Wednesday night, "This is home." 
Hoffman, fifth on the career saves list with 352, said he didn't consider testing the free-agent mar­ket. 
"I just consider myself a Padre," he said. "The thought of going some­place else was real dis­turbing, to be real honest." 
The new deal also has an option for 2005 that Hoffman can guarantee by reaching certain perform­ance levels. General man­ager Kevin Towers would not be specific, but said the numbers should be easily attained if the reliever has a good season. 
''I'm not going to say this was easy. It was complicat­ed because of his injury," Towers said. "But it was pretty clear that Trevor wanted to wear only one uniform, the Padres' uni­form, and we wanted him to stay in a Padres' uni­form." 
Hoffman made $9 mil­lion in 2003, the last year of a $32 million, four-year contract. 
"He knew he'd have to take a much smaller base and prove to us and prove to the rest of baseball that he can perform at the level he did before the injury," Towers said. 
The 36-year-old right­hander is known for his intense stare, high leg kick and wicked changeup. All but two of his saves have come with the Padres. 
Hoffman didn't have any saves last season. Stuck in last place in the NL West, the Padres didn't want to rush Hoffman after he returned in September. His nine appearances were all in non-save situations and spaced out by three days. 

IN BRIEF 
UN officer runs NYC 
course twice in one day 
NEW YORK -A United Nations officer thought running the New York City Marathon was so nice he did it twice. 
Kevin Shelton-Smith ran 26.2 miles in the morning before the official race started, then covered another 26.2 miles along with the rest of the field in the actual marathon. 
"I'm always looking for a new challenge to find the limits of my body -to be all you can be,.. said the 43-year-old Englishman, a peacekeeping air operations officer for the UN and an accomplished marathoner. 
Shelton-Smith started in Central Park at 5 a.m. ET and ran the course from the finish line to the start, stopping along the way to talk with race volunteers. He reached the race staging area at Fort Wadsworth on the Staten Island 
side of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in 3 hours, 45 minutes. 
That gave Shelton-Smith about 90 minutes to rest before taking off with the rest of the 35,286 entrants at the official start of 10:10 a.m. 
Running conservatively at the start to feel stronger in the later stages of the race, Shelton-Smith finished the official marathon in 
3:35:45. Last year, he finished the marathon in 2:47. 
Man charSled with theft of 
Stenson's SUV 
PHOENIX-A man found driving a vehicle that belonged to slain Cincinnati Reds outfielder Dernell Stenson was booked on a charge of possession of stolen property, police said Thursday. 
The man, Kevin Riddle, was arrested and jailed Wednesday night about two hours after Stenson was found dead in the Phoenix sub­urb of Chandler, police said. 
No other charges were filed against Riddle, whom police called an "investigative lead." Police said they didn't know if the two men knew each other. 
Stenson's body was found Wednesday by police responding to a report of shots fired. He appeared to have been shot and run over by the SUV, authorities said. 
Stenson, 25, made his major league debut this season and played 37 games for the Reds. He hit .247 with three home runs and 13 RBis -his homer accounted for Cincinnati's final run of the season. 
Stenson was playing this month for the Scottsdale Scorpions of the Arizona Fall League. He was hitting .394, third-best in the league, in 18 games. 
Stenson was a third-round draft pick of the Boston Red Sox in 1996. He stayed in their system until this year, when the Reds claimed him off waivers during spring training. 
Friday, November 7, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin, Cavanaugh face off for right to go to Stadium 
By KATIE WAGNER and 
RACHEL SCHIROS 
Sports Writers 
For Cavanaugh and Badin, there truly is no ··1" in team. Both play a game incorporating their whole squad, and the lack of individual superstars on these teams should make for an extremely close semifinals match. 
.. Both defenses have been stingy over the season, so there probably won't be a ton of points put on the board, which makes execution on offense critical," Badin captain Jenn Carter said. "This game could easily be decided by a dropped pass or a failed extra point". 
Cavanaugh's impressive 5-1 regular season record placed them as the Blue League's top team. This gave them a bye into the semi-finals. 
Badin's having a lower seed than Cavanaugh forced them to play a semifinals qualifying game. Last Sunday, they shut out McGlinn 28-0. Carter thinks that playing this game has given Badin an advantage over the Chaos. 
··1 think having the three seed actually worked in our favor," Carter said, .. as we got a chance to play a game last week, while they haven't played since before break, and it was a loss." 
Cavanaugh captain Jessica Leibowitz is not bothered by the break, since her squad has certainly still been playing a lot of football. 
..We've been practicing a lot," Leibowitz said, ..We've definite­ly gotten better [since the regu­lar season]". 
Contrary to what Badin might expect, Cavanaugh's regular season-ending loss to Pasquerilla West has actually been very helpful for them. This only loss for Cavanaugh has taught the team to become more aware of its weaknesses. 
"We learned a lot from that game," Leibowitz said. 
Even with the lack of a stand­out player, both teams are still optimistic with their chances on the field. 
Cavanaugh sophomore Lisa Ruffer is a first year starting quarterback. 
"She's stepped up a lot this year, everyone has noticed that. She's just been outstanding" Leibowitz said. "Overall we've been playing really well. We just have to be ready for any­thing". 
Cavanaugh and Badin will fight to play in Notre Dame Stadium at the West Quad field at 4 p.m. Sunday. 
Welsh vs. Lewis 
Welsh Family plans on taking the Chicks by storm in the play­off match up this Sunday, but 
the Lewis Hall team has no 
intention of being blown down 
from its perch at the top of the 
standings. 
Lewis has the best record in the women's division, winning all six of its games this season. This is a notable amount of progress since last season when they went 3-3, missing the playoffs by one game. 
..It is the excellent coaching that has truly separated this year from last," senior defen­sive lineman Chantal DeAlcuaz said 
Welsh Family, with the fifth­place and lowest ranking of teams still in final round con­tention, finished the regular season at 4-2. The Whirlwinds are a force to contend with, however, as they proved in last Sunday's 19-0 shutout against Breen-Phillips. 
"Everything was working against Breen-Phillips," senior Jamie McEldowney said. ··we just came together like we've been trying to all season. People made the pull and con­nected on passes. It came down to the fundamentals." 
The win was especially signif­icant because in their opening game against the same team the Whirlwinds had been shutout 13-0. 
"It was important to prove to ourselves we were better than that," McEldowney said. "It really boosted our self confi­
dence as individuals and as a 
team." 
While the Chicks haven't had 
a game in several weeks, they 
have still been hard at work. 
"I can't say enough about the enthusiasm, even just in mak­ing every practice," senior cap­tain Erin Nasrallah said. 
Welsh's Whirlwinds find their strength this season coming not necessarily from specific team members, as has been the case in years past, but from the efforts of the entire team all working together. 
..Our coaches have done such an excellent job -newcomers are fit well into the team while at the same time older players are also improving," McEldowney said. 
Heading into the final games, the team looks to continue its work on executing passes on offense and making the pulls on defense. 
The Lewis team knows it will be tough to beat, as promised by a defense against whom a touchdown hasn't been scored since the first game. At the same time, they appreciate what a privilege it is to play this far into the season. 
"We are strong as a team and we have really great competi­tors as well," DeAlcuaz said. 
Welsh is equally anticipating the weekend's game. "It has definitely been a fun time. We are all very excited to 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Badin will face Cavanaugh In the semifinals Sunday. 
play and to make it, game by game, as far as we can go," McEldowney said, ..1 can't wait to get out on the field." 
The teams compete for a spot in the stadium at 3 p.m. Sunday on the West Quad. 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu and Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu 
-

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Salas falls in opening round of Indoor Championships 
Specia,l to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior co-cap­tain Alicia Salas ranked 63rd nationally in singles, fell 6-3, 6-3 to No. 8 Alexis Gordon of Florida Thursday afternoon in the Miami Varsity Tennis Center in the opening round of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association's National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships, the second leg of the collegiate grand slam. 
Following her loss to the tour­nament's No. 4 seed, Salas will compete in consolation action beginning today. 
The match marked the sec­ond time this fall that Gordon topped Salas, with the Gator also prevailing 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the ··adi" flight in September's adidas Invitational. 
Salas is 11-5 this fall, with her defeats coming against the Nos. 4, 7, 8, 8 and 27 players in the nation. She has eight victories against ranked foes. 

She is the first Irish player to gain entrance to the National Indoor Championships in three seasons. Current Notre Dame assistant coach Michelle Dasso reached the semifinals of the event in 2000-01. 
The All-American Champion­ships, the National Indoors and the year-end NCAA Championships are college tennis' three national champi­onship events during the sea-
there were four national events, but the ITA National Clay Court Championships is no longer played. The National Indoor Championships date 
back to 1978 and were played 
son. From 1986 until 2001, 
in February of each  season  
until 2001-02.  
The  National  Indoor  

Championships is the most selective individual tourna­ment in college tennis, extend­ing invitations only to 32 sin­gles players and 16 doubles teams. 
er1017110l.../S
FLEECE 
Selection. 
Sminutes~ 
{!om DU"T'i=IDST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Expert• 
CDU 259·1000 for more detDils 
-
-

... 1..
~~~~~~=======::;~============~~~~====r-~~~~~~~====~r=========J;;;;;~~~~~Ii~
r S"Y 
1"\, ... 


COFFEE &WINE 
Proudly Serve 

Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic of Tea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon··Fri :am·1opmjSat 10arr1·1opm (Special Hours to Accommodate Events at Morris Performing Arts Center) 
2.13 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Perform1ng Arts Center) 
233-Cafe NO\V Hiring 
' 

r--• • ~ 
II 1 
"' " 
UPPER DECK 
& 
RIVERSIDE TERRACE 
·Dances · Graduation :Parties · Complete banquet and 
cateri.nJ services 
I 
I 

· Tent :p3.rtles 
~\ ' 2 3 5 -9 9 8 5 I JL 
•


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 7, 2003 
\ \. ND SWIMMING 
\ 
Irish look to overcome early season struggles 
( \ 
\ ' ' 
\' 
' \ 
\ 
~ '\ ~ ' 
·~ ·. 
',' 

r I i 
I 
I 
H
' ,\ f 
!l
'R 
f 
i 
( -­
f 
~ 
( 
' ;/I 
i i 
~ ' 
j ..,./ ~· 
~ 
I 
I ' 
J
) 
By MATT PULGLISI 
Sports Writer 
While it's still early in the season, the Irish are already looking to get back on track. 
The women's swimming and diving team hopes to improve upon its 1-1 mark in dual meets when the Irish host the Panthers at 4:30 p.m. this afternoon. 
"In the past, [Pittsburgh] has always been a strong team," senior diver Meghan Perry­Eaton said. "They're one of our toughest competitors in conference, which means a lot to us." 
The Irish enter the meet after falling to the Hoosiers 176-124 last Thursday. Despite individual victories by Ann Barton (200-yard backstroke). Katie Carroll (100-yard butter­fly). Brooke Taylor (200-yard butterfly) and Perry-Eaton (one-and three-meter diving). 
Notre Dame was unable to top Indiana and earn its second dual meet victory. 
"In general, the team swam well, but we just got touched out," Perry-Eaton said. "There were a lot of events with close finishes, and when "When you have the support of your teammates and you're all working for a common goal, it keeps your adrenaline up and gives you that extra drive you might need." 
Ultimately, the Irish realize t h a t resolve 
it's s a  the m e  "Our key to success this year  will go a long way  
team that keeps get­ting it, it adds ups."  will be improvement. If we do the right things. the scoreboard will take care ofitself...  over the course of the sea­son.  
On  Oct.  ··It's  a  
23, the Irish tri­umphed  Tim Welsh Irish men's coach  I o n g year, and we just  
over  the  need  to  
University  be  stay  

of Tampa, 158-114. consistent and positive," Perry­
Perry-Eaton believes that a Eaton said. "It helps to know strong sense of team unity will that the team and coaches are be key to the Irish claiming the behind you. It really has an Big East title for the eighth unbelievable benefit." consecutive year. The men's swimming and 
"We're really close as a diving team looks to record its team," Perry-Eaton said. first dual meet victory when the Irish (0-2 in dual meets) challenge the Spartans tonight at 5 p.m. 
"Michigan State improved dramatically last year," Irish men's coach Tim Welsh said. ··we expect a very competitive meet. and there will be a lot of close races that we need to win." 
On Oct. 21, the Irish fell to North Carolina 183.5-111.5 in the first of a two-meet fall break road trip to the East Coast. Four swimmers record­ed first place finishes against North Carolina, including Ted Brown (200-yard individual medley),Tim Randolph (100­yard breaststroke), Frank Krakowski (50-yard freestyle) and Tim Kegelman (1 00-yard butterfly). 
Two days later, Notre Dame dropped a second decision against North Carolina State, 139-98. Patrick Heffernan (200-yard butterfly) and Brown (500-yard freestyle) turned in event victories in the loss. 
While the two losses would imply otherwise, according to Welsh, the meets were any­thing but a negative experience 
••They really challenged us, and we raced at a higher level than ever before in October," Welsh said. "As a young team, the trip was very profitable, and we learned a ton." 
With a 29-man squad that includes 21 freshmen and sophomores, gaining experi­ence and continuing to develop will be instrumental for the Irish this season. 
"Our key to success this year will be improvement," Welsh said. ••If we do the right things, the scoreboard will take care of itself. We're not where we want to be right now, but I'm already seeing signs that it's on the way." 
Contact Matt Pulglisi at mpulglis@nd.edu 

HOCKEY 
Irish travel to face offensive-minded Spartans 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? That ques­tion will be answered this week­end as the Irish travel to East Lansing to take on Michigan State in a two-game CCHA road series. 
The Irish (5-2-0, 4-2-0 in the CCHA) play the part of the object, ranking first in the CCHA in team defense with a minis­cule 1.71 goals per game aver­age. By contrast, the Spartans (5-3-0, 4-2-0) lead the CCHA in offense with 4.00 goals per game. 
"Our goaltending has been really good so far, but there's also four seniors who play on defense," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "It anchors things and makes things much better there. I think it's kind of an interesting fact being that we'd go into this series being the best defensive team and them the best offensive team. 
"I think if you turn the clock back it's usually very different. They're usually the best defen­sive team in the league." 
Both teams come into this weekend's series on a four-game winning streak. The Spartans faced last year's CCHA regular season champion Ferris State in a home-and-home series last weekend. outscoring the Bulldogs 12-2 in the sweep. 
Part of the reason for Notre Dame's early defensive success has been the play of freshman goaltender David Brown. Brown comes into the series holding a shutout streak of 186 minutes, 15 seconds -an Irish record. 
Brown's last shutout occurred this past Friday when Notre Dame defeated Nebraska­Omaha at home by the score of 2-0. 
The freshman was named CCHA Rookie of the Week for his efforts, the second time this year Brown has received the honor. He currently leads the CCHA in overall GM (1.15) and save per­centage (.964). 
Junior Morgan Cey, who was the team's No. 1 goaltender last season, also played well in his first game since returning from offseason surg~ry. Against Nebraska-Omaha last Thursday, Cey stopped 29 of 31 shots in Notre Dame's 4-2 victory. 

Poulin said that he plans to start Cey in the fiTst game of the Michigan -State series and Brown in the second. In his career, Cey has a 1-2-1 record against the Spartans with a . 943 save percentage and a 2.06 goals against average. 
While Brown receives most of the accolades, this year's Irish rookie class has quietly put together an impressive start to the season. 
Among the freshmen class' contributions forward Michael Bartlett has collected three points (two goals and an assist), defenseman Wes O'Neill has two points (a goal and an assist), forwards Matt Williams­Kovacs and Jason Paige each have two assists and left wing Josh Sciba leads the team with a 
68.8 percent faceoff win rate. 
"All the guys I'm very pleased with," Poulin said. "You look at the potential of this class and the depth of this class, and it's great. 
"It's something where every single guy has contributed in some way this year. They're adding a really nice dimension now -some of it's role-oriented and situation-oriented -but they're doing a really nice job." 
The Spartans have their own share of young talent as well, however. Freshman forward Tommy Goebel and junior for­ward Jim Slater lead the team with seven goals each. Slater also sits atop the CCHA leader­board with 15 points. 
"They're a team-based offense," Poulin said. "I think even when you have a young man like Slater putting up a ton of points, I think their offense is still a balanced offense. 

Freshman goaltender Dominic Vicari has done a good job in net so far, filling in occasionally for Matt Migliaccio -the team's No. 1 goaltender a year ago. 
Vicari is seventh in the CCHA with a 2.33 goals against aver­age and has a 2-1-0 record with one shutout. The junior Migliaccio has allowed three goals a game with a 2-1-0 record as well. Migliaccio has a slightly better save percentage, 
Qualit¥. 
Diamonds 
.------............. 
! 



! 
i 

L .......................................l 
J'oh11 M~ MarshaJl's 
Incorp-orated 
W65 
Jewelers I Gem-ologistsGoldsmiths / Platimnnsmiths 
Ke1 Bank Building, Suite~-~10 1 
Sonth Bend, Indm.na ·1hh01 
287-1427 
however-.898 to Vicari's .866. great job stopping things like 
One reason for Michigan second shots and shots from the State's average defensive stats deep slot," Poulin said. "We're may be a relatively-green back taking a lot of pride in our line. Joe Markusen is the only defense right now and we have senior on a Spartan defense that to keep it going." includes five freshmen and two The Irish face the Spartans sophomores. Friday and Saturday at 7:05 
By contrast, the Irish feature a p.m. defense that includes four sen­iors, two juniors, and one soph­omore and one freshman. ContactJustin Schuver at 
"Our defense has really done a jschuver@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
Oakhill Condominium 
Spring & Summer 2004 
Available 1/1/2004-S/15/2004 
2 BR 2 Baths 
FURNISHED!! 
Washer/Dryer-Fireplace Central A/C-Fully Carpet:ed 
$850/Mo Plus Ut:ilit:ies (717) 576-8232 
/lne__., 
l...::!.inceton 
Review 

Hype1·learning· MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. score improvement-better than any competitor. 


·Over 4,000 pages of materials & 30 MCAT's worth of practice "' all yours to keep. 
Glasses start in.Jan\lacy.Space is limited. 800-2Review 
\Vlvw.PrincetonRevielV.(~O rn 
....-·-.--.-----;--·. 


.... .-... 
• 

Ff\': ':-,.,/r ,.,.,,,'./ ,, Li-.':l' 
, ·. ·, .. 

Friday, November 7, 2003 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish wrap exhibition season Sunday at home 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will play in its final exhibition game of the sea­son when its faces off against Team Concept Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish are 19-1 in exhibition games since the 1993-94 season and won the first of their two preseason games Nov. 3 against Northwest Sports 85-65. 
Sophomores Courtney LaVere and Megan Duffy led Notre Dame, which led by 10 points at halftime. LaVere scored 21 points on 10-for-14 shooting and added seven rebounds, while Duffy had 13 assists and 14 points. The Irish also got 20 points from junior Jacqueline Batteast, and classmate Katy Flecky had 12 points, seven 
Stadium 
continued from page 28 
offense," Big Red captain J.T. Arseniadis said. "The hangover from fall break set in, and we need to get [the offense] back in form." 
Keenan, on the other hand, is coming off a dramatic 10-7 vic­tory over fourth-seeded Knott. Falling behind 7-0 on a second quarter touchdown, the Knights drew even on a Reed Langton touchdown run in the third and advanced to the semifinals on a 25-yard field goal by Andrew Warner with only 28 seconds remaining in the game. 
"We didn't come out in the first half like we wanted to and kind of sleep-walked through it," Downey said. "However, I really liked the character we showed rebounds, six assists and four steals. 
Notre Dame started the game against Northwest sloppy but shot well to close out the half with a 45-35 lead. 
Freshmen Crystal Erwin, Breona Gray and Susie Powers all got their first collegiate action and could see more minutes this weekend against Team Concept. Erwin, who Irish coach Muffet McGraw anticipates getting in foul trouble this sea~on, picked up five fouls in 12 minutes and also added six points. Gray made her only shot, and Powers went 0-fot-3 from the field. 
Notre Dame moved the ball well in its first exhibition game and ran well in the open court. McGraw said doing both those things would be key this year for the Irish. The team also played 
in coming back, which gives us some momentum this week." 
Dillon rallied from an 8-0 deficit to defeat Keenan 14-8 in the regular season's final week. The victory not only preserved the Big Red's flawless record, but also secured Dillon the first seed in the playoffs. 
"We came out flat and Keenan took it to us," Arseniadis said. "We need to play stronger defense, execute on offense, and eliminate the stupid penalties to win again." 
Downey points to the ground game as the key to the Knights' success this year. 
"We're a running team on both sides of the ball," Downey said. "We try to pound teams by just lining up and beating our guys off the ball." 
Similarly, Dillon also boasts an impressive combination of both run defense and offense. 
Notre Dame 

NUniversity Club~ www.nd.edu/Nunivclub Membership available to all ND/SMC Faculty, Staff Alumni, 2nd year PhDs, Friends ofNotre Dame Applications 631-4685 or stop by the Club. 
-Lunchor Dinner Reservations 631-4683 · Meetings and Private Parties 631-4681 
solid defense, especially in the second half when they held Northwest Sports to a mere 29.7 percent shooting. 
Notre Dame opens its season Nov. 14 against defending NIT Champion Auburn before facing the winner of Colorado or Old Dominion in Boulder, Colo. 
The Irish will not have Teresa Borton or Jeneka Joyce for Sunday's contest because both are out with injuries. Borton had offseason heel surgery and is out until early December, while Joyce should begin practice soon and could play in roughly two weeks. She is out with an undis­closed injury. 
Notre Dame's first home game is Nov. 21 against Valparaiso. 
Conta(;t Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 
..Defensively, we shut down the run pretty well and just grind it out," Arseniadis said. "If you can control the line of scrimmage, you can be successful, and we've done that." 
The winner of Sunday's con­test will challenge either Siegfried or Morrissey in Notre Dame Stadium for the men's interhall football championship. 
Siegfried vs. Morrissey 
Last year, Morrissey fell to Siegfried in the first round of the playoffs. This year, the two teams square off again, but now the stakes are higher and the victor goes to Notre Dame Stadium. 
And if last year's game was any indication, the sequel should be a classic. 
Siegfried coach John Torgensen feels the same way. 
"I think these are the two best teams in the league," he said. "I know Dillon is undefeated and the No. 1 seed, but they didn't have to play Morr!ssey." 
A renowned passing offense is part of what puts Siegfried in the 
_ CIIEESECAKE 
Q 
~ 
R' 
(") 
0 
r 
v 
-
[J"; 
c 
::;::: 
[J"; 
0 ~ 
c
-
"' 
LATI'E, CAPPl'CCii'\'0 Cl IAI TEA, :\lOCI lA 
#12 Nllrl BalDI ValleVballvsVlrulnla Tech FrldaV, IIDV J~ 4:01 PM atIOIC8 CentBr 
upper echelon of interhall teams. Though stifled for most of last week's game against Alumni, Siegfried's explosive aerial attack showed up when needed most. Quarterback Bill Bingle authored a late fourth quarter touchdown drive, spreading the ball around the field to his favorite target John Kaup, new addition Marques 
Bolden, and finally hitting tight end Mike Wahl for the game­winning touchdown. 
Torgensen attributed the 10-6 win to the Bingle's poise. 
"Having been to the stadium twice, Bill Bingle has seen it all," he said. "We all feel confident with him running the show." 
But what the Morrissey defense faces through the air, the Ramblers defense will face on the ground. The Manorites feature a consistent and punish­ing ground assault led by the tandem of tailback Nick Klein and quarterback Marty Mooney. 
Last week, Zahm had little · success in stopping the Morrissey duo. Klein amassed 75 total rushing yards while 
Cftf'ESECAKE CHEESECAKE 
e~ 
0~ ..~~~ 1'3-~ ..s?J.\ 

p (574) 282-3233 ~ Fax(574)282-3234 415 North Hickory Road South Bend, IN 46615 
(Student & Staff discounts with ID) 
Mooney chipped in with a 60­
yard scramble of his own. Both 
players rushed for a touchdown. 
As for facing the Rambler 
defense, Klein plans on taking 
what the defense gives them. 
"We're planning to mix it up on 
offense and see what works well 
that day," he said. 
However, touchdowns will be at a premium for both sides. Though their offenses run opposing schemes, both defenses put up similar stingy numbers week in and week out. The Rambler defense has recorded two shutouts and is holding opponents to 4.6 points per game. Rambler cornerback John Lira feels that the Siegfried defense has a distinct advantage in its practices. 
"Playing against the top offense in practice makes [the defense] better as a whole," Lira said. "As good as their offense is, I can't say that it's as good as ours." 
However, Morrissey's defense has also been up to the task, beginning the year with three straight shutouts and allowing only 3.8 points per game. 
But on Sunday, the focus for both teams is on the present, specifically on a trip to the stadi­um. 
"That's the goal of the entire endeavor -to make it to the stadium," Klein said. "That's obviously one of our major drives of the season." 
Siegfried will be seeking its third consecutive stadium appearance, and Lira remains confident in his team. 
"The road to the championship still goes through Siegfried. As far as we're concerned, we're still driving the bus," Lira said. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpulgis@nd.edu and Matt Mooney at mmooney@~d.edu 


#1211otralamalollelballvs Miami 
sundav, 1011---&:00 PIatJovce eantBr 
~ Save your seat for the football Pep Rally! • One lucky fan will win 2 tickets to the ND vs Navy Football Game Wamell's SWIIIDIIDII & Diving VI PIUSbargbCFrldiV, llovJ---4:30 PM atlollIQUIUC antBr  ~First 100 fans receive Gold Game T-shirts (sponsored by Aeropostale) First 1,000 tans receive  Gold Game! . Game televzsed nationally on CSTV! k ha~;::d:n:e  .~First sao fans receive Senior trading cards! @300 fans receive sports beads  
GoldGame!  ND foam hat!  record!  
•  First 100 fans receive Gold Game T -shirts ...., sponsored by Aeropostale  

· **FREE Ad~is-s-ion to a(( Wr> Students** **Vis-it the Pro"'os-and Giveaways-Link at www.und.co~** 
_
.. 
-

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 7, 2003 

Tourney 
continued from page 28 
the year and took the Irish to overtime at Alumni Field last month. 
Boston College advanced by beating Rutgers 2-1 in the quar­terfinals and is led by sopho­more Katie McGregor and sen­ior Sarah Rahko. The Eagles started the season 8-0 and have currently hit their stride, win­ning five consecutive games. 
"We've played them before, although not this season," Waldrum said. "They're pretty similar though personnel-wise. They are good defensively and don't give up many goals. They're a team that will give you a difficult game and is capable of beating you." 
While the Irish and Eagles have not played this season, they are familiar with each other. The Irish defeated Boston College 3-0 in that semifinal two years ago, and then beat the Eagles 1-0 last year on a golden goal from Amanda Guertin in overtime. Guertin, Amy Warner and Melissa Tancredi all scored in the 3-0 win two seasons ago. 

This time around, however, the Irish will have to go without Warner, who suffered a severely sprained ankle in the game against Miami and is listed as week-to-week. Junior Mary Boland also remains question­able for this weekend's game, which means the Irish could be without their two leading scor­ers. 
The Irish did get a boost against Miami from the return of defender Tancredi, who is still slowed somewhat by an ankle injury. 
The Irish depth up front will come into play, as sophomore Maggie Manning and freshman Lizzie Reed are very capable of stepping in alongside Guertin and sophomore Katie Thorlakson as the Irish for­wards. 
"I .don't think we'll change things too muGh," Waldrum said. "Amy and Mary give us the opportunity to press more, so we won't do that quite as often, but we'll have the same mindset. Lizzie and Maggie can give us some of the same press­ing mindset, but we lose a little without Amy's pace and athleti­cism." 

Notes  weekend in early October.  from the Northeast side.  
+If the Irish get past Boston  +Three  of the  four  teams  
College, they will face  a team  remaining in the tournament  
seeking revenge. Notre Dame  come  from the Mid-Atlantic  
beat then No. 5 West Virginia 2­ Division, with Boston College  Contact Andy Troeger at  
0 and Villanova 1-0 on the same  being the lone representative  atroeger@nd.edu  

Weekend 
continued from page 28 

off a big win over second place Pittsburgh last week, and they know that Virginia Tech is a more than wor­thy opponent. 
"I think it will be really easy [not to look past Friday] because we lost to Virginia Tech last year," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "It's not about revenge, it's just about playing the way we know how to play, and I know [the team] won't look past them." 

This weekend is the last homestand for the Irish until the Big East Tournament, and they look to make the most of playing good teams at home. 
"[Virginia Tech] is playing well, and 
. \ that is good for us," Brown said. "We want to play a team that is on fire and playing well." The Irish have been playing well of late as well, winning their last 12 

matches. They are the No. 1 blocking squad in the country, averaging 3.84 blocks per game -nearly a half block more than their closest competition. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster is a large part of that statistic, as she leads the nation in individual blocking with 1.82 blocks per game. Brewster also leads the Irish in hitting percentage, as she hits .359. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Kelbley is second on the team in block­ing (1.33 per game), and is another large part of the balanced Irish attack. Junior Emily Loomis leads the Irish hit­ters with 3.67 kills per game. 
Running the offense is senior setter Kristen Kinder. Kinder has been steady for the Irish ever since they switched to a 5-1 offense from the 6-2 they started the season with. 
However, Sunday's match will prove to be a challenge for Notre Dame. Miami is led by last year's Big East Player of the Year, Valeria Tipiana, who averages 4.03 kills and 2.48 digs while hitting .324 this season. Last year, the Hurricanes ended a 43-game Big East winning streak for the Irish and made it to the NCAA Sweet Sixteen in only the program's second year. The Hurricanes are two games behind the Irish in the Big East standings. 
"We're definitely ready to play good teams," Herndon said. "That is always a more fun game." 
The Irish find themselves prepared for what they deem just another week­end of conference play. 
"It's a big weekend just because we have two conference games, and our goal is to win our conference," Herndon said. "We're very excited, very pumped-up and we're ready to have a good match all the way through.." 
Today's game is set to start at 4 p.m. and Sunday's game is scheduled for 6 p.m., at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



Big East 
continued from page 28 
and it would be nice not to have to travel as much. 
"Plus it's alway.s nicer to play at home in front of your own fans. I think that if a team wins the Big East, then they have a pretty good argument for one of 

! 
' 
.,. those top four seeds." Even if the Irish are unable to win the conference tournament, a good performance could still ! ~ help them collect one of the top '\ 16 seeds in the NCAA's pool of 48 
~) 
teams. Those top 16 teams all n receive first-round byes. 
.: . 
!. 
"The better we do over these next few games, the more we'll 
,...{' 
help our seed," Clark said. "We'd 

like to get a first-round byeI' (I, ·; because that's like an automatic first-round win." 
i ' 
One reason for Notre Dame's 

<) '·/, 
success this year has been a stal­

( 
wart defensive backfield. ~ Through 18 regular season 
..,.;-, 
games, the Irish only allowed 14 ~ goals, including 10 shutouts. <I Take the five goals the team allowed in a hiccup against Rutgers and the number drops I even further. Irish goaltender Chris Sawyer has been a wall, ~ with a 0.76 goals against aver­I age. "We defend as a team right from the start of the game," Clark said. "Good defensive teams can win you champi­onships. A lot of defense is just being organized and working together as a unit. 
"It's also nice to have a good goalkeeper at the back of it all." 
The Huskies (8-7-3, 5-3-2) don't figure to be a pushover opponent, however. Connecticut is this year's host for the Big East semifinals and finals, and the Huskies would love to .upset the Irish and return home for the remainder of the tournament. 
Connecticut is led by freshman forward Steve Sealy, who has scored five goals and three assists for 13 points, including three game-winners. Together with forward Cesar Cuellar, who has notched four goals and three assists for 11 points, they com­pose the bulk of the Huskies' attack. 
Adam Schuerman holds a 1.01 goals against average and a 8-5­2 record overall as Connecticut's number-one netminder. 
This quarterfinal battle begins at 1 p.m. Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Somebody's Got it coming this weekend. Happy Birthday, Tines-
You're either with us, or you're against us!!! 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------~ 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pmSun.: 12:00 pm -6:oo pm 




Friday, November 7, 2003 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JUMBLE 

~®TbJJ:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
POSOT 
I [J (] 
Cl2003 Tribune Med111 Servocea, Inc. All Righls Reserved. 
SCUHR 
j 
1 
rx 
FRUTOH 

[l] 
www.jumble.com 
VEEDIC ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WH~N H~ TOOK HIS ~X-GIRL-'S BRIDAL-PHOTOS, 
H~ WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-rT'Z'T':-r.:~ ~~~~ 
~-ri+-:+.:+::-t 
-r+-.~ 
.,+.;~~ ~;...L.,;;.~ 


Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.coin 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the t\vo campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Opserver in your home. 
58 Don't see other 
people, perhaps 60 Wrap 61 Stealthily 62 Like some 
grapes 63 Ones charging reading fees? 
DOWN 1 Match 2 Feature of 

some muscle cars 3 Pole tossed in competition 4 Actress Bartok STill stack 6 Land on the Red Sea 7 Cut again 8 Subsist 9 Spare no expense 10 Bad audience response 
11 Taking after 12 Revolutionary hero 13 Amana amenities 
14 2000 film about a mission to Mars 
21 Unit named for a physicist 
24 Classicist Hamilton and others 

26 Records one's arrival 
29 Lohengrin's love 
WILLSHORTZ 
hr+--+-+-+--+--+---i~ 
30 Thing 37 Start of an 48 Cremona artisan African capital 
49 Red Bordeaux 
31 Mars 

40 Checked the so They may 32 Something that figures, maybe appear on lids comes down 
41 Unwillingness to 54 Suffix with
hard? 

crow symptom 
33 Pen, say 57 Ground cover
44 Jackson Hole is 
near them 58 Elephant grp.
35 His twin tricked him 46 Newbie, of sorts 59 N.T. book 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leamingfxwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

Sharing this birthday: Christopher Daniel Barnes, Joni Mitchell, Billy Graham, AI Hirt, Judy Tenuda 
Happy Birthday: You can get ahead this year if you focus on finishing what you start. You will not tolerate others getting in your way and will move force­fully in your chosen direction. This is a year to meet new people and form new friendships. Change will be tempting, and taking a chance will become second nature. Your numbers: 10, 14, 23, 31, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Co-operating with co-workers will lead to a better working relationship. Romantic encounters will be stressful if you haven't been completely honest about your past commitments. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Attend a social event and focus on meeting those who can help you get ahead. You will have to be careful not to forget your loved ones. Neglect will lead to upset. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your best efforts will come through work. To accomplish the most, it is best to work with your peers. Love interests may develop through work-related events. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your interest in learning something new may lead you back to school. You will benefit through the courses you take, regardless of whether or not you use your new skills to make money. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get busy turning your home into the place you want to live in. Don't let jealousy lead to an unpleasant situation. Unusual investments will lead to profits. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will meet new romantic partners while on vacation. Your ability to converse with knowledge and wit will attract intelligent individuals. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't take financial risks. Losses are evident, and joint ventures appear to be totally unreliable. Matters pertaining to your career will be most favorable. Look into the possibility of a better position. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get in touch with yourself. You need to do some soul-searching and make the necessary adjustments to your attitude. Self­realization and creative projects can be satisfying and enlightening. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't avoid the truth. You can make alterations that will ease the tension at home. Look into moving to larger quarters. You can benefit financially through real estate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need a change. Join groups that will spark some enthusiasm in you. Don't be in a hurry to blame your loved ones ...for things they possibly had no part in. Do a little research. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't waste time. You can make changes that will lead to a better professional position. Go for interviews or talk to your boss about a promotion. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your thirst for knowledge will lead you down exciting new avenues. Try not to disagree with colleagues. Work quietly behind the scenes and refrain from pushing your beliefs on others. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are tender, emotional and giving as long as you like the company you are with. If you are unhappy or don't get your way, you can become headstrong and willful. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Enumeration follower 9 Former Likud leader 15 Very scared person, perhaps 16 Rioters' quieters 17 No provincial 18 Like many a library book 19 First name in 1858 debates 20 Geog. feature 21 Wickiup, for one 22 Diamond expert 23 Some tales 25 Choirs may use them 27 196D-61 world chess champ 
28 Judging 
30 Reggae's _­Mouse 
31 Girl of Oz 
34 "Little" ones from afar 36 Pitches 37 One preceder? 38 It may be blank 
39 She worked for Grant on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" 
41 Business center: Abbr. 42 Heal-_ (mint family members) 43 Delete 45 Name on a Chinese menu 46 In distress 47 Candied dish 51 Price abbr. 
52 Readers of the Book of Moroni: Abbr. 
53 Britain's Act of 1n3 55 Came across 56 Put up 


., ' l 
\ 
~ 
I I 
\ 
\ 
~ 
~ 
\ 


-, 

I 
I
I 
~. 
I I I\ 
II 
:( 
,, 
I_~ 
:~ 
.~ 


I 
'c 
'I 
'I 
:~ 
I) 
I, 
'• 'I 
I'
,/ I
'I 
'I'I 
I~
I 
I 
'I 
'! 
1,. 
I~ 
:~ 
' 
i 
{
' ' 
·, 
-~ 
.. ; \ 
; l < ­
. ',t.. 
•. ~ 
,_ , 
<"< 
~~ 
{,\ ·. 
\ \ \,' 
~~ 
• l~ 
: . 
; ~ 
-_8
'':$ 
i-' 
!( 
• 
-­
) : 
~ ..­
.: ) 
~ i 
I . ~ ' 
. , 
1I : 
I • 
I : 
) ::-· 
. l 
; 
; 
I 
' 

.,­
~ 
: t 
THE OBSERVER 
p

page 28 

Friday, November 7, 2003 
ND SoCCER 
No. 3 Irish hungry for their eighth Big East Tournament Championship this weekend 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

PISCATAWAY, N.J. -Two years ago, the Irish won their seventh consecutive Big East Championship in Piscataway, N.J., by defeat­ing Boston College in the semifinals and then West Virginia in the championship game. 
Joined by Villanova, those same teams return to Piscataway this weekend as the Irish again match up with the Eagles in Big East semifinal action Friday, while West Virginia will take on Villanova in the other bracket. 
The Irish would love nothing better than to regain the championship, whether or not they follow the same form as in 2001. By not even qualifying for the Big East Tournament in 2002, the Irish are hungry to regain the championship in a tournament in which they have never lost. 
"I think that was one of the goals all along this season," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum of regaining the Big East­Championship. "Not even making it last year after winning so much, we've wanted this since the beginning of the season." 
The Irish, ranked No. 3 by the NSCAA and No. 4 by Soccer America this week after falling to Michigan in their regular season finale, hardly have an easy task awaiting them if they want to win their eighth Big East title. Boston College (No. 22 NSCANNo. 18 SA) comes in at 14-2-2 and as the second seed from the Northeast Division. 
In the other game, West Virginia (No. 10 NSCAA/No. 7 SA) comes in having been ranked in the top 10 most of the year and having amassed a record of 15-3-1. 
Villanova, fresh off an upset of Northeast Division Champion Connecticut, is 14-5-1 on 
Tourney time 


TIM KACMARICHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Top, Amanda Guertin slide tackles a Michigan player in the Irish's only loss. Bottom, Kevin Goldthweite goes for the ball against a· Georgetown player Aug. 28. Both teams hope to win the Big East 
see TOURNEY/page 26 Tournament this weekend. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Big (East) weekend awaits Irish 

TIM KACMAR!The Observer 

Irish libero Meg Henican passes in an Oct. 10 match against Seton Hall. 
en .....
1--c.:» 
z

cc 
c:c
.... 
c:c

== 
a. ti 
en 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
It is the biggest weekend of the season thus far, but the Irish are confident. 
This afternoon, the No. 12 Irish (19-2, 8-0) face Virginia Tech ( 12-12, 6-3), when they try to avenge last season's loss. Sunday night will see Miami (19-7, 7~2) come into town hungry for a victory after the Irish knocked them out of the Big East Tournament last year. 
Which game is bigger? "l think we try and look at the Miami game as another 
ND SWIMMING
ND WOMEN'S BBAll 

game, because we are try­ing to focus on VIrginia Tech as of right now," freshman defensive specialist Danielle Herndon said. "Of course it's a big game, because it's a conference game, and we want to win all of them." 
The Hokies will hope to upset the Irish as they did last year. However, Sunday's game is the American Volleyball Coaches' Association game of the week, and will be televised nationally on CSTV's Sunday Night Spikers. 
The Irish refuse to look past the Hokies, who come 
see WEEKEND/page 26 
Irish hope strong finish in Big East Tournament will propel them into a top NCAA seed 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Losing was an uncommon thing for this year's Irish, but this weekend they'll have a chance to get back at one of the few teams that beat them during the regular season. 
No. 3 seed Notre Dame faces No. 6 seed Connecticut in a quarterfinal Big East Tournament matchup Sunday at Alumni Field. During the regular season, the Huskies defeat­ed the Irish 1-0 in Storrs, Conn. 
"I think that you always just want to get out there and win," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. ''I'm not sure I'd put it as strongly as saying that we want revenge, although it would be nice to get one of those lof?ses back. 
"We'd just like to go out there and win the conference. That would really help make this a very special year." 
Notre Dame comes into the Big East Tournament with a 12-3-3 record, including 6­3-1 in conference. The Irish are currently ranked No. 5 nationally and are in the running for a high seeding in the NCAA Tournament if they perform well at the Big East Championship. 
Clark said that he doesn't want his team to think about at-large bids and instead work towards receiving the automatic bid that would be included in winning the Big East Tournament. 
Each of the top four seeds nationally receive home-field advantage all the way up to the NCAA Final Four, and Clark added that is a bit of incentive for the team to do well in the Big East Tournament. 
"We're playing for home field advantage," he said. "I think that's especially important at a school where academics is so important. Finals will be around the same time as the Final Four, 
see BIG EAST/page 26 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Top-seeded Dillon looks to earn trip to the Stadium. 
By MATT PUGLISI and 
MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writers 

A trip to the' stadium is on the line when first-seeded and undefeated Dillon (5-0) Jocks horns with fifth-seeded Keenan (3-1-1) Sunday afternoon at 1 
p.m. on Riehle South. 

"This game will be won in the trenches," Keenan captain and quarterback Patrick Downey said, alluding to the run-based oiTense featured by both squads. "We played them earlier this year and both teams know what the other is about." 
Dillon enters the semifinal contest hoping to build on the strength of a 7-0 shutout of eighth-seeded Sorin last Sunday. After a penalty negat­ed an early Big Red touch­down, both teams were held scoreless until Dillon quarter­back A.J. Cedeno found the endzone on a second-and-goal touchdown scamper in the fourth quarter. 
"Our defense really held up and compensated for the 
see STADIUM/page 25 

INTERHAU. FOOTBAll 
FOOTBAlL
HOCKEY 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame vs. Team Concept 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
The Irish close out the preseason with their last exhibition game. 
page 25 Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh 

Today, 4:30 p.m. 
The Irish look to improve on a slow start thus far. 
page 24 Notre Dame at Michigan State 
Today, 7:05 p.m. 
The defensive-minded Irish look to stop the high-powered Spartans. 
page 24 

Alicia Salas loses in the opening round of the Indoor Champion­ships. 
page 23 Cavanaugh vs. Badin Welsh vs. Lewis 

Teams fight for the chance to play in the Stadium. 
page 23 Navy at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame look to extend its 39-game win­ning streak against Navy. 
Irish Insider 

IIi I 



Iris_~_ ·br~~~~~~-P~~i Jvl~d~(eSi Parseghian forecasts~ 
__ ~~'?~e~--~p~r _!!i.~~~ Irish trounce Midshipmen~ 
33-0 _ · --··-"". · -__ .:i-Irish sink Midshipmen ­
-_ -· ---· • · -· ---­
Kiel, Duerson help breakslum] -., : Navy narrowly misses major :j 
.Ciht~y'S i~St-mift*-fi ~-7~ 6&1 giVes Irish vietm 
! . ~~-rt: .,....·_-!:" -· • .l-1-~~ ·-~~---~---· . ~ .!! -.P __ ... _,._ It-..."'-~-· -f.···.... _·;,:-... -· ., .f:. . . "~ -· •
! O_ffense rolls up 544 yards; nIrish use strong 1st half to swamp Navy 
· Pmkett: 161 yards, 3 TDs ~J,;·\.,~_:·~~>·:~~~ :: ;;~~<E.. ·,.~--~_.r;·~<,/,; .: ~, ~~.~~ .~ .•. ,' .: . ·.:,: . ·,,:: ~ · ·.1 
Defense dominates : Irish keep rolling, maul Midshipmer as NO escapes 22-7w,t!f[~_l~~~~"~'~!~~~91e -~~-b"e~~ .~!J ,..........·.·.::;;.....~mr.,. Irish shut out Navy, tie consecutive win 
-NOtre Dame doWnS feisty MidshiPillen in 52-31 w~~~-Notre Dame Navy I Irish passiilg-Offense unlOads aQ8illst NavY,-38-0 ,t(~ · 54-2 7 


Mtdshtpmenno 'I·dsh·lpmen set adr.I..·.·_· ...·..•. :.·
_match for a revived ..~ 
·~ ­

r Irish offense .i:. .. . ~-:: '"· :-~ • _ • , ~-=--~
# _ h , , 0 
i Irish overco"!e early s~are to ?Dodging torpedoes
! beat Navy In home finale ·· -_-, 
~ ~ n:. • " ' :.:." c .. _ 
f,~ ...."' !ijf'·'Jf#"' " J . -' . ' ~ "t• .,,' ' ' -_; ~ '-> ~ ;,--' 
f'_ ~ -:.&.. #.::~~:~ " ~ . '[ . ~ .'. -· / 
~ • :~.. '4. >;~ ' ~ ,; ~f_ i : <' : 
~ .( :ijO .,; -l--4;" I _.o, 
~-f s; ~~~~ , <~ ·:__ ,; ;~, ._.. ~-~-. :-~-·' 
• ·__ ;j= ~ ~--_·:.-. . ~-·_ 
~~ 

-• • • •• :!' • • • ' .}-"' 
•• 11-:E • 

. ·After ... 39 straight victories over N~vy, a susceptible·_· , · . Irish team looks to extend its streak. · 


~--. ~~ -. . ,..-. 

_. ' ' 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 7, 2003 
game hype
Last four games vital for Willingham 

Tyrone Willingham won't be judged by what Notre Dame has accomplished during the first eight games of the 2003 season. 
It is instead the man­ner in which he leads his team through its final four games of the year that will leave a lasting impact on Irish fans. 
Despite what Willingham accomplished last season ­taking a 5-7 team and turning it into one that started the season 8-0 -the odds were certainly against him in 2003. He faced a schedule that would make any program in the nation weak in the knees. Recruiting gaps left him woe­fully thin at key positions. The offense didn't seem quite ready to generate touchdowns by the bunches. 
Those factors gave Willingham every opportunity to blame a 2-6 start, the worst in 40 years, on a series of enormous challenges. 
But he didn't. 
"Excuses aren't solutions," the Irish head coach said ear­lier in the week. 

Andrew Soukup 
Sports Writer 

So Willingham, in lieu of refusal to point fingers left passing the buck, unfairly room for people to point fin­shouldered the blame himself. gers at the coaches. And by doing so, he helped To some extent, criticism of draw the ire of Notre Dame the coaching staff is justified. fans with itchy trigger fingers. In his 21-game tenure at 
When Willingham arrived at Notre Dame, Willingham­Notre Dame, he promised his coached teams have lost four focus was to win immediately, games by 30 or more points. 
not fall into a  Bob Davie  
rebuilding  only lost one  
plan that  game by 30­ 
would take four or five years. That  Willingham needs more than a year  plus in five years. To· put that in per­ 
meshed nicely  and a halfbefore  spective,  
with the expectations of Irish fans  fans can decide if he is another  Willingham­coached Notre Dame teams  
who believe  Lou Holtz or a  have roughly  
the head coach, the  Bob Davie.  a 20 percent chance of get- 
athletic direc­ ting beaten by  
tor and the  30 points  

University president should be when they take the field. fired if Notre Dame doesn't There's also consistent mis­win a national title. takes that crop up game after 
Willingham, with his 8-0 game -mistakes that should start, had Irish fans convinced be corrected early in the sea­he was the real thing. He won son, but continue to plague with players he didn't recruit. Notre Dame in critical situa­He won with a tough sched­tions. Twelve men on the field ule. He won despite players' after a time out. An offensive struggles grasping game line that holds opponents so plans. much its members should 
So when Willingham started switch to defense. Receivers to lose despite facing similar who play hot potato with pass­conditions, trigger-happy fans es. Cornerbacks who are out assumed it was his fault. of position. 
Notre Dame's head coach It's easy to point fingers at entered this season in such an Wil1ingham for Notre Dame's unenviable position he might dismal start. It's also ridicu­have wanted to bolt back to lous. Stanford and the land of low Willingham needs more expectations. His subsequent than a year and a half before fans can decide if he is anoth­er Lou Holtz or a Bob Davie. He needs to be given the opportunity to recruit his play­ers. He needs time to show that his inconsistency as a head coach -he only had four winning seasons in seven years at Stanford -is the result of a lack of talent at Stanford, not an inherent coaching flaw. 
That's why Willingham's personal string of Judgement Days starts against Navy. He may say that Notre Dame is heading in the right direction, but blowout losses to top-1 0 competition aren't what fans define as returning to the nation's elite. 
In order to show that Willingham does indeed have Notre Dame "pointed in the right direction," as he said last week, the success of Notre Dame over its last four games of the season -when Notre Dame has nothing to play for but a good start for next year -will show how much of an effect Willingham can have on Notre Dame's future success. 
Because if hell freezes over and Navy beats Notre Dame for the first time since the Hugh DeVore era, all bets will be off. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"I didn•t realize it had been 39 years until I read some article the other day.,, 

Trent Walters Irish secondary coach 
"'For us to beat them, we have to play close to perfect, and they have to help us some.,, 
..I think for our team it's just trying to 
get a win.,, 

Kent Baer Irish defensive coordinator 
..I told the guys today I won •t sleep a wink all this weekjust thinking about the game.·· 



Better Ingredients. Better Pizza. 
NOTRE DAME  HOURS  STMARY'S  
271-1177  Mon-Thu 11 :OOAM-1 :00AM Fri, Sat 11 :00AM-3:00AM  HOLY CROSS  
Sun 12:00PM-1:00AM  271-7272  
Papa Predicts:  
NOTRE DAME  21  
Navy  3  
IRISH SPECIAL  
•------------------~ r------------------~ :LATE NIGHT SPECIAL: ~One Large One Topping: I I I $ I1 2 Breadsticks & 1 1 8 99 1 1 2 Liter of Coca-Cola product 1 1 • 1 I $ 9 I I OR I: 7.9 : :Two Large One Topping: I : After 10:00 PM : : $14.99 I  r------------------~I I :coMPLETE MEAL DEAL: I One Large One Topping, I I IBreadsticks & a 2 Liter of I ICoca-Cola productI I I I I $12.99 I I I  
I  I  I  I  I  I  

·------------------· ~------------------~ ·------------------~ 
FAST + HOT + QUALITY + GO ND! 
....... ·.. 
' 
.. 
' I 

Friday, November 7, 2003 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
At the top of the hill 
In the 40th year, will 6-3 Navy finally end its losing streak to 2-6 Notre Dame? 
But this season, the teams
By JOE HETTLER 
enter the game with reversed 
Sports Editor 
records -the Midshipmen are 
6-3, while the Irish are a strug­
There's a reason Navy hasn't gling 2-6. beaten Notre Dame since 1963, Navy nearly pulled off one of and Midshipmen head coach the biggest upsets in college Paul Johnson knows why. football history last season 
"They probably have 35 when it lead by eight points in Parade All-Americans, and we the fourth quarter at have 35 guys that have Baltimore's Ravens Stadium. marched in a parade," Johnson Irish quarterback Carlyle said. "It's not apples and Holiday had to find Omar apples." Jenkins on catches of 29 and 67 
Does that mean Navy doesn't yards in the final minutes to have a chance to beat Notre help 8-1 Notre Dame escape Dame this weekend in South 30-23 against a Midshipmen Bend? team that had a lowly 1-7 
"I hope not, but I don't think record entering the game. anybody will have us favored," With the 2002 game in mind, Johnson said. many feel this could be the year 
The last time the Midshipmen Navy pulls off the incredible won against the Irish was the upset. same year President John. F Looking back Kennedy was shot and killed, Had Navy not been there for Martin Luther King gave his "I Notre Dame during World War Have a Dream Speech" and II, the University might not be Navy quarterback Roger standing today. Staubach won the Heisman Notre Dame was in dire Trophy. The financial straits Midshipmen won during the war
nThey probably 

35-14 at Notre ·and looked to Dame Stadium have 3 5 Parade Navy for a help­
that year. All-Americans, and ing hand. The 
Since then, the Midshipmen kept
we have 35 guys

Irish have claimed the school afloat an NCAA record that have marched by putting a half­39 straight victo­in a parade.·· dozen programs ries over the on the Notre Midshipmen, with Dame campus.
Paul Johnson

2003 marking the After this gesture 40th year since Navy head coach by the Academy, Navy last won in the schools decid­the series. ed to play annu­
Notre Dame has won as ally on the football tield for as impressively as 56-7 in 1970 long as Navy wanted. and as narrowly as 18-17 in The two teams had met for 1984. They lead Navy in the all­the first time in 1927, with the time series 66-9-1. Usually, Irish winning 19-6. Notre Dame when the two teams meet, won the first six meetings Notre Dame is 7-1, 5-2 or 8-0, before losing three of the next and Navy is 1-7, 2-5 or 0-8. four decisions, then won 17 of 


the next 19. Navy won five of the next eight games between 1956 and 1963 before losing the last 39 games against the Irish. 
But the last few meetings between the teams have been especially interesting. Besides the 2002 game, Navy nearly 
· upset Notre Dame in 1997 and again in 1999. 
In the '97 game, the Midshipmen out gained the Irish 399 to 283 and had 117 more rushing yards, but still lost 21-1 7 when Autry Denson scored with 5 minutes, 48 sec­onds remaining in the game. Navy quarterback Chris McCoy threw three interceptions that day in South Bend but complet­ed a Hail Mary on the last play of the game to receiver Pat McGrew, who raced to the Irish 2-yard line before being knocked out of bounds by Allen Russum. 
But the loss that hurts Navy fans the most was in 1999. 
Notre Dame trailed 24-21 with 1:30 remaining and had the ball at the Midshipmen 37. On fourth-and-1 0, with no timeouts left, Notre Dame quar­terback Jarious Jackson hit receiver Bobby Brown for a 9­yard gain. The Navy sideline celebrated what they thought was a victory, only to see the ..referee give Notre Dame a very generous spot. The Irish got the first down by a few inches, then scored six plays later to win 28­24. 
As much as Johnson won't I:>RIAN PUCEVICH!The Observer admit it, the ?003 Navy team Quarterback Aaron Polanco (top) filled in for Craig Candeto feels this could be the year they last year and almost led the Midshipmen to the upset. 
finally get to the Irish. 
"I think, in all honesty, for us to beat them we have to play the season 2-7. This year's 2-6 right now," Irish running back close to perfect, and they have team knows that the 2003 Navy Julius Jones said. "This week to help us some," Johnson said. team isn't the same as in past with Navy, they're an excellent "I don't think we're going to be years. team, and they're going to play afraid. I think our "We have to us tough no matter what the guys will go in and prepare for situation."
"[And] there's 
play. Now, we may them because Jones denied any additional just be way out­pressure on us to they're a very pressure in losing to Navy and manned, and if good team -by breaking the streak.
Wln every game. 
they bring their 'A' their record and "That streak really doesn't
We have to win
game it's. going to by how they mean anything with Navy, be tough. I don't ever:y game. play," Irish run­because they come in here and think we're going ning back Ryan play their best game of the to be in awe or Grant said. year," he said. "[And] there's
Julius Jones 
afraid. Maybe "They're going pressure on us to win every
Irish running back
we're not smart to come with game. We have to win every enough to be their 'A' game game." afraid." and they're Willingham agreed that this 
The Midshipmen are led by going to want to take from us gamfl and the streak do not add 
quarterback Craig Candeto, what we don't want them to any more pressure to the who has rushed for 767 yards take." coaches and team in preparing and 11 touchdowns, and run­Notre Dame coach Tyrone and playing Saturday's game. ning back Kyle Eckel, who Willingham has the same mind­"It is simply this game that leads the team in rushing yards set as Grant. counts and this game that is 
with 806. "Navy is a very good football most important, and I think as Navy also averages 309.6 team," Willingham said. "They a competitor, you recognize 
yards on the ground per game lead the country in rushing and that," Willingham said. "You -good enough to lead the to do that you have to do some­recognize that the past is great, country in that category. thing right -and they've done especially when it's very suc­
Johnson said even though things right," Willingham said. cessful from your viewpoint, Notre Dame is 2-6, they will be "Our football team has to be but at the same time you have a huge c)lallenge for the ready to play a darn good foot­to play the game today and Academy. ball team and probably face the that's the only thing that 
"They've lost to the No. 2 best Navy football team in the counts." team in the country, the No. 3 last 20 years." The bookies seem to think the team in the country, the No. 7 For the Irish to be successful Irish will prevail. Notre Dame team in the country, so I think Saturday and win its 40th enters the game between an their record might be a tad straight game over Navy, they eight-and nine-point favorite. deceiving," he said. "I doubt it will have to play better than The streak and the team's seriously if you asked [the ·they have throughout the last records aside, Willingham said Notre Dame coaches] if they few weeks. Against Michigan, it doesn't matter who the Irish wanted to come swap anybody USC and Florida State, Notre are playing -the team will they would swap any of theirs Dame has been outscored 120-have one objective this week­for any of ours." 14. The team hasn't scored a end. 
Meanwhile, Navy's schedule point in its last seven quarters "I think for our team it's just is one of the easiest in the at home and hasn't had a start trying to get a win, and we country, with several Division this poor since that 1963 team. have not done that in a couple 1-AA teams on it. Add all that up, and many of weeks," Willingham said. Avoiding history feel a Notre Dame win could 
When Notre Dame lost to even be an upset. Contact Joe Hettler at Navy in 1963, the Irish finished "We're trying to stay positive jhettler@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 7, 2003 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 2-6 AP: NR Coaches: NR 



Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
56-45-1 
at Notre Dame: 
12-9 

Tyrone Willingham against head coach Navy: 1-0 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 230 SR 2 Freddie Parrish DB 6-1 195 FR 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 JR 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 207 SO 6 Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 • 194 JR 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 SR 8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 180 SR 8 Quentin Burrell FS 6-0 180 JR 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 SR 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 JR 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 210 FR 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 199 JR 12 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 220 JR 13 Nicholas Setta KIP 5-11 184 SR 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 177 SR 16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 227 JR 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 183 JR 17 Geoffrey Price P 6-3 180 FR 18 Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 211 SR 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-1 192 JR 20 Travis Thomas RB 6-1 200 FR 
21 . Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 221 SO 22 Julius Jones RB 5-10 210 SR 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 190 FR 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 177 JR 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 · 224 SO 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 197 SR 27 Lionel Bolen 55 6-0 206 JR 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 208 SR 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 229 SR 28 Tom Zbikowski DB 6-0 185 FR 29 LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-10 180 FR 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 188 SO 31 Jake Carney DB 6-0 180 SO 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 211 SO 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 234 SR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 194 SR 35 Ashley McConnell l'B 6-0 240 FR 36 Isaiah Gardner DBIRB 5-10 190 FR 37 Matt Mitchell DB 5-9 184 SO 39 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 226 JR 39 David Bemenderfer 55 5-11 195 SR 40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 165 SR 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 SR 42 Ambrose Wooden WR 6-1 190 FR 43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 226 SO 44 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 246 JR 45 Carl Gioia P 5-11 165 FR 46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 238 JR 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 210 FR 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 250 SR 49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 228 SR 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 295 SR 51 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 290 SO 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 215 FR 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 271 SO 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 281 JR 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-1 205 FR 57 Dwight Stephenson LB 6-3 . 237 FR 58 Paul Jancha LS 6-1 245 SO 59 James Bent OL 6-2 253 SO 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR 62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 300 SO 64 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 255 JR 65 Sean Milligan OG 6-4 291 SR 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 265 SO 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 270 FR 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 JR 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 301 SR 71 David Kowalski OG 6-2 249 SR 71 James Bonelli OGIOT 6-6 282 SO 72 Jeff Thompson ClOG 6-4 287 JR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 JR 74 Dan Stevenson OG 6-5 297 JR 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 264 SO 76 Bob Morton C 6-4 299 SO 77 GrPg Pauly DT 6-6 291 SR 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 280 FR 79 Brian Mattes OT 6-6 250 SO 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 SR 81 Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 190 FR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 JR 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-4 190 FR B4 MikeO'Hara WR 5-10 174 SO 84 Rob WoOds WR 6-2 205 SO 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 SR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 242 SO 88 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 243 SR 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 253 SO 89 John Carlson TE 6-6 230 FR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 283 JR 91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 165 SO 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 270 SR 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 270 SO 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 245 FR 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 264 SO 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-2 290 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 256 SR 
NOTRE DAME WIDE RECEIVER
NOTRE DAME 
SO· Jenkins 
21·Stovall
OFFENSE

2003 Schedule 
CORNERBACK 23-KelleyOUTSIDE

Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST. -W 
4-Little
LINEBACKER 56-Carthan 
TAILBACK 48-Sealey
22-Jones

Sept. 13 at Michigan -L 
4-Grant 
€i,


FULLBACK 
16-Powers-Neal 12-Sr.hmidl ( ,)'
Sept. 20 MICHIGAN ST. -l 
Sept.27 at Purdue-L 
~ 
Oct. 11 at Pittsburgh-W Oct. 18 usc -l Oct. 25 at Boston College -L 
Nov. 1  FLORIDA STATE  -L  
Nov. a  NAVY  
Nov. 15  BVU  
Nov. 29  at Stanford  
Dec. 6  at Syracuse  

COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
Quinn continued to baffie start, the Irish are just 2­
Just a year after their 8-0 critics with a poor per­
1.&.1 
formance against the
6 at the same point in the 
:E 
Seminoles. The freshman was 20-for-52 with three year in 2003. Lack of dis­
c( 
cipline has started to show through in the team 
Q 

interceptions. The Irish
1.&.1 
ranked 117th -dead
in the form of penalties, 
a: 
.... 
last -in the country inturnovers and other cost­
0 

team passing efficiency
ly mistakes. The Irish
z 

with a combined 82.52 zone last week. 
were 0-for-4 in the red team passing efficiency. 
Candeto likely won't
It seems ironic that the light up the skies withNavy coach is the only his passing ability, butone in this game with a he has proven a knowl­

national title to his 
edgeable. consistent
claim, but Johnson won 
leader in the Navy
two Division 1-AA option attack. He runschampionships as head 
for 85 yards a game and
coach at Georgia 
has 11 of Navy's 27Southern before head­rushing touchdowns on
ing to Navy. 
the year. 

Candeto isn't rtecessarily Johnson has shown that 
the best passer, but he is he can win with his time 
the better quarterback
t/) 
at Georgiq_S6ut.hern..This 
in this mfltCh4I?~· He has
-
t/) 
led _lh(~(f;ids,P}tnptrn to
year, .b~-· tur~ett;:a~~d a 
~ 
2-1 o_ N'avy scit~ad ~rJI has 
an ·i~pf~slv~ei 6-3
c( 
record .f.hif; sep.so.fl. The
the rvJkta}it,~eJt oft to a
z 
6-3 1t~ an·a-1ooking to serttO'I*tiuartt"frback also
c:r: 
break a 39-year losing 
has the edge in experi­streak to the Irish. 
ence over the freshman Quinn. 
ROVER
INSIDE 
SAFElYLINEBACKER 45-Sanders
44·Jackson 
36-Pnce
49-Chase 
;~, 

FREE SAFETY OUTSIDE 33-Smith LINEBACKER 14-Newsome 88-Mahoney 1-Monts 
CORNERBACK~
16-Brazier -~ ' · 5-cole 
j 

NAVY DEFENSE 

IRISH RUSHING 

The Irish have not demonstrated an over­powering rushing attack since their 20-14 win against Pittsburgh when they racked up 352 yards on the ground. Jones has carried the brunt of the load with 649 yards and all four Irish rushing touchdowns. ­
The Midshipmen have displayed some weak­nesses in stopping the run this seaso.n. They rank 78th in the nation in run defense, yielding 170 yards a game and four yards per carry. They have also allowed 16 rushing touchdowns on the season. · 
The Irish should be able 
to control the line of 
scrimmage against the 
under-sized Midshipmen. 
In some years, the Irish 
blow Navy defenders otT 
the line of scrimmage, but 
in others they struggleto 
gain any ground. If the Irish play to their ability, . they should have success. 
IRISH PASSING 
If the Irish can move the ball on the ground first, Quinn may have a break out game using the play action. His receivers have not helped him too much this year with dropped passes. The offensive line protection has improved for the Irish this year. 
Navy has been successful against this pass this sea­son. They rank fourth in the nation with 151 yards per game. The Midshipmen have allowed five passing touchdowns and have 12 interceptions on the season. Carthan leads the team with four interceptions. 
Navy's impressive num­bers against the pass may be deceiving as it does not play some of 
~=·=t1\1k~~:~~,~~~t~d~F~b~f~alfnt'~,itf~ 
this year and could be very effective with help from the running game. 


Picking Navy to lx>.at Notre Dame tllli yp,ar is like picking 
the Cuffi to win the World Series -as tempting as it may 
sound, there's no dmnre it's going to happen. Notre Dame
Irish 

has looked tenibk\ but it has yet to play a te.arn with a h;­ing record. ~g Notre Dame's young defenders ~1ay disciplined enough <th-rain..'it the option and a£'iuming the
experts 

lri.<>h oflhnse firnilly madws the end mne, the Irish should have no problem beating the Mid"ihipmen. 

~--~~~:o~ ;,,,.:_~-~ :~, 
~';,~·j 
c •• _-:.. 
-

Navy is better than usual this year and Notre Dame is much worse. The Irish will be looking to beat up on someone, while the Midshipmen want to make history on the 40th anniversary of the last time a Navy team defeated Notre Dame_ The Academy will hang tough, but Notre Dame should pull away late. 
Andrew Soukup Joe Hettler
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Editor in Chief Navy 17 Sports Editor Navy 21 

Friqay, November 7, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

NavyMidshipmen Record: 6-3 
AP: NR 
Coaches: NR 

Notre Dame has been impressive against the run this year and has played some of the nation's better runners in guys like Michigan's Chris Perry and Boston College's Derrick Knight. The Irish rank 32nd in rush defense with 121 yards allowed per game.  The only truly established player in the Irish sec­ondary at this time is Duff. Bolen should fill in for the injured Earl, and Ellick, Beckstrom and Jackson should see plenty of playing time at-the other corner position. The Irish have allowed 227 passing yards a game.  The Irish punting game has struggled since Setta's injury. Notre Dame has allowed sever­al big returns on kickoffs and punts this season, partially due to poor kick placement. Duff has had some solid returns on punts.  While there is not much left to play for this year, the Irish can maintain and extend its current 39-year winning streak over Navy. The game is at home, but that not may prove such an advantage as Irish crowds seem a little subdued of late.  
The Midshipmen have the nation's top rushing attack. They have 27 touchdowns on the ground this season, which is nearly seven times the Irish total. Candeto and Eckel both average over 85 yards a game on the ground.  Navy is not a team that is going to beat you with the pass, and they don't dis­guise that fact. What they will due is use the run to set up a play action pass­ing situation. Candeto has completed just under 50 percent of his passes with four interceptions and six touchdowns.  Rolfs is 5-for-6 on field goal attempts this year. The Midshipmen aver­age nearly eight yards a per punt return with no touchdowns. Hampton gets nearly 22 yards per kickoff return. Navy has no touchdown returns so far this year.  If there is any year for Navy to break its losing streak to the Irish, it's now. Notre Dame is cer­tainly down after a 2-6 start, and the Midshipmen could land the knockout punch. Navy always seems to play better in Notre Dame Stadium.  
The Midshipmen run the triple option, and they run it very well. With only a we.~k J.q.,prepare for tQ!sdif(er~(·~y~ of play, ·and rfv)tFi' ~ereral younJLP.laycr~ st¥ting on ~~emfe--"' dlie to injuries, the Irish could have a big challenge on their hands.  The inexperienced irish secondary, plagued by injury, may be so con­cerned with stopping the 1~V::~,~~l!~~=t~~~ r;,~,~~~r~~:~ l~~6t,~~ ~ Midshipmen, the play action pass could be very effective.  Neither side has done much to distinguish itself with special teams this E~;yg~to the Eagle snapper. If Setta were in the game, the Irish would have the edge.  The Midshipmen believe this could be their year to break theJ~~g.~treak to Notr~ Dam.. e. tljij)tavebeeil·,pla~P~~. and hav~ soJn;e_'.c;;~nt. ence ent~iilfg ttfe/game. An possibly indifferent Irish squad could mean trouble for Notre Dame.  




Chris Federico Sports Writer 
MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING MIDSHIPMEN PASSING · SPECIAL TEAMS 
CORNERBACK 
24-EIIick 15-Jackson 


NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
NAVY 
2003 Schedule 
. Aug. 30  VMI-W  
Sept. 6  atTCU-L  
Sept. 20  E. MICHIGAN -W  
Sept. 27  at Rutgers-L  
Oct.4  AIR FORCE-W  
Oct. 11  at Vanderbilt -W  
Oct. 18  at Rice-W  
Oct. 25  DELAWARE-L  
Nov. 1  TULANE-W  
Nov. a  at Notre Dame  
Nov. 22  C. MICHIGAN  
Dec.6  vs.Army  

INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-t 
:::a 
m 
c 
l> 
:!: 
m 

Paul Johnson second season at Navy career record: 
70-23 
at Navy: 
8-13 

against Notre 
Dame: 0-1 
No. 
1 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 9 10 11 13 13 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 22 23 24 
25 
26 
28 
29 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
37 38 39 40 41 42 43 
44 
45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 60 61 62 63 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 
71 
72 73 74 75 76 
77 
78 79 
80 
81 82 83 84 85 
86 
87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 97 97 98 99 

James Rossi OL 6-1 230 FR Tucker Bennett OT 6-3 268 SR Matt McLaughlin OG 6-6 285 JR Eric Frey NG 6-2 259 SR Josh Pridham NG 6-4 253 JR Au~ust Roitsch c 6-1 274 jR An rew Bazzle LS 6-0 222 JR Scott Szurovy NG 6-0 285 JR Sam Brown OT 6-3 241 JR Brett Nungesser OG 6-4 243 so Nick Wilson OT 6-5 264 JR Eric Rolfs K 6-1 169 SR Geoff BlumenfPld K 6-0 170 JR John Skaggs p 6-2 209 SR Mick Yokitis WR 6-2 215 so Dan Gibbon WR 6-1 204 so Brandon Diggs LB 6-1 205 FR Mike Brammer WR 6-0 175 so Jason Tomlinson WR 6-2 177 FR David Mahoney LB 5-10 216 FR Corey Dryden WR 6-3 238 JR Dan Wendolowskt NG 6-2 254 so Babatunde Akingbemi NG 6-0 273 JR Pierre Moss DE 6-0 249 JR Jeff Vanak DE 6-1 241 JR Steve Adair DE 6-2 266 SR Ralph Henry DE 6-1 270 SR Jared Clifford K 6-1 174 so Antho* Piccioni LB 5-8 195 FR David rit;ht DL 6-3 214 FR Sean McEl annon DE 6-1 252 JR 
Name Jason Monts 
Lamar Owens Ken Barkovich 
Marc Lawson Eddie Martin Ian Townsend 
Keenan Little James Olsen Lord Cole Aaron Polanco Trey Hines 
Andrew Holmes  CB  5-9  181  so  
Lloyd Regas  WR  6-5  202  so  
Hunter Reddick  CB  6-2  180  FR  
Roman Rodriguez  s  6-0  203  so  
Jontavius Singleton  s  5-10  170  JR  
Craig Candeto  QB  5-11  195  SR  
Billy Meraz  QB  5-10  199  JR  
James Polanco  s  6-1  200  so  
~lerTidwell  LB  6-1  175  FR  
evin Newsome  DB  5-10  170  FR  
Frank Divis  SB  6-0  224  JR  
Shalimar Brazier  CB  5-10  185  SR  
Amir Jenkins  WR  6-1  203  JR  
Lionel Weslek  WR  5-10  185  JR  
Andy Micha owicz  WR  6-0  223  SR  
Paul Clarkson  s  6-2  203  SR  
Tony Lane  SB  5-9  199  SR  
Luke Penrose  SB  5-10  187  so  
A.J. Walker  CB  5-10  172  JR  
Vaughn Kelley  CB  6-1  176  JR  
Wayne Irons  s  5-9  186  JR  
Matt Hall  FB  5-9  194  FR  
Jason Robinson  s  6-1  199  so  
Chase Hobby  K  5-11  165  FR  
Marco Nelson  SB  5-8  172  so  
Marcus Sanders  CB  5-9  175  SR  ·'  
Kyle Eckel  FB  5-11  235  JR  
Josh Smith  s  6-2  205  JR  
Eric Roberts  SB  5-10  193  JR  
Byron McCoy  SB  5-9  185  FR  
Dujuan Price  DB  6-0  195  FR  
TyeAdams  LB  6-2  200  FR  
Sma Ekundavo  CB  5-11  180  SR  
Michael Brini.age  FB  5-7  220  JR  
Marvin Dingle  FB  5-11  213  so  
Brian Hampton  SB  6-0  195  FR  
Cory Colistra  s  5-11  186  so  
Bronston Carroll  SB  5-9  198  SR  
Chris Wade  DE  5-11  232  SR  
Lane Jackson  LB  5-11  213  JR  
Eli Sanders  s  5-11  192  SR  
Ryan Barry  SB  6-0  210  JR  
Evan Beard  LB  6-0  227  so  
Reggie Sealey  LB  6-0  225  JR  
Jere~ Chase Ben athews  LB LB  6-2 6-1  234 218  so SR  
Bobby McClarin  LB  5-11  225  JR  
Jacob Biles  LB  6-0  222  so  
T.J. Costello  LB  5-10  222  JR  
Adam Home  DE  5-11  233  )R  
Dustin Elliot  LB  6-0  232  JR  
Eddie Carthan  LB  5-11  218  SR  
Matt Williams  LS  6-0  210  so  
Dan Peters  c  6-0  260  SR  
Kevin Schwind  NG  6-1  286  SR  
Zach Gallion  OL  6-3  315  FR  
Michael Scott  OT  6-1  253  so  
'f!ason Stahl  OT  6-4  256  JR  
aseyHu~hes  OT  6-4  250  JR  
Matt Dow Pr  OLB  6-3  225  JR  
Sean Magee  OG  6-5  291  SR  
Marshall Green  c  6-1  233  so  
Dennis Ray Phillips  OG  6-4  273  JR  
Josh Goodin  OT  6-0  284  SR  
Shane Todd  OG  6-4  297  SR  
Ed KotUtski  DE  6-4  217  so  

Roster 
Pos. LB 
QB LB WR QB QB DB QB CB 
QB 6-0 205 JR SB 5-9 195 FR 

Paul Johnson 
head coach 
Ht. WI. YR 6-1 213 so 5-9 176 so 5-11 204 JR 6-1 185 FR 6-0 170 FR 6-0 173 FR 6-0 185 FR 6-2 213 so 5-10 191 JR 

' 
...­


The best 1hi!Ig Notre Dame has going for them In a season where just about everything has gone wrong 
this week is a 6-3 Navy team that everyone is for the Irish, it would only be fitting that they see their 
talking about finally ending the streak. Usually 39-year winning streak over Navy broken as well. An 
the Midshipmen are some two or three-win cup­unspirited Irish team will meet a determined -and tal­
eake that shouldn't pose a serious threat to the ented -Midshipmen squad in its biggest game of the 
Irbh. Notre Dame goes back to old-school foot­seao;;on thus far. The injuries to the defense will prove the 
ball and poundo;; the ball down Navy's throats en straw that breaks the camel's back. 
route to making this year the big 4-0. 
Matt Lozar FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Navy 24 Associate Sports Editor Navy 13 Notre Dame 20 
r ' 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 7, 2003 

KEY MATCHUP

Sizing up the Irish and the Midshipmen 
NOTRE DAME NAVY OPTION DEFENSE ATTACK 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE NAVY'S OFFENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME 
NAVY DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

227.5 
Navy's rushing game will force the entire Notre Dame defense to be disciplined with its assign­
kick return yards gained 
ments. The Midshipmen don't have the top rush­ing offense in the NCAA without being very good.
kick return yards allowed 
Having starting defensive end Kyle Budinscak and safety Glenn Earl on the sidelines for Saturday's game will not help the Irish. Solid
punt return yards gained 

32.3 
play by their backups will be integral in contain­ing Navy's Craig Candeto, Kyle Eckel and the rest
punt return yards allowed 
35.8 
of the Midshipmen. 
yards per punt 
39.o I 
punts blocked 
by the numbers
0 

turnovers lost 

consecutive wins by Notre Dame over Navy. 
The last win by Navy came in 1963 when 
39

turnovers recovered 
Roger Staubach led the Midshipmen to victory. 
yards penalized 
Notre Dame's rank in team passing efficiency 
with Brady Quinn and Carlyle Holiday combin­
yards penalized 
117 

ing for arating of 82.52. 
points scored 
points allowed 
27 

IRISH STUDIES COURSES 
SPRING 2004 
IRISH LANGUAGE 
4542/IRST 101:0 I Beginning Irish I: 6 Rfordain 4162/IRST 101:02 Beginning Irish 1:6 Riordain 4494/IRST 102:01 Beginning Irish II: 6 Rfordain 4164/IRST I 02:02 Beginning Irish II: McQuillan 4572!IRST 103:01 Intermediate Irish: McKibben 
Three different levels of modem spoken and written Irish are offered. learn the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary; emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. In the more advanced levels 
FILM, TELEVISION AND THEATRE students read twentieth literary works in the original Irish. 6499/IRST 476:01 Irish Film and Culture: Gibbons LITERATURE IN ENGLISH 
This course examines images of Ireland in film and literature, and places their development in a wider cultural and historical context. Comparisons between film, literature and other cultural 4138!1RST 302:01 Progress in 19th Century Novel: O'Brien 
forms feature throughout the course, and key stereotypes relating to gender, class and nation are Using nineteenth century concepts of crime and progress as a frame for analysis, this course focus­
analyzed, particularly as they bear on images of romantic Ireland and modernity, landscape, the es on issues such as poverty, women's suffrage, colonization, and the nascent idea of human rights. 
city, religion, violence, family and community. Students arc also required to register for IRST 
476L Lab: Irish Film and Culture. 482/IRST 371 A:O 1 Introduction to Irish Writers: Fox This class introduces students to Irish writing in English from Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels 
HISTORY to the novels of Maria Edgeworth, the poetry of W. B. Yeats and the plays of Brian Friel. Key issues include representations of "national character" and the relationships between religion and 
4672/IRST 435:01 Medieval Ireland: O'Leary national identity, gender and nationalism, and "Irishness" and "Englishness." 
The pre-Christian era to approximately A.D. 800 is the focus of this course. Students discuss what Saint Patrick really achieved, the nature of monastic life in Ireland, and whether the 5155!1RST 382 20th Century Irish Literature: Wallace 
Vikings were the brutal savages they are often said to be; they engage with a range of issues Ireland has produced four Nobel Prize-winners for Literature, not to mention James Joyce. This 
including the uses and limitations of archaeology, the historical value of Celtic mythology, how course examines the cultural and political factors that have shaped Ireland's extraordinary literary 
the Irish related to the outside world, and Ireland's place in medieval European history. achievement. In addition to readings, students view John Huston's The Dead and Neil Jordan's The Crying Game. 
4604/IRST 327B:Ol Irish History II: Mac Suibhne Drawing on monographs and general studies, students consider how different social groups 6498/IRST 474C:01 Passing and the Fictions of Race: Ellmann 
experienced the profound changes that produced modern Ireland. Although the course traces "Race" is a fiction, with no basis in biological fact. This course examines how "fictions" in the 
political developments, it pays equal attention to socioeconomic and cultural issues, including artistic sense (novels, stories, movies) have both fostered and challenged "fictions" in the ideologi­
the shift from high fertility to sexual restraint; patterns of emigration, consumption and social . cal sense; that is, the lies and mystifications about race that pervade American cultural life. 
unrest; linguistic change and changing devotional practices. 
4770/IRST 329:01 Northern Ireland Since 1920: Mac Suibhne This course looks at drama produced by Irish playwrights during the latter half of the 20th century. 
4993!1RST 478E:OI Contemporary Irish Drama: Harris 
This course concerns society and politics in Northern Ireland from the partition of Ireland to the Major themes include the legacy of Ireland's literary and historical past, partition, the Northern 
current peace process. Students examine the changing structure of the Catholic and Protestant Irish conflict, and gender and sexuality. Authors include Brendan Behan, Frank McGuinness, 
communities and their ideologies and the Anglo-Irish dimension of the conflict; they also assess Marina Carr, Martin McDonagh and Paula Meehan. 
the analyses and interpretations advanced by both participants and academic observers. LITERATURE IN IRISH ANTHROPOLOGY 4167/IRST 301:01 The Irish in Their Own Words: McQuillan Irish responses to conquest and colonization; students engage with texts composed by the natives 4920!IRST 228:0 I Irish and American Tap Dance: McKenna rather than that of their colonizers. These texts are read in translation so flO previous knowledge of Students will learn a range of Irish and American tap pieces and dances, enabling them to expand Irish is necessary. on them to fit a wide diversity of music types and rhythms. 
I 
~--------~----------------------------------------------------~ 
r 
~ 
Friday, November 7, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
-~
Injury bug leaving its mark on the Irish 

right leg against Florida State a more natural right guard posi­By MATT LOZAR 
and slowly made his way from tion, thus ultimately replacing Associate Sports Editor 
the bench to the locker room Miiiigan. 
during the game. Notre Dame But against Florida State, 
Last Saturday's game against head coach Tyrone Willingham Stevenson injured his left leg and Florida State took Notre Dame's addressed his situation at was in a walking cast up to his injury problems to a whole new Tuesday's press conference. knee at practice Tuesday. Ryan level. "Kyle Budinscak will be out for filled in for Stevenson during the 
Coming into that contest, the this ballgame and maybe out for second half against the Irish already had a number of the next two ballgames," Seminoles. Center Bob Morton players out for lengthy periods of Willingham said. "We'll get some also left the Florida State game time due to injuries. Tight end fmal word on that as we progress due to injury but was back at Gary Godsey and linebacker Mike through the week." practice this week. Goolsby haven't played a down in Budinscak has been a steady All of these injuries have offen­the 2003 season. Godsey suffered force on the Notre Dame defen­sive line coach Mike Denbrock a knee injury at the Gator Bowl sive line for the past two seasons. hoping the training staff can get and then endured a more serious But Willingham doesn't think los­his players ready for the knee injury during the first week ing him the week before facing Midshipmen. of summer practice. the top rushing attack in college "We are nicked up as of right 
Goolsby injured his shoulder football is any worse than losing now. We are just going to have to during the Gator Bowl and rein­Budinscak at any other time. see how it plays out as the week jured it during the spring. He has "He's been a vital player for us goes along," Denbrock said. been participating in some of the in every game that we play. I "[Trainer] Jim Russ seems to do a team drills at practice, but not think almost every team that we great job in getting those guys seeing any game time. One theo­face has had very good running ready by game time. We are ry being thrown around is for attacks," Willingham said. "So going to put it in his hands and Goolsby to be a red-shirt in 2003 that has been a priority to make hope for the very best because and return in 2004 to use his sure we shut those down and we need to be as close to full fourth year of eligibility. hopefully force them to be a one­strength as we possibly can." 
During the season, the Irish lost dimensional team. One of the players who is two fifth-year senior starters to "His loss will be important to healthy on the offensive line is what could be season-ending us." Harris, and he's just thankful the injuries. Safety Glenn Earl Meanwhile, the already young injury bug hasn't hit him yet. injured his knee against USC and and inexperienced offensive line "Injuries are just weird went home last week to have sur­has been hurt by injuries this because in high school you don't gery. Kicker and punter Nicholas entire season. Fifth-year guard experience as many injuries, but Setta suffered a leg injury early Sean Milligan hasn't started since here it's just like another part of in the game against Pittsburgh. the Michigan game and hasn't the game," Harris said. 
Neither Earl nor Setta has played since the Michigan State "Everybody~ hurt. everybody~ played or practiced since those game. The coaching staff started bumped and bruised and it's just injuries. While Earl's knee sur­Darin Mitchell against the part of the season and part of gery makes it appear he won't Spartans and Jamie Ryan against Division I football. return this season, thus ending the Boilermakers before making "(I am] very lucky, and it's just his Notre Dame career, Setta a major change to the line. a part of the game." hopes to return in the next few True freshman Ryan Harris weeks. was a surprise start at right tack­
Defensive end Kyle Budinscak le against Pittsburgh. Then-right Contact Matt Lozar at appeared to severely injure his tackle Dan Stevenson moved into rnlozar@nd.edu 
Irish concerned about Navy's option attack 
Only one week to prepare leaves coaching staff with a major challenge 
be lacking. 

By CHRIS FEDERICO "Our philosophy has always 
Sports Writer 
been ifyou can get better at stop­ping something in a week than The dreaded triple option -the we can in 26 weeks of running it, Irish face it every year at least you were going to beat us any­once from teams like Navy and ways," he said. "That's what we Air Force, and every year, they do. We're going to do it, and we fear the problems it could cause. will try and hit you with play­
"Preparation for the option action if' you put a lot of guys up really just changes everything there." that we do from a defensive This year, the Midshipmen are standpoint and really affects how running their vaunted triple we even practice," Irish head option to perfection, leading the coach Tyrone Willingham said. nation in rushing with 309 yards "So their scheme creates a lot of per game. They have two players, problems." running back Kyle Eckel and 
The players study assignments quarterback Craig Candeto, who all week and wonder if they'll each average over 85 yards of pick up their reads. rushing a game. The senior _.. 
The coaches and coordinators Candeto has nearly three times as run rep after rep in practice at many rushing touchdowns (11) as the defense and wonder how the entire Irish team (4). their players will react in the "1 think Craig's experienced, game. he's tough, he's mentally tough 
"It's a little concern just and he's physically tough," because it's a different offense," Johnson said. "He's a good leader Irish defensive coordinator Kent on the field. I think it's like any­Baer said. "It's like learning a thing else, if you rep something a whole new language in one week. million times hopefully you get It may sound funny, but it's true, good at it." and it's so difl'erent from what Another thing that could make you're used to. It's like saying, things difficult for Notre Dame 'OK, let's stop what we've been this week against Navy is the learning, and now we've got to go injury bug that has hit them all of Walters said. "You have to talk to experienced starters Kyle sary to stop it. learn this for one week."' a sudden. When preparing for a them, you have to write things Budinscak and Glenn Earl, who "You've got a couple of guys 
Navy coach Paul Johnson scheme like Navy's triple option down for them, you have to give were injured over the past three that have been in this before line­knows his scheme can be confus­-where so much relies on them every avenue. Then you weeks. backer-wise and with some line­ing to opposing defenses because defenders being disciplined and have to get reps in practice. The Irish will have to count on men," Baer said. "So you count of its rarity. So few teams run a holding their assignments -hav­'The biggest thing is discipline, their senior players still in the on those guys to step up and conventional option in modern ing to use young and inexperi­and that's what we're trying to lineup -such as defensive line­hopefully get us lined up. That's football that it can be very tough enced players can prove extreme­get now." man Darrell Campbell and line­one of my concerns and one of for teams to prepare for it in only ly costly. The Irish will have to rely on backers Courtney Watson and the biggest faetors." one week of practice. Johnson "You have to break it down and players like freshman defensive Derek Curry -that have seen the hopes this can make up for other give [the young guys) tip sheets," end Victor Abiamiri and junior option a few times before and Contact Chris Federico at areas where his Midshipmen may Irish secondary coach Trent safety Lionel Bolen to replace understand the discipline neces-cfederic@nd.edu 

, . 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Friday, November 7, 2003 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. 







