
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 18 
Revisions made for ticket lotto 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Students wishing to enter the Purdue football ticket lot­tery today can expect a differ­ent scenario than the Michigan ticket lottery, Charlie Ebersol, Student Union Board president said. 
At the Michigan lottery two weeks ago, SUB was only able to provide about half of the students with lottery numbers due to time constrictions, technological errors and sup­posed Indiana state law and NCAA regulations. 
The ticket lottery for the Sept. 27 Notre Dame football game at Purdue will be held at Legends, instead of Reekers, and the time period will be twice as long as the Michigan lottery to accommodate all students who wish to enter the lottery. Students may bring a maximum of 6 ID cards between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
At the Michigan lottery, stu­dents were allowed to bring an unlimited amount of ID cards, which slowed lines, and the lottery was closed at the swipe card machine when the three-hour time period elapsed, leaving many stu­dents who had waited in line disgruntled. 
Though Ebersol previously said the lottery ended because Indiana state law prevented it from lasting longer than three hours, he admitted that he based this on previous SUB sponsored ticket lotteries and later learned this restriction did not apply. Ebersol said the Purdue lottery will not be restricted by Indiana state law 
see LOTTO/page 6 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students flock to business career fair 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Eager students congregat­ed Wednesday in the North Dome of the Joyce Center for the semi-annual business career fair. Recruiters from a wide range of companies, government agencies and non-profit organizations answered students'. questions and accepted resumes. 
Sarah Wieber, a 2000 Notre Dame graduate, was at the fair representing Motorola. Wieber praised the event as an opportunity to connect with potential new hires. 
"It offers a variety of stu­dents with a variety of back­grounds," she said. 
Fellow alumna Janie 
Alderete agreed, emphasiz­ing the premium employers place on a Notre Dame degree. 
"We're looking for fresh young talent, so we come to a top college for top students," she said. 
Adam Adamson, a repre­sentative of Morgan Stanley, said he was looking for "young, bright, and energetic ND students." 
He said that business has greatly increased since last year and that Morgan Stanley is looking for all majors. 
Adamson is an avid believ­er in the success of Notre Dame students. 
He said, "The CEO of 
see FAIR/ page 8 



Hesburgh christens "Night of Faith" 

Future unclear for Biosphere 2 
By BETH ERICKSON News Wri[er 

Biosphere 2, a 3.15-acre glass-and-steel terrarium once thriving in the arid Arizona desert, now faces an uncertain future -and Notre Dame stu­dents planning to participate in its Earth Semester program this spring are in a similar predicament. 
The company that owns Biosphere 2 settled a lawsuit against Columbia University out of court last week. The owners claimed that Columbia's deci­sion to substantially curtail its financial commitment to the research facility constituted a breach of contract. The terms 
see BIOSPHERE/page 6 By SHEILA FLYNN 


News Writer 
Notre Dame President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh said he always knew he wanted to be a priest, but he initially didn't know how, 
when or where to go about doing so. 
"That's the beautiful thing about faith," Hesburgh said. ''You take one step at a time." 
Hesburgh 
spoke  in  the  
Alumni  Hall  
chapel  as  the  

"That's the beautiful 
year term; thing about faith. You he held the position until
take it one step at a 
1985, when
time.·· 
current University Father Theodore Hesburgh president Father
president emeritus 
first speaker in the dormitory's lecture series titled "Wednesday Nights of Faith." 
The lecture focused mainly on Hesburgh's entrance into the priesthood, his religious studies abroad and the posi­
tions he held after his ordina­tion. Hesburgh served as the first executive vice president of the University and was later named president at age 35. 
"It was kind of a daunting thing at 35," Hesburgh said. 
His tenure as President last­ed well beyond the original six­
Edward Malloy replaced him. 
"I said, 'It's only a six-year job,"' Hesburgh said of his reaction when University offi­cials invited him to continue 
see HESBURGH/page 6 
SMC blocks student music downloading 
By ANN MAHONEY News Writer 

Downloading copyrighted music files off of the Internet has dramatically halted as Saint Mary's stu­dents have come to under­stand the harsh repercus­sions of the illegal violation, one school official said. 
Saint Mary's Information Technology has taken steps to prevent the downloading by blocking access to many of the popular sharing and downloading services that distribute copyrighted materials without the artists', or recording com­
panies', permission. 

Their action, along with the RIAA's threat to slap heavy fines on students choosing to share these copyrighted files. has so far served as a deterrent to Saint Mary's students who previously took advantage of these online services. 
Starting this fall, the school is taking new meas­ures in dealing with stu­dents found to be violating the laws. 
Students receiving cease­and-desist letters or sub­poenas from the RIAA will 
see MUSIC/page 6 
Thursday, September 18, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Support our Irish 
On Saturday, I, like the vast majority of the student body, wit­nessed a debacle. Due to the resilience of the Wolfpack and Buckeyes, I was spared an over­
dmosedoef ur r,  Matthew Smedberg  
mayhem  
and medioc­rity, being  Wire Editor  
only able to  
watch the  
last 35 minutes of the game. This 


was perhaps for the best. 
"Support our athletes!" goes up the cry -oddly reminiscent of the cries of "support our troops!'' which flew so thick a few months ago. "They need to know we still believe in them!" Yes, indeed, sup­port them. Cheer. Make a sea of green. But don't pretend that last Saturday looked anything like the Irish, which we believe in, hope in and love. And if it didn't look like a duck, walk like a duck or quack like a duck, I say don't call it a duck. 
No, it is pr~cisely by holding up the Irish to the highest possible standard that we support them, just as expecting the best of our troops and expecting that they be used only in moral and just causes is precisely what supporting them means. If Carlyle and Vontez and Julius can put in an awful perform­ance-and those guys have all proved that they don't have to do anything of the sort-and we don't bat an eye, all that means is that we don't value their contribution, and the millions spent on football scholarships would be better spent on research into the mating habits of the Arizona tarantula. Not that I'm bashing tarantulas; I just doubt that NBC could get ad revenue from them every Saturday. 
Really, when you think about it, it is not so important that the Irish win. It will make absolutely no dif­ference in my future or yours (with the exception of if you are in fact on the football team, with a poten­tial professional future) if the score Saturday is another 0-38 or if it be 38-0. However, we as a school have made huge commitments to the athletics here, and are justly proud of our many achievements. If we wish to maintain that standard, it just will not do to pretend that fail­ure is anything but failure, just as we are so ready to acknowledge sweet success when it of often comes. 
In closing, I would like to leave you with a thought: we fired Bob Davie for claiming that the Fighting Irish were no longer capa­ble of competing on the national stage. He was okay with that. 
We are not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
A statistic regarding the number ofsrudems who smoke at least three times per week in Wednesday's article "ND student smokers may face restrictionsn was reported incorrectly as 9.5 percent The correct number is 5.9 percent. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 6 31-4 541 so we can correct o.Jr error. · 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK THE JOB MARKET IS FAVORABLE? 






Alison Kelly Beth Frecka L.T. Grant Rena Zarah Ryan Ritter 
Sophomore Freshman Senior Freshman Freshman Walsh Hall Lewis Hall Sorin Hall Lewis Hall Sorin Hall 
"I'm an "Um ... I really "/ don't care -"/ agree. There "/ think the job 
anthropologist. don't care I'm going to are a lot of market is bad As long as there because rm a grad school!" people out there right now is something old Freshman ... who need to because there 
John Townsend 
Sophomore Keenan Hall 
"What's the economy?" 

I can dig up. rm good.'' 
Singapore targets late wedding guests 
SINGAPORE -Singapore on Wednesday began its latest behavior modification campaign -a wedding "punctuality drive" -to encourage guests to turn up on time for couples' big day. 
The government-backed Singapore Kindness Movement said it would provide 400,000 cards for couples to insert Jnto their invitations as "gentle reminders." 
Previously the group has led efforts to encourage the city-state's citizens to smile more, wave at fellow 

An Internet homepage devoted to her lists her favorite snack as unrefined brown sugar and also reveals her secret to long life. "Not moping around," it says. 
Hongo. whose husband died when she was 77, is famous throughout Japan for her habit of sleeping for two days and then staying awa~e for two days. 
She has seven children ­three of whom have died ­27 grandchildren, 57 great­grandchildren and 11 great-great-grandchildren. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
motorists and switch off mobile phones in cinemas. 
World's oldest woman turns U.S in Japan 

TOKYO -A Japanese woman believed to be the oldest person in the world turned 116 on Tuesday. Born irJ 1887, when Japan was still in the throes of its conversion from samurai rule to modern democracy, Kamato Hongo was recog­nized as the world's oldest living person by the Guinness Book of Records after an American woman -Maude Farris-Luse ­died last March at the age of 115. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
L&.l 
:::z:: 
!ci 
L&.l 

~ 
....
cr: 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 81
.... 
LOW 55 

60 51 


69 
49 

67 47 

make ends meet are some and don't have well-qualified 
jobs." people that struggle to find jobs." 
IN BRIEF 

Pick up your lottery ticket today for a chance at Purdue tickets. Lottery tickets will be available from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Legends today. ID's are required to obtain a ticket, and there is a limit of six ID's per person. 
Senior students can participate in Senior Margaritaville today from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at St. Joseph's Beach and Boathouse. Admission is $3 with a Notre Dame student ID and valid driv­ers license. The $3 includes a lei, food and non-alcoholic bever­ages. Alcoholic beverages range from $2 to $3, and music will be provided by a OJ. 
Share some laughs with cam­pus comedians at Open Mic Night from 9 to 11 p.m. tonight at Legends. 
Enjoy great music at AcoustiCafe, sponsored by the Student Union Board. This event takes place from 9 p.m. to mid­night tonight in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Student Union Board is sponsoring a showing of "Finding Nemo" at 10 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo tonight. Tickets are $3 for admission. 
Cheer the Irish to victory as they take on Michigan State University this weekend at the Football Pep Rally at 6 p.m. Friday in the Joyce Center. 
Support the fundraising efforts of Fisher Hall at their second annual Roof Sit. This year's event begins at 7:45 p.m. Friday at Legends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

74 53 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 84161 Boston 69 I 62 Chicago 841 56 Denver 631 42 Houston 90 I 68 Los Angeles 83163 Minneapolis 67 1 44 New York 7~ I 66 Philadelphia 71 166 Phoenix 103 I 78 Seattle 66 I 54 St. Louis 841 53 Tampa 90 I 70 Washington 71 1 67 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Irish Inquisition debuts in SDH 
By LUKE BUSAM 
News Writer 
The Irish lnqusition convened 

for its first session Wednesday 
night in the Oak Room and the 
"accused" were asked what they 
would do if they were president 
of the United States. 
Student Body President Pat 

Hallahan said the inquisition was 
designed to bring members of the 
campus community together to 
share thoughts and laughs out­
side the classroom. 
The grand inquisitor. graduate 

student Peter Wicks, and a three­
person tribunal comprised of 
Notre Dame students Beth 
Duran, Joe Muto and Shawtina 
Ferguson passed judgment on 
each of the four "accused." 
The four participants, 

Executive Chef of Notre Dame 
Food Services Denis Ellis and 
professors Ted Warfield, Donald 
Kommers and Ani Aprahamian 
were each given ten minutes to 
answer the question, "What are 
the first things you would do as 
president of the United States?" 
Ellis and Warfield were found 

innocent of heresy and given T­
shirts that read, "I got off on a 
technicality at the Jrish 
Inquisition," while Kommers and 
Aprahamian were found guilty by 
the three-person tribunal and 
received "heretic" T-shirts pro­
claiming their condemnation. 
Warfield spoke of his dream to 

gather Justice Department offi­
cials to discuss the ability of the 
president to declare anyone he 
wishes an enemy combatant of 
the United States and detain that 
person without trial or other 
legal proceedings. 
Warfield also spoke of his desire to provide clean water, ·I'Jledicine and food to the ten mil­

.:::.:·,~.'_.:~:.·':::',.:::_::::·;.:' :;:·.~_.·' :~:·~ 1~
.. ,,·_,=.,·.;···';:_.. ,:··.,.·. ::..'~.l::'._:_.'·... ...'.:::: .=.•.=~~.. ' :i;!;: ...::::;:;:::::;:,:,1,!~. ·=~,,~,,
:,:_,·:,:_,:.,:.;··':.:_,.: :·',:,·· •. ... .. ..·
.. __ .. ' 


MIKE GIORDANOffhe Observer The Irish Inquisition held Its first session on Wednesday evening In the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
lion children who die of preventa­ble diseases every year. Warfield believes that humanitarian organizations should be given "all the money they ask for to see if they can prevent these deaths." 
Ellis, an England native, point­ed out the impossibility of his election, bu.t spoke of a variety of options for his first act as presi­dent. He decided he would fulfill his desire to change the media's portrayal of war. Ellis argued that war should no longer be por­trayed as glamorous, but as the vulgar act that it truly is. 
Following intermission, Aprahamian said that, if presi­dent, she would, "Treat the American people like they have brains, try to tell them the truth and tell the American people that we have been unjust in the past and maybe that is why people hate us." 
On a lighter note, Aprhamian said she desired to eradicate the world of minivans and make physics a requirement for high school graduation. 
Kommers, who said he would 
··:·:·>: )~:):?·· ·:. !i'''''~''llli!/'''''lll 
at 
:·:·.·: 

:;:;:;~=· 
propose four policy ideas to the nation if he were president. These would be a constitutional amendment that would allow Congress to reverse Supreme Court decisions, a $5 per gallon gasoline tax to encourage the development of new transporta­tion infrastructure, the bombing of all North Korean weapons fac­tories and missile installations and the suspension of all funding to Israel until they dismantled all West Bank and Gaza Strip settle­ments. 
Kommers recognized that any one of these "could lead to impeachment." 
Ed Cohen, who created the Irish Inquisition, said he was pleased and thought the event went well, though the does want to create more of a "fun, intera,c­tive, concise, and fast-moving experience." 
The second inquisition will take place in the Oak Room, but the date is still to be set. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

Environmental justice lecture series begins 
By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 

The lecture series on envi­
ronmental justice began 
Wednesday evening as Jose 
Bustos of the Service 
Employees International Union 
discussed the topic "Dumps, 
Justice and the Catholic 
Worker Movement." 

A native of Mexico and resi­dent·of East Chicago, Bustos is chairman of the Coalition for a Clean Environment, which was formed in opposition to the construction of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF) in his area. For the past seven years, Bustos has been protesting the construction of the CDF, intended to remove waste by the "clamshell method" from the ship canal, in a district populated mainly by minori­ties. 
Calling the CDF "a sad fact for our region," Bustos pointed out that the proposed disposal site would be the biggest in our nation -over five times the size of Chicago's Wrigley Field. According to his lecture, nine of the 20 chemicals that the EPA considers most hazardous to humans will be present at this site, in close proximity to a high school. 
"This proposal is a corrupt plan for toxic waste disposal ­an environmental injustice, plain and simple," Bustos said. 
He defmed an environmental justice as "the fair treatment of all people ... equal enforce­ment of environmental treat­ment and policy, where no one 
. ~..~.·.'. '.'.'.:.~,·.. " 
:? . ::r;:::~ 
gets more and no one gets 
less." However, "[the] poor and 
minorities suffer the most [and] 
benefit the least," he said. "It's 
a form of racism -the inten­
tional placement of hazardous 
waste in areas occupied by 
minorities." 

As his goal, Bustos identified the need to "start a real dia­logue, where common concern is in the open and taken seri­ously." He observed a lack of respect by the Army Core of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency for the people of East Chicago. "I am hoping that this year or the year after we will be able to put a stop to this project," he said. 
In particular, Indiana is hav­ing trouble with pollution. Bustos cited a variety of figures that prove that pollution is lit­erally in Notre Dame's back­yard. "All of those chemicals will get to Notre Dame eventu­ally," he said in conclusion. 
Bustos is running for city council, hoping for victory "God willing and with support of the grassroots." 
Bustos was the first in a lec­ture series sponsored by the University's O'Neill Family Chair, Science, Technology and Values Program, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, African and African-American Studies Program, and the Departments of Anthropology, Biological Sciences, and Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 







practsce cJue 
Hon,~ele,ss 
?:.~ .::.;:. <«· 
••,,.,$;::: ...,.""',·~-.[., ..·. hnn'1l~ .-.·. ~=~=,
,p.._ ...,.,::::;;.,w~ ® .. W. ,~_....... ~::::: * =··......·;t:· .·!B! ,,,.,._, r=~ ~,:,.;.;.-;o;·:l· .. 
.. .v........:-;:;"S: ......:«·: ... .• .• -.-;«: ~-"':or.:-:-:-:=:: . ::»'! -:~:::: ~: .•.•;r..;·:·:-· ··;« 
~ r.....·r' ...~.l,:,'l'•.·l '."',.v,,.,·,_,:~•.__ ~~.. ..~~:.~'.,::' ..:.,:·;,,.~-:~·.::,_'·,_·,N=.:=,_t'·:_._:,,··.~,'.%·:',.. :.v?·,=,·-.,,'·,~,::·.(:;:,,·•.,-'·,.l:.,·~~'.• ..·~.:_·, ..:!·.·.!,l._:[,·_:·.r,,,:~·,_,·:·~,,:l,'·,;·,:'.:·,·:.~~ ',~.:·,',,,··:,_,_:.·,,_::',;.. ..~:.,~~.,'.l·.,·~.,~~,_[:;·,::,·~.,~·,.,=:,,~',,,·,:,m,·,',:;',.:_.~'.·~,_:,',,':, ~,-,,,,=,_=.,·*•..:.....~.,~r__ :1[~!,_,·,·,i~, ..:.·r,:_?·:'.;'.:'.r···:.'',:_~=,.'·,,.·_·i,_,~.,f·:,.~.:[.!,.~:.~:~,·,_~,·; :_~:;_~ ~.! t:.~-~o-:_'·.·.:·,····;:·-.·.;· ~,· ··,t·:•.~=,~=,!,~'::•.i·.·:,,.·,·:·,:::~_··,,~·,., 'f_:~-~ ··~=,,:··,r,:.,_,r·l~! :.~.-i:,,,~· :~.·.~=.r,~,.·~,,.i,,···r',.=,f,· =~'~·::.il',·,~·-.;:~,:_;_·,,l.f"''•'tt·~il!~:::::., l~!i:~!' ·==·jjf~~=···,~.-llt~~=~i]l! =:l~l::::~:::;:~(;..•;,::'.... ... .. · ; ___ .. .... .. .. .. •. ,·,:.:,, ...• .• .. ·"'·_.r
.. 
, ·... 'L; ...•_.· ·... ~ · .,c· 


pager


.: x~\,,~,/,~tJ ~;;,~4;i!!~: .:::ll::::W' ~roup 
How do you balance everything you have to do and still make time to pray? 
Tonlght a~ Interfaith \¥e'U look at th-e story of Martha and Mary ln the New Testament, two siblings ·V~~no struggled with the same mue of' trying to balance what had to be done with making dme for ·jesus,. 

music • c·omn1unity • prayer
'·...._____---·_...__.. __.____......---~· 
lnteffaltb Chlistiar. ~ht Pr"'er .Hednescla95 11 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center loull4e 

page4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 18, 2003 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senators examine, review TCE proposal 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associare News Ediror 

The topic of TCE's was dis­cussed again Wednesday, this time during the meeting of the Student Senate. 
Jeremy Staley, chairperson of the Academic Committee in the Office of the Student Body President, presented the propos­al to publish TCE's that will be given to the University's Academic Council. His reasoning behind this came from the four students that will sit on the Academic Council along with fac­ulty and administrators. 
It is the responsibility of the Student Senate to approve three of the four student members on the council. Staley wanted to use the proposal to impress upon the Senators the important position that these three students will be filling. These students will be the "voice of the student body" on the Academic Council, Staley said. 
During his presentation, Staley explained the purpose of the TCE proposal. · 
"Information that is conducive to a person match between pro­fessors and students is non-exis­tent.... Our ultimate aim is to provide the best match between students and professors," he said. "We see this as the most significant student-initiated pro­posal in recent years." 
Senators questioned Staley on the proposal and its reception by the faculty. 
Faculty members, Staley explained to Senators, have not been very receptive to the idea of providing TCE results to stu­dents. To accommodate their hesitations, Staley said that the proposal includes provisions, which allow professors to add their own thoughts at the end of the results, offering more quali­tative information rather than simply quantitative information. Also, for professors who are fun­damentally opposed to TCE pub­lication, professors will be allowed to opt out of the process all together. . 
These provisions, Staley believes, make the proposal "as balanced and as fair as possible." 
Inclosing his presentation, Staley told the Senators "to chal­lenge the boundaries that the University sets is [the Student Senate's] responsibility." In other Senate news: 
+ Student Body President Pat Hallahan reminded Senators of the Church in Africa conference that begins Sunday at 7:30 p.m. with a speech from President Obasanjo of Nigeria. Hallahan asked the Senators to relay to their dorms the important oppor­tunity at hand. 
"It's really a great opportunity for all our students to see ... It's essential that we have people there and it's going to be worth your time," Hallahan said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Got news? The Observer wants to 
know about it. Calll-5323. 
There are less than 10 spots* left on this Fall's Sophomore Road Trip. 
By the time you read this ad, it11 probably be even less than that. 
There's.no time to waste. 
Grab some friends &apply now @ campusministry.nd.edu. 
Application Deadline: This Friday by 5:00 p.m. (*all for guys for the Sept. 26-28 Road Trip only. Sorry girls.) 




SOPHOMORE ROAD TRIP 
P~STINATION: v·nknow~ 





STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
Ifyou did not atteud a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services last year, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th, and on Sunday, September 21st at 6:30pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you naay contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 


Thursday, September 18, 2003 CoA1PILED FROM TtiE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arafat proposes new cease-fire 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -Palestinian 
leader Vasser Arafat offered a new truce to 
Israel on Wednesday, after Palestinian offi­
cials said the militant group l-lamas has sig­
naled it might agree to st(lp attacking 
Israelis. 
Interviewed on Israel TV's Channel 2. 
Arafat was asked if there was a possibility 
for a cease-fire. "Of course," he said. "You're 
invited. The announcement was made yes­
terday," referring to remarks by his security 
adviser, Jibril Rajoub. 
In an earlier interview on Israel's Channel 10, Arafat said contacts were under way with all Palestinian factions over a cease­fire. "There are continuous contacts with various parties. Yesterday, I had a meeting with all the PLO factions," Arafat said. 
Crackdown angers Muslim charities 
JIDDAH, Saudi Arabia -A Saudi crack­down on c.ash donations to charities aimed at blocking the flow of money to terrorists has had one immediate effect: angering Muslim groups that help the poor, including one that expects contributions to drop by one-third. 
The disappearance of once-ubiquitous boxes at mosques and malls where Saudis could drop cash gifts to Islamic charities is the most public result of U.S. pressure on the kingdom to find ways to keep al-Qaida and other terrorist networks from siphoning off donations. 
Saudi Arabia also has banned all private relief and charity groups from sending money overseas until regulations are in place to make sure the money is not going toward terrorist groups. And the government established a unit to monitor Saudi charities suspected of sponsoring terrorist groups. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bus crashes in N.J., 17 hurt 
BRANCHBURG, N.J. -A car collided with a bus returning to a center for the mentally disabled Wednesday afternoon, injuring at least 17 people, one seriously, authorities said. 
The bus was returning to the Hunterdon Developmental Center in Clinton when it was hit }}y the car, which tried to make an improper turn, Somerset County Prosecutor Wayne Forrest said. 
On the bus were 12 residents, eight staffers and the driver. 
All but two people were released from hos­pitals by Wednesday night, said Pam Ronan, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Human Services. 
A center staff member who was flown by helicopter to a hospital was in serious condi­tion, and a center resident was in good con­dition at another hospital, Ronan said. 
The bus driver, Samuel Lavalva, told The Express-Times of Easton, Pa., that the car came out of a side street. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ind. Hispanic population leaps 
INDIANAPOLIS-Juan Morales emigrated from Mexico a decade ago, one of a wave of thousands of Hispanics who relocated to Indiana during the 1990s in search of good jobs. 
Morales, 27, knows the influx of Hispanics into the state has not slowed down despite the sluggish national economy -and U.S. Census Bureau population estimates released Thursday show he's right. 
Those numbers show that Indiana's Hispanic population grew 8.9 percent in the first three years of the new decade, from 217,090 in 2000 to 236,367 last year. 
Morales said he and other Hispanic resi­dents feel less isolated in their adopted English-speaking home because of that trend. 
"I feel more accepted now because there's many more people," he said. "That means they're hiring more Hispanics and there's also more contact with the majority." 

Hurricane poised to slam East Coast 
Associated Press 

NAGS HEAD, N.C. 
Hurricane Isabel closed in 
on North Carolina's Outer 
Banks on Wednesday with 
105 mph winds and the 
potential for up to a foot of 
rain, threatening to cause 
ruinous flooding across a 
huge swath of the already 
soggy East. 

Isabel had weakened to 
a Category 2 hurricane 
from a Category 5, 160­
mph monster, but was still 
expected to be dangerous 
when it hit the barrier 
islands Thursday morning 
with a storm surge of up to 
11 feet. 

More than 300,000 peo­
ple in North Carolina and 
Virginia were urged to 
move to higher ground. 
leaving the vulnerable 
Outer Banks mostly evacu­
ated. Evacuation orders 
were also posted for low­
lying inland areas and 
~lands of the Chesapeake 
Bay, which could get a 7­
foot surge. 

After days of warnings, anxiety over the onrushing hurricane finally appeared to take hold, even among longtime Outer Banks resi­dents who pride them­1 selves on their ability to ; ride out big storms. 1 
"There's probably no one in the area within a quar­ter-mile," said Jason Ribeiro. Carolina's Cape Hatteras, for high damage," he said. The Air Force moved 
Hibeiro had planned to moving northwest at In the nation's capital, one of the jumbo 7 4 7s play a gig with his Nags around 13 mph. It was federal and district offices known as Air Force One He ad rockabilly band expected to strengthen were ordered closed and from Andrews Air Force Wednesday night. But with slightly as it approached Congress canceled votes so Base, Md., to Robins Air most of his neighbors gone the coast, and forecasters members could return Force Base in Warner and bars closed under an said its remnants could hit home. Bus and subway Robins, Ga., said White evacuation order, he Quebec by Saturday. service there will be sus­House spokeswoman packed his sport utility A hurricane warning pended Thursday morning Claire Buchan. A 757 vehicle with five guitars was in effect from Cape as a precaution. sometimes used by the and headed out onto a Fear in southern North Metro chief executive president was also flown mainland road virtually Carolina to the Virginia­Richard White said offi­to Georgia as a precaution, clear after days of hurri­Maryland line. Tropical cials did not want to "risk she said. cane warnings. storm warnings extended having customers get For many in Isabel's 
"That five-day thing that from South Carolina to blown in front of trains or path, an area stretching they have on the Weather New Jersey. onto the electrified from the Carolinas to the Channel, I mean, take a North Carolina Gov. Mike tracks." White said they fields of Pennsylvania and look around," he said. Easley said Isabel's land­also were concerned about the hollows of West "There's nobody here." fall could come as late as people at bus stops being Virginia, one of the raini­
At 11 p.m. EDT, Isabel midmorning, which would blown in front of vehicles est summers in years was about 250 miles pair the storm surge with or being hit by flying could get considerably southeast of North high tide. "That's a recipe objects. worse. 


Cops kill hostage taker, 2 wounded 
Associated Press 

DYERSBURG, Tenn. -A gunman took at least a dozen people hostage in a college classroom Wednesday afternoon before he was shot by police. Two hostages ":'ere wounded during the nine-hour standoff. 
Police heard gunshots from inside the building at Dyersburg State Community College around 11 p.m. EDT. The gunman, 26-year-old Harold Kilpatrick Jr.. had left a note saying he "wanted to kill some peo­ple and die today." . 
Dyersburg Police Chief Bobby Williamson initially said Kilpatrick fatally shot himself, but he later confirmed that officers shot him. 
"Our people shot one -the hostage-taker -and two others were wounded," Williamson said. 
It was not immediately clear 
whether the two hostages were wounded by police or Kilpatrick. Williamson said the injuries to the hostages were not serious. 
Four ambulances were at the col­lege building in Dyersburg, about 75 miles northeast of Memphis. Two people were carried out of the building on stretchers. Police escort­ed several other people from the building. 
The gunman, believed to have had a 9mm pistol and what looked like a butcher knife, made no demands ­aside from food and drink -during the standoff. In the evening, he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks, which police delivered. 
The gunman claimed to be a member of al-Qaida, and Williamson said that although authorities had· no reason to believe 
----------------------------------~~__J 
the claim, the FBI had been called in. Justice Department officials in Washington also said they had no evidence that the g,unman was a member of the terrorist organiza­tion. 
Authorities said Kilpatrick, of Memphis, was staying with his sister in Dyersburg. In the suicide note, left at his sister's house, he also said he didn't like Americans and had spoken with al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, Williamson said. 
Kilpatrick faced criminal charges of assault and kidnapping in anoth­er case, Dyersburg police spokesman Charles Maxey said. He had no details but said Kilpatrick had been scheduled to appear in a Memphis courtroom Wednesday. 
Williamson said there were 12 to 16 people in the basic math class­room when the standoff began. 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Biosphere 
continued from page 1 
of the settlement have not been made public. 
Columbia will relinquish con­trol of the superstructure and its educational and research programs in December. 
Athia Hardt, spokesperson for Columbia and Biosphere 2 Center, said, "As of Dec. 22, all research currently being con­ducted at Biosphere 2 will cease -it will either have been wrapped up or transitioned elsewhere." 
Christine Mingione, a Notre Dame student currently study­ing at Biosphere 2, said that she and the other students will complete their studies unhin­dered this semester. 

"There is a sense of motiva­tion among both students and faculty to make this the best semester possible and to go out with a bang in whatever way we can," Mingione said. 
The fate of spring semester hopefuls remains undeter­mined. 
"The undergraduate Earth Semester program at Biosphere 2 has yet to be formally can­celed," said professor Paul Grimstad, director of under­graduate studies in Environmental Sciences. "When speaking by phone with one of the faculty at Biosphere 2 the other day, I was informed that they are trying to make sure a spring semester goes ahead and that they plan to have as good a spring semester as possible." 
Texas Christian University, located in Fort Worth, has expressed interest in assuming financial responsibility for the program, Grimstad said. Hardt had no comment on this poten­tial endowment. 
If the program does not recommence next semester, spring semester Biosphere stu­dents such as Junior Lauren Kinsman may encounter hous­ing troubles. Kinsman has not been informed of her rooming situation for the spring. 
"I've e-mailed [International Study Programs] about whether or not I will be guaranteed housing on campus and they haven't gotten back to me yet," she said. 
Charles Kulpa, chair of the Department of Biological Sciences, said that Notre Dame will not attempt to simulate the Biosphere experience if the pro­gram is shut down. 
"I do not believe there is a program anywhere that can supplement for the learning experience that is provided by the Earth Semester at Biosphere 2," he said. 
Notre Dame is one of only 19 academic institutions to imple­ment a program at the facility this semester. According to Kulpa, Notre Dame has delegat­ed over 60 students to partici­pate in the renowned program since its inception as an educa­tional facility in 1996. 
"Every one of [Notre Dame's participants] indicated that it was a life-changing experi­ence," he said. 
Kulpa said that the termina­tion of the Earth Semester pro­gram would deliver a significant blow to environmental educa­tion. 
"It [is] an extraordinary pro­gram, taught by dedicated fac­ulty in an unprecedented set­ting," he said. 

Mingione said that the public is largely unaware of the facili­ty's goals, which may never be accomplished because of the closure. She said the Biosphere 2 education program aims to "bring future scientists and pol­icymakers together to teach how each system works in order to create a more efficient country in the future." 
The program has played an instrumental role in the Environmental Sciences depart­ment at Notre Dame and has educated such notables as Notre Dame's 14th Rhodes Scholar, Andrew Serazin, who graduated last May. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Music 
continued from page 1 

have their network and Internet access blocked from their computers and their names will be sent to vice president of student affairs Linda Timm. 
According to Kathy Hausman, Coordinator of Student Computing, students have been cooperating. 
"Overall, the [initial] reaction for Saint Mary's students has been, 'How can I get in trouble for downloading music if it is free and on the Internet?' Not everything on the Internet is legal," she said, "and stu­dents need to be aware that their actions could have serious and possi­bly expensive consequences." 


Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

with his presidency. "They said, 'We just changed that."' 
Hesburgh said he looked to the Holy Spirit for guidance and inspiration throughout his life. 
"My devotion which really keeps me going is devotion to the Holy Spirit," he said. 
Hesburgh said the Holy Spirit is the "spirit of wisdom" who "knows all the answers," yet "he's also the forgotten guy." 
Hesburgh said he begins and ends each day with the prayer, "Come, Holy Spirit."' 
"In a sense, it 
orients you for 
life," Hesburgh
"I don't know any said. 
place on earth I'd Hesburgh said that, after all
rather be except here. ,. 

his experiences throughout the Father Theodore Hesburgh world and in 
president emeritus high-level gov­
ernmental posi­
tions, he would 
never change his decision to become a priest. 
"It's wonderful just to follow the life of Christ, and to try to live it out in your own time, your own place," Hesburgh said. 
Hesburgh cherishes his ability to offer Mass and listed exotic locations in which he has celebrated Mass, ranging from the South Pole to 50,000 feet above the ground in an air­plane. 
He said he tries to celebrate Mass every day -he can only remember missing Mass three times since his retirement. 
"Having Mass every day strengthens your faith," he said. 
He also tries to visit the Grotto daily. 
"I manage to do that pretty consistently ­like at 100 percent," Hesburgh said. 
Speaking of the Grotto and campus, Hesburgh said he considers Notre Dame to be one of the most desirable locations on the planet. 
"I don't know any place on earth I'd rather 
be except here," he said. 

Contact Sheila Aynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
Most students claimed that while they used to frequently download music files from their school comput­ers, they now only do it from home. 
"It's understandable what [Saint Mary's] is trying to do," said junior Katie Larsen. "It was when I had a virus that wiped out not only my com­puter but a lot of other people's that I regarded the school as being respon­sible for everyone on the network." 
Even with the risk of serious penal­ties, there remain students who find a way to continue downloading copy­righted material. 
But nobody wanted to talk to The Observer on the record about why they would continue to download music for fear of getting punished. 
Contact Ann Mahoney at maho9505@saintmarys.edu 

Lotto 
continued from page 1 
and all students in line by 5 p.m. will be accommodated. 
Ebersol said he implemented many of the changes due to the concerns students raised following the Michigan lottery. 
Though there will still be only one swipe card reader for the lottery, Ebersol said the modified rules and expanded time period should com­pensate for everyone using the same machine. 
"Since [the Michigan lottery] we sat down to see how students would be best off and how the lotto wouldn't be subject to laws and regulations," Ebersol said. "We recognize there 
·------­
--··---· 

Open to the public 
10:00 am to 12:30 pm Saturday 
in 
McKenna Hall Please enter across tile street through The ,\forris btn 
Hot & Cold Buffet Roast Beef, L'"hicken, Salads, Frenclt Toast, Eggs, Sau.Yage, Pastries ar~d Jrlore.•. 
$19.95 +tax -Adults $9.95 +tax -Childre1112 and under $2 fYom each adult and $1 from each child ticket SlJPPOrts the Notre Dame Alumni . t' ' (~ . s . p
AssocwJvn s ommumt,y ~ervtce rogram 
Reservations are not required 
were large mistakes last time. We will work hard to serve students with the most ease." 
Ebersol said improvements were made to the security system to negate the possibility of reoccurring lottery fraud, which was a problem in past years. However, he declined to comment on the system, citing security issues. 
Ebersol said in previous years, individuals who were not Notre Dame students and who belonged to SUB fraudulently received tickets. The lottery is limited to Notre Dame students and excludes Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students because the ticket office, which provides the tick­ets for the lottery, specifies who is eligible. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Buy -SELL -TRADE 
ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS 
PREFERRED TICKETS 234-5650 
VON DUTCH * S~VEN JEANS -.'t BLUE ~ ~~~----------~--------~g 
V"J 

528 ~.Colfax ~ve., Suite #2 
* 

South 13end, fJ'Jf46617 ;; 514/232-1822 
~ 
rr1 

312 w. C{eve(ana1\d. §raneer, '11f46530 574/217..6693 ~ 
t'!'1 
~ 
~ 
AConlcmporanJ 
= 
>

\Vomcu 's llouHque Sp€dahzingin ~ 
t/) 
DesignerClo~t>5 anJ G*s 


Thursday, September 18, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 9 545.65 -21.69
jones ' '~~ Same .Lbi# Composite Volume:
i374 185 1,3()i,838,016 
AMEX' 988.67• .+5~31 NASDAQ 1,883.10 -4.15 
,...674.42_,.. ...·.

NYSE '!'1 ..88 
S&P500 1,025.97 -3.35 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI)  +9.52  +0.16  1.84  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.10  -0.03  28.88  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.70  -0.15  21.14  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -2.00  -0.25  12.28  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFn  -1.38  -0.40  28.50  

IN BRIEF 

Indiana carrier may suspend flights 
FORT WAYNE, Ind.-An Indiana-based air­line may soon stop flying for two months after pilots overwhelmingly rejected a package of wage concessions. 
Shuttle America, a US Airways regional car­rier, relocated its headquarters from Windsor Locks, Conn., to Fort Wayne International Airport last fall. The carrier operates five daily round-trip flights between Fort Wayne and Pittsburgh, with reduced service on weekends. 
President and Chief Executive Officer Scott 
Durgin said Tuesday that Shuttle America will 
likely not fly between Oct. 27 and Dec. 31. 
Happy Meal to grow up healthy CHICAGO -McDonald's Corp. is testing a new kind of Happy Meal-one for adults. 
Instead of a burger and a toy that are stan­dard fare in kids' Happy Meals, the Go Active meal being test marketed in Indiana will include a salad, an exercise booklet and a pedometer to encourage people to walk more to maintain good health. 
The test program will be at more than 150 McDonald's in Indianapolis, Bloomington, Muncie, Lafayette and Kokomo this fall. 
The fast food giant has enlisted the aid of Oprah Winfrey's personal trainer, fitness guru Bob Greene, to promote the $4.99 Go Active Meal, its latest effort to convince consumers that it is serious about offering healthier products. The meal also includes a bottle of water or a medium fountain drink. 
Merrill execs face conspiracy rap 
HOUSTON -Three former Merrill Lynch executives were charged with conspiracy Wednesday for allegedly helping Enron Corp. inflate earnings with a loan disguised as a sale of Nigerian barges. 
Daniel Bayly, Robert Furst and James Brown became the first Wall Street bankers to be hit with criminal charges in the scandal that brought down the energy company. The criminal charges do not involve Merrill Lynch, which reached a side agreement that would allow the brokerage to avoid any corporate culpability if it implements "a series of sweep­ing reforms" to improve the integrity of its transactions with clients and third parties. · 
The three men were charged with conspira­cy to commit fraud and falsifying books and records. 
AOL Time Warner to drop 'AOL' 
NEW YORK -AOL and Time Warner got married at the height of the Internet boom, and now they seem ready to acknowledge that it's time for a separation-in name, at least. 
On Thursday, AOL Time Warner Inc.'s board will vote on a proposal to drop "AOL" from the company's name, according to a source famil­iar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. Company spokeswoman Mia Carbonnell declined to comment. 
The company has already dismissed the executives responsible for the merger and backtracked on the lofty promises for a media revolution, but a decision to jettison "AOL" would pay tribute to the failed hopes of the largest merger in U.S. history. 




Grasso resigns amid salary furor 
NYSE chairman steps down after $139.5 million compensation deal revealed 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -New York 
Stock Exchange chairman 
Dick Grasso resigned 
Wednesday amid rising 
fury over his $139.5 million 
pay package, his 36-year 
career ruined by cries that 
he made too much money 
running the world's richest 
financial market. 
Grasso called an emer­
gency meeting of the NYSE 
board shortly after the 
market closed and offered 
to resign as chairman and 
chief executive if the board 
requested, said H. Carl 
McCall, chairman of the 
NYSE compensation com­
mittee. 

"The board did so and 
accepted that resignation," 
said McCall, who chaired 
the meeting. 

Grasso, in a statement, said he was stepping down "with the deepest reluc­tance." He added that "I believe this course is in the best interest of both the exchange and myself." 
Critics. from investor 
advocates to politicians and 
traders, say the lavish pay 
undermined the credibility 
of the exchange, a not-for­
profit institution that is 
owned by its members and 
also serves as a regulatory 
watchdog. 

"In an era of corporate scandals, you can't have the regulator of the world's largest stock exchange take tens of millions of dollars in remuneration from the people he's regulating. eled in just three weeks Securities and Exchange On Monday, former NYSE That's a conflict of inter­after the NYSE on Aug. 27 Commission chairman chairman James Needham est," New York State extended his contract William Donaldson sent joined calls for Grasso to Comptroller Alan Hevesi through 2007 and disclosed McCall a letter asking for go, followed Tuesday by said. that the deal included a details. influential pension officials 
The board was to recon­payout of $139.5 million in Grasso has insisted he in California and New York vene later in the evening to savings and benefits accu­did nothing to influence his and Wednesday by name an interim replace­mulated since he started pay. At a Sept. 9 news con­Democratic presidential ment, as well as a search working for the exchange ference, when he hopeful Sen. Joseph committee for a permanent in 1968, mostly during his announced he would forgo Lieberman of Connecticut. successor. Larry W. Sonsini, eight years as chairman. another $48 million prom­Michael LaBranche, the a corporate attorney who News of the lump sum ised to him under his con­head of LaBranche & Co., leads a Palo Alto, Calif., law payment roiled Wall Street, tract, he said each year one of the NYSE's largest firm, was considering and even some board when informed of his com­stock-trading specialist whether to accept the members were surprised pensation he responded by firms, had come out earlier interim slot. by certain pay arrange­saying, ''I'm blessed. Thank in Wednesday in favor of a 
Grasso's tenure unrav-ments. On Sept. 2, you." change. 



RJR Tobacco to ax 2,600 employees 
he said. he ate lunch at the King Cafe before 
Associated Press 

Between 1,600 and 1,700 of the reporting for his night shift. The 48­
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. -R.J. layoffs will be in the Winston-Salem year-old said he had requested sev­Reynolds Tobacco said Wednesday it area, where RJR has its headquar­erance from the company, but is con­is eliminating 2,600 jobs -a star­ters and a big factory in cerned about how he'll pay his bills. tling 40 percent of its work force -Tobaccoville. The losses will hit par­"There are real good paying jobs," as the nation's second-largest ciga­ticularly hard because they are high­he said. "I don't like to brag, but the rette maker struggles with stiff com­paying jobs: Even factory workers at only people here in town making petition from discount brands. RJR typically make more than more money than I do are the 
RJR said it will focus spending on $50,000 annually. lawyers and doctors and illegal the more expensive Camel and Workers who are losing their jobs drug-runners." Salem brands and cut its investment will be notified over the next week. Big Tobacco has been hit hard in in cheaper Winston and Doral ciga­Employees who declined to give recent years by higher taxes, settle­rettes. their names Wednesday said they ment payments to the states for 
"Reynolds Tobacco is fundamental­are required to sign a confidentiality treating sick smokers and competi­ly changing the way it operates its agreement that prevents them from tion from deep discount brands. business in order to deliver profit discussing information about the "We're teetering and tottering and growth," said chairman and chief company with outsiders. don't know exactly what to do," said ­executive Andrew Schindler. A worker at the Tobaccoville plant Danny Cole, 52, who grows 110 
The company plans to cut spend­who identified himself only by his acres of tobacco that he sells to RJR ing by $1 billion by the end of 2005, first name, Joe, smoked a Camel as rival Philip Morris. 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Fair 
continued from page 1 
Morgan Stanley is from Notre Dame, and NO students know how to have more fun then Ivys [League students]." 
Firm wide, Morgan Stanley hopes to have ten or eleven Notre Dame students partici­pate in the final interviews in New York. 
Career Center director Lee Svete charac­terized the fair as a success, noting the increased participation of both students and employers. 
"This is the most active recruiting I've seen since 2000," Svete said. The fair featured 101 companies, up from about 90 last year. 
Svete said student groups, including the marketing and finance clubs, helped organ­ize the event. 
He praised the new GoiRISH system, a Web-based tool that allows students to view job postings, submit resumes and schedule interviews online. "We've registered over 1900 students in three weeks," Svete said. 
Several improvements were made to this year's fair, as well. The committee used an ID-scanning machine when students entered the fair, allowing it to track stu­dents' majors and year of graduation. With this new information, improvements can be made to expand the fair to better serve more students. 
Several Notre Dame students said the career fair was a helpful experience. 
''I'm trying to get exposure and see what the market is offering," said Andrei Sandu, a senior finance major. 
Sophomore Michelle Young was enthusi­astic after learning that her major in Chinese will help in obtaining an internship with the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Not all students were headed to the realm of big business, however. Non-profit organi­zations, including Teach for America, host­ed tables at the fair. Sarah Finch, a senior PLS major, said a Notre Dame education fits well with a service career. 
"With an undergraduate education from Notre Dame, how can you expect someone not to commit themselves to a field where they're making a difference?" Finch said. 
Matt Bramanti contributed to this article. 
Contact Jen Rowland at rowland.2@nd.edu 
SWITZERLAND 


Experts say AIDS funds insufficient 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -As AIDS runs rampant in Africa and threatens calamity for India, China and Russia, epidemi­ologists say that even the promise of billions in rescue money cannot curb the dis­ease as long as social and political barriers hamper the fight. 
"Coping mechanisms are collapsing," Richard Feachem, head of the Global Fund set up by leaders of the industrialized democra­cies, said in an interview. After two decades, he said, the pandemic is spinning further out of control. 
Peter Piot, director of UNAIDS, the U.N. agency fighting the disease, agreed that denial and lack of urgency on the part of some governments blunted inter­national action. 
"In Asia and eastern Europe, the political leader­ship isn't there," he said. At recent meetings in India, Piot said, "I heard great speeches, but as for action, zero." 
The U.N. General Assembly gathers for a spe­cial one-day session on AIDS Monday, brightened by the prospect of infusions of money, primarily President Bush's promised $15 billion aid package. But the con­sensus among dozens of specialists interviewed in Europe and America is that the money won't help much unless countries c()me out of denial and work together. 
They say China and India have millions more HIV-pos­itive cases than officials acknowledge. Russia is largely a mystery because so many infected drug users and prostitutes have not been tested. Officials in Moscow say 250,000 people are registered as HIV-posi­tive, but public health doc­tors are convinced the real the World Health figure is well over a million. Organization. ''Everyone is 
About 65 million people competing for the same have contracted the HIV small amount of funding," virus over 20 years, and 25 "You've got every country million of them are already learning their own lessons," dead, U.N. estimates say. In Miller said. "Nothing is 2002, 3.1 million died, and clear. It's like gazing at a 5 million more were infect-plate of spaghetti." ed. AIDS, say the specialists, 
The experts praise must be seen as not just a President Bush for giving medical problem but as a new priority to the crisis, scourge that could affect the but say that the money world economy by depleting promised over five years for work forces, disrupting 14 countries is a fraction of farming cycles, killing off what is needed and that civil servants and business overlapping programs with executives. In sub-Saharan conflicting policies could Africa, a third of adults are muffie its impact. infected. 
Stigma and social taboos A single highway from still thwart effective action, Uganda through Kenya and and AIDS money is lost to Rwanda is seen as one of duplication, corruption and the major routes along mismanagement. which drivers and prosti­
"1 don't think there is tutes carried the disease to malevolence here but rather crisis levels. In Zambia the a genuine confusion, a sort air force once had to be of land scramble," says grounded because so many David Miller, an expert with_ pilots fell sick. 
COL Alan Hunt, 
USAF, ND '86 ~ 
All are invited to hear a recent Gulf ! War II veteran discuss transporta­tion and logistics components of his recent deployment 
When: Thursday, September 18, 2003 6:00 pm 
Where: Debartolo Hall, ·room 102 
Questions: contact Capt. Alan Acree at dacree@nd.edu 
.Enrollment Openings are Now Available for the Following .A.ge Groups: 
3;s: afternoons 4's and 4/5's: T,TH all day or afternoons Kindergarten: full time or mornings 
Accwdited Program, Degn:..'t.'d Te<lchcrs, 25+ Years of Serving Children, Farnilies and the Community, Innovative Curriculum 
Nurturing, Stimulating Teachers 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. at Saint Mary's College 

Thursday, September 18, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu


Campus Ministry C-M 

• 

Get involved, go on a retreat Applications available in Room 114 and online at campusministry.nd.edu 
what's ha · 
sunday 9.21 
wednesday .9.24 
RCIA-Session Graduate Student 
10-11:30 a.m. 
Christian Fellowship
330 Coleman-Morse 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 


tuesday 9.23 
Interfaith Christian 

Catechist Formation Class Night Prayer 
s:oo p.m. 
Coffeehouse 
330 Coleman-Morse 1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse LoungeCampus Bible Study 7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 


SJJecial events 
.A CALL TO SOLIDARITY WITH 





AFRICA 
SEPTEMBER 21-24 MCKENNA HALL 
Keynote Address at the JACC 
Sunday 7:30 p.m. 

His Excellency Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, 
President, Federal Republic of Nigeria 
register online at: www.nd.edu/-icl registration is free for nd students, faculty, staff. 

mass schedule 
FINAL DAYS! 

Retreat Date: September 26-27 September 26-28 or October 3-5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
· ' :,OFFlCE~OURS:::;Co.Mo:•,roon)J~:.&,,.;;~,~-~~rQu~·;Fri+f;.;;,~~~~-,:s-4>~~ ., ·.· ""' ~~ ·--·-~--·~-w_.:lco:~_e cen~:<v~om_.l?~:-Sunda~t.hr<?ijS~. th.ur~d.9oY, 4 p~. t<> Midnigh~.. J 
considerations ... 
The Worl< of Our Hands 
by Rev. jim King & Rev. Kevin Russeau Office of Vocation, Congregation of Holy Cross 
In 1860, at the age of27, Fr. William Corby, C.S.C. was ordained a Holy Cross priest. The 
following year he volunteered as a chaplain with the Irish Brigade and eventually marchea 
through the Civil War years with these Union men who fought at Fredericksburg, 
Chancellorsville, Spotsylvania, and, most notably, Gettysburg. 
Shortly after 4:00p.m. on July 2, 1863, as the battle in Pennsylvania approached its cre­scendo on Cemetery Ridge, Fr. Corby beseeched the commanding colonel for permission to address the Brigade. He donned his purple stole, mounted a nearby rock, extended his hand, and pronounced briefwords ofabsolution over the soldiers. 1 
Witnesses later reported that every man in sight, Catholic, other faith, and atheist, dropped to his knees in unison as Fr. Corby made the Sign of the Cross. Later in life, he insisted that the rare general absolution was intended for everyone regardless ofwhether they were clad in blue or gray. Yet by sunset on that epochal day, the blood of nearly 30,000 uniformed men wearing grave clothes ofindistinguishable colors mingled on the ground before him, and in the horrible aftermath, one wonders ifhe questioned what difference his prayer had made. 
In 1888 Fr. Corby was invited to be the first speaker at a twenty-fifth anniversary gathering held in Gettysburg. When he poignantly uttered the words, "Here is what is left of us. Where are the others?" former Yankees and Confederates broke down with him and wept together for several minutes. After his death, they proved how much he had meant to them by petitioning to have his statue erected near the spot where he stood with raised hand and blessed them all. 
Today a copy ofthat same statue stands in front of Corby Hall. Some know it only for the football moniker, "Fair Catch Corby," acquired years after the cannon thunder had ceased and old veterans' bones rested more peacefully in other fields. Others, however, stop occasionally and say a quiet prayer in front of the priest, who, like Mary on the Dome, blesses us all and reminds us every day that God's forgiveness is powerful enough to conquer death and reconcile bitter foes. 
Though Fr. Corby later served two terms as Notre Dame's president, he would undoubtedly be pleased that he is most remembered for the sacrament he administered at Gettysburg with a few words and the priestly movement of his hands. It is something of a tradition among University presidents that they understand themselves to be priests first, as any reader of Fr. Hesburgh's autobiography, God, Country, and Notre Dame, will quickly discover. 
So we invite you to take a close look at your own hands and reflect upon how they might best be used to convey God's love to all. Next Tuesday, September 23, at 8:45 p.m. we are sponsoring our fifth annual "Corby Night," an hour of prayer and informal discussion for anyone considering a vocation to religious life in Holy Cross. 
It will be held at Corby Hall, which is most appropriate, for Fr. Corby's story epitomizes how much a young man can do to relieve the world's sufferings through the simple signs of grace which are the Church's sacraments. It is what we have been ordained to do, and there are few things more i~portant to the Church's future than having more priests present among us to manifest God's merciful justice wherever people's souls hang in the balance. 
Twenty-fifth Sunday or Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
30.minutes after the game Most Rev. Elden F. Curtiss, Archbishop of Omaha 
45 minutes after the game 
(Stepan Center) Rev. Thomas J. Eckert, c.s.c. 
Sunday 
S:oo a.m. 
Rev. Wilson D. Miscamble, c.s.c. 
1o:oo a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Kevin D. Russeau, c.s.c. 

around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 
Spanish Mass 
St. Edward's Hall Ch~el 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

. I I I I 
' 
I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I ~ 
I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I ·I I 
So~Scripture Readings· 1st: Wis 2:12, 17-20 ' 2nd: Jas 3:16-4:3 Gospel: Mk 9:30-37 
I 


p
Page 10 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 



S~;ott Br~hr<t Lori LeWalski Assr. ~cmc Emma Sheila Flynn 
Don't read the news 
Yes, I see the irony. I am going to argue against reading newspapers, and I'm going to make the argument in a newspa­per column. 
Actually, I would have thought that a newspaper column was the ideal· 
Peter Wicks
forum in which to make an argument against the value of reading newspa­Englishman pers, but in any Abroad case The Observer, which serves a small and well-defined community, isn't the sort ofnews organ that I am talking about. 
There is no shortage of polemics against the news media. Conservatives frequently complain of liberal bias -as the joke goes, the very last headline The 
. Washington Post runs will read "World Ends: Women and Minorities Hurt Worst,"-whereas leftist media critics argue that in an age of increased con­glomeration, the integrity ofthe news media has been corrupted by corporate interests. There is no reason to think that these charges are incompatible, and in fact I think that they are both demonstrably true; it is both the case that journalism is regularly undermined by the corporate interests of the news conglomerates, reg­ularly compromises journalistic objectivity and that on all of the social issues which serve as a political litmus test in the United States (such as gun control, affir­mative action, gay marriage, and, above all, abortion) the news tends to favor a liberal viewpoint, for the simple reason that the majority of journalists and editors hold liberal views on these issues. But the deepest problem with the news is neither corporate censorship nor liberal 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

bias. The essential and unflxable flaw of newspapers is that they print every day. It is simply impossible to make sense of the world ifour information about it is given to us in the form of 24 hour snapshots. 
Of course, some people genuinely need to have access to up-to-the-minute infor­mation. Most of us do not, and typically those who do have access to the informa­tion through channels other than newspa­pers. I suspect that one of the reasons why so many of us feel a compulsion to watch and read the news is vanity; we simply do not want to admit that it doesn't make the slightest difference ifwe find out about events on the other side of the country, or the other side of the world, until weeks or even months after they happen. 
It might be replied that it is irresponsi­ble not to follow public affairs, that it allows those who wield power to do what they wish free from scrutiny. But this pre­supposes what is not the case, that read­ing newspapers is an effective method of monitoring public officials. Those who are genuinely powerful are typically very adept at manipulating the media -we complain about spin, but we still think ourselves immune to it-more vanity. 
To become well informed about world affairs, or even national affairs, is a Sisyphean task. Fortunately, America has a long tradition of high-quality weekly and monthly political journals. While far from perfect, their lower frequency of publication both forces them to ignore much ofthe ephemera and be selective about the stories which they print. The articles they do carry tend to be longer, allowing more freedom for substantial analysis. 
It might be argued that without reading newspapers it will be easier to ignore the suffering of people around the world. The problem with this response is that it neg­lects the fact that newspapers are inter­ested only in what is new. Uke a predator, the news is interested only in that which moves. The outbreak of famine in an undemocratic African nation might be registered, but the continuance of famine is not. Starving people are not news today ifthey were starving yesterday. 
The most serious bias in the news isn't one of political ideology; it's the bias of attention towards change and against continuity. Often the most important things to know are those that were the same yesterday as today and will be the same tomorrow. 
So what can we do? The frrst thing we can (and must) do is give up the illusion that we can become generally well­informed about the world, or even the nation in which we live. To think other­wise will lead only to self-deception and ideology. The best we can do is learn for­eign languages, read and reread works of 20th Century history, and literature -as Ezra Pound said, literature is news that stays news. 
If you are still unconvinced, try this thought experiment: imagine that while sitting on a train, you see a copy of today's New York Times left on a seat. You would probably be curious, and perhaps you would read it. Now imagine that the copy of the Tunes that you see is a week old. Would you still be interested? And, if not, why do you want knowledge with such a short expiration date? 
Peter l'Vicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Do you e)f~Ject to have a job or internship this summer? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'"The incestuous relationship between government and big business thrives in the dark., 
Jack Anderson writer 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



The real reasons for the recall 
Joseph Hutto's rather facile analysis of Darrell Issa, who put nearly two million the California recall election in his Sept. dollars of his own money behind it. Issa 12 letter requires some correction. The was a candidate to replace Davis, conve­main problem for Gov. Gray Davis, as niently enough, until he was ordered to Butto points out, is the state's enormous step aside by the party to avoid taking budget deficit of $38 billion. However, votes from its preferred candidate, the almost all states are now in serious deficit laughably unqualified Terminator. due to the downturn in the economy and The recall is merely the latest demon­the lack of tax revenues that accompanies stration of the absolute contempt for it. It only makes sense that the largest democracy felt by America's political deficit would reside in the 
largest state. A significant portion of won the 1996 presidential elec­California's budget shortfall is tion, the Republicans did their due to electricity contracts best to undermine the the state signed with com­Clinton presidency with panies like Enron, which empty accusations of scan­artificially created an dal, endless investigations electricity shortage in that turned up nothing, order to maximize their and finally an impeach­own profits. ment motivated purely 
The state was in the by partisan politics. position of signing such When the Democrats contracts because of the won the 2000 presiden­deregulation of electric tial election, the utilities enacted by the Republicans argued California Legislature in before the Supreme Court 1996, two years before against counting all the Davis became governor. votes. That case resulted in Rather than crossing guards what is possibly the most getting too much pension money, nakedly political decision in the the state's deficit can be traced to Court's long history. Flush with that nearly unimaginable corporate greed and victory, Republicans now are trying to the state's willingness to deregulate enti­remove from office the legitimately elected ties that are designed to be public services ·governor of the largest and most influen­rather than for-profit corporations. tial state in the union. Never mind that 
The real reason for the recall, however, they did not manage to get a single candi­is not this deficit. If deficits are sufficient date elected to any statewide office in the reason to remove someone from office, last election. The message from the right let's begin the move to impeach George is clear-we want power and we aren't Bush. The recall is instead an attempt by going to let something as trivial as the conservatives in California to overturn the democratic process stop us. results of the last election, in which the people elected Davis as their governor. Joseph Stanfiel The recall measure was initiated by associate director Republicans and succeeded in large part London Program due to Republican state Representative Sept. 17 
React to Michigan fans with dignity and grace 
Though the Michigan game was disappointing, never have we been so proud to be Notre Dame fans. Through adverse conditions, Irish fans proved that they have more class in their index fmgers than the entire University of Michigan student body has collectively. 
Being in the band, we had been forwarned that Michigan Stadium would more than likely be a hostile environment. but never could we have imagined anything like the events of this past Saturday. 
The band's day began with a practice on soccer fields near Michigan Stadium. Having finished our warm-up, we gathered around our directors to receive instruction, words of wisdom and inspiration. Following this, we were led in prayer by a fellow band member and with hands held and heads bowed, together we said the Our Father. This being a very important ritual for the band, many of us were shocked and appalled to hear two Michigan fans screaming, "F---the Irish!" If ever there were an inappropria,te time for cursing and badgering, this would be it. If Michigan cannot respect our school, the least they should do is respect our faith. 
The insults did not stop there. Standing in the end zone, preparing for pre-game, the Michigan stu­dent body began to chant, "F---you, Irish," which lasted well into the band's pre-game performance. While we have no doubts that every school has a few bad apples for fans, this is simply outrageous. 
The idea that the Michigan student body could come together to insult and offend the opposing team's band shows a complete and utter lack of class. Never, in our two full years here, have we ever witnessed our Notre Dame students doing anything of the sort to any of our opponents, and for this we feel an immense amount of appreciation for our school. 
During the game, Michigan fans spat on, cursed at, called names to and taunted Notre Dame band members. A five year old child was seated directly behind the band was heard ordering, "Kill the Leprechaun!" Fans behind the Notre Dame sidelines yelled and threw food and ice cubes at Irish players. Through it all though, Notre Dame students who had journeyed into "The Big House" never failed to do the jig, clap to the Notre Dame Victory March, or most importantly, cheer on the Irish. 
What touched us the most was during post-game, almost 20 minutes after the game had ended, there in the almost empty stands, were lone green shirts, swaying together to the melody of the Alma Mater. The tears on our cheeks were not over a heartbreaking loss, but rather for the devoted support of our fellow students. God bless. 
Here's to you, Irish fans, for accepting defeat with dignity and grace. We, as a student body, should welcome Michigan State fans as friendly rivals, regardless of the outcome of the game. Let's continue to show the country that though we lost to Michigan, we have not lost our spirit. 
Katie Lawler 
junior 
Pangborn Hall 
Sarah Daly 
Jun!Or Howard Hall Sept. 16 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Apologizing for poor 
behavior 
On behalf of the University of Michigan student section, I deeply apologize for the vulgarity demonstrated at the game in Ann Arbor this past Saturday. I am usually proud to call myself a Wolverine, but because of the actions taken by my fellow students, I am ashamed of the title. The loyal Notre Dame fans that made the trek from South Bend deserved respect and admiration from Michigan fans in and around the Big House. Yet, they were treated with dis­regard and contempt, especially by my peers. 
We are part of the two most esteemed and honored football pro­grams in the nation and because of that, this game was highly anticipated. Nevertheless, many students were out of line for the crude comments chanted during the game and especially the actions that took place outside of the stadium. I sincerely apologize for these words and actions of my peers. I hope that many of these students will mature so this will not happen again and the good­natured rivalry between these outstanding football programs can continue. 
Rachel Mathews 
JUniOr 
University of Michigan 
Sept. 16 

Game rivalry should not be unexpected 
I was interested to see how the Michigan-Notre Dame game was being received in South Bend, so for the first time, I read The Observer. I was sur­prised to see that Michigan fans lack of"Midwestern Hospitality" garnered far more attention than the game itself. Matt Mooney in particular seems to have had a poor experience, though he never indicates that he was in attendance at the game, so I'm inclined to believe that much of his viewpoint is sensation­alized anyway, and that's fme. The actions of so few are difficult to stretch out into those ofthe entire Michigan fan base. 
But he is right on some things. lhe only objects that should be thrown at people on fall Saturdays are footballs and no one should ever have to witness, under any circumstances, a mock hanging of an African-American or any other human being. 
Any person you speak to in South Bend, Ann Arbor or to whatever comer of the world those two football nations reach would surely agree that a rivalry exists between the two schools. At any meeting they have, passions are going to be roaring. There will be alcohol consumed by both sides, likely resulting in immature and inappropriate behavior. Is it impossible to believe that Michigan fans were the only ones acting in such a way? Please. 
If Mooney is so upset by undignified behavior, then why risk it and attend a football game at an extreme rival's stadium, while wearing the opponent's col­ors? Did the fed up Irish fans that made the trip to Ann Arbor and received a negative comment or two thrown their way expect to be embraced? No. They came in rooting for their squad and exchanging friendly banter with their opponents. Honestly, ifyou weren't braced for remarks from the Michigan faithful, what were you expecting? 
Somehow, I think all this whining and sarcastic insulting at Michigan fans would be irrelevant had the score not been 38-0. It's too bad Irish fans' visits to Ann Arbor were miserable. It's worse they think the reason for their misery isn't their team. 
Adam Burns junior University ofMichigan Sept. 1'j 
-
~----­


THE OBSERVER 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 
page 12 · 



The men of Fisher Hall take to the rooftops for fifty hour< 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 

The men of Fisher Hall will dedicate their weekend to a fundraiser for the National Center for Missing or Exploited Children. They are participating in their second annual Roof Sit, where for fifty hours, volunteers sit atop the roof as a visible indicator of their dedication to the organization. 
This fundraiser began last year on the weekend of Oct. 4, when the 180 resi­dents of Fisher Hall celebrated the dorm's 50th anniversary with efforts to make a difference for one Notre Dame family, the Greenwoods. The golden anniversary of the dorm served as a wonderful opportunity for the Fisher Hall staff and council to present a new signature event-a 50-Hour Roof Sit. 
The 50-Hour Roof Sit was originally planned as a dorm activity celebrating the golden anniversary of Fisher Hall; however, the hall staff and government made a change in the reasoning behind the event after hearing about a family in need. 
In the Hall President's Council meet­ing. Fisher l~aders heard about Betsey Greenwood, the one-year-old daughter of second-year Notre Dame law school student Adam Greenwood. She was diagnosed with a brain tumor in May 2002. 
Fisher Hall staff and government found this to be a magnificent opportu­nity to not o:tly celebrate the dorm's anniversary, but to make the event a campus wide fundraise:-benefiting a Notre Dame family, as weil as the Notre Dame community. They selected the Greenwood family to be the recipients of the donations in order to alleviate some of the cost of treating Betsey's condition. 
Beginning two weeks before the bene­fit, volunteers distributed envelopes to all dorms, offices and departments around campus. The donation envelopes contained sponsor sheets for groups and individuals around campus to get involved in the fundraising. 
After contacting the University's Office 
:} 
\ 
of the President, Fisher gained further financial support and campus involve­ment through a $50 pledge of University funds for each dorm that had at least 50 residents stop by and sign in during the Roof Sit. Each dorm successfully fulfilled this goal, with over 2,000 students visiting and pledging support throughout the weekend. 
Last year, Fisher Hall held a silent auction uver the course of the first 25 hours, raising a significant amount of money. 
This year, Fisher Hall's 50-Hour Roof Sit will run much the same. but with many added activities to further com­munity involvement and awareness of the fundraiser. 
Last year, 11 volunteers participated in the Root Sit, raising a total of $5,350, with over 2,300 students in attendance throughout the course of the weekend. 
This year's donations will be donated to the National Center for Missing or Exploited Children in the memory of former Fisher resident, Chad Sharon. Sharon had been missing for two months before he was found dea,d in February. 
Beginning at 7:50p.m. on Friday, fol­lowing the Michigan State football pep rally, the Fisher 50-Hour Roof Sit will kick off at Legends with Fisher Hall staff and other campus celebrities, tak­ing their seat on the roof to begin the 50-hour sit-a-thon to rally the Notre Dame community together behind this national organization. Fisher Ha!l Council has ::t. large celebration set up at Legends, complete with plzza and music provided by Notre Dame student bands. 
There will always be five or more people on the r~oftop at any point in time, including during the Notre Dame football game. Fisher's rector, Father Robert Moss. will sit on the roof of Legends for the duration of the football game. 
Friday night's events will last until late, but people will remain on the roof, rain or shine. Beginning early Saturday morning, Fisher is hosting an all day 


fun and games event outside the darm 
on South Quad. They have rented inflat­
ables such as a bungee run. sumo 
wrestling and a moonwalk. EYeryone is 
welcome to participate in these activi­
ties. While everyone else is jumping and 
playing, Fisher men and their families 
may enjoy a tc..ilgate at Legends -no alcohol however. The hope with this event is to bring unity among the men and their families, while coming together fo~ a good cause. For most of the 50 hours, volunteers from Fisher will carry around a giant fishbowl. mut.:h like what royalty use<:: to be carried around in ­think Robin Hood here. They will be asking for donations as they trek around campus, walking through tailgates and through other large crowds gathered. This will begin Friday night and will continue both before and after the foot­ball game. In the same regard, a buck­et and a bullhorn will sit atop the roof. The bucket will be lowered down when a person approaches the representa­tives to give a. donation. The bullhorn will be used, obvi­ously, as a way to direct attention to .the folks collect· ing money and rafsing aware­ness. In recognition for sup­port, pledgers will be award­ed various gifts as a way to thank them. 
Fisher president Russell Morton said, "Our whole goal is to make it an entire campus event -a second signature 
event like the Fisher Regatta." In order to accomplish this goal, rectors, hall governments and students from other dorms will also be par­ticipating in the roof sit­ting aspect of the fundrais­er. 
Following the game on Saturday and the carnival­like atmos­phere with the inflata­bles, right on the 25-hour mark, the men of Fisher Hall will begin the other half of the 50-Hour Roof Sit atop the roof of their own dorm, mov­ing from Legends. The switch will 
2nd Ann 


FISHER ROOF 
IN HONOR OF CHAD BENEFITING THE NATIOl MISSING AND EXPLOI1 
Saturday Sep1 
All day-lnflatables quad including Bung and Twis 
9:00 pm -Live Perforn 
band-The Ro~ 1O:OOpm -Sketch Co: 
~tnpro\ 
11 :OOpm -Live Perforn band · Sugar in 
Sunday Septt 
All day -lnflatables 001 ii1cluding Bungee Run, ~ 2:00pm -Campus Twis1 a representative needed 
-----------------'---------------------~------~~ ~-~-~-~--­
~fHE OBSERVER 
E
Thursday, September 18, 2003 


Page 13 

·s to raise money for charity and have some great fun 
lenge in the afternoon for the residents of Fisher Hall in order to get everybody pumped up about the fundrais­er. 
At 2 p.m., the event will be host to a cam­pus wide Twister Challenge, where rep­resentatives from each dorm will compete in the game Twister. 
At 9:50 p.m., the 50­Hour Roof Sit officially ends, but before its closure, a countdown of the final 50 seconds will take place. Following the closure, Fisher Hall will cele­brate Mass outside the dorm. Father Timothy Scully will preside over the Mass. 
"Anyone can come as it will be a great way to conclude what we hope to be a successful weekend," said Vitt. 
Much like last year, the University has pledged that for every 50 people who show up, $50 will be donat­ed to the cause. Students can sign in at a table sitting out front the dorm. They will simply sign their name and hall. The 50-Hour Roof Sit leaders have a
Men from Fisher will spend the first half of the 50-Hour Roof Sit on top of the roof of Legends. 
goal of 50 residents 

Then the crowd will parade back across South Quad to climb on Fisher's roof. 
occur at 8:50 p.m., wherein a large parade from Legends to Fisher will 
begin. 
1ual 




HALL SIT 
SHARON AND INAL CENTER FOR 
TED CHILDREN. 
tember 20 
outside on the ~ee Run, Sumo, ;ter nance by campus 
yalThey 1medy Group HA 
nance by campus 1the Raw 

ember 21 
tside on the quad Sumo, and Twister ter Challenge with 1 from every dorm 
• 
At 9 p.m., the campus band The Royal They will take the stage outside Fisher to con­tinue the cel­ebration. Band mem­bers Nick "Husky" Williams, B r i a n "Bucket" Cullen, and D r e w "Droopy" Baumgartner are all resi­dents of Fisher Hall. 
While the band plays, food and "mocktails" such as virgin daiquiris and margaritas, donated by Pillars, will be provided for anyone who would like to join the event. 
Following The Royal They, at 

about 10 p.m., the Notre Dame sketch comedy improv group HA, led by junior Fisher resident Bob Masters, will per­form. 
Then, around 11 p.m., a live perform­ance from the Notre Dame campus band Sugar in the Raw will begin. 
Throughout the course of the night, the Fisher Hall 50-Hour Roof Sit leaders have planned "The Fisher Feats of Strength," an event where the men of Fisher Hall can prove them­selves by doing crazy feats involving the number 50. 
One Fisher resident ate 50 doughnuts last year and plans to do the same this year. Another bench-pressed 50 pounds, 50 times, in 50 sec­onds. This year, senior Fisher resident and Roof Sit commis­sioner Andy Vitt plans to juggle a golf ball 500 times on the end of one of his golf clubs, much like Tiger Woods in one of his television commercials. 
Sunday, the inflatables will be out on the quad again, hop­ing to encourage others to drop by and see the event. 
"We hope people will notice what's going on and come down. They will see we're rais­ing money for a great eause and donate in a good name," said Vitt, who founded the 50­Hour Roof Sit last year when he served as Fisher Hall presi­from each dorm. Prizes 

will be awarded to the dGrm with the most participation and spirit from residents. 
"Our whole goal is to raise money for charity and have a good time while we're doing it," said Vitt. 
Meijer, Pepsi and other businesses 
have donated items for raffle and give­aways from the roof for those who donate. Other local South Bend busi­nesses have donated as well. The busi­nesses fully support the cause and hoped that their donations would encourage people to give. 
Vitt and Morton are talking with WSBT and WNDU to gather further sup­port from the South Bend community with this event. It is also possible that ESPN's "The Season" crew will make an appearance at the 50-Hour Roof Sit. 
"This is a great fundraiser and service event to kick of the year," said Vitt. He is in charge of the event. 
"We are hoping this year it can have a bigger turnout than last year to add to the Notre Dame community," said Vitt. "How many times do you walk across campus and see people sitting on the roof? We want it to be an eye-opener to get out there to support a good cause." 
Vitt and Morton really hope to have a large amount of support from the other dorms on campus. They want it to be both a campus event as well as a chal­lenge to other dorms -a challenge for them to get residents to come support the cause. 
Fisher'was Notre Dame's Dorm of the Year last year. They hope this event will also challenge their residents to live up to the title -to prove why they were selected as Dorm of the Year. 
The second annual Fisher Hall 50­Hour Roof Sit will prove to be another tradition of the Notre Dame family. This event will not only be fun for students and their families, but will be a great way to raise money for people or organ­izations that impact members of the Notre Dame family. 
Donations and questions about the Fisher Hall 50-Hour Roof Sit can be sent to Andy Vitt via his e-mail at avitt@nd. edu. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
The first-annual Fisher Hall Roof Sit was orglnally an Idea to celebrate the dorm's 50th
dent for the 2002-03 academic year. anniversary. In keeping with this theme, residents will once again perform feats with the There will be a section chal-number 50, like Dane Paulsen who, last year, taped himself to a pole for 50 minutes. 

Thursday, September 18, 2003
page 14 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 




C.ubs win, move to half-game back of Astros 
Associated Press ' CHICAGO -Kerry Wood was hurting before the game, his back so stiff Chicago Cubs man­ager Dusty Baker wasn't sure if he'd be able to pitch. Oh, Wood pitched all right. And it was a gem. Wood pitched a four-hitter for his fourth complete game of the year, striking out 11 as the Cubs swept the New York Mets with a 2-0 victory Wednesday. "He had it going on from the opening pitch," Baker said. "I guess he's doing fine now." Doug Glanville and Aramis Ramirez hit solo homers for the Cubs, who improved to 13-4 in September and guaranteed themselves a winning season ­just their seventh in 31 years. It's quite a turnaround from last season, when the Cubs lost 95 games and got not one, but two managers fired. But the Cubs have a new atti­tude under Baker. Not only are they winning, but they're in contention for the NL Central title. They are just a half-game behind first-place Houston, which lost at Colorado 7-5 on Wednesday night. "We need a little help from them, but we can't afford to slip," Wood said. "We need to win every game to give our­selves a chance. We've been doing that. We've been playing good baseball and right now it's a lot of fun in the clubhouse and on the field. 
Rockies 7, Astros 5 
Todd Helton homered and pinch-hitter Mark Sweeney had a two-run single, leading Darren Oliver and the Colorado Rockies over the Houston Astros 7-5 Wednesday night. 
The loss trimmed Houston's lead over the Chicago Cubs to a half-game in the NL Central. Chicago defeated the Mets 2-0. 

Houston had its four-game winning streak snapped but still has won 10 of 13. Colorado ended a three-game losing skid. 
Charles Johnson homered off Brad Lidge in the eighth for the Rockies, and Chris Stynes added an RBI double. 
Oliver (12-11) allowed nine hits and two runs -none earned -in 5 2-3 innings. He helped his cause with an RBI single. 
Ron Villone (6-5) went 4 1-3 innings, allowing seven hits and five runs with three walks and a season-high eight strike­outs. 

Brewers 7, Cardinals 6 
Jason Conti drove in a career­high five runs, including a go­ahead single in the ninth inning that helped the Milwaukee Brewers rally past the St. Louis Cardinals 7-6. Wednesday night. 
Pinch-hitter Brooks Kieschnick tied it with a two­run homer off Cardinals closer Jason Isringhausen, who blew a 6-4 lead in the ninth. The loss dropped St. Louis 5 1/2 games behind first-place Houston in the NL Central -the Astros played later at Colorado. 
Isringhausen (0-1) failed for the third time in 21 save oppor­tunities. 
Keith Osik led off the ninth with a walk. With one out, Kieschnick, a relief pitcher who is a former outfielder, hit an 0­1 pitch into the right-field seats to tie it. It was the second homer Isringhausen has allowed this year. 
Scott Podsednik then walked and stole second. Conti fol­lowed with an RBI single .up the middle. 
Leo Estrella (7-3) pitched two scoreless innings for the win. Dan Kolb worked the ninth, earning his 19th save. 
The Brewers snapped a four-game losing streak. Milwaukee had lost its previous five games against the Cardinals and have won three of 13 meetings this season. 

St. Louis tagged Milwaukee starter Ben Sheets for five runs on six hits and a walk in the third inning. All the runs scored afte.r there were two outs. 
Cardinals starter Garrett Stephenson, who pitched six innings, led off with a single and advanced to third on a sin­gle by Fernando Vina, starting for the first time in three games after sitting out with a sore Achilles' heel. 

Marlins 11, Phlllies 4 
First, Jeff Conine came through with a clutch hit. Then, he did it with his glove and later with his arm. 
Conine homered, drove in three runs and made two out­standing defensive plays in left field, leading the Florida Marlins to an 11-4 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Wednesday night. 
The Marlins increased their NL wild-card lead to 1 1/2 games over the Phillies. The teams play again at Veterans Stadium on Thursday and have a three-game series in Florida next week. 
"He won the game for us," winning pitcher Mark Redman said of Conine. "He was out­standing." 
Juan Pierre had four hits and a career-high four RBis for the Marlins, who have won nine of 
their  last  10  against  
Philadelphia.  
Jim  Thome  hit his  42nd  

homer for the Phillies -an opposite-field, two-run shot that tied it at 3 in the third inning. 
Redman (13-9) allowed four runs and five hits in five innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. indudin! all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  
PAY WWWWORKFORSTU·  Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  
DENTS.COM  a few good men and women who  
wish to work in a FUN and fast  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  pace environment A new  
store will be opening up in early  
r•  WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  October. We have aggressive pay.  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shop­ 
www.sunchase.com or  pers, drivers and mgmt available.  
call 1-BOO·SUNCHASE today!  Call Andy at 574-277-0850 tor  
interview.  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  
Music 4609 Grape Rd  exper. required. All looks & ages.  
Mish, IN 2775038  Earn $1 00-$300 a day. 1-888-820·  
0167, ext. U187.  
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring  
bartenders and bar wait staff, as  NOW HIRING. Kaplan Test Prep is  
well as cashier positions. Must be  currently hiring test proctors and  
21 for the bar jobs.  student advisors. Work from 2-16  
Very flexible schedules, good  hlwk. To apply, call272·4135.  
money, and a fun place to work.  
Apply in person at 123 W.  BABYSITTER WANTED for family  
Washington, downtown South  in Granger. Days/eve/wknds. Refs.  
Bend.  & car rqrd! Call Laura: 243-4776.  

FEMALE ROOMATE to share 3br house 5mi from ND.Beautiful LOST & FOUND w/amenities $400/mo 
+ 113 Utilities 255-1984 Lost near NO: Small white, black and brown spotted dog on 9/5/03. 
Reward. FOR SALE 232·2601. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO LOST: Yellow and black Northface FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. backpack in North Dining Hall on NON-RENTAL. NEWLY Friday, 9/12. Please call574-229-REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. 2889. No questions asked. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to NO. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. $107,000. (574) 273-1666 
IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR­1/2 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM RM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY · UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112 
OPEN HOUSE-WOODBRIDGE CON DO 1 8188 Stoneridge, Apt.D. Sunday 2-4 Ironwood just north of Toll Road. 2 bdrm, remodeled, reduced to $75,900. See more at reedburrer.com 235-3659 
99 Honda Civic EX, Exc. cond., fully loaded, auto, 44K, dk grn. $9,900. Call574.251.1459. 
FoR RENT 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­
1525 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & 04/05.FURN.272-6306 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America has space available for footbaiVpar-TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, 0964. campus reps. Call for discounts: full hot breakfast, $80-$115, 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Middlebury, 30 miles from FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Seeking quieVgrad roommate. 800-418-9487. Quiet street, 20 min. to campus. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Choice of 2 rooms; $220 or $300, 2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT· 1/2 util. 269/325-2267. FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674­ANLAN PROPERTIES 532·1896 6593. Well, Billy. It could have been worse 
FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 I don't hate cookies. houses, prime locations, sec. sys-BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tick-terns, sand V-ball, wash/dry call ets. 574-289-8048 So many Megs, so little time ... Greg 233-9947 
2003 Grad needs 1 or 2 MSU tick· Lizzie runs to the second floor. Love 2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two ets. Call Matt at 516-220-9656. you. Ashley makes me cookies. signle. Immediately East of the Love you. Kelly afraid to talk to Campus for Game Weekends Only. Steve. cool... mmm, strawberry. $80 per person/per night Call 272­0928 PERSONALS DAVE, dave... 
B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do E'rybody known when you walked HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288-not go it alone. If you or someone in 'ere, you're gon' get some 5377. y(Ju love needs confidential support chicken. 
or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For Ring the doorbell and run. Go 
more information, see our bi-weekly 'head. Do it I dare ya. Do you haveTICKETS ad in The Observer. any idea how scary Ray is? 
ND FOOTBALL -BUY & SELL. Spring Break 2004 with Who's Ray CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR StudentCity.com and Maxim TOLL FREE 877-773·3911. Magazine! Get hooked up with So my boy's like "hey whats up" 
Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as and she pulls a sergei fedorov, 
'ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT· a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of BREAKAWAY across the street to ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-the hottest destinations. Book early her boyfriend ... busted 2378 for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS PM 288-2726 and 150% Lowest Price Dew-ee? Dew-iss ... Dew ...... 
Guarantee! To reserve online or Lodging available for all NO home NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR view our Photo Gallery, visit 1 :30. judgement day for the deuce games. Walk to NO. 574-289-3864 SALE AM -232-2378 www.studentcity.com or Call1-888­or 574-220-7979. PM -288-2726 SPRINGBREAK! Bloobloobloo... popcawn .... playaaaa 
·.-~ 
Thursday, September 18, 200 3 
page 15 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~ 
'ii· 
&-­




I ~­
. 
I ' 
~ 
i
I 
~ 
I ~ 
e
'i 
~5 
~ 
i 
~ 
$ 
~ 
.i' 
t· ~­
I! 
I ~ 
! 
~ 
~ 
f
:­
-u;:. ""'­
¥ 
(3 
~ "' 
s
., 
i 
----------------------------------------------------~--------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------................ 
~ 
:;;_ 
,. ..-: 8 
~ 
., answer the question. compare your 
-
..

opir1ions vvith others. explore wt1at matters at pvvc.com/lookhere. 
·~ 


page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 18, 2003 
f f 
I 
f I I f I I I I I 
:! 
II 
i! 
:;
I I II I, 
1! 
:j:l 

A CALL TO SOLIDARITY WITH 
SUN DA'l~ SEPTEMBER 21 
·H:>i~ 11 ru 

Ope~ling ren_t:at~ .. , , . . . . , . , . 
Rt."\', ~;dwm-.:1 A :\btlln'f·, tS(.. l~t~~llh~nl. hm•f"t'f·:'\~l~· n( !'*~Itt• Ihun~· ·Ufl· p Ill · 5:(>1} J' m . .. 
Th•~ Bishops" Text. and Can for SoUdarl:tv with Afrira Most ltJ.•\'NYmd ~'Jm Rk~nL l~shn·1 of 1\:·r~·ola-1allal~ls~·~-· 

-1 :. I) (! Ill 

AMERICANS AND AFRICANS
Kevnote Address at the JACC His Excellency Chlef Olu.segun Obasanjo, 
Pres.ident Federal Republic o-f Nigeria IN DIALO-GUE ABOUT AFRIC.A:S 

~-:J.:1-.. m. H:>;:(fl \t m 

Ttu:~ology and the Project of_Re-bnag.lning .~rica PROMISE, NEEDS, AND IMAGE 
\hd~'fiJ~nr-~~mf. Mtt:Uf4J: ~''i\U, Vf!!h=m~it~' of 1\bt.fi' (~nw. Sr. TNt~!Wl tliU.h'•, SH(J, P"furt•s..~)f of Sni{rt-l.i"t.~. C.a=l.ll!f:~lk:· b~tit~dt~ of Wt~st Mrk~ ff f:. tlm:tmk•l\'U U:t:ukwu, tSSp, f'1of~~ti.-~:~ ol" 'U~Jio;!,""'-l(Mt l:"k1Min ~nrl fathdk i~~l~:lil:fh\ l~rk, f):~11f:~~ 
n~~~fM:mdt~nt: Pn~:f. jlJbn Cavad~ii. Unh.Nsity of N()rn~ Jhu:n~ 
10.:¥.1 >J '"·· -1:?.'.)) p.m

Atuerk:an and Arncan 
\t'(llt.k$i~t)r~ ff. ~~~Ill .Kolh~tt'Ut, fSf ~· {~VfW:i~n Da\l·ls, OSU. SL MPirrnid Ptl;(. ta:mt)·r:l 1\k.lf:tl=~tfi~nt llnh:.t'fSil'i' u<f ~Si:titrif:U L .,Jj.. ;1... f ~·I ~ ,. ·· s~ c·· ~~ .s··· · ili'lit:,:if::t.1~mm:::]:::
.fl...I:J!ifH~·~· ·<:>( Rhl <t!.>:l.~. '··!t• ,;(1 .dfi'J!Jr :. ~:~ R'l!~J~i!t:tdt-:t~t.: J~d. hnUy U:iiil!:iljtl®/t 
J·1~r~~n~f n;eakout ~:mioll 
I i ~ >(" ~-•-it:t-1 ~,.••..,..,...~ ~-~f.li?~~tMffl
~· ••,-,... ~--t~·. .,.t, ~#.t-;~ \·l ,..-'?I 

rac&Ut;¥t~:~r: ~k Fi)~lt:or:•tlwyj OO:I@ltm!m~::Q~J ~:JWiliJ:t)~W~flt~j~ijij It ~3h<:-nf fhrU &~~i*~IJ:~f:t~ fadUti.¥1tJf: 
UL h•<t:•d f(lf 
radUtt¥h:w: 
!i:J;l: fUll. 
Mass at tneC,JitlSlllca 
Pm~id1H and ml'l:t~IJ:I~t; 

TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 23 
M<ll~ -U~ MHMI· a-ll!. .. . . . 
A;genda for a New Africa · . . Mi:i~~ lf.eit:~~md ~·it~ [kr\~IJ•jg, tS:-s_R ~!:•op t)f lt~istt~~ibt•rg Stio\ldi !~!fit'~ ., .. , . ' . _ . M'-!<gr, Oh~~~d! l~t:>., IJtrl-'ctn~. Cathrtlk:' lnsmu:tl• {(Jf n(l:'\l~'~~:.~l~lW'n:t.. }ustme iud f\~~~r:, :f~fll:lg_u; NJ4ll'f.W 
Aml1-;'t:~S.lttit·H· Lhll~ti)pJ=ii?t· t:l~btdt~·. Uigh CtJmm!~iiii:tut:~ ~)r N:i~~r~t t~; tJ'lt'-lluitt'!d Ku~lbi)~ •· · 
. . 
~U:J:(~ -~-=m -l:~,g5-p '*~-, . . ,.'· So.lidarl.tv \\'itb Africa: The Question of Health C:ate ·:: · ·· . · · . · . ·: . \:k~·lf'ntl111·: _lih~~ Owobtbi~ M. ft. NtLS(C). fhi{-;f, tli~J~'<trtt:lt~.~t~ of Obst~"'=ltil::~ <ind ~~Vlll.'l~)hlf!.~:, Nbrdt Yotl fiicf,~il~r:al.UO:stli•i~ll~ :Ji:~r:tlfll 
Ur. ~1)l~_,,t ~pf.ftkld., hth<r.:!:NP:f ~lf ~!A'I~nd Virok.~gl1~Hf~Jtf:':. . · . . . · ... · . . · Dt". IOurm.iJ It-t~~-· l-£!~1d lim1hh Sp~•da11-st. Afrk:.n lt.,;~gkm. \\~~ld J~ut. .· . .. lJr. W~nda All:i P.Md~:~w.m. falhoiir St:1~'·~r.tri~~-of Nj~>:i:it.t., t~1.gns . . 
21-24
Sr. Aunt~ Njni11, HHCJ. MD, Mt~dkal: JNr~~t:tllf·, ft~d(~al Go\'t:-.smrat•nl lfnspUiJI. O~n:i; imo Sl~lt\ N4J~~.n~: >'::,.,,, 
U: W I' m. UtJ t' lil 

lunch PwL hMrit.J S..·~uuit:4~. \'iit~t~ :IJt:tJ~t·~~ty 

A HALL 
t:li~ f! Jll. ;J:i~) l' in. 

lnten1ational Business and tbe Renewal of Africa 
Mr.. Pn~tiotl'':i S.. Or:tt:u:kt:t,. .SI·tt•U -Nig.t"rill · 
RSITY· ,OF
Mr Sin!(~O 'lu1fk!f, H;;;~~n~l.h~~ .llir~.~~H·.tr: of GIHhal WitniE.'-!t.-~. l.ondnn MJ. Ke1~ lbtkt•·tt, ~~\li't:-*llh<t~ Uin.*(":'tm of Ca:ti~J:)Jit"' Rdli.~f Sri-!t'l.'kk~ 
:1: :'.11) I'· m. $~J(I ~.ru. 

lrd.efTliUional FinaJl{:e/lkonmnk-s and International Trade 


RE DAME 
. ~{~;<k~t;iilt;'r-~. Pwf. Cat·olyn w,a;,, 0!.>-mt.. tlnkt~.t:si!J of Noam Ilru~·­
l.w. F.~4Jf =Ht~)tm, Ui«~(tor. J.~tg~~ lJu~~;~-r;.~ .&hool · Ptu[ jd'f tk"ft~i. Unitrt.!rsiry of Noue l}.amt! 
GISTER ON.LINE AT:
PmL t~m 1~ni5. liui\·-~it,:of ~t~:ro l~t::tm~ ~k Ardmt OdlUWi, Equk)' Analy~" Muwi=ng.~l.ar lue~. Jt~~~pmxk~Jtt: MJ. Crln_y F1ood. f~Jt:n:t:~IOr. OWJr.~~ of lrnmrn1ttoMl jJr.~ir~~ and r'(..JK:~~y OSCCB 

WWW~ND.EDU/ ~ ICL 
5:11 JUII 

Mass at the .Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
h~~:!)ider: Mo~t ll&:·w~t<nd Jnf:m \t ll'An::)'. l~i:MliJI-1.: Uio(~~ of h:trt W~vrrolSou:tb &nd EMAIL: ICL@ND.EDU Htitnltis.t: Ill~ EJ·I~tit~.i·ll·:i,. lti~~·M:Ii:th'?' C~tJ1i·r.iiJ M<~'Tarr:ld., Attbbtsltt.t~t. f~)t·4~~ tAr W~~b. fX 
REGISTRATION IS FREE FOR 
8:r:(l> p m -n<m ,, nt The Future of U.S. forei~n PoU.cv As.sistant-e and Miica·s New AaerKia ND STUDENTS,. FACULTY~ STAFF. 
f'r1:t~. t:_<~'(:,i l...ii=nt::·;il!'j.tf::t. f:dut.uu,l"'i\. Wal~l ~;Jaool of l'o(t!lg,r•. ~~!'\'~~~-(~~~gt!tft~A-~I:i Llflh'i~ty l~, J St-.•pt~:,r~ Mrml~.m. U~ror~or. for A~k-tm Pmgr~u~~: n!\~Jr\I~S l:a~k l•or«•. %i(~,·~;c:~:!>~t ttl' lll~ii!••"f. fl.£" (:t~~:lff.:~l f,~· ~~ tl"l:l:-_'l.:~*~~ry .:,r '\i;¢";1l.' ~.:~~~~~~, 'lr:l Jl»!rtJl~'~h~pf-f•nli•t· fm· SlrattiJ.k and I¥JJNU<ttioatal s.-.d~!S, \\~t!1i!Ung.ton, IK Vt'tt~ dw ·1)[-u·i~ of lllf~'".W.fa:t~sn~l ).~.tt;'f,! ~JJd ~\;-;l('' of diil t!m~~~ ~~:~tf~ ~ ~!~~~1'1:'~~~il Mr Mid~d V. Phi~Jan, Pmf'e!.!J.~)t~lf Si.aff. .~kml:l«. ~·~1illf•~ f~)mmilt:~"N~ E.lif¥ f.t.:q-~··*w~ Rf:'~lat.ion.~ {(cf (~~~-Ill!" f;lt4~.)~~­
WEDNESOAY, SEPTEMBER 24 Cl)-_ ~~~~lily~~:d by. ~t:-P.-mnw~~ ~~t 'nnw~tt¥· l.~tf\<£::~it~f nf !'k1Uf: l)..~lTw;_ ;W.~:~'~' ~=wl fl·.}lhuil~ IQ·J(I-~.m, Mn·.an:-lmatra:tl Su.dln~ ~stln 4tt. dw Unr-.W:~Wf of f'klt:!li l~H~!; :Wtll:kmr (~.l>tf_'nllllf'tlt.~ Bi:sb:l!»' ~~wi~~~i~·l>. *lfN~~·r~; l.cl~~\hu·n:-11 of ~~l~t·m~ tm:tt\Tft;{.l'Africa·~ Gift to tbe Cbun::h .,in the United States: Stories of lntegratkm and Ml~sion r:f\<t.>:lW:i:1t_fMig•.~~nf Nl~-':!1:-t; (.a:tht*«.: lf~:~n'~ •:"l( W~=t.;l· Aim:~; -$JI~riJt,~l b~l~'>rn>tlj<i)f~l
Piwd nkcu~iitktU ~h.ith•rawd by SlMff" ..\:fut:';" P·atll AS()(0}l\'ut. nut., t~:v)I {If rtu~~:;=~:qzy
~ Ollk-<• fur dtt~ l~<~"ilmal C~t•~~ of \t~ttt~:nts mrd Refug..:ws, USC:f:l~ Y.t.t<• ~~~· ~:~>.~~~1:i 1n !h:a<' l)~;.:m.~ ~A! th~_!lr W.'t~_,r-m:oltr ~i:rJ<'k 1\wif:,. (~llh~~· (if ,\f~'S<
n ~~~ .u~ . Jl: t~ fl.lll. 

~nd ll>:*lt"lf.~; ~~~~~~-<> 1.-"~•=uw ~~~; {1\!f ~~~~~,, V~ll(tr h·~~.w~tm:~:n~.; Cf:ffo~· <:4 ·jtwWrap up session: \\rhat w-e have heard. what we must now do Unl.,~li-.·l~~·nt Wr.<>-~hw.a fr-P:~· i:kf lkt\lt!i-m-s: (Jffit:>~• of .Stt.~kf31 Alfair\; ~JI:~pr.m:ut.lm~ •:•f 11tt'l:oio~·· ·!nll<llt.lll'i: ~hr (hurd~ l.ii\, .<\lt!i 11=f':!'alwCY ~,f f:ht' ,\\l'<=l'>if.:r!')·
Resolutions: looking ahead to the Nigerian conference f r.~ilfU"lJ ~·1f If:~· ~ft4t.IIUW fl.:(: :t:hl:i!Th tffi<: .
• 

-


Thursday, September 18, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 


Rogers lifts Twins over Sox 

Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Kenny Rogers helped the Minnesota Twins close in im a three-game sweep of the Chicago White Sox. 
Rogers (12-8) allowed two runs and six hits in 6 1/3 innings, and Michael Ryan homered as the defending AL Central champs beat the White Sox 4-2 on Wednesday night. 
The win put Minnesota 2 1/2 games ahead of Chicago, which will try to avoid a sweep Thursday night at the Metrodome. 
Rogers struck out three and walked none in his first win since Aug. 21. Eddie Guardado pitched the ninth for his 37th save in 40 chances. 
Luis Rivas went 2-for-3 with an RBI, a walk and scored two runs for the Twins, who won their fourth straight over the White Sox in front 40,304 Homer Hankey-waving fans. 
Mariners 5, Rangers 1 
The Seattle Mariners got the kind of well-pitched game 
on six hits Wednesday night to lead 

Tampa Bay to a 7-0 victory and 
shrink Boston's lead in the wild­
card race. 
"You definitelv want to beat 
teams like the Devil Rays," Red 
Sox second baseman Todd 
Walker said. "But it's major 
league baseball. We're not play­
ing church softball. You can't 
hang up four wins in a row just 
because you're playing the Devil 
Rays." 
Indians 9, Royals 1 
The silence in the Kansas City 
Royals' clubhouse was a clear 
indicator of how important this 
loss was. 
After winning four straight, 
the Royals lost to the Cleveland 
Indians 9-1 on Wednesday night 
and fell 4 1/2 games behind 
Minnesota in the AL Central 
race. 

"Every time we lose, it's quiet 
in here," Royals starter Paul 
Abbott said. 
"It's a somber mood. However, 
if we win tomorrow, we win the 
series. Our mindset is to win 
every series and to go from 
there." 
When Royals manager Tony 
Pena was asked if the loss took 
the wind out of their sails, the 
normally upbeat manager 
replied, "What do you think?" 
Jake Westbrook scattered four 
hits over six-plus innings, and 
Travis Hafner and Alex Escobar 
homered as the Indians ended a 
four-game losing streak. 
Jody Gerut hit a two-run sin­gle and Jhonny Peralta also drove in two for Cleveland. 
The Royals quietly watched in the clubhouse as the 1\vins beat Chicago 4-2, dimming Kansas City's hopes of reaching the postseason for the first time since its World Series title in 1985. 
Westbrook (7-9) allowed one run and struck out four in 6 1-3 innings. All of his outs were either on groundouts or strike­outs. 
He shut down a Royals lineup that averaged nine runs per game during their winning streak. 
Westbrook is 1-1 with a 1.49 ERA in nine career outings against Kansas City. 
Beautiful 

Riverfront Bed & Breakfast 
*Located on 4o wooclecl acres in Buchanan, MI 
*20 m.inu.tesfrom. 
cam..,us 

269-695-6043 
$6

SPECIALS 95 Wild Wing
Wednesda1 

Tts. While Sit Wb•g toe C.l4 Mitftt litt/C.Ors Utt $1 
Opeo Fer All NOTRE tAME GttW! 
f2:~11t SAlt) Cme h ad EajtfTit 0• Calli• AT.iftatt hrty Mtal ftt PiekU 
$!'sWINCS &4's TIPS 
231 E. McKinley., Mi$1\awaka t2 Btodcs £~ of !Wllll) 
There are less than 10 spots* left  they've come to expect from Jamie Moyer. Moyer pitci1ed eight strong innings and Carlos Guillen hit a solo homer as the Mariners beat the Texas Rangers 5-1  
on this Fall's Sophomore Road Trip.  Wednesday night. "We couldn't have had a bet­ter guy for a game like that," Seattle manager Bob Melvin  
By tlie time you read this ad, it11 probably be even less than that. There's no time to waste.  said. "He's a guy who's been thr.:>ugh the wars." Seattle ended a three-game losing streak and moved within 1 1/2 games of Boston in the AL wi~d-card race. The Red Sox lost 7-0 to Tampa Bay Wednesday. Moyer (19-7) allowed one run on four hits while striking out five and walking two in becom­ 
Grab some friends &apply now @ campusministry.nd.edu. Application Deadline: This Friday by 5:00 p.m. (*aU for guys for the Sept. 26-28 Road Trip only. Sorry girls.) SOPHOMORE  ing the fourth AL pitcher to win at least 19 games. He improved to 12-3 in his career against Texas. "You want to keep it simple and do the job to the best of your ability," Moyer said. "You want to make every pitch count." Devil Rays 7, Red Sox 0 These were supposed to be the games that put the Boston Red Sox into the po~tseason. They had the lead in the AL wild-card race and seven games left against the last-place Tampa Bay Devil Rays. None of Boston's last 14 games is against a team  
ROAD TRIP  with a winning record, while Seattle still has six to play against the West-leading Oakland Athletics. But it's turning out to be hard­ 
Pe:.STINATION· Vnk~own  er than expected for the Red Sox, as Victor Zambrano and Lance Carter shut them out on  
ATTENTIO:N ALLCREATIVE .'\V.RITERS! .Ar.e yc:.·••· l.t:tc:» k.in ..g ·t:ro Ia.a.~"'·e: ~r«»Wir "r..rk p·••blis..la.eed? ''-'rrit:..e Cor ·~..b.~ D01:nae a.....d ~in Dc.:a..e:·.-:De»ll..a-.rs i:C ~~c.••·r ,,.~-~rk. :is s4ele.~f:,~.d. ·F«»r •Iac.:re i••-·f"c:»r..•&.-'t:,ic.••-9 ~~•• f:,a,C't~ ·t:l·•~ De-.•••-~ a,:~: oa:I.-7-~24 dc:.•·••.e@•..d-~d-..i  


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------···~ 

Page 18 


I:I 
I I I I I I I I I 


I, I I 
II
,, 
I) I l 
I< 
I ~ 
I 1 
I' 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL White Sox at Twins 2 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Texas A&M at Virginia Tech 7:30p.m., ESPN Northern Iowa at Stephen F. Austin 9 p.m., FOXCH 
The Season 11 p.m., ESPN 

CO,\..~PlLED rl{{)JV\ THE OBSERVER \VIR£ SERVICES Thursday, September 18,2003 
NFL 


Associated Press PITTSBURGH Pittsburgh Steelers line­backer Joey Porter returned to practice Wednesday, only 2 1/2 weeks after being injured in a drive-by shooting in Denver. W~en Porter was shot by an unknown assailant in a nightclub parking lot Aug. 31 following the Colorado State-Colorado game, the Steelers esti­mated he could miss as much as half the season. Instead, he is expected to play Sunday in Cincinnati after sitting out only two games. ''I'm just haj)py to go out 
there and have a chance to do what I love doing, and that's play football," Porter said Wednesday. "To be able to do it 20 days after what happened is actually amazing." 
The bullet grazed Porter's buttocks and lodged in his right thigh before being surgically removed. Doctors said the threat of infection and the possibility that scar tissue might form around tbe wound made it difficult to predict how long Porter would be out. 
However, doctors told Porter the wound began healing immediately and without complications. 
IN BRIEF 

2007 Sup~r Bowl to be 
held in Miami 
WASHINGTON -The 2007 Super Bowl was awarded to Mia.J;lli on Wednesday by NFL owners. 
The owners ·ratified a ·d('cision made last spring to hold the game at Pro Player Stadium. 
·''Miami sells itself," Dolphins: or~si­dent Eddie Jones· said. "We've got everything a city would want to put in a proposal." 
Miami has hosted the Super Bowl eight times (1968,'69, '71, '76, '79, '89, '95 and '99), fewer than only New Orleans (nine times). 
Houston will host this season's Super Bowl on Feb. 1 and next sea­son's game will be in Jacksonville. Detroit will host the game,in 2006. 
The site of the 2008 Super Bowl will ,be decided at owners' meetings in Chicago on Oct. 29-30. The con­tenders are Arizona, Tampa, Washington and New York-New Jersey. 
That has allowed him to return almost as quickly as was possible with such an injury. 
Porter said it is impor­tant for him to practice well this week so that he can get ready to play at game speed again. 
"As far as running straight and cutting, any­body can go out there and do that -that's not play­ing football," said Porter, who practiced with the starting defense. "I've got to find out what I can do taking on a double team block or having to cover somebody or wrapping up and making a tackle." 
Porter is hoping his 
return will provide a lift to a defense that allowed Kansas City's Priest Holmes to rush for 122 yards and three touch­downs in the Chiefs' 41-20 victory Sunday. The Steelers were No. 1 against the run the last two seasons but are 23rd overall two games into the season. 
"I just want to go out there and put what hap­pened behind me and get back to playing football and, after that, just try to get this team going," Porter said. "When you watch from the sidelines, you can't be a part of that and it hurts." 
The owners also were expected to approve the continuation of NFL Europe at Wednesday's meeting. 
Colts struggling to sell 
tickets 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts are again racing against the clock to sell tickets. 
The team has until noon Thursday to avoid its fourth local television blackout in five games at the RCA Dome. Team officials said Wednesday that 6,200 tickets remained. 
Ray Compton, senior vice president of sales and marketing, said that the Colts received many complaints about last Sunday's game against Tennessee being blacked out on TV after the was sold out after the dead­line. 
So the team is holding a marathon sales effort, running 17 hours from 5 
p.m. Wednesday until the noon dead­line or until all the tickets are sold. 

The Colts have sold out 34 consec­utive regular season home games, dating to Dec. 27, 1998 when they completed their second straight 3-13 season. 
''Quite honestly, we have a big hill to climb and perhaps it is very unlikely that we will sell out the game before the blackout deadline," Compton said. "We will be armed and ready to sell our fans tickets." 
Penguins postpone game 
PITTSBURGH -Amid predictions that Hurricane Isabel could hit the state with soaking rains and heavy winds, the Pittsburgh Penguins post­poned Thursday night's NHL presea­son game with the Washington Capitals. 
The game, to be played in Wilkes­Barre, Pa., has been pushed back to Sunday. 
The Penguins are still scheduled to play the New York Islanders on Friday night in Wheeling, W.Va. 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Adrian halts Belles' win streak 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles lost in straight sets Wednesday, but their coach doesn't think the score tells the whole story. 
"I just feel like we beat our­selves," coach Julie Schroeder­Biek. "The problem was that we dug ourselves big holes and then couldn't get back out of them." 
Saint Mary's (8-5, 1-3 MIAA) fell to conference opponent Adrian (7-4, 2-1) on the road by a score of 20-30, 27-30, 32-30. The loss breaks the Belles' four­game winning streak, which began on Sept. 11 at home against Rochester. 
This loss was especially tough to take for the Belles, because their coach believes Adrian had a fe\'\; chinks in its armor, but the Belles were never able to capital­ize. 
Schroeder-Biek said a large portion of the problem stemmed from a sub-par passing game, which has typically been a strength for the team. 
"Today our passing game was real down," she said. "We should have been all over Adrian's defense. Their middle blockers weren't that good, and there were other holes in their defense, but because we couldn't pass we weren't able to capital­ize." 
Despite lousy offensive play overall, the Belles still had a few individual standouts. 
Freshman outside hitter Kristen Playko continued her consistent rookie campaign by leading the team with 14 kills. Middle hitter Elise Rupright added 10 kills while also adding three blocks. 
On the defensive side, defen­sive specialist Alison Shevik led the team with 14 digs and libero Ann Cusack added 11 digs. Setter Lauren Temple had 27 assists. 
A key goal for Saint Mary's coming into the game was to stop Adrian's vaunted middle attack. Schroeder-Biek said her team had mixed results concern­ing that goal. 
"I don't feel as though we were completely successful in that goal," she said. "[Their middle attack] didn't hurt as much as it could have but it was not our best match by any means." 
The Belles went down by a 
' score of 13-2 in the second game at one point, but were able to battle back and make it close. In the third game, Saint Mary's and Adrian went neck-and-neck before the Bulldogs finally got the crucial final points to send tl:e Belles home with the loss. "It was just little mistakes here and there," Schroeder-Biek sa.id. "We kept making the same mis­takes again and again." Saint Mary's will try to regroup as they move into a crucial point in their schedule. The Belles have three straight games at home against conference foes. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu

------. 
H:t~JE're lo<Jkingkw. ach~na t>O ·tx-._~n (lfoontinu.e ·~ a, 5l'liill ~kge~ ·whfrt: lt!Htk t;)Ue-a:JrH:me §$ JiO intc:g_nd fHtrt 'Ji QUf mti5iOU ;md phH(w-.ophy, @J'i.:'t! f-:kll}' Cftx~{~lk~~ 1* \~l ~t{57~} 2,39~1 
, ,. ~-" I.
vr vi:~l: !J5 ill\'\:'\'¥"\.Vt&..;.~rJ.xJ:t\\, 

SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD -''YOU BET" lARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 


Do you want to creal..'! breakthrough strategies? 
Are you ready to tadde th.t.~ toughest operating problen1s? 
If the answer is yes-carne learn n1orc 
Company Presentation I\1onday; Septx.~niber zznd 6:00 pn1 Mo.n-is Inn, Alurr.ni Rootn 
Ail rm:~jors wdu;;nc! 
.k~-·~ 
~}~~
~)~~"'o:::~-~ 

N 013 .1\Aen".s Soccer '\..'S, #·"19 1 ndi.ana ••Thu rs,; 9/1 a at: 7 P 1\.1\ at: A l u •-n n i Fiet d 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: FRI: 
SAT: 
SUN: 

Monday night football on 15 screens 
99¢ specials 

Give away night, including game tickets 
32 oz specials 
Pre:_game warrn lJP 

R&B' Music and Dancing 
Game day on 15 screens with live 
waor remotes NFL Sunday ticket 

Chef Kip Peters (formerly of South Bend Country Club) 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE Must be 21
272-1766 withv~~~~j~k 


.·.. ,, 
• 
First: so·o fans r-ecei'\..'e roan1 hats! -Sponsel-ed by· Paa:>a John""s­

• 
N D STLJDENTS: '\1\/in .2 airline t:·lcke-.:s any-where in the Continental US!!!!! 



Natsonaf Cat:holic Charnpionship /"'tAen's & Women,;s Cross·-Count:ry: Fri,; 9/19 on ·the N D G~"'>l'f Cour·se (.9 Hc>lt:.:-) 
40:15 for· \/Vornen~~ SK 5 pm for Finist~, of tv\e.n's s f\/\1 
All ND St-udents Adrnit:ted F·ree 

#13 l'l\en¥s Soccer vs. West Virginia 
Sun, 9/2"1 at 2.pm at Alumni Field 
-F·irst 2..50 'fans re<:eive a bottleneck jer·sey and a Coke pr·oduct:~~­
1:rish Basketba1.-·-Pra-ctice Sat~ 9/20 at 10 am at Joyce Cent:er Arena 

r 
I I,
. 
I, I' I I 
li', 
I' 
I 
I 
I 
! . I, I 
I 
:!, 
I~ 
ij 
'\. 
'~ 
t 
i 
/ 
I 
page 20 Thursday, September 18, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
·"'-WOMENS INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Badin, Lyons look for first victory of the year 
together, and we are looking for tant." is hoping their first game really found our rhythm yet onBy ROBERT GRIFFIN, DAN 
another big game out of wide The Ducks return several vet­tonight against McGlinn sets the offense."
TAPETILLO AND ANNIE receiver Molly Donnelly." erans on th~ team such as Brin tone for a repeat of last year's The Shamrocks are countingBRUSKY The two teams should have a Anderson, Renee Allessi and success. on more clutch performances

Sports Writers 

lot to prove as they try to Lauren Island who enter the The McGlinn Shamrocks, from quarterback Bridget avenge their opening game season with high expectations. however, fresh off their first Meacham and middle line­
Badin and Lyons will both losses. Both teams are confi­Lewis, who is fresh from an win on Sunday, have other backer Jessica Fedor. Wide continue their 2003 Interhall dent, as they feel that their 8-6 victory over Badin, is com­plans. receiver Raquel Ferrer, in her football seasons Thursday as respective levels of play will ing into the game with confi­"We're not worried," said first year playing for the team, they square off at Riehle West only rise with each game. dence and assurance that thev McGlinn cornerback Becka is proving to be a formidable field at 7 p.m. "We'll see how things go," can repeat history. · Saunders. "We have a pretty threat as well. 
Coming off a disappointing said Carter. "We are expecting "We have a core group of good team coming out. We have The Pyros, meanwhile, are season opening loss to McGlinn, good things this season." returning seniors who are the a lot of returning players and depending on their senior Lyons is motivated to correct backbone of the team," Lewis most of them played against PE receivers and cornerbacks to the mistakes that cost them Lewis vs. Howard captain Lynne McChrystal said. last year." lead the way. They are confi­Sunday's game. Tomorrow's game between In addition to relying on sev­The Pyros acknowledge it's a dent in their freshman quarter­
A lot of the problems that Howard and Lewis will be a eral veterans, such as running new year and after losing sev­back and are happy to have Lyons encountered last week battle between the Qlicks sen­back Mimi Lundgren, several eral key players, including their strong rookie players at almost resulted from trying to inte­ior quarterback Erin Nasrallah freshmen are proving them­quarterback, to graduation, every position. grate the freshman recruits into and the Ducks sophomore quar­selves as well. they come into the season with "We need to go out there this an offense led by quarterback terback Sheena Ketchum. "The freshmen are really many new faces on the roster. first game, see how it goes and Roxi Travino. Howard is playing its first picking up senior leadership on "We know it's a rebuilding then work from there," 
"We're just, right now, trying game of the year and is ready defense," McChrystal said. year, but we still have pretty Pasquerilla East safety to get the girls involved," Lyons to bounce back from both a loss "When [the freshmen] saw the high hopes," said PE captain Stephanie Yahn said. captain Lauren White said. to Lewis and a 1-5 record last upperclassmen diving for flags Laura Wolohan. "McGlinn When the two teams met last "Our quarterback really knows year. It is critical for Howard to in practice, they quickly fol­always has a pretty good team." year, the Pyros came away with what she is doing. We have an start the year with a winning lowed." Despite a 7-0 win over Lyons, an easy victory, but both teams optimistic outlook. record to try and prove that last Both teams are looking for the Shamrocks struggled and know it will be a fierce, compet­
"A lot of our mistakes also year's loss was a fluke. the win to gain momentum for did not score until the last two itive game. came from the fact that we only Ketchum said that avenging the rest of the season. The minutes. The two teams meet tonighthad two practices before our last year's loss is one of the game will be at Riehle West "We've been working to bet­at fl:iehle Fields at 9 p.m. first game." team's goals for this season. field Thursday at 8 p.m. ter ourselves as a team overall, Badin is coming ofT a season "We've been practicing and being more patient on offense Contact Robert Griffin at 
.. opening two-point loss where focusing on coming together as 
Pasquerilla East vs. McGlinn and waiting for the play to rgriffi3@nd.edu, Dan Tapetillo
they looked sharp. Their a team," she said. "The defense Pasquerilla East, the defend­develop," McGlinn captain On­at jtapetil@nd.edu and Annie offense was clicking and they and offense are both impor-ing interhall football champion, Kay Wong said. "We haven't Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu had great play from their 
defensive line. 

----------~~--................................................._,,____________________,
"We're excited about this sea­son," Badin captain Jenn Carter ~ QUOTES & FACTS Upon his deatht Jeremy Bentham ( 1748-1832}. t.he British said. "Wbe've neverd whonban . · ·_·. The N.....o,»c Jns~ute ~~no sdopdhtehr a1nh~ jubridst. bleft h is endtitre estate to the London Hospital
1

opener ut we p aye t e est --· •• u1. ""' ou1 e a IS o y e a11owe o preside ouer its board 
we have ever played to start a for European Stud~s meetings. His slceletun was cloUted and fitted with a waH mask: of season. WW"N.r-.d.&dut-nanovle his fate. It was present at the meetings for 92 years. 
~~~~redywm~g~·~-:-:-;.•-;-~.~-:.:::::::~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~;;;~;;;~~~~~~~~~-iii"i-~--~-~-i-i-~-~-i--i-i-i-~~~~~~~ 
.,... 
!
;:
'· 

~ 

! ~ 
. t I 
To accomodate the overwhelming demand, portraits have been extended one final weeki Sign Up on the Internet NOW 0 
www. laurenStudios.com
...: ....--_.,:,.,._.___.....,.,,,,,,,•,•,•.Y,.•;,•"""""""'•-'•''"'·';;.o.U.,o,._.,..,._,.,.....,....~·.•-.,""""'-''·'..,.,..._"¥"""""...,.,_·............... ,,•,v,.,_..-,,_._..,_,__"""""'"·'·' 
to ensure your place in your 2004 liOme Yearbook! 

I , l. . J
1: C~ss ~ 2004 

i
lEI: Extended till Septem0er 261 2003 -re: la forlune 108 ··Will: To Be In the 2004/Jome 



'· 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, Sepfember 18, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
a huge difference," Clark said. "If you for that." carried play and secured more chances look at the sta-With respect to against Akron. They were, he said,
Indiana 
tistics it is obvi­common oppo-obviously the better team. continued from page 24 ous it makes a "Home-field nents, Notre Clark will be coaching against the diffei ence, but advantage always makes a huge Dame and living legend Jerry Yeagley, who has the reason for many a Notre Dame let­the last tw :J Indiana both been at the end of the Hoosier bench
difference. It is obvious it rnakes a
down in the past. The Irish have not times wa •,,e defeated Fresno for 31 strong seasons and will retire at been <.:.bl3 to defeat the Hoosiers either playee Indic:.r.a difference. but the last two times State this past the end of the year. . 
·-~ 
a~ heme (1-9-0) or on the road (1-9-1). on the road. we've played Indiana on tha road... weekend. Notre Yeagley has won five national cham­Still, this Irish team is 8-2-1 at home "This will be Bobby Clark Dame tieri Akron pionships with Indiana. under second-year coach Clark, much the first time a while Indiana Indiana and Notre Dame face off at
coach
better than its 5-4-0 away record and .earn I've lost to the Zips in Alumni Field Thursday at 7 p.m.1-2-1 record at neutral sites. 
coached will overtime. "Home-field advantage always makes play Indiana at horm·, and I'm excited Still, Clark points out that Indiana Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Passing 
continued from page 24 
receiver a tight. end, questions abound as to the effectiveness --or lack thereof -of head ~oach Tyrone Wil!ingham's West Coast offense so far this season. 
. "Obviously we're not doing very well offensively right now," Clark said. 
"We're going to need to step it up, and I'm sure we won't end the season with me as the [Nc. 1i receiver. But as a tight end, you love to catch passes and get down the field with them." 
But people iP the Irish sys­t~tn point n"ot so illuch to Notre Dame's ineffectiveness in the passing game, nut Clark's evo­lution as a solid tight end as explanation for his leading stats. 
•· ,<\ tight e n d is a n~ ce i v e r c.dso," Jenkins said. "There's no teas(m for concern if the tight e11d has receptior.s. It's a good thing for the team and the 
offense if the tight end can 
block and receive at the same 
time." 
Part of what has made Clark 
one of Notre Dame's leading 
receivers in 2003 could be the 

senior's pedigree as a quarter­
back in high school and his 
early years at Notre Dame. 
As a farmer signal caller, 

himself, Clark has a good base 
of knowledge in reading 
defenses and cover schemes, 
which has aided him in finding 
openings in the defensive back­. field. 
"Playing quarterback helps 

you understand where every­
one is going to be, so it helps 
you understand what relation­
ship you need to get with the 
other receivers and defensive 
backs," Clark said. "As far as 
running routes, I've just gotten 
better at it. But it's been me 
playing the position for a while 
that's made me a better tight 
end." 
Clark's ability to find holes in 

the zone and break off patterns 
has come in particularly handy 
in the first two games this year, 
as the Irish quarterbacks 
LAZARD 
Cordially invites Notre Dame University Seniors to a presentation and reception 
On 
Monday, September 22"d, 2003 Center for Continuing Education 7:00PM Analyst Interviews: Monday, October 13th, 2003 
Seniors interested in interviewing for Analyst positions in our Investment Banking Group should submit resumes and cover letters through the GO IRISH site by September 27th 
For additional information, please contact: Shannon Sullivan: (212) 632-6244 
Carlyle Holiday and Brady Quinn have found themselves under heavy pressure from the pass rush. With little time to throw, it is helpful when expe­rienced receivers break off routes and run shorter pat­terns to get open in a hurry. 
"I can kind of understand what the quarterbacks are going through, even though I didn't really get into any games while I was a quarterback here," Clark said. "It's tough when you've got people in your face all the time, and it's tough wheil people are hitting you every time you release the ball." 
Even with his solid numbers in the early Irish season, Clark realizes that he still has a long way to go in his development of becoming a complete tight end. 
"I think I have a long way to go before I peak," he said. "There is still a lot of things I can be better at, and hopefully I am getting better as we go." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
t 
I i I 
l
-I 
I 
I I 
I 
l 
l 
l 
I 
l 
I 
l 
l 
I 
I I I 
~ 
l ~ 
I 
f 

.-:-----------------~---------------------~~------------­
i' : 
page 22 Thursday, September 18, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 

Experimentation with offense pays off versus Purdue 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Wri[er 
When the Irish put the ball away, most teams follow. Wednesday's match was no dif­ferent, as the Irish hit .311 for the match, and Purdue left bat­tered and bruised. 
Notre Dame defeated Purdue three games to one (30-23, 30­17, 29-31, 30-20). 
"We tried to diversify the offense a little more and worked on some different shots," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We tried to hit more lines and more deep corners." 
Emily Loomis, Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster all hit in double digits for the Irish. Loomis had 15 kills on .405 hit-· ting, while Kelbley registered 14 kills on .414 hitting. Brewster added 13 kills on .429 hitting. Meg Henican and Jessica Kinder also contributed, with eight kills apiece. 
The Irish dominated in games one and two, hitting .455 as a team in the second game. 
The Irish never trailed in the first game, as the closest the Boilermakers came was a 10-10 tie. In game two, the Irish jumped out ~o an 18-9 lead. They never turned back, as Purdue never got within nine points. 
Game three was a different story, as the Irish hit .160 and the Boilermakers hit .218, good enough to take the match. 

\, 
"We played really smart and

! • 
really well in games one and two," Brown said. "In game three, we didn't pass quite as. 

I . 
h 
I 
,1 
J 
i 
I
I ( 
i~ 
I I
I 
. 
I 
I 
I 
I '< 
I 
I ' 
: ~ 
) 
! 
I I 
I 
i 
) 
~ . 
1: 
I 
well, we didn't serve quite as well and . we made hitting errors." 
Game three saw the Irish fal­ter, as they couldn't pull away from the Boilermakers. The game was back and forth, and the Irish failed to convert match point at 29-28. Purdue took advantage, and scored the next three points to win the game. 
"I think it was a combination of a lot of things," Brown said. "We didn't really play well, and we made a lot more hitting errors." 
Overall, the Irish played well. Senior setter Kristen Kinder dished out 35 assists, and Henican led the defense with 15 digs. Jessica and Kristen Kinder both had 13 digs. • 
Kelly Corbett saw action in the third game as libero, replacing freshman Danielle Herndon. Herndon returned in the fourth game. 
"She's (Corbett) been playing really well in practices and we thought it would be good to give her the opportunity to play," Brown said. 
Notre Dame is happy to get the win after last year's disappoint­ing loss in West Lafayette. 
NOTRE DAME 3, PURDUE 1 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME  30 30 29 30  
Purdue  23 17 31 20  
NOTRE  DAME  - Kills  63  (Emily  

Loomis 15), Assists 55 (Kristen Kinder 35), Digs 68 (Meg Henican 15), Blocks 19 (Brewster 13), Hitting percentage .311 (Lauren Brewster .429), Aces 5 (Brewster 3) 
Opponent -Kills 64 (Melanie Ukovich 18), Assists 57 (Renata Dargan 48), Digs 74 (Daren Poe 15), Blocks 7.5 (Ukovich 4, Kim McConaha 4), Hitting percentage . 154 (Dargan .400), Aces 3 (Dargan 1, Kim Cappa 1, Jennifer Orlowski 1) 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


CHIP MARKS/ The Observer 
Kristen Kinder sets up a teammate In a match earlier this season. Kinder led the Irish with 35 assists In a 3-1 victory over Purdue. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
We are now taking applications for the 2004-2005 school year! Apply early to get the best prices locked in and tbe best locations. 
Why li't'e at Turtle Creek Apartments? +So -.;lose to campus, it is just like being on campus! +You can request to live next to friends; you can even request an ENTIRE BUILDING! +We have a1}001 that we open before Memorial Day and KEEP open after Labor Day 
Icould go on but I'm sure you have your own reasons for wanting to live here with us. Stop by and see us we'll answer any ofyour questions, or you can visit us on the web at: 
WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 
•Applv before October 31 51 to lock in 03·04 rents. After November lR rents for 04..()5 will be established.• 
2o o 3-rn 4 

THE BEST Of NOT:RE DAME T'HEATRE 
..i\ ·"·.·(···· ·. ·· ·,. ··~:~' ·· .· .·· ..·. r1···11··· · · ···.· · -~~' o~ ·.·) ··1, ···J· · 

I. t'.JJrS .•. IlUIJ .•. lt. '..JHH. {}l.l .....: rl~t1 
~leasu·re for 1\-lt~asure ···· 


1N~~~~.a~'. $~b?!t. l?,,·;r:~O p,m 1l=t.!t'~, Sl¥'t1'~~bt~ 1 &.,.7:3.0 p;!rt f:t;:d~)', s-~~pl~~mb~r 1~-~,,:; :~0 p.m. 
Ple_y-bg t1t Vl/ash~n:gton Hall •~f.ll~d $;1ats $1 s ~nic..rs $ ~ 4 *Ai~ Stud~n:~s $l2 
Tic.fwt~ ,avm~~k; ~1lQf,~$)~ Stij@f"lt C~~~~ Th.:~k~;Jt Qffl(~, M~$1nt'Qm:l ~nd 'ii~:03 onfun~, ~:~l fS31-8i12B.. 
·nte-N..:l~1is l~t~-~ ~~t;:•:J.:~: ~i~ f.li1i~ t1lf~ Ht'!!kl~ Ledu<~ ~~. 
IIt's not too I • Sign-ups available at 11 Coleman-Morse all week: ''.i;) ~­··~it~1EM MAU Si~l~r~ Small Christian Faith-Sharing Gro«Ps ~. ~-tiO~;! ~~ ~~ ..JDURN~EY.START THE 631-7800 Icampusministry.nd.  
+2
4 hour lock out services...trust me, it'll come in handy! +Everyone that moved into Turtle Creek this year got aFREE pizza! +On-site...all the time ... management staff. 



--------. 
... 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
.· ·: 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LECCY 

rJ tJ
1 
02003 Tri>une Media Servicea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RUYLS 

[J I

tVASHIL A C.OLD SNAP CAN
IJ I I rJ 
oo n-us m A
www.jumble.com 
~ VE:NDC>f<. 

LISHEC 
j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 1 suggested by the above cartoon.
ri rJ ~= "( I I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PYLON TEMPO BEHEAD GIMLET 
...
Answer: When the young kangaroos misbehaved, Mom was-"HOPPING" MAO 
ACROSS 1 Subject of an Andrew Wyeth portrait series 

6 Legacy 14 Duties 15 Slightly twisted 16 Isn't just 
.~:

theoretical 

17 Tanning vats for\ reptile hides? 
18 Apple computer 
delivery·',~~ vehicles?'i·. o.: .~~ .... · 
20 Service
'J.: 
21 Harvester
"' 
.,i . ' 
22 Word with rabbit
.. 
,.....:.. or roasting 23 1939 Glen Gray
' 
hit "-Night" 26 Word on a Ouija P•·· board 27 Gray, in a way 
' 
28 Like many resort areas
I
.. 
CROSSWORD 


31 Woes of an 60 Calligrapher's itchy, twitchy purchase dog? 
61 Compounds 33 Some game found in wine equipment 
62 Totals 36 Floor protector 
63 Analyzes 37 Coffee choice 38 Attack dog DOWN owner's remark 
1 Hydrocarbon in
to a burglar? 

petroleum 43 Guaranteed 
2 Sends off 44 TV cartoon dog letters? 
45 "Wham!" 3 Shopper's aid 
48 Rare trick-taker 4 Words after "Oh, come on"
49 Assumed part of a Web 5 Salve address 
6 Hardly 50 Zenith sophisticates competitor 7 Muffs 
51 Actress Gardner 8 Little bounder 53 Dental X-rays? 9 Business abbr. 
55 One who's 10 Extra amount brought in when 
11 Folkie's choice shipments are of guitar damaged? 
12 Gangster59 Unwell weapons 
·~ 
L,. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 If not t1 14 Curtis_,. 1960's Air Force 
' 
~ 
chief of staff .,...•...........' 19 Roundly beat 
23 Great deal 24 "We've been 

-·I" 25 Ending with ego
or ideal 28 Aim to please 
29 Big name in 
hardware 
30 It's taken for a trip 31 Leg part 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 wcasablanca" 40 Hotelier's 49 Equine ankles role handout 
51 Another name 41 Frontier person for so-Down 
33 Textile company purchase 42 Working 52 Windmill blade synchronously 
53 Player's trophy 34 Saturn model 45 Indulged in 
54_bread
35 Desserts eaten vanity with spoons 56 WMove it!"
46 Becomes apparent (to) 57 Lifeboat item 
39 ll may follow you 47 Nasties in nests 58 God, in Italy 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Jada Pinkett Smith, James Gandolfini, Fred Willard, Frankie Avalon, Robert Blake 
Happy Birthday: Although everything will not run smoothly this year, you will have better control of yow-life and will instinctively know how to turn problems around with dedication and hard work. You finally understand that success comes from trial and error and that mistakes are fixable. Yom nwnbers: 9, 18, 25, 33, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): It's time for the big push at work. Accomplishments will exceed expectations if you mix business with pleasw-e. Extend an invitation to clients you enjoy spending time with. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Go ahead with your plans for entertainment. Your ability to organize outings will be·apprectatcd by comrades. You'll gain popularity and make new friends. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A surprise is likely. If you are energetic and do some extra work around the house, you will be praised for yow-initiative. This is a tenific day for talking to those who can help you get ahead. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get back to basics and re-evaluate what is important in life. You need to feel good about yourself and your goals. Burn off some energy in a fitness program. ** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be innovative. You will be in a high cycle regarding work. Consider starting yow-own business, but don't invest too much of yow-own money. Look for a partner who believes in your ideas. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept.. 22): Focus on professional objectives today. Working hard will lead to rewards. Having integrity is vital, so avoid personal involvement with 
colleagues. *** 

LmRA (Sept.. 23-0ct.. 22): Secret intrigues will lead to trouble. You can't fall for damaging rumors if you refuse to participate in gossip. Consider the sow-ce. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Spend time practicing and developing your creative talents. Becoming involved in interest groups will bring popularity. Don't be too shy to demonstrate your abilities to others. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will receive assistance if you ask for it. People will be eager to contribute to the cause if you're diplomatic and honest. A practical business sense will help. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's wiser to keep things to yourself. Difficulties will crop up if you foist your ideas on others. Yom energy is high so don't be afraid to tackle single-handedly the projects you believe in. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yom mind is on moneymaking ventures. You can make financial gains by believing in yourself and yow-innovative ideas. You'll be setting a new trend. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Investments should be a t0p priority. The more you put into yow-home or other secw-e investment, the better. If you deal with any legal issues, you'll be in a good position. Don't back down now. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a "get up and go" kind of person, who likes to be where the action is and who thrives on trying new things. You are hard to keep up with and will never back down from your chosen pursuits. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~ ...
:~ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.... 
~-~·· ... .'{:­Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
:-:: 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying fonn and mail it today to receive The 
:11>-'. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-
Name ____________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ ___ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 

• 

' (\  "We've seen weekends now,  them two seen them  
~~  play four games," coach Bobby Clark said. "We are  
.r  familiar with their players. They have a lot of good tech­ 
nical players that can  play  
soccer, as do we.  
"Both teams are very tal··  
ented, and it should make for  
a very interesting game."  


THE OBSERVER 
p
Thursday, September 18, 2003 

Page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

New season, new attitude 
Confident Irish host Hoo.siers in anticipated rematch 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Notre Dame played at Indiana in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. Indiana competed at Notre Dame in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. 
The Irish and Hoosiers, 
however, still have not met head-to­h e a d . Thursday night at Alumni Field, in the rematch of a second­round 2002 N C A A Tournament 
battle,  the  
rivals  will  
clash.  

FOOTBALL 

No. 19 India.na (2-2-2) has the edge, having won last season in the NCAA Tournament by a slim 1-0 margin. Freshman Brian Plotkin put in his first goal of the season and the Hoosiers held on to advance to the next round. Clark and the Irish remember the loss, but they do not let it haunt them. 
"Last year is long gone. They are a different team and we are a different team, but Td be telling lies ifI said /U-Notre Dame wasn't a big game.,, 
Bobby Clark 
coach 
"Last year is long gone," Clark said. "They are a different team and we are a different ·Learn, but I'd be telling lies if I said IU-Notre Dame wasn't a big game. l'm very aware it's a very impor­tant game for both teams." 
!'lo. 13 Notre 

Dame (2-1-2) is not only fighting Indiana this week­end. They are fighting histo­ry, with an all-time 2-18-1 record against the perennial Mid western powerhouse. Even more remarkable is this 
statistic -13 of those losses were shufouts. 
Notre Dame forward Devon Prescod has scored three of the team's folir goals so far this season, with midfielder Justin Detter adding the other ir1 a 2-1 overtime victo­ry over Fresno State. 
'fheir .presence lessens the concern for productivity from a coach's standpoint. 
"I am not CIJncerned [with 
our offense]." Clark said. "It is always a concern to score goals. I don't care who you play against. At the same time, over the years Indiana has been a very strong team." Indiana's strength has been 
see INDIANA/page 21 

Clark leads receivers in struggling offense 
I 'r ~ I 


Tight end Jared Clark rumbles ahead In the 38-0 loss to Michigan Jast Saturday. Clark leads all Irish receivers with 67 yards receiving on the season. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Quick, name the player who leads the Irish in receiving yards through two games this season. 
Would you believe tight end Jared Clark? 
Are you serious, Clark? 
Neither senior leader Omar Jenkins, star sophomores Rhema McKnight or Maurice Stovall, nor freshmen phe­noms Jeff Samardzija or Chinedum Ndukwe have been able to surpass the converted quarterback Clark's mark of 67 yards receiving. 
In addition, Clark's six receptions on the year place him in a tie for second on the team with McKnight and one behind Jenkins. 
With Notr9 Dame's leading 
see PASSING/page 21 
SMC GoLF 

Belles take second on weekend 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

It took a record-breaking per­formance, but Hope beat Saint Mary's again. 
The Belles finished behind Hope for the second straight tournament, taking second at the Briton Invitational with a score of 345. Hope's team fired a 343, a new tournament record, to win the Invitational at The Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich. 
"We definitely improved a lot from last year at this course," Belles coach Mark Hamilton sa.id. "It's a difficult golf course, one of the hardest we'll play this season. 
Saint Mary's was led by junior Julie Adams' 85, followed by Stefanie Simmerman's 86. Hamilton was pleased that his six top players fired rounds in the 80s and placed in the top 10 for the tournament. 
While the Belles were consis­tent, Hope won despite having a player shoot 119. The Flying Dutch were led by frrst and sec­ond place finishers Lacey Wicksall and Holly Sneller, who shot 79 and 83, respectively. 
''I'm a little bit concerned we were behind Hope," Hamilton said. "We need to beat them in the next couple of tournaments. But it's good to have a team that drives you." 
Last week Hope took second­place ahead of the fourth-place Belles at the Knox Invitational. 
Hamilton said the Belles had a chance to win the tournament Tuesday, but had a couple high scores on holes late in the round, allowing Hope to hang on for the victory. 
Saint Mary's has continued to get solid play from Chrissy Dunham and Megan Mattia. While Dunham did not have her best round at The Medalist, she has consistently fired solid rounds. Hamilton credits the hard work Dunham put in over the summer for her improve­ment. 
"She's made a partly quantum leap," Hamilton said. "She worked hard at her game over the summer and is seeing the results from that hard work." 
Meanwhile Mattia has arguably been the most consis­tent player on the team. She had an 87 Tuesday. 
"Megan always shoots a score we can count on," Hamilton said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

VOLLEYBALL 
INTERHALL 

SMC VOlLEYBAll 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
·Notre Dame 3 
Badin vs. l-yons 

The Belles' four-game win 
The Minnesota Twins defeat 
The Chicago Cubs beat the
Purdue 1 
Lewis vs. Howard 

streak ends on the road at Adrian. 
the Chicago White Sox and 
New York Mets. The
PE vs. McGlinn 

the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 
Milwaukee Brewers escape
The Irish used a new 
shut out the Boston Red Sox. 
the St. Louis Cardinals. 

offensive strategy to 
Pasquerilla East, last 

overpower the 
season's champion, opens 

'!' 
Boilermakers. 
its season tonight. 

'J 
page 19
page 20

} ,·, page 22 
· page 17 I page 14 
.. 
-







