Ill 

The Independent Neivspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 139 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Police aware of Rally in the Alley 
. Turtle Creek notifies residents to expect larger police presence 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
The management of Turtle Creek Apartments notified residents that local police departments are aware of today's planned Rally in the Alley, adding that they should expect an increased police presence at the apartment complex for the remainder of the year. 
Student residents said the notice is the first they received since they moved into their apartments. 
Rally in the Alley is a tradi­tional party that occurs at the beginning of the school year in August and on the last day of classes in April. 

The notification, a copy of which was obtained by The regarding parties. ipate a stepped up police pres­tion said, referring to two Observer. warned residents to "In light of the recent events ence in and around Turtle raids on South Bend bars this act responsibly and reminded surrounding the University Creek throughout the remain­them of the complex's rules and the city, you should antic-der of the year," the notifica-see RALLY/page 8 

Student claims RA attack 
. Alleged incident took place at off­campus apartment 
By MA TI BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame student claimed he was assaulted Saturday by a Knott Hall resi­dent assistant at his Turtle Creek apartment. 
The junior. a former Knott resident, said he had just laid down for a nap when the alleged assailant came to the apartment accompanied by several other students. 
The student said he opened the door and had a brief argument before he was allegedly punched in the face. 
"I don't think I got more than two words out before I took a right hook to the eye," 
see ATTACK/page 4 

CCC votes to change club funding allocation procedures 
it would have to raise $200 on its percent of total club budgets -"This isn't a need for clubs to ommendation was totally inde­
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 

own. thus alternative methods to sup­raise more funds," O'Donnell pendent from it," Panza said. 
News Writer 

The 215 campus clubs under port club activity are necessary." said. "It's simply a way to ensure Until now, the social service the jurisdiction of the CCC are O'Donnell discredited claims that clubs are not relying solely clubs were the only of the six The Club Coordination Council divided into six divisions: that the new requirements show on student activity fee alloca­club divisions that were not decided to change the way that Academic, Athletic, Cultural, a need for clubs to raise their tions." required to collect dues, and the funds are allocated to campus Performing Arts, Social Service own money despite the success­CCC vice president Jessica CCC has no intention of changing clubs in February. and Special Interest. In the past, ful fundraising campaign of The Panza said The Shirt did not this. But service clubs may
As part of a strategic plan these clubs have all been Shirt. Proceeds from the sale of have anything to do with the new choose to start collecting dues as started under the Libby Bishop encouraged to hold fundraisers, The Shirt are intended to go policy. a form of fundraiser. administration, the new policy but they were never required. scholarships, charities and stu­"Profits from the The Shirt "Our definition of a fundraiser requires clubs to raise 20 per­"The change is primarily to dent government, although the project have in the past varied is pretty loose," O'Donnell said. cent of what they are given from help clubs earn supplemental Financial Management Board is greatly from year to year, and "Collecting dues from club mem­the CCC budget. This means that funding," said CCC president permitted to use part of The are spread out amongst a wide bers is just one way that groups if a particular club is given Seth O'Donnell. "The CCC can Shirt funds for direct allocation variety of campus-wide groups
$1,000 from the CCC in funding, only fund approximately 22.5 to campus clubs. and causes. Thus, the CCC rec-see CCC/page 8 
Seniors in 
ROTC 


look ahead 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame ROTC seniors who will graduate next month will serve their country in a broad variety of missions. Upon graduation, the cadets and midshipmen will be com­missioned officers and will report to duties across the country 
Lt. Cmdr. Dan Walsh, an instructor in the Naval ROTC program, said the 29 seniors under his watch will include 
see ROTC/page 4 
A PLEA FOR PEACE 


Political science professor Dan Lindley speaks at Tuesday's Preemptive Peace rally In front of the Stonehenge World War II memorial. Lindley was one of several speakers that discussed options for rebulldlng Iraq. The rally was sponsored by the Peace Coalition. 



COBA 
•

Jumps 1n• rankings 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business MBA pro­gram continued to climb in the 
U.S. News and Word Report's national ranking of graduate school programs, rising from unranked four years ago to No. 29 in this year's list. 
The high ranking is an honor, said Dean Carolyn Woo, but she added that the College 
see COBA/page 6 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 


INSIDE COLUMN 

An Era of Air 
In the April 20 Chicago Tribune Sports section, I saw a thank-you note from Michael Jordan to basketball. 
As Jordan and the rest of the basket­ball world look back 
on the career of the greatest player to step on the court, I think we all need to look back too. After all, we grew up in the Michael Jordan generation. Everyone our age 

that picked up a 
basketball was 
Michael Jordan. 
Associate 
\Vhen you went out 
Sports Editor 
on the court to 
shoot around, you 
weren't Charles Barkley, Patrick Ewing 
or even the great ones like Bird and 
Magic. You were Michael Jordan. 
You and your buddies would fight in 
•Pee Wee basketball to get number 23, because no other number mattered. 
You'd jump from the free-throw line -even though you'd land just three feet later -and shoot the ball in mid-air to mirror his gravity-defying dunk in the 1987 Slam Dunk Contest. 
You'd stick your tongue out. I think 
every MJ fan knows what this one is. 
Every time you go up for a shot ­
whether it was a layup, jumper or 
three-pointer -you had the tongue out 
like Mike did. 
You tried those impossible turnaround jumpers that His Airness always man­aged to bury. You'd count down from three to pretend to hit that buzzer-beat­er like Jordan so often did to Cleveland. You'd shrug and shake your head after every jumper you made, like Mike did when he hit his sixth three against Portland in the Game 1 of the 1992 Finals. 
You'd shoot-or more appropriately, 
miss -those free throws with your eyes 
closed as Mike would do from time to 
time to mess with his opponents, just to 
let them know -in case they didn't 
already -that he was unstoppable. He 
didn't even need to see the rim. 
You refused to drink anything but 
Gatorade because that's what Mike 
drank. Then you memorized the "Be 
Like Mike" song and would sing it every 
time you went out on the court. 
You begged your parents to buy you 
"Michael Jordan's Playground" and 
"Come Fly With Me" videos and then sat 
mesmerized in front ofthe 1V for hours 
with your friends. 
You swore that Mike could fly. He didn'tjustjump. He would glide and hang in the air for what seemed like seconds. He didn't fall back to the court -he landed. 
When his dad was murdered, you said a prayer for him, and when he retired the first time, you cried. You stood up for him as he struggled through minor league baseball. because he was still the greatest athlete in the world, even if he couldn't break .200 with the Birmingham Barons or hit a curveball. 
When he came back, you hated the 
number 45. 
And when he drained that last jumper 
in 1998 against Utah to clinch his sixth 
title, you felt like a little kid. You cele­
brated like it was his first title, because 
all was right in the world again. 
For the better part of two decades, he brought out greatness in all of us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­[ion and strives for [he highest standards of journal­ism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's changes its mission statement 
Saint Mary's College recently announced its shorter, revised mission statement. 
page 10 
WORLD& NATION 
U.S. troops fire on protesters, kill 13 Iraqis 
Responding to an anti-American protest, U.S. para­troopers fired shots during a demon­stration Tuesday in Fallujah, Iraq. 
pages 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Oil futures at 5-month low 
Analysts predict overproduction after the Organi­zation of Petro­leurn Exporting Countries's recent decision to height­en the output ceil­ing for oil. 
page 7 

VIEWPOINT 
Notre Dame should release faculty salaries 
The Observer calls on the University to prove its claims of gender equity by releasing salary averages by department and gender. 
page 16 

SCENE SPORTS 
Baseball bust Four The Freshmen 
The Notre Dame up for the "The 
Freshmen gear 
baseball team suf-

Freshmen Four fered a defeat in 
Plays," which are Tuesday's game 
directed by fresh-against the 
men and including University of 
freshmen actors. Michigan 8-4. 
page 18 page 36 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Property broken into Monday 
NDSP received a report from an employee Monday that a rental prop­erty owned by the University had been broken into. There are no suspects and the case is pending. 

Police investigate harassment 
Police are investigating a harassment complaint from Pasquerilla West that was reported Monday. 

Student loses parking decal 
A student told NDSP Monday that she lost her parking decal at an unknown location. 

Authorities tow two vehicles 
Two students' vehicles were towed for parking violations Monday. One was parked at the Post Office and the other was in the D2 South Lot. 

Worker injured in dining hall 
A Notre Dame employee was taken from South Dining Hall to the University Health Center for treatment of an injury Monday. 
-Compiled from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Grilled hummus baguette, spinach frittata, chicken fet­tuccini alfredo and marinara, broiled hamburger, corn dog, Monte Carlo sandwich, grilled roast beef wrap, cau­liflower, vegetable pizza, cheese cal­zones, bread sticks, turkey club loafer, tuna salad, sliced honey ham, sliced turkey. 
Today's Dinner: Vegetarian panini, herb pasta, roasted root vegetable, sweet and sour chicken, tacos and burrito bar, refried beans, spaghetti and meatballs, broccoli florets. -grllled pizza bread, Santa Fe pizza, ham and potato casserole, pineapple 
upside down cake, dirt pudding. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND ­

. 
Farley End of the Year Picnic, 6 p.m., North Quad 

. 
The Political Lessons of the \Var in Iraq, 7 p.1n.• 129 De Bartolo I lall 


. 
Cuba Libre? Heflections Upon the Catholic Church in Cuba Today, 7 p.m., C-103 Ilcsburgh Center 

. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer, 10 p.m., Morrissey Hall Chapel , 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. Irish Dance Lessons, 5:30 p.n1., 231 NE and N\V Madclcva I I all 
. ECDC staff meeting, 6 p.m., 20 llavacan 

. Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting, 7 p.m., :317N Madeleva I I all 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Spinach-cheese tortellini with mushroom sauce, italian sausage marinara. Mexican beef pizza, polish sausage, potato and cheese piero­gi, green beans, apple crisp, grilled tuna with lemon, asparagus cuts and tips, Canadian bacon, battered waffles, fried potato patties, sloppy joe, chuckwagon beans, peppered tangerine chicken. 
Today's Dinner: Spinach-cheese tortellini with mushroom sauce, Italian sausage marinara, Mexican beef pizza, roast top round, sauteed herbed mush­rooms, green bean casserole, apple crisp, spinach quiche, orzo portobello and cream, Italian-blend vegetables, Buffalo chicken wings, chicken kung pao. 
South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Baked beef ravioli, meatballs with sauce, tomato pizza, ori­ental vegetables, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, Louisiana rice and red beans, cut com, red-skin potatoes with rosemary, broc­coli cuts, baby carrots, cut green beans, fishwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, beef and pepper stir-fry. chicken fajita. 
Today's Dinner: Lasagna with meat sauce, meatballs with sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover. baked pollack jar­diniere. vegetables marinara, cauli­flower au gratin, beef bourguignon, bourbon baked ham, baked sweet pota­to, scrambled eggs, pancakes, Sll_usage links, Hunan sweet and sour·chicken. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
...I 
'••••••...
cl: 
(.) 
.3 HIGH 70 
HIGH 67 LOW 47 LOW 59 





HIGH 65 38 LOW 45 
page 3
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Two rectors leaving Notre Dame 
By MELISSA LOU 
News Writer 
Two rectors will leave the Notre Dame this year to explore new options outside the campus. John Mojzisek of St. Edward's Hall and Father Tom Bednar of Zahm Hall will officially resign from their positions at the end of this academic year. 
Mojzisek was a double major position as rector. in the program of liberal stud­Nicola Iaria, a senior eco­ies and psychology and even­nomics major, said that tually obtained a Ph.D in pas­Bednar has been the rector in 
toral counseling.  Zahm for the past three years.  
"The  stu- According  
dents,"  to  Iaria,  
Mojzisek said,  "He has an openfeelfor  Bednar  
"have been very supportive of my deci­ the campus and is very open for the students."  h a s brought a different  
sion." He added  atmos­ 
that  he  will  Nicola larla  phere  to  

Mojzisek, a Notre Dame miss Notre alumnus, will leave his hall Dame. after a year of service to T h e return to his hometown of University has Baltimore to continue work in yet to announce counseling and teaching. Mojzisek's replacement. Mojzisek said he is leaving Jim Kleckner, a senior in because his heart is in coun­the College of Engineering, seling and teaching, and he points out that this transition felt it was time to do some­might be "especially hard on thing else. the underclassmen, as they 
Mojzisek said he leaves will have had three rectors in behind him a group of "excep­three years." tion al young men who are Kleckner added that creative and very energetic." Mojzisek did a good job mak-He is confi-ing everyone dent that the feel at home transition "The students have been after Father will be D a v i d
very supportive ofmy
smooth. Scheidler
decision.··
especially left last year since the cur-and is sorry rent assistant to see him
John Mojzisek 
rector will go.
St. Edwards's Hall rector
return next Mojzisek, year. Kleckner 
The 37-said, was year-old will approach-also leave his position with able and "took an interest in the Masters in Divinity getting to know us." Program, where he taught Bednar of Zahm was not pastoral counseling, as well as available for an interview. his job as a Notre Dame However, the Office of Student Encounter leader. Affairs nominated Father 
A,;; :l <;hJr!Ant Ht NotrP. n:imP. n:iniPl P~rri<.h to t~ kP llVPr hio;; 
With so many so--callad charities asking for cars 
and material goods these days, how can you be 
sure your donation is going to a non-profit organization that benefits the community? 
The Answer is sim le: 
Donate to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center! 
Why The Salvation Army? .... 
. The Salvation Army is a registered non-profit charltable organization 
. All donations are tax--daduetlble 
. The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center operates the #1 alcohol and drug rehabilitation program In the nation 
. The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center Is fully 
self-supporting through the sale of donated items In The 
Salvatlon Army Family and Thrift Stores 
.,..__________________
How can I hel ? 
Donate your used clothing, furniture, household goods and, yes, even automoblles to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabllltatlon Center and know you're making a difference in your community 

student  the dorm that stems  
from  his  
experi­ 
ences  in  
Chile.  

"He has an open feel for the campus and is very open for the students," he said. 
Iaria remembers Bednar's first year in the dorm when during a Freshman Orientation activity he wore a du Lac T-shirt, showing off his unique sense of humor. 
"He has always been willing to listen to people and always tried to be a part of the dorm. He was also very active in multicultural events," said Iaria. 
Bednar often celebrated the Spanish Mass held in Zahm each Sunday. 
Iaria, who works in dorm government concluded by say­ing that Bednar "was fair in his dealings with students and flexible in how he handled sit­uations in the dorm. He was always willing to work with hall government." 
Contact Melissa Lou at 
mlnn{@n..f.,-..fu 

New dining hall to open at Saint Mary's 
By SARAH NESTOR Senior Staff Writer 

Saint Mary's class of 2003 will open the new Noble Family Dining Hall on May 15 at noon during the annual Alumnae­Senior Luncheon. The Alumnae Association Board of Directors luncheon to honor the class of 2003 will kick off Commencement weekend and is free for all graduating seniors, although reservations are required. Seniors can pick up their tickets from May 7 to May 9 in the Alumnae Relations Office and additional tickets for guests are available for $12. 
The luncheon is the first of several events over Commencement weekend to take place in the new dining hall on May 16 and 17. The Baccalaureate dinner on May 16 and the graduation brunch on May 17 will also be held in the new dining hall. Seniors will be admitted for free with IDs and tickets for guests can be pur­chased from the Student Activities Office. 
Groundbreaking for the new Noble Family Dining Hall and Student Center began last April, after four years of planning and construction continued over the past year. 
The three-level 80,000-sqau­re-foot structure is being built in two phases, costing $17 million. Phase I involved the construction of the new Noble Family Dining Hall, originally planned for com­pletion in June 2003. 
However, construction went smoothly and this year's seniors will be the first to experience the new facility, although the new dining hall will not be open for general dining during Senior Week, according to College spokeswoman Melanie Engler. 
Phase II, which includes demolition of the old dining hall and construction of the student center is expected to finish by December 2004. 
The center will include all the current Haggar facilities, student lounges, a small theater, a cyber cafe, Campus Ministry and a copy shop. 
According to College President Marilou Eldred, $16 million of the needed $17 million has been raised as of March and she expects the student center to open in December 2004. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Grad students win awards for teaching 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union 

(GSU) Academic Affairs 
Committee recognized Michael 
Tomko of the English depart­
ment and Derek Webb of the 
Political Science department for 
their work in undergraduate 
teaching. Tomko received the 
Outstanding Graduate Instructor 
Award and Webb was honored 
as the Outstanding Graduate 
Teaching Assistant. 
A panel of three graduate stu­dents reviewed the 16 nomina­tions received, judging appli­cants on faculty appraisals, Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs) and the course syllabus. Each judge independently ranked the applicants and the lists of the three were combined to arrive at the final decision. 
"They [the winners] were both people we felt were the strongest applicants," said Stephanie Arnett, chairperson of the Academic Affairs Committee and one of the judges. "You got the sense ... that they were tough graders but very well respected." 
Tomko, a third-year graduate student at Notre Dame, teaches a course on literature and reli­gion that focuses on the works of early to mid-twentieth-century writers including J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis. 
"Stimulating interest isn't that difficult," he said. "It's more about channeling the enthusi­asm students have in productive ways. These aren't just dead words on a page but a living expression of ourselves." 
Tomko said that he has his class act out passages of text and works to force students to 
see these popular works in a dif­
ferent light. 
Webb said that he also tries to 
inspire creative thinking among 
his students. The political sci­
ence teaching assistant typically 
prepares handouts that review 
the extensive course readings 
and encourages discussion and 
debate. 
"I think they [the students] 
appreciate the time I spend in 
preparation for class," he said. 
Outside of class, Webb said that he dedicates a lot of time to grading students' papers, some­times giving as much as a page m feedback. During class, he often tries to review the material in innovative and fun ways, cre­ating games including "Judicial Jeopardy" and "Who Wants to be a Political Scientist." 
"Students here are bright and work really hard," he said. "They expect a good T.A." 

Both Tomko and Webb hope someday to teach full time as college professors, they said. Webb will return next semester as a teaching assistant for con­stitutional law and Tomko is taking a year off of to work on his dissertation. 
Both said they were flattered to receive the award, which includes a cash prize of $125 and recognition at an awards dinner scheduled for May 16. 
"It's definitely an honor," Webb said. "There are a lot of good T .A.s, especially in the Political Science Department." 
Tomko received his under­graduate degree from Swarthmore College and a mas­ter's in English in Great Britain. Webb received his undergradu­ate degree from Yale. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
I 
I 
l ! I 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
the student said. 
After a brief struggle, the victim said other students pulled the alleged attacker away. 
The student said he went to the hospital and received sev­eral stitches, and still had a bruised left eye Tuesday. He , 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
pilots, nuclear specialists, dive experts and submarine officers. Eight graduating seniors will head to Pensacola, Fla. to receive flight training as pilots and naval flight officers or navi­gators. 
Two midshipmen will attend the Navy Dive School in Panama City. Fla. to receive training in explosive ordinance demolition. This program, under the aus­pices of the Navy's Special Warfare unit, offers training similar to that undertaken by Navy SEALs -the elite "Sea, Air, Land" personnel. One senior will serve in Washington, 
D.C. in an administrative role for the Navy's nuclear program. "It's an elite assignment," Walsh said. 
The 17 seniors in the Army ROTC battalion will likewise undertake a wide range of duties. said Col. David Mosinski, professor of military science. The students will serve as sec­ond lieutenants in such diverse 
Su,a, 1975' 
cQ///c~ 
said he filed a police report with the South Bend Police Department. but added that he does not intend to press charges because he resolved the matter by speaking to the alleged attacker. 
\'\-'hen contacted about the alleged incident. the alleged assailant said, "I don't know, I wasn't involved in that," and declined further comment. 
It was not immediately clear what punishment, if any, the 
areas as military intelligence, aviation, and engineering. Mosinski said the demand for the various branches is similar to that in the past. 
"I don't think the war in Iraq or the war on terrorism have changed the cadets' desired branches," he said. 
Mosinski said that Notre Dame cadets have historically been well received by the Army. "Over the last two years, every­one from Notre Dame has received either their first or second choice in branches," Mosinski said. 
He credits this to the strength of Notre Dame's ROTC pro­gram, saying, "Our battalion produces a pretty high quality cadet." 
Cadets and midshipmen who receive scholarships must com­mit to a term of service in the military, generally ranging from 4 to 8 years, depending on the student's specialized training. Several students received edu­cational deferments, allowing them to postpone service while they go to law school medical school or other graduate pro­grams. 
Carryout & FREE Delivery 
I~ ~ ~l I 
~ .... ~ ACCEPTED HERE Must provide credit card information when ordering for delivery. 
RA would receive. 
Knott Hall rector Brother Jerome Meyer declined to com­ment on the alleged incident. 
The student said he thought the RA was angry about the student's relationship with the RA's ex-girlfriend. 
Calls to the South Bend Police Department were not returned. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 
Walsh said his midshipmen are looking forward to their new careers as officers in the Navy. 
..This is an interesting time for them. They're going into a different world," he said. "There's a lot of excitement." 
Mosinski agreed. touting the benefits of military service. 
"It's challenging, but it's very rewarding for [the cadets]." he said. 
When asked if any of the cadets get cold feet as gradua­tion nears, Mosinski said they're committed to the pro­gram. 
"Throughout junior and senior year, they start asking a lot of questions about what they can bring into a unit," he said. He added that the whole cadre helps to address their concerns. 
His seniors won't be the only ones dealing with changes. Mosinski, who was recently promoted, has been assigned to the Army's command in Japan. "It'll make an exciting move for my family," he laughed. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 
FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery.
Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 

Stadium lawsuit lingers in court 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
The legal tangle that arose after the smelly debut of the expanded Notre Dame Stadium has grown to include 16 con­tractors and subcontrac­tors facing either law­suits or countersuits. 
The Sept. 6, 1997, inaugural football game in the expanded stadium was marred when water and sewage flooded the building, which had been enlarged to add 20,000 more seats for fans. 
The University of Notre Dame later sued the pro­ject architect and the general contractor, alleg­ing that the flooding caused damages in excess of $400,000. 
Those two companies, in turn. have sued more than a dozan subcon­tracting firms that worked on the stadium project. To date, the legal dispute has grown to include: 
. Lawsuits, amended complaints and counter­suits involving 16 stadi­um contractors and sub­contractors; . 34 attorneys from 17 


Fresh baked and

52750 IN 933 326 N. Ironwood 
buttery-topped with cinnamon sugar. Complete with aside of vanilla .•

574-143-1111 '574-143-1111 
topping. 
Mmmm ... 
try some today

Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 
different law firms across the Midwest; 
. 
A $10,000-a-day medi­ator from Boston; 

. 
And a court file that measures nearly a yard thick. 


"I'll need a seating chart," joked St. Joseph Circuit Court Judge Terry Crone about the task of keeping all the attorneys straight for a trial. 
He also said he would need to find a space big­ger than his large court­room for a trial involving that many lawyers. 
The case is set to go before a mediator for three days in early June after months of prepara­tions by the participants. 
If mediation does not resolve everything, remaining issues will go before Crone for trial. "It could tie up my court for at least· six months," he said of a trial. 
The University of Notre Dame's original lawsuit named Ellerbe Becket Inc., the project architect for the stadium expan­sion project; and Casteel Construction Corp. of South Bend, the con­struction management firm and general contrac­tor. 
I 
-

-' · 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 

U.S. troops fire on demonstration, kill 13 Iraqis 
Associated Press 
FALLUJAH 
U.S. paratroopers fired on anti-American protesters dur­ing a nighttime demonstration, and a hospital reported Tuesday that 13 Iraqis were killed and 75 wounded, includ­ing three young boys. Soldiers said armed men had mixed into the crowd and fired at them from nearby buildings. 
The deaths outside a school in Fallujah, a conservative Sunni Muslim city and Baath Party stronghold 30 miles west of the capital, highlighted the tense and precarious balance as Americans try to keep the peace in Iraq. 
Americans and Iraqis gave sharply differing accounts of Monday night's shooting. U.S. forces insisted they opened fire only upon armed men -infil­trators among the protest crowd, according to Col. Arnold Bray, commanding officer of the 1st Battalion, 325 Regiment of the 82nd Airborne Division, whose troops were involved in the shooting. 
"Which school kids carry AK­47s?" Bray asked. "I'm 100 percent certain the persons we shot at were armed." 
Protesters insisted their demonstration was unarmed and peaceful. 
Dr. Ahmed Ghandim al-Ali, director of Fallujah's general hospital, said the clash killed 13 Iraqis and injured about 75. The dead included three boys ages 8 to 10, he said. 
Some residents put the death toll higher, at 15. Survivors said the dead were buried quickly Tuesday morning, in accord with Islamic custom. 
No Americans were injured. 
In other developments, two Iraqis on the U.S.-led coalition's 55 most-wanted list -a weapons expert nicknamed the "Missile Man" and the governor of the southern province of Basra -have surrendered, the 
U.S. military and Iraqi opposi­
tion sources said. An Iraqi lawyer who helped 
U.S commandos locate and res­cue prisoner of war Jessica Lynch has been granted asylum in the United States, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said. 
The U.S. Army paid several thousand Baghdad policemen $20 each and promised to bring in 4,000 more of their own offi­cers, as Iraqis at a town hall­style meeting told the U.S. administrator that security is their top priority. 
Professional thieves appear to have slipped in among the bands of looters in Iraqi muse­ums, curators said as they urged U.S. authorities to tighten 


A seriously wounded Iraqi man is attended at a hospital in Fallujah 30 miles west of Baghdad Tuesday. U.S. troops killed 13 Iraqis, including at least six children, and wounded 45 at a pro-Saddam Hussein rally. 
border security and stop the and radio broadcasts by week's to Qatar from Prince Sultan Air flow of stolen treasures. end, the commander of U.S. sol­Base in Saudi Arabia. part of 
U.S. forces have made signifi­diers in the city said. the reorganization that will that cant progress in restoring elec­U.S. military officials say the will take place in the aftermath tricity and water to Baghdad United States has moved a of the Iraq war. and hope to resume television regional air operations center 
Bush prods lawmakers to pass global AIDS initiative 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush asked Congress Tuesday to quickly pass a $15 billion initiative to combat AIDS in the Caribbean and Africa, saying swift action is needed against a disease that is "leaving graves and orphans across a continent." 
Bush spoke as lawmakers dug into the divisive details of a bill whose broad goals enjoy widespread support. Congress is likely to vote next month on an AIDS bill, but has run into disputes over sexual abstinence language. 
The president said little about those disagreements Tuesday, instead point­ing to the sweeping goals of the bill. His initiative would prevent 7 million new HIV infections and treat at least 2 mil­lion people in the next decade, Bush said. He hoped to sign the legislation by Memorial Day. 
Since he proposed the fund in January, Bush said, an estimated 760,000 people have died of AIDS and 
1.2 million have been infected with HIV, he said. 
"Time is not on our side," Bush told scores of people at the White House, including lawmakers, AIDS activists and African dignitaries. "So I ask Congress to move forward with the speed this cri­sis requires." 
"There are only two possible respons­es to suffering on this scale -we can turn our eyes away in resignation and despair, or we can take decisive, his­toric action to turn the tide against this disease and give the hope of life to mil­lions," Bush said. "The United States of America chooses the path of action and the path of hope." 

A House committee passed legislation earlier this month that closely reflects what Bush wants. That bill, by Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., would set aside $15 billion over five years to expand AIDS treatment worldwide through low-cost drugs. 
Hyde sat on stage with Bush, along with Secretary of State Colin Powell and Senate leaders. Among the audience members was Sen. Rick Santorum, R­Pa., who infuriated gay groups and some Democrats last week with remarks about homosexuals and a pending Supreme Court case on a Texas sodomy law. 
Bush wants "prevention education rooted in the proven abstinence-based approach," the White House says. 
But the House International Relations Committee rejected an amendment stat­ing that promoting sexual abstinence and monogamy should have priority. 
Republicans are likely to make anoth­er run at such a provision, and to ensure that religious organizations can participate in the plan without being forced to distribute condoms. 
House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R­Texas, said the bill "is vitally important if it uses abstinence" programs that have been proven to be successful. "I'm going to wait and see how the bill unfolds before I decide whether I'm going to vote for it or not." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinian vote approves prime minister 
The Palestinian parliament approved a new prime minis­ter Tuesday, removing the last remaining obstacle for the launch of a U.S.-backed peace plan. But the historic event was followed within 12 hours by a suicide attack on a Tel Aviv bar that killed three people. The bomb blew the front off the seafront bar and demolished walls, doors and furniture inside, police said. A witness told Army Hadio that a security guard at the bar prevented the bomber from entering. The dead included the bomber. It was the 89th suicide attack in 2 1/2 years of fighting. The night spot features live music and stands on a promenade that runs for several miles along the Tel Aviv beach. The U.S. Embassy is nearby, but was not damaged and was apparently not a target. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but before the bomb­ing, the Islamic militant movement Barnas warned it had no intention of disarming or ending attacks on Israelis. Abdel Aziz Rantisi said his group would "never drop its weapons and will not allow anyone to disarm it." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Missouri court overturns death sentence 
The Missouri Supreme Court on Tuesday nar­rowly overturned the conviction of a death row inmate who said he was innocent of killing a fellow prisoner 17 years ago. In a 4­3 decision, the court said Joseph Amrine had shown "clear and convincing evidence of 
actual innocence that undermines confi­dence" in his conviction. The court ordered Amrine to be freed from prison in 30 days unless the state files new murder charges. Amrine was sentenced to death for the fatal stabbing of Gary Barber in 1985 in a recre­ation room at the state prison in Jefferson City. Amrine, sent to p.rison for robbery. bur­glary and forgery. would have been freed in 1992 without the murder conviction. Investigators never found physical evidence linking Amrine to the knife used to stab Barber. Two inmates testified they saw Amrine stab Barber and a third said Amrine confessed to him. 
Diabetes plagues Hispanic Californians 
California's large and rapidly growing Hispanic popula­tion is developing diabetes at an alarming rate, a prob­lem that poses new threats to a strained public health system, according to a report released Wednesday. The report by UCLA's Center for Health Policy Research said that nearly a quarter of retirement-age Hispanics have been diagnosed with the incurable dis­ease -twice the percentage of whites and significantly more than Asians. The study also found that Hispanics are more likely than other populations to be uninsured, making treatment of the disease that much more chal­lenging. "It's a significant public health problem, and it's growing," said Ann Albright, who runs the diabetes program for the California Department of Health Services. Diabetes is an incurable condition character­ized by the body's inability to break down sugars in the blood. It is the nation's seventh leading cause of death and the leading cause of adult blindness, kidney failure and amputation of lower limbs. 
a 
page 6 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
Woo said. The 125-student pro­to communicate and work emphasize technology and Intelligence Unit. an affiliate of gram looks for applicants who together in an recruit top The Economist. Urbany, how­
COBA 
continued from page I 
doesn't place too much empha­sis on external rankings. 
"We are pleased when we do well but we don't really pay undue attention to [rankings]." she said. "We set very high standards. It's not just a matter of going up in the ranking. We went up without selling out our values." 
Joel Urbany. associate dean of the College of Business, attributed Notre Dame's increased ranking to the quali­ty of the faculty and students and the unique environment that the University offers. He also said that a strong correla­tion exists between the increase in ranking and Woo's arrival. 
"We've gone from being ranked in the 60s to the 20s," he said. "Our faculty research productivity and prominence have improved dramatically over the past five years." 
U.S. News determines a pro­gram's ranking based on four criteria, including student selectivity, placement success, recognition by corporate recruiters and academic repu­tation. 
Notre Dame takes all of these factors seriously, according to Urbany. Over the past four years, the number of applicants to the MBA program has increased by 142 percent and the GPA of enrolled students has climbed from 3.15 to 3.36. . 
Student selectivity is a priori­ty of program coordinators, qualify academically but also assesses their values. 
"We're always careful of stu­dent selectivity," she said. "The quality of the students deter­mines the quality of the pro­gram." 
Urbany also said that tech­nology plays an important part in the program's curriculum. The College uses a collabora­tive technology platform that facilitates communication. 
"It allows groups and teams online set­ting," Urbany said, adding that such a setup reflects the way in which compa­nies operate. 
In the future. 
Urbany  said  
that  the  
College  of  

Business will 

faculty, fos­"We probably spend less tering an 
environment

time talking about the 
that favors

rankings and more time both teaching 
talking about the values and research. Last fall,
at Notre Dame ... 
Notre Dame was ranked Joel Urbany No. 29 by 
College of Business associate dean B u s i n e s s Week maga­zine and No. 
continue to 18 worldwide by the Economist ever, downplayed the impor­tance of such rankings. 
"We probably spend less time talking about the rankings and more time talking about the values at Notre Dame," he said. "While Notre Dame students are interested in academic development. they're also inter­ested in personal develop­ment." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Study Italian this summer Its like a double shot of espresso!!! 
\.

-·~ 
:­

·.... •.· . · · ._::; __ ,.1·· W1t$T(. ... ---•-..;?·· t,;:
...•,.. ,.,,,,.·. .....•.,_ 
.-..~ 

ROIT101/102 -Beginning Italian 1 & 2 Earn 6 credits ,n 6 weeks!!! Call #s: 0363/0364 
The Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa congratulates and 
welcomes its new members  
of the class of 2003  
Miss Kathryn Elizabeth Anderson  Ms Kathleen Anne Higgins  Mr Adam Michael Nicholson  
Ms Kimberly Jane Berg  Mr Nicholas Gaston Holovaty  Ms Kelly Rose Ninneman  
Mr Richard Tobias Biebl  Mr Daniel Scott Hoople  Miss Christina Rose Noetzel  
Mr Daniel David Birk  Ms Amanda K. Horvath  Mr David Andrew Nordin  
Mr Andrew Adam Borden  Ms Megan Elizabeth Horvath  Mr Matthew Joseph O'Rourke  
Ms Tona Maria Boyd  Mr Jared Christian Jedrey  Ms Stephanie Frances Pall  
Mr Zachary Neal Burkhart  Mr Matthew Sweeney Johnston  Miss Rebecca Marie Reilly  
Ms Molly Corinne Byrnes  Miss Elizabeth Anne Kahling  Ms Ellyn Elizabeth Rideout  
Mr Timothy James Callan  Mr Charles Stewart Kamen  Ms Meridith Anne Runke  
Ms Marguerite Elizabeth Clemency  Miss Ann Kellog  Mr Nicholas Edward Salazar  
Mr Joshua Francis Coleman  Ms Laura Clare Kelly  Mr Joel Robert Schaffer  
Ms Stephanie Diane Collins  Ms Maura Elizabeth Kelly  Miss Amy Beth Scheck  
Ms Gina Marie Cora  Ms Erin Lynn Kennedy  Ms Amy Marie Schill  
Ms Jessica Lee Daues  Ms Patricia Ann Keppel  Mr Daniel Benjamin Schmid  
Miss Julie Lynn Davis  Ms Elizabeth Anne Kessler  Ms Jessica Marie Schmidt  
Mr Gerard DeGregoris, 111  Mr Jason Andrew Klocek  Mr Patrick Edward Sluka  
Mr Leonard James Delorenzo, II  Mr Elias J. Koliopoulos  Mr Brian Thomas Smith  
Miss Lisa Charlotte Demidovich  Ms Kirstin Frances Krueger  Miss Marlayna Ann Soenneker  
Ms Catherine Mary DiSipio  Ms Margaret Rose Laracy  Ms Kathryn Louise Solie  
Ms Ann Therese Effinger  Miss Kristin Mary Laraja  Ms Jennifer Suzanne Spanbauer  
Mr Todd Randall Engstrom  Ms Beth Ann Lewinski  Mr Robert Peter Stachecki  
Ms Christine Therese Ferrara  Ms Ashlee Mary Logan  Mr Brian Albert Staub  
Ms Jennifer Jean Fibuch  Ms Rebecca Lucy Luckett  Ms Maggie Marie Stoecker  
Miss Margaret Ann Fitzpatrick  Mr Michael Charles Madigan  Mr Glenn Loyd Strycker  
Mr John Joseph Foley, Ill  Miss Lori Kathryn Madlinger  Ms Carolyn Alicia Tampe  
Ms Mary Colleen Ganey  Ms Katherine Marie Malmquist  Ms Jennifer Josephine Theis  
Miss Amy Katherine Gnaster  Ms Amy Kiyoko Marshall  Ms Alexandra Vanessa Torres  
Mr Eric William Gobel  Mr Jason Scott Mathias  Ms Alison Christine Troy  
Ms Annette Marie Gonzalez  Mr Patrick Melia McElwee  Ms Meghan Christine VanDeventer  
Ms Jennifer Diane Guintu  Mr Donovan Clark McFeron  Ms Erica LaMonaca Walter  
Mr Jason Jeffrey Halvorson  Mr Luke Anthony Mclaurin  Miss Allison Louise Werner  
Mr Kevin Michael Hansen  Ms Katherine Marie Mercy  Mr Matthew Geraci Wysocki  
Ms Jessica Clare Higgins  Ms Cassandra Wearne Murphy  Ms Stephanie Ann Zabela  
n11 tAoaorr11 ta  Btou  


r 
~ 
t' ' 
\ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 29 
DowJones 
8,502.99 ~ +31.38 
NASDAQ 
1,471.30 ~ +9.06 
S&P500 
917.84 ~ +3.00 
AMEX 
848.99 • -1.75 
NYSE 
5,117.10 ~ +8.86 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1 .07 +0.16 15 .14 
•••r11;tosogr••·•cpi:::::ftt$fm,l:I:!!•••· •:••~i::w~:2••:•11;1~$I<a1 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.91+0.1718.92 
1
!ui>m~t@sv,11,:::1r1m1, a1:aa::I:11::11t:1:11:•1! 
APPLIED MATL (AMAT) 
+2.97 +0.4314.89 
IN BRIEF 
Conseco, Trwnp head for arbitration 
Conseco Inc. and Donald Trump will have arbitration hearings over ownership of the General Motors building in New York next week, after both sides told a Chicago bank­ruptcy judge Tuesday they have resolved some procedural issues in the matter. In a short appearance via conference call before 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carol Doyle in Chicago, attorneys for both sides said they're ready for hearings to begin May 8. Michael Harwood, an attorney for Trump, said the parties had met and decided some procedural matters for the hearing, including how much time each side would get, who would begin, and so on.Conseco, an insurance and finan­cial-services company based in Carmel, Ind., filed for protection from creditors last December as it struggled under more than $6 billion in debt. A subsidiary of Conseco and Trump together bought the SO-story building in May 1998. Conseco agreed to invest more than $200 million into the building and Trump more than $11 million. 
ATA limits quarterly Ios.,es to $I IM The parent company of American Trans Air on Tuesday reported an $11.4 million first­quarter loss, an improvement after three con­secutive quarterly losses of more than $50 million. The nation's 10th largest passenger carrier said it limited its losses amid financial turmoil in the airline industry through a pro­gram to use its planes and crews more effi­ciently. The nation's biggest operator of mili­tary charter flights also said an increase in military flights to support the war in Iraq enabled it to increase use of its fleet and more than double its military revenue. "Despite this progress, we are still reporting a net loss today, and, as I have said in two previous earnings releases, this is unacceptable," said George Mikelsons, chairman, president and chief executive. "We still have work to do before we can report the financial results that will ensure our future." 

Oil futures at 5-month low 
• Inventories expected to 
build 
Associated Press 
NE\,Y YORK 
OPEC's decision to hike 
its output ceiling combined 
with expectations of a big 
build in U.S. crude inven­
tories sent oil futures on 
Monday to their lowest 
level in five and a half 
months. 
The Organization of 
Petroleum Exporting 
Countries bucked market 
expectations last week by 
agreeing to lift its official 
output ceiling by 900,000 
barrels a day, to 25.4 mil­
lion daily barrels, begin­
ning June 1. 
Although the group also pledged to remove some 2 million barrels a day in excess production from the market, the difference between the new ceiling and OPEC's current output is seen to be around 600,000 to 800,000 barrels a day -far less than traders had expected the group to cut. 
"We'll believe it when we see it," said Ed Silliere, an analyst at Energy 
Reutecs
Merchant, referring to the 

Traders at the floor of the New York Mercantile Exchange trade oll futures In New
OPEC cut. "Let's see if they can do it." York City. 011 futures hit there lowest level In five and a half months Monday. At the New York products futures have rels, as imports posted an Monday. The threat of Mercantile Exchange, come under selling pres-all-time weekly high of another output cut should light, sweet crude for June sure ahead of the expira-10.6 million barrels a day. prevent prices from col­delivery dropped 77 cents, tion of the May contracts The output cut lapsing, said Andy Lebow, or 3 percent, to settle at Wednesday, the last tract-announced by OPEC was an energy analyst at bro­$25.49 a barrel, the lowest ing day of the month. offset by the gigantic build kerage ED&F Man in New level for a front-month Because the OPEC agree-in inventory, Silliere said. York. contract since Nov. 14. The ment doesn't take effect "People are expecting "The onus is on [the contract has lost 17 per­until June 1, analysts another big build," he said. Saudis] to decrease, and cent of its value in the past expect overproduction by But while OPEC's failure they probably will," Lebow week. the group will allow U.S. to cut output in the short said of OPEC's biggest pro­June Brent blend futures depleted commercial oil term may allow the cur-ducer. "I would expect that on London's International inventories to continue to rent high rate of imports to the Saudis will cut to keep Petroleum Exchange grow. continue, OPEC officials the market firm." closed down 74 cents at Energy analysts surveyed made clear last week they June Nymex crude fell $23.35. by Dow Jones Newswires stood ready to defend their another 23 cents in after­May heating oil lost 3.46 Monday said they expect target price of $25 a barrel hours trade. cents to settle at 7 3 .14 weekly government data for the group's reference Saudi Arabia, one of a cents a gallon, while May due out Wednesday to crude basket -the equiv-handful of OPEC members gasoline futures dropped show U.S. crude stocks alent of $27 to $28 in New with significant spare 
4.12 cents to settle at grew by 3 million to 6 mil-York -and that it could capacity, stepped up its 
84.24 cents a gallon. lion barrels last week. decide to cut output again production in the run-up to 
Natural gas for May The week before, the when it meets in June. the war in Iraq. The king-delivery plunged 35.4 Department of Energy OPEC's basket price dom is now in the position cents to settle at $5.123 reported that crude stocks averaged $24.40 a barrel of having to make the bulk per 1,000 cubic feet. jumped by 9 million bar-Friday, OPEC's official of the cuts OPEC has 
Silliere said petroleum-rels to 286.2 million bar-news agency reported pledged. 

Consumer confidence rises sharply 
to 81.1. economic activity. 
Associated Press 

"The swift outcome in the Middle The Conference Board's index is 
NEW YORK East has helped quell consumers' derived from responses received 
Consumers' faith in the economy short-term r.oncerns,'' said Lynn through April 22 -as fighting in made its biggest leap in more than a Franco, director of the Conference Iraq winded down -to a survey decade in April, buoyed by the swift Board's Consumer Research Center. mailed April 1 to 5,000 households in end of heavy fighting in Iraq. But analysts said a rebound in con­a consumer research panel. 
The Consumer Confidence Index, sumer optimism doesn't necessarily A separate report from the govern· which had declined for four consecu­foretell faster economic growth. ment Tuesday showing a rise in tive months, rose to 81.0 from a "The bottom line is that you can be worker pay and benefits also boded revised 61.4 in March, the New feeling exuberant, but what counts is well for consumer spending, but York-based Conference Board said what you do, how much you spend," could signal a squeeze in companies' Tuesday. That was far better than said Oscar Gonzalez, a senior econo­finances. the reading of 70 analysts expected. mist at John Hancock Financial U.S. workers' wages and benefits 
The 19.6-point increase was the Services Inc. rose by a brisk 1.3 percent in the largest since March 1991 just after Economists closely track consumer first three months of 2003, the the end of the first Gulf War, when confidence because consumer spend­biggest increase in nearly 13 years. the index recorded a 21.7 point gain ing accounts for two-thirds of U.S. the Labor Department. 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 8 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 

Rally 
continued from page 1 
semester and a party police broke up March 17 at College Park. 
According to the party guide­lines attached to the notifica­tion, guests should not "mingle in hallways or areas outside" the apartment and music should be kept to a manage­able level. 
Typically, Rally in the Alley is the largest second-semester party held at Turtle Creek. In the past, dozens of residents host parties in their apart­ments, and thousands ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents crowd the corridors between apartment buildings. Past parties have typically been broken up by South Bend police officers. 
The letter said South Bend Police, Notre Dame Security and Police and Excise Police are aware of the planned party. Attempts to reach South Bend Police and Excise Police were unsuccessful. Hex Rakow, director of NDSP, said his office did not have jurisdiction in Turtle Creek, which is adja­cent to the east side of campus. 
"We only end up off campus at the request of another agency," Rakow said. 
He added that NDSP has not been contacted to assist an outside agency in breaking up Rally in the Alley. 
The resident manager of Turtle Creek Apartments, Tammy Michelbrink, declined to comment. 
Rarely has Excise Police. the agency in charge of monitoring alcohol-related laws, been 
The majority of clubs were
CCC do. 
already raising some of their own funding, so the change
continued from page 1 
now officially requires a fundraiser from each club can fundraise on their own." across the board. The CCC vote 
When the CCC policy was first to change the Council's funding made. many club officers were bylaws is one element of the worried that the change would new strategic plan that will affect the productivity of their continue to give more student clubs. But the CCC believes that ownership and secure more requiring clubs to raise some of funding to campus clubs. their own funds is not asking them to do anything differently Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at from what they would normally jmillerl@nd.edu 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
hn~o~G!~2a~!?s!x'u~;n~~~e!t\~i~
Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, May 1 
12:00 -1:30 pm 
16 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee 

for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites Gay,Lesbian, 
and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends andsupporters to an 
informal lunch andstudy, break at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality 


l!i¦-iii~!II is assured. 

L-~•-•-•-·-·-·-·-•-•-•~•-·J 

involved in breaking up past Rally in the Alleys. 
But Excise Police broke up a St. Patrick's Day party at College Park apartments, and officers from that agency have also been involved in raiding two bars this semester -The Boat Club in January and The Library Irish Pub Friday. 
It is unclear what effect -if any -the warning will have on the size of Rally in the Alley. 
Kim Milford, a Notre Dame senior and Turtle Creek resi­
dent, said she and her room­mates are still deciding whether to throw a party. 
"After what we have seen at College Park [on Saint .Patrick's Day] and all the extra security at Pig Tostal, it's just not worth it and it has ruined off-campus parties," Milford said. 
Milford said she would think twice before attending Rally if she were underage and selling cups to students. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
TWO MEN 
ANDA 
TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Packing Supplies  
• Packing Service  • Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomen0ndohuck.com 
Visit Our Box Sto1e! 
11590 McKinley. Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
Now accepting applications for summer help 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies Announces the Winners of Research and Travel Grants for 2003--2004 
Congratulations to undergraduates: 

i\nne Han1ilton~ Departments of Philosophy and Economics Stephanie Horton. Departn1ents of Political Science and Gern1an/Russian 
Languages & Liter~tures [)aniel Murph)'', Department of Mathematics Brianne Todd._ Departn1e11ts ofGem1an/Russian Languages & 
Literatures and Political Science 
Ana to graduate students: 
Firat De,nir, Departn1ent of Econo111ics Michael Lee1 Departn1ent ofTheolo.t,ry Harsh Pant, Department of I1olitical Science San1y Zaka~ Depart1nent of Histor.y Edume Zoco, Department of Political Science 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
·Ugandan choir to perform at Holy Cross 
By NICOLA BUNICK 
News Writer 
The African Children's Choir, which consists of 26 Ugandan children, most of them orphans between the ages of five and 12 years old, will perform a repertoire of gospel tunes and spirituals Wednesday night at 7 p.m. at Holy Cross College. 
The choir, which tours inter­nationally, is run by Friends from the \Vest, an organization which sets up schools in pover­ty stricken countries such as Uganda to educate and pre­pare children for professional careers so they can help revive their countries. 
Children who are selected for the choir spend one year tour­ing with the group. Although they do not charge admission to their concerts, but do ask for audience donations, these tour performances generate enough profits to support the choir as well as the schools back in Africa. The t:hoir has performed on CBS This Morning, Good Morning America and The Today Show. They have also appeared before the United Nations, var­ious presidents and digni­taries. and in television com­mercials. 
The group first came to Holy Cross two years ago and Campus Ministry director, Robert Kloska, who coordinat­ed the group's visit to campus. is excited to have them return. "Last time [the choir was on campus,] it was such a great success," he said. "It generated so much excitement and peo­ple had such a great experi­ence with them." 
A former Holy Cross student 
who had connections to the 
group informed Kloska about 
the choir. 
Bringing the choir to campus 
seemed like a natural tie-in 
with Kloska's Ghana program 
which he had begun only two 
years earlier. Each summer, 
Kloska takes a group of 12 to 
14 students to spend time with 
the Holy Cross brothers in 
Ghana. 
"The trip is really a life changing experience," said Kloska. "It helps people to address the question of the meaning of life, happiness and stuff like that." 
Kloska was encouraged to start the program in 2000 when students expressed an interest in visiting Bangladesh after hearing a presentation by a brother from the Holy Cross mission there. Kloska proposed the idea to the College's presi­dent, Brother Richard Gilman. Although Gilman felt that Bangladesh was too rough for such a trip. he suggested that they pursue a project with the Holy Cross Mission in Ghana where he had lived for several years. 
Starting next year, what began as an elective three~ credit religious studies pro­gram will become a required part of the curriculum for some Holy Cross students. All students who enroll in Holy Cross's new four-year bac­calaureate program will now participate in the Ghana sum~ mer program as part of their requirements for graduation. 
Contact Nicola Bunick at nbunick@nd.edu 
Try All The Winning Varieties! 
~:~ HOT POCKETSe 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
"i.., LEAN POCKETS~ 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
~" CROISSANT POCKETS~ 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 


Class to speak about Cuba trip 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Selected members of Father 
Robert Pelton's, "From Power to 
Communion" class will speak 
about their experiences visiting 
Cuba over Spring Break as part 
of his course. The panel discus­
sion entitled: "Cuba Libre? 
Reflections Upon the Catholic 
Church in Cuba Today,'' will be 
held today in C-103 Hesburgh 
Center for International Studies 
at 7 p.m. and is open to the pub­
lic. 
"People know very little about 
the Catholic Church in Cuba," 
Pelton said. "What we wanted 
to do was see what was going 
on." 
Pelton's studen ts, which included undergraduates, Law School and Masters of Divinity students, will speak on selected themes including human rights, health care, ministry. the role of women and literacy as they con­ducted research and spent time in dialogue with Cuban schol­ars. 
Shannon Benbow, a third­year law student, presented her research on microcredit and small businesses in Cuba to a Saint Mary's economics class and will participate in tonight's presentation. 
"The students [had] prepared themselves really well [for the trip to Cuba] -· I was very impressed," Pelton said. 
Sairah Saeed, a second-year law student, said her interest in human rights issues led her to explore politics, society and human rights in Cuba. 
"Cuba is such an anomaly in this side of the world. It is the country closest to the U.S. that still espouses communist beliefs with rigor and I wanted to explore why that was, how Cuban people felt about their government and their lives under Castro, and why it is that tht:i current regime has sur­vived," she said. 
As a Muslim student in a Catholic theology class, Saeed said that she initially struggled to find a topic that could be comparative in its approach. Although she originally believed the Muslim influence in Cuba to be small, she said that further research while in Cuba proved otherwise. 


"Most people I talked to [in Cuba] told me there were no Muslims in Cuba, only a few diplomats who met in a building in Havana for Friday prayers. I and many of my classmates found, while in Cuba, that some­times people do not speak as freely because of fear of reper­cussions by the government ... so I thought that I might not be getting the whole story." she said. "Eager to find out more, I continued to investigate and found out that this building [in Havana] was an Arab Cultural Center. The research I did upon returning further revealed the large influence Arab culture had on Cuba; I therefore decid­ed to focus on this topic." 
Pelton, the director of Notre Dame's Latin American/North 


FAMILY FUNDAMENTALS 
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
8:00 p.m. Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Ctr 
This Sundance Film Festival selection takes viewers into the private, and sometimes very public lives, of three conservative Christian families with gay and lesbian children. It explores the question: 
What happens when parents believe that their own kids represent the very element that will lead to the destruction ofthe human race? 
Co-sponsored by: Department of Sociology, GALA/ND-SMC, GSU Human Diversity Committee, Outreach ND, 
& the Queer Studies Reading & Research Group 
America Church Concerns Institute, said that he decided to take 13 of his students to Cuba in order to have them experi­ence first-hand a greater under­
standing  of  the  Catholic  
Church's role  in  a  socialist  
country.  

"We were interested in seeing how the Catholic Church oper­ates under a socialist regime. To have that experience -it's a totally different experience com­ing from the U.S. It was a fresh, revealing experience and it helped [us] realize that the opportunities here [in the United States] are not available in Cuba [and are ones] to take more advantage of," he said. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies' research on the Cuban diaspora led to knowledge of many Cuban con­tacts both in the United States and in Cuba. Additionally, Pelton visited Cuba three times in 2002 in order to establish some further contacts and said that he hopes to take another group in the spring of 2004. 
"There are some courageous people ... we wanted to walk with them and listen to their stories," Pelton said. 
Students said that their expe­rience in Cuba provided an edu­cation far different than what could be found in a classroom. 
"I learned more on the Cuba trip about society, economy, cul­ture, people and faith in Cuba, among other things, than I could ever learn in a class­room," Saeed said. 
The panel discussion will fea­ture selections from a videotape made during the class trip to Havana as well as a PowerPoint presentation of pictures. Members of his class will partic­ipate in a panel discussion, answering questions posed by Pelton, after which the floor will be open for general questions. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Retail Sales Help Wanted Immediate full and part time openings in retail sporting goods store. Must be 18 and able to lift objects. Prior sales experience helpful. Apply in person at: Play It Again Sports 620 W. Edison, Suite 122 Mishawaka, In. 46545 No phone calls please. 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 10 The Observer . NEWS 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
SMC mission statement changes 
By LAUREN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees approved a revised version of the College's mis­sion statement at their meeting this past Friday. 
Before the Board of Trustees approved the revi­sion, the Mission Council and the writing committee, which included the whole Saint Mary's community, revised the statement. 
According to Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice president for Mission, the new mission statement is part of the College's Strategic Plan. Also, the search for a new Saint Mary's president requires a clear mission statement. 
During the College's last accreditation process, the Higher Learning Commission determined that a clearer and more concise statement was necessary. While the mission was not changed, the articulation of it is different. The new doc­ument contains a more suc­cinct mission statement, as well as a more extensive statement of philosophy and purpose. 
"In today's world, it is important to prepare women leaders with the four quali­ties in the new mission statement: intellectual vigor, aesthetic appreciation, reli-
U-WIRE 
Saint Mary's College Mission Statement 
l~b~iid~l':t?;r;;t,;~!/we~~tli:!~~
1 era ar.Ulr,llf..O.' ttf=~ilrnioneer in
'1.j','%::::::::::l,,:!''ffi.: :<•::,,,,,,:,,;:::%',ititfh:""· C ll
the educa1;'r,qn OJ ;,,. 1f11,enj1tii· e o ege is aytflif.ademic ;·· , munity,J_";_.,... ere
wa-1tdevel .-,,~,,-· ·rt l ··=·=,(::::-·· ,. d 


pro(l9fes a life diit.:,-:i tellectucif!!!f!t/"or,
ae.l/1letic a r1fa(1..·tion rel•;•=·=-,., ,l!Jf's sens'1i1.'·:11ti· ah~ s~.it¥!~ l re;p<J\ . ,{iity
·•::~~::,::•· , ~--.... ·~,;-.... ~•;o•' • 
All m~m ~~f of::,. ,i::t,;:j Cf!l~<z. _e remain 
f aithJd.ltt.ti·,·=tnr=.. ]~, ·. · .-n and 
· vl·.,t\11>W .,,\ifai~\;;1·,: "-~.; ..>
continua i~=,,,=~-' .,~~J:y·-,.•,=·"' •·:., -response to the comp ex needs and challenges
•.•,:-;:,,:::..-::8.9 -~:!::',,:::::::-:~:::...:,.!~ 
ofthe contemporary world. 
gious sensibility and social responsibility," Schultz said. 
Schultz hopes to have the new mission statement printed on cards to be dis­tributed to students as the 2003-04 academic year begins with the Circle of Blessings on August 25. 
KATIE MCKENNNObserver graphic 
"Ideally, everyone here should know [the mission statement] and live by it," Schultz said. "It should be the touchstone for every­thing they do." 
Contact Lauren O'Brien at obri1648@saintmarys.edu 

Comell grad student found dead 
By BRIAN TSAO & MARC 
ZAWEL 
Cornell Daily Sun 
ITHACA, N.Y. 

In the wake of three student deaths in the past month, Cornell students were again faced with the loss of another classmate on Friday. 
Mihoko Kajikawa grad was found dead at her 111 Ferris Place residence by Ithaca Police Department officials at an unspecified time, accord­ing toLinda Grace-Kobas, director of the Cornell News Service. 
Kajikawa was found after "police had been alerted that she hadn't been seen that day," Grace-Kobas said. 
Details surrounding Kajikawa's death, and whether or not it was a sui­
cide, are still unclear. "I don't have the why or the how," Grace-Kobas said. 
Medical examiners have yet to fully examine Kajikawa, making it difficult to specu­late on the exact cause of death, according to Grace­Kobas. 
Kajikawa. a student from Japan, had been studying in the Asian studies department. 
The office of the dean of students held a community support meeting on Sunday to discuss possible plans for a memorial service, Grace­Kobas added. 
"Her family is arriving today. We won't know [of the plans] until they get here," said Susan Murphy, vice pres­ident for student and acade­mic services, Monday. 
"These are tragedies," President Hunter Rawlings III 


Happy Belated Birthday to Big Mouth! 
told The Sun last week in an interview. "Each is an indi­vidual and each has its own circumstances." 
The death of Kajikawa is the fourth in a string of stu­dent deaths at Cornell begin• ning on April 1, several of which are still being investi­gated. 

Alumna collecting pop tabs for charity 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Senior Staff Writer 
When Elizabeth Elmore. both a Saint Mary's and Notre Dame alum (then Elizabeth Christopher}, volunteered to head service projects within the Notre Dame south Jersey alumni club, her goal of increasing service in Jersey quickly expanded to included her alma mater's cam­puses. 
Elmore earned her undergrad­uate degree in 1968 and then when on to earn a doctorate in economics from Notre Dame in 1976. Currently, Elmore is teacher in New Jersey and an active member of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's New Jersey alumni clubs. 
It was not until 2001, when the University charged the alumni with the duty of increasing ser­vice to the community. that Elmore began to see a broader vision of incorporating service. 
Elmore began by focusing on charity and found that the Ronald McDonald House's collection of the aluminum can tabs, which are recycled and turned into cash. to be a charity that every­one could easily become involve in. 
"Anywhere and everywhere people would be aware o saving the tab," Elmore said. 
Now, Elmore is hoping to pro­mote greater collection of flip tons on Saint Marv's and Notre 
~t~~ 
~ 
Dame's campuses. For the past two years, Elmore has been working to put everything in place, making her initial contacts through e-mail and eventually visiting both campuses this spring to sort out the final details. 
Elmore said that she hopes to have campus wide support and recruit student volunteers. Elmore said, "anywhere there is a can" she wants to have a "sepa• rate receptacle for the tabs." This is where the "Collect a Million" campaign comes in, as Elmore hopes students will remember to save aluminum can tabs. 
Elmore's biggest undertaking in her campaign is to increase awareness about saving alu­minum can tabs at Notre Dame home football games. 
"I see all those cans with 80,000 people filling the stadi­um," Elmore said. 
According to Elmore it takes 1,000 tabs to equal one pound. and that one-pound equals 35 cents. With this in mind, Elmore hopes to increase the campuses environmental' consciousness and Elmore's long-term vision "is that when people become aware of it then it's just something you do." 
Elmore also intends that all funds collected through the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's "Collect a Million" campaign will stay in Indiana, preferably in South Bend. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at 
nest9877@saintmarvs.edu 
Announces the followlnc lnt,oducto.,. offe,s of.•. 
r----•r---~•----•r----~r----~ 
I $IS I I I I $69 I I 11 $79 I
$l6 $79
I I I I I Color, Cur & I I I I H' hi' h I I Mens Cur I ICut & ScyleI I Style I I f'erm, Cur &. s,yl• I I C ,g&tgs (SI, I One Process ut cy e 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. 
·----··---··----··----··----· 
You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Reaptionist Before Services Are Pe,jormed 
Melissa-Sergi'-Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON Nur"-";dl'm,p;,.Jrcnn•• LungoninmdlwraJJSIO. N<> ATRIA SALON 2 orhet d,,cou"':' WY· Op<n ,omr: """";"~· ATRII\ S.ton Martin's Shopping Center l357N. Ironwood Dr. racrYouhcrighrmrdim,scrv,c,:ruanyd,c:mwhoschair N S . Corner of Edison condiriun u; um1c11:a1bk. ext to prtnt 
289•5080 OFFER EXPIRES 5-10-03 l7l-sso4 
l.css than 1 mile from campus 

SUl\llMERJOBS t:;::-CON~UlviER RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Indiana's most effective Citizens Organization is accepting applications 
Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to work on Consumer rights and environmental campaigns. 
Improve our energy policy through increased reliance on efficiency and renewables (Wind power, Solar power, Fuel Cells, and Biomass projects) Help create jobs, reduce pollution, and save the taxpayers ...........hundreds of millions dollars in avoided energy costs. 
. Citizens Action Coalition is a twenty-eight yenr old citizens lobby organization. 
With 4 offices, 300,000 rnembers statewide, we routinely battle the largest utilities, polluters and special interest groups in Indiana on behalf of' citizens...and win! 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm.Earn $~1$0-$425/wk.Work outdoors. Sleep Late-¢-casual atmosph<;re ...Serious work. 
CalI -574-232-7905 for more information. 
Cviec~ us out OV\.LL-V\,e www.cLtClct.oYg 
South Bend: 574-2~~2-7905 Also: Indianapolis: 31 7-Z05-353G Fort Wayne: Z60-4ZZ-G097 New Albany: 8 12-941 -1 1 70 TOLL FREE: I -800-20 l -12 10 
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
SARS tests en route to labs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The government is about to ship to laboratories the first experimental tests that may help doctors tell which peo­ple with worrisome coughs and fevers really have the SARS virus. Probable cases of the new respiratory illness in the United States have slowly climbed to 52. 
While the United States so far has escaped the brunt of the mysterious disease, a new survey suggests the vast majority of Americans know enough about the global epi­demic to take proper precau­tions -including when to call a doctor and agreeing to be quarantined in their homes or a hospital if neces­sary. 
That's very reassuring, because isolating suspected patients for now is the best way to stop the infection's spread, Dr. Julie Gerberding, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told Congress Tuesday. 
"Our public is informed, they are willing to cooper­ate," Gerberding said in highlighting results of the 
Harvard School of Public 
Health survey. 
Some 94 percent of those surveyed said they would agree to be isolated for two or three weeks in a hospital if they had SARS, and 92 per­cent would agree to quaran­tine for up to 10 days -the SAHS incubation period -in their home if they were exposed to someone suspect­ed of having the illness. 
With a vaccine still at least a year away and no drug treatment on the horizon, quarantine and old-fashioned infection-control practices are the only defense, Gerberding stressed. They work, as Canada proved in persuading the World Health Organization Tuesday that it had brought SARS spread in its largest city under control. 
"If we need to take those steps, we are prepared to," Gerberding told a Senate health committee. 
More than 5,300 SAHS infections have been report­ed in more than 20 countries so far -most in China ­and the global death toll is at least 355. Outside Asia, Canada has seen the most SARS cases, with 21 deaths and more than 140 cases 
overall, most in Toronto hos­
pitals. 
In the United States, there are 52 probable cases of infection, 11 more than last week, and 220 suspected cases. No one here has died so far, and U.S. specialists can't explain why. 
But, "we are very close to a reliable diagnostic test, weeks, not months," Gerberding said. 
Using two experimental tests, the CDC so far has con­cluded that six of the 52 probably infected patients have laboratory-confirmed SARS and 12 have tested negative, she said. All 40 of the suspected cases tested so far appear not to have SARS. 
The CDC will begin ship­ping the first experimental test kits to several laborato­ries by week's end, Gerberding said. But the tests -which check for viral genes and SAH.S antibodies, the immune-system cells that attack infection -are "a research tool," she stressed. A negative test won't clear someone who has SARS symptoms or was exposed to the virus -they still must be isolated for the appropriate amount of time. 

Rare Southern earthquake hits 
Associated Press 
FORT PAYNE, Ala. 

A rare Southern earthquake rattled seven states early Tuesday. shaking people out of their sleep and cracking foundations but causing no major damage or injuries. 
Some people thought the boom and rumble was a bomb, a gas truck explosion, a tornado, even terrorism. but their fright soon gave way to nervous laughter. 
"The quake shook up the chicken shed so bad they all laid scrambled eggs," Jim Toler joked over breakfast at a restaurant. "It bounced us pretty heavy." 
The magnitude 4.9 quake, tying the record for Alabama, struck around 4 a.m. and was centered near Fort Payne, close to the Georgia line, the 
U.S. Geological Survey said. It was felt in parts of Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Mississippi. 
Residents said the earth moved for as long as a minute, including mild after­shocks that were described as being like a hard wind blow­ing against the side of the house. Many were surprised by the thundering noise that accompanied the vibrations. 

Supreme Court to 
decide election suit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Supreme Court grappled 
Tuesday with the issues of pol­
itics, race and elections in a 
case that will decide what 
states must do to protect 
minority voting rights. 
The justices are considering 
how states can redraw elec­
tion districts that previously 
had dense minority popula­
tions without violating a feder­
al voting law. States and local 
governments must draw 
boundaries every 10 years if 
needed to reflect population 
changes 

The high court's decision, 
expected before July, will 
affect states that are subject to 
the 1965 Voting Rights Act 
because of past discrimina­
tion. 

Georgia's attorney urged the 
court to permit some flexibility 
in line drawing. 
"Politics should be open and integrated," said David Walbert, pointing to what he called progress in that state that "no one would have dreamed of in 1965." 
Many black leaders support­ed a contested plan to reduce the number of minority voters in several heavily black Senate districts, because shifting some minority voters to neigh­boring districts would help Democrats beat Republicans. 
A lower court rejected those boundaries under the Voting Rights Act. Congress must decide in 2007 whether to renew part of the law which justices are interpreting in this case. 
"Maybe if we make it bad enough, they'll think about repealing it," Justice Antonin Scalia said to laughter in the court. 
The case came before the court as the state was embroiled in a dispute over 
dominated the old design. 
Gov. Sonny Perdue, who 
became the state's first GOP 
governor in 130 years in part 
because he promised a vote on 
the flag, had tried to stop jus­
tices from hearing the redis­
tricting case. 
The politics of the case are 
unusual. The Bush administra­
tion, along with Perdue, con­
tend that the Democratic-con­
trolled Legislature went too 
far in reducing minority voting 
strength in those heavily black 
districts. The Voting Rights 
Act discourages dilution of 
minority voting strength. 
Malcolm Stewart, arguing 
for the Bush administration, 
said that the state could not 
dramatically alter districts. 
making it tougher for minority 
candidates to win. He said the 
federal government objected 
to Georgia's plan because of a 
history of racial polarization in 
several districts. 
Several justices commented on the politics involved. Scalia said that it made sense that blacks would want to spread around minority voters to avoid a "lilly white district ... so they won't get some red­neck discriminatory" repre­sentative. 
Justice Anthony Kennedy questioned what a state was to do if it were "frozen" with dis­tricts with large black popula­tions. 
Redistricting often leads to court fights. Georgia's line­drawing also was disputed after the 1990 census in a case that prompted a 1995 Supreme Court ruling that race cannot be the predomi­nant factor in the drawing of district lines. 
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg inquired about an earlier court fight between the new Georgia governor, Perdue, and state Attorney General Thurbert Baker, a black 
ATIENTION: NOi RE DAME EMPLOYEES 
FULL-TIME & PART-TIME 
"Announcing Your Exclusive Employee Purchase Program" 
..... ,' . -,-,•~ .. ·-·· .. ·,;,,..;,,
ntE 
,@":'ti l!iiCOLN 
'VOLVO
"Jt(MuryWJ X · ..__ ·•-•,. . ...--·--··········'···· PIAN 
Did you know.....As an employee of Notre Dame, you are automatically eligible for special pre-determined pricing from Ford Motor Company and its brands. 
This plan is called ~-Ask for it when you buy or lease your next new Ford, Uncoln, Mercury.Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar, or Mazda and receive manufacturer pricing below dealer invoice. 
Just btilag in to the dealership peoof of e11aploy11aent {paycheck stub or ID card) and ask for "X-Plan'' 

•Only 
offered to Ford Motor Company suppliers and select partners 

•Special 
vehicle pricing is pre-determined by Ford Motor Company 

• X Plan visible on factory invoice -ask to see it 
•Jordan 
is a volume dealership -More $ for your trade-in 

•Additional 
rebates available 

•Hassle-free 
-No negotiation necessary 


VE GROUP 
In Elkhart:
In Mishawaka: 
609 East Jefferson Boulevard I005 North Nappanee Street 

Corner of Jefferson & Cedar Streets Corner of California & Nappanee Roads 259-1981 or 674-9926 674-6112
Showroom Hours: M T. Th: 8:30 a.m. -8 p.m. ; w. F. S: 8:30 a.m.~ p.m. 
Call: i~OG-837-1981 ext. 355 

displaying a Confederate sym­bol on its flag. Voters last year defeated the Democratic gov­ernor who orchestrated a change in the 1956 state flag to reduce the size of a Confederate emblem hat had Democrat. Perdue sued and lost in an effort to get Baker to drop his efforts to restore the contested districting plan. Baker is appealing the federal district court ruling that rejected the contested plan. 


...... 
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 12 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SWITZERLAND 
WHO lifts Toronto travel advisory 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
The World Health Organization lifted its warning against nonessential travel to Toronto because of SARS on Tuesday, but in Asia the dis­ease continued its spread as Hong Kong reported 12 new deaths, China nine and Singapore one. 
The global death toll from SARS climbed to at least 355, with more than 5,300 infec­tions in more than 20 coun­tries, including probable cases reported for the first time in South Korea, Mongolia and New Zealand. 
Travel warnings still stand for Hong Kong, Beijing and two Chinese provinces, as China's premier admitted his government failed to act quickly against the disease. 
In return for the WHO's decision, the Canadian gov­ernment promised to do more to prevent the spread of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, by screening pas­sengers leaving the country. 
World Health Organization Director-General Gro Harlem Brundtland said the advisory was lifted because there had been no new outbreaks in the community at large for 20 days. She stressed that Toronto is still an "affected area" and travel guidance would be reevaluated if there are any new cases. 
The decision to lift the advi­sory takes effect Wednesday. Canadian officials were delighted. 
"Our city is safe and I want everyone to come and experi­ence all that Toronto has to offer," Toronto Mayor Mel Lastman said. 
Tony Clement, health minis­ter for Ontario province, and his delegation met Brundtland for an hour earlier Tuesday in Geneva. 
They said Canadian authori­ties would introduce new screening measures on people leaving the country. 
Hong Kong and Singapore already have put such screen­ing measures into effect. 
"We certainly know our vig­ilance must not stop and that we have a responsibility inside and outside our own borders to continue and to win the fight against SARS," Clement said in Geneva. 
Health officials are sta­tioned at Canada's major air­ports to watch for symptoms of SARS among passengers arriving from SARS hotspots in Asia, where the illness orig­inated. All international trav­elers receive information cards on SARS, and similar measures now will be applied to passengers leaving Toronto. 
Outside Asia, Canada has seen the most SARS cases, with 21 deaths and more than 140 cases overall. The majori­ty of the cases have been in Toronto hospitals and health authorities have used quaran­tine and close monitoring and tracking to try to contain the illness. 
Canada wasted no time in taking steps to lure tourists and other visitors back to Toronto. Measures announced or proposed included waiving hotel taxes for the summer in Ontario province, dinner-the­ater-baseball-hotel packages at reduced prices from Toronto's top producers, and a multimillion-dollar market­ing campaign. 
"There is a need for us to recognize the fact that the SARS epidemic is going to be a long-term, a complex and a relapsing epidemic," Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said at an emergency summit of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Bangkok, Thailand. 
"What we lacked was pre­vention and control experi­ence. Our countermeasures were, by far, inadequate. We have already learned our les­son." 
The WHO says the incidence of SARS probably has peaked in many places, but it fears the situation is worsening in China, where 200 new infec­tions were announced Tuesday. There have been at least 148 deaths there. 
Nearly 10,000 people who might have been exposed to the virus have been put under home quarantine in China ­including 7,600 in Beijing. 
Brundtland said now that Chinese authorities were being more open about the extent of the disease. it would be easier to help them. 
"We believe we have a win­dow of opportunity to contain SARS globally now," the for­mer Norwegian prime minis­ter said. 
Brundtland said the WHO would maintain its advice to avoid all nonessential travel to Hong Kong -as well as the other hard-hit areas of main­land China. 

NIGERIA 

Striking workers take hostages 
Associated Press 
lAGOS 
Striking Nigerian oil workers have seized 97 hostages. includ­ing 17 Americans, on several ofT­s ho re oil rigs, officials said Tuesday. Some captives said they feared armed rescue attempts would end in disaster. 
There were conflicting reports about whether the hostages had been threatened. One wrote an e-mail that said the hostage-tak­ers warned they would blow up the rigs if attacked, but oil offi­cials dismissed reports that any oil workers had been threat­ened. A Scottish union official said the strikers appeared will­ing to give up. 
The rigs, owned by Houston­based Transocean, were drilling wells on behalf of oil multina­tionals Royal/Dutch Shell and TotalFinaElf. 

"Make no mistake of the dan­ger we're in," one hostage said in an e-mail message read by Jake Molloy, general secretary of the Offshore Industry Liaison Committee, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based labor union which has members among the hostages. "If they have lost everything, they will make sure we lose everything. And that means our lives." 
Transocean spokesman Guy Cantwell said late Tuesday those being held against their will included at 17 Americans and 35 Britons. 
Western diplomats earlier put the number of American hostages at 21. Some 170 Nigerian "third-party personnel" from other companies who were not taking part in the strike were also onboard, Cantwell said without giving details. 

A British hostage told his wife early Tuesday that the hostage­takers were threatening to blow up the rigs if anyone tried to storm them, Molloy said. 
The woman, whom Molloy declined to identify for safety reasons, however said her hus­band did not believe the strikers had explosives. Molloy did not know if the strikers had guns, although he said some hostages said their captors were armed with the installations' firefighting axes. 
Nigeria is one of the world's largest oil exporters and the fifth largest producer of U.S. oil imports. Sabotage and hostage takings by community activists, labor groups and thugs are rela­tively common in the Niger Delta, where nearly all of Nigeria's oil is drilled. Hostages rarely are harmed. 
About 100 hostage takers, who work on the rigs, have been holding the workers since April 
19. But it was not immediately clear why the hostage-takings were not announced until Tuesday. 
Transocean announced April 22 that a strike had begun but did not mention captive workers. Other oil companies in the past have preferred to deal with such crises out of the glare of media coverage. 
The strikers were protesting a decision by Transocean to use boats instead of helicopters. to ferry them from company rigs about 25 miles offshore the restive Niger Delta state of Rivers, said Joseph Akinlaja, sec­retary-general of Nigeria's largest oil workers' union. 
The strikers also were angered by company threats to discipline five union members, Akinlaja 



. 
At the Center For Social Concerns 

. 
·Thursday May I st 11 :30am -1 :00pm 

. 
Authentic Mexican food provided by La Esperanza and Hacienda 

. 
All proceeds to benefit an orphanage for disabled children lil• Mexico 


. Cost: $4.00 
Support a Wonderful Cause and Enjoy Wonderful FoodH 
said, adding his union did not support their strike. 
Transocean chief executive officer Robert L. Long described the negotiations as "delicate," and expressed hopes the stand­off would be peacefully resolved "within a week." He dismissed reports that any expatriates had been threatened. 
"Right now the situation is very calm on all the rigs," Long said in a conference call with investors and journalists. "I know there has been some rumors of threats of violence ... but we've not had any threats of violence." 
Thirty-four people were allowed to leave two rigs by boat Monday, Transocean spokesman Guy Cantwell said. Two were Transocean employees, while the others work for third-party service companies. 
He could not confirm the nationalities of those who left. It was also unclear whether 97 hostages were originally taken -or if that was the number still held after Monday's release. The rigs·are about 25 miles off the West African nation's coastline. 
Many of the strikers had sig­naled they would be willing to end their standoff but wanted assurances first they wouldn't lose their jobs, Molloy said. 
Cantwell said the 100 striking workers were being served court injunctions. Molloy feared the court papers could be used to justify a security force attack on the facilities, although Cantwell said the company hoped to resolve the impasse peacefully. 
Shell spokesman Donald Boham said company officials were involved in the talks. He was also unaware of any threats being made. 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 13
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRELAND 
Peace deal possibly endangered 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
Protestant die-hards launched their campaign Tuesday for legislative clec• tions by vowing to block future power-sharing with Catholics, the cornerstone of Northern Ireland's 1998 peace agreement. 
"Unless we destroy the agreement, we will be destroyed forever," Democratic Unionist leader Ian Paisley, 77, declared to a standing ovation at a party rally. 
Paisley's remarks reflect ris­ing Protestant opposition to sharing power with Catholics -particularly with hardliners from Sinn Fein -in a joint administration for this British territory. 
Polls and the most recent elections indicate growing support for the extremes of Northern Irish opinion: Paisley's Democratic Unionists versus Sinn Fein, the IRA· linked party. 
Analysts agree that if either party surges past moderate rivals, reconstructing a cross­commun ity coalition could prove impossible. 
Moderate Protestants led by Ulster Unionist Party chief David Trimble have argued that negotiating with Sinn Fein represents the only way to eliminate the IRA threat to Northern Ireland stability. Paisley insists IRA members should be jailed or killed. 
The British government has not_ decided whether to let the May 29 vote for the moribund 108-member Northern Ireland Assembly go ahead. Britain and the neighboring Republic of Ireland want the IHA to commit more fully to disarma­ment and ending criminal activities, chiefly to bolster Trimble's support among Protestants. 
The governments have spent several weeks negotiating with Sinn Fein, but so far have rejected proposed IRA pledges on those issues as too vague. 
A 12-member, four-party Cabinet led by Trimble gained power in December 1999, but suffered a series of break­downs and has been on ice since October, when police uncovered evidence of an IRA spy ring inside government circles. 
Paisley denounced Trimble for pursuing the 1998 Good Friday accord's plans for a broad Catholic-Protestant administration involving Sinn Fein. 
When voters elected the first Assembly in 1998, moderate Catholics from the Social Democratic and Labor Party retained a comfortable lead over Sinn Fein, but Trimble managed only a razor-thin hold on the Protestant side of the house, with 30 seats to Paisley's 28. 
Elections in 2001 and 2002 for local councils and British parliamentary seats showed a surge in support for Paisley's Democratic Unionists and Sinn Fein. 
Trimble warned Tuesday of dire consequences if the Democratic Unionists and Sinn Fein gain the upper hand in the legislature. 
"If we find that the political future is in the hands of extremes on both sides then there will be a nightmare sce­nario," Trimble said. 
Negotiators from Britain and Ireland believe Trimble could form a new coalition with a strengthened Sinn Fein -but only if the IRA demon­strates, in word and deed, it never will resume its"' cam­
paign  to  unite  Northern  
Ireland  with  the  Irish  
Republic.  

The IRA killed 1,800 people from 1 970 to 1 997. 
IRA supporters, who say the group's 1997 cease-fire ought to be sufficient, have resisted further commitments before an election. They cite the prospect of Paisley beating Trimble as one reason why. 
In his election address, Paisley denounced "the IRA­Sinn Fein liars, the cowards, the murderers. the killers of hundreds of mothers, fathers, children and unborn babies, as well as men and women serving in the Crown forces." 
Paisley founded a virulently anti-Catholic sect, the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster, in 1951 and still preaches every weekend. 
He rose to political promi­nence in the late 1960s, lead­ing demonstrations against Catholic civil rights protest­ers, and served a six-week jail term. 
He has been a member of British Parliament since 1970 and the European Parliament since 1979, recording the highest share of votes across Northern Ireland at each elec­tion. 
r--------------------------------­
! 1 
Domus 
PROPERTIES 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 
2003-2004 
2004-2005 
SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.dotnuskra01er.cont 
OR CALL 
574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 
ASK FOR KRAMER 

AFGHANISTAN 
General: Arms are being sold to rebels 
Associated Press 
BAGRAM 

Renegade groups in Iran and Pakistan are providing a life­line to rebels who continue to menace U.S. forces in Afghanistan's lawless border regions, a top U.S. commander warned Tuesday. 
Despite international efforts to choke off terrorists' funding, supporters in neighboring countries are succeeding in getting cash and weapons over Afghanistan's rugged moun• tains, Maj. Gen. John Vines told reporters. 
"I think there are renegade elements in Iran who have an interest in controlling a por­tion of Afghanistan," Vines said. "I think there are ele­ments in Pakistan -not the government -that have an interest in creating instabili­
t .. 
y. 

Vines spoke after a ceremo­ny which for the first time brought combat operations by 
U.S. forces and its allies under the same command as all other coalition activities. 
Vines, commander of 82nd Airborne Division 
forces in "In certain parts, the countries was one of
Afghanistan, country is stable. In other 
handed con­the major
parts, it's terribly 
obstacles

trol of com­bat missions dangerous." that has 
kept coali­to Lt. Gen. 

D a n tion forces
Maj. Gen. John Vines
McNeill, the from elimi­
U.S.Anny
overall com­nating the Currently on a trip to the Persian Gulf, he is now expect­ed in Afghanistan later this week. 
Whatever declarations are made, Vines said rebels in parts of Afghanistan would remain a serious threat. 
"In certain parts, the coun­try is stable. In other parts, it's terribly dangerous," Vines said. "That has not changed and that probably won't change in the foreseeable future." 
Holdouts from the Taliban regime, fugitives from the al­Qaida terrorist network and followers of renegade rebel leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar can assemble small groups of fighters who can kill or injure coalition troops and civilians, he said. 
He insisted his appraisal didn't run counter to Washington's moves toward changing the status of its Afghan mission. "It's not a dis­connect at all," he said. Militants in any country may occasionally succeed in over­powering authorities in isolat­ed cases, he said. 
Terrorists' support from 
allies in 
neighboring 

mander of coalition troops in the country. 
As commander in charge of the coalition combat missions over the past nine months, Vines has studied Afghanistan and its terrain. 
He knows well what dangers lurk in its mountains and val­leys. 
A firefight on Friday killed two U.S. soldiers under his command. Another two U.S. Special Forces soldiers died last month in an ambush by rebel fighters. 
Vines, who is staying on as McNeill's deputy, said stream­lining the command did not mean fewer combat missions. But Defense Secretary Donald 
H. Rumsfeld said last weekend he would discuss declaring an end to Afghanistan as a com­bat zone with Afghan leaders and U.S. military officials. 
Rumsfeld was due in the Afghan capital Kabul on Sunday, but was delayed. 
rebels, he 
said. 

The shadowy benefactors are motivated by a combina­tion of tribalism, religious zealotry. a share of Afghanistan's lucrative opium crop and -in some cases ­raw power, Vines said. 
"The one thing that makes this extraordinarily complicat­ed is all of those factors are in play here," he said. 
Unfortunately for the coali­tion and the country's fragile interim government, if there was ever an ideal country for fomenting unrest it's Afghanistan, he said. 
"If you had to design an area to support an anti-government movement, you might describe an area like this," Vines said. "Multiple borders, extreme distances, lack of road infra­structure, high mountains, weak central government, areas where there are reli­gious or tribal [conflicts] ... it applies absolutely right here." 
Professional woman has Room to Rent or Conaominium to Share 
Beautifully & tastefully decorated .2 bedroom, 2. bath condo Fantastic neighborhood--quiet, peaceful, professional Location near Grape & Day Roads Ten minutes from Notre Dame, Bethel, IUSB and Davenport Plenty of areas for walking, running, biking 
Condo has all amenities:  
Gas Fireplace  Carpeting Throughout  
Washer/Dryer  Comletely Furnished  
Central Air  Security System  
Eat-in Kitchen  Attached 2.-car Garage  

Digital Cable & Internet & Internet Conncted 
Price ranges from $350 to $650---to be negotiatea. Violet Hawkins 574.276.7605 or 574.231.8201 ext. 331 
' 
., ,..,.____________.....,_~----.-.-.--.-..,..............~.................... -.&ett••••------...-....... _. -~ ................... . 
t 
! 
' 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
Congratulations to the Holy Cross 11Sweet Sixteen11 Boolfstore Baslfetball team 

nc 
ittis 
Father Sean D. McGraw, c.s.c. 
BA ND 92, M.Sc. 93 London School of Economics, MDiv ND 00 
Four year Notre Dame varsity Tennis Team; Co-Founder with Father Tim Scully, Alliance for Catholic Education; President, Notre Dame High School, Niles, Illinois; 2003-04 doctoral student in political science at Harvard University. 
RCIA team, NOE team, Senior Retreat, Marriage Preparation Retreats, RA Workshops. 
Father Sam Peters, C.S.C. 
B.S. Loyola University, 95, MDiv. ND 01 
Loyola University Campus Ministry volunteer of the year. 
Director of Retreats, Freshman Retreat, Junior Retreat, Senior Retreat, RCIA Team, NOE, NOVI, Chaplain, ND Mens Basketball Team 
Mr. Louis De/Fra, c.s.c. 
B.A. ND 92, Magna cum Laude, M.Div. Cand. ND 03 
Catholic school teacher, Philadelphia, 1993-95; Associate Director, ACE, 1995-98; 2003-04 deacon at Holy Redeemer Parish, Portland, Oregon. 

Thanlf you for being 
Marriage Preparation Retreats 

Mr. Daniel Parrish, c.s.c. members of our 
BBA, 96, Univerisity of Portland, MDiv Cand. ND 03 Rector-select, Zahm Hall 
University of Portland Student Body President, RA Christie 

Campus Ministry team
Hall, Indiana State Penitentiary Death Row chaplain, University Choir 
Knights of Columbus, NOE 46 and 67 teams, NOVI, 

as well overthe years.
Confirmation Program, Presider at Outdoor Stations of the Cross 
Mr. Peter McCormiclf, c.s.c. 
B.S., Grand Valley State University 
Juvenile Justice Center, Basketball official, Michigan City Prison chaplain 

Team leader NOE 76, Acolyte, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Acolyte, Easter Triduum, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Campus Ministry 

Mr. Charles Riffert, Old College 
ND sophomore with a major in Psychology 
NOVI 02 and 03, Emmaus group leader; Freshman Retreats, Acolyte, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


! -­
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
UNITED NATIONS 
QATAR 
U.S. criticizes Cuba before U.N. 
. Human Rights Commission of 
U.N. grants Cuba another term 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The United States walked out of a United Nations meeting Tuesday to protest Cuba's elec­tion to the U.N. Human Rights Commission for another three­year term. 
"It was an outrage for us because we view Cuba as the worst violator of human rights in this hemisphere," said Sichan Siv, the U.S. ambassador to the 
U.N. Economic and Social Council, which elected 24 new members to the top U.N. human rights watchdog. 
The election came four days after the 53-member Human Rights Commission ended its annual six-week session in Geneva. Critics said that meet­ing was dominated by political horsetrading and did little for the victims of human rights abuses. 
During this year's session, commission members narrowly passed a resolution calling on Cuba to accept a visit by a human rights investigator, but failed to approve an amendment criticizing the country's recent crackdown on the opposition ­leading to Cuban claims of a "moral victory." 
Members also used a proce­dural move to block discussion of alleged human rights viola­tions in Zimbabwe, ended scrutiny of Sudan and rejected a resolution condemning Russia's record in Chechnya. 
In Tuesday's vote, Russia was Fidel Castro's government also re-elected to another three­also arrested and quickly exe­year term on the commission. cuted three men who hijacked a Saudi Arabia and several ferry earlier this month. Cuban African countries with poor officials say four recent hijack­human rights record also gained ing plots -among them the seats on the commission. April 2 seizing of the ferry ­
"Cuba and Russia each have were prompted in part by what very serious human rights prob­it calls a lax attitude by lems and have failed to cooper­American authorities toward ate with the commission despite hijackers who reach U.S. shores. many resolutions against them," "This is a country that for 40 said Joanna Weschler, U.N. rep­years has not held an election," resentative for Human Rights Siv said. "It's a country that Watch. "It's outrageous that arrests people and puts them in 
they should be rewarded for this per• 
"Allowing Cuba to
formance 
with another stay on the Human term on the Rights Commission is 
commission." 
like honoring Saddam 
Under U.N. 
rules, region­Hussein with the al groups Nobel Peace Prize . .,
decide who fills seats on 
U.N. bodies. Mark Foley 
L a t i n U.S. House representative America chose Cuba, 
jail at the whim of a dictator. That's why we were so outraged when the candidacies were endorsed this morning." 
Representative Mark Foley, R-Fla. said he would introduce a reso­lution in the House calling for the United Nations to reverse its deci­sion. 
Costa Rica, the Dominican "Whether it's Saddam Hussein Republic, Guatemala, Honduras or Fidel Castro, the U.N. has and Peru for six open seats, repeatedly protected tyrants, meaning no vote was necessary torturers and murderers," Foley in the Economic and Social said. "Allowing Cuba to stay on Commission and all six coun­the Human Rights Commission tries were elected by acclama­is like honoring Saddam tion. Hussein with the Nobel Peace 
Siv said he walked out of the Prize." Economic and Social Council In April 2002. the United chamber as Cuba's election was States won back a seat on the announced -and again about 1 commission it lost the previous 1/2 hours later when the Cuban year. Until that surprise defeat, representative got up to speak. the United States had been on 
Siv said Cuba's election was the commission for 50 years. discouraging because while the Britain was re-elected to the 
U.N. Human Rights Commission commission. Western nations met in Geneva, Cuba rounded had four candidates for three up opposition leaders and sen­seats -and Britain, Italy and tenced dozens to jail, some for the Netherlands defeated more than 20 years. Portugal. 
The University of Notre Dame's 
Science, Technology & Values Program 
in the 
College of Arts & Letters 
ls pleased to announce the following graduating students for the 
Class of 2003 
Thomas Apker Step.hanie Clark Anthony Damon Margaret Fitzpatrick Melissa Ferguson Angela Gubana Julie Hempstead Molly Jacob Ryan l(aple Thomas Leventhal Melissa Marcotte Lisa Normile l(athryn Ostrowski Jeanna Palmer Julie Piper Brian Pucevich Shanaree Sailor Andrew Serazin Jack Skendzel Patrick Sluka Molly Ward 

Qataris approve 'first' constitution 
Associated Press 
DOHA 
Qatari voters approved their first real constitution Tuesday -a leap toward democratic rule in a country where the emir has held absolute power since inde­pendence from Britain in 1971. 
The constitution was approved in a referendum by 
96.6 percent of the voters ­68,987 to 2,145, with 274 invalid votes, Qatar's Interior Minister, Prince Hamad bin Nasser Al Thani, 
announced 

"Every person hopes for a the draft 
at a news constitu­

better future and this
conference tion sev­

four hours constitution is going to 
e r a l
after the 

help us realize this future ... times and 
polls had 
had votedclosed. 
"yes."

Crowds of All al-Khater 
"EveryQatari men Qatari businessman person
celebrated in the streets, honking cars draped in the Qatari flag and photos of the emir and the crown prince. 
The draft will become Qatar's first real constitu­tion, replacing a 1972 "Provisional Political Order" that outlined only limited government structures and did not lay out voting or other rights. 

The constitution envisages a 45-member parliament, of which 30 will be elected in polls where women may stand and vote. The remain­ing 15 -as well as the Cabinet -will be appointed by the emir. 
However, legislators will have the right to question Cabinet ministers, enact leg­islation and vote on the national budget. 
Government officials said before the vote that parlia­mentary elections would be held in 2004. 
Government officials were unable to provide a total for the number of eligible vot­ers. Out of Qatar's 800,000 inhabitants, only about 25 percent are citizens. 
But the polls appeared busy throughout the day. 
Men wearing white robes and headdresses and women in black chadors that exposed only the eyes and hands entered schools and government buildings through separate entrances to cast ballots. 
At an elementary school on the outskirts of Doha, the capital of the tiny state, Ali al-Khater, a businessman, said he had read 
hopes for 
a better 
future and this constitution 
is going to help us realize 
this future," al-Khater said. 
One last-minute voter, Umm el-Jassim, said she had been busy all day but "wouldn't have missed it for anything." 
The emir, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, Crown Prince Jassem bin Hamad Al Thani and Prime Minister Abdullah bin Khalifa Al Thani voted at a polling sta­tion erected in the emir's palace. · 
Qataris first voted in 1999 municipal elections. The advisory Central Municipal Council was re-elected earli­er this month. 

Women have been able to vote and run in the elections -a rarity in the conserva­tive Gulf Arab states. 
At Qatar University's polling stations, turnout on the female campus was reportedly twice that on the male campus. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BusINFSS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSUMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........... .............................631-4 542 MANAGING EoIToR./Assr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT............................................ .....631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spoits, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th, Ob,on,cr (USPS 599 240) i.i publim«I Monday through Friday aa:pt during o:un and vac.uion periods. A suhscripcion co The-Ob-sierva it SI 00 for one-academic 
Yt'V; :'55' for on,e Kmt'"S.CC:f,  
The Ob.crva ii published ac  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send •ddrcu cotnx:tions to:  
Notr< Dam<. IN ~6556  ThcObocrver  
P.O. BoxQ  
Periodical pos~ pa.id at Nouc Dam~  Nom, Da,nr. IN 46556-0779  
and addiriol'lal mailing offi~.  

Th< Olw.,v., ua m,mb<r of th< A,,ociat«I r...,. All reproduction rights ve rocncd. 

University should release faculty salaries 
When Notre Dame English professor about faculty salaries. Although the Valerie Sayers received a dramatic and Office of Institutional Research publishes unexpected salary increase, she was averages for the entire University, that elated at first. Then, she started wonder­doesn't help faculty in specific colleges or ing why she got the increase. departments who wonder if their salaries 
Was it because of out­are equitable to what their standing work she had OJhe colleagues make. And so, 
userver

accomplished? Was it when it comes time to nego­because Notre Dame, in an tiate a salary increase, fac­attempt to make salaries ulty are left in the dark 
Editorial 
between males and females more equitable, dramatically increased women's pay so the females could catch up with the men? 
Or did the pay increase leave Sayers' salary still behind that of her equally­qualifiedequally qualified male col­leagues? 
Sayers never knew. And that's a prob­lem. 
According to a story published in Friday's Observer, the University tradi­tionally does not reveal information 

because they don't know how fairly they are being treated -or even if they are being treated fairly at all. 
The easiest solution for the University is to publish salary averages by depart­ments and gender. This would avoid embarrassing individual employees who do not want their salaries made public while at the same time giving professors some idea of how their salary relates to others in their department. The benefits -for both sides -would be huge. For the University, which claims it is making huge strides in gender equity when it comes to payroll. publishing salaries would show it is keeping its word. For the faculty, knowing what their col­leagues make gives disgruntled prof es­sors peace of mind because they know their pay is equitable to that of their fel­low professors. 
But instead of having information available, female professors are forced to complain amongst themselves of per­ceived inequity in informal groups like WATCH. The cloud of secrecy cast over salary-related issues leaves many female professors wondering if their pay is equi­table to that of their male counterparts and what the standards are for earning a raise. By publishing salary averages from individual departments and a standard on which increases are earned, the University could go a long way to estab­lishing a better relationship with all of its professors -both female and male. 
The party year in review 
I love the last two weeks of school in South Bend. It's like God's apology for the other 35 weeks. It's sunny and warm; off-campus parties move outside; and the administration imports girls 
from UCIA and  
pays them to  Joe Muto  
rollerblade around  
campus in sports  
bras and smile at all the prospects.  Muto Time  
Oh yeah, and the  
fountains get  

turned back on. That makes me happy. 
And we could definitely use cheering up after this year. The 2002-03 school year will go down in Notre Dame history as the year when the balance shifted. The students who study on weekends; the students who go to Mass every week; the students who attend Flipside events; the students who actually like parietals: this year was an outright victory for them. This year, their side won, and our side may never recover. 
The year started out with mixed results. There were a few cops ticketing people at Rally in the Alley, but about 300 yards to the west, at an event staged to promote sobriety. the biggest drug band in the country rocked the Joyce Center. I had somewhat high hopes for the year, hopes that were soon dashed. 
A week later. the Lafayette apart­ments hosted or at least attempted to host the Kickoff Classic. South Bend Police raided the joint before 10 p.m. They were responding to complaints of public urination. This was surreally ludi­crous, as anyone who has attempted to walk around in the neighborhood imme­diately surrounding Lafayette knows, public display of undergrad genitalia is the least of the problems in that neck of the woods. 
Later in the year, Lafayette residents were chased out of their own backyards by management, which was having problems of its own, facing a lawsuit from the city. The lawsuit was later dropped, as the city realized that the fence-peeing wasn't so much of a prob­lem and that the crack houses were. 

In the meantime, the lack of organized tailgating was playing havoc on football game drunkenness. Some people were actually going to the games sober. which constitutes a cardinal sin in my bible. Everyone else gamely attempted off­campus locations, but it just wasn't the same. Freshman year, the thrill of tail­gating came from not just meeting up with your friends to party. but also from wandering the parking lots, talking to random townies and snagging free beers. brats and shots whenever possi­ble. The beauty of tailgating 2000 was in the spontaneity. Tailgating 2002 was too pre-meditated. 
The single best party of the year had to have been Halloween. Dressed as Richie from the Royal Tenenbaums, I rubbed elbows with at least 600 of my fellow Domers. Beer was plentiful, the weather was decent and my friend Amie dressed as Li'l Kim and let one boob with a pastie on the end hang out of her top. The party was an unmitigated suc­cess, with the cops showing up literally minutes after the last keg was cashed anyway. 
The biggest story of second semester was the Boat Club bust. For two and a half years at Notre Dame, Boat Club has been my haven, my refuge, my rock, if you will. Excise police ruined all of that in one evening's work. Personally, I was willing to support Boat until the bitter end, but Boat Club, with their reprehen­sible lawsuit, is literally biting the hand that feeds them. I may go back to Boat one day, but the love affair is over. We'll always have Paris. 
Anyway, a new love affair is in order. My 21st birthday introduced me to a marvelous new world, one where cover is less than five dollars and tickets are given for free drinks. Good bye Boat Club, hello 'Backer. 
But, just last Thursday, as if to punctu­ate that the Boat Club bust was not the end of the ordeal. The Library, a.k.a. Finnegan's, a.k.a. The Locker Room, 
a.k.a. 
Jock-Sniffs' Paradise, a.k.a. The Basketball Team's Personal Brothel, 

a.k.a. 
Aykayay, was busted. I for one am not sad to see the place go down. Again. Cover was too much, drinks were too expensive and the atmosphere was just wrong for some reason. I am, however, sad to see that our underage havens are being systematically eliminated. 


A Viewpoint letter writer Tuesday pointed out that we're not kids anymore. This, however, should not preclude us from acting like kids, and like it or not, lying, cheating and stealing to gain access to a bar is a time-tested rite of passage. I feel bad for those who never do it. 
I for one will be doing my part to help out the poor zombies who actually agree with the Campus Life Council's decision to keep parietals the way they are -I'm inviting them to a party. Or several par­ties because my off-campus residence next year is henceforth known as the Party Mecca. Next year will be better than this one, I promise. See you at the Rally tonight. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English double major who is happy to be having the final word. He'd like to dedicate this year's columns to Ralph Chifari, who taught him that being funny can be a way oflife. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Helena Payne Chris Fredrico Wilbur Puckett Pat Leonard Mike Chambliss Lisa Reijula 
Viewpoint Scene 
Claire Kelley Christie Boisen 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Katie McKenna Tim Kacmar 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the University intercede on behalf of the students facing a Boat Club lawsuit? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 305 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Never give a party ifyou will be the most interesting person there . ., 
Mickey Friedman fiction writer 
¦ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 17 
Have confidence in the past and faith in the future 
Looking back at your family on the other side of the security check, it's understood -it's time to begin your life now. For real. Suddenly the thought of the real world causes your stomach to leap past your chest and into your 
Adam Cahill
throat. I'm not ready for this, you think to yourself. 
But the time has A Domer's come. Outlook 
You've spent the majority of your life getting to this point and waiting for it to happen only to wish that it was four years earlier, if not more. College has flown by and you've barely taken a step back to give it more than a second's thought. There's no time to think about that now, though. 
Stepping through the security gate and past the rushing crowd, you hesitate and take one last glance at your family for the past four years. Your friends have gotten you through the best of times and the worst of times -each time overcom­ing your expectations of them as friends. They seem rooted to the airport con­course floor, unable to move until you've turned the corner. Joanna and Jill D. are crying and even Joe D.'s eyes are glisten­ing at the thought of the group breaking 
up after graduation. You're so sad but at 
the same time so happy that they were 
there with you. You'll see each other 
again but with one final wave, you know 
it's true. It'll never be the same. 
Not being able to take anymore, your head tilts down and away from them. Walking away from something that you love is the hardest thing you will ever have to do in life. But you also know that it takes more courage to let go than it would be to try and keep things the same. As much as you want things to stay the same, they need to change. 
It's too much for you to bear and tak­ing a seat, you give yourself time to recover. After several minutes of sobbing into your closed fists, you wipe the tears from your eyes and stand up. Looking up, you see the task set before you -the large "Departures" billboard lists all the flights out of Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. 
The ticket in your hand has no destina­tion on it yet -just a departure and arrival date -a graduation gift from your parents. Considering all the possi­bilities, you take a seat again. There are just too many choices. Paris. London. Hong Kong. Berlin. Sydney. Madrid. Amsterdam. How will you ever make the right decision? It will come to you. You're sure of it. 

An hour later, you still haven't decided your travel plans. The only thing that keeps you occupied is fear of making the wrong choice. Thinking to yourself that regret is one of the worst possible emo­tions, you finally rise and move over to the appropriate counter. 
Since your ticket doesn't have a desti­nation as of yet, you will have to fly standby the attendant says. No problem. You can wait. Time is on your side. 
There's time to read or to watch televi­sion but neither seem appropriate to you. So you just sit there, pondering the last four years, the fork in the road and the direction you're going to take in it. Should you go here or there? You know the final result of your decision is neither here nor there because the journey will have many more forks that will require a decision. Yet you can't stop asking your­self questions that have no answers. 
Stop it, you scream silently to yourself. There's no use in doubting yourself now. Closing your eyes. you remember all the memories that should stricken doubt from your vocabulary. In four years, you've graduated from a university unlike any other. A university whose education warrants a "wow" from acad­emics anywhere, but also a college whose varsity monogram jacket is a prize that athletes all over the world aspire to earn. You've taken on the weight and responsibility of tradition and excellence. And you won. You succeeded by earning the degree. 
You've graduated from Notre Dame. No one can ever take that away from you. And after doing that, you know you can go anywhere and do anything. You are truly bound by nothing. 
The final call is announced for your flight and the attendant cordially invites you to step forward with your ticket. With a smile, a thank you and a deep breath, you head down the runway toward the plane. You don't know what this road is going to bring to you; you only know where you've been in the past. The only thing you are certain of is this: You've got to keep putting one foot in front of the other and everything will turn out the way it should be. 
Adam Cahill is a junior majoring in history and American studies. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
McNeff needs to show responsibility, not students 
In her letter on April 29, Jessica McNeff is effectively asking the students Monokroussos decries students who are to pay the fine that he received for run-clamoring "for the University to step in as ning an underage bar. Is that taking if it is mommy or daddy," referring to the responsibility for one's actions? Boat Club civil lawsuit brought against Students have paid their price -to the students by proprietor Mike McNeff. She South Bend community and to the Notre goes on to say that students should "act Dame family -but I find it hard to like adults and take responsibility for believe that anyone would demand they their own actions." I agree com-"go before the judge, get sentenced and pletely, Ms. Monokroussos, but __....,.,...__ pay the fine" in McNefrs civil law-I refuse to equate acting suit like you demand, Ms. responsibly with facing a Monokroussos. frivolous lawsuit that, if Yes, students are adults successful, would put and should be treated as an extra $600,000 in such. But from our first the hands of such a days here as freshmen good citizen like until the time we stand McNeff, who was together at commence-obviously victim-ment, students are ized by the decep-constantly reminded by tive wiles of stu-the administration of dents. their status as mem-
In my opinion, hers of the Notre Dame students have family, a special com-acted quite respon-munity. In my family, sibly in going before when I make a mistake, a judge regarding ......, """"""___,, I am treated as an adult, their "Minor in a ...,.,,.,,. .::=},Ji'''':""\iliRl.f ,:'. _.,.,. }..·..::~;'.[~tf take re~ponsibi~ity and 
Tavern" citations and ..,..•,,,,,,:,.. ··11Jl:~K•L,,,,,,....,.,.,........ .:,~::r face my Just pumshment 
;~:u~~~i:i%[~=s:::h ~~~~~:~~f~rii;~~~~:ro~~ji::c~­
Bend authorities (in the past this ed at some of its members. has been $230 and 40 hours, respective-Likewise the University should not stand ly). Furthermore, students come back to by idly while its students are being campus only to be brought before ResLife attacked by someone who is doing every-for "Conduct Unbecoming a Notre Dame thing in his power to avoid taking respon~ Student," typically resulting in an addi-sibility for his own actions. In the future, tional $100 fine. No one, to my knowl-Ms. Monokroussos, direct your rant to the edge, has asked for any University assis-man who has paid no price for his actions tance regarding the proceedings in the -my fellow students have already paid South Bend Municipal Court or back here theirs. on campus. Rather, students are only seeking assistance in a civil case brought Mike Hewett against them by one of the most infamous senior profiteers of underage drinking during my off-campus tenure at Notre Dame. April 29 

Sodomy laws are discriminatory 
It is important that people understand that there is more at issue in the Supreme Court case regarding the Texas sodomy law than the "right to pri­vacy." Currently in the United States there are basically two types of sodomy laws. The first type is a law that pertains to certain consensual adult sexual act5 (usually oral and anal intercourse) regardless of whether these acts are committed by opposite-sex partners or same-sex partners. 
And then there are sodomy laws such as those in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri that target only same-sex sexual expression. The same­sex only sodomy laws move us into the realm of "equal protection" issues. It is this type of sodomy law that is currently before the Supreme Court. 
IfAndrea Arnoult's primary concern about sodomy laws in her April 29 letter is to insure that people use their body parts for the purposes for which they were designed, she should be lobbying the four states with only same­sex sodomy laws to make sure that heterosexuals also don't use their mouths, fingers or anuses in improper ways. I am sure she understands that sodomy laws in their original intent were to prohibit any type of non-procre­ative sexual expression. That would include many common sexual practices among married heterosexual couples including vaginal intercourse with birth control. 
Arnoult also invokes the Catholic party line of differentiating between the "person" and the "act" when it comes to gay people. Interestingly, research shows that intrinsically religious folk don't seem to be able to implement this line of thinking in their behavior (see Daniel Batson 1999 "And Who Is My Neighbor?: Intrinsic Religion as a Source of Universal Compassion" in the Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion). Perhaps when Christians start acting more Christ•like, secular America may not be so harsh in their criti­cism of the religious. 
Finally, Arnoult's example of comparing smokers to lesbian and gay peo­ple is invalidating and trivializing. An addiction to a substance is not the same as a person's sexual orientation. Does crack addiction and heterosexu­ality work the same way? There is mounting evidence of a genetic and hereditary link in the determination of sexual orientation (both heterosexual and lesbian, gay or bisexual) and all of the major clinical and psychological associations have condemned so called "reparative therapy" because guess what? The evidence is that sexual orientation is not changeable. 
If you want to support sodomy laws at least tell the truth about it. They are laws that are unenforceable, but are on the books primarily to discriminate against lesbian and gay people in custody cases, adoption cases and some­times in employment situations. They maintain stigma and second class citi­zenship. I don't really care if Sen. Rick Santorum steps down from his Republican leadership position, but I would respect him a lot more if he would just own up to being anti-gay. After all, he doesn't have to look far in 
his own party to find excellent examples of "bigotry pride" ­Strom Thurmond, Trent Lott, Jesse Helms, Dick Armey.  David Duke,  
N. Eugene Walls graduare student off-campus April 29  

_, 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 18 Wednesday, April 30. 2003 




By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
Tonight's performance of the Freshmen Four plays will feature a variety of students and a variety of themes in a humorous and intriguing collection of one-act plays. 
The plays are directed and acted entirely by freshmen, with the previ­ous year's directors acting as produc­ers. For many freshmen, the plays are a great opportunity to get involved with something they enjoy and meet 

I 
' new friends. Older students and professors also use the shows as an opportunity to scout out new talent for shows in ; ( upcoming years. Although there are ;II, around 20 sophomore students acting 
I 
,I 
regularly in club and mainstage shows, only a few freshmen immedi­ately audition for theatre productions on campus. 
"You have to get your foot in the door," said freshmen director David Tull. 
"The freshmen plays are a less intimidating way to do that." said director Mark Ross. 
The plays are also an opportunity for freshmen who have never acted before to take a shot at the art of the-

I 
I' 
! 
I 
n 
r 
I 
i 
l 
(' 
' 
t 
'i 
:i 
,l 
I 
I 
) 
res 
men 
our 
The Student Players'one-acts search out freshmen actors 
atre. shows usually get a large turnout of 
"We have engineering majors, busi­theatre majors, freshmen supporting ness majors, FTT majors -it's what their friends, and other students and most plays professors are," said Tull. around cam­"There are a lot pus. 
of closet the­The Freshmen Four Th is ye a r's atre majors out production
"For Whom the Southern

there." includes four
Belle Tolls" by Christopher 

The plays short plays
Durang

have been a ranging in set­tradition on ting from a golf 
and off for sev­"Wasp" by Steve Martin course to a liv­eral years and ing room in the 
used to be run ""J:he Ugly Duckling" by A.A. Deep South.MIine
by the First "For Whom Year of Studies, the Southern
"Fore11.lay, Or the Art of the

but had disap­Belle Tolls," a 
peared until the Fugue" tiy David Ives play by dark Student Players humor legend 
took the initia­Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in OeBartolo Christopher tive to start the 101. Tickets $3 at the door. Durang, fea­
program up tures Al Klein again last year. as Lawrence The directors from the last year Wingvalley, a retarded son rather recruited directors for each of the reminiscent of Forrest Gump whose four one-acts from the few freshmen mother used to be a Southern participating in earlier productions in charmer but has turned into an over­the year. bearing woman with little grasp of Most of the freshmen jumped at the how to treat her less than normal 
chance to direct their own plays. children. Lawrence's brother Tom "I begged," said Ross. and a girl named Ginny confront the The plays are a chance to show mother with something fa~ outside 
their talent to a broad audience. The her reality when she tries to find a wife to take Lawrence off her hands. 
"Wasp," by Steve Martin, shows the members of a dysfunctional family trying to decide between an unap­pealing reality and the far more ide­alistic fantasies inside their heads. Joe Weiler appears as a father full of insightful truisms but with less of a grasp on reality. 
"The Ugly Duckling" by A.A. Milne also features a slightly dysfunctional family, but the light mood is a change from the more twisted plots of the first two plays. Complete with a princess and a charming suitor, this creation of the author of the more famous Winnie the Pooh books is a refreshing departure from cyni­cal humor. John Klein plays the character of the overly vain king with keen wit. 
"Foreplay" by David Ives explores the dating scene, or possibly the seduction scene, in all its slightly gruesome details and awkward moments through the creative por­trayal of three different dates with Chuck, a player who will never admit his long history with the sport of miniature golf. Joe Garlock, Adam Fleck and Daniel Smith as the three Chucks, and Lauren Simendinger, Melanie Larrabee and Joanna Paxton as the three dates, work together with remarkable timing to cleverly portray the situation. 
The Freshmen Four plays will be presented tonight in Debartolo 101 at 7:30. Tickets will be $3 at the door. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 




! 
'! 
THE 
OBSERVER 


~ednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 19 


·In "Wasp." 
Undertones and Hartnonia add zing to ___study days 
By MARIA SMITH and CHRISTIE 
BOLSEN 
Scene Editor and Assistant Scene Editor 
Ever wanted to hear 13 guys in suits serenade you with "My Maria," or girls hit the high notes in an a cappella rendition of "Landslide?" 
This Friday is your chance to hear all this and more when the Undertones and Harmonia, two of Notre Dame's elite a cappella choirs, take the stage at Washington Hall. A cappella means no piano, no drums, no accompaniment -just what the singers can build from their voices. And the result can be stunning. 
The Undertones are famous not only for the quality of their music, but also for their showmanship. The singers introduce themselves and their music creatively and get the audience involved, even if it means bringing leis and Tiki torches onstage. This year promises to be no different. 
The Undertones are a subset of the Glee Club, with all 13 members cho­sen from the larger choir at the end of every school year. Unlike their par­ent group, the Undertones perform exclusively a cappella arrangements of popular music. 
The arrangements are written and performed only by members of the Undertones. Although the group has to ask permission from the original performers to record many of their arrangements on CD for sale in the Notre Dame Bookstore, they are rarely turned down. The group was especially honored when the 

Counting Crows played the 
Undertones' rendition of "Long 
December" between acts at the 
Morris Performing Arts Center, in 
Chicago and at other venues around 
the country on their tour this fall. 
This year's spring concert will fea­ture new hits like "Hanging by a Moment" by Lifehouse as well as old favorites like "Kiss the Girl" from "The Little Mermaid." The group will also introduce their new members at the end of the show in what has become a yearly tradition. 
Performing without accompaniment and without direction is a difficult challenge for any singing group, and the Undertones are notorious for working well together. Many mem­bers sing with the choir from sopho­more year on, helping to build a solid sound in the group. Although the group is generally composed of upperclassmen, this year's choir also has two freshmen that could poten­tially continue to sing with the group for four years. 
Harmonia began as the all-female version of the Undertones only two years ago. Four girls in McGlinn, who admired the a cappella group but couldn't get involved for obvious rea­sons, decided to take matters into their own hands. Senior Danielle Rinaldi and three of her friends in the dorm were big fans of the Undertones and had all been in a cappella groups in high school. They decided to start their own group and auditions were held the very next fall. The process involves teaching potential singers a piece and then choosing between 12 and 16 girls. 
whichever seems to work best that 
year. There are usually three days of 
auditions held early in the year. 

Now in their second -year, Harmonia will be headlining Friday's concert along with the Undertones. The two groups will be switching off, each performing sets of three songs at a time. The songs will be a wide range of popular hits, including eighties tunes as well as more recent songs. The concert should be full of recog­nizable, fun music for the audience. 
Jenny Radelet, who was the winner of this year's Irish Idol contest. will be opening the concert with a song she performed at Irish Idol. She became involved with Harmonia as a result of her admiration for the Undertones as well; after seeing them perform, a fellow Cavanaugh resident told her about the female a cappella group. She says that both groups are very well prepared and talented, and believes that any audience member will have a great time at the concert. 
So if you're in need of a study break by Friday. there will be two groups of gifted singers waiting to harmonize classics for your listening pleasure. After all, wouldn't you rather hear gorgeous voices singing "In the Still of the Night" instead of studying in the still of the night? 
The Undertones and Harmonia will be performing at 8 p.m. Friday in Washington Hall. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu and Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 



Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

\ 
Three Mariners homers deny Clemens 298th victory 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Traveling to St. Petersburg, Russia 2 Computers-$150 &$225 (574) ?If u r &can bring a gift to a family 229-3100 
WANTED call 1-9806 Iv message 
SUMMER TUTOR Parents of a 7-MOVING OFF CAMPUS?!? NEED year-old first grader are in need of a FURNITURE? Bedroom set for summer tutor. Concentration on sale: full-size bed w/ headboard, reading, writing and spelling skills. matching large dresser w/ mirror, We are very flexible with days computer desk w/ chair. Call Kelly: and hours. Prefer 1 /2 hour tutoring 329 0972 
.
sessions, 3x/week. Timeframe from mid-June through August. Salary negotiable. Tutoring sessions can take place on campus or in our FOR SALE 94 Ford Explorer Sport 4x4, 98K, Black, Sunroof, Pioneer CD $3750 Call 514-8568. Must Sell! 

home. Our house is located within  Two bedroom cottage in good stu­ 
walking distance of the campus.  Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000  RANCH HOME: Architect-designed  dent area. $350 per month. Dave  
Please Call Ronda Hetterson at  miles, sun roof, CD player, power  California Contemporary Ranch  243-5353  
202-736-3408 before 5:30 p.m. or  locks and windows $9850 or best  built in 1958, purchased from origi­ 
703-913-5834 after 6:30 p.m.  offer. 287-4306  nal owner; restored and original  Student Rental House 3.4 or 5 per- 
features include sunken livingroom,  son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus.  
Seeking college student for summer  JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE.  beamed cathedral ceilings, huge  New everything. Wired for comput­ 
child care in our home for 12 and  WALK TO ND.GILLIS REAL TY  patio, garden foyer.  ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235­ 
1Oyr. old. Good pay and relaxed  272-6306,329-0308  Email mfitzgib@nd.edu for details.  3655  
atmosphere. Must be able to drive.  
Please call 631-9947 or 277-8564  FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America  Very nice 3bdrm home. Avail.June  
and ask for Lisa.  time share apartment for full week during the football season. Choose  TICKETS  1 st for summer/fall. East Race dist near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch.  
Small school seeks part-time mid­ week of 2nd or 4th ND home game  Incl. Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can  
die-school math teacher now thru  every year Units accommodate up  Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613  email picts/floor plan.Call Joe  
summer. Experience with Saxon  to 4. Purchase at great savings  David Belczyk  Crimmins @273-0002(H) or 514­ 
and Math-U-See a plus. 273-301 O  from owner who must sell at least  0643(cell) or  
or unitydayschool @aol .com  one unit. Great accommodations for  JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com  
visiting ND. Can be exchanged for resorts worldwide. Call Bob (954)  FOR RENT  $650/m negotiable.  
NOTICES  349-1880  2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam- SUITE AVAILABLE AT BELLE TERRE -TAKING RESERVA­ 
95 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport  pus. 269·699-5841  TIONS FOR GRADUATION WEEK- 
Study Abroad with CEA. England,  78,000 Miles $4,500  END· TWO-ROOM SUITE WITHIN  
Italy, Spain, France, Australia.  house: 2·3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334;  WALKING DISTANCE OF NOTRE  
Request a Free  For Sale: Futon-$60 Desk-$80  800-966-8399  DAME • FULL KITCHEN WITH  
Catalog www.GoWithCEAcom  Book case-$40 Bed-$160 Dresser- DISHWASHER· FULL BATH·  
$50 All in excellent condition. Call  Spring Semester 2004 only! 4  MASTERBEDROOM AND LIVIN•  
A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING  243-9988  Bedroom, 2 Bath .. GOOD Student  GROOM WITH SLEEPER COUCH.  
TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL  Area. Dave. 243-5353  FREE CABLE AND LOCAL  
SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR  94 Saturn; teal; gd cond; reg main;  PHONE. MAID SERVICE AVAIL•  
PAID)Discretion Assured.Call:277­ 74,000 mi; 4-dr; $3,100  HOUSE AVAILABLE tum. 4b2ba,  ABLE. $100.00 NIGHT. 574-271 •  
1659 Thank you.  Call Meg 634-3293  walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com  7205.  

1994 Chrysler T&C Minivan 130K Leather, CD, $2500, 202-421-5347 
Mazda 626, 1990,Sunroof,Sound System.Power Lock, Windows.very god Shape, strong engine, $1400. 
232-2253 

DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR. 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS• STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!!­CONTACT KRAMER (574) 
315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR 
2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
@ WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
Summer Sub-lease, 1 bdrm, fully  
furnished, good neighborhood, rent  
negotiable.  PERSONAL  
229-1691  
1 bdrm apts for summer close to  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  
ND $450.  alone. If you or someone you love  
283-0325  needs confidential support or assis•  
tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Chicago Room Available tor sum- Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
mer lease. Fully furnished.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
Lincoln Park • 2 blocks from El.  The Observer.  
Available 611 .  
Call 315-4658.  ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are  
you pregnant and dont know what  
1 bedrm apt. for rent available 5/15  10· do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­ 
through Aug. May rent paid. 1/2  cially stable woman would like to  
month free! Chicago: Wrigleyville/  consider adopting a baby. Free  
Lakeview area Close to "L•. Rent  counseling, living expenses and  
$795/mo.  medical expenses. This can be a  
Call (773) 244-9157  good thing for you and your baby.  
Discreet and legal. Call 904-824·  
Two 3-bdrm house next door to  7006.  

each other. $650/month. Call 614-262-5880 or 574-220-Prepare with Kaplan Test Prep. 0499. Classes Starting Soon. Call 1-800· 
KAP-TEST Today! 

GOING TO SUMMER SCHOOL? Rooms for rent. Cheap. Close to Faculty &Staff, update your estate campus. plan this summer. Call Tim, ND 93 Call 634-0820 ask for Jared at Timothy E. Kalamaros Law Office 
PC 574-232-4802 CHICAGO ROOM available for teklaw@beanstalk.net summer lease and/or longterm lease. 3 ND grads as roommates. Jimmy and Rich, you just got Near Wrigley Field. Available start-tubbed. 
ing anytime in May. Call 773-871-8893. Sylvia, I still miss you. 
2 bdrm apt. summer sublease at Happy (pre) Birthday Carrie! 
Turtle Creek. Contact: macdon­ald.18@nd.edu. Thanks for a rocking awesome year Call 273-4668 303! 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. WASHER/ Go to Rally. Go to Res !..ife. DRYER.$175.PP/MO 272-Been there three times. I'm an all­6306,329-0308 star. Peace and I'm out. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Roger Clemens failed to get his 298th win, and Ichiro Suzuki and Hideki Matsui didn't do very much either in their first matchup in the major leagues. 
Clemens allowed three homers for the first time since August, and the two Japanese stars failed to drive in any runs as the Seattle Mariners beat the New York Yankees 6­0 Tuesday night. 
Bret Boone, Ben Davis and Edgar Martinez homered for Seattle, which has won 12 of its last 13 regular-season games at Yankee Stadium. 
New York (20-6} lost consec­utive games for the first time this season and was shut out for the first time since an 8-0 loss against Oakland last Aug. 10. 
Suzuki, who in 2001 became the first Japanese non-pitcher to earn a regular job in the major leagues, was 1-for-5 with a bunt single and scored in the seventh inning. Matsui, who joined the Yankees this season, was 1-for-4 with a ninth-inning single. 
Gil Meche (3-1) took a three­hitter into the eighth and wound up allowing six hits in 7 2/3 innings, extending his scoreless streak to 16 1-3 innings. 

Arthur Rhodes and Shigetoshi Hasegawa finished ., with one-hit relief. 
Clemens (4-1}, pitching on the 17th anniversary of his 20­strikeout game against Seattle for Boston, lost for the first time in six starts this season. He had a terrific split-fingered pitch and struck out eight, but Seattle sat on his fastball, and he gave up four runs and eight hits in six innings. 
Boone homered in the first -his batting helmet falling off on his follow-through -and hit a two-run double in the seventh off Chris Hammond. But Boone also committed a gaffe in the field, losing track of outs in the third inning and costing Seattle a chance at a double play when he trotted across second base instead of throwing to first after taking the throw on Alfonso Soriano's grounder to third. 
Davis hit a two-run homer in the second and Martinez homered leading off the fourth. 
Red Sox 7, Royals 2 
The Kansas City Royals have lost two in a row. This year, that qualifies as a slump. 
Nomar Garciaparra was 3­for-4 and Tim Wakefield pitched six strong innings Tuesday night as Boston ral­lied from a two-run deficit to beat Kansas City 7-2. 
"I was able to hang in there as long as I could." said Wakefield (3-1), who trailed 2­1 when he threw his last pitch. "The offense finally scored some runs." 
The Royals have lost two straight -matching their longest losing streak of the season. They have also lost three of their last four after winning 16 of their first 19 games -the best start in franchise history. 
"We're human," manager Tony Pena said. "They're not going to be able to do the job every single day." 
Kansas City lost a franchise­record 100 games last year. The Royals had four two-game losing streaks in April alone, and eight for the year; they also had nine three-game 
slides, three that were six games long and two lasting eight. 
"We 're going to probably lose more than two in a row this year," said Chris George (3-2). who pitched five good innings before running into trouble in the sixth. "But we're still playing pretty good baseball." 
Wakefield allowed two runs on seven hits, including an inside-the-park homer by Carlos Beltran and a conven­tional one by Mike DiFelice. Wakefield also struck out six and walked one. 
George allowed three runs on six hits and a walk, striking out three in 5 1-3 innings. He shut the Red Sox down for four innings before giving up a hard-luck run in the fifth and then running into real trouble in the sixth. 
Todd Walker singled, moved to second on Garciaparra's single and third on Manny Ramirez's flyout. Kevin Millar hit a sacrifice fly off Jason Grimsley to tie it 2-2, then Garciaparra stole second and took third when DeFelice's throw went into center field for an error. 
Shea Hillenbrand was hit by a pitch, then Bill Mueller poked a single between third base and the shortstop to score Garciaparra. Trot Nixon singled to center to score Hillenbrand and make it 4-2. 
Boston scored three more in the eighth on an RBI double by Millar and run-scoring singles by Mueller and Johnny Damon. 
Beltran hit his second career inside-the-park homer when Nixon dove for his line drive to right field and it bounced over his head. DiFelice made it 2-0 in the fourth by homering into 

Reuters Clemens rests after allowing a two-run home run to the Mariners In Tuesday night's loss. 
the new seats above the Green Monster. 
Angels 10, lndlans 1 
Ramon Ortiz pitched a seven-hitter and Garret Anderson drove in three runs Tuesday night to lead Anaheim to a 10-1 win over Cleveland, who have lost seven straight games. 
Ortiz (4-2) gave Anaheim a rare strong start and its first complete game of 2003 as the Angels improved to 8-2 in their last 10 at Jacobs Field. 
The Jake has been good to the Angels. Last year, .Anaheim swept 
.· 
, 
~ 

i:I 
four games during an early season stopover in Cleveland that helped the Angels over­come a slow start and eventu­ally win their first World Series. 
Anderson hit a two-run homer off Ricardo Rodriguez (2-2) and Jeff DaVanon added three RBIs. 
The Indians (7-19) are off their worst start since 1969 and have their first seven­game losing streak since June 27-July 3, 1991. 
Ellis Burks homered in the fourth for Cleveland. The Indians have scored just 11 runs in their past six games. 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Maddux returns to old form in third win of season 
third-base line. 

Associated Press 
After a single by Robert Fick with two outs, Oswalt settled
HOUSTON 
into a rhythm and retired theGreg Maddux pitched seven next 14 batters. until he walkedsharp innings to win his third Sheffield with one out in the

straight decision and Gary 
sixth.

Sheffield hit a two-run single as After the walk, Chipper Jones 
the Atlanta Braves beat the 
got a line drive single off first Houston Astros 3-1 Tuesday baseman Jeff Bagwell's glovenight. 

and Andruw Jones followedThe Braves have won 12 of with an RBI single off the left­14 following a 4-8 start, and field scoreboard.

Maddux also has recovered 
Oswalt went seven innings,nicely. 

allowing six hits. He struck outThe right-hander lost his first seven and walked two.

three starts for the first time in his career, at which point he had an 11.05 EHA. But he held Expos 3, Brewers 2 Houston to just one run and five Brian Schneider hit a hits. outpitching Hoy Oswalt. tiebreaking RBI infield single 
John Smoltz worked the ninth with one out in the ninth inning for his 10th save in as many to lead the Montreal Expos to a tries and 2pth in a row dating 3-2 victory over the Milwaukee to last season. He struck out Brewers on Tuesday night. Brad Ausmus with two runners Brad Wilkerson homered and on to end it. scored the go-ahead run and 
The Astros got a run in the Montreal starter Javier first inning when Geoff Blum Vazquez struck out 12 in seven singled to left field and scored innings as the Expos won for on Jeff Kent's double to the the fourth time in five games. Houston's Lance Berkman Is held back from home plate umpire Terry Craft for being ejected In right-center gap. With one out in the ninth, the seventh Inning for arguing balls and strikes. The Astros lost 3-1 to the Braves. 
After that, Maddux (3-3) lim­Wilkerson drew a walk from and one RBI in his previous five The Brewers tied the game tentious at the time, seems to beited the Astros to three hits and Mike DeJean (0-2), stole second games, hit his third homer of with two runs in the fifth on working out for everybody. Sodidn't allow a runner past sec­and went to third on Keith the season in the second inning solo homers by Wes Helms and far this season, Baker has led the ond base. He struck out five Osik's errant throw into center to make it 1-0. Royce Clayton. surprising Cubs to first place ­and didn't walk a batter, field. Schneider then hit a one­Orlando Cabrera led off the Clayton has five homers this and new manager Felipe Alou is
improving to 22-9 lifetime hopper off second baseman 
fourth with a single and took season after hitting only seven a big hit with the NL West-lead­against Houston. Keith Ginter's glove to score s e cond on a single by Jeff all last year. ing Giants. 
Oswalt (2-3) got off to his sec­Wilkerson. 
Liefer. With one out, Cabrera Milwaukee·s Matt Kinney, Both managers are underond consecutive rough start, Scott Stewart (2-0) got two scored on Wilkerson's ground-making his first start since plenty of pressure in the three­allowing two runs and four hits outs for the win, stranding rule double to right field. April 17, allowed two runs and day series. Baker is back in hisin the first inning. He gave up Enrique Cruz at second in the Vazquez, who leads the six hits in eight innings. longtime home, facing cheers
three runs in the first three eighth inning. Rocky Biddle 
majors with 56 strikeouts, and a few boos, while the elderinnings last Wednesday in a 4-2 pitched the ninth for his sixth 
recorded at least 10 strikeouts Alou is facing his talented son for loss to the New York Mets. save in seven chances. for the 14th time in his career Cubs 4, Giants 2 the first time in San Francisco. This time. Hafael Furcal sin­Vazquez retired the first 11 and third of the season. Dusty Baker's return to San 'TH be glad when this series is 
gled and Marcus Giles doubled batters and allowed just two 1 k " ·1 d h" Francisco was a success, thanks
Mi wau ee 1aI e to get a It over, really," Baker said. "Not 
to start the game before runs and three hits. Wilkerson ff V t·1 R' h. s to Moises Alou 's big night
o azquez un 1 IC Ie exson only here, but at home, too. The Sheffield drove in both runners helped stake him to a 2-0 lead. snapped an O-for-9 skid with a againSt his rather's team. phone is ringing off the hook,
"


with a single just inside the Wilkerson, who had two hits t · l · th th
two-ou smg e m e 1our • 
Where de yeu ge frem here? 
Pest-Graduate Werk, 
Career er Velunteering... 
Spend a year in the peaceful community of 
Sharing Meadows to discover your own 
inner strengths and gifts, while making a 
difference in the lives of people who are 
developmentally disabled. 
For more information, contact: 

Terri Werner twerner@sharefoundation.org 219-778-2585 P.O. Box 400 Rolling Prairie, IN 46371 www.sharefoundation.org 

Alou homered and drove in 
and I spend 30 minutes on tick-
two runs as the Chicago Cubs beat the San Francisco Giants 4-ets. There were a few hecklers. 2 Tuesday night in a game rich You can't control how people in family ties and old friendships. feel about you. You just accept Kerry Wood struck out eight it." over six strong innings for the Moises Alou, hitless in his pre­Cubs, who won in their new vious nine at-bats, had an RBI manager's emotional homecom-single in the fifth and a solo ing. Baker spent the past 1 osea-homer in the eighth to hurt the 
sons with the Giants, winning team now managed by his 840 games and leading them to father. the World Series last fall before Ramon Martinez also had a 
leaving in a dispute with owner run-scoring single as the Cubs Peter Magowan. won for just the second time in The change, though con-six games. 

To order these tshirts, visit 
www.frontpagemagazine.com 
page 22 The O,bserver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 30, 2003 


Thursday, May 1st Stepan Center, 10:00am -1:00pm 
Tickets will be available for the following events:
0 

-Saturday, May 10th, "Margaritaville" $5.00 -Sunday, May 11th, "Chicago Cubs Game" $35.00 -Monday, May 12th, "Golf Outing" $10.00/person -Monday, May 12th, "Volleyball Tournament" FREE -Tuesday, May 13th, "Senior Formal" $15.00/person -Wednesday, May 14th, "Senior Day at the Eck Stadium and Last Tailgate" FREE 
** Limited ticket qualities are available for certain events 
Cubs (575), Margaritaville (1000), Golf Outing (190). Seniors seeking to attend these events are strongly encouraged to arrive promptly at l0am! 
Detailed event information can be found at http://www.nd.edu/-msmith15/srweek.htm 
** All Seniors wishing to participate in Senior Week 2003 must purchase tickets during the specified registration time. Although not enco_uraged, if a senior is unable to attend, a friend may sign up and pay for another's tickets. Absent seniors MUST give the friend their Notre Dame student ID, a signed waiver and their form of payment. Waivers were Emailed on Monday but can also be picked up at registration. 
** Seniors are encouraged to print out and sign a waiver prior to arriving to Stepan Center on Thursday, May 1st at 10:00am. 
·. I 
** All sales are final. Cash or checks are accepted only. NO CREDIT CARDS OR STUDENT ACCOUNTS CAN BE USED. All checks must be made payable to the "University of Notre Dame." 
Any questions? Please email: c1ass03@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA 
O'Neal sued by Florida company for illegible autograph 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 

A sports collectibles company has sued Shaquille O'Neal, claiming he violated their con­tract by providing an illegible autograph and refusing to sign souvenirs. 
Dreams Inc.. based in Plantation, Fla., requested the return of hundreds of thou­sands of dollars in cash and stock, plus compensatory dam­ages for lost profits and sales, court documents say. 
The company filed suit in Broward Circuit Court against O'Neal and Mine O'Mine, which has the rights to O'Neal's name. The suit alleges that the Los Angeles Lakers center violated his agreement to autograph a specified number of souvenirs and serve on the company's advisory board. 
O'Neal and Mine O'Mine denied breach of contract, rrquesting the case be dis­missed along with claims that 
specifically mention O'Neal because the contract was with Mine O'Mine, not him. 
The defendants also filed a counterclaim contending Dreams Inc. breached the con­tract. The counterclaim says the company failed to schedule signings or present items for O'Neal to sign after December 2001, and it says Dreams owes O'Neal hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
Last week, Broward Circuit Judge Jeffrey F. Streitfeld ruled the case could go forward. Dreams' attorneys have requested a jury trial in the suit, which was filed last May. 
"It's a very unique situation for the company," said Leonard Samuels, an attorney for Dreams. "They have excellent relations with all of their ath­letes. It took major problems from Shaquille O'Neal and his people for us to file a lawsuit." 
Dreams has contracts with hundreds of current and former athletes, including Dan Marino, 
Happy 21st Birthday Anthony 
AKA T-Bish/fony Mom, Dad, & Jeff 
Vince Carter and Pete Rose. 
Benjamine Reid. an attorney representing O'Neal and Mine O'Mine, said he didn't want to comment because the lawsuit is pending. 
As president of Mine O'Mine, O'Neal signed a three-year con­tract with Dreams in December 2000, court documents say. 
The agreement called for the company to pay O'Neal $1.85 million and 500,000 shares of Dreams stock -then worth about $1 a share. In exchange he would make three appear­ances for the company, provide his autograph on 15.000 pieces of merchandise -5,000 a year -and serve as a member of the company's advisory board. 
According to the suit, O'Neal owed the company 1,800 auto­graphed pieces after the first year of the agreement. Some of those he did autograph were illegible because he rushed the signature, the suit says. 
O'Neal canceled signings, refused to promote the compa­ny and violated exclusivity pro­visions by signing memorabilia for others, the suit says. It says he also failed to provide promised Shaq-model shoes. 


Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal is being sued by a Florida com­pany for not meeting autograph requlrments In an agreement. 
MINOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Bird dies week after hit by ball 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
The daddy osprey hit with a baseball allegedly thrown by a minor league pitcher has died, officials said. 

Ozzy the osprey died Sunday at the Audubon Birds of Prey Center in Maitland, said Lynda White, a spokeswoman at the center. The bird was one of a breeding pair that lived for years on a 40-foot light pole in left field at Jackie Robinson Ballpark. 
Witnesses said Jae Kuk Ryu, a 19-year-old South Korean pitcher for the Class A Daytona Cubs, tried several times during pregame practice April 21 to knock the osprey from its perch with a baseball before finally hitting it. 
At the time, Ozzy was nest­ing with its mate and a brood of fuzzy chicks. 
Hyu was charged Thursday by the Florida Fish and \i\lildlife Conservation Commission with harming a protected bird. The second­degree misdemeanor carries a maximum fine of $500 and 60 days in jail. 
Commission officials said Monday that the death doesn't affect the charges. 
Ryu was later demoted to the Class A Lansing Lugnuts of the Midwest League. Cubs general manager Buck Rogers said Ryu was remorseful. 
Ospreys are recognized by the state as a species of spe­cial concern, meaning their habitats are vulnerable. 
The bird's mate, Harriet, will raise her chicks and prob­ably take a new mate next season, White said. Another osprey already has been seen at the park, helping feed the babies. 
Ryu isn't the first ballplayer to target a bird with a thrown ball. On Aug. 4, 1983, Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield killed a seagull in Toronto with a warmup throw. The Ontario police charged him with ani­mal cruelty, although the charge was later dropped. 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

T-Mac wants to avoid first-round fate of Wolves' Garnett 

Reuters Photo 
Orlando's Tracy McGrady signals that only one more game Is needed to defeat the Pistons In the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
Report: Texas guard Ford will enter draft 
Ford's future. 
Associated Press 
During the season, he said he was "110 percent sure" he
HOUSTON 
would return for his junior sea­
Texas All-American point 
son but began hinting that heguard T.J. Ford plans to make might leave for the NBA whenhimself available for the NBA the season ended.
draft in June, Houston televi­
Ford led the Longhorns to
sion station KRIV reported 
their first Final Four appear­Tuesday night. 
ance in 56 years. He won theThe station said sources close John R. Wooden Award and the to the Longhorns program told Naismith Award, both collegeit Ford would hold a news con­
basketball player of the year
ference Thursday in Austin to honors.
make the plans official. 
Ford led the team in five sta­
"I cannot confirm that for 
you," Texas basketball tistical categories this season ­spokesman Scott McConnell including points with a 15 per told The Associated Press game average and assists with Tuesday night. 7. 7 per game. He recorded nine 
He said no news conference double-digit assist perfor­has been scheduled "as of yet." mances this season and 24 in He said nothing would be his two-year career. His 527 announced Tuesday night on a career assists ranks second on news conference or about Texas' all-time career list. 

Now HIRING Servers Experience preferred. 
Come to Applebee's and see whars cookin'l If you are a high energy team player, stop by to find out about our over-the-top growth potential and outstanding benefits including: • Top-notch Wages 
• Flexible Schedules • Health Insurance • Fun Atmosphere 
Please apply in person: 
APPLEBEE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GRIU & BAR 3703 Portage Rood, South Bend, IN 46628 
EOE 
www.applesauceinc.com .. 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Tracy McGrady and Kevin Garnett both skipped college, became NBA stars and are unstoppable on the court at times. 
McGrady wants the similari­ties to end there. 
He is determined to advance to the second round of the play­offs, something Garnett has been unable to do for the last six seasons in Minnesota. 
McGrady has failed to get past the first round the past two sea­sons in Orlando after he and the Toronto Raptors were swept in the first round in 2000. 
"Watching Kevin Garnett over the last couple of playoff series, what he's been through, being bounced out, I know how tough it is and how frustrating it is on his part," McGrady said. "You feel like you did everything you could on your part to advance and you failed. When you're the key guy for your team and you lose, you are to blame for every­thing. Everybody is looking at 

you, saying you need to do more, need to do this. "So I don't want to be put in that situation." 
The Magic have not advanced in the playoffs since Shaquille O'Neal and Penny Hardaway led them to the 1996 Eastern Conference finals. Garnett is trying to lead the Timberwolves over the defending champion Los Angeles Lakers in their first-round series. 
'Tm just trying to get this franchise back on track like it was when I was a young fella watching Shaq and Penny here," the 23-year-old McGrady said. 
McGrady is close to complet­ing his quest because Orlando has a 3-1 series lead going into Game 5 on Wednesday in Detroit. 
The Pistons are hoping to be just the seventh team to win a best-of-seven series after trail­ing 3-1, but they are closer to joining a different group. 
Miami in 1999 and Seattle in 1993 are the only teams with top seeding to lose in the first round of the playoffs since the NBA went to a 16•team format in 1984. 
"The one thing we haven't done is put pressure on them," Detroit guard Chauncey Billups said. "If we win Wednesday, they'll feel pressure to win at home on Friday." 
Detroit is battered and bitter. 

Coach Hick Carlisle has been criticized, players have called their offense predictable and some have blamed teammates -without using names -for the situation they're in. 
"Before the series, I think some people felt we couldn't lose to Orlando. Now you get the feeling that some guys don't think we can win," Detroit's Ben Wallace said. "I think we can win. If we played the way we are capable, we aren't in this situation, but the way we've played lately, it isn't unbeliev­able to me. 
"After what we did last year, losing this series would be a step in the wrong direction." 
The Pistons won 50 games and the Central Division last year -just as they did this sea­son. 
Bryant, Iverson on Olympic team 
ed to be members of the 2004 three other players from col­
Associated Press 

Olympic team. lege or overseas. 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. The Associated Press report­"They have paid their dues 
Kobe Bryant was added to ed earlier this month that the in our league," said the U.S. basketball team USA Basketball selection com­Philadelphia 76ers coach Tuesday, along with Allen mittee had chosen the three Larry Brown, who will coach Iverson and Jermaine O'Neal. players; the formal announce­the U.S. team. "It is a great 
They completed what USA ment came Tuesday. honor for them, and I am Basketball called a .. core In addition to Bryant, O'Neal happy for all three of them." group'' of nine players for the and Iverson, the team includes Brown said: "From a per­Olympic qualifying tourna­Ray Allen, Mike Bibby, Jason sonal standpoint. I am thrilled ment to be played in August in Kidd, Karl Malone, Tim to death. It just shows the Puerto Rico. Duncan and Tracy McGrady. respect that everyone in the 
The players also are expect-The team is expected to add league has for Allen." 
SJFJECCIIAILII?lJEIID TIN ~JFCCDIRtIT~o 

NOTRE DAME SPORTS. 
Dt1DIBW ~WC[UQIB WmrnmuD 
No. 1 in The Nation in Coverage of the Notre Dam~ Fighting Irish. 
Don't lose the pace this summer! Keep up with Notre Dame with the Ii;ish Sports Report. 
. 
' 

21 colorful issues, Instant online access to daily published weekly during updates expanded coverage the season, monthly after and interactive features the season for only $39.95. for only $39.95 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 25-..
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL PLAYOFFS 

Senators win in OT to take 2-1 series lead over Flyers 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
This Ottawa Senators playoff comeback was unlike any they ever had. 
Wade Redden's goal 6:43 into overtime lifted the Senators to a 3-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night. Ottawa leads the Eastern Conference semifinal series 2-1. Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is Thursday night in Philadelphia. 
The Senators. who had an NHL-best 113 points in the reg­ular season, trailed 2-1 enter­ing the third. They had been 0­22 in playoff games when trail­ing after 40 minutes. 
Philadelphia was 35-0-3 when leading after two periods this season, including 5-0 in the playoffs. 
Marian Hossa and Daniel Alfredsson scored power-power goals for Ottawa. 
John LeClair and Sarni Kapanen scored for the Flyers. 
Redden won it with a slap shot from near the left circle that slipped between goal­tender Roman Cechmanek's stick and the near post. 
Cechmanek, coming off a bril­liant 33-save performance in a 2-0 road victory Sunday night, stopped 24 shots. He stoned Hossa on a breakaway early in overtime. Minutes later. he made another outstanding save on a shot by Karel Rachunek. 
Tony Amonte had a break­away on Patrick Lalime shortly after Cechmanek stopped Rachunek, but he lost control of the puck going for a backhan­der. 
Lalime had 20 saves. 
The Senators tied it at 2 on Hossa's goal just 22 seconds into the third period. He beat Cechmanek with a wraparound backhander for his fifth goal of the playoffs. A holding penalty on LeClair late in the second gave Ottawa the power play. 
Kapanen scored his fourth goal of the playoffs, giving the Flyers a 2-1 lead with 7:14 left in the second. 
Amante. standing behind the net, took a pass from Marcus Ragnarsson and sent it to Kapanen, who one-timed a shot from inside the left circle. Lalime stopped the shot with his glove, but the puck bounced high in the air, off Lalime's back and into the net. 
LeClair gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead just 4:35 into the game on his second goal of the playoffs. Jeremy Roenick set it up with a nifty pass to Amon te. who slipped and took a shot while on his knees. Lalime stopped Amonte's shot. but LeClair, skating in from the bench, tapped the rebound into an empty net. 
Alfredsson tied it at 1 during a four-on-three 1 :06 into the second. An interference penalty on Claude Lapointe gave the Senators a power play, and Alfredsson scored 24 seconds later. Redden took a slap shot that bounced off Keith Primeau and went right to Alfredsson, who blasted it just inside the near post. 
Alfredsson hit the post in the first period on a slap shot after he stripped the puck from Todd Fedoruk. 
Lalime made an outstanding skate save on a backhander by Michal Handzus late in the sec­ond. 
The Flyers lost to Ottawa in the first round last year, scor­ing a record-low two goals in five games. Philadelphia played the equivalent of nine games ­seven games and seven over­times -in its first-round victo­ry over Toronto. 
Ottawa. which beat the New York Islanders in five games in the opening round, has never advanced past this round, los­ing twice before. 
Canucks 3, Wild 2 
The Vancouver Canucks took full advantage of their boiling rivalry with the Minnesota Wild. 
Vancouver scored three power-play goals and Dan Cloutier made 16 saves and got a little help from the posts as the Canucks beat the Wild 3-2 to take a 2-1 lead in their Western Conference playoff series. 
Game 4 will be played Friday night in St. Paul. 
The Canucks got goals from Brendan Morrison, Ed Jovanovski and Daniel Sedin as the Wild allowed three power­play goals for only the second time this season. 
The Canucks, whose power play was ranked third in the NHL this season, went 3-for-6 with the man advantage in a game that saw 40 penalty min­utes assessed. 
After combining for 16 penal­ty minutes in Game 1, the teams earned 74 in Game 2, the majority coming when players engaged in a postgame scuffle that warranted five miscon­ducts. . 
The NHL fined the \Vild $25,000 on Tuesday for their part in the brawl. and the bad blood carried into the rematch. 
.:································•·.•·········································································.
.
.
. Did vour summer plans fall through?? 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.•• Summer Service Learning upportunities availablel 
.
.
.
•
.
.
• 
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
. 
•
.
•
.
.
•
.
•
. 
.••. . ••
.
.
•
.
.
•
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
: : 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Eight weeks helping an agency work with an underserved population 
* 3elective credits 
* s2000.00 tuition molarshlp 
* room and board provided '!::>\ Assoc .
#.~. 
-0
* SIDJSored by UNO Alumni Clubs < • = 
NOTRE DAME 
come to the Center for Soelal Concerns to check out the sites available 
Ann Arbor, MI Aurora, IL Syracuse,NY Chicago, IL 
Delaware Dubuque Greensburg, PA Kalamazoo, MI 
Hope Clinic and emergency services Hesed House: shelter for families (Female) DePalmer House -programs for AIDS/HIV Marillac House -family and childrens programs (F) Deborah's Place -shelter and services for women Sojouner's Place -shelter for pien (Male) Camp for people with disabilities Camp for disabled and day care for Moms with jobs YMCA children's programs 
Traverse City, MI Father Fred Foundation (car) 
Quad Cities  Day camp for kids ­ live with other college volunteers  
Madison, WI  Soup kitchen and St. Vincent DePaul services  
Waterloo, IA  Catholic Worker House  

Stop by the Center for Social Concerns for an application and placement interview.. 


: '--------------------------------.-.-.-.-_-_-_-_-__-.J 
.
.
•
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
•
.
.
• 
•
.
•
.
.
•
.
. 
.
.
.
•
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
. 
.• 
•
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
. 
.
•
.
. 
: :
. 
: 
···········································r·····················································,··········•· 
( 


Senators goalle Patrick Lallme makes a save against Flyers In Game 3 of the Eastem Conference playoffs Tuesday. 
Seven seconds after the open ­ing faceoff, Minnesota's Matt Johnson and Vancouver's Brad May got into some stick play and dropped their gloves. 
The Wild had power-play goals by Filip Kuba and Marian Gaborik. but fell behind on Sedin's second-period score. 
Sedin took a pass from twin brother Henrik and tipped the puck from the slot past Dwayne Roloson's glove side to make it 3-2. 
Pascal Dupuis nearly tied it for the Wild late in the second, but his slap shot from the right circle hit the post. drawing a loud groan from the sellout crowd of 19,354, the largest crowd to watch a hockey game in Minnesota. 
Dupuis had another chance midway through the third on a breakaway with Vancouver on its sixth power play, but Cloutier made the stop with his glove . 
Conor O'Brien transformed into a Graduate! 
Congratulations! Love, Mom 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
'I =================================================================================================================================-­
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Lakers rout Wolves to take 3-2 lead in first-round series 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

The Los Ange !es Lake rs snapped back to life, with everyone from Kobe Bryant to Derek Fisher to Robert Horry to Shaquille O'Neal showing championship form. 
Bryant had 16 of his 3 2 points in the third quarter, O'Neal added 27 points, Fisher had 24 and Horry 12 Tuesday night to put the Minnesota Timberwolves on the brink of elimination with a 120-90 vic­tory. 
The Lakers lead the series 3­

2. Game 6 is Thursday in Los Angeles, with Game 7 -if it's necessary -back in Minne­apolis on Saturday. 
If the Lakers play this way again, it won't be necessary. 
Stretching a 10-point half­time lead to 21 by the end of the third quarter and to 30 late in the fourth, three-time defending champions rediscov­ered their shooting touch and their offensive flow. 
Fisher had five 3-pointers, and the Lakers -who were 12-for-23 from beyond the arc -shot 54 percent from the field. Horry, who missed his first 11 3-point attempts in this series, finally made a pair to help the Lakers overcome the loss of starting forward Rick Fox. 
The blowout was a big disap­pointment for Kevin Garnett, the rest of the Timberwolves and their 20,098 fans. 
Target Center, sold out for the first time this series, was roaring in the game's opening stages. It was nearly empty at the end. 
Garnett had 25 points and 16 rebounds for the Timberwolves, who are now one loss away from a seventh straight first-round exit. 
The Lakers are tough to beat when they get more than just a token contribution from play­ers other than O'Neal or Bryant. 
Fisher, who's had a streaky series, helped the Lakers get comfortable well before Bryant warmed up. He had all of his points in the first three quar­ters and finished 8-for-10 from the floor. 
With the Lakers starting to 

suck the life out the crowd, 
Bryant took over. 
He drove baseline midway through the third, soared above traffic, used the rim as a shield and threw down a mar­velous one-handed reverse dunk that stunned everyone who saw it and put Los Angeles up 73-55. 
Horry, who scored a total of just 18 points in the first four games, helped check a frustrat­ed Garnett on defense. 
As the Timberwolves took timeout late in the third, Garnett -fearing a substitu­tion -turned and screamed at the bench, "Don't get me! Don't get me!" 
Rasho Nesterovic had 13 points and Kendall Gill 10 for the Timberwolves. who lost the defensive intensity they had in the last three games and com­mitted 17 turnovers. The Lakers turned those miscues into 29 points. 
With Fox's postseason over because of a torn tendon in his left foot suffered in Game 4, Minneapolis native Devean George had 12 points and eight points in a starting role at small forward. 
George picked up where Fox left off defensively on Wally Szczerbiak. who had twice as many turnovers (four) in the first half as attempted shots. 
Szczerbiak finished with a series-low nine points on 3-for­7 shooting and got a few boos when he came out near the end of the game. 
With Horry also in the start­ing five, the Lakers -who shot below 40 percent in each of the past three games -had more of an offensive-minded group. 
Brian Shaw picked on Szczerbiak some too, stealing the ball from him on a trap near midcourt and getting an easy layup on the other end that gave Los Angeles a 35-26 lead early in the second. 
Troy Hudson, who scored 14 points on 5-for-11 shooting in the first half, was again silent late. 
Hudson buried back-to-back 
3-pointers during a 14-4 
Wolves run that gave them a 
brief lead, 40-39 in the second 
quarter, but he was scoreless 
in the second half after coming 
up empty in the fourth quarter 
of Game 4. 
Spurs 94, Suns 82 
The San Antonio Spurs tried 
to make sure early that the 
Phoenix Suns would have no 
chance for any more last-sec­
ond heroics, but Tuesday 
night's game still came down to 
the final minute. 
The Spurs opened a double­
digit lead in the first quarter. 
extended it to 24 by halftime 
and held off a rally to defeat 
the Suns 94-82 Tuesday night, 
taking a 3-2 lead in their best-
This Week in the Department ofMusic 
Wednesday, April 29 A Graduate Degree Recital Kui Min, piano 3 pm, Annen berg Auditorium 
Thursday, May 1 The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Daniel Stowe, director Featuring winners of the 2003 Concerto Competition 8 pm, Washington Hall 
Sunday, May 4 A Graduate Degree Recital Peter Kurdziel, organ 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Friday, May 2 
A Student Brass Ensemble 
The Quintett Energie 
2 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesb. Library 
Sunday, May 4 
A Student Recital 
Megan Sullivan, soprano 
1:30 pm, Annen berg Auditorium 
Sunday, May 4 A Graduate Degree Recital Russ Gavin, euphonium 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 


of-seven playoff series. 
The Suns, who erased big leads in both of their victories, made the second half worth watching. 
They opened the third quar­ter with a 19-5 run that trimmed San Antonio's advan­tage to 59-49, but the Spurs put together a string of baskets to restore their lead to 19 by the end of the quarter. 
Phoenix charged again in the fourth. pulling within six, 85­
79. with 1 :49 to play on a drive by Stephan Marbury. But the Spurs hit their foul shots down the stretch to secure the win. 

Malik Rose led the Spurs with 27 points and 13 rebounds. Tim Duncan added 23 points and 17 rebounds. 
Shawn Marion led the Suns with 22 points, while Penny Hardaway had 16 and Amare Stoudemire 14. Marbury fin­ished with 13 points, all of them coming in the second half. 
Game 6 will be Thursday night in Phoenix. . 
San Antonio's energetic defense took away the inside in the first half, limiting the Suns to 10 field goals in the first two periods. Marbury was O-for-7 from the field. 
Phoenix missed its first four shots before an alley-oop dunk by Marion three minutes into the game, then the Suns missed their next five attempts. 
A tip-in by Duncan gave San Antonio a 23-13 lead with a minute left in the first period, and a putback by David Robinson with 7:16 remaining in the second quarter pushed the Spurs' lead to 38-18. 
The Suns never found an offensive rhythm in the half. 
The University ofNotre Dame's The John J. Reilly Center 
for Science, Technology and Values 
Is pleased to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of 
fohn f. Reilly Scholar 
In The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/F,ngineering 
Class of 2003 
David P. Saracino Jennifer s. Spanbauer
All concerts free unless otherwise noted. 
Ca/1631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/~congoers for more info! 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 27 
The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA PLAYOFFS 
Artest scores 26 points to keep Pacers alive vs. Celtics 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Never before in an NBA play­off game had a team been held scoreless in overtime. The Indiana Pacers did it to the Celtics on Tuesday night, send­ing the series back to Boston for Game 6. 
Ron Artest had 26 points and 1 0 rebounds, making the go­ahead free throw in overtime after blocking Paul Pierce's shot at the end of regulation, as Indiana rallied to beat Boston 93-88 Tuesday night. 
History hasn't been kind to teams trailing 3-1 in the NBA playoffs. Indiana though, still has a chance. . "It's a very weak pulse. Obviously it's a little stronger," Reggie Miller said after the Pacers scored all five points in overtime. 
The Celtics still lead the series 3-2, and only six teams have come back from 3-1 deficits ­just two since 1981. 
"We should have closed it out today," said Boston's Paul Pierce. "We can't give this team any more breathing room. We took our hands off the choke hold and let them breathe a lit­tle bit." 
To advance, however, the Pacers will have to rediscover a level of sustained success that's been missing for months. Since they were 37-15 on Feb. 14, they've had only one three-game winning streak. 
"It's our turn to try and steal a win up there," Pacers coach Isiah Thomas said. "It's our last crack at it." 
Jermaine O'Neal had 19 
points and 22 rebounds, the lat­
ter a team record for a playoff 
game. 
Antoine Walker led the Celtics 
with 21 points. Tony Delk had 
19 and Pierce 16. 
"The pressure is still on them," Walker said. "They've got to play that well at our building." 
Whether fatigued or nervous, neither team got going offen­sively in overtime. Boston missed all six field goal attempts and the Pacers were 1-for-10. 
The five points by both teams were the second fewest in a playoff overtime. 
The difference came at the line, where Boston missed its only two attempts while the Pacers went 3-for-4. 
Walker missed two free throws with 1:58 left that would have snapped an 88-88 tie. 
Artest got his opportunity on the next possession when he was fouled by Eric Williams with 1 :08 left. Artest missed the first but hit the second. 
O'Neal added a baseline jumper and Artest clinched it with two free throws with 12 seconds left. 
O'Neal continued to dominate for the Pacers. He just missed his second 20-20 game of the 
Guess who turns 21 on May 14?!? 
Will your celebration end like this? 
Happy 21st Laurel! 
Love, the girls 
series and is on pace to become 
the third player to average 20 
points and 15 rebounds in a 
postseason since 1992. 
"We got Jermaine O'Neal the 
ball at the right time and the 
right space, and he made the 
right shots," said guard Tim 
Hardaway. 
It was Hardaway who gave 
the Pacers the boost they need­
ed off the bench. After playing 
only 17 minutes in two playoff 
games, he hit several clutch 
shots in the fourth. 
Hardaway tied the score at 86 on a 3-pointer with 3:40 left in regulation, and Artest followed with a left-handed layup for Indiana's first lead since the second quarter. 
Walker's basket tied it 88-88 
with 2:01 remaining, and that's 
the way it stayed until Artest's 
free throws. 
Hardaway, signed in late March after working as a televi­sion analyst, hit a 3-pointer from the top of the arc that pulled Indiana within one with 6112 minutes left. 
Pierce followed with two jumpers, but Hardaway had an answer with a runner in the lane to get it back to three. He finished with 13 points in 27 minutes, as starting point guard Jamaal Tinsley played just three minutes in the second half. 
"I thought it was a veteran's type of game where you needed his savvy out on the floor. his gamesmanship out on the floor," Thomas said. "His experience out on the floor and his shot making was timely." 
Each team missed jumpers in the final minute, and regulation ended with Artest swatting Pierce's shot out of bounds from behind. 
Artest scored 10 points in the fourth quarter as the Pacers shot 73 percent (11-for-15). 
The Pacers had squandered 16-point third quarter leads in both Garnes 1 and 4, which turned into Boston victories. They had another awful third period in Game 5, missing 13 of 17 shots. 
Pierce and J.R. Bremer closed the quarter with 3-pointers for a 71-62 lead. 
After scoring 32 points in the 


f 
l 
Reuters 

l
Reggie MIiier applauds near the end of lndlana's Game 5 victory over Boston, which the Pacers won 93-88. I 
second half of Game 4, Pierce 
wasn't a factor in the first half 
of Game 5. He took only three 
shots, and two of those were 
airballs on step-back jumpers 
against Artest. 
"It's the same stuff he's been 
doing all series," Pierce said. "I 
can't say he's got any new tricks 
or anything. He's just playing 
straight-up defense." 
Nets 89, Bucks 82 
The New Jersey Nets beat the Milwaukee Bucks at the perime­ter game, then hit their foul shots for a change Tuesday night. 
Richard Jefferson had 17 points and a career-best 16 rebounds and the Nets made 11 of 12 free throws in the final 
2:35 to beat the Bucks 89-82 for a 3·2 lead in their first-round series. 
Jason Kidd added 19 points, six rebounds and five assists and Kerry Kittles had 15 points for the defending Eastern Conference champions. The Nets can clinch the best-of­seven series by winning Thursday in Milwaukee or in New Jersey on Saturday if the Bucks force a deciding game. 
Toni Kukoc had 18 points and Sam Cassell and Gary Payton added 16 apiece for Milwaukee. 
The game had a little ugliness at the end when Cassell and Kenyon Martin, who scored just nine points in a foul-plagued night, engaged in a shoving match. 
But that's just the way the game was played. Martin's foul problems forced the Nets to use a three-guard 
1 
offense at times. It worked to 
l
perfection in the fourth quarter 
l
when Kittles hit three 3-point­l 
ers, the last for a 74-71 lead 
with 6:21 to play. 
Milwaukee got within a point 
twice down the stretch as both 
teams struggled to score. 
Desmond Mason's two free 
throws cut the Nets' lead to 76• 
75 with 3:48 to go. The next 
points weren't scored until 
Collins hit two free throws with 
2:35 left, and that started a run of six straight points from the foul line. 
New Jersey lost Game 4 in overtime because it missed nine of 13 free throws in the final four minutes. 
This time. New Jersey hit 10 straight and Kidd made a tough shot in the lane with just over a minute to go to put it away. 
The Nets went 5-for-7 and got a 3-pointer from Lucious Harris in an 8-2 run late in the third quarter to take a 61-57. 
However, New Jersey squan­dered the lead in the final 3. 7 seconds, allowing Payton to score on a layup and sending Michael Redd to the foul line for two shots after a turnover on the inbounds play. 
Despite hitting one of their first 11 shots and having Martin pick up three fouls and only five points. the Nets led 44-38 at the half. 
The key for New Jersey was using the small lineup, which not only scored but did an out­standing job playing perimeter defense. Kidd and fellow guards Harris and Kittles were joined on the floor by Jefferson and center Jason Collins. 

Ho'Boy... 
Happy early 21" to Stevie Mci'ondle and O.Townf Wish we could be there 
Love, the Sohoes 
-

a 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS LACROSSE 

Shearer wins award after outstanding week 
. Senior awarded after tallying 13 points last week 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame womens lacrosse standout, Danielle Shearer, capped one of the best weeks of her brilliant Irish lacrosse career by cap­turing two weekly honors. Shearer was named Warrior/Inside Lacrosse Player of the Week and she was also honored by the Big East Conference as its Co-Offensive Player of the Week along with Georgetown's Wick Stanwick. The Irish All-American and Tewaarton Trophy candidate racked up 13 points (nine goals and four assists) in three Notre Dame victories on the week. For good measure, she record­ed eight ground balls, three caused turnovers and six draw controls in the three-game span. 
On Sunday, in her final home game at Moose Krause Stadium, Shearer paced the Irish to a 13-6 Big East win by scoring six goals and one assist for the third seven-point game of her career. Her second goal of the game, which came in the first half, made her Notre Dame's all-time leading goal scorer as she passed 2001 graduate Lael O'Shaughnessy's mark of 122 career goals. She finished the day with 127 career goals. Her seventh point of the game, a second-half assist on a Crysti Foote goal, allowed her to pass O'Shaughnessy's all-time point total of 190. Shearer goes into her final game versus Vanderbilt on Friday. May 2 with 191 career points. 
Shearer started the week with a three-goal, one-assist effort on April 22 in Notre Dame's 18-6 win at home ver­sus Davidson. She followed that with two assists in a 13-9 win over Northwestern, a game in which she was double and triple-teamed most of the afternoon. The Northwestern game marked the first time all season that Shearer failed to get in the goal-scoring column. 
With points in all three games, the senior midfielder extended her current scoring streak to 35 games, a streak that started on April 25, 2001 during her sophomore year. In those 35 games, Shearer has recorded 82 goals and 49 assists for 131 points. 
On the season, Shearer leads the Irish in scoring with 32 goals and 24 assists for 56 points in 14 games. 


She is tied for the Big East lead in overall scoring and won the league's scoring champi­onship in conference games with 32 points. 
Foote Named Rookie Of The Week 
Notre Dame womens lacrosse freshman. Crysti Foote, has been selected as wornenslacrosse.com's Rookie of the Week for the week end­ing April 27th. 
Foote helped the Irish to three consecutive wins on the week by scoring eight goals and adding six assists for 14 points in the three games. She added three ground balls and­played soid throughout the contest. 
l NO WOMENS BASKETBALL 
l 
La Vere earns Freshman All-American horlors 



J 
'i 
'/ 
and Virginia Tech 's Carrie high 23 points on two occa­
Special to The Observer 

Mason also were accorded sions. In addition, she posted 
Freshman All-America status. five doubles-doubles, three of 
Notre Dame freshman for­La Vere turned in an impres­which came against ranked ward Courtney LaVere has sive freshman season at Notre opponents. been named to the 2003 Dame, finishing second on the Lavere finished with 398 Freshman All-America Team team in scoring (12.4 points points this season, the fourth­by Women's College per game). rebounding (5 .6 highest total ever by an Irish Hoops.corn, the Web site rebounds per game) and field freshman, and her 180 announced Tuesday. goal percentage (.486). and rebounds ranked sixth all­
LaVere was a third-team ranking 19th and 20th in the time among Notre Dame selection and was one of five Big East in the first two cate­freshmen. Big East Conference players gories. For her efforts, she earned to be chosen for the squad. She also scored in double a spot on the Big East All­Connecticut's Ann Strother figures 21 times and had a Rookie Team and picked up and Barbara Turner, along team-high five 20-point conference rookie of the week with Miami's Tamara James games, including a season-honors March 3. 
Free Haircut 
by licensed cosmetologist models needed for training program at 
A&ria Salon 
(574)289-5080 1357 N. IRON-WOOD DR. South Bend:, IN 46615 
Call for appointtn.ent 
... 

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 page 29 
The Observer . SPORTS 

KENTUCKY DERBY 
Empire bruises foot, Baffert's Kafwain out of Derby 

WIMBLEDON 
Players won't have to bow for Duke of Kent anymore 
Associated Press 
WIMBLEDON, England 

One of Wimbledon's most enduring traditions is finished -players will no longer have to bow or curtsy to the Royal Box at Centre Court. 
But while one custom fell Tuesday. the All England Club 
7 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
"MAY MOVE OUT '03" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10AM -5PM FLANNER CIRCLE 
Monday, May 5th -Saturday, May 10th Thursday, May 15 -Saturda}', May 17th Monday, May 19th 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May 10th 
WELSli FAMILY HALL 
10-5 pm Monday -Saturday May 5th -10th 
IN THE LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL 
Wednesday, May 7th -Friday, May 9th Friday, May 16th 


confirmed that another will remain: Men will be paid more than women. 
Players have been required to bow or curtsy to the royal fami­ly when walking onto or leaving Centre Court. From now on 
·they will have to do so only if Queen Elizabeth II or Prince Charles, her eldest son and heir to the throne, is in the box. 
The queen hasn't attended Wimbledon since 1977 when she presented the women's tro­phy to Virginia Wade. Prince Charles made his only appear­ance in 1970. 
The decision to scrap the tra­dition was made at the request of the Duke of Kent, who has been the All England Club's president since 1969. He and his wife, the Duchess of Kent, attend frequently each year and present the winners' trophies. 

"It's been part of a discussion that's been going on for some time," All England chief execu­tive Christopher Gorringe said. "It's sad, but we have to move 
t 

Free bruschetta with ad, except for graduation weekend 
Francesco's needs servers 
on. We know there is very little bowing or curtsying done in royal circles now." 
Meanwhile, the Wimbledon prize money gap will continue at this year's tournament. which runs from June 23 to July 6. 
The men's winner will receive $914,250 and the women's champion will get $850,650. Lleyton Hewitt received $834,750 for winning last year while Serena Williams earned $772,740. 
Total prize money for the grass-court tournament is going up 6.2 percent to $14.9 million. 
Overall prize money for both sexes is up 6.8 percent to $7.4 million for men and $6.3 mil­lion for women. 
Wimbledon and the French Open give more money to the men. The two other Grand Slam tournaments, the U.S. Open and Australian Open, pay equal prize money. 
All England Club chairman Tim Phillips reiterated Wimbledon's position that the money split is "fair." 
WTA chief executive Larry Scott said he was disappointed Wimbledon again "failed to address the long-standing inequity between men's and women's prize money." 
Am118tsee: 

Furnished efficiency apt. Lower level of my home. Separate bathroom. Close to Notre Dame and shopping. Off Grape Rd $350 all utilities paid. Must pay for own phone. 
Call 259-3445 

Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE. Ky. 

Looks as if the Derby Jinx might have struck early this year. Looks as if Bob Baffert will need all the luck he can get. 
Favorite Empire Maker has a bruised foot, a minor injury that could change the outlook for Saturday's race. Trainer Bobby Frankel said his star colt will still run, but the odds could change dramatically when entries are taken Wednesday. 
Until the bruise on Empire Maker's right front foot was dis­closed Tuesday, Churchill Downs oddsmaker Mike Battaglia was set to install Empire Maker as the strong 6-5 favorite. 
"Now I'll go by what Bobby says," Battaglia: said. "If he says it's nothing to worry about, he'll stay there. If he says he'll run but there are some concerns, then I'll raise the line. 
"And if he says he's out, I'll have to change everything." 
Baffert might be changing a few things now that Kafwain is out with a strained ligament in his right front leg following a workout. The colt won four of 11 starts and was third in the Santa Anita Derby on April 5, his last race. 
That leaves Baffert, who won his third Derby with War Emblem last year, with one Derby starter -long shot Indian Express 
"At least I've got the Panamanian youth." he said, referring to Indian Express win­ning his first two starts in Panama. 
Baffert's top Derby prospect is long gone. His 2-year-old cham­pion Vindication was knocked off the trail in February with an injury. 
The Derby Jinx appeared in Frankel's barn four days before a race that has been unkind to favorites since 1980. 
Still. he was upbeat. 
"You can never be 100 percent sure in this business, but I'd say I'm 98 percent sure he'll be all right." said Frankel, who also trains Derby contender Peace Rules. "But it's the Derby, you know, so what are you going·to do." 
After Spectacular Bid won as the .60-1 favorite in 1979, only one other favorite -Fusaichi Pegasus at 2.30-1 in 2000 -has returned to the winner's circle. 
In 1992, favorite A.P. Indy was scratched early on race day with a bruised foot. In 1996, Unbridled's Song finished fifth as the 3.50-1 favorite after being fitted with a special shoe to pro­tect a bruised foot. 
After Empire Maker completed his final Derby workout Monday, Frankel said the most dangerous work was finished. 
But on Tuesday morning. after returning from a 1-mile jog with Peace Rules, the colt's injury was discovered. That's when Frankel asked Dr. Ken Reed to take a look at Empire Maker. 
"My vet doesn't think it's a problem," said the Hall of Fame trainer, looking for his first Derby win. "He recommended I walk him another day. He thinks that will take care of it." 
Empire Maker moved to the head of the 3-year-old class after convincing wins in the Florida Derby and Wood Memorial. The trainer said the injury occurred following an earlier bruise to the same foot in the Wood at Aqueduct on April 12, a race run on a track drying out after a day of rain. 
The bruise is under Empire Maker's shoe, part of which was filed away by a farrier so the foot could be soaked in hot water and Epsom salts. By Wednesday morning, Frankel will have a better idea of the colt's status. 

With Empire Maker nicked and Kafwain out, trainer Tom Amoss said he will enter Lone Star Sky in the Derby...After those developments, we decided to drop him in," Amoss said. 
Baffert also said he will run Senor Swinger in Friday's Crown Royal American Turf. "He's not ready for the Derby," Baffert 
Dame for 25 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine fromCalabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Tuesday-Thursday 

Make your reservations now for 
5:00 to 9:00 

graduation!
Friday & Saturday 5:00 to 10:00 

Full bar available 

said. 

The field could total 17 when entries are taken Wednesday. The tentative field includes Atswhatimtalknbout, Brancusi, Buddy Gil, Domestic Dispute, Empire Maker. Funny Cide, Indian Express, Lone Star Sky, Offlee Wild, Outta Here, Peace Rules, Scrimshaw, Sir Cherokee, Supah Blitz, Ten Cents a Shine and Ten Most Wanted. 
Eye of the Tiger is still under consideration. 


page 30 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, April 30, 2003 


i I 
.I,, 
I 
I 
~ 

mll@lllf!~ii ~!i•i•Jl@Ut •• ::1;,~0:1:Jt/ 
¦!J!\ilf.,Ifi:f\Il" llrlBl!i!J 


I 
i 
l around the dial 
I 
i 
NBA BASKETBALL Hornets at 76ers 5 p.m., TNT Trailblazers at Mavericks 7:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL HOCKEY 
Devils at Lightning 6 p.rn., ESPN Stars at Mighty Ducks 9 p.m., ESPN 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Athletics at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH Cubs at Giants 9 p.m., ESPN2 
KENTUCKY DERBY 


track and released. When ommended that Baffert ningest rider on Dec. 10,
Associated Press 

the pain persisted, he was purchase will be ridden by 1999, when he rode Irish 
examined by doctors, who 20-year-old Tyler Baze in Nip to victory at Hollywood 
LOUISVILLE, Kent. found two breaks in the his first Derby mount. Park. His 8,834th win was 
Hall of Fame jockey same bone in his neck. He Pincay's 39-year career one more than the record Laffit Pincay Jr. retired had been wearing a halo includes election to rac­set by Bill Shoemaker. Tuesday after breaking his brace to heal the breaks. ing·s· Hall of Fame in 1975, Pincay broke the cervical neck in a spill in March, However, doctors a 1984 Kentucky Derby 2 bone in his neck, one of ending a career in which advised Pincay that his victory, three Belmont the uppermost seven ver­he won a record 9,530 spine is not sufficiently Stakes victories. five tebrae of the spine. races. stable to allow him to ride, Eclipse Awards, and His family. including wife 
Pincay, 56, was severely said Hollywood Park mounts on such great Jeanine and his two grown injured in a turf race spokesman Mike Mooney, horses as Affirmed and children Lisa and Laffit III, March 1 when another who announced Pincay's John Henry. had urged him to retire horse that was ultimately decision. Pincay was second in the after the accident. Pincaydisqualified swung wide Pincay was supposed to Santa Anita jockeys' stand­also has a 6-year-old son, into the stretch, knocked be in Louisville for ings with 52 victories Jean-Laffit. Pincay off his mount and Saturday's Kentucky Derby when he got hurt. He was "The doctor recommend­rolled on him. to ride Indian Express for winning at better than a ed that I never ride again," 
At the time, the injury trainer Bob Baffert. The 21 percent clip -highest Pincay said in a statement. didn't appear serious and injury changed those plans among the track's riders. "It's a very sad day for Pincay was treated at the and the horse Pincay rec-He became racing's win-myself and Jeanine." 
IN BRIEF 
Jeter will return in 2-3 
weeks 
Derek Jeter has seen enough of Florida and the New York Yankees' spring training complex. 
"I'm sick of Tampa," he said Tuesday after meeting with the team's medical staff. "I love Tampa -I live there in the offseason, but I'm ready to get out." 
Jeter, who dislocated his left shoul­der in the season opener. hopes to rejoin the Yankees by May 13, when they return from the West Coast and start a series against the World Series champion Anaheim Angels. 
He started swinging off a tee Monday and hopes to take batting practice this weekend. 
"If everything goes well, I'd like to play in some minor league games next week," the five-time All-Star said during a pregame news confer­ence at Yankee Stadium, a towel draped over his right (healthy) shoulder. 
New York wants its shortstop to go slowly with his recovery, preferring he be completely healed before he returns. Yankees manager Joe Torre already anticipates that Jeter will say he's ready to play before the medical staff clears him. 

"Two-to-three weeks is realistic, as long as he doesn't have any set­backs," Torre said. 
Kings' Jackson named Sixth 
Man of the Year 
Sacramento Kings guard Bobby Jackson won the NBA's Sixth Man of the Year award Tuesday. 
Jackson, the Kings' offensive spark plug, is just the second point guard to win the award, joining Orlando's Darrell Armstrong in 1999. 
After finishing second in the ballot­ing last season behind Detroit's Corliss Williamson, Jackson received 52 of the 118 first-place votes from a panel of broadcasters and journal­ists. 
"It's a great honor," Jackson said. "There are a lot of great athletes out there. It says a lot about this team. I could not have done it without them. 
"We've got guys on this team who deserve a lot of awards, but our real focus is on winning an NBA champi­onship." 
Jackson got 362 points in the vot­ing. Milwaukee shooting guard Michael Redd finished second with 
257. and Utah forward Andrei Kirilenko was third with 127. 
Jackson was the Kings' fourth­leading scorer, averaging a career­best 15 .2 points for the two-time Pacific Division champions. He also recorded career bests in shooting percentage (46.4), free throw per­centage (84.6) and 3-point percent­age {37.9). 
But Jackson's season was hardly a typical one for a sixth man. 
He started 26 games for the Kings last fall while Mike Bibby missed the first seven weeks with a foot injury -but after a collision with Shaquille O'Neal on Christmas, Jackson missed the Kings' next 20 games. 
-


=w. -----------~-Ti-=-'h_e_O_:_:bserver . S_P_O_R_T_S_~____________________p_a_ge_3_1
=e=d=ne=s=da=y=,A=p=r=il=3=0=,=2=00=3=====--:__-_-:_-:_-_-_-_-_--_-_-_____________ 


NFL 
Smith charged with DUI 
Associated Press 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. 

Bruce Smith was charged with driving under the influ­ence of alcohol after being stopped for speeding. 
The Washington Redskins' defensive end was ticketed 
You can have it all: 
No minimum balance requirement No monthly service fee No per-check charge 
early Sunday for going 61 mph in a 45 mph zone and charged with DUI, police spokesman Mike Carey said. 
Lawrence Cardon, Smith's attorney, said Smith's blood­alcohol breath test registered 
0.07. below the state legal limit of 0.08. Still, state law allows for DUI citations in 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
I-ff£,~A-1,ndependentofthe University 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
such cases if the arresting offi­cer finds other evidence of impairment. 
"I think that after the evi­dence all comes out, this thing will be dismissed," Cardon said. 'He was very cooperative ... he's just a nice guy." 
Smith was released on a personal recognizance bond. 

No surchargeATMs on campus 
Plus, nine (9) convenientATMs on campus, and a full-service branch in La Fortune Student Center! 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bowden's son pleads guilty to money crime 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

A son of Florida State foot­ball coach Bobby Bowden pleaded guilty Tuesday to swindling millions from 
investors -including his 
father. 
Steve Bowden admitted 
conspiring with former 
Alabama quarterback Brian 
Burgdorf in a scheme that 
prosecutors say defrauded 
investors of $10 million. 
The scam involved selling 
unregistered securities 
through The Millennium 
Fund, which billed itself as 
being for "the privileged 
few." Assistant U.S. Attorney 
Adolph Dean said Steve 
Bowden brought in his 
father and three other 
investors, who lost a total of 
$4.4 million. Bobby Bowden 
invested $1.6 million, Dean 
said. 
Steve Bowden pleaded 
guilty to conspiring to sell 
unregistered securities. A 
second man. James Michael 
Hanks of Hoover, pleaded 
guilty to conspiracy and tax 
charges during a hearing 
before U.S. District Judge 
Karon 0. Bowdre. 
Burgdorf, who was a cap­tain at Alabama as a senior in 1995, intends to plead guilty during a hearing Friday, said his attorney. Ron Marlow. He didn't say what charges would be involved. 
Prosecutors will recom­mend a sentence of one to two years in prison for Hanks and probation for Bowden, Dean said. Bowdre set sentencing for July 30. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

·----------~ ----·~ 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
-


In wake of SARS, $1 ticket special sells out Jays game 
The tickets sold for $1 The U.S. ambassador to
Associated Press 

Canadian, which is worth 69 Canada, Paul Cellucci, will TORONTO cents in U.S. currency. A crowd throw out the ceremonial first 
The Blue Jays sold out of 48,097 turned out -the pitch Tuesday. Tuesday night's game against largest since opening day. Cellucci said Toronto's SARS the Texas Rangers after offer­Fans bought tickets at a rate outbreak has been overblown, ing $1 tickets in an effort to of about 2,000 an hour and and it's safe to visit the city. show Toronto remains vibrant SkyDome was sold out late While some visiting players despite SARS. Monday night. About 34,000 have been nervous about trav­
The sellout was announced tickets were bought for the eling to Toronto, fans haven't before the World Health reduced price. The 16,000 fans been reluctant. For their three-Organization lifted its warning who paid full price will be able . game series against Kansas against nonessential travel to to buy a $1 ticket for a later City, the Blue Jays drew 16,417 Toronto, saying it was satisfied game. spectators Friday, 17.197 on with local measures to stop the With the average Blue Jays Saturday and 17,059 on spread of severe acute respira­ticket about $14 in American Sunday, their second-, third­tory syndrome. dollars, the move is costing and fourth-biggest crowds this 
The Blue Jays' parent compa­Rogers roughly $484,000. season. ny, Rogers Communications "This is an opportunity to say Godfrey estimated SABS Inc., said it wants to "bring the 'Look we're all right, we're a already has cost the club the community together at vibrant, safe and healthy city,'" sale of 10,000 tickets anJ said 
Fans watch a game In Toronto between the Blue Jays and SkyDome ... to show its support Blue Jays president Paul inquiries for group sa!Ps have 
Royals April 25. for the city of Toronto." Godfrey said. dropped substantially. 

The Departme:n_t ofAmericar1 St1-1dies 
would like to recognize our senior award winners: 
The Hugh O'Donnell Award for outstanding academic achievement: 
:K.athryn Anderson .Jessica Dau.es Amanda IIorvat:h 
The J. Sinnot :M:eyer Award for outstanding serv1ce to the community~ 
:K.athleen Van. Tiem 
,. 
The James E. :M:urphy Award for exception.al journalism: 
Sarah Childress 
The Paul Neville Award for excellence in.journalism: 
:K.at:herine Nagengast 
The Professor James Withey Award for notable achievement in writing: 
Jessica Danes 
* *C:ongratulations on your outstanding achievementsI** 
page 33

Wednesday, April 30, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 36 
in a big way with a single to left center field that plated two DePaul runs and sent the game into extra innings. 
Relief pitcher Carrie Wisen would enter the game to replace Booth and would pitch well before allowing the winning run in the ninth, when Katy Kukman singled to drive in Saskia Roberson and give the Blue Demons their 40th win on the year. 
Lindsay Chouinard pitched the entire game for the Blue Demons and col­lected the win, improving to 26-4 on the year. 
The second game of the doubleheader was cancelled due to rain and time con­straints. 
Notre Dame returns home to face Villanova in a key Big East doubleheader this Friday. First pitch is sched­uled for 4 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Best 
continued from page 36 
the player who shoots the most and makes the least. 
John Barnes of HBC was awarded the Iron Man Award after suffering an ankle injury in RBC's upset of defending champion and top seed AdWorks in their quarterfinal match. 
On the first team was NDToday.com's and mens bas­ketball team walk-on Dan Lustig, Steve Lickus of We Get Wet, Ben Nichol of 1/2 Man. 1/2 Amazing, Irvin Jones of Team Irvin Jones and Tommy Walz from La-Z-Boy. 
"It's a nice honor to be rec­ognized by the commissioners as some of the top basketball players on campus," Walz said. 
The second team consisted of NDToday.com's Jim Kilroy, RBC's Jeff Wiltraut, We Get Wet's Greg Bosl, Daniel Spoon of Pound it Out and Dan Surrett from A lot of White and One Black Knight 
Pogie Pogonis from 5 Jamonies, RBC's Jon Joyce, 
Brian Rush of NDToday.com, Future Welfare Recipients' Mike McGinn and Pykosz from 
S.P. Shockers III comprised the third team. 
Making the all-Ty Team. or the top football players com­peting in the tournament, were Courtney Watson, Jerome Collins, Carlyle Holidav, Scott Raridon, Pat Nally,· Anthony Fasasno, Ronnie Rod amer, Rhem a McNight, Tim O'Neill, Justin Tuck and Brian Mattes. 
With over 500 teams com­peting every year the tradition of Bookstore Basketball runs deep at Notre Dame and Walz knows how much it means to the campus community. 
"You get to see all the varsi­ty athletes to see how they compete, and I think it's great to compete and to see people cheering for you or against you out there," Walz said. "It's something that only Notre Dame has, and the tradition is just growing and other schools can't say they have it." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Turn BackThe Clock Night 
Discounted Tickets and Concessions FREE Vanilla Coke Sampling Elvis Will Be IN The Buildin ... Much, Much More! 
BMW C•rtlfled 
p,..Qwn•d 
Certified n1over 
t,my,110,11.,,r,m UJ(.1(1. 3-14-41:1 MW 
Certified shaker Certified no more mac & cheese Certified acceleration Certified rush Certified freedon1 Certified bring it on Certified Pre-Owned BMW 

ltTIIIJIPJll1TlilillilJii 1Jli1S:111f111111111111111111T
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 

=Certified Prc ..owncd = 
Get warranty protection• up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get flexible leasing ~_ed financing options. Get pure BMW. rrr .. ::r·• a,_, ar.,w rrr TTr.. : 
search up-to-date, extensive inventory at bmwusa.com 

'P,otoclion Pl1111 provldos c:ovornqo Im up lo 2 Y<xus or f>O,(X)O milos (w11k:hov11r comos llrsl) from lho dato ol lllo oxplmllon of tho 4 y<mr/!iO,O(Xl 111lk1 llMW Now \A1hk;lo I lmHo<f W11mm.y. &. i, pH1lldpnllnn IIMW 1»1ssononr <:HI cor1tor for <lu!Hlls. f"m mom lnlorrrittlion. cttll I-R<Xl-:\34-4IIMW, or vlsll b111wus1t.com ©2(X)3 flMW ol Norlh Amofk:11, LLC. lho llMW namo 1mcl louo 11m ms,lslorod tr11dorm11ks. 


page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
BASEBALL 
It's test time for the Irish 
The biggest test for the Irish baseball team isn't in Finance or Biology next week. It's against Rutgers and West Virginia. 
Sure the players have to study for exams dur­ing the next several days. And there's that 

game Joe Hettler 
against Oakland tonight at Frank Eck Sports Editor Stadium. 
But there will be no greater test for this club than when they face the Scarlet Knights and Mountaineers over the next two weekends. 
If Notre Dame hopes to return to Omaha, Neb .. and the College World Series, their quest begins here. Forget those first 44 games. They don't mean much now -not if the Irish can't knock off the second-and third­place teams in the Big East standings. At 13-3 and 12-3, Rutgers and West Virginia sit just a half-game and a game back, respectively, of the first­place Irish. And both teams would like nothing more than to upend the top dog in the confer­ence in the next few days. 
How will Notre Dame respond to these challenges? It's tough to tell. Last weekend. the Irish swept Connecticut in a three-
game series that coach Paul 
Mainieri said was "critical" for 
his team. 
But the Huskies are having a 
down year at only 19-20 and 7­
12 in the Big East. 
It'll be interesting to see how 
Notre Dame's freshmen 
respond to the heightened 
pressure that accompanies 
these big games. How these 
youngsters handle that pres­
sure may be the difference 
between a Big East 
Championship and third place. 
"These players know that 
every game is crucial at this 
point," Mainieri said, following his team's 8-4 loss to Michigan Tuesday night. "There's not time to let up, and each kid has to find out how to play his best because this is pressure time, with pressure games." 
Another looming question is whether Mainieri can dig deep enough into his pitching staff to win a three-game series against teams like Rutgers and West Virginia. Starter Pete Ogilvie is still playing catch up since suf­fering from a sore shoulder. Grant Johnson won't pitch at all this season because of shoulder surgery in the off-season. That leaves the Irish staff with three consistent starters in Chris Niesel. John Axford and Ryan Kalita, but no real strong guy backing them up. It'll be key for those three to take the staff on their shoulders and carry them through these tough games. 
Last year, Notre Dame won nearly every key series through­out the season and was virtually unstoppable down the stretch. But that squad was led by numerous seniors. The 2003 Irish have only a few older guys. with most players being fresh­man or sophomores. 
Will this inexperience make a difference? Irish fans will know by the end of next week. 
Notre Dame's had 44 games to prepare for next week. It doesn't get any easier after that 
.. either. They still have a tough series at Virginia Tech. Then there's the Big East Tourney. Then, if they make it, the regionals. And super regionals. If they pass all of those tests. Notre Dame will be back in the College World Series with a chance at a national title. But first, they need to beat West Virginia and Rutgers. Those are their first two tests, and they're big ones. Just ask Mainieri. "We're going to really sepa­rate the men from the boys," he said. The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Loss 
continued from page 36 
Jones yielded a hit, a stolen base and another hit to begin the fifth, pushing Michigan's edge to 5-0. Fox then doubled to put runners on second and third. Jones retired the next Wolverine before being yanked for reliever Matt Laird, who gave up an RBI hit and a sacrifice fly before retiring the third out in the inning. 
Notre Dame fought back in the sixth inning, scoring three times, thanks to RBI singles from short­stop Matt Macri, right fielder Cody Rizzo and designated hitter Matt Bransfield. Macri led the Irish at the platewith three hits. two runs scored and an RBI in the game. 
But the Irish could never recover from the seven-run deficit. 
"We dug ourselves a hole and couldn't get out of it," Mainieri said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettlcr@nd.edu 





lease end, lessee wiR be liable for a disposition fee, a-r.; E!l(Cess wear and use as set forth in the lease agreement and excess mileage charges of $.20 per mile for miles dril,,:?n in =s or 30,000 miles per yea. Puchase option at lease end for era-nple shown is $17,667, e,cduding I.ales. As.sholM:!:...325twith optional Sport Package. Xenon headlights and metallic o,mt bas a MSBP at $3J 070 (ioch mig de5tioatioo and baodling charges) with.O'JOOlblv lease pavrneollul1$14 5.00 for_ 36 months (total lease payments of $12/120). $3195 due at lease 50)iog nc.iIdes first roooltd¥ payrrmt ::;«1101)1 deposit and dawn pavmentl. Lessee acqures no <1M'lefShp 111terest unless puchase option is exercised. See P1)1JCipating 8MIN centers for detais and vehicle availability. Specific vehicles ;,a subject to availability and may have to be ordered. See pa,ticipating center for details. Fun Mamtenance c=all factory-recommended maintenance, as determined by the Service Level Indicator, for 4 years or 50,000 miles, v.klichever comes first See the Sctvice and Wananty lnformatoo
$ 300 Security deposit 

booklet for more details. Obey all traffic laws. For more information, call 1 -800-334-4BMW, or v;sit bmwusa.COlll 
J 
College Grad Program: offer applicable on all neN and CPO cars (3 model years or newer), with a maximum advance of $35,000 plus ac:quisition, registration, tax, title and license
$3,099 Cashdueatsigning
mo. J36months** 

fees or 80% of standard CPO aclvci1ce (whichtM?r is tov.,.er). Applicants must have a COP'; of diploma or gradoatoo certific-,ale, prcMng graduation frorn ao accredited II-year under­grcrl.Jate or a graduate program y,;ttwn the last 12 months. Also required: a letter from a current or prospective employer stating position, title and current or prospectivP. salary. All applications st-.oud state "College G-ad Program· All appn:Mlls conditioned on school and employer verification. ©2003 BMW of North Americ-..a. 1-7LLC. TI1e BMW name and . 
are registered trademarks. . 

.JI 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 35 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
~~,£,C,of?6... ACT
Hf{i1)-:JiVG. ro HR,¼t2.)t-1tfL,,-H~) BLANk.LY J.IR.ij't-.6} s1£1::p... NE"~~rTi:.sr 
gcANDALI-Z:E D
!?OM~ ·n..\N~~ ASK=Wti#Ar s-rn~ AT eoo1< (DVlOCPERroo1CALLY) (p,ec1:. Of cAk::G) 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
Boooorffng. 
I thought he'd 
Not qufte sure how And GOd willing, a pleasant memory 
never finish,Ifeel about it. really; for all that have or will ever enjoy it­
honestty.
I
but Happy Town's 
Was any of it
done now. This is it 
actually suppo&ed to make sense? 
I 
utifs not 
I I doubt it. 
ally over. 
Q n• 
l } ·,, [ .. ?1() 
lktr''
1 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. 

:: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 Hoarse speech 65 Kind of bust 
1 Winter coating 39 Chips go-with 66 File material 
5 Big hit 40 "_la vie" 67 Noted vaudeville
1oBook before 41 Internet family
Nehemiah address, for short
14 Just 42 Get together DOWN
15 Phone line? 43 Desert sight 
16 Sweet-talk 1 Cowboy's companion
44 Locate
17 Tim of "Sister, Sister" 2 Wee hour 
cookware components?
18 How some 3 Breathing47 Namely
stocks are sold 4 Coveted golf 
19 lnthe_ 48"_Woman" trophy 
(focused) ( 1972 Eagles 5 Tonsorial
hit)
20 Rescue Mrs. touchups Peron's pottery? 52 Misplace single fruit? 
6 Introduction to 23 Come out physics?57 Cheek
24 Screen letters 7 Skier's mecca 60 Give off 28 Fill roles for a 8 Pole, for one 
Broadway 61 Stately florae 9 Round dance 
show? 
62 Hand cream 33 It's hot in Paris ingredient 1oSkin condition 
Puzzle by Alan Art>ufeld 36 Derby prize 63 Steam, e.g. 11 Vet's employer 
34 Silent movie 45 Farm machine 54 Physical, e.g.
.
37"Mamma_ 64 Unfetter 12 Turned tail star? 
55 Movie extra, in
46 Hooter's 13 Fire brief
35 Do _burn hangout 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 21 "Yikes!" 
56 Reason to
39_-cone 49 Mild smoke bathe22 Cong. meeting 40 Lets go 50 Contrived 57 Short punch 
42 Engaged in 51 Toadies' replies 58 Motivation for 26 "Who's there?" 
Manolete 
rasponse 43 Taylor boy of 53 Golfer 60's TV Ballesteros 59 Distress
27 Future attys.' hurdles For answers, call ,1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
29 Albinism, e.g. 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. 30 Unitas's team 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00032 Gunpowder, for 
one past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 33 Pizza feature nytimes.com/teaming/xwords . 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $5 5 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_____ ­
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Willie Nelson. Jill Clayburgh. Kirsten Dunst, Jeff Timmons Happy Birthday: If you have been spending too much time with people with whom you have no common interests, make some changes. If you don't satisfy your need for mental stimulation, it is unlikely you will make much progress this year. It's up to you to make the changes required. Your numbers are 11, 18, 23, 27, 41. 44 ARJES (March 21-April 19): Don't push your beliefs and attitudes unless you're prepared to deal with extreme opposition. Do your own thing and allow others the same privilege.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you are stubborn you can expect to experience a backlash. Emotional confrontations will develop into a loss of trust or loyalty. Listen --don't retaliate. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be generous and giving, but you must not let others put too many demands on you. You may discover it pays to rub elbows with people who can help you get ahead. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Things will be a little difficult today if you are intent on sticking your nose in everyone's business. Put your energy into something worthwhile. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There won't be enough hours in the day to do all the things that you have on your agenda. Choose wisely. Mingle with people who have something to offer. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Money matters may be on your mind today. Focus on how to make your money grow or put it into something worthwhile, like your home or a personal investment. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may not like the dishannony going on in your personal life today, but the end result will be to your benefit. Concentrate on where you can make a difference and how you can help others. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be able to take control of your life today if you are quick to do what is necessary financially, physically and professionally. Take the initiative and make the moves. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put some of your ideas down on paper or run them by someone who may be interested in helping you further your dreams. You can make personal changes that will enhance your body, mind 
and soul.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may e1Cperience some harsh realities on the home front. Don't be surprised if someone you thought adored you is not as happy as you thought. You may have to make some quick changes. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Business or emotional partnerships will be spectacular today. Be open and willing to share your thoughts with others.**** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on what you have and what you want. If the two don't match up, you may have to make some changes. Don't be so 
sensitive that you keep giving in to everyone around you at your own expense. **** Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, caring and dedicated to whatever cause 
you believe in. You will not back down, but will stand by your word and live up to your promises. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, 
wnetwork.com. 

r.OPYRICTHT200l l!NIVERSAL PRE~S SYNOIC:ATF. 
...... 



BASEBALL 

I. 
! 
./ 


Wednesday, April 30, 2003 


Just not enough 
. Irish fail to convert chances in 8-4 loss 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Pete Ogilvie didn't pitch well Tuesday against Michigan, but his teammates didn't help him much either. 
Michigan used a strong pitch­ing performance from starter Drew Taylor (5-1) and two RBIs each from Brock Koman, Jake Fox and Matt Butler to upset Notre Dame 8-4 at Fifth Third Ballpark in Comstock, Mich. 
Ogilvie struggled through three innings of work, giving up four earned runs, walking four and hitting a batter. It was Ogilvie's second start since his being out of the rotation for sev­eral weeks with a sore shoulder. 
"It wasn't one of Peter's best games," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "His control prob­lems were his demise and that's just not [characteristic] of him." 
Tyler Jones relived Ogilvie in the fourth and allowed three earned runs on four hits in just 1 1/3 innings of work. 
Notre Dame's bats couldn't bail their pitchers out either, 
failing to knock in runs at crucial 
points throughout the game. 

Catcher Javi Sanchez left a runner on second in the fifth when he grounded out to the Michigan second baseman. Third baseman Greg Lopez struck out with men on first and second in the sixth after the Irish had cut the Wolverine lead to 7­
3. 

With one out in the seventh, the Big East's leading HBI pro­ducer, Irish first baseman Matt Edwards, went down swinging with one out and second base­man Steve Sollmann on third. Notre Dame's cleanup hitter, centerfielder Kris Billmaier, ended the inning by popping up to first base. 
"We had our chances, but didn't get enough guys to come through," Mainieri said. "We had guys get one good at-bat, when we needed two good at­bats." 
The Wolverines jumped on the Irish early, scoring a pair of runs in the third and fourth innings before adding three more in the fifth. 
After Ogilvie walked the first two batters in the fourth inning, Jones entered the game and induced a fly out before giving up a two-run double to Butler. 
see LOSS/page 34 

SOFTBALL 

Irish fail to hold off No. 6 Demons 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 

i} ; 
Sports Writer 

,i.j
I 
! 
I I Notre Dame camt, up just 
i I short in their chance at
I I revenge against No. 6 DePaul, losing 4-3 in nine innings. The Blue Demons had defeated the Irish 11-2 back on March 14, the largest losing margin so far this season for the Irish. 

Leading 3-1 going into the bottom of the seventh, the Irish were unable to hold the lead and the Blue Demons scored twice to send the game into extra innings. 
DePaul was able to win the game in the ninth with an RBI single, spoiling the Irish upset bid. 
The Blue Demons improved their home record to 14-0, but the Irish provided perhaps the toughest challenge to that unblemished mark that DePaul has faced this year. 
It was DePaul who leapt out to the early lead in the bottom of the third inning, when Dana Kerney hit a double and advanced to third on a sacri­fice bunt before stealing home. 

The Irish would come back to tie the game at a run apiece in the top of the fourth inning. Shortstop Andria Bledsoe dou­bled to knock in third base­man Andrea Loman for the first Irish run of the game. 
Notre Dame would then score two more runs in the seventh inning, one off an RBI single from right fielder Nicole deFau and one off a Blue Demon throwing error. 
Irish starter Heather Booth ran into trouble early in the bottom of the seventh by walk­ing the leadoff hitter and then hitting the next batter with a pitch. A bunt single by DePaul loaded the bases. 
Sarah Martz came through 
see IRISH/page 33 


BASEBALL 
SOFTBALL 
MENS LACROSSE 
ROWING

TRACK
WOMENS LACROSSE 
West Virginia at 
Villanova at Notre 
Notre Dame at

Notre Dame at
Maryland at Notre 

Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame 
Dame 
Big East 

Windemere Cup 
Dame 

Vanderbilt 
Friday, 4 p.m. 

Ctiampionships 
Saturday
Saturdayl12:05 

Friday, 7 p.m.
Saturday, 1 p.m.
Sunday, 2:05 

Friday through 
The races will take
The Irish travel to
Rutgers at Notre 
A must win if the Irish 
The Irish play a dou­
Suncfay 
place in Seattle. 

take on the
Dame 
want an at-large bid to 
bleheader Saturday. 

The competition occurs
Commodores this
Sunday, 11 a.m. 
the postseason. 

in Storrs, Conn. 
weekend. 
BOOKSTORE XXXII 
Dursi takes top honor 
ByMATTLOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

He made the biggest shots at the end of the game and for that, Joe Dursi from Bookstore Basketball champi­on RBC was named the MVP of the 2003 Tournament. 
For their four-year dedica­tion to the tournament, Brian Ostick and Abbey Coons were named Mr. and Ms. Bookstore, respectively. 
Chris Clevenger won the Hatchet Award which goes to the tournament's biggest fouler. Mike Pykosz claimed the Hoosier Award, given to 
see BEST/page 33 








