
Wednesday, April 23, 2003
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 135 


Women's tenure fuels questions 
By MEGHAN MARTIN As.,israol News Editor 
Tlw women of Notre Dame were tired. Tirnd or salary stagnancy, tired of being pPnalizcd for raising a family while pursu­ing a earner, tired of constantly being asked 
to serve in administrative  
positions that hindered  See Also  
their research, tired of repeatedly seeing their female colleagues denied  female profs dit­ficult to recruit,  
tcnurn while their male  hire at ND  
counterparts promotion.  enjoyed  page9  
In 1999. a group offac- 

The Tenure Process
(»...... . .r-'i 


-

Dietitian stresses nutrition 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Wrircr 
Carolyn Monroe, a rcgistlired dictilian. professor and owner of Di!!lilian Surviccs Inc., discussed good nutrition in "The Key to Good llealth," a part of the Mini­M(•dical School Lecture Series. 
The road lo healthy living, according lo Monroe, is a wcll­l,ulanc(1d diot coupl{)d with phys­ical activity. 
"I really do believe that in a !wnlthy diet everything can fit," she said. "It's a maltcr of how much and how often. There's no ncicd to foci guilty." 
Th1i nutritional choices people make arc influenced by factors like the media, genetics and chilclhoud expcrinnces," Monroe said. Eating a proper diet, she said, cun help minimize the risk of' hnart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, strokes, obesity and cancer. 
"Genetics play u piece," she said. "But the food choices that wo make alo:;o impart whether or not we sulfor f'rnm these health problums." 
see DIET/page 10 



'Hardball' to filtn on campus 
individuals.
By TERESA FRALISH 
"It's a naturally interested 
As.sociarr Nrws Editor 
group," he said. "We're com­ing to students and saying Sen. John McCain will be [they)'re important. It's a featured on MSNBC's rare opportunity to actually "llardball with Chris meet an important figure in Matthews" when the show's the news." Matthews, a grad­
College uate of 
T o u r Holy Cross broadcasts College in live from Worcester, N o t r e Mass., said D a m e he is espe­today. cially 
The pro­excited gram will a b o u t be tele­returning
Matthews

vised live al 6 p.m. from Stepan Center and will give students the chance to ask questions of McCain via satellite feed and Matthews in person. 
Matthews will also auto­graph copies of his books at 2 
p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"H's an opportunity for [stu­dents! to be in a debate and educational opportunity on the national front, which has never really happened here before," said Charlie Ebersol, board manager of the Student Union Board and the student coordinator for the event. 
Matthews said he enjoys speaking with college stu­dents and is excited about giving them the chance to interact with high-profile 
ulty members decided to change that. 
Out of their frustration with what they viewed as inconsistencies within the University and their aspirations to create at Notre Dame a community committed to what they called ''academic justice," WATCH was born. 
WATCH, an organization founded by a group of female faculty members, but ofii­cially unaffiliated with the University itself, was created under the premise that it would provide a collective voice to address the issues faced by the women of Notre Dame. 
"The idea was that the women at Notre Dame would form an association that would monitor our status, enhance teaching at the University, in the interest of quality educa­tion," said Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics and a founding member of the group. 
to  the  
S  o u  t  h  
Bend area.  

''I'm a big fan of Notre Dame," he said. 'Tm hoping that we have the fight song playing often [throughout the show)." 
In particular, Matthews said he looks forward to the debate thal generally occurs on the College Tour. 
"Hopefully I will have some tough questions," he said. 
The College Tour's visit to Notre Dame will be one of over :rn on this particular tour of "llardball" that has traveled to colleges and uni­versities across the country since September. said Paulette Song, director of media relations for MSNBC. 
"The idea is that once a week we go to a different 

Pour years after their first meeting, the women of WATCH have witnessed slight improvements to the conditions that face female professionals at the University, but many say that the situation at Notre Dame is far from ideal. 
"Have we made progress? Yes. Are we making progress at the rate I'd like? No," said Vice President and Associate Provost Carol Mooney, whose administrative responsibilities include matters of tenure and promotion and the recruitment or women and minorities. 
An issue of primary concern to adminis­trators like Mooney and faculty alike is the recruitment and initial hiring of female pro­fessors. During the 2001-02 academic year, only 450 of Notre Dame's 1,584 total faculty members were women. 
see TENURE/page 4 

school and we have a high­profile panel of guests," Song said. 
For the Notre Dame stop, the show will focus solely on a single individual -a format that has been used at other tour stops as well. 
Song said that the pro­gram's guests typically have some say about what college they visit but the tour has still been able to make stops across the country. She said that guests have ranged from former vice-president Al Gore to actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, but the pro­gram usually focuses on cur­rent affairs. 
The program's stop was first envisioned by Ebersol, who wanted to significantly remake the role of SUB in campus life. Ebersol, who is also a board member of the student-run magazine Changing Times, said he sees this event as one step towards that goal. 
"It gets these students involved," he said. 
Along with that goal. Ebersol also believes that the program will have a positive impact on intellectual discus­sion at Notre Dame and pro­vide a unique opportunity for students. 
"It's something that's got to continue," said Ebersol. 
see HARDBALL/page 10 


Bball tourney heats up 
page12 

HTTP://OBSERVER ND.fDU 
2004 AR contracts revised 
. Contract defines relationship with University and ARs 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News EJiror 
The University made signifi­
cant changes to the assistant rec­
tor contract in order to clearly 
establish the relationship 
between the Alls and the 
University and in response to 
events that occurred this past 
academic year. said a top 
University resident life official. 
Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk said the new contract better reflects the responsibilities of the AR. Many of the changes and additions reflect clauses in contracts that exist with other University employees. Kirk said clarifying the relationship between employ­ees and the University is espe­cially important when working with students. 
"Whenever you enter into a sit­uation, you want to know what the expectations are," Kirk said. 
The new contract, which is sig­nificantly longer than the previ­ous contract, will cover only a semester, whereas the previous contract was for the entire acad­emic year. 
Kirk said the Office of Student Affairs decided to make the AR contract consistent with the resi­dent assistant contract, which also lasts a semester. Kirk said it was the office's expectation that the AR contracts would be renewed at the end of each semester. 
The new contract includes two clauses regarding termination. 
The University may terminate AR contracts for a variety of causes, including refusing to per­form duties or to comply with the contract, taking part in unlawful conduct or public scandal, violat­ing rules in either duLac or the Residence Hall Head StalT guide or compromising his role-model stature by engaging in immoral or unethical conduct. 
Those fired under the above clause would not be entitled tu compensation or benefits effec­tive at the date of termination. 
The University may also now terminate a contract at any time without cause, and the AR would be entitled to receive the rest of the semester's pay, alternative housing and meals and tuition­related benefits. 
Another addition to the new contract regards the resolution of disputes. The contract states that employment termination is confi­dential. Any disputes would be resolved by an arbitration panel. whose decision would be final. 
Kirk said that the sections of the AH contract pertaining tu the resolution of disputes and termi­nation were not in place previ­
see CONTRACTS/page IO 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Shame on you 
Shame on you, the person or people who selected the varsity leprechaun last week. You made a mistake and you need to 'fess up to it. 
Shame on you for keeping the best candidate from 
getting the job he so much deserved. 
And shame on you for missing the obvious choice for the position. 
Let me say right now. this rant is not a direct attack 

on the chosen var­ 
sity leprechaun,  Joe Hettler  
Mike Macaluso,  
who will be varsity leprechaun for a  Sports Editor  
second straight  
year. He's a good  

guy and gives his all when he's per­forming and no one can ask for more than that. 
But he's not John Bisanz, last year's, and now this year's, Olympic lep­rechaun. The varsity leprechaun per­forms at football and mens basketball games, while the Olympic leprechaun cheers at women's games and lesser­attended sporting events. 
For some reason, Macaluso was picked ahead of Bisanz. last year. Supposedly, he had a better tryout. Perhaps Macaluso was better at the behind the scenes responsibilities that are part of being the varsity lep­rechaun. But even if he was, that still does not justify the selection cornmit­tee 's decision to choose him over Bisanz. 
The most important aspects of being the leprechaun is the image he projects to the public at sporting events and his popularity with Irish fans. After seeing how each leprechaun performed at sporting events over the course of a year and how the crowds responded to each guy. the selection committee had to be blind to miss the obvious and best choice for next year's leprechaun -Bisanz. 
The first time I watched a women game, Bisanz caught my attention. At one point I thought he was going to reach out, grab a 55-year-old fan and physically force him out of his seat. Cripes, he made me want to get up from my press row seat and yell, "Go Irish" at the top ofmy lungs. 
Bisanz will never get the chance to represent this school like I've seen him do at women's games all last year. And he won't have the chance to energize football crowds like he did at women's basketball games last season. 
All Bisanz can do now is shrug his shoulders and move on. I hope he sticks with cheerleading for his senior year because Notre Dame would be missing something special if he doesn't. But no one can blame the guy if he quits. He got robbed and most every one on campus knows it. 
To those who made this decision, either you're delirious or have no clue what a great leprechaun looks like because you messed up. 
The best man for the leprechaun job will only be on the Olympic squad next year, noticed by a few thousand at bas­ketball games instead millions at foot­ball games and pep rallies. 
Shame on you, selection committee, for allowing this injustice to happen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highesr srandards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  

Bush

Speaker 
Cuban spy 
re-nominates
talks about

celebrates 
Greenspan
Earth Day 
Castro's 

through edu­
intelligence 
network

cation 
President Bush
Scientist and 
A former Cuban 

re-nominated Alan
spy spoke for the
environmentalist 
Greenspan as
first time to the

Wilma Subra 
chairman of the
addressed the 
Associated Press, 

Federal Reserve for
providing a rare

issues facing 
his fifth term. 
Louisiana residents 
glimpse into the 

who live near 
loyalty of Castro's 

chemical plants. 
angents. 
page 7
page 6 
page 5 

VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS 
From 
Women power in our 
Building 

victorious, communities 
Beethoven to 
men edged in 
Big East 
Championship Basie 

Notre Dame's 
Irish women win Graham suggests 
Columnist Paul 

by 44 strokes; men how we can 
bands and choirs 
prepare to pre­
Jose by two in the become more 
sent their final 
Big East involved in the 
performances of 
Championships. workplace and in 
the academic our communities. 
year. 
page 1.4
page 1.2 
page 28 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
"Hardball" Campus Tour Doors open at 5 p.h1. at Stepan Center 

. 
"President Bush and the Environment: A Good Pair?" 

5:30 p.m. at Hocker's Hospitality Boom 

. 
MFA and BFA Can~idatcs' Exhibition Alt day at the Snite,Muscum of Art 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Irish dance lessons 

5:30 p.m. at 231 NE & NW Madeleva Hall 

. 
ECDC staff meeting 6 p.m. at Havican 20 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting 7 p.m. at 317N Madeleva Hall 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Penne with gorgonzo­la, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, cheese and pepperoni French bread pizza, breadsticks, fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, brown sauce, whipped pota­toes, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risotto, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, cinnamon bread French toast, potato triangles. seasoned fries, chicken macadamia, chili crisip­tos, grits, spinach, baked potato 
Today's Dinner: Crinkle fries, beef chop suey, flame-roasted corn and pep­pers, wet beef burrito, spicy colache, Szechuan vegan noodles. stif-fried gar­licky kale, yellow rice with raisins, baked herbed zucchini, spinach quiche 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Three-pepper lin­guine, four-cheese pizza, herbed noo­dles, lemon-lime chicken breast, had­dock with herbs, roast turkey breast, curried vegetable rice pilaf, stuffed cheddar potatoes, sloppy Joe, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, Japanese ginger chicken tenders, rice con queso, corn 
Today's Dinner: Baked pasta Italiano. basil-pepper-tomato mostacci­oli, four-cheese pizza, Italian-blend vegetables, chicken-fried steak, rotis­serie chicken, vegetable-rice casserole, grilled redfish, peas and pearl onions, cheese sticks with spaghetti sauce, crinkle fries, chicken and pea pod stir­fry, chicken criolla. whipped potatoes 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
w 
!;: % 
w 
~ 
.... 
~ 
<
(.) 

0 

Golf cart missing, found 
A student reported not being able to !ind his golf cart which was parked outside O'Neill Hall Tuesday. It was later found in a connecting case. 
Visitor issued drug citation 
A visitorwas issued a state citation by Notre Dame Security and Police for the possession of drug paraphanalia Tuesday. 
Employee loses Kontrol Kard 
A University employee reported the theft of his Kontrol Kard at an off-campus loca­tion Tuesday. 
NDFD responds to grease fire 
The Notre Dame Security and Police Department and the Notre Dame Fire Department responded to a grease fire in the kitchen of Moreau Seminary Tuesday. 
-Compiled from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Herb pasta, light tomato sauce, eggplant and pepper tostada, roasted cauliflower. curried tofu, sandwich Provencal, sandwiches with soups, fruit and cheese buffet. grilled chicken kabob, confetti rice pilaf, mushroom pizza, sausage pizza, bread­sticks, tuna salad, brown sugar cookies. rice krispie treats, vegetable noodle soup, Canadian cheese soup 
Today's Dinner: Quiche, roasted pep­per quesadilla, pasta, marinara, pinto beans and corn muffins, omelettes cooked to order with hash browns, carved glazed ham, calico macaroni and cheese, dill glazed carrots. ranch pizza with bacon, cheese pizza. breadsticks 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~ 

..I HIGH 59 HIGH 45 HIGH 63 HIGH 66 HIGH 65 HIGH 69 LOW 37 LOW 37 LOW 44 LOW 43 LOW 44 LOW 50 
Atlanta 71 / 49 Boston 54 / 42 Chicago 57 / 38 Denver 55 / 34 Houston 76 / 62 Los Angeles 68 / 54 Minneapolis 66 / 44 New York 56 / 41 Philadelphia 58 / 40 Phoenix 76 / 56 Seattle 58 / 44 St. Louis 68 / 50 Tampa 80 / 63 Washington 64 / 42 
,
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
fACULTY SENATE
Marion Burk Knott dies at 92 

Word ha.s; lmnn wreivnd of tlm d,:ath of' Marion Burk Knott, for vvlwm 11 nwns rrsidnnrc hall at th1· Univc•rsity is na111Pd. Shn di1irl April IS al lwr honw in lh<' f'lalli111<>rP suburb of Guilford of lwarl and respiratory failur11. Slw was 1J2. 
,'\ $:i-million gift from Knott and her lat<' husband, I l1H1ry J. KtwU, w1dl'l'Wrott1 tlw construc­tion or Marion Burk Knott I lall. which opcll('d in 1988 as a wornl'ns n·sich:ncl). It was con­vrwt!'d lo a ll!Pns n'sidnnco in 
11) 1)7. 
ll1•11ry Knott, who diNI in 1<J1Vi. was a succ,·ssful contrac­tor and rl'ul c•statc devcJ01wr in 13alli11wrt>. Ik rm.:civ1,d an hon­orary dngr<\1' from Notrn Dame in JlJ86. Tlw Knntl<; wnr<) gener­ous bmwf'actors Lo nmny oth1ir Catholic insti!tltions, in1:l11ding tlu· archdiowse o!' Baltimore, for which Owv established a $20­million srh;,larship fi.md. 
Mariu11 Burk Knott is surviv1id by !i I grandchildn•n. 91 great­Krn11dchildr\'n and 10 of her t :{ childn\n, including Martin C. Knoll. a mcimbcr of Notre 
Faculty Senate elects 
officers, reviews year 


By HELENA PAYNE 
Senior SraffWrirer 
Faculty Senate convened
Dame's Advisory Council for the the advisory council !'or the 
Tuesdav to review its
School of Architecture. and University's Snite l\luseum of' 
progress, elect leadership f'or
Marion Knott McIntyre, who Art. 
the following academic yearcarn1•d a master's degree from /\ funeral Mass was celr.bratcd 
and outline a new agenda.
Notre Dame and is a member of Tuesday in Baltimore. 
This year's Senate grappled with the contentious issue of 
the economics department split, and eased tension between itself and University administrators. 
"With respect to this modest 
goal,  we  restored  modest  
progress,"  said  John  
Robinson.  
associate  

"This is one of those issues that affects !'acuity so much it would seem that Facully Senate might want to take a look at it," said Mike Etzel. marketing professor. 
Hichard Williams. sociology professor, who also is a facul­ty representative to the Campus Life Council this year, said too much is at stake with the evaluations. 
"I think TCEs aro measures ol' popularity." ho said. 
lie also referred to the online evaluations by students on NDToday.com where, he said. students often praise teachers who give easy 
dean of the "With respect to this A's." 
Law School, Xiaoshan
modest goal, we
who was Yang, East elected tues­Asian lan­
restored modest day to serve progress. guages and another year literature as chair of professor,
John Robinson
the Faculty said students Senate. associate Law School dean and faculty 
Robinson said the Senate made the economics department controversy "less divisive and less demoralizing than it might have been." 
In a series of uncontested nominations, members unani­mously elected officers and committee chairs for the 2003-04 Faculty Senate. 
Along with Robinson, returning officers are Norlin Rueschhoff. accounting pro­fessor, as treasurer and Tom Laughner, assistant profes­sional specialist of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, as co-secretary. The Senate still has to vote on another co-chair and co-sec­retary. 
The elected chairs for the Senate's four committees are Jay Brandenberger, psycholo­gy professor, of the Student Affairs committee; Seth Brown. chemistry professor, of the Academic Affairs com­mittee; Bernie Constable histo­ry professor, and Ed Goehring, Program of Liberal Studies professor, who will both co-chair the Administrative Affairs com­mittee and Al Miller, chemical engineering professor. of the Benefits committee. 
New members to the Faculty Senate for 2003-04 present at the meeting were Chris Becker. film, television and theatre professor; Joni Kanzler, assistant librarian; Elizabeth Moore, marketing professor, and Ivy Wilson, English professor. 
Teacher Course Evaluations became the focus of discus­sion in the Student Arfairs committee's discussion. 
see the TCEs 
from com­

pletely different perspectives. 
He said faculty see the TCEs as a determining factor when it comes to promotions and students see it as a way to find out the best course to take. 
The committee plans to look closely at the issue, along with the Honor Code and fac­ul ty-studont relations in the following year. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
. 
The Administrative Affairs committee is dis­cussing faculty grievance and the University sexual harass­ment policy. 

. 
The Academic Affairs committee will review the salaries for professional spe­cialists, which it said has become a major concern in foreign language departments at the University. The com­mittee also talked about the economics department and evaluating priorities during a time of declining budgets. 

. 
Miller announced to members that the Benefits committee had addressed the student health insurance con­cerns of the Graduate Student Union. The issue of parking l'ees has been set aside f'or review, he said. llowcver, ho is also making sure that facul­ty and retirees have ad(iquatc insurance. 


"It's very important as a faculty that you get a good retirement package," Miller said. 
Contact Helena Payne at paync,30@nd.edu 


Wednesd>y, Ap,il-23~ 20~3 --~ 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
encountered extends far beyond women," he said. tenure, the playing field should be mittee. With a relatively small the reaches of a University rule The findings have prompted the level." group of female faculty compared 
Tenure 

that mandates the placement of a Provost's Advisory Council to pro­
continued from page I member of the Congregation of pose a permanent committee ded­the Holy Cross as University presi­icated to the investigation of dent. salary equity, a proposition, which 
"We've made great strides -but "WATCH itself came from a will go before the Academicthere's more Lo be done to recruit 

feeling that there was rampant Council this week. Despite faculty women," Hatch said. "lt's a big salary discrimination and a lack of concerns, Hatch said that he doespriority in the next campaign." 
tenure advancement among not believe publishing salaries to women," she said. be in the best interest of profes­Institutional bias Many public universities are sors or the University at large. 
It is what happens next -after required to publish faculty "We're in the business of hiring the initial hire -that the mem­salaries, while Notre Dame, as a talented people ... for everyone to bers of WATCH are working to private institution, is not. Because know everyone else's salaries can change for it is not oblig­create as much misunderstanding themselves ated by law and anger as people not know­and fellow fac­"WATCH itselfcame from a to disclose ing," he said. ulty members. feeling that there was ram­faculty Still, professors say that "not 
Valerie salaries, the knowing" hinders their ability to
pant salary

Sayers, English University negotiate their own salaries. professor and discrimination and a lack of has opted not "Without really knowing what WATCH mem­tenure advancement among to publicize the standards are. it's really hard ber, named a ranges, for people to figure out how to get
women."

number of medians or a raise," Sayers said. concerns individual 
Teresa Ghilarduccl
among female salaries. Service Is gravy
professors at associate professor of 
Many faculty Equally difficult for many
economics

the University members, female professors is the issue of 
that her group has collectively attempted to address. including emphasis on salary equity, pro­motion and tenure and what she and many others have referred to as an "unconscious institutional bias" against women at a tradi­tionally male University. 
"We can never be president of the University -that's an institu­tional bias," Ghilarducci said. "That hurts people, because they're seen as lesser. There's a feeling that women are more like­ly to move to another university, because there is a cultural bias against women here." 
Unconscious though it may be, Ghilarducci said that the general attitude toward women that she and many of her colleagues have 

sions, the idea that tenure­track junior fac­"We're in the business of ulty are expect­
hiring talented people ... for
ed by their 

everyone to know everyone 
departments to participate in elsessalaries can create as committees and 
much misunderstanding 
serve in admin­

and anger as people not 
istrative posi­tions under a knowing." heading loosely deemed "ser­
Nathan Hatch 
vice" has come 
provost

to the forefront of contentions over tenure. tive. 
your other work." 
H at ch recently recom­mended that service requests be drastically reduced among junior facul­ty, and said that the results have been posi­

women in 
particular, say this practice frustrates salary negotiation efforts and leaves them unaware of where they stand within their departments. 
"There's a real concern that ... it will be difficult to make salaries equitable at Notre Dame," Sayers said. "Because salaries are secret here, it's so hard to tell how equi­table it is. I think since it is done in public universities, it's a healthy way to do it." 
The Office of the Provost has, on various occasions, commissioned ad hoc committees to look into the issue of salary discrimination, and Hatch said that their investiga­tions have been fruitful. 
"They have come up with cer­tain salary anomalies for men and gaining tenure itself. The process at Notre Dame, as at many com­parable universities. involves a three-step process. 



In most cases. teaching-and­research faculty are hired initially as assistant professors for a peri­od of three years, after which they are offered another three-year contract. At the end of this second three-year period, professors are given the chance to apply for tenure or leave the University. 
"Theoretically, under our sys­tem, every person in each depart­ment could be tenured," Mooney said. "Our longstanding policy has been that at promotion and 
Despite the University's officially gender-blind tenure process, many female professors feel that the materials involved in tenure applications unconsciously serve as a hurdle to women's promo­tion. 
While administration oflicials insist that teaching and research count equally toward tenure deci­to their male counterparts, women are very often called upon to serve in various service posi­tions throughout the University. 
"There's still a situation here where untenured people have been asked to do way too much," Sayers said. "It's a Catch-22 -if you do the job that you've been asked to well, you fall behind on 
"Teaching and research are equal," Sayers said. "Service is gravy." 
The problem, many professors say. lies in the fact that excessive amounts ofservice work hinders a professor's ability to do the research that is necessary for their tenure application. 
"A lot of it is that we are asked to do a lot more service than our male peers," Ghilarducci said. "We feel like we pay a service tax." 
Women are affected more acutely in this area than men because one woman is required to be a part of every University com­
~•.. 
.c
E G) Ill ::, 
~
'i .c u
G) 
"' .. 3 1/J ' 
c.. .. II 
II .! • 
G) ,, lie: II 
.. .. iii 
c.. .e >, 
0 ,, .c: C. "' Q) 
~· 
"0 C e E
r: :::,
II Cl
fl) t; r: 0 
"C 0 "b
~ 
II ~ (.) 
(J i .c:0 
(.) •
'iii i-= 
:::, 
E ' 0
0 
\I\> .,. 
c.. 

\o C\I ::r0 
::, 
I ~ 
¦ 

Tickets:~ 1'81l81Ved seating, $3 seniors/students. Available at the !.aFortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128 
St Vincent de Paul Societv 
Barrels will be in vour dorm April 24 through Mav 15 
11lankyo11 lor voar ge111rasltJ in htlDlna us 1111, 1111ersl 
Hall Presldunts Councll & The SL Vincent de Paul Socletv: 234-6000 
"We've pressured departments from this office," he said. "I think we've tried to be attentive to that issue, and to junior faculty. Now there's a tremendous sensitivity to it -across the University." 
Miles to go 
With all the steps taken to address the issues that face female faculty at Notre Dame, many are still unsatisfied with where the University stands in relation to its women professors, 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 

WORLD AND NATION 
Wednesday, April 23, 200:-3 COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CUBA 
Cuban spy talks about Castro's intelligence network 
victcd and sentenced to prison 
As.<i:o,;.,ia.Le<l Press  earlier this month acknowledged  
the s1werc damage caused by the  
11/\V/\NA  undercover agents, particularly  
During  her  decade  inside  Godine:i:.  
Cuba's opposition. J\ldda de las  She was a key leader of a coali­ 
MnrcPdns Codincz was so lrustPd  tion called the Assembly for the  
Lhat a dissident shared lwr e-mail password and exilP groups in the  Promotion of Civil Society and had allied with the dissidents  
UnitPd Stu.Les sent her money.  sinc.;e 1994, sometimes working  
t\s governnwnl agnnl code  even as an independent journal­ 
nanwd "Vilma," <:odinez had  ist.  
acCI\SS  lo exlnnsivt, information  The dissidents were convicted  
about  ttw  many  opposition  of working with U.S. diplomal<; to  
groups in thl' island's largest dis­ subvert Fidel Castro's govern­ 
sidPnl coalition. as w1dl  as the  ment and  were given sentences  
individual dissidPnL<; rounded up  ranging from six to 28 years. The  
ln March and tried wncks later.  dissidents and the United States  
S1waking with Tlw Associated  have dnnicd thn accusations.  
!'n•ss in lwr first inlt•rviPw with  "Everything was always very  
i11 tnr11ati11nal 1111,diu, (;odine:i:  w1dl directed by Cuban inLelli­ 
provicl1•d  a  rnn• gli1111JsP insidn  gt•ncP." sh1• said.  
Castro's intdligPntt\ 1wlwork and  llissidunt economist Marta  
dPmonstralt:d jusl how det•µly  Beatriz  Hoquu·s family  said  
loyal his agenLs werP. I .ikc many  Codinez's surpris0 tnstimony was  
otlwr a~wnts who infiltrated tlH~  key to her conviction and 20-year  
opposition. slw camP from  a  prison sentence. Godinez said  
ccHtununist family long trusted by  Hoque even  gavo her the logon  
Castro.  and password to access her e­ 
"Tlw opposilion is li11islwd. it  mails.  
ltas PIHi Pd, it will 1wv11r lift its lwad again," Godinez declar<)d. "Tht> opposition will rwVt!r llour­ish again ­never!" :vtonday's intPrvit~w with (;()(1i1wz was the first in a series or govt•rn nwnt-organizcd intcr­vi1·ws the agnnls an• giving to the  ·  Godinez said she never felt any remorse or sorrow for her work even thcrngb she worked with some dissidents for years. "Marta Beatriz was an objective or my mission," shti said. "I could never be f'ricnds with a counterrevolu­tionary."  Agence France Presse Three Cuban dissidents pose In front of the U.S. Capitol building after testifying before the House Committee on International Relations. Cuban spy Aleida Godinez recently spoke with the international media about how she helped the government apprehend such dissidents. handled as much as $5,000 every given more than $20 million to Godinez. a former math month from various groups in the U.S. groups working with the teacher, said she received about United States that were funded opposition on the communist-run $700 a month from U.S. organi­ 
i11tf'rnati01ial nwdia.  Godinez said Hoque. also a  by  the  U.S.  Agency  for  island since 1996 to bring about  zations as  head of the National  
Tlw families of' some of the 75  leading member of the Assembly  International Development.  a peaceful transition to democra­ Independent Workers Union of  
dissidtmL-; who wcrn quickly con- for the Promotion of Civil Society,  The USAID Cuba program has  cy.  Cuba.  

IRAQ 
U.S. forces roll into Mosul facing little resistance 
Ahudate<l Press 
MOSUL 

The U.S. Army occupied Mosul f'rom the air and on the ground Tuesday with little rcsbumc!! !ixcPpt scattered small-arms fire. taking custody of a northern city they said was in good shape for quick rehabilitation oncli tlw St!curity situation improves. 
Troops occupied key government build­ings, mndical clinics. a television station and power plants as they moved in. 
Mosul. Iraq's third-largnst city, is home to sev1~ral ethnic groups. including Arabs and ethnic Kurds. who share it uneasily. Marines had bmm holding parts of Mosul, including the airfield, awaiting the Army's arrival. Lasl week. 17 Iraqis were killed in con­frontations with American forces in Mosul, local hospital ollicials said. 
"If people would stop shooting at each other, then tho place would be all right," said Maj. Gen. David Pctraeus, commander of' the 101st Airborne Division. "The bottom line is. ifwe provide security in Mosul, it will blossom on its own." 
Over eight hours Tuesday, the 101st's 2nd Brigade flew in 1,500 soldiers and sent in 1,000 more overland, bringing to at least 3,500 its complement there, according to Col. Joseph Anderson. 
Iraqis waved at U.S. troops arriving on Mosul's roads, then went about their busi­ness as American forces spread out around the city. On Thursday, they plan to open an information area in the center of the city to begin humanitarian assistance and to start restoring services. 
American forces came under some smail­arms fire at the airfield, but said they suf­fered no injuries. They sent out assault heli­copters to chase the assailants; it was unclear ifthey caught the gunmen. 
"We've got to deal with the remaining mil­itary and paramilitary in the city. who con­tirme to snipe at our soldiers," Petraeus said. 
Anderson agreed, but said the larger resistance expected didn't surface. "The report we got was we'd have to fight our way in. It's gone from one extreme to 
the other," he said. "We're all over it. We have occupied it." 
A view from the air bore that out. Military vehicles lined the streets of town. clustered near a former government building next to a vacated jail that Army forces comman­deered as their headquarters. People hung laundry on rooftops and tended farm ani­mals. 
There was little visible damage from U.S. bombardment except for one military com­pound used by Saddam Hussein's army. 
On the grounds of Saddam's palace in Mosul. the curious had flooded the place ­not to loot, U.S. forces said, because every­thing was already pillaged. They just want­ed to see the palace. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
France calls for suspension of sanctions: 
J\flnr staunchly opposing lhe U.S.-lcd war against Sacldmn llusscin, France made a surpriso proposal Tuesday to mnN tlw U11ited States hallway by calling for ttw immediate suspension of' crippling economic sanctions on Iraq. U.S. Ambassador John Nngroponte stuck by !'resident Bush"s demand that because of"the rlramatically changed circumstances within Iraq," sanc­tions should be li(lcd entirely -not just suspended. 
Obasanjo re-elected as Nigerian president: 
lncu111b1\J1t Olust>gun Obasanjo won an overwhelming victory ill Nigeria's prnsi.dcntial election. off1cinls a1111ouncNl Tuesday. !Jut the main opposition party n:jPcttid tho l'I\SUlt as fraudulent and Lhroalm1od mas­sivt\ protrsLs. Obmmnjo moved quickly to build goodwill followinp; an PlocLion marktld by sporadic violence and alhigations ol' pollin!,{ misconduct. urging thn opposition in ,L n,tlionally lehwisrnl addrnss to accept his victory 1wacpf'ully. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
White powder scares postal workers: 
A Tacoma. Wash. Postal Service center was evacuated Tuesday after a preliminary test indicated white pow­der lound among some envelopes might be toxic. Later tests found no signs of a harmful biological substance. State and fire department officials said tests by the Army National Guard and state health ofiicials found no signs of any biotoxln. Samples will be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for review. 
Serial killer Chavez executed in Texas: 
A convicted killer was executed Tuesday for one of live murders authorities said he committed on a sin­gle bloody night in Datias eight years ago. Juan llodrigucz Chavez, 34, who had earned the nick­name "The Thrill Killer" for tlrn random attacks, was smiling and grinning broadly as his family c.;ame into the death chambnr to watch him die. Chavez is believed to be responsible for at leas! a dozen slay­ings over a five-month period while on parole. 
ACLU sues FBI for activists on 'no-fly' list: 
The American Civil Liberties Union sued the FBI and other government agencies Tuesday on behalf' of two peace activists detained at an airport because their names popped up on a secret "no-fly" list. The womnn were among 339 travelers briefly detained and questioned at San Francisco International Airport during the past two years after their names were found in 1.hc databac;c, the ACLU said. citing government documcnl'i. Those travelers ultimately were allowed to continue on their journeys. 
Study prompts emission controls demands: 
Seven Northeastern states urged the federal govern­ment Tmisday to toughen emission controls for older. coal-burning power planL<;, citing a new study that doc­uments damage lo foresLo; and lakes from nitrogen pol­lution. "This compdling now report illustrates the need to reduce power plant pollution. Now is not th!i time for the Bush administration to weaken the Clean Air Act," said New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. 
Wednesday, April 23. 2003
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Speaker cotntnemorates Earth Day through education 
By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Writer 
Wilma Subra, a scientist and environmental justice advocate spoke Tuesday about environ­mental issues in a Earth Day lecture sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Environmental Action Coalition. 
She presented data outlining chemical discharges of industri­al facilities in Louisiana and explained the implications of the toxic releases on the surround­ing communities. 
"Community involvement is essential to improving environ­mental consequences," said Subra. ''I try to educate and empower communities so that they can bring about the neces­sary changes in their own com­munities." 

The levels of toxic releases that she found floating around the industrial facilities in Louisiana were high above the National Ambient Air Quality Standards mandated by the fed­eral Clean Air Act, especially in the Calcasieu Estuary. 
The estuary system supports 55 major industrial facilities, almost all of which developed in the late 1940s in response to wartime production motivations, 
and is contaminated with dis­. charged chemicals due to acci­dents, leaky seals between industrial parts and lax enforce­
ment of existing environmental 
legislation. 

"You have a huge quantity of 
accidental releases [of toxic 
chemicals] two thirds of the 
days. and no one does anything 
until the community members 
get involved," Subra said. 
"Otherwise the violations are 
covered up or ignored." 

Many of these chemicals are 
known to cause cancer in 
humans or arc suspected 
human carcinogens, she said, 
and the Louisiana area's conta­mination well exceeds any other area in the United States. 
"Doctors at Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital will tell every parent that is sent there that over 50 percent of' the children with leukemia arc from Louisiana," she said. "But these numbers arc not considered in studies." 
Subra has found that industri­al facilities fail to report viola­tions and actively try to evade detection by environmental agencies. 
Subra also criticized the insur­ance agencies that insure indus­tries in the area and do not insist that the industrial facility operate a safe distance away from inhabitants. Insurance agencies should be adamant that the industry relocates peo­ple outside of vulnerable areas, she said. 
SEAC president Jessica Bland helped organize the event and said she admires Subra's dedi­cation tu the Louisiana commu­nities. 
"Environmental degradation hits communities verv hard," said Bland. "But educating and empowering them can bring about great change." 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3501@saintmarys.edu 

CONGRATULATI[ONS 
This pasr Easter Vigil 11 members of 
1. 

our Notre Dame community werefolly initiated into the Catholic Church. At this liturgy, the 11 received the Sacrameni-s ofBaptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist. Pleasejoin us in congratuuuing them and welcoming them into ourfaith community. 











C-M 

We would also like to thank the RCIA Tettm far their wonderfitl work this year: Franklin l-farkins, Angela Kim, 
Campus Ministry 

Vince Kima, Carrie Mieske, Joe Reimer, Kelly Rich, Tami Schmitz, 1'1~ ,Sam Peters, CSC and George Piggford, c:.sc. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

BUSINESS 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 22 
Dow Jones  
8,484.99  [--.-1•NASDAQ  +156.09  
1,451.36  A LJ  +26.99  
911.37  +19.36  
AMEX  
850.80  JJ  +5.65  
NYSE  
5,101.81  ¥  +96.83  

TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2. 44 -tB. 08 3. 36 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2. 73 +tk3814.J2 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1. 88 -tB. 35 19. 00 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2 .10 -lt.l.53 25.74 
APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +5.47 -+B.8215.81 
IN BRIEF Bethlehem gets permission to sell 
t\ bankruptcy judgn gave Bethlehem Steel Corp. pnrmission Tuesday lo sell ils assets to lnl!'rnational Steel (;roup !'or $1.5 billion in a deal that will l'orgn a new industry power­housti f"rom tlw n•mn,rnts ol' a !'alien giant. l•::,wcutivcs from the Lwo firms plan to com­plett• th1i saln April 30, al which point lldhkht\lll SLP1il will all but cease to exist, a year short of' its 100th birthday. "This is a milesto1w day in tlrn l1istory ()f the steel busi­ness," said lkthlehem Steel chief executive Hobert S. Miller. "A major piece of the consol­idation of this industry is in place." 
Ford to end Thunderbird production 
Again marking tlw PIHi or an era, albeit the sanw orw it erH!ed a l'ew years earlier, Ford Motor Company says it will retire its retro­styl11d Thund1irbird eonvertiblo.The decision Lo halt production after the 2005 or 2006 111od1'1 year will cap a four-year period in which initial furor over the car quickly t,qwrml o!T. "We have always planned to build il for four modcd ynars, and that's what we are going to do," Ford Division President Steve Lyons told Thu Detroit News for a Tullstlay story. 
Guidant earnings down despite sales 
(;uidant Corp. on Wednesday reported a 33 rwrcpnt drop in first quartnr earnings even as tlw company achieved record sales with strong growth of its implantable def1brilla­tor. Tlw Ind ia11apolis-based medical device makc>r said its net income during tlrn first thrPc 111011lhs or tlw year was $93 million. or :l I cc>nts a share, on sales of $885 mil• lion. TlJat cornparNl with earnings in tho year-ago period of $139.G million, or 46 conts a share, on $710 million in sales. Guidant said its domestic del'ibrillator ~mies grew 75 fH'rc,~nl t.o $273 million, while worldwide sulcs grew 72 pr,rccnL lo $332 million. accounting for :{8 percent of' all company salns l'or tho quarter. 
page 7 

Bush re-nominates Greenspan 
• Fed chairman 
undergoes prostate surgery 
A•sociared Press 

WASHINGTON 
President 13ush, seeking 
tu cairn linancial markets in 
uncertain times, said 
Tuesday he would nomi­
nate /\l,1n Greenspan f'or a 
lifth term as chairman of 
the Federal Reserve. 
Bush's endorsement 
came 14 months before the 
end of' Greenspan's current 
four-year term and on the 
same day the 77-yNtr-old 
Fed chairman underwent 
surgery for an enlarged 
prostate. 

"I Lhink Alan Greenspan should get another term," Bush said in response to a question during an inter­view session with a small group of economics reporters. 
While the White !louse insisted the timing of Bush's announcement had nothing to do with the surgery, Wall Street analvsts were uncon­vinced. They said it would make sense for Bush to put to rest rumors about Greenspan's future on a day when the routine surgery was certain to raise new speculation on the sub­ject. 
"The president's state­the hospital overnight and tennis matches. sion, a prolonged bear mar­ment was necessary expected to be back at work A Republican, Greenspan ket on Wall Street, the Sept. because there is too much this week. served as Gerald Ford's 11, 2001, terror attacks economic uncertainty right Greenspan has not said chief' economist in the mid-and a wave of' corporate now, and Chairman whether he would accept a 1970s and took office as accounting scandals. Greenspan's prostate fifth term as chairman. Fed chairman on Aug. 11, Greenspan and his col­surgery was adding to that However. many associates 1987, selected by then­leagues at the Fed have uncertainty," said Sung believe that Greenspan, President Ronald Heagan to responded with an aggres­Won Sohn, chief economist who starts his day reading succeed another Fed leg­sive campaign to cut inter­at Wells Fargo in economic reports while end, Paul Volcker. est rates, driving the bench­!Vlinneapolis. soaking in his bathtub and The chairman was re­mark lcderal funds rate to 
Wall Street, where still relishes what is often nominated for the job once a 41-year low of 1.25 per­Greenspan has achieved called the second most by Bush's father and twice cent. near-cult status. got a boost powerful job in by President Clinton. llis Greenspan has been the from the news. with the Washington, would like to current term as chairman target of criticism, most Dow Jones industrial aver­remain as Fed chairman as ends June 20, 2004. recently from conservative age ending the day up long as his health holds up. Greenspan has earned Hepublicans incensed that 
156.09 points at 8,484.99, Greenspan. who under­praise from all the presi­the Fed chief' raised doubts its highest close in a month. went a similar procedure dents he has served for his in February about the need 
After the market closed, for an enlarged prostate in handling of the national for Bush's proposed new the Fed put out a statement 1994, has had no serious economy, which recorded round of $726 billion in tax that said Greenspan 's illnesses while Fed chair­the longest economic cuts. lie said any future tax surgery for a noncancerous man. Associates describe expansion in history during cuts should be paid for to enlarged prostate had been him as in excellent health his tenure: March 1991 to avoid worsening the rising "routine and successful." with an exercise regime March 2001. budget deficit and threaten­The statement said that includes regular Since that time, the coun­ing government retirement Greenspan would remain in rounds of golf and vigorous try has endured a reces-programs. 

Eli Lilly's earnings fall 35 percent 
January-through-March earnings rose seller, the anti-psychotic pill Zyprexa. 
Associated Press 
5 percent, beating Wall Street's expec­"Our first-quarter performance will 
INDIANAPOLIS tations. enable us during the remainder of this 
Eli Lilly & Co.'s earnings dropped 35 Indianapolis-based Lilly also said it year to make even greater invest­percent as the drug maker took a was resolving manufacturing prob­ments lo optimize the recent product $354 million hit l'rorn employee sever­lems that have clouded the future of a launches and prepare for the launches ance costs, a disappointing test of an pipeline of experimental drugs that of up to four other new products by experimental drug and the reduced many analysts consider the industry's the end of 2004," said Sidney Taurcl, value of its manufacturing assets. best. Lilly's chief executive. 
Lilly said Tuesday that those one­Lilly is ready for the U.S. Food and Lilly reported first-quarter net time expenses more than offset 13 Drug Administration to re-inspect an income of $407 million, or 38 cents percPnt first-quarter sales growth -Indianapolis plant where it will pro­per share, compared with $629 mil­the company's strongest showing duce Cymbalta, an anti-depressant lion, or 58 cents por share, a year ago. since losing its Prozac patent in Lilly expects to introduce in the fourth Excluding one-time charges, Lilly's August 2001, leading to cheaper quarter. The drug's approval hinges net inconrn was $661 million, or 61 generic versions of the anti-depres­on a successful re-inspection, as is the cents per share -3 cents more than sant. case with another plant that will make the forecast of analysts surveyed by 
Excluding one-time iiems, Lilly's a new injectable version of Lilly's best Thomson First Call. 
• ·' ..,tt ....! : 
' • • o. II ~ 



page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 23, 200.3 
expect me vvono nyumes.com 



/',-•~
l-


f
" ¥. 
\

\. s, 
.-,t,,"'Nr.-.­

















•/ ...,.
,,,. 
.i 
t 
......, 

···.c. 
\ 
i. 
'(/;'_,;/ 


.,....~--, .... ,_
/~·•·"·"· 
\ '='· ~ 

,,,_ 





,...1,.,,,,.,..,.
Jl",.,"'11:,
., 
·1,. 
' 
/!' 

f 
·i,, 

lr.,,,.._.,.,"" 




·-\ 
7 
f 
~--..-,,,.,..~..-: 



•,,g1oJ ...,....r..,.\. 
f 
/ 
T••r:r{-,"~,., 



...,,,.,.,,,:1,_•;.-,_ """~·,,.,
·,,
·,

; i ,'' 7 
·..,.,.,.,,,~..,-;ll 


C 
\._ 



Learning is all about discovering new meaning in the world around us. Enrich your learning experience by using the nation's most honored newspaper and The New York Times Knowledge Network. At nytimes com/college. students have free access to our online archive-which dates back three years-and can rece1ve e-mail alerts based on specific areas of interest. Also. advance your pb search lhrough links to Jobrnarket.com. For more 1nforrnat1on, and to order a subscription to The Times at student rates, visit nyt1mes.com/college or call 1-888·698-2655. 
a!bt Nt\tJfflork mimes KNOWLEDGE NETWORK. 
INSPIRING THOUGHT 


WeJnesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Female professors difficult to recruit, hire at ND 
By MEGHAN MARTIN A.,.,isL11F News Ecl,w, 
Dcspit1· Llicir growing nu111U('.rs wilhin ll111 ranks or the Univnrsity's f'arnlly, f"t\frntlc pro­fossors still lag b1•hiud their male cotlflll'rparts whcr1• numbers of initial hires arc rnnn·rncd. 
Top among the priorities or fac­ulty and ad minislrators alike is the rncruitment and hiring of a larg11r amount ut' female profes­sors. 
•·1t is a problem and we're try­ing to address it forthrightly," University Provost Nathan Ilatch said. "We're trying to diversify faculty as much as possible." 
Hiring is done at the depart­mental level. with each depart­ment following its own guidelines and procedures. 

Dame for 25 years! 

Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine fromCalabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Tu~sday-Thursday 
s:ooto 9:00 
Friday & Saturday 5:00 to 10:00 
Make your reservations now for graduation! 
Full bar available 
Free bruschetta with ad, except for graduation weekend 
Francesco's needs servers 

While therr are no ollicial quo­
tas or women !'acuity which 
departments or colleges are 
required to meet each year, 
administrators say that a con­
scious effort is being made to 
actively recruit and hire the most 
competent female candidates. 
"It's a large priority in this 
ol1ice, and it is for the deans as 
well," I latch said. 
Notre Dame's location, he said, 
provides a signil1cant obstacle lo 
departments in their efforts to 
hire qualilicd, experienced intel­
lectuals to fill the faculty positions 
that are available within the 
University. 
"Largely because we're in South Bend, we've been pretty proactivo in doing spousal hiring," Hatch said. "That's often true in places 'where there aren't metropolitan 
areas." 
Many faculty members are skeptical of' the administration's stance on the issue, saying that more must be done to actively compel departmenl'i to hire addi­tional women. 
"It has to be done by the University punishing departments who don't hire women,'' Ghilarducci said. "It has lo be done from the top down." 
Despite the fact that no formal university requirements exist when it comes to hiring women to the faculty, many professors sug­gest that the percentage of female faculty al Notre Dame should rellect percentages of Ph.U. candi­dates available each year for hire. 
"The way you measure equity of hiring is by measuring the rate of the available pool of candidates," Glenn Hendler, associate prol"es­sor of English, said. 
The 2001-02 Academic Affirmative Action Committoe reported that livo out of Notrci Dame's 31 undergraduate depart­ments are in lin11 with national availability averages of female professors. The dopartments of film, television and theater; art; art history and dosign: music and finance were all found to have met or excecdod averages set by the available pool of national applicanl'i. 
The departments of anthropolo­gy, economics, political science, marketing. computer science and physics were within 10 percent of meeting national averages, while the rest lagged bohind, one by us much as 40 percent below nation• al availability rates. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
'Of Many Colors' debuts at SMC 
By ANGElA SAOUD News Writer 
The award-winning photo-text exhibit. entit!ed"Of Many Colors: ;Portraits of Multiracial Families", is currently on display at Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library until April 30. 
The winner of a Multicultural Recognition Award from the Regional Laboratory for Educational Improvement, the exhibit has been touring since 1994. 
"Of Many Colors" features the stories and photographs of 39 families who have overcome the racial divide through interracial relationships or adoption. 
To celebrate the constantly changing diversity of the American family, photographer Gigi Kaeser and interviewer Peggy Gillespie created the exhibit. 
In their book of the same title, Gillespie writes, "I teamed up with Gigi Kaeser and set out to find multiracial families who would be willing to be photographed for the exhibit. We did not have to look far." 
"We felt that the display would definitely fit in with our program­ming since the ollicc has wanted to bring in more information about multiracial experiences," said Marie Willis, assistant direc­tor of Multicultural Affairs. 
"Of Many Colors" is designed to bring issues of diversity to the forefront of the community. 
"When looking at the display, the observer gets the chance to visit twenty families who are shar­ing what it means to them to be a multiracial family," Willis said. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Centerf~r Socia{Concerns SOCIAL CONCERNS 
oo m ~ ~ @ m n m ~ ~ 
http://centeriorsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
rtli,e Centerfor Socia[ Concerns is CeCe6rating its 20tli)1.nniversary! 
TOMORROW, April 24th 
All members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College campus communities are invited to join the CSC in marking two decades of service and justice programming! 
Please join us for: Cake at Stonehenge Noon -1 :30 p.m. * A Celebratory Open House & Prayer Service at the CSC 3:00 -5:00 p.m. Prayer and Blessing Service 4:15 p.m. 
(Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C., current Executive Director ofthe Center, and Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C., former Executive Director ofthe Center) 
*Rain location -Dooley Room in Lafortune 
r-------------------, 
I "The Prophetic Voice ofPeace" I I I
I TOMORROW, April 24th, 7:00 -8:30 PM I I Presentation and Questions, Debartolo 141 I I 8:30 PM Procession to Grotto for concluding I I prayer for peace I 
I A Talk by Fr. John Dear, S.J. I I Peace Activist nnd author/editor of20 book_., on I I pmcc &justice, Former Executive Director I I of tilt' Fellowship ofReco11cilintio11 I
L ___________________ J 
Open Lunch Discussion on the War in Iraq 
TOMORROW, April 241\ 11 a.m. -2 p.m. South Dining Hall, Hospitality Room 
**Get lunch as usual and go left-right to talk about the war Possible Topics: Supporting the troops, Iraq after the war, The role ofthe Pope, ROTC 011 campus, Ethics ofpre-emptive war, Sanctions, the US and the United Nations, The Role ofthe Media, Patriotism and Protesting 
Questions? Contact Peter Quaranto (pquaranto@nd.edu) or Andrew DeBerry (adcberry@nd.edu) 
Senior Service Send-Off 
The CSC hosts a Send-Off Ceremony and reception during commencement weekend for all of the seniors who are planning to commit to one or more years of full-time service and for their families. This is a wonderful event and opportunity for students and families to meet each other and to be honored by the Center's staff, Fr. Monk Malloy and other representatives of the University. 
***In order to make sure that you and your family are sent invitations and that your name is printed in the program, please sign up at the CSC or email shappell.J@11d.edu*** 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003

page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Diet 
continued from page 1 
Monroe encouraged audience members to play it safe in their diet, consuming a variety of dif­ferent foods that will act as an "insurance policy" and avoiding soft drinks and fast food, items that she said have no rodecming value. 
"[Fast) food is 'supersized' a lit­tle but what's really getting 'supersized,"' she asked. "We are." 
The dietitian urged those pre­sent to use the food pyramid as a tool Lo good nutrition and to think in terms of the "rainbow," choos­ing foods rich in color -an indi­cation that they are high in vita­mins and minerals. She also emphasized the "ABC" approach to health that includes aiming for fitness, building a healthy base and choosing sensibly. 
"The reality is that all fats am nol created equal." she said. "We want to choose those fats that will help maintain our health." 
Avoid the shortening that con­tains trans-fatty acids and is high in saturated fau, and use olive oil and vegetable oils instead, she said. 
"Many of the convenience foods we use have a high amount of trans-fatty acids courtesy of shortening," she said. 
A healthy diet doesn't have to cost a lot. according to Monroe. Drink lots of water but don't go for the fancy bottled brand -it's just somebody else's tap water, she said. It's also a misconception that fresh vegetables are always the ideal, according to the dietit­ian. Frozen produce often retains more nutrients than its fresh counterparts and both kinds are favorable over the canned, heavi­ly salted alternatives. 

Obtaining the daily require­ment for protein doesn't have to be costly either. according to Monroe. Dried beans offer an inexpensive, healthy alternative to meats and a person shouldn't necessarily shell out the cash for vitamin and mineral supple­ments. 
"As a dietitian I strongly recom­mend that we obtain the nutri­ents we need from the foods we consume," Monroe said. "We've been doing that for centuries." 
A healthy diet should be cou­pled with physical activity, according to Monroe. However, she dismissed the notion that effective exercise must be rigid. 
"The mt:.~ssage now is all physi­cal activity is beneficial and cumulative," she said. "Give yourself credit for every physical movement you make throughout the day." 
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle isn't difficult. according to Monroe, but it does require a person's diligence. 
"It becomes a personal respon­sibility issue because, who is responsible for our health," she asked. "We are." 
Monroe is an adjunct faculty member at Indiana University at South Bend, Bethel College, Ancilla College and Goshen College. She received her under­graduate degree in psychology from Purdue University and a master's degree in public health from University of Michigan. 
Contact Adrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Hardball 
continued from page 1 

As Changing Times, which aims to provide career information and guidance to students, continues to expand its audience. Ebersol also wants to work on the possibility of develop­ing a specific Changing Times program with MSNBC. 
"We wanted to see what the reaction would be on campus to Changing Times," Ebersol said. "Changing Times was the reason that the College Hardball Tour came to Notre Dame." 
Matthews has been the host of' Hardball since it debuted in 1997 on NBC's cable affiliate CNBC and was launched on MSNBC in November of 1999. Matthews also hosts "The Chris Matthews Show" and has been involved with many areas of journalism and politics throughout his career. 
IIe previously worked as a speechwriter in President Jimmy Carter's administra­tion and as a top aide for former Speaker of the House Tip O'!'Jeill. 
McCain, a former Vietnam prisoner of war, serves as the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation and was first elected· to the Senate in 1986. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

on in the year," Kirk said, with­out citing specific instances. 
Contract 
Last fall, Cynthia Phillips was asked to leave her position as
continued from page 1 

AR at Pa'>querilla West for confi­dential reasons, but retained·ously, and when AR termination her status as an employee of the and disputes arose before, they University and received room were handled on a case-by-case and board and reduced tuitionbasis. 
for the remainder of the acade­Documents like the AR con­mic year. 
tract are consistently reviewed, Kirk said, adding that the AH contract had not been updated 
in a number of years. Contact Meghanne Downes at "You learn frol!l Jh_in_g_s tJiat_grJ mdownesl@nd.edu 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
":MAY MOVE Our '03" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S lOAM-5PM FLANNER CIRCLE 
Monday, May 5th -Saturday, May 10th Thursday, May 15 • Saturday, May 17th Monday, May 19th 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May 10\h 
WELSH FAMILY HALL 
10-5 pm Monday -Saturday May 5th -10th 
IN THE LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL 
Wednesday, May 7th -Friday, May 9th Friday, May 16th 
$1.00 Off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pick­up. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M -F 9am -7pm Sat: 1Oam -6pm 277-6245 
THE "PEACE" MOVEMENT 
ISN'T ABOUT PEACE... 
It's about carrying on the lcft's war against America. When your country is at war, when the adversary has targeted every American regardless of race, gender or age for death, there can be no "peace" movement. There can only be a movement that divides Americans and gives aid and comfort to our enemies. 
In his speech to Congress after 9/ l l, the President said: "We have seen their kind before. They arc the heirs of all the murderous ideologies of the 20th Century. By sacrificing human life to serve their radical visions, by abandoning every value except the will to power, they follow in the path of fascism, Naz.ism and totalitarianism." He was speaking of al-Qaeda, but he could also have been speaking about al-Qaeda's friend and ally, Saddam Hussein, whose Ba'ath Party is a self consciously named Nazi party and whose agendas and means are just as lethal. 
The so-called "peace movement" i1o led by the same hate-America radicals who supported our totalitarian enemies during the Cold War. They marched in support of the Vietcong, the Sandinista Marxists and the Communist guerrillas in El Salvador. Before that they marched in behalf of Stalin and Mao. They still support Castro and the nuclear lunatic in No11h Korea, Kim Jong-II. They are the friends in deed of Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein. 
What prompts American mdicals to make common cause with such monsters? The answer is obvious: They share acommon view of America as the "Great Satan." They believe that it is America ­not tyrants like Saddam Hussein -that inflicts misery and suffering on the world. l11e targets of the 9/11 terrorists were Wall Street and the Pentagon. These were the targets ofAmerican radicals long before. In the perverse minds of the so-called "peace" radicals, America is the "root cause" of all the root causes that inspire the tmorists to attack us. "America is to blame for what is wrong in 
the world. The enemy is us." Today, as we battle the Axis of Evil which threatens us with weapons of mass destruction, these familiar mantras are rising on college campuses from coast to coast. Just as they did in the Cold War past. During the Cold War, the radical "peace" movement bullied right-thinking Americans into silence. Our government lost the ability to stay the course in the anti-Communist war. The result was the Communist slaughter of two-and-a-half million peasants in Indo-China after the divisions at home forced America to leave. Once again, the hate America left is attempting to silence right-thinking citizens. It is attempting to divide the home front in the face of the enemy. Even as we go to war. It is stabbing our young men and women in the back as they step into harm's way to defend us. It is attempting to paralyze our government again and prevent it from securing the peace. 
We can't afford to let this happen. The time has come for those who love freedom and who appreciate the great bounties of this nation to stand up and be counted. 
David Horowitz 
President Center for the Study of Popular Culture 
This ad has lx:cn plac,d hy TI1c National 

Campaign to Comhat the Anti-Amcricm1 1.cft. n I If you W()uld like lo help place this ad in other venues, ~all in your donation (800-752-6562 or go to www.frontpagcmag.com or complete this propnm of the Center for the Study of Popular I fom, and nrnH 10: CSP(\ PO ~ox )61269, ~os Angeles, CA 900)<, or In donnte online g? to: www.frontpagemag'1:line.wm Cuhun:. The goal of the campaign is to place this ad 
I Donat1ons of$50 and more will receive a !rec copy of Who h The l'Cllce Mo,·1·me111? eJ11cd by David Jlorowaz & John rcrnao I would like Ill donate S_______ 0 Enclosed please lincl a check or lJ Please charge my crechl card
in as many college n~wspapm as po.~sihlc and tG 

I Credit Card O VISA O MasterCard O AMEX lJ Di~cover
di~trihutc The Hare A111erirn 1,efr. n book edited by 
I 

David Horowitz lhal exposes !he "pcm:e" movement I Name __________··-------·----·---_________ -··-­for what it is. To supporl these efforts till oul the 
1 Addreqs -·-.. ·-...... -·--·--··---·----·-·----···-... --· ·••···••--•-· .... -· .. ·--·-----•··-·-·-···•••· ....
fom1 below and make yourconlribuhon as generou~ I Ci,y/State/Zip _______________ 

~s possible. The Center for the Study nf Popular Culture I Phone/Fax is a501 1/:)J non-profit COIJl()l11lio11. All contributions I
I Credi\ Curd Nt1. _________ 
nrc tax dcductihlc. I Exp. Dale--·····--·-•·-----Signature ______ -··-_____ -· ·--·· ............ -... ··-·•· ·----·••· ---••--··---... --·· .... ·-i5,9.I
L-------------~~-----~-------------------------------­www.frontpagemagazine. com 
-----. 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ENGLAND 
Sugar lobby rejects health report 
A,mciatcd l'rc•• 
LONDON 

An effort to get an increas­ingly llabby world to stop eat­ing so much sugar ran head-on into the U.S. sugar lobby, which claims the dangers or the sweet stuff am b£'ing ovorslaled. 
Pnopl1i should get no more lhan 10 percent or their daily calnrir.s from sugar and other high-caloric sweeteners. the Wnrld I l£'alth Organizaliun will rr.comrncnd in a rnport on W1idncsday. 
That guideline is among sev­eral in WIIO's attempt at a global strategy on health aimed al preventing such threats as heart disease. obesity, cancer and diulrntt~s. It was immedi­ately attacked by the Sugar Association, which represents 
U.S. growers and rufirn!fs. 
"Taxpayers dollars should not be used to support misguid­ed. non-science-based reports which do not add to the health and well-boing of Americans, much less lhe rust of' the world," Sugar Association chief Andrew Briscoe wrote the director general of WI 10. 
Briscoe said his group "will exercise 1.wf'ry avenue available to expose the dubious nature" of' the report, "including asking Congress lo challenge future funding of the Uniled States· $406 million contribution to the WHO." 
Briscoe cited a far more lenient U.S. study on sugar ­one by the National Academy of Sciences in September that found no conclusive evidence people suffered nutritionally until their sugar intake exceed­ed 25 percent of daily calories. 
"They com­p I e t e I y ignored this key report," Briscoe said. 
Philip .James, chair­man of the International Obesity Task Force, said the panel did consider the Academy of' Scip,nces report, along with scores of others. The draft was dis-need for campaign funds that it was able to take such a strong stand on sugar. James said. 

Half of adults in Europe and 61 percent in the United States are overweight, and the epi­demic is spreading around the globe as Western lifestyles infil­
· 

"Taxpayers dollars should not be used to support misguided, non­science-based reports which do not add to the health and well-being of Americans, much less the rest ofthe world." 
Andrew Briscoe 
Sugar Association chief 
trate new areas, experts say. 
Many gov­ernments, including the United States, have no specif­ic guidelines on sugar con­sumption, and Health and H u m a n Services Secretary T o m m y Thompson steered clear of the debate 

cussed extensively at interna­tional nutrition conferences, he said. 
"It went out not only to explicit peer reviewers but, for the first time. it was posted on Lhe Web. In fact, it's gone through a bigger peer review than any other WHO report ever," he said. "That was done because it was recognized to be controversial from an industry point of view." 
It is precisely because the WIIO is a global agency dis­tanced from elections and the 
Tuesday. 
He did not respond to appeals that he try to intervene before Wednesday's official launch of the WIIO report. One request was March 20 from a coalition of food industry groups, anoth­er March 28 from two U.S. sen­ators, John Breaux. 0-La.. Larry Craig. R-Idaho. They also wrote Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman asking that she urge WHO to cease further pro­motion of the report. Breaux and Craig are co-chairs of the 
U.S. Senate Sweetener Caucus. 
INDIA 

More orphanages as conflict drags on 
Associated Press 
SRINAGAH. 
Swirling scarves through the air, the juggler draws a laugh from the 5-year-old boy wrapped in a blanket in a drafty. red brick orphanage on a Kashmir mountaintop. 
"It is so freaky how he makes colorful circles with those strips of cloth," says a beaming Aijaz Ahmad Rather. 
Aijaz has rarely smiled since his father. a separatist mili­tant, was killed in a gunbattle with Indian security forces three years ago. Left destitute, his mother couldn't care for him and so sent him to the Garden Palace orphanage. 
Thirteen years of violence in Jammu-Kashmir, India's only state with a Muslim majority, have taken a toll on the Himalayan region's families. Some 80,000 children have been orphaned or abandoned, the Jammu-Kashmir Orphans Trust estimated after a survey last year. 
Most of the children. ages 3­15, have lost parents in cross­fires, land mine explosions and gunbattles during the 
insurgency  by  separatist  
Muslim  rebels  who  have  
fought  since  1989  for  

Kashmir's independence or merger with Islamic Pakistan. 

Before the rebellion, Kashmir had one orphanage, the Garden Palace, where Aijaz is the youngest of 52 residents. Now there are more than a dozen orphan­ages. and flve more arc being built. 
"It is not just the militancy that has led to the prolifera­tion of orphanages. although it is the biggest contributing factor." said Abdul Hashid Hanjoora, general-secretary of the Orphans Trust. 
Khaksar Mohammad Maqbool, a Muslim cleric, said traditional Islamic values eroded since the 1980s in the portion of Kashmir that is in India. 
"In the old days. when a family member died, his dependents would be taken care of by the relatives, who lived as one big family," Maqbool said. "Not only has old kinship disappeared, but so has compassion." 
Private organizations pro­vide shelter, food, education and health care for about 1,500 orphans in spite of lim­ited funds. 
"We can't reach out to all. But whatever we do. it is still a tough task to deliver, with little money and no govern­ment support," said Hanjoora at the Orphans Trust. 
Pick up your 2003 Donie yearbook 
Wednesday, April 23: 
11 a.m. -5 p.m. in I 08 LaFortune 
4:30 -7:30 p.m. at North Dining Hall (south porch) 
Thursday., April 24: 
11 a.m. -5 p.m. in 108 LaFortune 
4:30 -9:30 p.m. at South Dining Hall (main lobby) 
Friday, April 25: 
.

1 I a.m. -4 p.m. Ill 108 LaFortune 
No charge to undergraduates (just show ID). All others $50. Past yearbooks will be available in 108 LaFortune. Students who are abroad _may have a friend pick up .a copy, or 
they may come to 315 LaFortune next Fall. For more information, e-mail Dome@nd..edu or phone l-7524. 
Thank you and enJ·oy your yearbook. 
----r •..,,.,...,.. ••--4 ...... •-• ._ • .,...., _____________...,.__,.__________________,,._.,. .. • __..., •.•__..,___ ...,. _______ 


THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednresday, April 23, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noere Dame, IN 46556 024 Soulh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scotr Brudfuehu,r Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWl'OINT El>l'J'Oll: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler SCEN.E EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOK: Mike Harkins SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella Au DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight WES ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan SYSTEMS MANAG.ER: Ted Bangen 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENERAJ. INFO .............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................... 63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631•4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME.................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer .o bsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. .............................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu  
SCENE................  .. ...................................631-4540  
observer .scene.l@nd.edu  
SAINT MARv's..  .. .........................631-4324  
observer.smc. l@nd.edu  

PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSfWEll ADMlNlSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web site at http://obstroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the lJniversiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nee• essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. utcers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to F.ditor in Chief Andr,w Soukup. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht> O~M"r (USPS. 5'-J~ 240) i~ r11hli~rd Monday rhro ugh rriJ.ay .;xccpr during o:;un ;ind Yac,uio1t pcrio(k A .nJhliCrirrion to The Oh~rv-.:r i~ S!O() for one ai.:adcmic ynt; f5) for OUC' W.111CIRT, 
Thr Offlem"t it puhfuh-c:J at: POSTMASTER Ol-4 Sourh Dining H..11 5cnJ J.ddrru ~ffi'(.Q1;1m ro: Nurre' 0.unt", IN .fli)Sf. ·r1i~o1xcrvcr 
P.O. llua Q l'-c.:doJical po~rai;c p.uJ iu Notre D.um· Nor,.: D.i.mi.:, IN 4(i5j6-077'J ;i;nJ aJdi1ion;1J rmiling offtc<.,, 
The lJbv,rwr i\ :i tnnn!K'r orrhl" A5mei~ttJ i'rcn. All r,.-produc::ti1m righr, Mt' 
rt:'IC!rv«t 

Clarifying results ofleprechaun tryouts 
To our readers, 

Thursday's staff editorial, entitled "Leprechauns should not have choice," incorrectly said the two final­ists for the top leprechaun position, John Bisanz and Mike Macaluso, had the opportunity to decide who was going to serve as leprechaun at foot­ball and mens basketball games. The errors, caused by reporting mistakes, led The Observer to criticize the lep­rechaun selection committee for allowing Bisanz and Macaluso to choose who would be the top lep­rechaun. Such criticism is unwarrant­ed and The Observer apologizes for the factual errors in both the front­page article entitled, "Macaluso con-
Building power in our communities 
As many readers may have noticed, most of my columns have been regarding social inequalities. They beg you to ques­tion how our society is organized, how we look at labor and hope that you will be moved to action. 
This article, my Paul Graham last column for The Observer (l can hear the hurrahs), 

Another
does not offer my 
Perspective

vision of a perfect society but suggests how people can become more actively engaged with the 
workplace and with our communities to 
begin working for change. 
In our society and economy, there exists a massive inequity of power, resources and income. This inequality gives way to feelings of powerlessness, an infectious feeling that has infiltrated too many lives. Powerlessness convinces the psyche that the system is a good sys­tem, that the system will never change and that there is nothing any one person can do about it. 
But in reality, homelessness is increas­ing, poverty is on the rise, unemploy­ment is the highest it has been in years, violence is escalating and quality health insurance is too costly for millions. These are all problems that must be addressed. 
There seems little that can be done to equalize the power in society. Our sys­tem has created an overwhelming sense of powerlessness for too many people. We live in a system where monetary power is everything. A person can get away with just about anything if she or he has the money. 
It is easy for people to fall into the trap of surrendering to this power, whether it's the people at work who simply do what they are told, the people who just quit their jobs and look somewhere else or the people who try to submerge them­selves in the system and become its ben­eficiaries -forgetting about those that are still powerless. For those who are powerless. it is all too easy to give up tinues as leprechaun" and the staff editorial. 
According to a graduating senior cheerleader and an athletic depart­ment official, the leprechaun selection committee conducted tryouts and determined Macaluso would be the varsity leprechaun, while Bisanz would serve as the Olympic lep­rechaun -the positions both held this year. Before the committee was to make the results public, and before anyone outside of the selection com­mittee knew of the results, an athletic department official notified the com­mittee that the top two candidates would rotate throughout the year as varsity and Olympic leprechauns. 
struggling and to stop questioning the social structures. However, when people organize, there can be no greater power. Power is the ability to act, an ability absent for far too many people. Only through organizing can people build power and act to improve their lives and workplace. 
Our system has stripped people of their dignity and subjugated them to hopeless­ness. Most campus workers feel power­less against management and Human Resources regarding their low wages, poor scheduling and communication and excessive workloads. Workers need to share their stories of anger with each other to create a sense of commu­nity and commitment to each other. Through these commit­ments, solidarity is built, problems are identified and unity is defined. 
When people organize, they can stand in unity to stop and correct an injus­tice. They build power to address systems and peo­ple effectively for positive change. 
Instances of people and workers organizing have been seen throughout our democratic history. Because of organized people, we have an eight-hour workday and a 40 hour workweek. Before people began to speak out, workers often worked 12 hours a day, six (sometimes seven) days of the week. There used to be no minimum wage and no overtime pay. Now, after hard struggles, employ­ers must pay time and a half if their workers work more than 40 hours a week. 
But we cannot simply settle for this. Our economy can constantly be improved so that the dignity of each per­son is recognized and so that we do not slip into those days when people were nothing more than animals. This can be done by organizing -for justice, democ­racy and equality. 
Macaluso and Bisanz, among others, were upset with the decision, and both agreed they would rather serve as the No. 2 leprechaun rather than rotate throughout the year. After a series of discussions with athletic department officials, it was determined that the University would continue with the system presently in place. The selec­tion committee then revealed its deci­sion -that Macaluso would be the No. 1 leprechaun, and that Bisanz would be the No. 2 leprechaun. 
Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief Scott Brodfuehrer Managing Editor 

When workers organize, they have a say in how the workplace should look and be run. They have the opportunity to work with the managers, not just be sub­servient to them. This power is power with, not power over -a workplace where multiple voices can be heard, not a "dictatorship of the proletariat." This brings more equity into the workplace. creates more commitment to the job and adds democracy to more facets of our life other than governmental elections. 
If the inequality that millions experi­ence every day of their lives is going to change, we must organize to build power 
through developing solid rela­tionships with each other 
and acting on that power. We must organize for more equality, insti­
tute stronger democ­racy and force our current institutions 
to change their line of thinking -from money to commu­nity -so that everybody can become more 
actively engaged in local politics and decision-making. Everybody must be engaged in the politics at the workplace, on the cam­pus, on the community at 

large -engaged all the way to global politics. Only through organizing and civic involvement can we as people build power to redefine the communities that we are a part of and change them to be the communities that we want them to be. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghan Martin 
Himanshu 
Kothari Mike Chambliss 
Viewpoint 
Claire Kelley 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Joe Hettler 
Matt Lazar 
Heather VanHoegardcn 
Scene 
Maria. Smith 
Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was the administration justified in changing the contracts assistant rectors are required to sign'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No one has a right to sit down andfeel hopeless. There is too much work to do." 
Dorothy Day Catholic social activist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 page 13 
Remembering the 'lasts' and focusing on the 'firsts' 
Well. we've made it. 

With graduation upon us, the class of 2003 has just about crossed that provnruial threshold. Our senior year is coming to an end and we realize Lhat soon, on a seemingly ordinary Sunday in May, our lives will cha11g(1 for­nvn. W(~ will become alumni. 
Snnior year has traditionally been rnl'orred to as the last hurrah, a Lime to Jut the good times roll with good friends and cheap drinks and a fistful or ''lasts." Tlw la!-iL time we'll g!'l up at(, a.m. to tailgate. The last time we'll pull an all-nighter to get that paper written. The last spring break. The last time w~'II all be together. 
With all of these lasts, we begin to look at Notre Dame with nostalgia bnfore we've even left it. Suddenly, we've painted a terminal picture of the future as bleak as a South Bend day in February. It's as if we've found a per­foct world al Notre Dame and we're afraid to leave it. We're comfortable in our surroundings. Nothing is new. and ynt, w<i're encouraged by it. We've found our place and we understand our place in it. Suddenly, the "last" time becomes the "best" time. Life at 22 has become our finest hour. 
llownver. maybe it's time to think about "Drsis." Our first real job. Our first lime doing our own taxes. Our first step toward a professional degree. Marriage. We begin to make these very real decisions that will affect our lives in the same way that our decisions during college affected us -maybe more. 


Ouring the past four years, we've changed our majors, sometimes more than once. We've taken internships and waded through medical school applications. We've made a lot of friends, lost a few along the way and Pven fallen in and out of love. We made a lot of decisions. We've also lMrned a lot about ourselves. who we arc and what we are going to be. And now, we're there again. 
At the beginning of the year, it all seemed overwhelming. We wrote essay after essay for graduate school appli­cations, sat through seemingly endless interviews and dealt with rowdy fresh­men when we were on duty. But, we made it. We were accepted into gradu­ate schools. got those jobs and learned to love our freshmen. 
That said, we're more than ready for that next great adventure -even if we don't quite realize it yet. College has always been considered a time to grow and mature, but there is a reason why it spans a short four years. It's not because Notre Dame doesn't want any more of our money (quite the contrary. as we 'II find our shortly via the Annual Giving Fund). 
It's because after four years. we've been prepared for something more ­and something beyond -our college lives. Our classes have prepared us academically and our friendships and experiences have prepared us socially. It's time to move on, remembering the "lasts" but focusing on the "firsts." 
We've accomplished a great deal during our time at Notre Dame, but now it is time to think ahead. We have already chosen new places to live. places to work and a new life for our­selves, just as we did during our time as under­graduates. Some ofus will begin a great adven­ture in a new city, some will take on the chal­lenges of graduate school and some of us will start a life together. 
We can remember the lasts often and with a smile. Our memories are full of lasts. College, as we've been told for years, goes by quickly. This may be our last year for the parties, the dances and the tailgating, but we have so much more ahead of us. And we certainly can congratulate ourselves 
because we got through all of it -and despite our weak­ened livers and high tolerances, we're still going to graduate. We made it. We have the next few weeks to be college students. Our 
last weeks. However, as alumni, 
there are many firsts out there waiting for us. We're already prepared 
for them. Ilopefully, when the cap and gown go back on their hang­er, we'll ready for them. 

Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies and journalism major. lier col­umn appears every other Wednesday. You may contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A call for kinesiology classes at Notre Dame 
As class registration continues this week, one course will be conspicuously missing from the fall schedules of next year's sophomores: physical education. Freshman year should not be the last opportunity for students to take classes with the physical education faculty. The Notre Dame physical education depart­ment should offer kincsiology classes for credit as a minor or as free electives. 
Notre Dame offered physical educa­tion, termed "kinesiology" at most schools. as a major until 1963, when decreased student demand forced the program's termination. The student body has become much more academi­cally gifted since then, and most of today's students would justifiably prefer other majors that are more scholarly or which lead to lucrative careers. A kine­siology minor and electives. however, would be popular and beneficial for stu­dents. 
For one. we students are exercise and sports fanatics. The Hock and Holt's arc perpetually packed. Seventy percent of ()Ur undergraduates lettered in at least one high school varsity sport. and strong participation in RecSports pro­grams shows that our love for our games remains. We students are defined not only by our interest in ath­letics but also by our desire for knowl­edge. A kinesiology program, with class­es in exercise physiology, coaching and sports nutrition, for example, combines our love of sports and our love of learn­ing. 
In addition. the study of kinesiology is beneficial for post-graduate pursuits. A kinesiology program is practical for the medical field and some forms of biologi­cal research. And though its career opportunities are not as lucrative as those of other fields, kinesio!ogy expos­es students to additional career options in a world of uncertain job markets. Kinesiology can be a stepping stone for careers in the expanding fields of physi­cal and occupational therapy. Kinesiology students can also become athletic trainers. Leo Murphy. a Notre Dame physical education major, helped develop the football facemask in the 1950s as a trainer for the Cleveland Browns. And even if kinesiology kn owl-edge is not used in a career, it will make us better coaches for our children. 
Third, our university has the faculty necessary for a successful kinesiology program. Our physical education faculty includes former Notre Dame tennis coach Michele Gelfman and former NAIA Coach of the Year Fran McCann. All instructors have their master's degrees. Yet they only teach apathetic freshmen taking physical education for no credit. These instructors can more fully use their talents by also teaching kinesiology classes offered for actual credit hours. Instructors in the biology department can teach anatomy and physiology courses for the program. We also have very capable varsity coaches who can teach classes, as basketball coach Charlie Coles at Miami of Ohio has done. Can you imagine a "How to Coach Football" class with Tyrone Willingham? 
A challenging kinesiology curriculum will not tarnish the academic reputation of our 18th ranked university. Notre Dame can design a well-respected pro­gram that is not available as a major. 
Science-related classes such as exercise physiology can be offered as graded three-credit courses. Classes on coach­ing can be one-credit, pass-fail courses. Service opportunities in coaching local youth sports can be integrated into the curriculum. With athletics and exercise engrained in campus culture, opportu­nities for kinesiology research are read­ily available. 
A kinesiology minor and free electives will offer us students top-quality instruction from highly qualified faculty, additional preparation for careers in medical fields, and increased knowledge of the games we love. Now is the time for the physical education department to wake up the echoes and regain the national respect it once enjoyed. In combining our academic rigor and interest in athletics, Notre Dame can have the nation's best kinesiology pro­gram. 
Kevin Hansen 
senior Alumni Hall April 21 

Seniors, share your favorite campus memories, lessons and experiences in The Observer's Senior Week Edition. Send your letters to viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


us 
page 14 Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
From Beethoven to Basie 
Notre Dame bands, choirs and orchestra present their final concerts 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
Final papers and exams are beginning to kick in, and everyone is starting to look for a way to break up the stress of the last weeks of school. Students looking for something a little more upscale than a case of beer might try venturing to one of the end-of-the-year concerts put on by several of Notre Dame's best musical groups. 
[f the end of the school year is stressful for any student planning to pass their classes, it is even more so for students in the fine arts preparing for performances with the Notre Dame choirs, bands or sym­phony orchestra. Extra rehearsals take their toll on studying and class work. When it comes to performance time, however, the sacrifice will be worthwhile for performers and audience alike. 
Campus Choirs 
Glee Club concerts are alwavs favorites tor students and townies alik"e. and this year will be no exception. In the past the group has performed spirituals, classical numbers, show tunes, and a wide variety of other music. 
This year's spring concert will feature a combination of classical and contemporary liturgical pieces, including an arrangement of "Down to the River to Pray," a spiritual performed by Allison Krauss on the 2002 Grammy Award-winning soundtrack for the movie "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" 
The Glee Club, Chorale and the Saint Mary's College Women's Choir have also been holding special rehearsals since fall semester for a performance of Verdi's Requiem Mass. The piece is a major undertaking, first performed with 120 singers, 100 musicians and several soloists at its world premiere in 1874. The Notre Dame choirs were specially asked by South Bend Symphony conductor Tsung Yeh to perform the piece at the sixth concert of the Masterworks series. 
The concert will be performed at the 

Morris Performing Arts Center downtown on Saturday, May 10, with ticket prices ranging from $16 to $55. 
Notre Dame Bands 
Next week will feature three concerts from the oldest con­secutive university band pro­gram in America. All three concerts are free and open to the public. 
Sunday at 3 p.m. the University Band and Brass Ensemble will in Washington Hall. This will be first concert of the University Band, a group organized this year to give stu­dents, faculty and alumni the chance to play together. The group will perform many famous pieces including Modest Mussurgsky's "Night on Bald Mountain" and John Philip Sousa's "Washington Post March." 
The Symphonic Winds and Symphonic Band will present a variety of classical music by composers such as Dvorak and Tschaikovsky at 8 p.m. Monday in Washington Hall. The groups, totaling around 110 members total, perform four concerts a year and recently returned from a tour to Detroit, Windsor and Ontario. 
The Jazz Band Spring Swing will feature music to the taste of any jazz aficionado. The first and second jazz bands will per­form works from traditional composers and performers such as Count Basie and Duke Ellington as well as bebop from Dizzy Gillespie and contemporary jazz from Herbie Hancock. 
"We mostly play fast songs because stu­dents like fast music," said director Larry Dwyer. "But sometimes we deliberately challenge them with something slow." 
The Spring Swing is one of the bands' two big concerts for the year besides the Collegiate Jazz Festival, a performance at Junior Parents Weekend and other shows. The show will start at 7:30 p.m. in the Band Rehearsal Hall. 

Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
Each year's spring concert of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra features the winners of the previous November's con­certo competition winners. Graduate and undergraduate students spend months learning pieces to audition for the concert. 
For some students the competition is a chance to perform even though it is not leading towards a career in music. Lan Jiang. a graduate student in the school of music from Chengdu in the Szechuan province of China, plans to pursue a career in orchestral performance on cello before hopefully moving on to teach on a universi­ty level. Jiang will perform Viola Concerto Sz. 120 by Bela Bartok. 
Other students. though proficient on their instruments, consider music more of a hobby. Sophomore Luis Chiriboga, a political science and music major from Quito, Ecuador, is excited to have the chance to perform but does not plan to pursue music as a career. 
The concert will be May 1 at 8 p.m. in Washington, and is also free to the public. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE. 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 page 15 
Real Italian dram.a 
The students of the Italian Theatre Workshop present plays in Italian 
Hy COLLEEN BARRETT 
Scene Wrir.-, 
Studying abroad in Italy is no longer the only way to become totally immersed in tho Italian language. 
Since February, students enrolled in the llalian Theatre Workshop have be1•11 preparing to perform two plays. Some ol' lhcm arc actors, some are stnge managers and others are dcsign­in g tlH\ costumes and setting. l!egardlcss of their specific positions, all an' re<1uired lo communicate solely in Italian. 
"1-'t·om the vnry beginning, every pi 11c1\ of' pap1i r. all in stru c tio ns, appointments, stag1\ directions, com­munications with the actors -it's all in ILalian," said faculty advisor Colleen Hyan-Schcutz. 
As an outgrowth of recent Notre !Janw graduate~ Laura Colangelo's sen­ior honors essay. the Italian Theater Workshop is in its second year as an I\Xpcrimental course. Students rrom a variety of' levels participate in the two credit course, !'rorn 200-levcl freshmen to 400-li~vel senior Italian majors. In ordPr to 1~nroll, students must audition and are tested on their vocabulary and !.(rammar skills to ensllrc that they are abln Lo adequately communicate. 
Throughout tht~ course, students k<•ep a daily diary in addition to writ­ing analyses or the plays and charac­tn r sketches or presenting design ideas to other participants. All assign­ments are done in Italian. 
"lkhind everything. the intent of the people who designed it was the immersion aspecl," said Colangelo, now an adjunct faculty member. "Tlrnater is all about communication with the actors. directors and stage managers so everyone benefits from 

it." 

Students are tested before the work­shop and again after the course. Hyan­Scheutz reports that they are attempt­ing to measure how well students learn and improve language skills when immersed in the language. 
"ll is for fun and it is about learning 
the language... but the students have just progressed in leaps and bounds 
linguistically," she said. 
She feels that the students' gram­mar, syntax, pronunciation and accents have all improved dramatical­ly as a result of the workshop. 
"I love it. It's wonderful for your 
Italian," said sophomore Emily Cucco. a stage manager in the workshop. "They don't let you get away with say­ing, 'Oh, can I say this in English'?' No, you have to at least try to say it in Italian." 
What happens to those who do com­municate in English? "Well, we don't cut off their hand or anything," said Colangelo. 
The workshop will put on two plays this weekend: "I cadaveri si spedis­cono e le donne si spogliano" and "II ciambellone," a murder mystery and a comedy, respectively. 
While the plays will be performed in Italian, Colangelo and Cucco report that people who do not understand the language should enjoy the show as much as those who do. 
"We provide very complete sum­maries of the plays in the programs," said Colangelo. "There is a lot of phys­ical comedy, with slapstick and gestur­ing, and people should be able to understand what's going on." She recalled that last year's workshop per­formances were standing room only for all three nights, and the audience members had varied experience with Italian. 
For the students. Sunday will mark the culmination of an entire semester immersed in a foreign language, which, according to Hyan-Scheutz, "is as close as you can get to going abroad when you are not able to do that." 
The performances will be in the Hesburgh library auditorium Sunday at 1 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $2 and can be purchased in the Homance Languages Department in 343 O'Shaughnessy or at the door. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 23, 2003

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Recchi leads Flyers to blowout win over Maple Leafs 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

With their season on the line and memories of recent playoff failures on their minds, the Philadelphia Flyers came through with their most domi• nant performance. 
Mark Recchi scored twice and Justin Williams had a goal and two assists, leading the Flyers to a series-clinching 6-1 rout of the Toronto Maple Leafs on Tuesday night. 
"We needed our best game and we got it," Flyers coach Ken Hitchcock said. ''I've never seen a team in such a stressful situation act so calm." 
The Flyers, advancing to the second round for the first time in three years. will play Ottawa in the Eastern Conference semi­finals, starting Friday night. The Senators beat the Flyers in five games in the first round last year, holding them to a record-low two goals. 
The Maple Leafs had won four straight first-round series. 
Simon Gagne and Keith Primeau also scored for Philadelphia, which lost in the opening round four of the last five years. It was the Flyers' first victory in a Game 7 since they beat Pittsburgh in the sec­ond round in 1989. 
"There was immense pres­sure on our club and certain individuals," Primeau said. "I don't know if I was ever this nervous before a game." 
Gary Roberts scored 
Toronto's only goal. 

"Maybe they finally made a step that they know how to play when the pressure is on," Leafs coach Pat Quinn said of Philadelphia. 
For Lhe first time since the 1950 Stanley Cup finals, Games 6 and 7 were played on consec­utive nights. The Maple Leafs beat the Flyers 2-1 in double overtime Monday night. 
Weary from the grueling loss just 24 hours earlier, the Flyers got a boost from their two youngest players in uniform. Gagne, 23, and Williams, 21, scored 2:45 apart late in tho first period for a 2-0 lead. 
"We were tired when we got here, but when we got on the ice, we found the energy," Gagne said. 
Roman Cechmanek stopped 18 shots, winning his first play­off series in three tries. 
Gagne gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead on his third goal of the series with 3:37 left in the first period, Primeau set up the goal by keeping the puck in Toronto's zone and passing to Williams behind the net. Williams centered in front to Gagne. who wristed a shot past Ed Belfour into the top left cor­ner. 
Belfour, who had 72 saves in Philadelphia's 3-2 triple-over­time victory in Game 4, stopped just 30 of 36 shots. 
Canucks 4, Blues 1 
Trevor Linden had a goal and an assist as the Vancouver Canucks completed their come­back from a 3-1 series deficit to knock off the St. Louis Blues. Linden, held pointless through the first six games, set up Brendan Morrison's winning goal in the second period and rounded out the scoring with a short-handed goal 28 seconds into the third period. 
Henrik Sedin and Markus 
Naslund also scored for the 
Canucks, who advanced to the second round for the first time in eight years. 
Dan Cloutier celebrated his 27th birthday with 33 saves and his first-ever series win. Vancouver will host the surpris­ing Minnesota Wild to start Round 2. 
St. Louis captain A1 Maclnnis was a surprise starter after being knocked out of the series in Game 2 with a shoulder injury. But his addition wasn't enough as the Blues failed to advance past the opening round for the first time in three years. 
After two straight losses, the Blues appeared to regain some momentum when Martin Rucinsky scored one minute into the game. 
But the Canucks turned up their physical play, re-estab­lished their forecheck and took over in the second period for the thfrd straight game. 
Sedin tied it midway through the first period. Morrison and Naslund made it 3-1 during a second period in which the Canucks outshot the Blues 13­
10. Vancouver outscored St. Louis 7-1 in the second period of the last three games. 
Wild 3, Avalache 2 

The Minnesota Wild were hoping just to win one game against the Colorado Avalanche. That thinking was a little shortsighted. 
Andrew Brunette scored 3:25 into overtime and Manny Fernandez stopped 43 shots as the Minnesota Wild won their first playoff series with a victo­ry over Colorado. The Wild came back from a 3-1 deficit in games, winning twice in Denver. 
Brunette wound up with the puck after Sergei Zholtok lost it just inside Colorado's blue line. 

Brunette skated in, held the puck, then flipped a backhan­der over Patrick Roy for the winner. 
Brunette threw his stick in the air and skated to the side­boards, where he was mobbed by teammates. Roy sat on his knees in the crease after the goal. 
The Wild will face Vancouver in the next Western Conference series. The Canucks beat St. Louis 4-1 Tuesday night. 
Colorado was knocked out in the first round for the first time since losing to Edmonton in seven games in 1998 -the last time the Avalanche lost a series after blowing a 3-1 lead. 
Joe Sakic put Colorado up 2-1 with 6:45 left in regulation, one-timing a pass from Alex Tanguay on a power play for his sixth goal of the series. 
Anticipating a victory, the crowd was still cheering strong­ly when Marian Gaborik tied it on a power play with 4:28 left. Gaborik knocked in a rebound after Roy stopped Brunette from the right circle. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Female Aupair for 2 young children. Very nice 3bdrm home, Avail.June Start Here, Study ANYwheret 
S-0 side SB furn. apt & $$ inc. 20+ 1st for summer/fall. East Race dist. Kaplan Test Prep for LSAT -GAE ­
NOTICES hrs/wk. FOR RENT near TICKETS GMAT -MCAT ­
Flex schedule some saturdays, Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch. Incl. DAT-OAT Study Abroad with CEA England, Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can email Extra grad ticket? Call 1-800-KAP-TEST for info Italy, Spain, France, Australia. 288-7699 Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom picts/floor plan.Call Joe Request a Free homes 1 /2 mile from campus. Crimmins@273-0002(H) or 514-Call 4-1613 David Belczyk G'lrish Catalog www,GoWithCEA.com mmmrentals@aol.com 272-0643(cell) or 
1525 www.mmmrentals com JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com When do I get my cookies Tyrone? 
FOR SALE

3-6 BDRM HOMES. $650/m negotiable. 
FOR RENT

$195.PP/MO.272-6306 HOUSE AVAILABLE furn, 4b2ba, I want some pie -apple, 
Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 walk to campus, jo5225@aol.com Spring Semester 2004 only! 4 Leaving town? We II buy your car. Bedroom, 2 Bath.. GOOD Student Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it team ramrod-, 574-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE. DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 Area, Dave.,243-5353 alone. If you or someone you love Sales 52081 933 WALK TO ND. GILLIS REAL TY HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 needs Who wants a liter of cola? No. So, Bend, IN SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-Two bedroom cottage in good stu-confidential support or assistance, 272-6306 TAINED dent area. $350 per month. Dave Eric Tarnowski snores loudly Babysitter, May-Aug., 3 kids ages HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS-STU-243-5353 call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs,/wk, 2 morn., 1 Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000 DENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECU-1-7819. I will miss quint living and i love you eve. miles, sun roof, CD player, power RITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE Newly remodeled house for rent. 4 all-meghanne $7/hr. Robyn @ 271-3646. locks and STAFF bdrm, central air, fully carpeted, For more information, see our bi-ON CALL-WAHSERS/DRYERS security weekly ad in The Observer. just when I thought the indians A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING windows $9850 or best offer. CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING system, off street parking, walk lo would win a game, mike cameron TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL 287-4306 FAST!!I-CONTACT KRAMER (574) school. Available immediately. Call ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are has to hit a grand slam SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR 315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR 289-you pregnant and don! know what PAID)Discretion Assured. Cal!·277-2 Computers-$150 & $225 (574) 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE 4074 to do? Loving, open-cripes 1659 Thank you, @ WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM hearted, financially stable woman 229-3100 Summer Sub-lease. 1 bdrm, fully would like to consider adopting a touchdown saints? Retiring Notre Dame Protessor sell-2 BDRM House, NC, close to cam-furnished, good neighborhood, rent baby ing 1 Bedroom Condo in North JUDA Y LAKE HOME ON pus, 269-699-5841 negotiable, Free counseling, living expenses my roommate buys legal drugs from Shore Complex. 229-1691 and medical expenses, hawaii In good condition and includes 1 LAKE.WALK TO ND.GILLIS REAL 1 bdrm apt summer sublease at This can be a good thing for Turtle Creek, Fully furnished, price CHICAGO ROOM available for you and your baby. I want chong to make me some Car Garage Call Doris at 299-2000 TY 272-6306,329-0308 negotiable summer lease and/or longterm Discreet and legal. pizza right about now for dboudon@nd.edu lease. 3 ND grads as additional information FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America roommates, Near Wrigley Field. Call 904-824-7006. SHUT UP BURGLE!l!I time share apartment for full week Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per-Available starting anytime in May during the son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. Call 773-871-Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each is there anyone out there that football season. Choose week ot New 8893. way all taxes included! If you can doesn't like the tatu music video? 
WANTED 

2nd or 4th ND home game every everything. Wired for computers beat these 
year, Units etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235· 2 bdnn apt. summer sublease at prices start your own damn airline! I was watching tv and the weather-Seeking college student tor summer accommodate up to 4 Purchase at 3655 Turtle Creek. Contact: macdon-man came on the screen and I was child care in our home for 12 and great savings from owner who must ald.18@nd.edu or Book on line www.airtech,com or like, "I wondered how the weather is 10 yr old. sell at LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-273-4668 like?" Then the weatherman said, "If Good pay and relaxed atmoshpere least one unit Great accommoda-, TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH (212)219-7000. you look at the radar, it looks like Must be able to drive. lions for visiting ND. Can be OF ND Z773097 3-6 !?PAM Santa Claus is about 40 miles Please call 631-9947 or exchanged for HOMES.WASHER/DRYER.$175. P THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF away," Then I said .. 277-8564 and ask for Lisa. resorts worldwide. Call Bob (954) house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; P/MO.272-6306,329•0308 THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­
349-1880 800-966-8399 DAY, APRIL 30. • Are you serious Clark?" 
..................... ....
~ 


:.~:~•.t 
1~:;
t,, . 
•­

page 18 



around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Padres at Cubs 1:10 p.m., WGN Whfte Sox at Orioles 6 p.m., FOXCH Cardinals at Braves 6 p.m., ESPN Dodgers at Reds 6 p.m., ESPN2 

NBA PLAYOFFS Hornets at 76ers 6 p.m., TNT Trail Blazers at Mavericks 8:30 p.m., TNT 
EUROPEAN SOCCER Madrid at Manchester 1 :30 p.m., ESPN2 
AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
NBA 


Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Kevin Garnett was criti­cized in the playoffs last year for not being selfish enough. On Tuesday night, he showed he can take over a game in the fourth quarter. 
Garnett had 35 points and 20 rebounds, and he made four of his five field­goal attempts in the final period as the Minnesota Timberwolves defeated the Los Angeles Lakers 119-91 to even their first-round series at one game each. 
Troy Hudson added 37 points for Minnesota, which was eliminated in 
the first round the past six seasons. Game 3 is Thursday night in Los Angeles. 
A somber Shaquille O'Neal, who spent a day and a half in South Carolina for his grandfa­ther's funeral, showed up about 90 minutes before tipoff and wasn't much of a factor, despite getting 27 points and 14 rebounds. 
Kobe Bryant, the other half of the Lakers' domi­nant duo, had 27 points on 9-of-28 shooting -far below his sensational 39­p oint performance in Sunday's opener, when the Lake rs won 117-98 to swipe home-court advan­tage from the Timberwolves. 
Hudson's 37 points set a franchise record for a playoff game. He averaged only 14.2 points during the regular season, and his best effort was 31. 
The Lakers had their most lopsided postseason loss since 2000, when the Indiana Pacers beat them 120-87 in Game 5 of the NBA Finals. 
Minnesota, which had never won a postseason game by more than nine points, led by as many as 24 in the third quarter but let the Lakers creep back into it in the fourth. 
Los Angeles got to 96-83 on a free throw by O'Neal. but Garnett made two jumpers. sandwiched around two free throws by Hudson to push the lead back to 19. 
Garnett's last basket -a jumper from 12 feet ­elicited a thunderous chant of "MVP" from the crowd. 
His teammates were only 4-for-16 from the field in the final period, and all the baskets came in garbage time. 
Wally Szczerbiak had 21 points, and Marc Jackson had 12 off the bench for the Timberwolves, who shot 55.6 percent from the field. 
IN BRIEF 

Burnitz out four to six 
weeks with hand injury 
New York Mets right fielder Jeromy Burnitz will miss four to six weeks after breaking a bone in his left hand Tuesday night when he was hit by a pitch from Houston closer Billy Wagner. 
Wagner hit Burnitz with his first pitch of the game with one out in the ninth inning. Burnitz immediate­ly grabbed the hand in pain and was checked out by the Mets' trainers. 
He stayed in the game, which New York lost 6-2. X-rays showed a nondisplaced fracture in a bone right below the pinky finger. 
Burnitz broke the same bone in his right hand in 1999. when he was hit by a pitch from Kansas City lefty Jose Rosado and missed nearly five weeks. 
"It's tough to get out of the way of those lefties." Burnitz iaid., ,, 
The injury is particularly frustrat­ing for Burnitz because he's off to a good start this season after strug­gling last year. He's batting .279 with three homers, seven RBIs and seven doubles. 
Burnitz batted just .215 last year in his first year back in New York after being acquired in a trade from Milwaukee. 
"I've been feeling comfortable since spring training," he said. "It's heartbreaking when you get hurt any time. But it definitely adds to it when you're feeling good." 
The struggling Mets (8-12) will place Burnitz on the 15-day dis­abled list Wednesday. General man­ager Steve Phillips said he hadn't decided which player to call up from the minors to replace Burnitz. 
Cold weather makes Indy
500 practice difficult 
Forget the hot laps. A cup of hot chocolate would have been just as welcome. Maybe even more. 
In blustery weather more resem­bling early winter than the weeks leading up to the start of Indianapolis 500 practice, a dozen or so teams were on the track Tuesday for the first of two days of private testing. 
"It's extremely hard for the tires." two-time defending Indy 500 champion Helio Castroneves said of the cold temperatures, which were in the upper 30s at the start of testing Tuesday morning and climbed barely above 40 by the afternoon. 
"To warm up the tires takes longer, sometimes it takes forever," Castroneves said. •·sut you need to trust in the car, make sure every­thing is fine, and so far, it's OK." 
Among the other drivers on the track were Alex Barron -subbing for Castroneves' injured Penske teammate Gil de Ferran -former winners Arie Luycndyk and Kenny Brack, IRL points leader Scott Sharp, Robbie Buhl, Tomas Scheckter and rookies Dan Wheldon, Tony Renna and Tora Takagi. 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC TENNIS BASEBALL 
Late-inning error costs Irish
Belles have several 
. Ball State upsets 
Notre Dame 3-1 at

matches cancelled 
By LISA REfJlJIA 
Srom Writer 
When the Saint Mary's ten­nis team actually gets a chance to play, they make the most or it. The Helles blanked /\Ima College 9-0 Monday, but recently had sevnral other matches post­poned or cancnllcd. 
Thi' Bellcs' April 16 match against MIAA foe Calvin College was postponed due to bad w<'ather. That match has bctrn rescheduled !'or today. 
On Monday, Saint Mary's named a dominant confcr­t)ncc victory over visiting /\Ima. At No.1 singles, Jeannie Knish defeated Lindsey Thdcn 0-·1, 6-0. Freshman Kristen Palombo knocknd off Megan Hlavaty fi-0, 6-0 at No. 2 singles. Co­captain Kaitlin Cutler dis­patched her opponent, Anne Fuhrig, in similar ()-0, 6-0 fashion. 
i\t No. 4 singles, Kris Spriggle defeated Bethany 
Doran by a 6-0, 6-2 score. Senior Elisa Ryan won an easy 6-1. 6-0 contest with Kelly Ross at the No. 5 spot. Rounding out the sweep for the Belles was Angela Sandner with her win over Laura Powers of Alma 6-l. 6­2 at No. 6 singles. 
In doubles action the Belles continued their winning ways. The No. l duo of Knish and Palombo beat Hlavaty and Alison Couturier 6-2, 6­
0. Cutler and Byan were vic­torious in the No. 2 spot over Thelen and Ross of Alma, 6­1, 6-1. Saint Mary's Spriggle and Lindsay Cook defeated Fuhrig and Doran 6-2, 6-1 at No.3 doubles. 
The Belles' Tuesday match against DcPauw University was cancelled, but the team will get a chance to face Calvin to make up that cru­cial conference contest today. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
Frank Eck Stadium 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior Staff W titer 
The ball was in Matt 
Edwards' glove for a split sec­
ond. 
Then it wasn't. 
On what would have been the final out of the top of the ninth inning. a groundout to pitcher J.P. Gagne turned into a 2-run error when the ball fell out of first baseman Edwards' glove on the force play. The runs that scored provided the final margin for visiting Ball State in defeating the Irish 3-1 Tuesday night at Eck Stadium. 
"I feel terrible for Matt Edwards," coach Paul Mainieri said. "Ile's caught a throw like that probably a million times in his life." 
That play culminated a. night of frustration for the Irish, whose bats have gone as cold as the recent chill in the South Bend air. 
'Tm a little concerned [about the offense]," Mainieri said. "We don't have a lot of power in our lineup, so we've got to 
string together a lot of hits. In order to string together a lot of 
hits you need a lot or guys get­ting good at-bats. I just didn't feel like we had many good at­bats tonight." 

ROWING 
No. 10 Michigan State 
The lone Irish run came in the bottom or the lirst inning, as the first two batters of the

knock down Irish game for Notre Dame were 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame rowing t1iam fell in live of six races Lo 10th-ranked Michigan State on Lake Ovid at Sleepy llollow State Park in East Lansing, Mich. All crews wnrii f'orced to row into a strong headwind. forcing tirnns lo be higher than nor­mal as the Irish only won the second varsitv four. 
Tho sncon·d varsily four crew dominated its race today, winning by almost 12 seconds with a time of 8 min­utcs, 32. 70 seconds. Michigan State was second in 
8:44.70. while Notre Dame's B boat was third in 9:06.10. 
Michigan State's first varsi­ty· eight set the tone for the rest of' the events defeating the Irish by over eight sec­onds. The Spartans posted a time of 7:28.05 to defeat Notre Dame's which finished in 7:36.17. 
The Spartans' second var­sity eight turned in an impressive effort beating the Irish by more than 20 sec­onds with a time of 7:28.8. 
able to manufacture a run. Leadoff hitter Steve Sollmann fired a double to left-center field.. then reached third when the throw to second base 
rolled past the fielder towards first. Brennan Grogan knocked Sollmann in with a groundout to give the Irish an early lead. 
For much of the remainder of the game, it was a pitcher's duel between Notre Dame's Chris Niese] and Gagne against the Cardinals' trio or Joe Ness, Kory Bucklew and John Pettibone. 
Niese] opened in dominating fashion, retiring four of the first six hitters he faced via the strikeout. 
However, 
and third with two outs, setting up the error by Edwards. 
'Tm not really sure what happened, if he took his eye off it, or what," Mainieri said. "I feel terrible for him and I feel terrible for our team." 
The loss drops the Irish to 29-9 on the year, following a weekend which saw the Irish go 3-1 in two Big East double­he ad e rs. splitting with Pittsburgh Thursday before sweeping Seton Hall Saturday. 
The Irish take on Cleveland 
State tonight 

the Cardinals were able to  "/feel terrible for Matt  at 5:05 p.m., where Notre  
push across a run in the top of the fourth, in very much the same  Edwards. He's caught a throw like that probably a million times in his life."  Dame will look to emerge from its offensive struggles of  
fashion  as the  Tuesday.  
Irish did the first.  in A  Paul Malnlerl  "We've just got to find an  
walk followed  Irish coach  answer,"  
by a put a  single runner on  third, then  a  Mainieri said. Some  

nights, certain aspects of the

groundout knocked in the run­game aren't there for you. Our
ner to tie the game at 1-1. pitching was there tonight, our
Gagne worked himself out of defense was there until the lasta jam in the top of the seventh play of the game. But our hit­inning. With runners on first ting wasn't there. Hopefully
and third with one out, the we'll break out of' it tomor­
reliever was able to induce a row."
f1v out to short left field and a strike out to end the threat. 

The Irish threatened in the Notes: bottom of the eighth, putting Irish shortstop Matt Macri runners on first and second was awarded the Big East Co­with two outs, before pinch hit­Player of the Week award for ter Matt Bransfield swung at his work last week. In the six the third strike to end the games Notre Dame played over inning. the seven days ending last 
Ball State gained momentum. Sunday, Macri hit.10-for-19 leading off the top or the ninth with four doubles, two triples, inning with a single up the a home run and seven runs middle. A stolen base, strike­scored overall. out and walk later, a Ball State batter grounded into a fielder's Contact Bryan Kronk at choice, leaving runners on first bkronk@nd.edu 

A Syntax ofEarly Modern Cultural Semantics 
a lecture by Roland Greene ofStanford University 
. 

Wednesday, April 23, 2003 -4:45 p.m. 
Dept. ofSpecial Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library 
Free Haircut 
by licensed cosmetologist 
English and the Foreign, Languages:
models needed for training 
Cultures in Transition
program at 

a panel with Roland Greene and Margaret Doody, Lionel Jensen, Kirsten M. Christensen, Joseph A. Buttigieg, Asma Afsaruddin and. Theodore Cachey 
Atria Salon 
(574)289-5080 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 -4:30 p.m.
1357 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
Dept. ofSpecial Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library 
South Bend, IN 46615 
Both events are co-sponsored by the Department of Romance Languages and 
Call fur appointment Literatures, the Department of English, the Ph.D. in Literature Program and allied departments and programs, and the Devers Program in Dante Studies. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 2003 

Woinens 
continued from page 28 
played a bigger factor than I expected," said Irish coach Debby King. "At the same time we played very well. It would have been neck-and-neck even if had Miami been on their game." 
Brophy, a freshman, fired a final round 77 to share medalist honors with Miami's Tina Miller at 229. Byrne birdied her final hole to finish alone in third at 234 (82-72-80), while Hayes shot 237 (78-79-80) to finish fourth and Lotta was fifth at 243 (75­79-89), as the Irish dominated the top five. Those four golfers also represented the Irish on the all-conference team. Freshman Lauren Gebauer rounded out the Irish scoring with her 12th-place finish at 252 (83-83-87). 
With her second medal of the fall, Brophy put the finishing touches on a strong spring sea­son. After struggling some in the fall, both Brophy and King felt that this win would propel her on to more strong performances over the next three years. 
"She really brought her game back Lo where it was," said King. "The first semester is difficult. She has had the chance to settle down and play well." 
"The fall was rough," said Brophy, "but I think the spring has been good in that I've been able to play better. This win will really help our confidence going into next year, and we also have two more good players coming 
in." 

King agreed that the win was very important for the Irish both now and in their efforts to build the program. 
"It is very big for recruiting," she said. "In a couple years the winner will get an NCAA bid for winning the conference and this tournament is the last thing our players will remember before heading home for the summer." 
"I think it's exciting, and I think it reaffirms where we're going as a team," said Byrne. 'Tm especially happy for the three freshmen." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Mens 
continued from page 28 

tournament. The Hokics shaved Notre Dame's lead to four. 
After one day all five Irish golfers were in the top ten with Gustafson was in second place, Brandon Lunke, Mark Baldwin and Tommy Balderston ti('d for fifth place and Eric Deutsch tied for ninth place. Hut Virginia Tech was close behind. All five Hokies were in the top 15, lurking only a few strokes behind the Irish. Despite the slim margin over Virginia Tech. the Irish were confident that they could win. 
''We were still confident. We knew they were going to come after us with a good game," Gustafson said. "Por the majority of the day we played along and maintained our lead, but it kind of slipped away on the last fow holes. We were confident that we could pull it out. and probably should have. But we let it slip." 
The Irish and tho Hokies p1aycd a close final round. Notre Dame and Virginia Tech players competed against each other in their threesomes with 
R~~~ 
i 
I 
I 'I 
' 
Proudly Presents 

The RecSpys 
"Notre Dame's annual campus sports awards" 
Vote online April 21-25 at www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 
For more information about each candidate, please visit the voting website. All RecSpys will be presented at the Dinner of Champions on May I. Attendance is by invitation only. 
U ndeq:raduate Female of the Year Abbey Coons -PE Erin Nasrallah -Lewis Jenny Yee -Welsh Family  
Underi:raduate Male of the Year Bill Bingle -Siegfried Dave Marques -Stanford James Waechter -Keough  


G rad/F ac/Staff Female of the Year 
Jill Bodensteiner Alison Dekoschak Schalyn Hirtz 
Grad/Fae/Staff 
Fans of the Year Team of the Year 
Male of the Year 
Fisher Hockey Farley Football 
Carlos Abeyta 
PW BasketballSt. Ed's Baseball
Steve Lickus 
Siegfried Footbal I 
Eric Woodward 
Vanilla Thunda 
Game of the Year 

Alumni v. Keenan -Men's Soccer Championship Cavanaugh v. Welsh Family -Flag Football Playoffs Studs & Chicks v. Knights of the Court -CoRec Volleyball Playoffs 
Georgetown. Playing with the Virginia Tech golfers strength­ened the competition. Both teams could see how their rivals were doing and what scores they needed on each hole. This heightened tension and facilitated adjustment. 
Notre Dame led on the majority of the back nine. Kut on the final two holes, the Irish ran into some difliculty. Three of five Notre Dame golfers bogeyed the 17th hole and four bogeyed the final hole. 
"Coming down the final stretch, we knew that we were in position to win the tourna­ment. There was a lot of pres­sure," Gustafson said. "We couldn't pull it out at the last two holes when we needed it. Those two holes cost us the championship." 
The Irish needed a win in order to qualify for the NCAA Regionals. But while their postscason hopes are over, the Irish can take some positives from the tournament. 
Pour of Notre Dame's five golfers finished in the top seven. Gustafson (70-75-76) tied for second place. Lunke (72-77-73) tied for fourth place, Baldwin (75-74-75) fin­ished in sixth place. and Balderston (76-73-77) finished in seventh place. Deutsch (75­76-79) finished in 11th place. 
Gustafson performed well in the biggest test of his young career. The freshmfm lead the Irish throughout the tourna­ment despite the pressure of matching up against tourna­ment leader De Jonge. 
"It was fun," Gustafson said. "He was ranked highly in the nation. You always want to play with the best. I mostly had to play my own game. It was nice to match his level of' play." 
The Irish end their season this weekend at Michigan St.at.e's Bruce Fossum/faylor Made Classic. The 54-hole tournament marks the end of the careers of' Mike Hastings and Lunke. As hard as the end of this tournament was to stomach, the seniors leave a Notre Dame team that is in good shape for the future. 
"We'll try to end the year on a good note. We're all kind of disappointed in how it ended," Gustafson said. "Rut we know that four freshmen played this year and are coming back. We're only going to got nothing but better." 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
5:05pm 
. Ni ht ­

Wednesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS 
--~-­Saint MarY-'s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
nu, Ntttton ·s PremiBr Car/'tollc Womcm ·s COlldQd 
The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership presents 
''Women's Leadership: An Array of Options'' 
Tuesday, April 22 
7:00 p.m. Carroll Auditorium 
Join us in welcoming Saint Mar.y's Alumnae for a panel discussion on the many ways in which women can exercise leadership in their lives, career, and vocations 
Panel Participants Include: 
Sharon Kendall, 1972 Alumna, Director,
Denise Cavanaugh. 1964 Alumna. Region 2, Indiana Department of
Organization Consultant, Cavanaugh, Hagan & Pierson 
Commerce 

Mary Lauck, 1979 Alumna, Executive Director,Stacy Davis, 1999 Alumna, Director, 
Learn. Fun Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council, Paula Dawning, 1971 Alumna, Inc. Superintendent, Benton Harbor School District 
Christy Wolfe, 1989 Alumna Assistant to the Editor, international Council of Nurses 
New course offered by East Asian Languages &Literatures fall 2003 
~~8 392, 01: C_ultural Performances in Contemporary China Cross list: ANTH 392E MWF 4:05-4:55 Prof. Jonathan Noble 
This course asks students to engage and analyze different types of "cultural performances" in China from the 1980s to the p,·esent day. How do we interpret the diversity and complexity of cultures in contemporary China? How is this diversity represented (or "performed") within and between different types of mediums, disciplines, and socio cultural activities? After establishing an understanding of the historical context for the period under discussion, the course will examine different types of "cultural performances" within abroad range of areas, including film1 television, theater, advertising, the Jnternet, and popular music1 dance and leisure activities. Particular issues to be examined in conjunction with the "cultural performances" include commercialism and consumerism, the role of the government, the state, and nationalism, tradition and modernity, globalism and transnationalism, the urban/rural divide, class, and gender. The course will also provide abasic introduction to theories of performance and performativity. Students will view/ analyze, and discuss an array of "cultural performances" through different media and utilize the Internet as an interface for collecting viewpoints from China and across the Chinese Diaspora to be applied to their own research projects. In addition to providing acurrent overview of the diversity of cultures in China and the contemporary issues embedded within, this course is ideal for students seeking to explore the role of culture across disciplines, including arts and literatures, history, anthropology, sociology, political science, media studies, and business. No prior knowledge of Chinese language, culture, or history is required. 
East Asian Languages &Literatures 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 631-8873 

I I I I_ ----­
page 21 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles have to play well in final MIAA games 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The ability to win non-con­ference games is desirable. The ability to win league games is essential. 
Following a roaring 8-2-1 start in Florida, the Saint Mary's softball team (15-11-1, 4-4 in the MIAA) has dropped to a tie for fifth in the MIAA due to poor performances in recent league games. both home and away. 
It's a trend they're hoping to reverse today against confer­ence foe Calvin. 
While the Belles squeaked out a G-4 win over second­place Hope College and a 4-2 victory over third-place Albion College in past weeks. the team has lost seven of its last l 2 games overall and four of last eight league games. 
On April 17, Saint Mary's split another doubleheader, this time against non-conl'er­ence opponent St. Mary's of the Woods. The Belles won the first game, 2-1, in eight innings, and lost the second 8­6. 
The Belles have been outscored by opponents 42-32 in April. 
While Bridget Grall received co-pitcher of the week honors in week two of the season, Saint Mary's pitchers have had a rough time of late. Teams have hit well against the Belles' aces. When the Saint Mary's hurlers are clicking, errors in the field keep the team at the opposing team at the plate and often cost the Belles victory. 
The team played twice yes­terday against non-conference Marian College and lost both, 11-2 and 3-l. The Belles have five games remaining on their schedule, including three league games against Calvin, Alma and Olivet College. 
Alma, who Saint Mary's will face Saturday, sits atop the conference with an 8-2 MIAA record. Olivet (12-15, 6-5) is set to visit the Belles on Wednesday. They sit fourth in the league. 
The Belles host Calvin today at 3 p.m. The Knights (15-9, 4­
4) and the Belles are tied for fifth place. This doubleheader could throw one team into the playoff hunt and make another team's remaining games insignificant. 
Last season, Saint Mary's shut out Calvin in a double­header, 5-0 and 6-0, respec­tively. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


North Food Court's 
Last Shout 
Sponsored by: Lamb Wesson & Tyson Foods Wings & Fries of ALL SORTS!! 
/ 

Wednesday, April 23, 200.3


Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish enjoy success over the break 

. 4x400 relay wins prestigious Mount SAC Relays 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens and 
1womens track team enjoyed a multitude of success over the Easter weekend, 
While most of the Irish were 

Faculty Performance 
Featuring 
DON SAVOIE 
Thursday April 24th 9plll -11Pill LaFortune Student Center Ballrooin Free Food Will Be Served 
Sponsored by Student Activities Contact the Student Activities Office at 1-7308 for rrore information 
at Butler University in Indianapolis for the Indy Relays, a select few were at the Mount SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. for the presti­gious Mount San Antonio College Event that attracts competitors from across the country. 
In California, the womens team had a strong showing, led by the 4x400 meter relay's first-place finish. Tameisha King, Kristen Dodd, Kymia Love and Ayesha Boyd ran to the finish in 3 minutes, 
37.58 seconds en route 1.o their first-place honors at the Relays. 
The 4x100 meter relay also ran well, finishing fourth with a time of 44.88 seconds. in a challenging tield of run­ners. 
Leading the way for the women sprinters, Boyd took 22nd in the 100-meter dash after placing fifth in her heat (12.30), and was followed closely by teammate Tricia Floyd, who took 32nd overall after grabbing sixth in her heat (12.54). 
King took fifth in the long jump with a 6.24 meter effort, while the high jump saw Emily Loomis and Stacey Cowan take fourth and fifth, respectively. Both Loomis and Cowan leaped 1.7 meters in their final attempts. 
The distance runners also saw success for the Irish, as freshman Molly Huddle led the way for the Irish with her fifth-place finish in the 5,000­meter run with a time of 
15:36.95. Hight behind her was Jennifer Handley, who took 18th in a time of 16:55.03. 
Finally, Lauren King took fourth in the 1,500-meter run, as she finished in 
4:16.43 for the Irish. 
On the mens side in California. Selim Nurudeen turned in a strong perfor­mance with his third-place finish in the 110-meter hur­dles. Nurudeen finished in 
14.10 after taking first in his section. 
Tim Moore was the only other Irish runner to place 
r------------------------------------------------­
mA~IN mKEA ~OWN 111¥1,oum1Dre¦111ed o,
t 
P111,oRMINe ON'10UTU QUAD?? 


Well here's your chc1nce for the spotlight to perform your best K21r21oke ~ct!! 
I" "mil) A -v, TO '1J11-J JTI\ 
~ .ll ~ I ~ U \I I 
A 'W) -.i } L JjTH ~I .ll 
El'AIL 
I!!. 1 'Wl 1l6 
Jl 
J"' I 11'.a.1 

f[l} l)AJ"EQ@'Wl\ 1' 1\JT
80lJTH ! lJA,I) A.IJI\ JI ~ J J/t~J/ \I 
Cash Prizes and Gift Certificates from 11..11. • .a. 4K.a4111duu•a La 1:elMIP9119§1 nppecanoe,
VIIUNniftuftolllll......., ....,....-, 
Houlihans, Between the Buns, Fa Ta, Lula's, BW3s, and more. 
'-------------------------------------------------....l 
for the men's team. as he took seventh in the 10,000­meter run (29:45.93). 
In Indianapolis, the Irish also experienced plenty of success as well at the Indy Relays. held at Butler University. 
On the mens side, the Irish placed 31 athletes. including two first-place tinishes. 
Leading the way, Chris Staron won the high jump, while David Alber won the 3,000-meter steeplechase (9:07.07). Alber was followed by teammates Ryan Johnson 
(9:16.63) and A.J. Andrassy (9:16.95), who finished sec­ond and third, respectively. 
Meanwhile, Juan Alba took second in the discus (47.04 meters). and Hyan Hurl took second in the 200 meter dash {21.70). 
Also finishing second was Mark Barber in the 400 meter hurdles (53.53 seconds). Kaleb YanOrt in the 5,000 meter run (15:05.83) and Terry Lennon in the 1,500 meter run (3:57.79). Barber was followed by Napoleon Suarez, who took third in 
54.09 seconds. while Sean O'Donnell followed YanOrt with a time of 15:07.63, good enough for third place. 
In the field, Derek Gagen and Dan Porter made strong showings, taking third and fourth, respectively. with efforts of 56.18 and 53.33 meters. 
Pinally. Alba, Chip Hoberts, and Brian Thornburg domi­nated the hammer throw, as they swept fourth through sixth place with efforts of 52.42, 47.90 and 46.93 meters. respectively. Jason Davis took eighth with a 
46.49 meter effort. 
The Notre Dame women also had a strong showing in Indianapolis, with four first­place finishes. Kate Duman won the javelin with an effort of 40.09 meters. Petra Dankova won the triple jump 
(12.52 meters), Jennifer Kerney won the high jump (5­foot-6) and Kerry Meagher won the 800-meter run 
(2:14.12) to lead the way for 
the Irish.
Emily Showman was the lrish's only second-place fin­isher. as she took second in the 3,000-meter steeplechase (11:15.30). 
Hose Brakel-Piercc was successl'ul us well, as she took third in the 400 meter dash with a time of 57.96 seconds. 
Meghan llorn led the way in the throws, as she placed third in the shot put (J 2.67 meters) and fourth in the dis­cus (40.12 meters). 
Meanwhile. Dec Dec Bryant and Jill VanWeeldf1n tied for third in the pole vault with their effort of 11-foot-1. 
Taking fourth for the Irish 

was Latasha Steele in tho 100 
meter dash (12.67 seconds) and Andre Duplechain in the javelin (:14.50 meters). Both the men's and 
women's teams travel to Drake and Purdue this week­
end, the last meets bcforn tlw Big East Championships on~tj;/ through 4 in Storrs, 
The NCAA Hegional Meet is scheduled !'or May 31 i11 Columbus. Ohio. Contact Heather 
Van Hoegar<lcn at hvanhocg@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 

Streaking Irish win two more games in NY 
• Irish extend win streak to 16 straight victories 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Wrirer 
T.S. Eliot once wrote, "April is the cruelest month," but you would have a hard time con­vincing the Irish ol'thaL 
Notre Dame continued an April streak in which they have not lost in 14 games as the Irish extended their winning streak to 16 games, the longest win­ning streak for the Irish since an 33-game win streak by the 2001 team. 
The Irish had no trouble on Thursday against ICPU-Fort Wayne, with both games called early as Notre Dame swept the Mastodons by scores of 10-2 and 9-1. • 
Notre 
day to
Dame "/ think we're excited that 
tie the game
t h e n 

we'ue been winning like we at 4-4.
traveled 

have because it feels like all of N o t r e 
to New 
Dame got

York to our hard work is paying off." 
the winning
face Big 
run in the
East foe 

Mallorie Lenn sixth after
Syracuse 
Bledsoe
Irish catcher
o n 
Saturday 
and took the first game in 
equally impressive fashion, win­
ning 10-1 before the game was 
called in the sixth inning. 
The winning streak looked in 
doubt early in game two as 
Syracuse leapt out to an early 
4-1 lead in the third inning as a 
result of back-to-back-to-back 
home runs. 
A three-run home run by 
Mallorie Lenn eventually tied 
the game and Lisa Mattison 
added an RBI single to put the 
Irish ahead, before winning 6-4. 
"I think we're excited that 
we've been winning like we 
have because it feels like all of 
our hard work is paying off," 
Lenn said. 
Notre Dame struck early 
against their opponent on 
Friday, scoring two runs in the 
first inning off RBI singles from 
Andrea Loman and Andria 
Bledsoe. 
Three more Irish runs were 
manufactured in the bottom of 
the third on an RBI single from 
Mattison and a two-run home 
run from Hartmann. 
The Irish put the game out of 
reach in the fifth, when Notre 
Dame leapt out to a 10-2 lead 
as the game was called early on 
the eight-run "mercy" rule. 
Freshman pitcher Heather 
Booth continued her fine sea­
son, collecting her 14th win of 
the year and only allowing one 
hit over four innings. 
The Irish continued to use the 
long ball in the second game, 
when Mattison lead off the sec­
ond inning with a home run. 
Notre Dame added two more 
runs in the third. 
Irish starter Steffany 
Stenglein made the early runs 
stand up by pitching a orn~-hit­
ter for the ·win. Her one hit was 
a solo home run. 
On Saturday, the 
Orangewomcn got on the board 
first by taking advantage of rare 
control problems by Booth to 
score a run. 
Notre Dame came back in the 
top of the second with an RBI 
triple by Nicolll deFau and a 
sacrifice fly by Megan Ciolli to 
score dcFau from third. 

• In the third inning, Ruthrauff hit her fourth home run of the season to put the Irish up 3-1. Bledsoe and Mattison followed with singles before Hartmann launched a three-run home run to put Syracuse away. Adding insult to injury, Lenn followed with her own solo shot. 
The Irish looked to be in good shape in game two, as Loman walked. stole second, and went home on a Bledsoe single. 
The Orangewomen answered in the third with three consecu­tive home runs off Stenglein, putting four runs on the board. 
"We have gotten behind before," Lenn said. "We've been in worse situations than that, and we've been able to pull through. We have a confidence and trust each other; we knew we would get those runs back." 
The Irish were quick to respond, when defau and Hartmann reached base before Lenn slammed her second 
homer of 
the 
reached on 

an error, stole second, and advanced home on a Syracuse error. 
Notes: 

Mattison was named the Big East player of the week for her offensive production while help­ing Notre Dame to a 6-0 record. 
She went 12-for-20 over the six games, leading the team with eight RBI, scoring four runs and had an errorless defensive performance. 
This marks the second straight week the Irish have had a player win Big East hon­ors. Booth and Ruthrauff were named Big East co-pitcher and co-player of the week earlier this month. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
WOMENS LACROSSE 

Foote leads Irish to hom.e victory 
• Losing streak snapped after big win over Davidson 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team snapped a three-game losing streak Tuesday afternoon with an 18­6 win over the Davidson Wildcats at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish got three goals each from freshman Crysti Foote and Danielle Shearer in the first half as they jumped out to a 12-4 lead at the inter­mission. Foote added three assists for her second consecu­tive six-point game. In all, 11 players scored goals as Notre Oame improved to 5-7 on the season. 
Notre Dame got two goals each from ;vteredith Simon, Lauren Fischer and freshman Corey Samperton. Davidson was led by freshman Lorin Seaton with three goals and an 
assist and got single goals from Becca McDevitt, Brandon Jacob and Eloise Grose as the Wildcats fell to 1-13 on the season. 
Shearer and Seaton traded goals early in the first half before the Irish burst out to a 5-1 lead less than 10 minutes into the game. Eleanor Weille, Simon, Anne Riley and Foote gave the Irish the four-goal lead with 20:05 left in the half. 
McDevitt and Foote traded goals to make it a 6-2 game and Jacob's goal for Davidson with 14:42 left made it 6-3. The Irish would score the next six goals to blow the game wide open. Jackie Bowers started the streak and was fol­lowed with two by Shearer. one by Fischer. one by Foote and one by Simon that gave Notre Dame a 12-3 lead with 
4:55 left in the half. Seaton's second goal of the game made it 12-4 at the first intermis­sion. 
The Irish picked up where they left off, scoring the first 
two goals of the second half as Samperton got the first of her career and Fischer, her second of the game to make it 14-4. After Grose made it 14-5 at 19:17, Mary McGrath, Angela Dixon and Samperton built the lead back to 17-5. Seaton scored her third of the game and the last for Davidson with 
7 :46 left and Lisa Lombardi closed the scoring with 3:51 left for the final score of 18-6. 
Notre Dame outshot Davidson on the afternoon by a 41-16 margin. Wildcat goal­keeper Leslie Smith made 15 saves in the game. Jen White surrendered four goals in 30 minutes while making three saves in the game. Sophomore Carol Dixon played the final 30 minutes, giving up two goals while making five saves. 
Notre Dame returns to action on Saturday, April 26 when the Irish play host to the Northwestern Wildcats at Moose Krause Stadium. The opening draw is scheduled for 10 a.m. 
FOR SALE: 
J.T. Arseniadis Chris Bachner-Reimer Justin Brandon Dave Brenner Joe Duhhs Tim Jaeger Andrew Litschi Mike f\kNamara Chris Orenchuk Joe Rehmann Matt Schulte Eric Staron Vinnie Zuccaro AND !\-fORE! 

Meet your new neighbor. 
Visit Our NEW Granger Location & Enter To Win A NEW CAR! 
For a chance to win, all you need to do is to stop in and fill out an entry form. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION SR 23 and the Toll Road in Granger 574/243-4840 
No purc::[lo!:>e nece~sart-Conies! ends Ap,il 26, 2003. One enlry pe1 person Mv,1 be 18 years old or old11r to 
i,or11cipote Thti drffilling will be held on April '16, 2003 Need not be present 10 win. Employees. of Notre Dame Federo1 Credi! Union and lhlrir immediottt fom1ly member~ ore not eligible lo win. This prornot10n 11 only being oHered of lhe Notre Uom-, h1derol Credit Umon New Granger Bronch.
Independent ot the Univer-aily 


Wednesday, April 23, 2003 page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Attenltion Sophonioresl 
Order your class ring now and have it ready 
when you return in the fall! 

ball, and 
"You 're looking for gusy
make every that's how we who will go out there and treated that
play look like drill."
a pass,'' finish the play... McKnight Stovall 
experienced a

said. "Our 
BIii Deidrick unique honor
coach stresses 
getting to the offensive coordinator last year as 
About to land Your First NY Job.

. • I 

Graduate to aGreat Manhattan· Apartment. 
Receivers 
continued from page 28 
important for all receivers to be aware of their roles on every play, even if they do not get the ball. 
"You're looking for guys who will go out there and finish the play," Diedrick said. "One way they can do that is to run to the ball and possibly make a block for the receiver who made the catch." 
The receivers, both young and old, have taken Diedrick's advice to heart. 
"One thing that we stress as receivers is that we block and sprint off the 
Orders may be placedfor your class ring April 21 through April 26 8:30a.m. to 9:00p.m. 
Ring will be availablefor pickup after Septem/Jer 2,20O.J. 
ll HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 

Open Monday through Saturday, 8:30am -9pm Sunday, 10am -7pm 
ball and being physical because you never know what will happen; the back may fumble or some­thing like that." 
"Receivers have to be some of the toughest players," Jenkins said. "On every play, we're doing something, whether it's blocking or run­ning a route. You have to be a complete player in both the mental and physical aspects of the game." 
Although it is normally the receiver who catches the pass that gets the most attention, all members of the receiving corps have to work hard to make a play successful. Even on run­ning plays. receivers are often required to run "dummy routes" in hopes of taking a defensive back out of the play. 
"I don't think of any route as 

May 1 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 2 Times: 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 3 Times:  8am to 3:00am  l\1idnight Snacks!  
May 4 Times:  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
May 5, 6,7, 8:  8am to 3:00am  

36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: 

May 1 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 2 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am l\'lay 3 Times: 5:30pm to 3:00am May 4 Times: 1:00pm to 3:00am May 5, 6, 7, and 8: 5:30pm to 1:OOam Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266,369. 
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 3:00am. l\'londay-Thursday 7:00am-1:00am. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204,206,207,208, 209. 
S11acks courtesy ofStudent Union Board 
a 'dummy route,"' Jenkins said. "Because you never know what will happen. You look at film or other teams and you can see when a play is a run because the receivers will jog around. We want to run every­thing at full-speed all the time." 
In a two-minute drill at Tuesday's practice, the Irish receivers looked especially sharp moving down the field. Even though it was only a scrimmage, Stovall believes that it is a good sign of things to come. 
"You can take a lot from everything in our practice," Stovall said. "Coach Willingham treats everything like a game situation and 
he was fea­
tured on a 

Sports Illustrated cover making a catch at Michigan State, but he remains humble of his individ­ual accolades. 
"I was thankful to be blessed with the chance to be on the cover of Sports Illustrated," he said. "But I looked at it as a newspaper clipping, just with 'Sports Illustrated' written along the top. I still get people who send me covers to get signed, but I try to keep a level head about the whole thing." 
If the Irish receivers have their way, they would like to be on another Sports Illustrated cover next year. Hopefully one in the first week of January. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
Round of 64 plays on in freezing weather 
. Tournament competition heats up Tuesday night 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports \'(/rirer 
Shivering in slee\'eless white jerseys, No. 30 Piss Poor pulled out the victory against The Gunzelmann Express. The Express refused to go away. keeping the game close the 
whole wav. 
With men's basketball stand­out Chris Thomas acting as an unofficial coach, Piss Poor used their size advantage to out­rebound the Express. Due to the difficult conditions, the game featured a large number of turnovers bv both teams. Unable to conne~t from the out­side at first. Piss Poor eventual­ly settled into a rhythm but never was able l.o put together a run to distance themselvPs from the Express. 
Piss Poor was stuck on 20 points for a while, and The Gunzelmann Express made a short-lived comeback to put a scare in their ranked oppo­nents. Finally a member of the inadequately-clothed Piss Poor team banked in a shot to put an end to one of the evening's longest games. 
A Bunch of White and One 
Black Knight 21, Future Welfare Recipients 12 
In a night that featured sever­al tight, back-and-forth con­tests, the outcome of this one was clear from the beginning. 
A Bunch of White and One Black Night wore down Future Welfare Recipients with their speed and athleticism. Unlike most other games in the round of 64, this game moved quickly, as A Bunch ... reached 11 to make the halftime score 11-5. 
No. 27 Future Welfare Recipients made a few runs to pull closer, but never posed a serious threat to tits unranked opponent. A Bunch... was par­ticularly dominant inside, cen­tering their offensive attack on putbarks and offensive rebounds. 
Spectators were momentarily diverted from the action when another bookstore team pulled up to the court in a white stretch SUV blaring Ludac:ris from its speakers. 
1/2 Men, 1/2 Amazing 21; Team 52216 
No. 21 1/2 Men, 112 Amazing broke the game wide open in the second half, outscoring the athletic Team 522 11-5 after a close first half. 1/2 Men 1/2 Amazing used quick ball move­ment and physical inside play to slow down Team 522. 
Team 522 dominated in the beginning, slashing to the bas­ket and out-rebounding their opponents. The game was slow at first. as both teams ,vere scoreless for about eight min­utes. Team 522, featuring sev­eral members of the ND track team, then dictated the quick tempo, but 1/2 Men, 1/2 Amazing caught up to make the halftime score 11-10. 
After the half. the momentum shifted to 1/2 Men, 1/2 Amazing for good. They forced Team 522 into multiple turnovers and were able to contain them inside and keep them off the boards. 
Dubbers 21, Team 36 5 
On the women's side, No. 5 Dubbers coasted into the Elite Eight with a 21-5 win over Team 36. In a game marked by bitterly cold temperatures and particularly enthusiastic and vocal Team 36 fans. the Dubbers made quick work of their opponents into order to get out of the cold. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

North Food Court's 
Last Shout 
Sponsored by: 

Lamb Wesson & Tyson Foods Wings & Fries of ALL SORTS!! 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

A bookstore basketball player makes a layup in a recent game. Players braved the cold and wind on Tuesday night to play in the round of 64 at the bookstore courts. 
GJmtd~IE~ 
presents 

BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE 

<!:> MGM , <Cl UNITED ARTISTS 

Date: April 24th, 25th, and 26th Location: 101 DeBartolo Hall .Admission: $3 Movie Times: Thursday (8 PM); Friday & Saturday (8 and I 0:30 PM) 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 
Mrntnrn. MY heart wflt than1< me, jun before It StOPS, 
'
[OM;r CLUJrt.. \ 
;::/ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~mill 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
It builds up my stamina 
to form four ordinary words 
1))=
EJYTT 
j 
:::­
I tx 
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DAAHE 
j
I I r 
f.z ~
tCLOPIE 
WHY THE: 
MUSIC.IAN WORKED
XJ I j
www.Jumble.com 

OUT DAIL-Y. 
TELKIN 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
I rI CJ 
Answer: 

TO rI I I J'( I I I I J; 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SCOUR BAKED DIVIDE INSIST Answer: What stie felt like when her hair was cut too short -"DIS-TRESSED" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 26. To order, 1end your name. eddreas ¦ nd $5.05 and make check payable to Tribune Media SarvlcH, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Middle of the quip
1 "The Crucible" setting 41 Arrow poison 6 Willingly 42 B'rith 10 Chihuahua cries 44 "Friends" 14 Not merely network sluggish 47 Parched 15 Razor brand 48 Bikini blasts 16 Eye rakishly 50 Speaks like 17 Start of a quip Robert Byrd 20 Fatty treat for 52 Unique, to birds Caesar 
21 Perfumer's 54 Painter's extract medium 22 Wagering 55 Squirting flower, venue, briefly say 25 Sox foes 57 Talk like Daffy 27 Ancient 59 End of the quip Mexican 
64 Rock 'n' roll 28 Rutabaga, e.g. pioneer Freed 30 Grouch 65 81g story 32 Malaga Mrs. 66 Where the action is
33 Fit to serve 67 Model Banks
34 Where overreachers go 68 D.C. group 

69 Off one's trolley 
DOWN 

1 Do some modeling 2 "Wheel of Fortune" buy 3 Science fiction writer Stanislaw 4 "_ Tu" (1974 song) 5 Honshu peak, briefly 6 Nonprofess,on­als 7 Social attachment? 8 European language 9 1893 Verd, opera 10 Sticks figure 11 007 and others 12 Position filler 13 Five Nations tribe 18 Axel, e.g. 19 Weather line 22 Ear: Prefix 23 Popular sandwich filler 24 Uncle Remus honorific 26 Energetic cleaner 29 Buster? 31 Classroom routine 34 Tahoe transport 35 Sticks figure 37 Diving birds: Var. 


WILLSHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shirley Temple Black, Roy Orbison, Valerie Bcrtinelli, Scott Bairstow Happy Birthday: You'll have plenty of good ideas this year, but may have trouble implementing them. Learn to casl your fate 10 !he wind and although you won'! always win, you will inch forward throughout the year. Remember, if you don't make some waves. you probably aren't making a difference. Stand your ground and you will gain rcspecl. Your numbers arc 12. 16, 22. 31, 44, 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let the little things in life bother you so much. Go out with friends who will lift your spirits and give you encouragement. Do what you must to make your life heller. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Clean house both physically and mentally. Reevaluate your intentions and eliminate individuals who are holding you back. Put your cash in a safe place. *** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): This is a perfect day to mentally pick the brains of individuals you admire. You will discover all sorts of things about yourself and your abilities. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will enjoy yourself more if you do something with an older family member who can walk down memory lane with you. He or she needs someone to talk to. so take your time and make the day one to remember. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have trouble controlling your emotions. Don't nag the ones you love. You need to direct your energy into productive projects. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on work, do a good job and the rewards will come your way. Don't be afraid to speak up and share your thoughts. Your innovative ideas will help you in your job. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Go to a nca market or attend an auction. You stand a good chance of finding a real bargain. You will get fabulous results if you decide to make some personal changes. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Things may get a little crazy today, especially if you become jealous or emotional. Be prepared to deal with an overindulgent individual. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec, 21): You will find talking to others to he insightful. Listen and observe. You will feel extremely fortunate if you compare yourself 10 others. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have to make a fasl financial decision. Set a cash figure and don't spend more regardless of the consequences. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 211-l•cb, 18): You may feel a little vulnerable today. Your emotions will be difficult for you to control. Be careful how you handle the people you live with. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may need to take some extra precautions today. Problems while en route will cause a delay. You need 10 slow down, relax and enjoy yourself. *** Birthday Baby: You will be curious but very practical. You will amaze others with your imagination and your ability to find solutions 10 whatever you face. You will always lend a helping hand and experience great popularity. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, cugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAi. PRESS SYNDICATE 
45 Rain shield, in 53 Guinness et al. London 
56 "Holy moly!" 46 Luxury spread 

58 Machu Picchu site
48 La Scala song 60 ~th's partner 
49 Discoverer of 61 Voided shot

New Zealand 62 Where London
51 "Lovergirl" 
is: Abbr.
singer_ Marie 63 Roll-call call 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nybmes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nyt1mes.com/leam1ng/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensibJe link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. ' 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­Address ---------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Wednesday, April 23, 2003 
BIG EAST GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Women victorious, men edged at Big East 
. Irish overcome cold to win by 44 strokes at Warren 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spans Writer 
The womens golf team came into the inaugural Big East Golf Championship as the second seed to Miami. Led by individual co-medalist Katie Brophy, the Irish left as Big East Champions. 
Notre Dame used mental toughness in difficult weather conditions to win by a whopping 44 strokes over Miami. with Boston College finishing third and Georgetown fourth, The Irish dominated throughout, placing four golfers in the top five for the event and leading throughout. 
The Irish got off to a strong start in the first round on Monday by shooting a morning 312 to take a 15-shot lead on the strength of a 75 by sopho­more Karen Lotta and a 77 from Brophy. 
Any hopes of a Miami come­back were crushed in the after­noon. Junior Shannon Byrne shot the low round of the tour­nament with a 72 while Brophy added a 75. Lotta and freshman Suzie Hayes also added rounds of 79 for a 305 total. With Miami struggling, the first day ended with the Irish up by 44 shots. Both teams fired final rounds of 
324. with 44 also being the final 
margin. "The wind and home course 
see WOMENS/page 20 


• Men barely miss a championship, finish in second 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sporn Wricer 
Only two strokes separated the Irish from 2003 Big East champions Virginia Tech. But those two strokes were enough to end the Irish's hopes for a postseason birth. 
Virginia Tech (302-292-295­
889) trailed Notre Dame (292­298-301-891) for the first two rounds of the tournament. The llokies unseated the Irish late, riding the strong game of tour­nament champion Brendon De Jonge. Georgetown (300-309­315-924) finished in a distant third place. 
"I was playing well. The team did really well." Scott Gustafson said. "We got off to a great start. Today we were playing neck and neck. We lost a few down the stretch. They nipped us." 
Notre Dame hosted the Championships at the Warren Golf course. On Monday, the Irish exploited their "home­course advantage." Three Notre Dame golfers had their best scores in the first round, includ­ing Gustafson who shot an even-par 70, one stroke behind De Jonge. The Irish compiled an early 10-stroke lead over Virginia Tech. 
Virginia Tech narrowed the gap in the second round of the 
see MENS /page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Irish receivers look to step up into new roles 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
After leasing fans last year with flashes of brilliance, the Irish wide receivers hope to take their game to an even higher level for next season. 
The graduation of Arnaz Battle, the team's leading receiver last year, will leave a void in the Irish offense that will be difficult to fill. Battle's 58 receptions last year were more than the second and third receivers combined. 
"I don't know if one guy will step up in [Arnaz'] role," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I would like to have three guys stepping up in that role. I think we have three receivers capable of stepping up and providing leadership and physical play in that posi­tion." 

Senior Omar Jenkins is the leading returning starter from last year. making 37 receptions and averaging 48.7 yards a game. Sophomores Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall were also crucial pieces of Notre Dame's offense last year and are expected to contribute next season. 
Last season was an unusual one for Irish fans used to a 
run-oriented offense under for­m er coach Bob Davie. First­year head coach Tyrone Willingham implemented a pro-style offense that made much more use of the passing game. 
This season, the Irish receivers are more familiar with the offense and hope to focus more on the specific details that make plays suc­cessful. 
"There's always little things that are added," Jenkins said. "You're always looking to learn the intricacies of the system." 
Under Diedrick's system, it is 
see RECEIVERS/page 25 

en 
SMC SOFTBALL 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
BOOKSTORE 

ND SOFTBALL 
TRACK AND flEUl 
SMC TENNIS 
Calvin at Saint 

Notre Dame 18 
Notre Dame 10-9
ti-muI.LI 
Teams battle the cold

--Mary's 
Davidson 6 
IUPU-FW 2-1 
Irish finish strong in 
Belles have numerous 
once again as the field is 

Indianapolis and 
matches cancelled due 
narrowed to 32 teams. 
=~ Today 3 p.m. 

Irish end three game 
Notre Dame 10-6 
California at the Indy 
to inclement weather. 
The Belles look to win 

losing streak with victo-
Syracuse 1-4 
and Mount SAC Relays. 
ry at home. 
in the MIAA against 
== Calvin 

...,
a.. ti 

page 19 •' 
page 25
page 26 
page 24
en page 21 

page 24 




