
VOL. XXXVII NO. 103 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Sharon remembered in campus Mass 
. Hundreds attend memorial Mass held in Basilica 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistani News Editor 
Several hundred students. faculty, friends and family gathered Tuesday at Sacred Heart Basilica for a memori­al mass for freshman Chad Sharon, whose body was found Feb. 12 after police searched for the missing stu­dent for two months. 
"We have entrusted Chad into the arms of the living and loving eternal God. May that be our strength," said University President Father Edward Malloy in his homily at the Mass. Sharon's par­ents, Steve and Jane Sharon of' Pelican Lake, Wis., attend­ed the Mass along with other relatives of the family. 
In his homily, Malloy also reflected on the search effort that preceded the weeks before Sharon's body was positively identified. 
"When the word went out that Chad was missing, so many members of this com­munity rose to the chal­lenge," Malloy said. "People who had never met Chad tried to be there with com­
• Autopsy and blood test results come back 


By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
After reviewing the results of the autopsy and blood tests, officials said they ruled the death of Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon as "accidental," said St. Joseph County Deputy Coroner Handy Magdalinski. 
Blood test results released this week indicate that Sharon's blood alcohol con­tent level was 0.224, said Hex Hakow, director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
The legal blood alcohol limit for driving in the state of Indiana is 0.08, although Indiana's alcohol laws pro­hibit minors from having any alcohol in their system. Rakow also noted that the level indicated in the test results may be slightly higher because of the time that had passed since Sharon's death. 
"That level may be a little elevated," said Rakow. 
Rakow noted that Sharon's blood alcohol level at his time of death could have been anywhere from about 

see MASS/page 4 see AUTOPSY/page 4 

600 sign anti-war petition 
. Petitioners object to military action in Iraq 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Hundreds of students. faculty and staff from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's collaborated in a petition to oppose a potential U.S.-led war against Iraq. 
The petition, which appears as a two-page ad in today's Observer, emerged from the Center for Social Concerns Voice group, a student advisory board. CSC Voice joined Pax Christi and the Peace Coalition and modeled their petition after the "Not In Our Name" anti-war ad that recently ran in the New York Times. 
"Our idea was to present a counter to the very pro-war path our government seems to be taking by presenting to our own community a diverse group of our own peers who stood against this course of action," said senior Katie Ball. a mem­ber of Pax Christi. 
The petition received over 600 petitions at press time with a slight increase in the last few days. 
Senior Margaret Laracy of CSC Voice said the students wanted to get a wide cross-sec­tion of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community from freshmen to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, who was the first to sign the petition. 
'The great thing about this ad is we have all these people who have their own reasons for opposing this war," Laracy said. 
One reason petitioners repeated in multiple interviews with The Observer was just war theory. A theory rooted in St. Augustine's writings, it purports to draw up criteria for the dec­laration of war. In general. just war theory holds that war should be a last resort, but if it comes from the right authority for the proper reasons. it can sometimes be validated. A just war must also have a reason­able chance of success, a fitting means to achieving the end and as few civilian deaths as possi• ble. 
"I don't think a pre-emptive attack follows a just war," said Father Tom Bednar, rector of Zahm Hall and director of cross-cultural ministries for Campus Ministry. 
Bednar said he signed the petition because he felt the American public should speak out against the Bush adminis­tration's support of a U.S.-led war against Iraq. 
"There are certain times when we can't be silent." 
Bednar said. 
Proponents of the war have said that Iraqi president Saddam Hussein has violated United Nations resolutions for the last 12 years by harboring weapons of mass destruction. 
However, since Iraq has not declared war on the United States, many, such as Ball, believe a pre-emptive strike would be inappropriate. 
"Attacking Iraq under the pretense of enforcing an United Nations objective would be in and of itself violating a United Nations objective," she said, cit­ing the non-aggression provi­sion of the UN charter. 
Philosophy professor Gary Gutting also signed the petition, saying even if Hussein "proba• bly does" have biological arms and weapons of mass destruc­tion, there is no eminent dan­ger. 
"Congress is obviously unwill­ing to stand up to the adminis­tration," he said. "The American public has to make its own statements." 
The students who organized the petition said they have not yet made plans as to what they will do with the signatures but they said they hope their pub­lished petition makes a strong statement against a war in Iraq. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


Disability week kicks off with talk 
By AMANDA ROTHEY 
News Writer 
The Office of Student Disabilities and Best Buddies kicked off Disability Awareness week Tuesday night with "Life After College," a discussion aimed at offering students with disabilities advice and experi­ences to ease their transition into post-graduate life. 
Laura Hoffman. a junior politi­cal science major. led the talk by sharing her experience as an intern for the Justice Department in Washington, D.C. Hoffman, who has difficulty reading small print because of a vision impairment, emphasized that disabled students must take the initiative to find services that can enhance their indepen­dence. 
"You have to be your own advocate and take the initiative to ask for accommodations," she said. 
Psychology professor Kathy Gibney relayed her struggle to overcome dyslexia at a time when few educators understood learning disabilities. Using self­created study techniques, Gibney persisted through col~ lege and eventually earned her master's degree in counseling. 
After a car accident that placed him in a wheelchair the summer before his junior year at Notre Dame, Adam Sargent reevaluated his focus. Sargent, a varsity lacrosse player before the accident, eventually gradu­ated and went on to work for Academic Services for Student Athletes and pursue a master's degree in mental health counsel­ing. 
"Don't limit your choices," Sargent told the group. "But be realistic about the environment you put yourself in." 
Hoffman also discussed the importance of understanding the rights afforded to people with disabilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Under the ADA, employ­ers cannot discriminate against disabled persons and must pro­vide accommodations for dis­abilities. 

Disability Awareness Week continues today with a panel discussion entitled "Experiences with Special Needs: Students, Parents, Children, Siblings. Adults" at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Contact Amanda Rothey at arothey@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Good stuff 

late at night 
Hey, don't you all want to go ... where nobody knows your name, but they're always glad you came? No, I don't mean the 'Backer, Finnigans, Heartland, Corby's or even the sinking Boat. Oh, and I 
apologize for the shameless rip-off of one of the great­est TV shows ever. Anyway, there's a place, well, thou­sands of places all across America that strike a chord 

in the hearts of 

WIii Puckett
those who know it. After all, where 
News
else can you get 
Production
awesome hash browns in the wee hours of the morning except at Waffle House? 
Waffie Houses across the country have their share of antics that would do any local bar or campus dorm proud. Well, maybe not proud exactly, but Ithink there's some similarities there. For instance, one proud Domer once walked confidently into a Waffle House"store," placed his order, and then asked for a pitcher ofsyrup. The waitress gave him an odd look, but produced the goods. Evidently taste­challenged, our young man promptly picked up the pitcher, cocked it back, and downed it in one swig, provoking both hearty laughter and a hearty tip, presumably to avoid being run off the premises. 
While this may be one person's "Once upon a Waffle House" story, another took it far too literally. Following the consumption ofa glass of hot water, our completely sober subject hopped atop the bar counter, singing "Oh, hash browns, oh, hash browns, we stick our fork in thee!" I had the unfortunate pleasure of witnessing this event. and while it was hilarious, eat­ing half a ham and cheese sandwich in the parking lot proved not quite so amusing. 
Ifyour tastes stray more towards staying inside the restaurant, however, there's still plenty to do. Just find a random waitress and a random group ofyoung people, and say the following: "So there was this guy in a bar, right? He looks at the bartender and says, 'One piece of bread.'" Proceed to laugh like crazy, at which point, the waitress and the group of people will begin to laugh too, acting like they get your joke that wasn't really a joke. If you play this one right, it will get you far ­maybe even out to the street. 
I prefer to start out on the street and end up inside a Watne House, myself. I've ended up in three or four ofthem in one night, driving all over southern Ohio for the hash browns. It's all about the hash browns, ifyou're a diehard Waffle Houser. Beware ofending up getting lost and ending up in the park­ing lot of a Lions Den, though. It's been known to happen to a few poor lost souls who only wanted to find Magic Mountain and then a get double order of hash browns scattered, smothered, covered, chunked, topped, diced and peppered. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards ii.Self as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make miscakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please c:ontaet us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Notre Dame 
The 'Mouth of

Kmart may 
It's not about

Activist Victor 
Blix sees Iraqi 

Dance 
the South'
the oil

Lewis shares 
sue former
Information as 
signal of 
CEO

stories of 
inequality 
cooperation 
A senior analyzes 
Dance troupes 

Bengal Bouts
Former chief
The author and 
The chief U.N. 

such as the Porn
executive Charles 
an anti-war argu­

senior captain Clay 
activist discusses 
inspector says Iraq 

Conaway could be 
Squad, First Class 
Cosse of Louisiana 
ment that the U.S.

diversity, feminism 
is providing new 

the target of a law-
would enter into 

Steppers and Irish 
preps for his last
and Iraq during a 
information about 

suit involving the 
step dancers enter-
year in the ring. 
war with Iraq

Saint Mary's lee-
two bombs. 

retailer's bankrupt-
because of oil inter­
tain Notre Dame

ture. 
cy filing. 
campus eventgo­
ests in the region. 
page 3 
page 5 
page 7 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ NO 
. 
Exhibition: Contemporary Impressions: Art by Native American Artists. Snite Museum of Art. all clay 

. 
Student Scnatn: Jesse Norman of OIT, LaFortunc Notre Dame room, 6 p.m. 

. 
Panel discussion: "Experiences with Special Needs: Students, Parents, Children, Siblings, Adults." Center for Social Concerns, 7 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
ND/SMC Tax-Assistance Program, Haggar College Center, 3 p.m. 

. 
Accreditation Celebration, Noble Family Dining llall, 4 p.m. 

. 
J\dult Children of Alcoholics Meeting. Madclcva Ilall, 7 


p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Buffalo chicken lasagna, Hawaiian pizza, roast top round, cham­pagne rice pilaf, turkey gravy, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, cheese and vegetable pie, broccoli cuts, sliced car­rots, winter-blend vegetables, oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, sausage gravy and biscuits, hash browns, crinkle fries, snow peas and noodles with soy dressing, black beans with tomato and cilantro 
Today Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, provencal sauce, Hawaiian pizza, roasted turkey breast, cherry crisp, baked sweet potatoes, tuna casserole. stewed toma­toes. wilted spinach, steamed vegetable plate, BBQ pork spareribs, hot apple­sauce 
TODAY TONIGHT 

0:: 
I.LI 
::c 
!« 
I.LI 
3: 
...I 
c( 
(,) 

0 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, fettuccine, french bread pizza. turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol­lock, shrimp creole, grilled turkey sandwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, chicken teriyaki, portobello fajita, chicken cacciatore 
Today Dinner: French bread pizza, roast top round, oven-fried chicken, grilled polish sausage, rotini with vegetables, polish-style kluski noo­dles, cabbage, honey-mustard chick­en, seasoned fries. onion rings, chi­nese noodles and snow peas with soy dressing, flatbread beef pizza 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

_, HIGH 27 HIGH 28 HIGH 31 HIGH 37 LOW 18 LOW 14 LOW 19 LOW 23 
ers. 
page 9 
page 10 
page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Harrassment complaint filed 
NDSP is investigating a harassment complaint that was reported Friday at WNDU. 
Employee loses decals 
A University employee reported losing two parking decals at an off-campus location Friday. 

Student loses decals 
A student reported losing her wallet outside DeBartolo Hall Thursday at approximately 2 p.m. 

Tresp~r charged with misdemeanor 
The prosecutor's office charged the suspect who trespassed in Nieuwland Science Hall on Feb. 13 with a Class A Misdemeanor Criminal Trespass 
Thursday. 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Grilled hummus baguette, herb pasta, cous cous salad, sizzling chicken, fajitas, fruit and cheese bar, grilled roast beef wrap, herb rice pilaf, cauliflower, sausage pizza, cheese calzones, BLT loafer, tuna salad, sliced honey ham, sliced turkey, cream of broc­coli soup, chicken and rice soup 
Today Dinner: Vegetarian panini, pan­cake and waffie bar, bagel french toast, Belgium waffles, pancakes, sausage, hash browns, wings and things bar, spaghetti and meatballs, asparagus spears, cheese pizza, Santa Fe pizza, bread sticks, sicilian surimi casserole, pineapple upside down cake, cheesecake 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 35 HIGH 38 LOW 26 LOW 18 

Atlanta 51 / 41 Boston 26 / 16 Chicago 28 / 16 Denver 65 / 42 Houston 27 / 16 Los Angeles 60 / 48 Minneapolis 24 / 12 New York 29 / 19 Philadelphia 30 / 20 Phoenix 61 / 47 Seattle 46 / 34 St. Louis 29 / 21 Tampa 76 / 64 Washington 34 / 26 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Activist Victor Lewis shares stories of inequality 

By SARAH NESTOR Saine Mary's Ediror 

Speaking to a standing-room only crowd at Saint Mary's in Stapleton Lounge, activist and educator Victor Lewis shared his thoughts on diversity, feminism and the possibility of war with Iraq. Lewis' lecture, titled "Why is diversity important and why it's good for you," was the keynote address of Black History Month at the College. 
Lewis began his talk by likening society to a boat, using the analo­gy throughout his talk. 
"First and foremost every single human being, you and me, is in the same boat," he said. "We're all on the same boat but we arc not all on the same deck [of the boat]." 
Having established that all humans are on the same boat and intrinsically connected, Lewis added the problem of a hole being in the bottom of that boat. 
"If there is a hole anywhere, especially in the bottom of the boat, then there is a problem for everyone," Lewis said. "It is just the people closest to the hole have a more urgent problem." 
"Holes," or problems, in society that he discussed included white privilege and male supremacy. Lewis shared his own personal encounters with both instances. Lewis, who grew up in Cleveland, said he did not have any direct encounters with prejudice until he was 11, when he said he changed schools and was one of a few African-American children in his class. According to Lewis, his new teachers assumed he was dumb, which pushed him to achieve more. 
"I became intellectually defi­ant," tewis said. "Whereby it became a process of me being praised for being so articulate." 
Once in college, Lewis, who considered himself an intelligent person, discovered feminism and the existence of a male privilege. 
"My ignorance of the condition of women's lives made me igno­rant of my own life," Lewis said. 
To change this, Lewis began to read and learn about the strug­gles women face. According to Lewis, women do 70 percent of the world's work but only earn 10 

Wednesday,Feb. 26th 

Thursday, Feb. 2ih 
Keynote Speaker,

Experiences with Special Needs 
Girard SagmiJler,
Panel Discussion 

Author ofDyslexia, My Life 
Listen to apanel of expert students and parents 
Discover how you can help someone
discuss their experiences working with children and 
with a Leaming Disability.
adults with special needs. 
7p.m. DeBartolo Hall 
7p.m.Center for Social Concerns 
Room IO I Free Admission. 


~~---------------------------J 
percent of the world's wages. Lewis also added that the No. 1 reason in America that women visit the emergency room is because they are victims of' domestic abuse. 
"There has been a breach on the U.S.S. Gender," Lewis said. "The more comfortable your seat on the boat than the more likely you are to think the boat is line," 
On Lewis' boat, the people on the bottom deck have the most intimate knowledge of the hole, but that does not mean that the people on the top deck are not in danger. 
"Diversity is important to you, whether you know it or like it, because everything and every­body you love is threatened." Lewis said. 
Lewis points to a hierarchal system of education that perpetu­ates prejudices and slows change. According to Lewis, knowledge tlows from the top to the bottom, but not vice versa. This hierarchy flows from those who have a Ph.D. to those who have a mas­ter's degree, to those who have a bachelor's degree, etc. Those with the most education are the most likely to make decisions. not listening to those with the least amount of education. 
"We live in a culture that assumes that knowledge comes from the top down," Lewis said. 
Instead, Lewis pointed again to the boat. analogy, where the peo­ple at the top of the boat and the captain have the most authority but the people at the bottom and next to the hole have most inti­mate knowledge about the hole. 
According to Lewis, there are four antidotes to the barriers of diversity: service, sacrifice, strug­gle and solidarity. 
Lewis sees the solidarity of humanity as being threatened if a war with Iraq was to occur. He pointed to the solidarity of humans that occurred when worldwide demonstrations were recently organized. 
'Tm very heartened by the focus group that came out and marched before Washington," Lewis said. "[They were) unprecedented, spontaneous, internationally, uniformly, unified people." 
Lewis was involved and led the race relations documentary "The Color of Fear" and is also the co­author with Hugh Vasquez of "Beyond the Color of Fear: Dismantling Racism." He is cur­rently the Director of the Center for Diversity Leadership. 
The Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs sponsored Lewis' talk. He also presented a lecture sponsored by the Notre Dame Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services earlier in the day at the University. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmary5,edu 
INDIANA ONLINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 

TAKE IT ON THE 

INTERNET 
• 
No classroom attendance required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 
www.lndianaDriver.com 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 26, 2003 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
forting words." 
At the end of the Mass, Notre Dame sophomore Danita Altfillisch, who attended high school with Sharon in Merrill, Wis., read a letter that Sharon's parents had written to their only child. The Sharons addressed the letter "to the best son a parent could ever hope for" and said that they hoped they would make their son proud. 
Cedric Alvarez, Sharon's resident assis­tant in Fisher Hall, also spoke at the end of the Mass about his memo­ries of Sharon. 
"[His] smile earned him the nickname on the third floor of Fisher Hall as Smiling Chad," said Alvarez. 
Malloy also noted that Sharon would receive his diploma posthu­mously at graduation ceremonies for the class of 2006, continuing in the tradition of award­ing degrees to Notre Dame students who died. Sharon was attending the University on a full-ride scholar­ship and. at the time of his disappearance, was receiving all A's in his classes. 
Funeral services for the Fisher freshman were held Feb. 22 at Bible Presbyterian Church near Sharon's hometown. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

speaking with Sharon around their investigation into the 4 a.m. circumstances of Sharon's

Autopsy 
The Madison Center is locat­death. ed farther "It's pri­
continued from page 1 
away from marily closed 


0.18 to 0.224. campus than but the
"It just depends on the
Rakow said it would be diffi­the party County Metro 
C

cult to tell how an alcohol Sharon had person. I don't think you Homicide level like the one reported in attended. can make any Police are Sharon's body might impair Throughout still going to
generalizations. " 

lan individual's judgment. the investiga­be conduct­
"It just depends on the per­tion, police ing an inves­son," said Rakow. "I don't felt that foul Rex Rakow tigation. 
0 

think you can make any gen­play was not director of NDSP, on how much They're still 
eralizations." involved in investigating
alcohol might have affected Chad
Sharon's body was discov­Sharon's dis­some infor­
Sharon

ered Feb. 12 under the Angela appearance mation that 
~ 

Bridge in the St. Joseph River. or death. was given to 
lI)

Sharon had been missing Magdalinski t h e m , " 
since Dec. 12 and was last said the involvement of the Magadalinski said without seen by friends at an off-cam­coroner's office in the case is specifying what the informa­pus party on Corby Street at 2 over unless there are major tion was. 
a.m. on Dec. 12. developments. but the St. 
A Madison Center Hospital Joseph County Metro Contact Teresa Fralish at employee later reported Homicide Police will continue tfralish@nd.edu 
U) 


1Jreen-PhilTY,s :Meaf.'Auct-to,z 


13u£on tlie oyyortunity to sliare a mea[witli great camyu.s cefe.6rities!! 
:Featuring, 

Tyrone Willingham + Mike Brey Father Mark Poorman+ Chandra Johnson+ Bill Kirk Father Tim Scully + Chuck Lennon + David Moss Ken Dye + Anre Venter + James McKenna Nick Setta + Joey Hildbold + The Leprechaun Chris Quinn+ Torin Francis 
Wecfnescfay, :February 26ri 8-11 P:M. Tfie :J-fuc(c[[e, Lajortune 
Get free INSTANT CONFERENCE 
CHAMPIONSHIP TICKETS. 
Stop by L.S. Avres, Univef'sity 
Park en Marcf1 B. 2003. With 
anv NAUTICA COMPETITION 
fragrance purchaso of $35 or 
more, get a FREE NAUTICA 
COMPETITION Basketball by 
Spalding..,. Free Conference 
randomly included with limited 
ba&ketbaUli, So hurry. While 
aupplies last., 
. SPAU.llMi trademark -ne:d by Spalding %arm· WoridWiCUI. Inc. ar u.oe, Sport ¦, Jnc. 
~--!.s~~-At,..._~
~;.:.t.A.t: ..~~:--~·.:;,,· ···.' 

9:30 -11:00 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 

Open to Norre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Bring your ID! $2.00 Skate Rental 

THE NAUTICA COMPETITION SHOOTOUT IS YOUR CHANCE TO PLAY FOR A BIG EAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP. 
2 person teams will have : 60 to score as many points as possible from spots on the floor. Become Conference Champs and WIN. 
WIN TIIE CONFERENCE CHAMPIDNSIIIP AND GET: 
• 
$1 ODO in cash [$500 per player) 

• 
$1000 in NAUTICA COMPETITION Clothing ($500 per player) 

• 
The license to talk trash .. , Anywhere. Anytime! 


BECONIE CANIPUS CHANIPIDNS AND GEI: 
• 
An all expenses-paid trip to the BIG EAST Conference Championship where you'll get: 

• 
The chance to destroy your conference rivals for the big prize 

• 
Free tickets to watch t.he tournament live in person, and 

• 
Free bottles of NAUTICA COMPETITION • The Newest Player in Men's Fragrance 


ALL PLAYERS GET: 
• 
NALJTICA COMPETITION Shootout Jerseys -for the first 75 teams to register • sign up quickly! 

• 
Free samples of NAUTICA COMPETITION -The Newest Player in Men's Fragrance 


GET IN THE GAME 
WKlRE: Rockne Memorial 
WfffN: Wednesday, February 26th from 7:00-9:00pm 
HDW TO REGISTER; Go to Rockne Memorial during the 
hours listed far more information 
or to register 

HOW TO Pl.-V: • 2 players per team, so pick your winning partner £Varsity Players excluded} 
• 
Score as many pmnts as you can 1n 60 seconds 

• 
Outshoot your opponents during prehmmary and final rounds for your chance to play m the Conference Champ1onsh1p. 




.----------------------------;------------------------------------------­
WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 . COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Blix sees Iraqi information as signal of cooperation 
received by some of the swing
Associated Pte55 
voters the United States is trying 
to court, but it was unclear how 
NEW YORK the five veto-holding powers 
Iraq is providing new informa­would react. U.S. Ambassador tion about its weapons and has John Negroponte seemed to reported the discovery of two reject the concept Monday when bombs, including one possibly he said the only benchmarks filled with a biological agent -· Iraq had to meet were already moves that the chief U.N. in Resolution 1441, which the weapons inspector said Tuesday council unanimously approved signal real cooperation. in November. 
President Bush, however, pre­Bush said Tuesday it would be dict«,d Iraqi leader Saddam helpful to get U.N. backing for Hussein would try to "fool the war. "but I don't believe we world one more lime" by reveal­need a second resolution." ing the existence of weapons he The United States and Britain has previously denied having. maintain they already have U.N. lie urged the United Nations to authorization to attack Iraq. back U.S. action against Iraq. The November resolution gave 
With the Security Council Iraq a final opportunity to dis­deeply divided over whether arm or face "serious conse­Iraq has squandered a final quences." opportunity to disarm, Canada But British Prime Minister was trying to bridge two com­Tony Blair and Spanish Prime peting plans that were intro­Minister Jose Maria Aznar face duced Monday: a U.S.-British­strong opposition at home to a Spanish resolution that seeks war without the approval of a 
U.N. authorization for war; and new resolution. a French-Russian-German pro­The vote, expected in mid­posal to strengthen we11:pons March, could well be influenced inspections and continue ,them by whether Iraq complies with at least into July. an order last week from chief 
Canada, which isn't on the inspector Hans Blix to begin Security Council, circulated a destroying its Al Samoud 2 mis­Iraq maintains the missiles tries in deciding on war or more half a dozen letters containing document to council members siles by Saturday because they don't exceed the limit and has inspections is Iraq's cooperation new information on weapons, 
Tuesday proposing a series of exceed the 93-mile limit in U.N. asked for technical talks. But with U.N. weapons inspectors. including two R-400 aerial benchmarks Iraq would have to resolutions. Blix said the issue was not open Blix has said in previous reports bombs. Blix said one of the meet by the end of March. The Saddam apparently hinted in for debate. that Iraq was cooperating more bombs was "likely to be filled council would then be asked to an interview with CBS' Dan Saturday is also the deadline on the process of inspections with biological stulT, it's a liquid vote on whether Iraq was com­Rather that he might not for Blix's next written report. than on the substance of its that appears to be biological." plying with its U.N. obligations, destroy the missiles. But Iraq's He is then due before the coun­weapons of mass destruction He gave no other details, but diplomats told The Associated Deputy Prime Minister Tariq cil on March 7 with U.N. nuclear programs. R-400 aerial bombs can be ftlled Press. Aziz insisted Tuesday that no chief Mohamed EIBaradei. But he said Tuesday that Iraq with biological or chemical 
The Canadian ideas were well decision had been reached. A key issue for many coun-had provided inspectors with agents. 

KUWAIT 
4 U.S. troops die in chopper crash over Kuwaiti desert 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT CITY 

A U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopter on night training crashed Tuesday in the Kuwaiti desert, killing all four crew mem­bers. The Kuwaiti military said sandstorms were reported in the area at the time the chopper went down. 
The aircraft, which belonged to the Army's V Corps, was part of the force that has massed in this Persian Gulf emirate for a possible invasion oflraq. 
The Pentagon identified those killed Tuesday as Spc. Rodrigo Gonzalez-Garza, 26, ofTexas; Chief Warrant Officer Timothy W. Moehling, 35, of Florida; Chief Warrant Officer John D. Smith, 32, of Nevada; and Spc. William J. Tracy, 27, of New Hampshire. 
Kuwait army spokesman Col. Youssef al­Mulla said the helicopter went down in bad weather. Sandstorms and high winds were reported overnight and continued Tuesday afternoon. 
The UH-60 Black Hawk crashed about 1 
a.m. near Camp New Jersey about 30 miles northwest of Kuwait City, an Army state­ment said. 
The helicopter was part of the 158th Aviation Regiment. 5th Battalion, of the 12th Aviation Brigade based in Giebelstadt, Germany. The group is attached to V Corps' 11th Attack Helicopter Regiment, which is part of some 9,000 troops from the corps deployed as part of the recent U.S. buildup. It includes a headquarters unit commanded by Lt. Gen. William Wallace. 
V Corps spokesman Bill Roche said from the corps·headquarters in Heidelberg, Germany, that it was still too early to specu­late about a cause of the crash. 
"AV Corps safety team is already on site, and then additional people are coming in from the U.S. Army Safety Center in Fort Rucker, Ala.," Roche said. 
The bodies are expected to be brought back to Germany, Roche said. 
The helicopter was one of two V Corps helicopters participating in the exercise. The other returned safely. 
On Jan. 30, an MH-60, an adapted ver­sion of the Black Hawk. crashed in a train­ing mission seven miles east of Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. Four members of an elite aviation regiment were killed. 
More than 70,000 U.S. troops are training in the Kuwaiti desert in preparation for a possible invasion of Iraq. President Bush has threatened to use force to disarm Baghdad of weapons of mass destruction if it does not do so voluntarily according to 
U.N. resolutions. Iraq denies it has such weapons. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korea warns of possible U.S. attack: 
North Korea urged its military and people to be ready for a U.S. attack, a South Korean news agency report­ed Wednesday, quoting a statement from the commu­nist government. The North's Foreign Ministry issued a statement late Tuesday accusing the United States of planning massive war games in the Korean Peninsula in preparation to attack North Korea, Yonhap news agency said. "The United States can launch a pre-emptive attack on us at any time," the North Korean statement said, according to Yonhap. 
Aftershocks claim more lives in China: 
Hundreds of aftershocks rocked western China on Tuesday, claiming more lives a day after a major earth­quake crumpled thousands of homes and schools. The death toll rose to at least 266 people, with another 2,000 injured, state media reported. The latest deaths includ­ed rescue workers who were struck by debris as they pulled ,ictims from the rubble during aftershocks. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Great White subpoenaed in club case: 
Members of the rock group Great White have been subpoenaed by prosecutors and said Tuesday they will appear before a grand jury investigating whether criminal charges should be filed in the nightclub inferno that killed 97 people. The grand jury is expected to convene today, law enforcement officials said on condition of anonymity. Band publicist Byron Hontas said the musicians are cooperating with authorities and expect to testify early next week. 
Alleged gunman gives up in shooting: 
A Huntsville, Ala. man looking for work opened fire at a temporary employment agency Tuesday during an argument over a CD player, killing four fellow job-seekers and wounding a fifth, police said. The gunman later surrendered after a standoff at his apartment, where police tracked him down using the address he put on his job applkations. Police said the man shot at officers early in the standoff. 
Teens said to drink a 5th of U.S. alcohol: 
Underage drinkers account for nearly 20 percent of the alcohol consumed in the United States each year, a study says. Attempting to correct botched statistics they released a year ago. researchers from Columbia University's National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse analyzed three sets of data from 1999 and said underage drinking amounted to 
19.7 percent of alcohol consumed that year, or $22.5 billion. The previous estimate -now discred­ited -was 25 percent. 
Justices side with death row inmate: 
The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that a black death row inmate in Texas deserves a new chance to press his claim that prosecutors stacked his jury with whites and death penalty supporters. The 8-1 ruling is a rnre example of the conservative-leaning court agreeing that a death row inmate may have been treated unfairly at trial. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
Malvo implicates partner in shootings 
A.,ociatcd Prcos 
FAIRFAX. Va. 
Sniper suspecl Lee Boyd Malvo implicated his alleged accom­plice as an equal partner in their shooting spree, with John Allen Muhammad acting as a spotter and calling out shots, prosecu­tors said. 
In a legal brief made public Tuesday. Fairfax County prose­cutor Raymond Morrogh also said Malvo made multiple con­fessions to the Oct. 14 shooting of FBI analyst Linda Franklin, the case that is expected to be his first to go to trial. 
The brief was the first official confirmation of reports from anonymous sources that Malvo had confessed to taking part in the multistate shooting spree last year that left 13 people dead and six wounded. It also was prosecutors' first substantial description of the relationship between Muhammad, 42, and Malvo, 18. 
The pair "acted as a unit," Morrogh said. "One would be the spotter, while the other would do the shooting." 
Malvo also "claimed both were equals and either could call a particular shot on or off," Morrogh wrote. 
Nothing in the brief indicates that prosecutors have any evi­dence that Muhammad fired any shots. But if the pair acted as a team, Muhammad could get the death penalty under Virginia's new anti-terrorism law, passed in the wake of Sept. 11. 

Malvo's confessions are unusu­ally detailed and are corroborat­ed by other evidence, Morrogh wrote. He added that Malvo has expressed no remorse. 
Morrogh wrote that the con­fession made by Malvo "was uncoerced and completely vol­untary.... In fact, the defendant was calm and rather boastful of his doings in this case." 
The two men have been accused of shooting 19 people, killing 13 and wounding six in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. No one was hit in another incident, in which a bullet went through a craft store window. 
Malvo is set for trial in November in the ·slaying of Franklin. Muhammad is sched­ule ct for an October trial in another slaying in neighboring Prince William County. Both face the death penalty. 
Morrogh's brief was a response to a request from Malvo's lawyer, Michael Arif, for any evidence that might clear his client. "The Commonwealth does not have evidence that casts doubt upon the defendant's guilt," Morrogh wrote. 
Efforts to reach Arif Tuesday evening were not immediately successful. Peter Greenspun, who represents Muhammad, was out of town Tuesday and could not be reached for com­ment. 
Now2ATMS In Lafortune Student Center! 
For your convenience, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has nine ATMs on campus-all with no-surcharge~ 
Hammes Bookstore 
Main Building 
Decio Hall 

Reckers Grace Hall Joyce Center North Dining Hall Lafortune Student Center (2) 
Plus, there's a full-service branch in Lafortune Student Center! 
'gJ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 ¦ 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
8 P•JciJA-1 •Members of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union are not charged a surcharge when using a Notre Dame Federal Credit Union AT_M. LENDER -=--=---=-Non-members, however, may be surchanged when using a non-campus Notre Dame Federal Credit Umon ATM. Independent of the Un1versrty. 
OL1estiC)ll: 
want a backstage pass to 

AllS\f\fer: 
Join the planning committee 
Informational meeting and applications available: When: Where: LAFORTUNE'S
FEBRUARY 26 WEDNESDAY MONTGOMERY 
9:00 PM THEATER 
Questions: email tromero@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 26, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 25 

DowJones  
7,909.50  ~  +51.26  
.N4SDAQ  
1,328.98  ~  +6.60  
S&P500  
838.57  !t  +5.99  
M'.tEX  
828.58  
 -0.66  
NYSE  
4,713.38  ~  +7.16  

TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.08 -0.3014.12 
~il:!Hllill~lllillll!lllll!lllillll!li;!lil 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +0.71+0.1724.24 
· · :· ·=':·•::=r:=J?~~:::r:::==m::~:w~=:t~:::::::::::::::::=:::: ;.. :··=:::::.::: •· :::::·: •: :: : •: 
1NTEtftLSRR~ ''!!ltw:~:i: lti:~,t~§f):W~ 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) +0. 70 +0. 59 84. 39 
IN BRIEF 
Home Depot says 4Q profit down 
The Home Depot said Tuesday its profit slipped 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter as sales dropped for the first time ever despite gains in its appliance business. The earnings results still beat Wall Street expectations, and Home Depot shares rose. The nation's largest home improvement store chain also announced it will no longer give quarterly earnings guidance so it can focus on its long­term outlook. lt will give guidance only on an annual basis. 
Clear Channel beats expectations 
Clear Channel Communications Inc., the nation's largest radio station operator, posted a fourth-quarter profit on Tuesday in contrast to a loss a year ago, beating analysts' expecta­lions. Each of the company's key divisions posted sizable revenue gains. San Antonio­based Clear Channel reported profits of $184 million, or 30 cents per share, in the final three months of 2002 in contrast to a loss of $366 million, or 61 cents per share, in the cor­responding period in 2001. Thomson First Call had the consensus of industry analysts at 27 cents per share for the most recent quarter. 
Alstom calls of EDS outsourcing talks 
Electronic Data Systems Corp., attempting to recover from problem contracts and trou­bled clients, suffered another blow Tuesday when French engineering group Alstom SA said it has ended talks with EDS on an out­sourcing contract. The companies were nego­tiating amultiyear deal to have EDS manage Alstom's information-technology systems in 14 countries. Company officials suggested that the deal would not have met more-strin­gent financial requirements that EDS is now applying to new contracts, including lower upfront costs. Chairman and chief executive Hichard II. Brown. while not addressing the Alstom deal specifically, said EDS would focus more attention on smaller contracts and ones that provide short-term payoffs. 
Kmart may sue former CEO 
. Corporation claims possession of evidence 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Kmart Corp-said Tuesday it has found evi­dence supporting possible legal action against former chief executive Charles Conaway for allegedly hid­ing the retailer's deterio­rating finances from the board in the months before the company filed for bank­ruptcy. 
The conclusion was part of hundreds of pages of documents related to its internal probe and reorga­nization plan that were released at federal bank­ruptcy court in Chicago, where Kmart representa­tives appeared for a hear­ing Tuesday. 
"Conaway failed ... to adequately supervise and direct other company exec­utives who reported direct­ly or indirectly to him," the company said in a summa­ry of its investigation into the events leading up to its bankruptcy filing in January 2002. 
Conaway denied the claims. A statement issued by his lawyer said Conaway "poured his heart and soul into trying to turn around and e-mails, as part of its received a $5 million reten­the board was kept regu­the giant retailer." internal investigation. tion loan. larly apprised of the com­
"At all times he acted According to documents, Walter Connolly Jr., an pany's initiatives and con­honorably and in the best the board believes attorney with Foley & dition. interests of Kmart's Conaway participated in Lardner who reviewed the "Conaway wishes the employees and sharehold­the implementation of a findings of the probe, said best for Kmart and its ers," the statement said. program to suspend vendor he advised Kmart's board employees, but he will not 
The retailer deposed payments as Kmart scram­to support seeking the be the scapegoat for prob­Conaway last month. Then bled to avert a liquidity cri­return of the $5 million lems not his doing," the Kmart's law firm and sis in the fall of 2001 and loan and about $4 million statement said. Conaway's counsel made failed to keep Kmart's in severance from Conaway, who blames presentations Feb. 11 to directors apprised of the Conaway. the economic downturn Kmart's board, which con­company's financial situa­"It (the loan) was and fierce competition in cluded that there is "credi­tion in the last half of fiscal approved by the board the retail industry for ble and persuasive evi­2001, which ended in without independent Kmart's difficulties, joined dence" to support legal January 2002 -the same knowledge of the liquidity the company in May 2000. action, according to the month Kmart filed for crisis at Kmart, what had He left last March amid summary. bankruptcy. been done to slow down sweeping management 
Kmart, which plans to The documents also payments to vendors and changes. exit Chapter 11 protection claim that Conaway per­the like," Connolly said. Troy-based Kmart is by April 30, said last month mitted executives to A statement on behalf of under investigation by the that it had conducted more receive nearly $24 million Conaway released by his U.S. Securities and than 570 interviews of cur­in retention loans and lawyer's office said the Exchange Commission and rent and former employees other payments that they company appears to be the FBI, and the company and reviewed more than would not have received blaming Conaway for prob­is looking into the way it 
1.5 million pages, including had more information been lems at Kmart that preced­was managed under accounting records, audits, disclosed. Conaway ed his tenure. It said that Conaway. 

Crossover cars gain popularity 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

More and more, U.S. motorists are opting for vehicles with the feel of a sedan and the roominess of a mini­van or sport utility vehicle, seeking space without bulk and a thirst for fuel. 
The so-called "crossover" vehicle, which has characteristics of a car, minivan and SUV, seems to be the happy medium for drivers who like the stylishness and on-road command of an SUV but who recognize they don't need the off-road ruggedness. 
Traci Syperek, for instance, traded in her Ford Explorer last month for the tamer Honda Element. 
"The minivan just isn't my style -·· I'm not even 32," the Baton Rouge, La., resident said. 
Crossovers were the fastest grow­ing category of U.S. autos last year and the pace is certain to continue this year as several automakers ­including Cadillac, Chrysler. Mitsubishi, lnfiniti, Porsche and Volkswagen -introduce models. 
Crossovers accounted for 7.4 per­cent of the U.S. light vehicle market last year, up from 1.8 percent in 1999, according to Ward's Automotive Reports. Some analysts predict l.hey'll surpass vans and luxu­ry cars to become the industry's fourth-largest segment this year, behind mid-size cars. pickups and SUVs. 
The Element, which went on sale in December, is shaped like an SUV, but the hard plastic floor inside is like tho bed of a pickup truck. Starting at $16,100, the Element has removable seats and is designed to make loading and unloading through the side doors easy -a strong selling point for Syperek, the mother of a 1-year-old. 
"It has a smooth ride and what seems to be a solid base, so I feel safe with my daughter," she said. "But we also like to ride bikes and go surfing, and we have a 115-pound dog that lits in just line." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 4G556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nageng-J.St  Lori Lewalski  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR• Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS• Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTKOll.ER: Michael Flanagan 

CotUACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGF.NEML INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 AoVERTISING .....................................63!-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORl~T. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE. .......................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................ .631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.......................................... ...631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che srudents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tioru regarding Observer policies shoul.d b, direct­ed to Editor in Chieff=n McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tur Obscncr (USPS 599140) Uli puhli,hed Mon-day through Friday eKCCpt during aamand~.iarionf'("ii<MU. A.1-ul»criprioo tnThcOlncrveri1 SIOO fotonc: ~ic year; S:55 for one s.cme1atc-r. 
The Ot>krvcr is. published .at: l'OSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Smd addrcn corra:rion1 ro: 
Norte Dame, JN .6556 Thc:O'bffn-cr 
r.o, &oxQ P«iodici\ pou• paid at Naer-c 0U1K' Notn: Dam(:,. JN 46)56-()7]9 illld adilitionaJ mailing offi.:a.. 
The Oba:rvcr i, a ri1n11~ ,,,f ,tw /uwaa~ fl'ria~-All rq,rod11-.::.tion ri'1ia. u< ~d. 
A message from the source of evil 
Where does all this evil come from? Bombs, terrorist attacks, biological weapons and war against other peoples have become commonplace in today's world, but the origins ofthe evil that pro­duces these things is unknown. You can Adam Cahlll hardly walk through a day without facing hardship and devas­A Domer's tation in the news. Outlook So, I'll ask the ques­tion again. How is this evil fabricated? Where does it come from? 
I'll tell you. 
The evil comes from me. 
I come as an emba.ITassment to many, especially when I affect large groups or nations. Everyone knows who I am, but I don't get much publicity. Deep down, though, in places you don't talk about at parties, I am always there. And I always will be, choking off the air to your lungs and paralyzing you when something unex­pected happens. I am the reason your heart races at night when there's tapping on the window or your car travels through a bad neighborhood. But you cannot stop me because I have no limitations. I can consume millions oflives Vl-ithout much effort and can cause a confident man to become a mere shell ofhimself. 
But my existence, though sickening and incomprehensible to most, serves a pur­pose. Those who recognize me can and have used me to their advantage. I am and have been the driving force ofmany of the world's most impressive movements .. Hitler used me as his personal puppet to form a movement that killed countless lives. He used me to manipulate his people into belie,ing that race matters because God had predestined one to be superior to others. Joseph Stalin used me through Marxist ideals to intimidate and frighten his countrymen into believing in a political system that was doomed to fail from the start and then proceeded to campaign and push for its spread throughout the world. 
These two men were fools. but they knew how to use me to get what they wanted. 
I am also the backbone of any smaller country's quest to become recognized as a world power. I am present in their lives only because they long not to be forgotten in the world. Right now, I am Saddam Hussein's minion because he exploits my talents, allowing me to grow even larger and more powerful. And because ofme, Hussein grabs your attention like a bear trap even though he is a leader of a rela­tively small country halfway around the world. I cause you to meddle in his and others' business so that you can sleep soundly at night and not worry about dan­ger from beyond the horizon. 
I only tell you this now because I'm beginning to tear the world apart again like I did during World War I, World War II and the Cold War. I brought the world to the brink ofnuclear holocaust during the Cuban Missile Crisis, and I could possibly do it again in the next few weeks. It's so easy for me to do that I will warn you, ahead of time, that I'm coming. But I'll also let you in on a little secret. I don't think that you can stop me. 
I do have one weakness, though, and it's love. You may say that it isn't smart to inform others ofyour weaknesses, but I'll tell you anyway. Love cuts through me like a tornado through the prairie and kryp­tonite through Superman. Love binds peo­ple together so tightly that even l can't pry them apart. But even certain types of love can be manipulated. That's where l come in. 
I look for severe nationalism to grow. Nationalism breads contempt for other nations. It's my red-flag sign that I am wanted and can find a good place to pros­per. My recent travels have taken me to Afghanistan. Iraq and North Korea. I go to countries where jealousy of larger more powerful nations is a contagious disease and the only thing they desire is recogni­tion ac; one of the world's elite nations. So they build bombs, make threats and kill a few people here and there to get others' attention. I am only a byproduct of the sys­tem. 
That's when my plane ticket allows me to go the powerful nations -the United States, Russia, China, France and Great Britain. The smaller countries know that the only way to distinguish themselves among the world's best, in this day and age, is to give me to the larger nations. So, in a way, I am a gift from a forgotten brother to the family's favorite son. 
I am dangerous because once I take hold of you, it is hard to be rid of me. One of your greatest presidents was right about me. I am the only thing to fear. 
I am the source ofall evil. 
My name is Fear. 
Adam Cahill is ajunior majoring in his­tory and American studies. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Conservatism without compassion 
Not much more than one year ago, in response to the tragedy a fading memory. Our "smart bombs," said to accurately target ofSept. 11, the United States intervened in the small country of only military sites, were used only in a slim minority of all bomb­Afghanistan to disrupt the government's sheltering of al Qaeda ing campaigns. And even when they were used, instances such as terrorists. When reports of massive forced refugee movements the destruction ofthe Amariyah bomb shelter, when more than and civilian casualties reached the American media, the Bush 400 hundred innocent women and children were incinerated to administration quelled the unrest that accompanied this news dust, still occurred. The Gulf War, and the U.S.-led sanctions with rhetoric about the altruistic nature of the military opera­against Iraq that followed, have been responsible for an estimat­tions; the liberation of the Afghani people from their oppressive ed 500,000 to one million innocent deaths (that is at least 175 government was seen as something even Afghani civilians were times as many people as perished on Sept. 11). Yet we are the willing to trade their lives for. This tendency, to see war as a way benevolent nation, with the moral authority to announce that we of fulfilling human rights, is being mirrored again today in the have the best interest ofthe Iraqi people in mind when forming debate for or against war in Iraq. The fallacies ofthe self-named our foreign policy? The irony is biting and upsetting. compassionate conservative must be known. Do not be fooled by language from the Bush administration that 
First, this aspect of our intervention in Afghanistan was not would lead one to believe that we are doing a good deed for the successful. President Bush slashed all funds in the upcoming bud­Iraqi people. Our past actions show that we have no such intent. get for continued rebuilding ofAfghanistan's broken civil infra­The Iraqi people are strongly against our intervention. We have structure. All ofhis promises ofliberating the Afghani people, of already wreaked humanitarian havoc on this Third World nation. creating a democratic, human rights-respecting environment How many more lives are going to be lost, how much more des­have been shown hollow. International focus is off of this issue for peration are we going to generate in return for a false sense of the moment, and Bush capitalized on this opportunity to back out security? of his financial obligations. Our government's true motivations are thus demonstrated. Michael Poffenberger 
During the GulfWar, the United States purposely targeted such sophomore buildings as water treatment and power plants. Hospitals were Keenan Hall forced into impotence; clean water and sanitation quickly became Feb. 24 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Helena Payne  Matt Lozar  
Will Puckett  Heather Van  
Mike Chambliss  Hoegarden  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Claire Kelley  Maria Smith  
Kristin Yemm  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Claire Kelley  
Mike Harkins  

NDTODAV/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Would you support a war in Iraq? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself" 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt former U.S. President 

O
THE 

V1EwP01NT 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 page 9 
Back from politics 
Well, so much for political aspirations. The dream is over. 
Mimi Matkowski and I did make a hell of a run of it, in spite of 
the effort.,; of campus publications who were seemingly endors­
ing candidates by picking names out of hats. We got almost 20 
percent of the total vote, misk,kk.k.kkkksing the runoff by a 
mero 50 votes. We handily won the vote 
in several dorms, in addition to winning Joe Muto 
the junior class, the off-campus vote and 
the abroad vote. Considering that one 
candidate got a mere 18 votes, I consid­
er our 786 votes an accomplishment. Muto Time 
I think my one problem in strategy 
was lhat Iwas depending heavily on 
those voters who were least likely to 
vote. The other candidates had the nerd vote locked up -I 
wasn't getting any of those votes. I needed the coveted 
stoner/slacker vote. These votes, of course. proved elusive. The 
stoner/slacker demographic isn't really big on civic.s, and voter 
turnout was predictably low. At parties in the weeks since the 
election, I've been getting a lot of "Dude, if I had remembered 
to vote, I would have totally voted for you." 
Alright, enough sour grapes. A lot has happened since I last 
graced these sacred pages back in the merry month of 
November. This column was on "hiatus" for the duration of the 
election. I thought I'd do a brief recap just to get caught up on 
lhe various things that have happened that have made me say, 
"!Imm, I should write an article about that." So. a warning is in 
order -this article is a lot more unfocused and rambling than 
usual. That's saying a lot. 
Christmas Break: No real highlights here. Once again, one of 
the laziest months ofmy life. The only highlight was my friend 
who purchased an -ahem -tobacco waterpipe. The main 
activity of the break became a contest to see who could name 
the three foot tall glass apparatus. One night, after a drunken 
viewing of the Fox News Channel, inspiration struck: Osama 
Bong Laden. One friend voiced his concerns as to the Karmic 
implications ofnaming one's piece after an internationally 
reviled murderer. I tend to look at it as good Kanna. It co-opts 
the name and makes it a positive thing. Instead ofinducing ter­
ror alerts, the only thing this new "Osama" is inducing is trips 
to Taco Bell. If Iever buy a similar piece, I'm naming it Sa­
bong Hussein. 
3/4 = 28%: This was the most ill-informed ad campaign since 
... well ... ever. The teaser posters generated a ton ofbuzz, and 
then the payolTwas somewhat confusing. Three-fourths ofstu­
dents drink 28 percent ofthe·alcohol? The only thing this 
proves is that lhree-fourths ofthe student body needs to step 
up and grow a pair. Drink up, three-fourths. Time's a wastin! 
Saint Mary's trip to pro-choice conference: Let's not mince words here. The reason that the Saint Mary's pro-life protest­ers didn't get funded to go on their trip to Washington is because they weren't bright enough to apply for funding. The handful of girls that went to the pro-choice meeting applied for funding and rationalized it enough to sound like they were going to a leadership conference. The pro-lifers could have done the exact same thing. Also, I have a message for all you people who are writing into Viewpoint and saying that a Catholic school should not support divergent points ofview: Stop it. You arc scaring me. Ifyou are so insistent on this point, I cordially invite you to move to Afghanistan. The Taliban would welcome you \<\1th open arms. 
Boat Club bust: Alas, Boat Chili, we hardly knew ye. As some­one who will be Living literally one block from the Boat next year, I would love to see it stay open. as it is by far the greatest and most fun bar in South Bend, period. However, we were kidding ourselves when we thought it would never get busted. I was there a couple of times this year. and I felt like an old, old man. Boat was the underage haven, and there is nothing wrong with that, but we all knew that the bubble was going to burst eventually, even though some ofus were in denial. On the plus side. The Observer did milk the event for everything it was worth, breaking out a full range of nautical metaphors. 
Ilcartland boycott: Is anybody really surprised that a bouncer made a racist comment? Anyone who's been to even one South Rend bar knows full well that tl1ey'rc not exactly hiring the most enlightened individuals. This fact is fine with me -when a crazed tovi.nic is coming after me with the jagged end ofa broken liquor bottle. I don't want order restored with a discus­sion group led by Noam Chomsky. I want Bruno the 300-pound recent ex-con to jump in and start beating ass. Ifa few errant comments are the price to pay for Bruno's loyalty, I'm just fine with i.hat. 
Well, that's it for me for now. I think I'm sufficiently caught up. I promise to be more current next time. 
Joe Muto is a junior FJT and English double major who reminds the student body to yell "l/appy 21st, Joe!" ifthey happen to see a man nakedfrom the waist down being chased by NDSP next Monday afternoon. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
America needs missile defense 
Terrorists and their increasing capacity to obtain weapons of mass destruction pose the utmost danger to the United States. First, the United States is confronted with a m;yTiad of hostile state-sponsors of terrorism: Iraq, North Korea, Libya, etc. Second, these rogue nations are engaged in an unprecedented, aggressive and lethal campaign to develop. harbor and use weapons ofmass destruc­tion against freedom-loving people. Third. lethal Islamic terrorist groups continue to consolidate their efforts. in order to achieve their ultimate goal: murdering free people. Fourth. the connectedness and cooperation between state­sponsors of terrorism and rogue terrorist groups. such as al Qaeda and Ilamas, is rapidly increasing. 
State-sponsors of ten·mism, as we have seen with North Korea and Iraq, now ha.ve the technology and capacity to develop the most dangerous weapons known to man. Each day, these psychotic regimes purchase enriched urani­um, fuel rods, "dual-use" nuclear material and missile technology from developed nations in order to develop these offensive weapons. These are serious times. 
As we saw on Sept. 11, 2001, the ability ofterrorist groups to consol­idate, plan and implement an attack is great. We have seen that these murderers do not value human life, and one cannot negoti­ate with such people. Their drive to murder the innocent, matched with their extremist ideologies, poses a severe threat to the United States. Shadowy terrorist groups continue to cooperate with terrorist states in an effort to obtain and use the most deadly weapons. 
As Baker Spring, a research fel­low at the IIeritage Foundation, stated: "As increased security and heightened alertness make a Sept. 11-style attack harder to mount, we can expect to sec terrorists turning to missiles capable of deliv­ering the chemical, biological and nuclear weapons they're trying to obtain." 

State-sponsors of terrorism have the infrastructure, finances and technology to develop weapons of mass destruction, and terrorist groups have the shadowy networks to employ these deadly weapons covertly and without notice. Dangerously, the relationship between terrorist states and terror­ist groups are blending into one. 
The United States is faced with a severe problem. For example, the CIA recently reported that a North Korean three-stage rocket could strike at a distance of9,300 miles -far enough to strike all ofNorth America. These three-stage rockets are built to carry several hundred pounds ofweapons payload. The frightening part is: in 1998, North Korea tried to use the three-stage version to launch a satellite into orbit. Even the less sophisticated two-stage Taepo Dong 2 could hit Alaska or Hawaii. 
On Feb. 24, the South Korean Defense Ministry announced that North Korea fired an anti-ship mis­sile that landed in the sea between the Korean Peninsula and Japan. As White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer said, "Technology and time means regimes like North Korea will increasingly have the ability to strike at the United States." 
Given these frightening details, it is apparent that the U. S. govern­ment cannot condemn the American people to permanent vulnerability-we must develop a missile defense system now. Presently, if any type of missile were launched, preemptively, against lhe United States, then the 
U.S. could do absolutely nothing about it. An effective missile defense system. using land, sea. air and space-based sensors and bat­tle management control systems, would use an interceptor rocket to destroy an offensive missile head­ing towards the United States. 
Critics of this idea constantly try to remind us that a mL<;sile defense system cannot and will not work because the technology required to implement such a plan is too expensive and far-fetched. The critics arc wrong. Five out of the la.st eight tests conducted by the United States Military were suc­cessful. In addition, tho Navy has conducted several successful tests on short-range ballistic missiles, including the Standard Missile-3. 
Critics also complain that a mis­sile defense system would demon­strate that the United States' for­eign policy is becoming too aggres­sive. Wrong again. The interceptor rockets are ofa defensive nature only. Each nation has an inherent right to self-defense, and the United States should exercise its right to develop a missile defense system. 
We have the technology to make this plan happen. We have the technology to defend the American people from hostile and unexpect­ed attacks. We have the opportuni­ty to save millions oflives. 
Mike Koprowski 
freshman Knott Hall Feb. 25 

In her Feb. 21 column. "Questioning reasons for war," Professor Shrader-Frechette raises some very important questions about the Bush administration's case for war. One in particular is worth some extended discussion, mostly because such discussion will show that whatever else might motivate the Bush adminis­tration, not to mention Congress which in various ways has endorsed the President's design, oil is not the reason for war. 
The familiar mantra "No War for Oil" takes on an interesting mean­ing when discussing not only proponents of war but also such nations that oppose war. France is currently Iraq's most favored trading partner and is heavily involved in Mideast regional energy development. A war in Iraq would have very negative effects on French econom­ic prospects in the region. The French energy giant Total Fina Elf has multibillion­dollar oil contracts with Iraq, but because ofU.N. resolutions. these contracts have not been signed and cannot be executed until sanctions aro lifted. 
One outstanding question is whether there will be automatic succession of the existing agreements should Saddam be overthrown. Regime change could bring about a shift in fortunes, with American and British petroleum companies betli\g the primary beneficiaries. So goes the theory. However. note that 
Kuwait has been reticent to extend such privi­leged access to American oil firms, and that country owes its very existence to 
the United States. Nevertheless, all of this will be moot if war breaks out, because 
the oil wells will likely not sur­vive. Saddam will most likely 
seek to destroy Iraqi petroleum production facilities to deny them to potential successors. 
Whoever inherits these flaming ruins will face years of recon• struction and billions in invest­ment to restore full Iraqi pro­
duction. This i<; hardly a bar­gain -but if no war is fought, the oil wells will survive, sanc­
tions will be lifted and the con­tracts could be executed. The fact that French oil interests 

tend to mitigate the potential conflict is an irony for the Greens to ponder. 
Meanwhile, Americans ought rest assured that oil does not explain why the United States pur­portedly ignores alternatives to war. 
Jacob T. Rodenbiker 
semor 
off-campus Feb. 23 

It's not about the oil 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 10 Wednesday, February 26, 2002 
Notre Dame De 
The Poms, the First Class Steppers and the Iris 
campus and around the com 
By JUUE BENDER and MARIA SMITH 
Assismnt Scene Ediror and Scene Ediror 
When people think of Notre Dame, dancing usually isn't the first thing to come to mind. Football, basketball, aca­demics and Catholicism are normally associated with the University, giving it its national reputation as one of the finest institutions in the nation. 
Many students would be surprised to discover, however, that dance at Notre Dame is an essential part of the culture. It goes far beyond the Irish jig at football games or the bump-and-grind that used to work so well at Boat Club. Dancers at Notre Dame put just as much time and effort into their groups as varsity-lettered athletes, while at the same time having a blast moving to music. 
Probably one of the most conspicuous groups of dancers on campus is the Notre Dame Porn Squad. Founded in 1988, this club has been entertaining spectators at sporting and other campus events for nearly 15 years now with their sleek dance moves choreographed to popular music. Every year, the Porn Squad per­forms at football pep rallies, basketball games and at other signature events around campus, such as the Keough Chariot Race. 
The time and effort required of the members of the Porn Squad is as intense as any varsity sport on campus. During the fall semester, the 14 members of the group meet ~arly as often as any sports team on campus, with practices five times a week for two hours each. At practices, the women run through their routines, which they choreograph themselves. 
"All the members are involved with the 
Photo courtesy of Kristy Hernandez 

One of the advanced lrlsh step dancers performs her moves before the show with the Gaellc Society at the Coleman-Morse Center. 
choreography," said senior co-captain Michelle DeLay. "Every member takes a turn choreographing a specific dance that we perform." 
Competition is fierce to be a member of the Porn Squad, with over 50 women try­ing out every year for only 14 spots on the team. The try-outs include a learning clin­ic where the captains teach a routine, usu­ally to a well-known piece of music like the Victory March. The girls trying out get one day to work on the routine before first cuts take place. During second cuts. the squad also holds a practice clinic and then tryouts, until the team is pared down to its 14 members. 
Nearly everyone who survives the try­out to become a member of the squad has had some sort of dancing experience in the past. Tryouts are still open to anyone including men, although DeLay said "male interest in the Porn Squad, beyond being a spectator, has never been very high." 
Another dancing group on campus that is gaining more and more popularity is the First Class Steppers. Unlike most dancing groups, the Steppers rarely use music in their routines. Members use their hands, feet and whatever else is around to create fast-paced beats and rhythms. "It's kind of like 'a cappella dancing'," said Linda Hu, a junior who has been a member of the Steppers for two years, "There's no music in the background. We create the beat with our bodies." 
The club is fairly new, only having become official in 1999, but their reputa­tion is growing fast. The Steppers have performed at a number of popular multi­cultural campus events, including Black Images, Asian Allure, Latin Expressions, Freshmen Orientation and most recently last Saturday at Fiestang. 


Similar to the Porn Squad, the time and effort the Steppers put into their club is quite impressive. The group meets two times a week for two-hour practice ses­sions. Before a show, the practices are more intense, with the group meeting four times a week to perfect the performance. 
Another similarity the Steppers have with the Porn Squad is that they choreo­graph their own routines. Some of the dance moves and rhythms are influenced by other groups, but many are created by the First Class Steppers themselves. 
Currently, the group has just over 10 members, including five women and six or seven men. People try out each semester and cuts are made based on the perform­ance of a routine learned in a prior work­shop session. Most members don't have experience with dancing in the stepper style before trying out, so there is an opportunity for anyone to make the group. 
"It's a lot of fun," said Stepper vice-pres­ident Kameron Chappell. "The attention from the crowd is great, it's really neat to watch the audience react to a perform­ance." 
Hu agreed, saying, "It brings a lot of diversity to the campus. Without Step, there would be something missing at Notre Dame." 
Most people are familiar with Irish step dance in the form of Riverdance and Michael Flatly. The home of the Fighting Irish also has its own devoted group of Irish step dancers who perform through­out the year around campus and the com­munity. 
Notre Dame's Irish Dance Team, a stu­dent-run University club, has been part of Notre Dame's dance scene for about seven years. While many people might think picking up Irish dance at a college level would be too difficult, the group of 30 dancers is equally split between experi­enced Irish steppers and students who joined the club as novices. 
"The beginners pick it up fast, it's incredible," said club co-president Kristy Hernandez, who had never danced Irish step before starting at Notre Dame. "The advanced dancers are very helpful." 
The Irish Dance Team also lost one of its own with the death of Chad Sharon. who danced with the team during his time at Notre Dame. 
'There's been an amazing group cama­raderie," said Hernandez. "The team has really banded together during a hard time." 
The members of the Irish Dance Team practice together twice a week, with two­hour meetings for the advanced members of the group on Monday nights and rehearsals for the beginning dancers on Thursdays. The group performs at a wide variety of' events, including performances at a tap dance exhibition organized by club adviser and professor of anthropolo­gy James McKenna, at the Notre Dame cultural fair and at nursing homes around the community. An upcoming perform­ance at Latin Expressions will also put Irish step dance to Latin music. 
"People hear about us and ask us to dance," said Hernandez. "We never say 
no." To pick up the style of Irish dance, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
nee 
Step Team perform on 
beginning dancers on the Irish Step Team begin learning soft.shoe, one of the two styles of Irish dance. Softshoe dancers wear flexi­ble shoes which lace around the ankle and are easier on the feet of novice dancers. The shoes worn by advanced dancers resemble tap shoes, with built up toes and heels to create the com­plicated rhythmical tapping famous in Irish dance. 
Irish step dance is one of the few styles of dance that focuses entirely on foot­work. Dancers perform with straight backs and with their arms at their sides. Traditionally performed to Irish jigs and reels, the numbers arc always up­tempo. 
"It's the best workout I've ever had in my life," said Hernandez. 
In addition to dance teams that are official and actually have tryouts, there are also recreational dance

urtesy of Maureen Schink 
events llke the clubs. One of the most pop­ular groups is the Swing Club, which was started in 1998. Since then, the club has had over 600 interested members sign up. As many of the posters on campus advertise. the club gives les­sons every Monday night for only $2. There is an open dance for everyone twice a month, which is free of charge. The instructors of the club are all stu­


dents who teach basic dance moves which progress as the semester wears on. Examples of the swing moves that have been taught so far are the basic step of the East Coast Swing, the Cuddle, the Charleston and the Washing Machine. 
Besides inexpensive lessons and exer­cise, the Swing Cltib also boasts a great atmosphere for meeting members of the opposite sex. With 30 to 40 people show­ing up for lessons, the social climate is just right for mingling and dancing. As sophomore Emily Tumbrink, a member of the Swingers, said, "The weekly les­sons are a great way for those with an interest in swing to meet others, espe­cially members of the opposite sex, while learning great moves and having lots of fun." 
Another way to participate in dance at Notre Dame is through Rec Sports. Instructional programs are offered for both jazz and ballet. Classes meet bi­weekly and are given at the beginner or intermediate level as well as the interme­diate and advanced level. The atmos­phere of the lessons is informal. but the classes are still challenging. Sophomore Van Tran, a student in the jazz class, said, "The dance lessons are a great workout. In fact, I'm still sore today!" 
Tran also said. "College is a time to branch out and try new things, and that's what jazz dance is for me, a way to try something new. Everyone should get involved with dancing!" 
Contact Julie Bender and Maria Smith at bender.lO@nd.edu and msmith4@nd.edu 
IThe lrlsh Step Dancers perform at the Notre Dame Cultural Fair In the fall of 2002. The Irish Step Dancers perform at numerous events throughout the year. 
page 11 

HA! presents Notre Dame's best comedy 
Stand-up comedians Mike Bradt and Peter Wicks promise rolling in the aisles 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

This Friday's show "Is This Thing On?" will feature at least four of Notre Dame's premier comic artists. Stand-up comedi­ans Peter Wicks and Mike Bradt and oth­ers will present their show at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Auditorium. Tickets are expect­ed to cost around $2. 
The last-minute show will replace a planned performance by Humor Artists, a Notre Dame club of about 20 members devoted to original skits and improvisa­tional humor. The chili was started about eight years ago and is run by students. HA meets on Tuesday nights and Sunday afternoons throughout the school year to work on their shows. Normally the group performs once in the fall and twice during the spring semester. 
Co-presidents Molly McShane and Brian McLaughlin have also been invited to join the line-up. 
First-year law student Bradt, the head­line comedian for the show. was a mem­ber of HA during his senior year as an undergraduate student at Notre Dame. He recently won a competition for ama­teur stand-up comedians at The Comedy Spot while living in Chicago. Bradt was invited to audition for a show he described as "a mix between The Real World, American Idol and Survivor" on NBC after winning the competition. Unfortunately auditions fell in the middle of finals week and the comedian could not attend. 
McShane, who witnessed Bradt's begin­nings as a comedian, said she was glad to give Bradt a chance lo perform on cam­pus. 

"He's gotten really good, he's hilarious" McShane said. "And it all started in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune." 
"It's a dying art, it was over-exaggerat­ed in the SO's," Brandt said. "But we're bringing it back. We're all good, I prom­ise." 
Wicks, a philosophy graduate student at Notre Dame, will act as master of cere­monies for the show. Wicks has an exten­sive stand-up history. The comedian has performed stand-up comedy for six years at universities around England and at the New York Comedy Club. Ile also started a comedy club at Princeton last year 
Students have had a chance to sample Wicks' humor on United States immigra­tion policies, bachelor parties and South Bend crime in his Observer column. Students under 21, however, had the mis­fortune of missing his stand-up comedy last semester in Alumni Senior Bar. Friday's show will offer underage stu­dents a chance to enjoy Wicks' live come­dy in a legally accessible venue. 
"The frustration at my last show was that it was at a bar, so no one under 21 could attend," said Wicks. "However, I think it was well-received." 
The University hopes to run parallel shows of an increasing number of come­dians such as Wicks and other acts per­forming on campus after the opening of Legends, the renovated Senior Bar, for the benefit of both underage students and those over 21. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
.. 
Photo courtesy ot Peta, Wicks Stand-up comedian Peter Wicks performs one of his numerous shows. The comedian will perform Friday on campus. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
BENGAL BOUTS -125 POUNDS-165 POUNDS 
Senior NeW"burg begins defense of 125-pound croW"n 
By LUK£ BUSAM 
Sport> Writer 
Tonight's semifinal action will begin with senior captain Shawn Newburg's first appear­ance in the 2003 Bengal Bouts. As returning champion of this seven-fighter weight class, Newburg received two byes and will meet his first oppo­nent tonight in freshman Brian Faist. who won a split decision victory over Michael Feduska in Sunday's quarterfinals. 
Jon Valenzuela, coming off an impressive unanimous deci­sion over Robert Musiala, will face Sung Hoon Kim to see who advances to Sunday's finals. Kim's fight was stopped in the first round after he sent his opponent Gerardo Rojas to the mat. Both fighters are extremely quick and used mul­tiple punch combinations in the semifinals victories. 
140 pound 
Junior captain Tony Hollowell will attempt to earn his second trip to the finals in the last three years in his match against Joe Shmidlin. Both Schmidlin and Hollowell had first-round byes and both boxers' quarterfinal round fights were called early as they dominated their opponents. 
Senior Bill Wuest will fight Christopher Hoffman in tonight's second match in the 140-pound class. Wuest's long jab won him a unanimous decision victory against Edward Liva Sunday. Hoffman won an evenly-matched brawl against Mark Pfizenmayer and may have trouble with Wuest's long reach tonight. 
145-pound 

Luke Dillon withstood a seri­ous challenge from Andrew Sylling to earn his spot in tonight's semifinals. He will meet law student Paul Harris, who earned a spot in the semi­finals with a forfeit quarterfi­nal victory because Paul Robinson was unable to fight because of medical reasons. 
Jeffrey Ham won a unani­mous decision victory Sunday over Jon Streit and will fight Ryan Duffey tonight. Duffey, the No. 2 seed in the 145­pound class, won a close fight over Dave DeBoer on Sunday. 
150-pound 

Sorin sophomore Ryan Rogers has a tough fight ahead of him tonight against Juan Diego Vargas. This is Rogers' second Bengal Bouts and Vargas' first. yet the advantage still lies with Vargas, who looked impressive in both of his wins this year. 
No. 3 seed Brandon Gasser will meet the No. 2 seed Nathan Lohmeyer in the other 150-pound semifinal. Each boxer looked strong in the early rounds and both have ring experience behind them. Tonight is the first time that Gasser has been to the semifi­nals. but the second for Lohmeyer. who lost to Jemar Tisby last year in the semis. 
155-pound 

Galen Loughrey slipped his way past the taller Mark Basola and will face Colin Kerrigan tonight. Kerrigan won an impressive victory over No. 1 seed Mike Melby in the quarterfinals to earn his spot in the semis tonight. 
Freshman Greg Schaefer will face senior Steve Keppel tonight. Schaefer bled a bit in his quarterfinal match against Cliff Arnold and his straight punches should be an interest­ing match to the brawling style of Keppel. 
160-pound 

Mark DeSplinter will exercise his technical style and straight left jabs tonight as he tries to earn his second trip to the finals. DeSplinter faces John Enterline and the two fighters should match up well. Enterline is more of a brawler than DeSplinter, but boxes well when he settles down. 
Senior captain Tom Pierce will meet Bill Philip in the sec­ond match of the 160-pound class. Phillip has a reach advantage over Pierce, but this disadvantage has never been a problem in the past for the hard-nosed captain who seeks his second trip to the finals. 
165-pound 

Junior captain Pat Dillon meets freshman Charlie Gough tonight. 

Gough, who had a first round bye, earned a victory over Chris Milliron Sunday when the fight was called due to Milliron's bleeding. 
Dillon, fighting in his seventh career bout tonight, hopes to move on to Sunday's finals for the first time in his career. 
Freshman Alex Fergus will battle senior Mark Yost follow­ing the Dillon-Gough fight. Yost, who found himself on the ropes a number of times in his quarterfinal match, will have a tough challenge in Fergus, who won a called fight against Brian Foy. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

NBA 
Bryant's streak ends in Lakers 109-98 win over Clippers 
tory. The Lakers played without points and eight rebounds, and at that stage, with the Staples
Associated Press 
Chamberlain scored 40 or Phil Jackson, who missed his Rick Fox added 12 points and Center crowd roaring its LOS ANGELES more in 14 straight games first game as an NBA head eight assists for the Lakers (31-approval. the Lakers made 
Kobe Bryant's remarkable twice in the 1961-62 season, coach recuperating from hav­25), who have won five straight every effort to help Bryant get scoring streaks ended. But he when he averaged an NBA­ing a kidney stone removed a games. to 40. still helped the Los Angeles record 50.4 points. He had his day earlier. Assistant Jim Their latest victory moved But the Clippers were too Lakers win for the 12th time in 10-game streak the following Cleamons served as acting them a season-high six games tough on defense, surrounding 
.... 14 games. season. head coach. over .500 and within two him at every turn. He scored 
Shadowed closely by Corey Bryant's streak of nine Bryant shot 11-of-26 and games of sixth-place Utah in his final point on a foul shot Maggette and often double­straight was the longest since made 9-of-10 free throws. He the Western Conference. with 2:32 to play. teamed, Bryant scored 32 Michael Jordan scored 40 or also had six rebounds and Bryant scored off an assist Baskets by Andre Miller, points as the Lakers beat the more in the same number of three assists. from Rick Fox with 5 :07 Brand and Odom put the Los Angeles Clippers. games in the 1986-87 season. Bryant wore a wide grin as remaining for his first points of Clippers on top 61-56 with 
Bryant thus failed in his Bryant had also scored at he dribbled out the final 20 the fourth quarter, giving him seven minutes left in the third attempt to extend his streak of least 35 points in 13 consecu­seconds or so without shooting, 25 overall and handing the quarter. But the Lakers scoring at least 40 points to 10 tive games. Only Chamberlain as the Lakers had the game in Lakers a 94-87 lead. outscored the Clippers 22-11 
.. games, which would have tied has longer streaks, having hand and the Clippers didn't Baskets by Bryant and O'Neal for a 78-72 lead, and the Wilt Chamberlain for the sec­accomplished that feat in 33, try to foul. and a dunk by Bryant made it Clippers weren't closer than ond-longest streak in NBA his-23 and 20 straight games. Shaquille O'Neal had 33 100-89 with 3:04 to play. and five points after that. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 
272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­
TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OFND FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773097 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 272-1525 
mmrnrentals@aol.com 
WANTED 

NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working ND/SMC students wtio want finan­cial security by graduation. 
Take your business home on breaks -work from anywhere. 
Call Charlie 574-289-2803 lor info. 
NOTICES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR· HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­MAINTENANCE STAFFON CALL­WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!! -CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­5032 OR (574) 234-2436 -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. 
WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ECT. 
AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL. 235-3655 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limitedlll 1• 
800-234-7007 

www.endlesssummertours.com 
5 Bedroom house available June 1 • 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND NEAR CLUB 23 -CAN­
NONDALE BIKE. IDENTIFY TO CLAIM. CALL 574-607-0706. 
FOR SALE 

4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
The current Mario record is 5 min­utes. 20 seconds 
And it is not held by me 
Congrats to our former EiC on finally becoming 21 

AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 13 

c::,:':1:1:;;l~;z:::;;~~i!::;.~t1,.%••· 
EttSttt~•·•~!~f1ff¥
£~a.in< / ---------­
N~wJe~ : :: ~jfj . 
.Phllatlelphla, '.. 31a 
· NY.ltlasders / 21-2 
NY Ranger( .., 25S3f 
Pittsburgh •-· ) ., 25;28.4, 
••• •,•.··:.: ·•:::; 

Eastern .Qol\fere~; ...· 
:.:t·):!'_f:~~, 
aostl)n __ . 2e-2ta.i ., : ;,· 
Montreat•·•> •<•·••24~t8~7•1':i<@W
auffillu-· · •·· 1:s~~4.~t;,·,<?·n 
Eastem Co~~~(::~:,,
·\.ea.n, -• ·'\,h -t'e.ptjf9{\ / waulngtun. ,.. --·· 2g;j5.~t~. ),f Tamp• Bayt . . 26.·2V1ll,i ,·I},}( ...... _....... 
?fi~f~a· •.--•-···1:;:~ft•·::••·:~'./·~!!;;:~J:::1::~!~;;~!!!iijil/~ 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Duke at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN Western Kentucky at Louisiana-Lafayette 
10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Indiana at Boston 7 p.m., FSCH 
Utah at Minnesota 9 p.m., ESPN 
YACHTING 

America's Cup Championship 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Icon SMI Trevor Hoffman delivers a pitch last season for the San Diego Padres. Hoffman wlll undergo shoulder surgery that will keep him out Indefinitely, but he hopes to pitch sometime after the All-Star break. 
Hoffman sidelined until All-Star break 
been on the disabled list. the disabled list in 10 major room.
Associated Press 
"To lose his ability to league seasons, and since "It's not a 25-year-old 
PEORIA, Ariz close games, which is basi­Bochy took over the Padres shoulder anymore, but I 
Trevor Hoffman already cally automatic, is going to in 1995, Hoffman has 327 feel confident with the pro­is focusing on his comeback be tough," first baseman of the team's 359 saves -cedure we're going in to -and not the shoulder Ryan Klesko said. 91 percent. do," Hoffman said. operation that will make Manager Bruce Bochy There is no timetable for Hoffman was 2-5 with a him miss half of the season. said the length of rehabili­Hoffman's return, though 2.73 ERA in 61 games last 
"We're going to take care tation won't be known until general manager Kevin year, converting 38 of 41 of this," the San Diego the surgery. It will be per­Towers was optimistic save opportunities. Padres' closer said Tuesday formed at the end of the Hoffman could pitch some­Last fall's operation was after deciding to have week in Los Angeles by time after the All-Star the first time doctors saw surgery. "The ball will be in Anaheim Angels medical break. problems with Hoffman's my court. I'll do the things director Dr. Lewis Yocum. An MRI last week AC joint, where the clavicle in rehab that I need to do "It's a blow when you revealed no additional meets the shoulder blade. to get on the field and Jose your closer, especially damage to the rotator cuff The coarse edge of the col­pitch. Hopefully. we'll write when your closer is one of but showed arthritic degen­larbone didn't show on an a better ending, the way I the best of all time," Bochy eration of the clavicle. earlier MRI. want it done." said. Doctors will shave the edge "If this procedure is able 
In 10 major league sea­The 35-year-old Hoffman of the clavicle -the collar­to relieve some of the dis­sons, the San Diego Padres ranks fifth with 352 career bone -to reduce irritation comfort, then he 'II be right-hander never has saves. He's never gone on and give tendons more back," Towers said. 
IN BRIEF 
Bechler's widow to sue pany that distributes this drug," note that three days before his 
The lawyer for the widow of Steve Meiselman said. "This drug is a death, Steve Bechler passed a physi­Bechler plans to sue the manufactur­killer. Our real concern is to get this cal exam to play baseball." er of a dietary supplement the poison off the shelves." Baltimore Orioles pitcher was Cytodyne Technologies of Broncos release 3 starters believed to be taking before his Manasquan. N.J., the supplement's The Denver Broncos cut starters death. manufacturer, responded with a Chester McGlockton. Kavika Pittman 
Bechler, 23, died on Feb. 17 from statement that read, in part: and Denard Walker and four other heatstroke after collapsing during a "We feel that it is reckless and players Tuesday as the team trims workout at training camp. In his pre­irresponsible for an attorney to pre­payroll before the free-agent signing liminary autopsy report, Broward maturely place blame or deflect period. County chief medical examiner Dr. responsibility to others for the events Denver also released guard Lennie Joshua Perper linked Bechler's leading up to Mr. Bechler's death. At Friedman. tackle Blake death to a diet supplement that con­this point in time, it is clear that this Brockermeyer, cornerback Jimmy tains ephedra. attorney is making these statements Spencer and defensive end Keith 
A bottle of Xenadrine RFA-1, an without the benefit of any toxicology Washington. The Broncos tendered over-the-counter weight-loss product results ... It's unfortunate that this offers to restricted free agent receiv­containing ephedra, was found in attorney has chosen to ignore the er Chris Cole, running back Reuben Bechler's locker after he collapsed. fact that Mr. Bechler had a number Droughns and quarterback Jarious 
"The way we see it, Steve Bechler of serious medical conditions includ­Jackson. is dead, and ephedra is the primary ing liver disease, hypertension, an The Broncos were about $20 mil­cause of death," David Meiselman, enlarged heart and history of heat­lion over the salary cap heading into the attorney for Kiley Bechler, said related illnesses." the free agency period, which begins Tuesday. "The arrogance of this company is Friday. Denver general manager Ted 
"We will wait for the toxicology beyond belief," he said. "It's never Sundquist said Tuesday's moves report to come back, do our home­their fault, and in the meantime, should clear about two-thirds of that work, then go hunting for the com-people are dying. It's important to amount. 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
This statement is the result of a combined effort by members of the student body to speak out against the war. To join those within our community who oppose a war in Iraq send an email to voice1@nd.edu. 
The decision to go to war is perhaps the most significant one that the leaders of a democracy can make. 
As citizens of the United States and the global community, we feel compelled to evaluate the decision to invade Iraq. 
Having done so, it is our duty to speak out against this act which is being undertaken on our behalf. 
From diverse backgrounds and for many reasons, we the undersigned students, faculty, staff and affiliates of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College stand unified in opposition to the impending war against the nation of Iraq and in our desire to pursue alternatives to this course of action. 

f't"'t·~~;;.:;~7 ., _,._'.~1:~:::0:;·:,/1·,···::/~-!~-c--------· -----···.. . ~ . .
---e:•" . .• _ . 
, RYA ABRAMS .sTUDENT POU SCI/ECONOMICS • ASMA AFSARIJDDIN ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS • LACEY ALLEN • SOROUR f Ai.OTAIBI •KATHRYN. E.ANDERSON • MEGHAN ANDERSON• MIMI ARIMA MASTERS OF DIVINITY STUDENT• CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG STUDENT• CLIFF ARNOLD • ALOJANDRE ARRESTO GRADUATE STUDENT, POLITICAL SCIENCE • DOUGLAS AYLING STUDENT • TAHU AZIZ STUDENT • CHRIS IBACHNER-REIMER FRESHMAN, PAX CHRISTI • KATHERINE M. BALL SENIOR. PAX CHRISTI • DAVID M. BALLINTYN • SOFIE BALLON • LEONARD N. t ~,AJ~AS A~S~~~NT PR~~SOR EMERITVS • COLEMAN J. BARKER SOCIAL(ONCERN~ COMMISSIONER, O'NEIL HALL • COREY BARNES DOCTORAL STUDENT, {WJ. OF THEOLOGY.• DAVID BARON FRESHMAN Cl.ASS PRESIDENT • MICA BARRETO INTERNATIONAL STUDENT (EAST TIMOR) • KTRINA BARRON PHD I~IATE PR~fESSOR, MATHEMATICS • STEPHEN BATILL • MICHAEL T. BAXTER NTNl. SEC. CATHOLIC PEACE FELLOWSHIP • MARY ALICE BECK fGAADUATEsriiDENT,11-IEOLOGY. MARY BECKMAN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR.CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. GAIL BEDERMAN ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF \Jll~ORY ~ REV. THOMAS BEDNAR, C.S.C RECTOR, ZAHM HALL • J_AMES 0. BELLIS ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY • ANDREW M.f§~~V,ID~tJ~LJE ~~NOER,sq~HOMORE. LYONS H~L. W~LIAM B. BERRY PROFESSOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • NORA J. BESA NS KY PROFESSOR Of Bl~~OGY • MARIA ELENA BESSIGNANO STAFF,INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES• CONNIE BIERWAGON CASHIER SERVICES• MARILYN BIERWAGEN ISR.LIBRARY ASSISTANT~ ANNAMARIE BINENAGEL SENIOR. PRESIDENT Pl SIGMA ALPHA • ALEXANDER BLACHLY PROFESSOR, MUSIC DEPARTMENT • I PATRICIA Bl.ANCHETTE ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPT. OF PHILOSOPHY • SUSAN D. BLUM ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPT OF ANTHROPOLOGY • VIVIANA BOMPADRE GRADUATE STUDENT• CAROLYN BOND GRADUATE STUDENT• DARYA BONDS GRADUATE STUDENT • NICOLE BONK SOCIAL CONCERNS ~ 9?lv1Ml,S!ONE{(~AsqUERJLLA WEST. CHRIS VANDEN BOSSC~E PROFESSOR ~F ENGLISH. TONA BOYD. KEI_TH BRADLEY PROFESSOR OF CI.ASSICS,CHAIR, ! DEf'J.OFCLASS!CS • GRETCHEN BRYANT SENIOR PSYCt:1/PREMED • DOUGLAS E. BRADLEY CURATOR, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART· JAY BRANDENBERGERi~~cGL~-CEN,TT~ FOR_'io~IAL CONCERNS •JUSTIN BRANDON STUDENT. BEAU BRANSON GRADUATE STUDENT, PHILOSOPHY • NICOLE BRINCK . SC>J>HOMORE'~ JACQUELIN VAUGHT BROGAN PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN LITERATURE • SARAH BROOK SENIOR, PLS, PEACE COAL1T1m1 • l, GERALD BRUNS •TE'o BRYANT COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY GRADUATE STUDENT• CA~EY BUCKSTAF FSENIOR, STUDENT ATHLETE • KATHA RI NE E. BURNS fsrybENT~·J95EfH.A.,~UTTIGIEG PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH. CESAR CADENA ~RADUATE STUDENT CHEMICAL ENGINEERING. ANNIE CAHILL DIRECTOR, . COMMUNITY l'ARlNERSHIPS (CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS) • NATALIE CAL• JOSH CANALE STUDENT· KATHLEEN CANNON, O.P. ASSOCIATE DEAN, ICOl~EGE Of SCIENCE • ~AY CAPONIGRO ()!RECTOR, ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER • PADRIAG CAROLAN STUDENT. LISA CARPENTER • . MiCHELLE CASAD RESEARCH TECHNICIAN,W.M. KECK CENTER FORTRANSGENE RESEARCH • ANDREW CASAD GRADUATE STUDENT, THEOLOGY• MAI READ lCASE·• ANGEL.OCIEl CASTELAN SENIOR• DARLENE CATELLO M.M~,'76; ADJUNCT PROFESSOR OF MUSIC • JOHN C. CAVADINI DEPARTMENT OF 
(~d,1~~~;~:::'.~:;';;t~~~~sc::=~~:::o:!:~~~:~~:;;~.:~~~!~;::~:'::::~:~ 
r:;RO.FESso~oe·p,;~rMe~i.oF AMEFUCAN sTU01es. JAcK1E coLOE sruDENT,CAPP /ANTHROPOLOGY. cALEs coNGRovE PHO STUDENT DEPT.OF THEOLOGY 1•· KEVIN L. CONNOLLY SOPHOMORE. PHILOSOPHY • REV. MICHAEL E. CONNORS, C.S.C DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY • OLIVIA CONSTABLE ASSOCIATE lPROFESSOR,: DEPT OF HISTORY • TERRISS CONTERATO STUDENT • MARK COOK GRADUATE STUDENT MFA • NAOMI CORDELL JUNIOR,
l. . . . . •..
IAmi-lR9POLOGY/STV • DAVID CQRTRIGHT FACULTY. SUZANNE COSHOW DOCTORAL CANDIDATE OF SOCIOLOGY • AARON COUTURE GRADUATE RESEAflt~ AS~ISTANT, ~PT.~1PHYSICS • ALICE CUKROWICZ GRAB 'N' GO I.ADY. SOUTH DINING HALL • CHARLES CULLEN • SUE CUNNINGHAM • 
. ' . ·:-i • . ' . . ,.
l~~Rlf S~RT~.s, ~RA[!JAT,E.~,~DENT, ENGLISH • BRENNA cussEN STUDENT• JOSEPH cussEN sTuDENT, THEoLoGY • OMAR DAHi • FRED .D~~l11AY~· ~JiOflES~ pF,~ITl~t-L?.(;IE~CE AND PH,ILQfPHY. JANEL DAUFENBACH SOCIAL CONCERNS COMMISIONER, BREEN PHILLIPS HALL. JULIA eOAUTflWAITE PROFESSOR £RENCH, OIRECTRICE, STAGE; UNIVERSITE NOTRE' DAME EN FRANCE, ANGERS • JOANNE DAVIDSON SENIOR, POLITICAL 
:::._.-,;..~,_:·" I '/:,.·_·-i '/!-;"'-. --·· f::;_-..__ -.r., _, _--. \1:-..---"·· _ ~: .
r~§l!~esw,.~lt.R~sEc<=A.,oAvr~, oocr~LC/;\J:Jfl!O.AU, ENG~Sff :!£X~E DE LEPN C:LUB COORDINATION COUNCIi; CULTURAL DIVl[)ION CHAIR. ·.· P~S==A,,L P~B?EK GRADUATE STUDENT OF QUANTITATIVE PSYCHOLOGYtJHAUNA DEE "'MARK D~HMALAW • ANDREA DEIS STUDENT • DACEl~~l~,,V!~.'3!~G}TU~NT • PA~~ DEMOTT • MEG DENNEY STUDEl'rr, MARKETING/ANTHROPOLOGY • VERONICA ROSE DENTON _STUDENT • DJ ,9LQONNA_sw_o~ ~)PE DIG~IA SOPHOMORE• JEFFREY DILLER J\ssoc1ATE PROFESSOR• JENNIFER M. DISCHER MASTERS OF DIVINITY STUDENT• 
1. 0Rt8-JANE DOERING PROFESSOR OF CORE. MARGARET DOIG SOPHOMORE. JAY P. DOLAN PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF HISTORY. CAROLINE 
r ..•:~J{~:.~::~;.-"~:"¢<-:;-'"{::_,.,_,~ __ , _-::~-i::-. ·__ ~:.-·~-~ ,_,;--_·, . -. 
{·.Jwp!W;~t1 
ff3@~%GGUfr:,=.E::~~~~:~~~l~ii~~~~O~~:E~~:D::~~~~~6L1~o~:!~;~::~::~~o~:G:~c;;;~l~~R~~:~N~(AWft·f.~q~q,_{~ GREGDOWNEY-~~s,srANT~RofessoR 9F ANTHRoPo[~Y.• .GREG povfr•·1Nsr1TuTE FoifcHuRcH LIFE· VEDAM DREN v1smNG DREYER PRO.. FESSIONAL SPECIA4~DEPT.OF m · DYLAf{ oRq_~AN fRESHMAN • JUSTI.N DUBAS GRADUATE STUDENT, ECONOMICS·.. 
ti ; BE ESERVATION LIBRARIAN• KARMEN DUKE COORDINATOR, FIRST YEAR OF STUDIES• SR. SUE DUNN, OP RECTORESS, LYONS HALL• KRISTA E. 
_ , :--1 • .,---0 ---~. l-1-· •···-" ·i .· . · ,. _:·-· 1 />-,/. " 
l AVE DOCTO,..~~-OF THEOLOGY hR,~N.EE DYSERT ~.§.~fl}ifOLOGICAL STUQl~~)N LITURGY • CAITLIN M,,EARLY STUDENT. [ . EASTERDAY/STUDENT; SARAH EDWARDS .SOPHOMORE, SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • ANNIE EFFINGER STUDENT• CATHERINE EICHERS 
~:¾, 0.t,c~;, f,: ··: <•'..<..,.· j !:,· ·• 1 · . . • I . •L, .. ·MULLEN ~~~~~DPTUDENT, BIOL~~L SCIENCES • rw'I.VIRGlLIOi ELIZANDO, ~.s.c VISITING PROFESSOR, FELLOW OF INSTITUTE F9~ [ ... ··. STUDIES, THEO),P?J)(EU.~'INSTITUTE • 8~DY ELLISON ~RAOUATESTUpENT, SOCIOLOGY• PUGKILA ELYNCLE VIS!TlNG PROFESSOR~-SR [~tNE ETHER199,~!t-:I.~ ~oREss FARLEY l:WL'• SAMUEAL ,E\(.EN.s Assoc1ATE PRoFEsso~ ~~· MATHEMA11cs -'"KYLE FAGER sEN10R • NORA ~ ~ON • LIZ FA~qti :~_R.A<;HfL FARRELL AR~ FISCHER O'HARA-GRACE GRA9UATE RESIDENC~~,.:JfHOMAS D. FEENEY • PETULA FERNANDES fSQllliOMORE, POLm&cpNCE/PEACE STUDIES • CORA FERNANDEZ ANDERSON INTERNATIONAL STUDENT (ARGENTINA) • SARAH FINCH • MEGHAN 
f''•:frl f~s,;.,,."£-,~.-•-1-.,-_l , • • __ :_~_f ,._-:·,-, 
tf4-~NERTY. V1Cf9!}lAll9R~lOPHOMORE. ~OB/RT FISHMAN AS,~CIATE,PfOFESSOR OF sr1o~OGY. KIM FLETCHER UN.DERGRADUATE STUDENT, j,~THROPOLOGY •/J_E$S~_fLO~S SENIOR, ECONOMICS /THEOLOGY. _SARAH FLOXD STUDENT, POl,.ITIC~L SCIENCE • MEGAN FLYNN • YSMAEL FONSECA 
• •,,:--:<J I' \,. '-· -~-,, -•· . ' ; J I ' ; ~ -! . : • _.c; 
t~OENT • DENl~§.~~<:iA.~DENT • STEPttE~i FREDMAN P~FESSOR·OFJNGLISH • JESSICA FREEMAN SO~HO_MORE.PSYCHOLOGY/SPAN~H • DR. ~~GUSTIN FUE~~~ATE PROFESSOR ,OJAN:'HROPOLOGY • {E~_N.l~l:R_,~AISSER-SADLl:R • JOSEPH GAL~GHER GRADUATE STUDENTPHYSICS .~l~EGGAN GALRANCE·PHD CANDIDATE, &!()LOGY• PAULA GARCIA :STUOENT, MARKETING • JAZMIN GARCIA STUDENT • MIEGA GARCIA-DURAN 
t.. ..'.\.E.·RNATIONAL STUDENT (SPAIN) • K.· ATIE, GAR•/.··VEY CENTER FOR SOCIAL coNCERNs coMM1ss1bNER (AVANAUGH HAL~ • MA.RGARET GARVEY • .MICHAEL
#·!f·····•
I0_.~ RVEY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF.PUBLIC RELATIONS, NOTRE DAME• MONICA GARVEY STUDENT• CECELIA GARZA• SHANNON GAYK GRADUATE (~. • . STINT..~., .• /15,E~MiLLER DIRECTORE OF ru~l.J<;:ITY, D_~PI.9lMYSIC. CHRIS GERBEN MFA STUDENT. SONIA G. GERNES PROFESS~'l OF ! ENGLISH ~ TERESA GHIi.ARDUCCi • DANNY GIBBS STUDENT• DALE GIBSON MA '68 • NICOLE GILG STUDENT• BETSEY GLASENAPP GRADUATE ( _s~~DENT,,}'HE_QLOGY. R.E,BEKA 0GO ASSIST.IOO' DIRECTOR, HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES • SHANNON GOEBEL STUDENT, ANTHROPOLOGY • KATIE GOLDEN • f:.· MELODY.GONZALEZ SOPHOM()RE • SARA GOODMAN STUDENT. SR. ROSE GOODROW ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FATIMA RETREAT CENTER • MARY KATE :~ooow(N{KE.LLYCWIL FELLtiW, SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • HANNAH GORNIK·• MARYBETH A. GRAHAM GRADUATE STUDENT, DEPARTMENT OF 
============ l,,f~1~~)L~ic~~1~te~Y~H~L~IST. SlJPHANIE GRASSO STUDENT. NICK GREEN STUDENT. FR. GREG GREEN, c.s.c STAFF CHAPLAIN • STUART 
Educate yourself on this important issue. Speak out. Talk to your family, your colleagues, your friends. Take a stand. Contact your local representative. Write President Bush. Call the UN headquarters. If you agree with this statement, post 

GREENE ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH • MICHAEL GREENFIELD STUDENT • K. GREER KURAS • IVAN GREGORITTI GRADUATE STUDENT, 
I. ~lcicH~i~-~ ~A.ZANIN GREGORffil ~RADUATE STUDENT'S SPOUSE • JUSTIN GREIWE STUDENT •VICTORIA GRICE MANAGEMENT CONSULTING '03 • 1·,~~.~15:~o~.L G~l~f!·~, cs'.c: '93! M. DIV: 2004 CATHOLIC PEACE FELLC>WSl:HP ~ 
<:HRISTIN~, GRIMMER STUDENT • ANNE GROSSESTREUR SENIOR • MEGHAN ,GROWAN STUDENT •. TOM GUGLIELMO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, DEPT. OF AMERICAN STUDIES • DIANA GUILLERMO 2ND YR MASTERS
i'-·'• ·~ ·:. ::· '..'.' '·_:':' ' . : ' '~-. -. . ' 
f,5,!Up_ENT, ~ANCE LA,N~UAGES • LI GUO DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS • GARY GUTTING PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY • DAVID HACHEN ASSOCIATE i ~RqF,~~SO~,l>Q<JOLOGY • FAYE 1-;iAGGARD CARD SWIPER, SOUTH DINING HALL• KEVIN HALEY STUDENT• DR. DOUGLAS C. HALL ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR I'o~ioFE.LECTRICAL ENGINEERING. MATTHEW HALLEMAN GRADUATE STUDENT.PHILOSOPHY • CHRISTOPHER HAMLIN PROFESSOR OF HISTORY. JULIE
rr~~t~~f,:tl!~R:i~~!r~~:~::~:=~::~::s·•·~~~~s::;s~::;~~~::r:~:~~~G;:~;N; ~~~;y~:~s::~~
t~~'~OR: B_IL°,LOGY;~o-fliESIDENT,SRJDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION • TOMMY HAYES STUDENT • ANNE HAYNER KROC INSTITUTE FACULTY • 
this ad on a wall or in ~li~9l}EPNI:. HAZ~~ JUN_IOR • DAVID HEINRITZ • GLENN HENDLER ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH • JULIA HENIGAN GRADUATE your window. 
l'sni~EN.:r,i~~croR\ENGUSH/IRISH STUDIES) • NATHAN K. HENSLEY GRADUATE STUDENT. ENGLISH • RICH HERBST JUNIOR • JENNIFER HERDt
>>;?.i~':\'i,/i::·:i•:}::t' ' ., . . '... . . ' . .•.. . . . ·... . 
Let your voice be heard. ITitle,s arefused for identification purposes only and do riot reflect the views of a group, organization, or department. ;Thank you to all those who contributed financially to make the publication of this statement possible. This would not Ih~~e _b~eo possfbJe wittio_ut your support. 
. ,,.. ,.•·· ' .~. ' ' .. . -.. 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
STUDENT, ECONOMICS • JAVIER A•. 1:iERNANDEZ STUDENT• FR. THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C. PRESIDENT EMERITUS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME • SHANNON HEUER SOPHOMORE, FARLEY HALL • MARY HEYOWEILLER STUDENT• PAULA HIGGINS PROFESSOR OF MUSIC• RUTH HILL STUDENT• VITTORIO HOESLE STUDENT• HOPE HOLLOCHER ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR• GEORGE HOWARD STUDENT. PAUL w. HUBER ASSOCIATE PRO;E~~R,OF c~EMISTR;·~No ai~c:~EMis~Rv: oR. ROMANA HuK ~ssoc1ATE ,PROFESSOR oF ENGLISH. DANIELLE.HUMPHREY •·JAMEs A. AussAR STUDENT 
• 
JULIE JACK STUDENT• DENNIS JACOBS PROFSS(?R OF CHEMISTRY• BONNIE JANISZEWSKI CARD SWIPER, SOUTH DINIG HALL • KATHIE JO JANKOWSKI SlUDENT • LIONEL JENSEN ASSOCIATE . PROFESSOR• ROSA MARIA JIMENEZ FIRST YEAR STUDENT• ROBERT (.JOHANSEN PROFESSOR• MICAH JOHNSTON FRESHMAN, KEENAN HALL• DUDLEY KAITLYN STUDENT, THEOLOGY• KRISTIN KAJDZIK s~qENT • LAMIA KARiM v1smNG FELLOW, KROC 1NsmuTE • LARA KARENICO GRADUATE sruoeNT, ENGLISH • REV. DAVID KASHANGAKI, c.s.c GRADUATE STUDENT· OZLEM KAYHAN STUDENT• CHRISTINE KEATING cw1L FE~Low. SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • KIM KEEFE • REUBEN KELLER GRADUATE STUDENT, BloLoG1cAL SCIENCES • MAURA KELLY SENIOR, GOVERNMENT. csc vo1c.E • EDWARD A. KELLY INSTRUCTOR, FYC • ERIN KENNEDY SENIOR• ELSA Kl EKEN GRADUATE STUDENT,CHEMISTRY ANO BIOCHEMJSTERY • JEREMY KIENE PHO CANDIDATE, DPT. OF ENGLISH • ARDIS KING STAFF• DOUGLASS KINSEY PROFESSOR EMERITUS • LAUREN KINSMAN STUDENT• SHANNON KLATT GRADUATE STUDENT• RANDY KLAWITER PROFESSOR EMERITUS, DEPT. OF GERMAN AND RUSSIAN 

• 
LESLfE KLECZEK STUDENT ~ THOMAS P. KLEPACH GRADUATE STUDENT, BIOCHEMISTRY • KARINA KLOOS STIJDENt FINANCE/ANTHROPOLOGY • KARI KLOOS GRADUATE STUDENT • COLLEEN KNICi~T SANTONI DIRE~B,STUDENT <;!VTREAC~/CSC • COURTNEY KOHOUT BADIN ~ALL SENATOR• EILEEN KOLMAN DEAN, FIRST YEAR OF STUDIES• AARON KREIDER SOCIOLOGY MASTERS DEGREE, PSA,J,ltAcE COALITION• M~GHAN KREMBEL Sl1JDENT • FLORA KRISTENSEN• KIRSTEN ~RUEGER• AGADJIN KURBANOV STUDENT-RACHEL KUTZLEY • PAUL LAKOFKA • MICHAEL LANE• 


I ,--, . • , . . , 
Wl~MA LANE • CAMERO~. LANG SOPHOMO~E. POLITfCAL SCIENCE/ANTHRO.fOLOGY • DEVON LANG SENIOR• MARGARET LARACY SENIOR, CSC VOICE, PSYCHOLOGY• FRANCIS C, LARKIN STUDENT• . ; fJNTH IA LEE 4TH YEAR A~~H[TEc,TURE STUDEJ'/T • SUSAN L,ENDERTS. • LAQ\REN LEO JUN:IOR, PASQUERILLA WEST • DIANA LEONAR SOPHOMORE • THOMAS LEVANTHAL SENIOR, SCPP • MARY · ::P\THERINE L~VRI STUDEN"J\" BlAKE.LEYE~E n!EOLOGY fACULTY • FREO ~ICON GRADUTE STUDENT• APRIL UNDISKY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, UNIVERSTY WRITING PROGRAM• FR. WILLIAM LIES, , (.S.C DIRECT01R/:ENTER FOR S~IAI.CON~ERNS •/ROSE V. LIN~~~N STU~!_~T-'POUTICAL SCIENCE• LOUISE LITZIN~ER ASSISTANT.DEAN FIRST YEAR OF SlUDIES • BILL LOPEZ SOPHOMORE~ JOE LORDI ,)STUDENT• A~Ni"A LUNGRE~ S:TUDENT • Llt:IDSAY LUTZ STUDENT• CARMEN MACHARASCHWILI STAFF,INSITUTEFOR LATll;-IO STUDIES• JON MACK STUDENT• LAURA MACLEAN FRESHMAN, 1 FARLEY HALL,;,~l~ADDEN SE~OR •.ANNISE] MAGUIRE JAN '03 GRADUATE· HASEEB.MAHMOOD •JON MALA STUDENT• BRADLEY MALKOVSKY ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY• KELLEY . 
MALLOY W~J~~OLOGY • STE~EN MAL~ :SlUDENT • TED MANDELL FILM AND viD~ PRODUCTION FACULTY • BARBARA J. MANGIONE • YOLANDA L MARINA ASSISTANT PROFESSIONAL sPEc1Aus. 1NsT1TUTE FOR LAT1No sTup1ES ~ MARlsA MAROU 1;2 STAFF. LNsnTuTE FOR LAT1No sruD1Es • CRYSTAL. MARTINEZ sTUDENT • PATRICK MASON sTuDENT • KATE RI MCCARTHY sTUDENT, 
\ ·, ., t ·4 ' ' ' ,.,, ' : ' ' . 
PHILOSOPHYIFTT • DEVON MCCLOSKY BADIN HALL • ROSIE MCDOWELL PROGRAM ASSISTANT, CSC • PATRICK MCELWEE • MARYANN MCELWEE STUDENT • JOSHUA MCFADDEN ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT • MlcHAEL'.KiJCGARRY • CATHERINE MCGEENEY• PATRICK MCGOWAN, C.S.C .HOLY CROSS SEMINARIAN• ANNE MCGRATH STUDENT, ANTHROPOLOGY/ALPP • 
'. . . . i . . . ' : . . . . 
DAMOJ.t;£{!,~~~~CTORAL STUD~~T, lliE?LOGY • AMY .MCINTO~H G~ADUATE STUD~ (ENGLISH) • KATHLEEN MCKEOWEN • LINDA MCLARE GRADUATE STUDENT • CHRISTOPHER A. MCLAREWASSISTANT,ifROFESSOR oFlSLAS$(cs • CHRISTIAN .MCNAMARA • PADRE DON MCNIELL, c.s.c EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EMERITUS, csc • DANIEL MCSWAIN SOPHOMORE, 
.J: • ' .. '. ' \. • ~ ,. • '" . , 
ENGLISH/JOURNALISN, ETHics & DEMOCRACY'. ANDERSON MEGAN SOPHOMORE. NICOLE J. MEIDINGER GRAOUATE SlUDENT. GARTH MEINTJES ASSOCIATE PROFESSIONAL SPECIALIST. THOMAS V. 
(I· . , ,.• ,:.,.>••; . • ' . ; f : . ,. . . 
MERLUZZI PHD PSYCHOLOGY • MICHAEL ME.SKO ADJUNCT FACULTY -ROME• AARON MICH KA STUDY ABROAD (EGYPT), PHILOSOPHY• ANGELA MILLER~MCGRAW CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS• KRISTEN MIZZI SOPHOMORE, POLITICAL SCIENCE.. • MIKE MOLENDA STUDEfllT • JOHN C. MONCZUNSKI ASSOCIATE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE • MIGNON A. MONTPETIT GRADUATE STUDENT/ALUMNI '01 • JONKIA MOORE CAREER COUNSELOR· ANNA ROSE MORANSKI JU.NlOR • ANNE MORIARTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, HOLY CROSS ASOCIATES • SR. MARY ANN MUENINGHOFF, 
0.P. RECTOR, PASQUERILLA EAST· SR. JUDITH ANN MURPHY C.S.C, DIRECTOR ACEDEMIC ADVISING HCC• MARITA MURPHY STUDENT• MARY MURPHY PRESIDENT, TEAMWORK FOR TOMORROW• 
• ••• _, -""" ,,_., > • ' ' • • --' ' ' 
CHRISTOPHER MURRAY ' STUDENT• . ;"· DiAN MURRAY ' PROFESSOR ,· OF HISTORY• KATE MUSICA STUDENT,ANTHROPOLOGY • DANIEL MYERS ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY• ANNE NAPOLI 
. . .. . 
R,ECTOR, BADIN HALL.•. .ARCIA NARVAEZ. ASSOCIATE .PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY • GINNY NAWROCKI ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, CENTE(:l FOR PASTORAL LITURGY • LAURIE NELSON GRADUATE .. ~~ENT;SO~IOLO~Y ~-MAI NI ~!,;KM\~'Cb.R9LY_N .N9R'?.~~R9M ~~~CIATE PROFESSOR OF ~ROPOLOGY • ROBERT E. NORTON PR9FESSOR OF GERMAN • MAGG!E NOYA RIO SOPHOMORE.­' ENGLISH : AND PEACE STUDIES• • THOMASt--,"f N.OWAK .•~.; PROFESSOR ••"!\,-., OF CHEMISTRY --...: AND BIOCHEMISTRY •,BIRABWA-• "·._• NSUBUGA ,,-GRADUATE' STUDENT, INTERNATIONAL . PEACE . STUDIES• ANNA ~ C. NUSSBAUM 
r ·* )II _1-r,, '; :_:•_.'> : ,i• , , . (;_, , • 
VNF1·9~•.PLS.· SOLLEEN o·~o~No~/~f~N,D~N. ~·ci~wiy ~EL§NA OLEA JSD STUDENT. KATHLEEN QPEL DIRECTOR,ALCS /DAVID O,Rl[Z PHD ~ANDl~~TE,iS,OCIOLOGY. ?R· ~LEXEI 0. OR~qV ~E~R,CH ASSOCIATE PROF~1.sQ~~Eg0R!CAL~~l,sLWi,~W~.ft6~N OUTLAW DIREPQR OF ~D,U~CJ\TIONAL JALENTSEARCH • KIMBRA OVEl:{DYCK TAl<E TEr-J.P~CJGRAM, ROB}NSClN ~qMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER • JIM PALADINO.• DAN PARZIALE STUDENT~ PAUL PAmRSON GRADUATE STUDENT, ENGLISH • PATZER M. MARTHA MEMBER, PSA • FERNANDA PAYAN STUDENT• SHEILA PAYNE• ALLAN PEETZ STU!)ENT •.ALICE PENNINGTON FRESHMAN• COLLEEN PEPPER STUDENT• KATHY PETERSON• CONSTANCE 0. PETERSON MILLER ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, ISSA• 
. . . ... . ... 
REBECCA PITTIT DlRECTORE, URBAN PROGRAMMING AND INITIATIVES •JOANNA PHILBIN • GEORGE PIGGFORD, C.S.C GRADUATE STUDENTAND SEMINARIAN •JOHN PINTER HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PR~GRAM s~AFF. ALLISON P1nss'rul)ENT·:.··cHR1s PLAN1ci<A sruDENT,HISTORY. MICHAELPOFFENBERGER SOPHOMORE. CAITLIN POLLEY JUNIOR. DEANNA PONSLER ·MANAGEil:FIXED ASSET Acc~uNTING •. sTAcE:/PoPciNAK / KAMARIA PORTER ~;JEssE PoTtsH STUDENT, RosF>1Gs~'-ELIZABETH POTTLE STUDENT • AVA PREACHER ASSISTANT DEAN, COLLEGE oF ARTS A0No 
--·· . ..-. ·' f' ·:-~" , ~-,.~:.. :· .· -·:·· · ··· Yt:z;,_-,;..:::;1\·~·;,._~•.:_i(;•/\~·;-.-,.---: -'. •,. :-;::,; .-_.: .. :.. · ,~).:->. · . :_·, ·'--. · · -'-·• · · · '. · · _-·· -.•__.,. _.':,.:"\"_<~:~-: ~, .. ~:.., :..::~· 8-:_·--• -, -· ... ---·.:--_ -' • · . • • • · • :~'f:.,,....,,>~v/h 
;,, LITTERS ~. CRYSTAL PRENTICE STUDENT'.•: LAVAUGH~PRITCHARD • BRIDGET PURDUE SENIOR • MAI QUANT • PETER J.QUARANTO FRESHMAN • BARBARA QUIGG GRAB 'N' GO LADY, SOUTH ' ~;Rt1fl~cq~1~ QUINN:~tNt~Ni~:~:~~]\NtT.iAN.~~~~u~tJDE~: CLAUD!ffK~'R~~ilREZ l~ERNA~QNiLSTUDENT (MEX;~O) • WILLIAM RAMSEY.PROFES~dROF'PHII.dsofiUY .­:;,~,NDSAY RAND1;L ~:ru,D~NT4'NTH/ALPP • ANf)n~A RAY ALESSIO DIRECTOR,COMMUN.1?TIONS/CSC • KATHY flAYU:[NSTRUCTOR, TRADE UNIONS• ANITA ~EES ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, CAREER CENTER• :.)£NATHAN REI,~~ 5.ruoer• ROBIN F. R~2:,9ES ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ART HISTORY", D1NIEL RICHTE,STUC>ENT • SHANNON ROACH GRADUATE STUDENT, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES • JASMINE 
R(?~ERTS STUDrnt• TR~~Y,ROBINSON Dl~.tgoR OF INTERCU~1V,~~,W1.NG PROGRAM, SMC. MARK w. ROCHE DEAN, COLLEGE OF .ARTS AND LETTERS • MARIBEL RODRIGU.EZ STAFF ACCOUNTANT, INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES.· ABIGAILA ROESCH GRADUATE,STUDENT • BREE ROGERS STUDENT, ANTHRO/PHILO/ROIT • JOHN ROMF STUDENT• CHARLES M. ROSENBERG PROFESSOR OF ART 
'! ,.-·. '• :~.•t !, . . , '_ l_-•. ·."' HI.STQRY. BO ROTT~~BOR_N SENIOR, cmcy:.!<,fPRESIDENT EME\l1TU$ .~ DAVID F. RUCCIO A~SOCIATE PROFESSO!(E~ONOMICS • JOfEPH RUMBO GRADUATE ~UDENT. ADRIAN M. RUSH EDITOR, ; ~N!~fSlTY COMMUN1Cf!IONS DESIGN • KAlJ:l}~EN c. RUSSElf,ED.llOR, U,NIVERSITY COMMU~l7ArlONS DESIGN ";,~?HER SANB~~N GRADUATE STUDENT. KEVIN SANDBERG, c.s.c_ SEMINARIAN, MOR~~ sEM!NARY • v1pqf1A sANFORljfl~RoroLOGY FAcpLr.v: v~LERIE SAYERS PRor7ssoR oF ENGLISHf~P DIRECTOR oF ~JlEATIVE WRITING~ KAY SCANLAN sEN10R • w. ROBERT SCHEI PT ,:t~'?:F~{OR OF CHEMl5I~Y;'AND BJOCHEMw~n CATHERINE f~~-~9:IJG~ ASSISTANT PRRE~SOR, CLASSIC PE~ARTMENT. KAPE SCHLOSSER. STUD.ENT. CATHERINE SCHMIDT STUDE~T, i" .ANJHROJ>OLOGY • DANIEV SCHMIDT S"JtlDENT. KAREN P. SCHNEIDER KIRNER DIRECTO~ OF HANDBELL AND CELEBRATION CHOIRS. CHERYL SCHOTTEN ·GRADUATE STUDENT, DEPT OF POLITICAL 
·':'··•.~,:•\'\ 'l'i ...····• f ·••."·.. ; \,.• , ··; !· : , \ .. ' :..SC~ENCE. ~. HILLARY SC~ARB • CAN~ Sf<?JT STUDENT· J91:fttM.;,SFN,f;jENBERGER 11;$1\/DENT • ANDR~W, SERAZIN RHqDES SCHOLAI\ SENl()R, • RIOlfl SHAHARI INTERNATl<;)NAL STUDENT 
O:ANZANIA) • DENNIS Sf-jAW PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS• DANIEL SHEERIN PROFESSOR Of Cl,ASSICS • MOHAM.ED A. SHEHAB EL DIN• PAUL SHEPARD·.• CHRIS SCHENKEL• CARA SHIEL• 
· ··: r· ·· j t ,,·".;:•· •: ' i t.•J .·.·· · ~.. · ·. MARK SHIFFMAN VISITING PROFESSOR, PROGRAM OF LIBERAL $TUDIE~ • SA~NAM SIDDIJ\UI µRADUATE STUDE!'JT, INTERNATIONA~ PEACE ST\JDIES • BETTY: SIGNER COORDINATOR, ND HOLOCAUST 
· ' , · · 1 '· · ·. . I ' '"a., . · '· ' ' PROGECT•,flABBI MICHAEL A. SIGNER ABRAMS PROFESSOR Of JEWIS!HH,PUGHT AND cuqURE. JOHN SIMON,IA.N. CATHERIN~ SISK• LISA SKALLA. JEFF SKARSKI FRESHMAN, HOLHROSS. 
THOMAS P. SLAUGHTER PROFESSOR OF HISTORY. NIDAL SLIMAN.STUDENT. PHILLIP R. SLOAN PROFESSOR:AND CHAIR, PROGRAM OF CtBERAL STUDIES • JANE SLOSS STUDENT, ARCHITECTURE".• 
• .· , I I · · · • • · <-·-" ' ' \ . 
P~TRICK ,Sll~KA • KIMBRA SMITl;i. Vl~ITING P.ROFpSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY • MEG SMllJi .,MIKE SMITH ASSOCIATE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME REVIEW· CAl!LIN M. SMITH STUDENT• CHERI SMITH' RE~~~~::E LIBRf,RIAN • ANDREA sM~f~ ·~~,t~~:LL.~~ECTOR SENIOR TRANSITION PRO]~¥M.CSC rMATTHEW L~ S01.AfiS,~I SlUDENT, PSYCH/FILM • KAl]E SOLIC RA, PE • JULIANA SOLIS STUDENT• CA~:~~JS~R ~~~T, 5~99.~r,{~P~OM~~::~,x~.l~!m.fil'ENCER STU?~NT ~. J~SK.S.Pl"T)'L:ER ST(JD~N~t:¥1f~~EY~~~~~ISl,C Assa.~ ~ROFESSOR,~~£;1;!ANtq\h fJ~~~~F-~~.N..qc=.J,E~,Sl,C.A SJA.~:~~s-:~ ~Q ?.T~~~A gRA~~f~ STI,J~E~;f.HY~lf.~{~J~ S:fE~,~~ J>~qF~??OR_Of tJ-lll9~~pw~·, ~Y.¥Wif~T ~S9Sl~T!=PIR: F~E!MAN:~ LIFJ:.SCIENCF CENTER• \A/IL_Ll~M STRIEQER ~ROfES~OR OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING"•TR SWARTZ J>f!OFESSOR.OF ECONOMI.CS .~ REB;CCATANNER GRADUATE.STUDENt SOCIOLOGY'• MELVIN TARDY• REV. MARK THESING, C.S.C RECTOR, KEENAN.HALL• 
... ,, '"''"'' ',-~ _,__., : .... :· •:·.~•;i',';~··-~' •"·•,:'",·""..,•·-~,_-~-~,,_",-_--·:·•.'.· ·· ... "'·-~--...!''.•,"."':•'"·.·""',-' -~,---."'" ,-_;. -·,_:,..-·_-·.:·_:·, ·--:'.-:--·--: .,'. ··"'•· :,·, .. _.• ,·,• . . . ' . " ~ ' 
.<~!:5tW~'.~J.Ji'·~1Y.~J,,~.~~!j,T~1MYJHI~9~1~t~t>. ;SJ\lq~T.~f?~O<.i~.: J\AR,QN 1HC?.~tSt~~~~~,~.I; THORYP .•! ~REMENJ\ TOQQROVA GRADUATE STU DEN! •.· M,l~~~E~ T?M~O. · . -~-~~~~1~U'D.¥~··. f,~,~.~~.J.RY.??.~Y..;~~!?J~N;;~~f.U-f~,tiX.IO.Y~X ~~~Elff • KATH.ERINE.J~~YNC?.R, c~ c~1v1M1cc19NER. c~vANAU~~ H~LL • J.ULIANNE TURNER .Ass9c1ATE PROFE~soR, .PSYCHOLOGY •JAMES TURNER. DIRECTOR, ERSAMUS INSTITUTE AND PROFESSOR OF HUMANITIES• DR. BENJAMIN F.TURNER POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE• BARBARA TURPIN ASSOCIATE DEAN, 
f .~._.;:~:\;~ .;... "~--••·• .:·•• ...... -•.''•·.:•,-_i' . •./.••h· ·:'»'·•i·,-,,_ ' .. •.. ·, ;_·••. '," . ',' •,, , ·:·,.: " • .··,. , , , 
G~DUATE SCH(?OL • EILEEN TURPIN SENIOR, SOCIOLOGY• FABIAN E. UDOH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR• EUGENE U.LRICH PROFESSOR OF HEBREW BIB.LE• KRISTEN VALDERAS SOPHOMORE• CHARLES VALLE GRADUATE STUDENT• PAUL VAN LEEUNEN STUDENT~ HOLLY VANDEWALL • KATIE VANTIEM STUDENT,AMERICAN STUDIES/SOCIOLOGY• PRIYA VARGHESE• CHRISTINE VENTER ADJUNCT
.• _.~. ~ _,, ·1_,...,. ., ·,··-·····. -. ' .• ~ 
PROFESSOR, UNIVERSfl)' WRITING PRQGRAM. ANNA VILLANUEVA SJUDENT• JASON GERARD VILLAREAL. FRBILL WACK c.s.c OIRECTOR,ANDRE HOUSE (F>HOENIX,AZ). DAVID WALDSTREICHER Assoc1A-re ~ROFE~s~R ~~ ~,sroRv"• NATHAN.~A1tAce-~RAD~A;·iruoENT, ENGLISH • PETER wAi'.sHE PR~FEsso~. P~LITICAL ~IEN~E·. i<ATE WALTER STU DEN{. JAMEs wALToN PROFESSOR OF 
-: •.·:. ·1•·.'..·:· .• ·r -~ .+· ...,:~.,-.1:-1--~t.-;f·:\,:-:.. ·~-t·f/.t:·:,·-, ..-.:'._.,~.-:·'.o"-:··-:1·. -... -··-!::1·.~J·-··,: ·_.· "·•;.·-~.: ·.· · · .· .:· ·_,'··•-~-, ·-·:•-"' ·t •, _· __ .,·_ :_,. •'.. • . • . •• 
.. E..~s;.LI~tf!·PR,:~!\!.L;l.;;yYAp:.QN.,Dl.flE9:"0R<;lF,MU.SI.C. BAS.ILICA O.F:1'.HE.SAC~Eg !-iEART • XIAO-QIN.G WANG GRADUATE STUDENT, SOCIOLOGY• TA.RANEE WANG~ATORNTANANAKHUM GRADUATE . 
. ·.~ 1·'<"·.,~,,.~ ·-~-~~ ,~·~a!..'.:l<''·•-·;.":<,•11 4,•. · .. ··;• ,,ft. ·'""••h\.tJ,,_,.~ ..•---"'·•~:~·H•,-..,•,.· ......._•,.,·• ... , ..... ,.: '·,-. •. • . :· ' _-•. · ·•, '-· ·, ·_ .,• ' . . ., . • . . ' 
ST\JD~!"Ti E~~Ll~~:t.)9.~~l'~.B'.\VA,RN.ER ~LUMNus:-:GR.E~C>R)". yY~~s~~.• BETHANY WE~B~R STUDENT. J. R(?BERT, WE~S PR()FESSOR OF I-IISTORY. JAK~ WEILER STUDENT. JOHN ~. WELLE PRO~ESSOR OF ROMA~C:(1:-AN~~~~€fff! ~. C:HRl~J9P.11_~R ~~~L,S 9RAOUATE s:ruoENT,THEOLOGY • KAY \,VESTHUES MICHIANA PEAC.E AND JUSTI~~ COALITION • WILLIAM WETHERALL GRADUATE STUDENT, INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES·~ SETH WHETZEL STUDENT ~. TARA J. WHIPP INSTITUTE FOR CHURCH LIFE • HAZEL B. WHITE. PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH • PATRICK WHITE STUDENT.• PAUL .WHITMAN PROFESSOR ~N~ CH~iR~F' PHILOSO~HY.• TRACEY WICKHAM ,; A. CARMEN PAULS WIENS STUDENT. JOHN-WIENS R~BINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER. KATHARINE WILLIAMS 
··· . , •:·· ,o., ~,:.,-_.•:-.....,.,,,·.·:·r-1•-~::.. .;-.,\..,,. "··•. ''.\,,•·.•~···•·,_','.i,,,;,.~ -••• ·" 't\• ··.,. .--~,:"·A·,.Je', .. :,~.~1':~-~.~;;.,,_.;,·.~ ··.:"-·•:~-:••'•, ·••.'. :'•"· ·, , •· ' 
STUDENT• NIC WILLIAMS. STUDENT~ plANE R. WILSON ASSISTANT DEAN, GRADUATE .SCHOOL• DAVE WITOWSKI STUDEN.T • MARTIN H. WOLFSON FACULTY, DEPT. OF ECONOMICS • CASEY WONG STUDE!'JT • MAUREEN WY.NE GRADUATE STUD~NT. SOCIOLOGY • PATRICK. M. XLYNN CSC STAfF • KE-HAI YAUN ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY • CHERISE YUND STUDENT • KATHERINE ZACKEL •JORDAN ZAPPALA• ANGELA ZAWAOA • ALESSANDRA ZEILINSKI • KRYSZTOF ZIAREK ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH• EWA ZIAREK •DAY ZIMLICH STUDENT.ANTHROPOLOGY 
nearly 600 people have signed sendyournameto voice 1 @nd.edu 

Wednesday, Fehruary 26, 2003

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
BENGAL BOUTS -170 POUNDS-HEAVYWEIGHT 
Cosse takes on Knust and looks to return to finals 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
On the heels of a split-deci­sion victory over Patrick McGarry, No. 1 seed Clay Cosse will take on junior Matt Knust. Cosse, a senior, serves as this year's 170-pound cap­tain. 
Knust defeated JamAs Gaffey in the first round and earned a victory by unanimous decision over Brian Michalek in the quarterfinals. 
Two seniors face off in the second semifinal, Jason Voss g O j 11 g 
against Rob 

Joyce. Joyce "The night before you just 
Sullivan in the 
is the No. 2 

kind ofrelax. You just try quarterfinals.
seed, while Junior Larry

not to think about the 
Voss is par­Rooney and 

ticipating in fight until the day 

senior Andrew 
the semifi­

co1nes." Groebner face 
nals after 

off in the sec­
only win­

ond semifinal
ning one Tommy Demko 

match. Rooneybout last junior boxer defeated Chris 
year. 
J O y C e received a bye in the first round, and easily defeated James Ward in the quarterfi­nals by unanimous decision. Voss defeated John Lantz in the first round and prevailed over Matt Padilla in the quar­terfinals, by unanimous deci­sion as well. 
180-pounds 
The first semifinal in the 180-pound division features an intriguing matchup between No. 1 seed Tommy Demko and senior Christopher Pearsall. 
Demko, a junior from Alumni Hall, defeated dorm rival Erik Rocca of Dillon in the quarter­finals and serves as this year's captain. Last year, he advanced to the semifinals only to lose to eventual run­ner-up Matthew Sarb. 
"You always set a goal to go farther each year," Demko said. "You're always trying to do better. That's what this fight tomorrow means to me." 

Demko is one of three junior captains this year; the other four are seniors. 
"I look at it as we all get to know each other and help each other," he said. "You don't really think about what year you are. Some sopho­mores are really good boxers." Pearsall hopes to use his seniority to defeat the younger Demko. Pearsall defeated Michael Ryan in the first round and earned a unani­mous victory over Denis 
Orenchuk and Eric Callahan en route to the semifinals. 
Groebner defeated Christopher Cavanagh in the first round and earned a unan­imous decision over junior James Christoforetti in the quarterfinals. 
190-pounds 
No. 1 seed John Lynk takes on Mwangi Gathinji in the first of two semifinal matches. Lynk is defending champion and serves as this year's captain. 
He'll face a formidable oppo­nent in Gathinji. Gathinji, a senior from Alumni Hall, dom­inated Jose Ronchetta in a unanimous decision victory in the second round. 
Both Gathinji and Lynk earned first round byes, with Lynk advancing to the semifi­nals after defeating David Escobales by technical knock-

let &rv,tuud. take you.,.,. in lnltlana tlil spring break will! oir ...,.,1ow fara or GIi' Jllldal •$99 round 1rip aa,wllare yoo want tD go in11111 U.S. 
South Bend lu1 Statlan 4i7t Tnina Drill 
574-287-6542 

..,.llffDrlllllll, ..CIIIWnlllt, ........ '.:5!-~ 
Visit --.,reyllound.llOm er c1111•800·231·2222 GREYHOUND 
"!911"""'"'""'--•-Mt12,,.__.,o.rn......,.-~.,.'"'ed.OtlmuJfortN~1711ll-41.Will 
EulllladcDIJ.dlill&ppy'.Moc"9klk\cwf!'l.blr\at:<nwilb1.fPfotlw~nlln.lkrntr~ano.lmtl1hWmaytppty, 
Sblo,!A,/,ri,q,-,;-1od\1r,o,Mdh1ffabilly.P"°"011J!OO;bc/l,og,wi-­
out in less than two minutes. 
The defending champion is rather composed before the semifinal round. 
"The night before you just kind of relax," Lynk said. "You just try not to think about the fight until the day comes." 
The senior said that the Bengal Bouts is a unique tour­nament in the way that friends become rivals. 
"We practice as a team, so you're working with the peo­ple you'll be fighting," Lynk said. "It's kind of weird because you could use skills they help you learn and vice versa. It's different from anv other tournament in tha·t way." 
In the second semifinal, 
;111 
© 1985 FUN TAN, INC. 

University Location: S.R. 23 & Ironwood 272-7653 Corner of Grape & McKinley 256-9656 Corner of Ireland &. Ironwood 291-2000 
senior Patrick Otlewski faces off against No. 2 seed junior William Zizic. Last year, Zizic lost to Lynk in the semifinals. 
To advance to the third round, Otlewski defeated Jeff Golen in the first round and upset No. 3 seed John Caver in the quarterfinals. Zizic defeat­ed Nathan Schroeder by unan­imous decision to earn the right to face Otlewski. 
Heavyweight 

Third-year law student Carlos Obcyta and sophomore Darryl Burton face off in what might be the bout with the greatest age differential in the first of two semifinal matches. 
Obevta, the No. 1 seed, advanced to the semifinals 
with a knockout of Nick Morrison just a little less than one minute into the third round. 
Burton defeated senior Timothy Pezanko by a unani­mous decision. The heavy­weight division only included eight participants, so all com­petitors had first round byes. 
In the second match, Ren O'Connor takes on Stefan Borovina. O'Connor defeated Hrian Farkas in the first round. while Borovina easily took care of Donovan McFerron, advancing with a knockout. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
GRt freR INSTANT CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP T!CKE TS. 
Stop by L.S. Ayres, Uriivers:ity 
PHrk on Mcu•ot, B. 2003. Wlth an;· NAUTICA COMPETITION fra,grancie pul"Chase of $35 or 
more. get is FR-EE NAUTICA COMPE:l"ITION Basketball by 

;,~..,.Spalding•. friilB Conference f:·:·!i~b~'i,tpionship Tickets will bt'I /.:-;,.i,d~ly included with limfted 
·. ·: 'b~at1:1tball1o, So hurry. Wtiife 
:•·'11 )/1•11
,_--:•1.1PPH•~ leer:. ~.}~1:i.(1f/!i'1-.' ·...:·1, 
,i1,·6PA!.DING t1",111e1mo,t 11Wned by Spw,ldlt19 
'1#dwl~. Ire. ·'.1~ 
.. '"' ~1;~ 

THE NAUTICA COMPETITION SHOOTOUT IS YOUR CHANCE TO PLAY FOR A BIG EAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP. 
2 person teams will have : 60 to score as 
many points as possible from spots on the floor. Become Conference Champs and WIN. 
WIN THE CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP AND GET: 
• 
$1 000 in cash {$500 per player] 

• 
$1000 in NAUTJCA COMPETITION Clothing 1$500 per player) 

• 
The license to talk trash... An,where, Anytime! 


BECOME CAMPUS CHAMPIONS AND GET: 
• 
An all expenses-paid trip to the BIG EAST Conference Championship where you'll get: 

• 
The chance to destroy your conference rivals for the big prize 

• 
Free tickets to watch the tournament live in person, and 

• 
Free bottles of NAUTICA COMPETITION • The Newest Player in Men's Fragrance 


ALL PLAYERS &ET: 
• 
NAUTJCA COMPETITION Shootout Jerseys -for the first 75 teems to register • sign up quickly! 

• 
l=ree samples of NAUTICA COMPETITION -The Newest Player in Men's Fragrance 


&fl IN THE SAME 
w•••••  Rockne Memorial  
WHEN:  Wednesday, February 26th from 7:00-9:00pm  
NOW TD REliiUITER;  Go to Rockne Memorial during the hours listed for mare information or to register  
HQW TD PlllV:  • 2 players per team, so pick your winning partner (Varsity Players excluded)  
• Score as many points seconds  as you can m 60  
• Outshoot your oppanents during preliminary and final rounds for your chance to play 1n the Conference Championship  

Wednesday, February 26, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish looking to make a run at NCAA Tournament 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Ediror 
Both Pittsburgh and Notre Dame head into tonight's game at the Joyce Center with much to play for in terms of making tournaments. 
The difference in the two teams lies in the tournament each is aiming for at the end of the regular season. 
Pittsburgh (11-13 overall, 3­10 in the Big East), is lighting with West Virginia and St. John's for 12th place in the Big East standings. The top 12 teams from the conference par­ticipale in the Big East postsea­son tournament, which Pittsburgh hasn't made in three years. 
The Irish (15-9, 7-6) are look­ing towards a possible NCAA Tournament bid. Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said two weeks ago in a press confer­ence that 18 wins would likely get the Irish into the tourna­ment. 
"Last year we were 18-9, and we got a lseventh seed]. and our RPI wasn't nearly as good as it is now," McGraw said. "So if we can go into the Big East Tournament and win a game or two and get to 19 wins ­although I think that 18 wins will get us in -but if we get to 19 or 20 wins, we'll get a better seed." 
With three games left, all against teams "".ith worse league records than 
season. But they'll need to get the first of those three tonight against the Panthers. 
Pittsburgh is looking for their first win ever against Notre Dame, who has won all 11 con­tests of the series. The two teams last met Feb. 5, 2002, when the Irish beat the Panthers 68-56 in Pittsburgh. 
The Panthers have been in a slump, dropping seven of their last nine games and their last game was a 78-52 loss to No. 22 Boston College Saturday. Laine Selwyn and Haley Harguth led the Panthers, scor­ing 18 and 15 points, respec­tively. 
The Irish lost their last game to No. 1 Connecticut in Storrs 77-59. However. Notre Dame did have some positive perfor­mances in the game, especially 
their rebound­
Led 


ing. by

"Last year we were 18-9
themselves, Jacque Ii n e 
Notre Dame and we got a [seventh Batt east's 
has the seed], and our RPI wasn't career-high 18 opportunity . boards, the
nearly as good as it is 
to get at Irish outre­
now."

least 18 bou nd ed the wins. if not Huskies 43-40. more, by the It marked only
Muffet McGraw 
end of the the third time a
Irish coach 
Connecticut opponent had accomplished such a feat. 
But poor shooting ruined any chance of an upset for Notre Dame. They could only manage to hit just over 33 percent of their field goal attempts. 

Notre Dame faces Seton Hall in their final home game · Saturday before ending the sea­son at Syracuse March 4. 
Tonight's game tips off at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

opportunity to make a huge first standing ovation of this Cosse emerged victorious. he is going to leave the ring difference, both in sending year's tournament. "I came into my first fight knowing he put everything he
Cosse 
money to the needy of "This was another spectacu­this year knowing that I might has into the fight. Bangladesh, and in teaching lar fight," Cosse said. "Pat never box competitively As a senior, Cosse would
continued from page 20 
younger guys to do the same really came after me, but I again," Cosse said. "So I enjoy a victory in the finals in to offer. He hopes to pass this in years to come," Cosse said. came right back and the fought as hard as I could, and his swan song in Bengal Bouts. message along to the younger After receiving a first-round crowd loved it. I didn't know left it all However, a phone boxers. bye in his 170-pound weight that Pat would fight me so in the call he received 
"( Being a captain] means class this year, Cosse brought tough, but I'm glad he did, r i n g . "So now I'll be fighting Tuesday means he that I have worked really hard the crowd to its feet in his because that's what Bengal That's has a whole lot
even harder because I 
to receive a prestigious posi­quarterfinal bout with Pat Bouts is all about." been my more to fight for. 
know [my grandfather
tion, but also that I have the McGarry Sunday, marking the After the ovation subsided, philoso­"[Tuesday] morn­p h y is] watching. " ing, my mother every called me to tell me year. that my grandfa­
Clay Cosse 
but it ther had passed seemed boxing captain away," Cossc said. mo re "I was very close to urgent him. and he always this year with graduation supported my boxing. So now looming on the horizon." I'll be fighting even harder 
Tonight, the top-seeded 
because I know he's watch­ing."

Cosse faces fourth seed Matt Knust in the semifinals. He knows that, just like every Contact Bryan Kronk at other fight he's taken part in, bkronk@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles season ends after 77-50 first-round loss at Hope 
Russell, who scored in double shot 51 percent from the field, and we did some good things more aggressive."
By HEATHER VAN 

digits for the third time in as and was 5-for-11 in 3-point in the game." Sophomore Katie Royce
HOEGARDEN 

many games, as she finished shots. However. the Flying Another positive for the added seven points for the Sports Writer 
with 11 points. Maureen Bush Dutch only outscored the Belles was sophomore forward Belles. while senior Kristen also scored 11 points. Belles 33-30 in the second Emily Creachbaum, who Matha scored four points with Saint M:arv's couldn't over­However, half. scored 10 points while grab­seven rebounds. come a 24-point halftime the efforts of Though the bing six rebounds. Despite only Saint Mary's ends their sea­
"We made a very good 
deficit and ended its season these two Belles were the shooting 4-for-17 Tuesday, son with a record of 6-20 over­with a 77-50 loss to Hope in players were effort, and we did some obvious under­Creachbaum has been a bright all and 2-13 in the conference. the first round of the l\HAA not enough dog in the spot for Saint Mary's all sea­The Belles only lose two
good things in the game." 
tournament. for the Belles matchup with son, as she has been their most seniors to graduation and had 
For the Flying Dutch, Bria to overcome the No. 2 team consistent performer. one junior on the team this Ebels scored 18 points in only poor shoot­Suzanne Bellina in the country, "Our posts played extremely season. 14 minutes of action. Amanda ing that Belles coach the loss was well," Bellina said. "We did a Kerkstra, the MIAA Player of included still disap-good job of getting the ball Contact Heather Van the Week, added 12 points going 2-for-pointing, as inside, and we were much Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.cd11 along with four assists and was 20 from beyond the arc. Saint another season came to a close the second of three Hope play­Mary's finished shooting 29 on Tuesday night. ers to score double digits. percent from the field for the "Hope is such a good team," 
Meanwhile, the Belles were game. coach Suzanne Bellina said. led once again by senior Shaun Hope, on the other hand, "We made a very good effort, 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students interested in majoring in education 
Pennsylvania, among others. "Rest is the only way to get "I think I bring intensity and healed," Krakowski said. "I 
You are invited to attend an
Records 

a lot of enthusiasm to get up want to avoid surgery. I've continued from page 20 for races," he said. "I want to been going for MH!s and tests, get everyone motivated to do so hopefully we'll figure out Irish. their best. I want the team to what's wrong." 
EVENING WITH THE 
"Notre Dame was always a have an attitude about our­The Big East's were the con­school that I really wanted to selves; a swagger. You have to clusion to a very long season 
EDUCATION DEPT.
go to," said Krakowski. "It was have a positive attitude to suc­for the Irish. They began work 
a. program on the up, so I fig­ceed." in August, and will now take ured it was the right fit for Coach Tim Welsh considered about a month-long break me." Krakowski's performance a from the water before starting 
Thursday, February 2th at 6:00 pm 
Krakowski's siblings are also major boost to the team. to train again. swimmers. His "If you look "We made a lot of improve­
Madeleva 315 (elementary education) 
sister Mary is at the seven ment this year and hopefully a freshman on "/ want the team to have University next year we'll get people to 
Madelevo 328 (secondary education) 
the womens records that the NCAAs," said Krakowski. team at an attitude about we set this "Also. we just missed the 100 Bucknell. ourselves; a swagger." weekend, free record by .7 of a second. 
Join the faculty from Saint Mary's College 
Younger F r a n k But you can't do everything." 
Education Department for a short
brother Joe is Krakowski Judging by his record-break­
Frank Krakowski 

a member of was a part of ing efforts in the pool for the 
presentation followed by a question and 
his high lrlsh swimmer five of them. Irish last weekend, it looks like 
answer session. Learn about Education
school swim In terms of Krakowski can. and water special per­
course requirements. Meet Education polo teams, and seventh-grad­formances, he's contributed to 
students and enjoy refreshments. 
er George plays three sports. five of the seven University Contact Lisa Reijula at Krakowski's stellar perfor­records and he's a sophomore. lreijula@nd.edu 
mance last weekend capped a We know that we're building a strong year for the sophomore. young team, so that's pretty He qualified and placed in good." three individual events at the After his standout perfor­Big East. setting two new mance at the Big East records. In dual meets this Championships, Krakowski season, Krakowski won the will take time off to rest and 100 fly against Oakland heal his injuries. For the last University, the 50 free against two years he has suffered from Northwestern, the 100 free shoulder problems. Recently, against Texas Christian numbness foUowed by shooting University and the 100 fly pains in his elbow has been a against University of concern. 
~··············································~ 
: 
The Standing Committee · 
•
• 

on Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs 
is now 

ACCEPTING •
• 
THE STANDING 

APPLICATIONS •
COMMITTEE ON 

:;!:;~TL~s:;~: for membership .••• •
• ••

. •
•
• 

If you want to be a part ofcreating: •
•

. •
.
• • Educational programming 
•• •

• (NETWORK, Hall StaffTraining, and •
•
• Comm Unity) 
• Gatherings for students 
(Coffee at the CoMo) 
• New programs 

Please print an application from our Website: • 
http://www.nd.edu/--scglsn/applications.htm 
For more infonnation, contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, 
• 
or student members (see web site for student contact info.) ••• Applications DUE FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2003 . 
~ .•......................•.....••...•••.....•..~ 

(Located between Eddy & Francis StreetJ 
1 We bring more roommates together by splitting them up.,, 
At Lafayette Square, we realize that the closer you are to your roommates, the farther apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate the bedrooms upstairs and downstairs, with common living areas on the main floor. 
Now you can still save money by sharing the rent, 
AND KEEP YOUR PRIVACY TOO!  
It's a wise  
"joint venture"  
***Ask us  Townhomes  
about leasing  available for  
promotions  2003-2004!  
going on!  
Professionally Managed by  
(574} 234-9923  Real Estate Management Corp.  
Tclark@cbresb.com  /Housing also available at  
Notre Dame Apartments)  

..----------~~-~~---------------1 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
A nice steak, perhaps. Yes. Iwould be splendid 
Pepper,
with a lovely, tender 
NOOOO! 
steak right now. 
0 
( 
•sob•
i 

CLARE O'BRIEN 
JACK MONAHAN 
You're such a 
drama queen. 
\ 
This table is filthy, did you know that? 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJJ@~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
I wanted to 

one letter to each square, Tum that off­
1inls11 lhle chapter

ll'a 3 a.m.

to form four ordinary words. 
DAMMA 
j 

C2'003 Trt,une Medi,ca Serv.k:ee, Inc. 
All Rlghli Reaorved 
KWATE 
I (I j 
WHAT 5HE: DID

~DROOVE I WHl=N HI:= TURNf.:D ON THE: LIGHT IN rHe MIDDLE: OF
www.jurrilio.com 
TW NIGHT.
tl CUTIA 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ I b 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: ( 

I I I ) A "( I I )" ( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ACUTE L.LAMA MUSLIN POWDER Answer: He became a successful clothing salesman because he was -WELL "SUITED" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  39 Exorcist's  70 'Get comfy"  
1 Not telling  quarry  71 "Same here"  
4 Drink before bed. maybe 9 Belt clip-on 14 Part of a World Cup chant 15 Sister of Terpsichore  40 Like a snap decision 44 Lines man? 45 "You've got a deal!" 46 Huge expanse 47 Tastelessly  72 In shape 73 0.0.E.'s W.W. It command DOWN 1 Opposite of celebrate  
16 Squirreled-away item  affected 49 Christina of  2 Carpi connectors  
17 Merkel o! old movies 18 Irish symbol  "The Opposite of Sex" 52 Letters at a Nascar race  3 Stood for 4 It's the law 5 Palindrome  
20 Time off, briefly 22 Fuller than full  53 Commodity in the old South  center 6 Nutritional f,g.  
23 Bottom line 27 Something to draw from  58 Strand in winier, maybe 61 Grenoble's river  7 A.B.A. member: Abbr. 8 Impose (on)  
30 _ fille (French girl)  62 Informal discussion  9 Munich _o, 1938  
31 Society Islands 67 Subj. of this island puzzle's theme 34 Item In a 68 Healing plants thimblerig game 69 Leave out, in 37 Fixes, In a way speech ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~~~~ E R A T B r.:+::+.c,+=i L A S H ...,.+,,+,,=+e-:+=­A ~-;:-+:1-.,.;1  1oOne to grow on? 11 Esther Rolle sitcom 12 Hosp. areas 13 12-Down stafters 19 Start angling 21 Basketball Hall of Fame nickname 24 Beach lapper 25 Condos. e.g. 26 Chicken breed  Puu~a by Brendan Emmett 35 _Center 36 Cockpit aid 38 Baseball's Bud 41 Baloney 42 Montana's motto starter 43 1700 48 'The Grapes ol Wrath" figure  Quigley 50 Invented 51 T.G.I F part 54 Atlas leature 55 High-strung 56 Go around in circles? 57 "Cool!" 59 1963 role for Liz  60 Big name in petrol 62 "Batman" sound 63 Relative of -let 64 Highway warning 65 "Boy, am_ trouble!" 66 Lofty lines  
L  28 Make amends  

~~~;..i For answers. call 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
E 29 Ship credit card. 1-800-81 4-5554 

~.:.;..j..=-i,.;=-11111~;.i..;;.~~i-;;;.i commanded by Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
Pinzon 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 32 Hubbub 
Online subscnptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
1-=-+-:-:V+:-A+-L:-1 33 Confine, with past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). S T E R A T E Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, NO 0 ~_.__,_...__S S N E E 34 Jrs.· exams nytimes .com/learn ing/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tony Randall, Johnny Cash, Fats Domino, Godfrey Cambridge 
HAPPY BIRTIIDAY: This will be a year for love, romance and partnerships. You will take greater pride in the way you present yourself, and your efforts won't go unnoticed. Execute your ideas with precision and if someone doesn't understand the direction that you've taken, don't worry about it. Your numbers are 2, 7, 23, 31, 45, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take a less sensitive approach_ to criticism and you will fare much better. Do not try to confront emotional issues today. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be on a quest for knowledge today By trying new things you will learn much that will be valuable down the road. 
***** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be tempted to take on someone else's responsibilities today. Be smarter than that and offer suggestions on how this person can turn things around for themselves. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will be up and down depending on how you are treated by others. You may be involved with someone who is dragging you down or holding you back. Analyze your relationships and whether or not they are healthy.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Whatever you do, make sure that it relates to your work. You should be able to do the kind ofjob that will bring recognition and praise. You will inspire others. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are in a romantic mood today and will be very hard to resist. Travel and philosophic discussions will be exciting. Spend your 
money wisely. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may not want lo make changes, but if you are suffering due to the circumstances that surround you, it may be wise to do 
something about it. Don't take on more than you can handle. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Please yourself and you will end up pleasing others as well. Relax and get in touch with your feelings. It will help you form better 
relationships with others. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Business will be good and you'll be on top of 
your game. Don't hesitate to entertain associates, but use discrimination when choosing a partner. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may confuse you by his or her actions today. You may be a little oversensitive today, so don't read too much into it. Look 
at the facts ifyou wish to eliminate confusion. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Hidden matters will haum you today. You may have to dig deep in order to discover what is actually going on behind your back. Someone is trying to lead you in the wrong direction. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you stand up for your beliefs, people will listen with interest. Your strength and determination will give you the support and the 
allies you need to move forward. **** 
Birthday Baby: You will have know-how, style and grace. You will be lively and entertaining, sensitive yet bold. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroaclvice.com, eugenialast.com. wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Wednesday, February 26, 2003 
BENGAL BOUTS 
---------------, 
The 'Mouth of the South1 
Senior captain Cosse hopes swan song will honor departed grandfather 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sporrs Wricer 
-
Clay Cosse leaves everything in the ring -especially some pretty aggressive talking. 
So it's only natural that the Chalmette, La. native earned tbe nickname "Mouth of the South" early in his brief b o x i n g See Also 
career. 
Bengal Bouts 
"I talk a lot 
semifinals

and I like to joke around tonight a lot to light­
pages 12 and 16 

en up the atmos­phere," Cosse said. "Sometimes, or maybe a lot of the time, I'd be better off keeping my mouth shut, but I don't. Back home, when someone talks a lot, you call say, 'Man, mouth of the south over here' or something like that. I'm very proud of where I'm from, so 'Mouth of the South' was a great fit." 
Cosse didn't actually turn to boxing until he arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1999. Having never competed in any sort of athletic competi­tion in high school, it was a tough adjustment for him to make. 
"I showed up at the first day of practice for the novice sea­son and it was pretty ridicu­lous for me, because 1 was pretty out of shape," Cosse said. "It was a difficult skill for me to learn, because I had never been aggressive or com­petitive. I definitely took my licks freshman year, and I lost my first fight in the Bengal Bouts tournament, but I loved the experience." 
Undeterred by the early loss, he loved the experience so much that he bulked up in the off-season and returned for his second turn at Bengal Bouts the next year. He moved up from the 155-pound weight class to the 165-pound class, and he even advanced to the second round before being defeated. 
His junior year, he advanced to the finals of the 165-pound bracket before he dropped an exciting back-and-forth bout with then-senior Chris Matassa. 
"[Matassa] was about 6-foot­3 and had a lot of reach on me," Cosse said. "This was a truly great fight. I took the advantage early on, but it was back and forth for the rest of the fight. We won the award for best fight of the tourna­ment." 
This time around, Cosse has more to prove. As a senior and a captain, he represents the best of what Bengal Bouts has 
see COSSE/page 17 

MENS SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Karkowski caps standout season with 5 school records 
By LISA REIJUlA Sports W ricer  Relays were an Irish strength all season, which they proved at the Big East meet. The  eclipsing the old time of 1:23.09. Krakowski shone individually  (50.02). Krakowski nearly set a record in the 100 freestyle,  free, and 100 fly in the 2002 Big East Championships and had the fastest Irish times in  
third-place 200-medley relay  as well. In the 50 freestyle pre­ missing the mark by only . 7  those events. He finished 12th  
UNIONDALE, N.Y.  team  of  freshmen  Doug  liminaries, he shattered the  seconds. He placed seventh in  in the 100 fly at the Big Easts  
At last weekend's 2003 Big  Bauman and Tim Randolph,  previous  the final, fin­ last year.  
East Championships, if a new Notre Dame record was being  senior Jason Fitzpatrick and Krakowski set a new mark of  school record with a new  "Notre Dame was always  ishing 45.46.  in  Krakowski began swimming in the fourth grade, eventually  
set in the pool, it was a safe bet that sophomore Frank Krakowski was a part of it.  1:30.58. The old record was 1:32.23, set in 2000. In the 400-medley relay,  time of 20.45. He finished seventh in  a school that I really wanted to go to.,.  "I was real­ly happy with howl swam,"  choosing it over basketball and soccer. During high school in Erie, Pa., Krakowski set 11  
Seven  previous  school  Krakowski was again part of a  the  finals  s  a  i  d  varsity swimming records. He  
records were broken over the  record-setting  effort  with  with a time of  Frank Krakowski  Krakowski. "I  won  the 2001 state champi­ 
course of the three-day compe­tition. and Krakowski was  Bauman, Randolph and Fitzpatrick. Their finish in  20.53. In the 100  Irish swimmer  would have liked to place  onship in the 100 fly. and was captain and MVP of his state  
involved in five of them.  3:19.45 established  a  new  butterfly,  higher  in  championship team. He was  
"Our team swam awesome,"  Notre Dame best.  Krakowski  some  of the  also a  standout in water polo.  
said Krakowski. "It was  an  ·  A  third  relay  team.  placed seventh overall and set  really  close  races.  I  got  leading his team to second  
incredibly fast meet. We set  Randolph,  Fitzpatrick,  yet another new record for the  touched out a couple times."  place in the state as a senior.  
seven records and everyone  Krakowski and junior Matt  Irish, touching in 48.92. His  As  a freshman last season,  His accomplishments made  
had season bests. People really stepped it up to get to the  Obringer, set a new mark in the 200 freestyle final with  time broke the oldest standing record in the Irish books, set  Krakowski provided immediate help in the freestyle events. He  him  a  prized recruit for the  
finals."  their time of 1:22.02, easily  back in 1994 by Ry Beville  qualified for the 50 free, 100  see RECORDS/page 18  


SMC BASKETBALL  WOMENS BASIKETBAU  BENGAL BOUTS  
Hope 77 Saint Mary's 50  Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Tonight, 7 p.m.  Tonight, 7 p.m.  
Nationally-ranked No. 2 Hope defeated Saint  With the 11-13 Panthers visiting the Joyce Center,  The semifinal round for all weight classes takes  
Mary's in the first round of the MIAA Tournament.  the Irish look to get a win to improve their chances  place at the Joyce Center.  
The loss in the first round of the conference tourna­ of qualifying for the NCAA Tournament.  
ment ended the Belles season.  
page 18  page 17  page 16, 12  








