------------------------------------------------------~--~ 


Security doubts 
•

remain 
By LUKE BUSAM News Writer 
Exactly two years after the Notre Dame community woke up to the living nightmare that was Sept. 11, 2001, the fear has not totally van­ished. Tune has begun to heal the wounds ofthat day, and for many on campus, the apprehension and unsafe feelings are beginning to dis­sipate. 
For others, the time for caution is not gone. 
Professor of Political Science and fellow of the Institute for International Peace Studies Daniel lindley said, "Notre Dame is a high value target, especially football games. Notre Dame is a core sym­bol of Catholic identity and collegiate sports are a symbol of national iden­tity. But I feel much safer in South Bend than a lot ofother places I can think of Keep in mind that there are thousands of other high value targets in the [United States]. For example, there are 123 chemical plants which, if attacked, could cause over a million casualties each." 
Many Notre Dame students have little concern about an attack on campus. 
"I don't feel at risk for an attack in South Bend or on campus. It's not exactly a huge target," said Matt 
see DOUBTS/page 4 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 13 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11,2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


September 11, 2003 
Two Years Later 

12:00 p.m.: Grotto Rosary  7-7:45 p.m.: Tri-Military memorial service, Pasquerilla Center  Concert "Wapango!" Imani Winds and Rolando Morales Matos, Washington Hall  
I  
8:46-10:07 a.m.: Basilica bells will toll in commemoration of when planes went down  5:15p.m.: Basilica memorial mass  7:30p.m.: Archbishop Tutu lecture, McKenna Hall  
MIKE HARKINS!The Observer  



Tutu to visit campus 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Editor 
Nineteen years ago, the Norwegian Nobel Committee decided to bestow the 1984 Nabel Peace Prize on then­Bishop Desmond Tutu, an Anglican cleric who devoted·hi~ life to the eradication of apartheid and the promulgation of peace in his native South Africa. 
Eight years ago, then-South African President Nelson Mandela appointed Archbishop Tutu chair of the nation's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the committee assembled by the 
see TUTU/page 6 

9/11 memorial construction appe.ars unlikely 
committed to build the memorial be best to wait a few years hoped the winning design wouldBy MEGHANNE DOWNES even though the School of before determining the most be considered for construction. 
News Editor 

Architecture sponsored a compe­appropriate way to honor those Then fifth-year architecture who have lost their lives in the students Kevin Clark and Meg
tition to design it in spring 2002. 
A year and a half after a "Since 9/11 there have been period." Kroener designed the winningdesign was selected for the Sept. 

wars in Afghanistan and Iraq Kara Kelly, director of commu­entry which was a horseshoe11 memorial competition, it 
and it is uncertain what lies nications for the School of shaped memorial surrounding 
appears as though the memorial Architecture, said Notre Dame
ahead in the way of fall out from the South Quad flagpole where will not be constructed. the tragic events of that day two never promised a memorial. the Sept. 11, 2001 Mass was University spokesman Matt years ago," Starin said. "I think However, the architecture school Starin said the University never the administration feels it would sponsored the competition and see MEMORIAL/page 4 

Turtle Creek bust leads to 26 charges, 5 arrests 
with a variety of offenses, including State Excise Police said most bust because of what he called strong statement with Saturday'sBy KEVIN ALLEN minor in consumption, resisting offenders were ticketed at the "problems in the past." operation, and there are tentative 
News Writer 

arrest, and inducing minors to pos­scene. Five were arrested and "The city attorney's office got plans for the excise police to return sess alcoholir beverages. taken to the St. Joseph County Jail. involved because they got com­to Turtle Creek on future week­
The Sept. 6 alcohol bust at the The crackdown was organized Since tailgating had gone on plaints," he said. "[The excise ends. Turtle Creek apartment complex, by the Indiana State Excise Police unopposed for years at Turtle police] worked in conjunction with "I don't know what weekends which broke up several tailgate and assisted by the South Bend Creek, the crackdown came as a the South Bend Police Department we'll be there, but there's a strong 
parties prior to Notre Dame's first Police Department and the Notre surprise to some students. and the city attorney's office." possibility we'll be back," said football game of the 2003 season, Dame Security Police. Deitchley said the Excise Police According to Deitchley, the has led to 26 people being charged Lt. Greg Deitchley of the Indiana were motivated to organize the excise police intended to make a see BUST/page 4 
I 
___________________________________jI 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The jolt will never fade 
There is a store near Rockefeller Center that sells only FDNY paraphernalia. Long but narrow, it's easy to mi§-the small storefront is dwarfed by surrounding build­ings. Aglimpse ofred through the glass, though, attracts 
passers-by, revealing a huge model fire engine on the display floor. 
Marmed by off­duty firefighters and other fire department employees, the store is a popular dffitina­


tion for cia$ trips, 

Sheila Flynn 
which come for 
I 
instructional sessions 

Assistant
on fire safety. 

Managing
Proceeds are used to 
Editor
fund further educa­
tion on the subject 

Its a great little store, but I hadn't visited it before Sept 11, 2001. I don't even know ifit existed then; it probably did, but the first time I stepped through the doors was several months after the tragedy. I was on a gift-buying :nllssion and reasoned that I might as well support the FDNY -like the rest ofNew York, I had a newfound respect and enthusiasm for the fire department. So I selected a few presents and, predictably, didn't make it out without buying something for myself. 
The all-girls high school graduate show­ing through, I bought a calendar -featur­ing one firefighter per month. I threw it in with my other purchasffi, went home and promptly forgot about it for over a year. 
I rediscovered the calendar over the sum­mer while rummaging through the disaster piled atop my dffik. Removing the plastic wrapping, I leafed through the pagffi. Each firefighter was pictured at a different loca­tion in New York Oty, and they were quoted about their futures, the fire department and the calendar. 
It was only on my second look that I noticed the purple ribbons. 

Along the perimeters of several photo­graphs were small purple ribbon graphics, somewhat blended into the background. Reading the blur~ more carefully, IreaJized that, on these pages, many quotes were from mothers or relativffi. The firefighters had posed for the calendar before Sept 11, and some died that day trying to save oth­ers. 
Looking at tha:;e men-who had no knowledge, smiling for the camera, of the fatal disaster to come-made all the horror ofSept 11 rush back to me. I hadn't thought about it in a while. I'd avoided remembering the needless deaths and the tenifying night­mare into which a normal day had turned. I'm from New York. I work in the city. lbat could have been me. The firefighters, smilffi and the contrasting ribbons reminded me of how many ordinary people were taken that day-how many lives were abruptly and violently ended. 
I claied the calendar and knew that the shock will always be there. Every time I see a picture of a victim and then think of the gaping hole downtown, I'll get a jolt Now, when I pass the FDNY store, I pay silent respects, not just to the firefighters loo but to policemen, civilians . . . everyone. It may not be pleasant-the inability to forget­but it's necessary. 1\vo years have passed, but we cannot remove ourselvffi from what happened to our country, our neighbors and our world in general. The jolt is good; we need to remember, be vigilant and do all we can do eliminate the global circumstances that made such atrocitiffi JniSihle. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, September 11, 2003 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WERE YOU ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001? 

Liz Larkin 
Senior Lyons Hall 
•7 was watching 
the Today Show and saw the second plane 

Bobby Morton 
Sophomore O'Neill Hall 
"In my senior year. criminal justice class. The teacher's 
Elizabeth Deak 
Freshman Farley Hall 
"'In high school, walking to Latin class. It was on the TV's 
Maureen Nuccio 
Sophomore Lyons Hall 
"In the bath­room. listening to the radio before school. •• 

Raquel Ferrer 
Sophomore McGlinn Hall 
"'In my senior government class, we saw the towers fall. ·· 
David Buckley 
Senior Keough Hall 
"In a dorm room at Baylor University. " 



hit live." mom called. " in the library. " 
Seattle steamed over coffee tax 
SEATTLE -This city's devotion to the almighty coffee bean will run smack into its equally famous lib­eral conscience as a pro­posed tax on espresso drinks goes to voters next week. 
On Tuesday, Seattle resi­dents will face a ballot question asking them to add a dime-a-cup tax to their espresso drinks. This "luxury" tax, as Initiative 77 calls it, would pay for preschool and day care programs. 
But for many espresso lovers in a city that helped push the gourmet coffee revolution, the proposal is nothing short of heresy. 
"This is not a luxury," 34­year-old tech support worker Rob Marker said solemnly, hoisting his iced 
TODAY 
0::: 



ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

Representatives of the Notre Dame Student Senate debated a number of different res­olutions brought to the table at their second meeting of the school year yesterday. 
OFFBEAT 

Antique car traverses two 
contrnents 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska ­After a 40,000-mile drive from Argentina to Alaska, a couple's dream to reach the Arctic Ocean in their antique car stalled with their goal in sight: The oil fields separating them from the ocean had closed to visi­tors for the season. 
But now, Herman Zapp and his wife, Candelaria, will be allowed to continue the 2 30 miles to Prudhoe Bay after getting the green light from the BP oil compa­ny. 
The Zapps left Buenos Aires on Jan. 25, 2000, in a dark blue 1928 Graham­Paige automobile with "Driving from Argentina to Alaska" painted on its side. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
vanilla mocha on the side­walk outside the hip cafe Coffee Messiah. 
Security guard C. J. Lessig, between sips of her iced coconut mocha, agreed: "It's a way of life, man!" 
Seattle has earned a rep­utation as a tree-hugging, whale-saving, WTO­protesting, tax-friendly bastion of liberalism. But scratch a lefty espresso addict on this issue, and you might get Rush Umbaugh. 
"Here I am, forced to pay more for my basic necessi­ty to fund irresponsibility," said Marker, warming to the topic. ''I believe people have kids without consider­ing it. I take issue with the greater issue of public funding for child care. Yes, it's needed, but it also feeds irresponsibility." 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


IN BRIEF 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will present the British film "The One and Only" as a part of their ongo­ing film series in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library at 7:00p.m. Thursday. The film's producer will intro­duce the event. 
The Student Union Board will hold its weekly AcoustiCafe event in the base­ment of the LaFortune Student Center, beginning at 9:00 p.m. Thursday. 
Campus comedians will per­form stand-up at the Legends of Notre Dame nightclub from 
9:00 -11:00 p.m. Thursday. 
Lewis Hall will sponsor an outdoor movie showing of the classic "Ferris Dueller's Day Off'' on Friday at 9:00 p.m. on North Quad. The event is free. 
The Celtic band Slaine Mhath will perform at the Legends of Notre Dame night­club Friday night from 9:00 ­
11:00 p.m. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor Notre Dame alumnus Jimmy Brogan and others, who will perform stand-up comedy at Washington Hall Friday at 7:30p.m. Tickets are $8 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The Legends of Notre Dame nightclub will hold their week­ly club dance sessions Friday 
and  Saturday nights  from  
midnight to 4:00 a.m.  
WVFI radio  station  will  

sponsor a concert at the Legends of Notre Dame night­club Saturday from 9:00 p.m. to midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

74 58 

HIGH LOW 
U.l 
:I:=: 
U.l 
~ 
..... 
<( 
(.) 

_.0 HIGH 82 LOW 68 


68 58 

82 64 

77 63 


Thursday, September II, 2003 

The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SENATE 



Group irons out plans for new academic year 

By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
At their second official meeting, the Student Senate laid out their plans for the coming year. 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 
Howard senator Brio Anderson said that her com­mittee, Residence Life, plans to look into the recent issue regarding RA's and their training policies. Anderson, along with the rest of her committee, plans to meet 

For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at 631-5432 
with associate vice president of student affairs Bill Kirk sometime next week to dis­cuss the issue. 
Judicial Council President Elliot Poindexter informed the Senate that Freshman Class Council elections will 
be held Sept. 22. 
Any freshman considering 
running for a position needs 
to present the Student 
Government with a petition 
signed by 20 percent of their 
dorm's freshman class. 
Petitions are due on Monday 

When it's the 
by 6 p.m. 
A candidate must win 50 percent of the vote in order to be elected. and if no one achieves this amount. the top two candidates will partici­pate in a run-off election on Wednesday, September 24. The elections will be held in each dorm. 
Sophomore class president James Leito nominated soph­omore class vice president Kate Distler to the position of sophomore class adviser to assist the Freshman Class Council. Distler, who served last year as freshman class vice president, was unani­mously approved by the Senate. 
Chief of staff Emily Chin reminded senators to inform their dorms of the events that will be taking place today in memory the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Chin said there will be a rosary held at the Grotto at noon and a Mass in the Basilica at 5:15 p.m. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

page 4 Thursday, September 11, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

Judge seals victim's medical records 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
During Donald Dykes's trial Tuesday, a St. Joseph County judge sealed the medical records of the woman who accused four former Notre Dame football play­ers of sexually assaulting her. 
Judge Jerome Freese ordered both the woman's medical and psychological records to be sealed during the defense's cross-exami­nation of her when it was discov­ered she was never told she had the right to refuse their release. 
During Abram Elam's trial, the first of the four former players' trials, both the defense and prose­cution used these records to pres­ent their cases. 
Freese blamed the legal mis­take on former St. Joseph County Prosecutor Chris Toth and said it was "as close as you can come to malpractice." 
The charges against the four former players were filed by Toth's office before he lost his 

Memorial 
continued from page 1 
held. 
Starin said the University's deci­sion to wait to build the memorial is not unprecedented. The Clarke Memorial Fountain located in front of LaFortune honors those who died in the Vietnam War and was built in 1986, 11 years after the war's conclusion. 
"A memorial hopefully lasts for­ever and is permanent," Starin said. "You want to have the prop-election to current St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak. The four cases were then transferred to a special prosecu­tor, Hendricks County Prosecutor Maureen Devlin, because two of Dvorak's deputy prosecutors either worked with or served as an attorney for one of the players. 
Dykes is the second of the for­mer players to be tried and is charged with rape, conspiracy to commit rape and sexual battery. Last month, Elam was convicted of sexual battery but acquitted of criminal deviate conduct and con­spiracy to commit rape. Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith's trials will begin later this year. 
The four former players testi­fied at Elam's trial that the sexual acts were consensual and main­tained their innocence, while the woman said she was gang raped. 
WNDU contributed to this report. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes 1 @nd.edu 
er perspective when you commit to building one." 
Storin did not rule out the pos­sibility of the winning design being used in the future, though he did say if the memorial was built, it would be smaller than originally envisioned. Storin also said the proposed location of a memorial on South Quad would be a radical step, as the expan­sive space has no structures in its interior, except for the flagpole. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 

Doubts 
continued from page 1 
Klein, a senior from Long Island, 
N.Y. Klein, who spent his summer working in New York Oty, said that although he may feel safe at Notre Dame, the unease that descended on the city two years ago has still not faded. This sununer's electrical blackout. he said, only proved his assumptions. 
"When I was in the blackout you could tell people were thinking there was more to come than a blackout. Obviously, though, I teel more at risk in the city than at my house in the suburbs. Terrorists aren't going to attack something inconsequential like Floral Park," he said. 
Freshman Sarah Tebeest of Wayne, a town in northern New Jersey, said she didn't think Notre Dame could be a target ofattack. "I feel safer here than at home and I feel quite safe at home," she said. 
Students from other parts of the country further removed from the direct effects of the terrorist acts said they have begun to feel rela­tively safer at home, due to increased security and safety meas­ures that have been taken across the nation. 
Sarah Cancellare, a junior from El Paso, TX, said she had specific reasons for her feelings of security while at home. "I do feel safe at home. I think a lot has to do with the border patrol we have always 

Bust 
continued from page 1 
Deitchley. 
Although officers of the Notre Dame 'Security and Police Department were present at Turtle Creek on Saturday, the University did not take any action in planning the crackdown. 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSION Thurs. Sept. 11, 20a3 8:00-9:00 PM 
ROOM 125 HAYES-HEALY 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2003 for Spring 2004 Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall 2004 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
had. There's always been increased awareness in El Paso because of illegal immigrants and drugs. They've added weapons of mass destruction to their plate now and further increased awareness." 
Far removed from both borders and major cities, Colin Pogge, a jun­ior from Iowa. said he feels relative­ly safe in his hometown of Des Moines. 
"I realize that the nation at large is still in danger but I also realize that Des Moines is probably not a hot spot for terrorism," he said. 
Agus Galmarini, a freshman from florida, echoed Pogge's sentiment. 
"I don't think there's anything there that's worth attacking in Ft. Myers," she said, adding, "I feel safe at ND. I can't explain it, but I do." 
Not all members of the Notre Dame community agree that the United States' eflorts to combat ter­rorism have resulted in complete confidence in personal safety. 
"I do not feel that the war on ter­rorism has made me safe. Safer yes, safe no. 9'11 was a wake-up call, and we've made progress with some degree of emergency pre­paredness, drug stockpiling, and disrupting al-Qaeda, but the Department of Homeland Security needs to get its act together and the funds for airport security are woe­fully short, among other problems," Undley said. 
While students were mostly unit­ed in their lack of concern for their safety on campus or at home, they expressed differing views regarding the "War on Terror" and the Department of Homeland Security's Terror Alert System. A number said they believed the "War on Terror" has increased American awareness and security. Galmarini said she had different beliefs. 

"We haven't found Saddam, we haven't found Osama. I think it's made us look more vulnerable actually. It's very obvious that we haven't accomplished what we set out to do," she said. 
Cynicism over the Terror Alert system was generally expressed. Students said it was unreliable, of little impact and colorful, but mean­ingless. 
Cancellare said the system had its merits, saying, "I think anything we do in that respect can make us safer. Focusing any intelligent group of people on one goal is a step in the right direction. We are making a concerted effort on something we weren't making an effort on before. The system definitely makes people more aware of the status of terror­ism and the potential threats on the horizon." 
While many students expressed a sincere hope that the government's efforts to stop terrorist activity will prove successful, they did not express the belief that another attack is impossible. 
"More than likely another attack will occur. I feel it will be difficult for it to be on the same scale as 9111, but it's not out of the question," said Klein. · 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 
Deitchley said NDSP was called  Those receiving citations on  
only after excise and city police  Saturday  will  be  processed  
arrived at the scene and decided  through the St. Joseph County  
they needed assistance.  court system. Deitchley said most  
When the excise police  are  offenders will be offered pre-trial  
done  processing Saturday's  diversion for a $250 fee. If they  
report. they will turn those names  complete the program then their  
over to NDSP who will then pass  permanent  record  will  be  
the information on to the Office of  expunged.  
Residence Life for disciplinary  
action  against  the  students  Contact Kevin Allen at  
involved.  kallen@nd.edu  

.Shanghai 

SpeCial Student Offer 
.Sh.ri~P Fried Rlc:e tor On'y 9~ Oran Egg R'OII•for Fre-e "Vt'ilft A.ny. ·OJ.ir,J~f' ~"'.)~' Custom<E!h'"s Ch.O.k~<t:'f ·~I' D:ir11'1<&.r· COrr.~O!'I•-v$-tH:;:.~n !E:.<Ftl--y 
·ret (574} 271-0125 
Delicious Chinese Food!!! 
.......,.,,,.....,........,..., ...........................N/'I'...............•.•.•.o.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•..I'I'J'JI'.II'JY.•.•.•.•...•.•.•.•.•.l'.O.•.•.•.•...•.-.•.o.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•,f',•I".'.!'J'I'.'·'·"·'·'·"I'.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•I'.•.•.•.•,•.•.•,•,•,•.-.•,•.•.•,•.•.•.•.•.-.•.-.·.•JO."I'·'·""'·"·"•'·'·'·'·'"" 
2e:o a-rr=4 THE BEST o·f NOTRE DAME TIEATRE 



Thursday, September 11, 2003 Co;\1P1trn FROM ~rt-rE ()BsEn.vER \VJRE sERvicEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Saudis declare Barbie immoral 
DUBAI. United Arab Emirates -Saudi 
Arabia's religious police have declared 
Barbie dolls a threat to morality, complaining 
that the revealing clothes of the "Jewish" toy 
-already banned in the kingdom -are 
offensive to Islam. 

The Committee for the Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, as the reli­gious police are officially known, lists the dolls on a section of its Web site devoted to items deemed offensive to the conservative Saudi interpretation of Islam. 
"Jewish Barbie dolls, with their revealing clothes and shameful postures, accessories and tools are a symbol of decadence to the perverted West. Let us beware of her dan­gers and be careful," said a message posted on the site. 
Blast rocks U.S. compound, 3 dead 
IRBIL,. ·Iraq -A suicide bomber tried to drive a TNT-laden SUV into a U.S. intelli­gence compound in northern Iraq, but it blew up short of the target, killing three peo­ple and seriously wounding four American intelligence officers, officials said Wednesday. 
A Kurdish security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said al-Qaida was behind the bombing in Irbillate Tuesday, less than two days before second anniversary af the Sept. 11 attacks. He gave no evidence to support the claim. 
In Baghdad, meanwhile, two U.S. soldiers were killed by bombs in separate incidents. 
Maj. James Bullion, civil affairs executive officer of the 404th Civil Affairs Battalion, Special Operations, said two children were among the dead in Irbil, the largest Kurdish­controlled city in northern Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Texas executes 21st killer of '03 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas-A man convicted of killing his wife and a convenience store clerk in a 1999 shooting spree was executed Wednesday -a punishment he had request­ed. 
A repentant Larry Allen Hayes said there was "no good answer" for the murders and repeated again that he hoped for forgive­ness. 
''I'm genuinely sorry for what I did," he said before the lethal injection was adminis­tered. "I ask you to reach down in your heart and forgive me. There's no excuse for what I did." 
Hayes, 54, was the 21st inmate executed this year in Texas, which leads the nation in carrying out capital punishment. 
Diocese to borrow for settlement 
BOSTON -The Boston Archdiocese will take out loans and try to collect from its insurance companies to pay its $85 million settlement with victims of child-molesting priests, tire archbishop said Wednesday. 
Archbishop Sean O'Malley said the arch­diocese is also considering selling more of its real estate holdings, but he would not give specifics. 
He reiterated the church's pledge not to use parish collection money to cover the set­tlement with 552 victims. 
LOCAL NEWS 

South Bend cop hit in shooting · SOUTH BEND -A police officer was shot and wounded as he knocked on the door of a home while responding to a report of a dis­
turbance, police s_aid. 
After Tuesday night's shooting, Cpl. Steve 
Noonan was taken to a hospital, where a sin­
gle bullet was removed from his right leg. 
Noonan, a 13-year veteran of the force. was 
later released. 
The single gunshot was fired from inside 
the home and came through the front door 
as Noonan and four other officers responded 
to a report of a disturbance involving a 
weapon, police said. 
Bin I.Jaden lauds 9/11 attackers 
---------·---­
Associated Press 

BEIRUT, Lebanon -The first video image of Osama bin Laden in nearly two years was broadcast on Al­Jazeera TV Wednesday, the eve of the second anniver­sary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The al-Qaida leader was shown walking through rocky terrain with his top aide, both carrying assault rifles. 
In an eight-minute audio­tape accompanying the video footage, a speaker identified as bin Laden praises the "great damage to the enemy" Sept. 11 and mentions five hijackers by pame. On a second tape, a voice said to be that of chief deputy Ayman ai­Zawahri threa!ens more attacks on Americans and calls on Iraqi guerrillas to "bury" U.S. troops. 
According to terrorism experts, such tapes reas­sure al-Qaida sympathizers that the terror network is still a force and its leaders still active and in seeming good health. A tape show­ing bin Laden would be crucial to that effort and the timing -a day before the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, blamed on al­Qaida -highly symbolic. 
Al-Jazeera said the tapes were produced in late April or early May, but the Arab satellite channel did not say how or when it obtained them. The back­drop in the video resem­bled the border regions between Afghanistaa and Pakistan, where U.S. offi­cials believe bin Laden is hiding out. 
U.S. intelligence officials will review the tapes to try to determine if they are authentic and when and where they were made, 
officials  in Washington  
said.  
"This  is  another  

reminder that they contin­ue to plot to attack us and to attack freedom," Sean McCormack, a. spokesman for the National Security Council, said Wednesday. 
President Bush, asked about the tape during a tour of forensics labs at the FBI Academy in Quantico, Va., said he had not heard it yet. 

Messages from al-Qa.ida leaders are sometimes viewed as presaging an attack. Press reports from the Mideast over the last week had suggested a r..ew bin Laden video was set to air Wednesday, one U.S. offidal said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
The Department of Homeland Security previ­ously said it did not plan to raise the national terror threat level above its cur­rent position at yellow, sig­nifying an elevated threat of attack. 
The voic.:e identified as bin Laden praises the Sept. 11 hijackers. 
"Those men caused great damage to the enemy and disturbed their plans," the speaker says, calling them true believers who should become an ideal for other believers. 
He makes no direct threatening remarks, but the voice said to be al­Zawahri threatens more attacks on Americans. 
"What you saw until now are only the first skirmish­es," al-Zawahri allegedly says in a 12-minute tape. "The true epic has not begun." 
A religious song could be heard in the background of the alleged bin Laden audiotape. Both tapes were translated from the Arabic by The Associated Press. 
The video image of bin Laden appeared to be the first since he was shown at a dinner with associates on Nov. 9, 2001 in Afghanistan. That tape was made public a month later. 

The tape follows several attributed to other al-Qaida figures who made a point of saying bin Laden was still active in the fight against the West. The last such message, attributed to an al-Qaida spokesman, was aired on the Arab tele­vision station Al-Arabiya Sept. 7. In August, an audiotape attributed to al­Zawahri also stressed that bin Laden was alive and well. 
Bin Laden was last heard from on April 7, exhorting Muslims in a tape obtained by AP to rise up against Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other governments he claimed were "agents of America." 





Bush calls for more police powers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President Bush told Congress on Wednesday to "untie the hands" of law enforce­ment officials and arm them with wider legal powers to combat ter­rorists, saying the groups that struck America two years ago are wounded but still dangerous. 
He specifically· called for expanding use of the federal death penalty, tougher bail restrictions and greater subpoena powers that he said are available for other crimes, such as drug trafficking and embezzling, but can't be used 
against terrorism. "This disparity in the law makes no sense," Bush said in a speech at the FBI Academy in nearby Quantico, Va. 
Bush's appeal threw the White House into a growing debate over the anti-terrorism USA Patriot Act enacted after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Critics say the law is too intrusive and· a threat to civil lib­erties and fear that the adminis­tration is trying to pass a second version of the measure in piece­meal fashion. Even some House and Senate Republicans have talked about rolling back portions of the Patriot Act. 
"For the sake of the American 
people." Bush said. ''Congress should change the law and give law enforcement officials the same tools they have to fight terror that they have to fight other crime." 
Bush acknowledged that not all members of Congress agree with the need to tighten the law but said a lot of them do. The White House indicated Bush supports tougher laws in other areas beyond the three instances he cited. 
The American Civil Liberties Union said that "further erosions of judicial oversight and the basic checks and balances ... are the wrong path to take:" 

page 6 Thursday, September 11, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 
FACULTY SENATE 



Group amends Academic Articles 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Wrirer 
The Faculty Senate convened Wednesday. passing a resolu­tion to amend the Academic Articles to create provisions for hearings for severe sanctions against faculty members. 
Developed by the Academic Council and the Faculty Senate under the leadership of Professor Tom Merluzzi, the amendment was passed unani­mously and will be reviewed by University President Father Edward Malloy. 
The University currently has no provisions regarding severe sanctions against faculty mem­bers. According to senators, hearings are held at the whims of the administration. They said that members of the faculty are rarely offered hearings ­instead, private conferences, in which their sanctions are agreed upon "quietly," are held. 
A resolution to establish fac­ulty grievance procedures was sent back to committee by a vote of 14 to 12. An illustrative list of specific grievances will be added to the proposed amendment. 
John Robinson, Senate chair, expressed approval of these amendments at the beginning of the meeting. He said that he hoped the Senate could agree upon "provisions to protect each of us if ever accused of wrongdoing." 

Robinson also laid out the goals of the Faculty Senate in his opening address. "We must contribute to making Notre Dame a better university and a better place for faculty," he said. 
Members unanimously elect­ed Jeremy Fein.. director of the Environmental Molecular Science Institute, to the posi­tion of Vice-Chair and anthro­pology professor Karen Richman as Co-Secretary. Sociology professor Rich Williams and computer science and management professor Ramzi Bualuan were elected Campus Life Council represen­tatives. 
The Student Affairs commit­tee, chaired by psychology pro­fessor Jay Brandenberger, focused on Teacher Course Evaluations and the Honor Code in its first committee meeting of the year. 
Members of the committee said that the Honor Code "does­n't promote honesty, and in fact promotes dishonesty." They said that members of the facul­ty are left "out of the loop" in decisions concerning the Honor Code, and that "faculty mem­bers themselves are on trial," particularly in cases where prominent athletes are accused. 
The committee proposed a reworking of the Honor Code's language, as well as a required yearly recommitment on the part of students. A member of the Student Senate agreed with these proposals and said that hardworking students will appreciate attempts to enforce the Code. 
The committee also discussed the proposed publishing of Teacher Course Evaluations. Faculty members agreed that these evaluations are becoming increasingly more important in tenure decisions and that the publication of such documents could possibly constitute a vio­lation of privacy. One commit­tee member said that the dean has seemingly interpreted tenure promotion procedures to mean that a professor must be "excellent" to become tenured and then must become "more excellent" to become a full professor. In light of this interpretation, TCE's are criti­cal in tenure decisions. 
Members of the committee . questioned the accuracy of the TCE's and said that the evalua­tions were "perfectly grade dependent," meaning that most students merely assess profes­sors based on the difficulty of the class. The faculty members called for changes to be made in the wording of questions on the evaluations. 
"The style of the questions is too subjective," they said. 
The committee wiil reconsid­er issues concerning TCE's, the Honor Code, and faculty/stu­dent interaction at next month's Faculty Senate meet­ing. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
+The Academic Affairs com­mittee discussed shrinking library resources. They are looking to develop a better process for faculty input. 
+ The Benefits committee, having worked with human resources over the summer, announ.-:ed that North American Health will carry the HMO for the University. The committee is looking into insur­ance for retirees and disability insurance, as well as issues concerning charges for faculty parking. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Tutu 
continued from page 1 
South African government to probe the flagrant human rights violations that had occurred since 1960 and the nation's 
deepest  struggles  with  
apartheid  
Today,  the  Joan  Kroc  

Institute's Hesearch Initiative on the Resolution of Ethnic Conflict will host Tutu as the keynote speaker for its "Peacebuilding After Peace Accords" confer­ence, the culmination of a three­year project dedicated to the study of peaceful post-conflict resolutions in countries once ravaged by political and civil strife. 
The archbishop's lecture, enti­tled "The Struggle for Social Justice in Post-Apartheid South Africa," will outline the work of Tutu-and others in healing South Africa's deep social wounds after the fall of the apartheid regime in 1994. 
Tutu, despite his retirement as Archbishop of Cape Town in June 1996, has continued the peacebuilding work that first brought him to the attention of 
the Nobel Committee twelve 
yea~befure.
"We invited him, since the whole conference focus is on post-accord rebuilding," said Rashied Omar, H!HEC coordi­nator and doctoral candidate at the University of Cape Town. "We thought he'd be an appropriate speaker ... He will look at the South African process ... some of the strengths and even perhaps some of the things that might have been done differently." 
To celebrate the arrival (ln campus of such a well­respected individual, the Notre Dame Folk Choir will open Tutu's speech with a col­lection of songs to pay tribute to the connection between the goals of the conference and the events of Sept. 11, 2001. 
"As part of the keynote, we will also have music and reflection to commemorate the date," Omar said. 
The conference which 
VIPEE!! FINALLY 21, KEVIN!! 
Love, Mom, 
Dad, Brian, 
Erin &Guy 
Turducken? More like Turdrunke 
Happy 21st Mollyl 
, 
~----~------------------------------~----------1 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or so1neone you love needs help or . information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
)>  Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407  
~  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819  
~  Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
)>.  Jolm Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  

> · Dr. Susan Steibe.cPasalich, Com1seling Center, 1-7336 .>·.····· Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 

South Bend Community Resources: 
~ . Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ~ Catholic Charities: 234-311.1 

Tutu's speech will headline is the capstone for what has been a collaborative initiative on the part of a group of distinguished international scholars and peace-builders, people whose mission it has been to reduce and get to the root of ethnic conflict around the globe. Omar 
• said that the focus of RIREC's research has been countries whose political conflict has been resolved on an official level, but still have a great deal of social and cultural healing to do before peace is restored. 
"One of the goals of the proj­

ect is to produce a number of 
scholarly volumes that will 
address ... the legacy of vio­
lence, how to transform the 
consciousness of a community, 
how to reintegrate insurgent 
groups into a regular army ... to 
reintegrate young people who 
·may have been scarred by this 
violence ... and to implement 
transitional justice," he said. 
Tutu's position as a religious 

leader not only set him apart 
from the members of the RIREC 
research team, but it made him 
particularly appropriate for par­
ticipation in the conference, 
Omar said. 
"He's not an academic; he's a 

religious individual and a prac­titioner of peace," he said. "He's a very important figure in this world. Religion is often associat­ed with conflict in this world ... [Tutu] and others like Dr. Martin Luther King ... represent won­derful icons of individual lead­ers who have drawn in their faith commitment -and Notre Dame being a university of faith, it's a wonderful example to stu­dents that faith can help to heal the world." 
The lecture, which is free and open to the public, will be held in McKenna Hall today at 7:30 
p.m. Omar and Kroc Institute Associate Director Hal Culbertson said they expect a large crowd at the event. 
"We don't have a venue large enough for the amount excite­ment that we've heard on the part of many many people," Omar said. "We will transmit the speech into adjacent rooms at McKenna Hall." 
Culbertson said that addition­al overflow audiences will be sent to DeBartolo 101 to view the speech on a closed-circuit television system. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 

--------------------------------------------------------~----­

Thursday, September 11, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 9 420 46 

-86.74
Jones ' · 

*'764• Composite Volume: 1,498,456,064 
.AlldEX'•­988.67 c.:4.T4< NASDAQ . 1,823.81 -49.62 NYSE ·· ··-···-·····--•oo1~40 +6.43 ·7 
S&P500 1,010.92 -12.25 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -7.48 -0.31 3.80 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.92 -1 .13 27.66 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.54 -0.32 20.46 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -2.89 -0.82 27.55 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) -5.95 -0.25 3.95 
IN BRIEF 
WTO reps meet amid protests 
CANCUN, Mexico -Negotiators from 146 
countries sat down to thorny trade negotiations 
Wednesday, with rich and poor nations pushing 
conflicting agendas on agricultural reform and 
leaders cautioning that their decisions could 
mean life or death for billions of people. 
Thousands of poor farmers, worried that 
more trade will drive them out of business, 
clashed with riot police as they tried to storm 
past barricades blocking the site of the World 
Trade Organization meeting. Hours later they 
dispersed, vowing to try again. 
Int'l Paper to ax 3,000 employees 
STAMFORD, Conn. -International Paper 
Co. plans to cut 3,000 jobs, or about 3.5 per­
cent of its work force, in the next year to help 
improve profits, a company spokeswoman said 
Wednesday. 
The company has been discussing the work 
force reductions with its employees in the past 
week, said Jenny Boardman, an IP spokes­
woman. It employs about 86,500 people over­
all. 
The reductions will primarily affect salaried 
personnel throughout the company, including 
cuts at the Stamford headquarters and about 
450 positions in Memphis, Tenn. 
A small portion of the job cuts will be achieved from attrition, but most will be from layoffs, she said. The company will provide severance packages and help finding a new job, Boardman said. 
Mortgage delinquencies up in 2Q 
WASHINGTON -More homeowners were behind on their mortgage payments in the last quarter as job losses put a strain on some households' budgets. 
The seasonally adjusted percentage of mort­gage payments 30 or more days past due for all home loans rose to 4.62 percent in the April to June quarter, up sharply from 4.52 percent in the first three months of this year, the Mortgage Bankers Association of America reported Wednesday in its quarterly survey. The survey covers roughly 34 .million mort­gage loans. 
The second quarter's delinquency rate was the highest since the third quarter of 2002, when the delinquency rate was 4.66 percent. 
Dollar tumbles on forex markets 
NEW YORK-Hurt by continued concern about the stubbornly weak U.S. labor market, the dollar slid sharply against its main rivals Tuesday apart from the yen, thanks only to another round of apparent intervention by Japanese monetary authorities. 
Strong bids from Japanese and U.S. financial institutions -some out of Tokyo -lifted the dollar from its lows during New York trading, preventing it from sinking below 116.00 yen, a level market participants say Japanese authorities are determined to protect. 
This was virtually the only respite the dollar got all day. Against the euro. Swiss franc, ster­ling-and until the apparent intervention, the yen -the currency was consistently under heavy selling pressure. 
Enron exec starts prison term 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -En ron's 
former treasurer pleaded 
guilty to conspiracy and 
was led away in handcuffs 
and ankle chains 
Wednesday to begin serv­
ing five years behind bars 
-the first executive to go 
to prison in the scandal 
that brought down the 
energy company and 
rocked ·wall Street. 

Federal prosecutors said 
that Ben Glisan Jr. made 
no deal to implicate high­
er-ups such as former 
chairman Kenneth Lay but 
that the sentence-the 
maximum under the law 
-should send a "some­
what chilling message." 

Glisan, 37, admitted 
helping design financial 
deals that enriched him 
and illegally kept losses off 
Enron's books. 

"I think I would simply like to say I take full resp~nsibility for my actions," Glisan softly told 
U.S. District Judge Kenneth Hoyt. 
He will be on supervised release for three years after getting out of prison. He also agreed to forfeit nearly $1 million in profits from an off-the-books deal at Enron and agreed to not seek a refund of $412,000 in income taxes he paid on that profit. closures of inflated profits, its books I think will send Glisan was fired in 2001, 
U.S. marshals escorted hidden debt and question­a somewhat chilling mes­when an internal probe Glisan outside the court­able accounting. He is sage to other people." revealed he gained the $1 house to be taken to a fed­awaiting trial in April. Andrew Weissmann, a million from a $5,800 eral lockup. His suit jacket Lay resigned as chair­top prosecutor with the investment in one of sever­was slung over his hand­man and chief executive, task force, added that al complex off-the books cuffed hands, and ankle but no charges have been plaintiffs suing Enron deals at the heart of the chains forced him to take filed against him. executives for fraud can Justice Department's case small steps. There was no Leslie Caldwell, head of use Glisan's admission to against the company. immediate word on what the Justice Department's bolster their cases. "This Prosecutors say such deals prison he would be Enron Task Force, said now makes thei• case a skimmed profits from assigned to. Glisan 's refusal to cooper­virtual slam-dunk," he Enron. 
Twenty-three other ate with investigators will said. Early last year, Glisan counts against Glisan were not hinder their case Glisan, a one-time man­had tried without success dismissed, including against Fastow or anyone aging director, was the to strike a deal and avoid money laundering and else, and they do not need second former Enron exec­prosecution by telling what fraud. his help. utive to plead guilty in the he knows about the finan-
Glisan was indicted But she said others scandal. An executive of cial details. · alo.ng with his one-time should take note of his equal rank, Michael At Wednesday's court boss, former Enron finance plea and immediate Kopper, a managing direc­appearance, Glisan hugged chief Andrew Fastow. imprisonment. tor who was one of his wife, Barbara, and Fastow is accused of mas! "He was viewed as one Fastow's top lieutenants, appeared to be suppress­terminding the schemes of the whiz kids at Enron," pleaded guilty last year to ing tears before joining his that led the Houston ener­Caldwell said. "The fact money laundering and lawyers in front of the gy-trading company into that he now admitted he conspiracy. He is helping bench. The family and the bankruptcy in December created a fraudulent way prosecutors while awaiting attorneys did not com­2001 amid devastating dis-for Enron to hide things off sentencing. ment. 

Big Board reveals Grasso payout 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Pressed by regula­tors to explain the lavish pay for chairman Dick Grasso, the New York Stock Exchange revealed an addition­al $48 million in deferred compensa­tion Tuesday but said Grasso would forfeit it -after a payout of nearly $140 million announced two weeks ago. 
A letter to Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman William Donaldson showed ho.w Grasso's salary and other compensation bal­looned from a total of $3 million in 1996, his first full year as chairman and chief executive, to $25.5 million in 2001, his most richly paid year. Multimillion-dollar bonuses, particu­larly in 2000 and 2001, accounted for· much ofthe growth. 
In the letter, H. Carl McCall, chair­man of the exchange's compensation committee, answered point by point the concerns r&.ised by Donaldson last week. The SEC chairman, who held the top NYSE job before Grasso, questioned the payout and set a Tuesday deadline for the exchange to respond. 
The NYSE, a quasi-private institu­tion charged with regulating the pub­lic companies traded under its watch, has been widely criticized for Grasso's pay -announced even as the exchange demanded more accountability from its members and was instituting its own reforms. The Aug. 27 disclosure sparked protest throughout the U.S. financial world. 
The SEC confirmed Tuesday that it had received McCall's response, but declined to comment further. 
Grasso said Tuesday he decided to forgo the $48 million in the interest of the NYSE, and to help restore its focus -which he said had been dis­tracted since the details of his pay became public. 
"When my contract was signed in '99, no one could have anticipated these levels of compensation," Grasso said. ''This institution should not be preoccupied with talking about the compensation of its leader. n 
page 8 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 11, 2003 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo ministry.1@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu






Cam/JUS Ministry C-M 
don't miss the bus 
.. 


Sophomore Road Trip 
Destination:Vn known 


A few seats are still available on the SEPTEMBER ·26-28 Road Trip. 
(October Road Trip is wait~list only! Sorry.) 
Sign up with 2 friends and receive a FREE Sophomore Road Trip visor or mug with paid applications. (white supplies last) 
We will not miss the Purdue g§me! Applications are online at campusministry.nd.edu 

m ss sched 


Exhattation of the Holy Cross basilica of the sacred heart · around can1pus {every Sunday) 
Saturday Vi-gil Mass Sunday St. Edward's Hall Chapel s:oo p.m. to:oo a.m. 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. Law School Mass MBA Mass
Spanish fvtlss 
11:45 a.m. Law Schoof Chapel Mendoza COB Rev. Peter 0. Rocca, c.s.c. Faculty Lounge 
1st: Nm 21:4b-9 2nd: Phil 2:6~11 Gospel: Jn 3:13-17 

• 

Get involved, go on a retreat 
Applications available in Room 114 and Retreat Date: September 26-27 September 26·27or October 3-5 

online at campusm1nistry.nd.edu Sign-up deadline: September 15 Sign-up deadline: September 19 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
what' h · 
today 9.11 . _............ imondQY. 9.15 September 11 Memorial Mass f Emmaus Kick-off 5:15 p.m. _~ 6;oo p.m -7:30 p.m.
1

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 1 Coleman-Morse Lounge 
I 

friday 9~12 _ lj tuesday 9.J.6. _ Marriage Preparation Retreat! Campus Bible Study 


considerations... 


Margaret and l(eri: Just Call Them Grace 
by Chandra Johnson Assistant to the President & Director~ African American Student Ministry 
l will never forget the fall semester of 2001. In addition to looking forward to another year:. I enrolled in Prof. Thomas O'Meara's Theologia.ns ofG~ce cla~. It started off gtcat. On the first day of dass, grace was introduced as the acrivir:y ofGod in hwnan history which touches reafms from politics to mysticism, and grourids the e:)(isrence and mission of Christ. Two weeks larer, rhtee planes plowed imo the Twin Towers and the Pemagon, and one crashed into an open field. Ground Zero, not grace, became my focus for the rest of the semester. From thar day on, I spent many a class wondering how grace fir into the potirical. mystkal and Christian scheme of the evcms of September 11th . What would Thomas Acquinas and>Karl Rahnet have to say about God's a¢tivity in human history as we w-atched. almost three thousand people disintegrate under steel before out eyes.-Did Christ exist at all and what mission must a Christian claim now? Numb most days, I kept going to class and quite unexpectedly, on the last day of cla5s, my questions were an~wered. . 
Fr~ O'Meara's final comment on the last day ofhislast: da.ss ~truck me harder than the Trade Center .. rragcdy.* When asked where he mought Chrisclanity was headed in the 2lsrcentury, his response was, c:tl believe Christianity is jUs-t beginning." Wow. I will never forger this statement because it was that light­bulb-moment when what you have believed all of your life ~uddenly becomes crystal dear. Somewhere deep within my soul I have always sensed that the Christianity we praccice today is phase one ofa profoundly t~nsfom1ing lifestyle Jesus of Nazareth espoused two millennia ago. I also believe pha.'>e nvo is just on the horizon. 
They tell us that since Septem-:­
ber llth, 2001 t we live in fear, Every year we will be reminded that grace is the 
dallv. Could this be true? When an airplane appears to be flying too activity of God in human history. fully reaUzed 
low and too loud, how long do you 
when we choose loving over being afraid. If
watch It? ~'har were your first thoughrs when rhe tornado siren 
events like September 11th, the overwhelming 
.sounded a few weeks ago? How did you fed at half time last Saturday 
response to Margaret and Keri's messages, and
when the Fighting Irish left the field with a looming point ddlcit? 
yes, even our incredible win over Washington
Were we afraid? Hopcles..'i? When­ever a world event effects the way 
State havenl spoken to our hearts, what will? 
people see themselves, new voices rise up to reignite their faith. Christ was the voice of freedom and reason for hi.s people, and his listeners responded wirh renewed hope and purpose, Fear wa.s no longer a force in their l.ives and Christianity­
phase one-was born. Ifwe listen closely, rhis same voice can be heard in our own backyard. Could phase tw'O be knocking at our door? 
Margaret Laracy, the Class of 2003 valediccorian, used her time on the commencement platform to profess a timely and prophetic message to her peers, In speaking of the eminent challenges they were about to face, she repeated over and over, ..Do not be afraid, .." If Margaret's reflections weren't penetrat­ing enough, senior Ked Oxley's First Year Orientation speech brought it home when she said ro incoming freshmen, "Do not be afraid. Do not be afraid to look to the reflections of the Notre Dame community ... Be malleable...Jntegrat:e your life." I think it no coincidence that the gospel reading of Christ's charge ro the disciples to love, give and forgive uncondicionallywill always be on or near Septem­ber 11th. Every year we will be reminded that grace i~ the activity of God in human history, fully reali7.ed when we choose loving over being afraid. If events like September 11 ch, the overwhelming response ro Margaret and Keri's messages, and yes, even our incredible win over Washington State haven't spoken to our hearrs, what will? 
As we begin another academic year and enter imo our quiet memories of September 11 t:h, may we recommit once again to letcing Godlove us by loving oursdves and one another. Don't hesitate anomer minute. Just do it. 
"'After teat:hing theology for 20 years at Notre Da~~-Fr. O'Af(ara r~tirrd in Dec-ember, 2001. His fl(W book, A Theologian's Journey, may be onf you want to check out. 
Friday-Saturday 
fatima Retreat Center 
Asian American Freshman Retreat 
Friday-Saturday 

Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Latino Freshman Retreat Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
sund.ay_ 9.14 

ROA-Information Session 
Candidat~s t:oo p.m ... 2:oo p.m. 
Sponsors 2:00 p.m. -3:oo p.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse 
Rejoice! Mass Sunday, September 14 
10:00 p.m. 
Coleman Morse Chapel Presider: Fr. J. Steele 
.·:· 
1 7:oo '"'" s~oo p.m. 114 Coleman~Morse Center 
f 
Confirmation Session 7:oo p.m -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
w~dnesday 9.t7 
Graduate Christian 


I :~!o:.!~ip 
j Wilson Commons 
i 
l Interfaith Christian 
! 
! ~ 
Night Prayer 
1 to:oo p.m.
l Morrissey Halt Chapel 
l 
' 
i l 
I 
l I 


Thursday, September 11, 2003 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Please join the University Libraries ofNotre Dame to celebrate the opening of the newly renovated Lower Level of the Theodore M. Hesbmgh, C.S.C.• Library. 
Thursday, the 18th ofSeptember, 2003 
Program 

The Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will bless the newly renovated area in a briefprogram beginning at l :00 PM, by the Lower Level service desk. 
We look fOtWard to seeing you there. 

Tours 

Tours will be conducted 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM. on the half hour, to begin at the Lower Level service desk. 
Refreshments Please join us for light refreshments in the concourse at 2:00 PM. 

ND graduate takes over as Indiana governor 
Kernan temporarily assumes role for ailing O'Bannon 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Minutes 
after formally transferring Gov. 
Frank O'Bannon's powers to Lt. 
Gov. Joe Kernan on Wednesday, 
legislative leaders and Supreme 
Court justices gathered in the 
Statehouse for prayer. 
More than 500 people joined 
them in the soaring, marbled 
rotunda for a service that was 
both solemn and uplifting. And 
during that hour -in a building 
that breathes politics -politics 
disappeared. 
Woodie White, Indiana bishop of the United Methodist Church, said it was O'Bannon, a powerful man yet common man, who made that possible. 
"There are these times in life when differences in political party, race, ethnicity, social and economic status are transcend­ed, and the community finds a common bond in a shared con­cern in its corporate pain and grief," White said. 
At a hospital in Chicago, doc­tors said O'Bannon, 73, had P·:!erged from drug-induced coma and showed some "small but significant improvements" 
,... 
following a Monday stroke. He 
remained in critical condition 
Wednesday. 
An hour before the prayer 
service, legislative leaders peti­
tioned the state Supreme Court 
to transfer power. Kernan 
already had assumed duties as 
acting governor, but Republican 
Senate President Pro Tern Robert 
Garton and Democratic House 
Speaker Patrick Bauer wanted to 
follow a formal process under 
the Indiana Constitution. 
The governor's wife, Judy, issued a statement from the gov­ernor's Chicago hospital saying she was comfortable with their decision. 
"We are aware of the formal process that is occurring in Indiana, and in it we are seeing what we have always known: Our state government is a strong institution based on a constitu­tion," Judy O'Bannon said. 
Bauer and Garton said they signed the petition with heavy hearts, since they had long admired O'Bannon and began their Statehouse careers the same time he did. Garton and O'Bannon were elected to the Senate in 1970, and Bauer won his House seat that year. 
And Garton said he wanted to emphasize that O'Bannon "is still the governor of Indiana, and Judy O'Bannon is still the first lady of Indiana." 
• 
· 

THE FlSCHOFF NATIONAL CHAMBitR MUSJC Ass:OCIATlON PRESEN'TS 
.. 





lf"'(JN I JN 


v/iTtt Pr~.cuss~iST Rca·~ ~OJ.aus ~aros ..-r~s» fP-Ot-A ~oat\Ja'fS •tiOf.~ ~iNS» 
V.U.IOUC COI;.C~I\fol:;. ,-~;.urt: • TOYt:W. !ll,._l..li..MAN~ 0801 • M~fii:IAIW Ao.!\M,. Cli.AfliltNifr JEFF SCOTT'~ HORN • MONICA. :ELL.Ii!ir 80800N A F1&CHOI"'Ji" Ain'.Aifoii...ED'I.Jt:.A't.ON Rllt&U,i'tNCY EWH'f 
THuRSDaY1 jEPrt,Mf,tR '1 1 zoos 1=30 P,M1 vJaSuiN9TON HaL 

$UP'PQIIO"I!U:l .N F-...-T !ll''t T ... 'l.l: WIH~_-t,$ t..~CTIJ~.,; $.-;:Rl~$t IK$TlTVTI rtQ~ !\!J<;"'Qt:.:A~$N.J:fl' IM THE LI8:£RA.l. A.RTIS~ C.OL.LECE OF AR'fS .A.:ND l.ETT£"RI, UNIVEIUH'T:'Y OF NOTRE DAM:E 
lit'~~C~-Q.f.'?. AR"ni:>> It~ ,t;:a:.>u~,l.l!:-'4'1 ilt"!Oil::..~:~l:::"l ~.Jl>H~R'tii.'RIH>~ Ft;.;~ll:.'»f.:.~ v, ·C..r.~MOL FO'l;,.~~·""'o.t4.! J'VN~rv' Lt:,O\ol'~HJ~ 'Of· 9ou·n"' :se~t:u' 8'!-.~~~~A~":!' A.~Ylf~'nt.!BNI.'h r:nt.:.,. :t·:til*-~~KK ~. Wa:-<rc.<l>f: Y·OWN:~·:noH ..-.All!! GIO:M£:til;o.L ' bou~ Ml€;1'i. ,. t:wou.N;o. AJtTllili c·t:tk.'loi:l:i:it~OjO! $\J·,.~.N'~Tt::o ~'1!!1 l."'Al'l1" :JJY 11. l.l<rtoU/:t r·""'OM l'·'""l!. N.A-~tVNAL Ern:•::~·.v~t:t<!"T f"Of'f THt. 4"-'t'!ll lii't' Tiol:~ H:U>Il¥:1<"-fO i..~<::.HOlRJ;. ~J;.~:!I<ii, ir.:ftlTTUT£: n~ ~C.MDi.A~i-tiP I:W TN!; l.UU:~A.L. A~, Ct:'.!tl.l..&t*!; or ART1ii At.Ct" 'l=t;TTI::"l!O, 'VI'4W~J'f 1Hn' 01'" t>l~-:rr·..·t; :l),a...,:EI THI!: Kt:Lt-o<:;~ I·~.'!STUIJT'lt P'>';;<JIII· INTI:!'-fi'UrT~>OHA\.. S:n.n::Ht:ll~ ANO ~'F TN£: 'Uk·IY"A10:irr.' OF NuTRt. OAMi< b:i.:P.ARl'MUH Oif t.tliJ:S.i" 

p 
THE OBSERVER 

Thursday, September 11, 2003 
Page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
l'JH.IJUk;..J-Jl.il, ~rS......-Notr< Amu ._1s.;.t.M..,~ 
P.O. J3Qx.Q, Notr~ Ollm~. IN 46~56 024 South Dining Hall, Notre: Dame:, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING Ent'l'OR BuSINESS MANAGE!t Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
AssT. MAN.\GJNG Emroa Sheila Flynn 
......=·.·..·-:···.·.·.··· .. · NEWS El>troR: Megbanlle Downes> 

VIEWPOJN'f EDfiDR: Teresa Fra:li~h SPOIU'S EDITOR; Joe Hctt:kr .> . 
So!:Na EvttoR; S.uah Vab~las SAINT MARY's EDITOR.: Anndie.Se Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: 11m l(acmar GRAPHICS EDrroa: Mike Harkin,. ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight · SYSTEMS ADMINISTMTOR: Ted Bangert 
W£8 ADMINISTRATOR.: Jason Creek CoNTROUER.: Mike Flanagan 
CoNTACT Us 
0fAa MANAGt:R &GENERAL INFO (574}631~7471 . FAX {574) 6J1..6927 
. AIMRSTISING (574} 631:-990(} obs.ervad@nd:~du EDITOR IN CHIEF . {:574} 631-4542 MANAGING EouOJI &AsstSTAHT MA!fAG!NG EonOR (574)6,31-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
~USINESS DFFltE 
. (574}63E53l3 
.• NEWS DESJC. ·>. (574) 63hSl23 obwcws.l~rid.edu 
. VlEWPOIMT DESK 

(574)6}h5303.· viewp<lint.l@nd.edu: · 
. SPoRTS DESK . . ·• . 
(574) $3h4,S.43· sporrs.l@nd.edu 
.•.•.·•..•..•.•..••• SCENE O!SK 
{574) £3l•454Q ·. scene.1@11':Ledu 
SAINT MARY's De~ 
{574){)31-4324 ·.· sm(.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO 0ESK 
(574) S.3l~S767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & . WEB ADMINISTRATORS {574} 63J-S83C} 
THE<· 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POUCIES The Observer>is the indepen&~nr~ daily "ewsPa~ published in printand online byi:h.e St:uderits oftb.<:< · · ..•..· Univ~sity ofNotte Dame du: ~and saintMary's •·.· · · College. Edirorial conrenr. including adverrisement!i, ·ts oot governed bypolidc:S ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer resavc:s the right to refuse advertisements based on con~ent. The news iS reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editoti:als represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisnmr Managing Editor and ciepanmenr editors. Commentaries, leners and columrsS present the views ofthe audwrs and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is avllilable tti all readers. The free ••·•·.• expression ofall opinion!. through lettcn is encouraged, Letters to the Editor mUst be signed and musdndude . conracr inforffi::ttion. 
Qumions regardmg Objnwrpolicirs shouldbr dirm~d tQ Edi(f)r in CbiifAndrrw $(Jukup.. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~MP$ 5~ l-:Ml06i i$. p<.!>li>hc4 M<m<iay <luoo&h friday ""'"~'' dUring <wn ....t •:oa<1011 pos..,.U. /\ +!lbs.:rop<io~ "'Tho~;. $100 fo.rooe :K:Od=i< yraz; 5~5 for om:""""'"''' 
Th< Ob,...."" ;. pob~ihc<t at: I'OSTloii.Mrf.R 02<\liowtk Uil><R§ Hall . SeM ~CI<lml<:t~t>S w, . Nor..-D:tm<:. IN 46~')6,@7') T~ObtetY<:t. 
l'criodl.:al ~p.id~Nottt Dortl¢ P.O.IIoxQ .ad addioo021 ..,.a;~ Dff.:X:..· · 914Sowldli.oinr, H.a . No<.., Dam<,IN 4&!$,6-&77'1 
The oo.cr,.,;, •._~o« 9f cl>e ~~ ~ All "'~ti<»t rit)lu ~ · ......c:d. . . 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Meghan Martin Mike Harkins Joe Trombello Sports 
Matt Bramanti Chris Federico Viewpoint· Justin Schuver Erin Fox Joe Lindsley Illustrator Scene Katie Knorr KC Kenney 

Tough questions about being genuinely Catholic 
I say I'm Catholic, but am I lying? More than 90 percent of us claim Christianity, and almost all of us claim some virtuous faith, but what does this mean? We have the top American and international stu­dents who are like­
Andrew 
ly to join the ranks 
DeBerry
of success in fields ranging from busi­ness to science and ND Changing community leader­Times ship around the globe. But are we genuinely living what we profess? 
In searching our ways to cut the grain from the chaff, it must be extremely clear that actions and not individuals are defined as good or bad. The focus is on a positive, encouraged quest to fulfill the greatness we can achieve together. 
There are pressing questions on the conscience on these issues. Where do I spend my free time and money? Do I spend more on alcohol or in giving to those in hard, life-threatening condi­tions? Or is it just accepted that college is a time to party more so I can focus better on the serious work to come? Christ's first miracle was making wine; He's a God of celebrations. But He also endured great pain for the sinful and suffering and called us to follow. 
If I were to see a homeless person begging on campus, would I live out the Catholic corporal works of mercy and welcome the person with open arms'? Or would I consider it a nuisance to avoid? The University does not allow panhan­dlers on campus and may issue a tres­passing violation letter before escorting them away. Has my "universal" Catholic faith become exclusionary at Notre Dame? 
Seeing the Main Building and Golden Dome directs me to recognize the glory of the Blessed Mother in the community. But what is the cost of my admiration of this landmark? There are costly paint­ings within. The bathrooms have made a "Restroom Hall of Fame" for its Victorian tile floors and solid oak stall doors. Mary is clad in gold. When Notre Dame-sponsored service activities have shoved my hands into those of people searching for food and shelter both home and abroad, how can I justify this affluence? 

A couple years ago, children from the Center for the Homeless had an evening on campus with AFROTC's Arnold Air Society. When a little girl on my shoul­ders first saw the Dome, she was in awe: "Wow, what is that?" A question that tears at the heart, it's easier asked than answered when it comes from a 
homeless child. Are these questions didn't. Must I serve within a I've heard friends symptomatic ofa life of faith to enter in the business col­Paradise? Can I call myself 
secularized
lege bemoan the cor­Christian if I don't? porate focus. But I've Catholicism being It's noted in Ezekiel that we met and written influenced by will be held accountable if about the dean of we don't dissuade each other
American
that college. She's felt from any evil ways. Although 
consumerism?
the burn of poverty these are questions I don't 
and has an unmistak­able value-centered view of her college's education. So why do some students feel a disconnect? Are they simply failing at grounding ideal­ism in necessary tangible skills, or have parts of our community become corpo­ratized? 
Several question ROTC on campus and the military it supports. Pope John Paul II opposed the war. How do I answer his criticisms? Can Notre Dame succeed in strengthening a moral voice in the mili­tary? Can I make a difference? 
What are our institutional priorities? Are we sacrificing our content and focus on social justice for our academic repu­tation? Or are we really intending to witness to the secular world through the respect we gain? 
Which comes first between Christ and career? Having a financially secure job in engineering can help me provide for a family and others in need, right? 
Are these questions symptomatic of a secularized Catholicism being influ­enced by American consumerism? Other faiths from both the Eastern and Western spheres are also struggling, though in different ways, with faith and modernity. 
Christ said the road to life is narrow and so difficult that only those who actively search and work on it find the path. Some of his apostles cried, "This is harsh teaching; who can follow it?" and ended their walk. He told a parable where some enter Heaven because they cared for the suffering whereas others 
are separated from those 
who go to Hell because they 
have quick answers too, I 
know they're worth asking. 
Through all the tough questions, I have faith that everyone can find the way. God speaks of us in Isaiah: "[My word] will not return to me empty, but will accomplish what I desire and achieve the purpose for which I sent it. You will go out in joy and be lead forth in peace, the mountains and hills will burst into song before you, and all the trees of the field will clap their hands." 
How do these questions relate to the community here? If Christ were to visit in person, what would he say? 
What do you think? 
Andrew De/Jerry is a fifth-year aero­space engineering major. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at adeberry@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not '!eces­sarily those ofthe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Has the University implemented enough alternative programming for students? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..This is a day when all Americans from every walk of life unite in our resolve for justice and peace" 
George W. Bush president 

p
Thursday, Sept. 11, 2003 page 11 


GUEST COLUMN 


Remembering Sept. 11 
Richard Nixon often cautioned young peo­course of this conflict is not known. yet its ple that higher education makes the mind outcome is certain. Freedom and fear, justice strong but the backbone weak. His warning and cruelty, have always been at war, and is especially appropriate when examining we know that God is not neutral between academia's response to the terrorist attacks them," Bush said. of Sept. 11. As we While Americans were in the midst of a remember the Great Rediscovery in the post-Sept. 11
Joe Sabia 
events of that hor­world, Cornell's elites were treating the ter­
rific Tuesday, it is rorist attacks as ifthey were a hurricane, 
imperative that we tornado, or some other natural disaster. 
Cornell Daily
understand the Though they were empathetic toward fami­
Sun
moral lessons lies of the deceased, they seemed to forget 
America learned that their fellow countrymen were slaugh­
from Sept. 11, as tered by terrorists. Mere days after Sept. 11, 
well as the inability of Cornell's elite to Cornell professor James Garbarino, human 
appreciate these same lessons. The contrast development, was in full psychobabble 
between our country's renewed patriotism mode, making excuses for the hijackers: 
and our (:ampus' "Blame America First" atti­"Often [terrorists] have experienced per­
tude is horrifying. sonal suffering or family loss, or historical · 
Sept. 11, 2001, was one of the darkest victimization and are seeking a way to give days in the history of the world. Who among meaning to that suffering through acts of us can ever forget the images we saw that violent revenge ... It is more than a matter of day? Commercial jets piercing each of the our good and their evil. Dehumanization is Twin Towers. Smoke billowing out of the -the enemy." Pentagon. A smoldering crater in Former University trustee Don Ufton Shanksville, Pa. lslamo-fascists celebrating called for anti-war teach-ins to oppose the and dancing in the streets. administration's military efforts in 
But in the wake ofthese savage terror-Afghanistan: 
said with a rough voice that had love in to side with America. it, 'Firemen don't run out of buildings. Former University President Hunter R. Firemen run into buildings."' Rawlings III sent out warnings to 
Through their selfless actions, these fire­Cornellians, urging students not to physically men helped Americans to recapture their assault Muslims on campus. From the faith. But they weren't the only men who University administration!s hysterical wail­answered God's call that day. Aboard United ing, one would think that a Kristallnacht Airlines Flight 93, Jeremy Glick, Mark against Arabs was underway in Ithaca, N.Y., Bingham, Tom Burnett and Todd Beamer with Muslim bodies strewn across Route 13. led America's first victory in the War on Cornell tried to rewrite the aftermath of Terrorism. In her book "Let's Roll!," Todd Sept. 11 as a grand lesson in multicultural­Beamer's wife, Lisa, wrote lovingly of her ism and diversity. In truth, the terrorist husband's heroism on the morning of Sept. attacks by Islamists were further evidence 
11: "What made Todd different from many that not all cultures are equal. Some cultures other men who are merely religious was not -such as those developed by the Taliban in the fact that he was willing to die for his Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein in Iraq­faith; the terrorists did that! No, Todd was are evil and must be destroyed so as to pre­willing to live for his faith. Better still, he was serve Western Civilization. willing to live his faith all the way until the The so-called intellectual elite on Cornell's end. Todd built his life on a firm foundation faculty-sitting leisurely in their offices, so that when the storm came on Sept. 11 he drinking their apricot cream coffee and eat­didn't have to check the blueprints to see if ing their kiwi sorbet -speak of patriotism everything he had built his life on was going as if it were a dirty word. Butthe heroes of to stand. He knew." Sept. 11 -and the soldiers in Afghanistan 
Thanks to the stirring leadership of and Iraq today-remind us that we should President George W Bush, Americans have have only love and pride in our hearts when rediscovered why the United States is, we speak of America on this day of remem­indeed, a shining city on a hill. In his Sept. brance. 20, 2001, speech to Congress, President Bush reminded us that America is guided by This column first appeared Sept. 10 in The Divine Providence. "I will not forget this Cornell Daily Sun and appears here cour­wound to our country or those who inflicted tesy ofU-Wire. it. I will not yield. I will not rest. I will not The views expressed in this column are relent in waging this struggle for freedom those ofthe author and not necessarily those and security for the American people. The ofThe Observer. 


-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Birth control needed for medical reasons 
Ryan Dwyer accuses The Observer of providing immoral information to the new freshman class, citing Planned Parenthood as a place to fill birth control prescriptions since University Health Services will not. As a student in law school he should know better. Just to make sure, I checked the inau­gural edition of The Observer. 
Yes, they refer to birth control and Planned Parenthood, but the refer­ence is to pills. They did not recommend Planned Parenthood for condoms or help with abortions, just birth control pills. Perhaps, as a male, Dwyer is unaware of this, but there is a significant percentage of young women, myself include, who depend on birth control for non-contraceptive purpos­es. Today, birth control pills are commonly prescribed for a variety of med­ical conditions and even by dermotologists for skin care purposes. 
I am not naive, and I do realize that many women will seek birth control pills there for contraception. Also, I too am pro-life and am not a supporter of Planned Parenthood. 
I do, however, sympathize with our young female freshmen whose resources for legitimate medical needs are restricted by incorrect religious assumptions, and I support The Observer for addressing that Dwyer's case, while impassioned, would not stand up in court. 
Connie Quinlan class of '03 Sept. 10 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
E
page 12 


Thursday, September 11, 2003 


+ 'lfotre Vame andSaint 'Mary's o........er thee 


ByKCKENNEY Assistant Scene Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have .a very diverse student body when it comes to activities they are involved in and whether someone prefers being on stage or off, theatre on both campuses always offers many opportunities to get involved. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre, or FIT, is celebrating their last season at Washington Hall this year by showcasing a run of the "best of Notre Dame theatre," three shows spe­cially selected by the FTT faculty to mark the long tradition of great theatre in Washington Hall. These productions will give students the opportunity to see the very talented undergraduates from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross strut their stuff for the last time before they move to the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Tartuffe is a brilliant comedy about a small family that is set upon by a devi­ous scoundrel by the name of Tartuffe. Tartuffe uses false piety and excessive devotion to win over the hearts of the family and then take them for all they are worth, including the women of the family! This show was censored in the late 17th century by religious groups who felt it was a direct attack on the merit of religion. Notre Dame presents a very fitting location for Frederic Syburg to direct this classic. The show runs from Oct. 8 to 12 at Washington Hall. 
The Glass Menagerie, an American classic by Tennessee Williams, is anoth­er FTT production that goes up this fall. Many of the performers are familiar the­atrical gurus, including Katie Kertez, Hryce Cooper, Tom Connor and Molly Topper. The director is the ever­acclaimed FTT professor Siiri Scott who earns rave reviews from her students and performers. ''I'm super excited because Siiri Scott is directing, and she's an amazing acting coach," said Molly Topper. "I mean, it's Tennesse Williams. When you know the writing is good you know you can take it places." The G l a s s Menagerie 
goes up on Nov. 19 and runs until the 
23~ 
Finally, Ann M a r i e Stewart will direct Arms and the Man, 
an anti-love triangle based story by George Bernar-d Shaw. This show runs from April 21 until the 25 and has great Shaw charac­ters, like an army officer that prefers ''chocolate to bullets." Though cast­ing is closed on Tartuffe and The G l a s s Menagerie, 
casting for 
Arms and the Man will not be held until Jan. 19 and 20. 
A fact that 

may not be commonly known to the local collegiate theatrical community is that Notre Dame's FTT productions have auditior.s that are not only open to FTT undergraduates, but also to all students at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. There are other oppor­tunities to be involved in FTT productions besides the Mainstage. The FTT directing classes hold their Directing Finals in the fall and spring. Directing Finals are an oppor­tunity for these aspiring direc­tors to exercise their bossiness in a one-act plays by big name writers. Auditions are Sept. 22 from 5 -?p.m. in Washington Hall. The Freshman Four is another opportunity to be thes­pians, but is limited to fresh­man. These one-act plays are exclusively directed, acted, stage managed and all else by freshman in the spring. 
Not a real fan of the spot­light? FTT also offers many The cast of 2003's Into the Woods continued the trend o opportunities for students to be musicals. This year, they continue the tradition with Wes1 

involved in other ways. Students arc needed to work on sets, costumes, lighting, and publicity or work as stage managers. 
The Communication, Dance and Theatre Department 
CDT will be performing Arthur Miller's famous political drama, The Crucible, direr.ted by Mark Abram-Copenhaver, assistant professor of theater. Auditions will be held on Nov. 6-Nov. 9. The department will present an independ­ently written play in the second semes­ter. Further information is available from the department at 284-4640. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company 
For more than ten years, Notre Dame had not had a musical on its campus. Then, in 1997, Kelly McGann, a resident of PE decided that this needed to change. From this, PEM Co. was born. Since 1997, PEM Co. has been the largest student-run musical theater company on campus and it has pro­duced a high-quality show with capaci­ty-brimming audiences every year. This year's production is the well-known and loved Leonard Bernstein show, West Side Story, a musical take on Romeo and Juliet. 
Senior Hay Areaux takes on the role uf director/choreographer for West Side and said he is thrilled for the chance to bring such a great production to Notre Dame. 
"Our team is psyched for a fabulous production," said Areaux, who led the cast of Damn Yankees two years ago. 

"We are quite a fun group, and it's going to be quite a fun ride." 
Auditions are on Sept. 15 and 16, but the show itself isn't until February. Auditions consist of both singing and dancing. Materials are available now in the Library. 
PEM Co. also sponsors a Musical Revue that is held in 

""/ mean, who l
March at LaFortune 

excuse to perfom
Ballroom. 

the greatest playu The Not-So-Royal Like, y'kno Shakespeare Company 
Katy Ker1
The NSRSC will be sharing 

direct01
their flair for the bard by presenting the Not-So-Royal She 
Shakespearean comedy Much Ado About Nothing on Dec. 4 through 7. Auditions are Sept. 25 and 26 at 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Why should you try out for such a great show? 
"Why wouldn't you do Shakespeare?" asked Katy Kertez, who will be directing the spring NSRSC show King Lear. "I mean, who needs an excuse to perform shows by the greatest playwright ever? 
I.1"ke, y'know.?" 

Those who are auditioning are asked to prepare a short dramatic Shakespearian monologue, though cold readings from the play will be accepted. 
The Saint Edward's Hall Players 

The SEHP started o.ut as a Frid·ay night production, put on by St. Ed's, for the entertainment of its residents and the rest of the campus. As time went on, 
Campa-. 

Thursday, September 11, 2003 Page 13 


it grew and developed to be more of an independent theater group that presents great and compelling shows. This year they will be putting on One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, directed by FTT major Adel Hanash. Auditions will be held in October, before fall break, so as to offer play­needs an ers an opportunity to be 7Z shows by familiar with their roles. 'lJright ever? They encourage students of all grades and abilities
ow?" 
to try out and look forward to an exciting show. They
•tez perform in Washington If Hall the last weekend of 
akespeare January. 1Y 
Farley Hall Players 
Farley Hall Players began in 2001 with the student written production of Chance At Love, which was so successful it proceeded to tour the Midwest. Farley has a great reputation for putting out strong shows, both musicals and plays alike. This year, they will be doing Taxi Cabaret, directed by junior Devon Candura. Taxi Cabaret is a relatively undiscovered new musical about six friends living in New York after college. 
Lena Caligiuri says that the group is "extremely excited to be returning to our ultimate goal of producing small, intimate musical theatre after having opted to do a straight show last year. Devon is an incredibly enthusiastic and dedicated director, with a very talented team working with her to make this show a success." 
Actors From the London Stage 
Though the students put on fantastic shows each year, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre also sponsors shows of William Shakespeare performed by the Actors from the London Stage. Next week, the Actors grace the Washington Hall stage with Shakespeare's Measure for Measure, per­formed Sept. 1 7-19. AFTLS actors hail from such presti­gious theatre companies as the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal National Theatre of Great Britain and Shakespeare's Globe Theatre, among others. Measure for Measure is a passionate tragicomedy that explores sexual morality and abuse of power. 
Performances begin at 7:30 

p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office -$16 for adults, $14 for senior citizens and $12 students. For MasterCard, Visa and 
Discover Orders, call 631-8128. The Actors will return in February 
with Romeo and Juliet, offering a great 
romantic date for Valentine's Day. Their 
shows are always of exceptional profes­
sional quality and easily appreciated by 
first time viewers of the Bard, even 
though it may seem, at 
first, like a foreign lan­
guage. The Actors make 
it accessible to all. 
Whether a student has experience in shows in high school, local the­ater or perhaps the occasional touring com­pany, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have many venues for performers and techies from all stages of experience. It is a great way to get involved on campus and add a great compliment to a resume. One doesn't need to be a drama major to be able to get involved in or. be in the audience of a great show. All someone needs is a bit of time, a desire to learn and an interest in creating a little drama in the world. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu. 

As one of the Mainstage Productions of 2002-2003, FTT sponsored The Mandrake as well as several other student-starring productions. 

Thursday, September 11, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 


Red Sox defeat Orioles 5-0 with stellar starting pitching 
Tigers 15-5 on Wednesday innings. He gave up solo Associated Press 
. night. homers to Pat Burrell in the ~-Hideki Matsui homered and second and Tomas Perez in the 
BALTIMORE -Kevin Millar drove in three runs and Nick seventh, and struck out seven did the math. By his calcula­Johnson also homered, but without walking a batter. tion,giving Pedro Martinez a made three of the Yankees' It was the second strong three-run lead before he defensive miscues. New York start in a row for the rookie walked to the mound added up won its fourth straight and left-hander. making a bid to be to a victory for the Boston Red remained 3.5 games ahead of included in the postseason ros­
Sox. Boston in the AL East. ter. The previous time out, he 
"Pedro's got a two-something Andy Pettitte (18-8) labored held Pittsburgh to one earned ERA, so we know we score through six innings, allowing run and three hits in nine three we've got a good chance four runs -two earned -and innings. to win," Millar said. "This struck out seven ~nd walked guy's been phenomenal for three. He rebounded from a Expos 8, Cubs 4 us." rough outing against Boston Pinch-hitter Jose Macias hit 
Martinez allowed three hits last Friday night, when he a go-ahead double in a five­over eight innings and Millar gave up eight earned runs and run eighth inning, and the 
had two RBI in a three-run nine hits in 2 1-3 innings in a Montreal Expos overcame a first inning as the Red Sox 9-3 loss. four-run deficit to beat the defeated the Baltimore Orioles Chicago Cubs 8-4. 
5-0 Wednesday. Braves 4, Phlllies 2 Chicago, which began the 
Boston got the only run it Something about losing big night tied with Houston for the needed when No. 5 hitter brings out the best in the NL Central lead, was ahead 4­David Ortiz drew a bases­Atlanta Braves. 0 behind Matt Clement, who loaded walk from Jason Javy Lopez homered to give took a no-hit bid into the sixth Johnson in the top of the first. the Braves a franchise-record inning. Millar followed with a two-run 216 homers this season, and Clement walked his first single, and at that point the Atlanta rebounded from a big three batters in the inning and Red Sox might as well have loss to beat the Philadelphia was replaced by Mark Guthrie, Red Sox pitcher Pedro Martinez delivers a pitch in the Red started packing their bags Phillies 4-2. who walked the next two bat­Sox' game against the Orioles Wednesday. Boston defeated after a 7-2 road trip. A day earlier, Philadelphia ters, forcing in a pair of runs. Baltimore 5-0 largely because of Martinez' pitching. 
"It set the tone," Boston won 18-5, the fifth time this. Orlando Cabrera followed with manager Grady Little said. season the Braves have lost by an RBI single off Dave Veres. his chair, puffed on his cigar have to play like we're playing "We came out and got after it 10 or more runs. Each time, Endy Chavez opened the and offered an observation with everybody chipping in." pretty good there." they've bounced back to win eighth with a single off Mark after the Marlins took advan­Errors by Mets third base­
"It was an uphill struggle the the next game. Remlinger and stole second. tage of some sloppy play by the man Ty Wigginton and short­whole way," Baltimore manag­"It's not a coincidence," Kyle Farnsworth (3-2) relieved, New York Mets in a 7-3 victory. stop Jorge Velandia, and a 
(. 
er Mike Hargrove said. "Once Lopez said. "This is what and Cabrera bunted to first "In a close game, give us an nonchalant play by left fielder we got behind 3-0, we knew makes this team better. Once baseman Randall Simon, who opening and we're coming Raul Gonzalez led to the first that we were going to have you bounce back, you know missed the tag as Cabrera through the door," the Florida five Florida runs. Then, second play near perfect baseball the you've gotten rid of all the reached on the infield hit. manager said. baseman Danny Garcia missed way just to have a chance." frustration from the night With two outs, Ma.cias hit The Mets offered multiple a foul pop, giving Ivan It was Martinez who was before." what appeared to be a routine openings with three errors and Rodriguez a second chance in 
near perfect. The right-hander Philadelphia dropped one fly to short Ieft field, but one embarrassing nonchalant the ninth inning and he hit a allowed only five runners, game behind Florida in the NL Moises Alou appeared to be play -each of them contribut­two-run wrapup homer. none of whom advanced past ·wild-card race, and Atlanta blinded by the lights, and the ing to Florida runs. "We didn't play the kind of second base. lowered its magic number to ball fell as Montreal went It was the 11th victory in 13 game we normally do defen­
"He had command of his clinch the NL East to six. ahead 5-4. games for the Marlins, who sively, and it cost us," Mets pitches all day long. He was "We've had a fire lit all year," Brian Schneider doubled moved into the NL wild-card manager Art Howe said. just outstanding," Little said. Phillies manager Larry Bowa down the right-field line for a lead. one game ahead of The Mets misadventures 
said. "That's not going to 6-4 lead, and Henry Mateo and Philadelphia. The loss was the started with one out in the Yankees 15, Tigers 5 change. You have to worry Jamie Carroll hit RBI singles. seventh straight for the Mets, third inning when Mike 
Jorge Posada hit a grand about yourself. You can't worry Luis Ayala (8-3) pitched a the first four to the Phillies, the Redmond was safe on an error slam and drove in a career­about other people." perfect eighth for the win. last three to the Marlins. by Wigginton and Jeff Conine high seven runs, and the New Horacia Ramirez {10-4) won "It was a big win," McKeon followed with a homer just York Yankees overcame four his second straight decision, Marlins 7, Mets 3 said. "We got contributions inside the left-field foul pole errors and routed the Detroit allowing six hits in seven Jack McKeon leaned back in from a lot of guys. We just against Jae Weong Seo (8-11). 
The Observer accepts da.ssifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for conrent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Movie Extras/Models Needed NO LOFT, single, wooden. Will deliver and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Spring Break 2004 with exper. required. All looks & ages. and help set up. $165. Call 574-RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL ANLAN NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-StudentCity.com and Maxim NOTICES Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820-243-0853. PROPERTIES 532-1896 BALL GAME. Magazine! Get hooked up with Free 0167, ext U187. Trips, Cash and VIP status as a 
COLLEGE PARK APT 2 BED, 2 PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT ROCK!! Drummer and Bassist BATH, LIVINGROOM, DIN-the hottest destinations. Book early PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU-needed for new rock band. Contact NINGROOM, KITCHEN, ALL Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 tor FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS 
FoR RENT

i; DENTS.COM Michael Barrett for more info. 4-APPLIANCES INCLUDED $970-BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tick-and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! I 4100 (630) 897-0777 ets. 574-289-8048 I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 To reserve online or view our Photo 
ROCK!! Drummer and Bassist 2-bdrm apts. $435/rno plus utilities. 4 Rooms ND football & grad 3 miles Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 FSU. Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS ALL needed for new rock band. Contact 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. NO Best area (574)287-4545 or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK! THE FUN & ALL THE PROTEC-Michael Barrett for more info. 4-immediately. 273-4555. Call Jim Newell at 203-748-8926. TION AMERICAN EXPRESS 4100 Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America WORLDWIDE GUARANTEED 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO ND Alumni need Michigan St GAs! s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring BEST BUY 1 FREE TRIP FOR NOW HIRING Kaplan Test Prep is CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM camp~s reps
TICKETS
EVERY 10 PAID OR CA$H START-currently hiring test proctors and MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-Call Wendy, 617-501-6400 lNG WITH FIRST BOOKING MAKE student advisors. Work from 2-16 1525 Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or YOUR SPRING BREAK hlwk. To apply, call272-4135. USC tickets-97 grad needs 4 www. ststravel. com EXXTREME EXXTReME VACA-2-bdrm house close to ND. 269-please!!! Can buy separately. TIONS, INC. 1-800-336-2260 699-5841. t>;D FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. HUGE YARD SALE -SATURDAY, 
CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR Contact Jtmnifer at SEPT 13 FROM 9-3 ONE DAY WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW & TOLL FREE 877-773-jennifermtoland@msn.com or (202) ONLY!!1 Housewares, lawn & gar­&Beach Trips on sale now! FoR SALE 04/05.FURN.272-6306 3911. 486-4037 den, bicycles, exercise/sports www.sunchase.com or equipment, camping gear and much caii1-800-SUNCHASE today! That Pretty Place, Bed &Breakfast TOP $$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX Need MSU tix. Call (574)233-5361 more. 
has space available for tootbaiVpar-OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE-Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, TION ASSURED. 654-8018. 50541 Portage Road (north of HUGE Garage, New: Roof, A/C, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Adams Road) Furnace, Carpet & Kitchen. 1719 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
WANTED 
Dorwood Dr $119,900. (574)233-Toll Road, Exit#107, 1-800-418-ED-TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-Man, this is a lot of space to fill

PERSONAL
9947 9487. 2378 PM 288-2726 
Former Irish capta1n Evan Nielsen SEX IS NO BARniER Jimmy Johns LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO Clean 2-bdrm house, 1.25 mi. to NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR scored an assist in the Atlanta Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. ND. Desirable neighborhood. SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-Thrashers' prospect camp game a few good men and women who NON-RENTAL. NEWLY $550/mo +utilities. 574-233-1604. 2726 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do against the Tampa Bay Lightning. w1sh to work in a FUN and fast REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. not go it alone. If you or someone pace environment. A new store will $94,500. Email: Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for NO home WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. you love needs confidential support Way to go Evan. be opening up in early October. We Williamson.1 @nd.edu games. 1.4 miles to ND. $595 per TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-or assistance, please call Sr. Mary have aggressive pay. Hrs from weekend. 269-684-6409. 0964 Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. I have the power to put whatever I 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers 97 Volkswagon Jetta Low miles.A 1 want here. and mgmt available. Call Andy at condition. Sunroof.$5,900 0/B/0. Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. For more information, see our bi­574-277-0850 for interview. 269-663-8422 Foster St., $5901mo.574-784-3275. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. weekly ad in The Observer. It don't matter to Jesus. 

Thursday, September 11, 2003 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 







· · wednesday
september 17 
4:00pm -9:00 pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
Student ID card required Attire is business formal 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 



findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, 
job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 
·-Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 
• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in BCF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on ~~organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 


THE 

UNIVERSITY OF


CAREER 
NOTRE DAME 
··------­


CENTER 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 




participating 8 
Abbott Laboratories 
3 

Abercrombie &Fitch Accenture 
A.G. Edwards Allstate Insurance Company 
American Express· · .. Financial Advisors 
AMS Aon Corporation 
Bain & Compahy Bank One Corporation BOO Seidman Boeing 
·Boys & Girls Clubs of America 
bp 

careers INsite Carson Pirie Scott & Co. 
cow 
Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries CIGNA 
Coachmen Industries Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte &Touche Deloitte Consulting DirectEmployers E&J Gallo Winery Eli Lilly & Company Ernst & Young 
FactSet Research Systems Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Fifth Third Bank General Electric General Mills Hartford Financial Services 
Group H-E-8 Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard 
Honeywell 
Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin · 
Hum ana Huron Consulting Group 
IBM 

lndalex Aluminum Solutions lnteCap IRISH Online Johnson &Johnson -Finance Johnson &Johnson ­
Information Management Johnson & Johnson ­Marketing 
Johnson & Johnson -Sales Jones lang LaSalle Katz Media Group* 
KeyBank  
Kirkland & Ellis  
KPMG Kraft  -c:J  
LaSalle Bank  A 1  

McGiadrey & Pullen:JIll' Morgan Stanley 
Morningstar --•e Motorola 
fD 

National City Corporation 
C/IJ 

Navigant Consulting 
News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual Financial Network­
Hoopis Financial Pfizer PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter &Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Pufte Homes SBC Communications SCORE Small Business 
Development Center SCORE! Educational Centers SIRVA Smart and Associates State Farm Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Sun Life Financial Target Corporation Teach for America The Boston Beer Company The Bostoh Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The Horton Group The Vanguard Group Towers Perrin Travelers Tucker Alan 
U.S. 
Cellular 

U.S. 
Dept. of Treasury, Internal Revenue Service 

U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission 


Wachovia Securities 
Walgreens Wells Fargo William Blair &Company WPS Resources Corporation YAI/Nationallnstitute for 
People with Disabilities* Zurface, Sanders & Rasor* 
*Resume drop 
I 
I 
page 16 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Thursday, September 11, 2003 

r 
Knowledge is power. 
'· 
Join us, and you'll find yourself in an environment where knowledge and learning are shared. An environment where you can expect to learn from your colleagues' ideas. And where they expect you to contribute your own. Don't let this opportunity pass you by. 
.-· 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Thursday, September 11, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
2003-04 
THE BEST 0 F NOTRE DAME r" EAr R E Freeman happy to be 

by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, September 17.... 7:30 p.m Thursday, September 18....7:30 p.m. Friday, Septembe~ 1 9 ...~ 7:30 p.m. 
• 

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS >> 
Buy -SELL -TRADE . :\> < •·•· 




$t;::E~~~~:;~;~:,E $$ fBb· 
CASH PAID TODAY FOR TICKETS CALL PREFERRED TICKETS NOW 
234-5650 
We all team from one another The RCIA gives 
back with the Pack 
Associat:d Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Antonio Freeman and Mike Sherman are trying to work things out. 
The two parted on bad terms last summer after fighting about money and other matters. They were reunited Wednesday when the injured-riddled Green Bay Packers brought back Brett Favre's all-time favorite target. 
Freeman, who caught 57 touchdown passes from Favre between 1995-2001, signed a one-.Year, guaranteed deal and got his old No. 86 jersey back from injured rookie Carl Ford. 
"Same ol' Free," offensive coordinator Tom Rossley said after a closed practice. "There are some routes he runs great. He's not going to run away from anybody. But he has some strong points and he has some weak­nesses. And we're going to try to bring out the good part of him." 
Freeman is slated to start at split end Sunday against the 
. Detroit Lions with Pro Bowl receiver Donald Driver out with a neck injury. 
"I never envisioned coming back," Freeman admitted. "You have to take the situation as a blessing for both of us, because I was available and they were willing to welcome me back." 
Sherman, who banished Freeman from the season finale in 2001 after he showed up late for practice, said he is letting bygones be bygones.' 
"I don't hold hard feelings on people. I'm a fairly forgiving per­son," he said, blaming the breakup on finances. "Any time 
money's involved, things get 
screwed up." 

The Packers released Freeman 
on June 3, 2002, in the middle of 
his seven-year, $42 million con­
tract that included a $10 million 
bonus, after he refused a big pay 
cut. Freeman's productivity had 
slipped and his attitude soured 
after several run-ins with the 
law and Sherman. 

Even before his arrival this 
week, Freeman counted $4.3 
million against the team's salary 
cap this season. If Freeman's 
deal was for the veteran's mini­
mum of $655,000, he would 
count another $475,000 against 
the Packers' cap. 

Driver (neck, concussion), 
Robert Ferguson (ankle, knee) 
and Karsten Bailey (hamstring) 
all were hurt Sunday. Bailey was 
waived Wednesday along with 
linebacker Hunter Hillenmeyer 
to make room for Freeman and 
Chris Jackson. 
Driver was in a neck brace 
Wednesday and Ferguson 
remained on crutches . 
Initially, Freeman had reserva­
tions about a reunion with 
Sherman. 
"But we're both men, in very 
different stages of our lives, and 
we need each other right now," 
Freeman said. 
Sherman said, "We probably talked more in the past 24 hours than we did the last couple years, actually." 
Before Wednesday's workout, Freeman, 31, hadn't suited up since the NFC championship game in January. He played for the Philadelphia Eagles last year, when he caught 46 passes for 600 yards and four touchdowns. 


Find out more about: 
you a<hance to. walk 
• The Sacraments of Initiation 
with iomeone a~ you 
BAPTISM, EucHARIST & CoNFIRMATION:
explore your faith and for unbaptized persons wanting to
find your place in the become amember of the Catholic Church.
Church. Join uJ on thii adventure offaith. 
For more info, 
• FuLL CoMMUNION:
contact: 

Tami Schmitz 
for baptized persons seeking Full Communion in the
@ 
631-3016 

Catholic tradition. 
308 Coleman­J\,1orse Center 
ESPN sportscaster <~nd former NO basketbafl coach Digger Phelps will 
CM

address sports broadcasting. He contributes to ~college Hoops Tonight" and is a game analyst ror ESPN and ABC Sports. 

RCIA Sunday, Sept. 7th 

Candidates & Spo11sors
INFO 
Thursday, September 11 
3:00pm -4:00pm

SESSIONS
4:00-5:30 PM 
· 330 Coleman-l\1orse Center 
Eck Center Auditorium 
Sunday, Sept. t 4th 1:00pm· 2:00pm Calltlidates 2:00pm • 3:00pm Sponsors 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 

'I Thursday, September 11, 2003 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA 


Fresno State placed on 4 years probation 
I 
I I 
~ 
} 
l 
! 
l 1 
I~ 
l\ 
l I 
I' 
I ' I 
I 
Associated Press 
FRESNO. Calif. -Fresno State was placed on NCAA probation for four years Wednesday for violations involving academic fraud, recruiting and eligibility. 
The NCAA Infractions Committee also found a lack of institutional control. 
Fresno State banned its men's basketball program from postseason play this past year after learning that a for­mer team statistician and an academic adviser participated in a cheating scandal with three former players. The school also self-imposed a two-year probation and cut three scholarships from the men's basketball program for other violations. 
The committee required the university to vacate the record of its performance in the 2000 NCAA Tournament and return 90 percent of the funds it earned for that appearance 
Fresno State President John Welty said he was pleased the NCAA chose not to impose fur­ther, more serious, sanctions. 
"We acknowledge there were clearly areas that needed addressing," Welty said. "Now, 

I 
I 
L 
I ! 
with our corrective measures and positive progress in these areas, we can put the prob­lems behind us." 
Probation will end Dec. 4, 2006. 
The NCAA said most of the school's violations were found in the men's basketball pro­gram, but added that some secondary infractions were uncovered in both the men's soccer and women's basketball programs. 
The committee found tnat during the 1998-99 academic year, a men's basketball player was provided financial aid without being enrolled in a full-time course program. The player also was certified as eligible for competition even though his academic record did not meet the requirements for such status. 
The committee found that during the summer of 2000. a former academic adviser and a former statistician violated the NCAA principles of ethical conduct when they arranged to prepare course work for two other students who were completing their last semes­ters of eligibility, as well as for a men's basketball prospective student. 
Thursday, September 11, 2003 page 19
l'he Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Amidst criticism, Navarre keeps performing at high level 


Call 63l-6Z01 for more info. 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 HURLEY BUILDING T: 631-5882 F: 631-5771 





SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING. 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Thur.Sept.11,2003 125 Hayes-Healy 7:00-8:00 pm 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2003 for Spring 2004 Dec. 1, 2003 for Fall '04 and All Year 2004-05 
Applications Available: www.nd.edu/--intlstud/ 
"But I'll tell you what,· his team­Illinois before being replaced by 
mates and coaches have the Henson. 
greatest level of respect for him." Wh(m Henson decided to skip 
Navarre will have a chance to his senior season to play base­
quiet one of the criticisms -that ball, a decision some fans still 
he doesn't win big games -on have not gotten over, Navarre 
Saturday when No. 5 Michigan could do little right in the eyes of 
(2-0) plays No. 15 Notre Dame some. He threw more TDs (19) 
(1-0) at Michigan Stadium. than interceptions (13), but he 
"I don't know that I would call did not play well in losses against that unfair," Navarre said. Washington, Michigan State, 
He is 6-6 against ranked oppo­Ohio State and Tennessee. nents, including an 0-2 mark Navarre's job was in jeopardy against the Fighting Irish and the next spring, and he respond­Ohio State when they were in the ed with a strong spring, summer Associated Press poll. He is 17-2 and junior season. against unranked opponents, "John Navarre will always rep­with those losses coming to Ohio resent a great· story about a kid State and Michigan State in who epitomizes what football can 2001. do for you," Michigan coach 
"At Michigan, you're measured Lloyd Carr said. "He didn't meas­by championships and the big ure up to other people's expecta­games you play," Navarre said. "I tions, and he succumbed a little don't want to say I'm not a bit to that. pressure. Then when Michigan quarterback because I he was flat on his back, he got up haven't won those games, but I'm off the ground and proved what also not out to prove anything to kind of person and player he anybody with those certain was." games." Navarre has also found out, in 
While Navarre can improve his some circles, he can't win. mobility, accuracy and ability to Even last year when he threw make game-winning plays, he 21 TDs and just seven intercep­can't do anything about another tions in a 10-win season, naysay­factor that plagued the early part ers point out he had a total of of his career. one TD and two interceptions in 
He wasn't Drew Henson. Michigan's three losses. 
As a redshirt freshman in "John Navarre didn't lose those 2001, Navarre started the first games, or the games the year four games for an injured before. We lost those games as a Henson. team," Stevens said. "He can't 
Navarre dazzled with seven block, catch or tackle. It's not all touchdowns and no interceptions about John Navarre, but you in two routs, but he struggled in wouldn't know that if you lis­a loss at UCLA and for a half at tened to people around here." 
. 

..• • 
··University Resources •• 
• 
•• • · for Gay, L.esbian, & •• • • •
• 
..• Bisexual Students •••• 
•
• 

•••• c"''"''"·,..;:.,; •• •
•=~­

• TheStandingCommittee on Gay and ••
•
• 
•• Lesbian·StudentNeeds •• • 
• 
...• (Coufi~ential illformation) ~ducationt andresources) •• 
,• Cont.ac!: Sr.M.L. Guile, CSG~ l-5SS(), orstudent •
• 

• men1bers(see web site for sttuient contadinfo.) •
•

• •
• 
• 

• Office of Campus Ministry •
• 
•

• (Amtual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •
• 
•

• and their friends; pertinent library resources in •
•
..• 304 Co:-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •• 
• Contact: Fr. J Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu •
•

• •
•
.. • 
• . University Counseling Center •• • .. (individual counseling) • •• Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •• 
•

• 
•

• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/ .. scelsn/ •
•
•
• 
. .
. •
...•............. .............•...............: •• 
~ 
At~ ~ Announces the followin& lntroductooy often of••• 


·----··---··----··----··----· 
I $18 I I $26 I I $69 I I $79 II $79 I I I I I I Color, Cut & I 1 1 1 H. hi' h 1
1 Mens Cut I ICut & StyleI I Style I I Perm, Cur & Srylc I Ig Ig ts, One Process I Cut & Style I 
·----·~---·~----·~----··----~ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­. -NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be preunted to Reception,jst Be/Ore Services Are Performed 
Jennifer -KJ -Kefly-Elena 
NOC" v-..lid 6Ur spiral pcmu. l.ol18 or rinll':d. hair~ S 10. No other dia­
ATRIA SALON 

a:JUnrs ~Y· Opal K>rnec.·w~rungs. AllUA ~on l'eSCIV'C5 rhc-rit;hc ro rdU.a:: rrvk:r to any dirnr who.: hait con..iirion Munne.u:abk. 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Corner of Edison 

OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 
289-5080 
Icon Sports Photos 

Michigan quarterback John Navarre looks to hand the ball off in last year's game against the Irish. Notre Dame won 25-23. 
Associated Prt.:ss 

ANN ARBOR, Mich.-Whether John Navarre is planting his feet in turf to make a pass or walking across concrete to answer doubters, he appears poised. 
Such levelheadedness is a virtue for Navarre, whose career at Michigan is riddled with con­tradictions. 
The senior already holds team passing records, and may own nearly every one after the sea­son. but he could be ~he most­criticized player to ever play for the Wolverines. 
"Everywhere you go in this town, you hear a lot about John Navarre and it's never positive," teammate Larry Stevens said. 

J' 
t' 






ATION 


page 20 CotvlPILED FR01Y\ THL Or~sERVER \VIRL SERVICES Thursday, September 11, 2003 



I' 
I I ) I I 
'I 
I. I ~ 
I: 
I" 


I; 
around the dial 


MAJOR LEAGUE 
Phillies at Braves 7:30p.m., TBS Expos at Cubs 8 p.m., FOXCH 


COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Caifornia at Utah 7:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Icon Sports Photos Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett runs with the ball during the Fiesta Bowl last season with quarterback Craig Krenzel in the background. Clarett was suspended for a year by the NCAA. 



Clarett suspended for season by NCAA 
COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Maurice Clarett was sus­pended for the season Wednesday for violating NCAA rules. tarnishil:l:g Ohio State's national title and clouding the future of one of the nation's most talented running backs. 
Clarett was punished because the school deter­mined he accepted thou­sands of dollars in improper benefits and then lied to NCAA and school investigators. 
"This is a sad day," Ohio State athletic director .\ndy Geiger said as he announced the penalty. 
Even though the infrac­tions date to 2002, the school is not in jeopardy of having its national title stripped. 
Clarett .will remain on scholarship this school year. 
His attorney, Scott Schiff, wouldn't speculate if Clarett's Ohio State career was over. 
"He's considering his ~Jptions right now," Schiff said. 
Clarett had been sus­pended from the team while the NCAA and Ohio State investigated his finances. Ohio State has been working for more than two weeks on a response to "several pages" of allegations sent by the NCAA to the uni­versity. 
Geiger said Clarett was guilty of 14 violations of the ethical-conduct bylaw and two violations of receiying preferential treatment or benefits because he is an athlete. 
Geiger said before each season Ohio State players are presented a copy of NCAA Bylaw 10 which deals with ethical conduct and not lying to investiga­tors. 
"You play by the rules, you live by the rules," Geiger said. 
Geiger said Clarett would be required to make a donation to a 
charity of his choice equal to the amount he received in benefits, which Geiger termed as "thousands of dollars," if he wants to be reinstated. 
Ohio State can appeal for Clarett's reinstatement after the year suspension is complete. 
"We hope the NCAA con­siders a suspension for this season to be suffi­cient," Geiger said. 
"More importantly, we hope that Maurice will remain in school to pur­sue his degree, and that conditions will warrant our application for rein· statement to play Buckeye football next season." 

IN BRIEF 
Titans ~o for experience NHL Playoff MVP Giguere Obscene ~esture costs by signing Anderson agrees to four-year deal Paniagua JOb 
The Tennessee Titans wanted an A relieved Jean-Sebastien Giguere The Chicago White Sox released experienced kicker, and they got agreed to a four-year contract with Jose Paniagua on Wednesday, a day one W~dnesday night by agreeing to the Anaheim Mighty Ducks on after he made an obscene gesture at terms with Gary Anderson, the Wednesday, a day before training the plate umpire as he left the field. NFL's career scoring leader and camp opens. "It was a decision we felt we had to once again the league's oldest "I'm very happy to get this finally make," White Sox general manager active player. over with," he said. "I did not want Kenny Williams said before Chicago's 
The Titans lost kicker Joe Nedney to miss any part of training camp. It's game against Minnesota. for the season to a torn ligament in very important to have a good train­"You have to excuse a certain his right, non-kicking leg during ing camp and a good beginning to amount of failures out there when their 25-20 victory Sunday over the the season." you haven't pitched in a year," Oakland Raiders. Nedney and Giguere's goaltending carried the Williams added. "What's inexcusable punter Craig Hentrich combined to Ducks to the Stanley Cup finals, and are the actions that happened after­kick four field goals in the game. helped him get a deal worth nearly ward. That's not what we stand for." 
"It was important to find a veter­$5 million a year. He earned With the White Sox leading the an kicker who has made all the big $900,000 last season. Twins 8-2 on Tuesday night, kicks and been in all of the situa­''I'm expecting the same thing I did Paniagua came in to relieve in the tions,'' general manager Floyd in the past, work hard and keep ninth, his first appearance in the Reese said. "We feel like Gary is the learning and get some experience," major leagues in a year. He gave up best available kicker and that we he said. "There's lots of room for me four runs, three hits and a walk in couldn't afford to take a chance to get better." just one-third of an inning, and was with a younger player with the The deal ensures Giguere's pres­apparently upset with some of the number of games in this league that ence on a team that lost veteran Paul calls made by plate umpire Mark come down to a final kick." Kariya to Colorado in the offseason. Carlson . 
. ) 
Thursday, September 11, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 


SMC SOCCER -­
Belles maintain unbeaten streak, tie Calvin 2-2 in OT 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sporrs Wmer 
Saint Mary's continued its season-opening unbeaten streak Tuesday. The Belles (3-0­
1) tied Calvin (0-2-1) 2-2 in an overtime conference opener. 
Calvin scored first with 37:00 left in the first half. A forward stole the ball from a Belles mid­fielder and kicked it past sur­prised Saint Mary's goalie Laura Heline. Saint 
Concannon bounced a kick off of the crossbar which Artnak headed for a rebound goal. Artnak has one goal and two assists on the season. 
"You can't play behind all the time, and this is actually the first game where our opponent has scored against us first." Haring said. "I give the team a lot of credit. That first half we came back and put a goal in. We don't lose our composure once we get into a rhythm." 
Calvin launched 
Mary's was an aggressive attempting to ·Tm not disappointed attack in the sec­clear the ball ond half. Within
with the way we

and Calvin the first two min­caught the played at all., utes, a Calvin for-defense in an ward barely awkward posi­missed on a
Peter Harring 

tion. breakaway with
coach

"The fit st Heline making a goal was just difficult save. With poor communi-37:12 remaining, cation on a poorly-played ball," the Belles midfielders and coach Peter Haring said. "Our defenders converged on two defense was caught because Calvin forwards in the box out­they were so congested. The side the Saint Mary's goal. Each center-mid got her pocket of the Belles waited for a team­picked, and our keeper was mate to clear the ball, and caught off guard." when that did not occur, Calvin 
Saint Mary's played listlessly kicked the ball past a screened for the first ten minutes of the Helin e. half. The Belles mounted only a But the Belles once again pair of offensive attacks and were resilient. Saint Mary's Calvin besieged Heline at the found its rhythm and resumed a goal. But with 30:00 left in the dominating attack on Calvin's half. Saint Mary's offensive goal. Calvin blocked several intensity improved. The Belles kicks at close range off of cor­narrowly missed goals off of a ner kicks but was unable to stop pair of corner kicks before Carrie Orr's 20-yard kick with Shannon Artnak tied the game 19:41 remaining. Orr stopped a at the 25:51 mark. Jen long rebound and sent a high, arching kick with her left foot that somehow snuck between the goalie and the crossbar. 

Saint Mary's controlled the momentum for the rest of the half and overtime. The Belles limited Calvin to only three seri­ous scoring threats from the 
20:00 mark on. 

"Defensively~ that team was fast and tried to play over the top," Haring said. "But our team won the balls in the air and we didn't give them any really good scoring opportuni­ties. Shannon Culbertson, Carrie Orr and Katie Taylor play so well together. They're a very 
strong core group of defend­ers." 
Taylor stood out with her physical style of play by upend­ing a Calvin forward with a combination shoulder tackle and head butt. 
"Katie Taylor ,~omes from her own mold," Haring said. "Her sister Lynn was a center/defender last year and basically the foundation of the team. Katie plays just as hard, if not harder and she wins every ball. She won't be denied." 
Though the Belles were disap­pointed by the scoreless over­time and tie, they remained positive. 
''I'm not disappointed with the way we played at all," Haring said. "In fact I'm happy because we learned how to play back from being down. I'm not a big fan of ties; in fact I almost would rather go to a [penalty kick] situation just to have a final result. But that's the [con­ference's] format." 
Saint Mary's plays at noon Wednesday at home versus Adrian. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 11, 2003

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
fOOTBALL 


Pressure forces Irish fullbacks into blocking role 
Observer Staff Report ~chmidt said. "We have to be chance. We're licking our chops." gotten the talent level of the a high ranking." equally versatile, run routes well Campbell is also excited to be upcoming opponent. 
I After falling behind 19-0 to 
Game Day 


·~ and catch the ball out of the getting one of his defensive mem­He would not take anythingWashington State Saturday, the ESPN's College GameDay will
1. \ backfield and also run the ball if bers back for Saturday against away from the Wolverines,
role of Notre Dame's fullbacks 
make its seventh trip to Ann

changed. the coaches call a fullback run­the Wolverines in linebacker despite the two teams they've 
Arbor, when it broadcasts its

ning play." Courtney wat.o;;on. faced this season -CentralInstead of giving running backs 
"Courtney's back. I don't really Michigan and Houston. pregame show from Michigan
Ryan Grant and Julius Jones a Excited for game day want to say too much because I "You never downplay anyone's Stadium.
break or catching short passes Darrell Campbell was excited 
get so excited," Campbell said. offense," Campbell said. "If The Wolverines are 11-4 over­out of the backfield, the two had after Wednesday's practice. It "Courtney has some of the great­they're No.1, those are the statis­all and 5-l at home whento prepare to block for quarter­was just hard to tell which situa­est celebrations, and he's all over tics you believe in order to up GameDay is present, while theback Carlyle Holiday, since the tion he was more excited about. 
the plaLe. The intensity he brings your game. Great players and Irish are 5-6 overall and 2-3 onIrish were going to resort to pass­First, he told reporters how
.)' -it's just crazy." great teams come out and domi­the road. However, Notre Dame
ing the ball more than rushing. excited he was to face Michigan With all the excitement sur­nate, and that's what they did, has won its last two GameDayThat was just fme with Rashon this weekend. 
rounding Campbell, he hasn't for-and that's why they earned such appearances.
Powers-Neal and Josh Schmidt. "It's an extremely large rivalry. 
"On Saturday we kind of had to It's just going to be a war," switch up the game plan a little Campbell said. "It's exciting sim­bit because of the situation of the ply because this is what we've 
game," Powers-Neal said. done since high school. To go out 
The two fullbacks combined for there and play game game upon just one carry and one reception. game where the competition gets But neither seemed to mind, as better, that's what we live for. long as the Irish would win. Michigan definitely raises the bar, 
"We know our role. We know and we have to go out there and our No. 1 job is pass blocking," raise it more just to have a 
like that," added Pruzinsky. The Irish will also be looking to 
Youth 

build momentum heading into continued from page 24 their highly anticipated show­
downs with Santa Clara and of the week and was named Big Stanford in California. East Rookie of the Week. "I wasn't happy that we got 
Buczkowski has been one of behind," said Waldrum referring many newcomers to the squad to the early deficit his team faced that has played an important against Arizona State. "But that role in the early season wins. was a great test for us. We need­Classmates Kim Lorenzen, Uzzie ed to get the pressure they put Reed, Jill Krivacek, and Christie on us. We were rattled that frrst Shaner have all played impor­30 minutes. We needed to see 
. . .

\' tant minutes for the Irish so far, that happen to us before we got
:\ 
I! and sophomore Annie Schefter to Stanford and Santa Clara. I'm s~turda.y.~~septernber 13. · I has made a strong impact in her pleased we came back and got a
I, 
I 
first action after being sidelined hold of that game. I_'m not sure
I 
I with an ACL injury last year. we could have done that last ·s~S LEAVES FROM LIBRARY In her first full game back, year." defender Vanessa Pruzinsky Despite the upcoming show­< 
(;J~~hfF.~a.ANN .ARBOR. @ 9:00am t~J\\~1~,,~\~~wwm:
turned in a solid showing, pick­downs, the Irish are focused on 
ing up the defensive MVP at the St. John's and Western Kentucky. ....&.RETO.Rf\JS 112 HOUR AFTER. GAMEif"·'"·l1mtt~ · Notre Dame Classic. Having never played the "I'm just so excited to get to Hilltoppers, and not playing the play again," Pruzinsky said. "It's Red Storm last year, the Irish really been over a year since I've may not be that familiar with really been able to play on my their upcoming upponents. ankle. I'm really excited that it's "We don't really know that doing really well." much about either team," senior The one problem that the Irish forward Amanda Guertin said. had last weekend was with giv­"We just really need to go play ing up breakaway goals. They our game." 
hope to have that problem fixed against the Red Storm. 
"We've got to be better organ­ized," coach Randy Waldrum said. "We miss [Gudrun Gunnarsdottir] in the back, she 
I really helps keep things organ­
1: ized for us." 
"We need to get tougher on defense and not give up goals 

Pressure 
). continued from page 24 
" I 
gression. You may have one :· receiver, and that might be a guy
I I' that's hot or that might be the
1.' I' I primary guy. You might not have 
I 
the luxury of going to youI favorite receiver." 
1. 
' Holiday admitted the team struggled last week, but said the coaches made adjustments at halftime, and that was the differ­ence between the first half and the second half. 
"Last week at halftime we adjusted, and we were able to pick up the pressure. When they did blitz us in the second half we were able to pick it up and take advantage of it," Holiday said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at 
jhe~er@nd.edu 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

-

Thursday, September 11, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


JUMBLE 
JJ~jJ~
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CNOTH ± 
02003 Tribune Med1a S91Vicea, Inc. All Rights Rese Ned 
NAISE 



I [J 

tSMIREY t


J I I IJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

THE L-OSING STOCK C.AR DRIVER WAS FINE:D FOR THIS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

k~· "( I I I J" (II I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: APRON BISON TREMOR GAIETYYesterday's I 

Answer When the teen outlined his homework plans, Mom thought it was-"PROMISING" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Errs -as in 17-, 27-, 42­
Heat locale and 52-Across? 
6 Wind instrument 39 Years, to Yves 10 Ring 40 Year in 
14 Early check, Claudius's reignperhaps 
41 One of a finite 

16 Tabula 
pair? 17 Opposite of 
42 Opposite of abandoned? 

dead-on? 19 Expires 
46 Yacht spots 20 Off, in a way 
49 What payments 21 Account may be in number 
50 Dinar spender 25 English king 
51 "The Night of succeeded by the Hunter" 

William of screenwriter 
Orange 52 Opposite of a 27 Opposite of gleeful shout? 
sad? 
59 Kind of force 

29 1998 P.G.A. , 60 Chairpersons?
Championship 
winner 61 Once, once 
30 Cooler in a 62 _ regni (in the cooler year of the reign)
31 T. S. Eliot's Theatre Cat 63 Final figure 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

DOWN 1 Scratch, say 
2 First name in tyranny 3 Diamond stat. 4 _-jongg 
5 How fractions may be stated 6 Buyer 7 Complex grp. 8 "Bad idea" 
9 Artist's asset 10 Trims 11 Counts, now 12 Computer data 
format 13 "Chicago Hope" Emmy winner 
15 Sure success 18 Mattress problem 21 _ gut (laugh hard) 22 Hive-connected 
23 Driving course? 24 Halo wearer. in France 
25 It might throw 
you 
26 "Absolutely!" 
28 Italian playwright _ Fo 
31 "_Din" 32 Insistent one 
33 Piques 
35 Italian sports car, for short 
36 Good thing to have about you 
WILLSHORTZ 


Man" Grammy Scorpius44 First Olympics . 

winner 

venue with 58 Designer women's hockey 51 Erelong monogram 
For answers, call 1 -900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. ny1tmes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ny1imes.comllearning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENiA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Brian De Palma, Amy Madigan, Moby, Harry Connick Jr., Lola Falana, Earl Holliman 
Happy Birthday: Drastic measures don't usually bring results, but this year you may have to be willing to push the envelope. Be prepared, precise and right to the point. The less you dawdle, the more you'll accomplish. Your numbers: 8, 13, 21, 34, 45,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Break away from everyday routine and do something a little bit different. Being involved in large organizations and lost in the crowd will allow you to observe and gain insight. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Being a good Samaritan will add to your popularity. You will be able to make positive changes to your working conditions by gaining the support of co-workers. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be like the Tasmanian devil today, so full of energy and ideas it will be difficult for the average person to keep up. Don't be too quick to judge others who seem to be standing still. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are under observation. Don't become involved with anyone who may already be married. Keep your feet on the ground and look for a stable partner or stay single for now. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a difference. Your job of helping others will become easy if your empathize. Your ability as a spokesperson will be admired. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Brown-nosing will lead to jealousy and to conflicts \\lith colleagues, leaving you friendless and the talk of the office. Be productive but don't flaunt your actions. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's time to back off and let the chips fall where they may. Do not pry into the affairs of others. Sudden changes are likely regarding your professional position. Don't take chances. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your cash in the bank. Taking financial risks will lead to trouble. Problems will result if you have put too much stress on yuurself. Life can be enjoyable if you stick to basics. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It won't be all about you today. If loved ones ask for your time, be prepared to give it. If you don't, you may not like the treatment you get in return. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect delays or problems with shipments, mail or equipment. Don't rely on colleagues. Stay put and work on projects that don't require a great deal of travel or communication.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Feeling good about yourself is half the battle as you've discovered if you've been making some alterations to your appearance. You can expect to attract a lot of attention. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Avoid disputes by treating others with respect and being a little more accommodating. The old saying is true: Actions do speak louder titan words. Be affectionate and refrain from being critical or questioning. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sophisticated and loving. You're a mediator who will ') have the ability to make others smile and to bring harmony and peace to any situation. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
-----------------~------------------~---~-----~--------------~-----------­

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

FOOTBALL 
• l 
In the eye of the stortn. 
Quarterback Carlyle Holiday hopes for more time in the pocket 
~ : 
. ' 

Thursday, September 11, 2003 

Page 24 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday Is pursued by Washington State linebacker Will Derting Saturday. Holiday hopes to .have more time in the pocket this week against Michigan. 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's offense barely survived the numerous blitzing schemes Washington State threw at them last 
Saturday.  
This  weekend  
against Michigan, the Irish will use the  See Also  
experience  they  "Pressure forces  
gained from that pressure to improve an offense that  Irish fullbacks into blocking  
gained 312 yards in a  role"  
29-26 overtime win against the Cougars.  page 22  
"The more you do  

blitz pickup, the more [you get] the front unit working together and the backs working with them," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I don't think there's any question [experience will help]." 
Washington State pressured Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday all day with its blitz schemes, especially in the first half. Blindside and frontside pres­sure from the Cougar secondary caused Holiday to take hits and cough up the football. 
"If you take a lot of hits, you're going to start feeling the pressure," Holiday said. "You're going to have to because 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

·I 
I 
I 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team is happy to again give an opponent a little home cooking. 
For the first time in almost two weeks, the Belles will face an opponent at home. The last home match for the Belles was Aug. 30, in the SMC Triangular

I against Goshen College. J Saint Mary's faces non-confer­ence opponent Rochester
·~ 
College Thursday at 6:30 p.m.

I~ 
The Belles defeated .the I' ~\ Warriors on the road last year
/ 
by a score of 30-22, 30-19, 30­

,j 16. 
"Last year we were really in control that whole game," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. J "We are a stronger team this I year, so I'm telling our players
~~ 
just to go out there and play our

·' 
game, and we should win."

•' 
If the Belles pull off the victo­

' 
,, 
1(, 
that's the only option. You're going to become aware of where everyone is." 
Holiday didn't feel the pressure on several occasions in the first half and fumbled four times -one of which was returned for a touchdown. Holiday understands that he must feel the pres­ence of opposing defenders and either scramble or get rid of the football, instead of taking a sack or making a costly fumble. He said this week in practice has helped him in that situa­tion. 
"Quarterbacks don't get hit at prac­tice, but at the same time you have to use everything like a game situation, so when you see that guys are coming you have to step and get rid of the ball." 
The Washington State pressure not only caused fumbles, but also forced Holiday out of his progressions. Ideally, Holiday will have about 3.5 seconds to check each of his three receivers on any given pass play. Last Saturday, the offensive line couldn't keep the Cougars off Holiday long enough for him to check more than one, or sometimes, two receivers before being sacked or forced to throw the ball away. 
"Overall through camp, I think Holiday's done a good job going through his progression," Diedrick said. "Sometimes you may not have a pro-
see PRESSURE/page 22 
,. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

' I I'' 
1:... 
I . .II 

Belles glad to be home again 
ry, which would be their fifth rior-oriented offense. this year, they will have to do it Just the same, the Belles without a key component of coach is anxious to get her team their team. Freshman outside back home in front of a positive 
attacker  Ann  crowd and away  
Carpenter experi­enced back prob­ "It's going to be  from what has been a grueJing  
lems earlier in the week and will be held out of the  nice to be back home.,  road schedule lately. "It's going to be  
Rochester match  nice to be back  
and receive X~rays  Julie Schroeder-Biek  home," she said.  
Thursday.  Belles coach  "Lately it's been  

Sophomore out­side attacker Michelle Turley, who injured her foot earlier in the year, will have an MRI Thursday. The Belles coach believes that Turley more than likely experienced a stress fracture and will probably miss the season. 
According to Schroeder-Biek, Rochester will probably try to come at Saint Mary's with a powerful offensive attack. The Belles' previous opponent, Calvin, used a much more inte­
just go-go-go; 
play one day, practice the next, then play again, and so on. 
"I really scheduled us tight this season. Hopefully we can just get everyone healthy." 
The Belles remain at home Saturday to compete in another SM C Triangular, against Kalamazoo College and Tri­State University. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Young Irish players look to contribute 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Having continued their good start by winning two games in the Notre Dame Classic, the Irish will head to New York to face St. John's in a Big East match-up this afternoon. 
The Irish, now ranked No. 2 by Soccer America and No. 3 by the NSCAA, will then returri to Alumni Field to face Western Kentucky Saturday. This marked the 10th time in 11 years that the Irish have been in the top three in the NSCAA poll, with last year being the lone exception. 
The Irish will look to contin­ue the one-sidedness of their series against the Red Storm. The Irish have won the previ­ous seven meetings by outscor­ing St. John's 38-0. The Red Storm opened this year 1-3, with their lone win coming in their last game against Siena. 
The Irish also look to contin­ue their solid play from early this season. In their first four games, the Irish have outscored the opposition 20-3 and have never given up more than one goal per game, while scoring at least three in every contest. 
The Irish have received numerous contributions from a multitude of players. Last week, freshman Jen Buczkowski received many awards for her play, including being named offensive MVP of the Notre Dame Classic. She was also recognized on the Soccer America national team 
see YOUTH/page 22 

; 
en 
FOOTBALL 

SMC SOCCER 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
MAJOR LEAGUE

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NFL 
LLI 
As Washington State 
A recap and roundup
As the quarterback at 

Fresno State was 
Wide receiver Antonio 

Saint Mary's 2,
~ 1--u z got more and more pres-
Michigan, senior John 
Freeman and coach 
of baseball games from

placed on probation
Calvin 2 

(t­rr sure on quarterback 
the Major League
Navarre is constantly crit-
Mike Sherman appear

~ednesday by the
::5

ll C~rlyle Holiday, the Irish 
icized and second-
to have come to an 
Wednesday.

NCAA for violations
ji = 
The Belles remained 
== fullbacks had to change 
guessed, but he doesn't 

involving academic 
agreement as Freeman

undefeated on the sea-
I en Cl: 
their responsibilities to 
let the pressure and 

fraud, recruiting and eli­
signed a one-year con-

son by pulling out a tie
A. ~ pass protection. 
naysayers get to him. 
gibility. 
tract with the Packers. 

with the Comets. 
page 22 
page 19 

page 18 
page 17

page 21 
page 14 

I 





