
Cameraman claims Scully smelled of alcohol 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Editor 
A cameraman from WNDU-TV said he smelled alcohol on the breath of Notre Dame executive vice president Father Tim Scully when Scully confronted him and a WNDU reporter before a Mass Thursday for freshman Chad Sharon. 
Patrick Hartney said he and Bonnie Druker, the WNDU reporter, were stand­ing in a foyer outside Fisher's chapel when Scully approached them at 9:50 
p.m. from several feet away and asked them w.hat station they were from. Hartney said Scully made a scene in the manner he confronted them and then 

escorted both Druker and himself by their arms out­side. 
Scully confronted them because they parked both a car and news van behind Fisher Hall illegally. 
"He chewed us out. His manner was disturbing. I thought he was overly tempered and a calmer approach would have been more acceptable," said Hartney. "I smelled alcohol on his breath and he touched us, but he certainly didn't cause me any physical harm." 
Scully did not return phone calls seeking comment. Both Rex Rakow, Notre Dame Security and Police director, and Matt Storin, associate vice presi­dent for news and information, declined comment. 
Hartney said he saw the confrontation as a stern lecturing and added that Seu lly was correct in asking them to move the vehicles. 
Druker moved the vehicles while Hartney returned to Fisher Hall to cover the Mass and left by 10:10 p.m., a time previous established by the University when media representatives had to leave the chapel. 
Hartney did not witness any further confrontations involving the priest. 
Notre Dame Security and Police officer David Austin interviewed Druker and Hartney at the WNDU-TV station shortly after midnight Friday morning and Druker filed a report. Hartney did not file a report but provided witness infor• mation. 
"I honestly think it was unfortunate," said Hartney. "He had his reasons for doing what he did and I think he overre­acted. As far as I am concerned the situ-
see SCULLY/page 6 


Students reflect on new dance policy 

By JASON McFARLEY 

News Writer 

Planning hall-sponsored dances became more expen­sive and problematic when Notre Dame banned the events from residence halls, students said at a forum Tuesday to glean feedback on the revamped dances. 
Student government officials called the forum to com­pile anecdotal information for their report to the Board of Trustees next month. The report will focus on the changes to the dances since the University revised its alcohol policy last fall. 
"The big problem is money -we don't have enough," said junior Wyatt Maxwell, Fisher HaH president. "We can't afford to pay $500 for a dance floor in South Dining Hall and $500 for cookies since you have to be catered [by Food Services]. We don't have $1,000 to spend." 
Outlawing dances in dorms moved the events off cam­pus or to alternative on-campus venues such as dining halls, classroom buildings and Warren Golf Clubhouse. 
Students said most of the surrogate locations were unappealing or came with too many set-up and rental costs. Each of the 27 halls sponsored about two dances last semester. 
The basement of the Knights of Columbus building was a poor substitute for the Zahm Hall basement, where that dorm's dances were held in the past, said sophomore Eric Tarnowski. 
"It's a good alternative but not ideal," said Tarnowski, the hall's social commissioner. 
see DANCES/page 3 


Jefferson makes court appearance, trial delayed 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Editor 
The civil trial of Clifford Jefferson, the for• mer Notre Dame football player who faces a lawsuit for an alleged rape, was delayed indefinitely Tuesday following unprecedented rulings by a St. Joseph County Superior Court judge, said one of the plaintiffs attorneys. 
Judge Jenny Pitts Manier denied the plain~ tiff's motion for summary judgment. A sum­mary judgment asks that the judge make a decision without a jury trial. 
Lee Korzan, one of the plaintifrs attorney's, said Jefferson surprised Manier and attorneys when he appeared because he had failed to cooperate with lawyers and attend prior court dates. 
"He got a break today he didn't deserve," said Korzan. "He has done nothing to warrant this and he ignored court and counsel. To walk into trial the way he did today after two years of ignoring the system is outrageous." 
The plaintiff, a former Saint Mary's student, claimed Jefferson raped her in March 2001. She filed her civil suit after criminal charges were not brought against Jefferson. She alleged that Jefferson engaged in nonconsen­sual sexual acts with her in his car parked outside of her dorm. 
The woman withdrew from Saint Mary's fol-
see JEFFERSONIpage 6 

Mugged student files police report 
behind, causing him to roll on attackers as four males, threeBy MEGHANNE DOWNES his left ankle. Caucasians and one African­
Associare News Editor 
"It happened really quickly," American, between the ages of 
said the victim. "I fell down 18 and 25. 
A Keenan Hall freshman and they grabbed money from South Bend police did not mugged early Friday morning my wallet and cell phone. They return calls seeking comment three blocks south of campus then asked me to empty my on the investigation and filed a report with the South pockets." attempts to obtain a copy of Bend Police Department After the attack, the victim the report the victim filed were Monday said he. flagged down a cab and unsuccessful. 
After thinking he left his cell returned to campus, where he Prior to the attack, the victim phone at a South Bend bar. the said he felt no pain and went said he was at Boat Club with victim said he was walking to bed. When he awoke, he dis­friends. He was returning to back to campus on Notre Dame covered his ankle was swollen. campus in a cab when he Avenue and crossed St. University Health Services thought he left his cell phone 
Vincent Street when four indi­treated his ankle injury. viduals shoved him from The victim described his see REPORT/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 



You can't stop reality 
When you turn on the television, you may find yourself watching some­one performing an outrageous stunt in order to receive $50,000. Flip the channel and you will see amateurs attempting to 
become Mike Harkins Hollywood stars, with many of Assistant 
them being ripped Graphics Editor 
on by some English guy in the process. Turn to another channel and you can watch as a wealthy bachelor looks to choose who he likes the best out of a group of 20 women. Will it ever end? I hope not. 
More reality shows are appearing now, much of them with a lot of build up. Every show tries to come up with the next concept that is new and unique and, in some cases. absolutely ridiculous. Maybe the whole reality television thing has spun a little out of control, but honestly, who with a little spare time on their hands can resist watching these kinds of shows? 
You would think that after a while the idea of reality television would spoil. In some cases it has: shows such as "Survivor" are no longer as big as they once were. Yet networks are coming out with more and more reality series. Some shows have lasted through all the criticism. Much of reality TV that exists today originated from the MTV show, "The Real World," which is now in its 12th sea­son. Will there ever be a reality series that can last as long as this one? Possibly. 
The reality factor is so dynamic that no matter what the twist is you never know what is going to happen. Even simple shows like "Elimidate" can provide a good half hour's worth of entertainment. 
Actually, "Elimidate" is a perfect example of why many of these shows cannot be taken seriously. What makes them so fun to watch is that these real people are so outrageous 

" that you can't help but laugh at them. A great example is the new show "Meet My Folks," in which a young guy is hoping to find a date out of a. group of nine young ladies. The twist is that he doesn't get to choose: his mom and dad do. What results is the unveiling of a bunch of dirty secrets about the girls, leading to their dis­missal by the untrusting mom and dad. Crazy ideas such as this one are what reality TV is all about. And then there are shows such as "Joe Millionaire," which combine the reality concept with a little bit of fic­tion. Twenty women are led to believe that they are competing to win a date with a multi-millionaire, unaware of what the audience knows from the beginning: the man is actually a lowly construction worker. Brilliant. These shows are too entertaining to miss, and people will keep on watch­ing until the next new series comes out. If any of you reality series haters disagree, let me know• I'll be watch­ing American Idol. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Tuesday's article, "Affirmative action case should not affect Notre Dame," the story incorrectly stated that Michigan's admissions system uses a scale of 120 points. In fact, the scale is l SO points. The Observer regrets this error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 

Students to march for life in Washington 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents have depart­ed for the nation's capital for the annual pro-life march. 
page 4 

WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE
NATION NEWS 
U.S. civilian Ford's loses Honor King 

The art of contractor 
$130 million in but remember 
filmmaking slain in road 
fourth quarter 
lost values ambush 
Gunman in 

Restructuring has 
Columnist Paul 
Students gear up Kuwait ambushes 
led to a large fourth 
Graham reminds 
for the 14th annual Americans near 
quarter loss for the readers of the con­
Student Film military base. 
world's second 
tinuing struggle to 
Festival. largest automaker. 
realize King's dream. 
pages 

page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer. 10 p.m. Morrissey l lall Chapel 

. 
Graduation Student Christian Fellowship. 8 p.m. \\'ilson Commons" 

. 
Girl Culture: Lauren Greenfield Photographs, All day, Snitc Museum of Art 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Faculty Assembly, noon, LcMans Stapleton Lounge · · 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting, 7 p.m., 317N Madclcva 

. 
Home Program, 7 p.m., Madclcva Carroll 


Auditorium 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: pasta alla carbonara, oil & garlic sauce, chicken fajita pizza, breadsticks, mushroom stroganoff, kluski noodles, green beans, apple cob­bler, tuna casserole, barley greens & risotto, baked potato, corn, grits, sausage links, blueberry pancakes, scrambled eggs, tater tots 
Today Dinner: chicken fajita pizza, breadsticks, roast pork loin, wild pecan rice, broccoli cuts, apple cobbler, garden quiche, lemon couscous, baked sweet potato, baked potato, fresh carrots, veg­etable moussaka, peas, tobago chicken breast, seasoned fries, baked beans, szechuan shrimp stir-fry 
page 12-13

page 11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
SPORTS 
Another date to remember 
Athletic director Kevin White recently received a contract extension through 2012. 
page 24 

NDSP tows vehicle Student reports 
NDSP tows vehicle lost cross rail parked Monday at the No suspects exist in Moose Krause Circle for Monday's report of a parking violation. stolen cross rail to a lug­
gage rack. The incident Car towed at occurred in University Circle Village and the case is 
A car was towed pending. Monday by campus police at Main Circle Dillon guest loses after a parking violation. wallet 
A visitor reported Ring, money found Monday that she lost her 
A ring and money were wallet in Dillon Hall. The found Monday at Rolfs case is pending. Sports Recreation Center and turned into Notre Police look into Dame security. phone call 
NDSP is investigating a Fraud reported complaint of a harassing 
NDSP is investigating a telephone call made Monday complaint of Monday to Morrissey fraud that occurred this Hall. week at LaFortune Student Center. Student loses ID 
Student reports that she Sick employee lost her ID Monday in cared for North Dining Hall. 
A University employee was treated Monday at South Dining Hall after -Compiled from NDSP 
becoming ill. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach-cheese tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks, gar­den quiche, baby lima beans, baked potato neptune, beef tips & mush­rooms, kluski noodles, roast top sirloin of beef, long grain & wild rice, italian chicken sandwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzel, szechuan chicken stir-fry, chicken enchilada 
Today Dinner: eggplant parmesan, her bed vegetable medley, swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet, rotisserie chicken, roasted herb-garlic russet potatoes, shrimp poppers, crinkle fries, soft pret­zel, pork tempura, beef fajita 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LI.I 

:z:: 
~ 
LI.I 

3: 

...I 


* * 


,_. ***·* 
<( 
! 
**'* 
(,) 

** *.
** * 

.3 HIGH 14 HIGH 13 HIGH 15 HIGH 17 LOW 2 LOW 2 LOW 8 LOW 8 
crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: vegetable crepes, pasta with olives & tomatoes, couscous salad, sun flower seed bread, sauteed fajitas, Mediterranean bar, chicken nuggets, curley fries, sauteed zucchini, Hawaiian pizza, Italian loafer, chicken salad, slice turkey breast, sliced roast beef, hummus, seven layer bar, sugar cookies, cream of tomato soup, cream of chicken soup, Amish potato salad 
Today Dinner: vegetarian strudel, grilled polenta, baked butternut squash, tossed pasta, light tomato sauce, omelets cooked to order with hash browns, chili bar, BBQ ribs, pizza 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


fr.
*!.0...: *" :C.:-'. *
7; 1¥:: 
HIGH 21 HIGH 26 LOW 15 LOW 18 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






DeBolt returns to Jacksonville 
By ANDREW SOUKUP News Writer 
Former Notre Dame football player Chad DeBolt is sched­uled to appear in a Jacksonville, Fla .. court today for a hearing stemming from a Dec. 27 incident at a Jacksonville nightclub. 
His family declined to com­ment on the case, citing the advice of DeBolt's attorney, and attempts to contact DeBolt or his attorney have been unsuccessful. 
"When we're ready to talk, we'll talk loud and clear," his mother, Jamie, said Tuesday. 
Police arrested DeBolt, who was in Jacksonville for the Gator Bowl as a member of the Notre Dame football team, and charged him · with trespassing. At the time of his arrest, police said DeBolt was uncooperative. intoxicated and yelling. 
While in custody, police used pepper spray and punched him in the back and arms, accord­ing to a police report obtained by a Jacksonville newspaper. Officials at the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office said the report could not be provided to The Observer because the investi­gation was still ongoing. 
The senior gave police a statement on Jan. 2. The police report cited by the Florida Times-Union quoted DeBolt as saying, "I had too much to drink and shouldn't have acted that way." 
DeBolt, a 6-foot, 202-pound special teams player, did not play in the Gator Bowl. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
DANCERS MOVED BY THE SPIRIT 

MELISSA FLORES/The Observer 

A group of Notre Dame women take part In a service Tuesday In the Keenan/Stanford chapel. 

Dances 
continued from page 1 
Carroll Hall president Ryan 
Greenberg worried that some of 
the venues couldn't accommo­
date dance-goers from his 
dorm, one of the smallest on 
campus. He said that fact ruled 
out those venues for other. 
larger dorms. 
Spurred by concern about 
excessive campus drinking, 
University officials dumped in­
hall dances and banned liquor 
from undergraduate dorms. 
The changes last fall also ,-­
brought a revision to campus tailgating rules. 
Tarnowski said at the forum that a more appropriate course of action for the University would have been to outlaw only the liquor and to warn students that unruly drinking would threaten future in-hall dances. After a year. he said, officials could evaluate the change and decide whether a dance ban was necessary. 
\iVhen they announced the policy changes last spring, administrators feared that stu­dents were partying in individ­ual residence hall rooms and too often showing up drunk to the dances. 
Students at the forum couldn't say with certainty whether the dance ban had hurt attendance or curbed drinking. 
Student Affairs promised each hall $1,000 to help defray expenses connected with mov­ing dances out of residence halls. Still, hall presidents and dance commissioners at the forum said organizing dances has become troublesome finan­cially. Finding and reserving space for dances is also a has­sle, they said. 
Greenberg, from Carroll Hall. recommended the University 
7 
I. 
_J 
establish relationships with owners of off-campus dance venues to make identifying and paying for dance spots easier. 
Others supported a central­ized office for organizing dances. 
"We can't leave dances the way they are," Greenberg said. 
Last spring, student outcry over changes to the alcohol pol­icy focused on the in-hall dance ban. Students worried that the ban would hurt residence life. 
Student Body Vice President Trip Foley, who protested the changes after taking office last April, wasn't surprised by stu­dent sentiment Tuesday. 
The forum "confirmed things we've been hearing all along," he said, "but students are smart to realize things won't change overnight." 
Foley was optimistic that University trustees would be receptive to the student input that Student Body President Libby Bishop will present to the board Feb. 6 in Naples, Fla. 
Student government officials present to the board three times each year, at the trustees fall, winter and spring meet­ings. 
Trustees and administrators praised Bishop and Foley's fall report on residence life. Some proposals in the student gov­ernment report were mirrored in the Office of Student Affairs' 10-year plan released later last fall. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarlcy. l@nd.edu 






Wednesday, January 22, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Students to march for life in Washington 
Fox's'American Idol' returns to TV 
Recycle The Observer. 

D[sclaimer: Notre Dame Student Union Board does not encourage any of the activities portrayed in this movie. Watch at your own risk! 
11 
1.,
4· 
:, _t,; 
:"-,Ji:~./' 
•· 
31; ·--~--. 
' l • ~, 

By LUKE BUSAM News Writer 
Students from ND/SMC Right to Life and opponents of abor­tion within the Notre Dame community are participating in the March for Life in Washington, D.C today. 
Nearly 150 students from Notre Dame and SMC will make the trip this year, which marks the 30th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court deci­sion that ruled abortion is pro­tected by the Constitution. 
The march begins with a rally on the national mall featuring pro-life speakers and musi­cians. The protestors will make their way to Capitol Hill and the march will culminate in the late afternoon in front of the Supreme Court building. 
Kate Hoppe, president of ND/SMC Right to Life, partici­pated in her first march this year. Hoppe says ND/SMC Right to Life hopes to present a united front not only for the Notre Dame community, but for the greater community of college students as well. 

"Because one in three abor­tions happen to a college-age woman, we hope to present a strong front in defense of life and offer support for college women to show them they have options and that we are here for them," said Hoppe. 
The March for Life is part of a movement to increase aware­ness on the issue. The group's long-term goals include the overturning the Roe decision. 
"The Marches will never fully accomplish their goal until the Supreme Court decision is over­turned. We will keep fighting until we have accomplished that goal, the goal of respect for life in all its stages, " said Hoppe. 
Janel Daufenbach, the March for Life Coordinator for ND/SMC Right to Life also will attend today's march. Daufenbach hopes today's march will increase awareness of the sig­nificance of the Roe decision on campus and across the nation. 
"The march really gets no media attention. One of our goals is to make it be nationally known," Daufenbach said. "We are joined form people all the nation who stand for the same cause that we do. We are trying to make a public stand against Roe v. Wade and what its done to our country." 
While a large number of stu­dents were unaware of the March for Life, others on cam­pus made a deliberate decision not to attend. 
Sophomore Erica Ruddy opted not to attend the march but praised the students in ND/SMC Right to Life. "Abortion is a per­sonal decision everyone has to make for themselves based on their moral and religions view­point.," she said. "A lot of time and effort was put in on the part of the justices and we should respect the Supreme Court's interpretation of the Constitution". 
Teresa Hansen, a sophomore who attended the March for Life twice as a high school student, said, ''I'm not attending because women in this country have cer­tain rights afforded by the con­stitution. People may have cer­tain religious beliefs, like me, and believe its wrong to have an abortion, but I don't think all women should have to adhere to those beliefs." 
Last semester, Hansen interned for the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, a feminist organi­zation in Washington, D.C. Before that she worked at the Family Violence Prevention Program, a shelter for victims of domestic violence, in Wheeling, w.v. 
"I have talked with women who have had an abortion," said Hansen." I believe [Roe v. Wade] was the correct decision. The justices made the best deci­sion in light of the scientific evi­dence presented." 
Hansen said she commends all Americans who communi­cate their individual points of view by traveling to D.C. to express them. 
"I've been on many marches, not just Right to Life marches. It is our right to exercise our freedom of speech and we need to exercise it. I admire those who go," said Hansen. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

& 10:30 pm DBRT 101 $3 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Simon's back, and the knives are out. 
"If you lived 2,000 years ago and sang like that, I think they would have stoned you," judge Simon Cowell told one hapless con­testant Tuesday on the return of Fox's "American Idol." 
After the talent show became an unexpected TV hit last summer, Fox has brought back a second edi­tion during the more com­petitive winter. The network isn't shy about trying to ride the wave: Tuesday's pre­miere stretched 90 minutes, followed by a half-hour update on first edition con­testants. 

Cowell, the sharp-tongued British record executive, was happy to slip back into his role as villain. 
"This says you went to the Fame high school," Cowell told one quivering contes­tant. "Did you get thrown out?" 
To a New Yorker: "I've heard better people sing out­side of subway stations." 
To a Mariah Carey emula­tor: "Go back to your vocal 
coach  and  demand  a  
refund."  
To  an  unfortunate soul  

who couldn't grasp the reali­ty of losing: "If you were to win and sing a song, you would kill the American record industry. That's how bad you were." 
9-BALL BILLIARD 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. JAN. 24 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 1st Place: $100 gift cErtlflcatE from BEST BUY 
2nd Place, $SO gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift certificate from BEST BUY (Opportunity to compete at regional tournament) 
Space limited to first 16 people who sign up-­Sign up at NO Express. (Open to ND STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present 1.0. when registering.) 
SponsorEd by thE StUdEnt ActlvltiES OfflcE. 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
KUWAIT 
U.S. civilian contractor slain in highway ambush 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT CITY 

A gunman ambushed two Americans driving near a U.S. military base Tuesday in Kuwait, killing one and wound­ing another in what U.S. offi­cials branded a terror attack. 
The shooting was the first assault on U.S. civilians in Kuwait and the third on Americans since October in the oil-rich emirate, where pro­American sentiment is usually strong and where thousands of 
U.S. troops are assembling for a possible war on Iraq. 
The victims -civilian con­tractors working for the U.S. military -were traveling in a four-wheel-drive Toyota when they came under a hail of bul­lets. 
The U.S. Embassy identified the man killed as Michael Rene Pouliot, 46, of San Diego, an employee of a software devel­opment company, Tapestry Solutions. 
Tapestry identified the injured man as another employee, David Caraway, a senior software engineer. He was in stable condition in a Kuwait hospital after surgery to remove bullets, including two from his chest. He also had arm and thigh wounds, a hos­pital official said. 
No group claimed responsi­bility for the attack. U.S. and Kuwaiti officials said they believed a single gunman fired a Kalashnikov assault rifle at the vehicle. The attacker then fled. 
"We condemn this terrorist incident, which has tragically cost the life of an innocent American citizen," said U.S. Ambassador Richard Jones. 
The gunman apparently hid behind trees and bushes beside a stoplight at an intersection on Highway 85 three miles from Camp Doha -a U.S. military installation housing some 17,000 American troops sta­tioned in Kuwait, where 8,000 
U.S. civilians also live. 
In Washington, the White House said Americans were working with Kuwaiti investi­gators to determine who was behind the attack, which underscored the hostility some feel toward Americans even in Muslim nations considered sympathetic to the United States. 
"The president's heart goes out to the families affected by this attack," spokesman Ari Fleischer said. "It's a reminder of the dangers and risks ser­vicemen and women face every day." 
The men attacked Tuesday were in Kuwait developing soft­ware technologies that help military planners coordinate "We are stunned by this A Kuwaiti security official and gather information, their senseless act of violence which agreed the shooting was a ter­San Diego-based company said. has taken a great man and rorist act. The government was 

Pouliot is survived by his wife friend from our family," said quick to denounce the attack and daughters, ages 12 and 14, Mark Young, Tapestry vice and tried to portray it as an a Tapestry spokesman said. president. isolated incident. 

Navy doubles air power near Iraq as U.S. forces grow 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rurnsfeld has ordered the Navy to double the num­ber of aircraft carrier battle groups posi­tioned within striking distance of Iraq, defense officials said Tuesday. 
The additional naval air power is part of a broader buildup of U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf region. More than 60,000 troops already are there, to be joined over the next few weeks by about 120,000 more. When the buildup is finished, before the end of February, President Bush will have the option of attacking Iraq from multiple directions. 
Gen. Tommy Franks, the Central Command commander who would run a war against Iraq, was departing his Tampa, Fla., headquarters Tuesday night for a weeklong visit to the Persian Gulf region, officials said. Details of his trip were being withheld for security reasons. He was last in the Gulf in December. 
The carrier battle group led by the USS Constellation is operating in the northern Persian Gulf, the USS Harry S. Truman battle group is in the Mediterranean Sea. and Rumsfeld ordered two more groups to join them. They will be the Everett, Wash.-based USS Abraham Lincoln, now operating near Australia, and a carrier from the Norfolk, Va.-based Atlantic Fleet. 
Lt. Cmdr. Dave Werner, an Atlantic Fleet spokesman. said the fleet comman­der, Adm. Robert Natter. decided Tuesday the Norfolk carrier will be the USS Theodore Roosevelt, assuming it success­fully completes training now under way in the Caribbean Sea. The Roosevelt's last deployment began just days after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. and it operated in the northern Arabian Sea during the U.S.­led air campaign over Afghanistan. 
Natter also has available for short­notice deployment the USS George Washington, which returned from a six­month tour in the Mediterranean shortly before Christmas and would normally not deploy again for at least 12 months. 
Each carrier has an air wing compris­ing 70-80 aircraft, including F/A-18 Hornet and F-14 Tomcat fighters, as well as surveillance, electronic warfare, search-and-rescue and command and control aircraft. A battle group also includes surface ships capable of firing Tomahawk cruise missiles and at least one submarine. 
Officials said Rumsfeld was considering sending one or two additional carriers to the Gulf region, for a potential total of six. 
The Army, meanwhile, continued its surge of equipment and soldiers to the Gulf area. 
The 4th Infantry Division, equipped with tanks, attack helicopters and artillery to defeat armored forces, is heading a group of 37,000 soldiers ordered to reposition in the Persian Gulf region. Their equipment will be shipped first, with the soldiers to go when final basing arrangements are worked out. officials said. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraqi VP convinced U.S. will attack: 
The Baghdad government will work more closely with arms monitors under a new U.N. accord, but the U.S. military will probably attack Iraq anyway. a senior Iraqi official said Tuesday. "It is possible any minute, any second that while the inspectors are still here, the aggression takes place, because the 
U.S. administration doesn't care," Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan said. 
N. Korea quiet about nuclear program: 
The chief North Korean delegate to talks with South Korea hinted Tuesday he was unwilling to discuss an issue of vital concern to his hosts and their allies: North Korea's suspected nuclear weapons program. The comments by Kirn Ryong Song, the North Korean delegate, raised doubts about whether South Korea would make any headway during the four-day talks in urging the North to drop its nuclear prqgr_arns. . _ 
...... ~--·----... ·----------~---··­
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hispanics now outnumber blacks in U.S.: Hispanics have surpassed blacks as the nation's largest minority group, the Census Bureau said Tuesday. The Latino population grew to 37 mil­lion in July 2001, up 4.7 percent from April 2000. The black population increased 2 percent during the same period, to 36.1 million. The estimates are the Census Bureau's first statistics on race and ethnicity since results from the 2000 census were released two years ago. 
Pilot alleged to have gun in carry-on: 
A Northwest Airlines pilot scheduled to work a Detroit-bound flight was arrested Tuesday morning at LaGuardia Airport after a loaded handgun was found in his carry-on luggage, authorities said. Robert Donaldson, 43, was charged with three state counts of criminal pos­session of a weapon, and could face up to 15 
• years in pr:is~n: .. ___ ... _.. __ . _.. __ 
Texas court grants death row reprieve: 
A convicted killer set to die this week won a reprieve Tuesday from a Texas appeals court because state prison records show he may be men­tally retarded. Tests administered to the inmate, Elkie Taylor, while imprisoned for an earlier crime showed he had an IQ of 63, according to Taylor's attorney. A second test yielded an IQ score of 57, said the lawyer, James Rasmussen. The stay grant­ed by the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals will allow time for a hearing on whether Taylor is mentally retarded. 
Feds decry fake environmental tests: 
Private laboratories are increasingly being caught falsifying test results for water supplies, petroleum products, underground tanks and soil. hampering the government's ability to ensure Americans are protected by environmental laws, investigators 
say. 

J 
page 6 
Scully 
continued from page 1 
ation is far behind me." 
The NDSP report classified the incident as an "other assault" between a University employee and visitor over a parking violation at Fisher Hall. 
Druker declined to confirm whether or not Scully grabbed her by the arm and if she smelled alcohol on his breath. She said she was determining what to comment on was not being influenced by others. 
The University owns WNDU­TV and Scully is the chairman of the station's board of direc­tors. 
According to a police report obtained by The South Bend Tribune, Druker told police, "Father Scully grabbed the lower part of my right arm and pinched the arm." 
Druker said Scully came to the station to apologize and she accepted his apology. Scully met with Hartney sepa­rately and said he was "out of line and the [incident] was uncalled for," according to Hartney. 
Hartney said as part of his job, he makes parking viola­tions on a daily basis in order to cover stories. 

"We knew they were parked illegally but we never had a problem before on campus," Druker said. 
Scully also asked WSBT-TV reporter Jennifer Kuk to move her vehicle as well, according to WSBT-TV news director Meg Sauer. Sauer said she did not think Kuk parked illegally and the station was following the rules as it understood them. 
The South Bend Tribune reported that Scully approached Kuk and pushed her arm, and he later apolo­gized to Kuk on Monday. 
WSBT left the University and was unable to get the footage they planned to. 
Scully, a Holy Cross priest since 1981, is the third-rank­ing official on Notre Dame's campus. He founded the ACE program and Holy Cross Associates, which places vol­unteers in ministries to the poor in the U.S. and Chile. 
He has served as a professor of government and interna­tional studies since 1989. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Bobby Brown sent from jail to hospital Tuesday 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Bobby Brown, who was sent to jail last week for drunken driving, has been hospitalized, authorities said Tuesday. 
The singer was taken from the county jail to Grady Memorial Hospital around 3 a.m., DeKalb County Sheriffs Office spokeswoman Mikki Jones said. She declined to provide details, saying inmates' medical information is confidential. 
Brown entered the DeKalb jail Friday after pleading guilty to a 1996 drunken dri­ving charge. 
He was sentenced to eight days, but Jones said Brown is eligible for release Wednesday under a "good time" policy that reduces sentences by 25 percent for good behavior. 
If Brown is still in the hos­pital Wednesday, he could be released from custody with­out returning to the jail, she said. 

Brown, who was put on two years' probation, was also ordered to perform commu­nity service and not to drive for a year. 
He was arrested Nov. 7 on charges of possessing less than an ounce of marijuana, speeding and having no dri­ver's license or proof of insurance. 
The Observer . NEWS 
Jefferson 
continued from page 1 
lowing the incident. 
In November, Jefferson ignored 67 requests for admis­sions, according to the South Bend lawyer. By failing to respond to the requests, the legal system regarded these requests as admissions. 
But Tuesday Manier with­drew most of those admis­sions. Korzan said it was unprecedented for admissions to be put aside on the day of the trial when a defendant repeatedly ignored the judicial system. 
"We were hoping to bring closure to the victim today, and what happened was beyond everyone's worst-case scenario and we are back to square one," said Korzan. "It has been two years since this rape occurred and the young lady has been through a lot. She feels as though she is being victimized again." 
Manier did not call a jury for the trial because she did not think that Jefferson would appear, said Korzan. The 2001 Notre Dame graduate failed to appear at previous hearings on Dec. 3 and Jan. 3 and to cooperate with both his own attorney and the victim's attorneys before the trial. 
According to the South Bend Tribune, Manier ruled on Jan. 3 that Jefferson would not be permitted to present witnesses or evidence at trial. The trial was to begin Tuesday. 
Jefferson, a former corner­back on the Irish football team, appeared in court Tuesday without an attorney. In October, Manier granted Jefferson's attorney permis­sion to withdraw after he failed to cooperate. 
Manier told Jefferson to hire an attorney and recused her-· self from the case without pro­viding a reason, Korzan said. Manier then named three judges for the postponed trial. Each side has 10 days to elimi­nate a judge and the remain­ing judge will preside over the case. 
Michael Anderson, the other attorney for the plaintiff, elim­inated one of the judges and asked Jefferson to make his elimination in open court, said Korzan. 
Korzan escorted his client out of the courtroom when he could see the direction the trial was headed. 
Korzan said he and Anderson will still pursue the case and wait until the new 
judge takes  over  the  case  
before  determining  what  
actions they will take.  

"She is going to get her day in court. We are going to get that guy, and we are going to hold him accountable for what he did," said Korzan. 
He said it is unclear whether the new judge will consider the rulings made by Manier and he did not rule out the possibility of an appeal. 
"We are dealing in unchart­ed territory because neither Anderson nor I, in our many years of practice, have ever handled a case like this," said Korzan. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
Report 
continued from page 1 
at Boat Club. He asked the 
cab driver to return to Boat 
Club and then got out of 
the cab when the driver 
informed him he would 
have to pay $6 in addition 
to the regular $2 cab fare. 
The victim said he started 
walking back toward Boat 
Club when he realized his 
cell phone was in his pock­
et and turned back towards 
campus. 
He said he decided to report the incident after friends urged him to and in light of freshman Chad Sharon's Dec. 12 disap­pearance. 
"I reported [the incident] for safety issues. I never expected this to happen when I left my friends," said the victim. 
The victim said he will not put himself in a similar situation again but does not intend to curtail his social activities. 
The incident prompted the rectors of Sorin and Keough Halls to send e­mails warning residents about their off-campus safety. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 
FILM 
FESTIVAL 
'2 0 0 3 


"Can 1011. pleas~ c•t U>.e !#@%! boom mic out e! th• frame?• 
HESBU:::•c,H lloRAkY CAREY ;,UDITORIUM 
7:30 & 9:45 P.M. S4.OO ADMISSION THUR, FRI. SAT & MON JANUARY 23, 24, 25 & 27 TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT Of FILM. TELEVISION. ANO THEATRE www.nd.edu/.ftt/studentfilms.shtml 
The Office of Undergraduate Studies 

in the College of Arts and Letters is pleased to announce the opening of the 
YlLcove 

an Educational Resource Center and Gallery for Undergraduate Students located in 
1.02 O'Shaughnessy Hall Open Daily from 8.00 am to 5.00 pm 


-. 


O
THE 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
MARKET RECAP ' Market Watch January 21 
DowJones  
8,442.90  • N4SDAQ  -143.84  
1,364.25  • S&P500  -11.94  
887.62  •  -14.16  
AMEX  
823.37 5,016.28  ' NYSE ,_  -8.89 -92.23  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.11 -0. 28 25. 03 
~~i9;:i:i11~ID~1~:i~~1~iR?:::~:~1u:l:i~fwii~~:i~!~i~~:~~~i~, 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.31-0.05 16.29 
[~iii;:i~~~~~ii~::::::~!;~!i:i1l~]&iil~:;~!§;S~~*-[~l~J.1[1~$ 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0. 25 -0 .13 51. 33 
IN BRIEF 
Feds challenge airline alliance plan 
Three of the biggest airlines -Delta, Northwest and Continental -said Tuesday they will go ahead with a planned marketing alliance, ignoring government restrictions meant to curb anticompetitive behavior. The decision prompted an immediate legal chal­lenge from the Transportation Department. The "code-sharing agreement" among the third-, fourth-and fifth-largest airlines would enable each to sell tickets for all three airlines and allowing them to reach more destinations without flying more planes. They also could offer reciprocal benefits such as frequent flier miles. 
Citigroup takes hit in fourth quarter 
Citigroup's earnings took a hit in the fourth quarter because of a costly settlement with federal and state regulators, but the banking giant still reported record profits for the year. Wells Fargo & Co. of San Francisco extended its run of rising profits and met analysts' earnings expectations for the quarter, while 
U.S. Bancorp of Minneapolis also was on tar­get with its earnings numbers. The nation's largest financial institution, said Tuesday it earned $2.43 billion, or 47 cents a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, down 37 percent from $3.88 billion, or 7 4 cents a share, a year earlier. 
Motorola reports $17 4 million profit 
Motorola Inc. reported a $174 million net profit for the fourth quarter on Tuesday, touting its second straight gain as the latest modest evidence that a two­year restructuring is paying off. The cell­phone and semiconductor maker beat Wall Street's expectations for the quarter, benefiting in part from improving markets in most of its businesses. But it still wound up with a $2.5 billion net loss for the year. making 2002 its second-worst ever follow­ing the $3.9 billion loss it suffered in 2001. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 7 
Ford's 4Q losses total $130 
. Company cuts losses, but doubts linger 
Associated Press 
DEARBORN, Mich. 
Ford Motor Co. narrowed 
its loss to $130 million in 
the fourth quarter. primar­
ily due to its ongoing 
restructuring, but some 
observers are skeptical of 
the company's forecast for 
market share and hefty 
earnings growth this year. 
The world's second­
largest automaker lost 7 
cents a share in the 
October-December period 
compared with a loss of 
$5.07 billion, or $2.81 a 
share, a year earlier. 
Excluding charges for restructuring and other one-time expenses, Ford earned $150 million, or 8 cents a share, in the fourth quarter -a penny a share more than the forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. Excluding charges, Ford lost $860 million, or 48 cents a share, in the fourth quarter of 2001. 
Revenue in the latest quarter was $41.6 billion, up $869 million from a year ago, despite a decline in the number of vehicles sold worldwide to 1. 79 mil­lion from 1.8 million in U.S. market share in back-to 56 cents a share from on track but acknowledged 2001. 
to-back years. 40 cents. that increasing competition 
Ford's global automotive Bill Ford, Ford's chair-Still, the brokerage said, and economic uncertain­operations trimmed full­man and chief executive, "We're less optimistic than ties pose challenges for year losses in 2002 but reiterated in a conference Ford is about the compa­meeting future financial remained $500 million in call Tuesday that he ny's ability to increase its goals.the red. Domestically, expects the company to market share in the U.S. in For example, while Ford heavy incentives have improve market share in 2003." lost ground in the United eaten away at profits at all global regions in 2003 The automaker said it States last year, ToyotaFord, General Motors and to post full-year earn-expects to receive a boost Motor Corp. and Honda Corp. and others, and the ings of 70 cents a share -from the introduction of Motor Co. -the two trend continues. well ahead of recent Wall several new products, largest foreign automakers 
Ford expects automotive Street forecasts. including the new F-150 in the United States ­operations to break even "With the plans we have pickup later this year, part both saw their shares this year. in place and our growing of the world's best-selling grow.

Ford's U.S. market share momentum, I'm confident F-Series lineup. Toyota, including the fell 1.6 points to 21.2 per­we can do this," Ford said. The company said it also Lexus brand, went to 10.4 /, cent in the fourth quarter, Nonetheless, Ford shares has identified $1 billion in percent from 10.2 percentand 1. 7 points for the full­fell 2 cents to close non-product expenses that and Honda, including year to 21.1 percent. Tuesday at $10.14 on the can be slashed and that it Acura, went to 7.4 percent 
GM, the world's No. 1 New York Stock Exchange. plans to increase North from 7 .1 percent. automaker, said last week After Ford's initial 2003 American production by Like others in the indus• its U.S. market share grew earnings and market share 25,000 vehicles in the first try, Ford expects U.S. light to 28.3 percent in 2002 comments to analysts Jan. quarter. vehicle sales to decline in from 28.1 percent in 2001. 10, Credit Suisse First Earlier this month, Bill 2003 to about 16.5 million, It was the first time since Boston raised its 2003 Ford said the company's down from 16.8 million 1976 that GM improved its earnings forecast for Ford year-old turnaround was last year. 

Homebuilding at 16-year high 
builders were starting new units at "What started off robustly ended 
Associated Press 
an annual rate of 1.75 million units even more strongly, if that's possi­WASHINGTON during that month, 5.2 percent above ble," said Joel Naroff, chief economist 
Construction of new homes and the October level. of a Holland, Pa., forecasting firm. apartments posted an unexpectedly For all of 2002, builders began con­"During the year, housing starts strong gain of 5 percent in December struction on 1. 70 million new homes reached levels not seen since the as the housing industry wrapped up and apartments, a 6.4 percent gain baby boomers hit the market in the its best performance in 16 years, a from the 1.60 million units construct­1970s." building boom fueled by the lowest ed in 2001. It was the best year for All parts of the country shared in mortgage rates in four decades. construction of single-family homes the building boom with construction 
The Commerce Department report­and apartments since 1.81 million of single-family homes setting an all­ed Tuesday that construction activity units were built in 1986. time high in the South. climbed to an annual rate of 1.84 mil­For just single-family homes, the David Seiders. chief economist for lion units in December, the highest 1.36 million units that were begun in the National Association of Home monthly pace since June 1986 and 2002 represented the strongest per­Builders, said builders were opti­well above economists' expectations. formance since 1978 when builders mistic that 2003 will be another good In addition, the government revised broke ground on 1.43 million single­year, although down slightly from November activity higher to show family homes. 2002. 
.. 
Wednesday, January 22, 2003

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
;:· ,. 
The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
•

ss1ve Liberty, Conscie nee, and • ional Democracy" 
, ,.. "~ ··•~. 
, ,..r.. 
J~ -i;;'~_ ~ll,,.;;· . 
,.,J:i~)\~. '-.· 
l ! 
.'';: f 
Galston 
Thursday, January 23, 2003 

Joseph Raz April 10 
4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 page 9 
The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 

Golden Globes allow stars to show off 
sexually adventurous Samantha stage." with Dustin Hoffman. help people get lost in the char­
Associated Press 
Jones on the HBO comedy. Shalhoub said his wife, "I know I didn't do well. Dusty acter and the film,"' she said. "I never expected to have a actress Brooke Adams, gives stayed another year, but I didn't "The main concern was that it
BEVERLY HILLS career in my 40s. I thought it him grief about his neurotic ten­because they kind of kicked me wouldn't be a distraction. For

Even Jack Nicholson was 
was over. The amount of jobs I dencies. out," Hackman said backstage. me to put it on my face, I don't
taken aback by Lara Flynn 
was up for were basically cut in 'Tm a bit of a control freak," "Actors mature at different care."
Boyle's pink tutu outfit at the half," she said. he said. "I manage in my every­levels and at different times in But Kidman, who won theGolden Globes. Boyle breezed It took three tries before day life to squelch it." their career. There can be a Globe as dramatic movie
alone down the red carpet 
Cattrall took the role that has Some winners go on and on defining part for you and one actress, refused to don the redSunday in a dress resembling a revitalized her career. and on backstage. Not Edie that gives you access to who you rubber nose someone had givenballerina Barbie, complete with "I, too, believed that women Falco. She barely squeaked out are. Until you find that, many her at Sunday's awards. 
a pink bow anchoring her pony­aren't supposed to be sexual or her thank yous in accepting the times you drift along and you're Instead, she stuck it on her 
tail and spike-heeled shoes 
sexy in their 40s and not dramatic TV actress award for just an average actor," he said. spike-heeled shoes. 
secured by pink satin ribbons 
empowered and strong in the "The Sopranos." Even after accepting the Cecil "I didn't have the guts to wear that wrapped around her bare world," she said. 'Tm so proud Falco lost most of her voice B. DeMille Award for lifetime it," she said. 
legs. 
and pleased to be the actress because of a cold, leaving her to achievement, Hackman wasn't Renee Zellweger couldn't 
"Lara's tutu was startling," 
who got to play a character like speak barely above a whisper conceding anything. decide which was more daz­said Nicholson, who noted his that and got to break those while she sucked on a cough ''I'm not sure I do it well. I zling: her Golden Globe for on-again, off-again girlfriend is stereotypes." drop. always approach it as if I have movie musical or comedy a former dancer. "I slipped out The Emmy-winning show will Her victory marked Falco's no idea what I'm doing," he actress or the star-studded 
for a cigarette and I saw her 
end after its sixth season, with long path from waiting tables at said. "I still love it. I love it as audience jammed into the from the back. I wasn't sure it the final episode airing early a Manhattan restaurant with much today as the day I started, Beverly Hilton ballroom. 
was her." 
next year. Michael Chiklis, who won dra­maybe more." "It's so crazy because even Boyle's dress was the most 'Tm very sad. It was an exec­matic TV actor honors for the Spanish director Pedro standing there holding it in mytalked about fashion spectacle utive decision," said Cattrall, FX cable drama "The Shield." Almodovar did more than thank hands I'm in denial." she said since singer Bjork wore a feath­who plans to produce a docu­"He was always talking and his associates when he won the backstage. "I look out at that ery, swan-inspired dress at the mentary for HBO. knew everybody. He was very best foreign film award for his crowd and I'm so star-struck. 
Oscars two years ago. 
Tony Shalhoub admits he pos­social, and his tables were drama "Talk to Her." Isn't that nuts? It makes myPresenter Samuel L. Jackson, sesses some of the same fears always waiting for something," He told the audience about a biceps look really good." 
known for· his sartorial splen­as the obsessive-compulsive Falco recalled backstage, strug­sign on his hotel door that nor­Meryl Streep won the dor, was asked what he thought detective he plays on USA gling through laryngitis to mally says "Do not disturb" but evening's first award as sup­of Boyle's fashion statement. 
Network's "Monk." answer reporters' questions. "I has been changed to "Peace." porting movie actress for "The 
"I can't tell you," he said, 
Adrian Monk has a fear of remember he told me he was up "I like the subtleness of this Hours" and was told she looked smiling and snickering. 
heights, milk, darkness and for a part as John Belushi, and I detail," he said. "The doors in glamorous in her beaded jacket
Globe winner Renee 
germs. So what would the char­said, 'Yeah, so am I.' We were my hotel are crying out for and flowing pants.
Zellweger, who wore a black 
acter do with the award these out-of-work actors. He got peace. I would also like to dedi­"Thank you. Don't get near strapless vintage Valentino Shalhoub won for best actor in the part and I've followed him cate this award to everyone that me. I smell like a camel," she dress, offered her endorsement: a 1V series, musical or comedy? ever since." fights for peace and to all that said, explaining she had just"Did she have a tutu on? Good "He would have it steam­"It was a terrible job, but it's are not afraid to say so." flown in from Rome, where she for her!" she said. cleaned and disinfected because turned out very well for both of Nicole Kidman didn't mind is shooting ''Angels in America" 
Winners were considerably it came directly out of the hands us." wearing a prosthetic nose to about the AIDS crisis. drier this year, with only Kim of someone else," he said, refer­The early reviews on Gene play writer Virginia Woolf in Asked if she harbors anyCattrall of "Sex and the City" ring to presenters Kiefer Hackman? Not good, since his "The Hours." dreams of an Academy Award getting choked up backstage. Sutherland and Jennifer rocky beginnings as an acting "When I first saw it I thought, for the role, Streep said, "No, At 46, Cattrall earned her first Garner. "God knows where they student at the Pasadena 'Gosh, this could either look I'm just going to try to make it Golden Globe award for playing were before they walked on Playhouse, where he studied totally ridiculous or it will really to the bathroom." 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Kate Nageng.ut  Lori Lewalski  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  
NEWS EDITOR:  Helena Payne  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCF.NE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ccnedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.. ............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EotTORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScE.NE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V1Sit our Web site at http://oburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofche authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsnvn-policin should be direct­ed to E.ditor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ol,,,rv,r (USPS 599 HO) ;. publidic,l Monday through Frid,y '"""I'' during cum and ncarion period,. A ,ubtcripcion a, The oi.-« i, S I 00 fur one 0<.&tnic 
,....., sss fur 011< -·  
Tho Oliorr,cr i, puhli,hcd at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send addseu (.Off«cionJ ro:  
Nou" Dam<. IN 46556  Th•Oho<rvc:r  
r.O.Bo•Q  
P<rio,J;uJ po,ug, p.id •• NOi« Dome  Nottt Oa1nc. IN "6556-0779  
and oddirioo.J moiling office,.  

Tho Oboctvtt io • manb<t ofm. A-.....J r-. All reproduction righ" >1t ---i. 
Wednesday, January 22, 2003 


Men and women just don't seem to get each other. As much as we try, as much as we think about it and as much as we talk about it, maybe the myth is true. We are from different planets. 
Whether it be Mars, Venus or somewhere in between, men and women are often light years away from reaching an understanding of each other. To try and explain this phenomenon, let's start with the basics. 
Physically speak­ing, men and women are obvi­ously very differ­ent. That part can be explained in sim­ple, freshman-level biology terms. Consult a textbook as needed. 
There is also the evident biblical explanation of these differences between the sexes. Taking a closer look, it seems that God must have had contrast -and a real sense of humor -in mind when he plunked Adam and Eve down in the Garden of Eden and expected them to initiate the survival of the species (talk about slim pick­ings). 
Or maybe it's a matter of sociology. After all, men and women are taught from the beginning to think, act and communicate in different ways. (This may explain the phenomenon of men and their football and women and their shoes.) 
However, whether it's biological, bib­lical or sociological, when it comes to men and women, it seems that we may not only be from different planets, but entirely different solar systems. 

The reason that we don't get each other isn't because we're light years apart. Rather. it's because we expect members of the opposite sex to act, think and be the way we ourselves act, think and are. We want our relation­ships to go the way that we ourselves see them in our head. It follows that men expect women to communicate and react the way men do, and women expect men to communicate and react the way women do. 
Houston, we have a problem. 
These unrealistic expectations can be absolute Armageddon for our relation­ships (or at least its lesser counterpart, "Deep Impact"}. We have to realize that the ways in which men and women look at the world and each other are often at opposite ends of a bipolar scale. 
Men really are simple. They're kind of like plants. As long as they are fed, watered and pollinated every once in a while, they're happy. Women, howev­er, are as complicated as men are sim­ple and require a great deal more than just food, water and pollination. 
It may not be written in the stars, but it's not rocket science either. Traditionally, men offer solutions. Women offer support. Men get their sense of self from achievement. This usually leads them to focus on a goal or objective when pursuing a relation­ship. They like to get to the bottom line. 
Women, however, often get their sense of self from relationships. They also like "getting there" and the process of creating a relationship. Consider it the eternal road trip. While women enjoy the scenery, the company and the music on the radio, men count miles, avoid traffic and comment on what great time they're making. 
With such different perspectives, two people can look at the same situation and interpret it in entirely different ways. We may use the same language, same words and same sentences, but what we say and what we mean can take on entirely different meanings. In assuming our significant others to be as simple or complicated as we are, we expect that they not only understand but adhere to our own personal convic­tions. The problem is that they expect us to adhere to theirs. This miscommu­nication can land us on different plan­ets, in different solar systems, in galax­ies far, far away from each other. 
It may be true that we just don't get it. We may have sent a man to the moon. but as far as men and women are concerned, we may never under• stand each other. It's a fact. Men and women are different. They're supposed to be. 
However, Mars and Venus aside, it is possible to recognize our differences and maybe even appreciate them a lit­tle. This can improve communication and make it possible for us to discover something about ourselves -and our significant others. After all. one small step for man (or woman) can be one giant leap for our relationships. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American Studies major and journal­ism minor. Her column appears every other Wednesday. You may contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces• sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Meghanne Sports Downs Bryan Kronk 
Should colleges be allowed to use race as a 
"The very essence ofromance is uncertainty. 
Laura Coristin Katie McVoy 
factor in admissions decisions? 
IfI ever get married, 
Mike Shambliss Pat Leonard 
I'll certainly try to forget the fact ... 
Viewpoint Scene 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Claire Kelley Christie Boisen 
Oscar Wilde 
Graphics Lab Tech 
British writer
Mike Harkins Nellie Williams 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
page I 1 

While honoring King, remember lost values 
Monday was the national day of cele­bration and remembrance of a figure who fought to end systematic and social racism and injustice in America. 
Dedicated to Martin Luther King, Jr., it is a day on which America is to reflect on a history Paul Graham 
filled with violence · and oppression. In 
Another

doing so, we must 
analyze the pre­Perspective 
sent state of our 
country and pon­
der our progress as a nation since the 
days of King's fervent teachings of 
nonviolence and of social and econom­
ic justice. We must examine how far 
we, as a nation, have come to end 
poverty, homelessness and injustice of 
all kinds. 
King was a part of a larger struggle, one that held our nation and its citi­zens accountable and responsible for ending racism and segregation and for creating a more open and just society. Since his death, much of the successful organizing of the civil rights movement has faded, and very few efforts have succeeded in keeping the principles of our country in check. 
We have displaced the values and morals that once attempted to be our conscience. But we have, for the most part, given up. We have lost the values that cry out for justice, tugging at our hearts. We have replaced values of old with new values that look and sound the same but that are radically differ­ent at their very core. 
Assessing our values as a nation and examining the current state of affairs · of our country is not as tedious as it may seem. We value, quite simply, war over education, profits over people and the "me" before "us." These societal values have prevented us from 
respecting or recognizing the worth of 
human life. 
More than ever, people and commu­nities are powerless. Power structures and greed override human capacities to love our neighbor. We forget that people have value, that people are not capital and that we cannot simply put a wage on human work or human dig­nity. While wages may have increased since the civil rights era, this does not free us from the responsibility of work­ing for better wages, for democracy in the workplace and for higher stan­dards of living for all people. 
As a society, we have opted to classi­fy those in need as "our poor," and to accept the notion that "our poor" will always be with us and that it is their own fault. We remove blame from both our country and ourselves by shifting guilt to the victims of our society. The impoverished, the homeless and those subjugated to numerous structures limiting their voice are becoming even more powerless. This powerlessness is founded in ou'r acceptance of struc­tures that promote the valuing of life as simply a commodity that can be abused and neglected. 
In our own Notre Dame community, many students, administrators and faculty accept wages around nine dol­lars an hour as livable wages. 
Obviously, there are those who work for less, but this does not mean that we should settle for this substandard wage. Characteristics of powerlessness in the workforce are just as present on campus as in the rest of the country. Workers have no voice at any bargain­ing table; they are unable to help with wage negotiation, grievance proce­dures or even determining their own hours. 
America has too many people and too many families unable to buy food, afford quality homes and obtain an adequate education. According to the Economic Policy Institute, one in four of those employed earn poverty wages or less. Two out of every five people live in pover­
ty. One in three  
families cannot  
meet its basic  
needs. Fifty­ 
two percent  
of blacks are  
unable to  
meet these  
needs,  
along with  
56.3 per­ 
cent of  
the  
Hispanic  
popula­ 
tion and  
20.3 per­ 
cent of the  
white pop­ 
ulation.  
How does  
this reflect  
our progress  
as a nation?  
Having a  
national holiday dedicated to both  ,w ··  
a person and a  

powerful movement offers us the opportu­nity to reevaluate our­selves. We have the opportu­nity to remember past struggles and revitalize our social conscience. We can revive lost values and morals, and we can work for justice founded upon our very own nature to respect 
the dignity of one another and of our 
communities. 
We must seize this moment of reflec­tion and begin to work for a more just world. This is not the world in which 
we as humans are meant to live. We have the power to change our situation. We have the power to organize and to transform our nation into one valuing life, work and dig­nity. In the 
words of King him­self, "Let us 
stand with a greater determina­tion. And let us move on in these powerful 
days, these days of challenge to 
make America what it ought to be. We have an opportunity to make America a better nation." 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tra­dition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Top schools support their grad students 
Recently, The Observer and Scholastic have reported that Notre Dame is striving to become one of the premier teaching and research universities in the United States. But for all the rhetoric concerning the University's rise to the top, Notre Dame still falls short of the mark in their goal to become an elite institution. By failing to provide basic · needs to a group that will ultimately be responsible for a large part of the University's success, it is condemning itself to failure. 
Graduate students at Notre Dame account for a large portion of the academic teaching, research and administrative responsibilities that will bring Notre Dame the recognition it desires to achieve. Yet, these same graduate students, who, if they suddenly disappeared from the campus, would bring the University to a grinding halt, are not offered a reason­able insurance policy with the benefits neces­sary for an individual or family to cover com­mon illnesses. 
There are approximately 1,500 graduate students on this campus, many with families to support, and 900 of those use the non-sub­sidized insurance policy the University offers for about $600 an academic year (if you have no other policy you must take the one the University offers). For the University to subsi­dize the price of benefits in addition to what graduate students currently pay for the plan it would $300 per student -roughly $270,000. 
If Notre Dame is to be competitive with schools like Brown, whose graduate student union recently announced that the entire cost of graduate student health insurance will be subsidized, or Cornell, who pays for the entire cost of all full-time graduate students' health insurance, they must find a way to subsidize an insurance plan for their gradu­ate students. 
A mentor of mine used to say, "Your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks." The recent "talk" of the University has been of progress, but its "walk" has given graduate students and those wishing to see the University suc­ceed a collective slap in the face. 
Paul J. Patterson 
graduate student South Bend Jan. 21 
Come, join the dialogue on Iraq 
As crucial upper-level deci­sions regarding a war with Iraq near, many Americans (indeed, people everywhere in the world) are noticing the polarity of public opinion. It is natural that people want to share their ideas and opinions about the pros and cons of this potential war, but it is often difficult to find a neutral, peaceful forum for such discus­sion. 
Next Monday, Jan. 27, the United Nations weapons inspections report on Iraq will be submitted, and presumably, the war debate will take a definitive turn. That evening, while people throughout the United States are debating the proper course of action, stu­dents here at Notre Dame will have the opportunity to share their opinions and think about other viewpoints. At 7 p.m. in the Reckers Hospitality Room. 
there will be an informal all­student dialogue. Students rep­resenting the full spectrum of opinions regarding war with Iraq will share ideas and rea­soning, and everyone present will have the chance to discuss these issues in a neutral envi­ronment. 
Everyone is invited to come get involved in the discussion, and there will be free food. To further promote the diversity of the featured speakers, any student who wants to be on the panel should email me at lupdike@nd.edu. One person will be randomly selected. 
Hopefully. ongoing open dia­logue will help us all feel more informed and involved in the present situation. 
Lindsay Updike 
law student South Bend 
Jan. 21 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

•

ies 

page 12 Wednesday, January 22, 2003 




By LIAM DACEY 
Scene Writer 
Deep inside the loft of O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Notre Dame Department of Film, Television, and Theater will unlock its vault Thursday to showcase the 14th annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival. In the past, student films have pushed the boundaries of conven­tional filmmaking, creating many thought provoking works that are as much experimental as they are fresh. And this year, word has it that Irish football guru Tyrone Willingham will make a guest appearance in one of the films. So hold on tight, take a deep breath, and prepare yourself for another round of titillating entertain­ment. 

In 1988, Professor Ted Mandell envi­sioned a venue where students could show their films to the entire Notre Dame community. Mandell realized that the films were meant to be seen and not just shown in class. However, with limited resources the department was forced to hold the screenings in the basement of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE), with only 75 people who attended the first year's showcase. Since those turbulent times, the campus has embraced the Film Festival and helped it relocate to larg­er facilities: first the Snite Museum, and presently the state of the art Carrey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. In recent years, the Festival has sold out nearly every show -over 2,000 tickets! 
While production programs such as NYU or USC are often thought of as the 
/ 
' ( ! 
( 
{ 

,,' ' 

Notre Dame students display their talents i 
premier schools to learn filmmaking, Notre Dame has found its niche in pro­viding a rigorous and intimate setting that strives for creativity and ingenuity. The words "low budget film" don't quite accurately describe these movies. "No budget" would be a better term. And not only are the students responsi­ble for writing a screenplay, casting a film, finding a location, getting a crew, and shooting the film itself, but they also must edit it all into short films and documentaries that capture their mes­sage. In short, the students must do in three months time what professionals do for a living. 
Julia Dickinson, who acted in last year's film "This Time You'll \Vatch Me On You" and this year's film "Billboard Liberation," has been very impressed in the amount of time and effort that goes into the projects. At first, Dickinson says that she thought acting for movies would be easier than the stage because there is no live audi­ence; however, her first impression rapidly changed ...Every time I messed up and forced a reshoot of the take, it cost the director $100 out of their own pocket, so everyone really has to be on top of things," she realized. 
An example of the intense production regiment can be found in Jill Godmilow's Advanced Film class, a 6­credit graduate-level plunge into the depths of filmmaking. Students in Godmilow's class must make an eight­to 10-minute 16mm color film and edit it by hand. In order to do this, they have to splice the film with a razor and then tape it together, while also mak­ing sure that the sound stays in sync with the picture. Editing by hand 
teaches skills that the aspiring stu­dents can use throughout life: organization, 
rhythm  and  a  
plethora  of  
patience.  

Past Notre Dame film grads have taken these lessons and gone on to jobs in everything from NFL Films to HBO. Some, like Maggie Moran, have gone to more exotic places to pursue their passions. Moran traveled home to Alaska after graduation last year and is presently working at an advertising agency. She is also the prod uccr of the Anchorage Film Festival. 
\Vhile many ven­ture to New York and Hollywood after graduation, Moran felt that going home to Alaska was the right choice for her. "Opportunity sprung up every­where and I was sure that if I came back, I would find my way easily and meet the other nutty folks who moved up/back here with the same intentions." In part, her docu-mentary featured in this year's Student Film Festival reflects the decision. "The Two of Us Here" is a dialogue about the past, present and future that relies heavily on photographs and ani­mation. 


"I manipulated photographs as a way of acknowledging that the "truth" I was telling was my truth, not the truth or a truth, but mine," Moran says. "Documentaries are often times manip­ulative devices which are left unac­knowledged. I didn't want to pretend that what I was showing was a pol­ished document worthy of trust, I wanted instead to reveal my hand in the creation." 
Some other directors have chosen to stay closer to Notre Dame after gradu­ation. Ryan Lockwood, who directed the documentary "Hate the Hangers" in this year's festival, graduated last semester and is currently working at WNDU as the weekend morning pro­ducer. "FTf was the best thing I could have done," Lockwood says. "I learned that working with others can be diffi­cult but keeping a good attitude and outlook helps ... so does laughter." 
Lockwood's documentary looks at diehard Scottish football fans at a Chicago bar. First, though, Lockwood said it was necessary to share a few drinks with the fans for the first hour to make them comfortable before they even began shooting. "After about 30 minutes I asked them to sing me a verse of 'The Fields of Athenry, · and it was perfect. It couldn't have been any better." 
This year, Mandell has arranged the diverse blend of films to provide a 



O
THE 
BSERVER 



Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
page 13 

at the I 4th Annual Student Film Festival 

Photo courtesy of Liam Dacey 
boy attempts to use lines he heard in the media to pick up 
1ged against the female. 
"roller coaster" effect for the audience. "The films are kind of like watching a lot of different Saturday Night Live skits together," he says. "They're all different, and you have to process each one as a separate entity." Indeed, everything from digital documentaries to a black and white silent film are represented in this year's festival. which totals eleven films. These pieces come from three of the four production classes offered at Notre Dame: Intermediate Film, Advanced Film, and Advanced Digital Production. Here is a sneak preview of the films that will be featured in this year's Student Film Festival: 
Hate the Rangers ( Ryan Lockwood 
and Angela Grimmer) · 
An entertaining look at rabid Scottish football fans at a Chicago bar who cheer hard for their teams but bitterly smear their archrivals. 
BIiiboard Liberation (Adam Weltler 
and Tim Ryan) 
Is it possible to live outside the world of the ad? This film explores this ques­tion and takes an intimate portrait of those radical citizens who take and make the omnipresent billboard their own. 
Tangled Up In Blue ( Brian Galla and 
Paul Ybarra) 
A beautifully acted story of a college grad who can't get going with his life. The film explores the perils of a trou­bled 25-year-old who still lives home with his grandmother. 
The Two of Us Here ( Maggie Moran and Brent Buckman) 
This stunning visu­al piece questions where home really is found while also reflecting on the four years that both Moran and Buckman spent at Notre Dame. The informal portrait of scrap book memories also dis­cusses their futures. 
Seven Nights a Week (Aaron Perri and Matt Peters) 
This documentary examines the inside world of the South Bend bingo scene. Everyone from the people who play the game to the ones who rake in the money are featured in this film. 
How To Love Yourself (Taylor Romlgh and Dan 
Ackerman) 
This "self-help" video features six vignettes that decon­stru ct the empty phrases of "trusting 

ourselves," "believing in love," and "forgiving ourselves," to ultimately show that life is more complex than words can summarize. 

Adam's Puzzle (Todd Boruff and Andy Gomez) 
This silent black-and-white film is about a boy whose Rubik's Cube-like toy becomes the center of attention at a playground. A well-crafted and fresh film. 
Racist ( Dustin Park and Peter Richardson) 
This intriguing documentary takes a close examination of Mathew Hale, the leader of a white supremacist movement in Peoria, Ill. A daring and disturbing piece. 
Two Boys (Chris Bannister and Liam Dacey) 
A seductive musical fable about the sexual education of the American boy. A teen tries to seduce three sexy women using the lines he heard from the media. When the bravado doesn't pay off. he falls into a state of rage against the female -the same type of rage that can fuel a serial killer's delusions. 
Buckthorn Berry Pie (Scott Little and Tom Griffin) 
The tale of a relentless curmudgeon who is mourning the death of his wife and avoids contact from his friends and family. One day, his wife appears before him and his outlook on the world changes forever. 
Empty Orchestra (Jeremy Renteria and Scott Litt le) 
Ever wonder what happens late at night at karaoke bars in South Bend? This documentary takes a look at the many players who make up this world: from the performers to those who spin the discs. 
Perhaps the most amazing thing about the Film Festival is how it is able to draw such large audiences year after year, and how excited peo­ple become about participating or even watching the films. When asked if Dickinson would participate in act­ing in another film in the future, she didn't hesitate in saying that she would jump at the chance. "All the people I've met in the film department are very interesting and it's amazing to get to see the final product." And it is easy to see how the talent displayed in the festival will help students find jobs after graduation. Moran describes her experience at Notre Dame as essential to her current work in Alaska. "In the 'real world,' I understand as much as if not more about film, equipment and technology than evervone I work with, and I learned it all at ND." 
The 2003 Notre Dame Student Film Festival will be held at the f/esburgh Library Auditorium on Thursday, Friday. Saturday and Monday (Jan. 23, 24, 25 and 27) at 7:30 p.m, and 
9:45 p. m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office. Admission is 
$4.00. 
Contact Liam Dacey at wdacey@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
SUPER BOWL XXXVII 

Trying to focus on football 




. Gruden wants focus on the game, not his history 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Squinting into the sunlight, glaring down at the reporters, Jon Gruden did his best to be a good sport. It wasn't easy. "You guys are killing me," the Tampa Bay coach said 
when the 50th or 100th question floated his way. 
With the Super Bowl approaching, Gruden only wants the story of his strange breakup with his former employee and upcoming opponent, Al Davis and the Oakland Raiders. to disappear into the "rearview mir­ror." 
But rearview mirror stories like Gruden's are what the Super Bowl is all about. And days like Tuesday ­Media Day at the biggest single sporting event in America -are what tales like Gruden's are made for. 
"I don't try to relive the whole thing," Gruden said. "Sometimes, change is inevitable. Things have gone well since then. Hopefully, we can all continue to have a nice life." 
Indeed, they are all having a nice life. 
Gruden, the 39-year-old wondercoach, got a raise and expense-paid move to the place where he spent his childhood, Tampa, Fla., to coach the team he always adored, the Buccaneers. 
Davis got a king's ransom by NFL standards -two first-round draft choices and two seconds. plus $8 mil­lion in exchange for a guy who will never play a do½n. 
Bill Callahan got Gruden's old job. 
The whole gang made it to the Super Bowl -Davis and Oakland for the first time in 19 seasons and the Bucs for the first time ever. 
And the rest of the football world? 
They got Gruden Bowl I, possibly the most intriguing Super Bowl soap opera since Broncos coaches of the present and past, Mike Shanahan and Dan Reeves, aired their dirty laundry before the Denver-Atlanta Super Bowl 



. Raiders keeping their own schedule on media day 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO So what if this is the NFL's big show. 
The Oakland Raiders clearly have their own schedule. And ifit's their desire to add to their mys­tique this week, they are off to a pretty good start. 
The Raiders missed their appointed interview time with hordes of reporters and broadcast­ers by 50 minutes at the league's media day extravaganza Tuesday. That's practically unheard of con­sidering everything this week is 
,· 
micromanaged to the second. But these are the Raiders and this media day was different. 
The reason for the holdup: veter­an receivers Tim Brown and Jerry Rice were late for a team picture, and blamed it all on ABC for keep­ing them too long for interviews. 
"Hey. don't blame us," Brown said. "It was ABC. It wasn't Geritol or anything." 

Owner Al Davis attended a cere­mony honoring the late sports edi­tor, Jack Murphy, outside Qualcomm Stadium, where Sunday's game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will be played. But he stayed away from the mass interviews inside. 
As the statue of Murphy was unveiled, Davis quipped, "I wish he was giving me another Super Bowl trophy." 
To hear his players tell it, that's the plan. 
They paid homage to a man who enjoys suing the NFL almost as much as he enjoys winning games. Those players not only credit Davis for guiding the franchise back to prominence, but for re-establishing the aura that surrounded them when they were winning champi­onships three decades ago. 
"Al has done everything he can here," Brown said, adding that he wouldn't be surprised to see Davis retire if the Raiders win the cham­pionship. "This would be another feather in his cap and show he knows the game better than you do. 
"What he's created here is a situ­ation where anybody would want to play for the Raiders." 
Such as veteran free agents Bill Romanowski and Rod Woodson, both already possessing Super Bowl rings when they arrived. They believed in the Raiders' mys­tique even before they got to Oakland this season. 
"It's real," said Romanowski, who won two Super Bowls with the 49ers and two with the Broncos, one of Oakland's most bitter rivals. "Did they lose their mystique? I don't think they lost it, but if so. it's definitely back. 
"The Raiders are an organiza­tion that had won three Super Bowls and have proven they can get the job done. It might be 19 years, but they'd still done it. It could have been 100 years ago, but they've won world championships three times and there's a lot of teams that wish they'd done half that." 
Added Woodson, an All-Pro safe­ty who won his title two years ago with Baltimore, "I think as a player you know the mystique before you get here. Al is the black sheep of the league. He kind of likes that image and I think everybody here likes it." 
The Buccaneers, on the other hand, had an image problem ­they hated it. And it was under­standable. They were losers from the get-go, dropping all 14 games in their debut season, then the first 12 of the next season. They had a stretch where losing 10 games was a given, and until they beat Philadelphia for the NFC champi­onship last weekend, they had never made it this far. 
To many NFL fans, the Bucs were the guys in the ugly orange jerseys and a pirate with a feather in his mouth on their logo. You always wanted them on your schedule. 
Now, they wear red, the bucca­neer on their hehnet looks fierce, and they play some hellacious defense. Nobody looks forward to facing Tampa Bay. 
"They once called us the 'Yucks.' We were ticked about that," said linebacker Derrick Brooks, the NFL's top defensive player in 2002. "I was the first one to say some­thing to Warren (Sapp) that this has got to stop. There ain't no way 
"Warren said, 'You're right. We've got to get this turned around.'' 
Led by their All-Pro defenders and then-coach Tony Dungy, who was hired in 1996, the Bucs did, indeed, become a force in the NFC. They just couldn't go all the way, and when Dungy was fired a year ago, the team paid a heavy price ­$8 million and four high draft choices -to the Raiders to pry away Jon Gruden. 
Gruden's chore: Change the per­ception of the Bucs even more by turning them into champions. 
"I give Jon a lot of credit," said Bucs general manager Rich McKay, "because he came into a situation that wasn't the easiest and he made it as smooth as it could be." 
Sure, it is a great irony that the final obstacle for Tampa Bay is the Raiders. Many Buccaneers believe that, despite all they have done to erase the memories of awful foot­ball, a loss on Sunday will be a huge step backward. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NOTICES 
Need one ticket for GTown game. 277-0372. 
1989 Toyota Corolla 4DR 5 speed, 148K Runs good. $1.300 
CBll 277-3189 
Oak Hill Condo fOC' Sale. 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574­
243-2621 

SERVER WANTED Club LaSalle is hiring for a serving position. Club LaSalle is a martini/Jazz Bar serv­ing LaSalle Grill s Diner menu. We are located on the 3rd floor of LaSalle Grill. Part or Full Time work is available. Must be able to work weekends. Must be 21 to apply and previous experience is a plus, but not required. Earning Potential is approximately $400.00 per week. Applications may be picked up at: LaSalle Grill in Downtown South Bend 3pm to 5pm Monday-Saturday 115 West CoHax South Bend, IN 46601 
Phone: 288-1155. 
Part time work, full money. Energetic student to pass out our rewards catalog. 
Call for details 877-652-2566 
Acapulco's #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco· with a ·Last Chance to Dance~ Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! 
Gall now 800-875-4525. 
WWW.b~IYKl~.QQ[l] 
Castle Point room for rent available for female roommate (Sp03 Semester}, apt. fully furnished. 
Please call 243-4537 if interested 
Senior Finance major at IUSB needs tutor for Applications in Financial Management class (simi­lar to FIN476 Cases in Financial Management at NO). 
Please call Kristin at 291-3240. 
New four bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683­5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. 
FOR RENT 
FREEDOM! Now renting 2004-05. The best furnished houses. Prime locations, sec.systems. wash/dry, util incl. Some with V-Ball,8-Ball & pool tables. Call Greg 233-9947. 
PERSONAL 
Thank You Scott 8. 
Yeah Toast! 
Sailing on a Monday is a very bad 
idea Hey Lauren-
Have you stopped radiating yet? 
There's no snow left! 
Karen -Fantastic! 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Looking for summer INTERNSHIP opportunities? 


Looking for ways to make a lasting IMPACT on the world? 
Why not do BOTH! 

The Student International Business Council (SIBC) is committed to 
• < 

providing students with hands-on business experience while working for sound international social ventures. 
Tell a potential employer that you: 
Helped establish a bednet production business in Haiti to reduce the spread of 
malaria ... Taught orphans in Romania ... Created an accounting system for third world microenterprise ... Did REAL work on-numerous business projects for major international firms! 

Think that's not impressive on ANY·resume??? 
Participate in any of these divisions: NO business experience needed! 
Accounting Finance Marketing Global Development Information Technologies Business Consulting Human Resources Internship Planning 
You'll be eligible for summer internship and teaching positions around the world! 
Caine to our first SIBC n1eeting to learn tnore! Wednesday, January 22@ 7 PM Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditoriutn 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

I 
! 
l \ 

-\. 


./ 
; ' ,. 
I ; 
, , 
I 
> , 
'. I 
I ! 

, .' ,. 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Agassi, Williams advance in tournament 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia Now Andre Agassi gets to pick on someone his own age. 
Using the slick strokes and relentlessness that have car­ried him to seven Grand Slam tournament titles, the 32­year-old Agassi easily dis­missed yet another younger opponent Tuesday to reach the Australian Open semifi­nals. 
The matter-of-fact 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 victory 
o v e r Sebastien 
0 U t ,

"It's best just to focus on
Grosjean kept Williams 
Agassi your shot and not worry said. "I'd unbeaten at ifthe ball was really in like to think 
Melbourne they were
or out. I'd like to think
Park since in." 
1999, a 19-they were in.,, She's try­match streak. ing to reach He won the a fourth
Venus WIiiiams 
title here in straight
tennis player

1995, 2000 major final; 
Justine Henin-Hardenne in the semifinals. 
During the first set of her victory Tuesday. some specta­tors yelled to indicate that some of Williams' shots were out. once in the middle of a point. 
She responded by hitting winners on six of 10 points in the next two games to gain a key break. 
"In the middle of a point when the crowd starts to be noisy, it's best just to focus on your shot and not to worry if the ball was really in or 
" 
and 2001, then skipped last year's tournament with an injury. 
Playing a string of 20-some­things. none older than 27. Agassi has dropped just one set. 
"I make a guy really pay the price to beat me." he said. "Where I feel like it's been a good tournament for me up to now is ... I haven't spent any unnecessary energy." 
And now he has more than 48 hours to rest before playing Wayne Ferreira for a spot in the final. 
The 31-year-old Ferreira, the only unseeded quarterfi­nalist, upset French Open run­ner-up Juan Carlos Ferrero 7 ­6 (4), 7-6 (5), 6-1. Ferreira called it "one of my greatest wins." 
The South African is playing in his 49th consecutive Grand Slam event. but the match against Agassi will be his first semifinal at a major since the 1992 Australian Open. 
Agassi  has  dominated  
Ferreira  over  their  long  
careers.  winning all 10 of  

their matches -nine in straight sets. 
Agassi worked the 12th­seeded Grosjean around the court and increased the tempo at the decisive moments. 
The second-seeded American never has relied on his serving for success, and he didn't exactly stun Grosjean with sizzlers, either. 
Agassi never hit a serve faster than 117 mph. That's 8 mph slower than what Venus Williams produced en route to her 6-4, 6-3 quarterfinal victo­ry over Daniela Hantuchova. 
Williams -owner of the fastest recorded serve in women's tennis, 127 mph in a 1998 match -will play 


younger sis­ter Serena beat her at the past three. 
Henin-Hardenne, recovering from leg cramps and fatigue from her 3 1/2 -hour victory over Lindsay Davenport, lost the first two games but then beat 63rd-ranked Virginia Ruano Pascual of Spain 6-2, 6­2. 
LOC.c\1 LOUNGE LIZARD IS LEG.:\L 


• 
RICOMMENDS 
"The varied collection of essays offers a unique introduction to the minimalist 
John R. Searle 
CONSCIOUSNESS AND LANGUAGE 
approach to linguistics." 
-Library Journal 
"Lucidly exploring the philosophically hot topics of consciousness, intentionality and language, this set of essays provides a useful overview of Searle's recent work.,, 
-Publishers Weekly 
Fitzgerald's previously unreleased novel is now available to readers and scholars. 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 page 17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





~ 
GI 
~ 
0 
C. 
E 
cu 
adidas and Salomon Advocate Health Care AEP/Cook Nuclear Plant Allstate Insurance Company Amate House American Enterprise Institute Aon Corporation Arthritis Foundation Augustinian Volunteer Program Bastian Material Handling Bet Tzedek Legal Services* Boys & Girls Clubs of America BUNAC Camp John Marc Cargill Dow Carson.Pirie Scott & Co. Carter Center Caterpillar 
· CBS News*. 
cow 
Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame Center for the Homeless Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries CIS City of South Bend City of South Bend Police Department City Year Chicago Coachmen Industries Coca-Cola College Football Hall of Fame ComEd, An Exelon Company Council on Foreign Relations* Crate & Barrel CSG Systems Culligan International* Deloitte & Touche DENSO Manufacturing Michigan Dept. of Political Science, Notre Dame Dominican Sisters of Springfield, IL E & J Gallo Winery Easter Seals Wisconsin Camps Eaton Eli Lilly and Company 
The Elkhart Truth 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car General Dynamics General Electric Goodwill Industries of Michiana H-E-B Grocery Company Heritage Foundation Hewlett-Packard HiII/Holliday IBM IES: Institute for the International 
Education of Students Indiana Dept. of Transportation Indiana Legal Services Indianapolis Motor Speedway* lnterlochen Arts Camp Kauffman Entrepreneurial Intern 
Program, Notre Dame Kellogg Institute for International 
Studies, Notre Dame Kellogg's Ken Herceg & Associates 
KPMG 
Liz Claiborne LOGAN Center Lowe's Companies Madison Center for Children Marathon Ashland Petroleum Mayo Clinic* McGladrey & Pullen Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Merrill Lynch Methodist Research Institute 
at Clarian Health* MPI Research NALEO Educational Fund* 
NAVAIR 
Neiman Marcus* New England Center for Children* Newell Rubbermaid Northrup Grumman 
Space Technology 
Northwestern Mutual Financial Network-Hoopis Financial Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network-Indianapolis Office of US Senator Evan Bayh Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, 
a Johnson & Johnson company Outdoor Academy* Parsons Brinckerhoff Partnership Assistance Center Peace Corps Peterson Consulting, a unit 
of Navigant Consulting Porter-Starke Services Press Ganey Associates PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Pulte Homes Corporation 
R. A. Smith & Associates Raytheon Refugee & Immigration Services 
of South Bend SCORE Small Business 
Development Center SCORE! Educational Centers* Sidley Austin Brown & Wood Siemens Building Technologies 
january28 
4pm-8pm 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side) enter gate 3 

Smith Barney Smithsonian Institution Social Security Administration South Benq Silver Hawks Southwestern Diabetic Foundation/ 
Camp Sweeney State Farm Insurance Companies Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Stryker Leibinger/Navigation System Parking Target Corporation Teach For America Technology Services Group US Army Corps of Engineers US Army Healthcare Recruiting US Dept. of Justice, 
Antitrust Division US Dept. of Justice, Community Relations Service 
US Dept. of Treasury, Internal Revenue Service US Environmental Protection Agency US General Services Administration US Marine Corps Officer Selection Station US Naval Criminal Investigative Service US Navy Civilian Jobs US Secret Service US Securities and Exchange Commission United Parcel Service University Directories Walgreens Watson Wyatt Worldwide VAi/Nationai Institute for People with Disabilities* YWCA of St.Joseph County, IN 
* Resume drop 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Undergraduates" title bar, then click on the "Go IRISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Type in "WCIF" in the "Enter Keywords" textbox in Quick Search 

• 
On "Search For'; click on either "Jobs" or "Internships'; 

and then click on "Search" 

• 
Click on either "Job Title" or "Employer" title bar for an alphabetical list of jobs or companies 




THE 
CAREER CENTER 
diversity reception 
lafortune ballroom, noon to 2pm all invited 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 
page 18 The Observa . SPORTS Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
NBA 
Cleveland still hoping to look 'Smart' 


. Cavs drop first game under new head coach 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 

Tracy McGrady scored 35 poin1s to spoil Keith Smart's coaching debut with Oeveland, leading the Orlando Magic to a 103-94 win Tuesday night over the Cavaliers. 
McGrady came in as the league's leading scorer at 30 points per game, and he had matched that with 6:55 left in the third quarter with a pair of free throws. 
At that point, McGrady had ou1scored the Cavs' starters 30­
29. He had 33 points after three quarters, and Orlando coach Doc Rivers planned to rest his star before the Cavs rallied. 
Cleveland fell to an NBA-worst 8-35 with i1s fifth straight loss and first under Smart, who was hired as interim coach on Monday when Oeveland fired John Lucas. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas led Cleveland with a career-high 35 poin1s, but the Cavs, who have lost 11 of 13, didn't play much better with Smart calling the shots as they had with Lucas for the first 42 games this season. 
Ricky Davis, Oeveland's leading scorer this season, had just 11 points -11 below his average. 
Pat Garrity added 20 poin1s and Jeryl Sasser 14 for Orlando, which was without forwards Grant Hill and Mike Miller, both nursing ankle injuries. 
But as long as McGrady's 

healthy, the Magic look as if they 
can compete with anyone. He 
added 11 rebounds and six 
assists. 
The 6-foot-8 guard did whatev­

er he pleased from the outset 
against the league's second-worst 
defensive team. He started 6-of-7 
from the floor and scored 15 
points in the game's first 5:05. 
McGrady cooled off in the sec­

ond period, but had 24 points in 
the first half as Orlando took a 61­
48 lead at the break. 
The Magic opened the third quarter with a 7 -0 spurt and then McGrady hit a 13-foot jumper, a layup and two free throws to give Orlando a 22-point lead. 

. Smart hopes to turn around a broken team 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Looking for some advice, Keith Smart sat down with his college coach a few years ago and asked for some tips on how to be suc­cessful. 
"He told me, 'Make sure you are prepared and make sure you are organized'," Smart recalled. 
Bob Knight's wisdom has come in handy for Smart, who might want to give his old coach a call for some more pointers. 
Fixing the Cleveland Cavaliers won't be easy. 
Smart was named Cleveland's fourth coach in four years Monday, replacing John Lucas who was fired after going 8-34 and failing to develop the Cavs' younger players. 
"We've been pretty much the laughingstock of the league," said guard Bimbo Coles. "It has been a circus or a zoo around here. We need someone who is positive and energetic and someone who can teach. That doesn't mean just talking about it. Keith is the per­fect person for the job." 
Lucas, fired 1 1/2 years into a three-year, $9 million contract, couldn't make winners out of the lowly Cavs, so Smart is getting a shot. 
He's made a big one before. 
Smart is best known for making the game-½inning jump shot for Indiana in the 1987 NCAA cham­pionship game against Syracuse. He inherits the league's youngest 

Cleveland coach Keith Smart dropped his first game with the 
team and all of Lucas' headaches. 

Cavs after replacing former coach John Lucas. 
"I told the players we have an 

Recycle The Observer 

Fischoff's Culinary Feast invites Students, Faculty & Staff to • 
string (}f ·1s
Pea! 
Saturday, February 22, 2003 
7:00 pm 

Palais Royale (downtown South Bend) 
Gourmet creations by 16 chefs from the American Culinary Federation Music by Fischoff Competition Winner, Chiara String Quartet Dancing to "Pieces of Dreams" Limited Silent Auction 
. ...I 

Dance away the winter blues!! 
Proceeds benefit the educational programs of the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association and the American Culinary Federation 
Black tie optional 
Reservations: 1-2903 Fischoff, 303 Brownson Hall, info@fischoff.org 
"Residing in a World of 
The College of Arts and Letters and The Office of Student Affairs 
open book," said the 38-year-old Smart, who spent three seasons as a head coach in the CBA before joining the Cavs as an assistant. "\Ve're starting fresh." 
Smart will make his debut at home on Tuesday night against Orlando. He's the league's sec­ond-youngest coach behind Golden State's Eric Musselman, who coached Smart in the CBA. 
The 49-year-old Lucas went 37­87 in his brief tenure with Cleveland, which has been coached by Mike Fratello, Randy Wittman, Lucas and now Smart since 1999. 
Lucas wasn't bitter about being replaced and said he's proud of what he did accomplish. 
"My time was up," Lucas said. "It was time to move on. There were tough circumstances. But I tried to do the best job I could with what I was given. It didn't work out. I gave every ounce of energy I had and put my heart into it. It wasn't good enough." 
Cavaliers general manager Jim Paxson was disappointed in his team's lack of development under Lucas and decided to make the coaching change before things got worse. 
The Cavs, who have the league's worst ,record at 8-34, are coming off a 1-5 West Coast road trip where they were blown out in several of the losses. 
Aside from the record, Paxson was most concerned that the Cavs weren't showing any signs of progress, and that Lucas didn't have a plan to turn things around. 
"I didn't see any change com­ing, and this road trip reinforced that." said Paxson, who has been troubled by the team's play over the past month. "I don't feel like our players felt like they had a 
ch:-ml".P. to win." 
Ideas" 
are pleased to announce an initiative to engage faculty and students in serious discussions within our residence halls Any matters ofpressing importance (international, national, and local), ofconsiderable cultural currency (new and influential works in the arts, in scholarship, and in literature) 
ofgreat religious importance (decisions by international religious leaders, the actions oftheocratic states, the workings ofreligiously-inspired popular movements) or ofgreat ethical concern ( cloning, globalization, environmentalism) 
The successful application should include: 
• 
A briefdescription ofthe topic to be addressed, with some indication that a diversity ofopinion will be aired. 

• 
Names and departments ofthe faculty speakers (at least one must be A & L), and, if applicable, names of the student speakers. 

• 
Signature of support from at least two students, one rector, and one senior staff member of the Office of Student Affairs. 

• 
Evidence that the discussion could draw twenty or more students. 

• 
Dates, times, and locations for the discussions. 

• 
An estimated budget 


Proposals will be accepted and reviewed throughout the regular academic year. Please send them to: 
Hugh R. Page Jr., PhD. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies College ofArts & Letters 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
' ' . 

Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 


Get a full 1°/o cash back on purchases with a Visa® Platinum Card from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union~ For information, or to apply for your Visa,g. Platinum Card, call, stop in, or visit our web site. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 ¦ 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 
"Your annual cash bonus of a full 1% is paid out annually in January, and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus information will appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cash advances and balance transfers. Not applicable to account if delinquent or over limit. Credit limits 
start at $5,000. Full disclosure available by calling 800/522-6611. Independent of the University. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles looking to lance Knights 
an exciting one, as the Knights
By HEATER VAN 
defeated the Belles at Angela last HOEGARDEN 
year on Parents' Day, 52-51,
Sports Writer 
after handily beating the Belles earlier in the season. And afterThe Saint Mary's basketball such a narrow defeat last year.
team has had its share of strug­Saint Mary's is looking forgles of late, dropping five of their revenge.
last six games. However, "We have already talked about tonight's trip to Grand Rapids, · last year's game," Bellina said. 
Mich. may be what the Belles "Once again, we should haveneed to change their luck. They won."
face the Knights of Calvin (10-5, Strategically speaking. Saint1-3) in a key MI.AA conference Mary's will look to mix up itsmatchup. 
defenses to keep the well-bal­
Kim Wolthuis leads the ance d Knights guessing.
Knights in scoring, averaging 10 Wolthuis is the only Knight whopoints on 51 percent shooting averages double digits in scoring.
from the field. Another key con­"One big thing is to mix up ourtributor has been Emily Beard, defenses," Bellina said. "Our go­
(8.7 points, 8.9 rebounds). The to defense is definitely man, butKnights, like the Belles, have sometimes to give ourselves astruggled in conference play, los­mental break. we can play zone,ing to Albion, Kalamazoo, and, half-court trap, or press." 
most recently, Hope. The 
Defense will be key for theKnights' sole conference win, Belles if they want a key MIMlike the Belles', came against victory on the road. 
Olivet. 
"We want to keep them on
Saint Mary's, meanwhile, looks their toes," said Bellina. 
for a much-needed victory on the Offensively, Saint Mary's hasroad. as the Belles are only 2-8 been led by the inside-outside on the road this season due to a tandem of Emily Creachbaumtough road schedule. 
and Bridget Boyce. Both haveRegardless, Wednesday's con­played well of late, despite theference game is crucial for the team's struggles. 
Belles. 
Saint Mary's and Calvin tip off··tt is absolutely a must-win at 7:30 at Calvin Fieldhouse ingame," Belles coach Suzanne Grand Rapids, Mich.
Bellina said. "We have lost a lot of games that we knew we should have won." Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
________.....;,_________,_______ 






page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, January 22, 2003 




I!',
I. 
I, 1 ··, 

'i 
! 




around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Maryland at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN Purdue at Illinois 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL Wizards at Hornets 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMENS TENNIS 

Australian Open semifinals 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
' 
-·· ... 1t .................-. -••• --..-• .. II'' 
TENNIS 

JEFF CHRISTENSEN/Reuters 
Tennis star Andre Agassi promises he and wife Steffi Graf (above) will compete as doubles partners in the French 
Open If Agassi wins the mens title at the Australian Open. 
Graf and Agassi may partner up again 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
Steffi Graf might make a comeback to tennis at Roland Garros to honor a promise to husband Andre Agassi if he wins a fourth Australian Open. 
Agassi said Tuesday that if he can win the men's title at Melbourne Park on Sunday, former world No. 1 Graf would have to part­ner with him in mixed doubles at the French Open. 
"For the record. and you're the first to know this, if I win here Stef has to play doubles with me in Paris," Agassi told the Australian Open's official ration at 32, you should Web site when asked who see her at 33," Agassi said. his dream mixed doubles "She always wins ... the partner would be. problem is, I can't keep my 
"You can print that and eye on the ball." 
I'll hold you to it,..  "-c h d d ror t e recor , an  ,you re  Ag as s i and Graf  
he  was  the first to know this, ifI  were mar- 
quoted as saying.Agassi  win here Stefhas to play doubles with me in Paris. ,,  ried in Las Vegas in October  
had earli­ 2001, and  
er told the  Andre Agassi  have  a  
c e n t e r c O u r t  mens tennis player and husband of Steffi Graf  s o n . Jaden Gil,  
crowd  at  who is 15  
Melbourne  months  
Park that  old.  

he had been practicing Graf retired in July with Graf and she was still 1999, weeks after collect-in good form. ing a sixth French Open 
"You think I'm an inspi-title with a win over 
IN BRIEF 
Walker will miss up to two 
weeks with knee inJury 
Antoine Walker is expected to miss up to two weeks with a knee injury sustained in the Boston Celtics' comeback victory over the Philadelphia 76ers. 
An MRI taken Tuesday, one day after Boston's 100-99 win, showed a mild ligament sprain of his right knee. Walker was hurt in the third quarter of the game in which his 3­pointer provided the last points, cap­ping a rally from a 23-point deficit. 
Walker finished with 33 points and, on Tuesday, was chosen as the NBA player of the week in the Eastern Conference. 
He sat out Tuesday's practice, and coach Jim O'Brien said he would not play against Milwaukee on Wednesday night in Boston. 
Walker's 21.8-point average ranks 15th in the NBA and second among the Celtics, who have won four straight games. 
J 

..,._ ...... ,.,, ....~.-., -,...,-................................ . 
: • .........~. I • IIJ.'if I 
. 
1,.1' •ll ,S' 1,'l\1\4 'J. .. L~l',,,..a'1o<'-'t Pl' J.', l. t P PSi"I I 

... 
Martina Hingis in the final. 
Graf won 22 Grand Slam singles titles, putting her second on the all-time list behind Australia's Margaret Court with 24. 
Graf is in Melbourne with Agassi for the Australian Open. 
Agassi is the favorite to win the title after advanc­ing to the semifinals Tuesday with a powerful 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 win over France's Sebastien Grosjean. 
Graf previously played mixed doubles with John McEnroe at Wimbledon in 1999, when they reached the semis before she with­drew due to illness. 
Brlnd' Amour tears tendon,
could miss three months 
Carolina Hurricanes leading scorer Rod Brind'Amour will need surgery and could miss three months after tearing a tendon in his right hand. 
Brind'Amour, who has 14 goals and 23 assists, was placed on injured reserve Tuesday. He was hurt on a first-period faceoff of Monday night's 5-3 loss to St. Louis, although he wound up scoring in the third peri­od. 
"I didn't know exactly what was going on, but I felt it kind of pop," he said. "It just kind of gave out." 
Things weren't going too well as it iss for the defending Eastern Conference champions, who have lost seven straight games and dropped to 13th in the playoff race. 
"This is just the way bad years go. You get bad breaks," general man­ager Jim Rutherford said. 
Brind'Amour, a 15-year veteran, is one of the best face-off men in the NHL and a top penalty-killer. He 
. . -• ' • • ' • t l I 1 i ; J I 4 i I i i I l J • I 1 , 
leads the team with 20 points on the 
power play. 
Surgery is needed because "there 
is potential damage to two fingers if 
he doesn't get this done," coach Paul 
Maurice said. "There really is no 
option. If there was one, he would 
play and get it fixed at the end of the 
year. This guy has played with bro­
ken bones in his feet. He's played 
with just about everything you can 
play with." 
Maurice said Josef Vasicek would 
likely fill Brind'Amour's place on the 
team's second line, and Kevyn 
Adams would move up to the third 
line. 
Some of Brind'Amour's penalty­
killing time could be filled by 39­
year-old captain Ron Francis. 
''It's a blow, there is no question 
about that," Maurice said. "We can't 
replace him with an individual." 
Brind'Amour will also be missed 
off the ice. The alternate captain is 
considered one of the hardest work­
ers in the league. 
' 1 • • ' ' ·' ' · 
t .. 141' t· I II t-• • • ll • h~ 4 f I"'-' .. 1· • t..t_,, a .. t. .., 
I I 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

White 
continued from page 24 
athletic programs qualified for postseason play last year, eight won Big East championships, and the Irish finished 11th and 13th in the Sears Cup, now called the NACDA Cup, in White's first two years. 
Most impressively, besides the school's 90 percent graduation rate, Notre Dame is one of a handful of athletic departments in the nation that does not lose money, something White attrib­utes to a tremendously support­ive fan base. He also takes pride that any money the athletics department generates beyond what is needed for expenses goes into the general student scholar­ship fund. 
The athletic director is present at virtually every major Notre Dame sporting event, and Big East comm1ss10ner Mike Tranghese once called White one of the most visible athletic direc­
..------------------------,under his belt, White is once 
. I I 

to find out how you can make a difference. 

15 Minute drive to There Are Children Here 
* 

W·,. ,· __ ­
t
* 
* 
_______..

* .t· .• ··r. 
·,, ~ 10 Minute walk to the Robinson Community Leaming Center 
* 

* 7 Days a week students can volunteer in South Bend 
* 
* 

4 Years ND students reside in South Bend 
3 Full months to be a volunteer this semester Tu -tors needed every day 
1 Person to make a difference 


Attend the SOCial Concerns Festival 
tors in the nation. But White claims he watches not because he wants people to see him, but because he loves sports and loves competition. 
"I love game day. The best thing around here is game day," he grinned. "I love when our organization competes against somebody else's, our institution competes against somebody else's, our department against somebody else's .... We all have a role to play to facilitate the right kind of environment and we have responsibility, and that starts at the very top of the insti­tution. 
"It isn't just the team and the players, there's a lot more that goes into it, and if the right pieces aren't in place, the chances for that specific team are greatly reduced." 
Yet not everything is a fantasy world for White. While he euphemistically admits the most difficult part of his job is "sepa­rating" people from the University -"You get to the point where you gotta do what 
AUTHENTIC SUBS SINCE 1956 
sVp6JR JBO\VL, P.t\-ll'Tt&'/ 
LET US HELP WITH SUBS, PARTY PLATTERS AND OUR HUGH TWO, FOUR AND SIX FOOT PARTY SUBS GREAT PRODUCTS AND PRICES. HURRY AND PLACE YOUR ORDERS NOW•••24 HRS. ADVANCE NOTICE NEEDED FOR PARTY SUBS AND 
PARTY PLATTERS. ORDER EARLY... AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT. STUDENTSu..ltEMEMBER TO SHOW YOUR STUDENT ID CARD FOR. A t 5% DISCOUNT ON ALL PURCHASESu~!! CALL 247-00S6 OR 277-8920 
Top 20 Reasons to Attend the 
Social Concerns Festival 
20 Years of celebrating the CSC .. /.::·:::. ~ : _-.:,:~~:,~>: .. 
* ; .· . . . < 
,. ' : ' ',,..·~. ', .

* ·.. ·..... . •• 
you gotta do,'' he shrugged -not even White himself could have imagined how difficult the foot­ball coaching change would have been 13 months ago. 
Many criticized White for mis­hand ling the change, which resulted in George O'Leary resigning five days after he was hired for lying about his academ­ic and athletic background. Although Willingham's success last season now makes a serious gaffe look like divine interven­tion, White knows his position leaves him wide open to criti­cisms. 
"I think they should judge us on everything that we do," he said, adding he had "some com­munication" with both O'Leary and Bob Davie without going into detail. "I don't think there's any­thing I would distill and say this doesn't warrant accountability or not warrant introspection. I've been afforded a wonderful opportunity, and everything and anything I do warrants some review." 
With the contract extension 
again focused on implementing a variety of programs the athletic department has been working on for quite some time. Although he would not discuss the particulars of any plan currently under works, White has in the past expressed support for expanding scholarships in all varsity sports to the NCAA maximum, signed coaches to multi-year contracts and suggested renovating the Joyce Center and building a new football training facility. 
It's all part of a plan of excel­lence he first talked about with Malloy in a Chicago hotel almost three years ago. 
"If it was a light switch mental­ity, and I tell our coaches this all the time, everybody would be doing it," he said. "It's a progres­sion, it's a process, and we're chipping away and gaining on it." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
C 
---· 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish volleyball drops first three 
Special to The Observer 
The mens volleyball club opened regular season play with the first qualifying tourna­ment of the year at Marquette. The Irish dropped three tightly played early matches to Northern Illinois, 27-25, 20-25, 15-13; Wisconsin Oshkosh, 25­19, 25-23; and Ball State. 25­19, 25-21. Yet the continued strong play of setter Tom Bradbeer and key support from outside hitters Jim Lowder, Brian Michalek and Brad Weldon turned the tide as the Irish defeated Wisconsin Milwaukee, 25-13, 25-15, and Iowa State, 25-27, 25-20, 15­13. 
The Irish closed the tourna­ment against host Marquette. Dominating performances from libero Nick Abrams, outside hitter Dan Zenker, and fresh­man Todd Strobel closed out the first game at 25-13 for the Irish. Dan Parziale and Drew Mascarenhas stymied Marquette's efforts to establish any rhythm in an intense sec­ond game, as the Irish pre­vailed 28-26, to beat the Golden Eagles for the first time in four years. Buoyed by the three closing wins, the Irish will travel this week to Ann Arbor, Mich. for the Michigan Classic. 
Skiing 
Talk is rampant in the ski world this season about the quality and depth of Notre Dame's womens squad. With 

SIU TRIPS, 
1111~ 
IOflll! 
I ¦49 
-
._____..www .com
....iii 
You're earning your business degree in May, how about putting it to GOOD USE? 
Be a part of building Chicago's highest performing public middle school. KIPP Ascend Academy, opening in July 2003, will prepare educationally underserved students for college prep high schools. The school is now hiring a business manager. Promising candidates will have a strong academic record and a firm grasp of accounting principles and technology. Successful candidates will work well in a team, enjoy an entrepreneurial setting, and be committed to helping underserved children. 
To learn more, come to an information setting in Room 207 DeBartolo Hall at6pm on Thursday, January 23. 
Please email cover letter and resume to Jim O'Connor '95 at joconnor@kipp.org or fax to 312-906-9352. For more detail, visit www.kipp.org. KIPP Ascend Academy is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Kl PP: Ascend Academy 
Go above and beyond. 
strong returning performers Molly Munsterer, Emily Hellmuth, and Allana Lungren back from a year ago, the Irish have been bolstered by the return from study abroad of All-American Leigh Hellrung, and freshman standout Mary Butler. Expectations were high as the club opened the 2003 MCSA season at Crystal Mountain this weekend. And they were met, as the Irish won both the womens slalom and giant slalom. 
Munsterer. Lungren, and Butler took second, third and sixth in the slalom as the Irish edged runner-up and defending conference champion Michigan State, 149.87-154.75. \Vestern Michigan's Andrea Gerling took 1st, edging Munsterer 49.45­
49.53. In the giant slalom the following day, Munsterer, Butler, and Lungren finished first, third and eighth, as the Irish again placed first, edging Michigan State 117.96-119.55. Michigan again placed 3rd, fol­lowed by Grand Valley State and Western Michigan revers­ing their finish in the slalom. 
The mens squad was very competitive in a closely bunched field, yet finished fifth in team standings. Jesse Hensle, 21st, and Cory Ryan, 38th were the lone Irish to cross the finish line as poor conditions were prevalent. Sunday's improved conditions saw much better results, high­lighted by Mike Ryan's 4th in the giant slalom, followed by teammates Bill Leimkluhler. 22nd, and Eric Hanson at 27th. 


WOMENS TENNIS 
Odds look good for Irish in home opener 

By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
Statistically, the odds are against the Western Michigan Broncos as they visit the Irish at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Over the past nine years, the Irish have only lost one home opener. 
Currently 22nd in the presea­son rankings, Notre Dame will face a Western Michigan squad that includes one of the nation's top doubles duos, Melanie Peters and Frederika Girsang. 
•Tm excited to get the season started," freshman Lauren Connelly said. "We've been practicing hard." 
The Irish, who have been ranked in the top 30 for each of the past ten years,-are return­ing five letterwinners -junior Alicia Salas, sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly, junior Emily Neighbours, senior captain Katie Cunha, and junior Caylan Leslie, who is returning to the courts after a 14-month recov­ery from a shoulder injury. 
Despite the number of returnees, the team remains fairly young. 
"We have a bunch of fresh­men in the lineup so this is a big day for them," Cunha said. "I expect as much out of [the freshmen] as any of the other girls on the team. I think it's kind of an advantage because they are not going to be intimi­dated by anyone because they 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
are new, and they are hungry. Vegas], but all in all it was a They are excited to get out good weekend." Leslie said. there and play." "The most important thing was 
According to Lauren Connelly, that I got out there and got the younger sister of Sarah some match experience again. I Jane, she and her fellow rookies went out there and I was very had a challenging adjustment nervous. It was just a lot differ­period, but she believes they ent to be competing again. It will take to the courts with con­was nice to go out there and fidence tomorrow. play well." 
"It took us awhile [to adjust]. Leslie's return adds to the but it was nice having four positive outlook for the Irish, other freshmen there," Connelly who advanced to the first round 
said.  of the NCAA  
"They  tournament  
played a bunch of big players in the  "/ personally have really high expectations for the  last season. "I person­ally have  
fall, and they weren't scared,"  team. They did really well in the fall...  high expec­tations for the team,"  
Cunha said.  Cunha said.  
Cunha  is  Katie Cuha  "They  did  
excited about  captain  really well in  


Hoops 
continued from page 24 
Providence point guard Donnie McGrath took the Friars on a 10-5 run that narrowed the Irish lead to 64-62. 
But that would be as close as Providence would get, as Thomas sunk two crucial free throws with 2:21 to play and Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette would seal the victory with a bucket from the block with just 1 :27 to play. 
The consistent free throw shooting by Notre Dame made up for a poor perfor­mance from behind the arc for the Irish, who were only 4-for-19 from 3-point range. 
Providence forward Ryan Gomes netted a double-dou­ble with 21 points and 13 rebounds, leading the Friars in both categories. 
Thomas was the leading scorer for the Irish with 23 points, followed closely by Carroll with 21. 
The sophomore point 
guard Thomas, coming off a 
sloppy day against the 
Wildcats where he commit­
ted nine turnovers, was 
much more efficient with the 
Recycle The Observer 

the potential of her young teammates. 
"I think everyone is really excited," Cunha said. "The freshmen are extremely excited. I think we might be able to take a lot of teams by surprise because we are young." 
Leslie will be returning to team play for the first time since her shoulder injury early last fall. Last weekend, she played in the Collegiate Tennis Kick-off Classic in Las Vegas along with Cunha and freshman Kelly Nelson. 
"I wish I could have won a few more matches [in Las 
ball against the Friars, turn­ing the ball over only twice and dishing six assists. 
Freshman center Torin Francis also had one of his better performances of the season, scoring 13 points and grabbing eight rebounds. 
The Irish will wrap up their longest road stretch of the season Saturday with a Big East matchup against Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Mass. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
the fall. I 
expect them 
to carry that out in the first match." 
The Broncos will probably prove to be one of the minor challenges for this Irish squad, which has at least three teams ranked in the top ten on its schedule. 
"We want to focus on winning our regional matches and those big ones coming up against Wisconsin and Northwestern," Cunha said. "We set a lot of short-term goals." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
Lindsley. l@nd.edu 
OPENING NIGHT BASEBALL DINNER 

FEATURING 
'B~f'B'ALL . ' CH1C'.il§O C'U'.BS §M j1rivt '}{1:tFD1tY
TUESDAY, FEB. 4TH 
-RELIVE THE INCREDIBLE WORLD SERIES RUN 
DOORS OPEN AT 6:00 PM -OPPORTUNITIES TO WIN BASEBALL MEMORABILIA 
-2003 IRISH BASEBALL POSTER AND MEDIA GUIDE
CALL JEFF SCHMAL 
AT 631-3264 TO REGISTER 
Introducing 

I IB3unftif~n(O) Wllmi~§ 
1 Call 631-2924 to reserve your 
I Superbowl pick-up order!* I 
20 Piece Buffalo Wings ............................... $9.99 17" New York Style Cheese Pizza............... $9.99 17" New York Style Pepperoni Pizza ......... $10.99 17" Gourmet Pan Meat Delight Pizza....... $11.99 
2 Liter Coca Cola products $0.99 with whole pizza purchase. Limit one 2 Liter bottle per pizza. 
ADULTS-$25 YOUTH/STUDENT -$15 
sbarro· 

HUDDLE 1, 
FOOD COURT 
Located in the LaFortune Student Center 

Cash, Domer Dollars, and Flex Points accepted. 
-=·,, I 
DomerDollars 1

*Guaranteed availability for orders received by Friday, January 24th. 

/. 
_I 
t 


Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
\,11-1''1' Aef. You !RONIN~ YEP, ,vrSINa,':I OC>N'T 
1HCY.:E r:AN1'$ ?! ' M~'ftt-1\E.'ID~SH UVE:IUW IN $fill.: E°M,I Fl~~D 

ONltJGWoot.: 
~(I
$ e . 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
IO 
w,m;,·~~~..~ f. 

(J I -tJ 
TIENIF WHY THE NOVE:l-lST
I (J 
VISITED THf:: 
www.junille.com 
C.f:ME:TEl<Y.
tINGOPE ~ 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
IJ I J I 
Ans~r: TO ( 
I I I ]"[ I I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yes:erday's I Jumbles:  CAMEO  FORCE  DREDGE  PURIFY  
Answer:  What her ears felt like  at the rock c oncert ­ 
"PIEACEDn  


CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  27 Half a famous  63"Who_we  
1 Oregon's capital 6 Sounds worked on by speech therapists 11 With 69-Across, a film with 27 ­ Hollywood duo 33 Place for a breath of fresh air? 36 Wriggly fish 37 Precisely  kidding?" 64 Other half of the Hollywood duo 66 Half a dozen 67 Go out with 68 Bury  
and 64-Across  38 Give  time  69 See 11-Across  
14 Appliance maker  40 Mo. with  70 Pianist Hess  
15 Immobile  Columbus Day  and others  
16 Wire service  42 Giant  71 Poor  
inits.  43 Dummies  
17 27-and 64-Across film, with "The" 19 Wager 20 W.W. II area: Abbr. 21 Principles 22 Risque 23 A nonmusician may have one 25 Exude  45 Rankle 47 Unhip person 48 27-and 64-Across film 51 Certain legal protection 52 Difficult experience 56 Outlaws 59 "_ Fideles" 62 Untruth  DOWN 1 TV comic Bob 2 Celebrated Italian violinmaker 3 Apply, as a coat of wax 4 Epilogue 5 Rum cocktail 6 MGM symbol 7 Regarding 8 Pie chart part  
9 Arrange by ZIP  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  code, e.g.  
10 Fr. holy woman  
 

PUZZie by Bette Sue Cohen 11 Oompah 
29 Spanish hero 50 Obtuse one 600ame_,instrument who died in 1099 53 A-list types Barry Humphries12 Assn. with many 30 Suffix with cigar character

Gulf members 54 Broadcast 61 Droops
13 Feel sorry for 31 Behind 55 Apprehensive 
18 "From the Earth 32Transmit 56 Big party 64 Mom, dad and to the Moon" 33 Boys 57 Opera excerpt the kids: Abbr. writer 
34 "This looks bad" 58 Cashier's cry 65 Gas suffix 22 Put on again, as 
35 Nothin' 
weight 39 Meat slicer site Answers to any three clues in this puzzle24 Appetizers with 41 _-la-la are available by touch-tone phone:sweet-and-sour 

sauce 44 Believe in 1-900-420·5656 ($1.20 per minute). wholeheartedly Annual subscriptions are available for the 46 Ship speed units best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
28 1980's-90's car 
name 49 Make beloved years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Perry, Linda Blair, John Hurt  --­ 
Diane Lane  
Happy Birthday: Your outgoing personality will lead you to people who can  
make a difference in your life. The more accepting you are, the better. Yout  
talents will unfold in an  unusual way and because of this, you will gain  
recognition  and  praise.  Your  numbers  are  5,  19, 27,  35, 40,  47  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Stay cool and don't Jet the little things going on  
around you get you all worked up. Keep busy. You will be in a high-energy  
cycle, so focus on a purpose. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Rely on yourself if you want things done  
properly. Concentrate on your own projects and refuse to get involved in what doesn't concern you. Physical activity will keep you calm. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be afraid to make advances if there is  
someone that interests you. Your versatility coupled with your creative  
imagination will attract a lot of attention. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Refuse to put up with any unfair treatment. You  
will enjoy yourself the most if you do things that will make you feel good or  
that can help you relax. A little pampering will go a long way. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have good experiences if you do things  
with close friends. The conversations alone will be interesting and help you  
make a decision about your future.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's a good day for a creative project. Someone  
with experience will give you good tips, but be prepared to face opposition  
from a know-it-all  ***  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Preparation will be the key today. Expect to face  
a challenge. You have what it takes to surpass any obstacle. Your ability tc  
follow through on your actions will be impressive. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 2:,-Nov. 21): Calculated moves will put you in a key position. Do some investigating regarding an investment that interests you.  
****  
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Taking on too much will result in slim  
profits and little progress. Your inability to tell someone that you don't want tc  
see them any longer will be your downfall. Be honest. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your ideas regarding residential moves 01  
changes may be upsetting to those you live with. Focus on business and  
moneymaking opportunities for best results today. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If someone approaches you with a  
partnership proposal, you may want to think twice and evaluate what this  
person can honestly contribute. You can make money if you invest in yourself.  
***  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You've been trying to do too much. Take care  
of any health problems and spend time with the people who mean the most tc  
you.**  ....  
Birthday Baby: You will be serious about life and your purpose. You will be  
curious, thoughtful and engaging when it comes to dealing with others. You  
will make a difference because you care.  
Check out  Eugenia's Web Sites  at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com.  
astromate.com.  

--------------------------------------------~----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer .. 
P.O. Box Q
and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip____..-'---_ 





Wednesday, January 22, 2003 

Another date to remember 
White and he'll inevitably begin 
. White's contract 

gushing about one a'ipect of Notre 
extension gives Dame or another. It was this pas­sion for Notre Dame that initially
him more time to 

chased him away from hiring
serve Notre Dame 

Tyrone Willingham the first time 
because White felt Willingham By ANDREW SOUKUP didn't appreciate Notre Dame Sports Writer enough. It is this passion that 
motivates him to lead an athletic 
Even though Kevin \Vhite jok­department that ranks among the ingly says he has trouble remem­best in the nation simply because bering his anniversary, the Notre he believes excellence and Notre Dame athletic director can quickly Dame are synonyms. tell you the significance of other And it is this passion, coupled dates. with a successful track record, 
There's Mar. 12, 2000, when he which gave White another date to flew from Arizona State to inter­remember. On Dec. 30, 2002, view in an O'Hare Airport hotel Malloy announced he had extend­
room with a select group of indi­ed White's contract by two years. viduals, including University The second extension White has President Father Edward Malloy, received in his nearly three-year who impressed White with his tenure with Notre Dame, his con­vision for Notre Dame in general tract will now run out in 2012. and athletics in particular. Yet White dismisses the stability 
There's Mar. 13, 2000, when such a long-term deal provides his White was publicly introduced as family, and rather looks at the Mike Wadsworth's successor and increased time as a way to 
vowed to uphold Notre Dame's increase his goals for the depart­standards of excellence without ment. truly understanding what those "When Father Malloy was very 
standards were. kind and generous in extending 
The date that defined Notre the opportunity to come serve, we Dame for White didn't come until talked about being the very best in he had been on the job for a year the country when you looked at it and a half. On Sept. 11, 2001, less from every dimension," he said. than six hours after the World "That's what we're in pursuit of, Trade Center collapsed, White and and we're making progress." his family were among the 5,000 A simple look at Notre Dame participants in a Mass on South athletics under White reveals just Quad. how much progress the University 
..Where else in the country has made. White hired could such a thing happen just five Willingham, mens basketball to six hours after that tragic event coach Mike Brey and mens soccer
\~, 

with such meaning and purpose?" coach Bobby Oark, three coaches he said last week. " ... It showed us who turned their respective pro­a side of Notre Dame that we grams around in a relatively short 
I·ll. 

knew existed but hadn't yet expe­time. Twenty of Notre Dame's 26 ,, rienced."
f'
}~\ 

,, ' Spend any amount of time with 
see WHITE/page 21 
!Ji ) i: 
) ,, 
I/ ), 
MENS BASKETBALL
{i: ,• 
I'; 

Irish shooters return to form in victory
I


I .I 44 of Notre Dame's 71 points only other two previous
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

as the Irish edged the Friars games at their opponents'
Sports Writer 

71-65. home gym with losses to 
Following a shaky offen­However, it turned out to now-top-10 foes Pittsburgh sive performance last be Notre Dame's solid free and Kentucky. Saturday in its 88-7 3 loss on throw shooting, especially The Irish, who improved to the road to No. 8 Kentucky, down the stretch, that saved 15-3 on the season and 3-1 Notre Dame needed its top the Irish. The team shot 21-in Big East play, struggled scorers to be more accurate for-25 from the line and was early offensively and trailed when it returned to Big East 10-for-13 during the last the Friars 34-33 going into 

play at Providence Tuesday 5:04 of the game to enable the locker room at half. night. the Irish to escape With 5:54 left to play, 
The 16th-ranked Irish got Providence's Dunkin' Donuts Carroll hit a crucial 3-point­just that, as guards Chris Center with the victory. The er to put the Irish up 59-52, Thomas and Matt Carroll win was the first true road but a scoring spark led by combined to shoot 40 per­victory for the Irish this sea­cent from the floor and score son, who had dropped their see HOOPS/page 22 




MENS BASEKTBALL 
WOMENS TENNIS 
CLUB SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL
en ILi 
Saint Mary's at Calvin
Notre Dame 71 
Western Michigan at Notre
1-u 
The Irish mens vollyeball team
Providence 65 
Dame 
droped its first three matches of the 

The Irish shooters returned to their 
Today, 7:30 p.m.
a:~ 
season this past weekend at

usual style and went 21-for-25 from 
Today, 4 p.m. 

The Belles are hoping to turn their
Marquette.
The Irish are hoping luck stays

the free throw line on their way to 
luck around tonight against the
with them at their home opener. 
victory. 

== Knights. 
page 22

a. !cc back page 
page 21 

page 19
en 



