
---~ ------~ 
Prosecutor intends to dismiss remaining rape charges 
ball players said the sex acts were the likelihood of success and is 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES consensual. based upon consultation with oth­
News Editor The two other players had ers involved in the case, input from 
already gone to trial, with little suc­jurors from the trials of Abram 
Special Prosecutor Maureen cess for the prosecution. Three Elam and Donald Dykes and my Devlin intends to file a motion to weeks ago, a jury acquitted Donald own experience as a trial attorney," dismiss charges against Lorenzo Dykes of rape, conspiracy to com­Devlin said. Crawlilrd and Justin Smith. the two mit rape and sexual battery. In Devlin also said she considered li1rmer football 
August, anoth­the impact two more trials would players who er jury convict­have on the community and the had not yet ed Abram victim. gone to trial Elam of sexual "I believe that my obligation to for their par­battery, but the citizens requires a constant ticipation in a acquitted him awareness that, while there is no March 2002 of two more price too great for justice, prosecu­incident, in serious tion of a case involves the utiliza­which a charges, con­tion of substantial resources and 
Special Prosecutor Maureen Devlin Is questioned by reporters following
female student spiracy to com­involves an emotional and financial 
Crawford Smith the trial of Abram Bam. She has decided to file a motion to dismiss the
allnged she mit rape and price for the victim, the witnesses 
charges against Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith. 
was gang raped by four football criminal deviate conduct. and the community at large," players. Devlin said her decision came Devlin said. Crawford and Smith were both after considering how likely it Attorneys for Crawford and Devlin's decision was just and the Joseph County Prosecutor Chris charged with rape, conspiracy to would be for her to obtain a convic­Smith said they were pleased by only reasonable conclusion based Toth who originally filed the 
commit rape and sexual battery; tion. Devlin's decision. on what he called incomplete and charges, saying charges would not Crawford was also charged with "This decision is primarily the Tony Zappia, Smith's attorney, questionable evidence. criminal deviate conduct. The foot-result of an objective assessment of said in a statement to WNDU that Zappia criticized former St. see RAPE/page 6 


A panel of Notre Dame staff members discussed affirmative action Issues Monday. The panel said that affirmative action will continue to be Important In race relations and university admissions. 
Panel discusses affirm_ative action 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
Affirmative action will con­tinue to play a role in race relations and admissions at universities, a panel of Notre Dame faculty members said Monday. 
Sociology professor David Yamine moderated the panel. The participants also included Rhonda Brown, director of the Office of Institutional Equity, Robert Mundy, director of admissions operations, David Moss, assistant vice president of student affairs and Chandra Johnson, assistant to the president and assistant director of cross-cultural min­istry. 
"Not a single sphere of life is unaffected by racial equali­ty," Yamine said. Affirmative action is often misunderstood and provokes strong reactions in society, according to Yamin e. 
Brown also discussed the history of affirmative action and how the policy affected her personally. 
She talked about the recent Supreme Court cases regard­ing the University of Michigan, and said she believes the debate over racial preference will continue. 
"It seems [that] every eight to 10 years there is a threat to affirmative action," she said. 
Mundy explained that the admissions policy the University of Michigan Law 
see ACTION/page 4 


Students react to Calif. recall election 
ByWILLPUCKETT 
News Writer 
Californians will head to the polls today to decide the fate nf current Governor Gray Davis and possibly choose a new governor for their state. The historic recall procedure has drawn a wide variety of candidates into the political process, ranging from Larry Flint to Arriana Huffington. 
Among students from California, opinions regard­ing the recall election var­ied widely. About 650 stu­dents, or approximately 7 percent of Notre Dame's student body, are from California. 
Amy and Eileen Locke, 
from Mission Viejo, Calif.. said they were against the recall and did not think the state's economic problems were entirely Davis' fault. 
"''m against the recall ­there arc a lot of other peo­ple who need to be held responsible too," Amy Locke said. "If we recall Governor Davis, we might as well recall President Bush, if that were possible." 
"There are so many candi­dates it's a joke, but at the same time, it's a great example of democracy because of all the people running," Eileen Locke said. "I think [Davis] shouldn't be recalled, though." 
While some students 
see RECALUpage 4 

ND students attend air show-for class 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Students from the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative gathered Monday afternoon at the South Bend Regional Airport for an air show, designed to give the students familiarity with the aircraft many of them will someday fly. Their introducto­ry aeronautics class, taught by Notre Dame students who are licensed pilots, includes instruction on the theories and science behind powered flight, though students do not actual­ly learn how to fly. 
The show was held at Corporate Wings, a portion of the airport dedicated to private and business aircraft, rather than commercial aviation. Aircraft on display included two single-engine Cessna planes, a tiny Mooney Mite and a Boeing 757 cargo plane owned by UPS. 
Unusual aircraft were fea­tured as well, including a pow­ered parachute owned by 
see PILOT/page 6 
' . 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Begging for 
• 

a w1n 

I am a Pittsburgher. "Pop," "Primanti's" and "pierogies" are staples of my vocabulary as well as my diet. I often wax nostalgic about the countless summers I spent at Kennywood, wast­ing my parents' money at the Fish 
Amanda Michaels

Pond, stuffing my face with Potato Patch fries and News Production gazing in terror at Editor the looming metal skeleton of the Steel Phantom. I've smelled Wholey's in the Strip, seen the dinosaurs at the Carnegie and watched fireworks from the Point. I have a postcards of the city posted around my desk and bed, and have seen that same skyline shimmer­ing at night from inside the Duquesne incline. 
And, as any good Pittsburgher can attest to, I actively wave the Terrible Towel. have worn a "Bus" hat at some point in my life and mock the Browns with every available breath. I mourned the loss of Three Rivers Stadium, where I saw my first Steelers game, and own a tape of the classic "Here We Go Steelers" jingle. Occasionally, I even own up to being a Pirates fan. 
But never, never have I ever cheered for Pitt. 
Don't ask me why, but my loyalty to the city of Pittsburgh does not extend to its signature university. Sure, I've heard enough on the local news to know a bit about the team. but unlike so many who bedecked their cars with Panther paraphernalia, I remained surprisingly neutral in spite of all pressure to do otherwise. 
That is, until I got my acceptance let­ter to Notre Dame. 
Since then, I've actively engaged in bouts of Pitt versus Notre Dame trash­talking with my best friend, raised on the 'other' Blue and Gold and honing my colorfully descriptive language skills while touting our Return to Glory. But, as much as I hate to admit it. defending the Irish honor has become far more difficult as of late. I mean, what unbiased observer wouldn't look at a 3-1. 15th ranked team and put good money on the fact that they'll beat the 1-3 guys who were absolutely steamrolled by Michigan? 
Of course, they don't know a thing, and I'm quite sure that we'll go into Heinz Field on Saturday and humiliate the Panthers in a stunning victory. See, I'm keeping the faith. 
But faith can only do so much. So I'm sending out a plea to anyone that will listen. whether it be linebacker or deity, and begging for a win on Saturday. I'm not asking for a win just for the sake of Notre Dame pride, or for rankings, or even for the Notre Dame alum Jerome Bettis who will probably be watching from the stands. though all of those are worthy, worthy causes. 
Rather, I ask for a win for the sake of my poor parents, who, in their green shirts, will brave the thousands upon thousands of Pitt fans waving golden towels and who knows what else. And, at the risk of sounding selfish, for me and my fellow Pittsburgh deviants who might just have to move to Canada if we lose. 
With that said -go Irish, beat the Panthers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Monday's story "Founder of Habitat challenges students," Millard Fuller's name was mispelled. In Monday's In Brief section, the information for the Mr. NO Pageant was incorrect. The event is occur­ing Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU VOTE FOR IN THE CALIFORNIA RECALL ELECTION? 



Brian Hedges  Cole Bennett  Rick Harris  Tim Peplinski  Tom Lamantagne  Zak Flagle  
freshman Siegfried Hall  senior off-campus  senior Siegfried Hall  senior Siegfried Hall  sophomore Morrissey Hall  freshman Siegfried Hall  
'The Terminator himself"  "The Rally Monkey -wait, isn't there a dog running?"  "Schwarzenegger, because it will show how crazy our democracy  ''Schwarzenegger, because Davis won't be back. "  "Larry Flynt, the Smutpeddler who cares. "  "/ would vote for the stripper."  

is." 

Teen rescued from locked 
safe at Kmart 

WOOSTER, Ohio-An 18­year-old who squeezed him­selfinto a 4-foot by 2-foot safe at a Kmart was rescued by firefighters and a locksmith. 
The teenager emerged short of breath and sweaty, but otherwise unharmed after at least 10 minutes inside. 
The Wooster Fire Department received a call at 
9:16 a.m. Saturday and had the teenager, whose name was not released, out by 9:25 a.m., Lt. Joe Unz said. 
The teen and another 18­year-old, both Kmart employ-
TODAY 

c: 

and he can prove it if given a chance to question the bird in court. 
Loulou, an 11-year-old African gray parrot, flew out of David DeGroff's apartment on April 12 after a guest who wasn't wearing her glasses accidentally walked into the screen door leading to the balcony. 
On May 11, Nina Weaver, of Newburg, Pa., adopted an African gray from the D.C. Animal Shelter. DeGroff. con­vinced the bird is Loulou, filed a lawsuit seeking an opportu­nity to depose the parrot. He is seeking $15,000 for pain and suffering if the bird turns out to be Loulou. 
CHUTY BENITEZ/The Observer 

Nell Secor shows off his skateboarding skills Monday afternoon on the steps between Siegfried and Knott Halls. 
OFFBEAT 

ees, had been playing around, and he decided to see if he could fit in the safe, Unz said. 
Employees attempted get him out by using a combina­tion, but it wouldn't open, Unzsaid. 
After firefighters called a locksmith and attempted to use pry bars to open it, the combination was tried again and it worked. The teenager refused to be transported to the hospital. 
Man Wants to Question Parrot in Court 

ALEXANDRIA, Va. -A man claims a woman wrong­ly adopted his lost parrot ­
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 



IN BRIEF 
Come support the women's soccer team as they take on Butler University today from 7 to 8:30p.m. 
Learn about international service at the Peace Corps Information Session. being held today in the Center for Social Concerns Lounge from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Watch the international film "Why has the Bodhi Dharma left for the East? 
today from 7 to 11 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in the LaFortune Student Center. This Korean film will be shown with English subtitles. 
Learn about possibilities for summer research grants and internships through the Kellogg Institute. This infor­mation session will be taking place today from 6:30 to 7:30 
p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Hear New York Times reporter Anthony DePalma speak about "Revolution and Reporter: The Man Who Invented Fidel" today in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center from 12:30 to 1:30 
p.m. today. 
Head over to Rolf's Recreation Center, Court 1 for Drop-In Soccer, taking place today from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 
Watch NDTV. Notre Dame's student-produced television program from 11 p.m. to 12 
a.m. today on Cable Channel 3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 80 HIGH 80 LOW 57 LOW 55 
LLI 
:::1: 


~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
~ ~ 
ct 
(.) 
0 
...1 HIGH 68 HIGH 48 HIGH 75 HIGH 75 LOW 45 LOW 45 LOW· 52 LOW 55 

Atlanta 68 I 56 Boston 58 I 48 Chicago 72 I 57 Denver 79 I 47 Houston 82 I 63 Los Angeles 74 I 59 Minneapolis 78 I 58 New York 64 I 55 Philadelphia 63 I 52 Phoenix 84 I 70 Seattle 60 I 46 St. Louis 78 I 59 Tampa 89 I 73 Washington 67 I 51 

Tuesday, October 7, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Metnbers table RA training resolution 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Council debated, but ultimately tabled, a resolution proposed by Student Senate to investigate resident assistant training poli­cies and procedures. 
The issue came to the fore­front earlier this year when stu­dents who missed portions of RA training were dismissed from their posts. A desire to protect employee-employer relations, however, will prohibit any com­mittee that is formed from inves­tigating specific incidents. 
"We understand the delicacy of the relationship," said lloward senator Brin Anderson. "But we arc trying to look into things like this that affect stu­dents." 
Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer expressed concern that changes in the attendance policy could undermine the effective­ness of the training program and emphasized that attendance at mandatory meetings is a part of any job. 
"It's a contract," he said. "If somebody signed up to work at IBM and the contract said you [should) be there on Sept. 3 and you show up on the 4th, IBM [will terminate you)." 
After a 10-minute debate on the issue, Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle proposed that the council postpone the resolution until the next meeting. 
"As a general rule, I don't like to vote on the day I meet a reso­lution," he said. 
No members of CLC raised objections to postponing the res­olution and Pat Hallahan, CLC chairman. encouraged members to reflect on the issue. 
"Over the next two weeks think about what you want this committee to do if we vote for it," he said. 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Members approved redefining the Safety and Sidewalk Committee to focus on gender relationships at Notre Dame. The committee will now be devoted to exploring relation­ships between the two sexes and how they define campus life. The committee plans to research how other co-ed colleges and universities with single sex dorms deal with such issues. 

+ 
CLC agreed to look into the quality of landscaping through­out campus. Some members expressed concern that the qual­ity and maintenance of land­scaping on the grounds is deteri­orating. 


Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Campus technology to improve at SMC 
Television station might also be in the works 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary's campus will continue to see improve­ments in campus technology, the director of information technology told the Board of Governance Monday. 
Major upgrades in both equipment and procedure, including rewiring of resi­dence halls, have taken place, Keith Fowlkes said. The rewiring will improve the connections between personal student computers and the Saint Mary's net­work. 
An increase in network connection capacity will also be implemented, Fowlkes said. Residence hall network connections are being improved from 10 mega bits to 100 mega bits and the new capacity will increase the Internet and network connection speed. 
Board members expressed concern about recent the implementation of the new e-mail server, Aegis, and the complications of the transi­tion. They specifically ques­tioned whether their files and address book would transition over to the new 
provider. Fowlkes said that students would have to transfer files manually, but that benefits of the new sys­tem would outweigh draw­backs. 
"Aegis is much faster than the old system, and you get 
the added bene­fit of the group calendar where all meetings and events can be posted," he said. 
Fowlkes also said his depart­ment has switched the campus from the use of Cisco computer equip­ment to equip­ment made by Hewlett Packard. 
"What it really translates into is $60,000 in cost savings on equipment each 
year," said Fowlkes. 
Board members also dis­cussed the campus !Store with Fowlkes. The store, which opened for the first time this fall, sells computer hardware and software, as well as Nextel cellular phones to students. 
"We had a lot of students coming to campus with no idea what to buy," he said. "We wanted to make sure that students get the best computer for the best price." 
In addition to the !Store, Saint Mary's students have access to the new Husking Instructional Technology Resource Center, which is located in the library and equipped for full web page production as well as audio 
"We had a lot of students coming to campus with no idea what to buy. We wanted to make sure that students get the best computer for the best price. " 
Keith Fowlkes Saint Mary's director of Information Technology 
under way 
and video presentation. 
"This is going to be the head end for a ne.w campus television channel." Fowlkes explained. 
While defi­nite plans have not yet been established, t h e Information Technology Department hopes that the student-run production unit will be by the fall of 

2004. Students will be able to access the programming both on their televisions and the Internet. 
Possible wireless locations on campus are also being discussed, Fowlkes said, and would include the dining hall and the future adjacent student center. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

esc 
. ' . 
•
. ­
Sites Seeking 
Volunteers 
A companion and helper is needed for a woman who is physically and slightly men­tally handicapped. Contact Rose Anne at 287-3891 or 277-4341. 
The Dujarie House, located on Holy Cross College's cam­pus, is looking for a volunteer to assist a retired religious member I or 2 hours a week. Contact Steve Kastner at 287­I838 or skastner@hcc-nd.edu. 

OneTime Opportunities Available 
Walkers are needed for the annual Walk for Hospice on Sunday, October 12 starting at Ipm (noon is registration) at Potawatomi Park. Contact Vonda Marrow at 243-3119. 
St. Augustine's Soup Kitchen is looking for volunteers to help staff the kitchen and serve lunch to the impoverished on South 
Bend's west side on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday from 1 0:30 am-12:30 pm. Contact 234-6334. 


After 12 years ofwar in El Salvador, effects still destroy hope 
Chris Broughton and Dave Vosburg spent their summer ISSLP (International Summer Service Learninng Program) in El Salvador with the com­munity ofGuarjila. Often they hiked into the moun­tains, picking up a few of the thousands ofbullets, remnants ofthe civil war, which cover the rural mountains. 
They are asking for a $5 donation for every bulletshell they found. All proceeds go to Los Tamarindos, the youth literacy, tutors them through tuition for either vocational or group that Chris and Dave high school, and assists with university schooling. 
worked with. 
Los Tamarindos works to combat the social ills so prev­elent to rural El Salvador such as extreme unemployment, an ailing agricultural lifestyle, a poor educational system, and a lack ofadequate health care. Los Tamarindos provides its members with real options for a hopeful future. Los Tama­rindos helps the youth with 
Tutors Needed for Children 
Individual Tutoring and Mentors 
A 14-year-old boy with cere­bral palsy needs a mentor. The commitment is 1 or 2 times a month. Contact Sandy Krowsky at 237-7863. 
Catholic Worker needs tutor 
The Catholic Worker home located south on Notre Dame Avenue is in need ofsome­one to tutor a grade school youth during the late after­noons, early evenings, or on weekends. Contact Rachel Tomas Morgan or Valerie Sayers. 
An after school enrichment program is looking for tutors for children grades 1-4, Mon­days-Thursdays from 3-Spm. Contact Martha Allen-Shaba­zz at 288-8418 or 234-9071 after 3pm. 
Monroe Primary Center is looking for tutors for grades 1-4 on Mondays-Thursdays from 2:30-3:45. Contact Mark T ulchinsky at 231-· 5831. 
Green Intermediate is look­ing for tutors for grades 5-8 on Tuesday and Wednesday from 3-4:45pm. Contact Kevin Krause at 574-679­4954 or 574-283-7891. 

Events ofInterest 
Border Issues Seminar (winter break, January 2-8, 2004). This seminar examines immigration and related issues that surface between US and Mexico on El Paso, TX/Cd. Juarez border. Applications are now available at the CSC. The deadline is October 8, 2003. 
Holy Cross Mission in Education (winter break 2004). This Seminar focuses on educational and outreach endeavors ofSt. John Vianney Catholic Parish in Goodyear, Arizona. Applications now available at the CSC. The deadline is October 8, 2003. 
Take the Urban Plunge Immerse yourself in the realities ofurban poverty. Information Session Held at the CSC: Wednesday, October 8-6:30-7:30 pm Tuesday, October 28 7:30-8:30 pm 
Peace Corps will host an information session Tuesday, October 7, 6-8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
International Summer Service Learning Program Learn more about the Center's eight week service-learning program in 12 developing countries. Wednesday, October 8, fro'm 6:30-7:30 pm@ CSC Applications available at the CSC. Due November 1. 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 

page4 The Observer + NEWS 
implications for the American political process.


Recall 

"It worries me that in such a short amount of time, our
continued from page 1 

state can 
admitted Davis' governorship had problems. they did not see a reason or the recall to pro­ceed. 
"Davis may not be the best g o v e r n o r California has ever had, but I don't see any glaring issue or reasons why he 
"It's a good thing that they're trying to kick Davis out of office. and that's what the people want." 
Michael Savino California resident 
be thrown into such craziness," said Daniel Carey from Santa Rosa, Calif. "I feel bad for [Davis] ­we just elected him -however I really do think he has betrayed the people of California with his irresponsi­bility." 

should be recalled," said Casey Wong of Los Angeles, Contact Will Puckett at Calif. wpuckett@nd.edu 
Other students said they 

were concerned about the· state's economic condition since Davis took office, and saw that as a reason to 




MAKE 
recall the governor. 
"I think [Davis) should be thrown out of office. He ran up a really big deficit, he was irresponsible with the state's money, and he deserves to get voted out," said Michael Savino, from Escondido, Calif. Savino also said he thought that democ­racy was well served through the recall election. 
"Why [wouldn't it be demo­cratic]? It's a good thing that they're trying to kick Davis out of office, and that's what the people want," Savino said. 
Despite Davis' lack of lead­ership, one student from California said he was con­cerned about the recall's 
Action 
continued from page 1 
School uses is very similar to the one at Notre Dame. Unlike the point system used in Michigan's undergraduate school, Notre Dame admission officers "look at every applica­tion, start to finish," Mundy said. 
Moss expressed his personal experiences with affirmative action. "You could say David Moss was a product of affir­mative action at Notre Dame," said Moss, who received his doctorate in psychology at the University. 
Moss also talked about vari­ous myths regarding affirma­tive action, such as the belief that affirmative action has been around long enough and therefore is no longer needed. He cited other myths, such as the belief that affirmative action takes away jobs from the majority and that African Americans should be able to succeed as minorities like other groups, such as Jews or Asians. The idea that racial preference lowers self-esteem and causes the hiring of under qualified candidates were also cited as myths by Moss. 
Johnson challenged students to continue the discussion about affirmative action with panels of their own. She pro­vided the audience with statis­tics on minorities at Notre Dame. 
In the past 15 years, diversi­ty at Notre Dame has tripled and currently 20.4 percent of students are from ethnic backgrounds, according to Johnson. 
"Without [affirmative action]. we can't be who we say we are," Johnson said. She challenged students to "ensure you graduate intellec­tually and socially formed with your spirits intact." 
She related the issue to her own personal stories of racial integration on campus and discussed the experiences ·of the first African-American students at Notre Dame. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

WAVES... 



SPM 
we~. ootober-g -~ Hat:jts-Ht.aLei:j 
OR.. 

111-w.YS. OCT0~6R-30 u~ ttA!1es-H-taLt!:j 
·.·N···
. '.:
r···-···_··_···... . 
or NAGOYA, LAST DAYS TO SIGN UP! 
usually avoid retreatS? 
Are you. a 
: '1'111~ 
I
! • .~ .. 
I . ··•.···· 




i1fi~I~KI~NI)
...........................·. 
. .·· . 
The retreat with a Y Chromosome. hog roast I game watch I feats of strength I prayer I brotherhood 
Deadline IJet Btb. Applications available at: 
www.nd.edu/~krusseau 
C-M 
I
· sq~tlr~~t? 
I I 
fPilli.'tlng hogS? 
I I I I I I
Be.aman, 
I 
sign liP today. I I I I I I I I I 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egypt releases prisoners for holiday 
CAIHO, Egypt -Egypt released nearly 3,000 prisoners. including about 1,000 for­mer Islamic militants, as the country on Monday commemorated the 30th anniver­sary of its war against Israel. 
Helatives who had heard reports of the release flocked to Egypt's prisons Monday, hoping their loved ones would be released. 
Egypt sometimes pardons prisoners as an act of goodwill on special holidays. 
The former militants, most of' them mem­bers of al-Gamaa al-Islamiyya, or the Islamic Group, were released after they promised to renounce violence and expressed regret for tlwir bloody past. The group, which tried to overthrow the government in the 1990s, announced a cease-fire in 1997. 
Chechnyan leader elected president 
GHOZNY, Hussia -The Kremlin's hand­picked man to lead Chechnya was declared the winner Monday in the region's presiden­tial vote, a widely expected outcome praised by President Vladimir Putin as a sign of hope to end the bloody insurgency here born of nearly a decade of war. 
Akhmad Kadyrov, acting president of Chcchnya and previously the leading Muslim cleric in this Caucasus province, received 
81.1 percent of' the vote with more than 77 percent of votes counted, said regional elec­tion commission chairman Abdul-Kerim Arsakhanov. Turnout was 85 percent, he said. 
Putin, not surprisingly, applauded Sunday's election, which came after a March referen­dum on a new constitution for Chechnya that reaffirmed its status as part of Russia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Graham drops presidential bid 
WASIIINGTON -Bob Graham, a political veteran whose low-key style failed to gain traction in the crowded Democratic presi­dential race, said Monday night he was end­ing his campaign. 
"''m leaving because I have made the judg­ment that I can not be elected president of the United States," Graham said on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
IIn said he was not successful because he started his campaign too late and had trou­ble raising money. 
Graham, one of the most popular lawmak­ers in his home state of Florida, said he has not decided whether he would run for re­election to his Senate seat, which he has held since 1987. 
Graham did not tell even his top campaign staffers about his decision until the televised announcement. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Family Services under investigation 
INDIANAPOLIS -Warrants have been issued in relation to a criminal investigation into fraud allegations and possible misuse of public money at the state Family and Social Services Administration, Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said Monday. 
Brizzi said search warrants approved by a judge have been executed in conjunction with Indiana State Police investigators. But he said the warrant information was under seal. and he declined to say how many war­rants were served, when they were served or givn other specifics. 
lie said a grand jury has not been con­vened to consider evidence, and he would not say whether he expected that to occur. 
Andrew Stoner, a spokesman for Gov. Joe Kernan, said the investigation was at least partially related to how some money was spent on IMPACT, a job-training program. He said the agency was cooperating fully with the investigation. 
SYRIA 

Village disputes Israeli ''terrorist'' intel 
Associated Press 
AL-DREIJ -Villagers swept up shattered glass and rubble from their homes Monday near a building ravaged in an Israeli bombing raid on a reputed militant training camp. Residents told the Associated Press the camp was abandoned years ago. 
A resident of Al-Driej, a village a few hundred yards from the targeted building, said on condition of anonymity that he inspected the Ein Saheb camp after the attack and found parts of Russian­made automatic rifles. The man said he gave the pieces to police. 
Nestled in a ravine of olive and fig trees, the heavily damaged camp ­including several one-room buildings made of con­crete, a water tank and a swimming pool -could be seen from this village, though it was officially off­limits. AI-Dreij is about 15 miles northwest of the Syrian capital of Damascus. 

On Sunday, Israeli war­planes bombed what the military said was an Islamic Jihad training base concrete bricks shattered garden that morning and guarantee security and in retaliation for the by the rocket attack lay on saw the red names of the stability to Zionists," group's weekend suicide a hill nearby. A green explosions." Suleiman Qaddah, the rul­bombing in Israel that water tank, damaged by a Omar, who spoke on con­ing Baath Party's assistant killed 19 people. Islamic blast, was next to a swim­dition that he be identified secretary-general, said at Jihad has said it had no ming pool half-filled with only by his first name, said a ceremony marking the bases in Syria, and Foreign dirty water. the camp had been run by 1973 Arab-Israeli war. Minister Farouk al-Sharaa Three other one-room Palestinian militants but Sunday's attack was the said Israel hit a civilian concrete structures in the had stood empty for years. first Israeli attack so deep target. Ein Saheb ravine remained A PFLP-GC leader said inside Syria in three 
The camp had been a untouched. that a civilian guard was decades. Syrian security military training center for Al-Dreij residents spent injured in the attack. He forces swiftly cordoned ofT the Syria-based Popular Monday fixing broken win­did not say if the guard the area and barred jour­Front for the Liberation of dows and doors and clean­was Syrian or Palestinian. nalists from entering. Palestine-General ing their own homes, An aide to President The attack was criticized Command, but an official which also were damaged Bashar Assad said the by leaders in most Arab from the group told the in the attack. international community countries, as well as Associated Press it was A young man named should condemn the Britain, China, Russia and abandoned seven years Omar said he did not hear attack, which he said the European Union. ago. He did not say why the warplanes -just the Israel launched because it President Bush declined they left the area. The "terrifying" sound of four had failed to guarantee to criticize the airstrike, group is known to use explosions from his house security and safety for Its saying Israel "has got a Russian-made rifles, 500 yards from the camp. citizens. right to defend herself." including Kalashnikovs. "We felt that our house "The unjust aggression But he also said he had 
On Monday, workers had moved from its place," and criminal act that was cautioned Israeli Prime cleared rubble from what said Omar, in his 20s, as he launched by Israel ... rep­Minister Ariel Sharon to appeared to be a one-story frxed the damaged door of resents Israel's stumbling try to avoid escalating ten­house destroyed in the air his one-story house. "My hostile policy, its natural sions. raid. Pieces of metal and father was sleeping in the racism and its failure to Syria's official news 

INDONESIA 


ASEAN nations draft EU-like plan 
ing ofT investment and trade seen as But Goh said ASEAN must hasten 
Associated Press 
essential for Southeast Asia's devel­its efforts at regional integration or 

BALI -Leaders of 10 Southeast opment. risk being marginalized in global Asian nations ranging from fledg­The 36-year-old ASEAN is com­competition. ling democracies to an absolute prised of diverse nations that Draft summit statements promise monarchy gathered Tuesday to sign include communist autocracies and to set up a network of free trade a landmark accord aimed at a military dictatorship alongside the zones across Southeast Asia and set wrestling their disparate region into region's democracies. deadlines for lowering tariffs and a European-style economic commu­Leaders who gathered for travel restrictions. nity by 2020. Tuesday's start of a two-day summit They aim to create by '2020 the 
The blueprint. dubbed the Bali on this resort island acknowledge ASEAN Economic Community, mod­Concord II, envisions a single mar­that this diversity will complicate eled on European integration of the ket and production base encom­efforts to emulate European inte­1960s and 1970s before the advent passing 500 million people. gration. of the European Union. 
The Association of Southeast Singapore Prime Minister Goh ASEAN comprises Brunei, Asian Nations wants to band togeth­Chok Tong on Monday said it will Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, er to counter the burgeoning eco­take 40 to 50 years before a Euro­Indonesia, the Philippines, nomic might of India and China, style common currency can be cre­Singapore, Myanmar, Malaysia and Asian powerhouses that are siphon-ated for Southeast Asia. Thailand. 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Rape 
continued from page I 
have been flied if his client had not been a Notre Dame football player. 
"We feel that it was election year politics at its best -or worst. so to speak," he said to WSBT-lV. 
Toth lost the 2002 election to current prosecutor Michael Dvorak. Dvorak brought a special prosecutor to try the case because members of his office either were connected to or represented the former players. 
In a telephone interview with WSBT, Smith said he had consen­sual sex with the woman and said, "Like \ always said, I made a bad decision." 
Smith's stepfather also criticized Notre Dame for its role in the tri­als. The University expelled the former players, following an investigation by the Office of Residence Life. University spokesman Matt Storin declined to comment on Devlin's decision to file a motion to dismiss. 
If Devlin's motion to dismiss is accepted, the only court action remaining in the four cases will be the sentencing of Elam on the sex­ual battery charge. Sentencing was originally scheduled for 
today, but St. Joseph Superior Court Judge Roland Chamblee postponed it last week until the . outcome of all trials would be 
known. 
According to The South Bend 
Tribune, Chamblee said in a letter 
to defense attorney Mark Lenyo 
and Devlin. "I think that from my 
own point of view, the determina­
tion of the appropriate sentence 
for all of the defendants should 
bear some relationship to the ulti­
mate culpability determined by an 
appropriate jury to exist as to 
each." 
Following Devlin's announce­
ment that she would drop charges 
against Smith and Crawford, 
Lenyo told WNDU he hoped 
Chamblee would drop the felony 
indictment to a misdemeanor. 
A judge can decrease a Oass-D 
felony conviction, which carries a 
maximum jail term of three years 
and a maximum fine of $10,000, 
to a Oass-A misdemeanor. which 
carries a maximum sentence of 
one year or $5,000 fine. 
It is not known how the dis­
missal of charges could affect the 
date ofElam's sentencing. 
WNDU-TV. WSBT-TV and The South Bend Tribune contributed to this article. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 


Economist selected as co-winner of aw-ard 
Spedal to The Observer 
The W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research has selected Notre Dame economist James Sullivan as a co-winner of its 2003 doctoral dissertation award. 
Titled "Essays on the Consumption, Saving, and Borrowing Behavior of Poor Households," Sullivan's dissertation addresses policy-relevant issues related to the well-being of the poor, including the ability of house­holds to endure unemployment, the hardships single mothers 
Finally!! Happy 21st Birthday Ba.by Lynn! 
encounter while transitioning from welfare to work, and the repercus­sions of welfare reform on saving. 
The dissertation excelled in all areas of focus -policy relevance, technical quality of the research, potential impact on real world problems, and presentation ­according to Randall Eberts, exec­utive director of the Upjohn Institute. 
'We were particularly impressed with ... focus on consumption behavior of the poor and how tem­porary unemployment lowers con­sumption for those who are unable to access unsecured debt," he said. 

Pilot 

continued from page I 
Notre Dame engineering profes­sor Bob Dunn. The contraption, which seats two, consists of a propeller driven by a lawnmow­er engine. The aircraft is sus­pended from a rainbow-colored parachute, which provides lift and stability during flight. Dunn said he was captivated when he first saw the powered para­chutes being flown near his home. 
"That was enough for me to say, 'that looks like fun,"' he said. He stores the unconven­tional craft in a 10-foot trailer. "There's the hangar right there," Dunn joked. 
Local NBC affiliate WNDU's helicopter, "NewsChopper 16" was also on display. The air­craft, a Bell Jet Ranger. is the only news helicopter in the Michiana area. Rich Voigt, who also piloted Huey, Cobra and Kiowa helicopters for the U.S. Army in Vietnam, flies 
NewsChopper 16. Voigt said the helicopter allows WNDU to quickly respond to developing news. "I just fire it up and I'm gone," he said. "When they call, we haul." 
Voigt said he enjoys the job, but admits that it can be stress­ful. "[The most dangerous] would be the time we got shot at," he said. Voigt and a reporter were flying over a field where a farmer was growing marijuana. when the angry farmer opened fire on the heli­copter. 
Bryan McCarthy, a senior in the Navy ROTC unit and one of the class instructors. said the show offered a chance to see different types of aircraft up close. McCarthy, who learned to fly at the age of 15, particularly enjoyed the helicopter exhibit. 
"I flew helicopters all summer for the Navy, and they're just really cool," he said. 
The show also included Notre Dame's own private jet, a Cessna Citation Ultra with blue and gold pinstripes. The twin­engine plane was there to pick up University President Father Edward Malloy, but students took the chance to speak to the pilots and examine the aircraft. The seven-seat plane is piloted by Pat Farrell and Bud O'Toole, who log about 500 airborne hours per year, transporting Malloy and other University offi­cials on University business. 
Farrell said he enjoys flying the plane, which sports an interlocking "ND" on the tail and the university seal by the door. "It's very nice. and it seems to fit the university very well." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mhramant@nd.edu 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program ill 

Angers, France 
INFORMATION MEETING ''Angers, A Day in the Life" 
With Prof. Paull\tlcDowell and returnees of the program 
........................................................................... 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 ~ 

........................................................................!..!.i.~:~~olo ........................................... 
Application Deadline: Dec. l, 2003 Academic Year 2004-2005 Fall 2004 , Spring 2005 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-·intlstud 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
9,594.98 +22.67

Jones 
A<\,, 
Up: Some: ~ Composire Vobne: 2,090 180 998,414,016
v 

NASDAQ 1,893.46 +12.89 NYSf 5,858.02 +26.24 AMEX 1,012.48 +6.51 S&PSOO 1,034.35 +4.50 NIKKE.J(fokyo) 10,740.14 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,270.10 -3.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.48 +0.08 3.39 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.75+0.21 12.19 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.38 +0.11 29.19 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.17-0.05 29.56 RAMBUS INC (RMBS) +37.75 +7.07 25.80 
Treasuries 30-YEAR lniD -0.82 -0.42 50.56 10 -YEAR N:fl'E -1.05 -0.44 41.51 5-YEAR OOI'E -1.94 -0.60 30.32 3-MCNI'H BILL -0.77 -0.07 9.05 
Commodities 

LIGm' CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.07 30.47 OOLD ($/Troy oz . ) +3.30 373.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.575 55.10 
Exchange Rates 

CANADIAN$ 1. 341 
IN BRIEF 
Mideast firms get cellular contracts 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq's reconstruction efforts got a boost Monday with the award­ing of licenses for wireless phone networks that are expected to begin operating within weeks in a country the cellular revolution bypassed. 
The licenses were awarded to three Middle Eastern companies that have investors in Iraq and elsewhere in the region. Each win­ning bidder is putting up a refundable $30 million bond for the license, which is to last two years. Collectively, they will also pay $9 million to fund a wireless regulatory agency. 
The mobile system will especially help in Baghdad, where 12 landline telephone exchanges were knocked out during the U.S.·Ied invasion last spring. 
Motorola to split off semiconductors 
CHICAGO -Motorola Inc. plans to spin off its semiconductor operations, its biggest money loser, as a separate, publicly traded company -a change of course analysts said was long overdue. 
"We believe that by creating two independ­ent companies we will be able to better unlock the value of Motorola's existing busi­nesses," a spokesman announced Monday. 
The telecommunications equipment maker is considering an initial public offering of a portion of its semiconductor business fol­lowed by a distribution of remaining shares to !ihareholders, subject to Motorola board approval and other conditions, said Christopher Galvin, the outgoing chairman and chief executive of the Schaumburg, IlL­based company. 
Motorola shares surged on the news, climbing $1.22, or 9.9 percent, to close at $13.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Analysts have long been calling for the unit, which fell off the list of top 10 world chipmakers this year to be sold or spun off. Motorola's worldwide semiconductor sales were $4.8 billion in 2002, about 18 percent of the company's $26.7 billion total sales. 
CHINA 

Beijing nearing manned space mission 
YEN 111 EURO 0.8542 POOND 0.5984 

Associated Press  
BEIJING -The launch  
could happen as early as  
this  weekend  from  a  
remote base in the Gobi  
Desert.  China's  first  
manned space flight would  
carry one "taikonaut" ­ or  
as many three. It could last  
from hours to several days.  
Other  than  that,  the  
Chinese government isn't  
really saying.  
After 11 years of planning  
to join the space-faring  
elite, China is on the brink  
of making history and reap­ 
ing a propaganda windfall.  
But as the hour approach­ 
es, the communist govern­ 
ment is staying silent about  
a date and other details,  
wary of risking the damage  
of public setbacks.  
"They don't want to com­ 
mit  themselves,"  said  
Phillip Clark,  a  British  
expert on the Chinese pro­ 
gram.  
A successful  manned  
launch would stand as a  
testament to China's eco­ 
nomic  and  technical  
progress, winning Beijing  
respect abroad and ­ more  
importantly ­ approval at  
home. Chinese leaders long  
ago traded in leftist ideolo­ 
gy for economic reform  
and, battered by corruption  
scandals, have used such  
flag-waving  appeals  to  
nationalism to bind the  
nation together.  
The launch would come A Chinese man looks at a model of the modified Long March rocket which will be 
42 years after Soviet cos­used to launch a manned space mission this month.  
monaut  Yuri  Gagarin  
became the first human to  identities of its first astro­ Communist Party's ruling  smaller Chinese province.  
orbit the Earth. But China  nauts, 12 military pilots  inner circle that convenes  The 8-ton Shenzhou is  
would still be only the third  who, according to state  Saturday,  allowing  even bigger than Soyuz,  
country capable of manned space flight, vaulting it  media, were picked from among 2,000 applicants.  President Hu Jintao and other leaders to be shown  which can seat three astro­nauts. And Chinese reports  
ahead  of  Japan  and  Newspapers say all  are  on state television talking  say specialists have created  
European countries, which have only unmanned pro­ about 30 years old and 5­foot-7 inches tall.  with the crew in orbit. The Shenzhou, or "Divine  a menu of 20 space meals -enough for a week.  
grams.  They have been dubbed  Vessel," capsule is based on  But Clark, the British spe­ 
And China would be accomplishing something  "taikonauts" in English from the Chinese word for  Russia's Soyuz vessel, with extensive modifications.  cialist, said China probably will keep the first flight sim­ 
that even the United States, with its space shuttle fleet  space. In Chinese, they are "yuhangyuan," or travelers  China bought Russian space suits and a life support sys­ ple, with one pilot sent up for less than a day.  
grounded following  the  of the universe.  tem to study, though offi­ It isn't even  clear yet  
Columbia disaster, can't do  At least one of them will  cials stress that everything  whether the government  
right now.  go up before the end of  sent up will be made in  will alert its own public  
Still, some Chinese com­ October, state media say.  China.  before the launch. State  
plain privately that the pro­gram is a waste of money  And the Beijing-backed Hong Kong newspaper Ta  Like other details, the cost of the military-linked  media said two years ago that the astronauts might  
in a society where the aver­ Kung Pao said it would  program is secret but is  be identified in advance - 
age person makes about  happen sometime after this  believed to total at least $1  possibly to dispel rumors  
$700 a year.  ·  Friday. That could coincide  billion-equal to the annu­ that a fatal accident would  
China hasn't released the  with  a  meeting  of the  al government budget of a  be covered up.  


Trash collectors remain on strike 
several feet high in bins behind series.
Associated Press 
Bulmaro Valencia's restaurant in the The city's Department of Streets 

CHICAGO -Rats and other vermin Lincoln Park neighborhood. and Sanitation is picking up trash at scuttled through overflowing trash "I don't know what we're going to hospitals, smaller homes and in bins Monday as thousands of do if this lasts three or four more some public areas. garbage haulers stayed off the job days," he said. "If this lasts for a Mayor Richard Daley said the city for a sixth day in a contract dispute. week or more we may consider clos­will have to recoup the money it's 
Negotiations were scheduled to ing because we don't have too much spending to alleviate the trash over­resume Tuesday. space for the trash. I wish the state flow, either from the union, the 
Some 3,300 Teamsters who handle or the city could tell us what we're refuse haulers association or both. garbage for private waste haulers in supposed to do." "The taxpayers are not going to pay the suburbs and Chicago's high-rise The Chicago Cubs host the first two for this," he said. dwellings rejected an offer Sunday games of the National League cham­The strike is affecting millions of by the Chicago Area Refuse Haulers pionship series starting Tuesday, put­people in northern Illinois. The Association. Both sides are divided ting the city in the national spotlight. haulers association represents 16 of over wages, benefits and contract City officials have said trash will be the largest private waste-removal length. collected at Wrigley Field and sur­companies in Chicago and its sub­
Bees buzzed around trash piled rounding businesses during the urbs. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 7, 2003 

Off-campus ups and downs 
Off-campus life. The much sought­after freedom. From overbearing rec­tors, underdressed roommates and Genesis junkies willing to wake you up at 4 a.m. to see if they can sneak 
in a quick game  
of Street Fighter.It's a nice little  David Barrett  
notion indeed, but  
it comes with a  
handbasket full of  Jigga Geoff  
different, yet  
equally aggravat­ 
ing headaches.  

Every day I see advertisements in the newspaper directed at the des­perate, Johnny come lately. Yes, in the off-campus game, October is late. I'm pretty certain that all off-campus accommodations are locked up for the next 4 to 5 years. All but Turtle Creek that is. 
Lucky you, you can rush over to Turtle Creek as late as Halloween to reserve that regal townhouse you and your friends have dreamt about since freshman year. Once you come up with a modest down payment worth about 18 months of rent, you'll be asked to sign a lease statement per­mitting unwarranted and unneces­sary searches and seizures, forbid­ding such noise violations as playing Travis too loud on your stereo and accepting the inevitability of eviction at even the most mild of fun-having. 
I love pizza. Not as much as my brother does, but almost as much. According to the ads, "Everyone that moved into Turtle Creek this year got a FREE pizza!" Interesting, because I didn't. If by FREE they mean not free, then yes, I got about 30. Or maybe they are referring to the coupons we all received, and continue to receive, for a second pizza free provided we buy the first one at full price, from the Hut. Anyway, I'm still hungry. 
One thing they don't advertise, how­ever, are the courtesy wake-up calls you receive every now and again. They usually come when a weekend full of big partying is suspected. Imagine the loudest knock you have ever heard. Make it three times as loud, and it is still not even half as loud as the one we get from the heavy-handed management. Bear in mind that these are ladies doing the knocking. Sometimes they will just leave a little note on their very own stationery reminding us that yet again the Excise Police could be here this weekend, so party accordingly. 
Or maybe you happen to get your­self out of bed and engage in a little dialogue with Bam-Bam herself. 
"Yo, there are people sleeping," I say sleepily.· 
"Oh, I just wanted to know if you happen to know when Rally in the Alley is." 
"Urn, are you serious? I have no idea," I say with indignation and dis­belief. 
"OK, clean up that trash, tenant." 
I must applaud them on their new environmental initiative, though. Rather than seeing the alleys pile high with garbage, they require that each and every apartment bring them a bag of trash by noon the day after a party. This gets you checked off a list of party throwers and public urina­tors, all caught the night before hav­ing a little too much fun and taking a few too many liberties. All those that fail to report for trash duty are, of course, subjected to heavy fines and possible time. 
I could go on about Turtle Creek, but each off-campus option you con­sider is going to have its drawbacks. Rather than getting pizza coupons and signing a lengthy lease agree­ment, residents of Lafayette apart-

OBSERVER POLL 

The Vatican is considering curtailing female altar service. Were you ever an altar server? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
ments get a crowbar through their windshield and a police report to fill out. Residents of College Park aren't even so lucky to get a visit from the familiar faces of their management. They don't even get a knock. They just get a pack of low-lifes sneaking in through their sliding doors to clean 
house. 
That leaves Castle Point. Their apartments are clearly the nicest. The hike from campus is obviously an inconvenience, but the prospect of living in one of their magical neigh­borhoods is too frightening to ever take living there seriously. If you are lucky, you will end up with an address of Coronation Gardens, seem­ingly obscure and thus easily dis­missed. Unfortunately, chances are you will end up in one of their more popular subdivisions, The Enchanted Forest or The Court of the Royal Arms. Robin Hood might have been a swell guy, but I'm not going to model an entire apartment complex after his life and works. Nor will I live in one. I cast my quiver aside years ago. 
After living at Turtle Creek my jun­ior year, I decided a change of scenery wouldn't be such a bad idea. However, after weighing all other options, I had waited too long. So Turtle Creek it was, and Turtle Creek it still is. It isn't all that bad. It has its downs and its ups. The question is whether all those aforementioned downs are still better than the over­bearing rector and video game addicts. Ifnot, I'd settle for the sin­gle. 
David Barrett is a senior economics and philosophy major. Contact him at dbarret I @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is a common observation here that our cause is the cause ofall mankind, and that we are fighting for their liberty in defending our own." 
Benjamin Franklin diplomat, writer 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 page 9 
Finishing the job in Iraq 

There is little doubt that the United States won the war against Iraq quickly, but two questions still remain: Was the war just, and is Iraq currently on the road to peace? To both of these questions, the answer is no. 
In light of the unrest in Iraq that has led to the bombing of U.N. 
headquarters, the deaths of many U.S. soldiers and the numerous riots, it is evermore important that we evaluate our country's past and future actions in regards to Iraq. 
On Feb. 5, Colin Powell reported to the U.N. Security Council that the United States had infor­mation that Iraq had both weapons of mass destruction and strong ties to the al-Qaeda ter­rorist group. Powell made the argument, based 
Peter Quaranto 
A Call to Action 

on these two tenets alone, that the United Nations should support the 
United States. in waging war against Iraq. 
During that time, scholars and leaders, ranging from the realist John Mearsheimer of the University of Chicago to Pope John Paul II, chal­lenged the United States' case for going to war. These voices, especially the 10 million of them that gathered on Feb. 15 throughout the world to protest this war, were blatantly ignored by the Bush administration. 
In the past months. reports by both United States and other organiza­tions have shown that Iraq does not possess weapons of mass destruc­tion and has no ties to the al-Qaeda terrorist network. Evidence has surfaced from the House Intelligence Committee that President Bush presented the American public with faulty information about Iraq. This deceit by our political leaders is outright wrong when the lives of sol­diers are at stake. 
As result of this news. many proponents of the war have shifted their arguments to claim this war was about humanitarian intervention. It is interesting, though, that the administration rarely mentioned this point in the months leading up to the war. The thousands dead from the war bring this argument into question. Also, currently Iraq has rampant insecurity, looting and unemployment, along with a total lack of basic resources. The fall of Sad dam's oppressive regime is a positive thing, but the situation in Iraq remains horrible. 
This is a good lead into the question of humanitarian priorities. President Bush is currently asking for $87 billion to rebuild the destruction caused in Iraq, after spending $80 billion on the war. This money is necessary to fulfill our promise to rebuild Iraq and help its people. but it is important to note the potential this money had to do humanitarian good. 
According to the United Nations, $40 billion would be enough money to end world hunger. while providing every child with clean drinking water, basic health care and education. That is not to mention the good that money could have done with our country's current rising rates of poverty and unemployment. Or even the good it could have done to help veterans' benefits, which are currently being cut by the Bush administration. 
The dialogue about the justice and appropriateness of this war is a legitimate one because we need to judge whether it was right for the Bush administration to put U.S. troops in such danger. Yet, a question of more relevance now is the question of what the United States should do in order to secure the peace in Iraq. 
First, it is important to note that the current situation in Iraq is hard­ly one of peace, as Iraq has become a state of insecurity, ethnic conflict and antagonism. Much antagonism has been directed against U.S. troops who are seen as invaders. Some claim, with immense irony, that Iraq has become more of a terrorist breeding ground as a result of American intervention. 
The main key to bringing peace to Iraq is getting international involvement. The United States lacks the resources to single-handedly rebuild Iraq and maintain peace. Also, U.S. unilateral involvement per­petuates the image of foreign invaders. This unilateral foreign policy, which continues in rebuilding Iraq, is also hurting foreign relations. 
Kofi Annan has stated that the United Nations is poised to take a larger role in enhancing the current situation in Iraq. Currently, President Bush is asking for U.N. aid and support, but he is unwilling to give the United Nations authority in the situation. France, Germany and a number of other nations that opposed the war are willing to pro­vide aid and troops, but only if the United States compromises on its unilateralism. 
The United States needs to turn over authority to the United Nations in order to secure the peace. With U.N. guidance, a border-monitoring system can be developed, along with a true "transitional government" that includes representation from all of the ethnic groups. This new government could work with the United Nations and United States to administer funds, draft a constitution and ensure basic resources for the people. 
Here on campus, the most important thing that we can do is to keep talking about the war and situation in Iraq. This Wednesday, the Notre Dame Peace Coalition will be sponsoring a forum titled "FOCUS IRAQ: Questions of Justice and Responsibility" that will feature a number of professors with different perspectives speaking about Iraq. The forum will begin at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. May this be the beginning of much needed dialogue about the war. 
Peter Quaranto is a sophomore political science and international peace studies major. He is involved with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition. Contact him at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views 'expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR Hold politicians accountable 
This Thursday, as Vice President Dick Cheney visits the Notre Dame campus, a broad coalition of students and community members committed to peace and justice will meet at the War Memorial fountain at 10 a.m. 
We will begin the morning with a prayer that Americans will consider tak­ing a step back to look at the disconcerting direction in which our country is headed, a direction that has much to do with the actions of Vice President Cheney. 
Setting aside Cheney's other controversies ­such as his con­sistent stand against envi­ronmental pro­tection, his opposition to the movement to end apartheid in South Africa, his voting against equal rights for women and his deep ties to corpo­rate interest -the current state of affairs in Iraq demands attention from Americans. The administration's handling of the situation represents a deep betrayal of American ideals. Our president justified the invasion of a sovereign nation with lies and misleading rhetoric; he pre­sented blatantly false evidence in his State of the Union address, and 70 percent of Americans wrongly believed that Saddam 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Hussein had ties to al-Qaeda. What we are 
left with is a war that cost taxpayers more 
than a hundred billion dollars, included 
the flagrant violation of international law 
and caused the deaths of hundreds of our 
servicemen as well as tens or hundreds of thousands of Iraqi lives, including an esti­mated five to 10 thousand Iraqi civilians. And in the end, this war was without just cause: where are the weapons of mass destruction? Every day, the situa­tion in Iraq seems to be increasing in vio­lence and volatility. It is time that the members of the Bush administra­tion, including Vice President Cheney, admit they were wrong and that the war in Iraq was atro­ciously unjust. It 
is time to bring in the authority of the United Nations. We will be demon­strating on Thursday to send the message that we are holding our politicians accountable to their words and deeds. We hope that you will accept this invitation to join us in raising our voices to work for a more just and humane world. 
Michael Poffenberger junior off-campus Oct. 6 





THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

./Underworld' strikes a vein 

MOVIE REVIEW 

'Secondhand Lions' touches the heart 
Walter (Haley Joel Osment) tries to bond with his wealthy, eccentric uncles Garth (Michael Caine) and Hub (Robert Duvall) during the summer. 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
Americans love the classic coming of age story -but what they love more is the coming of age story done different­ly. Tim McCanlies. writer and director of "Secondhand Lions" accomplishes the need for a new way to approach the classic storyline. 
Starring Michael Caine as Garth, Robert Duvall as Hub and Haley Joel Osment as Walter, "Secondhand Lions" warms the heart and makes one remi­niscent of childhood memories. 
Osment, a shy, young boy is forced to spend the summer with his wealthy, eccentric uncles in Texas, while his mother supposedly moves to Fort Wayne to take classes to become a court clerk. 
The opening scene provides a good look into the adventures of what is to come throughout the film, as it flashes back and forth from the present to the past adventures of the uncles in Africa. 
Following his mother's departure, Walter must fend for himself as his uncles get used to the idea of his living with them for a few weeks. Within a few days, Walter manages to evoke the kind and compassionate side from Garth, getting him to tell stories 
put its head on
"Secondhand Lions"
of the brother's their fireplace. youth. 
The lion, howev­
Garth and Hub er, stays put in left for Europe the crate, so they the day that give the lion to 
Director: Tim McCanlies
World War I Walter as a pet. broke and ended Walter has
Writer: Tim McCanlies up in the French Starring: Michael Caine, Robert Duvall and never been so 
Legion after being Haley Joel Osment shanghaied, where they fought in World Wars I and II. 
They explored many regions of Africa and Hub even fell in love with a princess. He fought for her from a pow­erful Shiek, who put a price on his head. They fell in love and ended up marrying. For the rest of their story, go see the movie. 
Meanwhile, as Walter hears these stories, life is moving on their quaint farm in Texas. The uncles are warming up to Walter and they are beginning to live life once again. They really adopt Walter into their home and start doing chores and activities around the house. Walter shows them that they do not have to run every traveling salesman away with their shotguns, so they begin to be sociable and spend the cash that they have stashed away somewhere on the property. They buy these useless, yet fun, items that spice up their life. 
A truck pulls up one afternoon, deliv­ering a surprise. A "secondhand lion" is unloaded off the truck. Garth and Hub had hoped to release the lion and 
hunt it down to 
excited to live life. 
His mom dragged him around everywhere, never having a permanent place of residence, so Walter was enjoying his time in one place, as well as having male figures in his life. 
He explores life in a different way with his off the wall uncles. This film provides many laughs, but also has the place for some tears towards the end. It is a heartwarming comedic adven­ture, which is one not to miss. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Movie Critic 
What do you get when you cross a werewolf and a vampire? 
Most people would probably go with "werepire." And throughout the two­hour runtime of Underworld, that seemingly inevitable punch line looms over the screenplay like the Sword of Damocles. Fortunately, writer and director Len Wiseman prudently keeps the camp and self-indulgence out of his film. 
Underworld is the story of an ancient blood feud between the shadowy worlds of vampires and werewolves. For the better part of a millennium, the two clans have been engaged in a bat­tle to eradicate each other. Six hundred years ago, the vampires scored a 
key victory humans into mon­
"Underworld" 
against the lycans 
strous nightstalk­when they burned ers with respec­the werewolves' tive allergies to lair and killed sunlight and sil­their fearsome ver; no turning
Director: Len Wiseman
leader, Lucian. into bats, no
Writer: Danny McBride, Len Wiseman and
In the following burns from holy
Kevin Grevioux
centuries. the water.
Starring: Kate Beckinsale, Scott Speedman
vampires have 
and Shane Brolly
dedicated them­selves to hunting down and killing the scattered and dis­organized lycans. But in the 21st centu­ry, the werewolves start organizing again with the help of a mysterious leader and hatch a plot of create cross­breed vampire-werewolf thing, which we won't call a werepire, to destroy the vampire coven once and for all. 
Enter Selene (Kate Beckinsale): She's a vampire "death dealer" hell-bent on 
Wiseman's vam­pires are pretty politically correct. They have a policy of not feeding on humans. In fact, the coven controls a company that produces synthetic blood. They live in a rigid, high-society world of petty politics and bourgeois bureau­cracy, which apparently involves throw­ing a lot of sexy pajama parties. The lycans, on the other hand, are brutish and savage, living in dark subterranean tunnels and sewers where they wallow 
hunting down the remarnrng rouge lycans while wearing this year's trendi­est leather fashions. Enter Michael (Scott Speedman): He's an attractive, young and very available doctor. 
Their eyes meet across the hellish rain of bullets. There's a spark. Alas, he's been bitten by a werewolf and only has two days until he becomes her hated enemy and perhaps transformed into that very non-werepire weapon. 
Oh, cruel fate! Was there ever a tale of such woe? 
OK, the story isn't all that original or compelling. But Underworld does paint an entertaining picture of the vampire and Iycan worlds. Wiseman strays from traditional supernatural explanations of vampires and werewolves and keeps the account strictly scientific. Vampirism and lycanthropy are caused viruses that transmute 
in the blood of their victims and scrap with each other. 
Although the film is a bit shallow in some places, it is refreshing to see an action movie where the players are actually bounded by some laws of physics. Action movies like The Matrix, Blade, Terminator 3 and Hulk wear a little thin on the suspension of disbelief because everyone in them is an atro­cious shot with automatic weapons and, even when they do manage to hit their targets, they're all bulletproof anyway. 
Underworld harkens back to the hey­day of good action movies when bullets were a scary things and getting hit by bullets was a problem·. Like Schwarzenegger said in Predator, "If it bleeds, we can kill it." 
For Wiseman's debut as a director, he shows a remarkable eye for detail and does a great job with the ambiance of the vampire and Iycan underworlds, though he borrows generously from films like Blade, Interview With the Vampire and The Matrix. Then again, everything is starting to look a little bit like The Matrix nowadays. 
Despite its intellectual mediocrity and perfunctory acting, Wiseman is able to wheedle a decent, if mildly forgettable action flick out of Underworld. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
courtesy www.1 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 
page 11 
MoviE REVIEW 
Washington ex~els in dynamic role 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Assistant Scene Editor 
llow docs an actor follow up a scene-stealing. Academy Award-win­ning performance and a poignant directorial debut? llow about by proving to be worth every penny of the $20 million paycheck he now commands? Denzel Washington turns in a dynamic performance in his lat­nst film, Out of Time, once again establishing himsell' as one of the f'incst dramatic actors in Tinseltown. 
In the film, Matt Lee Whitlock (Washington) is the chief of police in Banyan Key, a small coastal town in Florida. lie's respected by his peers and loved by his community. but he has his own secretive problems to wrestle with. 
After facing a messy separation from Alex, his estranged wife who is a homicide detective (played by Eva Mendes). he faces another blow when Ann Mcrai, his high school sweet­heart and the 
her cocky, abusive husband, Chris Harrison (played by Dean Cain). Unfortunately. a few days before the double homicide, Ann changes the sole beneficiary of her million-dollar will from her husband to Whitlock. 
Boom! An obvious motive for mur­der, and as the investigation intensi­fies, Whitlock finds out the evidence actually points to him as the murder­er. Hounded by the DEA. who are looking for the evidence money that he "borrowed," as. well as his estranged wife, Whitlock has to stay a few steps ahead of his own police force and everyone he's trusted in order to find out the truth. 
Considering that Washington is on screen for at least 80 percent of the film, the entire shebang lives and dies by his performance. However, Mali Finn, the film's casting director, struck gold by picking the perfect actor for the job and Washington wisely chose to take a role that caters to his strengths -a flawed but hon­orable everyman who is caught 
between a rock 


person he's cur­and a hard place.
"Out of Time"

rently having an Washington rel­adulterous affair 
ishes in the role with (played by and conjures up Sanaa Lathan). the smoldering finds out she has intensity that has 
Director: Carl Franklin

terminal cancer always been his 
Writer: David Collard

and her only forte. 
Starring: Denzel Washington, Sanaa Lathan,

chance at sur­Finn, who was 
Dean Cain and Eva Mendes

vival involves a responsible for 
pricey experi­mental treatment in Europe. Conveniently, Whitlock has just made a huge local drug bust, confiscating over $400,000 -more than enough money to pay for the treatment. 
But the night after giving Ann the .confis.cated money, Whitlock is noti­fied of a double homicide at his lover's house -an arson that appar­ently took the lives of both Ann and 
the casting in 
beloved films such as The Green Mile and Titanic as well as tripe such as Batman and Robin, succeeds in surrounding Washington with an excellent sup­porting cast. Much of the film con­sists of Washington romancing Lathan, running from Mendes, or antagonizing Cain in solitary scenar­ios, and each of these scenes boasts undeniable chemistry between 

Washington and each of his cast mates. 
For example, there is a scene in which Cain, a former professional quarterback and sleazy, abusive hus­band, confronts Washington about the obvious affair taking place between Cain's wife, Lathan, and Washington. Cain says that he would almost admire a man who had the cajones to stand up and say to his face, ''I'm banging your wife." 
To this, Washington simply agrees and departs with the choice com­ment. "give Ann my best. If you can." The animosity between Washington and Cain is palpable and reinforced by witty dialogue. 
In many ways, Out of Time is a throwback to the great classic crime dramas of the latter half of the 20th century -characterized by complex characters and a gradually heighten­ing sense of suspense as the film races towards its conclusion. Washington's performance mirrors that of a man on the edge, cornered and willing to do almost anything to gain control of a situation that has long since been taken out of his con­trol. 
If the film was only supported by its stylish directing style, a respectable cast of secondary characters, and a decent actor as the lead, the film would probably have been a compe­tent thriller. But Washington's volatile performance hikes the film into a non-stop roller-coaster ride of suspense that will keep you guessing until the very end. · 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

'The Lion King' makes DVD debut 
Associated Press 
The king of cartoon cats is about to reclaim his throne. The Lion King debuts today on DVD with hullabaloo more befitting a new movie than a 9­year-old flick. Walt Disney Pictures lavished painstaking care on the DVD, loading it with hours of extra material for children and parents alike. 
Over the weekend, Disney staged a DVD premiere party at llollywood's lush El Capitan theater, shutting down llollywood Boulevard during a c1~Jebration that included African musicians and dancers, a live lion eub, and Elton John performing songs from the film. 
The "Bambi-meets-Hamlet" tale spins the story of Simba, a lion cub orphaned by the murder of his monarch father, who's slain by Simba's evil uncle. Tricked into bnlieving he's responsible for his father's death, Simba nees into exile, returning years later to battle his uncle for his rightful crown. 
At $328.5 million, The Lion King had been the top-grossing animated film ever until this year's biggest blockbuster, Disney-Pixar's Finding Nemo. Faetoring in today's higher admission prices, The Lion King sold more tickets than Finding Nemo. 
"One of the reasons it was so popu­lar is it's about our relationships with our dad. You've got a character raised in great privilege, then he loses his dad, and he's tossed out in the world trying to make his way home," said producer Don Hahn, whose other Disney credits include Beauty and the Beast and The Hunchback of Notre Dame. "We all can relate to the father-and-son themes." 
Gordon Ho, senior vice president of marketing for Disney home video, said The Lion King is the most­requested Disney movie. 
Two years in the making, The Lion King DVD precedes the home-video release of Finding Nemo by a month, with Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl -the year's second biggest hit -coming in December. 
Those three titles are expected to propel Disney home video to its best fourth-quarter sales ever. 
A new version of the film with an extra song played in large-format !MAX theaters this year. This extend­ed version also is debuting Tuesday on VI-IS, the first time since the mid­1990s that the film has been avail­able on videotape. 
In the DVD era, Disney is continu­ing its practice of releasing animated classics for a limited time before locking them back in the vault for roughly seven years until the next video reissue. 

The two-disc DVD set includes the original theatrical release of The Lion King plus the extended version, which adds the tune "Morning Report," borrowed from the stage adaptation of the film. 
The huge range of DVD extras fea­ture background on three deleted sequences; commentary by Hahn and directors Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff; loads of set-top games; and music videos by composer John per­forming his Academy Award-winning "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" plus Hilary Duff and other Disney Channel stars on "Circle of Life." 
"There's really something for every­body," said Andy Siditsky, Disney sen­ior vice president of DVD production. "Just like in our theme parks, we try to have an experience for the whole family." 
The set also includes a preview of The Lion King 1 112: Timon and Pumbaa's Story, which debuts on home video in February. 
In extensive interviews on the DVD set, the filmmakers and Disney exec­utives recount the dubious origins of The Lion King, viewed by many at the studio as the B-movie to Pocahontas, another Disney animated film in pro­duction at the time. 
The studio was uncertain how the 

Photo courtesy ot www.amazon.com 
The crown jewel of Walt Disney Pictures makes Its DVD debut today. 
mythic, Shakespearean elements of the story would go over with audi­ences. 
"It wasn't a fairy tale, it was an original story. It used rock music. It was animals without opposable thumbs," Hahn said. "It broke the mold in so many ways." 

-..._ 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Walsh seeks a much-needed win against BP 
By DAN TAPETILLO, MATT PUGLISI and CHRIS SINUTKO Sports Writers 
Thesday night's game between the Breen-Philips Babes and the Wild Women of Walsh should be a battle of two teams jockeying for playoff positions. 
After dropping two of the past three games, the Wild Women are beginning to gain momentum after handing Farley their fourth loss of the season last Sunday. 
"The win over Farley is helping

,.__ 
us to restore our confidence," 
Walsh captain Colleen Gannon 
said. 
The Wild Women are on the verge of securing a birth in the playoffs and need a critical win over the Babes. 
Veterans Carrie Campbell, Amanda Borys and Karla Bell are not the only players who are being depended upon. 
"On offense, we have been looking for the freshmen and sophomores to step up," Gannon said. 
The Babes see themselves as tough opponents on both offense and defense. 
"The defense has progressed throughout the year, and we are now evenly matched [with offense]." Babes team captain Kelly Deckelman said. 
Breen-Phillips is looked at as one of the toughest teams in the league, second only to undefeat­ed Cavanaugh, who gave the Babes their first loss of the sea­son last Sunday. 
The two teams will meet tonight at the west Riehle field at 9p.m. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pasquerllla West 
As the interhall football season comes to a close, thoughts turn to the playoffs and the march to the stadium. Cavanaugh (5-0) and Pasquerilla West (1-2-2) are no exception. 
However, whereas Cavanaugh has already secured the first place seed in the playoffs, the Purple Weasels are fighting for their postseason lives. 
"We expect a tough game and we're taking [Thesday night] very seriously," Pasquerilla West cap­tain Leslie Schmidt said. "We know that Cavanaugh is the best team in the league, but we haven't given up yet." 
Cavanaugh toppled previously unbeaten Breen-Phillips 12-6 on Sunday to clinch the Blue League. 
Pasquerilla West, on the other hand, enters play tonight follow­ing a heartbreaking 7-6 loss to Welsh Family on Sunday. 

After a first-half interception led to a 7-0 Whirlwind lead, the Purple Weasels battled back, get­ting on the board with a little over two minutes remaining in the contest. However, the two­point-conversion failed and Pasquerilla West was forced to watch helplessly as Welsh Family ran out the clock. 
While the 
"We know that 
fought toughChaos boast a 

flawless Cavanaugh is the best . game as both teams look to
record, senior team in the league, but 
end the regular
Jessica 

we haven't given up yet." 
season with a Cavanaugh bang. realize that Leslie Schmidt Pangborn 
Leibowitz and 

the squad can will walk onto
Pasquerllla West captain 

Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  
NOTICES  exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $1 00-$300 a day.  
1-888-820-0167, ext. U187.  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  
A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  2 free trps high commission sun- 
Music 4609 Grape Rd  splashtours.com 1-800-426-7710  
Mish, IN 2775038  

#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina-FoR SALE tionsl Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX-Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build Organize a group and travel for your dream home next to Notre FREE. Call fordetails. 800-875· Dame. A limited number of home 4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. sites are available. 
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get For more info go to: 12th trip free. Group discounts for www.lrishCrossings.com 
6+www.springbreakdiscounts.com 
or 800-838·8202. Fully electric hospital bed, new mat­tress $350. Power Lift Lazy boy $250. Overbed tables $25. Student desks $25. Pews $45.
WANTED 
Call evenings, 631-4969. 

SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for Honda 97 Accord LX, 4 dr. auto, sil­a few good men and women who ver-beige. excellent condition 86k. wish to work in a FUN and fast mi. ,keyless entry, remote start 
pace environment. A new store will $7,600. 574-272-2931 be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 931suzu Trooper $3,610 and 99 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers Honda Accord $10,650. and mgmt available. Call Andy at 574-277-Q850 for interview. John 231-0420. 
mostly freshmen, but they have grown considerably since the start of the season. 
"Our freshmen have improved a ton," Murray said. "They now know how to execute and make big plays. Their athletic ability and knowledge of the game fmal­ly clicked." 
On the other side, Farley is coming into this game without a win this season. 
"We're looking forward to this game," Farley captain Angelina Zehrbach said. "We are not end­ing this season without a win. We are going to come out fighting and give Pangborn everything we've got." 
Farley's record doesn't tell the team's whole story. The squad has a solid offense lead by quar­terback Katie Popik and wide receiver Lizzy Coghill. 
As they have proven this sea­son, the Finest can move the ball, but have difficulty scoring touch­downs, struggling in the red zone. 
"We must find a way to score and play aggressively to limit the big plays on defense," Zehrbach said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu, Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu and Chris Sinutko at csinutko@nd.edu 
always improve. 

"We can definitely get better and our coaches continually strive to help us do that," Leibowitz said. "Each team is different and what works against one team may not work against another." 
Regardless of the game's results, Schmidt is pleased with the team's progress this season and believes they have paved the path to future success. 
"The team really matured this year," Schmidt said. "The sopho­mores came back ready to play and the freshmen stepped up 
1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6 Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD Changer Runs Great, front end damage-$600 neg. 
574-271-1202 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 
272·1525 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 
1-800-418-9487. 
and added speed and depth to our team. Even if we fall short, I definitely think the stage is set for next year." 
Farley vs. Pangborn 
Although tonight's game between Farley and Pangborn is not the matchup of the two best teams in the league, it will still be a hard-
the field with 
some confi­
dence and momentum after snapping its four-year losing streak last week with a win against Walsh. 
"The win spoke so much to how much hard work and effort we have put into this season," Pangborn captain Katie Murray said. "It is good to get a good result, and we want to do what we did last game." 
In the last game, Pangborn's defense stepped up and made big plays that were missing in the previous games. 
Pangborn is a team made up of 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Tancredi earns Big East honors for defensive play 
Special to The Observer Villanova (1-0) to 12 combined missed four games after an Kim Carpenter for another vol­already have received Big East 
shots, three shots on goal and early-season broken arm and ley goal to produce an insur­weekly awards this season, 
Notre Dame central back six total corner kicks. has returned to play sparingly ance goal versus the including player of the week Melissa Tancredi was named Tancredi has been a steady in the past two weeks. Mountaineers. Boland (Sept. 1). rookie of the the Big East Defensive Player presence for the Irish defense All seven of Tancredi's points Tancredi also played a lead week Jen Buczkowski (Sept. 8), of the Week after continuing that continues to cope with the this season (2 goals, 3 assists) role in shutting down West defensive player of the week her All-America-level play absence of injured All-America have come in last four games. Virginia's top scorer and 2002 Vanessa Pruzinsky (Sept. 15) during a string of three right back Candace .Chapman Her long service assisted on All-American Chrissy Abbott, and rookie of the week Christie shutouts in last week's action (out for the year with an ACL forward Mary Boland's volley who was limited to a pair of Shaner (Sept. 22) -making -with Tancredi and the Irish knee injury) and the limited for Notre Dame's quickest goal shots and just a handful of Notre Dame the Big East's only holding Indiana State (3-0). contributions of central back of 2003, and she later deflect­touches all game. team to receive at least five No. 5 West Virginia (2-0) and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir, who ed a corner kick to midfielder Five Notre Dame players awards. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3_ r.m. at the Notre Dame ~ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO· Alumni family needs USC tickets for Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. reunion. s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-TICKETS campus reps. Call for discounts: ELED.FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Call Pat, 574-289-8048 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. 2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s 
CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO Holte$! prices Book now. TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com 
or 925-457-1057. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sun-NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-splashtours.com or 1-800-426-7710 ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID 2GATIX FOR AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 USC/B0/832-428-3937. ADOPTION: Irish, affectionate, 
childless, stay·al·home mom and NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR I am willing to trade 2 FSU tix for 2 environmentalist dad, dream of SALE AM • 232-2378 USC tix...Call Bob (818) 219-0856 sharing love with Caucasian or PM -288-2726 Hispanic newborn through adop­
lion. Legal & confidential. 

WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. PERSONAL Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at (574)232-0964. 1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Can't Stevie get a peek? Just a LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. not go it alone. If you or someone peek? you love needs confidential support 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, or assistance, please call Sr. Mary I have not slept for 10 days, 
NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. because that would be too long. BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL674-6593. For more information, see our bi-That was good wasn't it? Because I 
weekly ad in The Observer. did know I couldn't do that. 

Just Between You And Me, ADire . Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs Spring Break 2004 with I was shocked! ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659 StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with What do cops say to you when they 
SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as pull you over? License and registra-Rent one of the best 5 bedroom Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com a Campus Repl Choose from 15 of lion please, right? See I'm just homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-the hottest destinations. Book early guessing. Cause that's not what 
bedroom house and get the 3 bed-Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS they say to us. room house next door for free. Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! ANLAN PROPERTIES To reserve online or view our Photo I'm sick, bird. 
BUY/SELL NO FOOTBALL: TICK-Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com 532·1896 ETS. CASH PAID. 574-289-8048 or Call '1-888-SPRINGBREAK! What the deuce? 
--------.. --·· 
~ 
..~··~· . 4... . ...... ' ........---··--·-.-....... 

-~ 

Tuesday, October 7, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
• 2003FAIR
I 

uate ,•
thursday 

sc
october9 ·4-7 pm
sports heritage ha II, joyce center (enter gate 1 or 2) 
all students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 

American University 
School of International Service 
Andrews University 
Graduate Admissions 
Argosy University 
School of Professional Psychology 
Bastyr University 
Admissions 
Boston College 
Graduate Arts & Sciences 
Boston College 
Lynch School of Education 
Boston University 
College of Communication 
Carnegie Mellon University 
The Heinz School of Public Policy &Management 
Case We~tern Reserve University The Institute for Management &Engineering 
Case Western Reserve University 
Nursing 
Case Western Reserve University 
The Mandel School-Social Work 
Central Intelligence Agency Concordia University 
Graduate Admissions 
Cornell University 
Graduate School 
DePaul University 
Office of Graduate and Adult Recruitment 
Earlham College 
Master of Arts in Teaching 
Erikson Institute 
Child Development 
Franciscan University of Steubenville 
Admissions 
GEM Fellowships 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science 
Georgetown University 
Communication, Culture & Technology (CCT) 
Georgetown University 
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences 
GraduateTheological Union 
Admissions 
Howard University 
Graduate School 
sponsored by also plan toattend: THE 
Indiana University 

School of Public and Environmental Affairs 
Indiana University 
School of Optometry 

Indiana University-Purdue 
University Indianapolis 
School ofPublic & Environmental Affairs 
Indiana University Kelley School 
of Business 

Systems & Accounting Graduate Programs 
Johns Hopkins University 
Health Policy and Management 
Marquette University 
Graduate Admissions 

Midwestern University 
Admissions 

National University of 
Health Sciences 

Doctor of Chiropractic Program 
New York University 

The Steinhardt School of Education 
Northwestern University 
Medill School of Journalism 
Ohio University Pittsburgh Theological Seminary 
Admission 

Princeton Theological Seminary 
Vocations Office 

Purdue School of Engineering and Technology, IUPUI 
Engineering and Technology 
Purdue University 
Graduate School 
Roosevelt University 
Admission 

Saint Louis University 
School of Public Health 

Saint Xavier University 
Admission 

Savannah College ofArt and Design 
Graduate Admissions 

Southwestern Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences 
Division of Cell and Molecular Biology 
Teach For America 

The Catholic University ofAmerica 
Graduate Studies 
The Chicago School of Professional Psychology 
The Graduate College of Union University 
School of Management, Education, Engineering 
The PC!nnsylvania State University 
Physiology, Ecology, Genetics, EPC, and Hershey Medical Center 
The University ofTexas at Austin Graduate Recruitment &Outreach 
University of California San Diego 
Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies 
University ofCincinnati 
Research and Graduate Education 
University ofMichigan 
College of Engineering 
University of Michigan 
Program in Biomedical Sciences (PIBS) 
University of Michigan 
School o(Social Work 
University of North Texas 
Graduate School 
University of Notre Dame 
Alliance (or Catholic Education 
University of Notre Dame 
Graduate Studies 
University of Notre Dame 
Master ofScience in Accountancy 
University of Notre Dame 
Master ofScience in Administration 
University of Pennsylvania 
School ofSocial Work 
University of Pennsylvania 
Fels Institute of Government 
University of Pennsylvania 
Graduate School of Education 
University of Southern California 
Graduate Affairs 
University of Southern California 
School ofEngineering 
University ofTulsa 
Graduate School 
Valparaiso University 
Master of Business Administration 
Wright State University 
School of Professional Psychology 

-
.
. 

Successfully Applying to Graduate School:
CAREER 
Panel Discussion with Faculty and Current Graduate Students
CENTER 

wednesday, october 8, 7:00-8:00 pm • 138 debartolo hall 
...... 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 Co.;..tPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 14 

around the dial 
TUESDAY MLB 

-Florida at Chicago 8 p.m., FOX 
WEDNESDAY MLB 
Florida at Chicago 8 p.m., FOX 
NHL New Jersey at Boston 8 p.m. ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. ­Pedro Martinez, Johnny Damon, Manny Ramirez and even that maligned Boston bullpen -they all were tougher than any curse. 
Martinez pitched seven innings, and Ramirez broke his slump with a decisive three-run homer as the Boston Red Sox completed a three-game playoff comeback, beating the Oakland Athletics 4-3 Monday night in Game 5 of their AL division series. 
Boston got its fourth playoff series victory since its last World Series title in 1918, while Oakland's frustration continued. The A's have lost nine straight games in which they could have clinched postseason advancement, extending a major league record. 

Boston meets the Yankees, its traditional rival, in the AL champi­onship series starting Wednesday night in New York. The Red Sox had to withstand a rally attempt in the ninth to get there. 
Reliever Scott Williamson, making his fifth straight appearance for Boston, led off the inning by walking Scott Hatteberg and Jose Guillen. Red Sox manager Grady Little went to Derek Lowe, the Game 3 star.ter and Game 1 loser out of the bullpen. This time, Boston's No. 2 starter came through. 
After Ramon Hernandez bunted pinch-runner Eric Byrnes and Guillen into scoring position, Lowe threw a called third strike past pinch-hitter Adam Melhuse, the A's backup catcher who had three hits in Game 4 Sunday. 
Moments later,· Chris Singleton topped a weak grounder down the first­base line but Kevin Millar didn't charge it in time to prevent it from going foul. Lowe then walked Singleton, loading the bases. 

The A's countered with pinch-hitter Terrence Long, who was just 2-for-7 in the series. 
Long took an inside fast­ball for another called third strike -and the Boston bench and bullpen emptied onto the field in celebration. 
"This team has been remarkable all year in our ability to never quit, never give in," Boston's Jason Varitek said. 
The Red Sox will face the Yankees in the playoffs for just the second time, fol­lowing a 4-1 loss in the 1999 AL championship series. 
IN BRIEF 

Heatley charged with He underwent surgery Saturday school's basketball coach three years homicide for a broken jaw and an MRI found ago. two torn ligaments in his right knee. Monroe Circuit Court Judge
DULUTH, Ga. -Atlanta Thrashers His attorney, Ed Garland, said ·that Kenneth Todd granted the universi­All-Star Dany Heatley was charged Heatley was released briefly from the ty's motion for summary judgment,with vehicular homicide Monday, a hospital Monday to spend time with effectively dismissing Knight's law­day after the death of teammate Dan family, but he'll return to have knee suit without a trial.
Snyder, who was fatally injured "The university from the start hassurgery Tuesday. 
when Heatley's sports car ran off a said that it followed the provisions of 
"He's an emotional wreck,"

road. the contract and fulfilled its obliga­
Garland said. "He's grieving the trag­

A spokesman for the district attor­tions, and the court has agreed,"
ic death of Dan Snyder. That's been

ney's office, Erik Friedly, said the school spokeswoman Jane Jankowski
almost his entire focus." 

charge was based on a preliminary said.
Garland said Heatley hoped to

finding that Heatley was driving Messages seeking comment from
attend Snyder's funeral Friday in

recklessly. It carries a prison sen­Knight's attorney, Russell Yates, were
Elmira, Ontario, with the rest of the 

tence of three to 15 years. left at his office and home in Denver. 
team. He must receive clearance

Snyder died at a hospital Sunday Knight was fired in September
from the authorities, Garland said. 

night, six days after sustaining 2000 for violating a "zero tolerance" severe brain injuries in the wreck. Last season, Heatley scored a behavior policy by grabbing the arm He was 25. team-record 41 goals and was MVP 
of a student who he said greeted him 
"The news of his passing fills all of the All-Star game. by his last name. Knight sued two of us with an overwhelming sense Judge sides with IU over years later, claiming the universityof sorrow," NHL commissioner Knight lawsuit violated his employment contract. Gary Bettman said. INDIANAPOLIS -A judge on Knight, who was at Indiana for 29 
Heatley, the 22-year-old leader of Monday sided with Indiana years and won three national cham­the team, also was injured in the University in Bob Knight's breach-of­pionships, is now the basketball crash. contract lawsuit over his firing as the coach at Texas Tech. 
Tuesday, October 7, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles struggle as top runners fight injuries 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Their performance this week­end could have literally added insult to injury. But the Belles arc finding the positive in every­thing these days. 
The Saint Mary's cross country team ran with its two top run­ners nursing injuries Saturday at the Sean Earl Loyola Lakefront Invitational, and nei­ther freshman Sara Otto nor Katie White broke the 21-minute mark. Only one Belles runner accomplished that feat as they finished 37th overall and 22nd out of 35 non-Division I teams. 
Otto had already been held out of the National Catholic Invitational at Notre Dame two weekends ago. She ran Saturday and finished 44 seconds behind her MlM Jamboree time. Coach Dave Barstis, however, assured the team they did not have all that bad of a day. 
"The positives for this race are that even though Sara wasn't at her best, we still beat [MIAA opponent) Alma College and lowered our 1-5 gap to 42 sec­onds," Barstis said. 
The overall winner of the race was Wisconsin's Hilary Edmondson with a time of 17:18, over three minutes faster than the closest Saint Mary's runner. 
Otto, who along with White has slight foot problems, slipped uncharacteristically out of the top live Belles finishers, ending in 318th place with a time of 
21 :30. It marks the first time Otto did not finish in the top three for Saint Mary's when she ran. 
Senior Jackie Bauters led all Saint Mary's runners with a 229th place finish at the 20:38 mark. 
Bauters. freshman Katie White (21 :00). junior Elizabeth Commers (21 :07), freshman Erin Nolan (21:09) and senior Jessica Kosco (21 :20) were the top five Belles times of the race. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Blue 

continued from page 20 
the Green Wave in the lead ­
a lead they never relinquished. 
The Ramblers inched increas­
ingly closer to the end zone 
towards the end of the quar­
ter, but failed to score. 
Siegfried coach John 
Torgenson called the loss a 
learning experience. 
"There are no excuses," 
Torgenson said. "They just 
outplayed us. We have to face 
adversity and move on." 
Despite the Joss, Torgenson 
is still confident that the 
Ramblers will make the play­
offs. 

"We're making the playoffs. It's not a question. It's some­thing we have to do. We just have to tighten things up this week," he said. 
Siegfried has a bye this week and is set to play Carroll just before fall break. Fisher will face Zahm next Sunday at 2 
p.m. at the Riehle fields. 
Zahm 19, Sorln 7 

Eric Tarnowski scored two 
touchdowns Sunday, including 
a 40-yard run, in Zahm's 19-7 
win over Sorin. 

Zahm's defense was the first to hit the gridiron, where they faced a potentially deadly set of receivers and a very quick quarterback. 
Zahm struggled and failed to stop Sorin on its opening drive, as the Otters moved the ball 80 yards for the score to start the game. 
For Zahm's defense, it was a lesson in humility, but a Jesson learned, as they regrouped after the first points of the game. 
Although opening strong, the Otters couldn't quite make the plays to keep themselves in the game. 
Tarnowski lead the Zahmbies in scoring, collecting two of the three Zahm touch­downs. Wide receiver Chad Knapke scored the other on a _ 35-yard reception. 
"It was good to come out [and] play hard," said Tarnowski, who complement­ed his team on successfully completing two full-field drives. "As a team, we put it together." 
Sorin Sophomore Mike Draz reflected on his team's play 

TIM KACMAHfl he Observer 
Knott running back John Blsanz breaks off a big run In Knott's 
6-6 tie with St. Ed's Sunday. 
after the game. 
"[We] came out strong the first couple of series," he said. "We had a few bad plays, and it just went down hill from there." 
Knott 6, St. Ed's 6 
Sunday afternoon's game left both Knott and St. Ed's unsat­isfied, as an intensely played contest resulted in a 6-6 tie. 
"It was a hard fought game," St. Ed's junior Mike Ryan said. "A lot of people played real hard. We worked all week for this." 
Knott began the game on a sour note, as the opening play's bad snap led to a fum­ble. The Juggs would recover, with quarterback Ben Gilfillan finding Mike Pykosz on fourth down. A holding penalty on the next series, however, placed the Juggs at fourth­and-20, forcing a punt. 
The second quarter brought Knott a break, as a St. Ed's receiver fumbled the ball on a punt and the Juggs recovered on the St. Ed's 30-yard line. Despite a quarterback sack by Mike Giampa, Gilfillan man­aged a long pass to Pykosz, who ran it in for the Juggs' only to"uchdown. 
The extra point attempt was blocked, and St. Ed's again failed to convert as the half expired. 
The second half, however, would see things turning around. St. Ed's started with the ball on its own 35-yard line. The Kings strung togeth­er several strong runs, with the help of quarterback Philip Wagner. 
The running game that defined the St. Ed's offense through most of the game proved successful, as Giampa broke a tackle to make it sec­ond and live, and the quarter ended with the ball on Knott's 11-yard line. 
On first-and-10, Wagner found Giampa in the end zone for a 15-yard touchdown pass. St. Ed's decided to go for the two-point conversion. A tackle by cornerback Brian Schmutzler and linebacker Joe McCarthy on the goal line, however, denied the attempt. 
St. Ed's would intercept a pass on Knott's next posses­sion, but a fourth-down Wagner pass fell incomplete, turning the ball back over to Knott on its own 13-yard line. 
McCarthy ran for a first down, and Pykosz caught a twenty-yard pass from Gilfillan to enter St. Ed's territory. 
However. an offensive pass interference penalty was called on the next play to put the Juggs out of scoring range. 
A sack by Giampa ended the scoring threat, and ultimately, the game. 
"Both teams played their hearts out and left everything on the field," Giampa said. 
Contact Anne Loughery at alougher@nd.edu, Andrew Kirksey at akirksey@nd.edu and Katherine Gales at kgalcs@nd.edu 


FACES OF 
POVERTY... 
THE CHILDREN OF SOUTH BEND 

Professor Jim Langford Founder, There Are Children Here Thursday, October 9 127 Hayes-Healey 
8:oopm 

A Lecture Sponsored by Children's Defense Fund, Notre Dame 
IN CONCERT! 

lp•dol go~t Goit"i" of tho "'"'''~ MC I Woyoo K"m" & iotrod<Kio. Thursday, Nov. 20 • 7:00pm , .. , , Elco Performing Arts Center, Elkhart, IN " 
Tickets go on sale Saturday, Oct. 11 at Elco Box Office or charge by phone: 574-293·4469 &at all ticket centers &at ticketmaster.com ~ 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 7, 2003 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Cavanaugh picks off Breen-Phillips in Chaos' 12-6 win 


-Att:end the 2003 I 
J NO Law, Fair J 
I 
·I 
I 
I 
l ! 

By MIKE GILLOON, KATIE WAGNER and ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh defeated Breen­Phillips on Sunday with a little help from its defense. 
The Chaos secondary intercept­ed Babes quarterback Traci Kazmerski four times and Cavanaugh made the most of its opportunities as two of the picks led directly to touchdowns for a 12-6 victory. 
The Chaos wasted no time in getting started as they intercept­ed Kazmerski's first pass of the game. Quarterback Lisa Ruffer threw a 20-yard touchdown to Betsy Simon one play later to put Cavanaugh on the board. The ensuing 1-point conversion fell incomplete. 
Cavanaugh's defense went right back to work by getting their sec­ond interception only three plays into Breen-Phillip's next posses­sion. 
However, the Chaos offense stalled and they were forced to punt. 
The Babes' offense seemed to show some signs of life on their next possession as Kazmerski threw consecutive 15-yard passes to get the ball across midfield. 
But Cavanaugh's secondary came up with their third inter­ception of the first half to take the football right back. 
The vocal Cavanaugh bench celebrated as Ruffer threw what she thought was a 15-yard touch­down pass on third down. But the Chaos were called for an illegal motion penalty and the ball was brought back. A sack, an incom­dropped back to extra point for pass but threw the "Everyone is a Welsh. ball right to strong player on Soon afterwards, Cavanaugh defen­freshman Brittany

our team"

sive back Lauran Scott of Welsh inter­Williamson, who cepted a pass by sprinted 40 yards Megan Land PW's senior quar­down the sideline terback Leslie
Chaos running back

for a touchdown. Schmidt, who com-defense still prevailed to come away with the 1-point victory. The game ended with Welsh Family within four yards of scor­ing. 
"It was a really hard played game. Things didn't go our way, but we played really hard and we should be proud of that," Powell said. 
Walsh 13, Farley 6 
With intense defense, Walsh propelled themselves back into · the winner's column with a 13-6 victory over Farley Sunday after­noon at the McGlinn fields. 
After losing their past three games, Walsh showed they are back and, as coach Dave Brenner said, "ready to play with some enthusiasm." 
It was an even battle for the majority of the first half with both teams working their way down the field. Their respective defens­es, however, played strong and prevented any scoring opportuni­ties. 
Then, with two minutes left in the first half, Walsh's Kat DiPietro and quarterback Carrie Campbell tricked up the Farley defense with a reverse and DiPietro pro­ceeded to make a 30-yard run into the end zone. 
"It was encouraging," DiPietro said of her touchdown. "It felt good to take the lead." 
The Wild Women were up 6-0 going into the second half when Walsh's Aileen Kelley picked off a Farley pass at the 35-yard line in the second play of the new half. 
The Wild Women scored on a quarterback sneak several plays later. 
Not to be discouraged, Farley looked to be gaining their offen­sive rhythm but their catches were repeatedly declared out of bounds and Walsh regained con­trol. 

Farley safety Diana Duran intercepted the ball soon after­wards, however, and was able to run it to Walsh's 30-yard line. 
Megan Spokes caught a touch­down pass and Farley was back in the hunt with the score 13-6: 
As the game was winding down, Farley looked to even out the score but Walsh's defense held them and Walsh ultimately came out with the victory. 
"It was very disappointing. We came in with very high expecta­tions," Farley captain Angelina Zehrbach said. "We gave up some big plays and couldn't get the job done on offense and when that happens, you lose." 
Zehrbach represents a frustrat­ed Farley team that is longing for its first win in over two seasons. 
"We don't want to end the sea­son without a win," she said. "We got close so many times to getting touchdowns; we just couldn't put it away." 
Farley plans to put this difficult loss behind them as they move on to play Pangborn on Tuesday while Walsh needs a strong showing against Breen-Phillips to secure their spot in the playotls. 
"BP is a tough team but it will be a good game," Brenner said. "It will be good to come in off of a win. Hopefully we can carry this momentum into the next game." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu, Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu and Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
pletion and a false start stopped Cavanaugh as Breen-Phillips forced them to tum the ball over on downs. 
In the second half, after receiv­ing a long Chaos punt that sailed through the end zone, the Babes took over at their own 20-yard line with 10 minutes left in the game. Breen-Phillips quickly gained a first .down. After an incompletion and a two-yard run, Kazmerski 

one of the most even matches of the season, something that shouldn't be a surprise to a Pasquerilla West team which has already tied twice this year. 
During Welsh's first possession, senior running back Megan Markey worked off the option to run in a touchdown for her team. Sophomore quarterback Melissa Sands, who completed roughly 63 percent of her passes, threw to 
Markey to score the 
The 1-point con­version was batted down by the Babes but the Chaos' 12 points were enough for the victory. 
Cavanaugh running back Megan Land said the whole team played well. 
"Everyone is a strong player on our team," she said. 
The Babes did mount a come­back effort with four minutes left in the game. Freshman wide receiver Tara Johnson caught a 10-yard pass, her third reception of the drive, on fourth down to move the ball to the Chaos 3-yard line. 
Kazmerski made the score 12-6 the next play on a quarterback sneak with three minutes remaining. 
Welsh 7, Pasquerllla West 6 
Last Sunday's game between Welsh and Pasquerilla West was pleted over half her 

passes. 
With less than a minute left of the first half and Pasquerilla West within five yards of scoring, Scott intercepted another pass thrown by Schmidt and ran the ball back 17 yards. Almost immediately fol­lowing this interception, Pasquerilla West junior Abby Nerlinger retaliated with an interception of Sands' pass. 
In Pasquerilla West's next pos­session, sophomore running back Alyssa Howell caught a launch from Schmidt in the second half to finally put her team on the scoreboard. 
Although Pasquerilla West did not come through with the extra point to at least tie the game, they had several impressive posses­sions. 
Despite Pasquerilla West's sev­eral advances towards goal in the second half, Welsh Family's 
~RepresentatJ,tes frl)n1 overt 10 law schools will.be, a.vallaqleTin, an lnfQFm,al setting to 



Tuesday, October 7, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish try to remain unbeaten 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Wrirer 
Of all the impressive stats recorded by the women's soccer team in the last few years, one of the most impressive is this­in their last 15 games that have gone into overtime, the Irish have not lost. Over that span, going back to 199Y, the Irish have four tics and 11 wins, including a 1-0 decision over Villanova Sunday. 
Coming off of that overtime decision, the Irish will look to remain undefeated as they play host to Butler tonight at Alumni Field at 7 p.m. 
The Irish now arc one of only three undefeated teams remaining in Division I women's soccer, joining No. 1 North Carolina and Oklahoma State, who is not even ranked in the NSCMpoll. 
The Irish are also ranked fourth in goals-against average in the nation, allowing only 0.41 goals per game. The Irish have been especially dominant in their last nine games, allowing only 12 shots on goal in that span. Senior Melissa Tancredi was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week last week for her play as the Irish shut out throe consecutive opponents. 
Between tho strong play and the positive results, the Irish are playing with a lot of confidence. 
"Tho players feel like they are going to win every time they stop on the field," said Irish coach Handy Waldrum. "Sometimes as a coach that worries me, but some things have gone our way as in 2000. 
"The one big difference we had a few more seniors then than in this group. so some of the mistakes that team made didn't get us exposed as much as this team has. But I think we'll get better, I think we're deeper with this team so it'll be interesting to see how it all pans out." 
The Irish game against Butler is the fourth in a series of seven games in 15 days at home for the Irish, who have three games this week for the second time in a row. 
"We're in that period where we're playing three games with­in six or seven games and we're doing it twice in a row," said Waldrum. "Half of that is over and now we have to do it one more time. It is one of those challenges to see how we deal with it." 

The Irish will take a break from Big East competition tonight by hosting Butler. The Bulldogs come in having blanked Youngstown State 4-0 in their last outing to move to 5­5-2 on the season. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Afraid ofcommitment? 

Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., associate vocation director. 
Come anyway. 

www. nd. edu/,__;vocation 
. Be Not Afraid! 
Relays 
continued from page 20 
400-yard freestyle race. The Irish set six meet records. 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame's men's team won 10 of 11 events and lost only the 200-yard med­ley relay -when the Irish were disqualified. 
The men set a few more meet records than the women at Rolfs Aquatic Center with eight new fastest times. The two freshmen who competed for the men's team, Louis Cavadini and Alan Carter, participated in three events apiece and were a mem­ber of six new Dennis Stark Relays records. 
Competing against larger schools than they normally see, the Belles finished fifth out of six teams with 88 points. Saint Mary's coach Gregg Petcoff felt satisfied that his team improved on last year when they earned 84 points. 
"I thought we did really well. In comparison from year to year, we always try to do a little bet­ter," Petcoff said. "Despite hold­ing out [senior and co-captain] Maureen Palchak, we still had almost half of our times better than the previous year." 
Before the event, Petcoff talked about how he felt his 800-yard 
Pass 
continued from page 20 
puts up 38 points each week, the Irish are concentrating on stay­ing disciplined against the multi­threat Rutherford. The Irish haven't been consistent in get­ting pressure on opposing quar­terbacks, something they count­ed on going into this season. 
Rutherford doesn't have impressive rushing numbers, but his ability to take off for a scram­ble at a moment's notice has the Irish ready. -"You just have to play your game and make sure you are in your rush lanes. The thing there is that he makes it hard to gam­ble. You have to continue to fill all the lanes," Mattison said. "If it's a passing situation, you have to beat one-on-one blocks.... I don't think there is any more 
Graduate Studies 
in the Nation's Capital 
Study with leading scholars, aut11ors, musicians, actors. play­wrights, architects. engineers and scientists on our beautiful Washington, D.C., campus. 
Visit the CUA representative at the graduate studies fair, Oct. 9. 
freestyle relay team could be successful. That group gave the Belles their best finish of the night in fourth place. 
One swimmer who caught Petcoff's eye was Katy Leibiedz, who set some personal marks after just three weeks of training. 
"I was surprised that Katy Leibiedez swam so well. A couple of her splits were better than championship times," Petcoff said. "It's surprising that she is at this point in this season." 
With the next meet for the Irish not until fall break, Weathers knows what his team needs to work on after Friday night. 
"I think we need to do some racing in practice. It's more where we need to be," Weathers said. "I don't think racing in a relay meet is going to get us ready for Indiana and Tampa at the end of the month." 
Petcoff and the Belles don't compete again until Nov. 1, so his team has a long time to get ready, and they have a number of things to smooth out. 
"There are probably a lot of repetition things -breathing patterns, in and out of turns, the speed of relay starts," he said. "We want to swim. We've thrown some new things [to the team[ in that aspect." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
pressure that we have to pres­sure on them. 
"Eve'ry team we play where you don't get pressure on the quarterback, they are going to complete passes." 
Having two weeks to prepare for Pittsburgh allows the Irish to concentrate on improving indi­vidually along with getting healthy for the best offense they have seen this year. Hutherford and Fitzgerald will provide a very difficult challenge. 
"We have worked on Pittsburgh a lot this week and in any of our team drills, we focused on Pittsburgh," Mattison said. "It's been real upbeat. We went out and got our kids that arc nicked up healthy and tried to get better on our technique. 
"I think we accomplished what we set out to do." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
W THE CATHOUC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA
\Jirl H' " II I "·
.~ h i 1: 0 D.C. 

Tuesday, October 7, 2003 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Defense shines in Dillon's 3-0 win over Alumni 
ter, and·· strong defense resultedBy RACHEL SCHIROS, BOB in several turnovers. 
GRIFFIN and STEVE COYER A Big Red fumble was 
Spons Wrirers 
snatched up by the Dawgs, who were then intercepted on a pass 
When asked their ultimate goal just three plays later. The defen­this year, both teams gave exact­sively-controlled game continued ly the same response -"to win it as Alumni prevented a Dillon all." But when Alumni played first down with a sack, followed Dillon this past Sunday, the Big by a blocked field goal. 
important one. With 27 seconds 
Red  took  one  Dillon  was  twice  
step  closer  to  more frustrated by  
reaching that ambition with a 3-0 win. Alumni  'This was our biggest test so far this season. "  the force of Alumni defense in the second half, again by a sack and then the third  
blocked  three  block  of  a  weak  
field goal attempts in the losing effort, but  J.T. Arsenladls Dillon captain  Dillon field goal attempt. With the ball back  
was  unable  to  and some  momen­ 
stop  the  most  tum  in  the  game.  

Alumni was still unable to putremaining in the game, Dillon points on the board. as it fell vic­kicker Brian Fallon sent the tim to another interception by
game-winning kick through the Dillon at the goal line. 
uprights to knock off rival 
"Our defense rea.lly stepped upAlumni. 
for us this weekend," Arseniadis "This was our biggest test so said. 
far this season," Dillon captain J. 
T. Arseniadis said. "It really Keenan 12, O'Neill 0 
showed what we're made of. In Sunday's matchup between Alumni is a great team-tough, Keenan and O'Neill, Keenan's strong and great competitors. I tough running game and impres­give them all the credit in the sive defense allowed them to world. This was by far the tough­emerge with a 12-0 victory. est game I have played in my Keenan running backs Alex three years [on the team]." Staffieri and Reed Langton pro­
The Dillon victory puts them at vided much of the offense as 
2-0 and Alumni at a 1-2 record. Keenan moved to 2-0 on the sea-Both offenses had difficulty son after an opening win over moving the ball in the first quar-Stanford. The strong Keenan 

running game produced a pair of touchdowns for the Knights ­one in each half. 
The first score of the game came on a 25-yard run by Langton, capping off a quick, four-play, 50-yard drive. The sec­ond touchdown was a 6-yard run by Staffieri that came on Keenan's final possession. Staffieri's score ended an eight­play, 55-yard drive that included a fumbled snap on a punt that turned into a Keenan first down. 
"Our running backs ran hard and broke a lot of tackles," cap­tain Patrick Downey said. "That has been our forte. Our line has been good, and that's all that you can ask for." 
Keenan's running game accounted for 132 yards on 26 carries, taking a lot of time off the clock in the 2nd half in order to preserve the lead. 
Keenan's defense was equally as important in the win. as it shut out its opponent for the sec­ond straight week. While O'Neill (1-2) did look sharp at times, Keenan's defensive unit sacked the quarterback five times and forced O'Neill into five three and outs. 
"We are very happy with our defense in that we haven't allowed any points for two straight weeks," Downey said. 
Keenan now looks ahead to 
-games against Morrissey and Dillon, who should challenge the Knights' 2-0 record. These two games could prove to be pivotal in determining Keenan's position for the rest of the season. 
"We're just now entering the meat of our schedule," Downey said. 
Morrissey 18, Stanford 0 
Some people may grow tired of hearing how defense wins cham­pionships. but Morrissey hopes to hear more of that saying after its third shutout victory of the sea­son -an 18-0 victory over Stanford. 
The first half was a defensive battle with both teams missing scoring chances due to turnovers and penalties. 
Morrissey managed to score a touchdown after a long drive to make the score 6-0 going into the second half. 
In the second half. Morrissey's defense took over control of the game and pressured Stanford into two interceptions. 
"In the second half, we picked it up on both sides of the ball and forced some turnovers," Morrissey co-captain Jason Wise said. "Brian Dinsmore anchored our defense and made a big interception." 
Stanford's defense, behind safety Nick Befera, caused two fumbles in the first half. but eventually Morrissey's persistent offensive attack proved too much. 
Morrissey quarterback Marty Mooney went 8-for-14 with two touchdown passes. He complet­ed a 40-yard pass to wide receiv­er John Mulligan to set up the first touchdown of the game. Tony LoGiudice caught a 5-yard touchdown pass to cap off the scoring drive. 

On offense, Stanford ran the ball on nearly every play in an attempt to wear down Morrissey's defense. After initial gains with their rushing attack, Stanford had to switch to the pass as it tried to mount a come­back. 
Morrissey took its 12-0 lead in the second half after a 70-yard drive down the field. The Manorites finished the drive with a 10-yard run. 
The final Morrissey touchdown -to make the score 18-0 ­came with time running out in the game. 
Morrissey's defense has yet to yield a point this year. 
"This was a big win for us ­not being letdown after beating Alumni last week," Morrissey co­captain Aaron Ronsheim said. ''I'm really proud of the way we came out in the second half and were able to come together as a team." 
The win puts Morrissey at 3-0 for the year, while Stanford falls to 0-3. 
Contact Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu, Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu and Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

528 :E. Colfax :ztve., Suite :ff.1 
South 13end~ 11-f46617 5?4/23)..-1822 
312 W. C(evefanl%£. .,.,,_..",.,,,"'~~=,.·,... §ranaer, 11rN4 
574/277~6693 

Chiropractic... 
The Choice For Me 

Jason Kucma is a Third-year student from Medford, NJ. He graduated from Ithaca College with a Bachelor's Degree in Exercise Physiology concentrating in Cardiac Rehabilitation. 
"The only thing that has ever captured my attention was studying the human body. The more I learned in school, the more I needed to know. The most logical step for me was to become a Doctor of Chiropractic so I could truly help people". 
Before making his decision to attend Logan, Jason visited nearly half of the chiropractic colleges in the United States. "Logan is in the perfect location in a safe, residential area. The Admissions staff are very friendly and helpful and the faculty are excellent." 
Logan College offers students an incredible learning environment blending a rigorous chiropractic program with diverse and active student population. If you are looking for a healthcare career that offers tremendous personal satisfaction, professional success and income commensurate with your position as a Doctor of Chiropractic, contact Logan College of Chiropractic today and explore your future. 
Jlt I..___#_2_N_O_T_R_E_D_A_M_E_W_o_IU_e_n_'s_S_o_c_c_er__.l ® 


Tuesdav, October 7th @1:00 PM vs. Butler 
~Tt.1 e s c.1 a_y 
-Taco eating contest Nigl1t -FREE Taco Belltacos for first 300 fans '"]_""'~t C C> S -FREEhandclappers to first 250 fans 
FREE admission for ND students to all games @.Alumni Field 


Tuesday, October 7, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

fiVES 

JUMBLE 
JJ~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RYVEN 
j
rJ r 
C2003 Tribune Madia Services, Inc. 
[~~~ft] 
I LOWLAF 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 

HYNDIG ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

A FARME:R'S WOI<K IS OFTE:N--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 41 Get angry, as a 67 Bumping one's bicyclist? head on the

1 Cows and sows ceiling, say44 Wholly5 Coarse file 68 Impolite look
absorbed 9 Four·alarmer, 
69 A few e.g. 
45 Like hen's teeth 

70 First name in 14 Lt.'s superior 46 Jennifer of . "Fiashdance· scat 
15 "Dies_ 71 Yankees 
47 "The Lion in manager Joe Winter" star 72 50's British P.M. 

16 Raring to go 
17 To boot Anthony49 Actress18 Muses count 73 Take a load off 
19 Wield, as 51 Make over 
Lanchester 
Influence 

DOWN 20 Get angry, as a 53 When 
1 Strike breakers
mechanic? mastodons disappeared 

2 Oscar-winning23 Buck's mate 
Berry58 Grp. with

24 Mother of 3 English racing 
students'Dionysus town

interests at heart 25 "Do the Right 4 "Uncle Tom's Thing" pizzeria 61 Get angry, as a 
Cabin" author missile

27 City near Provo 5 Horseshoes
designer? 
score30 Play time 64 Arrival at a 6 It might hit the34 Houston athlete refinery 

high notes 38 Bakery buy 
66 Estrada of 7 souci 33 Matches. as a 48 4-Down's Simon 58 Drop in the mail 40 "Garfield" dog "CHiPs" wager
8 Sneaks a look 50 Smooth and soft 511 Former 9 Popular VW 34 Big do Yugoslav le~er
52 Beyond pudgy

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Left Coast 35 Bed support 

60 Winged54 Fragrantairport letters 36 Keyboard slip substance 62 Noted A.L. 
11 Old 

37 Turbine part shortstop, lor
55 Dickens title 

12 Round number? short
opener 13 Old Harper's 39 Walk like a sot 63 Drink garnish

42 A Corleone son 56 Breathers?
Bazaar artist 

43 Old adders 57 Brilliance 65 Blow it21 Distant 
22 You're on it For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
26 Serving with tea credit card, 1·800-814·5554. 
28 Suffix with oper·


t-i+~!IP!IItl!!ll Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday29 Olympic skier 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. Phil 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 31 Early Icelandic past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). literature 
Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, 32 Place to dust nytimes.comllearninglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: John Mellencamp, Oliver North, Charles Templeton. Yo-Yo Ma, Leroi Jones, Judy Landers, June Allyson, Toni llraxton 
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself wisely this year, and you won't lose. You arc creative, articulate and ready to take on whatever co~es your way. Your sound judgment and common sense will help you make the right decisions. You can lrust your inner voice. to lead you in the righl direction. Your numbers: 3, 14, 22, 31, 45, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can pick up a lot of information if you keep an open mind and discuss your plans wilh established individuals. Travel should be considered. Get geared up lo make changes. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Minor health problems will develop if you take on too much. Avoid confrontatiQns with loved ones. Do nol begin new projects until you have finished the old ones. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotions will be unstable, and your mate will be queslioning whal he or she has done lo upsel you. Your nervousness will cause suspicions. Don't be fickle; be honest and discuss the problem. 2 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend some time wilh family. The work you do around the house will be appreciated. Entertaining will help you expand your circle of friends. Open your doors and your heart. 4 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can join organizations that will open your eyes to a multitude of opportunities. You should attend seminars lhal focus on financial security and investment opportunities. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not want to pul in overtime, but if you do, you'll prosper more than you think. Your ability to work in fine detail will enhance any project you work on. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Individuals you meet will influence your way of thinking. Business or pleasure trips will bring you cultural knowledge lhat you can integrate into your lifestyle. You will enjoy the changes you make. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Rewards or gifts for your past good deeds will help you get through a difficult period. Take care of any legal matters hanging over your head. You mustn't let your personal papers get out of date. 4 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Past acquaintances will be coming back into your life. You will develop new partnerships lhat could lead to interesting proposals. You have to make decisions about your present silualion. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Overindulgence will be your downfall. You musl be careful not to overload your plate or make unrealistic promises to others. Your own plans should lake priority over someone else's. 5 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Overspending on luxury items will be your downfall. Take the time lo look into ways of improving yourself. You may find a means of acquiring information through lelecommunications. 3 s1ars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Spend more time finishing mailers pertaining to your work than trying to please everyone you live with. It isn't likely thai you can keep the peace at home. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You musl learn that you don't have lo carry the weighl of lhe world on your shoulders. You may wanl lo take on responsibililies. but you must make lime for your own needs as well. 
Try Eugenia's Web site al www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 

THE 0BSERVIR 
PORTS 
Page 20

Tuesday, October 7, 2003 

By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Ediror 
To find out why the Pittsburgh offense is so danger­ous, just check out the individ­ual pass efficiency ratings. At the top is Panthers quarterback Rod Rutherford with a rating of 
182.9. For comparison, Texas Tech's B.J. Symons is second with a rating of 171.9, even though he threw for 505 yards and eight touchdowns on Saturday. 
Rutherford's astronomical rating is courtesy of a 61.7 per­cent completion mark. He has also thrown for 16 touchdowns and only three interceptions. Last year, Rutherford had 22 touchdowns for the entire sea­son. 
"He is really good and has really stepped his game up. He is a much better quarterback this year than last year," Irish defensive line coach Gregg Mattison said. "He is making the right decision to run the 
FOOTBALL 
Panthers flying high 
Rod Rutherford and Larry Fitzgerald lead a potent Pittsburgh passing attack 
ball or stay in the pocket. He is a real threat. He .i_s the reason why this team is so much bet­ter." 
The recipient of a majority of those passes has been sopho­more sensation Larry Fitzgerald, who is leading Division I with 145 receiving yards per game and is fourth with eight receptions per ~on­test. 
Fitzgerald also has nine touchdowns, good for 13.5 points per game, an average that ranks second nationally. Just watching the highlights of his numerous acrobatic catches has even left the head man for the Irish in awe. 
"It's like which catch do you talk about or which one in the corner," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "This guy is triple-covered and it's like he's the only guy there and he comes away with it." 
Hoping to control an explo­sive Pittsburgh offense that 
see PASS/page 17 
SWIMMING 
Irish strong in season's first m_eet 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
Friday's Dennis Stark Relays served its purpose for the Irish and the Belles. 
Each Notre Dame team won all but one event as the Irish took both the men's and women's competitions. Saint Mary's held its own against a field featuring five Division I schools. 
On the women's side, the Irish won 12 of 13 events and accu­mulated 257 points while Illinois State took second with 187 points. The only event the Irish didn't win was the 1-meter div­ing. 
"I thought it was good," Irish women's swimming coach Bailey Weathers said. "I really like what all the freshmen did. I don't know if one person stood out." 
Weathers had at least one freshman on all of his relay teams except one, and used an entire freshmen squad in the 
see RELAYS/page 17 

SMC SoccER 
Belles battle :wind in scoreless tie with Albion 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sporrs Ediror 
Albion wasn't the toughest compe­tition for the Saint Mary's soccer team Saturday. That honor went to the wind. 
Playing in a very strong wind throughout the entire double over­time match, the Belles and Britons fought to a 0-0 tie in MIAA action last weekend. The tie puts the Belles at 3-1-2 in the conference and 6-1-2 overall. 
"There was a lot of wind and that made it hard for either team to have an attack," Belles coach Peter Haring said. "There were not as many scor­ing opportunities throughout the game." 
Anytime a Saint Mary's player wanted to pass the ball through the air, the wind would knock it down and cause less accuracy in each pass. That also caused the team to never get into sync. 
"We didn't develop any kind of rhythm," Haring said. 
Despite the conditions, Haring admitted his team had chances to score, but couldn't capitalize. 
"We had a couple opportunities to score, btit we took too much time trying to find the perfect shot," he said. 
The Belles are third in the league heading into their match against Olivet Tuesday. Olivet stands at 1-B-2 and only 1-5 in the MIAA, but that doesn't mean Haring isn't concerned with the game. 
"If we play our brand of consistent soccer, we should be fine," Haring said. "But if we let them sit around and don't put heat on them, things could get interesting." 
Saint Mary's trails Alma and Hope in the conference standings, but could sneak past either team by win­ning their next two games. The Belles take on lowly Adrian after fac­ing Olivet. Adrian is last in the MlAA with a 0-6 record. They are 0-10 for the season. 
Notes: 
Co-captain Katie Taylor was recently named MIAA Defensive Player of the Week for her perform­ance in the Belles matches against Albion and Kalamazoo. She played every minute of the Belles' two games last week. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettlcr@nd.edu 

MENS INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Fisher topples Siegfried 
By ANN LOUGHERY, ANDREW KIRKSEY 
and KATHERINE GALES 
Sports Writers 
Fisher captain Tom Gorman predicted that Sunday's game against Siegfried would be won by "one big play or two, not by the offense moving up and down the field." 
He was right. 
The Fisher Green Wave (1-1) garnered their first victory of the year over the Siegfried Ramblers (2-1) with a score of 10-7 Sunday afternoon. Gorman expected· a higher scoring game, but attributed the close game to evenly matched defenses. 
"Both teams played a heck of a game," Gorman said. 
Fisher opened the game with possession of the ball, but soon relinquished it to Siegfried after a tackle by Damian Althoff stopped the Green Wave just short of the first down. Tim Breitbach and Jon Kaup led the Ramblers' offensive drive with 10­yard gains each. 
Fisher quarterback Casey Cullen led the offensive attack in the second quarter with a 15-yard pass to running back Kameron Chappell. The game remained scoreless until Cullen ran for a touchdown with less than two minutes remaining in the half. Kicker Dan Mannas added the extra point. 
Siegfried quickly responded. Kaup caught a 15-yard pass from quarterback Bill Bingle, scoring a touchdown with just 

CHIP Observer 
A Siegfried ball carrier tries to elude a tackle by a Sorln defender In lnterhall football action Sept. 29. 
nine seconds left in the half. Kicker John Nowak followed the touchdown with a suc­cessful extra point attempt. 
Fisher countered with an early field goal in the fourth quarter by Mannas, putting 
see BLUE/page 15 

en 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Coverage and wrapups 

Wrapups of Sunday's
Butler at Notre Dame 
Irish central back Melissa
Saint Mary's at Sean
z from Sunday's action in 

games and previews of 
Tancredi was named Big East
Earl Loyola Lakefront
the men's interhall Gold 

Tuesday's contests from the 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
Defensive Player of the Week
Invitational

t: u w 
:3 
= League. 

Blue League of women's
The Irish head into 
for her part in Notre Dame's
The Belles suffered a setback 

interhall play. 
tonight's matchup with Butler 
three shutout victories during
as several runners were nursing 
cc 
as one of only three undefeat­
the past week. 
injuries. The Belles finished 
ed teams in the country. 
37th at the meet. 

= a.=: 
en 
page 15
page 16,12
page 18 
page 17 
page 12 





