
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Four candidates vie for SMC presidency 
ND VP Carol Mooney among campus visitors 
messages seeking comment,

By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Notre Dame spokesman Matt 

Saim Mary's Editor 
Storin confirmed Sunday she is 
a candidate for the position. 

One of the four candidates to The four candidates currently become the next Saint Mary's hold administrative positions at pn~sident is one of' the highest­their respective universities and ranking woman administrators two, Keys and Mooney, are at Notre Dame. Saint Mary's graduates. 
Carol Mooney, vice president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, the and assoeiate provost at Notre student representative on the Dame, Gail BakPr, Josefina presidential search committee Baltodano and Susan Keys each and student body president, visitnd campus separately and said that although two of the met with faeulty, administrators four candidates are alumnae and students between Nov. 6 implemented and two are minorities, the cat­and Friday. by the College's search commit­egories were not a focus of the 
Baltodano, an executive vice tee. Baker, vice president of search committee. president at Alliant public relations at the "It all just worked out that lntnrnational University, and University of Florida, was way. It was definitely not a Keys, an administrator at Johns unavailable for comment. llopkins University, dedined to Though Mooney did not return see CANDIDATES/page 4 

See Also 
The candidates In their own words 
page3 

Students react to process 
the Noble Family Dining HallBy ANNELIESE WOOLFORD and followed a question and 

Saint Mary's Ediror 
answer f(wmat. 
The candidates' curriculum 

As Saint Mary's presidential vitaes were available for on­search process enters iLo:; most campus viewing 24 hours prior crucial stage, both the search to their arrival through the committee and Board of Presidential Search link on Trustees are relying heavily on Saint Mary's Web site. Studenl"i student input. found the information bnnefieial 
The search process remained beeause it increased their open to students, who were knowledge of each candidab~. granted an active voice in nomi­"I looked into all of the infor­nating, interviewing and choos­mation the College provided for ing their next president. studenl"i, but didn't do any out­
The most direct medium for side research," said Sl'nior student involvement in the Sarah Bailey. "I think it really process has been the student­helped students to have the candidate luncheons held for information ahead of time candidates during their rncent because they could gennrate campus visits. The luncheons took place in the vyest wing of see RESPONSE/page 4 

Students ejected for throwing tnarshtnallo-ws 
Ushers say 30 to 40 students ejected, 2 people injured 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
N~ws Writer 
As the final seconds before halftime ticked off the game clock and Notre Dame seniors braced for their traditional season-capping, section-wide marshmallow fight, Stadium ushers prepared for a battle of their own -one that resulted in between 30 and 40 student njections from their last home football game. 
Lining up one man to every few aisles, the ushers made an imposing front, senior Steve Carroll said. "They entered like the Gestapo," he said. "At lirst, I honeslly thought that they wnrn going to let !the fight! happen, that they were just there to keep it from getting out of hand." 
Carroll was mistaken, as he and several other students involvHd in the light had their ticket booklets conliscated and were ejected from the game. NDSP officnrs then escorted some students to the security olliee to issue citations. 
Coordinator of stadium per­sonnel Cappy Gagnon said the incrHased usher presence was intended to deter the tight. 
"We hoped seeing the ushers would discourage it," he said. "The mentality was 'If we all do it, we're all innocent -of course that's not true." 
Tommy Gaeta, a senior who rHeeived a citation for allegedly hitting an ollicer with a marsh­mallow a few minutes before halftime began, said he felt he had bmm targeted unfairly for having a seat on an aisle. 
see EJECTED/page 6 


A student In the senior section stuffs marshmallows In his mouth during Saturday's game against BYU. While some students chose to throw marshmallows. others simply ate them. Ushers said that between 30 to 40 students were ejected from the final home football game. 
Saint Mary's students part of BYU pregame 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Saint Mary's students were not lost in the excitement of Saturday's big game between Notre Dame and Brigham Young University. 
Saint Mary's was acknowl­edged both before the game and during halftime, as students pre­sented the American flag, partic­ipated in the color guard and were recognized when the band played "The Belles of Saint Mary's" during the halftime show. 
Student body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and vice-president Sarah Brown pre­sented the flag before the game. They received special passes to be on the field for a run-through and the pre-game activities, Jablonski-Diehl said. 
"It was really exciting," she said. "Thio:; is the first time Saint Mary's has been given the oppor­tunity to present the flag." 
Notre Dame class offieers and the student body president and vice president presented the flag at other games during the sea­son. 

"We thought, 'Why can't the last game be done by the Saint Mary's student government?"' Brown said. "We made a few calls last spring about getting it set up, and [our request was) very well received. The people who organize the games were very hospitable." 
Jablonski-Diehl and Brown walked to the 50-yard line with student board officers from Notre Dame. They were present­ed the flag by junior class om-
see SMC/page 4 


Sayers announces scholarship 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
In her acceptance speech for the Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching, professor of English Valerie Sayers announced plans for the creation of a faculty and staff scholarship fund that will provide monetary support to minority and first-generation undergraduates to improve the diversity of the Notre Dame student body. 
"I was just waiting for a moment when it would seem like a positive thing -not like a sacrifiee -but as something that we on the faculty could do to strengthen the sense of our­selves as part of a eommuni­ty," she said. 

Speaking Friday afternoon I to faculty, staff and students, Sayers illustrated the impor­I tance of students in helping to create great teachers. She noted that although Notre Dame has taken strides to improve diversity, adding a greater number of minority and first-generation college students would only improve the quality of undergraduate education. 
"[The acceptance speech) seemed like it would be a niee moment when I could suggest that students are a huge part of teaching. It's not as if the teaching award should [only) go to a teaeher. It's the stu­dents we teach that make good teaching possible," Sayers said. 
Although the fund does not 
see FUNDS/page 6 
Monday, November 16, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

All or nothing 

Gender relations. It's a phrase that I doubt many of my sorority-and-frater­nity pledging or seven-floor, co-ed dorm residing state school friends even stock in their vocabularies, much less spend countless dining hall conver­sations and Core discussions debat­ing. We all know Notre Dame strives to be an exception­al place -hence the upbeat blue and gold recruiting brochures splashed with the pretentiously con­vincing "Nowhere Else But Notre Dame" slogan-but when it comes to gender relations, it is clearly more harmful than it is bragworthy to be unique. 
Notre Dame is one of the few cam­puses that still subscribe to the "meet the special someone you're going to marry" mindset of our parents' genera­tion. True, the much-scorned goal of earning the famous "Mrs." Degree is not nearly as pervasive as it is at some other schools, and the academic, career-driven focus of both males and females here is outstanding. However, the fact remains in the back of our minds that these years of our lives are widely expected to produce a partner with the potential for serious, long­term romance -a pressure-packed and extremely scary thought that can make the omnipresent chiming of the Basilica wedding bells feel more mock­ing than joyous. 
The bells represent one extreme of gender relations at ND: the dreamy­first-walk-around-the-lakes, candlelit­proposal-in-the-Grotto fairy tale. Freshmen approaching their first "choose a shoe" dance at Frosh-0 are told that maybe, just maybe, the boy or girl of their dreams is just a New Balance shoelace away. Three weeks (and I'm being generous here) of disap­pointing parietals-shortened parties and gender-segregated SOH tables later, they find themselves hitting the other extreme, and hitting it hard. 
The easy scapegoat of the University's Catholic priorities and anti­quated policies, while certainly playing a role, is only partly to blame for Notre Dame's skewed gender environment. After witnessing almost three semes­ters' worth of my friends' and my own disappointing relationships, random hookups, few and far between purely platonic friendships and painful mis­takes, I've realized that it's not that simple. Chalking Notre Dame's pitiful gender relations up to parietals and single sex dorms, while tempting, would be wishful thinking. The real issue is our expectations-in a com­munity populated with perfectionists and strivers, our relationships are just another area of our lives in which the reality is never quite good enough. For those of you who have found the "all," congratulations and enjoy those bells. For the jaded rest of us, life goes on, and we keep hoping that -like so many other aspects of the world -the potential for love doesn't end at the edge of the Notre Dame bubble. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu. The views ex­pressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 

· The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE SEASON'S FINAL HOME FOOTBALL GAME? 
'»'­





Mary Lechner  Katie Lancos  Selim Nurudeen  Jaclyn Dooner  Alan Ward  Jan Wohrle  
Senior  Sophomore  Junior  Freshman  Senior  Junior  
Walsh Hall  Badin Hall  Carroll Hall  McGlinn Hall  Off-campus  Welsh Family Hall  
"I don't really  "I think we  "What game? I  "It was nice to  "It was like  "It was a nice  
care because  should really  was in the dark  finally win, but  watching the  way to end the  
I'm not a Notre  focus on  room for four  the weather  Titanic 'cause  home games."  
Dame football fian. ,  Sunday's interhall game."  hours on Saturday."  forced me to leave a little  all the girls started crying. "  

early." 


OFFBEAT 
Students compete for pillow fight record 
CORVALLIS, Oregon Knock-ing the stuffing out of each other may also set a record if Oregon State University students are recognized for what they hope was the largest pillow fight in history. 
Unofficially, 766 people showed up at Oregon State on Friday to take part in the jumbo pillow fight in hopes of topping the Guinness Book of Records mark set by 645 people who staged a mass pillow brawl in Garnett, Kan., last June. 
Six classmates in 
Communications 322 -a class also known as Small-Group Problem Solving -got an assign­ment a couple of weeks ago to "do a project with no parameters." 
Phone system doesn't recognize Southern drawls 
SHREVEPORT, La. ­Southern drawls have thwarted voice recogni­tion equipment used by the· Shreveport Police Department to route non­emergency calls. 
A switchover to a lower-tech, touch-tone system in which callers hear a voice recording they can respond to by pressing a different number for each division _:_ is scheduled for Monday, said spokes­woman Kaycee Hargrave. 

The voice-recognition system asked people to name the person or department they wanted. More often than not, the system just didn't under­stand, and they wound up at the wrong place, said Capt. John Dunn, who oversees police communi­cations. 
Information compiled from the Associated · Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 

56 42 

HIGH LOW 
a:: 
1.&.1 :::1: 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
< 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 53
..... 
LOW 41 

56 52 


61 36 

47 39 


IN BRIEF 
Watch "The Devil and Miss Jones" at 4 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. After the film, a discussion by Daniel Graff, a history profes­sor, will take place. The event is sponsored by the Higgins Center Labor Firm Series. 
Nikos Charkvolakis, director of the Restoration of Byzantine Monuments and Ministry of Culture in Athens, Greece, will deliver a lecture titled "Byzantine Antiquities in Greece" at 4:30 p.m. today The lecture will take place in room 104 of Bond Hall. It is spon­sored by the School of Architecture and is part of the "Polarities and Engagement: Fostering Dialogue in Architecture" series. 
Daniel Frank, director of the Judiac Studies Program at the University of Kentucky, will present a lecture titled "Philosophy as a Divine Injunction." The lecture begins at 4:30 p.m. today in DeBartolo Hall, room 119. The event is spnsored by the Erasmus Institute and the Department of Philosophy Baumgardt Lecture Series. 
Come to Rolfs at 8:30 p.m. tonight for pick-up floor hock­ey. 
Enjoy food, company and Monday night football at Legends. The fun begins at 9 p.m. 
Attend the "Irish Inqisition" on Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 


Monday, November 17, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SMC presidential candidates ansW"er student questions 
Information compiled from student luncheons held with Gail Baker. Josefina Baltodano. Susan Keys and Carol Mooney held respectively on Nov. 10. Nov. 7. Nov. 12 and Nov. 14. 

Gail Baker 
Current Position: 
Vice President of Public Helations, University of Florida 
Education: 
B.S.J.. 1976, Northwestern University; M.S., 1980, Roosevelt 


University; Ph.D., 1991, University of Missouri 
On student Involvement at Saint Mary's ... 

"You already have significant student involvement in the critical decisions the institution is making. I've been very impressed that you have a student on the search committee and have a stu­dent voice." 
On adaptability... 

"I have to maintain the face of the institution, but being flexible is part of who I am. I know there are going to be challenges." 
On looking at the future at Saint Mary's... 

"I think you want to remain a women's college. There may be pressure to bear in the future ... but the college has to be prepared to defend its identity." 
On combining Catholic values with gay/lesbian rights... 
"I think the most important guiding principle we've been taught is to respect individuality ... I know that Catholicism stands for more than turning your back." 
On women's leadership... 

"There is still a glass ceiling that is hard to break-I want to be part of an institutional effort that is moving women 
Josefina Baltodano 
Current Position: 
Executive Vice President for Strategic Planning and Advancement, Alliant International University in San Francisco 
Education: 

B.A. 1971,University of Wisconsin Oshkosh; J.D., 1977, University of California Hastings College of the Law 
On lessons learned growing up In a 
large Midwestern family... 
"I learned how to share. I learned con­flict resolution. 1 learned my very best leadership skills from being the first born of nine children." 
On the Importance of residence life and student housing... 
"A residence hall is a total living com­munity. You learn just as much in the dorm as in the classroom." 
On the recruitment of minorities... 
"I think here at Saint Mary's, you have a golden opportunity to do it right. You have here the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. You can use that as a catalyst of women of color. At the end of the day, it is the stories of multi-ethnic students and alumnae which is the best recruitment tool." 
On what she would strive to support or enhance at Saint Mary's ... 
"The academic excellence of this insti­tution is what I would work to preserve. That sings to me really beautifully." 
On leaving California... 
I can stay out in California, my comfort zone. but that's just not good enough for me. 

Susan Keys 
Current Position: 
Associate Director of Education, Center for Prevention of Youth Violence, Johns Hop­kin's University 
Education: 
B.A., 1971, Saint Mary's College; A.G.S. 


and M.Ed., 1973, University of Maryland; Ph.D., 1983, University of Maryland 
On creating life's path... 
''I have not taken the traditional steps to become a president ... I came from a much broader background. But even if I knew this is where I was headed, I don't think I would have followed the traditional path because I consider myself more of a trail­blazer." 
On looking Into a position at Saint Mary's... 
"All career choices I have made have been consistent with who I am as a person and who I need to be." 
On goals for the College... 
"What really energize~ me is looking Into the future and seeing what this institution should look like. That is what will get me out of bed. I like being on the edge." 
On the relationship betvveen Saint Mary'sand Notre Dame... 
"Saint Mary's often seems to be under the wing or a little sister, but I think it needs to be the big sister and I have ideas on how to make that happen." 
On Saint Mary's as a whole... 
"Saint Mary's is about more than educa­tion. It's about transforming lives and I want to be a part of that mission. You are the beneficences of a strong leadership tra­dition." 
Carol Mooney 
Current Position: 
Vice President and Associate Provost, University of Notre Dame 
Education: 
B.A.. 1972, Saint Mary's College; J.D. 1977, Notre Dame Law 

School 

On deciding to apply for the 
position... 
''It was a very big decision for me tp take a risk. If you care about something, it takes risk to make it happen. It takes risk for me to stand here today." 
On Inclusiveness at Saint Mary's... 
"One of the most fundamental things I've taken from my faith is respect for all peo­ple. There cannot be second-class citizens here, but that doesn't mean everyone has to agree about everything. Uve within the tension and I think it'll create something better than what is there." 
On making tuition more reasonable for every student... 
"You have to work hard on bringing in more expendable gifts or raising the endowment." 
On what her goals would be If named president... 
"My No. 1 goal is that Saint Mary's stays true to who she is now. I also want Saint Mary's to be on the list of top 50 liberal arts colleges. If any place In the country is going to make it there, it's going to be here." 
On her skills... 
"I believe I can lead. I believe I can get people excited about Saint Mary's. I believe 1can get people to work together to make things happen." 
Monday, November 17, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
St. Ed's nets $2,500 in basketball shootout 
By SHEilA FLYNN 
News Writer 
St. Edward's Hall has collected over $2,500 from its Nov. 6 shootout fundraiser, and campus dormitories continue to donate money, assistant rector and event organizer Eric Nedell said. 
"More dorms are going to be sending money over, so we should probably come in right under $3,000," Nedell said. 
The Shootout was Nedell's brainchild; he conceived the event last year after being informed of his appointment to assistant rec­tor of St. Edward's Hall. 
"I just thought about something that would bring all of the dorms together for an event like this, and I know that all the guys -in St. Ed's, especially -are big bas­ketball fans," Nedell said. "So it was a good opportunity to do something good." 
For the fundraiser, St. Ed's invit­ed other dormitories and campus institutions to send a shooter for 25 free throw shots to the basket­ball courts behind the dorm. Eighteen shooters participated this year, including director of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup, representing the Main Building. Competitors raise money on their own, and their final scores in the contest are derived by multiplying the amount of funds raised by the percentage of free throw shots made. St. Ed's won its own event this year, and all collected money will be donated to the hall's desig­nated charity, South Bend's Camp Milhouse. 
"It's a camp for physically and mentally handicapped children," Nedell said. 
Response 
continued from page 1 
questions. [Candidates] didn't have to go over things that were already covered in their CV." 
According to students, all candi­dates willingly answered ques­tions presented at the luncheons, granting the opportunity to learn more about their character, back­ground and future goals should they be named to the position. 
"Overall, I liked that all four candidates were unique," Bailey said. "Each one had their own perspectives and came from diverse backgrounds." 
Senior Shannon Maloney found specific attributes she liked about each candidate. 
Maloney said she admired Josefina Baltodano's fundraising ideas and economic background. She liked Gail Baker's approach to diversity and her sensitivity to various issues around campus. Maloney noted Susan Keys' sin­cerity of student concerns and her interest in gaining student opin­ion. However, Carol Mooney is the candidate Maloney said she iden­tified with most. 
"I think [Mooney] had the strongest understanding of our mission," she said. "She under­stands the past [and] present and envisions a lot going on in the future." 
Both Bailey and Maloney attended all four student-candi­date luncheons and applaud the search committee for their choice of candidates. They agreed that each had strengths in individual areas and understood the values of a Catholic women's college to maintain in the future. 
He said the Hall Council voted for Camp Milhouse as its charity because the funds raised "would be more important for a smaller charity than a drop in the bucket for the Red Cross, or something like that." 
And St. Edward's raised the most money for its own event, col­lecting $1,500 just from hall resi­dents. Rector Father Tom Eckert gave the hall an additional motive for giving money; while organiz­ers were counting money Wednesday at 9 p.m., they real­ized the hall had already raised $1,200. At that time, Eckert said that if residents could raise that sum to $1,500 by midnight, he would dye his hair blond, along with Nedell and third floor resi­dent assistant Brent Griffith. 
The residents complied, collect­ing $300 in three hours. 
"I gave the last three dollars to my name," said junior Mike Giampa, who also acted as the St. Ed's shooter. 
Resident assistant Mark Bellantoni also gave donations, spurred on by the rector's pledge. 
"I gave money because I want­ed to help the kids, but partly because I could see my rector with blond hair, which is awe­some," Bellantoni said. 
And when the money came in and the clock hit midnight, the now blond hall staff trio held true to their promise. And it was worth it, Father Eckert said, although he admitted his determination in reaching the goal wavered. 
"For the kids, I hoped so," he said. "For the charity, I hoped so. But for my hair, I had mixed feel­ings." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
''These women didn't seem like they took traditional steps to come to this point," Maloney said. "They all had their own paths and made their own way to get here. I think they're all very willing and ready to accept what happens." 
After each candidate's visit, stu­dents were encouraged to com­plete feedback forms, also avail­able to the on-campus community at the Presidential Search web­site. The form asked students to rank each candidate in certain areas on a scale from one to four, in addition to allowing space for general comments. 
"Basically the form asked ques­tions about how individuals felt the candidate was effective in dif­ferent areas," said Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, student repre­sentative on the search committee and student body president. "The questions described the skills that a president would need." 
The feedback forms will be organized by Korn Ferry International, the firm hired by Saint Mary's to aid in the presi­dential search, before results are delivered to the search committee for evaluation. 
Overall, Saint Mary's students said they feel honored to be involved and realize that an open process is unlikely to occur at other institutions. 
"I was just excited that we had the opportunity to take part in this process, and I hope it continues that we have further student involvement in other areas," Maloney said. ''I'm excited for all four women and confident that the search committee will make the best decision." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Candidates 
continued from page 4 
focus," she said. "That's just another element of diversity and I think the college campus is happy it worked out that way, but all of the candidates embody qualities aside from that." 
According to Jablonski-Diehl, the fact that all four candidates are women is also not some­thing the committee specifical­ly intended. 
"We definitely weren't look­ing for [all women]. but it's almost self-selective," she said. "The one thing I noticed talk­ing to students was that they'd like to have someone who could be a role model to them." 
Jablonski-Diehl said the search committee met several times before narrowing down a larger pool of applicants to the current candidates. 
"We had a wide range of can­didates that were diverse in all aspects," she said. "We were really happy and the campus seemed to be really happy with the group that came." 

The decision to bring candi­dates to campus provided them a chance to become acquainted with the College, however some had previously visited on their own, Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Included in each presidential candidate's visit was the Heritage Presentation, a cam­pus tour, a tour of South Bend, a student-candidate luncheon, dinner, an open meeting with faculty and staff and meetings with the Congregation Leadership Team, Sister Joan Marie Steadman, chair of the Board of Trustees, administra­tors, hourly staff and the Administrative Council. 
"I think the general feeling of it was that it went really well," Jablonski-Diehl said. "[The candidates] were very impressed with student involvement and with student turnout." 
singing. It represents Saint Mary's as part of the Notre Dame 
SMC 

community." Jablonski-Diehl agreed. 
continued from page 1 

"I think it demonstrates the cers and in turn presented it to relationship between Saint the Irish Guard. Mary's and Notre Dame," she Also on the field said. "The before the game football [stadi­were Saint Mary's "It was a really good um] is a really sophomores and public place,
way to end my
Army ROTC cadets and that just
football
Rachael Berg, shows the ties Corrie Brisson and experience. to the whole Stephanie community," Sandoval. Brisson she said. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl Saint Mary's
presented the 

Army colors while senior students were Berg and Sandoval also recog­bore rifles. nized at half­
"Color guard is great," Brisson time. The marching band played said. "It was really cool to be on a rendition of "The Belles of the field before the game and Saint Mary's," a song traditional­especially to hear everyone ly associated with Saint Mary's 
She estimated that over 75 students attended all but one of the student-candidate lunch­eons to meet with and question the prospects. 
"They seemed very impressed with the campus as a whole." 
The next step in the presi­dential search process will be for the search committee to decide on and recommend can­didates to the Board of Trustees. The meeting is slated to take place before the Thanksgiving holiday. 
"We're hoping to recommend three [candidates] is my under­standing." Jablonski-Diehl said. 
The Board is anticipated to select and name one candidate for the president's position in December. 
"Assuming that one is picked, starting next semester they'd begin to be a presence on cam­pus," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
College. The song was performed as a tribute to the 78 graduating seniors, some of whom were Saint Mary's women. 
"It's a big honor," Brown said. "I think it shows that Saint Mary's students are a part of the Notre Dame farriily and the foot­ball family. It gives the student section a chance to participate and be acknowledged on the field." 
As a senior, Jablonski-Diehl also appreciated the recognition of Saint Mary's at the last home game. 
"You wait all this time to be a senior and to get to do something like this and now you are. It was a really good way to end my foot­ball experience," she said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 17, 2003 Cotv\PllED FROM 'l'l-·lE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Top Iraqi scientist flees 
The Iraqi scientist who headed Saddam Hussein's long-range missile program has lled to neighboring Iran, a country identi­fied as a state sponsor of terrorism with a successful missile program and nuclear ambitions, U.S. officers involved in the weapons hunt told The Associated Press. 
Dr. Modher Sadeq-Saba al-Tamimi's 
departure comes as top weapons makers 
from Saddam 's deposed regime find 
themselves eight months out of work but 
with skills that could be lucrative to mili­
taries or terrorist organizations in neigh­
boring countries. U.S. officials have said 
some are already in Syria and Jordan. 
Al-Qaida blamed for bombs 
ISTANBUL. Turkey -Two Arabic-lan­guage newspapers received separate statements Sunday claiming the AI-Qaida terrorist network carried out the car bomb attacks that killed 23 people in two Istanbul synagogues. 
A statement received by the London­
based daily AI-Quds AI-Arabi, a copy of 
which was obtained by The Associated 
Press. said a unit of al-Qaida executed 
the attack on Saturday because it learned 
that agents of the Israeli intelligence 
agency Mossad were in the synagogues. 
Abdcl Bari Atwan. the newspaper's edi­tor. told the pan-Arab cable station AI­Jazeera that the claim was received by e­mail from the Abu Hafs al-Masri brigades, which is suspected of links to AI-Qaida and which has sent at least three similar claims to the paper regard­ing previous attacks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sex offenders rarely rearrested 
WASIIINGTON -Sex offenders are less 
likely to be rearrested after their release 
from prison than other criminals, a gov­
ernment study released Sunday finds. 
The Justice Department study of 9,691 men convicted of rape, sexual assault and child molestation who were released in 1994 found 43 percent were arrested for any type of crime within three years, com­pared with 68 percent for all other former inmates. 
Hyan King, researcher at The Sentencing Project, suggested the differ­ence may be because the most serious rapists. sexual assaulters and child moles­ters do not get released in the first place and arc unable to commit more crimes. Those studied served an average of 3 1/2 years, indicating they had committed less severe crimes. 
Community hit by Iraq deaths 
FOHT CAMPBELL, Ky. -A day before the funeral Mass for one parishioner killed in Iraq, the congregation at Sts. Peter and Paul Catholic Church prayed Sunday for 17 other soldiers in the same division killed in the crash of two Black llawk helicopters. 
The deaths Saturday marked the largest single loss of life for the 101st Airborne Division since 1988, when 17 soldiers died in the collision of two Black Hawk helicop­ters during training. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Dean gains Indiana supporters 
FOHT WAYNE. Ind. -Democratic presiden­tial candidate Howard Dean's campaign is win­ning him some fans among Indiana voters ­Democrats and Hepublicans alike -intrigued by his message and grass-roots campaign. 
Auburn resident Patrick McCormick cam­paigned for the Bush-Quayle ticket in 1988 and has always considered himself part of the GOP. 
But Saturday night. he and his wife, Patty, hosted one of the hundreds parties around the nation celebrating Dean's 55th birthday. 
U.S. soldiers to remain in Iraq 
Iraqi sovereignty plan does not mean immediate troop withdrawal, Rumsfeld says 
Associated Press 
KADENA AIR BASE, Japan -The new acceler­ated plan for restoring self­rule in Iraq does not mean 
U.S. troops will withdraw anytime soon, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Sunday. 
In an interview en route to a U.S. Air Force base in southern Japan, Rumsfeld was asked about the plan to restore Iraq's sovereignty by June. 
"The time table or the way ahead that the [Iraqi] Governing Council has been describing relates to the governance aspects of the country and not to the secu­rity aspects.'' he said. "That's on a separate track." 
Rumsfeld said the United States continues to plan to rotate a new contingent of troops into Iraq next year, with no final pullout date set yet. Accelerating the political process will not affect military planning, he said. 
"This has nothing to do with U.S. troops and coali­tion troops in Iraq," he said. 

The plan, endorsed by the Iraqi Governing Council Saturday, reflects Washington's desire to speed up the hand over of power as attacks against American occupation forces noise -is a source of fric­expressed concern that if At a joint news confer­grow more sophisticated tion. the United States made ence with lshiba, head of and deadly. It came as the Central to those tensions security guarantees to Japan's Defense Agency, 
U.S. death toll since the war is the question of whether North Korea-as the com­Rumsfeld also thanked the began passed the 400 mark. to extend fuller legal pro­munist government is government for the billions 
Rumsfeld was to meet tections to U.S. service demanding in exchange for of dollars in humanitarian later Sunday with Governor members accused of talks on its nuclear pro­aid it has pledged for Iraq's Keiichi In amine of Okinawa, crimes. gram, and as President reconstruction. He gave no the southern island where a The Pentagon chief Bush has suggested may hint of disappointment at majority of the 47,000 planned to press anew for happen -it could leave Japan's delay in sending Japan-based U.S. troops are the Japanese government to Japan even more vulnera­security troops to Iraq. stationed. He was also relent on a long-sought U.S. ble. Ishiba said the govern­scheduled for a visit with demand for fuller legal pro­Rumsfeld said it was pre­ment is closely monitoring 
U.S. troops, including tections for American serv­mature to talk about securi­the situation in Iraq and is Marines at Camp Foster, ice members accused of ty guarantees for North inclined to send troops. home of the 3rd Marine crimes while serving in Korea. "We would like to do it as Division. Japan. "I can say this: The United soon as possible," he said. 
While the United States In Tokyo, Rumsfeld States government is not A military fact-finding counts Japan among its assured officials that North going to make any arrange­team left Tokyo for Iraq on strongest and most reliable Korea would not be allowed ments with any other coun­Saturday to determine allies, the presence of thou­to undermine Japan's secu­try -that one or others -where and when it might be sands of American troops rity. He said the foundation that would in any way safe to send Japanese on Japanese soil-often in of the U.S.-Japan defense undermine our security troops to help with recon­urban areas whose resi­relationship remains strong. agreement with Japan," he struction and other non­dents are disturbed by the Some in Japan have said. combat duties. 

Schwarzenegger to be inaugurated 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -In stark contrast to his Hollywood image and the usual inauguration festivities, Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger planned to take office Monday with a quick. low-key ceremony and then get to work. 
Mindful of the bitterness that still surrounds California's first guberna­torial recall election, not to mention the state's fiscal troubles, the Republican has shied away from black-tie celebrations that normally enliven the beginning of new admin­istrations. 
Schwarzenegger was expected to deliver a brief speech, attend three ceremonial receptions and return to the Capitol by mid-afternoon for his first hours of work as governor. 

He was expected to call a special session of the Legislature to consider issues including imposing midyear spending cuts to help reduce next year's expected $10 billion deficit, reforming the state's workers' com­pensation system, and repealing a new law that will allow undocument­ed immigrants to get driver's licens­es. 
He also has promised a balanced budget that does not include any new taxes or any significant cuts in fund­ing for education and local govern­ments. 
That goal became more daunting during the weekend with a projection from his chief financial deputy that the state budget deficit stands at $25 billion -far more than other recent estimates. 
But while the actor-turned-politi­cian promised to focus on state busi­ness, Sacramento braced for a frenzy. 
Requests for press credentials for Schwarzenegger's swearing-in cere­mony were filed by TV crews and print journalists from around the globe. Nearly 650 journalists planned to cover the event. 
"Sacramento has never seen any­thing like this before -it is astonish­ing," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe. a political scientist at the University of Southern California. "There has never been this kind of intense media attention on the governor at anytime in the state." 

-------------------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 17, 2003 
Ejected 
continued from page 1 
"It seemed like they decided, 'He's accessible, let's go after him,"' Gaeta said. "I was one of 2,000 other people." 
Gagnon said that it was impossible for ushers to use certain criteria to determine which have to protect them from get­ting hurt." 
Gagnon reported two injuries on Saturday, including a female student and an usher who had to be sent to the hospital for slipping on the wet marshmal­lows that coated the stadium steps in the rain. He also added that problems arise when stu­dents begin "believing that throwing things is OK." He said students were caught throwing 
students should be ice on Saturday,
'They entered like 
thrown out. as well as cans
the Gestapo. " 
"There is really and water bottles no way to differen­during previous tiate," he said. Steve Carroll games this sea­"We grabbed peo­son.
senior
ple in possession as well as people throwing the marshmallows. One of the most ridiculous things I've heard is that we should only [eject] the people stuffing them with other objects -you can't see what's inside." 
Seniors said they didn't observe any distinctions being made. 
"They have 2,000 people to choose from," said Justin Feeney, who was ejected prior to the game for attempting to bring a bag of marshmallows through the entrance gates but obtained another ticket to re­enter the Stadium. "You could see the ushers running through the bleachers pulling out every­one they can.... You'd think they could find a better use of their time than to stop us from throwing things that don't hurt anyone." 
Gaeta agreed, expressing dis­appointment that ushers "were cracking down so hard on a tradition 
of throwing "Not one ofthe level of disre­marshmallows -spect for the stu­
ushers likes it, and
they're not any­dents," said
I hate it even more
thing harmful. I Carroll, who was highly doubt I ... it just has to be previously eject­injured anyone." ed from a game
done." 
While the earlier this year marshmallows for trying to themselves are not Cappy Gagnon bring marshmal­dangerous, usher coordinator of stadium lows into the Ken Scott said that personnel Stadium. "I'm he has witnessed frustrated students loading because this is them with objects that can my senior year and to be cause potential injury. thrown out of the second half 
"The problem is they load of the last game of the season them with pennies, with golf is just ridiculous." tees," Scott said. "We realize it's the seniors' day and we Contact Claire Heininger at want them to have fun, but we cheining@nd.edu 
ARABIC 
MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 
COURSE OFFERINGS SPRING 2004 
• 
BeginningArabic I. Meal')Of 


•
l:l1u·o tQ Islamic CivitizatiiJn, Melcl44/Hist ~ 

• 
Christianity In the Middle East~ MelC 350/TheoJ45/~J$~ 46;2 




Information on these courses and the Program in Arabic/Middle EastStudies contact: Amar.l@nd.edu or callt~6276. 
Department of Classics ·htt:p://classics.nd.edu 
Although no formal com­plaints were filed by NBC or the Notre Dame marching band, Gagnon said that the marshmallow tradition is more insulting than innocent. 
"There isn't a student out there who would do it face-to­face," he said. 
Gagnon also acknowledged the difficulty but necessity of the situation for his Stadium crew. 
"Not one of the ushers likes it, and I hate it even more," he said. "Not one usher says thanks for the new assignment. If we asked them, I think they would give the same vote as the students -not that they think it's OK, but they don't enjoy doing this. I don't enjoy doing this.... It just has to be done." 
Carroll maintained that while safety is a priority, ushers shouldn't feel the need to inter­fere with tradition. 
"I think it 
shows a general 
Funds 
continued from page 1 
yet have a formal name, Sayers said that faculty and staff will be shortly notified of its creation though e-mail. She said that donations from faculty and staff will come as monthly payroll deductions from those who choose to contribute. The Office of Financial Aid will use the funds as they see necessary to provide greater monetary support -through grants ­for underrepresented stu­dents. 
Sayers also said that sup­port has come from many sources -including conver­sations with Mark Roche, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, as well as Daniel Saracino, director of Admissions, and Joe Russo, director of finical aid. Sayers said that Notre Dame's com­mitment to improving diversi­ty, particularly through public affirmations by its adminis­trators, has proven especially positive to her. 

"This summer I read a piece in the Chicago Sun Times by our director of admissions Dan Saracino. It was a beautiful defense of affirmative action, and I thought it was so great that someone from Notre Dame was out there, out front, talk­ing about it," she said. 
Sayers contributed her cash prize as part of the Sheedy Award towards the scholar­ship fund. She said that although the funding may ini­tially be small, she hopes that faculty and staff contributions will create a much larger reservoir of funds, one that may possibly be used as an endowment. 
"It may be a small pool in the beginning, but my dream is that eventually it will be substantial." 

Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Hillary steals Iowa spotlight 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­Hillary Clinton sells her book and draws a crowd of more than 900 people. Three Democrats who want to be president speak at a syna­gogue before about 200. 
The New York senator made clear she isn't running for the White House in 2004 but, as a weekend of political events in Iowa showed, she can steal the thunder from the current crop of candidates who want to take on President Bush. 
"It's wonderful to see all of the friendly people out here," Clinton said Sunday as she autographed copies of her book. "''m here today to talk about books." 
Waiting in line, Carole Curtis called Clinton "a great role model and a strong woman" who would have her vote either in this election cycle or the next. That sentiment was echoed by Dan Pietzman, who said Clinton was "a great lady." 

Across town, John Kerry, Howard Dean and Dennis Kucinich appeared before a much smaller and more restrained crowd at the syna­gogue. 
Clinton moderated a major fund-raising dinner Saturday night featuring six of the con­tenders. 
The event sold out within three days of the announce­ment that she would appear, and party officials said the 7,500 who showed up was the biggest turnout in the history of the annual Jefferson Jackson Day dinner. 
It brought in more than $300,000 for the state party. Outside the basketball arena, supporters chanted and waved signs demanding that the first former lady run now because they see her as hav­ing the best chance to beat Bush. 
"Senator Clinton's ability to outshine and overshadow the Democrats running for presi­dent in Iowa's caucuses is fur­ther evidence of the weakness of the Democratic field," said Republican National Committee spokesman David James. 
At the fund-raiser, Clinton said the Democrats in the race were "the most accomplished, in terms of public service, that we've had since 1960. One of them will be successful." 
The candidates worked overtime seeking attention from thousands of activists and hundreds of journalists. 
Dean, the former Vermont governor, packed his backers in dozens of buses in a line so long he had to get a parade permit. Missouri Rep. Dick Gephardt held a rally with union activists before march­ing through the streets to the dinner. 

Baumgardt Memorial Lectures American Philosophical Association 
Daniel H. Frank 

Director of Judaic Studies Program and 
Professor of Philosophy, University of Kentucky 
The Sage and the Saint: Paradigms ofMoral Virtue A series ofthree lectures ... 
November 17 4:30pm 119 DeBartolo Hall 
"Philosophy as a Divine Injllllction" 
November 19 4:30pm 119 DeBartolo Hall 
"Friendship and the Possibility of Charity" 
November 21 3:00pm 220 Malloy Hall 
"Wisdom, Piety, and Superhuman Virtue" 
Cosponsored by Department ofPhilosophy and Erasmus Institute 


Monday, November 17, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9 768.68 -69.26
Jones ' 
·~·~= 
1;073~.1;7AMEX  ¥4~49i:i:i:i,:::::::i==::  
NASDAQ 1 930.26  -37.09  
NYSf .~;o~q~z~:,::::::::::::::::::ti~§;qs::::::::::::::::: S&P500 1,050.35 -8.06  
NIKKEJ(Tokyo) lO~J~z;()ij }  ()tQ() ,.,,,,,,  

ffif IOO(London) 4,397.00 +24.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.74 -0.19 25.50 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.90 -0.98 32.80 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.94 -0.44 22.26 APPLJED MATL (AMAT) -5.09 -1.26 23.48 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.23 -0.28 12.29 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.90 -0.46 50.61 10-YEAR NOTE -0.89 -0.38 42.33 5-YEARNOTE -2.44 -0.80 32.01 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 9.27 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.35 31.78 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +3.70 398.00 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -0.525 86.925 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I 08.3 EURO 0.846 POUND 0.5915 CANADIAN$ 1.302 
IN BRIEF 
EU asks Bush to remove duties 
GENEVA -America's allies appealed to President Bush on Tuesday to back ofT support for the U.S. steel industry or risk billions of dol­lars in sanctions that could spark a global trade war. 
Members of the European Union are threat­ening to impose retaliatory sanctions on $2.2 billion worth of U.S. imports unless Bush removes duties on imported steel he introduced in March 2002 to give breathing space to the embattled U.S. steel industry. 
"As frank and loyal friends of the United States, we hope that Washington will remove as soon as possible the steel tariffs that are consid­ered illegal by the World Trade Organization," said Adolfo Urso, Italy's Industry Ministry undersecretary in charge of foreign trade. 
"We want to ward ofT a commercial war that, in terms of its size, would be unprecedented." 
To ensure the sanctions hurt as much as pos­sible. the EU action targets products from key states, including Florida oranges, cigarettes and apples. 
Bill protects against outages 
WASHINGTON -Responding to the sum­mer's massive power blackout, Congress is considering in its broad energy bill the first federal rules, with penalties, to protect elec­tricity transmission systems from rapidly cas­cading outages. 
The Hepublican blueprint for an overhaul of 
U.S. energy priorities also would direct the government to order construction of critical power lines if states do not act. In addition, companies could charge more for moving power to spur investment in new lines. 
Some experts have questioned whether the electricity proposals in the energy legislation are enough to protect against a repeat of the rapidly moving blackout that blackened parts of eight states, from New York City to Michigan, in a matter of minutes in August. 
On Tuesday, a U.S.-Canadian task force is schedulnd to make public an interim report on the blackout's causes. Documents already released suggests that communications fail­ures, equipment problems and shortcomings in electricity grid management probably played a role. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Miami prepares for trade talks 
20,000 activists expected to protest Free Trade Area of the Americas in Miami 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -At most free trade meetings, protesters on the streets are the most vocal opponents to global economic expansion. But recently, Brazil and other developing nations have been equally resistant to proposed U.S. policies to ease trade restrictions. 
Those disputes will center in Miami at talks beginning Sunday to create the world's largest free trade area. As the 34 nations involved in the Free Trade Area of the Americas talks try to resolve their differences in hotel meeting rooms, police are prepared for at least 20,000 protesters to swarm the city. 
Law enforcement agen­cies have spent months training to· avoid a repeat of the infamous 1999 World Trade Organization talks in Seattle. Those meetings ended with little accom­plished after being derailed by disputes among member nations and five days of riots that cost the city about $3 million. 
Miami Police Chief John Timoney said some officers were worried after watch­ing old news footage of Seattle, but his message to them was the same one he 

A demonstrator holds an anti-FTAA sign. Thousands of protesters are expected to
gives to the public: "This is 

converge on Miami during the week to demonstrate at the meetings. 
not going to be as bad as it looks on television." $14 trillion a year. off the table because the Council. 
Five protesters were The Bush administration White House says American The conflicts put arrested in an early demon­refuses to discuss slashing steel makers face unfair President Bush in an awk­stration on Saturday, includ­subsidies and tariffs that competition and foreign ward position as he cam­ing an observer dispatched protect U.S. farmers, argu­dumping, or selling import­paigns for re-election. by protesters to watch offi­ing that those protections ed products below cost. The FTAA is a key part of cers' conduct. should be negotiated in That stance has angered Bush's plans to expand the 
The biggest feuds may global trade agreements, competitors around the U.S. economy and create take place inside the meet­not regional ones, because world. new jobs while reducing ing rooms. The hemi­the European Union is the Those disputes caused the poverty in the hemisphere. sphere's two biggest biggest subsidizer of agri­collapse of global trade But meeting Brazilian economies -the United culture. talks in Mexico in demands could cost Bush States and Brazil -have Brazil contends its farm­September, and some ana­votes in key areas such as been arguing about the ers cannot compete in U.S. lysts predict that the Miami Florida, the Midwest and scope of the FTAA. markets, so it is deml!nding meetings could end the the Rust Belt. 
The FTAA proposes elimi­that subsidies and tariffs be same way. Florida is the biggest cit­nating or reducing trade on the bargaining table. If "No one is holding their rus and sugar producer in barriers among all the not, it has threatened to breath for Miami. They the country, and growers nations in the Western stop negotiating over invest­really can't solve all the fear a flood of cheap prod­Hemisphere except Cuba. ment and intellectual prop­issues at once," said Joe ucts from Brazil and other The 34-nation bloc would erty rights -areas that are Pasetti, government affairs nations would wipe them consist of 800 million people key to U.S. businesses' plans director for the Washington-out. Many Midwestern and have a collective eco­for growth in the region. based Information farmers and steel workers nomic output of more than U.S. steel tariffs are also Technology Industry have the same fears. 

New energy bill to aid indus tries 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Energy industries that have invested millions of dollars in lawmakers' campaigns would reap billions in tax breaks and potential new business from compromise Republican legislation. 
President Bush took office promising to develop a new energy policy. Since then, energy-related businesses have contributed nearly $70 million to law­makers and political parties, with about three-fourths of it going to Republicans, according to an analysis of Federal Election Commission records by the Center for Responsive Politics. 
The energy sector also gave an addi­tional $67 million -$50 million of it to Republicans -during the 2000 election cycle, when Bush won the presidency and Republicans regained control of the Senate. 

The House and Senate are expected to vote this week on the final compro­mise developed by GOP negotiators. The measure is designed to boost energy production, improve reliability of the electricity grids and make it eas­ier for energy companies to develop oil and gas on federal land. 
Energy interests have been "giving heavily to the Republicans for a long time, and this is what it's all about in the end. It looks like they got an ener­gy bill that they wanted," said Larry Noble, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a bipartisan research group. 
Environmental groups, which lob­bied unsuccessfully for measures to cut energy use or promote cleaner renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power, made only $2.3 million in political contributions dur­ing the past three years. 
One of the biggest political contribu­tors over the years has been Illinois­based Archer Daniels Midland, the largest producer of corn-based ethanol. The company was one of the biggest winners in the energy agree­ment, which doubles the use of ethanol as a gasoline additive to 5 bil­lion gallons a year. 
Since 1999, ADM has given $2.4 mil­lion in unregulated donations to politi­cal parties, $1.5 million to Republicans and $874,000 to Democrats. Such soft money donations were outlawed by the campaign finance law that took effect last year. 


page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 17, 2003 
Blanco defeats Jindal for LA. governor 
Associated Press 
LAFAYETTE, Newly elected governor Kathleen Blanco, the first woman to hold the job in Louisiana, on Sunday started piecing 
together a  new administra­ 
tion.  
Blanco,  the  state's  

Democratic lieutenant gover­nor, defeated conservative Indian-American Bobby Jindal with 52 percent of the vote in a runoff election Saturday that dashed the Republican Party's hopes for 
a sweep of the Deep South. And while Blanco acknowl­edged she still was get­ting adjusted to the new title, she offered an outline of her plans. 
"After we h u g g e d everyone and received con­gratulations from every­
one, we got down to the busi­ness of organizing," Blanco, 60, said Sunday. 
The new governor, who will be inaugurated Jan. 12, said she has already had an emer­gency preparedness briefing and plans immediate meet­ings with the heads of Louisiana's major businesses. She said she had not devel­oped a firm timetable on when she would name the members of her administra­tion. 
The win marks the first time a Democrat has been elected Louisiana governor since Gov. Mike Foster was elected eight years ago. Term limits prevented Foster from running again, but he had thrown his support behind Jindal, his 32-year-old pro­tege and a Republican whiz kid who served as an assis­tant health secretary under President Bush. 
Republicans had hoped Jindal would give them a sweep of governorships in every Deep South state ­Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina -for the first tfme since Reconstruction. 
Blanco won with 52 per­cent, or 730,737 votes, to Jindal's 48 percent, or 676,180. More than half of Louisiana's 2.7 million regis­tered voters cast ballots. an unexpectedly high turnout. 
Jindal. whose concession speech Saturday never men­tioned Blanco by name, con­gratulated his rival on 
enor1r1ous 
FLEECE 
Selecti::• 
~ 
from CUTPCS'T 
Campus WJ·Z.ZU: 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Col1259·2ooo for more details 

"Today is certainly a Jindal's cam­
paign "simply

new day for Louisiana 
put the thing

and today should be away too soon. 
Kathleen's day. We offer They got over­confident,"
our governor-elect our 
Stonecipher

heartiest support and 
said. will do anything we can Blanco car­ried 52 parish­
to help her. , 
es to Jindal's 12 in unofficial Bobby Jindal voting results. Louisiana gubernatorial She took most of her native
candidate 
Sunday. 
"Today is certainly a new day for Louisiana and today should be Kathleen's day," he said. "We offer our governor­elect our heartiest support and will do anything we can to help her." 
Jindal led· in most polls before Saturday's election, but the numbers were close. The week before the election, more than one in 10 voters were undecided. 
"This race happened in the last 72 hours," said Elliott Stonecipher, a Shreveport 
political con­
sultant. 
Cajun area and 

swamped Jindal in New Orleans, where Democratic Mayor Ray Nagin had endorsed him instead. 
"I think there was immense disappointment of the endorsement of Bobby. I think it had the effect of energizing our campaign," Blanco said. 
She also gave credit for her victory to her attacks on Jindal's record as a former state health and education official and her final debate appearance, in which she recounted the death of her son when asked about the defining moment in her life. 
"I've always felt or found in a big campaign, people even­tually look for humanity," she said. Her son Ben died in 1998 at age 19 when he was hit by a weight that fell from a crane while he was cutting up a barge for scrap at his summer job. 
Sam Jones, the mayor of Franklin and a Blanco sup­porter, said the final debate offered clear differences between Blanco and Jindal, who had often sounded alike in their positions -touting tax cuts, improving economic development and continuing education reform. 
"Voters made up their minds after [that] night," Jones said. "The energy came at· the end when she drew hard distinctions." 
CtlEESECAKE CHEESECAKE 
Vl 
0:s 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
<( 
u 
LLI 
Vl 
LLI 
LLI 
:::c 
e'0-u 
0~ ,lo~~ ~ 1'().~ ,'0'().\ ~ 
c.. 
c.. 
0

P one (574) 282-3233 ~ u Vl Fax(574)282-3234 :5
0 
415 North Hickory Road 

c: 
'1:1 South Bend, IN 46615 ~ LATTE, CAPPUCCINO 
c.?

CJ IAI TEA, MOCHA (Student & Staff discounts with ID) 
Dean proves more careful with words 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa -Howard Dean's off-the-cuff straight talk helped propel him to the front of the Democratic presi­dential field. It's a style he would not think of abandon­ing, but one that's forcing him to be more careful with his words. 
The leader in the nine-way race has a full, nearly year­long record of extemporane­ous r'emarks and apologies. Mea culpas to rivals. Regrets over his Confederate flag comment. Some careless lan­guage about the Middle East process, a topic that demands precision. 
But Dean isn't about to become scripted, according to his advisers. It isn't his way and aides recognize that his directness is' part of his 

Skin cancer leads to other cancers 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Women with common, usually nonfatal forms of skin cancer face dou­ble the risk of developing unrelated cancers, according to a large study, suggesting that the initial diagnosis may be more worrisome that previ­ously thought. 
The skin cancer link was found for several malignan­cies, including cancer of the brain, breasts, ovaries and uterus. It was even stronger for liver cancer, which had a five times higher risk, and lung cancer, which had triple the risk. 
Previous studies have shown that men and women with skin cancer face an increased risk of skin cancer returning. Some also have found that people with non-melanoma skin cancer are prone to later developing non-skin cancers. but the earlier research didn't adequately consider other risk factors that might explain the connection, said the lead author, Dr. Carol Rosenberg of Evanston-Northwestern Healthcare, part of Northwestern University's medical school. 
Her study, involving 92,835 post-menopausal women par­ticipating in a continuing fed­eral study, considered other factors that influence cancer risk -including smoking, weight and education level ­and still found an increased risk associated with skin can­cer. 
Rosenberg said she suspects appeal. 

"Not every word that Howard Dean says is written for him," said Dean campaign manager Joe Trippi. "In fact, almost no words are written for him. He doesn't speak from a teleprompter because you don't say anything when you run that way. He's run­ning for president saying things." 
Still, the former Vermont governor is learning to hold his tongue in some situations. Consider his appearance late Friday night at Iowa State University. 
Students, jammed shoulder to shoulder, applauded the candidate's comments about health care, jobs and foreign policy. But they really were energized when Dean started discussing whether marijua­na use should be illegal. 
her results would apply to men, too, since previous stud­ies involved both genders. 
The results appear in the January issue of the Cancer, an American Cancer Society journal, being published online Monday. 
Of the more than 85,000 women who did not have skin cancer, just over 11 percent, 9,927, reported having had other cancers. 
Of the 7,665 women who reported having had a mild form of skin cancer, nearly 25 percent, 1,878, said they had also had other types of cancer. 
The results are compelling, said Dr. Alexa Boer Kimball, an assistant dermatology pro­fessor at Stanford University. 
Even though most patients with mild skin cancers won't develop other cancers, Kimball said, the results imply that they should still be vigi­lant about getting routine screening tests for other can­cers. 
Given previous research, the authors presumed that skin cancer preceded development of other cancers, though the study lacks information on which developed first. Rosenberg said. 
The skin cancers implicated -basal cell and squamous cell -affect more than 1 mil­lion Americans each year. Those skin cancers grow more 
_____, 
/~he
L:.!,inceton
Review 
BBttorScorts. 88lt.r:r Schools. 

Hyperlearning MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. score improvement-better than any competitor. 

• 
Over 4,000 pages of materials & 30 MCAT's worth of practice-all yours to keep. 


Qla.sses start in January. Space is limited. 
800-2Review www.PrincetonReview.com 
He was outlining his plan to keep kids out of trouble when someone in the crowd said the drug should be decrimi­nalized. Dean responded that wouldn't solve the problem. "but since you brought it up, I think substance abuse should be treated as a med­ical problem not a judicial problem." 
A cheer erupted and some chanted, "We want Dean! We want Dean!" 
Dean basked in the approval but deftly changed the subject before he got car­ried away. 
"Uh-oh, I'll be careful what I say. The press is here. We don't want to make any smart remarks," he said. 
Dean is learning that his own words can be his worst enemy in his pursuit of the nomination. 
slowly than melanoma, the most serious skin cancer. 
Study participant Luvie Owens, 70, said she had a skin cancer lesion removed last year and thought nothing of it. The doctor's message at the time was not to worry, she said. 
Owens, of Winnetka. Ill., said she learned of the study results by phone last week. 
"As soon as I hung up I made an appointment for a colonoscopy," she said. "It sure makes you want to keep up with your [medical] appointments." 
The government-funded study involved participants in federal research examining factors that predict disease and death in postmenopausal women. Participants are being followed for an average of about seven years. At the out­set, from 1994-98, they were asked numerous health-relat­ed questions. 
Whether any women devel­oped cancer since the initial questioning is still being stud­ied, said Rosenberg, one of the researchers in the broader study. 
Eugenia Calle, the American Cancer Society's director of analytical epidemiology, ques­tioned whether the increased risk is as high as the study suggests, considering that ear­lier studies found lower risks. 


Monday, November 17, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
President supports 
Senate reviews KPMG policies 
Accounting firm's tax shelter strategies criticized 
Medicare agreement 
A••ociatcd Press 

WASHINGTON -President Rush on Sunday enthusiastically endorsed a tentative agreement on legislation to give older Americans a new prescription drug benefit, part of sweeping changes to the government-run Medicare program. 
"I will be actively pushing the bill" in the coming days to ensure passage, Bush said, lead­ing the Republican effort to overcome anticipated resistance from Democrats and objections from some Republicans. 
Hepublican congressional leaders on Saturday announced the breakthrough on the legisla­tion, which would mark the largest ever expansion of Medicare. Republicans hope to pass it by week's end. 
A.sociated Press Many details remained unknown Sunday as congres­
WASHINGTON -One of sional staff worked on the cost of 
the largest accounting firms the bill -which cannot exceed 
promoted dubious charitable $400 billion over 10 years ­
deductions and complicated and its final composition. 
transactions to generate But at its core, it would give 
phony paper losses for millions of seniors prescription 
clients, say Senate investiga­drug coverage for the first time 
tors who spent a year for a premium of roughly $35 a 
unwinding four tax products month. At the same time, the bill 
that KPMG sold to more than would create a large new role 
350 individuals in the late for private insurers in health 
1990s and early 2000s. care for 40 million older and dis­
The firm says it no longer abled Americans. 
offers the tax strategies. Senate Majority Leader Bill 
The four shelters once sold Frist, R-Tenn., said he thinks 
by KPMG will be scrutinized most lawmakers will be per­
this week during two days of suaded to support the bill 
hearings of the Senate because of the drug benefit and 
Governmental Affairs investi­the ability of seniors to choose 
gations subcommittee. their health plans, including 
Tuesday's testimony is to remaining in traditional 
give an inside look at tax­Medicare. 
shelter development and 


The Nanovic Institute for European Stuaies 
Faculty Exchange Program_, 2004-2005 
University ofNotre Dame & Warsaw University 
Application deadline: Monday_, January 5_, 2004 
We are pleasea to announce the continuation ofthe faculty exchange program between Notre Dame ana the American Stuaies Institute at warsaw University~ Polana 
Exchange options for Notre Dame TErR faculty: 
Long-term exchange: full academic year or spring semester Short-term exchange: month-long lectureship during academic year or visiting research fellowship (rom May 15-)une 15 
www.na.eau(-nanovic (or more information 
marketing. Thursday's aims "That's ridiculous. The fees to reveal roles played by that are paid here are huge," other financial institutions Levin said. "These folks are that support and enable tax not deterred by $1,000 sheltering. fines." 
Subcommittee aides, who One transaction investigat­handled the project with the ed by the subcommittee, the help of anonymous whistle­S-Corporation Charitable blowers inside KPMG, said Contribution Strategy, target­the transactions had virtual­ed people who owned a type ly no business purpose other of corporation that passes than to reduce taxes for indi­income, and thus taxes, viduals who used them. through to its shareholders. 
The Internal Revenue These people typically had a Service 100 percent ruled in stake in the cor­2000 that "That's ridiculous. The poration and the basis for made at least $3
fees that are paid h.ere
three of the million. 
are huge. These folks 
four trans­They reduced actions are not deterred by taxes on the make them company's
$r,ooo fines"
potentially income by tem­abusive porarily allocat­shelters. Carl Levin ing it to a tax­The fourth, Senator (D-Mich.) exempt entity. 
subcommit­
tee aides 
said, is under investigation 
by the IRS. 
In a written statement, 
KPMG said the strategies 
"represent an earlier time at 
KPMG and a far different 
regulatory and marketplace 
environment. None of the 
strategies -nor anything 
like these tax strategies -is 
currently being offered by 
KPMG." 
"Today, KPMG only offers our clients tax services that are tailor-made to address their distinct business objec­tives and tax-planning needs," the statement said. 
Treasury Department offi­cials have indicated that the market for tax shelters appears to be shrinking. But Sen. Carl Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat on the investigative subcommittee, disagreed. "I don't think we have any evidence that it's slowed down at all," he said. 
Levin said case studies assembled by his subcommit­tee staff show that account­ing firms marketed and developed potentially abu­sive shelters with the willing participation of banks, investment firms and lawyers. One shelter required cooperation from tax-exempt state and munici­pal pension funds. 
He said the penalties must be dramatically increased for anyone who abets illegal tax sheltering. At first blush, he said, the promoters should face penalties equivalent to the taxpayers, who lose the tax benefit and pay penalties on top. Promoters currently are fined $1,000. 
They also got a 
tax deduction 
for donating nonvoting stock, 
which was created specifical­
ly for this transaction, to the 
tax-exempt group. 
The subcommittee found 
evidence that about a half­
dozen tax-exempt entities 
participated, but the panel 
learned the identity of only 
two, the Los Angeles munici­
pal pension fund and an 
Austin, Texas, firefighter's 
pension fund. 
A second transaction, known as Bond Linked Issue Premium Structure, generat­ed a loss for taxpayers who typically had $20 million or more in capital gains or ordi­nary income. 
The structure generated a complex web of loans and investments that appeared to lead to establishment of a strategic fund for currency investments. 
Subcommittee aides said the real purpose was to secure a loan that, when eventually paid back, would generate a loss for the tax­payer equal to the income that would have been shel­tered. Two other transac­tions used similar strategies. 
KPMG said all four strate­gies were discontinued between 1998 and 2001. 
Levin said lawmakers need to enact new rules that ban transactions with no busi­ness purpose other than tax avoidance. The legislation has been passed twice in the Senate, but it faces opposi­tion from the Treasury Department and some House members, who believe the change would do little to deter abusive tax shelters. 


Hot1ses for Rent NTS 
Just in time for Thanksgiving break.-.
It's not too late to find quality 
we are extending our special to get this year's prices for
houses close to catnpus for the 
ne:xt year. Apply by December 1 5. 2003 and take advantage .o:ft:pe s~vit:lgs! Reserve your apartment today
2004-2005 school year 
ap,dquitVi(qrry:i.ng about where to live tomon·ow. 
Call Sean at 
.. j 

,:""'four~=~i$ tl.tnP.ing out, so don't delay! Apply atTC today!!
Anlan Properties 
17H) Turt.le Cree~ Or (right by the turtles!) South Bend, IN 46637
574-532-1895 

THE OBSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
Page 10 Monday, November 17, 2003 


I've lived in Mishawaka all of my life, and for years I've vainly attempt­ed to defend my community from onslaughts by non-Michiana members of the Notre Dame family. Sure, the weather sucks. there's not a lot to Mike Marchand do, many local cops are jerks, a substantial part of 
Undistinguished
the male popula­
Alumnus
tion has mullets and a disturbingly significant percent­age of women do, too; but despite all that, I say, at least we don't have a stand-alone Starbucks or a Krispy Kreme. 
Whoops. 
I figured Starbucks and Krispy Kreme never opened stores here because this was a tough market. We don't need a six-dollar double mocha latte venti frappucino when we can get a cup of joe at 7 -Eleven for a buck. While we're at it, we can grab a donut there, too. You have to go all the way to Elkhart to find a Dunkin' Donuts because all the ones here went out of business. 
But I suppose it was inevitable. On Grape Road and Main Street, you can find one of just about every propri­etary establishment in existence. I'm not normally one given to complain about the gradual corporatization of small-town America; as far as I'm concerned, if the people want glaze­covered fried confections, then glaze­covered fried confections they shall receive. 
I soon realized my error in judg­ment: Krispy Kreme is not just a place for glaze-covered fried confections, it's a freakin' lollapalooza under a green roof. Dunkin' Donuts used to represent itself with one short bald guy who woke up in the morning and said "Time to make the donuts." Krispy Kreme generates enough attraction in the media, both tradi­tional and electronic, that store open­ings are practically religious experi­ences. "Krispy Kreme is about the closest thing there is to a rock star company," according to Ben McConnell, co-author of the book Creating Customer Evangelists. 

And from the community's reaction, if Jesus Christ returned to earth at the same time as the new Krispy Kreme's opening, the lines for each would probably be equal. Except that half the people in the line to see Jesus would probably have a box of Krispy Kremes. 
Mishawaka police had to be called to manage the traffic flow at 5:30 a.m. on Oct. 28 when local radio personali­ty Rob Perugini, who set a Krispy Kreme record by waiting in line 17 days, was summoned 
Right. 
But I felt I couldn't really write about the earth-shattering event that is a Krispy Kreme coming to town, since I'd never had a Krispy Kreme doughnut. So I went this past Saturday morning, and the line was still out the door. Cars were lined up around the block in the drive-thru (the store is so popular that Mishawaka is probably going to have to fatten Main Street by a lane in order to accommodate the extra traf­fic). 
After about a half-hour wait, I ordered a dozen so I could share some with my family. 
"We're out of 

to turn on the "hot Original Glazed," 
For a glaze-covered fried 
light" to officially they said, which I 
open the store. confection, it was pretty didn't quite under­
More than 7,600 good. In fact, it was awe­stand, because there dozen doughnuts were trays of them in 
some. It was almost like 
(Krispy Kreme, Inc. plain sight. My guess
we could solve world 
insists on leaving the was that the dough­"ugh" in the middle peace. nuts hadn't been 
of "doughnuts") rolled off the line in the first hour (if you're counting, that's more than 18 million calories and one million grams of fat in the first 60 minutes alone). Mishawaka Mayor Robert Beutter declared it Krispy Kreme Doughnut Day after a ribbon-tearing ceremony (the scissors couldn't cut it). Store manager Jason Horvath said he expected to eclipse corporate sales records with the mas­sive opening. 
I heard about all of this from the local news networks and shook my head in disbelief. OK, I know the South Bend Symphony Orchestra or the Broadway Theatre League isn't going to shut down traffic when it sells tickets, but these are doughnuts we're talking about. We're not exactly the healthiest town in America, but when did we all turn into drooling Homer Simpsons? "This place is awe­some," said Michael Dotlich of Elkhart. "It's almost like we could solve world peace here today. · Terrorists? Give 'em doughnuts." 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should Notre Dame football join a conference or remain independent? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
through the final 

process, in which the Krispy Kreme Crew (for abbreviation's sake, good thing it's "Crew" and not "Krew") secretly sprinkles crack on top. Well, that's my theory, anyway. 
So I sipped my coffee (which wasn't bad, and just $1.69; eat that, Starbucks) and waited. After readying myself for a sugar high and preparing insulin in case of diabetic shock, I experienced my first bite. 
And you know what? For a glaze­covered fried confection, it was pretty good. In fact, it was awesome. It was almost like we could solve world peace. 
Here, Osama, have a Krispy Kreme. 
Mike Marchand. class of '01, saw 'The Matrix: Revolutions" Saturday night and still doesn't quite under­stand it. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at marchand.3@alumni.nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Food first, then morality. " 
Bertolt Brecht German poet 
-·-.---·-----~-------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, November 17, 2003 page 11 
Back to Africa 

Pop Quiz: that a single Israeli or Palestinian's important that we pay greater attention toward the base. 
1. Who is current Prime Minister of death is so much more newsworthy to the events that are unfolding across Our failure was not to go to Rwanda Israel? 2. Who is the current President than thousands of African deaths. Yes, I the continent. As an American, you may and Somalia, but rather to leave before of Zimbabwe? unders.tand that Isreal is a political believe that the United States govern­affecting change. Liberating concentra­
The answer to the first question is powder keg and deserves our attention, ment has an obligation to use your tax tion camps in Germany during World Ariel Sharon, of and no, we are not physically capable dollars to help you live your life easier. War II was one of our most noble course. The aver­of helping every country at the same As a Christian, I believe that our posi­deeds, yet trying to bring an end to eth­
Greg Parnell 
age Notre Dame time. However, the attitude that Africa tion as the only nation in the world nic cleansing in Africa is interpreted as student can tell is not a "political interest" is far too today with the power to affect change unwanted interference In an internal you that. He can prevalent in today's political debate, to gives us the responsibility to help those struggle. Why? The only difference is
Issues, Ideas 
also probably tell the point that Africa is hardly most in need, regardless of that one tragedy occurred in an area 
and Ideologies
you why the discussed at all. I am what continent they are on. that "mattered," the other in a place Israelis and ashamed that our inter­The biggest obstacle in where it did not. Palestinians are ests give us an excuse to shifting our focus more According to the World Bank, sub­fighting, what role the United States pretend that these peo­towards Africa is past saharan Africa currently earns a mea­plays and which side they agree with ple are not suffering. experience. Two ger $450 per person per year (a num­more. First, we do have interventions­ber declining in recent years). 
On the other hand, do you think that extremely important once in Somalia, Comparatively, the average American the average Domer knows that the political interests in once in Rwanda -earns $35,000 a year. Many athletes President of Zimbabwe is Robert Africa today. 840 stand out as mam­and entertainers earn more in a single Mugabe? Could he explain why million people live moth "failures" in performance than African farmers earn Mugabe's presidency is considered to in Africa, more many decision­in their lifetimes. Alas, apparently life be illegitimate? Could she tell you who than in Europe makers' minds. in America is simply too harsh. Let's cut was involved in the Civil War in the (728 million), and Critics claim that taxes. Congo this past year, which claimed an twice as many as in we had no business President Bush has taken a first step estimated three million lives? Which North America (408 there, and that by $15 billion to AIDS relief. But this is areas of the continent have made million). Most of the sending troops to not enough on its own. We must make it progress against AIDS, and which have states in Africa are still Africa is a great way clear to the government that what is not? fledgling nations that to waste American lives going on in Africa is just as important 
I believe that our lack of knowledge have many urgent prob­and tax dollars. to us as what is happening in Iraq, about Africa is a serious problem. A lems (AIDS, corruption, eth­I could not disagree more. Israel and at home. If not, there will be suicide bomber who kills five people in nic divisions, etc.) and few When teenage boys are hacking more Rwandas, more Congos ... more Gaza is a tragedy, yes, and I feel fortu­proven solutions. However, the political women and children to death with failures. Notre Dame students, I urge nate that I can learn about it by reading and economic successes and failures of machetes, there is reason to act. In you, please do not forget about Africa. an article about it on the front page of these countries will affect more peo­Rwanda in 1994, terrified civilians the newspaper. However, an even ple's lives than actions in Iraq, Israel or flocked to United Nations strongholds Greg Parnell is a sophomore political greater tragedy is that full-fledged wars even in America itself. Politically, eco­for safety. However, these soldiers had science and ecnomics major. His column are being fought and millions of people nomically and culturally, we cannot orders not to engage their attackers. appears every other Monday. He can be are being murdered, raped and forced afford to let these 840 million voices go Weeks later, our "peacekeepers" were contacted at gparnell@nd.edu. to leave their homes ... and to find out unheard. ordered to leave the country, leaving The views expressed in this column about that, I must turn to page 12. Secondly, even if we did not have the hapless women and children to the are those ofthe author and not neces­
I highly doubt that God would agree political interests, it would still be will of the merciless hordes creeping sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Change registration procedures 
Depressing. Anger-inducing. Ridiculously tire­method of registration. But as I hear the grum­some. My own personal DART acronym. I am a bling of my peers, I know I'm not alone in these proud member of the "Day Two of registration, sentiments. after 1 p.m." club, of which I have been active for Perhaps students could be grouped according to my 7th semester. Going abroad was a glimmer of their freshman year appointment times and have hope in the otherwise gloomy process because the groups shift days and times each semester to someone darted for me. allow less fortunate groups a chance for a prime 
As a second semester senior who has suffered slot. One friend even suggested that DART appoint­high blood pressure and possible ulcers due to the ments should be given according to a student's 
injustices of DART, I am once  GPA.  
again beyond disappointed and  Or maybe (and underclassmen, I  
even sick of hearing myself complain about this process. Sure I think that athlete prefer­ence is not altogether neces­sary, but that's just because I'm jealous. I'm more riled up about the fact that before I leave this University for good, I am virtually shut out of experi­ It is quite saddening that as a second semester senior who wishes to engage herself in one last academic hurrah, I cannot take advantage ofall Notre Dame has to offer.  realize I'm biased because I'm a senior, however you will be there one day and wish for the same) the seniors could be alloted a bit more space in elective classes so we can leave Notre Dame as well-rounded academically as we wish to be and as we pay to be. Notre Dame's amount of small class sizes should  
encing subject matter that is  be praised ­ it is a big draw.  
outside of my major.  However what molds most of these  

As seniors are completing their majors, we are small classes into thought-provoking, academic finally able to take a variety of classes -one final experiences is discussion -so adding a few more chance to explore worlds of art history, anthropol­opinions can't entirely ruin the class, right? ogy or classes that expand upon the required phi­Essentially, I am frustrated and annoyed that losophy and theology classes. Sadly, as a senior DARTing into two classes, one of which I actually who DARTs on only the second day of registration, wanted to take, has nothing to do with me being I am faced with zeros in the "spots available col­picky in subject matter, time slots or class days. umn" and commands to either wait until every sin­Being shut out of classes that excite me is almost gle other student in the whole undergraduate body like the University has graduated me one semester has vied for 12 spots and then try my luck, or early before I'm ready to go. It is quite saddening somehow mysteriously switch what year I'm in that as a second semester senior who wishes to because the class is open to only freshmen, sopho­engage herself in one last academic hurrah, I can­mores or juniors. not take advantage of all Notre Dame has to offer. 
Yes, there are chances to take wonderful elec­See you other "Day Two of registration, after 1 tives, but the 10-spot allotment for seniors in these p.m." club members in the line for exemption classes clearly fills up within the first hour of forms. DART, leaving the rest of us with the hope that the rumors of taking away exemption forms is about Bess Malis as true as getting cable installed in the dorms. I senior realize DART was a carefully thought out process Cavanaugh Hall in which the University tried to present the fairest Nov. 14 
Adinissions 
produces 
paper thin student 
Why should it be surprising that many Notre Dame students behave in the manner described in the Nov. 5 Observer Editorial? 
An unfortunate by-product of admissions processes at schools like Notre Dame is that candidates are essentially discouraged from pursuing their own private intellectual fulfill­ment. 
Getting top grades and filling out one's extracurricular resume requires time and effort and does not require a highly developed sense of intellectual curiosity. In many ways, young stu­dents who feel compelled to read for their own pleasure are in grave danger of hindering their own chances for academic success. 
If Notre Dame wanted more students like the ideal ones described in the editorial, its admis­sions department would look for less conformity with academic demands and less task-oriented focus among the bright kids that make up its applicant pool. 
Such a state of affairs would increase the chances of higher dropout rates, but also increase the chances that the school would pro­duce more original thinkers. That's a decent trade-off, if you ask me. 
Finally, the way to resolve the problems with having 30 percent of the undergraduate student body majoring in business is to require double majors in non-business subjects, much the same way the pre-professional majors have done his­torically. 
M.P. Madden 
class of '86 Nov. 13 


page 12 
God, Country, Notre Dame,· BONO. 
With so much wrong going on in our world, there is only one Tom Raaf thing that can put my soul at Scene rest every Columnist night before I lie down to sleep. That one thing, my dear friends, is U2's lead singer, Bono. 
Singer. songwriter and prophet, Bono embodies all that is good, pure and greed-free. More of an essence than a man, I think Bono is the greatest thing to happen to this University since that guy who ran for student body 
of highly spiritual dance moves and ability to raise souls to a better place. 
And can you believe that none of the newspapers have reviewed U2's latest full-size poster, "Spirit, Soul, Redemption, Salvation, Emancipation, Prophecy, WILL"? I mean, how long do we have to wait to know if it's worth buying or not. Well not to worry folks, I have a friend in the poster busi­ness and he told me that this is the coolest U2 poster yet! It has a pic­ture of Bono surrounded by each one of the 12,678 charities he devotes his 
life to when 
he's not busy 

president with You know, secretly living like a a cat as his rock star..
I always did have
vice president Wow, who (circa 1970). a hunch that the doesn't this Using only gospels were amazing one name to humanitarian
supposed to be
describe him­have time to self, I believe Matthew, Mark, support? The this great Luke and Bono. poster also man should involves an
John? Yeah, right. 
be listed interactive 

energy up and engaged into the show. 
One of the best songs of the night is "Michigan," a song dis­cussing what to do when visiting Michigan. It is a good song with a solid beat and harmony, high­lighted with a catch refrain, only forcing you to sing along. 
Since the band has been described as "The Eagles of the new millennium" and one of Chicago's best kept secrets, Hello Dave played an Eagle song. They began singing acapella, which sounded amazing. Himebaugh's strong voice led the song. 
It is evident that Himebaugh, and the other musicians, have a passion for their music. Their songs tell great stories, obviously expressing events from their lives. 
Himebaugh and Magoo switched guitar roles on many of their songs, having the acoustic be the lead for the melody or the electric dominating. 
Hello Dave has much to offer both lyrically and musically. Their songs are independent of each other, providing different sounds. 
This aided in stepping up their show. Bello Dave is a feel-good rock n' roll band with so much talent in each of its members. 
Some of their songs provided a great beat for dancing. Many peo­ple in the crowd took advantage of the vast space between the stage and the tables set up on the floor of Legends. 
"1 thought [the show] was actu­ally very fun," Himebaugh said. "This is our first show in a little while. We don't do that many shows where it's like sit down and relaxed. It was the perfect way to come back from a break." 
The end of the show was ener­getic, singable and loud. It was the ideal ending to a great con­cert. Hello Dave came out and performed well for a crowd of people who were excited to in attendance. 
For more information about Hello Dave and their tour, check out the official Web site, www.hel­lodave. com. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

among others who have achieved such an honor. Just think; Jesus, Ghandi, Cher, Oprah, Sinbad and Bono. 
In case you've missed it, Campus Ministry recently began the four part series "The Gospel According to Bono," which analyzes the spiritual nature of Bono's body of lyrics, and of course their divine inspi­ration. You know, secretly I always did have a hunch that the gospels were sup­posed to be Matthew, Mark, Luke and Bono. John? Yeah, right. Who the hell is 
The poster also 
John? Apparently involves an some sort of 
interactive feature Bono in which you can
wannabe is what I say. match your hand Just listen, 
up to Bono's and 
and I mean 
you will be fully 
really listen, to some of assumed into Bono's lyrics, 
heaven for a period
and you'll 
of ro seconds!
know exactly what I'm talk­ing about. 
feature in 

which you can match your hand up to Bono's and you will be fully assumed into heaven for a period of 10 sec­onds! Awesome! I think the rest of the band may also be on it somewhere. 
Now this may be a little over the top, but I just got a fantastic idea. As we all know, the pope's health has been fading recently and sooner or later he will need a suitable replacement. Seriously, now, take a minute and think. Is there anybody 
who would better suit this role than our favorite rock star Bono? Doubtful. Who cares that he's essential­ly been on the fence between Catholicism and Protestantism his entire life, not picking a side as not to displease 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Monday, November 17, 2003 

Hello Dave 
w-ow-s crow-d 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 
Students filed into Legends Friday night, ready to listen to the sounds of Chicago band, Hello Dave. 
Hello Dave is comprised of lead vocalist, songwriter and rhythm-guitarist Mike Himebaugh, bassist Allen "Big AI" Wetzel, percussionist Bryan Resendiz and lead guitarist Mike "Magoo" McGahan, who togeth­er provided an entertaining compilation of llello Dave favorites as well as some new songs. 
Hello Dave began the show on a funky, upbeat note, allowing the crowd, both those familiar with the band and those who had not heard of them before, to engage into the music and ready themselves for an exciting show. 
Magoo spent a few seconds during the opening song exhibit­ing his skills on the electric guitar. Hello Dave came off really relaxed on stage, just having a good time playing together again. Nothing but smiles remained on all their faces throughout the course ofthe show. 
The second song, "Perfect Day," had a bit of a country sound, but could be more accurately described as real American rock n' roll. Himebaugh described tllis song by saying it "started when some punk stole our trailer." It is a catchy tune with much to offer melodically. 
Between songs, the crowd has opportunities to interact with the band and just let them know they were having fun. Good energy could be felt from the band and the crowd, emanating through the room. 
Himebaugh's voice is almost hypnotic, making the songs all that much better with his incredi­ble vocal abilities. 
The band arranged their set with a good balance of slow and fast songs, to keep the crowd's 



They speak volumes. 
Furthermore, if you ask me, this should be at least a ten part series and the scope should be widened to include everything from Bono's extensive col­lection of unnecessary indoor Grandma driving glasses to his wide variety 
either side of the Irish consumer population ... I still think he's our man. 
Tom Raaf is a Dillon junior who suggests that you have a beautiful day instead of writing an angry Bono-loving Viewpoint. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 17,2003 BSERVER Notre Dame 33, Brigham Young 14 
Going out the right aW"ay 
Last home game for Irish seniors is an easy 33-14 win over Brigham Young 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER A~sociate Sports Ediwr 
On Senior Day, it was fitting that a senior would help lead tho Irish to vietory. 
.Julius Jones eontinued to help paee the team's offense with 161 yards and three touchdowns, and the Irish finally managed their first winning streak of the season with a 3:~-14 win over BYU Saturday. 
"It's always nicer to not have to win on a last-second f'inld goal," said Irish head eoaeh Tyrone Willingham, alluding to Notre Dame's pre­vious two wins at home this year -against Washington State and Navy -which both came down to last-seeond field goals. 
As in the other Irish wins this SIHtson. Jones played a big part in helping the team to vietory. 
".Julius .Iones is a tremen­dous dancer," said BYU head coach Gary Crowton, whose defense had a dil'fieult time taking down the elusive back. 
"When you're down on the said. "I thought we did a very field up close you can really good job running the ball. I see his second effort. would have liked to have 
"lie's patient and an out­maybe had a couple more big standing player." runs, but all in all I think I 
The score Saturday was as was pleased. dose to a blowout win as the "The balance was okay, but Irish have seen we'd like to 
this year, their previous three  "It's always nicer to  eomplete a more of  few our  
wins all eoming  not have to win on a  shorter  
by a margin of six points or less. Despite  last-second field goal."  throws." It was haps a  per­long  
the final  score,  throw that real­ 
this one really wasn't all that close as Notre  Tyrone Willingham Irish coach  ly got the offense moving for the Irish,  
Dame  took  however.  
advantage  of'  Coming out of  

somo prime field position and halftime with a 16-7 lead ­one of' their most balanced their largest at the hall' this offenses this season to take year -the Irish offense was care of the Cougars. sputtering until Quinn found 
In addition to Jones' rush­wide receiver Hhema ing, quarterback Brady Quinn McKnight open on a 33-yard added 156 yards through the passing play to bring Notre air on 15 of 30 passing with Dame to the BYU 23-yard one interception. It was the line. first time this year the Irish On the very next play, Jones have both rushed and passed took the ball and broke the for over 150 yards. tackles of three Cougar 
"I was pleased," Irish offen­defenders for a touchdown, sive coordinator Bill Diedrick making the score 23-7 and 
perhaps putting the game out of reach for BYU. 
McKnight, who has been Notre Dame's most reliable receiver so far this year, led the team with eight catches for 98 yards, but perhaps none more important than that one in the third quarter. 
"Whether offense or defense, anytime you have a big play your team peaks out there, and that's what we need," McKnight said. 
The Irish offense stalled several times in the first half, as Notre Dame was forced to settle for field goals in three straight trips to the red zone en route to an early 9-7 lead. With 25 seconds left in the half, Jones broke through on third-and-goal for a 1-yard touchdown run to give the Irish some momentum going into halftime. 
After going ahead 2:~ -7 on Jones' second touchdown on the game, the Notre Dame defense would stand tall, not allowing a single offensive yard to the Cougars in the third quarter and helping take advantage of four BYU 
turnovers in the game -the largest number of turnovers the Irish have caused since their win against Florida State last season. 
ILJ. Fitzpatrick, who set a new eareer high with four field goals, kicked a late field goal and Jones added a 13­yard touchdown run with just 47 seconds left in the game to give Notre Dame its highnst points total since a 42-0 shutout of Hutgers last year. BYU had added a touchdown earlier in the fourth quarter. but it. was too little too late against the Irish defense. 

Part of tho reason for tlw Cougars' dil"liculty in stopping the Irish offensn was a dis­tinct advantagn for thn Irish in both field position and tinw of possession. Notre Dame ran 24 more offnnsive plays than BYU and had the ball for 36:56, compared to tho Cougars' 23:04. 
"The number of plays Notrn Dame had on offense just wore us down," Crowton said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Julius Jones  0  Rhema McKnight's 33-yard third  "This place means the world to me  
Notre Dame running back  quarter reception from Brady Quinn  and I'm never going to forget it."  
In his last game at Notre Dame  number ofyards allowed by the  
.'itadium, Jones does it again  Notre Dame defense in the  Quinn slongest completion ofthe day  Darrell Campbell  
running for 161 yards on35 carries  third quarter  energized the team, and Jones scored  Irish defensive tackle  
and getting three touchdowns  on the next play to put this one away  

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
report card 
8­
A 
c 
8 8 A 8­A­A-
quarterbacks: Quinn had a performance similar to last week except he didn't throw for a TO and threw an intercep­tion. With the defense and running game, Quinn didn't have to play great. 
running backs: The Irish have found the winning formula-ride Jones to a victory. His three TO day was a fitting way to go out and Grant seemed to run harder than usual. 
receivers: McKnight had another impressive day, but Jenkins had another drop and it's becoming time to send out a search party for Stovall who doesn't have a catch since Nov. 1. 
offensive line: Another solid day for a 
group fighting through injuries and 
another day where the running backs went for over 200 yards. The 
unit gave up its first sacks since USC. 
defensive line: BYO could get nothing going on the ground, but on anum­ber of occassions, containment of the running back or quarterback was a problem. The pass rush wasn't con­sistent all day. 
linebackers: Curry and Watson each had 
an interception and the duo combined for two sack.<;. Add Hoyte into the mix and the linebackers had a combined · 
seven tackles for a loss. 

defensive backs: An inconsistent day by a group going up against a pass-happy offense. BYU receivers were wide-open a number of times, but Burrell's intercep­tion down sealed the victory. 
special teams: The kickoff and punt cov­erage was the best it has been all year and Fitzpatrick was perfect on field goals. The only negative was the low punt average. 
coaching: BYU had 16 days to prepare for the Irish and came out with a ton of trick plays. The Irish were very well prepared and the coaches are showing a commitment to ride Jones. 
2.87 
overall: The streak continues as Notre Dame clawed anoth­er victory away from Navy. Now, can the Irish keep a good thing going? 
adding up the numbers 
rushing yards by Julius Jones in his last game 161 at Notre Dame Stadium -the third time this year Jones has eclipsed the century mark 
4 
turnovers forced by the Notre Dame defense, the highest total since the Irish forced four at Florida 
State last season 

times Notre Dame has Jed after the first quarter 
o 

this season. The Irish trailed 7-6 after the first quarter Saturday 
consecutive games BYU has not been
361 
shut out -an NCAA record 
passing yards by BYU in the first quarter 
11o 
Saturday. The Cougars had 140 passing yards combined the rest of the game 
3 6. 56 
time of possession for the Irish 
• Saturday. BYU had the ball for 23:04 
consecutive series the Notre Dame defense held 
7 

the BYU offense to three plays or less Saturday 
50 
Brady Quinn's completion percentage Saturday, the same as the Irish men's basket­
ball team 3-point shooting percentage Friday 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 17, 2003 

Julius Jones high-fived fans, got patted on the back and walked through the tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium for the last time with a smile on his face Saturday. 
For Jones and the Irish, every­thing was forgot­ten for a short time. 
The players forgot about the 4-6 record. The three straight home losses. The blowouts and embarrassments in this disap­pointing season. 
And Jones could enjoy the moment without thoughts of his past struggles and shortcomings. 
All failures of the 2003 season weren't on the minds of Irish players and coaches Saturday when, in the second half, Notre Dame played like Notre Dame should. 
The Irish beat BYU on Senior Day by their biggest margin of victory all season-33-14. They did so impres­sively -by using a ball control offense to dominate time of posses­sion, and a stifling defense that did not allow the Cougars' offense a sin­gle yard in the third quarter. They did so with a powerful running game, led by Jones' 161 yards and three touch­downs. And they did so by playing the way great Irish teams did during Notre Dame's successful seasons. 
The only difference was this season has been far from great, or for that matter, even mediocre. The team is 4­6 with slim hopes of a bowl and a best case scenario of a .500 record. They have been slammed by top teams in ways few thought Notre Dame foot­ball teams would ever allow. 


But Saturday, it's doubtful that the players or coaches were thinking of the struggles this season when they saluted the student body after the game. 
No one remembered the disappoint­ment of losing to Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue in successive weeks. 
No one recalled the In a way, Jones' story is health of Notre feelings of starting similiar to the story of Dame football was the season 2-6, after intact.
the 2003 Irish. He had
being smoked by Despite enduring 

Florida State 37-0 a expectations put on him an unacceptable 
few short weeks after a solid junior four-or five-year ago. And no one stretch when Notre 
season, while the Irish 
recalled the entire Dame teams had season Jones missed were expecting good two losing seasons, after flunking out. things after finishing zero bowl wins and 
In a way, Jones no national titles, 
2002 with a I0-3 record
story is similar to the story of the 2003 Irish. He had great expectations put on him after a solid junior season, while the Irish were expecting good things in 2003 after finishing the 2002 season with a 10-3 record. 
Adversity hit the star tailback before last year when found himself out of school and out of a future with football when he didn't have the grades to stay enrolled. Not until he recommitted to the books at Arizona State and trained himself to become a better player and person did Jones make his way back to South Bend. He came back this season ready to become a leader for Notre Dame and finish what he started four years ago. 
But more struggles were ahead for Jones and the Irish, as the team lost games and Jones played inconsistent­ly. 
But Saturday both Jones and the Irish came full circle. Notre Dame played one of its best games of the season and got the win, much thanks to the performance of the senior run­ning back. 
For a few moments Saturday, everything was good for the gold hel­mets. 
The memories of a disappointing 
season were in the past, the criticism of a bad season out the door and the 
the seniors went 
out on top 
Saturday. 

For all the times the team played poorly this season, they played well in the second half of the seniors final home game. How appropriate that Jones led the way. Notre Dame played well below expectations for much of the season and Jones didn't put up the numbers he hoped in several of those games. · 
But Jones and Notre Dame ended the home season on a high note by playing to expectations in the second half of the BYU game. 
They didn't have to remember the past Saturday, but simply focused on the moment when Notre Dame foot­ball came back to life for a short time. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe writer and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jh(fttler@nd. edu. 
Monday, November 17, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Seniors lead turnover-happy 'D' 


•
scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 6 10 7 10 33 BYU 7 0 0 7 14 First quarter Notre Dame 3. Brigham Young 0 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 27-yard field goal with 7:38 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 5 yards, 2:04 elapsed 
Brigham Young 7, Notre Dame 3 
Rey Brathwaite 18-yard run with 6:17 remaining (Matt Payne kick) Drive: 4 play, 76 yards, 1:21 elapsed 
Brigham Young 7, Notre Dame 6 
Fitzpatrick 31-yard field goal with 0:56 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 56 yards, 5:21 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 9, Brigham Young 7. Fitzpatrick 34-yard field goal with 3:38 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 16 yards, 4:45 elapsed 
Notre Dame 16, Brigham Young 7 
Julius Jones 1-yard run with 0:25 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7 plays, 52 yards, 1:36 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 23, Brigham Young 7 
Jones 23-yard run with 11:31 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 59 yards, 0:59 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 26, Brigham Young 7 
Fitzpatrick 38-yard field goal with 12:23 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 44 yards, 3:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 26, Brigham Young 14 
-

Matt Berry 1-yard run with 7:27 remaining (Payne kick) Drive: 3 plays, 39 yards, 0:48 elapsed 
Notre Dame 33. Brigham Young 14 
Jones 13-yard run with 0:47 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 21 yards, 1:47 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
........ 
rushing yards 
53 
passing yards 
~ 
return yards ­
Unit makes big plays, contains Cougar offensive attack in 33-14 win 
By MATT LOZAR A.sociate Spotts Editor 
The defnnsn, appropriately led by its seniors, did some things Saturday it really hasn't donn all year. 
Early in thn game, the defense set the tmw on an intnreeption by linebacker Courtney Watson ofT a Brigham Young screen pass. The interception was Watson's first of the year and the coaches had let him know about that all week long. 
"It did fnel good because all week the coaches wern getting on me since I did­n't have a pick all year," the firth-year snnior said. "Last year I had four of them, so it was good to get it early." 
That turnover, whieh set the tone for the nntire day, was the first of a sea­son-high four for the Notre Dame defense. 
But the most impressive statistic for this defense Saturday was holding the BYU offense to three plays or less on seven conseeutivn drives. In the third quarter, the Cougars had zero yards of offense. 
Players don't get caught up in streaks like that during the game, but they assuredly notieed it throughout that third quarter, as their bodies were full of energy. 
"I think our bodies told us because we did a lot of standing on the side," Watson said. "I remember specifically in the third quarter just sit­ting there, and saying, 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer Irish linebacker Derek Curry runs with the ball after Intercepting a pass against BYU. Notre Dame's defense forced four turnovers in helping the team win 33-14. 
defensive tackle Darrell Campbell said. "You just want to run out there and tackle the guy. I know when [safety] Quentin [Burrell] got that interception down by the end zone I ran 40 yards full sprint, knocking people out just to cele­
'This is pretty fun, pretty cool."' The easiest win of the  ''That's the type of defense we have."  brate with them. "That's the type defense we have."  of  
season allowed the coach­ing staff to rest its players throughout th11 fourth  Darrell Campbell Irish defensive lineman  But Saturday obviously wasn't a perfect effort, as seen by the 14 points  

quartP.r and give the sen­iors a chanee to watch from the sidelines as the younger mem­bers of the defense were just as domi­nant as the old guys. 
When the youngsters made plays, the seniors were the first ones to congratu­late them. 
"It's a lot more like the defense that we know that we can play like. It's beautiful to see, especially when you aren't in there for a few series and you see everybody out there doing things," given up by the Irish on 
two drives of a combined seven plays. But the defense stayed focused Saturday, determined to send the seniors playing their last game at Notre Dame Stadium out the right way. 
"I think we've had an up and down season but today we kind of had an up and down game, but we pulled it out," defensive end Justin Tuck. "I think we are never going to come out of a game perfect. We never come out of a game and did everything the way we wanted to. 
"We really wanted to send our sen­iors out with a great game and I think we did that." 
During the disappointing start to the season, this defense showed flashes of its 2002 form. Saturday, that defining characteristic from last year came back, after all the Senior Day emotions allowed the Irish to just play football. 
"I felt a little bit of relaxation after [the emotion[ died down, but more importantly, I think we got our swagger back, our tenacious attitude back, [which is] something that has been missii;J.g for awhile. It showed up in spurts, but we were very persistent in this game," Campbell said. 
"After all the emotion died down and we were able to focus a little bit more, we definitely were a lot more relaxed and were able to capitalize on all the mistakes they made." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Jones now only 4 yards from 1,000 
Senior tailback should break milestone against Stanford 
that way.
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
"To have this team come 
Associate Sports Editor 
together like this at the end of the year is just remark­
With his 161 yards rushing able and hopefully we can Saturday, Julius Jones now finish it out with some more has 996 yards for the season wins." and moved past Jerome Clearing the way Heavens and into fourth Notre Dame's offensive place on Notre Dame's all­line, considered a weak link time rushing earlier in the sea­list with 2, 764 son. has gelled
''This is just

yards. nicely over the Since return­what I hoped past few games. ing from a or. Hunning behind a
fi , 

rnissfld year due line that only has to aeademic one senior 
Julius Jones 

ineligibility, offensive tackle Jones has fit Irish running back Jim Molinaro ­
right in with the Irish offense, bneoming the first back since Autry Denson in 1998 to have three games in a single ynar with two or more rushing touchdowns. 
"This is what I hoped for," .Iones said. "I hoped for more wins than we have now, but it just didn't go the Irish have still 
managed two games with 200 yards rush­ing or more. 
"They are going to be out­standing," running back .Julius Jones said of the line's potential for next sea­son. "They are young this year, a lot of them have never played before, but they got a lot of experience this year and have done well." 
Despite allowing two sacks to the blitz-oriented BYU defense, pass blocking has greatly improved over the last several games, as Notre Dame allowed zero sacks in the last three games before BYU. 
Kicking back and enjoying himself 
D.J. Fitzpatrick certainly doesn't look like a walk-on anymore. The junior from loeal Marian High School has replaced injured start­ing kicker Nicholas Setta since the Pittsburgh game and has stepped right into the pressure-packed kicker's role nicely. 
Fitzpatrick has hit six straight field goals sinee his last two against Navy, ineluding that game's last­second game-winner, and has helped provide the Irish with points when drives stall in the end zone. 

"Those last two I hit in the Navy game, especially the last one, really gave me some confidence," Fitzpatrick said. "I just got that thought in my head and now I'm hitting it great." 
With Setta possibly return­ing for Notre Dame's next game against Stanford in two weeks, Fitzpatrick isn't fretting about losing his job. 
"Nick's a great kicker," Fitzpatrick said. "He's taught me a lot, and if he eomes back, it'll be up to the coaches. I know we'll both keep trying." 
Captains 

Gameday captains on Senior Day were three sen­iors: offensive tackle Jim Molinaro, cornerback Vontez Duff and running baek Julius Jones. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
time of possession 
-Jft,il 
- 
50-204  rushes-yards  
15-30-1  comp-att-int  
6-34.3  punts-yards  
0-0  fumbles-lost  

5-40 penalties-yards 3-30 13 first downs 19 
passing 

Quinn 15-30·1 Berry 17-29-3 
rushing 

Jones 35-161 Brathwaite 14-77 Grant 10-39 Whalen 1-11 
-... 

Quinn 5-4 Vakapuna 1-5 

reeeiving  
McKnight  8-98  Jory  3-81  
Jenkins  4-30  Tahi  3-71  
Jones  1-15  Christensen  3-24  

tackling 

Watson  12  Francisco  13  
Tuck  8  Allen  11  
Burrell  8  Tanner  9  

~ 
26-53 18-30-3 6-36.3 1·1 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 17, 2003 

-

Notre Dame sent its seniors out on a high note Saturday, beating BYU 33-14 in the 
final home game of the season. The Irish improved to 4-6 for the 2003 season and evened its home record at 3-3. Julius Jones had 161 yards rushing and three touch­downs, while the Irish defense played tough in gaining the victory. Notre Dame end'i itS regular s~ason with two road games at Stanford and Syracuse. 
LEAVING WITH A SMILE 

TIM SULLIVAN, BUG DAVISSON and CHIP MARKS!fhe Observer Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn fires a pass Saturday (top left). Greg Pauly and Travis Leitko celebrate Pauly's fumble recovery in the first half (top right). Linebacker Derek Curry attempts to sack Brigham Young quarterback Matt Berry (center left). Tight end Jared Clark reacts after making a catch against the Cougars (bottom left). Notre Dame students do pushups for one of the 33 Irish points on Saturday In the team's win over BYU (bottom right). 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, November 17, 2003 
Page 13 
-

Reluctant rockstar rolls 
into Legends 
.. 

!wading in a new direetion affecting outfit. Bazan plays
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI 
with shorter songs and more the song as unassumingly as 
Scene Writer 
personalized themes, all tho anything else, but those pay­while taking his musical ing attention to the lyrics 
With his charar.tnristie stylings back to thnir roots: quickly learn that Pedro has rnurnbln and an undnrstated the mid-tempo, plaintivn an intense, serious message intPnsity, Snattln rocker Pedro melodies of his 1998 debut to deliver. "Ain't it a shame I tlw l.ion captivatPCI the nagnr It's liard To Find A Friend. when duo process I gets in nwssns at LPgnnds this past Perhaps tho most endearing the way I of swift justice'?" Thursday. For many fans of aspoct of Thursday night's quips Bazan detachedly ­quality musi1:, this markod perfornHtnl:n wero the ques­yet the ironic sentiment t.hP most highly anticipated tion-and-answer sessions, a burns in the minds of specta­arna l'oncnrt ~~v~~nt of t.hn stapln of Pedro tho Lion live tors long after the curtain snmnstnr. l;olks lwgan lining shows. At various intervals in has fallen. up in tlw cold wnll bdorn tho the sot, Bazan addressed the Long-time fans rejoiced postNI start t.imn ol' I) p.m. audionen, inquiring as to upon hearing of Pedro's visit 
As tlw hour approached, a whether anyone had anything to campus. The event even qunun formPd in front of to ask tho mumbling trouba­prompted some to create T­l.ngnnds, snaking its way dour. shirts declaring, "Pedro down t.hl' outsidn ramp into Queries rang out, as varied Hocks," and "Notre Dame tl1n padnd parking lot. as "What authors do you [Hearts! Pedro," which they 
Pod ro tlw I. ion, ar.tually read'?" Bazan said that he proudly donned Thursday comprisnd of singor/gui­road polities and conservative evening. tarisllsongwritPr David Bazan writors "because I don't Fans and converts alike and a nwolving cast of musi­understand conservatism very also swamped the merchan­cian-charac:tnrs. took tho much." dise table after the show, stagn shortly aftpr 10 p.m., Another quostion was "Can clamoring for that one EP to accompaniPd only by fpiJow you please play such-and­complete their Pedro colle(> Northwnst songwritPr TW such song'?" and Bazan tion or excitedly making Walsh on drums. politely explained he was their introductory Pedro pur­-
Tlw two rollicknd through a unable to do so with the limit­chase. most divnrsn sot of about lh nd instrumentation. Also The general vibe of the songs, ranging from mellow, asked was "Do you like show was one of sheer and down-tempo musings on bacon'?" of whieh Bazan sincere enjoyment on the failnd rPlationships to urgnnt, replied yes, he does. At one part of both performer and srathing numlwrs invoking point a fan nven asked if he audience. politics and morality, and may have his photograph Opening band, Clark, a dnlving into all depths of tho taknn with the performer. wildly popular local band, ratlwr nxtnnsivP l'ndro cata­llvor obliging, Pedro invited drew scores of devout fans logue. the young man onstage and out to the club early and treated to what may well Sloan drew sizable crowds. 
"!.ghlights i~~elu~ed s.et-dl!s­the two braced for the cam­played an inspired set. have been the first violent Pedro the Lion, hownvnr, nr llapturn, a fan-favonte era's nash. Bazan answers Humors circulated in the drum-thrashing ever at proved to be tho series' most about adultnry, "Big Trucks," eaeh and nvery question weeks prior to the show that Legends, as Partridge tore his successful act, enticing well a playful tako on road-rage posed to him, no matter how this would be Clark's final kit apart following the per­over 400 eager fans and and tho gonnralion gap, and mundane, with utter and performance. formance. If this does prove soon-to-be-fans to bravo the "NPvnr Ln<tvn A Job Hall' almost sheepish earnestness While the fate of the band is to be the trio's last aet, no chilly night and trok over to Donn," with its dark themes that, in praetiee, is somehow unconfirmed, it should be one can claim the boys didn't Legends, nearly filling the and nxplosivn finale. hilarious. noted that Clark has already out with a proverbial bang. club to eapaeity. 
Bazan and Walsh filled out Bazan closed out the show played several "final" shows, Thursday's Pedro the Lion Music cognoscenti takn tho snt with about six brand with a two-song encore sans so fans need not lose heart gig marks the third and final note: WVFI plans to hit you nnw songs, sot to appear on a drummer Walsh, comprised of just yet. show of the semester in with three morn red-hot con­forthcoming Pedro the Lion one new song and the slow­Clark is comprised of WVFI's Legends concert cert events in tho coming IW and possibly the now full­burning, semi-political bassist/vocalist Pat Bayliss, series. Previous shows featur­semester. lnngth, dun out sometime in anthem "Backwoods Nation." guitarist/vocalist Mike ing lovelorn balladeer Owen mid-to-lato 2004. The latter perhaps best exem­Beaton, and drummer/vocalist with The Hutabega and 
If his latnst material is any plifies just what makes Pedro Hyan Partridge. Those who singer-songwriter sensations Contact Matthew Solarski at indication, l'ndro may be the Lion such a uniquely came to the first set were Erin McKeown and Sarah msolarsk@nd.edu 
-



, MATTHEW SOLARSKI/The Observer MATTHEW SOLARSKI/The Observer 
Pedro the Lion's Bazan Bazan on the left and TW Walsh rock out with grace An area favorite, Clark, plays an energetic set opening for Pedro the Lion at the and precision for a packed house Thursday night at Legends. final WVFI concert Thursday night at Legends. 
Monday, November 17, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Former Irish punter Smith scores TD to aid Colts in win 
Associated Press and pass it, it was going to be hard to defend them," Edwards
.. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Edgerrin said. James softened up the New York Jets' defense and punter Hunter Broncos 37, Chargers 8 Smith blasted through it. Jake Plummer made all the 
While James carried for a sea­difference for the Denver son-high 127 yards and three Broncos. touchdowns Sunday, it was Plummer showed no signs of Smith's 21-yard run on a fake rust in his first game in a month, field goal that gave the throwing for 253 yards and Indianapolis Colts a 38-31 victo­three touchdowns to lead the ry. Broncos to a 37-8 rout over the 
.. 
"It just opened wide up," Smith San Diego Chargers on Sunday. said after scoring his frrst touch­"There's no question you try to down in five NFL seasons. "I minimize the situation when one 
think anyone could have scored of your guys go out." said tight on that one." end Shannon Sharpe, who Perhaps anyone could have caught all three of Plummer's scored Sunday, period. touchdown passes. "But Jake 
Peyton Manning threw for a brings us to a dimension we season-high 401 yards on a don't have unless he's in the ball wacky day for two teams that game." last met in a lopsided Jets play­No kidding. off win and are led by former With Plummer back after defensive coaches in Tony Dungy missing four games with foot and Herman Edwards. and shoulder injuries, Denver (6­
The game had a little bit of 4) came flying out of its bye everything. week. 
The Jets (3-7) and Colts com­The Broncos dominated from bined for 862 total yards, 69 the start, scoring on five of seven points and scored on a myriad of first-half possessions to take a big and strange plays -none 27-0 lead. Denver had 448 total more critical than Smith's go­yards and held the ball on Engram had an 83-yard punt After Detroit's two home victo­that gave the Packers a 20-13 ahead burst late in the third offense for an amazing 44:11 -return for a touchdown and ries gave the Lions (3-7) a mod­victory Sunday. quarter. believed to be a team record -caught a 34-yard scoring pass to est winning streak for the first "It was such a beautiful drive, 
The Colts (8-2) also looked to end a three-game losing help the Seattle Seahawks to a time in three years, they couldn't I just hated to let it go to a kick­much different than the team streak. 35-14 victory over the Detroit avoid their 21st straight defeat er. I thought we had to finish it that took a day off in a 41-0 loss "Today was a big step for us Uons on Sunday. on the road. off," Sherman said. to the Jets last January. because we came out and made The 30-year-old Engram is "Can't explain our record on "I think everyone, including 
This time, Indianapolis' plays for the first time in a something of a father figure to the road," safety Corey Harris some of our players, expected us offense pretty much did anything while," Plummer said. younger receivers Darrell said. to kick a field goal," quarterback it wanted despite missing three They sure did. Jackson, 24, and Koren Another loss next weekend at Brett Favre added. "But we just starters: left tackle Tarik Glenn, Sharpe caught seven passes Robinson, 23. Minnesota would tie Detroit with wanted to make a statement at wide receiver Marvin Harrison for 101 yards and passed Jerry "I tell those guys all the time the Buffalo Bills (1983-86) for that point, and I think we did." and tight end Marcus Pollard. It Smith's league record for touch­it's kind of their show," Engram the second-longest road skid in Playing with a broken right also lost Harrison's replacement, downs by a tight end with 61. said. ''I'm just the supporting NFL history. The NFL record is thumb and shrugging off five 
-
Troy Walters, with a hamstring He's already the all-time leader cast, and I enjoy that. 23 games by the Houston Oilers years of futility at Raymond injury during the game. in receptions and yards at his "Don't get me wrong. I'll com­(1981-84). James Stadium, Favre fueled the Yet Manning and James had position. pete just as hard. Everyone nearly 10-minute winning drive little trouble exposing the Jets' Rod Smith had a 65-yard punt comes into the league wanting to Packers 20, Buccaneers 13 with a 23-yard completion to holes. return for a touchdown and be the starter, to be the man. But TAMPA, Fla. -Green Bay had Robert Ferguson on third-and-9 
James, who complained he caught 10 passes for 84 yards to I feel what I have here is a little Tampa Bay's once-vaunted from the Green Bay 3. wasn't getting enough work after become the 29th player in more important than being a defense on the verge of collapse, The victory moved the Packers last week's loss, had 36 carries, league history to eclipse 600 starter somewhere else." so coach Mike Sherman was (5-5) within one game of reeling second most of his career. receptions (608). The Seahawks (7-3) improved determined to fmish them off. Minnesota atop the NFC North, 
Manning was superb, complet­to 6-0 at home and maintained a Facing fourth-and-1 from the while the Bucs (4-6) fell four ing 27 of 36 with one touchdown Seahawks 35, Lions 14 share of the NFC West lead with Buccaneers 16 in a tie game, the games behind Carolina in the -a 46-yarder to Walters. Bobby Engram understands St. Louis. The win was wrapped Packers sent Najeh Davenport NFC South with their third Reggie Wayne caught nine pass­why his younger teammates get up by halftime, when Seattle had barreling up the middle for 5 straight loss. es for 141 yards, and Dallas most of the publicity. Sometimes, 300 yards and a 35-14 lead. yards instead of going for a go­The Super Bowl champions Clark had five receptions for 100 though, the old man of the "We came out and took some ahead field goal. Three plays concede they may be facing a yards. Seattle receiving corps can't be of the starch out of the Lions," later, Ahman Green scored from near-impossible task of getting 
"We said if they could run it ignored. coach Mike Holmgren said. the 1 to finish a 98-yard march back to the playoffs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m· at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- NOTICES  time, energetic experienced nanny needed to help care for children in our Granger home M-W 3pm-8pm; Th 2pm-8pm. Mom has chronic  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked  TICKETS  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
health problems, so  $84,900. email:  bedrooms, six blocks from Notre  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today!  reliability is critical. Love for kids & own transp req. Call360-1198 & lv msg.  Williamson.1 @nd.edu 2001 Mercury Sable LS, 34,000 miles, antilock brakes, alarm sys- Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, laundromat next door(dry cleaning also), basement available  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  ·A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­tours.com or 1800-426-7710  
***ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. Vector/Cutco  WANTED Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820­ tern, CD, $12,000. Call287-1147. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525 HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and cen­tral air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4072.  **LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX'* ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay BIG $$$$ to get these. Call212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell.  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 11 0% Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­ 
workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357  0167, ext. U187  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ 
 tours.com  
- Doglegleftnews.com 'Putting the Patlietic in Apathetic' Brought to you by ND Students and Alumni  Part time/Full time opportunity for honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce internet based business. Contact:  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre  need NO/UK & ND/IU b-ball tix. 273-9938  .... IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too late! Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci­rossi.com.  waynew54@pronetglobal.com FoR SALE 99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. 283-0708.  CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 2 bdrrn home, walk to NO 315-8730  Dame. bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, laundromat next door (dry cleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and cen­tral air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4072.  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer.  ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com To Erin-Yea ... About That! Is this fall? Woah...You're Big Alright, Alright, Alright, Alright. ..  


Monday, November 17, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
Federer outplays Agassi to win the Tennis Masters Cup 
Associated Press  today but great tennis all week.  to Federer in the semifinals:  clean backhand winner down  service winner at 120 mph, a.ce  
You deserve to win this tourna­ "The guy has more natural flair  the line.  at 122 mph, serve into Agassi's  
HOUSTON - Neither Andre  ment, and it's an inspiration to  and talent for the game than  Federer's serve isn't the fastest  body  that  drew  a  forehand  
Agassi nor dreadful weather was  watch  you  move  and  play,"  most -I mean, than anybody  around, but his placement and  return long. and  a crosscourt  
going to stop Hoger Federer.  Agassi said during the trophy  really."  pace changes are outstanding.  backhand passing winner at a  
Capping a perfect tournament  presentation.  Rain fell until about a half­ He ended the first set this way:  seemingly impossible angle.  
with another sublime perform­ Agassi is 33, Federer 22, and it  hour before the match started  
ance, Federer beat Agassi 6-3, 6­ didn't help Agassi's cause that all  and returned after 38 minutes of  
0, 6-4 in a rain-interrupted final  four of his previous matches  play. By then, Agassi was in seri­ 
Sunday to win the season-ending  went the distance, including a  ous trouble, as a quick glance at  
Tennis Masters Cup for his tour­ round-robin loss to the Swiss  the  statistics  made  clear:  
high seventh title of 2003.  . •  star.  Federer owned edges of 23-6 in  
Federer earned $1,520,000  "I wish I had more for you  total winners, 7-0 in aces and  
and moved up to No. 2 in the rankings. behind  today," Agassi told the crowd. "It just wasn't quite  39-25 in points. He also won four of the five points with 10 or  Directed  
Andy  Hoddick.  enough to get the  more strokes ­ an area normal­ by  
The Wimbledon champion went 5­0 against an elite field, including victories over the  "It just wasn't quite enough to get the job done. "  job done." Agassi was the event's oldest final­ist since 1978, and was attempting to  ly ruled by Agassi, the consum­mate baseline artist. Federer already was up a set and a break when the rain came with Agassi serving at 0-2, love- Siiri Scott  
other reigning Grand Slam champions: Agassi  Andre Agassl tennis player  be its oldest cham­pion -Ilie Nastase was 29 in 1975. He  30. When action resumed, Agassi promptly made two straight errors from the baseline  
(Australian Open).  also was hoping to  to get broken at love. After  
Hoddick (U.S. Open) and Juan Carlos Ferrero  set the mark for longest gap between titles at the  Federer held to 4-0 when his forehand caught the net tape  Playing  
(French Open).  tour championship, having won  and trickled over, Agassi's four  at  
"This week has been great for me," Federer said. "I thought I was in the toughest group, with  it in 1990. But Federer just was too good, before and after a 2 1/2-hour  errors contributed to another break. Federer rolled through the  Washington Hall  
the toughest opponents. and I  rain delay.  first set, never facing deuce on  
came out winning each match  He served strongly, got the best  his serve and swatting at least  
against really great players." By the end of the event's most lopsided final since 1997. Agassi  of baseline rallies, and every so often won a point with a shot that didn't appear to be an  one ace in each game. He earned the set's lone break for a 3-1 edge. Federer reached  Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20  7:30pm 7:30pm  
would shake his head after los­ option. Repeatedly,  Federer  break point with  a  backhand  Friday, November 21  7:30pm  $1 0  Reserved Seats  
ing points. lie never managed one break point, while Federer conjured 39 winners, three times  would drive a ground stroke to a corner. forcing Agassi wide, and then deposit his next shot into  winner, then hit a forehand that forced Agassi to flick an over­the-shoulder backhand volley  Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23  7:30pm 2:30pm  $9 $7  Senior Citizens All Students  
as many as Agassi. "I'd just like to congratulate Hoger, not just for a great match  the open court for a clean win­ner. As Roddick put it after losing  with his back to the net. The ball landed in, but Agassi was out of position, and Federer sent a  Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard/Visa orders call 574-631-8128.  


JPW2004 
February 20, 21 and 22, 2004 
A.nd the Nominees Are ... 
JPW Invitations and Ticket Applications were mailed last week to the parents of the entire Class of 2005, and all Seniors who studied abroad last semester. 
If your invited guests do not receive an invitation this week, 
you can download the ticket application from the JPW website: 
www.nd.edu/-jpw 
or stop by the Student Activities Office at 315 Lafortune to pick up an invitation and application! 
Lottery for guaranteed rooms at the Morris Inn will take place Friday, December 5th. · · Pick up lottery applications at the front desk of the Morris Inn 
Monday, November 17, 2003

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Huddle leads Irish -women to title, men finish in eighth place 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Led by a sophomore, the fourth-ranked Notre Dame women's cross country team earned its second consecutive Great Lakes Region title Saturday in Terre Haute, Ind., which means that the Irish have an automatic bid to next Monday's national champi­onships. Sophomore Molly Huddle led not only her team, but the entire field as she com­pleted the 6,000-meter course in 20:14. 
While the Irish women saw plenty of success, the men, who came in eighth place, did not finish high enough to automati­cally qualify for the national championships, and they will not know until today whether they ran well enough to earn an at-large bid to the NCAA title race. 
For the women, Saturday's race continued a season of suc­cesses that includes the team's second consecutive Big East conference title. 
"It seems like everyone just keeps improving in each race," Huddle said. "It's really exciting to see how good we can get. A,nd we feel like we can get even better than that, too." 
Huddle, who last year took second at the Great Lakes regional, admits she had a feel­ing she would do well before Saturday's competition began. 
After the first kilometer of the race, Huddle says she became fairly confident that she was in control of the outcome, partly because she could not hear any runners behind her. 
"I was always kind of worried about someone sneaking up on me, [but] I couldn't hear them behind me, so I thought that was a good sign," she said. 
Huddle was followed by jun­ior Lauren King, who was sev­enth overall with her time of 
20:48. Junior Kerry Meagher, senior Megan Johnson and sophomore Stephanie Madia completed the Irish top five with their eighth, 12th, and 15th place fmishes, respective­ly. 
In the men's race, the Irish were led by senior Todd Mobley, who arrived at the fin­ish line in seventh place after completing the 10,000-meter course in 30:4 7. He was not far behind the race's individual champion, Eastern Michigan's Gavin Thompson, who finished the course with a time of 30:12. 
Supporting the Irish behind Mobley were sophomore Tim Moore, who finished 15th in 30:54, freshman Kurt Benninger in 38th place, sopho­more Sean O'Donnell in 41st and senior Brian Kerwin in 44th. 
According to Moore it was tougher competition and inex­perience that hindered the Irish runners, who, he believes, ran well overall. 
"No one really ran badly," Moore said. "Last year, we did­n't really have too many great races coming out of the district, but this time I guess it's a little harder because we all ran pret­ty well." 
While the Irish are awaiting their fate, which will be deter­mined today, Moore believes that if given one of the 13 at­large bids to the national cham­pionship, Notre Dame will beat even some of the teams who surpassed the Irish Saturday. 
"We still think we have the potential to beat a lot of the teams that were there," Moore said. "I think if we run our best, we can still get top ten in the country, which has been our goal all season." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Oklahoma still No. 1 
Associated Press 

Oklahoma remained No. 1 in The Associated Press col­lege football Top 25 for the 13th straight poll, the third­
longest  run  ever to begin  
the season.  
The  Sooners  (1 0-0)  

received all 65 first-place votes in balloting by the panel of sports writers and broadcasters Sunday, one day after beating Baylor 41­3. 
The rest of the top five remained the same, with Southern California, LSU, Ohio State and Michigan fol­lowing Oklahoma in the poll. 
There will be some change next because the Buckeyes and Wolverines play with the outright Big Ten title on the line. 
The only teams to be N-o. 1 in more consecutive polls to start the season than Oklahoma are Florida State, which went wire-to-wire in 1999, and Nebraska, which had a run of 15 straight No. 1 rankings in 1983 until los­ing the Orange Bowl to Miami. 
Army and Notre Dame went wire-to-wire in 1945 and 1943 respectively, when the polls didn't begin until October. 
Oklahoma received the maximum 1,625 points, 
beating out USC, which had 1,559. 
Georgia, Texas, Washington State, Tennessee and TCU round out the top 10. The Horned Frogs are the only undefeat­ed team in major college football other than Oklahoma. 
The USA Today/ESPN coaches' poll had the same top eight teams as the AP. 
Florida State, the first team to clinch a BCS berth after winning the ACC on Saturday, was 11th and Virginia Tech was 12th. Miami and Florida were tied for 13th, followed by Mississippi, Purdue, Iowa, Miami of Ohio, Kansas State and Boise State. 
Pittsburgh, Bowling Green, Nebraska, Oklahoma State and West Virginia round out the poll. 
Kansas State, Oklahoma State and West Virginia are this week's newcomers, replacing Minnesota, Michigan State and Northern Illinois. 
The Big 12 and SEC lead all conferences with five teams apiece in the poll, fol­lowed by four each for the Big Ten and Big East, and two for the Pac-10 and Mid­American. Florida State is the only ACC team in the poll. 


ARCH FOR LIFE 
Students have the choice between two different 
trip packages, both leaving for the march at the 
same time, but returning on different days. 
Trip 1 -cost $80 Leaves for DC Wed, ]an 21 at 7:30pm 2 nights hotel stay Intercollegiate Prolife Conference at Georgetown Returns Sun, ]an 25 in the morning Free t-shirt 
Trip 2 -cost $50 
Leaves for DC Wed, ]an 21 at 7:30pm Returns for class on ]an. 23 Free t-shirt 
The march is on the anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, Jan. 22nd. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 17, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wuu: SERVICES Page 17 
1 
~ 
3 4 5 6 
1 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 
23 
24 26 
around the dial 
NFL Pittsburgh at San Francisco 9 p.m., ABC 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Vale at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Boston at New York 7:30p.m., MSG 
NFL 


Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Pop the corks and make the toast, you '72 Dolphins. The per­fect record is safe for one more season. 
It's guaranteed. 
With a punt return and a long touchdown catch, Peter Warrick eclipsed Kansas City's playmakers and let the Cincinnati Bengals back up their boast Sunday with a 24-19 victory over the Chiefs. 
Trying to become the first team to go 10-0 since the 1998 Broncos, the less­than-perfect Chiefs unrav­eled against the Bengals (5-5), who finished the day tied for first after making Chad Johnson's guarantee come true. 
"The worst thing is to have a guy come out and shoot his mouth making a statement, and they stood up to it," Chiefs corner­back Eric Warfield said. "This is a good team, but we feel like we shouldn't have lost." 
The undefeated '72 Dolphins get together for a toast when the last winless team falls each season, reveling in their distinc­tion. Warrick made this unbeaten team fall hard. 
"That's having my back," said Johnson, who apolo­gized to some of the Chiefs on the field for his guaran­tee. "They didn't leave me hanging in the wind, and I didn't want to leave them hanging in the wind." 

The victory left them into a first-place tie with Baltimore in the AFC North. The Bengals haven't been in contention this late in a season since 1990, the last time they had a winning record. 
Johnson was in the trainer's room getting intravenous fluids for cramps when Warrick made one cut and headed upfield on a 68-yard punt return early in the fourth quarter. He hoisted the ball in celebration when he reached the 20-yard line -and the '72 Dolphins could get ready to hoist those glasses. 
On the Chiefs sideline, players just dropped their heads, turned their backs and blamed themselves. 
Rudi Johnson ran for 165 yards and Kitna threw two touchdown passes and avoided a game-turning mistake as Cincinnati posi­tioned itself to pull off the upset. 
Trent Green threw two touchdown passes in the final seven minutes, the last one a 3-yard toss to Jason Dunn with 3:19 to go. The Chiefs never got the ball back. 
IN BRIEF 
James becomes Colts all­
time rushing leader 
INDIANAPOLIS -Edgerrin James became the Colts' all-time rushing leader early in the second half Sunday. 
James surpassed Lydell Mitchell when he gained 3 yards on his first carry of the third quarter. He entered the game against the New York Jets needing 75 yards to break Mitchell's career mark of 5,487. James carried 18 times for 72 yards in the first half, then broke the record with a short run up the middle. 
James finished with 127 yards on 36 carries, giving him 5,540 career yards. He also scored three touch­downs, the most he had in a game since Dec. 11, 2000, at Buffalo. 
The Colts are one of only two fran­chises with five rushers to have gained 5,000 career yards. The other team is Cleveland. 
James also rushed for two first-half touchdowns, the first time he scored more than one in a game since Sept. 

9, 2001, also against the Jets. 
Federer sweeps Agassi for 
year-end title 
HOUSTON -Neither Andre Agassi nor dreadful weather was going to stop Roger Federer. 
Capping a perfect tournament with another sublime performl!-nce, Federer beat Agassi 6-3, 6-0, 6-4 in a rain-interrupted final Sunday to win the season-ending Tennis Masters Cup for his tour-high sev­enth title of 2003. 
Federer earned $1,520,000 and moved up to No. 2 in the rankings, behind Andy Roddick. The Wimbledon champion went 5-0 against an elite field, including victo­ries over the other reigning Grand Slam champions: Agassi (Australian Open), Roddick (U.S. Open) and Juan Carlos Ferrero (French Open). 
By the end of the event's most lop­sided final since 1997, Agassi would shake his head after losing points. He never managed one break point, while Federer conjured 39 winners, three times as many as Agassi. 
South Africa's Immelman,
Sabbatini win World Cup 
KIAWAH ISLAND, S.C. -South Africa's Trevor lmmelman and Hory Sabbatini combined to shoot a l­over-par 73 Sunday for a four-stroke victory at the World Cup. 
Immelman and Sabbatini finished at 13-under 275 and gave South Africa its second World Cup title in three years and fifth overall. Ernie Els and Hetief Goosen teamed up to win in 2001, when the World Cup was played in Japan. 
The U.S. team of Jim Furyk and Justin Leonard was in contention until going bogey-triple bogey at Nos. 12 and 13. The Americans shot a 3­over 75 and finished in a tic for fifth at 4-under 284. 
The Americans fell off the pace after carding a triple-bogey 7 on the 440-yard 13th after Furyk hit his tee shot into the water. 

Monday, November 17, 2003 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Women remain dominant, men find first season victory 

Not going where you want to with your Future? 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish fail to -win regular season title 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Motivation comes from unlike­ly sources. No. 12 Notre Dame found this out Sunday afternoon in a five-game loss to Pittsburgh (22-4, 11-1). 
The loss (20-30, 30-26, 30-25, 13-30, 15-13) was one that thrust Pittsburgh into a tie with the Irish (22-4, 11-1) for the regular season Big East title, and gave the Panthers the No. 1 seed in this weekend's Big East tournament. 
But there's no doubt about it, the Irish are quite disappointed after a match that saw their offense falter and their play spo­radic. 
It was the first time the Irish lost to the Panthers since 1990, a streak that extended for 15 games before Sunday. 
"I think that we're really down right now," head coach Debbie Brown said. "But if it's not as much motivation as could possi­bly be given to turn it around to come back in the championships ... I don't know of anything else that could be more motivating, really." 
The Irish were unable to sus­tain any momentum in the match which saw the Irish win by the largest margin this sea­son (17 points) in the fourth game, .when they had just one error on 19 attempts, good for a .632 attack percentage. 
"I think it was sporadic play," Brown said. "I think we just did certain things that were unchar­acteristic of our team -we gave up some points that we haven't before." 
The Irish led 7-4 in the final game before the Panthers tied it 8-8 and went on to win the match. 
"I certainly would like to have that match back and have the regular season title, but we just have to bounce back and win the championship tournament," Brown said. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster led the way for the Irish with 21 kills and 10 blocks, and senior setter Kristen Kinder dished out 51 assists to go with a season-high 15 digs. Libero Meg Henican had a career-high 25 digs. 
But the Irish offense wasn't itself at Pittsburgh, as they fin­ished the match hitting only .215, with a .000 hitting per­centage in game three. · 
"I can't really pinpoint it on any one thing," Brown said. "On offense, we struggled a little bit, but I think it was just a lack of us staying at a high level of.play throughout the match." 
The Irish will have to turn things around before this week­end, as they face No. 3 seed Miami in the first round on Saturday. 
"There are a lot of little things that we can work on," Brown said. "So I think that I don't doubt our ability to come back and play at a higher level than we did and that's to take noth­ing away from Pittsburgh; I thought they played very well." 
One positive on the night for the Irish was their blocking. 
They fmished with 22.5 on the match, a season high. Lauren Kelbey and Emily Loomis were both in on eight for the Irish, who were disappointed with the loss. 
NOTRE DAME 2, 
PITTSBURGH 3 
at PITTSBURGH, Pa. 
NOTRE DAME 30 26 25 30 13 
PITISBURGH 20 30 30 13 15 
Notre Dame -Kills 69 (Brewster, Lauren 21), Assists 64 (Kinder, Kristen 51), Digs 65 (Henican, Meg 25), Blocks 38 (Brewster 10), Hitting percentage .215 (Brewster .275), Aces 3 (Loomis, Emily2) 
Pittsburgh -Kills 63 {Hatlestad, Wendy 20), Assists 61 {Macke, lindsey 56), Digs 66 (McGrane. Megan 16). Blocks 31 (Miller, Megan 12), Hitting per­centage .170 (Fechhelm, Abby .500). Aces 6 (Miller 3) 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish open season 1-1 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

Muffet McGraw wanted her team to compete hard against two of the top teams in the coun­try in the WBCA tournament last weekend. 
After beating No. 22 Auburn 77-64 then falling to No. 20 Colorado 67-63 in overtime, Notre Dame did just that to open the season 1-1. 
"I was pleased with our atti­tudes," McGraw said. "I thought we really competed well." 
The Irish opened their season by knocking off the defending WNIT champion Tigers behind Jacqueline Batteast's 27 points on 12-20 shooting. Katy Flecky added 17 points and made all six of her free throws. 
One of the keys to No_tre Dame's victory was stopping Auburn star forward Natasha Brackett. Brackett only scored 14 points on 4-10 shooting. McGraw said the team's zone defense was the key to contain­ing Brackett. 
"We were in a zone all game and did a great job on her the whole game," McGraw said. "We always knew where she was on the court." 
Batteast led Notre Dame's first half charge as she scored 11 points in the first nine minutes to help give the Irish a 36-27 halftime edge. 
Flecky put the game away with a 3-pointer with under five minutes to play to push the game out of reach for Auburn. 
Notre Dame jumped on Colorado from the opening tip and took a 12-0 lead. But the Buffaloes battled back to cut the lead to 37-33 at halftime. 
The Irish lead by three with less than ten seconds left in the game. but Colorado's Veronica Johns-Richardson drilled a , three-pointer as time expired to send the game into overtime. 
In the extra session, the Buffaloes' Emily Waner hit a three-pointer with 12.6 seconds remaining and the Colorado defense held on Notre Dame's next possession to clinch the win and the tournament champi­onship. 
Batteast had 13 points and 10 rebounds and Le'Tania Severe had 14 points, six rebounds and four assists to lead the Irish. 
Notre Dame had several opportunities to finish off the Buffaloes but could not capital­ize. Megan Duffy missed the front end of a one-and-one free throw chance with 19 seconds left in regulation with Notre Dame up three points. Batteast also turned the ball over on the Irish last possession. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Sports Writer 

The women's swimming and diving team continued its win­ning ways despite losing some swimmers to illness with a tri­meet sweep over Bowling Green (0-5) and Louisville (3-6), 188-90 and 189-89, respectively. 
"A lot of us had to sit out because of illness," senior Meghan Perry-Eaton said. "Our swimmers that were healthy just had to make sure that they stepped it up." 
The No. 19 Irish (4-1) domi­nated the meet, taking 15 of 16 events. 
Senior Lisa Garcia (200-yard butterfly, 100-yard butterfly. and 200-yard individual medley) recorded a trio of victories to lead the way for the Irish, while freshmen Katie Carroll (50-yard freestyle and 100-yard freestyle) and Ellen Johnson (1,000-yard freestyle and 200-yard back­stroke) and Perry-Eaton (1-and 3-meter diving) each won a pair of events. 

For Perry-Eaton, the two victo­ries preserved her undefeated record in diving this season. 
"I trained hard this summer and have been focused this sea­son," Perry-Eaton said. "We have a bunch of new divers this year, and we're working well as a team, which is really benefi-
PosJr
/Oft. 
I.T.GURU 
Salary: 
$101000+ 
Ptoducrivity Point 
27WEEKS 
,
preVIous rr£xperfen£e: 
·NoNE 
cia!." 
The men's team dropped two meets but also picked up its first victory of the season as the Irish (1-5) fell to both No. 19 Brigham Young (4-1) and Iowa (5-1), 178­116 and 17 4-119, respectively, yet crushed Louisville (2-11). 223-62, in a quadrangular meet last Friday. 

Freshmen Ted Brown (1,000­yard · freestyle) and Tim Kegelman (100-yard butterfly) and sophomore Patrick Davis (500-yard freestyle) posted over­all victories in the meet. In addi­tion, senior co-captain Matt Obringer and freshman Justin 
At Productivity Point, we take "smart" people, many without computer experience, and put them on the path to becoming an I.T. Guru. 
We have financing options for anyone who wants to 
succeed. '" 

So, to answer all of your questions about how to land 
one ofthe 493,000 Information Technology careers that 
are becoming available over the next 12 months,join us 
for our FREE I.T. CAREER NIGHT this Thursday at 
6:30pm. 

Come and see us at 3840 Edison Lakes Parkway in 
Mishawaka. 
Barber and Alan Carter all qual­ified for the Big East Championships, bumping up Notre Dame's list of qualified swimmers to 15. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


Monday, November I7, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ellis sees court from other side 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associare Spores Ediror 
Mike Hrey almost scheduled his team into an exhibition loss. 
Brey called Notre Dame graduate LaPhonso Ellis and asked him if he would be interested in playing against the Irish when they plaJ.ed the Illinois All-Stars. Ellis thought Brey was just joking around. but Ellis returned Brey's phone call and found out Notre Dame's coach was serious. lie decided to jump at the opportunity. 
"I made the phone call to see how serious [Brey] actual­ly was and obviously he was," Ellis said. "He of course need­ed to check with the Illinois All-Stars and the coaches to see if it was OK with them before he offered. A couple things came together [and I got to play]." 
Ellis was already coming to Notre Dame with his son for a "Dad-Son" weekend to watch the Irish in the exhibition game and the football team play Brigham Young. 
What made Ellis' perfor­mane -18 points on 7 -of-16 shooting, nine rebounds and four assists -even more amazing, was that Friday night was the Notre Dame star's first game since he retired from the NBA in April. 
But he credits his stat line on the abilities of his team­mates, especially their impressive 3-point shooting (15-of-27). 
"It was great. I had great teammates who could pene­trate and shoot the basket­ball. When you are playing with guys who really know how to play the game, it makes everything else easier," Ellis said. "Catching the ball on the inside, looking at guys and they know how to cut and just dropping passes for easy lay-ups. 
"When you are playing with really good players, it makes the game so much easier." 
That combined performance by Ellis and the rest of the Illinois All-Stars gave Brey some thoughts as this game stayed close the entire night. 
As Torrian Jones toed the free throw line with 1.4 sec­onds remaining and his team needing two free throws to send the game into overtime, Brey was formulating ways to turn an exhibition loss, a loss he would have been responsi­ble for, into something good during practice this week. 
"I was thinking as [Torrian] was going back for his second free throw. 'We can turn this into something over the next week,"' Brey said. "To have him hit those free throws and have the will to finish the game I thought was good. I wanted to add LaPhonso and then when he was spinning and shooting Uumpers] and passing, I'm thinking, 'Uh-oh, way to go, coach."' 
Ellis has scrimmaged with the Irish on football weekends and has good relationships with most of the team. 
The one player who Ellis especially takes a liking to is forward Torin Francis. With Ellis and Francis both being low-post players. Ellis has a good feel for the Irish sopho­more and sees a player who is dose to becoming dominant. 
"He has a great upside potential. With Torin, he rebounds the ball very well. He is strong qown there. If there is one thing I have to encourage him with is to real­ly take his time down there and to realize he is pretty close to unstoppable," Ellis said. 
"He is awfully tough down there and I love the confi­dence that he is playing with. The thing I love so much about him is that last year, he progressed and got better and better, culminating with his great performance through­out the NCAA Tournament. I just have a lot of affection for 

Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574-272-7376 

all of those guys, but particu­larly Torin, because when you've had a year like that and end the way he ended there is a bit of pressure that comes from the outside. 
"He worked really hard this summer, he looks in great shape, and I think he is going to have a great year." 
Eleven years after playing his last game with the Irish, Ellis suited up against his for­mer team in a place where he spent four years exciting Notre Dame fans. 
Friday night, even though some of the details are differ­ent, the trip back for Ellis was well worth it. 
"Although the environment isn't the same, the JACC has­n't changed. I love playing in here. The energy is a little different," Ellis said. "Obviously the cast of charac­ters on the side is a little dif­ferent and the uniforms ·are different, I can't say it was unusual. 
"There were enough things that were different that didn't make it unusual but enjoy­able." 
Contact Matt Lozar mlozar@nd.edu 
~'12l~~ 
onlyats ~~ 
Sminute ~ 
from CIUTPCIST 
Camnus i•lo]if'
1' Cold Wuther Expert• 

Cal1259·2ooo for more details 

3-pointers 
continued from page 24 
number of perfect passes. 
With both teams scorching from 3-point land, the game was at a very high pace during the first half. The Irish made nine 3-pointers while the Illinois All-Stars hit eight. 
But for the Irish, their leading long distance shooter in the first half was a very unlikely source -forward Jordan Cornette. The junior, after sitting out the team's exhibition opener against Hoop Group because of a knee injury, made four of his five first half 3-point attempts, including scoring nine straight Notre Dame points at one point in the contest. He finished the first half with 18 points. 
"I was feeling it. The rim looked two times the size than it usually is .to be honest," Cornette said. "I was just feeling confident about my shot. I know what I'm capable of and I was able to show it tonight." 
While Cornette assumed a new role in the frrst half. it was Torrian Jones' turn in the sec­ond half. Jones became more active on the offensive end, drove to the hole aggressively and got to the rim easily on sev­eral drives. 
"I felt the flow of the game. I thought I needed to make some plays. I was patient and stuff came to me," Jones said. "I knew it was a mis!llatch. The guy that was guarding me is a great player, but he wasn't a guy that knew how to move his feet. I exploited that mismatch and I was able to get to the bas­ket and make some tough shots." 
The Irish needed Jones the most down the stretch. He was pushed underneath the basket with 1.4 seconds remaining in the second half and stepped to the free throw line with the Irish down 85-83. 
The first one hit the front of the rim and bounced in. After a time-out by the Illinois All-Stars, the second one was a perfect swish and the game went into overtime. 

In the extra session, Thomas put the Illinois All-Stars away, fittingly hitting two 3-point bas­kets to extend an 87-85 Notre Dame lead to a 95-88 advantage during a quick 8-2 Irish run. 
All those pressure-packed sit­uations, getting contributiol'ls from players other than the usual scorers, making free throws to keep the game going and making big shots down the stretch, should only the help the Irish later this year. 
"For us to have to make deci­sions in an overtime game, make free throws and then come into overtime and make plays, I just hope you grow up and get a little more confident before you start playing, espe­cially on your home floor," Brey said. 
Forward Torin Francis fin­ished with 14 points and 22 rebounds. Guard Chris Quinn was 4-of-4 on 3-pointers and had 19 points. Thomas also had nine assists. 
The difference in the game came at the free throw line as the Irish hit 11-of-15 while the Illinois All-Stars were 5-of-20, including 0-for-7 in the second half. 
Friday night's biggest disap­pointment was Notre Dame's play on defense. Coming into the game, Brey and the players talked about improving the effort on team defense. 
That improvement didn't seem to occur, as the Illinois All­Stars came out and made a ton of shots early in the game, mak­ing Friday night the second straight night where Notre Dame's opponent came out and scored easily early in the game. 
That defensive effort is some­thing the Irish feel they need to stop -right now. 
"Northern Illinois will blow us out if we play defense like this, if we try to outshoot them. We aren't going to have a shooting night like this every night," Thomas said. "We can't always rely on offense like we did tonight." 
Contact Matt Lozar mlozar@nd.edu 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 17-24, 2003 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hare Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 

Monday, November 17, 2003 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'5 SOCCER 

Irish Big East victory not just a trophy 
Winning the conference means nothing. 
Hang around college sports and you will hear such criti­cism more often than you should. 
And it is a fact that a conference championship between two highly ranked teams often has little to no signifi­cance in the grand scheme of things -just another piece of information for next season's stat book. 

That was not the case, how­ever, in the Big East champi­onship game between Notre Dame and St. John's Sunday. 
In fact, the belief that a con­ference championship means nothing only spawns from March Madness fans and ana­lysts who want to see the Cinderella story, the below .500 seven-seed defeating the one­seed in the final game to collect an automatic NCAA tourna­ment bid. 
Notre Dame and St. John's had already clinched a berth to the NCAA's before Friday, so why did it matter who won the conference? 
Well, following a 1-0 victory over Providence Friday night, Irish captain Greg Martin was asked who he would rather play in the final, Rutgers or St. John's-both teams beat Notre Dame by three goals in their matches this season. 
"Either one would be great, because they both got us earli­er, but I think we'd like to play Saint John's," senior captain Greg Martin said. 
"They've got the four-seed national ranking and we've got the five. It'd be nice to be No. 1 [in the Big East], and we really want to take home the hard­ware this weekend, but it'd be nice to have a shot at St. John's and prove who the real number four seed is." 
And there it was. By winning Sunday, Notre Dame would put themselves closer to achieving that fourth-seed national rank­ing, which would in turn give the Irish a bye in the first round of the NCAA's and home field advantage until the Final Four. 

Pat Leonard 
Sports 
Writer 

Kevin Richards helped Notre Dame's cause with his first goal since Oct. 8, 2000. 
Does Notre Dame absolutely need to play on the friendly confines of Alumni Field to advance in the NCAA tourna­ment? Not the way the team is playing right now, giving up no goals in the entire Big East tournament. 
But the Big East champi­onship means even more this year because of the strength of the conference. 
The Big East is one of the best all-around conferences in the nation. Big East teams are a commanding 53-31-12 versus other conferences, a record that shows the depth of the conference and not just the quality of its top teams. 
Seven Big East teams are in the top eight of their respective regions. Notre Dame holds first in the Great Lakes region, and St. John's is number one in New York. Connecticut sits at third in all of New England. Rutgers (3), Seton Hall (5) and Villanova (8) are scattered among the top teams in the Middle-Atlantic region, and Virginia Tech -a cellar­dweller for many years -is now fifth in the South Atlantic. 
Though Notre Dame and St. John's were the only two teams in the top 25 as of Nov. 10, Virginia Tech, Rutgers and Connecticut all received votes."The great thing about our league is the Big East is a tremendous conference, top to bottom," coach Bobby Clark said. 
"Some of the teams that used to be weaker have improved. The classic is Virginia Tech, who has come up from being a cellar team to being one of the top teams. Providence has done well, and Villanova is another team that has had a tremen­dous season. 
In the Big East you cannot take any team for granted." 
Strength of schedule and a huge effort in Connecticut this weekend have the men excited about their achievements and prepared, especially if they do get the No.4 seed, to make a serious run at the national championship. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu. 
Victory 
continued from page 24 
"A lot of times at the end of the game they're throwing everyone forward," Riley said. "They're the times you can really ice games." 
Notre Dame recorded its 13th shutout of the season and its third of the tournament, outscor­ing opponents 4-0 at Big East tournament. 
Senior defender Kevin Richards scored Notre Dame's first goal. His second career goal came at the 77:59 mark to break a scoreless tie. 
Senior forward Devon Prescod hit Richards on a sideline run from 50 yards out and Richards split two defenders at the 18­yard line before hitting a shot far side. One of four assistant cap­tains, Richards had not scored since a 3-1 loss to Providence on Oct. 8, 2000. 
"In the first half I hadn't really tried to take the left back one­on-one. I was just crossing balls," Richards said. "I got the pass, and the defender was shading me down the line, so I cut it back inside and found myself right behind the defense. So I settled myself and tried to hit the back post." 
Richards is even more of an unlikely hero for a team whose top three scorers -Detter (12), Prescod (11) and Martin (5) ­have accounted for 28 of the team's 33 goals this season. 
"(Prescod] predicted that someone who hadn't scored in a while was going to score today," Richards said. "I guess it was 
me." 
Goaltender Chris Sawyer, named Big East goaltender of the year, made four saves in the game. Notre Dame is now 2-8-2 against St. John's all-time. 
The Irish earned the right to compete in the title game by defeating Providence, 1-0, on a blistering cold Friday evening. 
Forward Justin Detter flicked home a Kevin Goldthwaite free kick at the 68:13 mark in the second half, a.nd the Irish held on despite late surges from the desperate Friars in the first tour­nament meeting of the two squads. 
Providence (6-9-3, 4-5-1 Big East), the only team in the Big East tournament not ranked in the top 10 in its respective region, needed to win the whole tournament in order to reach the 

CUTPCST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 



NCAA's with an automatic bid. 
But Notre Dame would not relent after the first goal, staying in the Providence end of the field and applying pressure. 
"Notre Dame soccer is never going to sink in and play defense," captain Greg Martin said. "We're good when we're proactive defensively. We call it stepping. What the Boss [Irish head coach Bobby Clark] says and what I tell the boys after we score is 'five minutes hard.' After you score you want to hold onto the ball because lots of times in soccer, goals follow goals." 
Notre Dame out shot Providence 16-10 as seven dif­ferent Irish players had legiti­mate scoring chances, shots either saved or shot wide. 
After inching by Providence, Notre Dame opened the first half of the fmal game by out-shooting St. John's 7-5 in the first half. The Red Storm, however, had the best chances. Less than five minutes in, a timely offsides call saved the Irish from surrender­ing a penalty kick. 
Notre Dame repeatedly dumped the ball deep into the St. John's end in an attempt to slow the Red Storm tempo. 
But St. John's came right back,· peppering Notre Dame goal­tender Chris Sawyer. Sawyer saved a hard shot from Georgios Spanos at the 31:20 mark from 20 yards out. 
Notre Dame responded with a threat of its own. Justin Detter, who scored the lone Irish goal in the semifinal victory, juked left and hit a shot that St. John's goaltender Bill Gaudette cor­ralled at the 25:40 mark. 
Both goalies were solid, but Sawyer would soon prove why he was named Big East goal­tender of the year. 
With 18:30 remaining, St. John's midfielder Simone Salinno made a soft drop pass to mid­fielder Angel Rodriguez. Rodriguez drilled a rocket from 22 yards out that seemed des­tined for the back of the net. 
An alert Sawyer leapt to his left and seemed to never stop sailing until he landed on the ground with the ball between his arms. 
The half would end 0-0. 
St. John's played the Big East semifinal and final games with­out All-American defender Chris Wingert, who was playing on the 
U.S. Under-23 team in a pair of Olympic qualifying matches. 
St. John's reached the champi­onship game by beating Rutgers in penalty kicks, 4-3, after end­ing overtime in a 1-1 tie. Red Storm leading scorer Simone Salinno drilled home his penalty shot to ice it after back up goal­tender Guy Hertz made a diving save. It was the second match of the tournament decided on penalty kicks. The first came in a Providence upset win over No. 2 seed Virginia Tech in the quar­terfmals. 
Notes 
Notre Dame had eight play­ers named to an All-Big East team this season: 
All-Big East first team ­Justin Detter, F, senior; Jack Stewart, D, junior; Chris Sawyer, G, junior 
All Big East second team ­Kevin Goldthwaite, D. junior; Chad Riley, MID, senior 
All Big East third team -Greg Martin, MID, senior; Devon Prescod, F. senior; Kevin Richards, D, senior 
Goalkeeper of the year: Chris Sawyer, senior 
The team closest to Notre Dame is St. John's with six All­Big East players, including five first-team selections. 
Detter was named the most outstanding offensive performer of the Big East Tournament. Sawyer was namedmost out­standing defensive performer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 


TWO MEN ANDA TRUCK 
4iv1overs Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
•Commercial  • Boxes & Packing Supplies  
• Pocking Service  • Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57'1) 675-9700 
www.hvomeoondatruck.com 
Visit Our Box Store! 
11590 McKinley, SuiteD • Osceola, IN 46561 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 17 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Loss does not take away from remarkable season 

Whether we like it or not, sometimes in life things are just not meant to be. This seemed to be the case for the women's soc­cer team in their game against 
Michig~n.  Andy  
Despitedominating  Troeger  
play through­out. the Irish  Sports Writer  
fell when  
Michigan was  

able to connect on their only·· 
shot on goal. The Irish valiantly 
tried to find the equalizer, but 
time after time were denied by 
the Michigan defense. 
Unlike the first game between the two teams. the Irish played reasonably well this weekend. Despite a continuous strain of injuries, the Irish dominated Loyola on Friday night. and cer­tainly played well enough to pick up the win on Sunday against Michigan. But it was not meant to be. 
"It's frustrating to me because we had some things lined up to make a good run at this," said Irish coach Handy Waldrum. "I thought we played well enough Friday and I thought we played well enough today. I felt like sta­tistically in every category we were all over them. It's not that we played poorly today, we just didn't finish our opportunities." 
Through it all. however. it was easy to see that this was not meant to be Notre Dame's day. The Michigan goal came on a play when Stephanie Chavez scored despite being surrounded by Notre Dame defenders. · Somehow the ball found the net. which was something the Irish were unable to accomplish. The ball bounced around the Michigan goal four or five times on the day, but each time the ball eventually bounced away. The lrL<>h and their fans also quickly became frustrated with the game referees, to the tune of five yellow cards, most of which came in the second half as the Irish tried to come back. 
It was an especially tough way to go out for the Irish seniors. Melissa Tancredi, who has a year of eligibility left due to an injury her freshman year, need­ed an IV in the morning just to play because of the flu. She came in for the second half only, playing forward for only the sec­ond time all sea;;on. Senior Amy Warner gave the Irish about twenty minutes of time in the second half, gutting it out despite a limp due to her sprained ankle. 
Despite the disappointing end, the loss does end what was another remarkable season for the program. After only finishing 13-8last season, the Irish domi­nated their way to an 18-0-1 start despite playing all season without preseason Big-East defensive player of the year Candace Chapman or midfielder Handi Scheller. The team defeat­ed perennial power Santa Clara at mid-season and shut out all nine Big East teams that they played over the course of the regular season. For much of the year the Irish were ranked in the top four in both goals scored and goals allowed. ranking right with North Carolina in both statistics. 
Waldrum made no excuses for the team after the game, despite being obviously frustrated con­sidering the effort given by his team. For the Irish this year, it just wasn't meant to be. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at troeger.4@nd.edu. 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
the game. but were never able to find the net. Freshman goal­keeper Megan Tuura managed to stymie the Irish for the sec­ond time this season, and the Irish were shut out for only the second time all season. 
"Beating them the first time was a huge confidence boost," said Michigan coach Debbie Hademacher. "We knew that we could come in not being hesitant and not be intimidated and just do the same thing we did before." 
For the Irish. the loss was especially disappointing because of the way the game was played and the missed opportunities that plagued the Irish during the game. 
"I'm disappointed for our kids," said Irish coach Handy Waldrum. "I hate to say it because this is twice that they've beaten us. but I thought we were the better team. If you're in this game long enough, some­times the ball kind of bounces that way. They jumped on their chance." 
Notre Dame had six shots on goal and Michigan only had one. and had eight corner kicks to only one for the Wolverines. 
"We had enough chances to win," Waldrum said. "We just didn't get it done." 
The team suffered from the injuries that have hampered them for the last few weeks. Starters Mary Boland, Amy Warner, Melissa Tancredi and Amanda Guertin all played fewer minutes than usual because of various injuries. 
"That's not the excuse," said Waldrum. "That's not the reason we lost." 
The game was very physical throughout. with the Irish being called for 20 fouls, including four yellow cards. The Irish seemed frustrated throughout as their chances slipped away. 

"They pack things in and play real ugly, ... said Waldrum of Michigan. "They're solid defen­sively, they've got a good goal­keeper and they are a tough team to break down. I wouldn't trade any of our players for what they have, but they're very organized." 
Despite missing many of their regular players. the Irish domi­nated play in the first half, but were unable to score. 
"We walked into halftime relieved," Hademacher said. "They put us under pressure and I thought we needed to do a little better defending out of our half." 
The Michigan goal came early in the second half, as they man­aged to force a corner kick six minutes in. Vince lofted the service into the box and Chavez was able to get the ball through and into the goal despite being surrounded by the Irish defense. 
"She got the same goal in the first game ofT the corner kick," Hademacher said. "We knew if we just had numbers in there and the ball was bouncing around that she could put it in the goal for us." 
The Irish and Wolverines got to the second round in different ways. The Irish blanked Loyola 5-0 as Jen Buczkowski scored two goals and Christie Shaner. Kim Carpenter and Jill Krivacek all added goals. Michigan escaped a few late challenges from Oakland to win 1-0. 
The Irish ended the season 20-3-1. Michigan moves on to the Sweet 16 next weekend. 
NOTRE DAME 0, MICHIGAN 1 at ALUMNI FIELD 

1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  0  0  0  
MICHIGAN  0  1  1  

Scoring Summary ND-none UM-Chavez. Stephanie (6). 51:38 
(Vmce, Robyn) Notre Dame -Saves 0 (Bohn 0), Shots 
13. Corner kicks 7, Fouls 20 
Michigan -Saves 6 (Tuura, Megan 6). Shots 1, Corner kicks 1, Fouls 12 
Contact Andy Troeger at troeger.4@nd.edu. 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
both teams came up big defen­sively on numerous occasions, often making it a struggle for each respective offense to move the 20 yards required for a first down. 
"It was more of a defensive struggle than we expected," Heath said. "We would've thought the offense would've put up more points or at least moved the ball a little better." 
Badin grabbed the lead mid­way through the first half as Heath and Zachry took control on alternating plays in order to move the ball down the field. 
After strong defensive pres­sure knocked the ball away the first couple of times. Zachry finally connected in the end zone with wide receiver Laura Huarte on third-and-15. 

The first extra point was called back due to holding on the offense, but Heath was able to complete her pass to Jenn Carter on the second attempt. 
The Bullfrogs entered halftime up 7-0. happy to have put points on the board in the first half. 
As quarterback Erin Nasrallah scrambled for first downs and found open receivers, the Chicks seemed poised to make a come­back for the second game in a row. 
Lewis wide receiver Mimi Lundgren made the touchdown catch, but the Chicks failed to capitalize on the extra-point moments later. 
Lewis' efforts seemed to be too little, too late, as Badin held them on the Chicks' next drive as the clock was winding down. 
Badin credited its victory to the efl'orts and positive attitudes of everyone on the team, in addition to the great dorm sup­port they received and the expertise of their knowledgeable coaches. 
"We have really experienced, dedicated coaches. They were just as focused as we were on making it to the Stadium and winning," Wind said of defensive coach Anthony Pilcher and offensive coaches Kortney Hall and Dan Norton. 

Badin was happy to redeem themselves after losing a simi­larly close game to Lewis the first game of the season. 
"We wanted that rematch from the very beginning. We were very glad to have another shot at them," Heath said. 
"We proved we're a little dorm with a big heart," Wind said. 
Siegfried 13, Dillon 0 
Siegfried quarterback Bill Bingle had been here before -­a strong defensive opponent, emotions running high and a chance to win the interhall championship. The outcome was equally familiar to him. 
Siegfried won its second straight interhall championship with a convincing 13-0 shutout of top-seeded Dillon. 
Dillon's undefeated run this season came to a screeching halt as Siegfried's offense out­matched a resilient Dillon defense that had given up only 17 points all season. 

Siegfried's offense was lead by Bingle, who was 8-of-12 passing on the day with two touch­downs. A 35-yard touchdown reception by John Kaup and another touchdown catch by Marques Bolden gave Siegfried a quick 13-0 lead going into halftime after the Hamblers failed on an extra point. 
Both touchdowns were scored following costly Dillon turnovers. A fumble on a punt snap and another fumble on a rushing play gave Siegfried excellent field position inside Dillon territory. 
"We jumped on a few early turnovers by Dillon and were able to hold that momentum the rest of the game," Bingle said. 
The final blow came after Dillon mounted a 60-yard drive down the field only to come up empty after failing to score on four straight plays from Siegfried's 13-yard line. The drive took the entire length of the third quarter and put Dillon at the mercy of the clock the rest of the game. 
This was Siegfried's third straight appearance in the 
"The human spirit i$ $i:J gr~~t a thing that QUOTES & FACTS no matrcan eMpress lt;could we rightly comprehend the mind of man, nothing
The Nanovic Institute 

would be impossible to us upon the earth." 
for European Studies 

-Philip1.1s A. Pfzract.lsus (149J..l'541), German phy,~idan
www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
and tlwmisl 

championship game and their added experience dictated their attitude going into the game. 
His team's quarterback agreed, coming through in the clutch to help Siegfried repeat as champions. 
"We knew what to expect coming into the game and we had faith that our offense could get the job done," Bingle said. 
Even though Dillon had the higher playoff seed and Siegfried had the experience advantage, both teams matched each other in emotional intensi­ty. 
At halftime. a marshmallow war erupted between the Dillon fans while Siegfried fielded their own marching band. 
With a second interhall foot­ball championship title, Siegfried has lived up to the high expectations the team places on itself. 
"We want to establish a tradi­tion of Siegfried being dominant in interhall athletics," Torgenson said. 
Contact Annie Bruskv and Steve Coyer at abrusky@nd.edu and scoyer@nd.edu 


Monday, November 17, 2003 

page 22 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
,_: •.• pare• ,_ · · ......· opinions with others. explore what matters at pwG-.com/Jookhere.. 

Monday, November 17, 2003 
SCHOOL DAZE 
FIVES 
Guide, help me. kide Ollf" toocl. l 


Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and· mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
~· ­

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer+ TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN 


BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
1-tt.\\o liOfl! Oe•r ~~ 

Your p-try is Be"wse ~'1 p.r~ e""Pt'f-we\I we'll 
lU"f. G.....tl't~ jttl-0 ~11oM 
~"'"' "-"e +o

-*'i' w~~lce...t. ~ir +t-~\ 
I 
WILLSHORTZ 

62 Worker with a ledger 64 Pastrami purveyor 65 Almost any doc­wop song, e.g. ~>n~-+--+--t-+-­88 Between ports 671n_ (together) 88 Like much hip· hop lingo 69 Relative of a sea gull 
DOWN 1 Old Egyptian 
crosses 2 Hawaiian island 3 Pickling liquid 4 Confronts boldly lrr-+--+--+­
5 Variety 8 Almost perfect rating 7 Without juice, as an electrical 
wire 8 Cut into 9 Cockeyed 
10 Poison in classic mysleries 
11 Certain dive 
12 Chills and fever 
13 Commies 
16 Friends and 
neighbors 
24 Inert gas 
26 Run_(go 
wild) 28 Gambler's marker 29 Snake charmer's snake 31 Israeli airline 
32 Complete 39 In _ straits 52 Expire colleclions 
40 Novelist 53 Mideast V.I.P. 33 Chicago locale, Deighton 54 Popular food with "the" 43 Heredity-related wrap 34 Surrounding 45 "It's on mel" 
55 Pea holders glow 47 Leisurely walk 
56 Follow orders 35 Oven for making 48 Neap, e.g. 
sa Musical finalebuilding blocks 
50 University of 
51 Related
37 Subtraction from New Mexico a bank account athletes 83 Beer barrel 
For answers, call 1-900-420-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year}. Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network. nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State ______ Zip_________ 

page 23 

JUMBLE 
JmJIOO&Ihill 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
TELIT 
j
(] ( () 
02003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l~fftxJ 
tTARIBB 
J [J I [J
www.jumble.com
tYAUBET t
IJ I J I 

A:A[ I I I I I J[ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: LYRIC KHAKI WEDGED AVOWAL Answer: What the pitcher did when he couldn't throw a strike-"WALKED" AWAY 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIE.<; HORN ON TH1'i DAY: Danny DeVito, Martin Scooiese, Lauren Hutton, Tom Seaver 
-

ltappy Birthday: Uncertainties might cloud your vision this year, hut ifyou take a lew steps back and view the big picture, everything will become quite clear. You can make your moves a~ long as you plan Clii'Cfully <md should be m;sured tlmt you have tl1e wherewithal to follow up on whatever plans you put into motion. This is a year to move forward, so don't till! into the "poor me" syndrome. Your number.;: 5, 14, 22, 31, 40, 49 
AIUES (Man:h 21-Apri119): Rom<mcc is likely to flourish. Partnerships will make you happy, provided that you don't ovencact to the advances nmd~. Your outgoing nature will bring you popularity. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Opportunities will be evioc'!lt; however, co-worl\cr.; will be jealous ofyour achievement~. Don't jump to conciLL~ions or be too quick to r\.'!:lliate. Enlist the aid ofthose you trust *** GEMINI (May 21-,June 20): Sudden mmantic infatuation~ may take you by swprisc. You C.'lll meet new mates <md eqjoy mental stimulation ifyou join some interesting rurd worthwhile groups.*** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): You will have more people on your domestic scene. lntellex:tual stimulation should be your intent; therefOre, consider playing g:.uncs ofmcnull skill with your friend~. ***** LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): Communicati<m with fiiend~ mrd relatives will prove to be fiuitful. Opportunities tar expanding your knowledge thmugh awareness courses will be conducive to meeting new people. ** VIRGO (Aug. 2J.,."iept 22): Discuss your intentions witl1 superiors. You can make rruyor gains by doing ajob well. Opportunities to change your positi<Hl will irx:rease your inc<HJJC ;md bring you greater self-esteem.**** LIBRA (Sept. 23-01.1. 22): Pleasure uips should be on your agcn!hL Consider getting together with newfound fiiend~. <md romance is ~;ure to follow. Your desire fill' adventure and excitement will be fulfilled. *** SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Your idc:L~ regarding money will be profitable. You should help older family members with their personal finances. Visit 010:;c who have not been well. 
Work quietly m1d behind-the-scenes. *** SAGfiTARIVS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be very intuitive ahout invesuncnt~. Rlllow your gut feelings when dealing with people you don't know very well. Social event~ will prove to be enlightening. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your ideas to yolU'SCI[ Do the ncccss;.uy gruundworl\ and prepare to present your work Be aware tluu someone may he !lying to w1dennine you. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You C<Ul gain valuable knowledge through the comp<my you keep. Your populmity will gmw <md people in a position ofauthority wi lll1elp you get what you want. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Your ideas concerning your career will be tirvonlble. You can make pm!cssimal changes. Visit lricnds who can't get out very ollen. Consioc'f making alterntions to your horne. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are areal little dot.>r. Your cnthLL~ia~m <md in,ight will c:U11 you the respect that you require in order to feel satisfied. Your ability to be original <md yet to the point will lead you down pathways that me sure to bring you the rcsult~ that you're searching for. You are detem1ined anu c:1111est and you don't wa~te time. 
Visit Eugenia on the Web a1 Wll~v.euxenialtL~t.conL 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
First, pay attention to the dealer's face card, then ... 
II 
i7 
HE: TOOK BL-ACK­JACK L-E:550N5 TO BE=COME:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Jessica of "Dark Angel" 5 Calcutta's home 10 Partially open 14 Drug agent 
15 Banks have them on property 
18 Fury 17 Bit of whatnot 
19 Gulf war missile 20 Vietnam's capital 21 Singer Adams 22 Squeezes (out) 23 Nap in Oaxaca 
25 Ritzy 
27 Again and then once again 30 Explosive devices 33 Places for experiments 38 Moo_gai pan 
37 Easily managed 38 "Days of_ Lives" 
39 Certain ranch name ... or this puzzle's theme 
41 Blubber 42 Where the X-axis meets theY-axis «One of Gen. Lee's men 45 Sitcom diner 
461ndiana basketballer 47 Soundness of mind 49 Prepared to be knighted 51 Knight, dame, etc. 55_funat (ridicule) 57 Killer whale 60 Pulitzer Prize category 81 Final notice 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, November 17, 2003 
Page 24 
SOCCER 

Triumph and tragedy 
No. 5 men win Big East Championship and earn home field 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

STORRS, CONN.-Chad Riley sprinted past St. John's goal­tender Guy Hertz at midfield. Riley had the ball, the net and 50 yards in front of him. 
.... "I was thinking, 'Just don't kick it over the goal,"' Riley See Also said with a
smile on his "Big East victory face. not just a He raised 
trophy"
his arms high, 

page 20
drilled home a shot from point blank range, and with that emphatic blast the. No. 3 Notre Dame men's soccer team secured 
• a 2-0 victory over top-seeded St.
... 
John's at Joseph J. Morrone Stadium Friday night for the Big East title. 
St. John's (14-5-1, 8-2-0) was pressing with all 11 men in a desperate attempt to tie the game. Riley's goal with 18 sec­onds remaining removed any doubt that the Irish (15-3-3, 6-3­
...: 
1 Big East) were champions. CHIP MARKSfThe Observer 
Greg Martin heads downfield against Akron see VICTORY/page 20 defenders. 

No.3 women lose to Wolverines in stunning second-round exit 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
For the second time this sea­son, the Michigan women's soc­cer team was able to come in to Alumni Field and knock off the Fighting Irish. The stakes were higher this time around, as the loss came in second­
See Also
round 
NCAA "Loss does not 
Tournament 
take away from
action at 
Alumni remarkable 
Field, effec­
season"
tively end-­
page 21
ing Notre 
Dame's sea­
son. 
Just as they did in the first matchup, Michigan capitalized on their only corner kick oppor­tunity and only shot on goal of the game, scoring early in the second half on a goal by Stephanie Chavez. Robyn Vince got the assist on the play. 
The Irish dominated much of the game, but were never able to 
fmd the net. Freshman goal-

CHIP MARKSfThe Observer 
Jen Buczkowski tries to pass a Michigan defender. see LOSS/ page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

3-pointers carry Irish in 97-88 win 
-
By MATT LOZA~ Associate Sports Ediror -· 

The Irish got a mid-season test in the middle of November. 
In their second and last exhi­bition game, 

Notre Dame pulled out a 97-88 over- See Also "Ellis sees the  
time win over  court from other  
a hot-shootingIllinois All­ ·  side"  
Stars team at  page 19  
the Joyce  
Center Friday  
night.  

Guard Chris Thomas led all scorers with 26 points, including 6-of-14 shooting on 3-pointers. As a team, the Irish shot 14-of­28 from behind the arc. 
All of those long-range shots were necessary as the Illinois All-Starts were even hotter on their 3-pointers, shooting 15-of­27. 
"I thought we challenged a lot 
of those shots and they were 
really deep shots, not great 
shots," Irish head coach Mike 
Brey said. "And you are saying, 
'Are they ever gonna miss?' 
They really didn't and thank 
God we didn't either." 
The Illinois All-Stars featured 
a number of older players, 
highlighted by Notre Dame great LaPhonso Ellis. The for­mer NBA player had 18 points and nine rebounds but really put 
see 3-POINTERS/page 19 
INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

Badin upsets Lewis by one point 
Siegfried earns 2nd consecutive title 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
All that separated the finest of women's interhall football Sunday afternoon was one extra-point conversion. 
A single point dashed Lewis' dreams of a championship, for many, four years in the making, as well as their hopes of an unblemished season. 
But, then again, a single point also propelled Badin into inter­hall history as the smallest girls dorm on campus took home their first football champi­onship with a 7-6 victory in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We're very excited. There aren't even words to describe "This was our first time in the it," said Steph Heath, one of Stadium and we were fortunate Badin's quarterbacks. enough to come out with a vic­


"It's even more exciting in the tory." fact that it was such a team It was a physical battle and effort," said Erin Zachry, the other quarterback for Badin. see UPSET/page 21 
en 
VOLLEYBALL 
WOMEN'S HOOPS 
CROSS COUNTRY 
NFL

SWIMMING/DIVING
LLI

1-u Pittsburgh 3, 
z Notre Dame 2 
The Irish women win 

The Irish women
The Irish split a pair 

The unlikely Bengals 
The Colts needed a
a: :3 
regional while men 

swept this weekend
of games against ranked 

handed the Chiefs their 
trick play to pick up a

The Irish lost the regu­
place eighth. 

while the men picked 
first loss of the season. 
win against the Jets. 
teams on the road. 

Jar seaon title to 
c::»: 

up their first win of the 
Pittsburgh. 
year.

a.=: 
page 18 
page 16 
page 14

en 
page 18 
page 17
page 18 






