----------~---------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Kroc estate donates $50 million to ND 
Philanthropist leaves largest single gift in University history to institutefor peace studies 
founder Ray Kroc, specified in to Notre Dame prior to hearing relationship with Notre Daine to of the institute, she did maintainBy MEGHANNE DOWNES her will 'that the money should Hesburgh's make such close relationships with 
News Editor 
be used to strengthen the gradu­speech, previ­a large gift; J-Jesburgh and the institute
"The program will be 
ate program in the Kroc Institute ously made a however. directors.
distinctive because it will
A speech promoting peace for Peace Studies and toward series of gifts to Hesburgh's Kroc's gift parallels the sec­made 18 years ago by then the Institute's strategic plan, establish the bear the marks ofNotre speech pro­ond-largest single gift of $35 University President Theodore Scott Appleby, director of the institute and to pelled Kroc million made by Thomas and
Dame, namely specific 
llcsburgh institute, said. build the to focus her Kathy Mendoza to enhance the
experise in religious and
inspired the "We intend to build a program llesburgh philanthro­academic curriculum of the late Joan that will be a pioneer in the field Institute for cultural dimensions of py in the College of Business Kroc to of peace studies and public poli­International past 15 to Administration, Brown said. 
conflict and a long-term
bequeath $50 cy regarding justice, peace and Studies. She 20 years on The gift will endow the Hev.
commitment to various
million -the human rights issues," Appleby donated a total p e a c e Theodore M. Hesburgh Fund for largest single said. "The program will be dis­of $69.1 million conflict settings. ,, issues and Graduate Peace Studies and fur­gift in Notre tinctive because it will bear the to the h u m an ther the institute's strategic plan. Dame history marks of Notre Dame, namely University. Appleby said the strategic plan
Scott Appleby rights.
-in her will specific expertise in religious University Brown will expand the graduate pro­
Kroc Institute for Peace Studies said though
to the p1~ace and cultural dimensions of con­spokesman gram both in size and to a two­insli tu to she flict and a long-term commit­Dennis Brown director Kroc was year degree, which will incorpo­helped establish and fund. ment to various conflict set­said it was not directly rate a semester of field research 
Kroc, a philanthropist and the tings." unusual for involved widow of McDonald's Corp. Kroc, who had no connection someone who did have a direct with the day-to-day operations see KROC/pagc 6 


Banner aims to boost ND football morale 
talking about what we could do to bring the excitement, the morale, the energy back to where it was before this upset loss," Lennon said. "In his press conference, [Coach Tyrone Willingham] talked about how much his te·am will need a lift from the crowd on Saturday against Florida State ... We talked about hanging sheets from dorms, but we wanted to make a bigger statement by sewing 250 feet together." 
James O'Connor. director of retail operations at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, added that the idea for the banner was con­sistent with Lennon's person­ality and reputation. 
"The project is indicative of Chuck Lennon's energy and spirit," O'Connor said. "He was talking about the atmos­phere on campus with the miserable weather and the 
see BANNER/page 6 
Colleges debate foreign language requirement 
Engineering, business sc~ools discuss concerns about availability of other options 
By WILL PUCKETT News Writer 
The majority of students at Notre Dame spend at least one semester learning a for· eign language. Simple enough -except that a third or more of Notre Dame stu­dents do not have to fulfill a language requirement at all. 
That's because the College of Business and the College of Engineering do not, in gener­al. have a language require­ment. Other undergraduate colleges require their stu­dents to take at least one lan­guage course at Notre Dame, and sometimes as many as three, without even being a language major. 
Adding a requirement for the College of Business has been discussed, said Samuel Gaglio, assistant dean of the College of Business. 
"It's been discussed, but it was a conscious decision not to make [foreign language study) a requirement," Gaglio said. "There's a limit to the number of requirements we can put in place." 
Gaglio also expressed con­
cern that a language require­ment for business students would take away from other opportunities available at the University. 
"We don't want to take away choices, such as double majors, minors and the like." Gaglio said. "We encourage language for those who seek it out, but we want that to be the student's choice." 
Mihir Sen·, professor and director of undergraduate studies for aerospace and mechanical engineering, expressed many of the same concerns as Gaglio. 
"There's too many require­ments for engineering majors, and to add a lan­guage requirement would not fit in the curriculum," Sen said. 
Bill Nichols, associate dean and professor of accountancy in the College of Business, said that he believed conver­sational language should be less emphasized as opposed to learning about what makes a country work. 
"Understanding cultures and the economics is more 
see lANGUAGE/page 6 
SMC w-ill use AED machines 
Devices respond to cardiac arrest crises 
By ANGElA SAOUD News Writer 

Saint Mary's security has added an Automated External Defibrillator machine to its emergency response services in order to more quickly aid people suffering from heart attacks. When a person suf­fers from cardiac arrest, he or she has only a few vital minutes to get help. 
"The only use of an AED machine is to save someone's life," said Mary Pat Leonard, health initiative director for the Fort Wayne American Heart Association. "The AED works as sort of a jumper cable to get the heart pump­ing again." 
The paddles of the AED device are placed on the chest of a cardiac arrest vic­tim by an emergency worker. If the machine does not detect a heartbeat, the pad­dles will charge. After follow­ing the automated voice prompts, a button is depressed and a shock is delivered to the person. This process is repeated until a heartbeat is detected or until medical help arrives. 
"By having this machine on campus, we're cutting down response time to get to the victim," said College Safety Officer Dan Woods. "The first few minutes after someone is down are critical, and any-
sec AED/pagc 4 


By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 

With the Fighting Irish loss column steadily growing and student confidence rapidly shrinking, Alumni Association Executive Director Chuck Lennon decid­ed it was time to unite the campus community behind its football team. 
After a weekend of brain­storming following the team's disheartening loss to Boston College, Lennon and other campus leaders announced their plan, the Notre Dame Spirit Banner project, Tuesday. Intended to boost morale and demonstrate unity, the display will consist of two oversized bedsheets bearing the words "We Are ND" with handwritten mes­sages of encouragement from students and alumni. 
"It started with [University spokesman] Matt Storin and I 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Lovin' 


country 
Most people know what you get when you play country music back­wards: Your wife back, your job back, your truck back and your dog 
back.  
Sure, this is the  
typical stereo- Chris Naldus  
type, and that is  
just what it  
should be.  Assistant  
I am proud to  Graphics Editor  
say that I listen to  
country music all  

the time, and I tune the radio to it because I like to hear about broken hearts, pickup trucks and crossing the county line. Anything else simply would not be country music. 
Sadly, the airwaves the past few years have experienced a severe lack of tears and twang. Even Kid Rock and Sheryl Crow made it to the top of the country charts. Don't get me wrong-"Picture" is a very good song, and there is nothing wrong with music that has more of a pop sound to it. 
However, there is already a genre for music that sounds like pop. It's called pop. Go figure. 
Just by looking at the lyrics of the music played on country radio today, versus seven or eight years ago, it is easy to see the change. 
Back then, Clint Black released songs including "Like the Rain," which has more traditional lines like "Every thunder cloud that came was one more I might not get through." It's depressing, it's kind of corny, it's country. 
More recently, Shania Twain hit the charts with "Up!" which contains the line, "Even my skin is acting weird. I wish that I could grow a beard." Okay, maybe this is an extreme example. After all, Twain has become one of the worst lyricists ever. 
Either way, the point is not that the quality of country music has gone down. What matters is that many of the country songs lately are losing the qualities that make coun­try what it is. 
Rap fans choose to listen to rap because they-happen to like it. Classic rock fans like their music because they enjoy classic rock. Those of us who like country don't turn on the country station because we want to hear pop. 
Once again, liking pop is not wrong. It has its qualities just like all things. It is not my place to say what genre of music is the best, but country at least deserves to stay what it has been: the music of pain. 
I have heard, on more than one occasion, someone say, "Oh, I listen to all kinds of music, except coun­try." While this does hurt me to hear, I can still respect their opinions. 
A lot of people hate country music, and I think it would be a true shame to rob these people of their hatred by disguising country to sound like something more mainstream. 
Contact Chris Naidus at cnaidus@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro inaccurate information provided to The Observa, Tuesday's Irish Insider incorrectly stated that the defensive line did not record a sack in the second half. The defensive line recorded three sacks in the sec­ond half. Due ro a production error, Tuesday's Irish Insider incor­recdy stated that the number of coaches who were unaware of Darrell Campbell's absence in the second halfwas zero. Two coaches -Tyrone Willingham and defensive coordinator Kent Baer-said they didn't know Campbell sat out the second half 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF YOU WON THE $190 MILLION POWERBALL DRAWING? 




Jelanl McEwen  Jourdan Sorrell  Kristina Citl  Kyle Lin  Michael Moore  Miguel Luna  
Junior Siegfried  Senior Siegfried  Freshman Pasquerilla East  Senior Siegfried  Freshman Zahm  Junior Siegfried  
"/ would build a co-ed dorm off-campus that would have it's own shuttle. "  "/ would buy a giant Klondike bar and a pet llama to ride to class."  'Td get a per­sonal trainer to get in shape and then travel to Italy and lay  "/would buy the Playboy Mansion."  "/ would buy a car, buy plenty of "refresh­ments"for Zahm, and  'Td bribe Father Malloy to get rid of parietals. "  

out on the invest the rest · beach all day. " ofmy money." 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
Notre Dame student Katie Szewczyk studies her negatives on a light table In Riley's color processing room on Tuesday evening. 
OFFBEAT 

New Jersey wants more goats 
TRENTON -State agri­cultural officials want to boost the number of goat farmers in the Garden State. 
The effort is being driven in part by a growing demand for goat meat, a red meat that is leaner than beef. While most of the demand comes from Greeks, Mexicans, Asians and other immigrants from countries where goat is popular, experts say it's also gaining popularity in America. 
"Agriculture in the U.S. used to be the farmer pro-
TODAY 

..... 
cr:: 
.9 (.) 


HIGH LOW 
duced the animal the way he wanted it. Now you have to produce the product that the consumer wants," Dan Wunderlich, an agent with Rutgers Cooperative Extension in Sussex County, told The Star-Ledger of Newark for Monday's edi­tions. 
Wunderlich is spearhead­ing the state's goat project. in which New Jersey will use a $31,000 federal grant to encourage more farmers to raise the animals. 
Activists fight lap dance ban LOS ANGELES -Oppo­nents of a city ordinance 
banning lap dancing at strip clubs, bikini bars and adult bookstores are not taking the ban sitting down. 
Activists said Monday they have collected more than 106,000 signatures opposing the "no-touch" rule that would require dancers to remain at least six feet from customers. If 56,941 signatures on the petitions are verified, the City Council can either rescind the proposed ordi­nance or placing a referen­dum on it. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Newsman Mike Wallace will speak today at 9:30 a.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. Preferred seating will be avail­able for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
Princess Emraida Kiram will deliver a lecture titled "Being a Muslim in Christain Philippines." The lecture takes place at 4:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center and is sponsored by the Filipino­American Student Organization. A reception will follow the lecture. 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to the University president, will deliver a lecture titled "Faith" at 
9:15 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Mass and a reception will follow as part of Alumni Hall's Night of Faith. 
Robert Vacca, assistant pro­fessor in the Department of Classics, will present a colloqui­um entitled, "What was Athenian Liberalism?" The Colloquium will take place Thursday at 4 p.m. in 116 DeBartolo. 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids will host a Halloween costume party on Thursday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event is free but participants are encouraged to donate to the club. 
The Glee Club will present their Fall Concert Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Thursday's concert is free. Tickets are available for Friday's concert at the LaFortune Box Office for $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 



72 
50 

HIGH 
65 
LOW 
45 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Coppedge urges stability 
Professor criticizes democratization theories 
By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 
Michael Coppedge, associate professor of political science, present­ed a lecture Tuesday 
entitled "What do we k n o w about dernoc­ratiza­tion and how well do we 


k n o w Coppedge . it?" The lecture highlighted Coppedge's research in the l'ield of conditions promoting stable democ­
racy using case studies and quantitative analysis. Coppedge said the main points of understanding 
democratization arc a theory's "thickness, gen­erality, and integration ... it's difficult to have a theory that hits all three." 
When analyzing democ­ratization, Coppedge said, "[We must] keep limitations in mind so we don't exaggerate the understanding of democ­racy we have right now." 
The presentation included a handout for the audience, detailing different studies regard­ing democracies and variables such as wealth and region. 
Coppedge criticized and analyzed methods fre­quently used to develop theories of democratiza­tion. 
"Frameworks are bet­ter than checklists because they are 
cal knowledge ... and use structuralism as a lens for myopia. They give more weight to structural conditions," Coppedge said. However, "it is a skeletal metatheory ... most works cover differ­ent portions of a set of transitions." 
Coppedge emphasized the importance of good data collection and test­ing. His statistical approach to theory build­
m o r e "[Comparative ing gives selective," added credi­
histories offer] a
Coppedge bility to the
wealth ofhistorical
said. "They work in his put things knowledge ... They field. He together to closed with an
give more weight to
form a explanation of'
structural
more gen­the newest eral theo­conditions." theory of ry." democratiza­
M o r e tion. the 
g e n e r a 1 , Michael Coppedge 
national t h e o r i e s professor Choice Theory. 
can be applied in more circumstances, giv­ing them more credibili­ty, he said. However, "they are not reliable guidance about what (factors] matter, how much or in what combi­nation they matter." 
Comparative histories offer "a wealth of histori-
Coppedge 

earned his Ph.D. from Yale in 1988 and specializes in democ­ratization. quality of democracy, Latin American parties and party systems and Venezuelan politics. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Panelists will exa111ine journalis111 craft, ethics 
Members of the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy will be featured 
Special to the Observer 
"Journalism Ethics: The Craft of 
Credibility" will be the subject of a 
public forum Monday, Nov. 3, at 
Notre Dame. It will begin at 3 p.m. 
in rooms 100-104 of McKenna 
Ilall and is free and open to the 
public. 
Panelists will discuss ethical 
problems that recently have 
occurred in journalism and point 
out potential concerns for news 
gathering and reporting in the 
future. The forum will feature 
members of the advisory commit­
tee of the John W. Gallivan 
Program in Journalism. Ethics & 
Democracy. 
Committee members include 
Tom Bettag, senior executive pro­ducer of ABC News' "Nightline;" Bill Dwyre. sports editor of the Los Angeles Times; John W. Gallivan, former chairman of the board of Kearns-Tribune Corporation and publisher emeri­tus of the Salt Lake City Tribune; Monica Yant Kinney, metro colum­.nist of the Philadelphia Inquirer; 
John McMeel. chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal; Bill Mitchell, online editor/marketing director of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies; Anne Thompson, national correspon­dent for NBC News; Kelley Tuthill. anchor-reporter at WCVB-TV. Boston; and Don Wycliff. public .editor of the Chicago Tribune. 
The committee, which oversees the curriculum and activities of the University's undergraduate concentration in journalism, was formed in 1997 and is composed of Notre Dame graduates involved in various aspects of communica­tions. 
The Gallivan Program was established with a grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation and is now supported with an endowment created by the family of John Gallivan. 
It offers students professional training in journalistic skills along with examination of the social, political, economic and philosoph­ical concerns related to the prac­tice of journalism. 
Write News. Call 1-5323. 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
AED 
continued from page 1 
thing we can do to speed response time can only help." When an AED machine is 
purchased, it is required by law that the people who will be using it under­go training. Last week, security team members underwent a two-session emergency training pro­gram where they were taught CPR, the Heimlich maneuver and 
for use and will be located in one of the secu­rity vehicles on duty for easy accessibility. 
"After the first three minutes of a heart not beating, there is a possibility of losing 10 per­cent of brain function per minute," Leonard said. "It is vitally important that the machine is AED machine on a college campus is important. 

"It's important to have for the students, but also for fac­ulty, staff and family mem­bers that may come to visit or come to a sporting event," Woods said. 
AED machines have been 
"The only use ofan AED machine is to save someone's life. The AED works as sort ofa jumper cable to get the heart pumping again. 
Mary Pat Leonard health Initiative director 
"By having this machine on campus, we're cutting down response time to get to the victim. The first few minutes ... are critical. " 
Dan Woods college safety officer 
implemented at many locations in the communi­ty, as well. The South Bend Airport, various M e ij e r stores and even some parochial, pri­vate and public schools in Mishawaka and South Bend have purchased machines and trained person­nel. 
The AED 
that an AED machine cannot shock someone who has a regular heartbeat," said Leonard. "The machine will only work if it does not detect a heart­beat from the person." 
Security mem­bers said they are excited about the new machine in their department. 
"We hope we never have to use the machine, but 



Box cutters found on flights 
US Airways planes investigated in Boston, Philadelphia 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Box cutters were found on US Airways planes in Boston and Philadelphia on Tuesday, and federal officials said they were investigating how the tools made it on board. 
In Boston, the flight crew found a box cutter on a US Airways Express plane and it was turned over to authori­ties, said Deborah Thompson, spokeswoman for US Airways. 
The flight had arrived from Rockland, Maine, and had no passengers aboard, said Ann Davis, spokeswoman for the 

Transportation Security Administration. The plane was allowed to leave for Syracuse, N.Y. 
In Philadelphia, passengers were evacuated from a plane after the box cutter was found. The bladed tool was found tucked inside a seat­back pouch on a US Airways jet that had arrived from Houston and was about 20 minutes away from a sched­uled departure for Phoenix, Davis said. 
A passenger spotted the box cutter and pointed it out to the crew, Davis said. Authorities were trying to find out whether the blade was left on the aircraft acci­dentally by a worker or smuggled through security by a passenger. 
About 80 passengers were asked to leave the plane and make a second pass through the airport's security screen­ing system before boarding another flight, said Philadelphia International Airport spokesman Mark Pesce. 
US Airways spokesman John Bronson said the case was under investigation. 
Box cutters have been banned from commercial air­line flights since the Sept. 11 attacks.
how to use the AED in an emergency situation. All full­time security officers were trained. 
The AED machine is ready machine, which cost $3,000 including the training sup­plies, is programmed only to help someone in need. 
"It is important to know 


Nan1es removed fron1 WTC lists 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The names of about 40 people listed on the World Trade Center death toll for more than two years are being removed because the city cannot confirm their deaths or even their existence, a city official said Tuesday. 
The city was to announce the change in death toll from 2,792 to about 2,750 on Wednesday. The decision was made by several city agencies, including the medical examin­er's office, the police depart­ment and the mayor's office, said the city official, who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity. 
The names of those reported missing include illegal immi­
grants whose jobs were not well documented and people whose relatives say they were near the trade center on Sept. 11, 2001, but know little more. 
Thousands of names landed on the list in the chaos imme­diately after the attack, when worried callers swamped the city's "missing" hot lines if they had not heard from a friend or relative. 
Missing-person reports poured in from around the world, many from people who gave only sketchy information, partial phone numbers, mis­spelled names and few details. 
The city formed a group called the Reported Missing Committee, charged with weeding out fraud and cross­ing errors off the death list, which peaked at 6,700 two weeks after the attack. 
As of early September 2003, police had made about 40 arrests related to people false­ly claiming they lost loved ones, and law enforcement agencies in other cities have nabbed others. 
In most cases, victims whose remains have not been identi­fied have been legally declared dead by the court and their families issued death certificates based on documents or other proof they were at the trade center or on the hijacked airplanes. 
In the cases expected to be removed, no such proof was ever found and remains were never identified. 
able to get to them quickly to prevent brain damage." 
Spokespeople from both Saint Mary's security and the American Heart Association said they feel that having an 
at least now we are able to help if we ever have to," Woods said. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 



No Annual Fee Credit Cardsl (online convenience for your busy schedule) 
"I n1a.ke. online payments and view my credit card balance all the time! There· s no an­nua] fee and the interest rates are competitive." 
0 



NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDJT UNION You con .bonk em us 
to be bener 574/631-8222 • \VWw.ndfcu.org 
.... 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 CoMPILED FROM Tt!E OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Accounts conflict on Qureia job 
HAMALLAH. West Bank-Yasser Arafat asked Ahmed Qureia on Tuesday to stay on as prime minister and form a new govern­ment, officials said, but their bitter dispute over control of the Palestinian security 'forces remained unresolved. 
Conflicting accounts of Tuesday's meeting of the PLO leadership cast further uncertain­ty over the situation. While two oflicials who attended the meeting said Qureia had accepted Arafat's offer, the prime minister said he had not received a formal invitation. 
Even if Qureia accepts, the lingering dis­agreement over the security forces threat­ened to lead to further confrontation and continued deadlock over a U.S.-backed peace plan that envisions a Palestinian state by 2005. 
Meanwhile, Israelis voted in local elections Tuesday. and early results showed that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's Likud Party took some losses but rebuffed predictions that voters would severely punish Likud can­didates because of Israel's troublesome secu­rity and economic situation. 
Russians killed in Chechnya 
VLADIKAVKAZ. Russia -Eight Russian soldiers were killed in rebel attacks in war­ravaged Chechnya in the past day, an official in the Kremlin-backed Chechen administra­tion said Tuesday. 
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said four servicemen were killed and five wounded in 18 separate rebel attacks on Russian military outposts in the past 24 hours. 1\vo other soldiers died when their jeep was ambushed near the town of Shali. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate revises AIDS medical bill 
WASHINGTON -Senators agreed Tuesday to direct a part of a $15 billion global AIDS bill toward the problems of unsafe medical injections in Africa, potentially one of few mandates from Congress on how the money should be spent. 
No one objected when Sen. Jeff Sessions. H-Ala., proposed amending a foreign aid package being debated to ensure at least $75 million from the AIDS bill, already signed into law, would go toward injections. He had been concerned that health officials wanted to use nearly all the $15 billion for curbing sexual transmission of the disease. 
Witnesses testify in sniper trial 
VIHGINIA BEACH, Va. -Ralph Sheldon heard an explosion, then saw a woman slumped over on a bench, blood pouring from her head. He thought she must have committed suicide, because there was nobody else around. 
"A girl just shot herself," he told a 911 operator in a call from a restaurant nearby. 
Sheldon took the stand Tuesday and the 911 recording was played for the jury at the murder trial of sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad. 
Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo are accused in the sniper attacks that killed 10 people and terrorized the Washington area for three weeks last year. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Letterman immortalized in corn 
CAMBRIDGE CITY-A 675-foot-Iong corn­field maze of David Letterman has attracted so much attention that its owners aren't sure what to do next. 
The maze, which depicts a cartoon-like Letterman striding from an outline of Indiana, is the seventh that Dougherty Orchards has made in the Wayne County field, some 50 miles cast pf Indianapolis. 
Letterman this month featured the maze on his late-night talk show and it also gained a mention in last week's issue of TV Guide. 
Bush vows to alter Iraq tactics 
President faces questions regarding increase of violence in U.S.-occupied Iraq 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Facing a surge in violence, President Bush said Tuesday the United States will change tactics and stiffen defenses in Iraq and will not be intimidated by a wave of suicide bombers intent on discouraging cooperation with the American occupation. 
"We're constantly looking at the enemy and adjust­ing," Bush said. "Iraq is dangerous, and it's danger­ous because terrorists want us to leave, and we're not leaving." 
1\velve months before the presidential election, Bush made a broad defense of his foreign policy during a news conference, saying he will tell Americans during the upcoming campaign that "the world is more peaceful and more free under my leadership and America is more secure." 
A day after bombings in Iraq killed three dozen peo­ple, Bush came to the Rose Garden on a chilly fall morning to announce the United States would set up more blockades and inspections and seek to give Iraqis a bigger role in intel­ligence-gathering to thwart attacks. 
Bush's words appeared did the right thing in a con­was his backdrop on the and we arc also adjusting intended to address criti­troversial case earlier this USS Abraham Lincoln by accelerating the devel­cism -particularly from month in ordering the feed­when he declared an end to opment of an Iraqi police Democratic presidential ing tube of a brain-dam­major combat in Iraq on force and Iraqi military candidates -that the aged woman reinserted. May 1. He said the sign -units, border patrol and White House had failed to + Expressed confidence criticized now amid rising paramilitary organizations anticipate rising violence in that a compromise could be casualties in Iraq -was so that the face of security Iraq and was uncertain reached with an independ­put up by the ship's crew will increasingly be an Iraqi about how to deal with it ent commission investigat­rather than by the White face, not an American and protect American lives. ing the Sept. 11 attacks House staff. A Bush spokes­face." 
Blaming the increase in that would allow its mem­woman later added that the Bush's news conference bloodshed on foreign ter­bers to look at material White House had the sign failed to stop criticism of rorists and Saddam from his daily intelligence made after the crew his Iraq policy. Hussein loyalists, Bush said briefing, which is a classi­requested it. Democratic presidential more troops would be fied national security Secretary of State Colin hopeful Howard Dean said deployed along Iraq's bor­memo. Thomas Kean, the Powell reinforced Bush's Bush "seems content to ders. panel's chairman, has words about new tactics. pursue the current flawed 
Iraq dominated the 48-threatened a subpoena if "In combat operations you plan, unwilling to do what minute news conference, White House documents make adjustments and you is necessary to encourage but Bush also: are not turned over. make changes as circum­our friends and allies to 
+ Ruled out seeking a ban + Said he hasn't started his stances change. And that is assist, incapable of taking on abortion, saying re-election campaign even what we are doing now." the steps necessary to America's culture has not though he's raised more Powell, in an interview expedite the transfer of changed to the extent that than $83 million. with Radio Sawa, the U.S.­sovereignty to the Iraqis such a move would be sup­+ Disavowed any connec­financed broadcast service and content to direct bil­ported. He said his brother, tion to the "Mission to the Arab world, said, lions of dollars to special Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, Accomplished" banner that "Our military is adjusting interests like Halliburton." 

Inferno roars toward Los Angeles 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Firefighters beat back flames on Los Angeles' doorstep Tuesday, saving hundreds of homes in the city's San Fernando Valley. But exhausted crews were pulled back in San Diego County even though two devastating blazes threatened to merge into a super fire. 
"They're so fatigued that despite the fact the fire perimeter might become much larger, we're not will­ing to let the firefighters continue any further," said Rich Hawkins, a 
U.S. Forest Service fire chief. "They are too fatigued from three days of battle." 
Ten thousand firefighters were on the front lines throughout the state, battling California's deadliest wild­fires in more than a decade. 
Since Oct. 21, at least 10 wind­driven wildfires -many of them arson-caused -have rampaged through Southern California, demol­ishing neighborhoods, gutting busi­nesses and blackening more than half a million acres of land from the Mexican border to the Ventura-Los Angeles county line. At least 15 peo­ple have died and nearly 1,600 homes have been destroyed. Two burn victims were in critical condi­tion in San Diego. 
"This may be the worst disaster the state has ever faced and is likely to be the costliest," Gov. Gray Davis said, estimating the cost at nearly $2 billion. He added: "This is a total dis­aster. It reminds me of when I was in Vietnam, communities were burned out." 
Firefighters had feared they would lose hundreds of homes late Monday and early Tuesday as a fire in the hills between Los Angeles and Ventura counties threatened to push into neighborhoods in the densely populated San Fernando Valley, including one gated community of million-dollar mansions. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
and providing courses in strate­Contact Meghanne Downes at gic peace building. mdownesl@nd.edu 
she said 'absolutely, we'll start sewing tomorrow."' 

Banner 
In addition to its presenta­continued from page 1 tion at practice, the completed 
Spirit Banner will be available team's luck being a little bit outside the bookstore on down, and we knew that we Friday morning for additions had to do something to bring from visiting alumni. up the team's spirit, and the "The idea was to extend it best way to do that is to from the internal community to involve people. When the the external." O'Connor said. breaks are getting the best of "That's the beauty of it -if we the boys, people want to step can fill in those letters with in and see what they can do." thousands of signatures, we 
Students will have the can get the entire Notre Dame chance to contribute their mes­family to make this idea quick-sages when the ly progress into a two sheets are reality."
"We have the 

displayed in front The banner will of both dining· opportunity to then be show­halls Thursday. cased on the floor
inspire the team 

Around 6:00 at Friday night's
and to make

p.m., the sheets pep rally, along will be symboli­something with Ruth Riley, cally joined and happen., the 1953 football the band will team and some march through surprise guests,
James O'Connor

campus, followed Lennon said. by student volun­bookstore director Finally, it will teers carrying hang in the locker the signed ban-room on Saturday ner. The procession will con­morning, with the goal of pro­tinue to the practice field viding encouragement to the where it will greet the players players as they run out onto with the fight song when their the field. meetings conclude at 6:30p.m. "We have the opportunity to 
"The band was very support­inspire the team and to make ive. as were the Hall something happen," O'Connor Presidents' council, the book­said. "That would get me going store and the maintenance and if I were in that locker room." laundry departments," Lennon said. "Our first call was to Contact Claire Heininger at Robin Kramer in laundry, and cheining@nd.edu 
A Timely Lecture A 
~G ~('~0 Medical Homeland Defense: ~t~~ Past Demons and Future Threats 
By 

General Michael A. Dunn, M.D. 

N.D. Graduate of 1968 
Commanding General, Western Regional Medical Command and Army's senior medical expert on chemical and biological defense. 

Thursday, October 30, 2003 
~ ~~ 

e~. 7:00PM, 155 DeBartolo Hall ~~ ~~' 
l'l! ~~ ~~ 
0~ Sponsored by the Department of Preprofessional Studies ~<$, ~ and Alpha Epsilon Delta ~ 
International Study Programs 
152 Hurley Uuilding 
T: 631-5882 




Kroc 
continued from page 1 
and a final semester in which lessons learned both in the classroom and the field are inte­grated. 
"Students [currently] don't have the suflicient time to reflect what they are learning, and there is no true research compo­nent in the field," Appleby said. 
The current program has 24 students from 17 different coun­tries, who range in age from their early 20s to late 30s, and consists of an 11-month pro­gram without field research. 
Kroc 's gift will cover the cost of both supervising fieldwork 
"[This will] prepare our stu­dents to work at the governmen­tal, non-governmental and local grass roots levels to resolve con­flicts nonviolently and to provide education for peace and justice," Appleby said. 
Appleby said Kroc's gift will strengthen Notre Dame's peace studies program in comparison to its peer institutions and the improvements in the graduate program will carry over to the undergraduate program. 
Appleby said he hopes the additional faculty hired for the graduate program will also teach undergraduate courses and intends to foster interaction between undergraduate and graduates students within the program. 



Language 
continued from page 1 

important, I think, than hav­ing a conversational com­mand of the language." Nichols said. 
Business students did not seem to believe that a lan­guage requirement was a key issue, either. Senior T.C. Sabatino said that although it was not required, he took a language anyway. 
"I don't know if there should be a requirement, but I took French and Spanish in high school, so I took two years of language in college," Sabatino said. 
Other students didn't feel "I think a language would t h a t help, but t h e r e think it should
"Understanding cultures 
should be be more of an a and the economics is option than a require­requirement."
more important than 
ment, but Heinlein said. 
having a conversational
acknowl­Some College e d g e d command ofthe of Business stu­t h a t dents were
language_.;'
there was opposed entire­value to ly to a language be had in Bill Nichols requirement. learning associate dean "I think it's 
foreign College of Business good the way it I a n -is, and there's guages. no reason to Senior Andrew Heinlein change anything," sopho­expressed this belief, saying more Sean Ryan said. that he thought it would be a good opportunity but not one Contact Will Puckett at that should be required. wpuckett@nd.edu 
i ~ ~ . 
I 
~ 
~ 
! 
' 
RESERVED WEEI<L¥ Q()i.Jftr•TIME 
.. ... . sctieouliiNG MeETING·< . 
:_. ··:·=::=(:::: ..:··:·· 
Any orgarl~~tl9~ ~h!nglorequest 
w::~:e!"!".u:·~ 
Thursdaya ~-30 
~!:.·.·pin 
tVIontgomery Theatre 
You rnust have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will begin Monday. November 3. 
FQr more information, contact Student Activities 6$_1-Q$12. 







INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Gurtler, Director ofthe Jnnsbruck Progrmn 
Thursday, October 30., 2003 214 DEBARTOLO 4:30 P1Vl 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Application Headline: Occember I, 2003
Questions?-·weber.l5@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 764.38 +89.70 
Jones ' 
• Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,305 tss T ,,032,324,992 

NASDAQ 1,933.53 +18.22 NYSE 5,940.75 +43.75 AMEX 1,023.69 +6.63 s&PSOO 1,045.35 +7.29 NIKK£1 (Tokyo) 10,786.04 0.00 FTSE 100 (l.ondon)4,362.30 +51.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +10.14 +0.21 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -3.54-0.13 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.41-0.05 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.22+0.37 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.45-0.13 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR EniD +0.15 +0.08 1 0-YEAR 1\DI'E +0.16 +0.07 5 · YEAR 1\DI'E -0.03 -0.01 3 l'JJNl'H BILL 0.00 0.00 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) OOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Exchange Rates 

YEN EURO 
POOND 
CANADIAN $ 
+0.07 
2.28 
3.54 
12.28 
30.80 
28.78 
51.82 42.55 31.34 8.87 
32.06 
+1. 60 375.70 +1.575 92.175 
109 0.8546 0.6006 
1.323 

IN BRIEF 
High hopes for economic recovery 
NEW YORK -Consumer confidence 
rebounded in October and orders for big-ticket 
items such as cars rose in September, raising 
hopes that the economy may be headed 
toward recovery. 
The news helped send stock prices higher on Wall Street. with the Dow Jones industrials climbing 140 points, its best advance in a month. But economists stopped short of saying that the worst is over. 
"This kind of roller-coaster ride is very com­mon when you're coming out of a recession," said Lynn Franco. director of the consumer research center at the Conference Board, the research organization that measures con­sumer confidence. "I think if we get another month or two of improvement. we'll be on the path toward more sustainable gains in confi­dence." 

Microsoft settles $200M lawsuits 
SEArrLE -Microsoft Corp. agreed to settle class-action antitrust and unfair competition lawsuits brought by customers in five states and the District of Columbia for vouchers worth $200 million. 
The settlements announced Tuesday would end those lawsuits in Kansas, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota and Tennessee, in addition to Washington, D.C. 
The cases involve customers who joined in class actions alleging that Redmond-based Microsoft violated state antitrust laws and laws against unfair competition. 
The Kansas case was settled for $32 million and the District of Columbia case was settled for $6.2 million, said Brad Smith, Microsoft senior vice president and general counsel. Those two settlements had been approved by the courts. 
lie did not give figures on settlements for the other four lawsuits. Those agreements have yet to be approved by the courts. 
In all, Microsoft has now settled similar law­suits in nine states and Washington, D.C., for a total of $1.55 billion. Agreements were announced earlier this year for lawsuits in California, Florida, Montana and West Virginia. 



Crowds swarm Krispy Kreme 
Thousands flock to Mishawaka grand opening of legendary doughnut shop 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

MISHAWAKA -After 
months of anticipation, 
Michiana residents finally 
saw the light. The Krispy 
Kreme "Hot Light," that is. 
The popular doughnut 
chain opened its newest 
store in Mishawaka 
Tuesday morning, and area 
residents came in droves. 
The doors opened at 5:30 a.m., and employees switched on the Hot Lights -neon signs that invite patrons to try "Hot Doughnuts Now." Hundreds of customers braved the chilling rain, arriving long before dawn. Many waited in line for hours. Some, like Billy Aycock, camped out in front of the store for days, hoping to be among the first to sampie the chain's signature Original Glazed doughnuts. 
Aycock, who runs a cus­tom truck business. lived out of his customized SUV for 16 days. The Georgia native hoped to generate publicity for his business, and have a tasty snack in the process. 
"I've always had Krispy Kremes, so I know how good they are," he said. 
Aycock's two-week ordeal apparently fueled his appetite, as he left the store with eight dozen of the 200-calorie treats. 
Though the location is capable of churning out 2,400 doughnuts per hour, employees hustled to keep up with demand. Store manager Jason Horvath said his shop was operat­ing at full capacity. 
"We've even had ship­ments from Ft. Wayne," he said over the din of the excited crowd. "It's been a fantastic opening." 
Beth Eckstrand, a cashier at the store, said she was excited about the first day of business. 
"It's great, it's wild, it's fun," she laughed. 
Mandy Verner, a public relations executive at Villing & Company, a South Bend marketing communi­cations firm. praised Krispy Kreme's storied reputation. 
"It's such an amazing brand... it's truly one of the best companies I've ever worked with." 
In order to boost commu­nity involvement in the store, Verner's firm enlist­ed the help of marketing students at Saint Mary's. Senior Jessica Bland patrolled the parking lot, handing out hot doughnuts to people waiting in line. Even customers in the drive-through lane got a snack while they waited. 
''I'm starting the sugar rush early," she joked. 
Thorn Villing shared the students' enthusiasm. As principal of Villing & Company, he oversaw pub-
Above, machines fry up 2,400 doughnuts per hour. At right, three-year-old Lane Pace enjoys a hot Krispy Kreme.
•

PHOTOS BY 
MATT 

BRAMANTI 
lie relations and marketing initiatives for the new store. He said the public interest in Krispy Kreme reflects the brand's leg­endary appeal. 
"The brand has a mys­tique that, if it's not unique, is very rare," Villing said. "Where else would you have someone camping out for two weeks to be first in line?" 
Customers walked in eager to get a taste of that mystique, and they walked out 
"We've always been big fans, and we came for the excitement of being here when it finally opens," Frushour said. 
The opening comes as Krispy Kreme expands into smaller markets nation­wide. Chuck Pruitte, dis­trict manager for Indiana and Kentucky, said the time was ripe for a location in the area. 
"We've been looking at this area for a couple year~ 
n o w , 
Pruitte said. 
"We feel it's 

eager to going to be
"We came for the 
share it with a very
excitement ofbeing
the world. strong store Caroline here when it finally for us." 
Ladue, a 12-opens. " Although year-old stu­the compa­dent at St. ny, based in 
Paul Frushour
Anthony's in Winston­South Bend, customer Salem, N.C., 
munched on doughnuts with her younger sister Madeline. 
"We get to brag to our friends at school now," Caroline said. 
Mishawaka resident Joe Couch declared his break­fast to be "the best glazed doughnut I've had." 
Denise Sanders drove from Bristol to attend the grand opening. She and her husband Dave discov­ered Krispy Kreme on fam­ily trips to Tennessee. 
South Bend resident Paul Frushour said he brought his family for the dough­nuts and the experience. 
was found­
edin1937, Krispy Kreme's rapid expansion has only come about since the mid 1990s. In 1995, the store opened its first store outside the Southeast U.S., in Indianapolis. A store in New York City followed the next year, and Krispy Kreme began to develop a national following. 
In 1997, Krispy Kreme cemented its place in Americana as the National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C. accepted Krispy Kreme artifacts for display. 
But doughnut lovers 
aren't the only ones who are sweet on Krispy Kreme. The company has become popular on Wall Street as well. In 2000, the company's initial public offering raised $72 million. The following year, another offering generated $174 million, giving Krispy Kreme the cash to expand nationwide and beyond. 
Investors love its rapid growth in stores and rev­enues. Krispy Kreme loca­tions have popped up in 41 states, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Great Britain, and the company plans to open stores in Mexico, Eastern and Western Europe and Asia. 
In fiscal year 2001, Krispy Kremc had sales of $448 million with 144 stores. In 2002, 221 stores brought in $622 million, while in 2003 sales reached $779 million with 276 stores. 
This dramatic growth is lining the pockets of Krispy Kreme investors. The stock, which trades under the symbol KKD on the New York Stock Exchange, has grown from its split­adjusted IPO price of $5.25 to Tuesday's close of $42.94, an astounding return of 718%. Analysts expect the stock to contin­ue its rise, predicting shares will hit $51 this year. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at Bramanti.l@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
CHINA 






Leaders visit North Korea 
Associated Prw; 

BEIJING -China's No. 2 leader began a "goodwill visit" to North Korea on Wednesday as efforts mount to convene a second round of six-nation talks on the insular nation's nuclear program -a parley that would probably be held, like its prede­cessor, in Beijing. 
Wu Bangguo, a member of the Communist Party's Standing Committee and head of China's legislature, is heading a state delegation that also includes a vice premier, Zeng Peiyan, the official Xinhua News Agency said. Also aboard: Wang Yi, the diplomat who is China's point man on North Korea. 
A top-level military official is also on the trip, Xinhua said. The North's official news agency, KCNA, reported the party arrived in Pyongyang late Wednesday morning "at the invitation" of North Korea and was lending support "to the efforts of the Korean people to build a great prosperous pow­erful nation." 
"The two sides are expected to have a friendly and in-depth exchange of views on regional and international affairs and other issues of common inter­est," Xinhua said. 
The trip by Wu is be the high­est-level visit to the North by a Chinese leader in more than two years. It comes as China encourages the reconvening of six-nation talks over the North's nuclear program. 
Pyongyang is believed to already have one or two atomic bombs, and recently said it extracted plutonium from its stash of 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods to build more. 
Many believe Beijing, North Korea's most powerful ally, is exerting pressure on Pyongyang through diplomatic channels. 
The two countries have taken divergent paths. with China embracing economic reform and opening to the world, and the North remaining reclusive and dogmatic. But KCNA exhorted the two neighbors to draw closer against outside threats. It said the friendship has "long and deep roots" and is "unbreakable." 
"The reality today, when the imperialists are making desper­ate efforts to stifle socialism and complicated problems crop up in the international rela­tions, calls for further develop­ing the tradition of unity and cooperation between ... the DPRK and China," it said. 
The initials stand for the North's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
Washington wants Pyongyang to dismantle its nuclear weapons program immediately. 
The North said last week it was not interested in more talks unless Washington agrees to discuss signing a nonaggres­sion treaty barring the United States from launching a pre­emptive attack. 

But a few days later, it said it would consider U.S. President George W. Bush's offer for writ­ten security assurances to resolve the crisis. 
The dual responses are char­acteristic of the North's delicate game of brinkmanship·-wel­coming progress, then rejecting it. then welcoming it again. 
China, in its dealings with North Korea. is struggling to balance its duty to Its longtime communist ally and neighbor with its deep trepidation at what a nuclear Korean Peninsula might mean for Chinese security. Beijing has long said it wants a nuclear­free Korean Peninsula. 
A six-nation summit in Beijing in August brought together the two Koreas, China, the United States, Japan and Russia to dis­cuss Pyongyang's nuclear pro­gram. The talks adjourned with no concrete progress but with a promise to meet again -an agreement that the North since has questioned. 
Last week, though, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhang Qiyue referred to "the next Beijing talks," implying that China considers them a certainty. 
MEXICO 

OAS ends two day summit on terroris111 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY-High-level officials of the Organization of American States ended two day of talks Tuesday with a new security agenda encom­passing a broad range of threats. ranging from terror­ism and arms trafficking to AIDS, poverty and natural dis­asters. 
They approved a separate agreement to "fight terrorism in all its forms" and to support Colombia's ongoing fight against drug trafficking and rebels. 
The Declaration on Security in the Americas notes that the Western Hemisphere's "tradi­tional concept and approach [to security] must be expanded to encompass new and nontra­ditional threats, which include political, economic, social, health, and environmental aspects." 
The declaration outlines "new threats, concerns, and other challenges" to the Americas, including terrorism, organized crime, money laun­dering, drug trafficking, and corruption. 
The list also includes extreme poverty; natural and man-made disasters; AIDS and other diseases; environmental degradation; cyber threats; weapons of mass destruction; and transporting hazardous materials at sea. 
OAS subcommittees will now be in charge of developing new tools to fight the threats. 
Addressing a major theme of the conference, the declara­tion recommends that the OAS' Committee on Hemispheric Security thor­oughly analyze the relevance of the 1947 Rio Treaty, a Cold War-era accord that called for all countries in the hemi­sphere to defend each other in case of attack. 
Many countries consider the treaty a relic that the U.S. gov­ernment used to justify fight communist groups in Central America during the Cold War. Its usefulness also was called into question when countries tried unsuccessfully to invoke it after Britain sent troops to recapture the Falkland Islands from Argentina in 1982. 
Mexico withdrew from the treaty in September 2002 and some countries in the hemi­sphere never ratified it. Brazilian Foreign Secretary Celso Amorim said Tuesday that "given that the treaty was drafted in other historical cir­cumstances, it should be revis­ited." 

t I 
L
t 
BREAK OUT OF THE BUBBLE TAKETHEURBANPLUNGE 

Irnnzerse yourself in -rhe realiries of urban poverty. Witness the econonzic injustice, educarion~l 
inequality. hunger, racism and ho-rnelessness present-in urban areas roday. Develop your capa_c~ty 
for critical reflection and rigorous analysis as you reflect upon the challenges faczng urbal'! cttles across t-he country. As a participant, you are.further invited to relate and integrate the princzples of Catholic Social Teaching to your own i1nnzersion experience. 
Opportunities Available in over 35 Cities Across the US!!! 
The Urban Plunge is a one-credit experiential leaming course. The seminar is scheduled for a 48-hour period during winter break_ 
Apply Today! 
A:p];?lt,ic;3_th::>ri [E)yadline-This Friday~ O¢t(jber 31 at soo PM Applicat;it:h:~~ Available a,1:th~ esc <'m.d at vvw-w.nd.edu/~socconcn/sub academic Selninars.btn-:t1 
Find Out More at any ofthe Following Information Session 
Wednesday 8-9 PM -PE Hall Wednesday 9-10 PM -Cavanaugh Hall Thursday g·_ 9 PM Welsh Family Hall 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 



Car bombing kills at least four 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A car bomb exploded Tuesday west of Baghdad, killing at least four people a day after three dozen people died in a wave of suicide bombings in the Iraqi capital. 
U.S. officials said one of Baghdad's three deputy mayors was killed in a hit-and-run shooting. 
The latest attacks, including the killing Sunday of' Deputy Mayor Faris Abdul Hazzaq at­Assam. raised l'ears that a strengthened insurgency is increasingly targeting Iraqis who work with the U.S.-led coalition as well as international groups that had considered themselves at less risk than U.S. soldiers. 
Dospite the escalation in attacks on Iraqis, American l'orcos remainod targets. with insurgents firing on a U.S. mili­tary base and convoy in two nortlwrn cities Tuesday. 
In Baghdad, a rocket-propelled grenade attack killed one U.S. soldier and wounded six others while they were trying to destroy roadside bombs, the U.S. military said Tuesday. 
The soldiers, from the 1st Armored Division, were attacked Monday, the same day a team of suicide car bombers devastated the Bed Cross headquarters and three police stations. killing three dozen people and wound­ing more than 200. 
In Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. insurgents opened lire late Tuesday on the southern gate of the main U.S. military base, wounding at least one American soldier from the 4th Infantry Division, witnesses said. A patrol was sent out to search for the assailants, who soldiers said apparently fired from a nearby rooftop. 
And a U.S. military convoy was attacked Tuesday night by small arms fire in the northern city of Mosul, the military said. There were no casualties. 
In Fallujah, a llashpoint Sunni Muslim city 40 miles west of Baghdad, a car exploded Tuesday afternoon on a major street, killing at least four peo­ple. The explosion occurred about 100 yards from a police station and 100 feet from a school, but the target was unclear. 
Lat9r Tuesday, eight huge explosions were heard after sun­down from the southern area of Fallujah. U.S. officials in Baghdad said they were unaware of the blasts, which residenL'> described as "deafen­ing." 
In Baghdad, at least three mortar shells exploded late Tuesday in the Jadriya district across the Tigris River from the palace headquarters of the U.S.­led coalition, Iraqi police said. There was no immediate word on casualties or damage. 
Coalition officials reported lit­tle progress in determining who was behind Monday's car bomb­ings in Baghdad. 
A fifth would-be suicide bomber, who was caught Monday before he could deto­nate his explosives, told police he was Syrian, according to a coali­tion official. Investigators were trying to confirm his nationality, the official said on· condition of anonymity. 


President Bush blamed both loyalists to Saddam and foreign terrorists for the attacks in and around Baghdad, including a rocket barrage on a hotel Sunday that killed a U.S. lieu­tenant colonel and wounded 18 other people. 

Bush told a news conference Tuesday that "basically what they're trying to do is cause peo­ple to run." 
A coalition spokesman, Charles Heatly, told the British Broadcasting Corp., "there cer­tainly are indications that there are foreign terrorists who are coming into Iraq," but he did not explicitly accuse them of respon­sibility. 
Britain's special representative in Iraq, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, also said Tuesday that foreign terrorists could be entering Iraq from Mghanistan and elsewhere. 

WE'LL GIVE You 10 WEEKS. 
Ten weeks may not seem like much time to prove youre capable of being a leader. But if you're tough, smart and determined, ten weeks and a Jot of hard work could make you an Officer of Marines.And Officer Candidates School (OCS) is where you'll get the chance to prove you've got what it takes to lead a life full of excitement, full of challenge, full of honor. Anyone can say they've got what it takes to be a leader, we'll give you ten weeks to prove it 
If you're looking for a unique challenge, see Captain John Williams today, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 29, in Le Mans Lobby at St. Mary's College from II :OOam to 2:00pm. 1-877-299-9397 OSOLAF@9MCD. USMC. MIL 

MARINE OFFICER 
2003 

---~----;---­
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 

page 10 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
Looney Tunes DVD fails to impress 
release. "We couldn't release all the best ones at once ... 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -What's the 
what would we do for an

rush, doc? That was the 
encore?"

Warner Bros. response to the Some fans see that response
backlash from some "Looney 
as cynical. saying they feel likeTunes" fans who complain that their loyalty is being abused. 

a handful of their favorite car­
"I would have rather never

toons are missing from the col­
had these shorts be releasedlection of 56 shorts released 

than to deal with this

Tuesday. 
garbage," Aaron Strader of
"Looney Tunes -The Houston wrote

G o I d e n on Amazon.com.
Collection," the "I hope it sells
first-ever DVD 
"About 300 of them well enough to

release for Bugs justify a full
Bunny. Daffy [the shorts] are 
release on DVD

Duck, Porky Pig, excellent, 300 of of everything." 
Yosemite Sam and 
them are good, 100 Warner Home

Elmer Fudd, Video countersincludes such of them are OK and 
that its plan to

classics as 
I oo ofthem are 
release a set of"Rabbit of 

lousy." 60 cartoons each

Seville," "Duck 
year is not just a

Dodgers in the 
marketing ploy

24th-and -a-half George Feltensteln 
-it's as fast as

Century" and 
marketing executive 
they can clean up 

"The Scarlet 
the originals.

Pumpernickel." 
Dorinda
Anim,ation fans, Marticorena, WHY's director of 

however, have debated and children's marketing, said itsecond-guessed the selection 
takes months to restore theof shorts endlessly on 

original cartoon prints to theirAmazon.com and elsewhere on original bright colors.

the Internet. 
"Looney Tunes" admirersAmong the notable absen­could have a total collectiontees: "What's Opera, Doc?" 

sooner, but it would be a DVDwith Bugs tormenting co-star full of grainy, faded cartoons.

Elmer Fudd, who sings "Kill 
The "Golden Collection"

the wabbit! Kill the wabbit!"; 
($64. 92) and the lesserand "One Froggy Evening," "Premiere Collection" of 28which showcased the "Hello, 

shorts ($26. 99) is part of a bidMy Baby!"-singing amphibian by the studio to rejuvenate itsMichigan J. Frog. 

trademark characters,
"We held back some of the Marticorena said. 

jewels for future releases." 
A new feature film, "Looney

acknowledged George 
Tunes: Back in Action," is set

Feltenstein, the marketing 
for release Nov. 14.

executive who helped pick the Fans have waited nearly six
shorts for the inaugural DVD 
years since Warner Bros. 


began creating the DVD of classics, so Feltenstein said he understood why they're as impatient as Porky Pig's speech therapist. 
He described the "Golden Collection" as "an all-star sam­pler," with a lot of Bugs and Daffy, and a little bit of Foghorn Leghorn, Tweety Bird, 
Sylvester the Cat, Marvin Martian and the Tasmanian Devil. 
There is also the first Wile E. Coyote and Road Runner car­toon, "Fast and the Furry­ous." 
Nearly 1,100 "Looney Tunes" cartoons were created between 1930 and 1969, so there are a lot left to choose from for future DVDs, he added, although not all of them are created equally. 
"About 300 of them are excellent," Feltenstein said, "300 of them are very good, 300 are good, 100 of them are OK, and 100 of them are lousy." 

Spears stalker sues L.A. 
Shizawa claims city robbed him ofhis dignity 
r· Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES A Japanese businessman ordered to stay away from Britney Spears is suing the city of Los Angeles for allegedly taking away his dig­nity during a search of his hotel room last year. 
Masahiko Shizawa was ordered earlier this month to stay at least 300 yards from Spears and have no contact with her for the next three years. 
Superior Court Judge Alan Haber, who issued the order, said Shizawa was "abnormal­ly obsessed and fixated with" the 21-year-old pop star. 
Shizawa, 43, filed the law­suit Monday in U.S. District Court. His action didn't state a specific damage amount, but he estimated he'd suffered more than $2 million in dam­ages. 
Police officials were unaware of the action, but don't commen't on pending lit­igation, said Officer Jason Lee, a police spokesman. 
Shizawa said he suffered a "loss of human dignity" when police searched his hotel room in October 2002. 
Last week, Shizawa sued 

Spears, claiming her security guards caused him extreme emotional distress when they confronted him outside her home on Oct. 23, 2002. The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages. 
Spears first sought a restraining order against Shizawa in December 2002, claiming he tracked her down and tried to contact her at her Los Angeles home, at a sec­ond home she has out of state and at her parents' homes. 
She said he also sent her photos of himself and notes, including one that stated, ''I'm chasing you." 
Nelly's jewelry stolen in Vegas 
Performer estimates loss totals $1 million 
Associated Press pieces were taken Monday investigated. 
from his room at the Aladdin Representatives of the two 
LAS VEGAS -Rapper hotel-casino. performers had no immedi­Nelly had more than $1 mil­Singer Michelle Branch, ate information Tuesday lion in jewelry stolen from who also was staying at the about the burglaries. his Las Vegas Strip hotel Aladdin, reported that com­Haynes, of St. Louis, won room while he was in town puter equipment was stolen the award for best driving for the 2003 Radio Music from her room. song for "Shake Ya Awards, authorities said Las Vegas Police Officer Tailfeather," which he per­Tuesday. Tina Ellison said the burgla­formed during the show with 
Nelly, whose real name is ries were reported at 8:50 Sean "P. Diddy" Combs and Cornell Haynes. claimed the p.m. Monday and were being Murphy Lee. 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Dean and Gephardt tnethods clash 
Democrats show contrast between traditional and Internet campaigns 
Associated Press 
ELKADEH. Iowa -One presi­dential hopeful relies on the Internet to attract crowds and get followers to practices for the Iowa caucuses. The other prefers the traditional approach, letting rank-and-file labor spread the word from one union hall to the next. 
Atop the field in Iowa, Democratic rivals Howard Dean and Dick Gephardt are engaged in more than just a fierce fight for a high-stakes win. Their two campaigns represent a classic contest between new and old, a Web-generation's way of getting out the vote versus a union-tested method that has worked for polit­ical veterans since the emergence of the caucuses in the 1970s. 
The outcome Jan. 19 could set the standard for the rest of the 2004 race -and even future presidential aspiranl'i, according to !Jemocratic activists across the country. 
"I think this race will come down to Dean and Gephardt, and the results will speak volumes about their approaches," said Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick. "You have a traditional candidate running with labor and minori­ties against a candidacy that is nontraditional and radical." 
Dean has used the Internet from the start, signing up backers not just in Iowa but across the country. His list of supporters has grown to 478,000, and his cam­paign brings them together once a month for discussions on Dean's effort, for community projects or, more recently, for trial runs for the caucus. 
At a recent event at the University of Iowa, Dean drew more than 800 people. More noteworthy was a campaign stop household. in tiny Elkader in northeast Iowa, "He's like an old pair of shoes where 150 showed up at a local in Iowa," said former Iowa restaurant. Phil Specht, a 30-year Republican Chairman Michael veteran of local political wars, Mahaffey. "I think some people was wide-eyed. were trying on some different 
"Is he getting these kinds of shoes and are now coming back crowds everywhere?" he asked a to the old comfortable pair." · reporter. "This is a huge crowd Gephardt has the endorsement for Elkader on the middle of a of unions representing 54,000 weekday afternoon." Iowa workers, giving him the 
At a house party organizational later in the after­muscle to turn out
"/ think this race
noon, more than members. He has 100 people will come down to quietly n urture.d jammed into a liv­those ties, remind­
Dean and 
ing room, and 200 ing them of his
Gephardt, and the
fllled a local school more than 25 that evening, far results will speak years carrying bigger crowds than labor's banner in
volumes about 
rival candidates Congress.
their approaches. " 
are drawing at rou­The Teamsters tine campaign Union, for exam­stops. Kwame Kilpatrick ple, has about "I've never seen 17,000 Iowa mem­
mayor of Detroit 
the kind of energy that exists," said veteran Democratic activist Jerry Crawford, a backer of Dean rival John Kerry. "You have to give Howard Dean credit. He was the person who first tapped into that energy." 
Supplementing the effort to enlist new supporters, the Dean campaign reaches out to Democratic activists through nightly phone banks, or the for­mer Vermont governor makes a few calls. 
Challenging Dean is Gephardt, the 27-year House veteran who won Iowa in his unsuccessful White House bid in 1988. As he did then, the Missouri lawmaker has assembled a traditional voter turnout operation rooted in organized labor. History has shown that one out of three who show up on a winter's night in January comes from a union 
bers. Spokesman 

Pat Lynch said leaders are going from union halls to present a voter turnout plan. 
The Missouri lawmaker is skeptical of Dean's approach in Iowa. 
"I think in the end you can't overcome real support with some new technology," Gephardt said. "There's no technological silver bullet to get that done." 
Experience is a big factor when activists show up at the neighbor­hood meetings, in part because caucuses can get complicated. A candidate lacking the backing of 15 percent of those attending gets no delegates, and a lot of wheel­ing and dealing occurs. Platform planks, local party posts or long­time debts are traded for those willing to switch allegiances. Police have been summoned when things got out of hand. 


Health of Ground Zero w-orkers suffers 
Problems persist two years after tragedy 
Associated Press problems after the 2001 ter­
ror attack, the doctors said, 
NEW YORK Most but 40 percent also do not 
Ground Zero workers still have health insurance and 
suffer from health problems one-third are unemployed. 
two years after Sept. 11 and The doctors said the pro­
many do not have health gram had only enough fund­
insurance or job security, ing -$56 million of $90 · doctors told a congressional million allocated last year ­
panel Tuesday. to continue to screen and 
Several of the workers tes­monitor the workers for live 
tified at a Manhattan hospi-· years. 
tal before the committee, Herbert ahd Levin, who 
saying they had trouble said the workers are at risk 
breathing, suffered from for developing cancer in the 
post-traumatic stress disor­next decade, sought funding 
der and no longer had the to screen more than 10,000 
strength to do their old jobs. workers a year for the next 
"I can't tell you how hard 20 years. 
it is living like this," said Rep. Christopher Shays, H-
David Rapp, a Conn., the 
construction chairman of 
worker who ''The fear of not t h e 
spent five Subcommittee
being able to take
months at the on National World Trade my next breath is Security, Center site and unbearable." Emerging now always car­Threats and ries an oxygen ·Intern a tiona!
David Rapp
tank and uses Relations, three inhalers. questioned
construction worker "The fear of not World Trade Center why more peo­
being able to 
take my next 
breath is unbearable." 
Rapp said he built docks and rebuilt cars before Sept. 11, 2001, but can no longer take out his garbage or change a flat tire. 
John Graham, a carpenter and emergency services worker who spent three days a week at the site for several months, said he has asthma and is sometimes too sick to work. 
''I'm a chronically ill man who's anxious about my ability to support my fami• ly," he said. 
Robin Herbert and Stephen Levin, the co-direc­tors of a federal screening program at Mount Sinai Medical Center for ground zero workers, said they had examined 8,000 workers, 75 percent of whom had per­sistent respiratory problems. Forty percent of the workers suffer from mental health 
ple hadn't been 

examined and why some government agen­cies hadn't coordinated their information. 
Lawmakers also ques­tioned federal officials about how much they knew about the health risks at Ground Zero in the days after the attack and about how many workers were told of the danger. 
OSHA regional administra­tor Patricia Clark said that the agency distributed 131,000 respirators after the attack but that many workers didn't wear them because they found them uncomfortable· or thought they were unnecessary. 
Clark said OSHA inspec­tors strongly urged workers to keep their respirators on. 
"Clearly they did not wear them all the time," Clark said. "That's very unfortu­nate, and I regret that very much." 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 · Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
There is a child within us all 
The train stops with a jarring halt and the telecom speaker informs the ,Passen­gers of the Addison Street stop. People file off the cars with as much fluidity as water from a newly-opened drain. Down the stairs and through the turnstiles, the 
Adam Cahill 
crowd carries me along with it and floods onto the 
A Domer's
swarming street. 
Outlook

The chorus of greet­ings from street ven­dors and police offi­cers reverberates along Addison Street. As I get the ticket out of my pocket to enter the ballpark my senses peak to the smell of fresh beer and hot dogs saturating the air, old men screaming their alliances and the sight of postseason flags snapping in the wind. 
I walk up the ramp through the tunnel and greet the usher. He asks for my ticket and points me in the direction of my seat. But before I can get to the destination that he had set out for me, the spectacle in front of me catches my eye. Through the darkness of the grandstand I see lights beam across the gloriously green field, and I realize now that I'm not at Wrigley Field in October. I'm not witnessing the playoffs. I'm living in a fantasy, a child's fantasy. 
It's not that it's Wrigley Field or that I'm seeing baseball in October. It's the fact that I'm stepping away from the person I am during the day so that I can let myself relive a time when things were as simple as a game. You remember those days. 
don't you? You remember the days that ended only because the sun decided that it had shined enough for one day. They last­ed a lifetime each and every day. And as I stand here watching the drama of the postseason begin to unfold under the bright lights, I feel as giddy as the boy who spent those long afternoons trying to hit a curveball. 
There is a child we used to know but have long since forgotten. The child is dif­ferent for each of us with different hopes and dreams. But we have put him aside like most other things and decided to grow up. These days, going to classes and meet­ings has overcome those that had no clock or consequences. The child has been left sitting in the corner, unnoticed and neg­lected, waiting for you to play again. But most of us do not understand the conse­quence ofleaving him in the corner. 
The trouble is not that we are neglecting the part of us that has not decided to grow up; instead the problem is that we are neglecting the passion for life possessed by the kids we used to be. It is the possibil­ity that comes with being a child that we sorely lack. It is the same thing that drove me to spend an entire summer trying to hit a curveball; the same thing that made you spend those extra hours every night practicing so that you could beat your schoolmates in soccer so that you could impress the girl. It is the possibility of what can be that is so valuable to keeping that child alive within us. 
We were children of the summer. The sun was as much our food as the Cheerios we ate in the morning and the games we played as important as the prayers we said before bedtime. This child is impor­tant to us, the basis of who we ani today. But the more we grow, the more most of us try to hide this child, embarrassed at what he might tell the world with the pure honesty of his words. Screaming for life, he calls to us in the most desperate times, times where we need to step back and realize that there is something more to life than what the adult world teaches us to value. 
And we still have that child in us. We may not acknowledge him or give him the time of day, but he never leaves, nagging us with the only important question of a child's life: Can you come out and play? Every once in a while, we need to do just that: Play. It's what keeps us going, what fuels the fire to head to class on Monday mornings or to the meetings we dread. And if we do not listen to the kid within us -if we choose to let him die -we will have nothing left to work for. We owe it to him for giving us the possibility to be who we are today. It was his dreams that lead us into this future. 
Setting aside all the grades and the tests and the rest of my life, I let myself be a kid again that night at Wrigley. And even if it was only for one night, it felt great. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
·: :: ;~ 

Restrict bike access on campus 
. :: ~: =~ :: .. 
=: ... 

:: While bringing my new office lamp to campus from the direc­tion of Main Circle, I was confronted by a thick mass of students 
:~ .: :: 

making its way from DeBartolo Hall to South Quad. I maneuvered 
safely between them and arrived on the short strip of sidewalk 
just in front of the Law School. Away from the congestion, I was 
then free to walk in the middle of the street. 
Suddenly, I was struck from behind. My foot rose in the air and my shoe flew away. My body was thrust forward at an angle and I became air borne, going in the opposite direction of my shoe. The lamp went flying, too. I landed on the grass about five feet from where I had been struck by a student on a bike. To have been struck with such force and propelled in the same direction as the rider, the student must have been going very fast. Obviously the rider wanted to get around the mass of students. In doing so, he or she veered to the right of the group going onto the grass, then cris-crossed over the sidewalk where I was walking, and hit me from behind. 
No one helped me up, but I did hear someone ask, "Are you hurt?'' In a daze I answered, "Where is my shoe? I cannot see it." It was retrieved. By whom, I do not know. The person who hit me stood there looking scared. I do not recall them saying anything, but their friend glibly commented after I stood up, "Do not worry about it. You've just been 'Schwinned!"' Then they rode off. 
Although I sustained a 3" x 4" bruise on my thigh, a scraped ankle and a bruised elbow, it was the latter comment that shocked me most of all. Such a flippant remark, especially since I am not in my 20s, 30s or 40s. In fact, I am closer to 60 than to 50. What if an elderly priest, professor or an infirm employee had been struck? What if I had landed face down on the cement instead of the grass with my glasses shattering on impact? What if I had hit my head? I wonder now, is it safe to walk on campus with so many bikers? 
This new term, "to be Schwinned," is unsettling. It indicates that run-ins are quite common and numerous enough to merit the status of a popular saying. It is time for the University to look at the situation and establish bike riding policies to prevent more "Schwinnings." 
Since my childhood, Notre Dame was declared a walking cam­pus where cars and vehicles were restricted. For years students walked to and from their classes. Bikes were only permitted for off campus transportation. It has just been in the last few years 
. that bikes have been used on campus and their numbers are increasing dramatically. In fact, there seems to be twice as many bikes this year than last. Bicycles are vehicles. Does their abundance mean that Notre Dame is no longer a pedestrian campus? Are bikes the only pri­vately owned vehicles allowed to be ridden on campus? If so, are there bike regulations? If not, there should be. Bike regulations need to be established, publicized and enforced. In determining these regulations specific questions need to be answered. Do pedestrians have the right of way? What should be the speed limit(s)? Are bikes to be licensed, like cars? Are bike accidents to be treated like car accidents? What protocol should be in place for the parties involved in a bicycle collision? Are they to wait for security? Do they make a report? If bikes are a necessary evil to get from class to class on time, then the campus is no longer a walking campus as originally determined. With that change, new campus policies need to be made including regulations for bike use and pedestrian protec­tion. In addition, to avoid the type of accident I recently experi­enced, I recommend that bike paths be laid throughout the cam­pus and that they be separate from the sidewalks. After all is said and done, I am still saddened by the callousness and lack of respect and consideration shown to others when run­ning into people is of no consequence. Such an attitude can only come as a result of numerous occurrences. 
Susan Hamilton staff. Notre Dame Law library Oct.28 

OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Do you approve or disapprove of President Bush's handling of the situation in Iraq?  "The road to easy street goes through the sewer. "  
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com  John Madden football commentator  

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 page 13 
The world according to Haynes 
Who could ever forget that fateful day in October 2003 when John Haynes, executive director of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts at Notre Dame, single-handedly changed the course of this University's history by uttering the infamous words, "I wanted the arts to be as pervasive at Notre Dame as athletics." From Joey Falco that day forth, things at Notre Dame would never be the same. 
Sept. 3, 2012: The start of the Forty Ounces 2012 line arts season had finally 
for Falco 

arrived, and the entire campus 
was abuzz with an aura of excite­
ment and anticipation. Everyone 
knew that they were going to have the time of their 
lives during the upcoming week, so it was no surprise 
to see students skipping home from their last classes 
of the day like Sugar Plum Fairies. That night, the 
entire student body congregated in the JACC (the 
Joyce Arts and Crafts Center} to watch our favorite 
Notre Dame film, Trudy. By the time that compassion­
ate tale of a talentless girl from an Indiana steel town 
who realizes her dream of performing as an extra in a 
Notre Dame Main Stage production of Les Miserables 
had finished, there wasn't a dry eye in the house. Just 
reminiscing about those stage hands and chorus line 
dancers chanting, "Trudy, Trudy, Trudy," never fails to 
get me all choked up. 
The next day, still pumped up after Tuesday's excit­ing events, I decided to skip my mandatory philosophy, theology and theater classes and instead spent the day doing improvisational comedy on South Quad. Unfortunately, I grew so caught up in the excitement of those improv games that I nearly forgot that Wednesday was interhall arts day. The Keough Hall ballet team was set to square off with their arch-rivals, Dillon Hall, in what was sure to be one of the most exquisite displays of ctendre, grand jete and allonge in Notre Dame's history and missing that would have been an embarrassing faux pas. Fortunately, I arrived just in time to catch Keough's first leg-crossing entrechat quatre. This really was my lucky day. 
On Thursday night, the true start to the weekend for any social Notre Dame undergraduate, my dorm host­ed one of our most time-honored traditions, the annual Shakespeare and Starbucks party. For over two hours, a dozen of us sat back and shared a few as a group toward the JACC, obnoxiously belting out our favorite show tunes, and somehow managed to take our seats while hitting the last notes to "Cabaret." The next hour was truly a blur, thanks in part to my 
nagging herbal tea buzz, but the consensus of 
laughs as we watched one of opinion was that the band and cheerleaders 
Shakespeare's greatest come­ 
dies, A Midsummer Night's  
Dream, while pounding  
back a few cafe lattes  
from Starbucks.  •.. ···  
Sadly, the clock soon  .  · .. ::··'···.  
struck 12, and our  
night of collegiate  
craziness came to  
an abrupt halt,  
depriving us of  
the hilarity of  
Puck's monologue  
at the conclusion  
of Shakespeare's  
work. Times like  
these are what real­ 
ly make me hate pari­ 
etals.  
Thankfully, before you  
could say, "Johann  
Sebastian Bach rocks my  
world," Friday had arrived, and  
the buzz that once permeated the cam­ 

pus had grown to an almost operatic vibrato. It seemed as if everyone shared my irrepressible excite­ment for the evening's events, making sitting through my mandatory Caravaggio Appreciation class all the more difficult. However, all of my waiting paid off at four o'clock that afternoon when my dorm section con­gregated for our weekly drinking ritual, Phantom of the Opera Phorties. Now, some of my older, more expe­rienced peers actually drank 40 ounces of a light chardonnay during these festivities, but for those of us with a weaker stomach, 40 ounces of herbal tea always sufficed. Immediately thereafter, we stumbled 
just didn't seem to be in top form at this year's Picasso Pep Rally . .On Saturday morning, it was practically impossible to escape the ubiquitous sound of the Notre Dame Victory March . amongst the 80,000 fans on 
hand to tailgate for the game of the year. In the midst of all this excitement, though. I managed to glance up toward the llesburgh Library and felt a chill run through my spine at the 
magnificent sight of Jesus Christ Superstar watching over me from the building's 
south wall. At that instant, I knew we would win today's dance competition against our arch-rivals New York University. And sure enough, three hours later, a thunderous cheer erupted from the Sea of Pink on hand 
inside Notre Dame Stadium as the Prancing Irish defeated NYU in the greatest dance-off in NCAA histo­ry. 
It truly was a remarkable week. 
Oh yeah, and rumor has it that Coach Philbin's foot­ball team lost again to the New York Culinary Institute, 49-2. Who really cares about sports anyway? 
Joey Falco is a freshman marketing major. flis col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be con­tacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those of The, Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Responding to diversity issues 
Affirmative action still needed 
Matt Bramanti, the author of "Diversity doesn't matter," is clearly mistaken -affirmative action is more than a crusade for racial diver­sity. Do not write it off, do not make assumptions and do not pretend to be an expert on the problem of diversity. Affirmative action is meant to act as an equalizer in a world that is still not equal. The example of skilled surgeons was used in Tuesday's column, and health care is a prime example of another field with few minorities in the upper echelons. 
Unless an extreme emergency, cases do not make it to an operating table unless going through some sort of primary care physician -a profession in which blacks and Hispanics are criminally under-represented. These groups are faced with 33 percent more heart disease and an infant mortality rate two and a half times that of their white counterparts, so who is to say they should not be allowed to see a doctor that looks like them'? Diversity does matter. Under-represented doctors are more likely to serve under-represented and at risk commu­nities -areas where there are a huge short­age of health care professionals today. 
I doubt that there are less skilled minority surgeons because they are not qualified, but maybe because they still do not have access to the same economic and educational advantages. Affirmative action is more than a crusade, the way it has often been depicted here on campus. It is a legiti­mate attempt to better a bad situation. It may not be perfect, but it's better than neutral and unimportant as it was portrayed in Bramanti's column. 
Natalie Bennett sophomore Howard Hall Oct. 28 
Diversity promotes understanding 
In response to Matt Bramanti's Oct. 28 column "Diversity doesn't matter," claiming diversity entails little more than race is offensive to every one of us. Diversity accounts for differences of race, sex, class, sexual preference, age, political interests or even the way we eat a sandwich. 
Although eerily reminiscent of my father's advice, we are at Notre Dame to do little more than learn. We have learned South Dining Hall spinach does not react well with peppermint yo-cream or that a rector easily recognizes the difference between a small gathering of 10 people and a raucous alcohol-laden 
Halloween bash of 30. More importantly, we are constantly learning about the fascinating aspects of this great big world. Every day we have the opportunity to 
engage in and learn from conversation with people from different areas of the world, varying religious beliefs and different racial backgrounds. We have the opportunity to learn about different 
ways to handle tough situations, conflicting political positions or even the difference between New York City and Idaho fashions. To claim it does not matter if we gain anything from our surround­ings -or that diversity does not matter-is preposterous. 
If you refuse to think the preceding argument is little more than a bunch of idealistic crap, Jet your corporate-minded self take control. Following graduation, we will step into a world complete­
ly different from the all-American dream we have come to know at Notre Dame. Maybe I am naive, but unless I will be sitting in my 
room playing minesweeper while my roommate and I talk about Britney Spears' new video, my life will not be its familiar and com­fortable self. I cannot honestly claim my boss, or even the person who 
decides to hire me, will have my exact same background and beliefs, and hence, our relations will always flow smoothly; it will not be easy to understand the foreign stances of my coworkers. Diversity shapes every aspect of my life, including the workplace. So if for no other reason than making it big in the corporate world, take advantage of the diversity that surrounds you -you might learn a thing or two about yourself. 
Caroline Reams senior off-campus Oct. 28 
,--------~ 
THE 0BSERV'ER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
Lessons learned from concept EP 
Last May, I decided to embark upon a strange and wondrous journey guided only by the sound of music. Once fmals commenced last semester, 

Brian Foy
I set out to record what I Scene believe to Columnist be the first concept EP. With the help of my partner in crime Tun Bonadies, we spent sev­eral days recording and mix­ing tracks in the studio he had created in the basement of his house. Having accumu­lated a wealth of recording equipment, the resulting music was of near-profes­sional quality. 
In June, I began going to many concerts, and I started taking a copy of Mourning Sun with me. Before the first concert, I made several copies of the EP and made sure to include contact infor­mation along with our names and the titles of the songs. My logic was that I would give the copy to one of the bands playing and by the end of the summer we might hear back from one of them. 
In early June, I went to the Ben Harper and Jack Johnson show at Chicago's UIC Pavilion. After the show, I made my way to the stage, hoping to see anyone associ­ated with either Ben or Jack. As I was approaching the stage, I noticed that Jack Johnson was signing auto­graphs and talking to fans. I waited in line and then told him how one of his new songs had helped me with a problem I was having with the tempo on one of our own songs. I segued that into giv­ing him the disc along with a brief explanation of the EP before I left. I could not believe how easy it was to give Jack Johnson our EP. 

A few weeks later, I went to Noblesville's Verizon Wireless Music Center to see the Dave Matthews Band. I knew even before I went that there was absolutely no way I would come anywhere near any member of the band. My best bet to get my disc to Dave and the boys was to go through their management. I decided to create a fictitious person from the band's label that had contacted me and said that I was to give my disc to Dave's road manager. After waiting around for 30 minutes after the show, his manager actually did emerge and took my copy of Mourning Sun with him. I learned a very valuable les­son that day: When dealing with people in the music business, be resourceful and, ifnecessary, lie. 
The Fourth of July brought me back to Chicago for the Taste of Chicago. While I was there, I was going to see the boys of Guster play a free show in Grant Park. I went to the organizers of the free concert and tried my previ­ously successful scheme that someone from Guster's labeJ had contacted me about my disc. However, this time I was informed that they knew nothing about it and that my best bet was to wait until I saw their management. I decided to wait between the buses and the backstage area before sound check. I waited until I saw Guster's guest bassist and then finally Ryan Miller, singer and gui­tarist for the band. He came over with a marker for auto­graphs, but I assured him that I just wanted to give him my disc. After discussing their tour and what they might play at the ensuing show, I left him to find tlie rest of my friends. 
Finally, I went to the Lollapalooza Festival at Tmley Park's Tweeter Center. In between sets, I made my way to the autograph tent to see ifI could meet the band Rooney. My logic was that this up-and-coming band would sympathize with me and take my disc. After giv­ing Mourning Sun to one of the band members, I told them that ifthey ever need an opening act we were ready. 
I learned many valuable lessons from my experiences this summer. The first is to never give your demo to members of a touring band. They have too much to con­cern themselves with and they do not need your attempt at stardom to further complicate their lives. In hindsight, I should have sent my demo to the managers of the bands I spoke with or to their record labels. Equally important, I learned that a demo with an acoustic guitar and vocals probably will not get you very far. As complete as it may sound, it can never match the fullness of a band. 
After my experiences this summer, I decided that Tun and I could benefit from a full band so we recruited Drew Pittman and Tim's younger brother Jeffery for "Thffy Rhodes." The band plays all of the songs off Mourning Sun with a presence that was noticeably absent on the disc. I hope to record a new EP tentatively titled The Answer in November and ship it to different labels in early December. 
Brian Foy is a senior histo­ry major whose band "Tuffy Rhodes" plays tonight at Cheers in South Bend. Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

By KENYATTA STORIN Scene Music Cri ric 
Arguably the Dirty South's most successful rapper to date, Ludacris is among the most popular and tal­ented rappers in the game today. He's also one of the funniest MCs around, which is nicely demonstrat­ed by the cover art of his third major album, Chicken-N-Beer, where a hungry Ludacris, surround­ed by empty root beer bottle and chicken wings, prepares to take a bite out of a woman's leg. Unfortunately, funny cover art can­not save Ludacris from the medioc­rity of the production on his latest recording effort. 
For the most part, Ludacris' music has always been about sex, money, drugs and partying, and Chicken-N­Beer is no different. The simplicity of the content does not mean Ludacris is an ordinary rapper, for he is armed with a razor-sharp wit, along with the ability to effortlessly change speeds and tones in his rhymes. Some of his best lyrics come from the aptly named "Hip Hop Quotables," where Ludacris drops rhymes like "My filthy mouth, it won't fight cavities or beat plaque I So I shot the tooth fairy and put my old teeth back" and "The numba one chief rocka, clean out yo' rap lockers I I'm as stiff as a board, y'all more shook than maracas." On the 

ALBUM REVIEW 


Dull beats hold Ludacris do-wn 
ALBUM REVIEW 
party jam and hit single, "Stand Up," he boasts, "Watch out for the medallion my diamonds are wreckless I Feels like a midget is hanging from my necklace." 
Ludacris does get serious every now and then, referring to his late grandfather on the serious track, "Hard Times:" "Papa never went and jumped the broom, never got that one degree I But ifyou looked down from heaven, you'd still be proud of me." Not surprisingly, he also takes some shots at FOX News personality, Bill O'Reilly, who used his show to coerce Pepsi to drop Ludacris from an ad campaign. O'Reilly is the guilty party in the hilarious tale, "Hoes in my Room," where Ludacris teams up with the charismatic Snoop Dogg. 
Although Ludacris' excellent rap­ping gives just about every track some bright moments, most of the album's beats fall under the mark. Occasionally, the production has its moments, like in the leadoff track "Southern Fried Intro," and the thuggish, gunshot-filled "We Got" with fellow Disturbing tha Peace rappers Chingy, I-20, and Tity Boi. But for the most part, the beats are unoriginal and dated, which is espe­cially a problem since most of Ludacris' choruses are very simple and repetitive. He probably does this purposely to allow listeners to sing along, but without catchy beats to back them up they get tedious 


Chicken-n-Beer 
Ludacris 
Def Jam Records 

after a short time. This is particular­ly the case on "Splash Waterfalls," where Sandy Coffee sings "Make Love to Me" over and over, and also on the drug anthem, "Screwed Up," which bombards listeners with cho­ruses of "[expletive] you" in groups of eight. 
Ludacris takes a step back in Chicken-N-Beer, since it sticks to the same formula that led to the success of his second album, Word of Mouf. but lacks the lively and varied pro­duction of its predecessor. As a result, Chicken-N-Beer has the over­all feeling of a typical movie sequel: entertaining, but not as fun as the original. Despite this, there is still plenty of time for Ludacris to improve; and if he one day creates an album with production that is on par with his rhymes, it will be as good as, well, chicken and beer. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

Martino's albulll fails to touch the soul 
is also disappointing that he leaves all of the camping respon­sibilities to pianist Gonzalo. Rubalcaba. Guitar players, like piano players, need to be both great soloists and great accom­panists, and the fact that Martino only fills one of these roles on a record on which he acts as the leader is surprising. 
The rest of the group is pretty solid. Rubalcaba, Christian McBride and Lewis Nash make . for a tight rhythm section. and Nash's drumming is especially impressive. Rubalcaba's camping is tasteful and he exhibits a very soulful touch in his soloing. McBride is one of the best bassists around, and his playing on this record certainly does not disappoint. Lovano, while not at the top of his game, still man­ages to express himself reason­ably well despite an obvious mis­match with Martino. What this group needs, sadly to say, is a different leader. Whether you replace Martino with someone else or simply trim it down to a quartet with Lovano leading, this 
.. 


group could be a whole lot bet­ter. There is a certain chemistry that exists in a truly memorable group, and it seems as though the only player that doesn't mix well is Martino, himself. 
Despite this criticism, however, Think Tank is actually an enjoy­able album to listen to. Both the casual listener and the student of jazz can put this record on and be entertained. The compositions are not far-reaching or experi­mental, and there are a couple of pensive ballads mixed in with the up-tempo swing that dominates the record. 
Think Tank gets three and a half shamrocks because, although it isn't spectacular, it is certainly above average. The personnel alone clinched that fact. This all-star collaboration falls short of being memorable, but succeeds at creating some­thing that fans of jazz can appre­ciate beyond a reasonable doubt. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
.-----------------~--------------------------------~----------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Howie Day's sophomore album a success 
By RYAN RAFFERlY 
Scene Music Critic 
Once upon a time, music was original, momentous and emotional. listeners used to interact with the music and connect with the artists. Where did music go wrong? A few years ago, singer/songwrit­ers appeared to be leading the charg~ against empty, meaningless music, but then music snobs everywhere began to quickly criticize these artists. Musicians such as John Mayer, David Gray and Dave Matthews started to receive negative reviews due to their increasing mass popu­larity; this was an extremely unfair criti­cism. Ukewise, Howie Day's latest release .'-itop All the World Now has received sev­eral negative criticisms which are equally unjust. 

Howie Day's last release, Australia, was also his debut album. Australia introduced the world to the extremely talented 17­year-old singer/songwriter. Shortly after his first release, Day began to gain acclaim for his incredible live performances. He played every show entirely solo using com­plex loops to simulate the sound of a full band, including drums and bass. Epic quickly signed Day to their label and thus he created Stop All the World Now. 
Like many singer/songwriters before him, this album gained negative reviews because of its mass pop appeal. While Day's latest release does have a structured pop sound, it is nothing like the numerous pop songs on the radio today. Howie Day sings with so much emotion and sincerity on Stop All the World Now that he could 
easily be mistaken for a veteran musician. 
But surprisingly this is only the second 
album from Day, now 23, and what an 
album it is. 

Stop All the World Now is like a snap­
shot of llowie Day's life. His lyrics arc 
very poignant and personal, and his 
music, while much more heavily pro­
duced than Australia, is magnificent. 
Day's simple guitar patterns balance the 
album wonderfully between electronic 
songs, conventional pop songs and simple 
piano-driven ballads. Even on the elec­
tronic songs, like the single "Perfect Time 
of Day," Day's guitar drives the melody 
and adds wonderful texture to the chorus. 
Other conventional pop songs, such as 
"Brace Yourself' and "Collide," feature 
Day at his finest. While on Australia Day 
was primarily found playing only acoustic 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
For many musicians, success comes from being at the right place at the right time and meeting the right per­son. For Josh Kelley, the story is not quite that typical. 
Currently popular for his single "Amazing," Kelley graduated from the University of Mississippi in Oxford and originally hails from Augusta, Georgia. An art major and golf star in college, Kelley, 22, came up with the title of his first album, For the Ride Home, while in his college dorm. Kelley explains, "There would be some break 
guitar, on Stop All the World Now he opens Overall, this is a beautiful album that is 
up the sound immensely by playing with an entire band. 
Day also tries his hand at another instrument on Stop All the World Now: the piano. The two later tracks, "End of Our Days" and "Come Lay Down," have a different feel as the piano drives the melody accompanied by a wonderfully mixed orchestra. The addition of strings is another new addition to Day's music. Nearly every song on Stop All the World Now features some sort of string arrangement, which gives the songs wonderful texture and depth. Something else Day does differently is the re-recording of some of his earlier material. Day called the Australia version of "She Says" a demo acoustic version. He completely revamps the song, adding a subtle 


Sony Music 
easily accessible from any musical standpoint. Critics may dis­credit Day for

Stop All the World 
making such a mainstream pop album, but nobody can deny the intensity with which he plays. The songs on 

Stop All the World Now are very pop-orient­ed. but they arc vastly different from the music normally played on the radio. The verses plunge the listener into Day's world with his tender lyrics. His choruses explode with a catchy melody with so many layers that it engulfs the lis­tener's senses. .­
Stop All the 

electronic drum beat, electric guitar, bass and a gently brushed drum kit. The new version of the song sounds much fuller and majestic. Day also re-records "You and a Promise," which appeared on his last EP. The song hasn't changed drastically, except the melody is now played primarily on the piano rather than guitar. 
World Now is a wonderful album, and Howie Day is a masterful pop singer/song­writer. Everyone will love thLc; album from the pop music guru to the indie music afi­cionado. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraftert@nd.cdu 
Josh Kelley releases a gem of a debute 
coming up and everybody would be burning COs -random mixes of things. They'd all say, 'I'm burning something for the ride home.' With this CD -the way I've written it and all is different moods -I really want it to be their music for the ride home." It seems normal enough, but Kelley's story takes a different path when he explains how he gained his popularity. 
Unlike most musical acts, Kelley did not move up the ranks of popularity through touring, but instead used the Internet to promote his songs. He would record his own songs and then download them onto Napster. Under categories such as, "if you like Dave 
Matthews Band then you will love Josh Kelley," using bands that he sounded like, Josh Kelley carved his own des­tiny. The downloads eventually made it to Hollywood Records and the rest is For the Ride Home. 
The sound of Kelley overall is light, acoustic and highly melodic. Comparisons are drawn to the earlier works of John Mayer, but some tracks are much softer and more sin­cere, creating an almost male Norah Jones sound. Overall the album is a great 
For the Ride Home 
Josh Kelley 
Hollywood Records 

iii 
compilation of all different moods of music, the amount of upbeat songs only slightly outnumbering the slower and more reflective songs. 
The single "Amazing" is simply a great song, one that will be stuck in your head for days. With Kelley croon­ing, "I say baby, you're amazing I And I want to let you see I You are every­thing and more to me I And I will let you be," any listener believes every word his melodic voice sings. The fol­lowing tracks, "Everybody Wants You" and "Travelin"' have similar styles to "Amazing," as well as the similar female theme. Singing along can't be helped, as the folksy lyrics imprint themselves on the listeners' lips. 
Another strong point of the album is the slower and soulful "Home to Me." The song serves as almost a plea to the girl who feels neglected and dis­missed. Kelley admits his devotion in the chorus, " 'Cause it's you that I'm runnin' to baby I Its you that I'm feel-in' for lately and I it's like a pain that never goes away I And it always starts today I 'Cause you are home to me." The song is a highlight of the album and reveals a deeper and musically complex side of Kelley. 

There is also a touch of Southern flavor that surfaces on the album, especially in "Follow You" and "Perfect 10." The guitar is a bit more plucked and the vocals a bit more tex­tured. 
For the Ride Home comes full circle and completes the entire picture. The ..... album is perfect for the ride home with Kelley's distinct mix of fun, slow and, at all times, meaningful songs. Kelley does not look like a rock star and has definitely carved his own path in the music industry, and he is, thankfully for the listener, all the bet­ter for it. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 

r page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Vasicek scores first career hat trick for 'Canes 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Josef Vasicek was switched from cen­ter to left wing this season and asked by management pick up his scoring. The move has paid off for the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Vasicek had a career-high three goals and Kevin Weekes recorded his second straight shutout in a 3-0 win over the San Jose Sharks on Tuesday night. 
The 6-foot-4 Vasicek, nick­named the Czech Condor, now has four goals and three assists in eight games. Last year, he had just 10 goals and 10 assists in an injury-riddled season. 
"We put pressure on him to have a breakout year," coach Paul Maurice said of Vasicek,· who is in his fourth NHL sea­son. "I still think he's got anoth­er level to play at. He's getting some points, but I think he can be even more dominant." 
Carolina is unbeaten in six straight (2-0-4) as Weekes extended his shutout streak to a career-best 165 minutes. 
Weekes, who stopped 28 shots for his 15th career shutout, beat Boston 2-0 five days ago. 
After scoring nine goals in their first six games, the Hurricanes' offense is also starting to produce, scoring seven over a two-game span. 
Jeff O'Neill assisted on all of Vasicek's goals to match a career high. O'Neill last had three assists in a game in October 1999. 
Bruins 2, Canadlens 0 
Felix Potvin has put his life on the West Coast behind him, as well as the knee injury that cost him his job there. 
Potvin made 23 saves for his first shutout in more than 10 months, and Patrice Bergeron and Mike Knuble scored to lead the Boston Bruins over the Montreal Canadiens 2-0 Tuesday night. 
Potvin, who signed as a free agent on Sept. 3, got his third straight win and 29th career shutout -his first since Dec. 10 with Los Angeles at Nashville. 
"I felt really good the three years I had in L.A.," Potvin said. "It was unfortunate that I got hurt and I missed the last three months last year, but I'm just happy to have a chance to play on a good team and do my job." 
Devils 4, Islanders 0 
The New Jersey Devils showed the New York Islanders a thing or two about how to play a defensive trap. 
Martin Brodeur stopped 25 shots for his first shutout of the season, and Jay Pandolfo had a goal and an assist as the Devils beat New York 4-0 Tuesday night. 
"We were good in every zone tonight," Devils coach Pat Burns said. "We've played solid in just about every game this season, but tonight, we got some breaks." 
Jeff Friesen, Brian Gionta and John Madden also scored for the Devils, who remained unbeaten on the road (3-0-1-0). 
Conversely, New Jersey is winless at home (0-3-1-0). 
"We've been good keeping it simple on the road," Brodeur said, "but we have to try to play the same way at home." 
Rick DiPietro turned aside 23 shots but lost for the second time this season. 
The defeat snapped a three­game home winning streak for the Islanders. 
Brodeur earned his 65th career shutout, keeping the game scoreless early by making a glove save on Shawn Bates' breakaway attempt at 2:51 of the first period. 
Minnesota 3, Buffalo 1 
Manny Fernandez stopped 32 shots, leading the Minnesota Wild past the Buffalo Sabres 3­1 on Tuesday night. 
Wes Walz, Alexander Daigle and Andrew Brunette scored for the Wild, who got a big boost from their special teams. 


Minnesota went 2-for-4 on the power play and scored while down a man in winning for just the third time in 10 games this season. 
Walz's short-handed goal at 
17:24 of the first period made it 1-0, and Daigle added a power­play goal in the second when he rocketed a one-timer from the top of the right circle past Martin Biron for his team-lead­ing fourth goal of the season. 
The top pick in the 1993 draft signed with the Wild at the end of September. Brunette scored his first goal of the season early in the third period on a power play, deflecting a slap shot from the blue line by Travis Roche. 
The Sabres were finally able to beat Fernandez at 7:03 of the third period when Dmitri Kalinin scored on a rebound following a shot by Adam Mair. 
Fernandez preserved the win with point-blank stops in the third on Miroslav Satan and Curtis Brown. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 

I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­tions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS! Organize a group and travel for FREE.Call for details. 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. 
*"ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get 12th trip free.Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/574-282-2357 
VECTOR MKT. has many cust. sales/service openings. Flex. sched. Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece. work­forstudents.com. 574-282-2357 
WANTED 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $1 00-$500 a day. 1-888-820­0167, ext. U187 CAMPUS REP NEEDED-The world leader in natural sports nutrition seeks campus andarea reps. Must have sports or fitness background and contacts. Fax resume to 419-715-2562 interview on campus this week. www.BDisports.com 
FoR SALE 
GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR-1/2 BA. FULL BSMTIFAM AM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112 
JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS. 272-6306 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO 
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525 

3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS. LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308 
NO FOOTBALL HOUSING: Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood available for remaining NO football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laun­dry, parks 6 cars. $1,200 per week­end. No pets. (574) 231-8823 (evenings). 
STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE! 2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and Townhouses available. Excellent location to campus! Contact Rod Ludwig at 574-234­9923 or Email: Rludwig @cbresb.com 
4 Bedroom House for next semester and/or next year. 1136 E~ Madison. Great for parties. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 
TICKETS 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964. 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick­ets 574-289-8048 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALLGAME. PLEASE CALL 674-6593. 
NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773­3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-7710 
ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child­less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adoption. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484­6754 PIN: 8642 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! 11 0% Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY **** Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
Wonderwall. 
So I was sitting in this biker bar in Kittyhawk, North Carolina ... 
"Nah" -Scnuver 
I am everyone's best friend. 
No ticket. 
Who's house? Ron's house. 
In the first game of the NBA season, Lamar Odom left in the second quarter with a sprained ankle. This could be due to one of two things: the fact that he loves sitting on the bench collecting his pay check, or the fact that his Heat are playing the Sixers. 
AI. 
Boston College is not a party school. 
She took me out and said, "Boys like you are overrated, so save your breath." 
But there's a light on in Chicago and I know I won't be home All the col­ors of the street signs, they remind me of the pickup truck out in front of your neighbors house. 
Stay gold, Ponyboy. Stay Gold. 

..---------------------~---~ ------­
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Roy's No. 33 jersey retired by the Colorado Avalanche 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -Patrick Roy walked across the ice with a chant of "Roy! Roy! Roy!" trac­ing every step. lie reached his spot on the red carpet next to his family, but no one was about to stop cheering. 
The ovation lasted nearly four minutes and Roy soaked up every moment. 
"I remember going to the rink for the first time with my parents and my broth­ers when I was h b

"He's t e est goa ie o of the playoffs,

cigh.t years 
old," Roy said. all time." and he's the "To stand hen\ NHL's career in front you leader in wins
Steve Konowalchuk 

tonight 30 and games.
Avalanche player

years later is priceless." 
Colorado retired Hoy's No. 33 on Tuesday night, sending it to the rafters next to Ray Bourque's 77 in a 20-minute ceremony before the Avalanche's game against Calgary. 
With his wife and three kids by his side, Roy said goodbye to an organization, teammates and fans in a city where he won two Stanley Cup titles and set the standard for goal­tenders. 
"It is our privilege that the Colorado Avalanche organiza­tion will retire the jersey of the greatest goalie to ever play," Avalanche general man­ager Pierre Lacroix said. "Patrick, you are in a league of your own. Really Patrick, your impact has been unparal­leled in the game of hockey." 
It's a hard point to argue. 
When Roy retired in May after 19 seasons, he held nearly every major goaltend­
ing record.  He is the only  
three-time  
winner of the  
Conn  Smythe  
l  if  Trophy, award­ed to the MVP  

A four-time Stanley Cup winner -the first two were with Montreal 
-Roy is the all-time playoff 
leader in wins, shutouts and 
games. He also popularized 

the butterfly style of goaltend­Ge«y 
ing by dropping to his knees to Avalanche players Peter Forsberg, Dan Hinote, Adam Foote and Joe Saklc watch as former block shots. Colorado Avalanche goalie Patrick Roy's No. 33 jersey was retired Tuesday. 
"He's the best goalie of all­time and it kind of played on your mind even before you started the game," said Steve Konowalchuk, who played 11 seaSO!lS against Roy before being traded to Colorado two weeks ago. 
And the Avalanche didn't 

hold back in thanking him. 
A five-minute video montage of Roy's career played on four huge screens set up in the cor­ners of the arena. Each of Roy's children rece-ived gifts from the Avalanche, and Lacroix presented Patrick and Michelle with a large painting of a snow-covered mountain set behind a grove of aspens. 
Players from both teams tapped their sticks on the ice throughout the ceremony and Colorado's five starters each came over to give him a hug 
-
-
just before it ended. ­
"Playing for the Avalanche, wearing this uniform for the past eight years and working behind a group of players that was never satisfied was a great, and I mean great, honor," Roy said. 

---------~---~---------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
NBA 
Jackson fines Bryant an undisclosed amount 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Just a few hours before the start of the regular season Tuesday, all was not well in Lakerland. 
Coach Phil Jackson fmed Kobe Bryant an undisclosed amount for his highly critical comments of teammate Shaquille O'Neal, and the team met for 20 minutes to discuss a rift between two superstars that has escalated into a full-blown feud. 
"There were no signs or indi­cations that it would snowball the way it has in a matter of 36 hours, so we'll see what happens from here," teammate Derek Fisher said. 
Bryant was listed as doubtful for the opener against the Dallas Mavericks after he said he didn't think his surgically repaired knee was strong enough to with­stand the rigors of a 48-minute game. The Lakers expected him to play until hearing otherwise Monday on ESPN. 
The other thing hurting Bryant was his feelings, and it appears there's no easy way for the Lakers to soothe them. 
Bryant castigated O'Neal dur­ing a telephone interview with ESPN, calling him "childlike," "unprofessional," "selfish," "fat" and "jealous." He also accused the 7 -footer of ovefstating the severity of his foot injury last season when he reported to training camp overweight. 
Bryant's comments came a day after O'Neal said the Lakers were "my team," adding that Bryant needed to be more of a 
team player --:-an observation 
based on two exhibition games. 
At practice Monday, Jackson 
ordered the team not to discuss 
the dust-up with reporters. He 
fined Bryant for defying that 
order by talking to ESPN later 
that day. 
· "We felt we had an agreement 
yesterday and he didn't uphold 
that," Jackson said. "I think this 
is something we've asked our 
players to work out on their own 
and in private if they have per­
sonality conflicts." 
The conflict between O'Neal 
and Bryant has been simmering 
throughout their seven seasons 
together, but their public pot­
shots have never been as person­.al as the most recent ones. 
Adding another layer of ten­
sion for the team is the publicity 
brought by the sexual assault 
charges against Bryant. 
Bryant lashed out publicly 
after Jackson declined to get in 
the middle of the fight. 
"He said: Do I want to address 
it, not calm it down, and I went 
back to him and said it's not sig­
nificant enough to comment on," 
Jackson said. "But we did have 
an exchange, and that's one 
thing I will verify." 
One member of the Lakers said 
Tuesday morning's meeting last­
ed about 20 minutes, with O'Neal 
and Bryant addressing·the team 
but not each other. The only 
other player to speak was Karl · 
Malone, the player said. 
"What we tried to do was not 
to overkill the situation," Fisher 
said. "We all know it's there, 
we're aware of it, it's not neces-


THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
~btnlt:MUSIQVE 
CoNCERT XXI: CHANTS FOR SAINTS' DAYS 
Qfl~ ~cfjofa Q:Ylusicorum 

VVED.OCT.29,2003 
9:30 PM, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
CALL (574) 6]1-6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

-
-
-

sarily going to go away just today, so we addressed it." 
Among the bombshells Bryant dropped in his comments about O'Neal was a plan to opt out of his contract at the end of this season and become a free agent -something Bryant said he frrst discussed with O'Neal out of respect. 
"If leaving the Lakers at the end of the season is what I decide, a major reason for that will be Shaq's childlike selfish­ness and jealousy," Bryant said. 
Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak said trading Bryant was not an option being consid­ered. 
Players said the rift between O'Neal and Bryant wasn't sur­prising -they've feuded before. What caught them by surprise was how quickly the feud esca­lated, coming to a head the day before the season started. 
"He [Bryant] defmitely seemed extremely frustrated," Fisher said. 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
McKeon agrees to one-year contract extension 
er good year." 

Associated Press 
He was an unknown entity to 

MIAMI -Jack McKeon got a many Marlins when he walked new car for reaching the World into their clubhouse for the first Series. IIe got a new contract for time; first baseman Derrek Lee winning it. admitted thinking that McKeon 
McKeon agreed to a one-year was a new assistant coach. But extension and will return to he quickly won the club over, manage the Florida Marlins next with his simple, straightforward season, owner Jeffrey Loria style quickly catching on among announced Tuesday during the the players quickly. team's World Series celebration. "It's awesome," pitcher 
"I have some good news and a Dontrelle Willis said after hear­little bad news. The good news is ing Tuesday's news. "I wasn't Jack is coming back," Loria said. surprised. He deserves it. We "The bad news is there's no bad wanted him back." news." McKeon became only the sec­
The sides agreed on the deal ond manager to win a World Monday night, McKeon said. Series after not beginning the 
"I always had no doubt I was season with his club. Bob Lemon coming back," said McKeon, who managed the New York Yankees refused to formally announce his to a world title after taking over intentions during the season. midway through the 1978 sea­
McKeon, 72, took over when son. manager JolT Torborg was fired Loria gave McKeon a black in May and engineered the Mercedes convertible as a gift Marlins' turnaround from last before Game 5. The car was sit­place team to World Series ting in the parking lot at Pro champions. Under McKeon. the Player Stadium when Loria got a certain style and way about nun who had many miracles eventually his father gave his Marlins posted the best record in showed it to McKeon. him that we needed to help these attributed to her -he would not blessing. baseball during the final four "Jack came in here and got the guys perform." have been in baseball. A half-century career has fol­months of the season. most out of everybody," Loria McKeon begins most days by McKeon said his father would­lowed, with this being McKeon's 
''I'm happy to come back, no said. "lie told them to leave their attending Mass. He carries a cru­n't let him sign to play as a ftrst taste of a World Series. question about it," McKeon said. egos and stats at the door and cifix and angel medallion in his teenager, insisting instead that "St. Theresa has always taken "I think they were very fair. I'm that we'd have a lot of fun. He's pocket, and says had it not been he go to college. McKeon said he pretty good care of me," McKeon looking forward to having anoth-got a lot of experience and he's for St. Theresa -a 19th-century began praying to St. Theresa and said. 

Submit to ... 


Do you have a shon story, poem, painting or photograph? Submit your work to The juggler, ND's student literary. art and de.sign rnagazirH~. and "we'll see what. t.o do with ir." ... it might appear in the Winter 200) issue! 
Please submit arcwork to Robert Sedlack in 212 Riley Hall. Supply slides for· pieces larger than I l"x 17" or 3-D work. 
Written work can be submitted to the box outside the Sdwlo.5tk office in the basement of South Dining Hall or e-mailed via attachment to juggler(~nd.edu. No entr·ies of more than 2,500 words plea.s1~. All subn,issions should include title of piece. author/artist's name and an e..rnail addr<!SS. 


I, 


Wednesday, .o.ctober 29th @ 4~00. &. ~:00 PM 
#2 Women'sSoccervs. MIChigan:4 pm #14 Volleyball YS.. DbnoiS State: 7 pm 
Come & Watch 6 ND Seniors in their last • First 1000 fans receive a limited edition ND regular season home game volleyball poster sponsored .by Famo~s Dave's 
• First 250 fans receive Free Wings (while supplies last) sponsored by Wing$, Etc. HMat<h is at Gate 10 of the JACC"' 
·h'Game is at Alumni FieJdH 

... ... ······------------·········· ·········-------················· ..,.. ...... 
Students & Staff, come to both the Women's Soccer game and the Vol!eybaH 9ame and you could win .a year's of dinner at Roadhouse and Car Washes at Drive & Shine! 
++visit 




-

~-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
NBA 

Iverson's 26 points help Philadelphia to win over'Miami 

TOKYO or NAGOYA, 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Allen Iverson always feels as if he's going to make all of his shots. When they aren't falling, the three-time NBA scoring champi­on uses that as motivation to fm­ish strong. 
"When I struggle for three quarters, all I think about is that last 12 minutes," Iverson said. 
Iverson scored 13 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter and had 11 assists as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Miami Heat 89-74 Thesday night in the season opener for both teams. 
"I jqst felt like it was my time to step up my game," said Iverson, who went 3-for-4 from 3-point range in the fourth. "My teammates had been holding the fort down the previous three quarters." 
It was the first game for new Sixers coach Randy Ayers, Larry Brown's top assistant for six sea­sons, and for Heat coach Stan Van Gundy, who was promoted last week after Pat Riley stepped down. 
Philadelphia broke the game open with a 12-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the Heat closed within three at the end of the third. 
Iverson, who shot just 4-for-17 through three quarters and missed all seven 3-point attempts, ignited the run with a nice pass to Willie Green for an alley-oop. Iverson then hit a 3­pointer from the left wing and added a driving one-handed layup from the right side. 
Green added another basket before Aaron McKie drilled a 3­pointer -a rarity in the Brown era -sending the Sixers' crowd into its first frenzy of the season and stretching the lead to 77-62. 
Hafer Alston ended the run with a 3-pointer, but Iverson countered with another 3-point­er for an 80-65 lead. The Sixers led by as many as 17 in the last quarter. 
Iverson went 9-for-25 from the floor. but was 5-for-8 in the fourth for his 50th career dou­ble-double. It was the kind of result he wanted in Ayers' first game. The two get along well, unlike Iverson's contentious rela­tionship with Brown. 
"It's not too different at all, except for the yelling and curs­ing," Iverson said, taking a good­natured swipe at Brown. 
Dwyane Wade scored 18 points 

-
in his first NBA game. Eddie Jones scored 15 points and Brian Grant added 13 for the Heat, 
M .·~.v·e·.··.. W·A\tE··· s···
i1'F'.·········· ··· .. nv·•··.· ·•.···..... 
"It was looking real ugly at the beginning but we knew we had a 48-minute game," said Carter, who finished with 10 points and six assists in his first game as a Spur. "Everybody just stayed focused and did their job." 
Marbury, who finished with 24 points, tried to isolate Carter, but the Suns point guard ~ould man­age only an awkward 18-foot jumper with about nine seconds remaining. 
Marbury got his own rebound and missed another jumper that was rebounded by the Suns' Penny Hardaway, who missed a 14-footer. 

who played all but the first eight minutes without forward Lamar Odom. Odom sprained his right ankle. X-rays were negative. 
Odom was the centerpiece of Miami's offseason overhaul, sign­ing a $65 million, six-year con­tract. Odom said he might miss up to two games. 
Kenny Thomas scored 15 points for the Sixers, who had eight turnovers to Miami's 19. 
Philadelphia led by 12 in the second quarter before Wade keyed a brief rally. Wade, the No. 5 overall pick in the draft, showed he might be able to play a role in revitalizing the fran­chise. He was 6-for-10 from the field for 14 points in the first half, but did have five-turnovers. 
San Antonio 83, Phoenix 82 

San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich insisted that after the championship rings were hand­ed out, his players would wipe last season from their memories and think only of the games ahead. 
Well, the jewelry was distrib­uted before Tuesday night's opener against Phoenix, and the Spurs seemed to forget too much too soon. 
But with time almost gone, they remembered how to win. 
Anthony Carter's offensive rebound with 28 seconds to play lifted the Spurs to an 83-82 vic­tory in a game in which San Antonio trailed by as many as 15 points in the opening minutes and led for a total of 46 seconds. 
Carter, starting in place of the injured Tony Parker, helped seal the win with his defense on Stephan Marbury on the final possession. 
.... 

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Disguised THG steroid designated illegal 
Government warns manufacturers to end sale of the controversial drug 
Associaled Press 
WASHINGTON -The newly detected steroid that is casting a 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
-Bring your gear ready to practice 
-Practice will be run. by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
-Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
r.;:::::::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-test given to athletes. 

The Filipino-American Student Organization (PASO) ifNotre Dame presents. .. 
PRINCESS EMRAIDA KIRAM 
"Being a Muslim in Christian Philippines" 
WED, OCT 29 4:15 pm 
Auditorium in the Hesburoh Center for International Studies -reception to follow-
For more information, please contact Jon~than Lorenzo at ilor:enzo(/.:Und.edu or 634-3064. 
Made possible through financial contributions from: 
shadow on Olympic and profes­sional sports is an illegal drug that may pose considerable health risks, the government 


National Federation of Fill pino-American Associations Region Ill 
Joan B. Kroc InstitutE for International Peace Studies 
Helen Kellogg Institute fur International Studies 
Center fur Social Concerns 
Fisher Hall 
Campus Minisby 
Center fur Asian Studies 
O'Neill Hall Ms. Ruby Larkin Vletnamese Student Association Department ofEast Asian Languages and Literatures Student Government Asian Intama.tional Society Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
warned Tuesday. 
THG has been sold in the guise of a dietary supplement when it is in fact a drug that Jacks federal permission for sale in this coun­try, the Food and Drug Administration said. It is a drug derived from another steroid long banned in athletics, the agency said. 
The FDA's official designation of THG as illegal, which had been anticipated since the scandal over the previously undetectable steroid emerged, puts manufac­turers on notice that the govern­ment will crack down on anyone 
caught selling it. 
It also is the strongest warning yet that using THG is risky. Anabolic steroids can have danger­ous side effects, includ­ing liver dam­age, heart dis­ease, anxiety and rage. While little is 
known about THG's specific Taylor, refuse to comment on the effects because it is new, its close scope of their investigation. chemical similarity to other well­Troubling to lawmakers is that known steroids means it poses THG apparently was sneaked the same risks, FDA Associate onto the market in the guise of a 
Commissioner John Taylor said. 
"The great­est importance is preventing exposure and trying to nip this in the bud," he said. 
U.S. drug authorities first learned about THG, or tetrahydro­gestrinone, this summer after an 
unidentified coach gave them a syringe containing it. THG appar­ently was designed specifically to be undetectable by the standard a
"The greatest importance is 
grand jury

preventing exposure and probing a trying to nip this in the California 
Jab that sells
bud." 

nutritional supplements.John Taylor Its owner 
Food and Drug Administration has denied supplying
associate commissioner 
TIIG, and federal offi­cials, includ­ing FDA's 

dietary sup­plement. It's "There's nothing to stop not a supple­
another group offolks in ment but an 
unapproved

another lab from 
drug, mak­concocting another ing any sale 
designer steroid that will or usage ille­
gal, FDA's

circumvent this FDA 
Taylor said. 

ruling." Currently, however, "There's
Joe Shoemaker 
nothing to

spokesman for Senator 
stop another 
Dick Durbin 
of 

Now armed with a test, sports organizations are scrambling to re-examine athletes and to decide what penalties to impose for THG use. Four U.S. track and field athletes have tested positive for THG, and Europe's top sprint­er has admitted taking it in nutri­tional supplements that he says he thought were allowed. 
Exactly who developed THG is unclear. Dozens of top Olympic and professional athletes have been sub­poenaed to testify before federal 
group 
folks in 
another lab 

from concocting another design­
er steroid that will circumvent 
this FDA ruling," said Joe 
Shoemaker, spokesman for Sen. 
Dick Durbin, D-Ill. 
Durbin is pushing legislation that would give FDA broader oversight over dietary supple­ments to prevent steroids from being sneaked onto the market. lie said he was unimpressed by the agency's move against TIIG and said it falls short of dealing with similar substances . 
. "It's sad that it takes a national controversy, a lawsuit and a lot of publicity to bring the FDA around to their core responsibilities," he said in an interview. 
Sens. Joseph Biden, D-Del., and Orrin Hatch, H-Utah, introduced similar legislation last week that also would outlaw steroid pre­cursors like androstenedione, popularized by baseball's Mark McGwire. 
Anabolic steroids are synthetic versions of the male hormone testosterone. Some are approved by FDA for prescription-only sale to treat certain diseases; athletes use them illegally to bulk up muscle and enhance perform­ance. 
FDA's testing of TIIG shows it was derived by simple chemical modification of gestrinone, a drug used in Europe to treat a gynecologic condition. 
It is explicitly banned by the 
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, which monitors drug use by athletes in Olympic sports. TIIG also is very closely related to trenbolone, a controlled substance used to bulk up cattle. 
THG "is a designer steroid in the truest sense," Taylor told a Senate committee. 
page 22 Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Getty 

Miami Dolphins' quarterback Brian Griese threw three touchdown passes In his replacement of 
an Injured Jay Fiedler Monday night In a 26-10 victory over the San Diego Chargers. 

-----. 

The 2004 Japan Exchange and Teaching Program 
Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan Learn about Japanese culture and people Gain international experience 
Requirements 
•
Have an excellent command of the English language 

•
Obtain abachelor's degree by July 1, 2004 

•
Be aU.S. citizen 

• 
Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year 



Applications are now available. The deadline for applying is December 5, 2003. For more information and an application contact the Consulate General of Japan in Chicago at Olympia Center. Suite 1000, 737 North Michigan Ave.• Chicago, IL 60611. Call (312) 280-0428, 
(312) 280-0434 or 1-800-INFO-JET or email: jickono@webkddi.com or jicmext@webkddi.com. The application can also be found at www.us.emb-japan.go.jp 

NFL 

Dolphins' Griese may start Sunday 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -Brian Griese's first pass went for a touch­down. His first six passes were complete. His only incomplete pass in the first half was dropped. 
With a fast start in his first start for the Miami Dolphins, Griese made it clear he wants to stay in the lineup. 
And he may. 
Coach Dave Wannstedt said Tuesday he was pleased with the way Griese sparked the Dolphins' sputtering offense in Monday night's 26-10 victory over San Diego. 
Replacing an injured Jay Fiedler, Griese threw for 192 yards and three touchdowns with no turnovers. Wannstedt said he would decide Wednesday whether to stay with Griese in Sunday's AFC showdown against the Indianapolis Colts. 
"Brian played really well," Wannstedt said. "He made good decisions, got rid of the ball and was really into the game. He was in tune to what they were doing and what we were trying to do." 
The health of the two quar­terbacks may help determine which starts Sunday. 
Fiedler, who sprained his left knee in a loss to New England on Oct. 19, dressed Monday night but was designated the No. 3 quarterback because he's still hobbled. Griese had a little swelling in his right thumb after the victory, although Wannstedt said he 
serious. 
was
Severa! comments by the coach suggested he's leaning toward making Griese's pro­motion permanent. Wannstedt said a starter knocked out of the lineup by an injury -Fiedler, for instance -isn't assured of keeping his job. 
Wannstedt said Griese releases the ball more quickly than Fiedler, an advantage once Miami's receivers adjust 

Chargers practicing in Chicago this week 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -With wildfires blanketing the area with smoke, the San Diego Chargers will fly to Champaign, Ill., on Wednesday to prepare for this weekend's game at Chicago. 
"We don't want to deal with the health risks," coach Marty Schottenheimer said Tuesday. 
The Chargers (1-6) will prac­tice indoors at UC San Diego on Wednesday. then fly to Champaign. They'll practice at the University of Illinois the rest of the week for their game against the Bears on Sunday. 
The Chargers' Monday night game against Miami was moved to Tempe, Ariz., after the city of San Diego told the NFL on Sunday the game couldn't be played at Qualcomm Stadium. The stadi­their timing. 
"You saw two or three routes where the receiver wasn't quite ready," Wannstedt said. "You put that on the receiver. He's got to anticipate it's going to be out quicker with Brian than it is with Jay." 
Wannstedt also said he expects Griese to be even bet­ter with a start under his belt. The game was his first since being sidelined during the exhibition season by a toe injury. 
"If he plays this week, you would like to believe he would be more comfortable than he was," Wannstedt said. "And it being a home game should help." 
The Dolphins (5-2) play three of their next four games in Miami, beginning with Indianapolis (6-1). 
Griese helped forge a 24-3 halftime lead with touchdown passes of 5 yards to Chris Chambers, 2 yards to James McKnight and 7 yards to Randy McMichael. He finished 20-for-29 despite having at least three passes dropped. 
"It was pretty special," Griese said. "I wanted to con­tribute to the team in som~ way, shape or form, and I had the opportunity to go out there and play. I felt great. It was exciting. On Monday night football, I don't think I could ask for anything more." 
For the Dolphins, it was the best performance by a quar­terback named Griese since at least 1980. That year Brian's father, Bob, ended his Hall of Fame career with the Dolphins. 
The younger Griese benefit­ed from good field position, thanks to three interceptions by the Dolp bins, a-nd he enjoyed excellent protection against a defense ranked 28th in the NFL. Still, the offense clicked in a way it hasn't with Fiedler. who has thrown five interceptions and just two touchdown passes in his past four games. 
urn's parking lot had become an evacuation center for peo­ple forced out of their homes by deadly wildfires. 
The Chargers were flat Monday night and lost 26-10 to the Dolphins. 
"It's surreal," Schotten­heimer said as he glanced at the yellowish-brown sky after his weekly news conference. 
In September, with Hurricane Isabel bearing down on the East Coast, the Baltimore Ravens flew to San Diego two days earlier than scheduled. 
They beat the Chargers 24­10. 
, In January 1995, unrelenting rain waterlogged the Chargers' practice fields, forc­ing them to work out in a hotel ballroom for the AFC title game. The Chargers upset the Pittsburgh Steelers, 17-13. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 CoMPILED FROtv'l. THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES Page 23 
Orflgon 
Creighton HartwiGk 
Coastal Carolina Cincinnati 
UC Santa 8arb11ra Ala. ·Birmingham Orake VIrginia Tech Col11mbta Michigan 

1 
2 3 
4 
s 
6 
• 7 8 9 10 
11 12 13 
14 
15 


around the dial 
NHL 

St. Louis Blues at Detroit Red Wings, 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Orlando Magic at New York Knicks, 8 p.m., ESPN Washington Wizards at Chicago Bulls, 
8:30 p.m., Fox Sports Cleveland Cavaliers at Sacramento Kings, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press was ferried in a convertible "I always had no doubt I think everybody knows they 
through the streaming tick­was coming back." said won't be able to keep every­
MIAMI -The loudest er tape and jersey-clad fans. McKeon, who refused to for­body, but if they keep a cheers from the tens of Keeping the team intact mally announce his inten­nucleus intact, we'll be thousands of Marlins fans means manager Jack tions during the season. happy." lined up to celebrate their McKeon will be back next When Florida won the Leaning from windows World Series champions year. He agreed to a one­title in 1997, the celebration along the start of the parade came when team owner year extension, Loria was tempered as fans route, fans threw clumps of Jeffrey Loria made a simple announced during the cele­braced for cost cutting by ticker tape while some com­promise: The team won't be bration. then-owner H. Wayne muter trains were plastered broken up. "I have some good news Huizenga. The result was a with signs declaring: "We 
With that declaration and a little bad news. The last-place fmish in 1998 and love the Marlins." Tuesday, six years of mal­good news is Jack is coming a steady decline in atten­A victory drive through content and mistrust back," Loria said. "The bad dance, which lasted until the city's Little Havana between South Florida news is there's no bad this year's surprising playoff neighborhood followed. City baseball fans and the news." run. workers shredded 2 tons of Marlins vanished. McKeon, 72, took over "In 1997 we were on top paper to serve as ticker tape 
"This is not 1997. This is when manager Jeff Torborg of the world," said Danny while banners and balloons 2003. We are not disman­was fired in May and engi­Parra, a sales representa­streamed oiT office buildings tling. Thank you," said neered the Marlins' turn­tive who brought his two along the route festooned Loria, who hoisted the around from last place team sons to Tuesday's rally. "In with freshly painted team World Series trophy as he to World Series champions. '98, we hit rock bottom. I and World Series logos. 
IN BRIEF  
-­ 
Dotson retuns to Texas to  pointing a gun at two men  passing  league's steroid policy.  
face murder charges WACO, Texas -Former Baylor basketball player Carlton Dotson was returned to Texas from  him in a car. Slaughter, a fourth-year veteran, is free on bond while prosecutors decide whether to charge him. He  Record-breakinf! fish's species misidentiffed INDIANAPOLIS -A record-break­ 
Maryland on Tuesday to face charges in the shooting death of a former teammate.  could face a felony charge of aggra­vated assault, or a misdemeanor charge of improper exhibition of a  ing bullhead catfish caught in north­western Indiana this summer isn't a record after all.  
Dotson, sitting in the back seat of an unmarked police cruiser, looked toward the floor when reporters clustered around the car outside  firearm. The men told police they drove up alongside Slaughter on a highway Sunday night and tried to comple­ That's because the fish was misidentified, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources said Tuesday.  - 
the McLennan County Jail in Waco. Dotson, 21, left Maryland early Tuesday, said prosecutor Joseph Flanagan. He was then. flown to Austin, and later driven to Waco, where Dotson will face another  ment him about his wheel rims. That's when, the men said, Slaughter rolled down his window and pointed a handgun at them. Slaughter denied showing the gun, but told police he did carry a  The 7-pounder caught in the Lake County town of Schererville was really a white catfish and nowhere near a state record for that species. The fish was caught July 13 by Ronald Moeller. He froze it and later  
arraignment and bail review hear­ing.  gun in the center console of his vehicle, authorities said. A third-round draft pick of the  took it to the DNR for identification. It turns out the experts misidenti­fied the half-thawed fish, mistaking  
Jaguars linebacker Slaughter cut after arrest JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Jacksonville linebacker T.J.  Jaguars in 2000, Slaughter started 29 games but opened this season as a ba.ckup. He had 18 tackles and one sack for the Jaguars this sea.­ its distinctive V-shaped tail as flat. "We've learned the hard way that you can't accurately identify a par­tially thawed fish." state biologist  
Slaughter was cut Tuesday, a day after he was arrested for allegedly  son. Last year, he four games for  was suspended violating the  Bob Hobertson said. "When the fish was frozen, the tail appeared nat."  

Wednesday, October 29, 2003 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Purdue players are positive after blowout loss 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue receiver Taylor Stubblefield summed up his team's 31-3 loss to Michigan rather plainly. 
"We got whupped," Stubblefield said during Tuesday's teleconference. 
The Boilermakers (6-2, 3-1 Big Ten), oddly. are taking that as a good thing as they prepare for Northwestern (4-4, 2-2) this weekend. 
The severity of the beating, which was Purdue's most lop­sided in coach Joe Tiller's seven-year tenure, meant there wasn't a single play or certain aspect of the game that would've changed the outcome, Stubblefield said. Hence, there was nothing to really obsess over after the game. 
"It was put in our face very easily that we just flat out got whupped," Stubblefield said. "It's not like in past games where we can say we didn't make a play here or there." 
Michigan dominated the game from the opening kickoff, deliv­ering a demoralizing blow to a team that came into the game on a six-game winning streak with Rose Bowl aspirations. 
Tiller said he's surprised at how well players have handled the loss. 
"I suspect the players will bounce back better than the coach will," he said. 
Tiller said he did something Monday that he rarely does ­he reviewed tape from last week's game for a second time. He didn't like what he saw. 
"I wanted to see how far off we were," Tiller said. "I thought, offensively, only four guys played winning football, the other seven did not. But we've got four games left. If guys are competitive people, they'll respond." 
The Michigan defense over­whelmed what is becoming a porous Boilermakers offensive line. The Wolverines sacked Orton seven times, just as Wisconsin did two weeks ago. 
"We had guys who fell flat on their faces," Tiller said. "Plain busted assignments. There might have been plays where [receivers] were running free behind the secondary, but if the quarterback gets stuck in the back, it's irrelevant." 
At practice Sunday, players said they were actually laughing about the loss. 
"Of course a Jot of people were mad after the game, and even during the game, looking at things and saying a lot of four-letter words," Stubblefield was quick to clarify. 
But they were able to shake it off and shift their focus to 

Hoosiers eliminated froin bowl contention 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Gerry DiNardo expects his Indiana players to keep practicing and playing hard, even in the midst of what appears another lost season. 
Three days after the Hoosiers endured perhaps their most embarrassing Joss of the year and again were mathematically eliminated from bowl contention, DiNardo walked into his weekly news conference Tuesday and said he anticipated no change in Indiana's effort. 
"These are tough times," he said. "I talk to the kids about this being an extraordinary job, and it takes extraordinary people to get it done." 
DiNardo is in his second sea­son as Indiana's coach, but many of his players have been through this scenario before. 
With four games left, Indiana (1-7, 0-4) already is assured its ninth consecutive losing season. It hasn't reached a bowl game in a decade, hasn't finished higher than fourth in the Big Ten since 
-1991 and doesn't own a winning record against any conference opponent. It's enough to make many peo­ple lose hope. DiNardo is not among that group and is doing everything he can to make sure his players aren't, either. "There's a picture frame out­side the football office that's reserved for the next bowl team," he said. "We want them to work on that. We want them to practice and play as if they will have an impact on that." Indiana's bleak season isn't about to get any easier. The Hoosiers start the final 
third of the year with a trip Saturday to No. 24 Minnesota, where it is 9-28-1 all-time. Although the Hoosiers have won nine of the last 12 meetings with the Gophers, Indiana hasn't won in Minneapolis since Oct. 2, 1993. 
After a home game against Illinois, the Hoosiers visit Penn State -a team they've never beaten -and return home to face No. 18 Purdue. 
The losing has had an impact. 
At halftime of Saturday's 35-6 loss to Ohio State, DiNardo said the locker room was as "bad as it's been all year." When players returned Sunday, DiNardo didn't see much difference. 
"It was fairly typical of a Sunday after a Joss," he said of the team's attitude. "It was pret­ty quiet." 
A win certainly would help. 
Until then, DiNardo's biggest challenge will be keeping his players' focused. 
On Thesday, he acknowledged that ifthere is a drop-off in effort -at practice or in games -he would not hesitate to change the lineup. · 
"We're going to explain the plan to them and will make them work hard in practice and make them work hard on game day," he said. "If they don't, we'll make changes. But that really not been a pn>blem with us." 
That includes quarterback Matt LoVecchio, who has strug­gled with only two touchdown passes this season. 
Backup Graeme McFarland needed just six passes to throw his _first career touchdown Saturday. 
DiNaTdo, though, reiterated Tuesday he's not about to make a quarterback switch. 

Northwestern, quarterback Kyle Orton said. 
"It's really the first time at Purdue that we've gotten beat that bad," Orton said. "It wasn't a close game, so that made it a little easier to handle. We just got beat pretty good, now it's time to move Qn." 
So far, Orton said, the players are treating the performance in Ann Arbor, Mich., as a fluke and are determined to move on and play better against the Wildcats. 
They still hold out hope for at least a share of the Big Ten title, and the loss has heightened the sense of urgency in West Lafayette. 
"With us coming off that butt­kicking in Ann Arbor, it's a time where we as a team need to come closer together," Stubblefield said. "Each individ­

ual needs to look at themselves Icon Sports and say, 'What can I do to per­Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton Is slow getting up after his form better?'" second fumble of the game In a 31-3 loss to Michigan . 

There will be no Theology on Tap programming toniaht. Theoloey on Tap will return WednesdalJ, November 12th. 
~hili side ol Leeends-­
. . .. ..... . 
....'.·.·..·..·.•.....·.··... ··.····:· ·. :· 

:·.:~··· ~10 "" 11:30pm,__ 
"'Free food, soda drhtks'""' 

--Cash bar avaiiable"' 

As em alternative, may we suaaest checkin$ out the new series The Gospel According to Bono, hosted b":J Int~rfaith. Christian Niaht Pra":Jer startina toniaht 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Coverage 
continued from page 28 
there. Ultimately, you just have to put the ball where you're told and make a tack­le if you have to do that." 
With starting kicker Nicholas Setta injured since the start of the Pittsburgh game and questionable for the game Saturday, the Irish have struggled even more on special teams. Fitzpatrick averaged only 33 yards on live punts against the Eagles Saturday and had trouble with hang time and directing 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS COUNCIL Presents 
Blak Images ''BAK TO THE BASICS'' 

November 1st, 2003 Washington Hall 
8:00-1 0:00 P.M. 
Tickets $5 @ Door Lafortune Box Office 
his punts. 
"If you don't place [the kickl. it can screw you up," Preston said. "If you plan on kicking it to the left num­bers, and all of a sudden he puts it out in the middle of the field against a great returner, it's going to cost you. 
"Initially all of your cover­age people are thinking that's where they belong, and all of a sudden, it gets where its not supposed to be, and we don't get people down there. It can hurt you, and it has kind of hurt us at the wrong times this year." 
But the Irish maintain they are committed to improving on kick coverage. Preston says his squad works on punt coverage every· day, despite the narrow two-hour prac­tice time frame allotted. 

"We practice it every day," he said. "Punt team is num­ber one in every thing we do because, as you can tell, it's cost us. The punt team is probably the quickest way to gain because of the number of opportunities you're going to get in that area to be a plus or a minus." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 28 
Brewster, named Big East Player of the Week for the third time in four weeks. 
Brewster had 36 kills on a .371 hitting percentage this past week. She also had 27 blocks, improving her blocks per game a·verage to 1. 87, which should be good enough to move her into the NCAA Division I lead. 
"We have a great blocking coach [Robin Davis]. and he has really worked with our middles to establish blocking strategies," Kinder said. "Our middles are probably two of the best blockers in the coun­
try." 
Lauren Kelbley, another sophomore, can also be credit­ed with helping create the early success of the Irish; she led the team in hitting to start the season. 
"In the beginning, Kelbley was very dominant, and peo­ple picked up on that, and the blockers started committing," Kinder said. "This left Lauren Brewster to dominate without the solid block, and she's been super consistent, so I just keep going to her." 
Kinder has been the leader of the offense ever since the Irish switched to a 5-1 offen­sive set. Kinder makes sure that she gives her hitters the chance to shine. 
"I have been trying to get in as much as possible and get extra setting reps to stay con­sistent for my hitters," Kinder said. "I've really focused on getting the middles the ball because they are consistently getting kills that helps out our efficiency a lot." 

The blockers of the Irish must continue their domi­nance tonight, as the Hedbirds return their leading hitter. Laura Doornbos, from an ankle injury after missing five matches. Doornbos is coming off a 20 kill, .379 hitting per­formance on Saturday, her second match since returning. 
However, the Irish have many weapons to use. Junior Emily Loomis has been consis­tent with her all-around efforts, as has senior Jessica Kinder. Both lead the Irish with their play on offense and defense. 
Meg Henican leads the defensive corps as the Iibera. Since switching to libero from outside hitter, she is averaging 
4.04 digs per game. 
..

The Irish will come off a strong blocking performance against Boston College, where they registered 19 team blocks, with Brewster in on 11. 
Notre Dame's 10-game win­ning streak is the first double­digit streak since an 11-game winning streak in 2000. 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@.nd.edu 
S.C. King expects her team to be one of the top two finish­
Golf 
ers. continued from page 28 As the fall season winds to a close, King describes her 16th and 20th, respectively. team's season as "the best 
Baylor University won the ever." tournament for a second year "We've moved up from being in a row with a team score of ranked 97th in the nation to 
888, edging out the University of Missouri by one stroke. 
The Irish approach their final event of the semester this weekend with the Edwin Watt/Palmetto Dunes Intercollegiate in Charleston, 
32nd in just two months. We're pretty excited," she said. 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Sala~ drops decision in championship final 
Associated Press 
KALAMAZOO, Mich. ­Notre Dame senior Alicia Salas lost 6-2. 6-2 to No. 4 Cristelle Grier of Northwestern Tuesday morning in the sin­gles final of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Midwest Championships at the West Hills Athletic Club. 
Despite the Joss, Salas gained an automatic berth to the second h~g of the collegiate tennis grand slam, the National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships to be held Nov. 6-9 in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
"Alicia played well today and had a great tournament, but Grier is playing really well right now, especially indoors," Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. 
The final pitted the top two seeds in the tournament against each other, with the favorite prevailing. Grier, a native of Surrey, England, was the top-ranked player in the Midwest Hegion a year ago. compiling a 38-7 record. including 23-0 at No. 1 sin­gles. 
By reaching the singles final, both Grier and Salas earned automatic berths to the 32­player singles draw of the National Indoor Championships. Salas is the first Irish player to gain entrance to the tournament since the 2000-01 season, when current Notre Dame assistant coach Michelle Dasso reached the semifinals when the event was contested in February. 
Salas is 11-4 this fall, with her defeats coming against the Nos. 4, 7, 8, and 27 in the nation. She has eight victories against ranked foes. 
While Salas is in the National Indoor-Champion­ships, the Irish will conclude their fall season Nov. 7-9 at the Illinois Midwest Blast. 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish need one more win for undefeated s-eason 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
The women's soccer team will look to complete the fourth undefeated regular sea­son in program history this afternoon when they take on Michigan at 4 p.m. at Alumni Field. The Irish, who now have shut out their last 10 oppo­nents, will look to make it 11 against the Wolverines, who have struggled after opening the season ranked in the top 25. 
The Irish will be looking to finish strong in their final game before beginning the first win over Notre Dame in ten meetings between the schools. In last season's con­test, Notre Dame traveled to Ann Arbor and upset the No. 13 Wolverines 1-0 on a goal from Guertin. 
In addition to their 10-game shutout streak, already a team record, the Irish will set anoth­er if they are able to ho1d Michigan under two goals. It would be the 25th straight opponent to fail to score multi­ple goals against the Irish, going back to last year's loss to BYU. The 2000 team currently shares the record of 24. 
The Irish have 
also been profi­
cient offensively.

conference tour­"Winning tomorrow 
Since allowing a nament and will would be almost a goal to Santa Clara be looking to picture perfect in late September,
collect coach the Irish have 
R a n d y ending." 
outscored their 

Waldrum's 
opponents 36-1,

200th win as a Amy Warner including 26-0 Division I 
senior forward during the current 

women's soccer coach. 
"Winning tomorrow would be almost a picture perfect ending," said senior forward Amy Warner. "The only things left would be to get the Big East Championship and national championship." 
It also will be the last regu­lar season home game for Irish seniors Warner. Vanessa Pruzinsky, Kim Carpenter and Amanda Guertin. although the team could play as many as five more games at Alumni Field during postseason play. 
The Wolverines, who stand at 6-6-6 on the season, will look to spoil all of that for the Irish by trying to earn their shutout streak. 
Warner, who scored both goals against Seton Hall Sunday, now leads the Irish with 30 points on 10 goals and 10 assists. Junior Mary Boland leads the Irish with 12 goals, while adding four assists, while sophomore Katie Thorlakson 's recent surge has earned her 25 points on eight goals and nine assists. 
Guertin has nine goals and six assists for 24 points on the season. All told, nine Irish players have at least 10 points on the season. 
While the Irish seniors hope their final game does not come until Dec. 7 in the national championship game, this after-

Shaner scores hat trick 
with third recognition 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame freshman central back Christie Shaner has received her third Big East women's soccer rookie-of-the­week award, after continuing to play a key role in the team's dominating backline play during shutout victories on Oct. 24 and 26 at Hutgers (3-0) and Seton Hall (2-0). 
Shaner -who also earned the award on Sept. 22 and Oct. 20 ­has emerged as a favorite for the Big East Bookie of the Year Award and is the league's only three-time recipient of the week­ly rookie honor. Just one other player in the Big East -Villanova defender Michelle Biehl -has received more than two weekly honors from the Big East this season, with three defensive player-of-the-week awards. Senior central defender and All-America candidate Melissa Tancredi received that award in the first two weeks of October but was held out of one game during each of the past two weeks, with Biehl picking up her third award for last week's action. 
The prep All-American helped lead last week's defensive effort as the Irish pushed their shutout streak to 10 games -fifth­longest in NCAA history -while allowing Rutgers and Seton Hall just 10 combined total shots, with one shot on goal by each, and eight combined corner kicks. She again picked up the slack in the second game of the weekend, in Tancredi's .~bsence, and con­tinues to develop as a threat with her free kicks and corners on the offensive end with assists in three straight games prior to last week. 
Shaner has played her role in Notre Dame's dominating team defense approach that has allowed just 14 opponent shots on goal during the 10-game shutout streak. The Irish have held their last 24 fall opponents to 0-1 goals, tying the team record for consecutive games without multiple goals allowed (24, in 2000). 
Notre Dame's stingy defense has led to just one deficit all sea­son (for 7:18 vs.y ASU), with no deficits in the last 16-plus games. The Irish have led for 76 percent of the minutes and trailed for just 0.4 percent, while holding those last 16 opponents to 0-3 shots on goal and 23 total oppo­nent shots on goal in that stretch. 
Shaner's defensive excellence is all the more noteworthy due to the season-long absence of injured junior All-America right back Candace Chapman and the limited play of junior Gudrun Gunnarsdottir. 


noon's game does provide "You can't describe in words them with a chance before the experience and memories they begin another postseason that have been created over to reflect back on their time in the past few years," said the Irish uniform. Warner. "The frustrations and 
joys have been amazing." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Wednesday, Oct. 2 9, 7-9 pm 
Hospitality Room, South 


Wednesday, October 29, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Br~tt 411d I w~~ <l\~+ly 4f'frD«e.\\&d by AWl ~d,.~$;,.~ U>mp«.,..'f ~~11: i..~ +c-c"',Ccrst ~lr prodvc:ts '" 
\ 
'(e_$1 ~ w• ~ld ~ooq (t~~nic 
""' _,o+ ~tl M 
\ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

I I r 
C2003 Tribuna Media Services, Inc. 
R~I~u­
r J
tCUPHIC 

A. HUG FOR HUBBY A.FTE:R A. SHOPPING
1 J I 
TRIP IS A.
www.jumble.com 

GCCO 'I'M TO Ge:r-ROCCUN 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rI J rJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

"( I I I I I J" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PRINT JERKY INDICT OPIATE Answer: Where the teen-ager ended up when he spilled the drink-ON THE CARPET 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 38 Gain weight 68 They're faster than? outstanding
1 Last call? 42 Blueprint 69 Reproachful
5 Bite at the ballpark addition words 
1 0 Berra had a 43 breath hand in it DOWN
44 Recital offering 14 "Ricochet" 1 Quarrel
45 Driving forceactor, 1991 2 Part of a plot46 Exploded15 Aegean region 3 Jury member48 Golden Fleece16 Mental flash hunter 4 Part of a rose 17 What there's no 

such thing as, 51 "Nobody doesn't 5 Groom-to-be for NASA? 6 Letter carrier's
like Lee" assignment

19 Twin country? 53 Catherine the Great, e.g. 1 New England's
20 React to yeast 
Cape_
56 One who might21 Surround ask for your 8 Agreeable 23 Served perfectly hand 9 Gus _, "Ain't25 "Not right now" 

61 Hang around We Got Fun" 26 Gully lyricist
62 Got hip?30 Chemical 10 Lose
64 Book beforeanalysis 

Nehemiah 11 Real dope33 The yoke's on 
them 65 Morning ringer 12 Josh 13 Circus
34 Actor Werner 66 Make-up artist? 
employee

35 Visited 67 Give a lewd look 
18 Low-fat 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 Bow of the 
silents 
B.:+~:-! 24 1 00-meter runners, e.g. ~.;+;:+;.;._ -=+~:+.ii+.::+i-1-:-1 26 Judicial garb 
~,;,~•,:,..&..:~;..! 27 Jump on the ice 28 Baby beef 29 Bankbook col. 31 Airline listing, 
for short 32 Juice in a 4-Down 34 "Beetle Bailey" dog 35 Winter fall 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www. ndsmcobserver. com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

36 Rights org. 47 Refrain 57 Pack animal syllables37 Hit hard 58 Monogram unit:
48 Precious stone 
Abbr.
39 Steakhouse 49 Astoundorder 59 Improvise

50 Chapel topper 
40 Feedbag morsel vocally 52 To one side
41 Expend 60 Like some54 Roe source streets45 Big gun 

55 Presidents' Day 46 A musical "B" event 63liny bit 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leam inglxwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State ______ Zip.___________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Chuck Berry, Omar Gooding, Chris Kanan, John Lithgow, Robert Reed Happy Birthday: Concentrate on discipline, hard work and your desires. Taking the easy route will be your downfall. Make decisions, accept the inevitable and then make a commitment to yourself to achieve. Your numbers: 3,9, 19,26,37,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be a take-charge person today. Meeting new 
people or expanding an idea with someone you've interested will bring about 
results. Travel if you must in order to put a deal together. HHHHH TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make changes to your investments or personal papers only if you feel comfortable doing so and not because someone else is pushing you. Not everyone will be pleased with your choices today. HHH. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You better get the OK before jumping into something that may affect the people around you. You can impress those you meet with your intellectual approach to whatever you do. Stick to what you 
know and you'll shine. HHH CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your peers will be supportive of your efforts and will lend a hand. You can make suggestions that will improve your work environment. Your determination and dedication will help you get ahead. HHH LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Starting a self-improvement project will lead to greater self-esteem. Taking the initiative to turn things around will result in a 
much brighter outlook. Keep risking-taking lo a minimum. Romance is likely to develop. HHHHH VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have trouble getting to the bottom of things at a personal level. Relatives will be reluctant to tell you the whole truth. 
Your most valued friend should be able to give you some insight. HH LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Focus on communications, learning and creativity. Use your clout to influence those in a position to help you. Turn on your chann and use your intelligence. Romance will develop if you are open to it. HHHH SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your thoughts down on paper, but don't take action just yet. Research will be necessary to find out if your ideas are financially viable. Share your knowledge and experience. HHH SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will find it difficult to control your emotions today. Be careful not to overreact. Keep your ideas under cover for now. Be smart and stay ahead. HHH CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have a lot on your plate today. If you take on a large company or government agency, you aren't likely to win. Carefully study the situation you face and you will find a loophole. HHH AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you care about will cost you money if you aren't careful. If you lend money you probably won't get it back. Your hard work and dedication will pay off, so stick to it. HHHH PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have to watch your back today. You may be disappointed in someone you thought you could trust. Don't leave it up to others to make decisions. Take a strong position. HH 
Birthday Baby: You are a creative soul: colorful, clever and caring. You have a strong sense of what does and doesn't work. You are open and honest in your dealings. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
.. 


~­
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
Page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Not so special teams 
Poor kick coverage has hurt the Irish all year long 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
The experts say special teams can make the difference in two football games on aver:. age every season. That lesson is becoming obvious to the Irish this year. 
While the kicking and return games have been adequate for

"'­
the Irish through the year, they have allowed some costly returns. 
"[Special teams] has hurt immensely. It's probably one of the biggest reasons why we're where we're at right now," said Irish assistant coach Buzz Preston, who coaches running backs but is also in charge of special teams. "Because we are giving up field position, and we're giving up big plays, and we can't afford that." 
After scoring the go-ahead touchdown with 3:32 to play in the game against Boston College last Saturday, the Irish allowed a 42-yard return on the ensuing kickoff. The Eagles returned the kick to their own 49-yard line to help set up the eventual game-win­ning 26-yard Sandra Sciortino field goal. 
"We're just not executing," Preston said. "We're not doing the things that we need to be. We're not kicking the ball real well. We're not executing the coverage scheme." 

The Eagles also returned two other kickoffs past the 35­yard line and had a 43-yard punt return against Notre Dame. Twice, it was up to Irish punter and kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick to make a touch­down saving tackle. 
"On coverage, I'm just basi­cally the safety, and I'm sup­posed to help out with any leaks in the coverage," Fitzpatrick said. "If things happen where it doesn't go the right way, I just have to be there to make the tackle." 
Yielding good field position on kicks and punts to their opponents has hurt the Irish all season. Long punt returns to inside the Irish 10-yard line set up touchdowns in both the Michigan and Pittsburgh games. 
"Special teams is such a big decider in field position," Fitzpatrick said. "Sometimes it's the punter's fault by kick­ing it in the wrong direction or too short and not giving the team enough time to get down 
see COVERAGE/page 25 

VOLLEYBALL 
Irish use blocks to do111inate 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame enters tonight's game sky high. 
The Irish are No. 1 in NCAA Division I blocks per game and are ranked No. 14, as they hope to continue a 10-game winning streak when they face Illinois State (11-12) .. 
"I think that we can win in three games," senior setter Kristen Kinder said. 
The Irish (16-2) have been led by the strong play of sopho­more middle blocker Lauren 
see STREAK/page 25 


WOMEN'S GOLF 

Talent evident at Invitational 
Nakazaki led the Irish with 
By ANNIE BRUSKY 

her 12th place finish, shoot­
Sports Writer 

ing a consistent 7 5-7 4-7 5 to end the tournament at eight­Strong finishes by several over par.
Notre Dame women golfers 
Nakazaki has had an 

over fall break at the adi­impressive start to her colle­
das/Notre Dame Fall 
giate career, finishing in the Invitational gave evidence top 12 at all of the events once again of the talent and thus far. 

potential this t~am has. 
Sophomores Katie Brophy,The team came close to Lauren Gebauer and Suzie 

meeting their expectations, Hayes and senior co-captainplacing fifth in a 14-team Shannon Byrne all placed in field with a final score of the top half and rounded out 
908. 
the score for the Irish. 

"We did well. We still have 
Freshman Stacy Brown 

a little room for improve­and junior Karen Lotta, both ment," head coach Debby competing as individuals,King said of the three-day had their best showings of tournament held in Tampa, the fall season, finishing
Fla. Freshman Noriko see GOLF/page 25 
(I) WOMEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S TENNIS NFL MLBNBA NBA
LLI 

Florida Marlins'
Miami Dolphins' 
Lakers' coach Phil

t-
(.) Michigan at Notre Cristelle Grier 76ers 89 
quarterback Brian 

manager Jack McKeon 
Jackson fined Kobe
z Dame defeats Alicia Heat 74 

Griese made a lasting 

agreed to a one-year 
Bryant an undisclosed
Salas, 6-2, 6-2 

Allen Iverson scored
a: ::5 
impression with his 

contract extension with amount for comments
= Tonight, 4 p.m. 
Salas still earns an 

13 of his 26 points in the 
three-touchdown 

the World Series the shooting guard
A win seals the fourth 
automatic bid to the fourth quarter to lead

cc 
performance Monday 
champs. 

made about center night. 
ever undefeated Irish 
Indoor championships. 

Philadelphia to the 
Shaquille O'Neill. 
season. 

victory.
a. ~ 
page 25page 26 page 19

page 22 
page 18page 20
(I) 







