
VOL. XXXVII NO 105 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

Recent nightclub deaths cause concern 

By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 
The recent tragedies at nightclubs in Chicago and Rhode Island have raised con­cern among local students and bar owners, many of whom told The Observer that their businesses lack evacuation plans. 
On Feb. 17, 21 people died and 50 more were injured at the Chicago nightspot E2 when a crowd of people rushed for the exit. The deaths were a result of the stampede of peo­ple. which started when securi­ty guards used pepper spray in an attempt to break up a fight between two women. 
Last Thursday. 97 people were killed in what has been noted as the fourth deadliest nightclub fire in the nation's history. The Station. a night­club in West Warwick, R.I., caught fire after a pyrotechnics display by the band playing ignited the paneling and low­hanging ceiling. 
In both cases, the number of people in the buildings exceed­ed their maximum capacities. which played a major role in the inaccessibility of exits. 

Owners of South Bend's most popular nightspots had varied responses regarding the recent tragedies. 
"We called the fire marshal for a courtesy check, just to make sure everything was up to par," said Chuck Hammons, owner of The Library. formerly Finnigan's Irish Pub in down­town South Bend. 
He added that everything was fine, but Hammons told "most. of the employees and regulars to use the back door in case of an emergency because most people will immediately go to the front." 
He also has installed a sprin­kler system in the bar, which is not actually required because of the size of the space. Perhaps an even more appar­ent precaution is evidenced in the nine signs posted on doors and in the bathrooms instruct-
see NIGHTCLUBS/page 4 

London students react to rising Iraq tension 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
News Writer 
LONDON 

When students studying in Notre Dame's London Program returned to their flats Sunday night from the first of their week­long travel breaks, they returned to an anxious city reeling from terror scares and massive anti­war protests. 
Beginning with the Jan. 5 arrest of four North African men accused of possessing large quantities of the deadly poison ricin in their flat, British intelli­gence and police forces have engaged in sweeping raids across the city in the past two months, including one at a city mosque where they found pro­tective suits against chemical, biological and nuclear fallout and various terrorist documents. A bomb scare evacuated Heathrow airport on Feb. 14 and a massive anti-war rally shut down much of central London on Feb. 15. 
As U.S. and British govern­ments move forward with prepa­rations for possible military engagement in Iraq, the fear of terror attacks from Iraqi sympa­thizers or al Qaeda cells at home and in the British Isles is increas­ing; both governments have issued terror alerts in the last week. And despite Notre Dame's proverbial bubble, the all too real possibility of war is on the minds of Notre Dame students. 
Junior Matt McGowcn, a politi­cal science and economics major, believes that the U.S. and Britain have made the case for war and are justified in leading a coalition force without U. N. backing. 
"I think war should be a last resort, but it has been 12 years and there is substantial evidence of Saddam's non-compliance and I think that overall justification exists for action," McGowen says. 
McGowen, who currently is serving as an intern with a British Member of Parliament, says he keeps up on current events by reading or watching the news daily, but says that not all London students share his interest in the affair. 
"There are some people that will talk about it for five hours and then there are some that don't want to talk about it at all," McGowen said. 
Junior anthropology major Juliette Hobbes said she and her flatmates watch CNN everyday, but said only half of London stu­dents discuss Iraq and few appear to be interested in pursu­ing any other type of involve­ment. 
"I don't want to do anything that would jeopardize my safety or go against my country," Hobbes said. 
Junior Program of Liberal Studies major Joe Powers was concerned that not enough stu­dents were informed about the issue. 
"We had a speaker come into class to talk aboutJust War Theory and it was frightening to 
see LONDON/page 6 

Benefit honors mother's memory 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
The second annual Ace for the Cure, a colon cancer benefit match sponsored by the Notre Dame womens tennis team. is set to take place at noon on Sunday in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Sunday's benefit match holds particular significance for senior team member Katie Cunha who founded and orga­nized the event last year in response to her own mother's diagnosis with stage-four colon cancer. 
"My mother was always so healthy, but after her diagnosis last September, she got sick very quickly," said Cunha. 
According to the American Cancer Society, colon cancer is a leader in cancer deaths, sec­ond only to lung cancer. Estimates show that one out of every 18 Americans will devel­op colon cancer in their life­time. 
"My goal was to raise aware­ness not only for colon cancer patients, but for all people who have cancer," said Cunha. 
Over Christmas Break of last year. Katie Cunha and her sis­ter, Camille, had the idea to sponsor a colon cancer aware­ness benefit in conjunction with the womens tennis team and christened it "Ace for the Cure." 
"When I first presented the idea before the administration 

last January, they really took to it," said Cunha. 
On April 7, 2002, the first­ever Ace for the Cure benefit match was held during the womens team's last home match of the season against the University of Miami. 
Katie Cunha's mom, Christine Cunha, was present at last year's event. 
"From January until April, I kept the match a secret from my mom," said Cunha. "When she finally arrived on campus. she was so surprised to see all the posters and flyers about the event. It meant so much to her." 
Christine Cunha passed away 
see BENEFIT/page 6 

DINNER BELLES 

Construction ls progressing on the new Student Center and dining hall at Saint Mary's. The new facility wlll replace the current Noble Famlly Dining Hall and house student government offices. 

Friday, February 28, 2003

page 2 The Observer . 'WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 


And in this corner 

I still remember my first encounter I with boxing. It was my freshman year, and my boyfriend of the time was fighting in the Bengal Bouts. While he did not fight until the semifinals, I went with him to watch the prelimi­naries, and I will never forget it. We walked into the dark JACC and stopped at the edge of the bleachers. My jaw nearly hit the floor as l stood there watching the fight and thought of my own boyfriend in the ring. I grabbed his arm and said, "You're not going in there! You're not going in there!" He turned to me, grinned, and said, "Yes I am," before dragging me to a front row seat. As he yelled out words of encouragement to his fellow boxers, I sat gripping the edge of my seat and flinched with every punch. As the night went on, I flinched less and relaxed more. I began to learn about technique, scoring, and judging. Of course, once it was my boyfriend in the ring, my composure went right out the window. Fortunately, he escaped the semifinals unharmed and victorious, and then went on to win a championship. I had never been more proud of him than I was that night. 
With my newfound understanding and enjoyment of boxing, I decided to join the women's boxing club the next year. Many ofmy friends and family questioned both my ability and my sanity. It turned out to be one ofthe most positive and memorable experi­ences during my years at Notre Dame. 
I am no longer dating a boxer or boxing myself, but boxing still holds a place in my heart. I have been fortu­nate enough to have the opportunity to be the photographer for the Bouts this year. It has been one ofthe most enjoyable and rewarding experiences of my life. I encourage you all to go the Bouts on Sunday afternoon, whether you have been there before or not. Go see the results of weeks of hard work and training by these young men and help them celebrate their success and accomplishments. Remember that this is part ofwhat makes Notre Dame special. and that nowhere else will you find an athletic and charity event like it. 
I'd like to say thank you to the men ofthe boxing chili, for helping those less fortunate and for giving me the opportunity to work with such a fine group this year. Thank you to the women boxers, for teaching me how to box, push myself past my limits, and letting me help you mark this year of a new tradition. And thank you to Shawn, for teaching me about boxing and giving me a respect for it. Without you, I would not be writing this. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Lisa Velte at lvelte@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for tbc highest standards of journal­ism ar "11 rimes. We do, however, recognize thar we will make mistakes. If we have made: a mistake, pl=e contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Saint Mary's sponsors interfaith  Iraq tells UN it will destroy missiles  Students open new business in LaFortune  Criticizing Notre Dame's ·alcohol policy  Updating 'Taming of the Shrew'  Looking back on the past four years  

conference 
Stu dents will attend a Muslim­Catholic conference to promote aware­ness between the two faiths. 

page 3 
Iraq agreed in principle Thursday to destroy its Al Samoud missiles two days before a 
U.N. deadline. 
page 5 
In an attempt to help students in their search for SYR gifts, two Notre Dame stu­dents have opened "The Hookup." 
page 7 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture: "The Ballinrobe Outrage: The Irish Language and tho Courts in the l\inntcenth Century" 3 p.m. at Flanner llall Boom 424 

. 
l.(!cturc: "Power, Power and Organizing: The Struggle 


for Economic Justice" 
:l p.m. at l\tcKcnna llall 
. Collegiate Jazz Festival (, p.m. at Washington llall 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Mass 

7:15 a.m. at Church ol' Loretto 

. 
Australia Questions and Answers 12 p.m. at LcMans I !all 

. 
Women of Faith Conference 2 p.m. at Stapleton Lounge 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, southern-fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped pota­toes, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, Italian rice pilaf, sliced carrots, Italian-blend vegetables 
Today's Dinner: Cherry turnovers, breadsticks, grilled pork chops, broc­coli-rice casserole, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, corn, cherry crisp, grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, California-blend vegetables, baked sweet potatoes., green beans, peas 
TODAY TONIGHT 
ex
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..: ~ 
CJ 

South Dining Hall 

The Not-So-
Senior Karen
Viewpoint 

Royal Shakespeare 
Swanson plays in
columnist John 
her final home
Litle considers the 

Company puts a 
new twist on an old 
game against Seton
possible effects the 
Hall after walking
new alcohol policy 
classic. 
may have on cam­
on her freshman 
year.
pus life. 
page 12 
page 24
page 9 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Cell phone found near Lyons 
A cellular phone was found Thursday near Lyons Hall and turned into NDSP for safekeeping. 
Student transported to hospital 
Police transported a student to St. Joseph Medial Center Thursday for treatment of a laceration sus­tained near Zahm Hall. 
Water pipe breaks in Main Building 
NDSP responded Wednesday evening to a report of a water pipe breaking in the Main Building. 
Police issue speeding ticket on Juniper 
Police issued a citation for exceeding the speed limit on Juniper Road Thursday morning. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Today's Lunch: Manicotti, cacciatore sauce, chicken fajita pizza, quiche lor­raine, chicken cordon bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, honey-glazed baked ham, Italian risotto, cut green beans, grilled vegetable plate, potatoes skins, onion Rings, szechuan beef and vegetable stir-fry 
Today's Dinner: Italian beef and macaroni, Cajun pasta sauce, red clam sauce, chicken fajita pizza, rice and black olives, baked chicken parmesan, kielbasa and sauerkraut, roast pork tenderloin, sesame-baked pollock, corn cobbettes, sauerbraten, zum zum pota­to salad 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


.3 HIGH 30 HIGH 22 HIGH 33 HIGH 24 LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 16 LOW 18 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: French fries, spaghetti, pasta, potato wedges, broc­coli, carrots, salad bar, cookies 
Today's Dinner: Salad Bar, carrots, cheese pizza, bagels, french fries, tomato soup, cake 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

*****
** .;if-HIGH 27 HIGH 33 LOW 20 LOW 10 


Atlanta 58 / 39 Boston 32 I 24 Chicago 36 / 20 Denver 34 / 19 Houston 62 / 51 Los Angeles 64 / 46 Minneapolis 30 / 16 New York 36 / 26 Philadelphia 38 / 26 Phoenix 64 / 46 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 37 / 25 Tampa 72 / 65 Washington 38 / 28 
hiday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Students organize 'Vagina Monolog·ues' 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Ediwr 
A performance of 'The Vagina Monologues" is scheduled to lake place in Hcgina Hall North Lounge at 8 p.m. Sunday. although students connected with the performance would not confirm that it was occurring and declined to comment on any mutter relating to "The Monologues." 
An advertisement on the V­Day Web site indicated the College was holding a perfor­mance but did nnt provide a date, place or time for the per­formance. Saint Mary's senior Susan Almeda is listed as the organizer but refused to com­ment. 
Lust year, students organized an unofficial reading of "The Monologues," despite possible punishment from the College's administration. However, College President Marilou Eldred did not sanction last year's performance and it appears that the adminis­lratio n will not sanction this year's performance either. 
Susan Dampeer, assistant to lhe president, said the official stance of the College is that it will not endorse a presentation of "The Vagina Monologues" through funding or facilities. Dampeer also said the Saint Mary's administration was not aware of any specific perfor­mances at Saint Mary's this year. 
''The Vagina Monologues" per­formance in 2001 was per­formed unofficially after College alumnae and the Board of Trustees voiced their disap­proval of the controversial play to the College. Despite the can­cellation students performed "The Monologues" in 2001, and Eldred demanded an apology from leaders of a campus sexual assault awareness group whom she accused of organizing the performance. 
However, students who partici­pated in last year's reading of "The Monologues" were not sanctioned and at the time Eldred said there would be no repercussions if the play was performed. According to Dampeer, students, faculty and staff are free tn gather informal­ly for a reading or performance of "The Monologues" without penalty. 
"Organizers and participants describe the mission of the per­formance as an effort to raise awareness about sexual offenses against women. Saint Mary's feels that addressing this issue is an important duty of all colleges and universities," Dampeer told The Observer last week. 
Over the past two years Saint Mary's has developed self­defense classes for students. held security forums and created a crime map and sponsored the awareness play "Sex Signals." 
Saint Mary's senior transfer student Shannon Wojcik has never seen a performance of "The Monologues" but believes such performances are essential. 
"I think creativity and art are important," Wojcik said. "I think to grow as people and as a soci­ety we need to be pushed. Sometimes we are pushed into places that make us uncomfort­able, but I think we need to be open to new experiences." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
SMC to hold interfaith conference 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Edimr 
This weekend Saint Mary's students will be participating in a Muslim-Catholic dialogue designed to increase understand­ing between the two faiths and promote discussion. The confer­ence, titled "Living as Women of Faith: A Muslim-Catholic l)ialogue," begins today and ends on Sunday and is sponsored by the College's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. 
Saint Mary's students and female junior and senior high school students arc invited to participate in the dialogue. Participants will discuss the fun­damentals of Islam and Catholicism. explore the impact of faith and culture and visit Masjid al-Noor, a local Muslim mosque, and the Church of Loretto, according to publicity for the event. 
Students and staff members from Universal School, an Islamic co-educational institution for preschool through 12th grades in Chicago will be partici­pate in the dialogue. Karen Danielson of the Universal School. will be a co-moderator of the dialogue and will also give a presentation on the prophet Muhammad. Danielson has worked on opening lines of com­munication and understanding with the Muslim community. 
"We found the need after Sept. 11 to work even mnre diligently to outreach to the community," Danielson said. 
The Archdiocese of Chicago and the Chicago Muslim commu­nity have been working together over the past 10 years, which has led to an understanding between the two communities, said Danielson. 
"I've felt that the Catholic Church has been interested building relationships for at least the last ten years," Danielson said. "After Sept. 11 having those relationships were a good step [in reducing tensions I." 
Danielson works on creating dialogues between the Muslim community and other groups, both religious and non-religious, to help build relationships. 
"l think it is very important Ito dialogue] as many Muslims have remained in an isolated commu­nity," Danielson said. 
A screening of two interfaith films on Saturday in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. will be the only part of the conference open to the general public. The films "What Do You Believe" by Feinbloom Films and "Common Grounds" by Zahra Productions will be shown. Each film's direc­tor, Sara Feinbloom and Ahmad Zahra will be at the screening to speak. Carol Mayernick. execu­tive director of United Religious Community of St. Joseph County, will also speak at the screening. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

GOP forces nominees' approval 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Senate Republicans forced committee approval of three of President Bush's judicial nominees Thursday, despite Democrat's efforts to delay action as they have delayed the high-profile nomination of Miguel Estrada to the fed­eral appellate bench. 
Democrats said Senate Judiciary Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, overrode committee rules to send U.S. 

Appeals  Court  n'ominees  
Deborah  Cook  and  John  
HEKHI PHIFER  

Roberts to the Republican­controlled Senate, despite objections that they had the right to continue holding the nominees in committee. 
Hatch said he was within his rights under committee rules to force a final vote. 
"We're not going to have filibusters in committee," said an angry Hatch at the end of a three-hour hearing in which sharp words were exchanged between himself and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
The hearing was heated at times, with Democrats at one point walking out to prevent Hatch from having enough committee members present to vote. "You may bully some but you're not going to bully me" Kennedy told Hatch. 
"You're not going to bully me either," Hatch replied later. 
For three weeks, Democrats have held up a confirmation vote on Estrada's nomination by threatening a full-blown fili­buster. 
Now Democrats are likely at least to ask for an extend­ed Senate floor debate on Roberts and Cook to protest Hatch's action, even though both got votes from Judiciary Democrats. 
CORRECTION 

In Monday's story "SMC raises tuition for third straight year," tuition increase figures were incorrectly reported. The correct tuition costs for the 2003-2004 are tuition: $21,624, student gov­ernment fee: $150, technology fee: $200, resulting in a total increase for the coming year of $547. The Observer regrets these errors. 
•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competttive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


~-~ ~ ~ , 
"'Ii• 
~ 


Friday, February 28, 2003

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
tions of fire and building codes. The city lawyer said that the
Nightclubs 
club was open in violation of 
1111 
© 1985 FUN TAN, INC. 

Un;versity Location: S.R. 23 & Ironwood 272-7653 Corner of Grape & McKinley 256-9656 Corner of Ireland & Ironwood 291-2000 
Now2111s 

In laFortune Student Center! 
For your convenience, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has nine ATMs on campus-all with no-surcharge?1' 
Hammes Bookstore Main Building Decio Hall Reckers Grace Hall Joyce Center North Dining Hall Lafortune Student Center (2) 
Plus, there's a full-service branch in LaFortune Student Center! 
'gJ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 

li;J· 1-NCUA-1 'Members of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union are not charged a surcharge when using a Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ATM LENO Fl -;J.-:=.."c;-Non-members, however, may be surchamged when using a non-campus Notre Dame f@deral Credit Union ATM. Independent of the University: 
continued from page 1 
ing people about what to do in the case of an emergency. 
Hammons also said that the maximum occupancy of The Library is 203, and he makes sure that the number of people in the club never goes much higher than that. 
The maximum occupancy of the Chicago club E2 was 750, yet New York Times reports claim that there were more than 1,500 people in the club that night. James Joyce, the commissioner of the Chicago Fire Department, told Times reporters that after some investigation, his team discov­ered only one venue of escape from the second-story building -a single staircase. 
According to the Times, the club had been ordered to close last July because of 11 viola-court order, a contention that was disputed by the owner if E2. 
Some students have ques­tioned the occupancy of local bars frequented by students. 
"There have been so many times when the bars have been so packed that you can't even move, especially Boat Club," said sophomore Greg Bost. 
When asked about the legal maximum occupancy of Boat Club, owner Mike McNetT said, "A lot, I don't know. Maybe 500." 
Yet, it's not unusual for there to be around 900 patrons on football weekends and 600 on peak nights. Boat Club has no set emergency evacuation plan, but clearing almost twice the legal limit of people "wouldn't be an issue," said McNeff. 
There is also no sprinkler system inside. "It wasn't 
required when the building was built," McNeff said. 
Like McNeff, Gary Delinski, owner of The Linebacker since 1984, had no idea what the maximum occupancy of his bar was. In the 17 years since he has been the owner, Delinski has never had to evacuate the bar. but is confident that his employees could quickly and successfully clear all patrons out of the bar in the case of an emergency. 
"We are only required to have two exits, but we have four total. After the tragedies in Chicago and Rhode Island, I got all the bouncers and employees together to discuss the emergency plan," Delinski said. 
Jason Zolman, a manager at Corby's Irish Pub said that the occupancy never goes much above its 250-person limit and that they have installed a sprinkler system in case of fire, but that there is no definite emergency plan in etTect. 
"We're really not big enough. We don't have to worry about it," Zolman said. 
And while Coach's Sports Bar has three emergency exits that are lit up during the evening, there is no emergency evacua­tion plan at this point or signs posted on the walls with direc­tions as to where to go in the case of an emergency, manag­er Byron Sigh confirmed. 
Nightclubs are not required by law to have emergency evacuation plans, but they must be inspected yearly before they can renew their liquor license. All owners and managers interviewed claimed that they have never had received any violations from the fire marshal -just sugges­tions for improvement. 
"I never really thought about my safety before, but now I wonder if there is something that the inspectors have missed," Bosl said. 

In the past two decades, building and fire code laws have become more expansive, and the instance of nightclub tragedies has dropped from 1,369 in 1980 to 500 in 1999 as a result. The new emphasis on limiting maximum occupan­cy, increasing the reliability of fire alarms and the addition of sprinkler systems and battery­operated exit signs at all major exits have played a major role in reducing the incidence of tragedies significantly. But stu­dents said these improvements don't necessarily make up for the fact that many inspections only catch a glimpse of what the condition of a nightclub is, especially at peak times like football weekends. 
"When some of the bars get so overcrowded, I have no idea how everyone could get out if anything happened," Bos! said. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 

Submit v.ritten e11tries to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall or email them to juggler@nd.edu. No entries of more than 2.500 words. please. Submit artwork to Robert Sedlack in 2.1 2 Riley Hall. Supply slides for 3-0 work or pieces larger than 11" x 17". 
PHARMACY DEPARTMENT 
Now Open 24 HOURS 

CVS/pharmacy~ 
2210 E. Edison Road South Bend 
574-472-3233 
. 1 l , , r ,_ , : 1 . · 1 cJ • : r ' cl 

WORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Iraq to destroy missiles, position special forces 
cials said, speaking on condi­Associated Pres• tion of anonymity. In a letter to Blix on UNITED NA TIO NS Thursday, Iraq agreed "in prin­
Iraq agreed in principle ciple" to destroy its Al Samoud Thursday to destroy its Al 2 missiles, which were found to Samoud 2 missiles, two days have a range exceeding the 93­bofore a U.N. deadline. Word of mile limit set by the Security the agreemenl came as chief Council at the end of the 1991 weapons inspector Hans Blix Persian Gulf War. said Baghdad's disarmament But it wasn't immediately efforts had been "very limited clear whether Iraq's letter, so far." obtained by The Associated 
The mixed signals were likely Press, constituted an uncondi­to provide ammunition to sup­tional acceptance and whether por tcrs and opponents of a Iraq would meet the Saturday quick war to disarm Iraq. Tho deadline to begin the destruc­two sides failed to reach agree­tion, as Blix has ordered. ment on key issues du ring a Iraq asked Blix to dispatch a heated and bitter discussion in technical team to discuss the the Security Council on "framework and timetable" for Thursday. carrying out the order, but 
The council debate came as Blix's deputy was already in the U.S. military buildup for Baghdad to oversee the war exceeded 200,000 troops in destruction. The letter was the Persian Gulf region on delivered three days after Thursday. Saddam indicated in an inter­
The United States is seeking view with CBS anchor Dan Turkish permission for a north­Rather that he would not ern front against Iraq, but destroy the missiles because in Turkey's governing party, fac­his view they do not exceed the Agence f-ranee Presse 
ing strong public opposition to a 93-mile limit. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein meets with aides In Baghdad Thursday. Iraq announced plans to war, delayed a vote to allow in Iraq maintains some of the 
destroy Its Al Samoud 2 missiles, which exceed the 93-mile range limit set by the UN. 
more than 60,000 U.S. soldiers. missiles overshot the limit Justice and Devl:'lopment Party because they were tested with­consideration the scientific facts At the United Nations, diplo­The United States and Britain leaders called for parliament to out warheads or guidance sys­regarding the issue." mats said privately that the lack are pushing a resolution that take up the issue on Saturday. tems. In the letter, from by Blix told reporters earlier this of consensus and tone of the would open the door for war, 
Inside Iraq, Saddam Hussein Iraqi Lt. Gen. Amer al-Saadi, week that the missile issue debate Thursday were demor­while Russia, China and France was moving some of his best­Baghdad said it still believes would be a key test of Iraq's alizing, but many held out hope are calling for continued trained forces into new posi­"that the decision to destroy cooperation with a U.N. order for compromise among the weapons inspections and a tions, Bush administration offi-was unjust and did not take into to disarm. council's five major powers. diplomatic end to the crisis. 

Witness says Blake offered him $10,000 murder deal 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A veteran Hollywood stuntman testified Thursday that Robert Blake offered him $10,000 to "pop" Bonny Lee Bakley and suggested a restaurant among various sites for carrying out the killing. 
Gary McLarty is among key prosecution witnesses who say the star of the 1970s TV show "Baretta" solicited the murder of his wife. 
He testified during the second day of a preliminary hearing to determine whether the 69-year-old actor and his former bodyguard will stand trial in Bakley's slaying outside a restaurant in May 2001. 
Blake, gaunt and hollow-eyed, appeared to stumble leaving court for a midday break. Superior Court Judge Lloyd Nash told Blake that sheriff's deputies indicated he looked "wobbly" and asked if he was able to continue. 
"No, I'm fine," Blake replied. "I just, I'm in ... I've waited 11 months to get here, sir, and I'm not going anyplace. The jail has taken enough blood to fill a battle­ship. If they could find anything wrong I'm sure they would, sir. I'm all right. I promise you I'm all right, sir." 
McLarty, who is in his 60s, said he met Blake two or three months before Bakley's killing, thinking it was about a movie job. Instead, they drove to Blake's home where the actor asked him if he could get a gun silencer and then showed him a handgun in a zippered bag. 
Blake was complaining about a woman he had impregnated and was trying to get money out of him, McLarty said. The actor showed him a back house on the property where she stayed, and pointed out how someone could sneak in an open door, go up the stairs and "pop her," the stuntman said. 
He said they then went for a walk in the neighborhood and Blake suggested the restaurant scenario. 
"It was to go out and eat dinner one night, then he would go back to the car and leave, that would give someone the time to go up there and dispose of her that way and then come back to the car," he said. 
The prosecutor asked if Blake used the word "dispose." 

"Most of the time he used the word pop," McLarty replied. He said the walk ended when his hip began hurting from an old motorcycle injury and he could not go any farther. 
Bakley, the 44-year-old mother of Blake's daughter Rose, was shot as she sat in the couple's car near Blake's favorite restaurant, Vitello's. Blake claims he left her there to return to the restaurant to retrieve a gun he had left behind, then came back to find her mor­tally wounded. 
Blake made pained expressions during some of the testimony and at one point whispered to his attorney, Thomas Mesereau Jr., and shook his head while McLarty was on the stand. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China affirms life sentence for activist: 
A Chinese court on Friday upheld a life prison term for U.S.-based dissident Wang Bingzhang on spying and terrorism charges, his defense lawyer said. The ruling by the Guangdong Provincial High People's Court ends the appeals process for Wang and no further legal challenges to his Feb. 9 conviction are allowed, said lawyer Wen Chao. Wang, 55, was arrested after police said they found him tied up in a temple in southern China on July 3. 
Russian gov't workers protest low pay: 
Underpaid teachers, doctors and other state employ­ees across Russia rallied Thursday to demand the higher wages and to block proposed reforms they fear will deprive them of their already limited finan­cial security. A few thousand protesters gathered in Moscow in front of the federal Cabinet building, blowing whistles and carrying signs with slogans such as "Give the Cabinet a teacher's salary!" 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
WTC design features 1,776-foot spire: 
A spire that would rise hundreds of feet higher than the World Trade Center was chosen Thursday to fill the yawning hole in the city's skyline, opening a complex new phase in the rebuilding of ground zero. The plan by architect Daniel Libeskind will restore "lower Manhattan to its rightful place in the world." Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. The design calls for a cluster of glassy, angled buildings and a 1.776-foot spire filled with gardens instead of office space. It would preserve part of the pit that was the foundation of the twin towers for an as-yet unde­signed memorial to the nearly 2,800 people who died there Sept. 11. "The plan succeeds both when it rises into the sky and when it descends into the ground. In doing so, it captures the soaring opti­mism of our city and honors the eternal spirit of our fallen heroes," said John Whitehead, chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corp., the agency that picked the design. 
NASA emails foreshadowed Columbia: In the days before the Columbia disaster, NASA and contractor engineers explored the possibility that the shuttle had been fatally damaged on liftoff and precisely predicted some of the symptoms that the orbiter showed on re-entry. But despite their explorations, which they called "what-if!ing," they were never convinced that the shuttle had a seri­ous problem. 
Kanai says he is looking for bin Laden: 
Afghan President Hamid Karzai said Thursday he is not convinced that Osama bin Laden is alive, but he wishes the al-Qaida leader would appear to answer for his actions -"to God and to mankind." During a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington, Karzai said he doubts the authenticity of recent audiotapes in which some­one said to be bin Laden tries to rally Iraqis and expresses a desire to die a martyr. 
Friday, February 28, 2003

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Benefit 
continued from page 1 
this August. after losing her struggle with colon cancer. 
"I decided to sponsor Ace for the Cure once again this year to remember and to honor my mother's memory," said Cunha. 
While tickets were sold for last year's benefit match, this Sunday's Ace for the Cure is free admission for all to attend. 
"While donations are gladly accepted, it is not about the money. We really want to focus on raising awareness about colon cancer and all other can­cers throughout the local com­munity," said Cunha. 
Cunha has been working in cooperation with local radio sta­tions such as U93 and 8100 to promote the benefit match throughout the entire South Bend-Mishawaka area. 
Children from the Memorial Pediatric Oncology Unit and their families will be present at Sunday's benefit match. 
Cunha is hopeful that this year's donation will exceed the $7,000 contribution that result­ed from last year's Ace for the Cure. All proceeds from the event will be donated to the Lance Armstrong Foundation, which "exists to enhance the quality of life for those living with, through and beyond can­cer" by providing various sup­port services to cancer sur­vivors. 
"It was an amazing event last year with a huge turnout," said Jay Louderback, coach of the Notre Dame womens tennis team. "Katie put in a lot time into the event this year and we're looking forward to anoth­er great match. The University of Texas is a competitive team, usually ranked in the top 10, and it should a great match to come out for." 
During Sunday's Ace for the Cure, a variety of prizes will be raffied off, including gift certifi­cates to local restaurants and businesses and Notre Dame ath­letic apparel. The first 100 hun­dred fans to arrive will receive an Ace for the Cure T-shirt. 
Katie Cunha's family, includ­ing her dad, sister, brother and grandfather, wm be on campus for Sunday's match. 
Christina Cepero contributed to this report. 

Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 
London 
continued from page 1 
hear how few of the kids in the 
class knew what [about it]," 
Powers said. 
Powers said he feels that it is important for London students to be informed about the situa­tion in Iraq because it could affect their safety in London. The student residence is located in an area with a high concen­tration of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa. London has a small but active community of Islamic funda­mentalists who have allegedly fostered the likes of shoe bomber Richard Reid, suspected 20th Sept. 11 hijacker Zacarias Moussaoui and the controversial Muslim cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza. 
Powers, who does not support the war initiatives because he believes that they will only cause more problems than they can hope to solve, said that he and a number of other students had recently been accosted on a bus by a North African man. Powers said that he is cautious about where he goes and who is around him in London, because he is concerned that he may be singled out as an American. 
Hobbes, who is in favor of war, said that she used to share Powers' concerns but now feels that Londoners are equally wary of each other, though when traveling in Europe she sewed a Canadian flag to her backpack and pretended to be Canadian out of concern over anti-American sentiments in Europe. 
In general, students said that they were more worried that a war in Iraq would provoke a retaliatory terrorist attacks in London than be direct targets themselves. 
"I think war may result in a heightened potential for terror­ism here, but I don't think the outbreak of war will have any direct effect on us as such ... Our concern is more ongoing terrorism than war," Canon Paul Bradshaw, director of undergraduate students in London, said. 
Bradshaw, who has been the head executive of the London Program for the past six years, pointed out that the program has had experience dealing with periods of international and domestic turmoil such as the Gulf War in 1991 and terrorist bombings by the Irish Republican Army in the mid­90s. 
Bradshaw also denied rumors that Notre Dame would send 
Got news? 
students home or prohibit travel if there was a terrorist attack in London. He said the program had not made any definite plans 
Call Helena at in the case of threats to student safety, but would handle situa­tions on a case-by-case basis 
631-5323.
with the students' welfare as its top priority. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
ND 
6 

in1 


Ct,I•11.er 

Decorate your own mask with sequins, 
feathers,  and beads for the upcoming  
holiday!  
Friday,  February  2 8 ,  2003  
9:00pm  11:00pm  I in  the  

LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/.....sao/crafting 

THE BEST KEPT SECRET ... 
PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS · 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00 2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00 
NOW RENTING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
9MONTH SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONfH TO MONfH LEASES LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME ON BUS LINE 
LAUNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL, FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS SPACIOUS 1 & 2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINf HEALTH CLUB VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY 
MON-FRI 9:00AM -6:00PM SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM SUNDAY 10:00AM -4:00PM 
3001 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 574-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 
-----~--------------­
O
THE 

BusiENEss 
Friday, February 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch February 27 
DowJones 

7,884.99 +78.01
~ 
N4SDAQ 

1,323.94  +26.20  
S&P500  
837.28  +9.72  
AMFX  

828.20 +l.38 
NYSE 

4,693.53 +39.55
~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MIOU5CfT CCRP (!"6FT) -0.08 -0.02 23.58 
r~lim:!l::Ji~lliii1;11111lill1liill:1!1:~!illi!l~I 
CISCO SYSTEMS (C:IJJ) +1. 78 +0. 24 13. 75 
:!~~:: 
Sfffi 005T SER (SPY) +1. 32 +1.10 84. 34 
IN BRIEF 

Japan's jobless jump in January: 
Japan's unemployment rate hit a record high 5.5 percent in January for the third time in half a year as the nation battles seri­ous job losses in the retail and restaurant business. 
The data Friday from the government's Labor Force Statistics Office highlight the dismal labor market in the world's second largest economy at a time companies are squeezing costs and debts stringently. 
The government also released revised fig­ures for the past two years that did little to change the overall picture for Japan's stag­nant economy. 
The nation's unemployment rate first hit 
5.5 percent in August 2002 -the highest since the government began keeping track in the 1950s. 
Geneva sues U.S. accounting giant: 
A Swiss state sued accounting firm Ernst & Young Thursday for 3 billion Swiss francs ($2.2 billion) in damages over the way it audited the Geneva Cantonal Bank. 
The claim is based on the findings of a yearlong study by another leading account­Ing firm which found "serious failures in its work," said Robert Cramer, acting cantonal president of the canton of Geneva. 
"These actions were extremely damaging for the state," Cramer said. Geneva -the majority shareholder in the bank -was forced to set aside 2.7 billion francs in its 2000 budget to bolster the bank's finances. 
Mortgage rates slide to record low: 
For the third time this year, weekly rates on 30-year mortgages have reached a new low. 
The average interest rate on 30-year, fixed­rate mortgages dropped to 5.79 percent, Freddie Mac, tho mortgage company, report­ed Thursday in its latest nationwide survey. The previous low rate was last week's 5.84 percent, and before that it was the rate of 
5.85 percent for the week ending Jan. 3. 
SYR shop opens for business 
• "Hook-Up" to offer unique, low-priced gifts 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Two Notre name sopho­mores promise io ease gift shopping for dorm dances by bringing the presents closer to the consumer for less than $10. 
The Hook-Up, a non-profit store that sells gift mer­chandise, opens today in Lafortune Student Center's Dooley Room on the first floor. 
"I've been seeing the need for more unique items," said Steve Dick, a marketing and psychology major who manages the store with accounting major Mike lselin. 
Until the end of the 
semester, The Hook-Up will 
be open every Friday from 4 
to 8 p.m., offering assorted 
items from colorful picture 
frames to fireman helmets. 
The idea for The Hook-Up came after Dick saw a need for students to have a con­venient way to obtain the traditional gift for dorm dances. 
"I have this drawer of just crazy stuff and before an SYR ("Screw Your Roommate" hall dance]. people would come running lselin said he and Dick future depending on the items online from The down and say. 'Steve, do had to show a list of their plan and how it follows Hook-Up at you have a gift for me?"' inventory to Student University policy. www.nd.edu/-miselin/hook 
He and lselin decided to Activities as well as assure "It's a case-by-case basis," up. enter a contest in the the Office that their busi­Coughlin said. Profits from the store will Entrepreneurs Club's incu­ness would in no way com­Dick and Iselin both said go toward the Newell Hill bator program to encourage pete with others in the they hope to apply to re­Music Foundation, which student business ventures. Huddle or the Hammes open the store for next teaches art and music to 
Since Notre Dame policy's Bookstore. school year. underprivileged children. restrict student businesses, "It's pushing the limits of For now, Dick will head The Hook-Up is one of two the Entrepreneurs Club has a lot of policies that are in The Hook-Up's advertising not-for-profit businesses out worked with the Office of place," said Brian Coughlin, and work on inventory and of the 50 that applied to the Student Activities and the director of Student the Web site with lselin, incubator program. Gigot Center for Activities, adding that the who is also in charge of Entrepreneurial Studies for Office would be open to accounting. Contact Helena Payne at the 10-week project. approving the store in the Students can pre-order Payne.30@nd.edu 

Oprah joins ranks of billionaires 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

While many of the world's richest people saw their fortunes shrink again in the last year, Oprah Winfrey's grew enough to put her on Forbes magazine's list of billion­aires -the first black woman to join the ranks. 
Bill Gates leads the list for the 9th straight year, but the Microsoft co­founder's net worth fell 23 percent from a year ago to $40.7 billion. Investment guru Warren Buffett remained in second place with $30.5 billion, a 13 percent drop from last year. 
Gates' personal wealth, much of it in company stock, has diminished by 60 percent since April 1998, when it briefly reached $100 bil­lion. His worst year was 1999, when it plunged by a third as the government pursued an antitrust case against Microsoft. Forbes notes he is also the world's biggest giver, donating $1 billion annually to charity, largely to vaccine research. 
Meanwhile, Oprah's media empire grew steadily stronger, and she made the list this year with a net worth of $1 billion. Her debut comes just two years after Black Entertainment Television founder Robert Johnson became the first black billionaire. 
Membership in the exclusive club fell by 21 this year to 476, the third year of declines since the economy weakened and stock markets start­ed falling. The group's combined wealth also fell to $1.4 trillion from $1.54 trillion last year. 
"You see the poor economies wreaking havoc on their finances like everyone else. They're not immune," said Louisa Kroll, who edited Forbes' March billionaires issue, which hits newsstands Friday. 
The 222 Americans on the list hold 47 percent of the group's wealth. But U.S. billionaires collec­tiyely lost $98 billion last year. Of the 67 billionaires who left the list, there were 30 Americans, including media mogul Barry Diller, venture capitalist Vinod Khosla and Sid Bass, a member of one of Texas' wealthiest families. 

Four of last year's billionaires were wiped out entirely -Swiss shareholder activist Martin Ebner. German media tycoon Leo Kirch, Brazilian television mogul Roberto Marinho and Turkish banker Mehmet Karamehmet. 
A fifth. Swiss businessman Klaus 
J. Jacobs, gave it all away. Another whose net worth plummeted was Canadian cable magnate Andre Chagnon, who donated nearly his entire fortune to help fight disease and obesity among children. 
Germany's 43 billionaires are led by retailers Theo and Karl Albrecht, who remained comfort­ably in third place with a combined net worth of $25.6 billion, down from $26.8 billion last year. 
Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen held fourth place with a net worth of $20.1 billion, down from $25.2 billion. Saudi Arabia's Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Alsaud, Citigroup's largest individual investor, moved up to the fifth spot with a $17.7 billion fortune. 

I I • 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 28, 2003 
SOUTH KOREA 
U.S., N. Korea war games grow co111plicated 
Associated Press 
CHICHON 

A sudden North Korean attack is often the la.st thing that goes through the mind of Sgt. Cavason Sutton before he drifts off to sleep. 
"I think about it every night ... what if they bomb me?" the 21-year-old Montana native said. 
Thursday provided a sober­ing wake-up call as he and 3,000 other U.S. Army soldiers slugged through war games within cannon range of North Korea just a day after the communist country warned its citizens to prepare for war. 
His Bradley fighting vehicle tore through a muddy creek just fine. But it drove only halfway into a clearing before mock enemy fire rained down and military referees declared his armored vehicle blown to bits and Sutton "dead." 
"It makes everything more real," Sutton said. 
The war games, part of annual maneuvers. were just a prelude to what's in store. Next month, the United States and South Korea are planning massive joint military exercis­es billed as boosting defenses against "external aggression." 
The United States, which bases 37,000 troops in South Korea as a deterrent against the North. says the maneuvers are not related to new con­brutal fight in the hills that cerns about North Korea. we're seeing around us right 
But they come at a sensitive now," he said. time, when North Korea is Some in South Korea agree locked in a global standoff with the North that the upcom­over its suspected nuclear ing war games are ill-timed. weapons program. The North "If we cancel the drills, it Korean government. which would be a good message to almost daily accuses the North Korea that we are will­United States of planning an ing to solve the problem in a invasion, routinely condemns more diplomatic way," said the drills as "escalating the Paik Haksoon, a North Korea military threat" and aggravat­expert at the Sejong Institute, ing tension on the divided a think tank outside Seoul. "As Korean for any kind Peninsula. of drill or 
Underlining "'Our intent is to be good war game. its concern, they will use
enough at this that the 
North Korea it as an
guys up North decide not
predicted excuse for Wednesday to play... stepping up that North• the pressure Korea could on America."
Danlel Bolger
be the U.S. In previous
United States Colonel
military's days, North next target Korea has after a war done just in Iraq and urged its people to that -lashing out at two brace for attack. alleged incursions by U.S. spy 
Brig. Gen. Jim A. Coggin, planes. who commanded Thursday's North Korea regularly makes maneuvers, said they had such accusations. And during nothing to do with the recent a 1993-94 nuclear crisis in the tensions. But. he said, the peninsula, North Korea put its standoff "has contributed in a 1.1 million-member military. positive way" to morale the world's fifth-largest, on because it "reminds soldiers war footing. lt also moved why they're over here." much of its population into 
He acknowledged, however, underground shelters. that Thursday's training Tensions have run high since grounds could be tomorrow's October, when the United battlefields if diplomacy fails. States said North Korea admit­"It would be a very close and ted having a secret nuclear program. North Korea is demanding that Washington sign a nonaggression treaty guaranteeing it won't attack. The United States refuses to do so until North Korea gives up its atomic ambitions. 
The 1950-53 Korean War ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty, leaving the peninsula still technically in a state of war. The border is the world's most heavily armed, with most of the nearly 2 mil­Iion troops of both sides deployed nearby. 
On Thursday, the U.S. prac­ticed to make sure that border stays there. 
Possible invasion routes through a mountain pass were obscured with smoke screens as armored vehicles and battle tanks rumbled up and down hills to the thunderous booms of simulated explosions. Camouflaged troops rushed for cover under the rattle of machine guns. 
At the end of the day, the narrow valley floor between two wooded mountainsides lay strewn with "bombed-out" vehicJes stuck in the mud. 
Col. Daniel Bolger, who helped supervise the games, denied they were a provoca­tion. "We're developing the skills we need to protect this peninsula," he said. "Our intent is to be good enough at this that the guys up North decide not to play." 
Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631­5323. 


Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Fred Rogers of 'Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood' dies of cancer 
Associated Press ations of people who grew up specialist. watching him in mourning. Ile An ordained Presbyterian PITTSBURG II was 74. minister. Rogers produced the 
Day after day for more than His low-key, low-tech public show at Pittsburgh public televi­three decades, Fred Hogers put television show refused to fol­sion station WQED beginning in on a zip-up cardigan and low its louder, more animated 1966, going national two years sneakers and gently invited mil­competition. It presented later. The final episode was lions of children to be his neigh­Rogers as one adult in an taped in December 2000 and bor. increasingly busy world who aired in August 2001, though 
He never wavered in his mis­always had time to listen to PBS affiliates continued to sion -using "Mister Rogers' children. broadcast old episodes. Neighborhood" as a way to per­"What a loss to the world. He Rogers opened each episode suade young television viewers talked to kids at the ages of 4 to in a set made to look like a to love and feel more secure in 6 about feelings. That's the age comfortable living room, their world. when they begin to realize they singing, "It's a beautiful day in 
Rogers died Thursday after a have an effect on their world," the neighborhood" He com­bout with stomach cancer at his said Dr. T. Berry Brazelton, an posed his own songs for the Pittsburgh home, leaving gener-author and child development show. 
CHEERLEADING 
Tryouts 
/1~for1nal INFORMATION Meeting 
Wednesday, March 19,2003 --5:30 pm Joyce Center Gym 2 -Above Gate 10 
:. ;._ .-../J: ~ ..:J.... ~~~~~{~::: .. ~il-.s::~~ 
::i 

Ask Questions 
.:i ·
l\ileet this year's cheer team membe 
::i 

Everyone welcome 
..J 

Guys -No prior cheerleading experience required -Clinics start 3/20/03 Gym 2 ­Joyce Center ..JTryouts 4/ 12/03 
=-".', 
----· ·---­

DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES 
Harrison Hagan Schmitt 
Geologist, pilot, administrator, businessman, writer, U.S. senator, and astronaut 
To the Moon and Beyond! 
Monday, March 3, 2003 12:50 to 1:40 p.m. OeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 
One of his sweaters hangs in the Smithsonian Institution. 
He would talk to viewers in a slow. quiet voice and introduce them to other characters and to guests such as cellist Yo-Yo Ma and trumpeter Wyn ton Marsalis. Then he would take his audience on a magical trol­ley ride into the Neighborhood of Make-Believe, where puppet creations -including X the Owl, King Friday XIII and Daniel Striped Tiger -would interact with each other and adults. 
Rogers did much of the pup­pet work. 
On Thursday, staff at Family Communications Inc., which produced the show. brought bouquets of flowers left outside WQED and placed them on the set next to King Friday's castle. 
"He was not an actor. People would ask us, 'What is Mr. Rogers really like?' The thing was, he was the same," said family spokesman David Newell, who played Mr. Mcfeely on the show. 
The show won four Emmys, and Hogers won another for lifetime achievement. He received a Peabody Award in 1993 and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in July 2002. 
In April 2002, President Bush invited Rogers to help launch a reading program. When Rogers entered the room with no intro­duction, spontaneous applause erupted. 
Rogers hushed the audience, asking for 10 seconds of silence to "think about anyone who has loved you and wanted the best for you." 

Hogers was born in Latrobe, 30 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. Early in his career, he was an unseen puppeteer in "The Children's Corner," a local show he helped start at WQED in 1954. In seven years of unscripted, live television, he developed many of the puppets he used later. 
He studied early childhood development at the University of Pittsburgh and was ordained in 1963 with a charge to continue his work with children and fam­ilies through 'television. That same year, Hogers accepted an offer to develop "Misterogers." his own 15-minute show, for the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. 
He brought the show back to Pittsburgh in 1966, incorporat­ing segments of' the CBC show into a new series distributed by the Eastern Educational Network to cities including Boston, Philadelphia and Washington. 
In 1968, "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood" began distribu­tion across the country through National Educational Television, which later became the Public Broadcasting Service. 
Through the years, Hogers dealt with topics ranging from anger and anxiety to death and divorce. He taught children how to share and even why they shouldn't fear taking a bath by assuring them they would never go down the drain. 

O
THl: 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 28, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarlcy 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR> Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler, Marc Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEIi ADMiNiSTRATOR, Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER> Michael Flanagan 

CONTACT Us 
Orncr MANAGERIGENERAl. INFO..... ········631-7471 FAX..............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..............,......................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VTEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obmvtr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom r,garding Obmverpolicie, ,hould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarfey. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oluef\ler(USPS 599 240) LI published Mond.ay through 1:rid..y ro:cp, Ju.ring C".lam uid vacation p<"riodl. A,uhscripr:ion to TM' Obsc,vcr i, SIOO for one academic yc:ar: SSS for one 5eftlnier, 
The Observer if published. at: l'OSTMASl1!k 02-4 Sourh Dining Hall Send .1Jd,c,.1 wr~cion1 tn: Norn: Dame, IN 46S56 The Ob.crvcr 
P.O. RoxQ Pniodical f'OIC8CC paid at Notre Dame Norrc Da.mc, IN 46556-0779 .1ml .adJi,iotul mUli11g ufftca 
The Ohicr.-er it a mrmhcr ofrh~ As:sodafbi Pt-Cl', Al! reproduccinn righr,-~e 
n;:i;crv~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Teresa Fralish Joe Trombello Matt Bramanti 
Viewpoint 

Teresa Fralish Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 

Chris Naidus 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Matt Lozar Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Chip Marks 

University should support public women's bouts next year 
Watching 12 women spar in six exhibition bouts this request the University should proudly honor. week sure beats playing kickball or watching "The Though the club was founded in 1997, previous club Godfather." presidents believed they would be ''pushing their luck" to 
When women boxers entered the ring at the Joyce request University support for public bouts. Instead the Center, they fought for gender equality at Notre Dame in a women trained intensely and sparred privately in "the pit" way that could never be planned by student government, of the Joyce Center. Before they heard their first starting as the aforementioned events were in an bell, the women's team acted as behind-the­attempt to honor of the 30th anniversary of 0 15he scenes supporters of the men's Bengal Bouts, women at the University. server al a tournament that raises thousands of dollars 
Instead, the women's bouts were initiated annually for the Holy Cross Missions in by a proposal Women's Boxing Club Co~ l! Bangladesh. Presidents Shelley Skiba and Laura Young Now that Skiba and Young have led 12 wrote and pushed through RecSports earlier women through the ropes and fought the first this winter. But these women, and another 100-some round, the team has proven their athletic skills in addition members of the club, have only fought the first round. to their dedication to the missionaries' cause. Women, too, Next year the women have said they hope to not only can fight passionately, technically, tirelessly -and hopeful­exhibit their skills before the men's Bengal Bouts, but ly soon, competitively. instead compete in their own public tournament -a And they could have dominated at kickball, too. 
Edit-:on• 

Thanks Father Poorman 
Last year Father Mark Poorman this result is acceptable. Anything things that have happened off campus imposed his will on our campus soci­that happens to a student off campus, this year. I am saying that they creat­ety, and whether or not student gov­in the nearby neighborhoods whose ed the environment where something ernment or students in general feel poverty the University has sought to terrible was going to happen. like it is their time to take issue, I feel hide and ignore, is no longer the legal Whether it be the consistent mug­it is mine. I could liability of Notre Dame. To alumni gings off campus, in our parking lots, drone on and on and collegiate review groups and to even on our campus itself or some­
John Litle
about the oncom­his peers, Poorman appears a suc­thing worse, Notre Dame is sending ing death of cam-cess. The policy has improved the her youngest and most inexperienced pus dances or image of the University, lowering on­out into a dangerous, desperate whine about a Frankly campus drinking incident statistics neighborhood without the slightest lack of hard alco­Obnoxious hol. but truth be told, neither both­ers me -I'm not a good dancer and I drink whatever I want regardless. 
What I think is more important is the change in campus atmosphere and what terrible results that change may have brought about. First. last year many a student howled about how they would be driven off campus by the policy and how on-campus social life would change. Poorman shot back with statistics on students moving off campus. The students were right in the end of course -I'm not biased -the culture did change. No longer is there the daily thump of bass pulsing through Alumni Hall. I don't walk past Morrissey on my way to D6 and see lights flashing in the windows anymore. Dillon Hall, the largest dorm on campus, might have 19 seniors next year, if it's lucky. 
What I do see are large amounts of underclassmen -essentially my whole dorm -evacuating campus of myself and those around me anyone interested in a collegial every weekend to drink. I can't blame heading off campus to party on a cold debate to his email address, them; it's not just the rules, it's the day in the middle of winter would jlitle@nd.edu. His column normally attitude. The overwhelming stench of have been substantially less than it is runs every other Thursday. the restrictions suffocates the social today and has been all year. The views expressed in this column 
atmosphere. It's akin to the thick I'm not saying that Poorman's are those of the author and not neces­ethanol scent on an already cold and shortsighted policy ambitions and his sarily those of The Observer. drab winter day -it drives everyone disregard for the effect they would inside, or in this case, off campus. have on student life are directly 
For proponents of Poorman's policy. responsible for any of the terrible 

NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a war with Iraq? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 346 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The credit belongs to the man who is 
actually in the arena ... and who, at the worst, ifhe fails, at least fails while • daring greatly, so that his place shall 
never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat." 
Theodore Roosevelt former U.S. President 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Friday, February 28, 2003 page 11 
Reflecting on an ND life 
Nothing can be more devastating than the early end of' a promising life. 
And so it was confirmed on Feb. 12 that Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon's body was found floating in the St. Joseph River. Here the eternal question confronts and con­founds the Notre Dame Gary Caruso community. Why must it be? 
Why must the life ofan 

Capitol
amenable, friendly, young 
Comments 
man, moved by a love of Notre Dame,, lighted on his way to high hopes be brought to an untimely end with his dreams unre­alized? Chad's fellow Fi5her Hall and section dor­mmatcs who knew him best must be left bewil­dered and perplexed. Perhaps Chad's life, too short, shut off too soon, was set forth expressly for those who shared a moment with Chad at Notre · Dame. 
Most high school and college yearbooks cont.a.in student photographs placed as memorials to a life cut short. Too ollen, though, we allow time to gradually dull our memories until the life repre­sented by those memorials becomes sealed within those pages. Men ofFisher Hall who knew Chad well, permanently burn your memories now. 
Chad is the child that every Notre Dame parent sends to campus. His service to those around him and his love of the University community is that uniquely intangible aspect of Notre Dame that can only be fell on campus. His life is the epitome of every student who wandered on campus from 1842 until today. 
Ilis smile is every 3 a.m. talk session among roommatp,.s filled with jokes, pranks and old fash­ioned shenanigans. His spirit is the same that sup­posedly walks Washington Hall, and his fatigue is that ofevery student during finals week. 
Those of us who are mere ghosts ofanother time on campus continue to live in the blood ofthe bricks. Once we pass through Notre Dame, our heartaches and triumphs are soon forgotten. Yet we know who Chad represents because we have had the opportunity to reflect on what once was ours and remains so vividly portrayed as in "A Christmas Carol." We were once Chad but did not realize it until aft.er our exodus from campus. 
During our time on campus, we fought against a new alcohol policy, proposed revising dining hall food plans, explored the possibility ofchanging parietal regulations and pursued the feasibility of coeducational dormitories. The football and-bas­ketball teams were national powers, student park­ing needed expanding and campus life needed more events so students could better socialize. Profes.sors piled homework upon homework, and nobody slept dwing exam weeks. 
Those who are employed by Notre Dame usually share a sense ofcommunity and enjoyment while on the job. Administrative staff maintain the conti­nuity and stability of the bureaucratic procp,.ss_ Professors banter academic theory with young minds who bring unexpected surprises and pleas­ant personalities to the classroom. 
St.aif, including those who deal with discipline like AssL.:;tant Vice President for Student Affairs Bill Kirk or deal with regulation enforcement like Notre Dame Security Police Chief Rex Rakow. share the bond that comes from tl1c campus com­munity. Both men, while acting through their offi­cial University capacities, gave of themselves to find Chad and comfort his family. l11ey are but the cWTent custodians ofhistorical positions that are a part of the campus community who care for the welfare ofstudents. 
The Notre Dame student experience is a four­year cycle that rotates each year. Faces on cam­pus remain constant; only the names and seasons change. That is the bond we share without directly knowing each other. That is the spirit that makes Chad our brother. 
For those of you on campus whose anointed time is now, note that Chad is your look into the mirror. A piece of him resides in each ofus who have known life at Notre Drune. He gave laughter from a good heart so that we could laugh. He gave to others so that we may give to one another. 
Chad Sharon, voted most likely to succeed in high school. will forever be a young college fresh­man. Seize the moment to appreciate your moment at Notre Dame and those with whom you socialize. And use Chad Sharon's life as your model. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame class of1973, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His col­umn appears every other Friday. Contact him at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Support the Bouts 
Sunday, 22 Notre Dame students are going to mix it up. Punches will be thrown and noses bloodied, but don't be too worried about it. At the end of it, the students will embrace better friends than when it began. 
One of the greatest traditions on the Notre Dame campus, the Bengal Bouts, will culminate with 11 exhilarating final matches. 
The Bouts are an offshoot ofKnute Rockne's boxing program that under the management of Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano took on a charitable goal. They have been a fixture on this campus for 73 years and send as much as $75,000 annually to our brothers and sisters in Bangladesh. There are plenty of reasons to attend the last night of I.he Bengal Bouts. Come to hear the outrageous nick­names people come up with. Watch your friend, roommate or significant other in competition and out ofsupport for his six weeks of hard work. See a sport I.hat isn't in the mainstream on its purest amateur level. But most importantly, come to sup­port the Bangladeshi family offive that can live for two weeks off the proceeds ofyour $10 stu­dent ticket. 
One of the beauties of the Bengal Bouts is the unpredictable outcome. '11:tls year. there are an unprecedented number of boxers making their debut in the finals. First year boxers Andrew Groebner, PauJ Hanis, Alex Fergus, Charlie Gough. Bill Wuest, Juan Diego Vargas and Darryl Burton are competing in the Joyce Center Arena for the first time. Seniors, come for your last tour­nament to watch Wuest, Groebner, Shawn Newburg, Oay Cosse, Tom Pierce, John Lynk, Rob Joyce, Jon Valenzuela, Steve Keppel, Chris Pearsall and Ryan Duffey pour their hearts on in the ring for the final time. But no matter who you are rooting for, come in support ofthe Holy Cross priests who work so hard to improve the lives of an impoverished people halfa world away. 
This weekend's bouts promise to deliver a thrilling experience as championship titles are defended while new ones are sought. Having studied for six weeks under the tutelage of alumni coaches Terry Johnson and Tom Suddes, they are eager to showcase their talents for the communi­ty. On behalfofthe coaches, managers and stu­dent captains, please consider this your cordial invite to Sunday's Bengal Bouts Finals. 
We invite you to cheer for the fighter who takes his licks for a less fortunate kid in Bangladesh. We invite you to study the veteran who boxes with precision for the student learning the fundamen­tals of math and science at Notre Daine College in Dhaka. We invite you to grimace for the young man spilling his blood to fill the mouths of chil­dren he will never know. At the end ofthe night, we invite you to put your hands together for the fighters who fought a brave battle, not just against each other, but against Bangladeshi poverty. 
Shawn Newburg OayCosse 
co-presidcno; Notre Dame Boxing Club Fcb.28 

What we should do 
About two weeks ago, in the wee hours of the morning, four armed Cuban border guards seeking asylum sailed their "warship" into Key West. Fla., its Cuban flag still flying, docked at the Hyatt Marina Resort Hotel and wandered through the street.:; of the city until they finally found a police officer to surrender to. Just nine days before, Homeland 
Security Secretary Tom Ridge, speaking in Miami, warned that "one slip, one gap, one vengeful person can threaten the lives of our citizens at any time." Does Ridge not know how porous our borders are? Did he not know about the 232 Haitian migrants who were only detected when their boat ran aground off the Richenbacker Causeway joining downtown 


Miami with Key Biscayne? Jim Sterba 
In his recent address to the U.N. Security 
Council, Colin Powell brandished a small vial of simulated anthrax ­
the real kind we sold to Saddam Hussein in the 1980s when we consid­
ered him a useful ally-claiming that just such an amount of anthrax 
was sufficient to shut down the U.S. Senate. But surely Powell knows 
that about 350,000 foreigners enter the United States illegally each 
year. presumably some of whom could be bribed to carry such vials to 
the American heartland if an individual. group or a nation was bent on 
attacking us in that way. 

Surely Powell must know that the. entire U.S. Coast Guard is no larg­
er than New York City's police department, leaving much of our shore 
unprotected. Vulnerable as we are, it is hard to believe that an attack 
on Iraq, especially one that proceeds without U.N. Security Council 
approval. would not be more likely to provoke, rather than prevent, the 
use of weapons of mass destruction against us. 
But isn't it an important goal to bring democracy to Iraq, the country 
that has suffered so much under Saddam Hussein's rule? If the United 
States is so concerned to bring democracy to the region, why didn't we 
help establish a democracy in Kuwait after the GulfWar, or why don't 
we promote democracy in Saudi Arabia or Egypt or other countries 
where we have considerable influence? And if we are so interested in 
promoting democracy, why have we told the Kurds in Northern Iraq to 
give up on the idea of a federation with Baghdad, and why have we 
apparently agreed to allow the Turks, a hated enemy of the Kurds, to 
follow United States forces into Northern lraq? In 1997-99 the Turks, 
with a large infusion of U.S. weapons, killed tens of thousands of Kurds 
in their own country, driving 2 million of them from the devastated 
countryside. From our own actions, it seems that we are not much 
interested in promoting democracy in the Middle East. 
So what then should we be doing? First, we need to give the U.N. inspectors more time to continue to produce results. According to Hans Blix, the previous inspectors, working under far less favorable condi­tions, destroyed more weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -before the United States pulled the inspectors out of Iraq -than were destroyed during the first Gulf War. But that inspection process had taken time, far more time than the three months of the current inspec­tion process to date. 
Second, we need to enforce all U.N. Security Council resolutions, not just the 17 against Iraq. There are about 31 against Israel. mostly in connection with the West Bank and Gaza Strip, land that Israel occu­pied after the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, and there are 23 resolutions against Turkey, in connection with its occupation of Cyprus. Both of these countries are in blatant violation ofU.N. Security Council Resolutions, and yet, they still receive vast amounts of U.S. aid and weaponry. We definitely need to be more even-handed with respect to our support for the enforcement ofU.N. resolutions. 
Third, we need to project a more just foreign policy. For starters, there are a number of international treaties and conventions -the Kyoto Climate-Change Treaty, the Treaty Banning Land-Mines and the Rome Treaty for the establishment of an International Criminal Court -that the United States has failed to sign for reasons that seem simply to favor U.S. special interests at the expense of international justice or what would be of benefit to the world community as a whole. The fact that the United States -which constitutes 4 percent of the world's population -while using 25 percent of its energy resources refuses to sign the Kyoto climate-change treaty and make the cuts in its energy consumption that virtually all other nations judge to be fair, makes it in this regard look something like an outlaw nation to the world commu­nity. So we must do better in projecting the image of a just society. 
Lastly, it is important to recognize that George W. Bush can still be re-elected (or maybe just elected for the first time) despite the wretched state of the U.S. economy, even ifwe don't go to war against Iraq. With the presence of U.S. forces in the region. the U.N. inspectors may be able to uncover-to everyone's satisfaction -all the remnants of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction. Some of these forces could then be deployed as a buffer between Israel and Palestinian territories, enforcing a return to the 1967 borders. With these accomplishments, Bush might even receive tho Nobel Peace Prize. 
So no one really needs a war against Iraq, and certainly no such war can be morally justified at the present time. In addition, projecting a more peaceful image of the United States trying to do justice in the world in the ways I have suggested could turn out to be the best defense we have against attacks directed against our own people. 
Jim Sterba is a philosophy professor at Notre Dame and fellow ofthe Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


us 

page 12 Friday, February 28, 2003 
Holography lights up gallery 
Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary :S features 9 leading women artists 
By COLLEEN BARRETT 
Scene Writer 
Tonight, Saint Mary's will welcome its new exhibition, "Leading Lights: Women in Holography," to the Moreau Art Galleries. 
The exhibition features the work of nine artists from a cross section of nationalities and backgrounds. Each uses holography as her primary means of visual expression, though they all dis­play different styles and techniques. A unique feature about the exhibit is that all of the artists are women. 
"Women have been pioneers in the field ofholography. They have made sig­nificant contributions to the art and development of the medium," said Doug Tyler, a professor in the Department of Arts Visiting Arts Program. He is the organizer and curator of the exhibition and its associated activities. Tyler 
Photo courtesy of Doug Tyler, Saint Mary's 

brought the exhibit to Saint Mary's 
The Moreau Art Gallerles features a movement In art called holography, where artists use an understanding of physics 
because it is a women's college, and he 
to create holograms using various lights and lasers.
wanted to stress the critical role that women have played in the evolution of holography. attached to your body. The brain reads 
"A widely held stereotype of technolo­patterns of light to let you know that it gy is that it is largely the domain of men, is there." a world in which the male gender excels The artists in holography have a com­in understanding and application," Tyler plete understanding of the physics said. The introduction of both photogra. behind their work, such as the proper­phy and holography have opened the ties of lights and lasers. They use this way for women to excel in artistic ven­understanding to create holograms that ues that utilize technology. Tyler called "phenomenal." 
"Holography is a three-dimensional "They may not be as sophisticated as image that stores information about the what we are used to seeing in films and total subject or the object being record­in stories," he said, "but the images 
ed," said Tyler. The artists record a pat­have such a unique property. You really tern of information from an object and have to experience them first-hand. It is reconstruct that same pattern using a little bit of a shocker when you see 
lasers, which are .highly organized and how vivid the images really are." allow the artists to produce a high quali­In conjunction with the exhibition, ty image. Saint Mary's welcomes Margaret 
"Hold out your hand," said Tyler. Benyon, as its second artist-in-resi­"Without looking at it, you wouldn't dence for the 2002-03 academic year. know it was there except that it is Benyon began exploring the use o( 
holography in art in the early 1960's and her work has brought her recogni­tion around the world. Two years ago, she was awarded a Member of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth. Benyon presented a lecture about her work in holography and participated in a gallery conversation. The artist will also be present at the exhibition open­ing today from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Moreau Art Galleries. 
Tyler hopes that by bring the exhibit to the communities of Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross, people will gain an appreciation for the art. 'The medium itself is· extraordinarily rich in opportunity. It presents to the visual artist a means to express herself in a very contemporary way." 
He also wanls the communities to appreciate the contributions of women to the field. "These women have demonstrated a clear visionary strength, a quality which this curator feels defines them as 'Leading Lights,"' Tyler said. 
The exhibit will be showing until Mar. 
14. Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday to Friday, and 1 to 3 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu 





page 2 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 28, 2003 
125-pounds 

vs. ··:\, ~i" 
\;,:::,·....,...·"i::~ 
·:, 
•,i,.,i 
SHAWN NEWBURG JON VALENZUELA 
PICKS Senior captain Shawn Newburg goes for his third title Sunday against sophomore Jon LUKE BUSAM Valenzuela. Newburg looked impressive in his semifinal fight against Brian Faist as his fast
Newburg 

hands and lead hooks led him to a unanimous decision win. Valenzuela won a split decision, but
JOE HETTLER 

took a few shots from Sung Hoon Kim WednesdayNewburg night and Newburg's quickness may exploit MATT LOZAR Valenzuela's low left and open stance. Newburg prefers a more defensive, counter­
Newburg 

punching style that will match up well with LISA VELTE Valenzuela's tendency to lead with looping right hooks. This match-up will be one of the better
Newburg 

fights of the night and tardiness will be regretted. 
155-pounds 

VS. 

COLIN KERRIGAN STEVE KEPPEL 
Colin Kerrigan has battled his way over taller fight­
PICKS 

ers twice in the tournament, attacking the body well and gaining victory. Steve Keppel has attacked every 
LUKE BUSAM 

part of every opponent he has faced this year, brawl­Kerrigan ing his way to the finals. Keppel will be aggressive once again and Kerrigan 
JOE HETTLER 

may have a hard time attacking his body, yet finding Kerrigan openings in a strong defense is what earned Kerrigan his spot in the finals. Keppel has never been hesitant 
MATT LOZAR 

to throw plenty of punches and Kerrigan faces a dif­Keppel ferent fighter than he had in the past. LISA VELTE Neither fighter was seeded to make it this far, but both have proved they are more than ready to be in 
Keppel 

the finals and their styles should be compatible in this fight. 
180-pounds 

• 
,(..;\. 
vs. . .. 
. 
. 
-~ '-: _.. 
<, . ' 
.,. ~''.•'
'·· .•· 
'-<, ,,i' [ 
,t 
~~·­
CHRIS PEARSALL ANDREW GROEBNER 
Both 180-pound finalists won close victories
PICKS 

over talented fighters in Wednesday's semifinal round. Chris Pearsall out-gunned the No. 1 seed
LUKE BUSAM 

Tommy Demko and Andrew Groebner's power
Pearsall 

pushed him past the combo-throwing Larry Rooney.
JOE HETTLER 

Pearsall's one-two combos and patience in thePearsall ring are his best assets and few fighters have MATT LOZAR been able to respond well to his offense. Groebner's strength and powerful right could be
Pearsall a major factor in this bout. LISA VELTE If Pearsall moves as well as he did in his pre­1iminary match, Groebner will have trouble
Pearsall 

landing a big punch. 
140-pounds 

vs. 


TONY HOLLOWELL BILL WUEST 
. . 

Junior captain Tony Hollowell is looking for his sec­
PICKS 

ond title this year, but will have to cut down the taller Bill Wuest in order to achieve it. Wuest's hard jabs
LUKE BUSAM 

ended his semifinal fight early, but Hollowell has
Hollowell 

shown that he is able to take a punch or two over the years.
JOE HETTLER 

Wuest will have to be consistent with his jabHollowell Sunday because Hollowell will not stop attacking. Hollowell will be the aggressor in this one and if he
MATT LOZAR 

gets inside early, Wuest may be in trouble. Hollowell Hollowell's lead left may not be as effective on the taller Wuest, but the former champion should have
LISA VELTE 

little trouble scoring punches. 
Hollowell 
160-pounds 

VS. 


MARK DESPLINTER TOM PIERCE 
Mark DeSplinter has been the Lennox Lewis of
PICKS 

this year's Bengal Bouts, jabbing his way to victory and forcing his opponents to conform to his techni­
LUKE BUSAM 

cal style. However, senior captain Tom Pierce hasPierce been the pre-prison Mike Tyson of the bouts, level­ing both his opponents before the end of the first
JOE HETTLER 

round. Pierce Pierce will have to use his feet to keep DeSplinter where he wants him and close fast to avoid the
MATT LOZAR 

sticking jab. If DeSplinter gets caught in a brawl forPierce even a few seconds he may take his place on the mat next to Pierce's other opponents.
LISA VELTE 

This is the mosi stylistically diverse fight of the 
Pierce 

finals and neither boxer will be eager to conform to the other's technique. 
190-pounds 

vs. 


JOHN LYNK WILLIAM ZIZIC 
John Lynk has rarely met an opponent he
PICKS 

couldn't drop to the mat, but Will Zizic is one of them. Lynk beat Zizic in last year's semifinals by
LUKE BUSAM 

a unanimous decision, but Zizic is a new fighterLynk this year who advanced to the finals with rela­tive ease.
JOE HETTLER 

Zizic is extremely powerful, but Lynk's ability Lynk to throw and take a punch combined with his uncanny speed for a man his size will be hard to
MATT LOZAR 

overcome. There will be some serious punchesLynk given and taken in this bout and each fighter could see some time on the mat if his defense
LISA VELTE 
fails.
Lynk 

Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
ISO-pounds

145-pounds 



vs.
vs. 



JUAN DIEGO VARGAS BRANDON GASSER
PAUL HARRIS RYAN DUFFEY 
Paul Harris overcame a reach advantage in his nar­
PICKS 

row victory over lop seed Luke Dillon and will have to do so again to beat Ryan Duffey. Expect Harris to
LUKE BUSAM 

charge Duffey early and often in this match. 
Duffey Duffey needs to rely on his reach advantage and footwork to pick off the mobile Harris with his jab. 
JOE HETTLER 

Neither fighter has experienced the two-minute Harris rounds of the finals before, but Duffey has more over­all ring experience than Harris and that will work to
MATT LOZAR 

his advantage. Harris Harris threw a lot of punches in the semifinals and if he is more accurate Sunday. Dutfey's defense will
USA VELTE 

have to be near perfect. If Duffey stands his ground
Duffey 

and relies on his jab he will be in good shape. 
165-pounds 

vs. 

CHARLIE GOUGH ALEX FERGUS 
Don't look away for long during this fight because
PICKS 

Juan Diego Vargas and Brandon Gasser will keep the punches corning until the final bell. One of their
LUKE BUSAM 

many anticipated exchanges could turn the match inVargas seconds. Vargas and Gasser have both boxed and brawled well, varying their styles to meet their oppo­
JOE HETTLER 

nents and it will be interesting to see the nature ofVargas Sunday's fight. Vargas' hands may be a bit faster, but Gasser's
MATT LOZAR 

one-two's have been straight and accurate the entire Vargas tournament. Gasser will find success if can keep a bit of distance between himself and Vargas, but this is
USA VELTE 

something no fighter has been able to do thus far. 
Vargas 
170-pounds 

vs. 


CLAYCOSSE ROB JOYCE 
Rob Joyce is so comfortable in the ring that he
PICKS 

appears nonchalant at times, dismissing the advances of opponents with a perfectly placed counter or a
LUKE BUSAM 

quick dodge. Clay Cosse, however, punches through Joyce every second of his bouts as if it were his last. This is a matchup of the top seeds in this weight
JOE HETTLER 

class and a bout showcasing two of the most talented Cosse fighters this year. Clay will no doubt come out firing and may give up a
MATT LOZAR 

bit of defense with his hooks that Joyce is capable of Cosse capitalizing on. Both Joyce and Clay have had note­worthy performances in past finals. Joyce lost to Mark
LISA VELTE 

Criniti in 2001 and Cosse fell to Chris Matassa in 2002,
Cosse both of which were fights of the year. This matchup also has the potential to become a Bengal Bouts leg­end. 
73rd ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS 
. Date: Sunday, March 2, 2003 
. Time: 2 p.m. 

. Location: Joyce Center 
Defending 2002 Champions 
Shawn Newburg -125-pound 
Mark DeSplinter -160-pound 
John Lynk -190-pound 
Fight Previews by Luke Busam Photos by Lisa Velte 
PICKS 
LUKE BUSAM 
Fergus 
JOE HETTLER 
Gough 
MATT LOZAR 
Fergus 
LISA VELTE 
Gough 

Alex Fergus hasn't appeared to have much trou­ble in this year's tournament, but Charlie Gough has shown that he can trouble even the most tal­ented of fighters. Gough had a huge performance Wednesday night against Pat Dillon, coming on hard in the final rounds to beat the captain. 
Fergus has moved better in the ring than most boxers and stays composed when in trouble. Gough may be a bit stronger, but Fergus' footwork easily compensates. If Fergus stays mobile and keeps his guard up, he will find success. 
HEAVYWEIGHT vs. 



DARRYL BURTON STEFAN BOROVINA 
PICKS 
LUKE BUSAM 
Borovina 
JOE HETTLER 
Burton 
MATT LOZAR 
Borovina 
LISA VELTE 
Borovina 

Stefan Borovina will not be able to avenge his loss to Carlos Abeyta last year, but he can still pick up his first title. Borovina looked strong and moved well in his semifinal win over Ben O'Connor that was called 40 seconds into the final round. 
Borovina has no small challenge ahead of him in sophomore Darryl Burton who dismissed the former champ Abeyta in the semis. Borovina is smaller, but makes up for the pound difference in speed and technique. 
However, anything can happen with punches as hard as these two throw and Stefan will need his footwork the whole match to avoid the big right of Burton. 
page4 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 28, 2003 
Boxing, Newburg a perfect fit 
was just so exhilarating and
. Captain seeks 

inspirational. This is coachthird title in 4 [Tom] Suddes' specialty," Newburg said. "Every year he
years 

leads us in a practice where 
we do a thousand pushups.
By LUKE BUSAM 

Ever since that practice coach 
Sports W rirer 

Suddes has been a role model for me." Newburg provided his own
Sometimes it seems the 

exhilarating moments that
involvements that define a year as he fought his wayperson's life choose the per­through the 120-pound divi­

son rather than the individual 

sion and earned a split deci­
selecting the activity. A defin­

sion victory over Jamesing trait will attach itself to 
Fishburne in the finals. 
someone, dominate his per­

"Freshman year was an
sonality and quickly become a 

awesome final. J was just a 
necessary partner. 

snot nose kid that didn't even
For Shawn Newburg that really know anything about 

necessary partner is boxing. 

the program yet," Newburg
Boxing fits Newburg. 

said. "I was the first fight, ·as
Like many Bengal Bouts 

usual, and we were about halfcaptains, he was chosen in an an hour late starting so I was
unassuming way. A simple 

getting pretty anxious. Then Iflier grabbed his attention and 
[found] out that Muhammad 
a welcoming table at activities 

Ali is showing up and that'snight hooked 
why we're
him in, filling waiting. So in

the void that "I had won one fight and Observer File Photo
he comes and 
many high Shawn Newburg delivers a right hook to Jason McMahon during last year's final In the 125­
then there I was boxing then the
school ath­pound division. Newburg won the fight In a spllt decision. 
in front ofthe greatest lights go out
letes feel and I get in

when they ever [Muhammad Ali} ... 
the ring. cess stems in large part from rather be in the ring." and fans. I am especiallybegin college. 
"I had won his consistent form through While he works the corners thankful to my girlfriend who"I was a lit• Shawn Newburg one fight and the years. Newburg employs a to help the other boxers and has been so supportive
tie disap­

captain then there I defensive, counterpunching cut down his eagerness, when through the last couple years
pointed that 

was boxing in technique that many boxers in Newburg is in of boxing."
there wasn't 

front of the the program strive for, but the ring, he Boxing has
a wrestling 'Tm a pretty passionate 
greatest ever. That was a few achieve with success. keeps a tun­always been
team or anything at Notre 

great moment." ''I'm a more defensive boxer nel -eyed person about pretty much more than
Dame until I saw a flier for 

Newburg's sophomore year usually, and I fight really focus. just a way to
boxing," Newburg said. everything that I do, so
ended with a tough loss to quick," Newburg said. "I'm "I have a rit­pass the time

That flier quickly led this gives me an
Camilo Rueda, his first and lucky enough to have pretty ual that I for Newburg,Newburg to his first champi­only defeat in Bengal Bouts. quick hands and can get away always get in opportunity to be as it is for allonship at the end of his fresh­"It's pretty hard to lose. You with fighting defensively and Bengal Bouts
man season. But before run­the ring and passionate about a great 
just put in so much work over still having a good counter go through all boxers.
ning to a championship, he 

the preceding time and then offense." of the specifics cause. "I am a
walked to practice to learn 

to get beat makes you really His quick hands and near of my fight. I better personthe basics. 
question your sanity," perfect footwork have frus­picture the Shawn Newburg because of
"I remember the novice sea­Newburg said. "Then you trated his opponents, many of other guy and boxing,"

son pretty well, in particular captain
remember that the program is whom use bigger looping what he's Newburg
doing a jab drill with [current 

about so much more than the hooks and a brawling style doing and said. ''I'm a
senior captain] John Lynk ­tournament that you accept that sacrifices defense. what I want to do for the pretty passionate personhe's huge," Newburg said. "I the loss and look forward to "I also try to always fight three rounds," Newburg said. about pretty much everything

must have hit him about 10 

the next smarter than "I go to the corner between that I do, so this gives me antimes before he finally hit me 
with a jab, but it seems like I year." "/ also try to always fight my oppo­rounds and everything and opportunity to be passionate
The n e n t , " 
can still feel it. He knocked next smarter than my just try to make it as close to about a great cause." me pretty good." y e a r , Newburg the actual fight as possible." Bengal Bouts chose Fortunately the 125-pound Newburg's opponent." said. "Coach His pre-fight routine is a Newburg, as it has chosen so 
s

Newburg never faced the 190-junior year, S u d d e small glimpse of the determi­many and led him to great­
brought more always says nation that has led Newburg ness in the ring.
pound Lynk in the tourna­wins and a Shawn Newburg the first rule 
to the finals every year. Whilement, as it would have been a 

second cham­captain of boxing is 
in the ring he is rarely chal­
bit of a mismatch for him. 

pionship. 'Don't get 
lenged and never flustered.
Despite the pain he felt from Newburg won hit.' I take His hands held high and strik­Lynk's jab, the pain from a 

his semifinal fight over that to heart and fight very 
ing quickly, his feet constantly
yearly Bengal Bouts ritual 

Derrick Bravo and the final technically and always try to 
made Newburg even more sliding over the canvas, and Contact Luke Busam at 
over Jason McMahon. With box so I score more points 
his defense lbusam@nd.edu
dedicated. two championships and three than my opponent." 
being one of"I still remember the first finals appearances, Newburg Newburg is one of the most 

the best in

time we did a thousand was one of the most successful experienced boxers on the Bengal Boutspushups in one practice. It fighters on the team. His sue-team this year, yet because of 
all testify to
the small his undyingnumber of 
focus.
fighters in his 
Newburg'sweight class, 
journey withhe has only boxing has
stepped 
been a glori­
through the 
ous one and
ropes seven as hetimes in the 
approachestournament. 
Although he is the final fight used to wait­
of his Notre ing until the Dame career, semifinals to he paused to 
get in the ring, remember Newburg the people admits he who have would prefer helped him more fights. along the 
"It's kind of way. annoying "I am very because I want grateful to to get in the my mom and ring and family and fight," he said. friends," "I get anxious Newburg

... 
so I work the said. "I also 

corners and want to ObServer File Photo 
help out other thank the Camlll Rueda drills Shawn Newburg In the face 
Shawn Newburg follows through after !anding a right hook against Jimmy 
guys, but I coaches, cap­Camm defeated Newburg In 2001 by unani­Flshboume during his freshman year. Newburg won the fight In a spllt decision. much tains, boxers
would mous decision. 




THE 
OBSERVER 


Friday, February 28, 2003 page 13 
Shakespeare in the 70s 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company updates 'Taming of the Shrew' 
Eyerman). and Bianca's father (Dan
By KC KENNEY 
Hoople) who has declared that no one 
Scene Writer 
may court Bianca until her older sister is married first. This seems easyWhen a classic Shakespearean mas­enough until the arrival of the eternally lerpiece opens with "Play That Funky ill-tempered Katherine (ElizabethMusic White Boy," you know you're in Grams), making it quickly clear why no 
for a comedy of special degree. With the one has made a move. Lucentio inserts 
stage littered with all sorts of 70s nos­himself into Bianca's life by trading
talgic contraband, director Sean Nelson places with his servant, Trania, and 
has done very well by putting a contem­posing as a tutor, while Trania poses as 
porary spin on an old favorite. Leisure her master, cleverly disguising herself 
suits, bowling shoes, short skirts (and I by putting up her hair and employing 
mean short) and even a huge Afro the use of a sock. The problem of the 
donned by one of the leads mark this shrew is solved for Bianca's suitors 
show. making w h e n 
it familiar 
Hortensio's 
and laugh­
friend 
able at the 
Petruccio 
same time. ( M i k e Nelson has Rampolla)
worked hard arrives. He 
to make this 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare is a brash 
a young man 
"Shakespeare f r o m for a new 
Director: Sean Nelson Verona who 
audience" 
Playwright: William Shakespeare intends to 
and it shows 
Stage Manager: AnaMarie Ortiz marry a 
itself on 
Starring: Dan Hoople, Steve Hoeplinger, TJ McNally, r i C h 
stage, mak­
JJ Marler, Jeff Eyerman, Mike Rampolla, Mark Ross, woman,
ing the Bard's 
Monica Hershner, Alex Callan, David Tull, Laura Kahle regardless
work accessi­
of her dis­
ble to all lev-· 
Friday, Saturday nights al 7:30 p.m. and Sunday after­position.
els of appre­
non at 2:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. $5 General Tempers and ciation. admssion. insults fly as 
The stage Petruccio of the 
works to 
Ilesburgh Center is translated into the tame Katherine and win her over, ulti­town of Padua whore a rich young man mately marrying her and carrying her named Lucentio (JJ Marler) arrives with off to his home where he plans to con­his servants Trania {Monica Kershner) tinue his "taming." Trouble continues and Biondella (Alex Callan) to attend the for Lucentio as his deception meets diffi­local university but he quickly becomes culty when Bianca's father wants to 
distracted when he secs the beautiful meet Lucentio's father. Of course, this 
Bianca (Kate Dolack) and instantly falls could be difficult since the "Lucentio" in love. Problems arise when Lucentio 
that Bianca's father knows is Trania. must contend with her two suitors, Thus, continuing the deception, they
Grcmio (TJ McNally) and Hortensio (JeIT bring in a school master (Mark Ross) to play the role of the father. All is well and good until Lucentio's real father shows up. This is a comedy in the truest sense of the word, with characters getting into absurd situations, trying to get them­selves out again and still achieve their wishes. 


This show is a lot of fun to watch and easy to get into, regardless of Shakespeare's classic style of speech. In this, Nelson's directorial debut, the pro­duction really illustrates his enthusiasm and love of the theater. Nelson's atten­tion to detail and situational comedy is really a treat. He uses very clever meth­ods of getting around otherwise difficult staging. Little things like integrating a 
cricket chirping is almost out of a 
Looney Toons cartoon, but it makes the 
comedy of the show come out in more 
than simply the words. Music also 
becomes a major element in the show, 
bringing in 70s classics like "Low 
Rider" between and even in scenes a bit 
to lend to the retro theme and make it 
more familiar to the audience. Truly, 
the audience won't be able to help 
singing along and getting into it. 
Despite the strength of the show as a whole, there are also many specific ele­ments, mainly in the different actors delivery of their parts, which really add to the overall quality. Marler and Kershner as Lucentio and Trania are a very engaging duo, contrasting Marler's clown-like efforts to get to Bianca and Kershner's cool, conniving manner. Rounding out the group is Callan ·s Biondella, giving new meaning and new appreciation to the word "fool." Though always a little spacey and in her own world, her ease with difficult speeches show off her strength as an actor. McNally and Eyerman do quite well as the two old suitors after Bianca. As Gremio, McNally's gravely voice and well-developed character are reasons to miss him when he all but disappears in the second act. Eyerman starts out slow as Hortensio, but really comes into 

-
his element when his character is dis­guised as a "Soul man" music teacher, where he really comes out and gives a solid performance. Dolack's Bianca is cute and lovable, showing great dispari­ty between Grams' Katherine. Gram starts the show as mad as Ophelia. but the chemistry between her and Rampolla is really amusing. She seems to really come into her own when trad­ing insults with him. Hampolla as Petruchio illustrates a classic confidence we see in Zack Morris or James Dean. Wait until the second act when his out­bursts give a great display of his versa­tility with serene and more ill tempered than the shrew herself'. One of the true highlights is Tull, with his comedic tim­ing and willingness to be flung about makes a great toady out of Grumio. He never seems to run low on energy or his efforts to get a laugh out of the audi­ence. 
This show has often been criticized for its portrayal of women as needing to be "tamed," a concept not well received by women of today. This, in fact, was one of Nelson's motivations for using the time period he did, marking one of the culmi­nations of the women's liberation move­ment and showing it in a very comedic portrayal. However, the stress on come­dy and the love story really downplay the social commentary. Truly. this show is a well-done comedy. bringing laughter from the audience as the cast docs a great job of bringing this great work of Shakespeare to life. 
Not-So-Royal is proud to present "The Taming of the Shrew." The show is directed by Sean Nelson and will be run­ning.-Friday. at 1:30 p.m. Saturday, al 
7:30 p.m. and Sunday. at 2:30 p.m. General Admission: $5. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office at 631-8128 or at the door. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenny@nd.edu 
'1' ,, ' I 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 28, 2003 
Swanson 
continued from page 24 
team at Notre Dame. Even one 
of her high school coaches said 
she wouldn't make the Irish 
squad. 
However Swanson was persis­tent -especially with coach Mutret McGraw. 
"I had bombarded her office with stuff, so she knew more about me than I did about her," Swanson said. "I used to send her five tapes a week and let­ters in hot pink envelopes. So she had a lot of game tape from me. I made it known really clearly to her that if she had a spot. I wanted to tryout." 
Luckily for Swanson, the year she enrolled as a freshman, Notre Dame had another guard transfer. The opportunity was suddenly there for Swanson and she jumped on. 
Swanson had already worked hard all summer to condition herself for the tryouts. When the day came for the first open gym, she, along with six or seven others. played with and against the scholarship players. At first McGraw had her players decide who would be invited back for another day. Swanson made it through the first few cuts and was one of the final three. 
The next day at practice, only two remained. Then Swanson was the only one left. She kept going to practice each day, but didn't know if she had officially made the team. Finally her anx­iety overtook her. 
"I kept practicing and I called coach McGraw one day, Tm sorry but I'm just dying to know, did I make it or not' ...

-
She was like 'Yeah, you made it'," Swanson said. "That was the famous phone call. I called everyone I knew after that. I was so excited. It meant a whole lot to me, especially because all those people back home doubted me." Once on the team, Swanson quickly became a fan favorite. Every time she entered the game, the Notre Dame crowd would go crazy. "The way the fans receive me let's me know that they're aware that I do make contribu­tions even if I'm not on the court," Swanson said. "I really and sincerely appreciate the way they have embraced me. It's not something I had to do. It makes the experience very rewarding for me." Another highlight for Swanson came during her sophomore season, when she was part of Notre Dame's only national championship in wom­ens basketball. For a player just happy to make the team, win­
ning a ring was icing on the cake. 
"My dream was just to play here and then I get this, "Swanson said. "I thought, 'you have to be kidding me.• It's one ofthose things that you can't put into words." 
Despite the excitement of making the toam, her populari­ty with the Irish fans and a national championship. Swanson still sat the bench when she could have been starting at other colleges. It was frustrating for her, but she kept a positive attitude, which impressed McGraw. 
"She's been a real joy to coach," McGraw said. "She's somebody that has a great atti­tude. She's somebody that encourages her teammates. She's positive all the time and she always wants to know what she can do to make the team better." 
Swanson did such a good job of helping her teammates in practice and in the locker room that McGraw made her a "bench captain." Swanson relayed the team's feelings and attitudes during a particular stretch in the season. This has helped McGraw to understand her team better. 
"I try to get a read of what's going on in players heads," Swanson said. "Sometimes when I'm feeling a certain vibe, I want to let coach McGraw be aware of what players may be thinking or feeling." 
Swanson's home court career will end Saturday when Notre Dame faces Seton Hall at the Joyce Center at 4 p.m. She will graduate in the spring with a degree in entrepreneurship and a GPA hovering around 3.5. 
"[My last home game} will be very emotional, but at the same time I will have so many fond memories to look back on," Swanson said. 
But Swanson will leave behind more than basketball and memories. She evolved from an unknown player to a fan favorite and, more impor­tantly, became a model for her fellow Notre Dame students to admire. 
No one gave her a chance. No one believed she could accom­plish her dream. No one thought her goals were realistic. 
Four years later, Swanson has a national championship ring, countless fans and an experi­ence she admits she'll never forget. 
More importantly, she proves that dreams are attainable. 
The views expressed in this column are tose ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
MENS LACROSSE 

Irish face Penn in home opener 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Notre Dame mens lacrosse team has an opportunity to reverse last year's early season misfortune when it plays its home opener Saturday versus No. 23 Pennsylvania at Loftus Sports center. 
Notre Dame has already started better than last season. In its first game of the season, the Irish topped Penn State, 10-9. Notre Dame (1-0) got four goals from junior attacker Dan Berger and a goal and five assists from junior attacker Matt Howell to open with a vic­tory. The game was revenge for a 10-9 defeat at the hands of the Nittany Lions in last year's first match. . 
Now the Irish (1-0) host the Quakers, a solid program that defeated Notre Dame last sea­son in Philadelphia, 7 -6. With a win, Notre Dame will have accomplished a complete turn­around of its disappointing 0-2 start of last season. 

Penn is one of the 11 top 25 teams, according to the Inside Lacrosse Poll, the Irish will play this season, and a win would mean a huge boost in record and team morale as the Irish try to return to the Final Four, which it reached in 
2001. 

In last year's contest, Penn's Sonny Sarker broke a 6-6 tie with 4:30 remaining to put the game away. Berger scored a then-career high four goals in the game, but the Quakers led 5-3 at half, having outscored the Irish 3-1 in the second quarter. Notre Dame held Penn scoreless in the third 
quarter but let up two late goals. 
The Irish face Penn again this season with six returning starters and some new, young faces. Berger. a returning starter and last season's lead­ing scorer. recorded 21 goals on 47 attempts last year, giv­ing him an outstanding .447 shooting percentage. 
Notre Dame reached the Final Four two seasons ago but caught the losing end of many close matches in 2002, losing seven games by a combined 10 goals. 
This season, the Irish are optimistic about reestablishing themselves as the national contenders of two seasons ago. A win in its home opener would be a good start. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Marquette wins at Louisville 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. No. 10 Marquette took a huge step toward its first 
Conference  USA  title  on  
Thursday night.  
Meanwhile,  No.  11  

Louisville can't seem to stop its late-season slide. 
Dwyane Wade scored 28 points and Scott Merritt added 18 as the Golden Eagles came from 19 points down to beat the Cardinals 78-73. 
Travis Dien~r added 16 points and four assists for Marquette (21-4, 12-2 Conference USA), which won for the 14th time in 15 games. The Golden Eagles have a game-and-a-half lead over Memphis in the overall league standings with two home games left. 
"We played with great heart, great resiliency," Marquette coach Tom Crean said. "This is a complete team effort." 
Wade hit a free throw with 
23.4 seconds left and Louisville's Reece Gaines, after faking a defender to get himself open, missed a 3­pointer with 10 seconds remaining that could have tied the game. 
Diener hit two free throws with 6 seconds left to clinch the win. 

"We never gave up. We always felt like we were going to win," Diener said. 
Wade also led the Golden Eagles with seven assists and had eight rebounds, outdu­elling Gaines, his main com­petition in the race for the league's player of the year. 
Gaines, the hero of Louisville's 73-70 win at Marquette on Feb. 15, scored only 12 on 4-of-11 shooting for the Cardinals (19-5, 9-4 Conference USA). who lost for the fourth time in five games after a 17-game winning streak. 
"If Dwyane Wade didn't put an exclamation point on what type of player he is, I don't know what will," Crean said. "He defended, rebounded and scored. He really got a lot of things done." 
Freshman Francisco Garcia scored 24 for Louisville and Ellis Myles had 12 points and 11 rebounds before he left the game with a knee injury with 
1:15 left. 

Louisville coach Rick Pitino did not immediately know Myles' status, but feared he was gone for the season. Myles is Louisville's leading rebounder, with 7.7 per game. 
"It was a big blow for the team to see him go down," Gaines said. 
The Cardinals led 42-23 in the first half and by 11 at halftime before the Eagles came roaring back. 
Louisville led 57-45 after a fast-paced first three minutes of the second half. 
But the Eagles went on an 18-4 run over the next four minutes, holding the Cardinals to a single field goal. Merritt gave Marquette its first lead with a basket in the lane with 10 minutes left. 
"We threw away the stat sheet at halftime," Crean said. "We wanted to start all over again." 
Myles kept the Cardinals close with three rebound put­backs. But Wade had eight points in a five-minute span to put the Eagles up 74-70. 
"It was a big-time game. I tried to step up to the chal­lenge," Wade said. 
Garcia scored on a drive ­just his third basket of the second half -to keep Louisville within two. 
Merritt sank a free throw with 2:29 left, and the teams each failed to score before Myles' injury. He screamed in pain and pounded the floor after falling awkwardly. He left the game on a stretcher. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South J?ining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The ch~ge 1s 3 cents per character pe~ day, including aJI spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without 1ssumg refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida1 Besl Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1­800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 QA 5 PERSON 2 S"TORY. 8 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER OR FALL 235-3655 DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM• PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS· MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· 

WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING FASTIII 
-CONTACT KRAMER (547) 315­5032 OR (574} 234-2436 ·ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
FOR SALE 
4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentats.com 
Rooms for rent. $250 month includes utilities. 272-1525 mrnmrentals@aol.com 
Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts. Calf Joe Crimmins @ 273­0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
LIVE IN A GAEAT NO, QUES· TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND FOR 3·5 PEOPLE 2773097 5 Bedroom house available June 1, 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964 

WANTED 

NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working ND/SMC students who want finan­cial security by graduation. Take your business home on breaks -work from anywhere 
Call Charlie 574-289-2803 for info. 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don I go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
I have no standards 
That kid is sick 
Our sports editors at their best 


------------------------------~----------­
Friday, February 28, 2003 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
through Irish big men for an 
easy two points. 
"They were kind of worn out, and that was due to our defense and the way we pushed the ball," Gordon said after the game Monday. "Their having to run with us every time and try to catch up with us definitely wore them down." 
That's why the four days off from game action have come at a great time for the [rish. After a light day of practice Tuesday and the day off Wednesday, the Irish should return to the court Saturday at Hutgers rested and ready to get back on the winning side of things. 
'Tm glad we don't play until Saturday," Brey said. "We need a little time off; this was a tough stretch for us. I think they' II be fine, though, and Hutgers will be a tough chal­lenge on Saturday." 
The Irish have gone all sea­son without losing consecutive games, and they will try to keep that streak alive at Hutgers' Louis Brown Athletic Center. 
Even with the additional rest over the week, the Irish will have to overcome their sea­son-long ineptitude on the road. Notre Dame (21-6, 9-4 in the Big East) is just 3-4 this season when playing at oppo­nents' home venues, with loss­es coming at Pittsburgh, Kentucky, Seton Hall and Syracuse. 
But the Scarlet Knights (11­
52750 IN 933 

574-143-1111 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 
14, 3-10) have struggled since beginning Big East play this season. Rutgers got off to a 9­4 start this year, but lost its first five conference games and has since fallen to last place in the Big East West Division. 
Notre Dame and Rutgers already met once this season on Jan. 14 at the Joyce Center; and the Irish coming away with a 68-57 victory. The game was plagued by the shooting woes of Rutgers' guards Mike Sherrod and Jerome Coleman, who were a combined 5-for-19 from the floor and fared no better from the free throw line as Coleman went 0-for-7. 
On the other hand, Irish guards Matt Carroll and Chris Thomas had a stellar day, scoring 25 and 19 points, respectively. The pair was also 16-for-17 from the free throw line, leading the team to a 22­for-23 day in foul shooting. In addition, Carroll was red-hot from behind the arc, finishing 5-for-9 on 3-pointers. 
One area the Scarlet Knights may hope to exploit is their advantage in the paint. In the first matchup, 6-foot-10 for­ward Herve Larnizana had 14 points and eight rebounds for the Scarlet Knights. Center Kareem Wright also had a good day for Rutgers coming of the bench, as the 6-foot-9, 270-pound senior scored 11 points in just 22 minutes of play. 
Tipoff is set for 4 p.m. Saturday in Piscataway, N.J. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
326 N. Ironwood 
574-143-1111 
Comer of Ironwood & McKinley 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Final home game for 2 seniors 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Two players who have had very different careers at Notre Dame (16-9, 8-6) will both play in their final home game when the Irish take on Seton Hall (13­11, 7-7) at 4 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Alicia Ratay and Karen Swanson are Notre Dame's only two seniors this season and both end their home basketball careers against the Pirates. Ratay has already set several Irish records and is tied for all­time 3-pointers made. She is also one of two captains on this year's squad. 
Swanson walked onto the team as a freshman and has become a fan favorite during her career. Swanson has played in 75 games during her career, including 23 in each of her first two years. 
The Irish will be looking to rebound after a lackluster per­formance against Pittsburgh Wednesday night. While Notre Dame managed to win 77-69, coach Muffet McGraw was dis­pleased with her teams play. 
"I thought we played poorly. I would just like to leave it at that," McGraw said after the game. "I thought it was a team effort and it was not a good one." 
Notre Dame did have five play­ers score in double figures, led by reserve Courtney LaVere's 14 points. 
The win, coupled with Virginia Tech's loss to Rutgers, pushed the Irish into sixth place in the Big East standings. Both the Hokies and the Irish are 8-6 in conference, but Virginia Tech beat Notre Dame 53-50 Feb. 9. 
l

Call for Student Nominations 
l 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 

Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for aKaneb Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms may be found on the College of Science webpage at: www.science.nd.edu or you may pick up anomination form in the Dean's Office, 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Thursday, March 6 
Return to: Sr. Kathleen Cannon, O.P., Associate Dean Dean's Office, College of Science 174 Hurley Hall 
(.; 

Notre Dame forward Jacquellne Batteast drives against St. John's earller this season. The lrlsh play their flnal home game of the season Saturday against Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame also needs a win to improve their NCAA tourna­ment chances. While it appears that the Irish should make the tourney, wins in their last two games and another win in the Big East tournament would like­ly improve their seeding. 
Seton Hall is fresh off a 78-71 victory over Miami at home. Leslie Ardon and Ashley Bush, who had 21 and 15 points, respectively, led the Pirates. The Pirates also forced the Hurricanes into 24 turnovers. 
The win was rare for Seton Hall, who had lost five of their last six games before facing Miami. 

Charlene Thomas's 11.6 points per game and 6.1 rebounds lead the Pirates. Thomas is the Pirates only player in double fig­ures in scoring. 
This game has strong implica­tions for the Irish, who could move into fifth-place in the divi­sion with a win and a Virginia Tech loss next week. 
Notre Dame also want to play better in their final two games, against Seton Hall and Syracuse, and take momentum into the Big East Tournament. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 28, 2003 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
and Nebraska and a team in Minnesota that might be the most under-rated baseball pro­gram in the country. They're playing in a major league stadi­um, one of the games will be televised, and it's a great opportunity for all the players at college baseball's highest level." 
After playing the fourth­ranked Sun Devils last week­end, the Irish continue to face some of the nation's top pro­grams this weekend, with teams like Nebraska (4-2), who played in the College World Series last year, and Wake Forest (4-1 ), who finished last season 47-13-1 and 17-6 in the powerful ACC that sent two teams -Georgia Tech and Clemson -to the College World Series and had a third ­Florida State -that was knocked out by the Irish in the NCAA Super Regional in Tallahassee, Fla. 
"We've always tried to play good teams early the season, and I think its important to do that, because it sets the tone early in the year for the level of play that is the level that we expect out of our team, and is what is needed if you \'':mt to be considered one of the elite baseball programs in the coun­try," Mainieri said. 

The opener of the weekend will be billed as a matchup of 2002 College World Series par­ticipants that never got a chance to square off in the Omaha, Neb., tournament last 
summer. 
The Irish will send sopho­more Chris Nicsel to the mound against Huskers' left-handed junior Aaron Marsden. Niesel will be pitching his second game of the season after allow­ing four runs in six innings in a no-decision in Notre Dame's first game against Dayton last Friday. 
This will also be the second start for Marsden, who was a force on the mound for the Huskers last season, going 8-1 with a 2.70 ERA. 
Saturday, the Irish will square off against tournament host Minnesota (2-2) in a game that will be televised by Fox Sports Net North. Senior right­hander Pete Ogilvie will take the mound for the Irish against the Golden Gophers. 
Notre Dame should get its biggest test of the weekend in its final game against Wake Forest. Sophomore right-han­der John Axford, who won his first start of the year against Newman Saturday, will take the mound against fellow sophomore left-hander Tim Morley, who will be making his first start of the season against the Irish. As a freshman in 2002, Morley finished the year 6-3 with a 4.41 ERA and 71 strikeouts in 8 7. 2 innings pitched. 

Playing so many top-ranked teams at the beginning of the year can be tough for a squad like Notre Dame, which gets lit­tle, if any, time to practice out­doors before the games start because of the winter weather conditions of South Bend. 
But Mainieri doesn't look at the tough early season schedule as a problem, but a challenge that will make his team better come the end of the season. 
"I know we're just starting the season and we're not going to be as good now as we are in April after we've got a lot of games under our belt," Mainieri said. "But still these are the kinds of experiences that make you better. And I'm not conceding that we won't be able to go up to Minnesota this weekend and have a lot of suc­cess. I'm expecting our team to embrace this challenge and play very well." 
The Irish begin play in the tournament at 12:15 p.m. today against Nebraska. 

An Irish player rounds third base In a game against Valparaiso 
last season. Notre Dame travels to Minneapolis this weekend 
cfederic@nd.edu and wlll participate In a prestigious tournament. 
Contact Chris Federico at 




College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 
Nominations 
for 

the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Deadline Thursday, 20 March, 2003 
G 
0

FE•e¦ 11a 
Midwest Conference Championships 
I 

#1 Men and #3 Women take on 
R

#4 Ohio State 
I

Saturday, 3/1 @ 12:30pm Enter through Gate 3 of the JACC s 
Free t-shirts to the first 50 fans! D 


Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
Irish look to repeat as Midwest Conference champs 
nice summation for all the pretty equal." he said. "[The of standout sabre fencers in championships at their respec­
. Ohio State and 
work the kids have made and other teams) have better Colin Parker, Jason Rogers and tive weapons. Debic has won
Northwestern 
time they sacrificed. It would weapons sometimes. Those Adam Crompton. In the U.S. three conference champi­present biggest be nice to have a lot of medals. teams distinguish themselves senior sabre rankings, Parker onships overall. Senior sabre But it is a from the others." is currently Gabor Szelle
challenges 
way to 
The Notre Dame mens team 13th, while and senior
"Usually our matches are
build a defeated No. 4 Ohio State 16-Crompton is epeeist
ByMATTLOZAR team and 11 at the Ohio State Duals Jan. first and very emotional in the con­S a n n a 
Sports Writer part of a 25 while the womens team Rogers is ference championships, Garnick process. I dropped a 15-12 dual meet to third in the have also
like a local rivalry." 
Having finished in the top will not pay Ohio State. U.S. junior won confer­three at the past nine NCAA maximum Northwestern 's womens sabre rank­ence titles. Championships, this weekend's attention to team won tho conference ings. Janusz Bednarski Saturday's Midwest Fencing Conference this [week-championship in 2000 and At last action will
Irish coach

Championships isn't the peak e n d ' s Bednarski 2001 before the Irish year's con­determine of the season for the Irish. But results]. I reclaimed the title last year. ference the team for some of their opponents, want to win. Even if it isn't the The Irish defeated the Wildcats champi-champions it's a chance to knock off one most prestigious game in the 19-8 at the Notre Dame Duals onships. the Irish won both in each weapon with the of the top teams in the country. season, you have to be ready." Feb. 1. overall team titles and claimed school having the highest point That's why the Irish have to Bednarski expects his top­One of the most intriguing team titles in all weapons total earning the overall team be careful. ranked mens team and No. 3 matches this weekend will take except for womens epee. which conference championships. "Usually our matches are womens team to be challenged place in mens sabre between was won by Northwestern. Individual champions in each very emotional in the confer­by teams the Irish have Notre Dame and Ohio State. The Irish claimed four indi­weapon will be decided 
ence to win the champi­already faced this season. The Irish went 2-7 against the vidual titles last year. Epeeists Sunday. 
onships, like a local rivalry," "Ohio State and Buckeyes' sabre squad at the Jan Viviani and Kerry Walton 
Notre Dame coach Janusz Northwestern will be tough Ohio State Duals. and foilists Ozren Debic and Contact Matt Lozar at Bednarski said. "It will be a and the rest of the teams are The Buckeyes feature a trio Alicja Kryczalo each won mlozar@nd.edu 

MENS TENNIS 
Irish in tourney at La Jolla 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a close loss to No. 40 Northwestern last weekend, a few members of the Irish squad will begin play today in the prestigious Pacific Coast Doubles tournament in La Jolla, Calif. 
The tournament, an annual non-team event for the Irish, includes many of the nation's best doubles teams. Given its southern California location. the event is also an ideal opportuni­ty for cold-weather teams like Notre Dame to get some outdoor playing experience. 
Additionally, this is a chance for the Irish to improve their doubles play. which has cost them the victory in a few close matches this season. While the duo of sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior Matt Scott has generally been strong, the rest of the doubles lineup has been giving the team some heartache, particularly in the matches against Duke and
Legislating Corporate Ethics Florida State. After losing the doubles point. the Irish lost those matches 4-2 and 4-3,
All lectures begin at 2 p.m. and will take place in the Law School Courtroom. respectively. 
FRlllAV, FEBJIIIARY 28 
FRIDI\Y. AJ'Rll. 11 
Still, in a season that began with the worst start in team his•
if'·'-'' ... 

tory, the Irish are seeing . improvements . 
. 

"We got some points where
[/'!j 
. 

we're getting some real produc­
. tivity now," coach Bob Bayliss Richard Painter James D. Cox John c. Coffee Jr. Ronald Gilson Harvey J. Goldschmld said. 
I 

1-'t<lll'1't~,,. oJ lev1. Bwi11t'ld Cunie f'rt.ift1!r'!Jtff'c1t lll .Y. Atlt,lf A. Bctlc Prnl~sso,· c,f Lat", M111-c & Ev!t Stt.•tn f-'rGtr.-ssct ct Law 1Md Rt1!-'lt11.:.'$!.-', C:,mm,s3/h>1nu; U.S. St.1::unliN, 
The upcoming weekend
Umvoi;rlty of /11/nols lJ11ke llnlve.''li'(v {J.(!.'umb.la Unf1,•t.r,lty t}Mombl,1 IJ111w.,-,,1,.v, Mry,;tr,'i P1<:fes-sr.r r.f i..,w a,ut R:;.r::tw-:.u, aotl fY(:h,)11ll.' t:!1,,,u,i1.1,.1,,,m .'il,,nfOfri llnlVRt.'fi/y Owl('!llf f'mlnssm (}{ !.dlV, should give the Irish a better CiJioaJ!;ill :.JmvtH s,,;, 
idea of what sort of doubles line­
Susan Konlak 
up will improve their edge against tough opponents. 
David Dana 
Praft~fMJr(Jf LwH-~ M>rf!!w~•~fr.1rr1 Ur:ivc.•rshy When they return from La Jolla, the Irish will face Michigan at home March 6. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

--AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, February 28, 2003 

around the dial 
FRIDAY 
NBA 

Magic at Knlcks 8 p.m., ESPN CUppers at Trail Blazers 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL Notre Dame at Rutgers 4 p.m., ESPN2 Syracuse at Georgetown 1 p.m., ABC Penn State at Northwestern 2 p.m., ESPN Texas at Texas Tech 4 p.m., CBS Iowa at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at Memphis 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Kings at Spurs 4 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

WIid at Blues 9 p.m., ESPN2 
SUNDAY COLLEGE BASKETBAU Duke at St. John's 12 p.m., CBS Wisconsin at Minnesota 2 p.m., CBS Kentucky at Georgia 4 p.m., CBS 
MLB 

hangover" when he just about 12 bucks per relations in the commis­
Associated Press 
pitched his perfect game shot, those steroid vials sioner's office, declined against Minnesota in May must be seen as a really comment on Wells' claims.
NEW YORK 

1998, having stayed at the solid investment." Major leaguers are beingDavid Wells claims up to Saturday Night Live sea­He writes that ampheta­tested for the first time this 
40 percent of major lea­
son-ending party until 5 mines are so commonplace year for certain illegal
guers use steroids and 
a.m., eight hours before that "stand in the middle steroids and drugs of
says amphetamines are 
readily available in base­gametime. of your clubhouse and abuse, but the testing has ball clubhouses. A copy of the galleys of walk 10 feet in any direc­been criticized by some as 
"As of right now, I'd esti­the book, written by Chris tion, chances are you '11 not extensive enough to be mate 25 to 40 percent of Kreski, was obtained by find what you need." effective. all major leaguers are The Associated Press from "As a pitcher, I won't The 39-year-old left-han­juiced. But that number's publisher William Morrow. ever object to a sleepy­der was not available for fast rising," Wells wrote in "Down in the minors, eyed middle infielder comment Thursday. Perfect I'm Not! Boomer on where virtually every flat­beaning up to help me In the book, Wells alter­Beer, Brawls, Backaches broke, baloney-sandwich­win," Wells said. "That nately criticizes and prais­and Baseball, an autobiog­eating Double-A prospect may not be the politically es Roger Clemens, admits raphy scheduled for is chasing after the same, correct spin on the prac­he's not friendly with release next month. elusive, multimillion-dollar tice, but I really couldn't teammate Mike Mussina, 
Wells also admits he was payday, the use of anabolic care Jess." says Andy Pettitte was "half-drunk" and had a homer-helpers is flat-out Rob Manfred, executive angered by Hideki Irabu's "raging, skull-rattling booming," Wells wrote. "At vice president of labor large salary." 
IN BRIEF 
!\'fanaaer collapses at weigh­
in figfit 
The manager of WBA heavyweight champion John Ruiz was taken to a hospital Thursday after passing out following a brawl at the weigh-in for Ruiz's fight with Roy Jones Jr. 
Norman Stone was cut on the lip during the brawl, which started as he and Jones' trainer, Alton Merkerson, argued about fight gloves just before the weigh-in. 
Both men went flying off a tempo­rary stage and were trading punches before order was restored. After the weigh-in, though. Stone collapsed and was taken by stretcher to an ambu­lance, complaining of pain in his side. 
"One of his guys sucker-punched me," Stone said after the melee. 
Doctors at the hospital told Stone he would be treated and released Thursday night, according to Bob Trieger, Ruiz's publicist. 
"He's doing fine," Trieger said. "His pinkie may be broken. They were going to give him an X-ray. His neck is still a litt1e tender." 
The brawl wasn't the only unex­pected event at Caesars Palace on Thursday. Jones stepped on the scale and weighed 193 pounds. 
The undisputed light heavyweight champion said all along he didn't plan to weigh more than 185 for Saturday night's fight, and would probably be in the low 180s. Still, he'll be giving away 33 pounds to Ruiz. who weighed 226. 
Ruiz livened up matters by appear­ing in a gaudy outfit, complete with a red and white pillowy velvet hat, plat­form shoes and a chain with a large fake-gold dollar sign on it. 
"I had this for Halloween a couple of years ago," Ruiz said. 
Matsui homers in second at­
bat of spring training 
Derek Jeter knows Hideki Matsui still has plenty to work on -such as a home run handshake. 
Matsui showed why the New York Yankees were so eager to sign him, hitting a homer in his second at-bat of spring training Thursday against the Cincinnati Reds. 

The Yankees' new slugger trotted around the bases showing little emo­tion before slapping hands with Jason Giambi, on-deck batter Jorge Posada and the rest of his new teammates as he went back to the dugout. 
"We've got to come up with a shake," Jeter said. 
That's still to come. But Matsui didn't wait to flash the swing that earned him the nickname "Godzilla" back in Japan. 
"l was very happy I could play like this in my first game of the presea­son," Matsui said through an inter­preter after the Yankees' 9-3 loss. 
"I think I was a little bit lucky to hit a home run today. It wasn't the pitch the pitcher wanted to throw." 
Matsui might have credited good fortune for his success, but his team­mates focused on his disciplined approach and ability to fight off tough pitches. 

Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 
Hot Irish look to extend 4-game winning streak 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Wricrr 
The Irish take on Western Michigan in a home-and-home series this weekend. Friday, the Irish travel to Kalamazoo to take on the Broncos, before returning to the Joyce Center Saturday to close out the series. 
The Irish (13-13-6, 11-10-3 CCHA) hope to continue on their four-game winning streak -their longest winning streak this season -and also improve on their current playoff posi­tion. The top six finishers in the conference get home ice in the first round of the playoffs; currently the Irish sit in fifth place, tied with the Broncos and Northern Michigan. 
After finishing with the Broncos, the Irish travel to Marquette, Mich., to close out the regular season against Northern Michigan in a two game series. Irish head coach Dave Poulin knows these are important points to take advantage of in the playoff race. 
"Home ice is the primary reason we want to win," he said. "Take that out of it, and the most important thing now is to just keep playing well." 
Just two weeks ago, the Irish were on the bottom end of the CCIIA standings, but a four­game winning streak -includ­ing three one-goal wins -have 
vaulted Notre Dame into the 
thick of the playoff race. 
It's precisely those one-goal 
games that Poulin would like to 
eliminate. however. 
''I'd like for us to close the 
other team out earlier and 
decide games earlier," he said. 
"There's been a lot of times 
this year when we've had early 
opportunities and haven't capi­
talized." 
Most notably, last Friday the 
Irish took an early 3-0 lead 
over Lake Superior State only 
to end up giving up two late 
goals to eke out a 3-2 victory, 
despite outshooting the Lakers 
by a 2-to-1 margin. 
This is the second time this 
season that the Irish have 
faced the Broncos (14-16-2, 
12-11-1 CCHA). with the Irish 
coming away with 4-2 and 8-5 
wins in a home-and-home 
series on Oct. 18 and 19 to 
open CCHA play. 
"[Western] is very similar to 
the what they were the last 
time we played them," Poulin 
said. "The systems they run 
are the same, and we especial­
ly want to stop their power 
play." 

The Broncos are coming off 
of a 3-3 tie and a 4-2 victory 
over Bowling Green last week­
end. The 4-2 victory broke a 
five-game winless streak for · the Broncos. 
A trio of talented forwards in 
Jeff Campbell, Vince Bellissimo 
and Dana Lattery leads 
Western Michigan offensively. 
Bellissimo, only a freshman, is second on the team with 28 points. 
T h e 
Broncos have two able net­minders in freshman Scott Foster and sopho­more Mike Mantua, but neither has any particu­1 a r I y impressive stats. 
Overall, the Broncos are a rela­tively aver­age team both offen­sively and defensively, remarkably similar to the frish. 
"We're eerily simi­lar in all of our numbers," Poulin said. "We might be bet­ter a bit defensively but we're still really close." 
Saturday's game holds a spe­cial significance to the [rish, as it is the last regular season home game for the team. Traditionally, graduating 

seniors are presented with a home jersey by their team­mates. 
"This game means something to the seniors," Poulin said. "Evan [Nielsen] said he couldn't believe how the four years go by so fast." 
Of course, assuming the Irish take care of business during these last four games, Saturday's game won't be the last they play on Joyce Center ice this year. 

Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
PRIYA VENKATARAMAN RHYTHMf OF /NOIA -/NOIA ALIVE Authentic music and cos­tumes highlight dance in a traditional 5haratanat_yam st_yle from New Delhi, India Sat., March Ist 9:00pm in LaFortune Ballroom Part of the Intercultural Arts *For more information call Series sponsored by Student 631-7308 Activities  

WOMENS TENNIS 
Irish look to break 
losing streak at home 
... 
Friday, February 28, 2003 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
February 28, 2003 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 

This weekend, February 28 and March 1, 2003, the University will host approximately 800 members of The Edward Frederick Sorin Society, a financial support group for Notre Dame. Made up of alumni, parents, and friends, this generous crowd gathers once every other year for what we call "A Weekend of Recognition", an effort on our part to say thank you for all that they do for Notre Dame. The group is responsible, for example, for funding $2.2 million annually in expend­able scholarships. Also their generosity has support­ed a variety of campus improvements. 
During the weekend there will be several events, a couple of which will, unfortunately, inconvenience your usual schedule. In particular, on Saturday we will hold two of our events, a lunch and dihner, in the North Dining Hall. As a result, those who normal­ly eat in the North Dining hall are asked to use the South Dining Hall for Saturday lunch and dinner. 
On behalf of the Sorin Society, please accept our sincere gratitude for your great cooperation. Special thanks too, to all the students participating in the weekend the event simply would not occur without you. 
Michael C. Brach Executive Director The Edward Frederick Sorin Society 
.··································································J·-·········································.
. . 
2002-2003

: : STUD[NT Ltt\DERSl1IP t\Wt\RDS 
Request for Nominations 
• We are requesting nominations for the Student Leadership Awards. These
! 
awards are given to the ten undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit of 
• Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activities that : 
promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 
Selection ofthe recipients of these awards is based on outstanding service on or off campus through participation in voluntary and/or (s)elected co-curricular activities with an emphasis on quality ofparticipation. 
We ask your assistance in identifying students deserving of such recognition. A student may nominate another student, but no self-nominations 
.
.
. 
. 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writet 
After a string of three losses last weekend against top-25 teams, the Irish are planning on getting a win or two this weekend. 
No. 19 Notre Dame will wel­come No. 50 Wake Forest Saturday and Texas Sunday. 
Although the Demon Deacons have struggled of' late, the Irish are not complacent. 
"Wake's a dangerous team," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "They've struggled this year." 
Last year, 
players to graduation. Notre Dame has had some successes this season, including a weekend of wins over Big East opponents Boston College and Virginia Tech, but a tough schedule that includes foes like No. 1 Duke, North Carolina. Northwestern, Tennessee and Kentucky cost the Irish some wins. After being defeated by Kentucky last Monday. the Irish now stand at 4-5. 
"They're pretty young, like we are, but they are very dan­gerous," Louderback said. "Their doubles [teams] are good. They've got some kids in the top of their lineup that are very good." 
Besides the No. 1 doubles duo of senior Katie Cunha and freshman Kristina Stastny, the Irish doubles lineup is not set. 
"We're still looking at [dou­bles]," Louderback said. 
Although Cunha and Stastny have been performing well all season, they were the only pair to lose last Monday against Kentucky. 

Sunday's match will have special significance for the Irish. as they will be hosting their second annual Ace for the Cure fundraising event. The fundraiser, created by Cunha, is intended both to increase awareness of colon cancer and to raise money for cancer research. The Irish captain's mother died of the cancer in August, but Cunha is continuing the Ace for the Cure in honor of her mother, Christine. 
"I'm using my tennis match to draw awareness around the 
campus and 
t h e 
Wake Forest Michiana
"Last year it was a great
was among area to the 
success. We raised a
the top eight deadly teams in the lat ofmoney for threat of country, but colon can•
colon cancer. " 
like Notre cer," Cunha Dame, they said. lost a fair Jay Louderback At last 
amount of Irish coach year's 
event, 
Cunha's mother was present and the event raised over $7,000. 
"It's been an unbelievable project," Louderback said. "Last year it was a great suc­cess. We raised a lot of money for colon cancer. The amount of time Katie put into it was unbelievable. You could tell it was such a good event last year because of the time she's put in to it." 
Both Cunha's coach and her teammates have been impressed with her organiza­tion of the event, which will raise money by charging admission to Notre Dame's 
match with Texas. 
"She has been amazing at getting everything together," junior Caylan Leslie said. 
"It's something she feels very strongly about," Louderback said. "We help her a little bit -we do whatever she tells us to do." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
UnmistakabD7 Italian, B UnbelievabD7 Good. <b 

Enjoy 9enerous portions of contemporary Italian ent,rees 
includin9 Salmone alla Gri,9lia 
&i' papa's si9nature Siz.zlelinL' 
Complementyour meal with papa's extensive wine selection to suit every occasion. 

;:>~~IAN :ITCHEN• 
5110 Edison Lakes pk~.~Mishawaka 574 ~271~ 1692 llESE}lVJ\JIONS ,I\CCEpJED Sunday-Thursday 11;00 a.m.-10;00 p.m. friday-Saturday 11;00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. 

Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
No. 7 Irish looking to build off record 2002 season 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off the best season in the program's history, the wom­ens lacrosse team will look to continue their progress this sea­son as they open their regular season at Cornell Sunday. 
For the Irish, ranked seventh in the Preseason IWLCA/Brine Poll and fifth in the preseason Inside Lacrosse Magazine Poll. this marks a season in transition as they go from being a team constantly striving to beat top 10 
offee and Conversation for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 4, 2003 
...and every first tuesday of the month 
7 :30 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome. and confidentiality is assured. 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 

teams to one that is in the top 10 itself. 
"Our goals will be the same," said head coach Tracy Coyne. "We want to win the Big East and to advance to the national tournament. But it's difficult because this is the first time where we've had a team that accomplished a lot in the previ­ous season." 
Notre Dame will be relying heavily on senior leadership this season. beginning with midfield­er Danielle Shearer, who was recently named a preseason first-team all-American by Inside Lacrosse Magazine. Shearer led the Irish in scoring last year with 39 goals and 20 assists, and was a second-team all-American along with being named the Big East midfielder of the year. 
Also named to the prescason all-America team was goalkeep­er Jen White, who was named to the second team. She was a unanimous first team all-Big East selection last year with a 
7.49 goals-against average and a .545 save percentage. 
Classmates Kelly Mccardell, Eleanor Weille and Elizabeth Knight will help White anchor the Irish defense, while Anne Riley will be expected to lead at midfield attack and Angela Dixon will lead the attack. 
The Irish already participated in the Loyola Tournament in Baltimore, Md. Sunday. The schedule for the event was altered by the weather. and the Irish ended up playing four shortened games, including a 6­5 win over host Loyola. 
Despite the win, Coyne felt that the performance left much to be desired. 
"I'm not really pleased with how we played. Our transition game was horrible. In practice we're working on executing and the fundamentals, such as pos­sessing the ball, passing and catching," she said. 
Coyne felt that part of the problem was meshing new team members together, however, and 
WOMENS GOLF 

Irish start spring season at Pinehurst 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
The women's golf team begins the spring portion of its schedule today as they compete in the Edwin Watts/Carolinas Collegiate Classic in Pinehurst, 
N.C. This will be the first action for the Irish since last November at the Pine Needles Invitational. 
Irish coach Debby King is tak­ing her top six golfers to Pinehurst, including three fresh­men who had the three lowest scoring averages in the fall. Sarah Bassett led the team with a 77.86 average, while class­mates Katie Brophy and Lauren Gebauer finished with 78.89 and 79.25, respectively. Also making the trip are juniors Shannon Byrne and Rebecca Rogers and sophomore Karen Lotta. 
The Irish will be looking for Bassett to continue her good play from the end of the fall sea­son. She was the top finisher for the Irish in three events, while that it could be corrected quick­ly. 

In their first game, the Irish will be facing a Cornell team that is coming off a Final Four appearance last season and returns a number of quality players. including Sarah Averson from the national team. Notre Dame dropped a 10-9 decision last year to the Big Red at Moose Krause field. 
"They are solid defensively and their transition game is good," said Coyne. "Their attack should also be able to put points on the board. We played them last year, which should help because we're familiar with their style of play, but we've never played them up there before." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
firing three tournaments of 231 
to finish the season including 
rounds of 71 and 74 at the adi­
das Invitational in Florida. 
Brophy's best tournament of the fall was her last, as she used a second round 73 to finish tied for 20th at the Pine Needles Invitational. Gebauer finished in the top five at the Notre Dame Invitational with a 234 total, where the Irish won their home tournament for the second time in three years. 
Byrne, Rogers and Lotta all finished as the low scorer for the Irish at one tournament last fall. Byrne fired 230 at the adidas Invitational to finish 17th over­all. while Rogers led the team at the Legends of Indiana event where she shot 234 to tie for 42nd. Lotta tied Bassett at the Marilynn Smith/Sunflower Invitational with a 231 total and also fired a career best 72 in the final round of the Notre Dame Invitational. 
The Irish will be at a disadvan­tage in North Carolina playing against southern schools that have been able to continue prac­ticing in better weather condi­tions. King is confident, howev­er, that the long layoIT will not harm her team's chances. 
"I think we are going into this tournament with the right atti­tude," said King. "We might be at an advantage since we might be a little ... hungrier to play." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
INDIANA ONLINE DRIVER IMPROVEMENT 

...
TAKE IT ON THE 
INTERNET 
• 
No classroom attendance required 

• 
All materials available on the Internet 

• 
BMV Approved 


(877) 972-4665 www.lndianaDriver.com 
~,,~.1,i11,11111i11111111111111111,111111,11111.,r11111I 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 28, 2003 
-ND SOFTBALL 
After 15-hour bus ride, Irish look to turn season around 
The Irish will hope that the
By AARON RONSHEIM 

weather will cooperate with 
Sports Wriccr 

them as they travel to Lafayette, La. to play five games this week­
After a heartbreaking 7 -4 loss end. Besides facing Louisiana­last Sunday to No. 17 Alabama, Lafayette (7-0) twice, the Irish in which the Irish led 4-0 going will play two games against into the seventh inning, Irish Northwestern State (0-7) and head coach Deanna Gumpf one game against McNeese State wanted nothing better than to (0-7). This will be the first time get on the plane and return to the Irish have played either South Bend. But instead, the McNeese or Northwestern State. Notre Dame softball team Even though the Irish have endured a 15-hour bus ride never played either team, back to campus after missing Gurnpf has tried to prepare her their return flight. tPam as best as possible. 
Gumpf remained confident, "We try to find out as much as however. that this bus ride we can about these teams brought the team closer togeth­through teams that have played er. them in the past," said Gumpf. 
"It's a character building trip," "We try to imitate them in prac­said Gumpf. "We were playing tice and try our best to know so good against Alabama and it them without seeing them. just fell apart that last inning. If Offensively the Lady Cajuns of the girls could handle the week­Louisiana-Lafayette arc paced end and the 15-hour bus ride. by Danyele Gomez, who leads they can handle anything. We the team with two home runs, got home and have moved on. I seven RBIs and a .474 batting think this weekend will be a average. On the mound the Irish turning point for us." will face Lady Cajun ace, Brooke 
9:30 -11:00 pm 
Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Bring your ID! $2.00 Skate Rental 
The ND Department of Music Presents 
A Senior Rectial 

Angela Zawada, soprano 
w / Kathy Keasey, piano 
Performing songs by Purcell, Bellini, Schumann, and more! 
Sunday, March 2, 2003 
I :30 pm, Carey Auditorium 
Hesburgh Library Free and open to the public 
JefcgeyMIWJ:SUBS 
AUTHENTIC SU65 SINCE 1950 
A FltEE SOB? 
YES!!... Purchase Any Reg. or Clant S17e SUb & a 22 oz. Fountaln Drink at Regular ?rice 
And Get Another SUb1 of Equal orl-Valua.•FREE...JI 
'.otf"" Not V ilid W;d, Omer 0/fu,, Coupon,,Wim Your I 5% Sludn1</F,cuhy Disccun< Or Fo, DeJ;""l' Onlen. 
"Valid only :u: Michiana Locations and onlrwith this coupon 111hu:h e:it:pire on Mmb. 28, 2003.. 
rN MJSHAWA.KA-AT 5718N MAIN ST. -ACRO$SFROMSAM'SCLUB--247-00S6 
IN SOlffH BENO-AT THE CO!.I.EGE FOOT/lAU. HAU. OF FAME --l46-0lJ6 AND 
AT THE INI-=cTION OF SR 933 AND AlITEN ROAD...277-89.lO 
~n.-soupon-.COupon,.....coL!pDe.c:«!JX!l••.rogport-..cwpot1...roupon.,-roupon. . .coqpi.in.~•..coupon... 
...  Domus  .  
PROPERTIES  
OFF CAMPUS  
HOUSES  
FORRENT  
FOR  
2003-2004  
2004-2005  
SCHOOL YEAR  
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT  
domuskrametcom  
OR CALL  
574-315-S032 OR 574-234-2436  
ASK FOR KRAMER  

Mitchell, who is 4-1 with a 0.25 ERA and 49 strike outs in only 
28.1 innings. 
McNeese State, a member of Southland Conference, is lead by Beth Jordan on offense and their leading pitcher is Jessica Denham, who has posted an impressive 1.33 ERA. 
Even though their 0-7 record is not impressive, Northwestern has appeared in three of the last five NCM championships as the winner of the Southland Conference. So far sophomore Nicole Martin has been the bright spot for the struggling Lady Demons offense. 
These teams will have to deal with an improving Irish pitching staff, as sophomore Steffany Stenglein continues to return from a shoulder injury. 
"This has been the first time that Steff has thrown in a game since May," said Gumpf. "Because she had been injured all summer and fall she just needed to get back into rhythm again. Each game she thrown she has gotten better." 
Also fellow sophomore Carrie Wisen is expected to start at least one game this weekend after not pitching last weekend due to an illness. While those two have struggled in the early going, freshman Heather Booth has been very impressive this season and has recorded all three of Notre Dame's victories. 
Two other freshmen that have stepped up in this young season are Kellie Middletown, who has taken over the center field job, and Meagan Ruthrauft, who leads the Irish with a .429 bat­ting average. 

"[Middletown] stepped right in and is doing a great job," said Gumpf. "I am confident that she will play well for us and Ruthie has just been hitting the snot out of the ball. What I like about these two freshmen is that they arc doing everything that they can for this senior class." 
After two weekends of incon­sistent play and battling the weather, Gumpf feels that this weekend could be the turning point in their young season. 
"This team knows what it takes to win," said Gumpf. "It is just putting it all together. I think we are on the upward swing and weekend could be a great turning point for us." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu 

·------· ·------· r------• ·------.. ·------· 
I I I I I I
$69

$15 I I $26 I I I I $69 $69 
I I I I Color, Cut & I 
Highlights,Mens Cut I I Cut & Sryle I I Style I Perm, Cuc & Style

.______ ..I .. ______ .. .______ .. Cut & Style
I I I One Process I

·------· ·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-] ennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2ATRIA SALON 

Nocvalidfurspiralpenns. Longorant<dhairadd$10. Nootherdiscoun~apply. Opcnsomeevcnings. ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Salon = die righr ro refuse savia: ro any dienrnnose hair condition is unt=Uble Nexc to Sprint
Corner ofEdison 271-8804
289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 3-16-03 
Less than l mile from campus 

.·········-----·-··-----------------------------------·-··············--············-----------------·········· 


-·•~········································································································ 
Friday, February 28, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 


JUMBLE 
J~~ID}JJ:.
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ESOLO 
t J I b
4:eOOJ Tribune Media Se1111CN, Inc. Al! Rights Reaerved. 
YAWLS 

j 
tGOTFRE I 
www.jumble.com 
I r BUNNIO ±
I I t J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Arglrlon 
owrti 
WHAT 1HE= Hf:AD OF THI= FAMIL-V 001=5 WHEN HIS KIDS NEED Ni=W 5HOl=5. 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ELEGY BASIC FLORAL SHADOW Answer: Why the orchestra wanted the composer on their baseball team -HE "SCORED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 1111S DAY: Bernadette Peters, Mario Andrctti, Gavin MK:Lood, Bisa Fiaillo 
Happy Birtlxlay: Yoor tiggestproblem dJr; year will be filling in all the things you want to do in a short period of time. Remember to focus and only give your time and effort to what counts. It's better to do one thing well than to do a whole lot of things with minimal results. Your nwnbers are 11, 19, 25, 27, 36,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ability to find solutions will bring you p;µIlarity aoo a reeling ofsatisliaicrt The rrm: tD1Kp: you are in yoor aiµoodJIDdilferentcµ::iies. the mn:n:a:pive ~will be. 1rlrlrlr TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't lead someone on today because you aren't sure of your feelings. One-sided relationships are apparent. Be honest and treat ~ire Wirf you woold liketo be treared yOll!ilclftt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be a walking dynamo today. You will have lots to conoibute and plenty to learn. Take a little time to tell someone how you 
feel.tt--l<tt CANCEROme21-July22):Cmsichlmg-tarninvesttmJt,lhalwill 
promise to make your dollar grow. It's time to do something that will secure ywrfinancial future..-tt LEO (July 23-Aug, 22}: Relationships may be a problem if you are unsure about whom you like and whom you don't. You must be honest about your feeling;aoo )OOI" intmticns ifyou want toavoidds:ad ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-SepL 22): If you feel you need a change, today is a perfect day to check the want ads. You will feel pretty good if you make some personal changes, socmtocsituetodoso. -ktt LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You'll be in the llDod to get out and have some fun. Going to the theater or an art gallery will probably give you some incentive to get tock to sure ofycu-ownaeativer,ttjects. tt.-tt SCORPIO (Oa. 23-Nov.21): You will be I.mi witlrn:sixmtilities, especially those pertaining to older relatives, legal or financial matters. You rmy mrl a little helpmoolingall the extra wak )UU've1aka! oo. tt SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have a desire lo travel. Don't forget to take care of the little things that a friend or relative asked you to do IIXlay. 1rlrlrlr CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make some extra money if you use your ingenuity today. Believe in yourself and stay away from people who don't wanttowcrlcaslmlas youdo. -ktt AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Confusion is probably getting you down and making you unsure of your next move. Consider making some changes. Your cmnging ani~ will ktx1)00X'JS gw.,ing. -ktt PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be careful around someone you aren't sure you can bllsL Don't leave yow-self open or you may be accused of gossip. Keep ywrckaling, totally above lxml. -ktt 
Birthday Baby: You will have a bright outlook and disposition. You will be i:m,icinatealutwhaleveryoodx::ireto<h Yoo will tlkea:licn wlrre=you feelitism=II)'. 
Oleck out Eugertia's Web sites al astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom. wnetwodc.com. 
CXlPYRIGHTa:xJ3 UNIVElSAL PR~SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Woman in a "Paint Your _ Wagon" song 
6 They may go on park walks 
11 Kind of pad 
14 Like musical instruments 
15 Loose on 
16 Violinist Jean­-Ponty 
17" Thief" (1950 movie) 
18 Not separate from 
20 Mountain goat's perch 21 Site of Churchill College 
22 1967 Pulitzer­winning novel by Bernard Malamud 
A -
24 ad1oact1ve isotope 
25 One who 
suspends an 
action, in law 26 _ Aigner, noted designer of shoes and handbags 27 Romantic verse 
starter 30 Feller 31 Hand-held 
entrees 32 _ city atty. 36 Brando, notably 38 Web-surfing 
needs, at times 42 Ideals 43 Early 20th­
century art 
movement 
44 Marcher's instrument 46 Tough spots 48 No more 49 Essays 50 Pick up 


52 Shoe spec. 53 Like typical Georgian woods 54 Council member, maybe 
55 Places for sgts. 56 Popeye's creator 57 Procedures: Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 W.W. II area 2 Collect1ble for a so-called 
paileontologIst 3 Up 4 Check on 5 Some ballet 
twosomes 6 Find a Job for 7 Fix, as a road 8 Little bit 9 Quintessential 
news headline 
10 Olympics no-no 11 Came home feet first, maybe 
battle 

13 Be up to something 
22 Renowned 1939 film setting 
23 Site of raw material? 
26 Sutt1x with smack 
28 Stinkers 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Sherry O. Bl1ckllrd 
29 Command level: 36 Fender 44 Kentucky Abbr. benders, e.g. college 
37 Puts side by 
45 From Nineveh: side
32 With real effort 
Abbr. 33 Allowances 38 Household 
47 Like ·war and

expenses34 Duke ,n "King Peace" Henry VI" 
39 Lay out 51 Ambulances'
40 Wears down 
destinations: syllables 41 Solemnity Abbr. 
35 Skipping 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


-
PORTS 
Friday, February 28, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Rested Irish ready for test at Rutgers 
. Four days off gave weary team some time to regain legs 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Writer 
Four games in 10 days will take their toll on a college basketball team. 
No one saw that better than No. 9 Notre Dame Monday when the Irish were outdone at home by a more explosive Connecticut Husky squad. 
"We're a little tired right now." Irish coach Mike Brey said after the disappointing home loss, his team's first of the season. "We need a couple days to get our legs under us." 
After falling behind by 15 at the half and as many as 1 7 during the second half. the depleted Irish squad didn't have enough of a fight left in them for a push to take the lead away from Connecticut in front of a packed Joyce Center crowd. 
Each time the Irish got close to catching the Huskies, Notre Dame's exhaustion became evident on the other end of the floor as Connecticut guard Ben Gordon would slice uncontested to the basket for a layup or forward Emeka Okafor would bully his way 
see RUTGERS/page 15 


BASEBALL 
Schedule doesn't get easier 
. Irish facing 2 top-10 teams at Dairy Queen Classic 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Just a week after dropping a pair of games to No. 4 Arizona State in their home park, No. 14 Notre Dame (2-2) returns to action against another tough field in the Dairy Queen Classic as the Irish take on No. 16 Nebraska, host Minnesota and No. 7 Wake Forest. 
The tournament is considered one of the premier early-season tournaments in the country, drawing a field of three top-20 teams and staged in a major league venue, the Metrodome. 
"It will be a good, challenging weekend for us, and it's going to be a lot of fun," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "I told our guys that this weekend should be one they look forward to as much as any weekend the entire season, because they'll be playing two teams ranked in the top 15 or so in Wake Forest 
see BASEBALL/page 16 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
The first time I covered a womens basketball game this season, Notre Dame did a lot of things well. 
They knocked down 3-point­ers. They play solid defense. They built a big lead. And they had the crowd roaring for much of the game. 
But no Alicia Ratay jumper or Jacqueline Batteast blocked shot could bring the crowd to their feet the way senior Karen Swanson did when she checked into the game with about three 


Making her dream come true 
minutes remaining in the sec­ond half. 
Why would 10,000 people get so excited to see a player that averaged all of 1.0 points per game as a junior? 
Why would everyone from See also little kids to Notre Dame vs. 
the old alumni 
in the gold Seton Hall seats instantly preview rise from their cushions page 15 
to applaud a player that has never played more than 11 minutes in a game? 
Why would the crowd make so much noise for a player that hardly contributed to the team's performance on the court? 
To understand that answer, you must first understand Swanson's almost-too-good-to­be-true story. 
Swanson was a standout 
guard for Westlake high school in Cleveland. She was a four­year letter winner in basketball and led her team in points, rebounds and steals as a senior. She was conference MVP that season and set the league's steals record as well. She was also a two-time first-team all­conference and earned all-dis­trict honors as a junior and senior. 
After the season, numerous Division II and III schools made Swanson offers and even a few Divison I's came calling. But Swanson's dream school, Notre Dame, wasn't one of them. 
"Everyone that recruited me, I was very upfront with them and told them there was only one place where I wanted to go to college," Swanson said. 
But not many people gave her a chance to actually make the 
see SWANSON/page 14 


v., ND SOFTBALL 

WOMENS LACROSSE 
HOCKEY 
FENCING 

WOMENS TENNIS 
BENGAL BOUTS 

1--u w Louisiana Classic 
Notre Dame at 
Western Michigan 
Midwest Fencing 
Texas at 
Sunday, 2 p.m.

at Lafayette, La. 
Cornell 
at Notre Dame 
Conference 
Notre Dame 
Championships 
Finals of 73rd annual 

Sunday, 2 p.m. 
Bengal Bouts held this

Saturday, 7 p.m.
=~ 
Today-Sunday

r 
Sunday, 12 p.m.
Saturday-Sunday

c,: 
Irish open their season 
weekend at the Joyce
Weekend series will

15 hour bus trip 
Weekend matches to
Irish look to defend 
Center.

at a 2002 NCAA Final 
help decide postseason
shows Irish they can 
raise money for Ace for
conference crowns. 

Four participant. 
home ice advantage.
overcome anything. 
A. ti 
the Cure. 

v., page 22 
page 21 
page 17 

page 17 
Irish Insider
page 19 









