
Monday, April 28, 2002 

The Indeppzdent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 1-58 \)1 

51 cited in raid on The Library 
BY TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 

Authorities cited 51 underage patrons for underage drinking and possession of false identification during the raid on The Library Irish Pub early Friday morning, police said. 
Police issued a total of 75 citations for "minor in a tavern" and posses­sion of false identification to patrons of the bar, said Lt. Greg Deitchley, a spokesman for the District 1 office of the Indiana State Excise Police. 
Deitchley could not say if any of those cited were not Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. About 200 to 300 people were inside the bar at the time of the raid, he estimated. 
The bust, conducted by members of excise police, Indiana State Police and South Bend Police, came after a complaint was filed three weeks ago about underage patrons consuming alcohol at the bar, Deitchley said. After an investigation that con­firmed the complaint, excise police began planning for the raid. 
Excise police brought campus phonebooks to the bust to help iden­tify Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. "We have campus phone­books that we've had for quite a while," Deitchley said. 
The Friday raid on The Library Irish Pub was the second on the bar at 113 East Wayne Street. Police also. raided the bar, then called Finnegan's Irish Pub, in October 2000, which resulted in citations for 147 underage patrons. Because of legal action. the bar's owners were forced to seJI the establishment and the bar was renamed. However, many students still call the bar by its old name. 
The raid on The Library Irish Pub was also the second bar raid this year. Police busted The Boat Club Jan. 24 and issued citations to 213 minors. It was not immediately clear if any students cited in Friday's raid were also cited at The Boat Club. 
Authorities expect to forward the list of those cited to the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission this week. NDSP also expects to receive a list of Notre Dame stu­dents cited which they will then for­ward to Residence Life, said Rex Rakow. director of NDSP. 
Notre Dame students will likely face punishment both in court and at school. 

Those cited for "minor in a tav­ern," a Class C misdemeanor. can receive up to a $500 fine, six months in jail and the confiscation of their driver's license. However, most minors have been able to receive pretrial diversion in previ­ous bar busts, paying court costs and completing community service hours. 
Notre Dame students will likely face additional action from the University. Penalties for students involved in similar raids have included fines and community ser­
see BAR BUST/page 4 

Blue and Gold game 
page 24 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Chemistry professor dies at 73 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
The Notre Dame community will mourn the loss of Rudolph "Rudy" Bottei during a burial Mass scheduled tomorrow at Christ the King Catholic Church. The professor and assistant chair of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry succumbed to cancer Wednesday. He was 73. 
Bottei, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1955, continued to teach environmental chemistry and freshman chemistry classes through the first half of this semester. 
As his condition deteriorated, Bottei was moved to the Hospice House in South Bend. His daughter addressed his environmental chemistry class Tuesday, assuring students that her father was comfortable and enjoying the attention of family and visitors, but that he would only live a short time longer. 
Colleagues and students remembered Bottei fondly. 
"It seemed like he cared a lot about students," said Danielle Ledesma, a senior environmental science major. "He made class entertaining and enjoy­able." 
Students said they liked Bottei's ten­dency to intersperse wit and practical advice into his lectures. In addition to teaching chemistry, Bottei instructed his students to avoid procrastination, make the most out of the day or "prime time," drink lots of water, use it or lose it and treat people nice in order to find success at Notre Dame and at life in 
see PROFESSOR/page 4 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 




Group approves housing 
ByANGElA SAOUD 
News Writer 
The Board of Trustees approved the building of on­campus apartments at their meeting this past Friday. 
Opus North, an architec­tural firm out of Chicago, will construct the apart­ments. Groundbreaking is scheduled for June 2003. 
The cost of building the apartments is not to exceed $5 million. Half of the funds needed for the project have already been donated by a 
see TRUSTEES/page 4 


'Here come the Irish' sells out after debut 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
The sea of green will con­tinue. 
Student organizers revealed this year's iteration of The Shirt in a Friday press conference at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The theme of the new Kelly-green shirt is "Here Come the Irish." The design is similar to that of last year's shirt, which featured the motto, "Return to Glory." 
The design on the front features the motto "Here Come the Irish" and "Notre Dame Football 2003" super­imposed over a dark green shamrock. The back sports a picture of the football team running out of the stadium tunnel. The text reads "There's a magic in the sound of her name. Here come the Irish of Notre Dame." 
The words are lyrics from 

a song entitled "Here Come the Irish," written by Notre Dame alumnus John Scully. The song has also been fea­tured in a popular Notre 
Dame promotional video of the same name. 
Plans are underway to re­release the song for the 2003 football season, O'Connor said, adding, "It'll be written and produced by Notre Dame graduates." 
see THE SHIRT/page 4 
Monday, April 28, 2003 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Putting the fuhrre before the present 
While you sit here reading this article, the Notre Dame administration is already looking to find your replacement to be sitting in your spot next year. In 
Ted Bangert
fact, they have been looking for this new set of 2,000 stu­Systems dents for over a Administrator year. Other than the fact that they are looking for students who will further improve their own image and in turn bring even more shiny. homogeneous, and most importantly, complacent boys and girls, I don't have any problem with the idea of recruiting by itself. 
What I do object to is the University's obsession with its image to the point that it diverts resources from its current stu­dents in order to draw in its future ones. A perfect example ofthis can be found without looking any further than the University's academic Web site, www.nd.edu. 
As soon as you load the page, the University wants to know to which group you belong: prospective students, cur­rent students, faculty and staff, alumni, parents, or visitors so that they may treat you accordingly. From the prospective students site, click on the "admissions" link at the top, which brings you to http://admissions.nd.edu. It's a flashy and attention-grabbing web page com­plete with java animation, links to two real video and QuickTime movies and a nice posed picture of a student having an intimate conversation with a University administrator in his office with sunshine and green plants outside of the window. The last time I remember having an inti­mate conversation with an administrator in an office like that was my ResLlf e meeting. 
To get back to my point, there was clearly more money and time spent on this Web site than the main Web site which current Notre Dame students use, http://www.nd.edu/current. It is true that building a Web site costs relatively little compared to other expenses, but this disparity is representative ofthe University's overall priorities. One may argue that the University would not be where it is now ifit were not for its devo­tion to academic recruiting and there would be no future for Notre Dame ifit did not look to it now. Recruiting is fine, but I am concerned with the administra­tion's priorities -first maintain and improve the University's image by attracting future students and prospec­tive alumni donors. then attend to stu­dents. 
And another thing, examine the Main Building itself. Compare the admissions department to the Office of Residence Llfe and Housing, for students, and the Office of Student Affairs. The admissions department is right inside the front door, expensively furnished, with plenty of plenty of office space, while up away on the third floor, the ResLlfe office greets you with a wall right away, and it looks like a scene out ofOffice Space. I ask the administration to balance its priorities as they should be, with current students first, and maybe even in the process they might attract more prospective students 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
China honored for 
Freshman 

announces 21 her service 
more SARS work 
deaths 
Beijing health offi­Froyen was induct­
Freshman Laura 

cials shut down ed into the Iowa 
karaoke parlors, Volunteer Hall of 
movie theaters and Fame for creating a 
discos to control the memorial in memo­
spread of SARS, as ry of lives lost in 
construction work­the Spet. 11 terror­
ers built a 1,000 bed ist attacks. 
isolation ward for SARS patients. 
page 5 page 3 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Lecture with Todd vVhitmurc 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Investors profit as market drops 
On Friday the Dow Jones dropped more than 130 points after worries that stocks were rising too quickly. 
page 7 

"Catholic Social Thought and International Business" 3 p.m. at Jordan Auditoriun1 _ 
. 
Lecture with Nancy Schepcr-Ilughes "Hotten Trade: Community Fetishism and the Global Traffic in Human Organs" 7 p.m. at IIesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
ND Concert Band and Concert Winds 


Free performance, directed by Ken Dye 8 p.m. at Washington Hall 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Celebrating a Leadership Community A luncheon to honor student leaders 

11 :30 a.n1. at Noble Dining Hall, Wedge room 

. 
Student Hecital Forum 


12:00 p.m. at Moreau, Little Theatre 
SPORTS 
Another canine crushed as Irish sweep Huskies 
Sporting their trio of game jer­seys, Notre Dame's baseball team won all three of their weekend games against Conneticut at Eck Stadium. 
page 19 

VIEWPOINT 
Parietals hurt Notre Dame's image 
In a letter to the editor, freshman Anna Nussbaum argues that pari­etals chase prospective stu­dents away with stiff regulations. 
page 10 
SCENE 

A generation of teen television ends 
Scene takes a look at "Dawson's Creek" and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," both of which will end this spring and air their final episode. 
page 12 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled linguine, shells, tri-color rotini, meat sauce, marinara sauce, breaded chessesticks, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, veg­etable pizza, tomato soup, cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, whipped potatoes, corn, oriental veg­etables, baked potato, hamburger. chicken patty. chicken breast, fries 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, brown sauce, pork gravy, peas, whipped potatoes, corn, steamed carrots, steamed broc­coli, mixed vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, hamburger, chicken breast, baked potato, hamburger, chicken 
South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, boiled fettucine. gorgonzola sauce. French bread pizza. whipped potatoes, corn. turkey gravy, baked potato, roasted vegetables, spinach. hamburg­er. chicken nuggets, krinkle kut fries. chicken taco, taco meat, Spanish rice, Mexican bar, portobello fajita, chinese noodles, fried rice, oriental vegetables 
Today's Dinner: Thin spaghetti. shells, mostaccioli, linguine. alfredo sauce, spaghetti sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, French bread pizza, whipped potatoes, corn. roasted vegetables, roasted top round, oven fried chicken, cabbage 
Cars towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on April 24 at the Hesburgh Center for International studies. 

Student reports tampered car 
A student reported her vehicle was broken into while outside Fischer Graduate Housing building 22 between 12 a.m. and 9 a.m. on April 23. 

Employee loses Kontrol Kard 
On April 24, a University employee reported mis­placing her Kontrol Kard at an unknown location. 

Missing bike found near classrooms 
A bike that was reported missing from outside Welsh Family Hall was recovered outside of DeBartolo. 

Employee injured 
NDSP escorted a University employee from South Dining Hall to the University Medical Center on April 24 for treatment of an injury. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Falafels, saffron rice. marinated cucumber salad, buttered noodles, light tomato sauce, parmesan muffins, sweet and sour chicken served with sticky rice, pork cutlet, patty melt, garden vegetable patty, bat­tered onion rings, monterey turkey, flat bread sandwich, potato chippers, fresh green beans, cheese pizza, bread sticks 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, corn­bread, fried plantains, grilled Italian sausage with pasta and Italian vegeta­bles, broiled hamburgers, BBQ chicken, Texas grilled cheese, baked beans, gypsy schnitzel, buttered noodles 
who could come to visit and see that Notre Dame does put its students first. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
The views expressed in the Inside 
a:

Column are those of the author and 
LLI 

not necessarily those ofThe Observer. ::c Contact Ted Bangert at 
~ 

bangert. 4@nd.edu. LLI 
3: 
...I 
c:t

CORRECTIONS (.) ..J 0 HIGH 69 HIGH HIGH HIGH 71 HIGH 71 HIGH 63





The Observer r~gards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­LOW 48 LOW LOW LOW 52 LOW 47 LOW 40 ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we 
will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can Atlanta 80 / 58 Boston 74 / 55 Chicago 68 / 50 Denver 71 / 47 Houston 82 / 66 Los Angeles 66 / 52 Minneapolis 72 / 46 correct our error. New York 76 / 53 Philadelphia 79 / 52 Phoenix 90 / 62 Seattle 66 I 46 St. Louis 75 / 57 Tampa 86 I 68 Washington 80 / 59 


Monday, April 28, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Students in lawsuit to meet this week 
By TERESA FRALISH Asrnciate News Editor 
Student government will hold a meeting either Tuesday or Thursday this week to assist students who received court summons last week for citations incurred during the Jan. 24 police raid on The Boat Club. 
"\Ve've gotten responses from over 100 students," said Pat Hallahan, student body president. 
Student government sent out an e-mail last week ask­ing students who received summons to contact them by phone or e-mail and responses are still coming in, said Hallahan. 
According to Hallahan, students are still receiving summons, a process that began .last Tuesday. 
At the meeting, student government will provide stu­dents access to legal advice, Hallahan said. "We've spo­ken to a couple attorneys," 

he said. 
Hallahan said he and oth­ers would continue to look at additional options and plan to work on the possibility of combining the lawsuits or getting the hearing dates changed. Hearings are scheduled for early August, a time when most students involved in the suits will not be in the South Bend area. 
The lawsuits are being brought in the St. Joseph County Small Claims Court by Millennium Club, a corpo­ration solely controlled by Mike McNeff, the owner of Boat Club, and request $3,000 in damages from each student. Millennium Club alleges that the stu­dents cited in the Jan. 24 raid caused excessive legal and financial burden to the bar. A total of 213 minors were cited in the January raid. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



Student honored for service work 
with trees, raising them at her the age of 21 "who have made
. Freshman is 

home said she chose an arbore­significant contributions through inducted into the tum as her main service project volunteer efforts or programsIowa Volunteer because "I was watching the and who serve as role models 
news on Sept. 11, and I felt so far and inspire other young volun­
Hall of Fame 

away from it -living in Iowa -teers." and I felt like I had to do some­A former high school teacher By MAUREEN REYLNOLDS thing. I chose an arboretum nominated Froyen for the award, News Wrirer 
because trees and others live forever. wrote letters
"/ was watching the news
Laura Froyen, a freshman Statues may of recommen­from Knoxville, Iowa, has been fall, and rock on Sept. 11. and I felt so dation for her, inducted into the Iowa Volunteer may wear but it was a
far away from it -living
Hall of Fame in recognition for away with the while before
in Iowa -and I felt like I 
her service weather, but she was work as a 
trees are for­had to do something ... informed that high school ever." she had student. The In another received the
Laura Froyen

induction service pro­award. 
service award winner "It a
took place ject. Froyen was Tuesday, developed a real surprise April 15 at a computerized Tree because it took such a long ceremony Identification Guide to "aid edu­time," Froyen said. She was noti­during the cational efforts." This program fied of her honor through a letter Governor's Froyen helps students identify tree from the Governor ofIowa. Conference species by their leaves. It is now Along with this honor, Fro yen on Volunteer Service in Des used by many schoolc; through-was one of 50 national Coca-Cola Moines. out Iowa. Scholars in 2002, a Toyota schol­
As a student at Knoxville High In addition, Froyen also ar and a Herbert Hoover School, Froyen created an worked as a volunteer for the Scholar. arboretum and dedicated it as a Knoxville Community memorial to the frrefighters and Betterment Committee. police officers killed in the Sept. According to the competition 11 terrorist attacks. guidelines, this recognition is Contact Maureen Reynolds at 
Froyen has previously worked made annually to people under mreynold@nd.edu 
RUNNING WITH MEMORIES 

SOUTH KOREA 




Atomic weapons talks stall 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 
South Korea demanded Sunday that North Korea abandon any atomic weapons development, but Northern negotiators in Pyongyang stonewalled the nuclear discussion. 
Chief North Korean dele• gate Kim Ryong Song refused to confirm a claim by a North Korean envoy in last week's talks with U.S. officials in Beijing that Pyongyang has nuclear weapons. 
Instead, Kim sought to steer the Cabinet-level talks toward inter-Korean eco­nomic projects, Seoul offi­cials said. 
Washington believes North Korea has one or two atomic bombs and may be trying to make more. The North has long disputed that claim, saying its nuclear program is meant to generate much­needed electricity. Some analysts suggested the North was bluffing. 
But in last week's talks in Beijing, North Korean dele­gate Ri Gun told Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly that North Korea has nuclear weapons, a senior 
U.S. official in Washington said. 
Possession of nuclear weapons would be a 'serious violation' of a 1992 inter­Korean agreement to keep the peninsula nuclear-free, South Korean Unification Minister Jeong Se-hyun reminded North Korea, according to South Korean government spokesman Shin Eun-sang. 


1'V;~t9
i 

Announces the following Introductory offers of.•, 
r----•r---•r----•r----~r----~ 
I I I I I $69 I I I I $ I 
I $15 I I $26 I I I I $79 I I 79 I 
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I ff hr h I I Mens Cut I I Cut & StyleI I Style I I Perm, Cuc &Style I I C ig~~ 11• I I I I I I One Process I I I I ut ty e I 

·----··---··----··----··----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON Nrnv.ilidfurspiralpcmu. Longorcincedhai,..id$10. No ATRIA SALON 2 other dc<wunts WY· Open some cverungs. ATIUA Salon Martin's Shopping Center 1357 N. lronwood Dr. =thc.-riglutordu....-scivicrro:mydicn1whosclwr N S . Comer of Edison rondition i, untn::auhlc. ext to prmt 
271 8804

289•5080 OFFER EXPIRES 5-10-03 ­
Lc:55 than I mile from campus 


Now HIRING Servers Experience preferred. 
Come to Applebee's and see what's cookin'l If you are a high energy teom player, stop by to find out about our over-the-top growth potential and outstanding benefits including: • Top-notch Wages 
• Flexible Schedules • Health Insurance • Fun Atmosphere 
Please apply in person: 
APPLEBEE'$ NEIGHBORHOOD GRIU & BAR 
3703 Portage Rood, South Bend, IN 46628 
EOE 

www.applesauceinc.com 
Monday, April 28, 2003

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


The Shirt 
continued from page 1 
Bookstore manager Jim O'Connor said he anticipates high sales for the new appar­el. Last year, fans energized by first year head-coach Tyrone Willingham bought over 130,000 kelly-green shirts which were featured during NBC telecasts of Fighting Irish football. 
"We've ordered 44,000 of them, and about 4,500 are here already," O'Connor said. 
He also said other comple­mentary products might be released, but the centerpiece will remain the T-shirt. 
"The focal point needs to be The Shirt," O'Connor said. 
Sophomore Rozann Carter, who submitted the winning design, said she was enthusi­astic about the project. "We're all really excited about this," Carter said. 
She wasn't the only one. Sales appeared to start off well, as scores of fans lined 

Bar Bust 

continued from page 1 
vice hours. 
Saint Mary's student hand­book, unlike du Lac, Notre Dame's student handbook, prevents officials from repri­manding students for off­campus offenses. 
The Library Irish Pub may face legal action as well. In the Jan. 24 raid on The Boat Club that resulted in cita­tions for 213 minors, ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer 


Professor 
continued from page 1 
general. 
"He was a standout," said Graham Lappin, a fellow pro­fessor of Chemistry and Biochemistry. "He has given to the department a long time. He's kept things going for generations of students." 
Bottei has been consistently honored for his teaching skills, receiving various awards. Most recently, stu­dents recognized Bottei's contributions, awarding the professor the Student Governm en t-sponsored Frank O'Malley Teaching Award. 
Derrick Evans, a junior economics major, said that while he enjoyed having Bottei as a professor, he val­ued his friendship outside the classroom even more. 

up to be among the first wearers of the new design, which benefits student activi­ties. The bookstore has already sold out its initial stock of 4,500, said sopho­more Dave Brenner, presi­dent of The Shirt. 
"Wearing the 'Here Come the Irish' shirt supports wor­thy causes, demonstrates fan unity and contributes to the special occasion of a Notre Dame football Saturday," Brenner said in a press release. 
The shirt, sponsored by the Student Activities Office and the Alumni Association, sells to students for $11, while the general public will pay $15. The shirts will be available in the bookstore, Lafortune, and the Joyce Center Varsity Shop in mid-July. It is also possible to pre-order The Shirt online. 
"So far, this year's success shows the spirit is there," Brenner said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
offered the options of either revoking the bar's liquor license or selling The Boat Club to new owners. 
For serving alcohol to minors, a Class C misde­meanor, bars can face the loss of their liquor license and fines of up to $1,000 per offense. Bridget McGuire's Filling Station and Irish Connection, bars raided in 1998, both lost their liquor licenses. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
"Dr. Bottei became my clos­est friend at the University," he said. 
Bottei, born in Old Forge, Penn., received his under­graduate degree from Wilkes College, a master's degree from Cornell University and a doctorate from Princeton University where he was a LeRoy Wiley McKay Advanced Fellow. Bottei served as assistant chairper­son of the department of Chemistry and Biochemistry since 1964, directing under­graduate and graduate stu­dent research and holding several summer faculty research appointments at Argonne National Laboratory. 
Bottei is survived by his wife Rita and their four chil­dren. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
GETTIN' JIGGY WITH IT 

one way we can promote interaction on campus between upperclassmen and under­

Trustees 
classmen." continued from page 1 The Board is also hoping that the apart• ments may act as a attraction during the private donor. summer for conferences. 
Th~ approved apartment building will be The apartment building is scheduled to be three stories, and will con-finished by June of 2004. tain two-and four-bedroom The Board also approved apartments. There will be a "The goal in building the Eldred's dedsion to appoint chapel on the first floor. Pat White as Vice President
apartments is to provide
Study lounges will be and Dean of Faculty. White included on each floor. more independent hous-will continue in this position Each apartment will include ing to students who for two academic years. a kitchen with a dishwasher The plan to search for a
might otherwise move off
and other amenities. new president was also 
campus.··
After the Board took a approved. Eldred announced student survey at Midnight her retirement earlier this Madness, they received an year. but agreed to stay on
Melanie Engler 
overwhelmingly favorable as president until a replace­

College spokesperson
response to the addition of ment could be found. Board this housing. members said a letter will 
"The goal in building the be issued to the campus apartments is to provide more independent later this week explaining how the search housing to students who might otherwise will be conducted. move off•campus," said College spokes­woman Melanie Engler. "It is important to retain senior leadership, and this may be Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@nd.edu. 
SUl\.1.MERJOBS :~!~> CONSUl\liER RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Indiana's most effective Citizens Organization is accepting applications 
Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to work on Consumer rights and environmental campaigns. 
Improve our energy policy through increased reliance on efficiency and renewables (Wind power, Solar power, Fuel Cells, and Biomass projects) Help create jobs, reduce pollution, and save the taxpayers ...........hundreds of millions dollars in avoided energy costs. 
. Citizens Action Coalition is a twenty-eight yenr old citizens lobby organization. 
With 4 offices, 300,000 members statewide~ we routinely battle the largest utilities, polluters and special interest groups in Indiana on behalf of' citizens...and win! 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm.Earn $:150-$425/wk.Work outdoors. Sleep Late.Casual atrnospht;rc ...Serious work. 
Call -574-232-7905 for more informatior1. 
Cl-ieck::'.. us. out OV\..LL.V\,e WWW.Ct-tetct.QYg 
South Bend: 574-232-7905 Also: Indianapolis: 31 7-205-3535 Fort Wayne: Z60-4ZZ-G097 New Albany: 8 12-94 1-1 l 70 TOLL FREE: 1 -800-20 I -1Z l 0 




Good luck with finals! 

Monday, April 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
CHINA 

Government announces 21 more SARS deaths 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
Karaoke parlors, movie the­aters and discos shut their doors Sunday under orders from Beijing officials trying to contain the spread of SARS, which claimed more lives in the Chinese capital, Hong Kong, Taipei, Singapore and Toronto. 
As Beijing health officials recorded eight new deaths and said as many as 2,300 people might be infected, hundreds of construction workers labored around the clock to build a 1,000-bed isolation ward for SARS patients. A ninth person died elsewhere in mainland China, bringing its total to 131, and 12 more died in Hong Kong. 
Taiwan, which reported its first SARS death, imposed a manda­tory 10-day quarantine on trav­elers from areas affected by the virus -including mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Vietnam and Toronto. But offi­cials did not announce where those travelers would stay while quarantined. 
Those violating the quarantine, including foreigners, can be jailed for up to two years or fined up to $8,600, Premier Yu Shyi-kun said. 

Trying to stem panic over the flu-like disease, the World Health Organization said Sunday there was still time to keep SARS from spreading globally if affect­ed countries take strong enough action, and through travel warn­ings and checks of travelers for symptoms, such as fever, dry cough and shortness of breath. 
WHO planned on Monday to designate Vietnam as the world's first country to success­fully contain its outbreak. No new cases have been reported there since April 8 -meeting the window of 20 days, or twice the disease's incubation period, set by the WHO as the standard for declaring that the outbreak is no longer spreading. 
"1 think we still have a window of opportunity. ... At the moment, we still have a chance to contain it and to have it go down in the places where out­breaks are already happening and avoid it spreading to new countries," WHO director Gro Brundtland said in an interview on the British Broadcasting Corp. 
The WHO has issued travel warnings for affected areas, including regions of China and Toronto, which reported its 21st victim on Sunday. Canada has the biggest outbreak of SARS 
AFP 

People wearing face masks line up In front of ticket counters at Beijing Station on Friday to 

leave the capital to avoid SARS. 
outside of Asia. worldwide. There have been 41 
SARS, or severe acute respira­cases in the United States, but no tory syndrome, has killed 319 deaths. people from Beijing to Toronto Vietnam was to be declared the in the past several months and first country to beat the disease. sickened more than 4,800 others Vietnam had five deaths from SARS after the virus spread through Hanoi's international hospital. which closed its doors on March 11 -a move that is credited with containing the out­break. 
ARGENTINA 


Presid~ntial election appears to be headed for run-off 
Associated Press 

BUENOS AIRES 
Former President Carlos Menem and rival Peronist Nestor Kirchner ran neck­and-neck ahead of a crowded field in Argentina's presidential vote on Sunday, first official results and exit polls showed. 
With 5 percent of the ballot tallied, Menem led with 25 percent of the vote ­a whisker ahead of the 23 percent for Kirchner, the governor of the oil-rich Patagonian province of Santa Cruz . 
Ricardo Lopez Murphy. a free-market economist and former economy minister, trailed in third with 17 percent. 
Exit polls released by the television sta­tions Cronica, AmericaTV, and TodoNoticia, suggested both Menem and Kirchner would be heading to a second round on May 18. 
The independent Cronica television net­work gave Menem 29 percent to 21 per­cent for Kirchner and 18 percent for Murphy. Other exit polls did not release their final figures. 
To win outright, a candidate needs to capture at least 45 percent of the vote or finish with at least 40 percent and a lead of 10 percentage points over the closest rival. 
Menem, who dominated Argentine poli­tics as a flamboyant and unabashed free­market advocate from 1989 to 1999, had held a narrow lead in most pre-election polls. 
He smiled broadly as the first presiden­tial candidate to vote Sunday, surrounded by chanting well-wishers in his home state of La Rioja in western Argentina. 
Hundreds of well-wishers mobbed the 72-year-old former leader after he voted shouting "Mr. President!" His wife, the former Miss Universe Cecilia Bolocco, was not on hand. 
Lopez Murphy, who with his walrus mustache and weighty Jowls is known as "the Bulldog," cast his ballot in Buenos Aires, telling reporters that voters had a serious choice to make, with their very economic future at stake. 
"This is a day of great responsibility," he said. 
Some 25.7 million voters registered for the election, which was conducted peace­fully as soldiers stood guard at many of the 66,735 polling stations nationwide. It was Argentina's fifth election since democracy was restored following the end of a military dictatorship in 1983. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 


IRA agrees to dispose of more weapons 
The Irish Republican Army is willing to scrap more weapons, but only if Protestant leaders agree to resume power-sharing in Northern Ireland, Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams said Sunday. Adams ­whose party is resisting pressure from the British, Irish and American governments to demonstrate the IHA's total renunciation of violence -insisted the organization was willing to get rid of all its weapons and demonstrate its "completely peaceful intent." He said the IRA, which led disarmament otlicials to a few weapons dumps in October 2001 and April 2002, had already agreed to allow "a third act of putting arms beyond use ... at the earliest opportu­nity" if there is agreement on resuming the power­sharing. He didn't specify whether the IRA was offering to get rid of all its arms stockpiles in one major act or slowly over years, as has been the case so far. Police estimate the group retains 100 tons of largely Libyan-supplied weaponry. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Utah cities rank first in philanthropy 
Among the nation's major metropolitan areas, residents of Salt Lake City-Ogden are the nation's most generous. and people in Hartford Conn., are the least, according to a study by the Chronicle of Philanthropy. 
Salt Lake City-Ogden residents who itemized their federal tax deductions gave nearly 15 per­cent of their discretionary income to religious and nonprofit causes, according to the study being published Monday. The runner-up was Michigan's Grand Rapids-Muskegon-Holland area at 10 per­cent. Hartford, Conn., was the nation's least-gen­erous metropolitan area, with 4. 7 percent of dis­cretionary income going to charities, the study found. 
The study analyzed 1997 tax data for households earning more than $50,000 a year that itemized deductions, including charity donations, on their tax returns. 
Chinese may have donated to campaigns 
Democratic presidential candidate Joe Lieberman is asking for a federal investigation into whether an alleged double agent illegally funneled Chinese money into U.S. political campaigns. Katrina Leung, a Southern California businesswoman who was paid $1.7 million as an FBI informant, also was a Republican activist and donor to candidates and the Republican Party. And she was arrested on April 9 as a suspected spy for China. Court documents accuse Leung, 49, of a long list of security breaches including tipping off Chinese authorities to a search by U.S. agents for nuclear secrets in China and revealing names of FBI agents investigating Chinese spying in this country. Lieberman, ranking Democrat on the Senate Government Affairs Committee, wrote a letter to Attorney General John Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert Mueller demand­ing an investigation into whether any of the money she gave was from the Chinese government. 

Monday, April 28, 2003 


page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
HAITI 

Catholics pray for miracles at conference 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

Crowded under canopies. some 90,000 Haitians prayed Sunday for miracles to cure the array of ills bedeviling their nation, among the world's poorest. 
Some fell into trances. others pleaded for cures for physical ailments or even just a little money to survive. 
Dozens raised Haitian pass­ports to heaven and prayed that U.S. consular officers would be compassionate and grant them visas to escape their poverty. 
Only carnival festivities attract more people than the annual Catholic Charismatic Conference in the Caribbean nation of 8 million. 
"Its success reflects our deepening despair and lack of confidence in rational solutions to Haiti's mounting economic and social problems," said soci­ologist Laennec Hurbon, who works for the Paris-based National Center for Scientific Research. 
"People believe that only mir­acles can save them," he said of the crowds thronging the grounds of St. Louis de Gonzague School in suburban Delmas. 
Many of the worshippers were from the Protestant Pentecostal movement. Others follow a homegrown voodoo fusion of West African and Roman Catholic beliefs. The three-day Homan Catholic meeting ends Sunday. 
"The only solution to the problems of our nation is the best solution, faith in Jesus," said Gertha Lucie Louissaint, 36. 
Haiti has endured 20 years of political instability. Its most recent crisis started since flawed 2000 legislative elec­tions swept by President Jean­Bertrand Aristide's Lavalas Family party. International donors froze $500 million in aid because of irregularities in the vote. 
Street gangs claiming links to Aristide's party have attacked demonstrators, journalists and opposition politicians. 

People have long turned to the gods to ease their suffering. 
"What do I know about poli­tics?" said Yvann Pierre-Louis, a 40-year-old widow with seven children. "I have nobody but Jesus to turn to in my dis­tress." 
Conference participants paid about $4.50 to cover the costs of the rented canopies, chairs and parasols that were handed out during the ceremony. 
Outside, scores of others who could not afford the fee listened to the exhortations and hymns blaring through speakers. 
"Down with Satan!" Trinidadian Rev. Yan Taylor yelled, stamping his foot as if that would put down the forces of evil. 
"Hallelujah! Amen!" roared the tens of thousands who raised their hands in the air in unison, invoking the Holy Spirit to defeat the powers of dark­ness. 
"Everything's possible when you believe in God," they sang. 
Several people claimed they were cured. A man climbed the podium to say he had recov­ered his hearing, but his ram­bling responses to questions left the crowd in doubt. 
But applause met the stum­bling steps of a teenage boy, said to have been crippled for years, who walked falteringly after a priest laid hands on his head and prayed. 
Millions in Haiti place faith in voodoo. The religion evolved from West African beliefs and developed further among slaves in the Caribbean who adopted elements of Catholicism. 
In an executive decree earli­er this month, Aristide invited voodoo adherents and organi­zations to register with the Ministry of Religious Affairs. 
Aristide, a former Roman Catholic priest, has said he rec­ognizes voodoo as a religion like any other, and a voodoo priestess bestowed a presiden­tial sash on him at his first inauguration in 1991. 






Free Haircut 
by licensed cosmetologist models needed for training program at 

Atria Salon 
(574)289-5080 1357 N. IRONWOOD DR. South Bend, IN 46615 
Call for appointment 
PARAGUAY 

Duarte wins presidential election 
tional community." 

Associated Press 

Franco and Falud met with 
their supporters and quietly 
ASUNCION conceded the race. 
Colorado Party veteran Duarte's party dominated the Nicanor Duarte easily defeated political life of this South two challengers in Paraguay's American nation of 5.5 million presidential election on Sunday, people since 1947. governing prolonging the party's half-cen­both in times of dictatorship and tury grip on power despite the civilian rule. worst economic crisis in While his party has long been decades. accused of failing to help the 
With 82 percent of the ballots country's poor. he vowed to counted from 8,400 polling sta­"work hard so we will no longer tions nationwide, Paraguay's be a rich country with poor peo­Electoral Court said Duarte, a ple." 49-year-old lawyer had 38 per­More than one of three cent of the vote -a runaway Paraguayans lives in poverty. lead that would keep the The government puts unemploy-Colorado ment at 18 Party's record percent, but
"I want to be the 
intact as the experts say it's 
longest-gov­president who restores closer to 35 erning party the country to dignity. ,, percent. The 
still in power government, in the virtually broke, 

Nicanor Duarte 
Americas. has scrambled 
S e c o n d president-elect of Paraguay to pay civil ser­place went to vant salaries. opposition Only Bolivia is leader Julio poorer in Cesar Franco of the Authentic South America. Radical Liberal Party with 23 There was little difference percent. Pedro Falud, a wealthy among the candidates' plat­banker and independent of the forms on how they would deal Beloved Fatherland movement, with the crushing economic dis­placed third with 22 percent, array. the Electoral Court said. Duarte succeeds Luis 
In a clear signal that Duarte's Gonzalez Macchi for a five-year victory was considered final, term beginning Aug. 15, but election officials said no further Gonzalez Macchi -dogged by official results would be issued critics over his failure to revive Sunday. They said complete the economy -has hinted he results would be provided might leave office early to allow before midday on Monday. a new government take over. 
'Tm not going to let you Gonzalez Macchi was appoint­down," Duarte said in declaring ed by the Senate four years ago victory. "I want to be the presi­after Raul Cubas resigned. dent who restores the country Cubas stepped down after his to dignity and earns the respect vice president was assassinated. of the national and the interna-provoking bloody street 

Domus 

PROPERTIES 
protests. Gonzalez Macchi him­self barely survived an impeach­ment attempt last February by a Congress that accused him of corruption -charges he denied. 
Since the 30-year military dic­tatorship of Gen. Alfredo Stroessner ended in 1989, Paraguay's fledgling democracy has stumbled through political crises, coup attempts, and assassinations. 
Franco, whose Liberals have been the main voice in opposi­tion to the Colorado Party. said before the winner became apparent that the victory "should work for the sake of Paraguay and Paraguayans, especially the poor." 
Falud, a banker running on an independent ticket he financed with his own money. had campaign on pledges of major social reform, vowing to bringing new jobs, food pro­grams and social assistance to Paraguayans. 
Some 2.4 million registered voters also elected a vice presi­dent, 45 senators, 80 House deputies and 17 governors nationwide. · 
Duarte, as president-elect, will be hard-pressed to ease ram­pant crime and endemic corrup­tion. 
The Colorado Party has ruled uninterrupted for nearly six decades, and critics openly questioned its continued rule after the party's failure to solve such intractable problems. 
Some voters who opposed Duarte, said they did so because of his party, not the candidate. 
"Duarte may be a good man, but we've had enough of the Colorados," said one voter, 37­year-old Carlos Algaraz. 





OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 

2003-2004 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE Al., www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 574-31.5-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
Monday, April 28, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch April 25 
Dow Jones 
8,306.35 • -133.69 

NASDAQ 
1,434.54 -22.69
•


S&P500 
898.81 

-12.62
•

AMEX 
~ 

848.27 -3.81
•


NYSE 
5,017.62 -67.68
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.07 -0.0114.34 
1

Ili~::lqi~il(jli~~111!!:!1!'Ii!!il!Ili!1t:iI~!i11::i:fi[!1!1:~:i!:;!:!J
. ·:-:-:,:,:,:•:•:-:-;,:-:,;,;,;,:,:,:,;,:.;,:.:,:, :-:-:-:-.-:-:.:-:-:-:-;.;, ;::::::-.-::::::::;:::;:;:::::::~:::;:::;:::: 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.81 -0.13 3.26 
:1~~~~1% ~~:::::1m1~m1),: 1:111J!i!i!!!!i!!!]fii1~[11~~1:1rt:l~!~~li!i~l:.~lili 
AMAZON COM (AMZN) +15.33 +3.85 28.97 
IN BRIEF 

AA avoids immediate bankruptcy 
Flight attendants at American Airlines agreed Friday to concessions that the compa­ny said it needed to avoid bankruptcy. Following approval a day earlier by the carri­er's two other unions. the flight attendants' decision allowed American to avoid an imme­diate Chapter 11 filing. But the company's new chief executive said the world's largest carrier still has much work to do. Leaders of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants had been badly split over a con­cessions offer that the company sweetened this week, with lingering anger aimed at Donald Carty, who resigned as chairman and chief executive late Thursday. 

Amtrak plans upgrades, route cuts 
Amtrak will renovate Civil War-era tunnels and replace overhead electrical wires installed when Franklin Roosevelt was presi­dent under a five-year upgrade plan announced Friday. Amtrak President David Gunn's plan would ignore calls for eliminating a number of money-losing long-distance trains and would keep the railroad's high­speed service at existing levels. The quasi-pri­vate passenger service came under pressure from Congress last year after announcing that 18 of the long-haul runs would be scrapped to save money. 

Decision favors Internet file-sharing 
Two companies behind services for sharing music and movies over the Internet are not to blame for any illegal copying conducted by the services' users, a federal judge rul'ed Friday. The ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Stephen Wilson was a major blow to recording companies and movie studios, which have been aggressively filing lawsuits and pushing new laws to stem the illegal copying and distribution of their copyright works. The decision, if it survives appeal, essentially absolves Grokster Ltd. and StreamCast Networks Inc. of liability. 





Investors profit as Dow drops 
. Dow closes on 

Friday down 

133 points 

Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
Investors cashed in for 
profits for a second day 
Friday. pushing stocks 
sharply lower on worries 
that stocks have risen too 
far, too quickly. The Dow 
Jones industrials dropped 
more than 130 points. 
Despite the declines, ana­
lysts say the mood on Wall 
Street has been lifting as a 
majority of companies have 
reported better-than­
expected first-quarter prof­
its. But for that good feeling 
to last, market observers 
say, there has to be a 
longer-term trend of 
encouraging earnings and 
economic news. 
Wall Street sentiment is 
improved, said Susan 
Malley, chief investment 
officer for Malley Associates 
Capital Management in 
New York. "But that doesn't 
make me feel it is going to 
be easy for the Dow to 
break out of this trading 
range, where 8,500 has 
been the top that it has 
failed to break through," 
Malley said. 

She added: "I am hopeful that this is the beginning of forfeited 0.4 percent, but 1.6 percent in the first March and was better than the cycle when earnings the Nasdaq the S&P each quarter. The growth rate of the 84.00 level economists come in better than expect­rose 0.6 percent. the nation's gross domestic had predicted. ed. If it can continue The declines came amid product -the broadest Still, stocks retreated through the next quarter, light trading volume, measure of economic health slightly as investors contin­then I think we have a good whereas the gains earlier in -was better than the 1.4 ued to take profits from the chance of breaking through the week were made during percent rate registered in rallies on Tuesday and that range." heavy trading, which ana­the fourth quarter, but was Wednesday. 
The Dow closed down lysts believed was a sign of still considered rather soft. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco 133.69, or 1.6 percent, at newfound resilience. Analysts had expected GDP dropped $6.02 to $28.18 8,306.35. Along with a loss "Yesterday and today the to come in around 2.3 per­after slashing its 2003 earn­of 75.62 on Thursday, the pullback is on lighter vol­cent. ings outlook, although first­blue chip declines more ume. It always makes me In a second report, the quarter results beat ana• than wiped out the 186.76 happy to see that. ... I still Commerce Department said lysts' expectations by 6 gained on Tuesday and think we are in an uptrend, that sales of new homes cents a share. Wednesday. but I don't think it will be shot up by 7.3 percent in Sara Lee fell 84 cents to 
The broader market also seamless," said Tony Cecin, March, far above what ana­$16. 96, adding to pulled back for a second director of institutional lysts had expected, because Thursday's loss of $1.94 day. The Nasdaq composite trading at US Bancorp Piper of continued low mortgage when it missed earnings index fell 22.69, or 1.6 per­Jaffray in Minneapolis. rates and better weather. expectations by a penny a cent, to 1,434.54. It had There were three eco­Meanwhile, the University share. Additionally, on closed Wednesday at its nomic reports issued of Michigan's index on con­Friday Banc of America highest level since Dec. 2. Friday. sumer sentiment for April Securities downgraded Sara The Standard & Poor's 500 The Commerce rose to 86.00 as war fears Lee to "neutral" from index declined 12.62, or 1.4 Department reported that lessened, according to a "buy." percent, to 898.81. despite war anxieties, the report by Dow Jones Brokerage house down­
The major gauges ended U.S. economy managed to Newswires. The reading grades hurt other stocks as the week mixed. The Dow grow at an annual rate of increased from 77 .6 for well. 




Family-owned Freedom selling out 
including its flagship, The Orange dants of company founder R.C.
Associated Press 

County Register, 37 weeklies and Hoiles, will meet Saturday to elect a 
LOS ANGELES eight television stations. In Indiana, new board. Bitzer will not be 
Freedom Communications, one of Freedom owns The Tribune of replaced. leaving the 12-member the country's last family owned Seymour. board evenly split between indepen­media companies, will proceed with Earlier this month, board member dent directors and family members. its plan to solicit bids for all or part John Bitzer decided against seeking The special committee issued a of the company despite the objec­re-election, saying he has "deep con­statement saying it has confidence in tions of a departing member of its cerns" with the process that led to the path it has taken. Freedom chief board. the company's decision to put itself executive Alan Bell said all possibili­
A special committee of indepen­on the market. ties are open, including leaving the dent directors said it has confidence In a letter to the board, Bitzer said company in family hands through an in the plan to test the market value he considers the process biased in internal buyout. of Freedom's shares. favor of selling the company. Bell said several groups of family 
In March, Freedom's board voted Bitzer said he also had personal members are considering making to direct investment bank Morgan reasons for leaving the board. their own bids and will submit those Stanley to begin soliciting offers. The Freedom shareholders, which to the board's special committee company owns 28 daily newspapers, include the 50 or so adult descen-through Morgan Stanley. 
Monday, April 28, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 

SAUDI ARABIA 

Saudi Arabia launches telethon to raise funds 
• Saudis raise money for needy Iraqis affected by U .S.-led war 
Associated Press 
RIYAHDH 
Saudi Arabia launched a telethon Sunday to raise money for Iraqis affected by the U.S.­led war, the official Saudi Press Agency said. 
More than $9.2 million was raised in the first seven hours, the agency reported. 
"Our aid for the afflicted in the world is not for earthly purposes or publicity objec­tives," Nayef said. "Such aid is guided by our Islamic princi­ples and authentic values." 
The news agency reported that the prince donated about $533,000 to the Iraqis, while his deputy, Prince Ahmed bin Abdel-Aziz, donated about $266,000. King Fahd donated $2.7 million. The agency did not say how long the donation drive would last. 
Last week, a five-truck cara­van of humanitarian aid arrived in Baghdad from Saudi 
The telethon, which was called by the oil-rich state's King Fahd, was held as part of Saudi Arabia's com­mitment to help Muslims all over the world, Saudi Interior Minister Prince Nayef told state-run tele­vision. 
Nayef, who supervises the S a u d i Committee for 
"Our aid for the afflicted in the world is not for earthly purposes or publicity objectives. Such aid is guided by our Islamic principles and authentic values . ., 
Prince Nayef Saudi Interior Minister 
Arabia, car­rying food, medicine and other sup­plies including equipment for a mobile field hospital. A team of Saudi sur­geons accom­
panied  the  
convoy.  
S  a  u  d  i  

Arabia offi­cially opposed the U.S.-led war on Iraq but provided 

Rescuing the Iraqi People, said strategic support to the coali­the decision to stage the tion's military campaign that telethon came 'from a desire to toppled Saddam Hussein's satisfy God.· regime. 
Editor says staffers sold information to Enquirer 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
Two reporters for The Salt Lake Tribune have been disci­plined for contributing to the National Enquirer about the Elizabeth Smart story. 
Kevin Cantera and Michael Vigh. the Tribune's lead reporters on the Smart case, had a dinner meeting with a reporter from the tabloid 
and outlined "I verbally wrung their 
returned the investiga­necks and formally Sunday.
tion into the But in a
disciplined them for 
girl's disap­statement pro­
pearance, ignoring stated policy." vided by the 
Tribune edi­Tribune, Vigh tor James 
James Shelledy and Cantera
Shelledy said The Salt Lake City Tribune editor said: "In hind-
in his regular Sunday letter to readers. 
The reporters were paid an undisclosed amount for their contributions, and they worked with the Enquirer without the Tribune's permission. 
Elizabeth, then 14, was taken at knifepoint from her bedroom on June 5. She was found with her alleged captors, Brian Mitchell and Wanda Barzee, March 12 in a Salt Lake sub­urb. Barzee and Mitchell are each being held on $10 million bail in the Salt Lake County jail on charges of aggravated kid­napping, aggravated sexual assault and aggravated bur­glary. 
Cantera and Vigh, who told the newspaper about their work with the Enquirer last week, offered to resign, but Shelledy refused. 
"I verbally wrung their necks and formally disciplined them for ignoring stated policy, but the act did not quite constitute a firing offense," he said. He did not disclose how the reporters were disciplined. 
Calls seeking comment from Shelledy, Cantera and Vigh 
were not 
immediately 
sight, we 
made a bad 
decision by associating with the National Enquirer. We regret any embarrassment this brings to our colleagues or The Salt Lake Tribune." 
Information given by Vigh and Cantera to the tabloid either had been published in the Tribune or was known to the newspaper but not pub­lished because of authenticity issues or irrelevancy, Shelledy wrote. 
No one was available to com­ment Sunday at the National Enquirer, an operator said. Messages left with an editor at the tabloid were not returned Sunday afternoon. 
IRAQ 






Baghdad ~mayor' arrested 
. Shiite group signals cooperation as U.S. readies political conference 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD 
The U.S. military arrested a political pretender in Baghdad on Sunday, while a Shiite Muslim group signaled a new willingness to cooperate on the eve of a pivotal U.S.-sponsored conference to help form a pro­visional government for Iraq. 
The arrest of Mohammed Mohsen al-Zubaidi reflected 
U.S. determination to brook no interlopers in its effort to build a consensus for administering Iraq. Timed just before today's high-profile conference, it sent a clear message: Don't meddle. 
Al-Zubaidi was a returned exile associated with the oppo­sition Iraqi National Congress who had declared himself mayor of Baghdad without sanction from U.S. occupation authorities. U.S. Central Command on Sunday accused him of "subversion." 
His activities, including desig­nation of "committees" to run city affairs, had complicated the efforts of postwar U.S. civil administrator Jay Garner to reorganize political life. A U.S. military spokesman said al­Zubaidi was arrested "for exer­cising authority which was not 
h.
IS. " 

Central Command accused al-Zubaidi and his associates of "obstructing the normal means of governance for their own self-interests," particularly by claiming control over the power company and other utili­ties. 
In a statement, the command said it warned al-Zubaidi to stop his actions. "He instead ... continued his subversive actions," it said. 
Monday's conference, second in a series likely to extend well into May, was expected to attract 300 to 400 delegates from political organizations that had opposed Saddam Hussein and from other Iraqi interest groups, said a Garner deputy, Barbara Bodine. 
The first meeting was held April 15 in Ur, in southern Iraq, just a week after U.S. troops took control of the Iraqi capital and ousted the Saddam government. Fewer than 100 Iraqis participated, many of them exiles, as some Shiites and others stayed away in protest of potential U.S. influ­ence over selection of a new Iraqi president. 
But in a sign that Shiite resis-

A must see: 
Furnished efficiency apt. Lower level of my home. Separate bathroom. Close to Notre Dame and shopping. Off Grape Rd. $350 all utilities paid. Must pay for own phone. Call 259-3445 
Retail Sales Help Wanted Immediate full and part time openings in retail sporting goods store. Must be 18 and able to lift objects. Prior sales experience helpful. Apply in person at: Play It Again Sports 620 W. Edison, Suite 122 Mishawaka, In. 46545 No phone calls please. 
tance may be easing, one key Shiite group that shunned the Ur conference -the Iran­based Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq ­indicated it might attend on Monday. 
"No definite decision has been taken so far. We have been invited and will most probably attend," leading member Mohsen Hakim told AP in Tehran. 
Bodine told reporters, "I think we are going to see more of an indigenous representa­tion, simply because we've had more time to organize." 
"There's going to be a lot of leadership emerging," she said. No obvious presidential choice has appeared thus far, howev­er, and Bodine would not be drawn out on names. "I wouldn't know today who that's going to be." 
In the Spanish capital, Madrid, a gathering of Iraqi exiles issued a statement 
calling for "We cannot have a sion, which is 
Iraq to be widely seen
regime like that in Iran 
governed by throughout 
a federal where a few religious the Arab system that men control the situation . world. 
respects all "We cannot
in Iraq."
religions, have a regime ethnic like that in groups and Donald Rumsfeld Iran where a women's few religious

Defense Secretary 
rights. Their three-day meeting was sponsored by Spain's govern­ment, which was a staunch supporter of the U.S.-led attack on Saddam's regime. 
The conference in Ur agreed on a set of 13 principles, among them that Iraq must be democratic, Saddam's Baath Party must be dissolved and a future government should be organized as a federal system -the last point an acknowl­edgment of the difficulty of cen­trally governing a land and society divided be(ween Sunni and Shiite Muslims, Kurds and Arabs. 
The series of conferences is to produce an "interim authori­ty" led by a new president that would pave the way for a con­stitution and democratic elec­tions two years or more in the future. 
British Foreign Office Minister Mike O'Brien also was to attend today's talks, saying his presence there is a sign of Britain's commitment to returning power to the Iraqi people as soon as possible. 
Shiites, a 60 percent majority long suppressed under Saddam's Sunni-dominated regime, have been enthusiasti­cally exercising newfound free­doms, organizing community­level political activities, protests against the U.S. occupation and religious events. 
Open elections in Iraq might produce a government domi­nated by the Shiite clergy, as in neighboring Iran, some observers believe. But Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld insisted in an Associated Press interview last week, "That isn't going to happen." 
Rumsfeld, who is on a tour of the Persian Gulf, repeated that stand Sunday during an inter­view· with Abu Dhabi televi­
men control 
the situation 
in Iraq," Rumsfeld said. "The men and women of Iran want freedom and change. A regime like that of Iran is not compatible with our vision for Iraq." 
Some Shiites fear Washington will force a president on Iraq ­Ahmad Chalabi, a longtime exile supported by U.S. govern­ment funds in building the Iraqi National Congress opposition group. 
Chalabi has attracted little public support inside Iraq. The government in neighboring Jordan warned Washington on Sunday against backing Chalabi, saying he lacked cred­ibility among Iraqis and noting his 1992 conviction in absentia for fraud in Jordan. Chalabi has denied any guilt and said the case was instigated by Saddam. 

At Plato's Closet we buy and sel I the best in gently used brand name apparel and accessories. We've got great stuff from GAP, 
l.Crew, Abercrombie & Fitch, Dr. Martens, Lucky Brand, American Eagle, and more all at unvelievable prices! At Plato's Closet it's easy to save money and look cool at the same time. Check us out! 

PLAT-,'S
..... -et 

5916 Grape Road (::LOSET Indian Ridge Plaza M-F 1 0am-8pm Mishawaka, IN Sat 10am-6pm 
243-91 oo Sun Noon-5pm 
Monday, April 28, 2003 

The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Republican senator will block Bush's tax cut plan 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
One of the Senate's moderate 
Republicans who is blocking 
President Bush's tax cut plan 
said Sunday he will stand his 
ground and resist White House 
pressure to vote more than a 
$350 billion reduction. 

Asked if he would not go even a penny higher, Sen. George Voinovich of Ohio replied: "You got it. And anybody that knows George Voinovich knows that when I say something I mean 
it... 

Bush had asked Congress for $726 billion in cuts over 10 years. The House capped new 
tax relief at $550 billion, while the Senate agreed to cuts of no more than $350 billion. The White House has scaled back its expectations, saying at least $550 billion is now the presi­dent's goal. 
That amount, Voinovich said, would be fiscally irresponsible. 
"Instead of dillying around between $350 billion and $550 billion, let's do the $350 billion and let's get it done," Voinovich told NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Voinovich and Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, reached a deal with Senate leaders on the $350 billion limit to the cuts. 
Bush, in his radio address Saturday, took on lawmakers \\ ho are refusing to accept the amount the president says is necessary to revive the econo­my. 
"Since they already agree 
that tax relief creates jobs, it 
doesn't make sense to provide 
less tax relief and, therefore, 
create fewer jobs," Bush said. 
During a visit last week to Ohio, Bush renewed his cam­paign for the bigger tax cuts. Voinovich said Bush's trip could backfire with Ohio voters, who support the lower tax cut. 
"I think the timing of it made it look bad, in terms of his try­ing to put some pressure on me," Voinovich said. "I don't believe that's what he had in mind, but it certainly has been interpreted that way in our state." 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley, R­Iowa. nailed down the crucial votes from Voinovich and Snowe before the budget's pas­sage by promising to hold the final tax cut compromise to $350 billion. 
The deal, also backed by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., infuriated House Republicans. who said they were blindsided. 
Grassley said Sunday that Republicans are still looking for ways to offset the cost of addi­tional tax cuts, such as closing down corporate tax shelters and extending customs fees. But he said it would be difficult to reach $550 billion. 
"\Ve've got a divided govern­ment, and we have to operate within the realities of a Senate that is divided 51-49," he said on "Fox News Sunday." 
TURKEY 


Orthodox churches celebrate Easter 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL 
The spiritual leader of the world's Orthodox Christians appealed for peace in his Easter message Sunday, and signs of reconciliation marked celebrations on Cyprus and in the Holy Land. 
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I led nearly 2,000 faithful in a candlelit proces­sion in the gold-adorned Cathedral of St. George on the shores of Istanbul's Golden Horn. 
Bartholomew prayed that God would heal divisions in humanity and grant peace, "removing all hatred and bloodshed, and exchanging them with peaceful cooperation for the good of all." 
Deep divisions mar the Orthodox Church. 
Bartholomew, a Turkish citi­zen, directly controls several Greek Orthodox churches around the world, including the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America. He is also considered the spiritual leader of 14 autonomous Orthodox church­es, including those of Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Russia and Serbia. 
Turkey only recognizes him as head of its dwindling Greek Orthodox community. 
Bartholomew, who had repeatedly urged a peaceful solution to the Iraqi conflict before the war, also warned those in power against seeking to dominate others. 
"There have been many who destroyed prosperous empires in their desire to make them greater, many who became self-destructive in setting before them aims of conceited pride ... many who destroyed others in their desire to lord and dominate over them," he said. 
It was not clear if his words 
were aimed at the U.S.-led 
coalition forces in Iraq. 

Maria Varaki, a lawyer from Kavala in northern Greece, said she saw Easter as a day of peace. 
"You actually feel more the meaning of forgiveness, love, and peace in the world, partic­ularly for us Greeks being in Turkey," said Varaki after the morning ceremony during which the patriarch distributed red-dyed hard-boiled eggs to the faithful. 
Relations between archrivals Greece and Turkey have warmed in recent years, prompting thousands of Greek tourists to visit the patriarchate each year. 
On the divided Mediterranean island of Cyprus, Easter was celebrated amid signs of reconciliation as thousands of Greek Cypriots traveled to the Turkish-con­trolled northern part to visit churches and cemeteries. 
The holiday came five days after Turkey lifted its ban on travel between the north and the Greek Cypriot south for the first time since the 1974 Turkish invasion. 
Turkish Cypriots also had 
lined up overnight so that they 
could cross into the south 
Sunday. They were offered col­
ored eggs and traditional cook• 
ies by Greek Cypriots at the 
checkpoint, while Greek 
Cypriots crossing north were 
welcomed with flowers and 
wishes of "Kalo Pascha" ­
Greek for "Happy Easter." 
In the Holy Land, Greek and Armenian Orthodox faithful sealed an agreement after a week of negotiations over the ceremony at the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, where tradi­tion says Jesus was crucified and buried. 
Last year. rival Greek and Armenian clergymen exchanged blows, but this year's ceremony was peaceful. 
In Ukraine, religious leaders called for unity in their church, which is divided in three groups locked in a bitter strug­gle over property and leader­ship. 
Millions attended overnight ceremonies in Russia, Greece and Romania. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who was visiting Tajikistan, attended a Saturday night Easter service in thP­small St. Nicholas Orthodox Cathedral in the capital Dushanbe. 
At Moscow's Christ the Savior Cathedral, a delegation of priests and dignitaries carried oil lamps said to contain ho!:. fire from the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem. 

0 (())ngra -u a -n_(())n s Join us in celebrating tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Basilica o/ the Sacred Heart as these 39 men and women receive the Sacramento/ Conf;rmation. Umuiveirsi(--y of Notre Dame Kimberly Veronica Owen (Lisa Ramierez) (Sponsors are noted in parentheses) Kevin Romero (Adrian Romero) Ryan Rourke Reed (Debra Reed)Angelica Teresa Agosto (Nata/;e Gamino) Gregory Watson (Michael Wacker) Christopher Bannister (Jenn;fer Hooyman) Megan Francis Carlin (Jim Carlin) Rebecca Alice Cashore (Katie Ki/cline) Jane Philip Neri Donovan (Hannah Gornik) Brian Dosal (Olga Urbieta) Stephanie Bernadette Cunningham (Jenni/er Bartalino) Erin Ilelen English (Amy Schill) Pablo J\lichael Sweeney (Jeff Clarkson) Jera1ni Garcia (Jenna Nowak) Roberto Gonzalez (Linda lvfary Joseph) Kristin Gral1arn (Charles Lamphier) Kendall Hannon (Patn·ck Hannon, CSC) Daniel Francis Xavier Barry (Roger Klauer) Elizabeth Jonatha Halpin (Eimear }Julien) Jesse Brewer (Dan Brewer)Katherine Jeter (Michael Boldt) Brady lams (John lams)~1atthew Johnson (Kate O' Scann/ain) Ryan Kastner (Denise Hagerty) Erin Kruse (Patrick Hillyard) Courtney Leader (Brittany Leader)Tyler Lenz (Andrew Remick) Andrew Luttrell (Chris Leader) ~1arie-Christine Gabriele Luijcl~x (Ehzabeth Christian) Marl" J\Hller (Leon John Jabour) Erika Martinez (Bertha Morales) 1'1aeve Anne Peterson-1'1iller (Christine Bettcher) Karina Gabriela 1'1ayorga (Kathryn Fuehrmeyer) Michael To1nchaney (Tom Cassidy)Patricl" Augustine 1'1cCurry (Robert Walicki) Clea Venter (Sam }111urillo) c~Katbleen Rachel J\1iller (Emily Bey/er) Lisa Clare Veldman J IAlexanclra J\looers (lvfary Sayler) Campus Ministry  

O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, April 28, 2003 

THE OBSERVER 
Tb, f,ui,p,,.d,nt, Dllily N,wp"f'" S,,,ving No"' D,nnt ,znd s,,,;,,, M11ry'1 
P.O. Box Q. Noire Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MA."IAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 

CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING ....... ..............................63 I-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukttp. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USl'S 5?9 240) i, publi,hcd Monday rhrough hiJ,y ««pr during i::(am ;a;nd v.M.:.ation pcrioJ:i.. A sub~ription to The Ob)CrYt.T is Ji I00 for one academic year; S55 for one )Cffitster. 
The' omcrva li published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sou,h o;ning Haili S...-nd ,Jdrl.°$1 11,.orrections ro: 
Norr< Dame. IN 46556 ThcOhsuwr 
P.O. Sox Q Pcriodk.d ro.,t.lgc r~J .tr Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 .lnd addirional mailing ofiicc~. 
The' OhM.·rvr-r is .a meanbc.·r of rhe A~M11.:i,ucJ Pr~,., All n.·prnJuaion righo ar,· ra.C'n·d. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Our anger, too, can be excessive 
What more can be said about John Litle's much lambasted anger killed a man more innocent than any other. Hitler was piece on Arab ignorance? Already a number of students and so angry he succeeded in orchestrating the death of over 10 faculty have offered intelligent and insightful reasons why million people. Too much anger was the reason for what Litle's statement, "Arabs are ignorant. Plain and simple," is Murray•Nolan describes as "one ugly hole in the ground, patently false, arrogant and otherwise just plain stupid. In shrouded by the souls of three thousand." There is no such fact, the piece has already gathered more response than it thing as too much anger? Nothing could be farther from the deserves. However, Michaela Murray-Nolan's letter in truth. Thursday's Observer shows that the saga of stupidity contin­Having read about the torture and terror that were com­ues. monplace in Saddam's regime, I am thankful he is no longer 
Murray-Nolan writes that those protesting the publication Iraq's leader. But as Americans, we have no right to exalt of Litle's editorial "apparently disavow American freedoms." ourselves as liberators while casually ignoring what we have This is a clear misunderstanding of exactly what freedoms done. We killed more people than died on Sept. 11 -4,250 America guarantees. Freedom of the press simply ensures by conservative early estimates -dropped 18,000 bombs that newspapers can legally print anything but does not lib­and brought to prominence the viciously dangerous concept erate them from the consequences of printing libel or invad­of a modern-day preemptive strike. ing privacy. It does in fact allow The Observer to print John Murray-Nolan cites anti-war protestor's "inability to make Litle's racist drivel. But the First Amendment says students a real argument," but should stop to give some consideration are equally free to let Litle know they think he is a dolt for to the meaning of glass houses. If there is anything the Iraqi writing such obviously false material and to accuse The war and recent American sentiment prove definitively. it is Observer of not exercising the editorial responsibility that that we are capable of both anger and arrogance in excess. accompanies freedom of press. 
Furthermore, Murray-Nolan's assertion that "Litle is not. Ryan Greenberg too angry. There is no such thing," is sure to be remembered sophomore as the inane Viewpoint statement for the next few days. No Carroll Hall such thing as too much anger? As Good Friday reminds as, April 24 

I am writing in response to Ramin Saghafi's letter on Friday, "Parietals disrupt social life." Not only do pari­etals disrupt anything resembling nor­mal male-female interactions, parietals discourage talented prospective stu­dents from coming to Notre Dame. 
Last week, a few friends and I decid­ed to watch a movie together. It was around midnight when we were done studying. Since it was after parietals, we decided to meet in one of our dorm's basements, a designated 24­hour space, to watch the movie. 
There were seven of us and a prospective student. First, the men had to sign in with a security monitor at the dorm's only open door. After giving her their IDs and explaining their "busi­ness" in the dorm they were allowed into the basement. 
We were watching the movie when the security monitor came down and turned on all of the basement's bright fluorescent lights. After she was done checking on us, we turned off the lights on the side of the basement where we were sitting so there wasn't a glare on the screen. Like most people, we prefer to watch movies at night in the dark. 
The security monitor came back a few minutes later and turned on all the lights again. She told us it was against the rules to have them off. Still, I doubt she would have turned them off if it had been a group of all women watch­ing the movie. 
Our prospective student couldn't believe it. At Notre Dame, 20 year-olds, people who in a few years will be get­ting married and buying houses, are not allowed to watch movies with mem­bers of the opposite sex in the dark after midnight? The incident was a poor advertisement for an otherwise amazing place. Why should this prospective student come to Notre Dame when he could go to UCLA for free and watch movies in the company of women like a grown-up? Why should he pay $36,000 a year to be treated like a horny eight year-old or worse, a sex­ual predator, just by virtue of being male? 
And why should women at Notre Dame even try to have male friends when they will be treated so poorly by dorm security? As Saghafi wrote, "Parietals only hinder gender relations on this campus and do nothing to limit sexual contact." Had any one of us "girls" wanted these "boys" to stay the night in our rooms we could have, but all we wanted to do was watch Amelie with some friends in the dark. Who knew that desire could be so fraught? Nowhere else but Notre Dame. 
Anna Nussbaum 
freshman Farley Hall April 25 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Bryan Kronk 
Teresa Fralish Christine Kevin Allen Armstrong Viewpoint Kurt Bogaard 
Patrick McElwee Scene Graphics Maria Smith Katie McKenna Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the University intercede on behalf of students facing a Boat Club lawsuit? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Bigotry may be roughly defined as the anger ofmen who have no opinions." 
G.K. Chesterton author 
,-.-------------------------------------------------------, 
O
THE
BSERVER 

Monday, April 28, 2003 page 11 
What color 'whine' goes with crow? 
President George Bush has made so many of his detractors eat their words he ought to open up a restaurant for them. Of course, selecting a name is important. "International (White) 
House Of Crow?" "G.W.B. Friday's?" Perhaps the best name would be sim­ply, "Dubya's." Whatever the name, he'd have plenty of customers: In addi­tion to his regular 


clientele of patrons 

who thought Al Mike Marchand 
Gore would mop the floor with him in the presidential Undistinguished 
debates, or that the Alumnus 
Republicans would get shellacked in the 2002 midterm 

elections, he now has a new bumper crop of evidently very hungry eaters. 
He'd better put the Texas-size platter on the menu -it includes a basket of freedom fries and a tall frosty mug of STFU. 
If one compares the news coverage and punditry from the war in Iraq what surrounded the conflict in Afghanistan, there's a powerful new rule to be learned: Expect victory shortly after imminent defeat or protracted stale­mate is proclaimed. Shortly into Operation Enduring Freedom, people who were once involved in the armed forces but no longer had intimate knowledge of military matters were proclaiming their knowledge. Even Senator John McCain (R-AZ) was part of the army of critics, stating that 100,000 ground troops were immedi­ately necessary a couple weeks into the conflict. Whoops. The American-led coalition took the city of Mazar-i-Sharif shortly thereafter, and the rest of the Taliban and al-Qaeda's resistance dis­integrated. Grab a fork. 
The one difference in Operation Iraqi Freedom was that the retired military lifers had allies in the press, and not just the usual left-wing dips like Peter Arnett, who didn't just say that the American battle plan failed, but did so on Iraqi TV (and was rightly fired by NBC for so doing). Whole news organi­zations gleefully blasted the Pentagon and the administration for their short­sightedness. The "Conventional Wisdom" box in the April 7 Newsweek said that George W. Bush had "opened the gates of hell" and called Dick Cheney's statement that American forces would be welcomed as "an arro• gant blunder for the ages." Whoops. Two days after that press date, Saddam's statue toppled and his regime fell like a house made from the Central Command "deck of cards" with his and his buddies' faces on them. Dig right in. 
Even the ancillary predictions of the war were wildly inaccurate. Estimates for civilian casualties went as high as half a million; even reasonable, knowl­edgeable groups like the World Health Organization tossed that one around. The sum total of innocent deaths, although tragic, will be far less. Gasoline prices haven't skyrocketed; they've stabilized or fallen (the price of crude oil is down by one-third). The stock market hasn't collapsed; it hit its low a week before the conflict due to instabilities and has since made back all its losses plus 10 percent. Enjoy your meal, guys. 
Now, it seems, that the success or failure of the war depends on the win­ning of the peace. I'll grant that that job is far from over and that it's too soon to proclaim our efforts on that front an absolute success. But it's also too soon to proclaim it a dismal failure because of manufactured outrage con­cerning "rampant looting" on the streets of Baghdad (which is a natural reaction of a power vacuum and is being controlled) or the theft of price­less cultural antiquities from the Baghdad National Museum {which was, as evidence is bearing out, a sophisti­cated and professionally-executed heist and not a smash-and-grab act of van­dalism that took place under the coali­tion's nose). Perhaps Dubya's needs to include a buffet. 
The latest inappropriate act of shameless scandal-mongering is allega­tions of shadiness on the part of the Bush Administration for awarding rebuilding contracts to corporations like Bechtel and Halliburton. Are these companies world leaders in their respective fields, who'll subcontract their work in rebuilding Iraq's infra. 
structure not just to other, non­
American companies, but also to Iraqis 
themselves? Nahhh. Not if you listen to 
paranoid reactionaries who think that 
Bush is sliding payoffs under the table 
to his corporate cronies or worse, and 
who reason (for lack of a better word) 
that the entire purpose of military con­
flict was to grease big business' palms. 
But why examine when you can simply 
leap to conclusions? Hey, everybody, 
don't forget dessert -after a plate full 
of crow, nothing's better than humble 
pie a la mode (with "freedom vanilla" 
ice cream, natch). 
Not satisfied with getting everything wrong thus far, the nutball wing of the anti-war crowd won't just admit they were wrong before, but they also make further predictions with all the confi• dence of someone who possesses a spotless track record. But those who maintain support of the Bush adminis­tration's policies needn't worry ­Dubya's, I'm sure, takes reservations months in advance. 
Mike Marchand ·oI, despite author• ing this column. thinks the guy at the Baseball Hall Of Fame who canceled the 15th anniversary celebration ofBull Durham because of the anti-war views ofSusan Sarandon and Tim Robbins is a huge moron. Go Cubs. Mike's e•mail address is Marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces• sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Republican: 
Santo rum's 
words disgraceful 
As a Republican in the current day and age, it is extremely difficult to stand up for members of my party as of late. The war in Iraq has been deemed by many as a rash act on the part of our current president, the leader of the Republican party. However, I have remained close to the definition of a moderate Republican, and I have stuck by a great deal of my party's endeavors. 
There is an action by one member of the Republican party, however, which should be condemned. This is that of a senator who represents my state, Pennsylvania: Republican Sentor Rick Santorum. 
Santorum's statements denouncing homosexuality, made in an interview to the Associated Press, are appalling. A devout Catholic, he spoke against gays and lesbians, likening homosexual acts to incest, bigamy and polygamy. Despite the tenets of the Catholic church, which likewise denounce homosexuality, I find Santorum's statements to be entirely un-Christian. Christians treat their fellow man with dignity and respect. Santorum fails to do so. 
I believe that Santorum and other extreme members of my own party should be ashamed for not allowing other members of our country, equal brothers and sis­ters, the same rights with which any U.S. citizen is endowed. 
A great Republican figure, Senator John McCain from Arizona, visited our campus the other day, and I believe he made a good point that should be embraced and revered by members of his party and his fellow Americans: that all people are created equal under God. 
Amanda Rubio 
senior off-campus April 25 

New AR contract gives too much power to rectors 
My semester in Washington, D.C. has helped shape my view concerning the responsibilities and impor­tance of being an informed and active citizen. Part of this duty mandates speaking out and expressing a dis­senting opinion when bad policy is enacted through whatever forum available. While I don't pre­tend to believe that Notre Dame is or even wish that it were run like a democracy, we fortunately do have an independent newspaper. So to my soapbox I rise. 
The announcement of changing the assistant rector contract is something that deeply unsettles me. Not only does the rector interview, select and recommend to ResLife the hiring of an assistant rector (AR), with the new clause the rector now has the ability to dismiss an AR by terminating the contract "without cause." Does that mean if an AR is wearing blue socks and the rector prefers black and the AR refus­es to change, she could be dismissed with the rector citing the clause in the contract stated above? You may laugh at this example, but it was one given by a ResLlfe employee to delineate the extent to which an AR should go to please his or her rector. 
More disturbing than the fact that it probably won't be too much of a problem to fill all the available AR positions is the sense of powerlessness it gives the res­ident assistants and ARs. The most important purpose 
for the residential system at Notre Dame is to build a 
community with the rector, AR and resident assistants 
playing the most critical roles. This new policy essentially leaves the control of deciding what is best for the entire dorm communi• ty up to one person. No matter how great that one person may be, it is impossible that he or she be right all the time, or with every decision, act on behalf of the community. ResLife's new policy is going to keep 
ARs from acting as the check and bal­ance on a rector through the threat of removal from their position outlined in the policy. Even in the case of dis­missal without cause where tuition benefits and living expenses are com• pensated, the privilege of living and 
serving in a residence hall community, which so many ARs value, is taken away. It is unfortunate that we live in such a litigious society. where all of these nuances need to be promulgated into policy so as to 
ensure that less money is lost, but even more 
regrettable that this is one of the realities of the world 
that isn't kept out of the Notre Dame bubble. 
Sarah Finch junior Washington, D.C. April 25 


THE 

OBSERVER 

' 
Monday, April 28, 2003
page 12 

What has two thumbs and loves sweatshorts? This guy. 
Summer's almost here and you know what that means. Exam time? No! It means that it's finally the time of the year when all the girls sit out on the quad in those little cheerleading sweat shorts with magical messages written on Tom Raaf the back, How this trend started I cannot Scene 
tell you, but like most guys, I'm not com-Columnist plaining. 
These modern day Daisy Dukes, which I now refer to as the Eighth Wonder of the World, are absolutely everywhere. If I'm not looking down at one of the adorable man-eating beast-squirrels that frolic around campus, I'm almost guaranteed to have "IRISH" staring me in the face. 
It seems like all the girls just got together and decided to buy 

"Each time I read one of
these shorts in defi­However, they are ance of the high those messages. I think of much more than that. school finger tip rule They are the great
it as a personal message 
(you know, the rule equalizer among
to me from God or some
that your shorts must young women. At $8­be further down your other divine being. And I 12, any girl can afford leg than your finger a pair, throwing all
just can't help but think 
tips when your arms clothing-based impli­
He wants me to read
are extended), then cations of social class, adopted some new more ... status, and lifestyle fangled "Guys, it's out the window. OK to look" policy. I Whether her daddy
Andrew Jacob
remember the very owns a multi-national
Sophomore
first time I ever saw corporation or paints 
pieces, which is key. Of course, this leads to the natural conclusion that it must not be a sin to quickly glance and read the butt-memo. This memo is also conven­ient because it means that one can never be "caught looking" ever again because the "Whoa, \Vhoa ... settle down, I was just trying to see what your shorts said" appeal is always out there. 
On a side note, the variety of these thigh-showcasing Bermudas is astound­ing. Today alone, I saw pairs from Dayton, Michigan, Alabama, UNC, Farley and Hooters. It's like there's a contest to get the most obscure pair. My personal favorite messages of all time are "Giddy Up" and "Bite into A Legend" (advertising a hamburger at a restau­rant). 
At first glance. these do just appear to 
be a pair of shorts 
that all the girls seem 
to be really fond of. 

these heavenly hot­pants. I was at a bas­ketball game in high school sophomore year and the shorts read "Senor." It turned out that the shorts actually were supposed to say "Senior," but no one was seeing that "i" unless they had the jaws of life on hand. 
I think the single best part about these cotton and polyester hip-huggers is that the University embraces them with such open, loving arms. The bookstore is chock full of these tiny IRISH shorts, encouraging the female population to don them proudly across the quad. This in turn must mean that God also sup­ports these 12-inch by six-inch master-
the lines on the high­way. any girl can get her hands on a pair of these. 
The male student population reaction to these shorts has been huge. Sophomore Andrew Jaco said, "Each time I read one of those messages, I think of it as personal message to me from God or some other divine being. And I just can't help but think He wants me to read more." 
Tom Raaf is a Sophomore from Dillon Hall who enjoys making peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. He hates the trays al Burger King and likes more cowbell. He can be reached at traaj@nd.edu. 

By SARAH VABULAS and MARIA 
SMITH 
Assistant Scene Editor and Scene Editor 
For many students, a piece of child­hood and the teenage years are soon to end. Two of the most popular shows featuring teen problems and high school life that graced our high school years will draw to an end with the final seasons of "Dawson's Creek" and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" this May. 
For "Dawson's Creek," many think it should have been after high school graduation; others believe the show should continue. However, the WB Television Network has decided to conclude the drama series on May 7. 
For those who tune in every Wednesday night at 8 p.m.. it is a sad reality to see the last episodes of this popular look into the lives of Dawson, Joey, Pacey and Jen fade into televi­sion history. 
"Dawson's Creek," a seminal one­hour dram a series. has chronicled with wry humor the undeniably intense period of awakening known as the teenage years. Presenting a star­tlingly fresh and realistic portrayal of this passage from adolescence to young adulthood, since its first episodes "Dawson's Creek" has cap­tured the curiosity and hearts of tele­vis ion enthusiasts of all kinds. Created and developed by Kevin Williamson ("Scream," "I Know What 

"Dawson sCreek 
You Did Last Summer"}, this show set the standard for mod­ern 'teen dramas. With intelli­gent storylines, compelling characters and captivating new music, the series quickly became a cultural phenomenon. 
Set in and around the town of Capeside, "Dawson's Creek" tells the story of four friends making the journey from ado­lescence to adulthood. Dawson Leery (James Van Der Beek), Joey Potter (Katie Holmes) and Pacey Witter (Joshua Jackson) have all been friends since they were very young. When Jennifer Lindley (Michelle Williams), a mysterious girl with a troubled past, moves from New York to their small town, she joins the group, creating a foursome that will remain together through both the good times and the bad times. The sixth season set out to answer many of the ques­tions that began the series in unexpected ways. 
With the end arriving, the 

official Web site, www.dawson­
Dawson Leery
screek.com, has kept viewers 
of the most pc
updated on "Dawson's Creek" multimedia and extra informa­tion. For lots of fun things for you 
avid viewers, be sure  to click around  
and explore.  
The  first  season  of  "Dawson's  
Creek" is available  on  DVD. This  

three-disc set was a long time in the 

Photo courtesy of www daWS. Joey Potter (Katie Holmes) and Pacey Witter (Joshua Jackson) share an intimate mome1 episode of "Dawson's Creek," a show following the lives of four teens In Capeslde. 
THE 

OBSERVER 

Monday, April 28, 2003 page 13 

top of Hellmouth, a portal to an evil dimension. Buffy moved there as a teenager after her parents divorced and decided to get her away from her school in Los Angeles, where she first torched a batch of vampires by burning down the school gym. Under the tutelage of Watcher Giles, who took over her educa­tion as a Slayer after Merrick, her original Watcher was killed, she has defeated a number of foul crea­tures including the Master, the Anointed One, and Adam. 
Buffy and her group of friends not only date each other but end up making romantic connections with the dark side. 
y (James Van Der Beek) and Buffy Summers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), the title characters from two 
Some of her closest 

,opular television drama series of the past several years, will soon go off the air. 
making and includes the entire first season along with great extras like audio commentary on the pilot episode from Kevin Williamson and Paul Stupin. a retrospective featurette entitled, "Dawson's Creek: from Day 
One," a Season One Time 

Capsule and much more. 
For those who missed an episode, a season or simply would like to catch up prior to the series finale, you're in luck. TBS Superstation will be airing season four this week Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. until 12 
p.m. Be there for the good times, the heartbreaks and all of the happenings in­between, as these four friends find their own place in the world. 
One can't help but wonder what the writers have in store for viewers to resolve the friendships and the romantic lives that seem both frustrated and ambigu­ous as the series finale approaches. Many rumors are circulating through fans. but all have been denied. It seems like the. only way to find out how Dawson, Joey, Pacey and Jen will leave our lives for­ever is to tune in on May 7 and spend some time away from studying for those dreaded final exams. 
Fans of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" will also mourn this May as their favorite heroine makes her
;Qnscreek.com 
tnt In an final farewell. Buffy Summers (Sarah 
Michelle Gellar) has been slaying vampires for the entertainment of a wide variety of fans since 1997. The series has become famous for success­fully combining high school and col­lege and the occult into a bizarre mix­i ure of teenage romantic drama and 
partners in fighting 
crime include Willow Rosenberg (Alyson Hannigan). a shy computer hacker and lesbian witch, Xander, Willow's best friend who is not academically motivated but is nev­ertheless a key asset to the team. and Buffy's younger sister Dawn, who is actually a cosmic Key to a powerful energy source. Xander and Willow have had their flings with each other and a number of other characters, and Buffy herself lost her soul mate with death of the vampire Angel. 
In the last season, Buffy has been teaching Dawn to fight vampires, has taken a job at her old high school tutoring troubled students and devel~ oped a romance with 120-year-old vampire Spike. What will happen in the final episodes as Buffy begins to exceed her Slayer life expectation is difficult to say. 
"Buffy the Vampire SI ayer," the brainchild of producer Joss Whedon. has been a cultural phenomenon. spawning a magazine, an X-Box game, a major motion picture and a series of DVDs with the episodes for the seasons. The series has won a number of awards for makeup, acting and scriptwriting, including an Emmy for Outstanding Makeup in 1998 and a Saturn Award for Best Network Television Series in 2001. 
Tune in to UPN at 8 p.m Eastern time on May 20 to see the final fate of California's favorite vampire-slaying college student and former Prom Princess. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu and Maria Smith msmith4@nd.edu 

graphic battles between good and evil. 
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" follows the adventures of the Slayers. a group of people devoted to annihilating not only vampires but all varieties of mon­sters, demons and other minions of the dark side. Although Slayers may appear to be reasonably normal high school snobs or under­achieving graduates, they obviously live a dangerous lifestyle, and rarely live past 
20. After seven sea­sons Buffy has fared better than many of her Slayer com­rades, but she's had hP.r fair share of brushes with death and won't be out of the clear until the series ends on May 20. 
Buffy and her vam­pire-fighting friends live in a hotspot of 
Photo counesy ot www.upn.com

evil. Sunnydale, 
The crew of Slayers from "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" have had seven seasons of successes, fail­
Calif, is located on 
ures and disappointments in both their fights against vampires and their love lives. 
i 
I 
t 
d 
i 
ll
., 

Observer file photo 

Jeff Faine prepares to snap the ball against Maryland last foot­ball season. He was drafted Into the NFL by Cleveland. 
say he was a part of this pro­gram," Irish coach Tyrone
Draft 

Willingham said. "We're not sur­
continued from page 24 prised [that he was a first-round pick] because he is a very special player."
./ pick -that an Irish player was Faine was a finalist for thedrafted in the first round and the award given to the nation's topsecond consecutive year that only center, a semifinalist for the
one Notre Dame player was 
award given to the top linemantaken on the first day of the draft. 
and a second-team All-American. 
Defensive lineman Anthony "He's been highly competitive Weaver was drafted in the sec­
and productive in the Notre
ond round by Baltimore last sea­
Dame program for several
son and started for most of the yea.rs," Davis said Saturday. "Youseason. 
watched his performance and the When word of Faine's selection level of competition that hewas broadcast in Notre Dame played against and the way heStadium at the Blue-Gold game, dominated his position, and wethe crowd broke into loud cheers. 
felt like Jeff Faine made a greatThe 6-foot-3, 303-pound Faine choice for the Cleveland Browns." 
started three years for the Irish and chose to waive a potential fifth-year in favor of entering the NFL draft. Contact Andrew Soukup at 
"With Jeff, we're honored to asoukup@nd.edu 
I 
r 
i 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Monday, April 28, 2003 

The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish get 2 wins, even record at 7-7 
goal. Junior Meredith Simon five more goals to put Rutgers 
By ANDY TROEGER 
had two assists for the Irish. away.
Sports Writer 
Senior goalkeeper Jen While "I was a little nervous when 
held Rutgers to six goals it was 8-6," said Coyne. "But 
Coming into the weekend while making nine saves, we never really let them get the Irish were looking to get including some crucial ones in back in it. I think the quality two wins in their late season the second half. of competition we played push to move over the .500 "It was gratifying to see the early paid off. I thought we mark at the end of the season. seniors play so well," said played pretty well today. We The Irish got those two wins Irish coach Tracy Coyne. "For played a good defensive and a whole lot Danielle to game." more, defeat­have such a Against Northwestern, the ing Rutgers "It was gratifying to great day and Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead 13-6 and set the record and never trailed. After taking 
see the seniors play

Northwestern was great and a 4-3 halftime lead, they
so well.··

13-9 to even Angela played quickly extended their advan­their record at well. Kelly tage to 9-4 in the first ten 7-7. Tracy Coyne Mccardell got a minutes of the second half. Sunday goal, which They held a 13-6 lead with
Irish coach

against was awesome. 2: 54 to go before Rutgers was They played Northwestern 's Ange la Senior Day for the Irish, and great, I was really happy for McMahon scored three goals Notre Dame's seven seniors them." in the final minute to provide paved the way for the victory, "It was our last game as the final margin. led by All-American Danielle seniors and the last time we Foote led the Irish against Shearer. Shearer scored six were going to play on our the Wildcats with five points goals. and in the process home field," said Shearer. "All on three goals and two broke the Notre Dame records of us had it in our heads that assists. Simon, Riley and for goals in a career (127) and we really wanted to finish it McGrath each added two points in a career (191). She off with a goals. stands only four assists shy of bang." Shearer also breaking that career With the added two
"All ofus had it in our
record held by Lael win, the assists in O'Shaughnessy (68} going into I r i s h heads that we really the game, the season finale against clinched wanted to finish ·u off but was Vanderbilt. third place held without
with a bang.,.

"It was awesome to break in the Big a goal for the records on Senior Day. My East stand­the first family was here," said ings with a Danlelle Shearer time all Shearer. "The only reason I 4-2 record. year.
senior 

got these points and these Despite the The Irish goals was because my team­lopsided will be look­mates set me up." score, the ing to move 
Shearer added an assist to game was tight until about over .500 in their final game finish with seven points the last five minutes. Shearer of the season when they visit against Rutgers, while class­scored the first four goals for Vanderbilt. mate Angela Dixon added two the Irish, and McCardell's "It's very important to us," goals and three assists for five goal gave the Irish the lead said Shearer. "A winning points. Freshman Crysti Foote for good five minutes before record is a winning record." added two goals and an assist, halftime. The lead was only 7 ­while seniors Kelly McCardell 6 with fifteen minutes to go and Anne Riley and freshman and only 8-6 with six minutes Contact Andy Troeger at Mary McGrath all added one to go before the Irish scored atroeger@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
1-2 Roommates wanted for summer For Sale: Futon•$60 Desk-$80 DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 CHICAGO ROOM available for NOTICE at Castle Point. $400/mo. can be Book case-$40 Bed-$160 Dresser• HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 summer lease and/or longterm 
PERSONAL 

split between 2 for $200 each: $50 All in excellent condition. Call SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-lease. 3 ND grads as roommates. 
includes rent, DSL(intemet),utilities, 243-9988 TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM-Near Wrigley Field. Available start-Study Abroad with CEA England, and full access to Castle Point PUS• STUDENT NEIGHBOR-ing anytime in May. Call 773-871-Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it Italy, Spain, France, Australia. Facilities. Contact Shingayi. e-mail: HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS-8893. alone. If you or someone you love Request a Free Catalog ssikipa@nd.edu, tel: 574-634-2168 RANCH HOME: Architect-designed MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-needs confidential support or assis• www.GoWrthCEA.com California Contemporary Ranch WAHSERS/DAYERS CALL tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise 
l 
built in 1958, purchased from origi-TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!!-2 bdrm apt. summer sublease at Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more nal owner; restored and original CONTACT KRAMER (574) 315-Turtle Creek. Contact: macdon-information, see our bi•weekly ad in A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING features include sunken livingroom, 2436• ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-ald.18@nd.edu or 273-4668 The Observer. 
I 
TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL FOR SALE beamed cathedral ceilings, huge 2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR patio, garden foyer. Email WWW.DOMUSKRAMERCOM PAID)Discretion Assured.Call:277• mfitzgib@nd.edu for details. 3-6 BDRM HOMES. 1659 Thank you. ND senior selling 1br apt furn. like WASHER/DRYER. $175. ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are new. prices negotiable. call 243• 2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam-PP/MO.272-6306,329-0308 you pregnant and dont know whatj 0064. 94 Saturn; teal; gd cond; reg main; pus. 269-699·5841 to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan-
Retiring Notre Dame Professor sell-74,000 mi; 4-dr; $3,100 Call Meg: cially stable woman would like to ing 1 Bedroom Condo in North 634-3293 1 bdrm apts tor summer close to consider adopting a baby. Free Shore Complex. In good condition Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000 house: 2·3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; ND $450. 283-0325 counseling, living expenses and and includes 1 Car Garage Call miles, sun roof, CD player, power 800-966-8399 medical expenses. This can be a Doris at 299-2000 for additional locks and windows $9850 or best 94 Ford Explorer Sport 4x4, 98K, good thing for you and your baby. information offer. 287-4306 Black, Sunroof, Pioneer CD $3750 GOING TO SUMMER SCHOOL? Discreet and legal. 
Call 514-8568. Must Sell! Very nice 3bdrm home. Avail.June Rooms for rent. Cheap. Close to 
1st for summer/fall. East Race dist. campus Call 634-0820 ask for Call 904-824-7006. 2 Computers-$150 & $225 (574) near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch. Jared 229-3100 Incl. Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can 
WANTED FOR RENT email picts/floor plan.Call Joe Crimmins@273-0002(H) or 514-SUITE AVAILABLE AT BELLE Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each 
JUDAY LAKE HOME ON 0643(cell) or TERRE -TAKING RESERVA-way all taxes included! If you can Seeking college student tor summer LAKE.WALK TO ND.GILLIS REAL-Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com TIONS FOR GRADUATION WEEK-beat these prices start your own child care in our home for 12 and TY 272-6306,329·0308 homes 1/2 mile from campus. $650/m negotiable. END-TWO-ROOM SUITE WITHIN damn airline! Book on line 1 0yr old. Good pay and relaxed mmmrentals@aol.com 272-WALKING DISTANCE OF NOTRE www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000. 
atmoshpere. Must be able to 1525 www.mmmrentals.com DAME -FULL KITCHEN WITH drive.Please call 631-9947 or FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America Two bedroom cottage in good stu-DISHWASHER -FULL BATH ­277-8564 and ask for Lisa. time share apartment for full week dent area. $350 per month. Dave MASTERBEDROOM AND LIVIN-
during the football season. Choose HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, 243-5353 GROOM WITH SLEEPER COUCH. 
week of 2nd or 4th ND home game walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com FREE CABLE AND LOCAL Win a FREE Kaplan Course! Visit Female Aupair for 2 young children. every year. Units accommodate up PHONE. MAID SERVICE AVAIL• kaptest.com/giveaway for details! So side SB furn. apt & $$ inc. 20+ to 4. Purchase at great savings Newly remodeled house for rent. 4 ABLE. $100.00 NIGHT. 574-271­hrs/wk. Flex sct:edule some satur-from owner who must sell at least 2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam-bdrm, central air, fully carpeted, 7205. days. 288-7699 one unit. Great accommodations for pus. 269-699-5841 security system, off street parking, 
visiting ND. Can be exchanged for walk to school. Available immedi-Faculty & Staff, update your estate resorts worldwide. Call Bob (954) ately. Call 289-4074. plan this summer. Call Tim, ND 93 Small school seeks part-time mid-349-1880 Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per-at Timothy E. Kalamaros Law Office
TICKETS

die-school math teacher now thru son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. pc 574.232-4ao2 summer. Experience with Saxon New everything. Wired for comput-Summer Sub-lease, 1 bdrm, fully and Math-U-See a plus. 273-301 0 95 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235-furnished, good neighborhood, rent Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613 teklaw@beanstalk.net 
or unitydayschool@aol.com 78,000 Miles $4,500 3655 negotiable. 229-1691 David Belczyk 
Monday, April 28, 2003 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 
Irish finsh 2nd in Big East 
Katie McCalden, Christy Donnelly, Katie
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
O'Hara and Andrea Amoni won with a
Sports 'X'riter 
margin of over 11 seconds with a 
7:39.10 finish. Boston College was sec­
At Sunday's Big East Rowing 
ond in 7:50.50 and Syracuse took thirdChallenge in Worcester, Mass., the No. 
in 7:55.00. 
24 Irish won three races and had their "After placing second by less than abest Big East Challenge performance to half a second for two years in a row, Idate, but were narrowly beaten by No. 
was ready for our boat to race for the
16 Syracuse, who finished with 112 
gold medal," said McCaffrey. "We werepoints over the Irish's 110. 
able to have a great race and defend the
Notre Dame won the second varsity 
first place finish in the varsity four eventeight, the varsity four and the second from last year."
varsity four races. The Irish also had a 
The second varsity four of coxswainsecond-place finish in the first varsity 
Maureen Gibbons, Kristen Mizzi, Saraheight. Before Sunday, the Irish had only 
Keefer, Kristen Henkel and Jacqueline
won one Big East race, which was last Hazen won its race by almost 32 sec­year's varsity four. 
onds in 7:38.63, ahead of BostonThe second varsity eight boat of 
College, who finished in 8:10.20 andcoxswain Kathy Long, Shannon Mohan, Syracuse, who crossed the finish line inKerri Murphy, Kathleen Welsh, Meredith 8:20.51.
Thornburgh, Kati Sedun, Devon In the varsity eight race, the
Hegeman, Erica Drennen and Melissa 
Orangewomen finished in a time of
Felker won their race in 6:44.40. The 6:26.45, just ahead of the Notre Dame crew beat Syracuse by more than 8 sec­
boat. Coxswain Cassie Markstahler,
onds as the Orangewomen crossed the Natalie Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Caseyline in 6:52.45. Boston College took third Buckstaff, Rachel Polinski, Alice Bartek,in 6:55.56. 
Meghan Boyle, Katie Chenoweth and
"In the second varsity race, the com­Danielle Protasewich crossed the finish
petition was tough in the first 1,000 line in 6:32.54. Rutgers was third in 
meters, but we kept our focus and 6:34.93 and West Virginia finished
determination to win," said Long. "It felt fourth in 6:37.71.
amazing to cross the line and celebrate "It was a great day of racing for all of our victory after two consecutive years 
the varsity crews and we are really
of coming in second by close margins.... 
excited to have a crack at No. 1Seniors Kerri Murphy and Erica 
Washington next week," said Warren.
fantastic job leading our
Drennen did a "The team is really starting to gain
boat. We had an exciting, emotional 
momentum as we reach the most diffi­race for the gold." 
cult and exciting part of our schedule."
Both varsity four boats dominated in their races against Syracuse and Boston College crews to earn gold medals. The Contact Christine Armstrong at first boat of coxswain Kacy McCaffrey, carmstro@nd.edu 
MENS GOLF 
Irish end season in 10th place at Fossum Invite 
Mother Nature had been anything but
By ERIK POWERS 
kind to Notre Dame this spring. The 
Spons Writer 
Irish were plagued by snow. rain or excessive heat in every previous tourna­It's over. 
ment. 

The Irish ended their season with a "It was really nice out," Wiseman said. 
10th-place finish at the Bruce 
"It was probably the best weather we've Fossum/TaylorMade Invitational. Kent had all year. I even got a sunburn. It State took first place, followed by Illinois was much better than fighting frostbite and Minnesota. 
and windburn earlier in the year." 
Notre Dame used a drastically differ­With the season over, the team will ent lineup from last weekend's Big East take a brief respite in order to concen­Championship. Bill Mccaughan, Gavin trate on final exams. Most of the team 
Ferlic, K.C. Wiseman and Daniel Klauer will then return home in order to train 
accompanied captain Brandon Lunke, individually for the fall. 
who was coach John Jasinski's lone 
"I think we all are going to try to getholdover from last weekend. There into some top tournaments this summer were multiple reasons for the change. 
and play the toughest courses possible,""[Bill, Gavin, Dan, and I] qualified a Wiseman said. "In college, we only play little beforehand," Wiseman said, refer­on tough courses and they set us upring to earlier match play. "[Coach with difficult tees and hole placements." 
Jasinski] wanted some new guys in the As difficult as this year has been for lineup to give the guys who hadn't had the young team, NCAA success remains the chance to play a chance to play. 
¼ithin Notre Dame's reach. Four of the 
Jasinski was happy how the team was five Irish golfers return from a squadgetting more competitive for starting that finished only two strokes short of a spots." 
berth in the NCAA Regionals. Only two Lunke (71-72-74-217) led the Irish for seniors graduate from a deep and expe­a final time, ending his career with a rienced team. A new recruiting class 13th place finish. Two more Notre and a summer of maturation bode well 
Dame golfers cracked the top 50 as for the Irish's future. 
Mccaughan (75-78-72-225) tied for "I think we've been a little disappoint­34th place and Ferlic (7 4-76-81-231) ed and underachieved," Wiseman said. 
tied for 49th. Wiseman (80-77-76-233) "We have a lot of talent on this roster, was close behind and tied for 59th and this upcoming year we'll turn some place. Klauer (75-78-81-234) finished heads." 
one stroke behind Wiseman and tied for 62nd place. In a rare turn of events, the Irish were Contact Erik Powers at treated to a weekend of good weather. epowers@nd.edu 
The Women's Resource Center presents THE WINNERS OF THE 2003 DISTINGUISHED NOTRE DAME WOMAN AWARD 


Colleen Ryan-Scheutz was hired as Assistant Professor of 
Italian and Director of the Italian language program in 1999. She has since been teaching courses on a variety of subjects ranging from advanced language and culture to women's litera­ture, and the relationship between literature and cinema in Italy. She also works with teaching assistants in the MA program in 
Italian studies. Together with other language specialists in the department, she conducts a pre-service teacher orientation, a graduate-level methodology course and a teaching practicum each semester. Ms Ryan-Scheutz's research interests include 20th-century Italian literature and film. particularly the study of women's literature and female figures in cinema. Ms Ryan­Scheutz is currently completing her book on women in the cine­ma of Pier Paolo Pasolini. which treats the intersection of self­representation and gender issues throughout Pasolini's tilm career She is also researching and writing on the effectiveness of full-scale theater production for second language acquisition together with fonner student. Laura Colangelo. 
Cynthia Phillips, a 24-year-old native of Missouri, is a second year law student at the Umversity of Notre Dame. She is a 
White Scholar with the law school's Thomas J White Center on 
Law and Government. At the law school, she serves as the Executive Editor of the Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy and is a competitor m1 the Moot Court Appellate Team. As president of the Women's Legal Forum. Ms Ph11!1ps initiated the Domestic Violence Legal Program to serve the unmet legal needs of women staying at the YWCA Women's Shelter in South Bend. She created a legal resource manual for the women at the YWCA which explains the law in everyday language so that battered and homeless women can understand their legal rights and options Ms Phillips says her most trea­sured experience at Notre Dame was servmg as assistant rector alongside the resident assistants and women of Pasquerilla West. 


Andrea Smith Shappell serves as Director of Senior Transition 
Programs and also as Concurrent Theology lnstrnctor at the Center for Social Concerns. Her responsibilities include the Post-graduate Service Fair, the Service Send-Off, the Careers as 
Vocations panel presentations ancl collaboration with the Senior Retreat and the ldealist Career Day. In addition, she meets indi­vidually and in groups with seniors who are considering post­graduate service opportunities. Ms Smith Shappell is an Instructor on the teaching teams for Theology 273. 274 and Conscience in the Crossfire Moral Questions of War as well as leading the one-credit Discernment Seminar. She serves on the Boards of the Catholic Network of Volunteer Service and the Henri Nouwen Society of the United States. Ms Smith Shappell and her husband, Brian, have three children, Lizzi, Eric and Nicholas. 
Barbara Szweda has served as an associate professional special­
ist in law at Notre Dame since 1990. In addition, she co-direct­ed the clinical programs from 1990 to 2001 and has served as 
Director of the Immigration Cl 11111: from 1992-present. Ms. Szweda supervises the work of students at the clinic and teaches related classes to students interested in the practice areas of the clinic. In addition. she has worked with interested students and community orgamzatlons to establish an Immigration Clmic to serve immigrants primarily m northern Indiana and southern Micl11gan She also has led 11nmerswn experiences for law stu­dents to Miami to work with people lleemg lla1t1 and 111 Texas and Anzona working with those who have crossed the border and are in detel'tion. In 2002 she was selected as a Lilly Fellow through the Notre Dame Vocation Initiative. She belongs to the St Joseph County Bar Association, the California Bar Association, the Indiana Bar Association. the National Legal Aid & Defender Association, and the American Immigration Lawyers Association. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 28, 2003 
MENS LACROSSE 

Winning streak extended to 4 in victory over Harvard 
. Notre Dame's Walsh outshines Crimson's Kane in 16-11 Irish win 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

It was a battle of two freshmen Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Notre Dame freshman Pat Walsh scored four goals and dished out four assists. 
Harvard freshman Sean Kane. rookie of the week for two con­secutive weeks in the Ivy League, netted four goals of his own for the Crimson. 
To Kane's dismay. however, Walsh had seven teammates helping him 
score. 

"/ think we thoroughly
In a crucial Clagett scored game, the No. kicked their fannies for a goal each to 17 Notre Dame make the
35 minutes." 
mens lacrosse halftime score team (9-4, 1-4 10-4 in favor GWLL) extend­Kevin Corrigan of Notre ed its winning Irish coach D a m e 
The Crimson mounted little offense, and the goals they did score prompted offensive bar­rages from the Irish midfield and attackmen. 
"I don't think we responded [to Harvard goals]. I think we thor­oughly kicked their fannies for 35 minutes," Corrigan said. "I would have liked to see us finish a game the way we started it, but for 35 minutes, we played high quality lacrosse and essentially put it out of reach for them." 
Harvard scored once again in the second quarter, but Walsh and freshman defenseman D.J. Driscoll scored back-to-back goals to increase the Irish lead to 7-2. The goal was Driscoll's first of his career. 
Harvard's Mike McBride and Anders Johnson scored two goals, but junior Dan Berger, junior Matt Howell and 
streak to four games by defeating Ivy League opponent Harvard (4-9, 1-4), 16-11. 
Eight different players scored for the Irish, including hat tricks from both junior Steve Clagett and senior Travis Wells. 
The goal total of 16 was the team's second largest output of the season to a 17-goal perfor­mance against Hartford. With the win, Notre Dame hopes to bump itself up in the run for an at-large bid to the NCAt\ tournament. 
"I think we're playing our best lacrosse right now," coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We play Maryland this Saturday, and if we win, we have enough quality wins and no bad losses that we think we'll be in the tourna­ment." 
The Irish got on the board first Saturday with two goals from Walsh in the game's first three minutes. Kane answered at the 
14:19 mark of the second quar­ter, but Notre Dame got two goals from Wells and one goal from Clagett to extend the lead to 5-1. 
Howell, who 

had two goals on the day, returned for the first time since he missed the Ohio State game on April 6 due to an appendix operation. 
"Matt looked great," Corrigan said. "We didn't really expect to play him as much as we did, but we wanted him to get comfort­able again and he played very well." 
In the second half, Notre Dame scored the first two goals again on scores by Clagett and Walsh. Harvard scored three times, including one by Kane, and got some goals towards the end of the fourth quarter, but Howell, Walsh, sophomore Brian Giordano and junior Owen Mulford all scored to seal the vic­tory. 
Junior goalie Stewart Crosland made his thirteenth start of the season and played 38 minutes, making five saves and allowing four goals. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

. Results show Irish deserve at­large bid to NCAAs 
This predicament has not faced Kevin Corrigan since 1998. 
In the coach's 15th season at Notre Dame, the Irish will not be this year's 
G r e a t Pat Leonard 
Western Lacrosse League 
Sports
champions. 
Columnist 
Even last season, one year removed from an NCAA tournament semifinal appear­ance, the 5-8 Irish captured the league title. 
So what happens now, with Ohio State clinching that spot with a win Saturday? 
No team from the GWLL has ever made the tournament with an at-large bid. The Irish would be the first to concede that they play in a weaker conference, but Corrigan would then be the first to schedule a non-conference list of opponents that would allow his team to prove themselves in the regular season. 
So he did. And they have. 
So what if the Irish lost to a hot Ohio State team and consecutive games to Loyola and Hofstra? At the times of the losses, all three teams were ranked above No. 20 in the nation, and the Loyola and Hofstra losses were by just one goal each. Plus, after losing to Ohio State on the road, the Irish have managed a four-game win­ning streak and taken care of three league opponents as well as non-conference opponent Harvard. The league wins put them in a tie for first with Ohio State, which Notre Dame loses in a head-to head tiebreaker. 
Still, in the words of Corrigan, 
his team is playing its "best 
lacrosse of the season." Coaches 
do not just throw out words like 
"best" when discussing their 
squad. When they say it, they 
mean it. 

NCAA committee members 
could argue the Irish have not tested their true mettle against lower tier competition in Butler, Air Force and Fairfield. Still, the better teams do not just dispose of weaker opponent; they blow them out, just as the Irish did to all three. In that four-game win streak, Notre Dame defeated teams by a combined score of 52­
21. 

Blowing out the weaker teams proves the Irish win the games they need to. But quality wins will get them into the tournament, and they have a few of those as well. 
Notre Dame opened against six straight ranked teams and win three of those games against Penn, Penn St. and North Carolina. In the middle of the year, the Irish took care of Denver, the only GWLL team to defeat the champion Buckeyes. 
Saturday, the Irish will face No. 4 Maryland, a team who has defeated Virginia 8-7, the same Virginia team that sent the Irish on a three-game skid earlier in the year with a 14-8 whooping. On the other hand, the Terrapins dropped a 10-8 decision to North Carolina, a ranked team Notre Dame beat 10-8. 
The common opponent catego­ry sheds no light on how the Irish will fare Saturday and in the com­petition for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. 
But please do not forget the Irish opened the 2003 season 3-0, beating Penn and Penn St. ­teams who both had Notre Dame's number last year -and the Tar Heels down in Chapel Hill. 
Please do not forget the head coach thinks his team is playing their "best lacrosse of the sea­son." 
Then reinsert Matt Howell into the lineup, the same Matt Howell who led the Irish in points when he was sidelined at the start of April and is still third on the team in total points-33, with 14 goals and 19 assists. 
Please do not forget that two years ago, Corrigan was two wins away from winning it all. 
They have proved they can get there. They have proven they can win there. Now, it is up to the Irish to upset the Terps at home. 
And it is up to the committee to make the right decision and let this team in. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

With so many so--called charities asking for cars and material goods these days, how can you be sure your donation is going to a non-profit organization that benefits the community?  
The Answer is sim le:  
Donate to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center! Why The Salvation Army? ... . The Salvation Army Is a registered non-profit charitable organization . All donations are tax--deductlble . The Salvation Army Adult Rahabllltation Center operates the #1 alcohol and drug rehabllltatton program In tho nation . The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center Is fully self-supporting through the sale of donated items In The Salvation Army Family and Thrift Stores  
How ean I hel ?  
Donate your used clothing, furniture, household goods and, yes, even automobiles to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabllltatlon Center and know you're making a difference in your community A NAME YOU CAN TRUSTI Call The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center today! PHONE: 288•2539 Famlly Storos at 506 S. Main Street and at 2009 South Bend Avenue  

Monday, April 28, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOFTBALL 
Irish have streak snapped by Huskies in series split 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
Even though a 20-game winning streak was snapped Sunday, a new streak began just a few hours later. 
After defeating Boston College on Saturday 11-0 in five innings, Notre Dame hoped to continue its unde­feated Big East season, but Barb Cook and her Connecticut teammates would finally give the Irish a confer­ence loss with a 2-1 victory by the Huskies. 
The Irish would come back in the second game, winning by a score of 6-3. to split the series. 
Notre Dame was scheduled to play Boston College in a doubleheader on Saturday, but as has been the case so often this year, the second game was rained out. Game one was played through a light drizzle, but the rain managed to hold out long enough to give the Irish a much needed two points against the current second­place team in the Big East. 
With the two wins, the Irish improve their record to 31-12 overall and 11-1 in the Big East. 
Saturday's game was billed as a match up of the top two teams in the Big East, but the Irish made it look like a mis­match early. 
The Irish managed to chase three-time Big East pitcher of the year Kim Ryan after just 
two-thirds  of  an  inning.  
Second  baseman  Alexis  
Madrid led off with  a walk,  

and catcher Mallorie Lenn fol­lowed by reaching first on a perfect bunt to put runners on first and second. 
A fly ball from third base­man Andrea Loman advanced the runners to second and third, and Madrid would score on a wild pitch to give the Irish their first run. Designated player Meagan Ruthrauff drew a walk from Ryan, who then threw her second wild pitch of the inning to put both runners in scoring position. 
Lenn came home on a sacri­fice fly by shortstop Andria Bledsoe, but it was first base­man Lisa Mattison who knocked Ryan out of the game with a two-run homer. 
Relief pitcher Tekae Malandris came in to pitch for the Eagles and give up a sin­gle to left fielder Liz Hartmann. Hartmann advanced to second on a passed ball, a:nd right fielder Nicole deFau became the ben­eficiary of the Eagles' third walk of the inning. 
Center fielder Kellie Middleton reached base on an error by Malandris to load the bases for Madrid. Malandris was then pulled in favor of Michelle Daly, but she tossed her own wild pitch to allow Hartmann to score the lrish's fifth run of the inning. Madrid flied out to end the barrage. 
The Irish added three more runs in the second inning off a two-run double from Mattison. Bledsoe also even­tually scored on yet another Boston College wild pitch. 
Notre Dame added insur­ance runs in the third, fourth and fifth innings, but the Eagles could not solve Irish freshman starting pitcher Heather Booth. Booth worked a complete game one-hitter, walking five and striking out four. 
In Sunday's game against Connecticut, Husky pitcher Barbara Cook was equally stingy, allowing only three hits. The Irish could only get one run across, when Bledsoe scored off a Hartmann RBI single in the second inning. 
The 1-0 lead held up for five innings, as Booth continued the spectacular pitching per­formance she has had for most of the season. She made only two mistakes in the sixth inning, but both were deadly as the Huskies collected back­to-back home runs from Maggie Arbogast and Kim Castner. 
Despite the loss, Booth pitched well, only allowing six hits and striking out six in six innings of work. 
Notre Dame exacted some instant revenge on the Huskies in game two, as cen­ter fielder Megan Ciolli led off the game with a double and came home on a Loman RBI single. Ciolli had missed the past two games with an injury. 
The Irish collected an unearned run in the second inning when pinch runner Sara Schoonaert scored on an error by the Connecticut pitcher. The Huskies battled back to tie the game with an RBI single in the second and a solo home run in the third. 
Notre Dame broke the game open in the fourth, posting four runs. Mattison led off the inning with a double and advanced to third on a Hartmann groundout. 
Lenn drove Mattison in with a single, and deFau followed with her own single. 
Ciolli then drilled her fourth home run of the season, scor­ing Lenn and deFau and giv­ing the Irish a 6-2 lead. Connecticut would get a run back in the fifth and would load give the Irish a scare by loading the bases in the sixth. 
Booth would come into the game in relief of Steffany Stenglein, who had entered earlier to replace starter Carrie Wisen and get out of the jam. The trio of Irish pitchers would live danger­ously by allowing the Huskies ten hits in game two, but pitched well enough to give their team the victory. 
Notre Dame has a difficult test coming up Tuesday as they travel to Chicago to face No. 7 DePaul in their biggest remaining non-conference match up of the season. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Study Italian this summer Its like a double shot of espresso!!! 

ROIT 101/102 -Beginning Italian 1 & 2 Earn 6 credits in 6 weeks!!! Call #s: 0363/0364 

Champs 
continued from page 24 
Albion. The match went three sets, as Spriggle came back after dropping the first 3-6 to take the second set 7-6 (5) and the final 6-3. 
The Belles also took control in doubles competition. In the No. 2 doubles champi­onship match, Cutler and senior Elisa Ryan defeated Amy Zeilstra and Annie Huizenga of Calvin in a domi­nant 6-2, 6-4 effort. 
Spriggle won a second con­ference title when she and freshman Lindsay Cook beat Karen Dumas and Amy Esh of Albion at No. 3 doubles. The Saint Mary's duo took the first set 7-6, but Dumas and Esh rebounded to win the second 6-4. Spriggle and Cook secured the victory by winning the decisive third set 6-4. 

After the dual match sea­son ended, Saint Mary's was tied for second in conference with Kalamazoo with a 5-2 record. With their conference tournament championship, the Belles finished second overall for the season. Kalamazoo's third-place tourney finished dropped them to third overall in the MIAA. Dual match season champ Albion (7-0) was able to hang on for first overall with their second-place tour­ney finish. 
For the second year in a row, Meaghan Clark of Kalamazoo was named the MVP of the conference. Clark is currently the No. 10 sin­gles player in Div.Ill. Ryan was honored with the Sue Little Sportsmanship Award, becoming only the third winner from Saint Mary's in the award's 48­year history. 
The Belles' top singles player, junior Jeannie Knish, was named to the All-MIAA First Team for the third time. Kaitlin Cutler and Kristen Palombo were both All-MIAA Second Team selections. 
The Belles will find out soon if their season will con­tinue. Invitations for the NCAA Regional Team Championships will soon come out, and Saint Mary's is hoping to be included. The NCAA Regionals will take place May 3-4. 
Conta'-1: Lisa Reiju.la at lreijula@nd.edu 
----------------------------------------¦ 

page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES . Monday, April 28, 2003 
•::::i :i!iiila.rnens 118i:11i~1l1t111rn:1i•]J 

1 Rovvi•···••1011•••········•········
~altl0rttllr8trkelty 
2 •<Yhl@inoton <•·•···· ·.•
s Him«r·· ·. · 
4 
5 
G 
7 
8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 


t:~; ·•···••···••···•··•··•····•···•·•··•;11 ...•.•·······•·•·····••i••\········•·•···•:•······•+<
1¦,,,~1,>> ...... 
:: . il:t~i; x · 

around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL 
76ers at Hornets 7 p.m., TNT 
Kings at Jazz 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL HOCKEY 
Stars at Mighty Ducks 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB BASEBALL 
Phillies at Dodgers 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


victory over the Minnesota don't have any ... idea. I the last eight points of the 
Associated Press 

Timberwolves to even their would like to get the ball third quarter, and a 3­
first-round playoff series 2-every ... time. I shouldn't pointer by Bryant early in 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 2. have to say it." the final period tied it at 74. 
Shaquille O'Neal had a O'Neal had 34 points, 23 Game 5 will be played The Timberwolves led at simple plan to keep the rebounds and six assists for Tuesday night at Target halftime 45-43 thanks to Lakers from being on the the three-time defending Center, where the teams Hudson's 11 points in the brink of elimination: Just champions, who won by split the first two games of last three minutes of the get him the ball. outscoring the the series. Game 6 is second quarter. 
"I told the guys before the Timberwolves 22-11 in the Thursday night at Staples "Shaq was extremely game, get me the ball and last seven minutes. Center.' aggressive -he had by far move out of the way," he Minnesota didn't make a O'Neal grabbed 10 of the his best game of the whole said. ''I've just got to have field goal in a span of 5:18 Lakers' 18 offensive series," Timberwolves the ball in a position where while falling behind for rebounds to help them to a coach Flip Saunders said. I can do something. As soon good, and Kevin Garnett 29-2 advantage in second­Regarding his dominance as I'm open, I would like to missed two free throws chance points. on the boards, O'Neal said: have it." with 15 seconds remaining The Timberwolves "I was just there, trying to 
He got it -from his and a chance to pull the outscored the Lake rs 17 -7 get all the loose balls, trying teammates and off the Timberwolves within one. for a 74-63 lead -the to get the tips, trying to do boards -and that was the When asked why he largest of the game for my part." difference Sunday as Los didn't get the ball more either team. He did his part, and 
Angeles rallied for a 102-97 often, O'Neal replied: "I The Lakers then scored more. 
IN BRIEF 

Colts sign 20 free agents Fresno State; defensive backs Calvin Agassi triumphs over 
The Indianapolis Colts signed 20 Carlyle of Oregon State, Anthony Roddick free agents, including Purdue run­Floyd of Louisville and Darrell Andre Agassi celebrated his first ning back Montrell Lowe and Notre Rideaux of Southern Cal; and line­day as the oldest men's player to be Dame fullback Tom Lopienski, fol­backer Gary Brackett of Rutgers. ranked No. 1 in the world with a lowing Sunday's NFL draft. dramatic comeback victory over 
The Colts also signed Illinois wide Wild tie series with Andy Roddick to win the U.S. Men's receiver Aaron Moorehead, son of Canucks Clay Court Championships on former NFL player Emory Sergei Zholtok and Wes Walz Sunday. Moorehead, and Carl Morris, the scored just over a minute apart Agassi supplanted Australian Harvard wide receiver some expect­early in the third period as the Lleyton Hewitt on Saturday night as 
ed to be taken in the draft. Minnesota Wild beat the Vancouver No. 1, but he had to work hard The other offensive signees were Canucks 3-2 on Sunday night to Sunday to beat Roddick 3-6, 6-3, 6­
even their second-round series. 

wide receivers Paul Arnold of 4. It was the 58th career title for Washington, Andre Forde of Buffalo After the Canucks staged a furious Agassi, who will turn 33 on and Robert Redd of Bowling Green; flurry in the closing seconds, for the Tuesday. 
offensive linemen Joe Iorio of Penn second straight game, tempers Down one set and a break in the 
State, Jim Newton of Utah State and flared after the buzzer and several third game of the second set, Agassi Rex Richards of Texas Tech; tight fights broke out near the benches. rallied from triple break point to end Chad Bartoszek of Buffalo; full­Five players were given miscon­hold his serve. He broke Roddick, back Steven Costa of UNLV; quar­ducts. the two-time defending champion, terback James MacPherson of Wake The Canucks. who rallied from a in the sixth and eighth games to Forest and kicker Kevin Kerr of 3-1 deficit in the third period in force the third set. Ohio University. Game 1, pulled goalie Dan Cloutier Agassi declared himself ready for 
On defense, the Col ts signed with two minutes left. They got Europe and the clay tournaments, defensive tackles Dante Booker of within a goal when Mattias Ohlund leading up to the start of the French Auburn and Jason Stewart of scored at 18:28. Open on May 26. 
Monday, April 28, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Another canine crushed as Irish sweep Huskies 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Senior Staff Writer 
Three dilferentjerseys. One huge result. 
Sporting their trio of game jer­seys, the Irish took advantage of clutch hitting, solid pitching and all-around defense to sweep a three-game series from Connecticut, winning 3-2 and 11-4 in Saturday's doubleheader and 6­3 on Sunday. 
"As far as winning all three games this weekend, I thought it was really critical, quite frankly," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "We've got nine barn-burners left, so you've got to win the home games and the games that you should win, that you're favored to win, and our kids responded this weekend. I th0ught they played really good baseball all weekend." 
The Irish -opening in their reg­ular home white uniforms -sent senior Ryan Kalita to the mound to start the first game of Saturday's doubleheader, and he threw well, allowing only two runs in five innings of work in the seven-inning game. Kalita gave up single runs in the third and fourth innings on a sacrifice fly and an RBI single, respectively. 
However, the Irish bats were silent early, providing no run sup­port for the righthander until the bottom of the fifth inning, when Matt Macri smacked the first pitch of the inning over the fence in left­center field. 
"The first game I thought we were a little bit tight," Mainieri said. "The kids knew it was a big day for us.... They were uptight because they wanted to do well so badly." 
The Irish entered the bottom of the sixth inning down 2-1 and without a victory when trailing after the fifth inning this season. 
Saturday's first game broke that streak. 
A hit batter and a walk put run­ners on first and second before Matt Edwards hit a single up the middle to tie the game at 2-2 and chase Connecticut's starting pitch­er out of the game. 
"The pitcher threw eight straight balls to start the inning," Mainieri said. "Then I gave [Edwards] the green light to go ahead and hit, because he's the guy who's going to drive in runs for us." 
The Huskies then intentionally walked Kris Billmaier to pitch to Javi Sanchez. Sanchez's ground ball to the left side of the infield could have been much worse for the Huskies, but the Connecticut shortstop made an incredible div­ing stop to retire Edwards on the force out at third base. However, Brennan Grogan crossed the plate with the go-ahead run on the play. 
The relief duo of Ryan Doherty and J.P. Gagne worked the Irish into and out of a major jam in the top of the seventh, when a hit bat­ter (the fifth hit-by-pitch of the game), a stolen base and a one-out single put runners on first and third. 
However, Gagne was able to get a strikeout and a groundout to close out the Huskies in game one. 
Game two -when the Irish sported blue uniforms -featured much the same lineup, with only one roster change between both teams between games, however the storylines couldn't have been more different. 
I I I 
After manufacturing a run in the first, the Irish exploded for seven runs in the bottom of the fourth inning, sending 11 batters to the plate. 
With the score tied 1·1, Edwards led off the inning with a single up the middle. After Edwards stole second on a botched hit-and-run play, Billmaier sacrificed him to third. Sanchez was hit by a pitch ­marking the sixth hit batter of the day -before Macri continued his hot day offensively by crushing a Connecticut offering off the wall in left, scoring Edwards and sending Sanchez to third while himself reaching second. Sanchez then scored on a balk before Tim Murray reached on a strikeout that got past the catcher, allowing him to take first base. 
The defensive meltdown contin­ued when Lopez hit a sacrifice bunt that the Connecticut pitcher bob­bled. He then made a throw to first which sailed over the first base­man's head, allowing Macri to score, Murray to take third and Lopez to reach second. 
Steve Sollmann drove in a run ¼ith a single through the left side, scoring Murray, and a sacrifice fly by Rizzo brought in Lopez \\-'ith the sixth Irish run. After a pitching change, Edwards continued the onslaught with a double to left-cen­ter, scoring Sollmann and Grogan. 
"It was a big inning for us to break the game open," Mainieri said, "because I thought John Axford really struggled with his control, but he kept battling and kept getting big outs, because he was in a lot of jams. So when we finally got that big inning, that was good, because it gave John a little room for error, and he was able to 
Are you interested in joining the Junior Parents Weekend. Executive Committee? 
Applications are available for JPW 
leadership positions including Chair, 
Vice-Chair, Secretary, Treasurer and 
Programming Commissioners 
WHY JOIN? 
here are many great reasons why you should become involved in JPW: 
* 
Help develop plans for this exciting weekend for juniors & parents. 

* 
Have the opportunity to develop your leadership & management skills. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. 

* 
Have practical experience you can take with you into the "real world." 

* 
JPW is fun! 



Applications are available outside the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, and are due on Wednesday, April 30. Interviews will be May 2. 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Chris Nlesel fires a pitch against Ball State Tuesday. Nlesel pitched a solid outing Sunday to lead the Irish to a three-game sweep of Connecticut at Eck Stadium over the weekend. 
pitch out of some jams. Maybe he coach [O'Connor] and I probably 
wouldn't have stayed in the game if shouldn't have. I left the curveball 
it had been closer." up and he drove it pretty good out 
The seven-run cushion provided there to left-center. I think if I had 
a lot of breathing room for Axford, kept that pitch down I would have 
who was able to complete his six-gotten him out." 
inning stint allowing only one run Mainieri had a different point of 
but walldng six. Matt Laird entered view on the play. 
in the seventh and went three "Chris Niese! is a pitcher's pitch­
innings and allowing six hits to er," Mainieri said. "He knows how 
gain the save. to do it. He knows how to set 'em 
In addition, the Irish knocked in up and put 'em away, so we give three more runs, on an RBI single Chris the right to shake us off any­by Greg Lopez in the seventh, and time that he wants to, and if he felt a run-scoring double by Billmaier, good about throwing that pitch, I as well as a single by pinch hitter don't have a problem with that. ... Craig Cooper in the eighth, which If anybody was to blame, it was knocked in the 11th run of the sec-me, because I had [Billmaier} play­ond game. ing a little bit too shallow." 
"I thought in tl•.~ second game The very next batter drove a sin-we played a lot more loosely and gle up the middle to bring the relaxed, and competed real hard, Huskies within two at 5-3, however and we got some big bits, and I just Niesel was able to induce a fly out thought it was an outstanding all-to deep left field to retire the side in around game for us," Mainieri said. the fifth. 
Sunday saw the Irish sporting "It was a tough inning for me," their green uniforms, and for the Niesel said. "You've just got to second straight game, the Irish come back and make the big pitch­took an early lead thanks a first• es to get out ofthe inning." inning run. Sollmann led off with a The Irish were able to add an double off the wall in left-center insurance run in the seventh when field. Grogan sacrificed him to third Lopez scored on a wild pitch. After before a sacrifice fly by Edwards breaking for home when the ball brought him in. skipped to the right of the catcher, 
Starter Chris Niese! cruised Lopez briefly hesitated before through the first few innings for the charging the plate again. Luckily Irish, not allowing a runner to for Lopez, the throw from the reach second base until the fifth catcher to the pitcher -which inning. would have been a close play ­
In the meantime, the Irish added sailed over the pitcher's head, two runs in each the fourth and allowing Lopez to score. fifth innings. A freak double down Brandon Viloria held the Huskies the right field by Edwards bounced at bay in the eighth, and Gagne off the second baseman's glove -quickly retired the side in order in on what would have been a tough the ninth for his 10th save and the defensive play -to drive in the 3-game sweep of the Huskies for second run. An RBI groundout by the Irish. Billmaier brought home the third Notre Dame (34-9, 13-2 in the run. Big East) returns to action Tuesday 
In the bottom of the fourth, Matt night when they face off against Bransfield drove home Sanchez Michigan at Fifth Third Ballpark in with a ground•rule double to right· Comstock Park, Mich. at 7:30 p.m. center field to make the score 4-0. Notes: 
One pitch later, it was 5-0 when . The crowd at Saturday's double­Lopez smacked a single to right-header -2,816 tickets were sold center to drive in Bransfield. -marked a new attendance 
Niesel's only bad inning of the record for Eck Stadium. start was the fifth, when he . Connecticut's starting pitcher in allowed three runs to score, with Sunday's game, Peter the first two coming off a double Soteropoulos, was ejected from the that almost wasn't. After shaking bench in the bottom of the seventh off a pitch by pitching coach Brian inning of the game for arguing a O'Connor, Niesel threw a hanging balk call with the first base umpire. curveball which was smacked to . Axford's (9-0 this season) win in the gap in left-center. Billmaier the second game Saturday marked bolted back to give chase, and his 13th consecutive victory, sec­almost made yet another sensa-ond only to Aaron Heilman's 15 tional play to reel in the ball, but straight wins for most consecutive the ball fell off his glove and drove victories by a Notre Dame pitcher in two two-out runs for the since 1928. lluskies. 
"It was actually just that one Contact Bryan Kronk at pitch," Niese! said. "I shook off bkronk@nd.edu 

Monday, April 28, 2003

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
Regular guys show that it can be done, win Bookstore 
RBC's run to the title illustrated what Bookstore Basketball is all about. 
These five "regular" guys, plus a star football player injury replacement, defied the odds this weekend and defeated three top-5 teams on the way to win­ning the 32nd annual Bookstore Basketball tour­nament. 
Friday, RBC defeated AdWorks, the No. 1 seed, defending champion and odds-on favorite with three foot­

ball players. Associate 
including Carlyle Sports Editor 

Holiday and Justin Tuck. 
Oh yeah, Tuck was last year's MVP and Mr. Alabama in high school. 
But these five "regular guys" wanted to prove the doubters wrong -the Bookstore commissioners who ranked them 13th initially, and then eighth
I when the Sweet 16 started, and all
I' 
I those who basically handed AdWorks a repeat title. Even when one of their players, Mr. Ironman John Barnes, was injured 

Friday, these regular guys refused to give up and pulled the upset over the tournament's favorite. 
With Barnes, one of their "regular guys", unable to play in Saturday's Final Four matchup against La-Z-Boy, RBC went out and got a non-''regular" -Courtney Watson. 
Watson wasn't instrumental in Saturday's win, but Sunday, he shut down NDToday's Jim Kilroy, who had six first-half points, but only four in the second half when Watson switched over to guard him. 
This title wasn't about Watson, though; it was about five "regular guys" making a name for themselves. 
The driving force of making their dream come true might have started in high school when point guard Jon Joyce and MVP Joe Dursi, best friends since the fourth grade, lost the county championship. 
It might have come from the fact that varsity basketball walk-on Dan Lustig and third-team All-Bookstore Brian Rush lived with these guys in Stanford and played with them on the interhall team. 
They wanted to win one for the "reg­ular guys," and they did. 
The world's largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament isn't all about what went on this weekend with the 
WOMENS BOOKSTORE 
We're Stacked grabs title 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

With their tallest player standing 
' ' 
' I ;\ I just 5-foot-9 tall, the Golden Girls looked overmatched to the unassum­ing fan in Sunday's final game. 

However, the Golden Girls put up quite a fight in their 21-15 loss to We're Stacked. 
Led by 6-foot-4 inch tall Katie Neff, We're Stacked dominated the boards. Emily Loomis and Kelsey Wicks, both over 6 feet tall, helped the cause as well. 
However, \Ve're Stacked could not pull away in the first half, as the Golden Girls kept themselves in the game with stellar team defense and better-than-average outside shooting. 

Guards Suzanne Bellina and Sara:1 Liebscher lit up the unsuspectin!: guards of \Ve're Stacked to tie the game at six. We're Stacked went on a 
mini-rw1 to go into the half leading by two, 11-9. 
However, after not being able to fully capitalize on their size in the first half, We're Stacked soon turned things around as Neff, Loomis and Wicks began to take over the game. Teammates Jaci Lesko and Heidi IJendrick also got in on the action. 
"They are a really scrappy team," Neffsaid. "We just tried to control the boards and go inside on them a lot because they were smaller." 
This strategy soon paid off for We're Stacked, as they went on a 10­6 run to close out the game after a close first half in which both teams struggled to score. 

The inside efforts of Golden Girls forward Jill Bodensteiner did not go unnoticed, as she fought the entire game, However, in the end, it appeared that We're Stacked was simply too tall for the Golden Girls. 
The presence of Loomis was espe­cially noticed, as she earned Most Valuable Player honors. Loomis was constantly around the basket, grab­; bing rebounds and hitting jump shots 
I. from everywhere.
:!, While l~oomis scored throughout the game, teammate Kelsey Wicks finally ended the game for We're Stacked. Taking the ball up :"1c court, Wicks jump-stopped, split 'ct' double team and finished the move by exe­cuting a power layup, giving We're Stacked their 21st and final point. 
Loomis and Neff enjoyed being teammates again, only in a different sport. Both are on the varsity volley­ball team. 
"Bookstore Basketball was a lot of fun," Neff said. "We had an awesome time playing in it." 
Hopefully they will have fun playing together again in the fall on a different court as well. 
Wicks, Llebscher, Bodensteiner and Loomis were named All-Bookstore. Joining them were Alex Callan, Abbey Coons and Marianna Seitz. Coons, a senior, was also named Miss Bookstore after winning two Bookstore titles in her four years. Her team, Tips, Please, lost to the Golden Girls in the final four. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
bleachers surrounding the Bookstore courts. 
It's about the teams in the early rounds showing team unity by dress­ing in hideous outfits, having team soundtracks, bringing cheering sec­tions and staying hydrated by drinking out of a two-liter bottle filled with more than just cola. 
It's about playing in 30-degree tem­peratures one night and getting sun­burned a few days later. 
It's about the players around cam­pus who play ball at Holr s, dreaming to put a run together like RBC did. 
They had been playing for four years and wanted to show Notre Dame it doesn't take scholarship athletes or a walk-on basketball player to be the best of over 500 teams. 
It's about being a team, which wasn't more evident than after Sunday's title game when RBC got their prizes. 
Dursi handed his duffel bag to a limping Barnes and put his arm around his "regular guy" teammate in street clothes. 
That's what it's all about. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Contact Afatt Lozar and mlozar@nd.edu. 

Finals 
continued from page 24 
lead. At the half, Watson suggested switching to Kilroy. and the change paid huge dividends. 
Watson fought through cramps and used his strength advantage to fight through the screens NDToday was trying to set for Kilroy and didn't let the sharpshooter get open. 
"He is a lot bigger. He was playing me tough coming off the screens," Kilroy said. "He made it difficult to get some jump shots. He's tough, they are all tough over there." 
NDToday was up 16-12 and looking to run away with it when RBC made their first run. A four point run brought the underdogs even at 16. After an NDToday free throw and an 18-footjumper from Kilroy. Dursi took over. 
First he nailed a 16-foot shot. Then teammate Jeff Wiltrout hit another jumper to tie the game at 18. 
Dursi drove down the lane and made a sweet reverse lay-up to give HBC its first lead of the day at 19-18. Sensing the hot hand, Dursi came right back down and swished a jumper to put RBC at game point 20-18. Jon Joyce finished it off with a ball fake and another jumper to complete RBC's Cinderella run. 
"He had [Brian] Rush's number there for a little bit," Kilroy said of Dursi. "He stepped outside and hit three or four in a row at the end. I think he was MVP so he deserved it." 
"We were shooting good shots all game, they just didn't fall and sometimes that happens," Dursi added. "Luckily they started falling and we pulled it out." 
Two disappointments for NDToday were their free throw shooting and the play of Dan Lustig. Down the stretch, NDToday missed five free throws that obviously cost them. 
Also, Lustig never got it going offensively. The bas­ketball team walk-on scored only two points and none in the second half. 
Credit the two-inch height advantage Dursi had over Lustig and the familiarity RBC had from playing with Lustig on Stanford's interhall teams. 
"He's a real good player. We played with him on our Stanford teams for all four years," Dursi said. "We played and practiced and we kind of knew how to play him, but he's a great player." 
But it's didn't take one great player to win the 2003 Bookstore Tournament -it took a great team. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Monday, April 28, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Holiday gives way to showcase youth 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Five snaps. one pass. one com­pletion for eight yards. 
Having been in offensive coor­dinator Bill Diedrick's pro-style offense for over a year now, quarterback Carlyle Holiday didn't need to be take very many repetitions in Saturday's Blue­Gold Game. 
"The worst thing you can do is play one series," Holiday said. "But it was a good situation because we really want to get some work done with Chris [Olsen] and Pat [Dillingham]." 
Holiday started the game for the blue team and was sacked on two plays, handed off twice and threw only one pass. After seeing Holiday's improvement in the previous spring practices, Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham and the rest of the staff didn't need to see much from the No. 1 man and wanted to focus on the battle for Holiday's backup. 
"We're a lot further along. We're so much further along that we were able to take Carlyle out and not have him play the· whole game," Willingham said. 
Tuck still blitzing 
Pass-rushing specialist Justin Tuck eyes had to light up when he saw tackle Brian Mattes, a for­mer defensive lineman, line up at left tackle Saturday. 
Three sacks later, Tuck was the Blue-Gold Game's defensive MVP. 
"We are excited about what Justin brings," Willingham said. "Hopefully he can continue to play at a high-level not only as a pass-rusher, but as a complete player." 
The one drawback from the format of the glorified team scrimmage is the rule restricting defensive players from actually hitting the quarterbacks to pre­vent injuries. In the fourth quar­ter, the defense had a shot at Chris Olsen but they let up and Olsen scrambled for a 4-yard touchdown. 
When Olsen scored, Tuck and the defense let him know about 
it. 
"No comment on that ltouch­
downl," Tuck said. "I probably 
could have tackled him at about 
the five-yard line. We started 
reminding him on the field about 
[how he wouldn't have scored in 
a real game]." 
Snap problems 
The offensive line appeared to be coming together by the end of spring practice but one player who didn't help himself Saturday was center Bob Morton. 
Morton and quarterback Pat Dillingham had troubles on exchanges in the second half with Dillingham fumbling four snaps. 
With all of those fumbled snaps coming in the second half, Morton acknowledged his condi­tioning wasn't where it should be. 
"I have to say I wasn't in the best game shape and that's something I need to work on," he said. 
Landri 
Derek Landri finally got to play some football. 
Landri suffered a leg injury from a bike accident last spring. When he was able to practice in the fall, he suffered a shoulder injury. Then, for most of this year's spring practice, Landri had on the no-contact red jersey until last week when he was able to finally hit someone. 
"It felt good, I haven't been able to do that in quite awhile in a game-type situation, so it was nice to get out there," Landri said. "First, you start off trying to everything that is going on. By the end, you are just going." 
JJ at the game 
Their handshake at the 30­yard line after the game may be a sign of things to come. 
Former Notre Dame running back Julius Jones shook hands with Willingham after the Blue­Gold game and as the field was clearing. Jones watched the game, in street clothes, from the Notre Dame sideline and talked with a number of Irish players, mainly upperclassmen, through­out the game. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


TWO MEN ANDA TRUCK 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Packing Supplies  
• Packing Service  • Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenondotruck.com 
Visit Our Box Store! 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
Now accepting applications for summer help 
Clark wants to be a go-to guy 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

For all Jared Clark did well in Saturday's Blue-Gold scrim­mage, he couldn't help but recall his one mistake. 
"All I can say about my catches was that I should have caught the one I dropped," Clark said. 
The quarterback converted to tight end before the 2002 spring practices and was refer­ring to the ball he bobbled before tipping to cornerback Vontez Duff for an interception. 
But that play was the only negative in a day full of posi­tives for Clark. 
The rising senior made two impressive catches and had a two-point conversion in the Gold team's loss to Blue, 17-14. 
Clark said he is accommodat­ing himself with his new posi­tion and the entire Notre Dame offense. 
"I absolutely feel more com­fortable out there," Clark said. "In every aspect, I feel better with my position and the offense." 
Buried in the quarterback shuffle with Matt Lovecchio and Carlyle Holiday, Clark fig­ured he had a better chance to 
Blue-Gold 
continued from page 24 
"The real force was to let our two young men play," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Although Willingham said the Irish only used about 15 percent of the offense, the coaches' emphasis was square­ly on next season -a fact emphasized by the appearance of about half the freshman class in the stands and Julius Jones' presence on the side­lines. 
But there were still some signs of the team that went 10­3 and earned a Gator Bowl berth a year ago. The defense caused three turnovers that set up offensive scores and the defense recorded eight "sacks" -a hand on the quarterback was enough to cause a sack ­with three sacks coming from defensive MVP Justin Tuck. 
"I think that the 14 days have gone well for us," said Willingham as he evaluated the spring practice. "There's so many important things to take with us today and this week­end, but at the same time those 14 days have led to this day and they've been good days for us. We are not where we'd like to be entirely in some areas, but we made a few points and play if he switched positions. So he did, and now he has a chance to see significant play­ing time for the Irish. 
Clark showed Notre Dame 
fans a glimpse of what he can 
do Saturday. 
His first catch was a pass from quarterback Chris Olsen, and Clark had to come back to the ball before snatching it right before a Blue cornerback made a possible interception. Clark then raced down the field for a 30-yard gain, before being tripped up and injuring his ankle on the play. However, the injury wasn't serious, and Clark returned to make two more clutch catches. 
Clark raced across the middle of the Blue defense for his next catch, grabbing the ball with his fingertips and picking up 17 yards. After Gold scored later in the drive, Clark hauled in the two-point conversion in the back of the end zone. 
After the game, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said Clark's plays were something Notre Dame needs in the future. 
"Well, I don't necessarily look at [making big plays] as a Jared Clark role," Willingham said. "I list it as a playmaker role ­people that can make plays. That's what we're about. 

That's what we want. That's what we encourage. Jared is one of those guys that fits in that category." 
Clark said he wants to fit into that role next season for the Irish. 
"I just want to be one of those go-to guys," Clark said. "l want to make plays and get the ball down the field. The harder I work now in the offseason, the easier it will be for me to be that guy come the fall." 
Clark said he knows that fifth-year senior Gary Godsey is the No.1 tight end for next sea­son. and that the Irish have several talented players at that position. But Clark simply wants to keep working hard and prepare himself for the chances he'll get next season. 
"I think the competition on the field is nice. We're all good friends off the field," Clark said. "I go out there every day trying to do the best I can and be the best player I can. I want to be the top guy. I want to be the starter, but I know that Gary's the starter right now and that it's his position to lose. I've still got a long way to go." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
we're getting better and that's "I think [Chris] got into a what's exciting." good rhythm today," Omar 
The first half. however, was Jenkins said. "I think he put it anything but exciting. The lone all together for the game score came on a Nate today. He surprised me a little Schiccatano's 3-yard plunge -bit." and then D.J. Fitzpatrick Tight end Jared Clark made missed the extra point. In fact, a pair of good catches, but one the loudest cheer of the day ball he bobbled ended up in came when the public address the hands of Vontez Duff. announcer broadcast Jeff Jake Carney had the other Faine's first-round selection to interception, and Travis Leitko the thousands in attendance. recovered a fumbled exchange 
Still, the between Irish offense Dillingham
"The reason I came here
came to life and center in the sec­was to be the starter at Bob Morton. ond half. Jeff Olsen,
Notre Dame. I didn't 
Jenkins and meanwhile,
come here to be the 
Marcus appeared to Wilson backup ... edge ahead scored of Dillingham touchdowns ever-so­
Chris Olsen 
on 2-and 5-slightly for yard runs, quarterback the race for respectively, the backup and even position. Olsen got into the act with a 4-Although his throws often yard scamper up the middle. sailed off-target early -forc­
The Irish receivers, trying to ing receivers to make out­fill the void by departing Arnaz standing catches -Olsen set­Battle, also showed promise. tled into a rhythm as the Omar Jenkins caught four scrimmage wore on while his passes for 68 yards, including counterpart threw two inter­one athletic catch near the ceptions. sideline to set up Jenkins' Still, the Irish coaches touchdown and another catch weren't so willing to put a lot across the middle that he of weight on the spring game. somehow held onto despite "I thought he stepped up and being drilled by Quentin made some plays," Irish offen­Burrell. sive coordinator Bill Diedrick 
said, "and showed maybe a lit­

tle bit more consistency than he has in the earlier part of the spring." 
That inconsistency -shown early Saturday but eliminated late -may have kept the Irish from naming a clear backup, even though Olsen has a good idea of his role -both now and in the future. 
"The reason I came here was to be the starter at Notre Dame. I didn't come here to be the backup," Olsen said. "Right now, Carlyle's still our starter and I'm going to have to make some huge headway just to even up with him." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
page 22 Monday, April 28, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
\ 
MENS TENNIS 

Rain stops con£ erence championship hopes 
While it is unlikely that the Irish ByJOE LINDSLEY will advance to their 13th consecu­Sporrs Writer tive NCAA tournament, the best such streak of any sport at Notre CORAL GABLES, Fla. Dame, the team will now have to A win Sunday at the Big East wait until Wednesday to see if it earns one of the 33 at-large berths
Championships was close at hand 
for the Irish. After defeating St. into the NCAA tournament. The 

John's in the first round, Notre chances of that are slim, as the 
Dame was set to bout with Virginia Irish are currently ranked 54th, 
Tech Saturday. A day-long rain with their best wins over No. 41 delay postponed that match, but Virginia Tech and No. 46 Purdue. Sunday morning, the Irish were The semifinal bout with Virginia 
able upset the Hokies, 4-3. Tech was very close. That win landed them into the Junior Matthew Scott and sopho­more Brent D'Amico clinched the
title match with the Miami Hurricanes. win with an 8-6 triumph at No. 1 Soon after the competition began doubles. The duo won for the fifth though, lightning struck -literally. time in the last six matches to 
The officials were forced to call the improve to 12-9 at No. 1 doubles. 
match, and Miami was afforded the The victory also marked the fifth 
Big East's automatic bid to the clinching win of the season for the 
NCAA tournament. Irish pair. 
When the match was cancelled, Brian Farrell and junior Luis the Irish were up a set in a pair of Haddock won the first doubles matches and down a set in two, match for the Irish. They came with the two remaining contests. back from down an early service According to Big East rules, in the break to defeat Angel Diankov and event of the championship not Dennis Emery 8-4 at No. 2. 

being completed on time, the con­In singles play, No. 106 Haddock, ference's automatic berth to the D'Amico, and Lopez-Acevedo all earned victories. D'Amico's was the
NCAA tournament is awarded to and Salas}, if they don't want the best performances she 
the highest remaining seed, which only in straight sets as he defeated to lose, they're not going to has seen.
Women
No. 88 Saber Kadiri.
in this case was Miami. 

lose." "It was one of the best feel­Nevertheless, the Irish were 
continued from page 24 To save time, and to pro­ings I've experienced at Notre awarded a share of the Big East Contact Joe Lindsley at 
vide court space for the men Dame," she said. "I think title. jlindsle@nd.edu 
After a bye on Friday, the who also had matches to that's the most exciting match Irish were supposed to play make up, the play began with I've had at Notre Dame." Boston College Saturday the singles portion, in hopes Just two weeks ago, the morning. That match -as that the doubles would not be Irish fell to Miami in Coral
Irish hit end of the road 
well as every other match needed to decided victory. Gables, 6-1. scheduled for Saturday -did "With the singles today, we "I think we were a little 
CORAL GABLES, FIA. Irish dreams. Assuming, as many 
not take place, as the south­got the feeling we could stay more prepared this time," For the Irish, it was a weekend of have predicted, that the Irish do not 
ern tip of the Sunshine State in the match," Louderback Louderback said. [The last the toughest sort of breaks. qualify, this will be the first time in 
was hit with its worst all-day said. match against Miami] was a Unfortunately, it was a weekend 13 years that Notre Dame has not 
thunderstorm in a year. "We came down here real­tough road trip. We were in when the Irish needed the best of advanced to the NCAA tournament. 
"It was hard," Louderback ly fired up," senior captain here fast and went out fast. breaks -a It would have been nice for the 
said. "That was a tough day. Katie Cunha said. "\.Ye were a They basically took it to us so victory at the Irish who have struggled at many 
[Saturday] was tougher than little be frustrated [Saturday] quickly in that match.
Joe Lindsley 
[Sunday]. because we were because of the rain. \\'hen it The Irish made sure they Champion-have erased their past troubles 
Big East points of the season, if they could 
waiting. We knew at any time cleared up this morning, we were mentally tough for ships at the with a coveted Big East title. It 

we had to be ready to play. If were ready to get them. We Sunday's match. 
Sports
home courts would have been nice, surely, and it stopped raining, we'd have knew it was going to be a bat­"I think that we knew what
Columnist 
to be over there in an hour. tle. It was all heart, it really to expect," Salas said. "Their Hurricanes This squad will probably always 
of the Miami it almost happened. 
All we did all day was sit was." fans were pretty obnoxious would have wonder that if the weather had 
around and go eat. We'd wait The match was probably last time, so we knew we· d automatically catapulted the 54th­given them the chance, could they 
three hours and then we'd go one of the closest and tough­have to be ready for that. We ranked team into their 13th NCAA have handled a less formidable 
eat again to get ready for the est battles ever seen in the got a chance to play in the tournament. Hurricane? 
match." Big East Championships. heat." Now the Irish will have to place For seniors, like Brian Farrell, it 
Salas agreed. With the score at 3-2 and "Even after our loss to their hope in the slight chance that must have been a particularly try­
"We spent the whole day Notre Dame within just a Miami two weeks ago, I didn't their ranking could put them into a ing day. The Irish can take some 
sitting around," she said. "We point of victory, Jenn Smith count us out for the champi­tournament which they have been consolation, though, in how hard 

were definitely lethargic. I and Sara Robbins held the onship at all," Cunha said. a part of for so many years. they fought and how close they 
think it was better than hav­attention of the sizeable Cunha did not play over the After rain delayed Saturday play, came to this title, despite the tribu­
ing a match at the end of crowd, waiting to see if the weekend due to a decision by tournament officials attempted to lations they encountered in their 
[Saturday]. We would have result of the point would end herself, Louderback and squeeze the semifinal and final season. So many of their losses 
been just mentally not as pre­or extend the match. assistant coach Liz Balanis. rounds into Sunday time slots. All were very close, and today, 
pared as we would have been Smith won her first set, but "I really had faith in them. I went well for Notre Dame initially. although a different kind of a loss, 
otherwise." Robbins rallied in the last two knew we could play so much They beat Virginia Tech for the probably gave them the same feel­
Because of the missed day to keep the Hurricanes alive. better after that loss. I was second time this season in a close ing. 
of play on Saturday, much "I just didn't capitalize," confident coming in." match that, like their female coun­Although it is hard to find a sub­
ground had to be covered Smith said. "I just didn't take "We always know what it's terparts who were playing at the stitute for an important win such as 
Sunday. The Irish awoke at 5 advantage of [my lead]. I like to come down to Miami." same time, extended into the dou­the Big East Conference 
a.m. in preparation for their backed off. She just started "I was so proud of every­bles portion. Championships, the Irish did at 
delayed contest with the playing more aggressive. It one," Cunha said. "I knew The Irish won at the No. 2 and 3 least conduct themselves with class 

Eagles. Notre Dame easily would have been nice to everyone could step up. positions, and the team looked and character -just like the Irish 
blanked Boston College, 4-0. clinch it for us," Smith said. Everyone stepped up in every ready, despite a day of grueling womens team who was on the 
Hours later, they were back "She played a lot better in the position. Just to sit back there play, to contend with their main Big courts at the same time. When 
on the courts to do battle with third [set]." and watch them all step up East rival, the Miami Hurricanes, other players argued and stirred up 
the Hurricanes under the Then the teams entered and play so well and so fired for the title and the berth in the commotion among the crowd, 
once-again shining sun that into doubles play to compete up and so intense for so long. NCAA. Notre Dame remained focused on 
dried up the courts as the for the deciding point. And not to mention a double­Yet with play barely underway in its game plan and on maintaining 
Irish dried up the Hurricanes. In an intense, hard-fought header. It was amazing." that match, the rains returned once self-respect. 
It was not an easy accom­and crowd-pleasing match, 'Tm sure we caught that again, thus giving the Sunshine Nevertheless. the Irish must be 
plishment. Stastny and Sarah Jane Miami coach by surprise," State a bad name in the minds of wondering today would could have, 
Junior Alicia Salas and Connelly stayed on top. Cunha said. "I don't think the Irish players. what would have, what might have 
Sarah Jane Connelly battled "Those two kids played anyone was expecting much With a plane to catch, the rain happened. 
out three set matches to earn their hearts out." Louderback out of us. I'm sure they were continuing, and the courts not dry­And, once again, one could recall 
points for their team. No. 93 said. "The last game was thinking they had it in the ing, the contest was called on the words of Bayliss regarding 
Salas upset No. 54 Melissa unbelievable," Louderback bag, and they certainly didn't. account of bad weather, and should-haves and could-haves. 
Applebaum, 7-5, 4-6, 7-5. said. "I mean that was big We fought for it and it was Miami, as the. number one seed, "If wishes were horses, beggars 
and Connelly topped Miami's time. That'd be fun to watch. just such a big victory, the '. l was named tournament victor. would be riders." 
Staci Stevens, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5. That should be an ESPN best victory I've had in four . \ To quote one of Irish head coach 
Sarah Jane's freshman sister, Instant Classic right there." years."
' 
! Bobby Bayliss's many witticisms, The views expressed in this col­
Lauren Connelly, also gave Salas, who said she nearly "Some days you're the dog, and umn are those of the author and 
the Irish a point with her 7 -6 broke the arm of one of her some days you're the fire hydrant." not necessarily those of The 
(3), 6-3 win at No. 5 over teammates because of the Sunday, the fire hydrant in the Observer. Contact Joe Lindsley at 
Sihem Bennacer. tension during the final Contact Joe Lindsley at sky went crazy and doused the jlindsle@nd.edu. 
"Those two [Sarah Jane match, thought it was one of jlindsle@nd.edu 
-



Monday, April 28, 2003 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
0~, W'-LL IM qOINg WHoARE. Yw KIDDlWqf YEAH we:u.. ATLEA~T 
AMONq OTHER
'10 ftO WORK.OUT NOW.. WE ALL KNOW You J"US>i. rr '1ETS MY HEA~r: qOlt\WATC!-1 THE.<:t\RLS 
HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
Potential Happy Town 

~?:::: (This one looks good. -Ed) 
Replacement Candidates: 
<''t'.'.. ,r,

.,:,: -. ' f .. -, Oiggit.
_f; ~··; \: t:. 
· -·, ',1 Et/? t~ ­
T t ·· 
-) ,. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Words of praise 1 Actress 35 Uncomplicated Thompson of kind of question 
TV's "Family" 39 Pupil 5 Ace or jack 40 Expatriate 9 How to sing, 42 String after A 
ideally 

43 Ache (for) 14 Israeli airline 
44 "Silly" birds 15 Baseball's Matty 46 Fold-up bed or Moises 
49 Narrative 16 Ethiopia's _ 
51 Popular clogSelassie 

clearer 17 Bugs bugs him 
53 Wild wild West 19 "Mine!" 
54 Like some 20 1991 Madonna vampshit 
56 Horrible 21 Czech-born 
59 Title hero of a 

actor Herbert Melville story 22 Discharge 60 "La Traviata" 23 Plummeted composer 
28 Tierra 61 Repetitive Fuego learning method 
29 Goethe 62 "I've Got in character who Kalamazoo" makes a pact 63 "Humblett place with the devil 64 Years in Spain 
30 Rock's Bon 
65 Marvin of 31 "Vive le _!" Motown 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
26 Fifty-fifty 27 Mile or kilometer: Abbr. 29 Wangle ....................,......,+...... 31 Longtime CBS/
NBC newsman 32 Bobby of the Bruins 34 Tampa Bayfootballer, for 
short 35 Slangy assents 36 Discharge 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of inforrnation on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have -found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DOWN 1 Get really steamed 2 Assert without proof 3 Woman hoping for a knight in shining armor 4 Baldwin and 
Guinness 5 Lunch site 6 Barnard 
graduate 7 Endured, as a 
hurricane 8 It fizzles 9 Cry of terror 
10 Country-singing mother 11 Medic's bag 
12_ Lilly (Fortune 500 company) 13 "Is it soup _?" 
18 Groove 
21 Beatles album 
after "Hey Jude" 
24 Georgia and
Ukraine, once: 
Abbr. 

Puz.zle by David Alnalle Madeod 
37 _-Soviet 47 Sometime relations 
48 Walk like a two­38 A.E.M.'s "The year-oldLove· 50 Clinton or Bush,
41 Excitement in collegiately
the air 51 TV actress

45 Do business Susan
with 

46 Iroquois 52 Arrange in contederate different sacks 
For answers, call )-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. ny1imes.com/diversions {$19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name --------------------------­Address-------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
WlLL SHORTZ 
55 Shouts to a matador 56 Actress Gardner 57 Spider's work 58 To and _ 59 Victoria's Secret purchase 
MS: WITH"[ III I IJ" [IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  PIPER STOIC BUNKER MARTYR What the farmer got when he turned the field into a  
junkyard ­ A "BUMPER" CROP  

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIF.S BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Jay Leno, Ann-Margret, Marcia Sn-assman. Penelope Cruz 
Happy Birthday: You will take on whatever task comes your way and show great depth and stamina. This is your twning point, your time to show your worth and make things happen. You will be a powerhouse -unstoppable and willing to do whatever it takes to reach your set goal. Your numbers are l0. 16. 22. 28, 34, 39 
ARIF.s (March 21-April 19): Prepare to be progressive, positive and patient today and you will be able to accomplish the most. The ball's in your court, so do what's right 
***

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't try to deal with matters that are going to take you down a bureaucratic path. If you can avoid dealing with government agencies and red tape, do so. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your ideas are good and you will present them well, so don't leave it up to someone else to take control of what you worked so hard to finish. 
****

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a your-way-or-the-highway attitude today, which will lead to problems. Back off and give everyone the opportunity to do things their own way. ** 
LEO (July 2.'.\.Aug. 22): Your momentum is in fast mode and you can reach for the stars if you take the initiative. Woll)' about your own accomplishments and rewards will be forthcoming. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Your money must be held tightly today. Donations or lending will only result in a loss. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Let things cool off before you decide to confront a situation that has been bothering you. Consider your own funn-e and don't worry too much about who will and who won't be by your side. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.'.\.Nov. 21): Your ability to get along with others will certainly pay oft at work. Your way of handling others will bring popularity and progress. **** SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): This is the perfect day to start a new self­improvement regime. Your fun-loving attitude will make things that much easier fer you 
to accomplish. ***** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This is not the day to confront a partner or deal with personal matters. Physical work or activities will be your best outlet ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you are on the road fcx business pl.lf(X)SCS, you will prosper. Take advantage of any learning experience that you encounter. **** PISCFS (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to start thinking about your future direction. Take hold of your financial situation and prepare to make changes personally and professionally. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be the quiet giant. Your ability to make things happen will be respected by those who get to know you. You will be solid, stable and you'll strive for 
-
security throughout your life. 

Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.corn, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGITT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to torm tour ordinary words. 
STURB ~ 
I 
I C 
02003 Tribune Media Service&, Inc. All Righla ReaeNed. 
SYLOU 

ENCOAB 
± 


www.jurmle.com 
PHAMIS 
t 

[ J I J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
I'm goir19 to use 20-p0und
test tor the big ones 

HOW Hf: PREPARED HI'? REEL'? FOi< THE BIG, Fl'?HING TRIP. .. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


Monday, April 28, 2003 
ND/SMC TENNIS 

ND women, Belles claim conference crowns 
.· j'
J~ ,· ii> 
f 
·... l 
I 
·r 
(· J' 
. 1
'f ~ 
.. l 
; 
,. 
I I { (II ...,,. 
.J ( 
' 
' 
' 
• ND women topple Miami to win Big East Championship 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 

CORAL GABLES, FI.A. 
In a weekend when the tennis courts were nearly as soggy as the nearby Everglades swampland, the Irish braved the storms of both Mother Nature and the Miami Hurricanes to come away with the Big East Championship in a tense upset victory. The 24th-ranked Irish defeated the 20th-ranked Hurricanes 4-3 at Miami's home courts in a competition that culminated in a thrilling doubles contest between Notre Dame's Sarah Jane Connelly and Kristina Stastny and Miami's Igna deVilliers and Abby Smith. 
The victory marked the fifth time the Irish have claimed the Big East title. 
It was a weekend of unusual weather in Miami, but the tennis scene was noth­ing out of the ordinary for the Big East finals. Once again, Notre Dame and Miami we.re contenders in the title match that rewards the champion with an automatic bid to the NCAA tourna­ment, which begins in two weeks. 
see WOMEN/page 22 
NFL DRAFT 

Irish have 7 
players drafted 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
When Jeff Faine's parents saw the Cleveland Browns had chosen him with the 21st pick in the first round of the NFL Draft, they leapt off their seat in excitement. 
Faine, meanwhile, calmly fielded a phone call from Browns coach Butch Davis and began preparing for a life in Cleveland. 
The former Notre Dame center became the first 
Irish player taken in the first round since 1999 and has a good -chance to challenge for a starting position on a team that started three different play­


ers at center a year ago. 
"It's a great feeling to finally know where I'll be next year," Faine told the South Bend Tribune Saturday. "I am real excited to go there. I know they have a strong football tradition and the fans are fanatics." 
But while Faine knew his fate on Saturday, six other teammates had to wait another day before they heard NFL teams call their name. 
Three Notre Dame players were taken in the fifth round -offensive tackle Jordan Black (Kansas City), offensive guard Sean Mahan (Tampa Bay) and cornerback Shane Walton (St. Louis) ­while three more were taken in the sixth round ­safety Gerome Sapp {Baltimore), wide receiver Arnaz Battle (San Francisco) and offensive tackle Brennan Curtin (Green Bay). 
Late Sunday, full-back Tom Lopienski signed with the Indianapolis Colts as a free-agent. Punter Joey Hildbold may also sign as a free-agent. 
Faine's selection, however, was easily the biggest news for Notre Dame on draft day. It was the first time since 1999 -when the Giants took offensive lineman Luke Pettigout with the 19th 
see D RAITIpage I4 


ROWING 
Notre Dame 2nd at Big East Challenge 
Despite winning three races, the Irish fell two points shy of Big East champion Syracuse Sunday. 
page 15 FOOTBALL 
Olsen's a hit at Blue-Gold 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

The crowd around Chris Olsen after Saturday's Blue-Gold game seemed nearly as big as the one the freshman quarterback had just left buzzing in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Playing for the first time on a public stage since November 2001 and get­ting a lot of help from a defense intent on causing turnovers, Olsen engi­neered four of the five scoring drives -one for the Gold and three for the Blue -as the Blue team edged the Gold 17-14. 
..I was a little nervous when I first got out there in the beginning. being my first time in that kind of a setting," 
. SMC Tennis wins MIAA Conference Championship 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
To some, it might have seemed that the Saint Mary's tennis team had lost their footing on top of the MIAA con­ference standings this season. However, the Belles proved they are still a dominant force, winning the MIAA tournament April 25-26. 
The Belles led the tournament the entire way, coming in first of eight 
said Olsen, who finished 11-of-2 5 passing for 146 yards and earned Offensive MVP honors. "It was the biggest crowd I've ever played in front of, but I felt midway through the first quarter, I got a lot more comfortable." 
The 20,346 who filed into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday afternoon saw Carlyle Holiday take just five snaps -he handed off twice, got sacked twice and threw one 8-yard completion -before the coaches turned the reins over to Olsen and Pat Dillingham. And although the focus being on the two quarterbacks -both who are battling over the No. 2 quar­terback spot -the coaches couldn't name a backup after the game. 
BASEBALL 

SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame 3, 11, 6 

Notre Dame 11 Connecticut 2, 4, 3 
Boston College 0 
The Irish claim a key Big East sweep, maintaining 

Notre Dame 1, 6 
their lead in the conference 

Connecticut 2, 3 
with the three wins. 
page 19 page 17 

teams at Kalamazoo College. Saint Mary's tallied 85 points, followed by Albion (7 4). Kalamazoo (7 2). Hope (70), Calvin (59), Adrian (27 .5), Alma 
(19) and Olivet (14.5). 

In singles play, Saint Mary's play­ers won three of the six champi­onship matches. At No. 2 singles, freshman Kristen Palombo defeated Kara Hoorn of Kalamazoo in a 7 -5. 6-2 contest. Kaitlin Cutler was victo­rious at No. 3 singles, beating Caitlin Kelly of Kalamazoo 6-4, 6-2. 
At No. 4 singles, Saint Mary's junior Kris Spriggle earned a hard­fought win over Karen Dumas of 
see CHAMPS/page 17 
see BLUE-GOLD/page 21 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Notre Dame  13  
Rutgers  6  
Notre Dame  13  

Northwestern . 9 page 14 BOOKSTORE XXXII 
RBC 
wins for 'regular guys' 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 

Friday, they beat No. 1 Adworks. Saturday, it was No. 5 La-Z­Boy. Sunday, they won it all against No. 2 NDToday.com. Not a bad weekend for just "five regular guys." 
No. 8 RBC scored eight of the final 10 points and upset No. 2 NDToday.com to win the 32nd Bookstore Basketball Tournament 21-18 Sunday afternoon. 
In their upset of top-seed AdWorks Friday, John Barnes was injured and unable to play in this weekend's games. RBC went out and got Courtney Watson to be his replacement, and Watson was the defensive key in Sunday's second half. 
"It feels good because we have just been five guys, with John before we picked up Courtney, playing together since freshman year," Dursi said. "We were seeded 13th and no one really gave us a chance, especially when we played AdWorks. We just know how to play with each other." 
NDToday's Jim Kilroy scored six points in the first half. lead­ing NDToday to a 11-8 halftime 
see FINALS/page 20 
MENS LACROSSE 
Notre Dame 16 Harvard 11 

Freshman Pat Walsh scored four goals and tallied four assists to lead the Irish over the Crimson. 
page 16 






