
The lndepettdent Ne1vspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 94 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Sharon's body found in river 
. Autopsy on Sharon's body to be conducted today 
By TERESA FRALJSH Assis1ant News Ediior 
Missing freshman Chad Sharon's body has been tenta­tively identified as the one found partially submerged in the St. Joseph River, police announced at a press confer­ence Wednesday. Sharon's body was discovered floating under­neath the Angela Bridge that runs over the river. 
"There were some gentlemen from a concrete cutting compa­ny !working near the bridge] and they spotted the body in approximately two feet of water," said Commander Tim Corbett of the County Metro Ilomicide Police. The workers notified police about the body and it was pulled from the river by olTicials at about 3:30 p.m. Wednesday. 
Corbett would not comment on the possibility of foul play in the case. lie said after Sharon's body was pulled from the river police transported it to Memorial Ilospital. 
"The autopsy is scheduled for tomorrow," said Corbett. After the autopsy is completed, police will consider whether or not foul play was involved. 
"There's nothing further we can say until that autopsy," said Mike Dvorak, the St. Joseph County prosecutor. 
Father Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs, said Sharon's parents were notified early Wednesday after­noon that a body .closely match­ing their son's description had been found in the river. "We called [them[ back to let [them] know it was positively identi­
see SHARON/page 4 



said. 
In particular, Steve Sharon said he wanted to thank Notre Dame students for their prayers and con­cern since Chad Sharon's disap­pearance. "I want to thank all the students for everything," Steve Sharon said. 
Steve Sharon said he and his wife would use their visit to campus today to bring closure to their two­monthlong ordeal. "Now we can bring Chad home," said Steve Sharon. "We're coming down there [Thursday] morning. I want to say goodbye to Chad," he said in an interview with The Observer Wednesday night. 
Chad's father also discussed his son's feelings about being a student at the University. "That was his dream -to go to Notre Dame," said Steve Sharon. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
. Sharon's parents express thanks to ND community 
By TERESA FRALISH Assis1ant News Editor 
After learning that their only son had been identified as the body found Wednesday in the St. Joseph River, Chad Sharon's parents, Steve and Jane 
Sharon said they wanted to express their thanks and gratitude to the Notre Dame com­munity dur­ing the past 

two months Sharon for the sup­port offered by students, faculty and administrators. 
"They'll never know how much we appreciate it," said Steve Sharon. "Everyone really cared," he 

Above: An impromptu memorial to Chad Sharon was set up on the Angela Bridge, where Sharon's body was discovered. 
Right: Sharon was last seen at the Corby Street party, then may h.ave traveled to the Madison Center to ask for directions, and his body wasfound underneath the Angela Bridge. 
. 
PHOTO BY TIMKACMAR 


By MATT BRA.MANTI 
New• Wri1er 
Tlm tolling bells of Sacred Heart Church took a mournful tone WednC'iday, as Notre Dame students responded to the discovery ofmi'>..~g fn~hmn.n Oiad Sharon's body. South Bend police recovered the body from the St. Joseph River near the Angela Street bridge earlier in the afternoon. 
Some students reacted with sur­prise and hoped for cl05Ure. "When I first heard, I was shocked, but it's nice to know that his fhmily can have some comfort," said sophomore Sarah Bates. 
Tom Gorman, a resident of FJSher Ilall and fiiend of Sharon, cxprffiS(,-d similar sentiments. "Part of me wants to say it's closure, but another part is deeply saddened by it," Gonnan said. 
Peter Nebel. another friend of Sharon, said he was distressed at the news. "I was shocked.... I saw a cameraman walk bv and I immedi­ately knew something was wrong," he said. 
'!bough many students had been hopeful up until today, others feared for the worst since Sharon's disap­pearance Dec. 12. "After about a day, I thought [the river] wa'> where he was," said senior Billy Small. 
Others expressed hope that the discovery might finally unravel the mystery surrounding Sharon's disap­pearance and death. "It's really unsettling to the whole community," said sophomore Maggie O'Connell. 
Sophomore Maria Destina agreed, saying, "It sr,ares me to think it could happen and be unresolved for so long." 
Junior Sarah Finch said, 'We need to find out exactly what happened so that Chad's family can have some 
relief." 

The macabre discovery still foaws questions unanswered among con­cerned students who fear for their safety. Students also questioned how authorities had searched the river in December without finding the body. 
"I'm still waiting to find out exactly what happened to him," said junior Kevin McCall. Fisher residents prayed for Sharon and his family at a mass Wednesday night 
"There is an atmosphere of sur­prise and quiet," said Father Robert Moss, who was Sharon's rector in Fisher Hall. "But the element of fear and not knowing has been taken away." 
The University is flying the Sharon's parent,;; to South Bend to pick up their son's body today. Funeral arrangements have not yet been announced. 
The women's basketball team marked Sharon's death with a moment of silence before Thursday's game against St. John's in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd.edu 

page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
How the 

south was 
lost 

How fitting for Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue to announce his ref­erendum to rein­state the confeder­ate flag Wednesday-on Llncoln's birthday. I also recall Bush unfolding his administration• s plan to begin the 

Klflln Turner 
process of tearing 
down affirmative 
action policies on 
Associate
Martin Luther 
News Editor 
King Jr. 's birth­
day. 
How apropos for them both. 

Politicians definitely have a way oflit­
erally driving the nail into the cotrm. Despite the historical significance that may or may not have influenced the moment he chose to announce his plans, it is troubling to hear that Perdue wants to revisit the old glory of the Stars and Bars two years after the new flag unfurled atop the state capitol. 
This issue is arguably one ofthe main reasons Perdue was voted into office after Democratic incumbent, Gov. Roy Barnes signed a bill to replace the Battle Flag of the Confederacy with a new flag that hoped to neutralize the tensions between staunch advocates of the old version, and those in support of a change. 
The new flag design is a sort ofcom­promise, featuring a prominent Georgia seal with the history of Georgia's past flags located beneath, including a much smaller image of the old confederate version. 
Intended to satisfy those who want to honor the history of the state as well as those who are not comfortable with the confederate emblem, the new flag attempted to arrive at a middle ground. 
Interestingly, Georgia adopted the confederate emblem during the civil rights movement in the 1950s that most definitely attempted to deliver a mes­sage to those who pushed for change. It was certainly a call to remember the past -one that included a reminiscent Old South proud of its role in subjugat­ing an entire race. 
And now, when the long-time contro­versial issue seemed at a rest, Perdue wants to rile everyone up -the majori­ty, rural constituency of course. Perdue plans to ask voters if they would like a return to the old version or keep the new one as a vote up or down question on the 2004 presidential primary ballot. 
Amid talks ofdissolving affirmative action, Trent Lott, and Illinois remain­ing the only state to declare a moratori­um on the death penalty, it seems as though our country is undergoing a regressive trend regarding race rela­tions. But it's a downward turn that began perhaps long before the current Bush administration and one that may continue for some time to come. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In an anide Wednesday about a lecture about a union scrike by Azteca Foods employees, Tbe Observer quoted an audience member saying Reckers uses Azca:a products. However, according to Mike Davy, the operations manager at Reckers, the campus restaurant does nol use Azteca Foods products. The Observer regrets the di.crepancy. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recogni7.e that we will make mist:ikes. If we have made a mistake, please contacr us at 631-4541 so we .an corrcet our error. 
Thursday, February 13, 2003
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS  WORLD&  
NEWS  NATION  
Panel speaks  U.S. dismisses  
against U.S.  calls for  
preemptive  additional  

inspections
strikes 
Experts on the 
White House 
Middle East and 

officials dismiss 
Islam discussed the 

Europe's request 
consequences of a 

for more and better 
preemptive strike 

weapons inspec­
against Iraq. 

tions. 
page 6 
page5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Democrats praise Fed Chief 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan pleased Democrats after he criticizes President Bush's tax cuts. 
page 7 
. Lecture with Mike Dersch, University of Kentucky 
"Democracy and Victory: Why Regime Type Hardly Matters" 
12:30 p.m. at llcsburgh Center, Hoom C-102 
. 
Lecture with Fransisco Wcffort, Kellogg visiting fellow 

"Brazilian Culture an Politics: an exercise on the history of ideas" 4:15 p.m. at Ilcsburgh Center, Boom C-103 

. 
SUB Movies "The Hing" and "Animal I louse" 10 p.m. at DeBartolo, Booms 101 and 155 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Hesidence Hall Association meeting Contact Jillian Kamaski 

6:30 p.m. IIaggi!-r College Center, Hoom 304 

. 
Kaplan Test Preparation Contact Chris Karnilowicz 6 p.m. at Madclcva, Boom 315 


VIEWPOINT 
Confirming racial remarks at Heartland 
Students respond to letters to the edi­tor regarding alleged incident of discrimination at a local nightclub. 
SCENE 

Real women, Mr. Wang and Gilliam 
Scene reviews "Real Women Have Curves," "Shanghai Knights" and "Lost in La Mancha." 
SPORTS 
Irish breeze through Red Storm 

Women's basket­ball team defeated St. John's 76-48 Wednesday at the 
JACC. 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled mostaccioli, boiled shells, spinach fettuccini, spaghetti sauce, pesto sauce, pepperoni pizza. cheese pizza. sausage pizza, breadsticks. texas chili, tomato soup, swiss steak, brown sauce, whipped potatoes, minted peas and carrots, cur­ried rice pilaf, baked potatoes, sugar snap peas, hamburgers, onion rings 
Today's Dinner: Sherry chicken thighs, long grain and wild rice, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, broccoli spears. grilled redfish, corn, sliced carrots, baked sweet potatoes, baked potatoes. cauliflower. hamburg­ers, chicken patty, krinkle cut fires 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil, cheese sauce, fettuccine, bianco pizza, greek pork loin, white beans with ham, cornbread, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed julienne vegetables, turkey pot pie, long grain and wild rice, hot chunky applesauce, chicken nuggets, seasoned fries, onion rings, soft pret­zel, chicken macadaming 
Today's Dinner: Cheese sauce, fet­tuccine, bianco pizza, greek pork loin, white beans with ham, cornbread, veg­etable rice pilaf. sauteed julienne veg­etables, turkey pot pie, long grain and wild rice, hot chunky applesauce, chicken nuggets. seasoned fries 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
:"' 
!« 
"' 
~ 
..J 
c( 
(.) 


.J 0 HIGH 30 HIGH 27 HIGH 29 HIGH 23 LOW 13 LOW 18 LOW 16 LOW 16 
page 10 
page 12-13 

page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student reports files stolen 
A Walsh Hall resident reported that files had been removed from her computer on Tuesday. 
Pilot found in parking lot 
A student found a Palm Pilot in 002 South parking lot on Tuesday and turned it into NDSP for safekeeping. 
NDSP transports student 
On Tuesday NDSP transported a student from the Joyce Center to the University Health Center for treat­ment of a sports injury. 
Employee's car towed 
On Tuesday a University employ­ee's vehicle was towed from DeBartolo Hall for a parking viola­tion. 
Compiled from the NDSP crime 
blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegan burritos, mex­ican rice, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, broccoli spears, sandwich provencal sandwiches with soups, fried rice bar to include: veggie, chicken, shrimp and potstickers, chicken ten­ders, zesty oven fries, peas and mush­rooms, rolled broccoli pizza. cheese pizza, bread sticks, sliced ham 
Today's Dinner: Sweet potato patty, sandwich, baked pasta torte, grilled vegetable lasagna, marinated bean salad, beef tuscany with pasta, nacho bar, broiled salmon steaks, rice pilaf. roasted yukon potatoes, green beans, sausage pizza, cheese pizza 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 25 HIGH 35 LOW 22 LOW 20 

Atlanta 57 / 42 Boston 19 / 2 Chicago 33 / 20 Denver 51 / 35 Houston 71 / 58 Los Angeles 65 / 52 Minneapolis 22 / 4 New York 26 / 15 Philadelphia 30 / 17 Phoenix 70 / 55 Seattle 53 / 43 St. Louis 51 / 39 Tampa 70 / 49 Washington 39 / 24 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
_Remaining 2 tickets square off in debate 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
In the less than half-full llesburgh Library Auditorium, Urn two leftover tickets from Monday's student body presiden­tial election defended their plai­fo rm s and interrogated their opponent.'> before a student audi­ence in Wodmisday's debate. 
Student body presidential can­di datos sophomore Charlie Ebersol and junior Pat HaUaban, along with their respective vice presidential candidates, junior L'lurnn Meagher and sophomore .Jeremy Lao, posed four questions to each other, focusing largely on dorm dances, student life and platform feasibility. 
Vice president of elections for tho judicial council Matt Corgan set a new tone for the debate after opening it with a moment of silence for the formerly missing freshman Chad Sharon whose body was found Wednesday in the St. Joseph River of South Bend. 
Corgan also announced that Wednesday would be different from last week's debate with the seven original tickets, which showcased many anti-student government tickets and resulted in one candidate's departure after an opponent verbally attacked him. 
"We'll have more of a debate, hopefully, and less of a mockery like last time," h;,; said. 
Dorm dances became a con­tentious topic when Hallahan and Lao questioned Ebersol and Meagher's Total Dance Resource (fDR) plan. TDR would pump an additional $2,000 into dorm funds to revamp the residence hall dance until they are moved back into the dorms. 
Criticizing the plan, Hallahan said dance commissioners already existed for that purpose and that by consolidating other "bad" resources into one fund, Ebersol and Meagher were exac­erbating the problem instead of addressing the return of in-hall dances, or SYRS. 
This prompted Ebersol to take a definitive stance. 
"There's no question that [dances] need to be back in the dorm," he said, adding that the TDR plan would establish a col­laborative body to work on dance improvements in the mean time. 
Later, Ebersol and Meagher pushed Hallahan and Lao to elab­orate on how they would return dances t.o the dorms if they were unable to do it as members of student government l.hls year. 
Hallahan replied that he and Lao, unlike current Student Body President Libby Bishop, would directly request that the Board of Trustees considers a change. 
Making an attempt to diITeren­tiate himself from Bishop, former chief of staff for the Office of the Student Body president reminded the audience that he resigned because of his discontent with how things were being handled. 
"Jeremy and I are running for one reason: We want to put stu­dents first," Hallahan said, adding, "I want to make one thing clear: I am not Libby Bishop and I will fight for students." 
Putting students first was the mantra of the Hallahan-Lao tick­et, which in addition to cam­paigning for the return of SYRs, also said they had a more well­rounded platform. 
"We don't want to turn student government into a programming body," Lao said, referring to Ebersol and Meagher's platform. 
Though the platform covers various areas of student life, Ebersol primarily focused on the TDR plan and bringing popular entertainment, such as two top­40 concerts and Saturday Night Live comedians to campus. Ebersol referred to his and Meagher's plan to improve stu­dent advising and accused Hallahan and Lao of replicating their ideas. 
"It does appear in our media guide," Ebersol said. 
Ebersol and Meagher said their plans to change the student gov­ernment structure to work more with the Student Union Board in planning events, as well as the five-year plan for Student Senate, will make student government a body that makes campus life fun and keeps Notre Dame in contact with ouL5ide entertainers. 
"You can open the door for five years or 10 years," Ebersol said. 
Hallahan asked why Ebersol did not work with the Student Union Board as a freshman and sophomore in order to implement his plans to provide more campus entertainment. 
Ebersol told the audience that he preferred to go through differ­ent avenues to get involved, pointing out his idea to distribute green papers at the football 

SOFIA BALLON/The Observera Jeremy Lao and Pat Hallahan, left, listen to Charlle Ebersol and Lauren Meagher at the presldentlal run-off debate In the Hesburgh auditorium Wednesday evening. 
games to add to the Sea of Green. seemed unfair that students could 
"[In SUBJ, you have to start at not question the candidates who the bottom and work your way promised to "pui students first." up," Ebersol said. Ledesma responded that the 
cussion courses. format of the debate had already 
Yet, Ebersol and Meagher cha!-been established. lenged Hallahan, saying he would "At the last debate, there was still be considered part of the an opportunity," she said, adding Bishop office to University admin-that many of the audience mem­istrators and that he and bers were on the tickets' cam­Meagher would provide a new paign staffs and would ask alternative for students. "loaded questions." 
"It's not about still-arming the The final election for the 2003­ad ministration," Ebersol said. 04 student body president and "Our platform is not reinventing vice president is online today the wheel." from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. at 
At the close of the debate, https://apps.nd.edu/elections. Martha Patzer, a sophomore in Students will receive an e-mail the audience, asked judicial coun-from the judicial council with the cil president Danielle Ledesma link. why audience members were not allowed to ask questions. 
"I think that's really undemoc-Contact Helena Payne at ratic," Patzer said, adding that it payne.30@nd.edu 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 13, 2003 
Sharon 
continued from page 1 

fied," said Poorman. The University will fly Sharon's par­ents to campus today so they can meet with administrators and students and prepare for their son's funeral arrange­ments. 
Notre Dame students were notified around 6:15 p.m. Wednesday of the dis­Notre Dame Security Police, in conjunction with state and local authorities, began an extensive investigation involving helicopter and dog searches, searches of the river and local area. 
NDSP contacted the FBI to investigate possible connections between Sharon's disappear­ance and the disappearance of male students at other Midwest colleges, although no apparent connections were identified. 
As a result of this search, 

covery of "There were some 
Sharon's 

gentlemen from a
body in a 

prerecord­concrete cutting company 
ed phone [working near the bridge] message 
and they spotted the body 
sent to the 

entire cam­in approximately two feet 
pus by ofwater." Father Edward 
Commander Tim Corbett
Malloy, Universitv county metro homicide police 
president. · 

At the press con­ference, Malloy expressed con­cern on behalf of the University for Sharon's parents, Steve and Jane Sharon. "I think the entire Notre Dame community is really saddened by the news today," said Malloy. "We want to express our sympathy to Chad's parents." 
Sharon was last seen by friends around 2 a.m. Dec. 12 at a party on Corby Street. He was reported missing by hall staff on Dec. 13 when he did not return to his Fisher Hall residence. 
police discov­ered a Madison Center employ­ee who report­ed speaking with Sharon at the Madison Street hospital. The employee said Sharon asked for direc­tions to a con­venience store and was direct­ed to the near­est 7-11. 
ln an attempt to draw further 
attention to Sharon's case, the University announced a $25,000 reward for information leading to Sharon's safe return. That reward was eventually doubled on Jan. 29 to $50,000 through the support of 10 local business­es. 
Sharon's parents first visited Notre Dame on Feb. 16-17 to meet with investigators and stu­dents. 
ContactTeresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


::e 
0­
SAM 00 to 

WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. dismisses calls for additional inspections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senior Bush administration officials spoke dismissively Wednesday of European calls for more and better weapons inspections to disarm Iraq at the same time the PenLagoo took new steps toward war. 
"More inspectors aren't the issue.... The issue is lack of Iraqi compliance," Secretary of Stale Colin Powell told Congress. I le said he intends to press French and German diplo­mats on whether their proposals ,unounted lo "delaying for the sake of delaying in order to get Saddam llussoin off the hook and no disarmament." 
President Hush consulted with Spanish Prime Minister and dose ally Jose Maria Azoar on the looming showdown with Saddam and provided a person­al bricling for senior lawmak­ers. Later he declared, "Because of the resolve of the United States, the world will be more peaceful and the world will be more free." 
Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, confirmed that dis­cussions had begun at the u~~dN~OMO~riliewMd~g of a new resolution to enforce the one approved last fall order­ing Saddam's disarmament. 
"I don't think it's going to be a complicated matter," Fleischer said. "rt still remains somewhat early in U.N. time, but it won't be early in U .N. time for very long." 
At the Pentagon, officials said the military dumped another half million leaflets over south­ern Iraq during the day as part of a psychological warfare cam­paign. One leaflet showed allied warplanes bombing military tanks outside a mosque, warn­ing civilians to "avoid areas occupied by military personnel." 
Additionally, officials said the Pentagon had activated 38,600 National Guardsmen and reservists in the past week, by far the largest such call-up since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror­ist attacks. 
With all the signs of war, about :m poets took turns read­ing anti-war verse in front of the White House during the day, part of what organizers said was a nationwide campaign to discourage hostilities. 
In Iraq, United Nations chemi­cal weapons experts set out to destroy their first batch of banned Iraqi armaments -10 leftover artillery shells filled with burning, disabling mustard gas. Officials said it would take four or five days to eliminate the 155 mm mustard gas-filled shells. 
The U.N. specialists worked alongside a team of Iraqis -the sort of show of cooperation by Baghdad that administration officials have repeatedly dis­missed as a charade. 

Russian President Vladimir Putin is welcomed by French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. France, Russia and Germany called for strengthened U.N. weapons inspections in Iraq as part of a diplomatic initiative aimed at disarming Saddam Hussein without war. 
There were fresh signs of case of war in Iraq, prolonging diplomatic stress as the United the alliance's worst internal cri­States sought to prod other gov­sis since the end of the Cold ernments to swing behind mili­War. Officials for the three tary action. countries say they don't want to 
France, Germany and Belgium approve any actions that could rejected a scaled-down U.S. pro­undercut efforts to settle the posal for NATO preparations in dispute peacefully. 
A key portion of the dispute centers on a request from Turkey for assistance in the event of war against Iraq -pro­tection that the United States has said Turkey will receive whether or not the alliance approves. 

Engineer -warned of -'catastrophic' risk to Columbia 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Just two days before Columbia's myste­rious breakup during its fiery descent, a safety engineer warned by e-mail about risks of "catastrophic" failures from extreme heat causing the shuttle's tires to burst inside the spacecraft, NASA dis­closed Wednesday. 
Separately, searchers near Hemphill, Texas, about 140 miles northeast of JIouston, recovered what they believed to be one of Columbia's tires. It sustained a massive split across its tread, but it was impossible from photographs to know whether the tire was damaged aboard Columbia or when it struck the ground. NASA officials in Washington said they could not confirm the tire was the shut­tle's. 
Engineer Robert H. Daugherty. responding to a query from Johnson Space Center, cautioned NASA colleagues in remarkably strident language that damage to delicate insulating tiles near Columbia's landing gear door could cause one or more tires inside to burst, perhaps ending with catastrophic failures that would place the seven astronauts "in a world of hurt." 
Such an explosion inside Columbia's belly, Daugherty predicted, could blow out the gear door and expose the shut­tle's unprotected innards to searing tern­peratures as it raced through earth's atmosphere. 
Even if astronauts survived the heat, the blast could damage critical systems inside the wheel compartment, prevent the landing gear on one side from lower­ing, necessitate a risky belly landing or force the crew to bail out, Daugherty wrote. 
Bailing out would be "not a good day," he wrote. But attempting to fly the shuttle with only one side's landing gear lowered would be worse: "You're finished." 
Flight Director Leroy Cain said Wednesday that investigators were confi­dent the gear door did not fall off in flight because such a failure would have been indicated on sensor readings. 
Other NASA officials have cited myste­rious sensor readings in the wheel well moments before Columbia's breakup but have said they were confident the tire didn't burst inside the shuttle. 
Daugherty acknowledged in his e-mail that these were "absolute worst-case sce­narios" but defended citing them: "You should seriously consider the possibility of the gear not deploying at all if there is a substantial breach of the wheel well." 
He referred questions about his con­cerns to a NASA spokesman. Agency offi­cials indicated they did not want reporters to speak with Daugherty because accident investigators had not yet questioned him. NASA disclosed the contents of his e-mail Wednesday. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Guatemala prison riot leaves 6 dead: 
A bloody prison riot Wednesday near Guatemala City left at least six inmates dead, and a lawyer said a man convicted in tht~ high-profile murder case of Homan Catholic Bishop Juan Gerardi was among the dead. Four of the victims were decapitated. police spokesman Faustino Sanchez said. Police struggled before firing tear gas into the prison yard lo retake the facility after four hours of rioting. Sanchez said the riots left at least six inmates dead and about 15 prisoners wounded. 
Iran cracks down on Valentine's Day: 
Cupid, drop the bow. That's the word from Iranian police, who have ordered shops to remove heart-and­l1owcr decorations and have confiscated other sym­bols of what religious authorities consider a decadent, Western event. The vice poHce on Wednesday sealed several shops in wealthy north Tehran and ordered others to remove images of couples embracing. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
FBI links McVeigh to supremacists: 
FBI investigators in the Oklahoma City bombing gathered evidence linking Timothy McVeigh to white supremacists who the government had been told before the bombing were threatening to attack government buildings, investigative memos show. Several of the documents were not provided to the bomber's defense before he was convicted. And the FBI agent in charge of t.he investigation says he never received one teletype from his own headquarters that raised the possibility McVeigh was aided by other accomplices. 
Storm drenches Southern California: 
Rain pounded Southern California, unleashing mud­slides and snarling traffic as streets flooded under an onslaught that put a violent end to weeks of'drought-like conditions. All four southbound lanes of the Interstate 5 in Tejon Pass north of Los Angeles were covered by a mile-long mudslide up to 4 feet deep. 
Agency: N. Korea missile can reach U.S.: 
North Korea has an untested ballistic missile capa­ble of reaching the western United States, top U.S. intelligence officials told Congress Wednesday, In Vienna, the U .N. nuclear agency declared North Korea in violation for its nuclear program and reported the country to the Security Council. The 
U.N. move could lead to punishing sanctions, which North Korea has said it would consider an act of war. 
Nation braces for potential attack: 
Anti-aircraft missiles guarded Washington's skies and Capitol police carried gas masks Wednesday as the nation mobilized to confront a potential terrorist attack. Federal, state and local governments tightened security, anxious Americans stockpiled food and police responded to scores of false alarms, including reports of suspicious vehicles that shut down com­muter bridges in Washington and New York. 

Thursday, February 13, 2003 
page 6-The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Middle East, Islam experts question preetnptive strike 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO News Writer 

Four panelists evaluated the consequences of an Iraq war in the Wednesday forum, "A Strike Against Iraq: Impact on Islam and the Middle East." 
Panelist Vincent Cornell of the University ofArkansas, said a war couldn't yet be justified because the United States lacks proof of an immediate threat. 
"We must first of all consider the moral dilemma of a possible 
U.S. invasion of Iraq, and second­ly, the possible reaction to such an invasion by the Muslim world," he said. 
According to Cornell it is impor­tant that we do not whitewash the issue and that we see Saddam Hussein for who he is, an evil per­son who invaded Iran in the 1980s and Kuwait in 1990 and has massacred hundreds of thou­sands of civilians. 
AUTHENTIC SUBS SINCE 1956 
ft FJR66 1EFs&,-~JBis s01B1 
~ES!! ... Purchase Any Reg or Clant Size Sull & a 22 oz. H>1J11taln Drink at Rwiar Price And cet Another 5'Jb of Equal or 1.es,er Value _FREE., __!! 
Coopo• Not V,lid With a.her Off,,.,_ Ccupcn,.W,rh Yau, !5%Smd,n,/f,cuhy Oi,,oun, 0,. Foe o.Ii-my Onka. ..V;J.d only .:1.t Michlm..1 Lo...--uions and onlr widi tl-iLS rnupon whi.;h. crplr~ oo Mardi 7, 2()()J•0 IN MISHAW~-AT 5718 N. MA!NST. -ACROSS FRO.MSAM'SCi.lJ!>.-2-47.005& 11'!.!SQ.l/IH BE.'-ID-AT TiiE COLLEGE FOOTBALL HA.LI. OF FAME --Z4l>-O 136 AND ATTHJ: li',TLR.SECTION OFSR 933 AND ALrrENROAD....277-8920 C9+1P9P....:Dtfil09-mupQn::PW1'90.-.£QYp01L,c:oqpon,..<.'OYP9P=..ruypc?n••.cDl-!pOO •.£P:YP9Q-,-SPYf!9n-.c.9Yi!PO, .CO!:!R2!J,­
2002-03 Se2son NotrB Dame Film, Television, an~ Theatre presents 

Actors Frorn_ Tl1e li)ndon Stag·e
@ The Tempest 
by William Shakespeare 
Alan Dowty, political science professor at Notre Dame, said Iraq has indicated it is in posses­sion of weapons of mass destruc­tion and is the only nation of mod­ern times that has used these weapons extensively for four years in i1s war against Iran and in its massacre of 200,000 Kurds in its own country. 
Rather than turning tl1e issue of going to war into a pro-or anti­Bush argument, he urged the con­sideration of three propositions: Iraq's weapons of mass destruc­tion, the United Nations' autho­rization of action and whether it will enforce a United Si.ates' deci­sion. 
"A significant risk of real tragedy should in fact weapons of mass destruction be used is that the Arab-Israeli conflict will still be with us in more or less the same form," Dovvty said, referring to the Palestine-Israel conflict. 
Rashied Omar of the Kroc Institute, said the Muslim world is 
:, 0\. "-:, St"OI. N 

characterized by the conflict fessor at Notre Dame, said that between the partially religious both President Bush and extreme and partially secular states of Islam as represented by Al Qaeda Saudi Arabia and the Islamists and Osama Bin Laden have 
intending to found a theocracy expressed support for the war based on the Islam state. against Iraq. 
James Sterba, philosophy pro-The panel was the fourth in the 
Living the Spirit Between Two Worlds 

6:30pm Fri. February 21 to 8: 00pm Sat. February 22 
Building Community. Making Friends. Finding our place within the Notre Dame Family and the Church; a retreat for gay, lesbian, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends and supporters. 
Applications available at the Retreat Office 114 CoMo -across main hall from the popcorn room. Cost: $20 

Signup Deadline Wed. February 19 
THE ST.¦.ND1NG COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

Got any plans for the night after Valentines? 
If not, come on over to the 24 hour space at the La Fortune Basement for some live music! Free of charge! 
r 


He is a live guitar player and singer who plays a wide variety of music at request. 
Date: Saturday, February 
15 

Time: starts at 10pm 
Place: LaFortune 24 Hour Lounge in the Basement 
Juniors, feel free to bring your parents along! 

series "Peace and War in 2003: Debating the Issues" sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 19... 7:30 p.m Thursday, February 20... 7:30 p.m .. Check FlipsideEvents on your IM 
Questions? Call Geremy at 4-1582
for details on the weekend's events 
Friday, February 21 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 22.. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 

)
Seniors $14 • All Students $12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. UND SMC HCC MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 

Thursday, February 13, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 12 
Dow Jones 

7,758.17 ., -84.94 
NASDAQ 

1,278.97 -16.49
•
S&P500 
~ 

8I88.68 -10.52
•
AMEX 

805.85 -7.10 
NYSE
• 

4,649.71 -58.98
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2. 00 -0. 27 13. 2E 
1

~liBiilli~:;:1:~l::;1~1111!:~li:lt...... i;w''"1r:.:::::l~llliiililll~llt 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.37 -0.33 23.82 
~Qfi!!iii~x~x~l;!;l!;:~IRi)i:ii:~liilill1iii]!jiILat:t 
APPLIED MATERIA (AMAT)-1.01-0.1211.82 
IN BRIEF 
"Eye-popping" Enron info uncovered 
A congressional panel has uncovered "eye­popping" pay deals for Enron executives and an elaborate scheme to manipulate the failed company's taxes and accounting, the Senate Finance Committee chairman said Wednesday. The House-Senate Joint Committee on Taxation has been combing through Enron's tax records for about a year, trying to determine whether the energy-trad­ing company skirted tax laws. The panel is presenting its findings in a report Thursday at a Finance Committee hearing. 
Coke credits growth for high profits 
Coca-Cola Co. said strong growth in its trademark soda brands and in its waters and non-carbonated drinks helped it post higher profits and revenues for the fourth quarter despite difficult economic conditions. The earnings reported Wednesday met Wall Street expectations. For the three months ended Dec. 31, the world's largest beverage maker earned $930 million, or 38 cents a share, compared to $914 million, or 37 cents a share, a year ago. Excluding a 2 cent a share reduction for an accounting change related to stock options, Coke earned $996 million, or 40 cents a share, for the quarter. The consen­sus forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call was for earnings of 40 cents a share. Revenue increased 13 percent to $4.8 billion from $4.24 billion in the same period a year ago. 
Viacom reports better 4Q earnings 
r•ourth-quarler profits at Viacom Inc. exceeded Wall Street's expectations Wednesday, thanks to strong growth in its cable network and TV businesses. But the market reacted cautiously, reflecting con­cerns that the company that owns CBS, Showtime and numerous other media assets has yet to work out on a contract with its No. 2 executive. 
Democrats praise Fed Chief 
. Greenspan criticizes Bush's tax cuts 
Associated PrC.'ls 

WASHINGTON 
Democrats praised Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Wednesday for criticizing President Bush's new round of $1.3 trillion in tax cuts as too expensive in light of soaring budget deficits. The White House, meanwhile, was pushing ahead with efforts to build support in Congress. 
"If the economy needs a little umph...why wait?" Bush said, touting his plan with a group of small investors in Alexandria, Va. 
Greenspan. delivering the Fed's twice-a-year economic outlook to the House Financial Services Committee, was acclaimed by Democrats on the com­mittee for his tough com­ments before a Senate panel on Tuesday. He told com­mittee members that any future tax cuts should be paid for either by raising other taxes or trimming spending so that the nation's deficit situation would not be made worse. 
Rep. Barney Frank, D­Mass., praised Greenspan, a Republican, for staying con­He said allowing those the administration released taxes on stock dividend pay­sistent in his opposition to budget rules to expire a letter signed by 100 econ­ments to investors ­budget deficits in the face of would be a "very bad mis-omists who support the Greenspan said the govern­strong pressure from mem­take. Before any actions are Bush plan, seeking to ment could not afford the bers of his own party to sup­taking with respect to counter opponents who on $1.3 trillion price tag for all port Bush's plan. appropriations for next Monday touted their own the tax cuts given the pro­
"The chairman has long year, I certainly trust that letter from economists -jections for large budget believed, as have most econ­these rules will be re-estab-including 10 Nobel prize deficits during the same omists, that while deficits lished." winners -opposed to the period. are not instant death, they Greenspan said all the proposal. Sung Won Sohn, chief are over the long term a demands for tax relief and The Fed chairman two economist at Wells Fargo in negative for the economy," new government programs years ago gave critical sup­Minneapolis, said Frank said. "I very much were "very clearly straining port to Bush's first round of Greenspan 's reservations appreciate the chairman's the capacity of the system" $1.35 trillion in tax cuts. But about the impact of further consistency in reaffirming just when the government in an appearance Tuesday tax cuts on the deficit will that in the face of very needed to be preparing for before the Senate Banking force the administration to strong political praying that the cost of the baby boomer Committee, he said another scale back its proposal. he would go the other way." generation's retirement. round of tax cuts to stimu-"I don't think the Bush 
As in his Senate testimo­Bush met late Tuesday late the economy was plan is dead," Sohn said, ny, Greenspan urged law­with a group of 10 unnecessary, predicting that "but without the blessing of makers in the House to Republican senators in an the economy would rebound Chairman Greenspan and quickly move to reinstate effort to build support for with stronger growth once lingering doubts among tough budget rules that his tax cut package in the the uncertainties of a war some Republicans, the pro­require any future tax cuts Senate, where the plan is with Iraq were resolved. gram will have to go or spending increases to be expected to face the heavi-While saying he has long through substantial modifi­paid for by tax hikes or est opposition. favored the centerpiece of cation in Congress before it spending cuts elsewhere. As part of the sales effort, the plan -eliminating becomes law." 

Unions push for corporate reforms 
more 'vote no' campaigns on directors Bermuda. 
Associated Press 

at annual meetings than ever before," Unions are seeking support on sever• WASHINGTON AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said al proposals, including reincorporating Labor unions, with $400 billion in Wednesday. in the United States, separation of the pension fund assets, arc stepping up Overall, shareholder groups filed 862 positions of president and chief execu­their demands for investor-friendly proposals with companies through tive officer, shareholder approval of 
changes at public companies, starting early February, compared with 802 severance packages for departing exec­with annual shareholder meeings in during all of 2002, according to a utives and performance-based stock March. report by the Investor Responsibility options. The AFL-CIO also has asked 
Unions have filed a record 380 share­Research Center and the Interfaith Tyco to move the annual meeting to the holders resolutions focusing on board of Center on Corporate Hesponsibility. United States. directors reforms, executive compensa­La5t year's corporate scandals involving Tyco has recommended that its 
tion, reincorporation, auditor indepen­such companies as Enron and shareholders oppose the proposals, dence and workers' rights. That is dou­WorldCom have fueled investors' which also are being offered by the ble the total in 2002. activism. American Federation of State, County 
"Union funds will be more active than Unions say their campaign will get and Municipal Employees, International ever, bringing more shareholder pro­under way be March 6 at the annual Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and posals, running more proxy fights and meeting for Tyco International Inc. in United Brotherhood of Carpenters.. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 13, 2003 
SMC elects RHA, SDB officials 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's elected the 2003-04 Residence Hall Association fRHA] and Student Diversity Board [SDB] presi­dent and vice president. 
The candidates for RHA president and vice president were sophomore Shay Jolly and running mate junior Jackie Zins. 
Two hundred sixty-two stu­dents participated in the RHA online election Tuesday. The Jolly/Zins ticket received 86 percent of the vote, with 7 per­cent abstaining and 7 percent voting no. 
Jolly and Zins' platform "Learn where you live. play where you live and Jove where you live" focused on increasing relationships with Notre Dame residence halls. strengthening relationships among Saint Mary's residence halls and improving Llttle Sibs Weekend. 
Jolly and Zins first priority is to build a strong association of committed commissioners from the hall councils to make it a "more cohesive group" Zins said. 
"Hall council is the main portion of RHA," Jolly said. "The best way to recruit peo­ple is to get people involved, so that they enjoy being a part of the hall council." 
Jolly and Zins also plan to build on traditional events, such as the all school formal and Little Sibs Weekend. They plan to improve upon Little Sibs weekend by handing out a survey to students to see where improvements need to be made, especially in regards to older siblings that visit dur­ing that weekend. 
"I wish the older kids would have as mush as much fun as the younger kids," Shay said. 
Weekend chair on RHA and Zins is the publicity cffffk­fkhair on RHA. 
The sole ticket seeking the position of SOB president and vice president were junior Annmarie Marquez and sopho­more Veronica Saavedra. 
Two-hundred, twenty-nine students participated in the SDB election, Maquev'Saavedra receiving 83 percent of the vote; 10 percent voted to abstain and 7 percent no. 
Running on the platform theme "We are all unique, See the difference" Marquez and Saavedra want to occasionally hold open SOB meetings where all students will be invited to participate in discussions, implement monthly education­al forums, and want to work with admissions on increasing minority student enrollment at Saint Mary's. 
"There arc a lot of topics that we have come across this year [at SDBJ that we haven't been able to address," Marquez said. 
Saaverda echoed this senti­ment by saying that the monthly educational forums 
will deal with issues not gener­ally spoken about, such as racism and prejudice. 
Although Maquez and Saaverda's first priority is to work with admission coun­selors and Volunteers in Support of Admission [VISA] to reach out to high schools, that admission counselors normally do not visit. and encourage minority students to attend Saint Mary's. 
"We want to increase admis­sions for minority students," Marquez said. "My idea for the [SDB] admissions commission­er is because it is very hard for a minority to come to a promi­nently Anglo-American com­munity and we need to show them that it is a supportive environment." 
Marquez and Saaverda also plan to continue the work of this past year's SDB by work­ing on the harassment clause and disabilities awareness. 
"The harassment clause is a big thing and we do not want to drop the ball," Marquez said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Jolly is the current Little Sibs ~------------------------­
Ride FREE to and from 
MAIN CIRCLE, ROBINSON CENTER, 

;.:_:-:-:···::::;::;.;}:.:;:;:::•: 
and LEGAL AID 
Students ride free on Transpo Route #7 between Main or Library Circle and the Robinson Center and Legal Aid with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID. 
OPERATING HOURS: Monday-Fr:iday: 5:30 a.m. -10 p.m. Saturday: 6 a.m. --6 p.m. 
I I I 
,·fa 


TRANSPO BUS SCHEDliLE From Downtown toward Ma!l From \'fall toward Downtown 
l\linutes past the hour (Ap1m1xin1:1te timr~t Legal Aid 25 & 55 08 & 38 Robinson 
'27 & 'i7 06 & 36
Center \lain Circle 0-l &3-l Library Circle O I & 3 I 0'.!& 3'.! 
Schedules are available at the LaFonune Information Desk_ Center for Social Concerns or Student Go\,ernment Ot1ices. 
NOTL Notre~e.L.S..L \.1arv's alh:rnoon shuttle bus#'.! will be discontinued as of \'f,11s;I} Jfil_ Students should begin using the Trans po bus instead. Shuttle bus# I serving Notre Dame. St t\.lary's and Holv Cross will continue as scheduled. 
Ashcroft discusses -war on terrorism 
Associated Press 

Seven terrorist suspects 
have been caught through 
new border security mea­
sures and 104 people have 
been convicted of terror­
related charges, Attorney 
General John Ashcroft said 
Wednesday in an interview 
with The Associated Press. 
Successful prosecutions 
have led to cooperation 
from defendants, providing 
information that has "dis­
rupted groups of individu­
als who were working 
together to assist in terror­
ism or perhaps commit 
acts of terrorism." 
Ashcroft said. 

"Prevention is our num­
ber one priority. It is more 
important than prosecu­
tion," he said. "But very 
frequently these priorities 
do not compete, they com­
plement. In many 
instances prosecution has 
been a real aid to our pre­
vention effort by helping 
NDcincrna 
Department of 

generate valuable intelli­gence." 
As Ashcroft spoke in his office at Justice Department headquarters. the United States remained on high alert for potential terrorism amid dire warn­ings from FBI Director Robert Mueller and CIA Director George J. Tenet about a possibly imminent large-scale attack. 
Ashcroft did not say what information prompted the alert status to be increased last week, seeking instead to provide assurances that law enforcement is better prepared to head off an attack than it was before the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. Vastly improved border security. better legal options and an FBI com­mitted to preventing fur­ther attacks "should be a source of comfort to Americans." 
"We have made monu­mental progress," he said. 
Film, Television, and Theatre  
presents  
Thursday,  
February 13  
7:00 p.m.  
Carey Auditorium,  
Hesburgh Library  
Free Admission  

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance 
Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



r---------------..=---------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Seniors least likely to vote 
Obscrnr Staff Report 
The older the Not.re Dame untler­gn.i.duatc, the less likely he is to vote in a student body election. And if he docs, the more likely he is to cast an absl.cnt.ion ballot. 
That's according to resull'l from Monday's general election that set up a runotrtoday between the tick­ets of Pat IIallahan-Jeremy Lao and U1arlie Ebersol-Lauren Meagher. 
About half the undf!rgraduate studcnL population -4,055 -voted in the school's first election con­ducted entirely online. Ilallahan's t.ickeL received about 28 percent of Lhe vote, while Ebersol's captured some 21 percent. 
The freshman class turned out most. with 1,310 first-year students -32 percent ofthe voters Monday­participating. 
rrom Lhere, LUrnout decreased as class year increased. Election organizers counted 1,211 votes !rom sophomores, 950 from juniors and 579 from seniors. Only five fillh-year students voted. 
Upperclassmen. though. were more prone to vote to abstain than their younger counterpart,;. Twenty percent of fifth-year students -one voter -abstained, but with only five voters for the entire class. four of the seven tickets running for office also received one vote each. 
The trend is more evident, per­centage-wise, in the four other classes. For seniors. 5.4 percent, or 31, voted to abstain. Thirty-nine juniors clicked abstain in the online poll, but because the class turned out in greater numbers Lhan the seniors did. the figure represents just 4.1 percent of voting juniors. Just 26 sophomores. or 2.1 percent of the class, voted to abstain. And Lhe 20 freshmen who did the same made up 1.5 percent of their class' voters. 
Typically. residence halls where candidates are from have the high­est turnout. Presidential hopefuls Ebersol and flallahan brought out 181 and 103 voters from Keough and Sorin halls, respectively. Ebersol's running mate Meagher lives off campus, but her impact on off-campus constituents i'l unclear because election organizers lumped the 472 abroad and oft­campus student voters under one category. 
Among those abroad and off­campus voters, however, Ebersol and Meagher captured 18.2 per­cent of ballots. llallahan and Lao received 16.7 percent of the vote. The Joe Muto-Mimi Matkowski Licket, which narrowly missed making the run-off election. claimed nearly a third of abroad and off-campus votes. 
In typical fashion, the remaining candidates were most popular in their own residence halls. 
Ebersol received 46 percent of Keough's vote, while Hallahan and Lao got just 14 percent. In Sorin, only 23 people didn't vote for Hallahan and Lao, and of those, just five voted for Ebersol and Meagher. Likewise, in Stanford, Hallahan-Lao took 93 votes to Ebersol-Meagher's 15. 
[L's unclear how the match up between the last tickets standing \Viii play out in today's nmolf. 
Ebersol has said be would work to gain the support of Muto­Matkowski and Mike Bott-Mike Kirsh, who polled fourth in Monday's election, because their platforms are similar to his and Meagher's. 
Matkowski, though, has publicly endorsed Hallahan-Lao. And Bott and Kirsh have said they won't send their voters the way of either remaining campaign. 
The other former hopefuls ­Ryan Gagnet-John McCarthy. Drew Updike-Eric Tarnowski and David Hail-Matt Padberg -who polled behmd the rest of their opponents Monday, aren't likely to make endorsements. 
Keeping with their sneering cam­paign that poked fun at student government, Gagnet-McCarthy said they would endorse themselves for otTice next year. In perhaps the most blatant sign that voters. too, are jaded with student leaders and their campaign promises, nearly 1 O percent -that's 392 students ­voted for Gagnet and McCarthy. 
But they weren't jaded enough to vote for Rail-Padberg, who ran a so-called joke campaign on the sole issue ofboosting Flex Points for stu­dents. 
@hnrxra ~f,ring ~t1a'ffe 
First Prize Winn,ers, 2002 Fischoff Natio~al Chamber Music Competit 
~. =L.:. . ·_ . ·.-t;=:· ; 
~.,:":. , ­
~4: i.: :rr~t···· ·:· :~1:J~-~~i~ 
Ki· 
..• ; ; . :! . , .~­
.:_·,. ~:-:.. ;' 

Announces the following lntrodudory offers of... 
r------.. 
I 
$15 I 
I 
Mens Cut 
I 

"------·I 
.. ·------· r------•
·------· r------I
I I I I I I
$69 

I I I I I I I $69 I
$26 $69 
I I I Color, Cur & I I I I I
Highlights,

I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cur & Style I I I
.______ Cut & Style ..
I I I One Process I I I I I
.. ______ . 
~------· ·------· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING S1YLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY· 
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Mdissa-Connie-Sergc'-Kristin-Jennifor-Elainc -Michele -Efena -Jennifer ATRIA SALON 2 
ATRIA SALON 
NomliJfunpir.dpc:mu. L.,ngortin1alhair.1ddSIO. Noachct.fuo....,~apply Opcn,orncm,ni"S'-A1TuA Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr.  s.JonR><mtthe,fi,10>..fusc:xma:«,..,ydicmwt-hoirrondi,ioni'"n"•"'-'hk  Next to Sprint  
Corner of Edison  271-8804  
289-5080  OFFER EXPIRES 2-25-03  Less than l mile from campus  

Provencher discusses experiences in Iraq 
By MELANIE BECKER 
News Writer 

In order to bring a more realis­tic vision of Iraq to the Saint Mary's Community. Jan Pilarski. coordinator of the Justice Education Department, contacted Sheila Provencher, who recently spent two weeks in Iraq to share her experiences. 
"Sheila is going to give faces to those who war would affect most deeply and profoundly," said Cindy Mongrain of Campus Ministry. 
Provencher described the land oflraq, the daily life since the Gulf War and the effects ofsanctions. 
"This is an ancient land of arid beauty. In many ways, it is just a normal place. Normalcy and threat of war tango in Baghdad," Provencher said. 
According to Provencher, the Gulf War never ended but became an economic war that targets the most vulnerable mem­bers of Iraqi society. such as women, children and the elderly. 
Malnourishment, disease and high infant mortality plague Iraqis. Fifty percent of rural peo­ple do not have access to clean water and electricity and in urban areas, electricity is only available for eight to 10 hours a day. This means that incubators. 
heart machines and other hospi­tal equipment are not available to those who need it. The rate of child mortality in the last 12 years in Iraq is equivalent to one World Trade Center attack every three weekc;, Provencher added. 
Provencher quoted an Iraqi Sister 13ushra Gaggi, director of Hyatt Maternity Hospital. saying. "'maybe if Bush could see my tears. he would not bomb us."' 
Provencher said that it is important to acknowledge that Iraq is a dictatorship that the Iraqis live in fear, but that the United States is not going about solving the problem in the right way. 
"We should not put them in danger with weapons and sanc­tions. The only hope for Iraq is internal change. We need to help by strengthening them," Provencher said. 
Provencher suggested alterna­tives such as signing the U.S. onto the international crimes court, have Saddam Hussein tried, empower the people of Iraq through education and release the sanctions. Provencher asked the audience to take a stand by writing government representa­tives, praying and fasting. 
"Rather then being paralyzed by the situation with Iraq we can be motivated. They are dancing in the darkness." Provencher said. 
Provencher was invited to a two-week Iraq Peace Journey by the U.S. Religious Leaders Delegation, which took place from Dec. 8 to Dec. 22, 2002. Provencher holds an undergradu­ate degree from Harvard University and received a mas­ter's of divinity in 2001 from Notre Dame. 
The event was cosponsored by Campus Ministry, the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership, the Holy Cross inter­national justice office, Peacemakers and the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck0931 l@saintmarys.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories of Books 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
HE SEASON OFLOVE 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 13, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIBF Jason McFar!ey 

MANAGING EDITOR BusINMS MANAGER 
Kare Nagen~t Lori Lewalski 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERA110NS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 

SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR, Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR, Kacie McKenna 
SAINT MAl\y's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Sum Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flan~n 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. ................................................ ............631-6927 AoVERT!SING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4'.>41 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.......................................... .......631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. ............................................ · ........... 631-4 540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"s ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO................................................... .....631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADM!NISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administrarion ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to 1efuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edicors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stuJns regarding Obwver policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 

TbC" ObKrvcr (USPS 599 240) t6 publid!C'd Monday through Friday cxcqit during cum and vacation period~. A 1ubK.ripcion m T~ Olu.c1'1ia i1 $100 for one .cackmic }"C2': S55 for on.C' Rme1-ter. 
The Ob$fflcr is rublishrd at: POSTMASTER 014 Sou.ffi DhUftt H-all Sa-id add.res, UJfl't~tioru m: 
Not«-Dune, IN 46S56 TheObtcrwr 

P.O. BoxQ Pcrio.Lic.ti pu..~ p.id at Notte D ..mr: l>lo"" lilatnc. IN 46556,0779 &11d :;uJdiuon.J mailing .Jfk.a. 
Thi: ObM:rvn P .1. memlx~ ordie Anoducd Press. All rcprodu,;:1ion :righu uc rierm-t-d. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Confirming racial comments at Heartland 
Admittance was not the issue 
I would like to respond to the issues that Ms. Donnelly presented in her Feb. 12 response to my letter in The Observer about the discrimi­nation I encountered at Heartland. The purpose of my letter a week ago was to educate and inform the Notre Dame community, but now I must write to defend myself and respond to the insinuations from Donnelly that my letter to Viewpoint was only an ill-fated attempt to discredit Heartland_ 
If Donnelly had read my article a bit more carefully. she would have understood that the bouncer asking for my passport to verify my ID was never an issue. I clearly stated at the end ofmy letter, "I accepted the fact that they had to be more stzin­gent on admittance." \,Yhat I want­ed to point out in my letter were the ignorant remarks made by the bouncer when he learned that I did not carry my passport. 
To refresh your memory, he said, "Well don't you need your passport to get into this country." These remarks were completely ignorant given my explanation of the com­mon knowledge that Puerto Rico is a territory of the United States, in which we do not need any pass­ports or visas to enter the country. This exchange of information hap­pened between the 35 to 45 sec­onds of conversation Donnelly allegedly saw on the tape. My regret is that the tape could not record his comment as I turned away: "We don't want Puerto Ricans here anyway." 
Donnelly also stated that most of my friends could not have heard the comments that were spoken to me as I turned away from the bouncer. I, however, would like to invite her to ask my friends personally. friends who were present during my discussion with the bouncer and who clearly witnessed the situation. Several of them, including Ysmael Fonseca, who heard the comments, and Crystal Martinez, who was right beside me, distinctively recall the bouncer saying, "We don't want Puerto Ricans here anyway." 
Yes, some of the people in my · party were already inside, but all of them huddled around me to see why I wasn't being let in. My friends witnessed what happened and, as you can probably see in the surveillance tape, they left with me after the incident. Furthermore, I think it's obvious that no Heartland employee would admit hearing those comments since such conduct could result in losing their jobs, but that's fine because the people around me can verify my claims. 
What infuriates me the most, however, is the lack of tact and gross insinuation in Donnelly's statement, "However, at the moment, it seems that Rosario, in her frustration of already being refused, may be mistaken in what she claims she heard." Your state­ment, Ms. Donnelly, attacks my character and reputation. 
I in no way misinterpreted or mis­heard the bouncer's comments, and my friends can attest to that claim. Apparently, Donnelly has never been discriminated against, because when it happens to you and you hear those gut-wrenching, ignorant comments, they stick with you for life and you never forget. Ms. Donnelly cannot accurately pre­dict a response to discrimination; no one can unless they've been con­fronted by it. 
I completely understand that this is all hearsay, but this is not meant to be a court case. For your infor­mation, Donnelly, not only did I call management personally, but also many of my friends that were pre­sent that evening. 
When I called management to complain about the incident that occurred to me that night, I described the bouncer to the best of my ability. The manager I spoke to knew exactly who I was talking about, given that complaints had preceded mine. That bouncer apparently was already confronted about the situation, given that he told the manager that I was appar­ently being rude to him, which is false. So the manager knew exactly who I was talking about. 
If someone else could not ade­quately identify the bouncer, it does not undermine my claim. I cannot speak for the other callers, but I can assure you that when I called, I told the story to the manager the way it happened and discussed my anger with the situation. 
My letter, as well as Kiflin Turner's Feb. 5 Inside Column, is true and an accurate account of that night. I am proud that people want to take my letter and use it as a means to communicate to the larger community and to show the continuing problems of discrimina­tion. I have people who support me and people who witnessed what happened, and if anyone shall refute my claims again, I'm sure many would jump at the chance to show their support. I advise you, Ms. Donnelly, to follow your own advice and, before you make com­ments about delicate situations, get the facts straight. 
Kristine M. Rosario 
senior Lyons Hall Feb. 12 

Earlier accounts told the truth 
I heartily agree that accusations of racial dis­crimination are not to be taken lightly, and con­
•sidering the consequences of such accusations, are not to be falsely charged. However, I did not want to be a bystander at the events that took place on Jan. 30 at Heartland. I did not want to see one of my very best friends humiliated and ridiculed in front of a crowded line of club goers. I did not want to see the look of shock, hurt, sadness and disappointment on my friend's face when the bouncer's comment was more tban just a frustrating dismissal of her JD. 
I too wanted to have an enjoyable night at 
Heartland with my friends. Yet this was not the 
way things went down at all. The truth is that 
Kristine Rosario was the brunt of a discrimina­
tory comment from a bouncer that night. Many 
people were witness to it, and no surveillance 
camera can show us who was in earshot of the 
comment. 
Jessica Donnelly's Feb. 12 Viewpoint letter 
did nothing more than condemn Ms. Rosario's 
accusation, when her own knowledge of that 
situation was based on hearsay. She can claim 
that the whole complaint is false, but consider­
ing she was not standing in line that night and 
did not hear the conversation or subsequent 
phone call, why should anyone believe her 
story? 
Rosario has nothing to gain by "making up" 
this incident. Maybe Donnelly could explain why 
Rosario would fabricate such an accusation 
when she has been going to Heartland for over 
a year now, has obviously enjoyed going there 
enough to want to return and has never had 
any problems with employees in the past. 
Perhaps she could also defend her employer by 
explaining why he or she has not returned 
numerous phone calls or responded to letters 
from concerned students wanting to make the 
management aware of the incident and ask for 
an apology. 
The owner would have saved himself a lot of 
trouble by simply acknowledging the fact that 
his employees are fallible and may have said 
something derogatory. He could have agreed to 
discuss the matter with the bouncer and apolo­
gized for possibly offending some of his club's 
patrons. It is not difficult to believe that the 
bouncer who stated these derogatory comments 
would lie to his fellow employees and manage­
ment in order to avoid termination. Yet the 
owner's blatant disregard of our concerns leads 
me to believe that he has no problem allowing 
racial discrimination to occur under his super­
vision. 
Let the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commu­nities believe what they want to believe. Unless they were standing there that night, they can never really know what happened. But Ms. Donnelly, you were not standing there either, and as someone who was, I refuse to support an establishment that not only permits discrimi­nation but does not take accusations or racial discrimination seriously. 
Hillary Castrop senior off-campus Feb. 12 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Sarah Nestor  Joe Hettler  
Andrew Thagard  Joe Lindsley  
Ilimanshu Kothari  Lisa Roijula  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Kurt Bogaard  Maria Smith  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Andy Devoto  Tim Kacmar  

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What do you consider most in voting for student body president? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 man cannot be too careful in the choice ofhis enemies. " 
Oscar Wilde writer 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 page 11 
Notre Dame won't get you a minimum wage job 
So far this semester, we've learned that I am a.) graduated, b.) applying to graduate schools, and c.) watching a lot oflV. Honestly, that pretty wen covers the bulk of my days, Marlayna but there's Soenneker one more activity 
Here We Go

that has 
Again ...

taken up 
my time: 
I've been looking for a job. 
A Notre Dame degree will get you many things. It will get you membership in any Notre Dame alumni group you choose. It will get you the right to wander cam­pus for years to come, pointing at buildings and telling your guests, "That wasn't there when I was here" or inaccurately identifying Coleman-Morse a.s the bookstore. 
A Notre Dame degree will even get you a lifetime supply of letters offering the opportunity to donate money to Notre Dame, in case you didn't feel that the $120.000 you "donated" while you were here was sufficient. 
Yes, a Notre Dame degree is a 

powerful thing and it can get you 
nearly anything you want. Yet 
there is at least one thing that a 
Notre Dame degree won't get 
you. A Notre Dame diploma will 
not, apparently, get you a mini­
mum wage job. 
I know. I tried. What I eventu­

•ally landed was an actual profes­sional job, with the title of Targeted Ca.'ie Manager Designce. In fact, this is a job that my Notre Dame degree as a psy­chology major qualifies me for. which means that my theory that there are only two ways to go with a psych major. business or homeless, may be flawed. 
However, I applied for between five and ten near-minimum-wage jobs during my job search, and I have not heard back from one. At least two ofthe places I applied to were actively hiring people, yet have not contacted me. 
Perhaps they were worried I would frighten customers off by spouting theology at them. Maybe they feared that I would tailgate before work and come in drunk every Saturday morning. 
Or perhaps that were concerned 
that all my years of hunching 
over a desk would leave me 
unable to stand for eight hour 
shifts. 

I don't know why they haven't responded in the month since I applied, but I do know that it's a little sad when you are a college graduate of one of the top twenty schools in America and you can't get a minimum wage job. 
At least I'm not alone. I know about 1,000 other seniors who are looking for gainful employ­ment after May 18, when Notre Dame will brutally kick them out of their dorm room homes and leave them to fend for them­selves. 
Notre Dame likes to think of itself as a family. "Welcome to the family," you are told a dozen or more times the first few days of your freshman year. Eventually you wonder ifyou've entered college or joined a cult. Notre Dame says it is a family, but I'm not so sure. 
After my high school gradua­tion, my parents gave me a com­puter and continued to let me live in their houses. Notre Dame, on the other hand, will give us each a piece ofdead sheep with our names written on it and an evic­tion notice effective immediately. What kind of loving family does such a thing? 
Were Notre Dame really a fam­ily, it would allow us to continue living in the dorms as long as we needed, until we found a real direction in life and were able to afford our own place. If that took until our late 20s, a real family Notre Dame would just sigh, exasperated, and take it out on us with the occasional lecture on playing video games instead of looking for a job. 
If Notre Dame was really a family, it would use all its con­nections to find us jobs. Notre Dame has amazing connections, and I'm certain that if the admin­istration put their minds to it, every senior at Notre Dame could have some sort ofjob that they weren't qualified for and didn't want by graduation. That's what a real family would do. 
But Notre Dame is not really a family. Or rather, Notre Dame is a family so long as you pay them. But come graduation day, it's out on your keister with no home, no job and a piece of dead sheep. At least they have the decency to let us know ahead of time, so seniors can look for jobs. 
So here's my tip for the seniors: Give up on minimum wage jobs. Despite our four years at Notre Dame at $30,000 a pop, despite our immense knowledge of art.'>, fine and liberal, and several sci­ences, despite our capacity to out drink every college in the nation and still make Dean's List, we are not qualified to work for $5.15 an hour. It's a hard world out there, kids. I'm just trying to warn you. 
Marlayna graduatedfrom Notre Dame in January. but is continuing to live in the South Bend area until May graduation. She can be reached at msoen­nek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Drinking time 
I should start with a correction. In my last column I care­lessly referred to South Bend as "the Athens of Indiana." An astute -if somewhat literal-minded -correspondent has drawn it lo my attention that the city of Athens, lN, has a stronger claim to that title. It would be hard to disagree. 
Today's cross-cultural sermon is on the subject of alcohol, a topic which as an 
Peter Wicks 

Englishman I feel well-qualified to com­ment upon, belonging as I do to a nation of heavy drinkers surrounded by other 
Englishman

nations of heavy drinkers. 

Abroad

To the West. the Welsh drink beer in truly colossal quantities, and indeed any­one encountering the Welsh language for the first time will immediately conclude either that it was cre­ated during an epic bender or that il is the result of some sort of national vowel shortage. I favor the first of these explana­tions as it seems to me to be the only possible way to account for the fact that if you stare at anything written in Welsh for long enough you will begin to feel tipsy. Dylan Thomas. who wrote in English, is thought by some to be the greatest Welsh poet of the 20th Century. llis last words were "I've had eighteen straight whiskeys. I think that's the record." Having lived with a Welshman in my undergraduate days. I'm willing to bet that it wasn't. 
The Scots are expert in both the production and consumption of whiskey. Gaelic speakers in Scotland actually have a word for the itchy feeling one gets on the upper lip immediately before drinking whiskey ("sgriob," in case you were wondering). Furthermore, it seems to me that the traditional Scottish sport of tossing the caber (which is like the shot put but with a tree trunk instead of the shot} could only have its origins in a drunken wager. 
It is not true that the Irish government has passed legislation according to which all visitors to the Emerald Isle are required upon returning to their homeland to spend the rest of their lives complaining about the inferior quality of the Guinness on sale in the rest of the world. It is not true, but it might as well be. 
rm not even going to talk about the French. 
Despite this stiff competition, English drinking culture has an intensity that is without rival. The reputation of the English for heavy drinking was well established around Europe even in Shakespeare's day. In Othello. Iago testifies to the Florentine Cassio about the ability of the English to drink a range of other Europeans under the table (Act II, scene 3 for those English majors still looking for a senior thesis). 
Rightly or wrongly, this high tolerance for alcohol has become a source of national pride, at least amongst men. It is no accident that James Bond. the archetypal British male fan­tasy, drinks constantly. In fact, his feats of alcohol consump­tion strain credulity more than all his other stunts combined. A real spy who consumed vodka martinis in such quantities would have no chance ofsaving the world from whichever consortium of international criminals was threatening it that week. He would be lucky if he could remember where he parked his Aston Martin. 
Theories as to why the English drink so much are various. It is often argued that English men get drunk in order to over­come their innate shyness in social settings, but since it has never been possible to locate enough sober English men to constitute a control group the theory remains speculative. 
England has a culture of binge drinking. It has been observed that English people drink as if someone is about to take their beer away from them. There is a perfectly straightforward explanation for this; it is because someone is about to take their beer away from Lhem. Around the country public houses stop serving drinks at 11 
p.m. Tho legal origins of this arrange­ment date back to the Defense of the Realm Act passed during the First 
World War. The act mandated early closing times to ensure that muni­tions workers did not have hang­overs when they arrived at their factories in the morning. 
Although it did not escape the 
government's notice when the First World War ended in 1918, such is the English reverence for tradition 
that the law was never rescinded. It's a sobering thought that more than eighty years after the Treaty of Versailles I can't get a drink after 11 p.m. in England so that I can make bullets that won't misfire in the trenches of the Somme. But there is hope in sight. The current govern­ment is at last proposing to abolish all restrictions on the times when alcohol can be sold. I shudder to think what the celebrations will be like when they do. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. Peter is slowly resigning himselfto the fact that he will never be a international spy. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Help to 

fight cystic 
fibrosis 

I am writing to encourage everyone to attend the Valentine Cafe in memo­ry of Emily Hart on Thursday, Feb. 13 from 8 p.m. until midnight in LaFortune. 
Emily was a good friend of mine in high school. She lived with cystic fibrosis, a genetic disease which affects over 30,000 people in the United States. Despite the harrowing effects of the disease. she was a very aGcomplished young woman and con­tributed greatly to her community and school by way of service, leadership and scholastic achievement. Her vivacity and passion for life masked the effects of the debilitating illness she confronted every day. On Feb. 16, 2001, at the age of seventeen, Emily died of complications brought on by cystic fibrosis. A senior in high school, she had been accepted to Notre Dame and may have been a member of the Class of 2005. 
The Valentine Cafe is a tribute to Emily's life. The Sophomore Class will be selling gourmet cakes, cookies, cupcakes and hot chocolate, with all proceeds going to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, which works to develop a cure for cystic fibrosis and to improve the quality of life for those suffering from the disease. Please stop by and honor Emily's memory by enjoying a treat and contributing to the effort to find a cure for cystic fibrosis. 
Shelece Easterday 
junior Walsh hall Feb. 12 

THE OBSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, February 13, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Real Women,' real issues 
as reactions against their domineeringBy C. SPENCER BEGGS mother, but they are careful to retain Scene Movie Criric Carmen's ultimate stubborn nature. fn a 
sense. the three women are all cut from 
"Real Women Have Curves" is a story the same cloth -pun very much intend­about a significantly overweight ed. Ferrera, who makes her debut in Hispanic girl named Ana (America this film, is especially charismatic and Fererra). On the last day of senior year, engaging. as her classmates discuss their plans for What really makes "Real Women Have their future education, Ana gets ready to Curves" stand out against other movies join her mother (Lupe Ontiveros) and that deal with the topic of physical sister (Ingrid Oliu} in a sewing factory, imperfection is that director Patricia or sweatshop as it seems to be. Cardoso doesn't trivialize or ignore the 
Ana sees herself subject of Ana's as ugly and with weight. Rather
"Real Women Have 
no real future; she than glossing over resigns herself to Curves" the subject like working alongside 
"My Big Fat Greek her family, despite Wedding" or try­her deep seeded ing to convince discontent that the audience that drives her to lash Director: Patricia Cardoso Ana is really out at her family. Writer: George laVoo, Josefina Gwyneth Paltrow But as Ana sinks Lopez underneath her into the grind of Starring: America Ferrera, Lupe cellulite like the sewing factory Ontiveros, Ingrid Oliu, Brian Sites, "Shallow Hal," among the bitchy George Lopez, Soledad St. Hilaire "Real Women and gossipy work­Have Curves" ers, she is able to treats her like confront her self-image problems. With what she is: an overweight woman. considered beautiful. Period. Cardoso issue of how to be positive about oneself. a little help from her high school English It's much easier to reconcile the idea demonstrates a lot of heart by having This film offers more than just an analy­teacher (George Lopez), Ana secretly of intellectual beauty when you get to her characters work for self-acceptance sis of why Americans view overweight applies to college even though her fami­manifest yourself as Gwyneth Paltrow or rather than strive to overcome their lim­women as unattractive, it tells an ly wants her to stay and work at home. have Michael Constantine desperately in itations. encouraging story of self-acceptance in 
The women in the film are extremely love with you no matter what shenani­Furthermore, "Real Women Have the face of it. well cast. Ontiveros plays the overly dra­gans you put him through. The fact of Curves" doesn't seek to criticize popular matic and critical, yet loving mother, the matter is that it is not easy being aesthetics. It would have been easy to Carmen, with a stylish flair. Oliu and overweight, especially an overweight point a scolding finger at pop culture in Contact C. Spencer Beggs at Ferrara are able to play their characters woman, in American society. It is not this film. but that is really avoiding the cbeggs@nd.edu 

MOVIE REVIEW 

Worse things than windmills for Gilliam 
ty paltry gamut between zilch and mid­dling -and that's being charitable. 
The few tanks that come to mind are "13 Monkeys," "The Adventures of Baron Munchausen," and "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," Gilliam's last project before this tumultuous three­ring fiasco, a long-planned attempt to commit the Don Quixote tale to cellu­loid. In "Lost in La Mancha," directors 

By BJ STREW 
Scene Movie Critic 

Anyone who has seen either "Brazil" or any Monty Python knows full well that Terry Gilliam is a brilliant icon of frivolity. The Minnesotan has churned out an array of fanciful, grand films with box-office success running a pret-Keith Fulton and Louis Pepe have man­aged to carve an appealing documen­tary out of the nonstop catastrophe Gilliam endured in the process. The scale of this calamity, as it steadily and almost farcically gains momentum, swells to madcap proportions as Gilliam confronts increasingly daunting obstacles with thundering NATO jets disrupting shoots, his main actor's her­
niated discs 
and a del­
after the fact are fairly illuminating, if tedious at times. Gilliam lobs the view­er a few gems with ironic smiles hiding his acute frustration and chortles of incredulity. 
Many will find that Fulton and Pepe force the issue in areas, overemphasiz­ing parallels between Quixote and Gilliam until they invite the audience's dismissal for seeming either too con­trived or too insult­ing to their intelli­
uge. gence, Nevertheless,
"Lost in La Mancha"
From the the quirky director outset, the 
exudes the air of production the scatterbrained, seemed visionary genius, doomed to neither grating and
Director: Keith Fulton, Louis Pepe
fail, sharing nor severe.
Writer: Keith Fulton, Louis Pepe
the fate of The swan song for
Starring: Jeff Bridges, Bernard Bouix,
0 r s o n Gilliam's project
Johnny Depp, Terry Gilliam
Welles· own arrives, unbeliev­
jinxed Quixote project. Gilliam himself carps about this so-called jinx. edging painfully close to pretension along the way. The parable of Philoctetes applies here, though instead of a wound and a bow, Gilliam has creative genius and daring -stigmata to studios fixated on bottom lines whose Troy is the box office. 
Little of the movie in produc­tion is shown to us -studio brass pulled the plug less than a week into shooting. Treating the viewer to a host of produc­tion meetings, "Lost in La Mancha" waxes pedestrian at times. Interviews 011 the set and 
ably, in the form of 
a flash flood in rural Spain, amid a roaring tempest. While often engaging, the documentary fails to elicit much sympathy for Gilliam and the project. After all, a slew of Quixote adaptations already exist and there was little indication Gilliam's stab at it would surpass them. Despite its downfalls, "Lost in La Mancha" is a frank and often uproari­ous film about the nightmare from which directors and studio execs wake in a cold sweat wondering how, in the name of all that is good and sacred, things could get ever that bad. 
Contact BJ Strew at 
wstrew@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Thursday, February 13, 2003 page 13 
TAKE Two 
This one's for old Mr. Wang 
By MARIA SMITH and KATE 
WILLIAMS 
Scene Edit.or and Scene Movie Cricic 
Kate; Well. personally I think that movie 
had everything; soul searching, interna­
tional history, and even a bit of child devel­
opment. 
Maria: Sure, if you don't mind lessons of dubious historical accuracy. The movie clearly places the invention of the machine gun, the adolescence of Charlie Chaplin, the knighting of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and the Boxer llebellion in 1887, which is blatantly 
untrue. Also Chon Lin wouldn't have been able to do much karate with her feet bound. 
K: Nright, the histo­ry is dubious, I'll give you that. I'll even grant that tho movie 
Tension builds In the friendship between Chon Wang (Jackie Chan) and Roy O'Bannon {Owen WIison) In "Shanghai
was a big joke. However, it was way Knights," the continuation of the 2000 hit "Shanghai Noon." 
more entertaining than "8 Mile." At least it  
had good stunts, a convenient bad guy and morally superior good guys who just hap­pen to kick his butt at the end. Plus you get to see Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson sporting mullets.  M: So you're saying the real reason to see this movie is to watch the mullet warriors defeat the evil and aptly named Lord Rathbone? All joking aside, what makes this film appealing?  K: You do have to admit that it topped "Shanghai Noon." Unlike its predecessor, "Shanghai Knights" abandoned any sem­blance ofseriousness for pure slapstick joy. You've got to respect any movie where  scallion from using the seal to illicitly assume the throne. The plot isn't excel­lent, but it isn't horrible ­sort of like South Dining Hall food. Fann Wong also makes a much better heroine as Chon's  
Wilson refers to himself as a "30-year-old  sister Lin Wang than Lucy Liu in did as  
waiter-gigolo."  Princess Pei Pei in "Shanghai Noon." She  
manages to kick butt even more than her  
M: You're right that "Shanghai Knights" is  big brother while simultaneously stealing  
more entertaining than "Shanghai Noon."  Wilson's heart.  
In the first movie the attempts at plot and  
morals interfere with Chan and Wilson's  M: The movie is not totally critically  
rapport more than providing any sub­ acclaimed, but a lot oft.he criticisms are  
stance. Wilson's greatest strength in  exactly what you might expect for a movie  
"Shanghai Knights" is something the guys  built on the prospect of cultural misunder­ 
of Keenan Hall have sought after for years  standing between a former Imperial  
-he makes offensive things sound so  Guard and an old west cowboy. It relies on  
ridiculous that he actually becomes more  the charm of its actors to pull it through,  
lovable and charm- and luckily for the  
ing for saying them.  audience the actors  
The effect is totally lost when "Shanghai Noon" tries to make  "Shanghai Knights" Kate's Rating:  are well-suited to the job. As long as you know what  
him serious. "Shanghai Knights"  you're in for and don't expect a  - 
also does  a better  work of art,  
job of showcasing the talents ofthe  Maria's Rating:  "Shanghai Knights" will deliver enough  
man who, since his  great action shots  
debut  as leading  and one-liners to  
actor in "New Fist of  satisfy your tastes.  
Fury" in 1976, has  Director: David Dobkin  
become the most recognizable name in martial arts movies. The action  Writers: Alfred Gough, Miles Millar Starring: Jackie Chan, Owen Wilson, Fann Wong, Aaron Johnson, Tom Fisher  K: This movie does­n't claim to be a piece of cinematic history, but it isn't a  
sequences in  waste of $5.50  
"Shanghai Knights'' are openly acknowl­ either. It's the grande nonfat decaf vanilla  
edged as fight scenes, leaving the audi­ cappuccino of film ­ essentially useless,  
ence free to marvel at Chan's skill.  but enjoyable nonetheless.  
K "Shanghai Knights" also has the advan­ The opinions expressed in their column  
tage of a better plot. In "Shanghai Noon"  are those ofthe authors and not necessar­ 
they spend the entire movie trying to  ily those ofthe Observer.  
retrieve a kidnapped princess, but in the  Kate Williams is a 20-year-old coffee  
end somehow become sheriffs instead.  shop working dilettante and can be  
The high point of the film is when Wilson  reached at kwilliam@nd.edu.  
casually inherits Chan's wife. The plot  Maria Smith thinks she knows some­ 
feels disjointed. "Shanghai Knights" fol­ thing about film and can be reached at  
lows them as they attempt to reclaim the  msrnith4@nd.edu.  
Photo courtesy Of www.imdb.com  Imperial Seal of China and avenge the  
Chon Wang (Jackie Chan) and Roy O'Bannon (Owen Wilson) rack their brains for a way out of their predicament In "Shanghai Knights."  death of Chon Wang's father. The boys clearly travel to England to prevent a rap- 


Kate Williams Marla Smith 
Take Two 


... 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Garnett's 26 points, 15 boards garner win for Tim.berwolves 
Associated Prus 
CLEVELAND Just imagine what a well­rested Kevin Garnett could do. 
Garnett, the road-weary All­Star game MVP, had 26 points and 15 rebounds for his 41st double-double this season to lead the surging Minnesota Tirnberwolvcs past the strug­gling Cleveland Cavaliers 102­91 Wednesday night. 
"We were working off an hour and 30 minutes worth of sleep today," Garnett said in explaining the Timberwolves' slow start. "You can't give excuses, you've got to come out and play." 
Garnett did exactly that after a sluggish first quarter. He baffled the Cavaliers with a series of spin moves, mixed in a few mid-range jumpers and finished 10-for-17 from the field. 
"We couldn't find anybody to match up with him," said Ricky Davis, who led Cleveland with 26 points. 
After scoring 37 points in the All-Star game Sunday in Atlanta, Garnett had 26 points in a home win Tuesday night. The team stayed in Minnesota because of a storm in Cleveland, then got up early Wednesday and arrived a few hours before the game. 
"We showed a lot of charac­ter in praying without 100 per­cent energy," Garnett said. 
Wally Szczerbiak scored 18 points for the Timberwolves, who won their fourth straight and 10th in 12 games. 
Jumaine Jones added 18 points for Cleveland. which lost for the 12th time in 14 games and fell to 2-8 under interim coach Keith Smart. 
It was Davis' first game against Minnesota since the Cavs matched a $34 million, six-year offer sheet he received from the Timberwolves in August. At the time, Davis' agent, Dan Fegan, said his client would rather play with the Timberwolves and that the Cavs would be making a mis­take by locking Davis into a long-term contract. 
Davis has since maintained that he likes Cleveland and wants to help the Cavs, who 
have the league's worst record, rebuild. 
"I think about it a lot," Davis said of not joining Garnett. "I just have to let it go. It is hard to think about. 
'Tie's a great, great player." Garnett passed on similar regards. 
"I always thought Rick was one of the up-and-coming dominant players," he said. "He jibber-jabbers a bit, so we hit him with 'what could have been' and wished him luck." 
Toronto 97, Atlanta 96 
Vince Carter has the Toronto Raptors playing their best bas­ketball of the season. 
Carter scored 13 of his 21 points in ihe final five minutes as the Raptors beat the Atlanta Hawks on Wednesday night for their season-high fourth straight win. 
Antonio Davis added 22 points and nine rebounds for the Raptors, who have won five of six since Carter returned to the lineup after missing 23 straight games with a strained right knee. Carter has missed 33 games with injuries to both knees. 
"Vince in the fourth quarter is what obviously we needed," said Davis, whose team went 6-27 without Carter. "I think before we would play great quarters, but then we could never finish up games." 
Carter went 4-for-15 from the field before scoring 13 points in the final 4:50. He fin­ished 8-for-20 from the field. 
"I had to take the initiative to step up and make something happen," Carter said. "I could­n't hit a shot to save my life earlier so I had to keep going." 
Carter denied his early struggles had anything to do with his injured knees. 
"I was just missing," Carter said. "Everything is fine. It just wasn't going in." 
Glenn Robinson had 26 points for the Hawks, who have lost three straight. 
"Toronto's playing well and having Vince back has obvi­ously helped them," Atlanta coach Terry Stotts said. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored 14 of his 24 points in the third quarter to help Atlanta enter the fourth quarter with a six­point lead. 

Carter's fadeaway jumper cut Atlanta's lead to one with 
4:50 left. Davis' three-point play tied it at 82 with 3:35 left, and Carter's free throw and 3­pointer gave Toronto a four­point lead with 2:40 to go. 
After Robinson committed Atlanta's 16th turnover, Davis made one of two free throws. 
Atlanta's Theo Ratliff hit a jumper, but Carter followed with one of his own to make it 89-84 with 1:24 remaining. 
Phlladelphla 119, Chicago 111. 
The Philadelphia 76ers don't expect to blow many teams out these days -even the lowly Chicago Bulls. 
The Sixers, playing without several key frontcourt players, were unable to stop the NBA's worst road team down the stretch and it almost cost them a win Wednesday night. 
Philadelphia blew an 11­point lead with 3:45 left in the fourth quarter, but Allen Iverson scored four of his 36 points in overtime to lift the 76ers to the victory. 
Jalen Rose's leaning 18-foot­er with 7.6 seconds left in reg­ulation tied it at 109 to cap Chicago's comeback. 
Rose finished with season 
highs  of 38 points and  13  
assists.  
Tyson  Chandler  had  21  

points, 17 rebounds and a career-high seven blocks for the Bulls, who lost their sev­enth straight game and fell to 2-26 away from home. 
"Chicago is two-and-some­
thing on the road and we're in a dogfight," Iverson said. "We got the win, that's the positive thing. The negative thing is the end of the game. I guess our execution wasn't there as far as defense." 
The 76ers were without Todd MacCulloch (foot) and Monty Williams (knee). along with Samuel Dalembert and Sam Clancy. both of whom are on the injured list with knee injuries. Their absence is felt most on the defensive end. 
"We have no shot-blocker," Sixers coach Larry Brown said. "We have a forward playing center and a small backcourt. That's just the hand we're dealt and we just have to get by. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANT $10,000? NEED AN  Acapulco's #1 Spring Break  Rooms for rent. $250 month  
,-_·­ NOTICES  INTERNSHIP? Earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next years tuition and have one of the best  Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is 'Going Loco• with a "Last Chance to Dance' Special!  FOR SALE  includes utilities. 272-1525  PERSONAL  
summer jobs in America. Looking  mmmrentals@aol.com  
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007  for an industrious sell-starter with a strong work ethic and amiable per­sonality, who is responsible, impec­cably well-groomed and has excel­lent service skills. The job entails house and property work al a pri­vate beach estate in East Hampton, NY. Only freshman and sopho- Book now and get $1 00 oft our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800-875-4525. www.breaknow.com  Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Good seats on main floor. $45 each. Please call 271-9539.  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, al 1-7819.  
www.endlesssummertours.com  mores to apply. Room. board, and  272-1525  For more information, see our  
SPRING BREAK on South Padre Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre  weekly spending money is provid­ed. Work from mid-May to mid-Aug. If interested, please send a one page letter on why you think you  WANTED  FOR RENT  www.mmmrentals.com 3-6 BDRM HOMES.  bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Call 1-4543 to work for  
Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico.  should get the job and your resume to hamptonsjob03@hotmail.com. Will stop taking applications on  Softball Officials Wanted.  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUESTIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND.  03/04 YR. SEC SYS.  Observer Sports  
Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreisland.com  Wednesday, Feb 19th, but you are encouraged to send before this date.  Apply w/RecSports by Feb. 2oth. New ND officials earn $8. More info email hadams@nd edu  3·5 PEOPLE. 2773097  WASHER/D 272-6306  The Sharon family is in our thoughts and prayers.  

Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
PGA TOUR 
Mickelson apologizes to Woods for comments 
Associated Pr~ss 
SAN DIEGO 

Less than an hour after Phil Mickelson acknowledged he was wrong to criticize Tiger Woods' equipment, his cell phone rang. 
Just like that, golfs latest feud appeared to be over. 
"l did call him back," Woods said Wednesday. "We talked and cleared tho air. Everything is line. No worries. AB we all know, Phil can try to be a smart alock at times. I think that was one of those instances where it just backfired on him." 
The only worry Woods has now is the condition of his left knee -and his game. 
He'll know more about both when the Buick Invitational begins at soggy Torrey Pines, marking the return of the world's No. 1 player following knee surgery Dec. 12. 
A steady rain that fell across the diflside course north of San Diego washed out the pro-am and kept Woods from getting in one final practice round before ending the longest layoff of his career. 
Thursday's opening round might even be delayed, as more rain is in the forecast. 
Woods said while his knee is not 100 percent, it's much better than last year and is strong enough for him to play. 
"I'm expecting to go out there and give it my best and see what happens," he said. "Hopefully, it feels as good as it does now at the end of Sunday." 
The same could be said of his to make a derogatory statement relationship with Mickelson -toward anybody. I still should not probably not 100 percent but have gone in that area." better than it was last week, and Mickelson said he apologized to good enough for them to hash it Nike, and left Woods a few mes­out. sages on his cell phone. Within 
Mickelson caused a stir last an hour, Woods finally called him week when he said in an inter­back. view with Golf Magazine that "He apologized. He was sorry 
Woods  has  for  what he  
"inferior" clubs. He then tried to pay Woods a  "It was an area that I just never should have  had done," Woods said. "It wasn't a  
compliment by saying he was  gone."  personal shot at me. I  
the only player good enough to  Phil Mlckelson  thought it was Phil trying to  
"overcome the  golfer  be funny, and  

equipment he's stuck with." 
Woods had been using Titleist equipment until changing to the Nike Golf ball in 2000, the driver last year at Pebble Beach and the irons in September. He had great success each time he s'A-itched. 
Mickelson endorses Titleist, and once touted its Pro Vl ball as having a greater impact on golf than when steel replaced hickory in club shafts. 
It is rare for players to deni­grate other manufacturers. Harer still is when it comes from a player who has played second­fiddle -or lower -to Woods the last six years. 
Mickelson made no excuses Wednesday, nor did he dodge any criticism. 
"It was an area that I just never should have gone," he said. "I did not mean anything malicious by it, or I wasn't trying it didn't come off right at 
ll .. 
a. 

Woods might not forget the comments that easily. During his practice round Tuesday, he ripped one drive down the mid­dle and said with a smile, "Not bad for inferior equipment." 
But now, on to more important things. "We're here to compete and not worry about things like that." Woods said. 
Woods hasn't competed against anyone but his father since he finished second in his Target World Challenge on Dec. 
8. Tired of being in pain for the better part of two years, he had arthroscopic surgery four days later. 
Woods played twice in Florida last week, but Tuesday was the first time he'd played 18 holes while walking. He expects no trouble when the tournament begins. 

API photo Phll Mlckelson hits a shot during a tournment last year. Mlckelson called Tiger Woods to apologize for negatively com­menting on the clubs Woods uses on tour. 

Close to campus! 
(Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574) 272-1441 Fax# (574) 272-1461 

Thursday, February 13, 2003 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Jagr, Capitals explode for 5 first period goals 

. Thrashers lose second straight decision 
Associated Press 
Led by Jaromir Jagr, the Washington Capitals scored five goals in the first period and cruised to a victory over the Atlanta Thrashers. 
The Capitals had five goals on their first eight shots against goalie Byron Dafoe, who was booed lustily by the Philips Arena crowd and wound up being replaced by Pasi Nurminen at the start of the sec­ond period. 
Washington extended its dom­ination of the Southeast Division, improving to 11-2-1 against rivals Atlanta, Carolina, Florida and Tampa Bay. 
Dafoe, who won at New Jersey in his last start. didn't come up with any big saves against the Capitals. Of course, he didn't get much help from his teammates, either. 
Washington scored its first goal off a 3-on-1 break. Before the opening period was done, the Capitals also had converted a 2-on-1 rush, a breakaway and a deflection. 
The Thrashers lost their sec­ond in a row, once again missing a chance to surpass their win total for all of last season. 
Jagr set the tone right away, scoring his 31st goal just 1:58 into the game. He broke down right wing with two teammates, played give-and-go with Kip Miller and fired a shot past the helpless Dafoe. 
Just 2 :02 later, the Capitals pushed the lead to 2-0. This 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
"How to Listen to Schumann's 
Fantasy for Piano, Op. 17'' 


A Lecture/Recital by 
Ethan Raimo 
Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
2:00 pm, Sunday, February 16, 2003 Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congocrs. 
SAY__ 

COFFEE, BAKERY&: CONFECTIONS Proudly Serve 
Cheesecakefrom The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic ofTea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolatefrom San Francisco 
Mon-Fri 7arn-10pm/Sat lOam-IOpm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 233-(4_,{i 
a1'-eel J;t &-«.;t! 
Jte.w--v-~lvr.;t,-\/1'-e.•.a J;te.,p,..4 
time, Jagr passed off to Robert 
Lang, who put a shot through the legs of Frantisek Kaberle ­the only defender back -and past Dafoe. 
Blue Jackets 1, Sharks 0 
Marc Denis stopped 38 shots and Rick Nash provided the only goal as the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the San Jose Sharks. 
It was the first time the Blue Jackets had ever won a 1-0 game. 
The shutout was Denis' third of the year and seventh of his career. He faced 19 shots in the first two periods and 19 in the third as the Sharks turned up the pressure. 
Denis came into the game 0-4­0 against the Sharks with a 5.11 goals-against average. 
San Jose, which lost its fourth in a row, had beaten the Blue Jackets in their last four meet­ings. Columbus tied a franchise record as it stretched its home points streak to six (4-0-2). 
Nash, a top contender for rookie of the year, picked up his 12th goal -and first game-win­ner -at 7:13 of the first period. Nash ended up with the puck near the blue line at the right boards and skated in on San Jose goaltender Mikka Kiprusoff. Nash fired a shot from the right circle that appeared to handcuff Kiprusoff, skipping off the goalie and bouncing lazily behind him into the net. 
Nash was playing his first game on the Blue Jackets' No. 1 line. He was moved up from the third line and replaced Geoff Sanderson. who was dropped to the third unit. 
David Vyborny and Scott Lachance picked up assists, Lachance collecting his first point of the season in 41 games and his first in a Columbus uni­form. 

Senators 3, Penguins 0 

Toni Dahlman scored his first NHL goal and Patrick Lalime stopped 20 shots for his sixth shutout of the season Wednesday night as the Ottawa Senators beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 3-0. 
Marian Hossa, the NHL's sec­ond-leading goal scorer, and Chris Neil also scored for the Senators, who moved within one point of Dallas for the league's overall points lead. 
The game was the Penguins' first since the eight-player trade sending Alexei Kovalev to the New York Rangers on Monday. Three players acquired in that trade, forwards Rico Fata and Mikael Samuelsson and defense­man Joel Bouchard, were in the Pittsburgh lineup, along with defenseman Shawn Heins, acquired from San Jose one day earlier. 
Rangers 3, Panthers 1 

Sandy McCarthy scored his second goal of the season late in the second period and Mike Dunham made 27 saves as the New York Rangers snapped a seven-game winless streak with a victory at Florida. 
Alexei Kovalev, acquired from Pittsburgh in an eight-player trade Monday, scored an empty­net goal with 10.8 seconds left. He also had a couple of good scoring chances in the first peri­od. 
Defenseman Tom Poti also scored for the Rangers, who gave Glen Sather his first victory 

API photo 
Capitals Dalnlus Zubrus skates on a break away to score against the Thrashers In the first period. Washington defeated 
Atlanta 5-1 Wednesday night. 
since he took over as coach Jan. 30, when he fired Bryan Trottier. The Rangers had been 0-2-1-1 under Sather. 
Olli Jokinen had the lone Florida goal. Roberto Luongo made 23 saves for Florida. 
Florida missed a great chance to tie it in the third period when Valeri Bure picked up a loose puck to the right of Dunham and had the top of the net open. But Bure couldnt lift the puck over a sprawling Dunham, who made the pad save. 
: 
\) 
r---------------------------­
Thursday, February 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Struggling Billikens edge No. 2 Cardinals, ending win streak 
As,ociated p,.,., 
ST. LOUIS 

Downtrodden Saint Louis came up with a victory to hang its sea­son on. 
Marque Perry scored five of his 25 points in Lhc final 13 seconds and maneuvered inside for the game-winning layup with 3.2 seconds to go as Saint Louis upset second-ranked Louisville 59-58 on Wednesday night. 
"It's so big I can't really explain it," Perry said. "Coach told us if we're real close at the end, you never know what can happen." 
The Billikens {9-12, 3-7) were coming olT a pair of road losses to middle-of-the-road Conference USA teams. making them an unlikely team to put an end to the nation's longest winning streak. They entered last in the conference's American Division, and in danger of not even mak­ing the postseason tournament. 
"I would have been happy to beat Hazelwood Central [High School] tonight, because we real­ly needed a win," coach Brad Soderberg said. "I'll go on record and say we outworked them." 
This was Saint Louis' biggest win since a victory over top­ran kcd Cincinnati in the first round of the Conference-USA tournament in 2000, and the school did it despite 34 percent shooting, compensating by forc­ing 16 turnovers. Louisville (18-2, 8-1 C-lJSA) had won 17 in a row since a two-point loss to Purdue on Nov. 30 in the second game of the season, and coach Rick Pitino said the Cardinals' 14-for.20 showing at the free-throw line was the difference. 
"They played a terrific game and stopped a streak we had a lot of fun with," Pitino said. "Now it's time to start a new streak." 
Reece Gaines had a season­high 28 points. five rebounds and three assists for the Cardinals, who have been beating their opponents by an average of 19 points. That also was the margin 

ll,IXCIJ\'1.1: '61 NI) 

Wednesday, februal)' 05 •155 Dellartolo Hall, 7:JO pm /,ulhor o1 Han/ball, reception in Ille Cole!nan-Morse loonge lealuring music of sludent acappella group 8~ Yellow Taxi 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF '6iND 

ThuJ'lllay, februal)'06 • lafortune Ballroom 1:30 pm Aulhor al loyal Soos and Dauglllers of Nolle Dame: AMem011 of No/ra Dame, co-sponsored by Cavanoogh Cotteellouse. leatiring lhe music of female acappella group Harmonia. book signing, and relrnshmenls 
NIKI<.! ,;1ovANNI Saturday, Febnial)'OS • Jordi!ll ~udilorlum, Mendoia COM, 7~0 pm Poel ol OuillJIJg Iha Black-Eyed Pea and love Poems, in~oductory remarks by ND head foolball coach Tv Willir.qham Co spimsored by Ille Hammes Notre Dame Bookslore. lhe College of Arts &lellers. Gender Sludies Program, Oepartmenl ol Engllst\, /he Crealwe Wrrting Prog1am, and lhe Department of African and Alrican-Amencan Studies 
STUDENT SLAM Sunday, Febml'/ 09 • Washington Hall, 1:30 pm Featuring student slam poets and SfJO<t!ll·WOrd artisls in amulti-media slyle, followed by an ope11-mi:: sessioo 
JOE GARDEN 

Monday, f ebruary 10 • Washington Hall, 7:30 pm Ol1e cl foor<lilg ra:he!> ol The Omon, mlmduclory remarks by NO professor of an Rooert Seolaci< recepLion to lollowin the basemen! of Zahm Hall 
HEUIOCO't'HE Tuesday, February 11 Washington Hall 7:30 pm
H 

Muof°"""~-rer:ephoo in LaForUJne Baiwoom lealuring the mus~ of male acapµela group The Undertones JOHW BUFFALO 1'WU:R 
Wednesday, februal)' 12 • Washington Hall 7:30 pm Plaj,lne/adar <f 'Helo, Herma,', reception in lhe laFor1une 8alroom to follow 
ND UNPLUGGED II 

Thurnlay, Februal)' 13 N hfortune Huddle, 9:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Sludents and lacully of Ille Unwersily of Nolte Oame. Holy Cross College and Saini Mary's Col~ge showcase ther work as gnger-soogwrilers, poets, fi<:Lion and non-ficlion wri~. Sj)olmn-word arlisls. essa~sts, and ~sual art1Sts 
donarfons wm bemtfil th• Sr. JoHph County Urer•cy Courtcir 
ro, mo,w-1nfom111Uon, cont•cl Meg,l!an M•rlln (mmarlln@nd.edu) or Joann.a Comw-911 (Jcornwe1@nd.edu) 
.-..,;eilliliTEisfMSW,ebpagesil/leans'sophltl.miOlWe,0311/m 
UPPER DECK 
Overlooking the Playing Field at Coveleski Regional Stadium 
Distinctive Banquet Rooms & Catering for Any Occasion 
SPACE STILL AVAILABLE FOR TENTS AND PARTIES ON MAY 17 
Perfect for ND/St. Mary's Grad Parties 
(574) 235-9985 Fax (574)235-7355 cpc(<,)udcatcring.com 
of victory in the first meeting between the teams at Louisville on Jan. 11, a 73-54 victory. 
This was by far the lowest scoring total for Louisville, which is averaging 84 points, and had no other players in double figures. Center Marvin Stone, averaging 13 points, was scoreless in 30 minutes. 
Chris Sloan and Josh Fisher added 11 points apiece for Saint Louis, which despite its problems has won five of six in the series. Sloan had one of the big plays in the waning minutes with a steal and dunk that cut the gap to 57-54 with 
50.8 seconds left, and also hit a 3-pointer at the end of the half. 
"Top to bottom, they're a lot more talented team than we arc," Sloan said. "Hustling was going to be the difference to pull out a win." 
Gaines' 3-pointer had given Louisville a 57-50 lead with 
1:58 to go. But he struggled down the stretch, missing one of two free throws with 24.4 seconds to go and also being called for traveling and miss­ing the front end of a bonus attempt in the final six min­utes. 
Perry scored on a drive and converted a three-point play with 13.2 seconds left to cut the gap to one. Then he tipped a long inbounds pass intended for Gaines to teammate Anthony Drejaj to set up the game-winner. 
Gaines was hard off the backboard at the buzzer on a shot a few steps beyond the midcourt stripe. 
Congregation ofHoly Cross 


Be part of the solution. 
/'rrr1o/1 

www.nd.et1U/J~vocation 
ANSWER~

Visit us at 501 West South Street 
THECALLW

South Bend, rN 46601 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
CM Campus Ministry 
•  
S=-'1~-=----=-="-F--=--=n-=O-C-W-=-----------1 Fresh man Retreat #46 Get involved, go on a retreat Retreat Date: Feb. 28-Mar. 1, 2003  Latino Student Retreat Retreat Date: Feb. 21-22, 2003  
Sign-up deadline: February 24  Sign-up deadline: February 17  
114 Coleman-Morse Center  114 Coleman-Morse Center  

wh t' h 
friday 2.14 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 

saturday 2.1s 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mass 
5:30 p.m. Joyce Center 

sunday2.16 
RCIA Session 

10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
. 
tuesday 2. 1a 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Confirmation Session #10 
7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 2. 19 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. 
Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:oop.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 

program spotlight 
~ iii Interfaith Christian Night Prayer ¦ ¦ Wednesdays • 10pm • Morrissey Chapel 
Interfaith isn'taboutgetting the right answers, it's about asking the right questions. Forus togrowas Christians in college, we have to be willing to ask the really big questions that lead us to a deeper understanding of ourselves in relation to God and each other. 
At Interfaith, webelieve that our shared Christian faith leads us in our journey with God and in our quest to make sense of ourselves, ourrelationshipsand 
our fuhrres. Every Wednesday at l Opm you and a few dozen of your closest friends come together in one Spirit to think, talk, and pray. Through prayer, music and fellowship, we approach our common questions from a diversity of perspectives. 
Interfaith gives you the chance to check all your baggage at the door -tests, papers, schedules, decisions­and get the spiritual boost you need to live with conviction and integrity. 

f a i t h 
christian night prayer 
mass schedule 
Pickup info & apps in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to s p.m. or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations.... 
Busyness 
Cluttered Mind? Just Take a Nap 
by Jemar Tisby Campus Ministry Intern • 
Last Sunday I attempted to clean my bedroom. I stood at the doorway to my room for a moment and surveyed the situation. My sheets needed washing, the carpet needed vacuum­ing, my desktop needed tidying, and three weeks worth of laundry needed cleaning. I took all this in for a moment and then I turned on my heel and walked away to take a nap and process. It's not that I didn't want to clean my room, I just didn't know where to start. 
At Notre Dame our lives tend to get so cluttered that we don't even know how to begin cleaning them. We've all got so many demands on our time from classes, to meetings, to friends, to family; you name it and it's got a time slot in our planner. Time is at a premium at Notre Dame and all of our busyness has a drastically detrimental effect on our mental state. We cram an absurd amount of activity into 24 short hours and never stop for more than a couple of minutes and then we wonder why we can't seem to figure out anything in our lives. This amount of action is a major drain on us emotionally and spiritually. We don't take the time to sit down and think about life and about God and to process all the things that are 
happening in and around us. Soon our minds become littered with 
unresolved issues and we end up feeling overcome with confusion because we don't know which issue to untangle first. 
I think the best solution is to simply sit down, shut up, and process. We need to take the time to be still, to stop 
I think the best solution is to 
simply sit down, shut up, and process. We need to take the time to be still, to stop running from one appointment to the next and actually schedule a meeting with ourselves. 
running from one appointment to the next and actually schedule a meeting with ourselves. We also need to shut up. We need to turn off the cell phone, tum off the radio, shut the door from the outside world and just be quiet. Then we just need to think for a bit, to ruminate on life for a few moments. I believe that many people will come to agree with my assessment that most of our anxiety isn't caused by the circumstances themselves, but mainly by the fact that we don't take the time frequently enough to sit down and process things. 
After I opted to sleep rather than clean my room that Sunday, I lay on the couch in that euphoric post-nap haze for a while and processed. My thoughts meandered their way through some particularly perplexing situations in my life-including cleaning my room­and after a while, I was able to be content in knowing that God always has a way of working out the most troubling dilemmas. I got up and went back to my room. It was still a mess. Everything was just as I had left it, but I felt more clear-minded and less overwhelmed. started to clean my room in a systematic way-first the sheets, then the carpet, then my desk, then the clothes. It took me al] afternoon but by the time I went to sleep that night, my room 
was clean. 

Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Sunday 
5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. 

around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 


Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
OLYMPIC SPORTS 
Miller wins third medal at world championships 
. Miller is first American to win giant slalom world title in 21 years 
Associated Press 
ST. MORITZ, Switzerland 
Bode Miller became the first American man to win three medals in a world championship. He is the first to capture two golds. He's also the first American to win the giant slalom world title in 21 years. 
Yet Miller was happiest for teammate Erik Schlopy. 
The two friends realized a life­long ambition Wednesday, climb­ing the podium together for the first time, 
Miller rallied in typical thrilling style to win his second title of the championship, while Schlopy delivered the day's most dazzling run to take the bronze behind Austria's Bans Knauss. 
"It's the most important medal of my life, sharing it with Erik," said Miller, who also won the combined and shared the silver in the super giant slalom. "But I'm happiest for him. Today was real­ly tough and really special, to see Erik ski the way he can. 

"We've been waiting for this a long time and for it to happen at the world championship is amaz­ing. It's great for our country, but it's even better for Erik and me, and the team. 
n 

Miller, a 25-year-old skier from Franconia, N.H., became the first American to win the giant slalom world title since Steve Mahre in 1982.
BOTH! Happy 2-1, Meghan Scanlan! 
Last season in Val d'lsere, 
France, Miller became the first The Keenan Boys 
Love, 

U.S. skier to win a World Cup 

AP! photo Bode MIiier salutes the crowd after finishing the giant slalom. MIiier won his third gold medal In a world championship event. 
Number 2 or Number 1? 
•••JPW¥¥¥ 
Bring yo·ur parent(s)/guardian(s) in to see 
JURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
this weekend and get your housing worries for next year taken care of...on the spot!! **Guaranteed 
TOWNHOUSES AND 2-BEDROOMS 
available for 2003-2004** 
Office hours are: Friday February 14: 9am-6pm 
Saturday February 15: 1 0am-5pm Sunday .February 16: av APPOINTMENT ONLY 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
STUDE,"JITS' #I CHOICE IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
CALL US@272..8124 OR VISIT US AT WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COl\1 
giant slalom since Phil Mahre in 1983. The next day, in Madonna di Campiglio, Italy. he won a slalom, the first to do so since Steve Mahre that same season. 
At the Olympics last winter, Miller gave the United States its first Olympic medal in the giant slalom as well as another silver in the combined, ending an eight­year medal drought for the U.S. men's Alpine skiers. 
He'll have another chance to break records in Sunday's slalom. 
Schlopy has had decidedly less success. The 30-year-old skier from Park City, Utah, has never won a World Cup race and his best results are a pair of second places in 2001. He is just 18th in the World Cup giant slalom standings. In the slalom, he's 24th. 
Something Miller fails to com­prehend. 
"He's got the kind of speed that when he skis at his best, like today, no one can touch him," Miller said. "It must be awful. 
"If he breaks through after this, no one on the World Cup ,viii be able to touch him, myself includ­ed." 
With six medals and three races left in the championships ­the Americans have surpassed their previous best of five, set in 1982 in Schladming, Austria. They are currently one behind Austria. 
Miller can't wait for more medals to pile up. 
'They are going to sit there and wait for friends to join them," he said. "I am starting quite a collec­tion in my room right now." 
Christin Cooper, an NBC com­mentator at this event, earned two silvers and a bronze at the 1982 championship in Schladming. 
This marked the first time American men had two skiers among the top three at a world championship, though Americans Billy Kidd and James Heuga fin­ished second and third in the slalom at the 1964 Innsbruck Olympics, which also counted as the worlds that yrmr. 
With Miller fourth and Schlopy 23rd after the opening leg, both needed to make up ground. In his final trip down the sun-soaked Engiadina course, Schlopy deliv­ered a blinding run to build a massiw~ lead. 
His time withstood 21 assaulL'l from other racers until Miller sped down for a time of 2 min­utes, 45.93 seconds, a mere 0.04 seconds ahead ofSchlopy. 
The two watched nervously in the finish area as Knauss, the fastest in the opening leg, charged the course, leading most of the way. But the Austrian failed to extend his hands fully as he crossed the finish line, and squeezed in between the two Americans. Ile ended up a 0.03 seconds behind Miller and 0.01 head of Schlopy. 
"I'll leave this mountain with the memory of my second run," Schlopy said. "My gold medal is to be on the podium with Bode." 
For Knauss, the silver was bit­tersweet. 
"There was a lot of tension at the start," he said. ''I'd seen on the 1V screen that Erik had done tremendously well. I knew I couldn't play it safe." 
Michael von Gruenigen of Switzerland, defending champion and World Cup leader in the event, was third after the first run. He raced after Miller and dropped behind. So did Benjamin Raich of Austria, second after the first heat. 

RNATIONAL WORKING O PORTUNITY 
~.,,'()~~-~ 
····'4',.,~
.:-.~~-..... \·~~~
..~~...~..'(, 
.....~.•-...-.......,_ ....:io,,_'O......»,e. 

OBC ENGLISH 
CONVERSATION SCH 


is seeking uniYersily graduates for aone year leaching position in Japin. AttractiYe salary, benefits and tra,el opportunities. 
RECRUITING OATES: February Z0 f.r Zl, 1003 at Career and Placement Senl/ces. )AlflJll!l§!l '1.IJll$1/A$!15KIIJ.l§ QtlJY~!lflll•ll!J.. Open to all mt(jors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 

T H A I RESTAURANT 
\Ve are looking fonvard to creating a \vonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your specfal guest this Valentine's cby. 
(f'k:a1sc m;;kc a rcscrvaLion in ::tc.h:c111cc if you plan LO spcnd }'<)UI' rorn..intic <::wning with us.) 
Lunch:\lon-Fri llam-1pm Dinner· .\l,)n-S..it 5t~m-9pm 
2II N . .\,lain Downto\vn South Bcncl 
232~4445 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COl\fPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, February 13, 2003 
PGA TOUR 


Annika Sorenstam accepted an invitation on Wednesday to play on the PGA Tour in the Colonial in May. Sorenstam dominated her competition on the LPGA Tour throughout her career. 
Sorenstam will play PGA Tour event 
event," Sorenstam said. Ben Hogan. and made the 36-hole cut Associated Press No one has been able to "Annika's accomplish­before she was eliminated 
touch her on the LPGA Tour ments show that she is cer­in the third round with a 
FORT WORTH lately. tainly deserving," 79. 
Annika Sorenstam won­She won 13 times around Tournament chairman Dee 'Tm as curious as any­dered how she would stack the world last year, shat­Finley said. body to see how the best up against stronger players tered the tour's scoring He said no Colonial mem­LPGA player of today, and on tougher courses under record and finished out of bers voiced objections to possibly all time, will play the most suffocating scruti­the top 10 only three times. Sorenstam's participation in against the men," Phil ny. The year before, she the event. Mickelson said. 
So she's going to play became the first woman to Sorenstam picked the Mickelson, a past champi­against men. shoot 59 and earn more perfect course -one that on at Colonial. predicted 
The world's best female than $2 million in one sea­does not require as much Sorenstam would "definite­golfer accepted an invita­son. power off the tee. Colonial ly" make the cut and proba­tion Wednesday to play in "I just think she wants to is 7,080 yards (par 70) and bly finish 20th. the Colonial in May, which find out how good she really puts a premium on accura­Still, it gives the issue of would make her the first is, and if the gap between cy, Sorenstam's forte. women in golf even more woman in 58 years to com­women's golf and mens golf History is hardly on her attention. pete on the PGA Tour. is that great -or not great side. Martha Burk and the 
"For all the well-wishers at all," Tiger Woods said. The last woman to play National Council of who want to know why I Other players are equally on the PGA Tour was Babe Women's Organizations would accept such a chal­interested in how she will Zaharias, one of the great­have made headlines for lenge, the answer is simple: fare against the best in golf est all-around female ath­urging Augusta National to I am curious to see if I can at an event steeped in tradi­letes ever. She qualified for allow a female member compete in a PGA Tour tion and made famous by the 1945 Los Angeles Open before the Masters in April. 
IN BRIEF 

Garcia wins arbitration case against Mariners 
Seattle pitcher Freddy Garcia was awarded the third-highest salary ever in arbitration when he won his case against the Mariners on Wednesday. 
The 26-year-old right-hander was awarded $6,875,000 by arbitrators Richard Bloch. Jack Clarke and William Holley, who heard the case a day earlier in St. Petersburg. The Mariners had wanted to pay $5.9 million. 
Vladimir Nunez and Cincinnati left­hander Bruce Chen lost their cases. Nine players remain scheduled for hearings through Feb. 20. 
Houston shortstop Julio Lugo and Baltimore second baseman Jerry Hairston settled on one-year con­tracts just before their hearings were scheduled to start Wednesday. Lugo gets $1,575,000 and Hairston gets $1.55 million, with both having the chances to earn $75,000 more in performance bonuses. 
The 26-year-old Lugo had asked 
Governer wants Nebraska football players paid 

Gov. Mike Johanns is backing a legislative proposal to pay Nebraska football players. 
"Paying the players would be above board and straightforward," Johanns said Wednesday. "College football has become a multimillion­dollar industry that should do much better for its athletes." 
A bill introduced by state Sen. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Duke at Wake Forest 7 p.m., ESPN2 Garcia went 16-10 with a 4.39 ERA for $1.8 million, $300,000 more than Ernie Chambers would require foot­last year. when he earned $3.8 mil­the Astros' offered. He hit .261 last ball players to be paid a stipend. It
UCLA at Arizona 10:30 p.m. FSCH 
lion. season with eight homers and 35 would take effect only if three other Since arbitration began in 197 4, RBIs in 88 games, and made states that have teams in tho Big 12
NBA 

the only players awarded more were $325,000. His season ended when he Conference pass similar laws. 
Magic at Pistons 7:30 p.m., TNT Andruw Jones of Atlanta ($8.2 mil­was hit by a pitch while playing the Chambers contends football play­Celtics at Trail Blazers, 10:00 p.m., TNT lion) in 2001 and Mariano Rivera of Chicago Cubs on Aug, 12 and broke ers are exploited, unable to capital­the New York Yankees ($7 .25 mil­his left arm. 
ize on work that generates millionslion) in 2000. Rivera lost his case. Hairston, 26, hit .268 with five
NHL 

of dollars. Ile said NCAA rules gov­Players and owners have split the homers, 32 RBIs and 22 steals last
Flyers at Blues 8 p.m., ESPN 
four cases decided thus far, with year. and made $300,000. He had erning money players can earn are Florida left-hander Mark Redman asked for $1.8 million and had been too complex and easy to violate for also winning. Marlins right-hander offered $1.15 million. small infractions. 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
the paint as Notre Dame outscored St. John's 40-8 inside. 
"Our game plan was try lo stop them inside and obviously we didn't do too good of a job of that," Hod Storm coach Kim Barnes Airco said. "They have a powerful team inside.... That's the strength of their team and we tried to take it away and we couldn't." 
Notre Dame's defense didn't have a bad showing either. For the fourth time in their last six games, the Irish havo held Lheir opponent to less than 60 points. As a team. Notre Dame recorded 14 steals against tho Red Storm. Four were Flecky's -another career-high for the sophomore post player. McGraw credits her team's new 1-3-1 :tone dcfonsc for some of Notre Dame's rcrnnt defensive success. Until recently, tho IrLc;h had been playing a 2-3 zone that their opponents prepared for. Bul opponents aren't quite sure what they'll sec nuw. 
"We have a new zone that's pretty good," McGraw said. "I think that it's a lit­tle bit dincrent and I lhink it's sort of sur­prising the other team a little bit." 
But McGraw also admitted that the 34.7 percent St. John's shot from the floor could not be attributed wholly to Notre Dame's defense. It was also a result of bad shooting for the Red Storm. Aside from guard Shemika Stevens, who tallied 20 points in Wednesday night's contest, only one member of the St. John's team scored more than live points. 
"I didn't think [our defense] was quite as good tonight. I think [St. John's] missed some shots," McGraw said. 
And without any defense inside tho paint, St. John's was doomed for defeat. 
"We're not a very potent offensive team," Barnes Airco said. "So if we can't stop these teams and hold them to 50s. low 60s. we're in trouble. They did a good job tonight. found the open person, moved the ball around." 
The Irish took the lead just 15 seconds into the game when Borton scored on an assist from Batteast. A lay-up by Le'Tania Severe gave them a 10-point lead they never relinquished, leaving them with a 35-20 lead at the half. 
Note: 

. St. John's senior Danielle Rainey was declared ineligible and did not play on Wednesday night. The University realized through an administrative error that Rainey's eligibility had expired at the end of first semester. The team is currently awaiting a decision from the NCM as to whether it ¥.ill extend Rainey's eligibility. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmary:s.edu 




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 13, 2003 
her here." and has started 12 games for •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••Belles the Belles. : Th St d • C "tt :
Now that both Boyces have 

arrived at Saint Mary's, they However, Katie's contribu-• e an Ing ommI ee . continued from page 24 look to leave their marks, both tions have not been limited to •• OD Gay and Lesbian . • on and off the basketball court, her play on the court. She has : : only a year apart in age. as they have become a key part been instrumental in helping : Student Needs : However, their relationship of the Belles squad. Bridget adjust to the college : is nOW : extended beyond their close­"They are two players who try life. • • ness in age. their hardest all the time and "Their family is extremely : A CCEPTJNG : 
An unforgettable experience push themselves to be better," close," said Bellina. "Katie had : _______, : 
that the C o a c h atoughtimeadjustinglastyear, : THE STANDING APPLJCATJONS • Boyces were Suzanne and this year having Katie here • coMMJTTEE oN :
"Their family is extremely
privileged to Bellina said. has helped Bridget so much." : GAY AND LESBIAN -&'.or membership : 
1 1

share was close. Katie had a tough Bridget, a 5-Although Katie has helped : STUDENT NEEDs • that of the J. time adjusting last year, foot-7 shoot­Bridget adjust, both girls have • : Kyle Braid ing guard, has benefited from attending the : •
and this year having
Leadership stepped up as same college. • If you want to be a part of creating: • Ranch, locat­Katie here has helped a freshman "It has been so nice for both • Ed · I · • 
ed in Villa Bridget so much." this year, of us," Katie said. "To have : • • ucatwna programming : Grove, Colo. starting 13 someone in your family here is : (NETWORK, Hall StaffTraining, and : Both sisters games and great because it makes it feel : CommUnity) :
Suzanne Belllna
attended the averaging 7.4 
more like home." : • Gatherings for students : 
ranch the Belles coach points per It is because of their family • 
summers fol­game. She ties that the Boyce sisters have : (Coffee at the CoMo) : 
lowing their also leads the been able to handle this sea-: • New programs : 
sophomore years of high team with 24 3-pointers and son's disappointing record for • : 
school. shoots 80 the Belles who : • "It was a great experience, percent from are (5-16, 1-: Please print an application from our Website: : and it became yet another thing the free 
"It has been dissapointing 9). : http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn/applications.htm :
that Bridget and I shared, and throw line. "It has been • •
so far, but the season is
brought us even closer togeth­Bridget disappointing : : er," said Katie. leads the not over. We just have to so far. but the : For more information, contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, : However, the two were soon team in min­learn to have a winning season is not : or student members (see web site for student contact info.) : apart, as Katie was the first to utes played 
over." said : Applications DUE FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2003. :
attitude."
decide on Saint Mary's. They as well. 
Katie. "VVe ••. • •• •. •. • •. •. • •• •. • •. •. • •. •. • •. •. • •. •. • •. •. • •. _. 
come from a family that loves "Bridget just have to 
both Saint Mary's and Notre has had to Katie Boyce learn to have 
Dame, and grew up going to come in a a winning atti-
Belles paint guard
football games in the fall. step into a tude, and take 
"I really felt at home here [at big role it one step at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame], right away," a time." and I wanted to be at a small said Bellina. "She's had to con­Now that they're on the same school where I could play bas­tribute early, just as the other team again, the Boyce sisters
-ketball," said Katie. young players." can take that step toward win­However, she was surprised Katie, on the other hand, is ning together. when Bridget chose to follow naturally a point guard. The 5­her footsteps. foot-2 sophomore averages 4.4 "I really thought that she was points and a team high 1.9 
Contact Heather Van 

going to go to a big school," steals per game. She also shoots 
Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Katie said. "I never imagined 37 percent from beyond the arc 


Thursday, February 13, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JJ~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
VUREC 


j 
C2003 Tribune Media Servicu, Inc. All Rights Aeaeived. 
DORAH 
tDOBUTI 


www.Jurri>le.com 
ZACMEE 
I I I 


CROSSWORD 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE C.OM­PUTI:R ~RATORS C.ONSIDE:ReD THE: OFFICE L-OUNGE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
~r here: 

A lI I I ) l I I I J 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: LIVEN HIKER JAUNTY MORGUE Answer: Pecking out a tune on the piano made him this -AN "IVORY" HUNTER 
.... 
-
ACROSS 
f Diagnostic data. informally 
5 "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" screenwriter 
9 Office correspondence 
14 Gas's partner: Abbr. 
15 1958 Pulitzer winner 
16 Rod Stewart's ex 17 Tropical tuber 18 Botch 
19 Wrap up 
20 It may allow you to make an entrance 
22 Single-named supermodel 
23 Woody Guthrie's "I Ain't Home" 
24 Football Hall-of­Famer Ford 26 Some people 
pass on them: 
Abbr. 28 Suffix with verb 29 •_ there?" 
33 Update a factory 35 Pipe problem 37 Data 
38 Focus of an interplanetary search 
42 It may be abstract 
43 Remove roughly 
44 Took pains 
46 In stitches 
47 South-of-the­border title: 
Abbr. 
50 Go for the bronze? 
51 Some speeding vehicles' destinations, briefly 
53 Drive forward 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
M E T T 
._._o,.._r......H._Y,... W E W E S T O
1---<~--+~-¦-a...=.L::-L..:-1...:...,-...:...i...:..i.;::.i 
~-+~-...t 30 Revealing top N E A R E R s H E L L I N G figure A S S E S S O M E L E T T E 32 No quick reads 

55 Ordination, e.g. 57 Comeback, 
maybe 61 High hat 62 December 13th, 
e.g. 63 Act like an ass 64 Like some skies 
65 They can get rough 
66 ·_cost you!" 
67 Halfhearted 68 Vigorous 69 Misses 
DOWN 
1 "C'mon!" 
2 Los 3 Dress down 4 Pooh-pooh 
5 Ste. Jeanne 
6 Mexican water 7 One who has it coming? B Tennis great who never won Wimbledon 
9 Devil dog 10 Ca, Ga or Pa 11 Tubes on a plate 
12 Intermittently 13 Aphid's sustenance 
21 Spa handout 
25 Heretofore 27 Member of the rose family 
WILLSHORTZ 

52 Cager's favorite sound 35 NBC host 54 Head honcho
45 Didn't go 36 "American straight 56 Actress Polo Gigolo" star 58 Guess
47 Ancient military
38 Part of V.M.I.: 59 Navy
hub Abbr. commando 39 Stamp and sign, 48 Amnesiac's lack 60 •__ est percipi" perhaps 49 Univalent (old Latin motto) 40 "Louder1" chemical groups 61 Yoga class need 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comtlearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRfTIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Peter Gabriel, Stockard Channing, Jerry Springer, George Segal 
Happy Birthday: Your desire to get things done properly will cause you to try to do everything yourself. Romance can set the pace for a highly energetic and engaging year. This is your year to think and then take action --in that order. Your nwnbers are 4, I9, 20, 27, 39, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aplil 19): Don't let your wrnies stand in the way of getting things done. Once you get started you will find it easy to follow through. Focus on the positive, not the negative. -k"1r TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be a little stubborn and pushy today. Problems with a friend or relative will stem from discussions concerning beliefs. Avoid fanatical individuals. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Money and emotional matters may be intertwined today. Learn to say no to those too eager to spend your hard-earned cash. You control your finances. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Voice your concerns rather than letting your hostility grow today. Once you lay all your cards on the table you will be able to get to the bottom of your problems and ease your stress. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to give your sUIToundings a bit of a face-lift, with the OK from your housemates. This is a good day to look around for a special item foc your home. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your eyes open for a good project that could lead to financial gains. Catch yourself if you start to become negative in your responses toward others. Being positive will always bring better results. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't expect anything for nothing today. Do your own thing and refrain from relying on anyone. Reserve judgment on those who are secretive. You don't have all the facts. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to try new things. The experiences you have today will lead to all sorts of interesting prospects. Take action now. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): New projects will lead nowhere today, so just relax and enjoy yourself. Lots can be learned if you are having fun and sharing ideas ·.:r with people. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This may not be most enjoyable day for you, bul it will be one that brings resolve. You may have to face your own demons and be honest and open with yourselfas well as others.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Consider the changes that you can make to your living quarters. Real estate opportunities are present. Check out joining an organization that serves those in need. *** 
PISCFS (Feb. 19-Marclt 20): The m:ire time you spend dealing with other people and what they are experiencing, the less time you will have to dwell on your own mishaps. Physical activity will release stress. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be a take-charge person who always has something to say and lots of ideas to share. You will be interested in everything and willing to do whatever is necessary in order to enjoy what life has to offer. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Thursday, February 13, 2003 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish breeze through Red Storm 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor  win against St. John's came as a welcome relief. There were a few tense  mance of the whole team. I thought that everybody who came in did a good job contribut•  half that was focused on protect­ing the ball. "Four turnovers in the first  five for Katy Flecky. Despite Ratay's nine points ofT 3-pointers and another trey from Courtney  
-­ The most exciting part of Wednesday's game between Notre Dame and St. John's may  moments when the Red Storm came within one, but then the Irish pulled ahead from 4-3 to 6­3 and the nervousness ended  ing." Although the Irish did not claim any extraordinary num­bers, they played two solid halves  half'. I figured the statistician made a lot of mistakes," McGraw said. "It was nice to see that low number. That was a really great  LaVere, it was in the paint that the Irish really found success. Batteast paired up with team­mate Teresa Borton to work the  
have been the "Kiss a Pig" con­ along with any St. John's hopes  of basketball and found success  thing."  ball inside against a slightly  
test during halftime, but the Irish  of victory.  where, until recently, it had been  Jacqueline Batteast and Alicia  smaller St. John's team. All three  
are just fine with that. After a  "I thought we did a lot of good  lacking.  Notre  Dame  out­ Ratay led a potent Irish offense  of Batteast's assists went to  
January full of tough home losses  things today," Irish coach Muffet  rebounded the B.ed Storm 33-29  that finished with four players in  Borton for some easy layups in  
and a recent nail biter against Virginia Tech, the easy 76-48  McGraw said. "I was overall pretty pleased with the perfor­ and managed a positive assist to turnover ratio, thanks to a first  double figures and a total of 16 assists, including a career-high  see IRISH/page 2 I  

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles get rung again 
. Belles edged in second half heart stopper 
By TREY WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
Despite the frosty conditions in South Bend, the heat was on in the Angela Athletic Center as Saint Mary's basketball went toe-to-toe with Albion College Wednesday night. 
The feud came down to the wire as the Britons nipped the Belles 48-45 in the final moments of the second half. 

The Belles (5-17, 1-10 in the MIAA) returned home with full force after a two-game road series, dominating the first half with precision shooting and overpowering defense. 
Led by Emily Pernotto's seven points, the Belles took a slim 25-23 halftime lead. Their for­tune was the result of an early scoring drive that resulted in an 11-6 lead in only the first five minutes of the game. 
"This three-game home series is something we've been waiting for," said coach Suzanne Bellina. "Our ladies came ready to play today and it showed in their intensity." 
The Belles' held off a small spurt by the Britons to keep the lead, 18-17, with six minutes remaining in the half. 

Both teams flexed their mus­cles statistically in the first half with Albion shooting 37 percent from the field, while Saint Mary's connected on 43 percent 
· of their shots. · 
The game hit a critical turn­ing point only a few minutes into the second half as Britons took over on a 3-pointer by guard Jocelyn Zappala, giving them a 30-27 lead which they would never relinquish. upon the nervous Belle audi­

A glimmer of hope shown ence, bringing Saint Mary's through for the Belles in only within three at 48-45 with only the last minute of the game as 1.4 seconds left on the clock. one of center Maureen Bush's The Belles took a timeout but 
five assists was answered by a were unable to engineer any 3-pointer from point guard workable play. Katie Boyce with only 42.6 sec­"[The end of the game situa­onds left on the clock. tions] were the kind of 
The pressure intensified as moments we practice for," said Katie Miller sank a jumper to Bellina "The girls were ready the echoes of silence that fell for the pressure and they han-

died it just as they should have." 
The Belles look forward to their next to games as a chance for redemption and a chance to salvage what's left of their sea­son when they face Calvin College at home this Saturday. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.3l7@nd.edu 
. Boyce sisters back on same team once again 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

It's about time Bridget and Katie Boyce are on the same team again. 
Despite growing up together, Bridget and Katie Boyce never played on the same team until Katie's senior year in high school. 
"It has been kinda funny," said Katie, the older Boyce. "It was always a joke in our fami­ly, because we always played the same sports, but were never on the same team." 
The two finally managed to play together two years ago when Katie was a senior and Bridget was a junior at Mother McAuley High School in Chicago. 
"It was so much fun to have her on my team," said Katie. "It really made my senior year to finally play with her, because in volleyball we weren't on the same team either." 
Both sisters were two-sport standouts in high school. play­ing volleyball in addition to basketball, at Mother McAuley, a private, all-girls high school. The fact that they participated in the same sports brought the two together growing up in Oak Lawn, a Chicago suburb. 
"We were the closest in age of all our siblings, and we just have so much in common," Katie said. 
In a family that includes an older brother and four younger sisters, Katie and Bridget were 
see BELLES/page 22 


ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
SMC BASKETBALL
w 


c.) Notre Dame 76 
Albion 48

z Saint John's 48 The Boyce sisters, playing on the same team for s only the second time in their athletic careers, 
Saint Mary's 45 

Jacqueline Batteast and Alicia Ratay lead 
After leading at halftime, the Belles fail to begin a 
work together during the Belles' struggling sea­Irish to an easy win over the Red Storm. In 
e 

three-game homestand with a win. 
son.
cc 

their past four games, the Irish have held their ti opponents to less than 60 points. 
page 24 
page 24 page 24 

-



