
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Lao names Chin new student body vice president 
Student Senate Transition not applauds nominee expected to alter goals 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS By AMANDA MICHAELS fu\ociatc News Editor News Writer 
S1mators at Wednesday's meet­Student Body Vice Presi(llmt ing praised Student Body Vice Jeremy Lao announced l'rnsidnnt Jeremy Lao's Wednesday night at the Student ;uHlOlllJcmlwnt that currnnt Chief Senate meeting that Emily Chin, of Staff Hmily Chin will be his chief of stan· of the Oflice of the nominn1~ to follow as vice presi­President, will fill his current dPnt wlwn he takes over the position next semester when he OITicl' of the President next assumes presidential duties for snnWStl~r. president Pat I Iallahan, who will 
"I think Emily is the right graduate in December. choicn." said Keenan Senator Dan "Emily was with me sinco the Znnk1~1: "Siw sil<; on so many com­beginning," said Lao. regarding mittl~ns and is involved with the process of selecting his suc­IWI'rything that is going on in cessor. "She was our campaign Studl!llt Covnmment. It makes manager last winter. and she's s1~nso to have her involved with been with student government Snnat1~ mort~. Slw was the right since her freshman year, so slw way to go." knows how it works. I had sever­
l.ao also announced that Patrick al people in mind for the job, but Corkl'r, eurmntly the chair of the . she was the most qualilind." communications division of the Pat Corker, current communi­Oflict! of the President, will take cations director for the 011ice of over as Chief of Stall'. the President, will step into Chin's 
"I hav1~ 100 percent confidence position as chief of stall'. 
"We have a great person step-
sec SENATE/page I see CHIN/page 4 


Breast cancer funds surpass expectations 

By KATHERINE GALES 
NcwsWri[er 
The College of Arts and Letters collected $3.441 in October in donations for the Cancer Society of St. Joseph's County. 
The collection significantly sur­passed last year's total of $2,870. This is the third year in which October has been recognized as Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
The money raised will allow 24 to 25 mammograms for the women of St. Joseph's Country who cannot all'ord the diagnostic treatment. The University's collec­tion mak1~s it the top donor to the society. 
The English Department alone collected $680, nearly tripling their tout! from last year and rais­ing enough to fund four or five mammograms. 
"I saw an ad in People Magazine for 'Jean Day,' [a fundraiser to support breast can­cer awareness]." said Maureen Marnocha, office manager for the Dean of Arts and Letters. "We thought about doing something of our own ... the collection has spi­raled from there, getting bigger and bigger." 
"We leave it up to departments to push the issue," Marnocha said. "It's their decision to put in their area; it seems to work bet­ter." 
The College of Arts and Letters competed to see which depart­ment could raise the most for the cause "to make it more interest-
see CANCER/ page 6 
Africa-focused lecture series ends 
By HELEN ADEOSUN News Writer 

Campus Ministry's four-week series analyzing social justice issues in Africa as advocated by U2's lead singer Bono concluded Wednesday evening. 
The series, "Gospel According to Bono," recognized the need for greater awareness of AIDS and the growing debt facing Africa. It followed on the heals of a visit by Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo in September and is part of a larger conference on Africa that will conclude in February in Nigeria. 
"I think it's time," said Chandra Johnson, assistant to the University president and coordi­nator of the Obasanjo visit and the future Notre Dame student visit to Nigeria. 'There arc voices on campus that understand the significance of Africa, and these voices. from faculty to students, present this to the University so that we're not afraid of dis­cussing Africa, the debt or any of the problems there." 
The four-part "Gospel According to Bono" has contin­ued the focus on the plight of Africa by raising awareness of the issues of debt relief, AIDS and the effects of both on the continent. The last part of the series· held yesterday evening, called "Pray with Africa," fea­tured traditional African prayers. Previous weeks' events included a faith-based interpretation of Bono's music. However, the last two weeks have placed emphasis on the problems facing Africa and Bono's own fund Debt Aids Trade and Africa. 
Becca Saunders and Frank Santoni, leaders of the project, said they intended to tackle issues of faith as well as an event to raise awareness and money for AIDS research and debt can­cellation. 


"We consciously followed on the curtails of the Call to Solidarity With Africa", Saunders said. "It's been on campus lately, and we wanted to follow up on that." 
Both projects have heavily incorporated student involve­ment. The organizers for the Bono series have started a hall competition, with half of the pro­ceeds from the fundraiscr going to the Jubilee Network, an organization for which Bono is spokesperson that works for debt cancellation in Africa. The other half will go to the Holy Cross mis­sions in Africa. 
"The turnout to the events has been 75 to 100 people a week, and during the 'Drop the Debt Coffeehouse' the third week, we raised nearly $200," Saunders said. "People have said it ... has really made a difference". 
Emily Osborne, assistant pro­fessor of history whose resnarch focuses on African studies, said she has also seen a positive stu­dent reaction after the "Call to Solidarity to Af'rica." 
"There is a definite interest in Af'rica. We live in a global world; some of the most serious chal­lenges facing humans is in Africa," Osborn said. 
Osborne also mentioned other sources that teach students about the complexities of the sit­uation in Africa. 
"The African Student Association's principle goal is to highlight Africa as a place of con­cern, and there is a systematic attempt to expose people to African culture," she said. 
Professor Osborne said she wants events such as the "Gospel According to Bono" and the activities of the ASA, such as their concert "By Grace" that will take place at Stepan Center Saturday evening, to highlight 
sec AFRICA/page 4 

----------------, 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The freedom to DART 
I am writing in response to Thesday's news article "Registration causes con­cerns." 
The article discussed how (due to a large proportion of faculty members taking leave) there are very limited 
Katie Knorr 

English electives being_offered next semester. I myself 
Viewpoint

am a recent con­vert to the English major, and yester­day, despite my early DART time, had to deal with the results of these restric­tions. 
While I did get an elective to add to my schedule, I found that many of the department's classes had already been closed. If that many classes had already been filled at such an early time, there obviously are not enough classes being offered. 
It frustrates me that the department has gotten into this predicament. 1\vo of the required classes, which are to be taken before senior year, are being taught in only one section. 
This leaves no options for students regarding time slots or professors, and it forces some younger students to wait to take their requirements. I personal­ly have only four semesters to complete the ten classes needed for the major, and I would much prefer to rest easy knowing that I won't have to struggle to get into the classes I will need to graduate. 
I would also like to be able to choose classes that will excite my passion for English and not get stuck with certain classes because they're the only ones open. 
Yet it's not just the English depart­ment that concerns me. The registra­tion system as a whole seems some­what flawed. 
Certain students with early DART times get a proportionately larger num­ber of the classes they desire than someone who DARTs last. 
In addition, the registrar's office is oftentimes unhelpful. A senior friend of mine was just turned away after asking to be placed in an economics class required for his major. 
This upcoming semester is his last at Notre Dame, and yet he was still told, "tough luck-they're all closed." 
He will most likely have to take a special studies program, for which he'll receive no credit, simply because a slot was not opened for him in the required econ class. 
Each student, I am sure, has had problems with registration -not just with getting classes they want, but with filling requirements as well. 
I don't think that,· as a junior, I should be limited to choosing among five or six electives and that sophomores should be left with no options at all. 
Students should be a top priority at a university of this caliber. and not hiring enough professors in order to compen­sate for those on leave should never be an issue. 
I am asking the University to please try to be more accommodating to the students; we should not feel this frus­trated within majors that we have cho­sen out of a passion for the knowledge we'll gain under their influence. 
Contact Katie Knorr at kknorr@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF CORE? 





Beth Franzosa Tim O'Malley Kevin McCabe Jackie Ramirez Becca Saunders 
Junior Senior Sophomore Sophomore Sophomore Pasquerilla West Dillon-Hall Knott Hall McGlinn Hall McGlinn Hall 
"I had a great "CORE is an ''I'm PLS-"I don't mind it. "I would tell class and incredible that's three I enjoy my you, but I'm professor, so I opportunity to years ofCORE.,, CORE class. ,, afraid my 
liked it., expand one's 
academic outlook to the lands ofopen­ness and truth. , 

Metrosexuals Invade machismo culture 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Smearing hot wax on Harvey Soto's back and unruly eyebrows, a black­clad aesthetician presses down oil Soto's skin and with a quick tug delivers him into the world of the metrosexual man. 
The pain, puffiness and red patches are small prices to pay for being beautiful, says Soto, a 42­year-old graphic artist in San Juan. 
"When you think of men here, you think about machismo or being rough," says the burly Soto. "But 
TODAY a: 


seductions. 

Robber forgets to cut eye holes In mask 
MODESTO, Calif. -Talk about being robbed blind. 
Police said a masked man who robbed a Modesto bank Monday forgot to cut eye holes into his disguise, occasionally lifting up a corner of the flannel cloth to see his feet as he fum­bled his way through the heist, and crashing into the Oak Valley Community Bank's steel door frame on the way out. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
that image is changing." 
In a region where images of unshaven men once ruled the billboards, machismo remains king, but the markings of manli­ness are changing in Latin America. Wild-haired revo­lutionaries like Che Guevara have been replaced by clean-cut met­rosexual icons like soccer star David Beckham, musi­cian Ricky Martin and Texas Rangers outfielder Juan Gonzalez. 
It's not that bravado has vanished. Many men still play Casanova, but more are fitting beauty appoint­ments in between the 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

professor will read this., 
IN BRIEF 

NDCinema will present another installment of their annual film series, entitled "Grand Illusion," tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The lilm screening is free and open to the public. 
Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theater will perform Tennessee Williams' "The Glass Menagerie" tonight through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets, which can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office, are $9 for students and $10 for gener­al admission. 
RecSports will host a drop-in lacrosse match at Rolfs Sports & Recreation Center's Court 1. All are welcome to participate. 
Legends will host a The Best of AcoustiCafe tonight from 9 to 11:30 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
O'Neill Hall will sponsor a lecture by Fr. Dave Schlaver, C.S.C., entitled "Mother Teresa and the Call to Service" tonight from 9 to 10 p.m. in the O'Neill Hall Chapel. Mass and refreshments will follow the lecture. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Student Union Board will present its weekly movie beginning tonight in 101 DeBartolo. "Pirates of the Caribbean" will be shown at 10 
p.m. Tickets, which can be pur­chased at the door, are $3 each. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 59 HIGH 41 LOW 35 LOW 24 
LLI :::1: 
ti 
LLI 

3: 
..... 

~ 
<C 
CJ 


0 

...I HIGH 60 HIGH 54 HIGH 55 HIGH 55 LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 43 LOW 49 
Atlanta 64 I 44 Boston 59 I 47 Chicago 65 I 43 Denver 67 I 36 Houston 75 I 54 Los Angeles 71 1 52 Minneapolis 56 134 New York 57 I 44 Philadelphia 57 I 44 Phoenix 80 I 53 Seattle 48 I 31 St. Louis 71 I 42 Tampa 74 I 52 Washington 59 144 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 The Observ~r + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
New drop-boxes available for TCE forms 
TCE returns encouraged by convenient drop-off locations 
grading. Affleck-Graves said 
By MATT BRAMANTI faculty members and admin­
NewsWri1er istrators use the results for 
several purposes. 
"Most importantly, it allows 
TCEs just got a little easier. the instructor to learn how The teacher-course evalua­people have perceived his or tions, which arc administered her teaching," he said. near the end of every semes­In addition. academic ter. can now be dropped off at departments, colleges and the a number of new drop-box University as a whole use the locations around evaluations to campus. Boxes will gauge stu­be placed on the dents' satisfac­first floors of "We're trying to tion with their O'Shaughnessy encourage students instruction, 
Hall. the Mendoza and to make
to participate. TCEs PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 
College of Business any necessary 
One of the current TCE drop-off boxes Is located In DeBartolo Hall. New locations Include
and Cushing Hall are really improvements. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Mendoza College of Business and Cushing Hall of Engineering.
of Engineering, in important to us. " "It's impor­addition to their tant to us that current locations a large majori­Graves said. This week, the Academic view comments regarding
John Affleck-Graves 
in DeBartolo and ty of students In the past, instructors have Council appointed a special their professors.
associate provost

Flanner Halls. are satisfied or received their completed committee to look into the "I've found them to be 
Associate provost highly satis-evaluations in mid-January. matter. entertaining. but misleading," John Affleck-fied," Affleck­This year, Affleck-Graves "They've been tasked with said senior Monica Brown. Graves said he hopes the new Graves said. "It's the best way hopes to accelerate the contacting student govern­who also submits her com­convenience will improve the to measure, track and moni­process, allowing instructors ment and the graduate stu­ments. number of TCEs his office tor how well we're doing in to see the results the day dent union to get accurate Affleck-Graves echoed that receives on time. the institution." after final grades are student representation," sentiment, downplaying the 
"We're trying to encourage Evaluations are also used in released. Affleck-Graves said. He added importance of the online serv­students to participate," he promotion and reappoint­"We're trying to encourage that the committee's work ice, however. "The problem said. "TCEs are really impor­ments of faculty members. students to participate," will continue into next semes­with those approaches is that tant to us." When an instructor comes up Aff1eck-Graves said. ter. they're ad hoc. They're not 
The evaluation forms allow for review, the department He also addressed the issue Since TCE results are not systematic," he said. students to rate the quality of head writes a report on the of releasing TCE results. published, many students several areas of an instruc­instructor's performance, and allowing students to take turn to NDToday.com 's tor's teaching, including pre­"a large part of that report is them into account when teacher evaluations. which Contact Matt Bramanti at paredness. enthusiasm and based on the TCEs," Affleck-selecting classes. allow users to submit and mbramant@nd.edu 

=._ '.. .~ 

BRo \1)\lt\' Tnr.ATRE lEAGrE
·.... · '. . ·:.};~~ 

2003-2004 Nat.•... • · ·•'6· SERIES
. 1onaJCm• 
'<j.·;··. 
~S PROUD TO PRESENT THE 
WINNER! 2001 TONY~ AW.AR.D FOR '4BEST SPECIAL T'HEATRICAL EVENT, 
STUDENl\ SPECL~L! 
Hroadway 1lK·aJ.rc r.c:~g;;c is pk:..L'i..:,: 1;1 .!·'"!(~, -·,~·i_' .:.:. ;.;iiJd~r·il. rus}l c:i~<;C·-~''·' ·-:-·T ~h~ 7~{::; Fffl fK:dhrrnarH.."CS. nn i'ucs.day. 1\io'.·. ·~ S. \.V._~~"~(_;.;tby. Nro,.,~ 1-9 QllJd Tr·:~~~.-.~,.. Xo"' ....,(J· !7···-il...., "· t"; tl.Ill­
-'-,. .. u----~u_,... ~ _ l. L .. _ ........ ~ -.. -.. .r 
7:00pm~ .all seats will be 0i1 sale ~~r $26 to t:~f 
firs~ 500 students wllh a vahd o:::ellcgc I) ,~r1 1 )" al 
H~c Morris Hi:rx: Onlcc. I mn;. 2 ~:z.:k;.:l~;:..;_·.-s.llJikr(: 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 20, 2003 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
that I can work well with these people, and we're excited about the issues we'll be working with next semester," Lao said during the meeting. 
Chin also expressed her excitement at the appointment, and said that she looks forward to working more closely with the Senators. As vice president, Chin will run the Senate meetings. 
Also during Wednesday's meeting, Rex Rakow, the director of Notre Dame Security/Police, spoke to Senators on the ways NDSP is looking into changing the security on campus. 
"We're using this year to examine res­idence hall security," Rakow said. "We're looking at what else we need to provide. We will make a recommenda­tion probably by Spring Break as to what we see residence hall security should look like." 
Rakow said the NDSP is specifically looking into the issue of hall monitors in the women's residence halls. 
"Every hall seems to have a different set of requirements for their security guard. We think it should be standard­ized and every student should be afford­ed the same security," stated Rakow. 

Africa 

In other Senate news 
+Senators passed a resolution that states that Senators who serve on multi­ple Student Government bodies, such as the Council of Representatives or the 

"I would like students to go to 
events like the "Gospel according to Bono" and get over how the press represents the African con­tinent," she said. "Looking at Africa, we learn about the resilience of all people and how people can creatively make due with limited resources." 
Saunders said that she hopes students still continue to maintain 


an interest in Africa's problems. 
"The event is more to raise awareness than to raise enough money to cancel the entire debt," she said. "After the project ends, we hope that with all the press everyone realizes the huge responsibility by Americans to pay attention to the problems in 




excltiSively
Africa. It is the defming issue of our generation and the goals are 

at-·~
not unattainable." 

Sminute~ 
{rom CUTi=tCST
Contact Helen Adeosun at hadeosun@nd.edu Campus s or s 


"Shotgun Brady, what's your prediction for the fight?" 
"Prediction?" 


"Yes, prediction." 

"PAIN." 

Campus Life Council, will only be required to serve on one Senate Committee. It also stated that one Senator from these outside councils will be required to report to the Senate regarding the business in those coun­cils. 
+ Pasquerilla West Senator Jana Lamplota reported to Senators on her meeting with Bill Kirk, associate vice president for residence life, regarding the Senate's petition on the ROTC Presidential Pass In Review. In total, Senators collected 2,082 student signa .. tures in support of the petition. She said that Kirk seemed impressed with the Senate's efforts, but was concerned that there had been a low student turnout for the ceremony in the past. Lamplota stressed to Senators that if the ceremo­ny is indeed moved to an outdoor loca­tion, it would need student support. 
+The Senate discussed options for replacing the arcade in the basement of LaFortune with another student attrac­tion. Senators stressed that they will be open to student opinion and feedback. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

continued from page 1 

Ate you teqQy yet? 
aspects of African problems that are not always presented. 

Pueblti· Today 




Chin 
continued from page 1 
ping in for me," Chin said. "[Corker] served in the office of the president for three years, and we've been transitioning over the past week." 
Lao said that Hallahan's opinion was important to the selection process. and the final decision was a "meeting of the minds," with Chin agreeing to the change. 
"At first, I was concerned over the fact that we would be transitioning two bodies, rather than bringing in someone new from the outside without a position already," said Chin. "But the office of the president is very organized, and in the end, there were no problems." 
Because she was involved in the formula­tion of Hallahan and Lao's platforms during elections last year, they will continue in the direction of the original campaign, Chin said. This includes the restructuring of the student government, through the addition of the Council of Representatives and other current movements toward that end. 
She added that she would also like to see the Senate take "a more vocal stand on the current issues" and added that she saw "a lot of potential for progress" in the group. 
Lao emphasized student responsibility and campus safety when addressing the main issues for the coming semester. 
"In light of last year's tragedy and the 
CHEESECAKE 

nature of the campus' weekend activities, we need to make sure that the students are, and continue to be, safe," Lao said. 
He also cited the creation of a task force to deal with ticketing concerns, the supple­menting of student activities funding and the restoration of services for students with temporary disabilities as other goals he wants achieved. 
"All of these are important issues. With ticketing, we need to bring together every­one's ideas to come up with a viable solu­tion ... Help for temporarily disabled stu­dents -those with broken legs, etc. -is so necessary, and whether it be through connections with departments or a sepa­rate endowment even, we have to find the means to add to the student activities fund," Lao said. 
To the Senate, Lao expressed his enthusi­asm with the appointment of Chin, and said that he was confident in his ability to work well with her to achieve the year's objectives. 
Chin was also excited about the opportu­nities provided to her and the Senate by her promotion. 
"Because of my history with the Office of the President, my comfort with those peo­ple and my knowledge of that environment, we can have more collaboration between the Senate and the Office of the President in the coming year," Chin said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 




On the occasion of International Education Week (November 17-21, 2003), the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Office of International Studies salute our students in languages and literatures, our participants in international study programs, and all of our applicants for international fellowships. 
"We are all students of the world we live in, and today, our world is more interdependent than ever before. The challenges we face in areas such as security, democratic development, economics, and health cannot be addressed by any country acting alone. International education-learning about other cultures and languages through study, living overseas, and interacting with people of other countries-promotes the free exchange of ideas, allows us to seek joint solutions to problems, and helps create lasting partnerships to meet our shared concerns." Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
"Since the inception of International Education Week in November 2000, Americans have experienced several world events that should leave us with little doubt that we are living in an interconnected world. The need for understanding other cultures, languages, and global issues has become increasingly more significant. We should do our very best to give our students the skills they need to be successful global citizens." Secretary of Education Rod Paige. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Canada removes SARS scanners 
TOHONTO -Canada is easing SARS screening at its international airports, including a halt in the use of thermal scan­ners to detect people with fever, Health Minister Anne McLellan announced Wednesday. 
The change comes more than live months after the last new case of severe acute respi­ratory syndrome was detected in Canada, where the disease killed 44 people and sick­ened more than 200 others in the Toronto area earlier this year. 
"Hight now, SAHS is nowhere in the world," McLellan said at the opening of a new feder­al emergency operations center in Ottawa. 
She said the fever-detecting scanners could be quickly reinstalled if needed, but acknowledged the machines have limited effectiveness. ' 
Ailing leader worries Egypt 
CAIHO, Egypt -Sneezing and coughing, Egypt's ailing president abruptly left the podium for more than 30 minutes in the mid­dle of a nationally televised speech Wednesday, focusing attention on the ques­tion of succession in an important U.S. ally. 
The 75-year-old Jlosni Mubarak, who has no off1cial successor and is believed to be grooming his son to follow him, was described by aides as having a cold aggra­vated by medication and fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. 
"The president has suffered a health cri­sis," a state television announcer shortly after the broadcast was cut. The words stunned many Egyptians: In Tahrir Square, the main plaza near parliament, traffic halt­ed and car horns went silent as police offi­cers and pedestrians listened silently to radios. 
The opening of Parliament had already been delayed four days because of Mubarak's cold. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Daschle to support energy bill 
WASHINGTON -Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle is ready to support the broad energy bill and will oppose attempts to scuttle it by a filibuster, one of the senator's aides said Wednesday. 
The decision casts doubt on whether oppo­nents can succeed in blocking the bill through a filibuster over a dispute involving the gasoline additive MTBE, which has been found to contaminate drinking water sup­plies. 
A spokesman for Daschle said the South Dakota senator will vote for ending debate on the bill as long as senators are given time to adequately debate the legislation: "There is a lot of legitimate concern about the bill on both sides of the aisle ... [but] he will support it because of ethanol and other provisions in the bill on energy efficiency." 
On Wednesday night, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, H-Tenn., and other Hepublicans set a parliamentary vote for Friday for ending the debate. That would force a final up-or-down decision on the I, 1 00-page bill. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fire truck overturns on wet road 
GOSHEN, Ind. -Two firelighters making an emergency run were shaken but unhurt when their fire truck slid off a road and overturned. 
Jason Miller and Lt. Alan Peery were responding to an ambulance call in the lad­der truck about 7 p.m. Tuesday to assist paramedics on the call. 
As Miller drove down a rain-slick county road, one of the truck's wheels, and then truck itself, slid off the narrow shoulder into a ditch. The truck then overturned, hitting a tree and damaging a fence. 
The truck, which the department bought two years ago, is insured. 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Bush calls on Europe for support 
Associated Press 
LONDON -President Bush urged Europe on Wednesday to put aside bitter war disagreements with the United States and work to build democracy in Iraq or risk turning the nation over to terrorists. Anti-war demonstrators mobilized for a march of tens of thousands on Thursday. 
Bush conceded in a speech that deep differ­ences remain over Iraq, even among staunch war allies, the United States and Britain. 
But, he asserted, "we did not charge hundreds of miles into the heart of Iraq and pay a bitter cost of casualties and liberate 25 million people only to retreat before a band of thugs and assassins." 
His speech followed an elegant welcoming ceremo­ny with Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace, which included a 41-gun salute and a review of troops on foot 'and on horseback. 
Meanwhile, anti-war pro­testers made preparations for huge demonstrations against Bush's 3 1/2-day state visit. 
There were isolated, smaller demonstrations around the city on us," Bush told about 400 East, Bush cited several Minister Tony Blair, whose Wednesday. At one point, foreign policy experts and months of "setbacks and close support of Bush on as the president's motor­invited guests. frustrations." Iraq has drawn rising pub­cade arrived at Banqueting He was warmly received He said European leaders lic opposition in Britain. House for his speech, noisy with applause. "should withdraw all favor "It really is about time demonstrators could be Bush asserted that there and support from any we started to realize who seen and easily heard just are times, as with Saddam Palestinian leader who fails our allies are, who our two blocks away. The Hussein in Iraq, when "the his people and betrays enemies are, stick with the demonstrators, held back violent restraint of violent their cause," an apparent one and fight the other," by police lines, could not be men" is justified. reference to Palestinian Blair told the House of heard inside the hall where "In some cases, the leader Yasser Arafat. Commons earlier. His Bush spoke. measured use of force is all Bush urged Israel to end remarks drew loud 
Bush acknowledged dif­that protects us from a the "daily humiliation" of applause. fering views about U.S.-led chaotic world ruled by Palestinians and not to Bush and first lady Laura involvement in postwar force," he said. undercut peace prospects Bush were guests of honor Iraq, but said, "Whatever Bush said he still strongly "with the placements of at a white-tie state dinner has come before, we now supports international walls and fences." Wednesday night. have only two options: To organizations, like the Also on Wednesday, Bush "You led the response to keep our word or to break United Nations, which he met with leaders of an unprovoked terrorist our word." bypassed in going to war in Parliament and some rela­attack, which was on a 
"Failure of democracy in Iraq. But he said the United tives of the 67 British vic­scale never seen before," Iraq would throw its people Nations must be willing to tims of the Sept. 11, 2001, the queen said in toasting back into misery and turn enforce its own demands attacks in the United Bush. "Our two countries that country over to terror­-or lose its relevancy. States. On Thursday, Bush stand firm in their determi­ists who wish to destroy Turning to the Middle meets with British Prime nation to defeat terrorism." 

Illinois passes death penalty reforms 
verdicts, allows defendants to have issue. And before leaving office last
Associated Press 
more access to evidence and bars year, he cleared out Illinois' death 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -After four the death penalty in cases that row, commuting the sentences of years of tumult that fed a national depend on a single witness. 167 prisoners to life in prison. debate on the death penalty, law­Lawmakers also approved legisla­The new law incorporates most of makers Wednesday changed the face tion that would banish police officers the expert panel's recommendations. of capital punishment in Illinois. who lie in murder investigations, Under the new law: 
The state House, in a 115-0 vote, and the governor has agreed to sign -Judges will be able to rule out approved a series of changes to a it. That issue was the sticking point the death penalty in cases that rest death penalty system that led to the that led Blagojevich to veto the over­largely on a single eyewitness or wrongful conviction of at least 17 all measure. police informant. men. The overhaul follows years of -The Illinois Supreme Court will 
The action, an override of Gov. heated debate over capital punish­be able to overturn a death sentence Hod Blagojevich's veto, makes the ment, starting with the release from if it finds it "fundamentally unjust," measure law immediately. The death row of three men in quick suc­even if there are no procedural Senate overrode the veto earlier this cession who were exonerated or flaws or other reasons to nullify it. month. found to be wrongly convicted. -Execution of the mentally 
Among other things, the legislation In 2000, then-Gov. George Ryan retarded is not allowed. The change gives the Illinois Supreme Court suspended all executions and called brings the state into line with a U.S. greater power to throw out unjust on a group of experts to study the Supreme Court ruling last year. 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
ND to host regional science competition 
By JOHN LOWE 
News Writer 

Eight high school students from the Midwestern United States will present projects in the Siemens regional competi­tion Friday and Saturday at Notre Dame's Eck Center and McKenna Hall for Continuing Education. 
Notre Dame is hosting the event for the fifth year as part of the Westinghouse Science and Technology Competition, an annual scholarship pro­gram for talented high school students from across the United States. 
Paul Helquist, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, participated as a judge to nar­row the field of applicants. 
"Projects are evaluated by judges representing all fields of science, math and technolo­gy," he said. "The job of the judges is to narrow down the field from the original 1,000 to 48 projects." 
Once the 48 projects have been selected, they are distrib­uted geographically into six regions. Over the five-year his­tory of the competition, Notre Dame has hosted students from the Midwest region. 



~'W~~~ 
ontyat 11;~ Smmutes ~ {rom OUTPOST 
Campus :!•z.lif: 
Cold Weather Experts 


Coli 259-1ooo for more details 
Helquist said that both the application and selection processes have proven inten­sive. 
"Each region has their own independent judges," Helquist said. "The applicants must go through a process of creating posters, reports, oral presen­tations and a detailed ques­tion-and-answer session." 
One individual and one team from each of the six regions advance to the national com­petition in Washington D.C., held at the American Academy for the Advancement of Science. A separate judging process occurs at the national level, after which each team and individual is ranked and prizes are awarded according­ly. 
"The stakes are pretty high at that level -the winning individual receives $100,000 scholarship and then, likewise, the winning team receives $100,000," Helquist said. 
High school students arriving Friday will be escorted around campus by Notre Dame stu­dent hosts and will also partic­ipate in a poster presentation of their research Friday. 
Leon Lederman, Nobel Laureate in Physics, will serve as the event's keynote speaker Friday afternoon. The regional competition will take place on Saturday between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. 
Helquist said that he is con­sistently amazed at the advanced caliber of each stu­dent's work. 
"All of us judges, by the time we are done with this each year, are really just blown over in terms of [the] extremely high levels these students are working [at]. especially the ones that go on to win. The level at which they have suc­ceeded in their projects is something we might expect [from] a student ... studying for a PhD," he said. 
Contact John Lowe at jlowel @nd.edu 
The NotreDame Collegium Musicum 
Daniel Stowe, director 
emass 

Cu.tni.lmne ~ ~1t~fja.1.1t: =£rtcs$c tx: "~:tostrt 't\11nu ilgor t$\tratJins~: !})tass 
Friday, November 21,2003 8:00pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel UniversityofNotre Dame Free andopen to the public 
UN I Y E ~SIT Y ()F 
NOTRE DAM£ 
DEI'AlttMI\NT 01' MI~SIC 

Cancer 
continued from page 1 

ing," said Kim Baum, an admin­istrative assistant in the English Department. 
"We sent out [e-mail] mes­sages to all English majors, graduate students and faculty," Baum said. 
Within the English Department, administrative assistant Lynn McCormack com­posed the e-mail messages for recipients. 
"We didn't want people to feel obligated or guilty," she said. "We make them want to give because they feel passion for the cause." 
"Lynn's messages was just that we all have this issue," said Baum. "We asked [the recipi­
. ents] to give generously, and they did. We are taking this par­ticular cause very seriously. Faculty and students poured in." Other areas of the college "do what they want to try to raise funds," said McCormack, point­ing out that "the Arts and Letters Copy Shop held a raffie." 
"We all felt that breast cancer was definitely a concern," Baum said. "The college wanted to support it. ... A general message was sent to administration staff saying that October is Breast Cancer Awareness Month and that the departments were col­lecting donations." 
"Educating us and reminding the staff is what really caused the collection to take off," Baum said. "People started thinking about themselves, their friends and relatives. We look forward to this every October because we know what we're capable of doing." 
"The money stays here [in St. Joseph County]." Marnocha said. "So often, when people donate they don't know where the money ends up. Here, we have people in the college bene­fiting. Everyone is touched by breast cancer." 
"One student gave $50, and another student made a point of giving $2 after the fundraiser was over ... to us, that was as big as the $50 donation," Marnocha said. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

UNIVERSI'TY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
UNIVERSITY SEEKS COMMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION PROCESS 



Rite of Welcome 
ThiS SUI\day at the 
11:45am Mass in the 
Basilica of the Sacred 
Heart we vlill recognize 
those members of the 
Notre Dame cnmmunity 
who are seekmg to 
become fully initiated into the Cattmnc faith commu· nity in the Rite of Wefcome. These women and men have met together o¥er the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Catechumens seek fUll initiation through the sacraments of Baptism, 
Eucharist, and Conftrma­tioni Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into Full Communion with the Catholic Church through 
the sacraments of the 
Eucharist and Confirma· ti?n. TheRite of Welcome g~ves all of us an opportu­ntty to encourage these 
men and women as they continue their journey of initiation in the months ahead. 


Catechumens and their Godparent~; 
Heather Berry~Keara Coughlin Justin Brand.on...Da,iid. Yeager Kari Dai-Joe Zizzo Richi~ Dang"'Tim Q'MaUey Carolyn LaFave-Sarah Sheehan Melinda Leonard;;,;MauteenMalloy Brandon Phillips;;,;Beverly Brun.ell 
David Taffan -J s It t 
. . . Y · .. ~ on lllS er 
Amy 'J!e~el-Jl~ Tr~mel Jenna Wilkm&-·Mcara Madd(lll Xiaojuan lie-Priscilla Wong 
Candidates and their SnQnsors: 
Dustin Beckley-Brendan Wilson Jarrod Brown~Geoffrey Keating Katie Burns-Arina Grossu Joe Dosch-Dave Ballintyn Bernard DuBray~Jim Kilroy Deborah Enrrick-Mary Gallagher Chris Gerben;..Gerry Olinger Bryan Kreller-Ryan Reed. Mallorie Lenn-Chantal de Alcuaz Jennifer Luff-Tim Rembold Joanna Mangeney-Brr,ndan Ronan Tara Pi~>~Zacli Littl~ Kelly Shaffer-.MetJan Thomas 1aWanda Spearman,·Susan Brichler Mary Titnler-Gtetchen lWJand Nina Whitalter,..,Tukisa Smith Andrew Williama,...Eli~abeth Reed Ed Wolfe-Joe Reimer · Mo11ica Young-Anne Messing 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
The University of Notre Dame is seeking comments from students, faculty, staff, alumni and the public in preportion for its periodic evaluation by the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. 
The University will undergo a comprehen­sive evaluation visit March 22-24, 2004. The team will renew the institution's ongo­ing ability to meet the Commission's criteria for accreditation and General Institutional Requirements. 
Comments should address substitive mat­ters related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Comments must be in writing and signed; comments are not treated as confidential. 
Comments should be submitted by Feb. 20 to: Public Comment on the University of Notre Dame Accreditation, Commission on Institutions of Higher Education, North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, 30 N. LaSalle St., Suite 2400, Chicago, IL. 60602. 
The Commission does not accept confiden­tial or unsigned comments. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 9 690.4 6 +66.30 
Jones~ ~me: QowJJ: Composite Volume: 1,933 196 • 1,310,180,992 
AMfX 1,068.76 -3.82 NASDAQ 1,899.65 +17.90 NYSE 5,967.13 +28.80 S&PSOO 1,042.44 +8.29 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 9,736.32 +121.72 FTSE IOO(London) 4,327.40 -27.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -5.52 -0.12 2.11 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.80 +0.20 25.35 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) +6.71 +0.21 3.34 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.14 +0.68 32.52 IVANHOE ENERGY (IVAN) -24.48 -1.42 4.38 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.2B +0.64 50.80 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.63 +0.68 42.35 5-YEAR NOTE +2.36 +0.74 32.09 3-MONTH BILL -0.96 -0.09 9.27 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.63 32.07 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.70 394.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.05 85.975 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.1 EURO 0.8399 POUND 0.5887 CANADIAN$ 1.304 
IN BRIEF 
Sweden leads world in digital access 
GENEVA -Scandinavia tops the world in access to the Internet and other communica­tions technologies, but South Korea and other Asian countries are catching up fast. the U.N. communications agency said Wednesday. 
Sweden camli. in first in the Digital Access Index, followed by Denmark and Iceland, with Norway in fifth place, said the International Telecommunications Union. 
"Their presence at the top reflects that region's traditional emphasis on equitable access. affinity for technology and top-notch infrastructure." the report said. 
South Korea, world leader in high-speed "broadband" access, came in fourth. South Koreans are heavy users of the Internet for games, chatting and other purposes. 
Filling out the top 10 in order were the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Finland, Taiwan and Canada. The U.S. was 11th. 
Hollywood plans for online movies 
WASHINGTON -Americans could be watching newly released movies via the Internet as soon as mid-2005 as the industry speeds development of a secure delivery sys­tem, Hollywood's chief lobbyist said Wednesday. 
"I really do believe that we will be able to have some -maybe by this time next year ­we'll be able to have the beginnings of some really sturdy, protective clothing to put about these movies," Motion Pictures Association of America chief executive Jack Valenti said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Valenti said he would like to see movies go straight from the big screen to the Internet, where customers could download or view them on demand well before DVDs and videos reach the store shelves. "We want to use the Internet," he said. 
Valenti said the industry has no current plans to sue pirates like the music recording industry, but he isn't ruling it out because he has seen surveys showing music piracy is being taken more seriously since the lawsuits began early this year. 
Home construction industry healthy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Resi­
dential construction sizzled 
in October, reaching the 
highest level of activity in 17 
years, a fresh sign that the 
red-hot housing market is 
helping to fire the economy's 
recovery. 
The Commerce 
Department reported 
Wednesday that builders 
broke ground on 1.96 mil­
lion units. at a seasonally 
adjusted annual rate, repre­
senting a 2.9 percent 
increase from September's 
pace. 
The level of activity in October marked the strongest monthly perform­ance since January 1986 and left economists mar­veling at the strength of the housing sector, which has hummed along throughout the economy's economic slump as low mortgage rates have beckoned buyers. 
Economists were predict­ing residential construction would decline in October to a rate of around 1.85 million units. 
"U.S. housing starts blew away estimates," said Sherry Cooper, chief econo­mist at BMO Nesbitt Burns. "The economy is l0"6king increasingly ~teamy." 
All of the vigor last month came from new single-fami­ly home projects, which clocked in at a record high pace of 1.62 million units, a 

5. 7 percent increase from formance since January association. rates on these benchmark September. Construction of 1986 -and a 4. 9 percent Still, the association's chief mortgages have bounced up apartments, condos and increase from September's economist, David Seiders, and down. Last week, rates other multifamily housing activity. said, "All the fundamentals on benchmark fixed-rate declined by 3 percent in But in the Northeast, resi­remain in place for a 30-year mortgages stood at October to a rate of 319,000 dential building projects healthy housing market -6.03 percent. units. plunged by 18 percent to a including mortgage rates in Federal Reserve policy­
On Wall Street, the good rate of 146,000, and in the the 6 percent range, reviv­makers arc expected to hold news on housing construc­Midwest, they fell by 8 per­ing consumer confidence a main short-term interest tion lifted stocks. The Dow cent to a rate of 390,000. and impressive home-price rate at a 45-year low of 1 Jones industrials gained After booming sales in the performance." percent when they meet 
66.30 points to close at summer and fall, home Sales of both new homes next on Dec. 9. That's good 9,690.36. builders are slightly less and previously owned news for one-year 
By region, total housing bullish about sales prospects homes are on track to reach adjustable rate mortgages. construction -single and for November as well as for record highs this year, econ­which averaged 3.76 per­multifamily homes the next six months, accord­omists predict. Low mort­cent last week. jumped in the West by 17.7 ing to a monthly survey by gage rates are a main rca­Wedne~day's report also percent from September to the National Association of son behind the brisk sales, showed ,(hat housing per­October to an annual rate of Home Builders. they say. mits -a good barometer of 526,000, the highest level "We're seeing some slow­Rates on 30-year mort­current demand -rose by since December 1986. In the down in visitors to model gages slid to 5.21 percent, 5.2 percent in October to a South, residential projects homes," said Kent Conine, a the lowest level in more rate of 1.97 million units. clocked in at a rate of home builder from Dallas than four decades, in the the strongest pace since 898,000-the best per-who also is president of the middle of June. Since then, February 1984. 


House passes mutuals reform bill 
es, make directors on company for retirement savings and coliegc
Associated Press 

boards more independent of fund funds and are traditionally regarded 
WASHINGTON -The House over­managers and require companies to as safe investments. whelmingly voted Wednesday in disclose more information to Democrats complained in debate favor of legislation to mandate new investors about fees and fund opera­that the bill is incomplete because it penalties for abuses and provide tions. doesn't strengthen the enforcement investors with more information The bill still needs approval in the powers of the Securities and about fees, in a move to reassure Senate, where several different ver­Exchange Commission and state investors over the widening mutual sions have been proposed but no securities regulators. Nevertheless, fund scandal. action is expected before next year. they voted unanimously for the 
The 418-2 vote came with indus­Lawmakers of both parties rose in measure. try problems spreading, more big­House debate to assure the 95 mil­At the same time, Federal Reserve name companies being cited for lion Americans who invest in mutual Chairman Alan Greenspan and allowing special trading deals that funds -half of all households -Treasury Secretary John Snow have disadvantage ordinary investors and that the legislation would help them. cautioned Congress against passing a money stampede continuing out of The bill "will provide Americans mutual fund reforms that could cost implicated funds. Lawmakers with a clear understanding" of investors more in fees and dimin­approved the measure after only mutual fund operations and fees, ished returns. light debate. said Rep. Katherine Harris, R-Fla. The issues raised could become 
The legislation would impose A middle class staple, mutual sticking points in Senate considera­penalties against fund trading abus-funds often are a principal vehicle tion of parallel legislation. 
THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
Smoke-free bars mask cowardice 


Whenever I am back in England, one of my favorite ways to spend an evening is to go to a public house called the Duke of Cumberland. Even by English standards, it is an old pub. People have drunk there since before Peter Wicks the Reformation. They serve excel­lent food and a Englishmangood range of 
Abroad

beers, and one of my favorite pleas­ures is to meet an old friend there and exchange our news over cigars. 
Cigar smoking is a minority pastime and I have found that one of its few disadvantages is that, whenever I smoke in public, a stranger will invari­ably approach me and ask me how old I am. The question is usually asked in such a way as to imply that, at my age, my leisure time should be given over to cannabis, extreme sports and ill-con­sidered sexual encounters; the stogies should wait until I'm in my 50s and CEO of a Fortune 500 company. It's certainly true that most cigar smokers are older men, but in my experience the old are not only wiser than the young, they also have better taste in vices. 
People who have never smoked one often view cigars as a sort of luxury cigarette, but a good cigar is much more than that. As I write this, I have on my desk a particularly fine Davidoff -hecho a mano in the Dominican Republic -which I plan to smoke upon this column's completion. It wouldn't make Castro's collection, but it is a fine cigar. How fine? Well, let's put it this way: It came with a warran­ty. 
Sometimes, Freud said, a cigar is just a cigar. Well, sometimes. But in this particular case, the cigar in question is quite obviously a phallic symbol, like a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Porsche or a totem pole, the later of which it closely resembles in scale. It will take more than an hour to smoke. Should the need arise, it could be used quite effectively in hand-to-hand com­bat. 
I rarely smoke more than twice a month, but since I came to this country three years ago, I have been watching with some dismay the trend toward banning smoking in bars, part of a larger cultural shift in opinion to the point which, as David Brooks has put it, smoking is now considered a worse sin than at least five of the Ten Commandments. Five strikes me as a conservative estimate. To be sure, this hostility is most pronounced amongst members of the upper middle class, but since that is the class that is most influential in forming public opinion, the trend is sure to continue. 
Smoking is one alternative lifestyle toward which Notre Dame is proud to trumpet its opposition. If the University's figures are to be believed, the amount of students who smoke regularly is approximately a quarter of the average for Americans of college age. The rumors of plans to make the University smoke-free in the near future have been denied, but it is note­worthy that the rumors were even plausible. 
Of course smoking is unhealthy. Everyone knows that. Indeed, over the last 20 years the educational establish­ment has largely abandoned the idea of teaching students mathematics or literature, and now sees the primary objective of education as making sure that nobody smokes and everybody uses condoms. 
I'm not against smoke-free bars. Although I smoke occasionally, I appre­ciate the desire to drink and socialize in a smoke-free environment. But I am against legislation which forces bars to be no-smoking zones, which has been introduced in California and, more recently, New York. 
But the question to ask is not why people want smoke-free bars. The question is why -when there are sports bars, singles bars, gay bars, Irish bars and any number of other types of bar-there aren't smoke-free bars already. After all, if there was really a demand for them, market forces would have provided numerous smoke-free bars already. 
Now, some people only have to hear the phrase "market forces" to dismiss the speaker as a free-market ideologue who doubtless spends his days medi­tating on passages from "The Road to Serfdom" and kisses a poster of Ayn Rand before going to sleep each night. But this isn't ideology. The only assumption involved is that bar owners want to make a profit. And if so many people really want to drink without breathing second-hand smoke, then why has nobody opened a bar to cater to them? 
The answer, I think, must be that what many people want is not simply the ability to drink in a smoke-free social space. What they want is the ability to drink in a smoke-free space without taking any personal responsi­bility for the fact that their friends can't smoke. I think that represents a kind of cowardice, and the result of that cowardice is that that all sorts of possible compromises-such as offer­ing a discount on the license fee for bar owners who go smoke-free-are passed over in favor of blanket legisla­tion. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should Notre Dame football join a conference 
"The fastest way to succeed is to look as if 
or remain independent? 
you're playing by someone ;e's rules, while quietly playing by y tr own." 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Michael Kond,.~
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
writer 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 20, 2003 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hidden prejudices? 
While clearly his intention was not to demonstrate the application of social science concepts in the "real" world, Joe Licandro. in his Nov. 19 column. gives us a good example of a couple of social science concepts and dynamics in action. The first is that individuals from devalued communities arc held to standards that are not expected or if expected, not enforced, for indi­viduals from majority communities (see Biernat and Kobrynowicz 1997). 
Licandro claims that, if Gene Hobinson had been het­erosexual and had left his wife for another woman, that it is doubtful that he would have been appointed bishop in the Episcopal Church. Why is it, then, that Barry Valentine-a divorced and remarried hetero­sexual man -was appointed Bishop of Hupert's Land (Winnipeg) in 1969? And today there are at least six active bishops in the Episcopal Church who have been remarried after divorce. 
Concerning Hobinson's divorce, Licandro paints a pic­ture of a man deserting his former wife and children: he "turned the other way" from his family. Why is it, then, that the dissolution of their marriage was done with the full support of his wife and that today they remain good friends? Why .is it that his two daughters are fully behind him in his life and his ministry? Why? Because both he and his wife handled the divorce with maturity, sensitivity and honesty. Their divorce even culminated in worship service where they received Holy Communion. Clearly Licandro is holding Robinson to a different standard and doing his best to put a neg­ative spin on the facts regarding the dissolution of Hobinson 's marriage. 
The second social science lesson is about modern forms of prejudice. Hesearch has shown that as the expression of prejudice has become less socially acceptable, individuals who hold discriminatory atti­tudes have had to develop new rhetoric to support atti­tudes and policies that privilege the group to which they belong over those "other" people (see Crocker, Major and Steele 1998; Fiske 1998; McConahay 1986). Part of this new rhetoric goes something like, "It's not that I'm racist, it's that interracial marriage makes it more difficult on the kids" or "I have nothing against gay people, I just wouldn't want my daughter to be one." 
Well, Licandro wants us to be assured that he doesn't judge Bishop-elect Gene Robinson for being gay (an attempt to establish his moral credentials as an egali­tarian), yet goes on in his article to compare him to 
alleged rapist Kobe Bryant and then invokes the "gay men are selfish and narcissistic" stereotype. And let's 
not even mention that he draws a parallel between Catholic outrage at pedophilic priests and Episcopalian outrage at having Robinson as a bishop. I don't know, 
but I have a hard time believing that Licandro is not judging Robinson's sexuality. 
It is not Robinson's "selfish" behavior that is creating the schism in the Episcopal Church. It is the homopho­bia of many of the leaders and members within the Church, something clearly not unique to Episcopalians. Would Licandro argue that the first woman bishop in the Episcopal church was being "selfish" for accepting her nomination to be bishop or would he, in hindsight these 20 years or so later, report that sexism was the root cause for the major upheaval that occured -an upheaval that included a number of churches breaking away from the Anglican church. 
N. Eugene Walls graduate student 
sociology Nov. 19 

Usher betrays students 
Halftime. Brigham Young game, and had promised (in good faith) to 2003. Immediately behind us were throw no more marshmallows, and two close senior friends cheering at since they were not in possession or in the last home game of their college the act of throwing any, we can only careers. conclude bitterly that the ushers need­
Like most, they were throwing ed to make an example of someone marshmallows. Before the band took and chose our friends -who were at the field, a young usher approached the time simply standing, warming them and warned them against throw­hands in their pockets. The fact that ing any more marshmallows, threat­they made no attempt to catch a cul­ening them with ejection if they did. prit in the act of throwing (a task that Obeying the usher, our friends prom­would have been fairly easy) demon­ised not to offend any more. As the strates that they had no desire to halftime show continued and the "protect the students," "put a stop to marshmallow fight reached its climax, the throwing" or "seize the ringlead­they kept their promise, even as they ers." were hit repeatedly (like the rest of Furthermore, the first usher failed us) by the harmless projectiles flying to stand by his promise that our all around them. They did not want to friends would be allowed to stay if lose the ability to watch the rest of the they ceased throwing, if only by com­game, which was going nicely. municating that promise to the cap­
Unfortunately, as the band left the tain. He betrayed two students he had field at the end of halftime, the same good reason to expect were no longer usher returned with his captain and offending and aided the captain in demanded both the IDs and the tickets removing them. of our friends. They did not give a rea­Finally, they were rude and demand­son for doing this, though they were ing. paying our friends not even the repeatedly asked. They ignored our decency of telling them why they were friends' truthful protestations that being kicked out (a significant ques­they were not throwing marshmal­tion, given our friends' obedience to lows, as well as our reminders that the lirst injunction). the warning the young usher had This incident left us all in shock. issued them had been followed. Two seniors, in their last home game Though the captain's rough treatment as students, were ejected for the sole of our friends and his abusive lan­purpose of providing an example. guage was extremely offensive, per­Though we admit the ushers have haps betrayal was the first usher's the right to remove those whom they false promise that he would himself consider a threat, such was clearly not remind the captain that our friends the case with our friends. The decision had been warned already. After a to remove them was not predicated on heated argument that lasted about their previous offense -it was five minutes, our friends were escort­nowhere mentioned during the argu­ed down to the concourse and kicked ment by either usher, who also conve­out of the Stadium. niently ignored the original warning. 
The marshmallow fighting has been It is a pity that two unoffending mem­an issue now for several games. It is bers of the vaunted Notre Dame fami­hard to imagine more harmless things ly, on the simple whim of an usher, to throw, and we find it hard to can be treated so harshly and unfairly believe that many students have been and then deprived of perhaps the most harboring such injurious designs on memorable of Notre Dame experi­their peers by concealing coins and ences: their final home game as stu­rocks within. Certainly we haven't dents. been hit by any such modified marsh­mallows. By contrast, the bedlam that Matthew Klobucher ensues subsequent to every Irish Ryan Gagnet touchdown or interception is positively Kevin Conley deadly. Stanford Hall 
The worst thing about this conflict, John McCarthy however. is the unreasonable and Keough Hall unfair action of the ushers. Since our seniors two friends had already been warned Nov. 17 





Outrage over Inquisition 
"The Irish Inquisition -Playful tortured and killed. And this is the basis Persecution." Does someone actually for an enjoyable evening at "The Irish think this is cute? Inquisition?" 
My first reaction to the new "Irish Anyone could accuse another of heresy. Inquisition" was that it was an action of The accused was forced to testify against extraordinarily poor and ignorant taste her/himself in court and allowed no legal to fashion an evening of "fun" around a counsel. The trials often occurred after a blatantly cartoonish understanding of an period of questioning and torture. Three Inquisitorial Trial. This seemed especial­people were required to be present for a ly true, considering Notre Dame is a confession to be considered valid, but Catholic school. To make light of such those three were often the Grand a dark, corrupt and hateful Inquisitor and two torturers. period in Church history is The accused could be callous and bizarre. strapped down, their However, I didn't say entire body shaved to anything at the time aid in finding "Devil's because I-wrong­Marks" (i.e. freck­ly -assumed that les), and pricked someone well­all over the body placed within the with sharp nee­powers-that-be dles, as spots would realize the Devil had how crass the touched were whole affair said to feel no actually was pain. and put a stop The roster to it. ' of the 
But, after Inquisition's seeing the new torture tactics "Inquisition" included the posters, which rack, the blatantly take a thumbscrew, carefree stance "boots" that in regard to the broke the bones horrors of The in the legs, suffo­Inquisition, I feel cation through compelled to voice funneled water tor­my concern. ture, head crushing 
The Inquisition was a and disembowelment. time of terror. While the For those of you who main targets were Jewish don't know, disembowelment and minority populations, any-involves being chained to the one was susceptible to accusation. This ground while a small incision is made in was because any sort of Jewish ancestry, your abdomen, through which the execu­even in the most devout Christian, was tioner would reach in and grab your used as evidence of heresy. And while intestines. A small portion of the entrails I'm sure people will argue with me, say­are then wrapped around a spit-like ing that most of the torture was carried device placed over your body. This is out by secular authorities -a much wound, pulling your internal organs debated point-it does not change the along with it. fact that the crimes were spiritual and Of course. such torture was only therefore the Trials were conducted by reserved for Jews who did not repent of the Church. their heresy and convert. Those who did 
So whether Church authorities actually were merely imprisoned. tortured and killed, or simply handed Playful persecution, indeed. over the guilty to the secular organiza­tions that they had created, seems an Cricket Slattery insignificant matter. It does not change junior the fact that, because of a Papal Bull off-campus issued to free Christendom from heretics, Nov. 18 innocent men, women and children were 
-

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Spears release is in the zone 
By JOHN LOWE 
Scene Music Critic 
Little Britney Spears is all grown up and has left behind her former image as the jailbait teen dream that every­one remembers from the "Baby One More Time" video -it seems she has gone from the Mickey Mouse Club to the strip club. Formerly regarded as the Lolita of pop music, Spears has suddenly metamorphosed into a full­fledged legal sexpot. Her recent release, In the Zone, was created dur-ing an attempted hiatus from the media glare; however, her departure from the music scene caused a media frenzy that even she couldn't have predicted. 

Despite a recent string of controver­sies, including a very public break-up with Justin Timberlake, Spears has come back with a vengeance. Beginning with her highly publicized kiss with Madonna -the "Queen of Controversy" -on the MTV Video Music Awards in August, Spears has been garnering publicity at every turn. She recently posed topless on the cover of Rolling Stone and bottomless on the cover of Esquire, further tarnishing her squeaky-clean image. 
Spears must have used all of these experiences as inspiration for her high­ly sexual and titillating new album, In the Zone, an album that is a definite departure from her previous bub­blegum releases. It is, in fact, more reminiscent of Madonna's controversial album Erotica. Spears' lyrics and tone have shifted from suggestively sexual to blatantly sexual, and the album can be described as her slowly reaching cli­max. 
On track four, "Breathe on Me," she playfully whispers and blows into the microphone and then says, "Just put your lips together and blow." Spears' subject matter definitely carries more adult themes, and she doesn't shy away from taboo topics, even masturbation -the subject of track eight, "Touch of My Hand." The song immediately 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Live Cold play album conveys emotion 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Typically, live albums are either excellent or terrible. Very few reach a middle ground, as the vast majority walk the margins by being garbled, unintelligible bootlegs, major disap­pointments or marvelous career moments captured within a single com­pilation of live recordings. Even rarer than either of these options are albums that climb into a pantheon of personal achievement, such as It's Too Late To Stop Now by Van Morrison or Bob Dylan's Royal Albert Hall Concert. 
Coldplay's newest release features both a DVD of a concert in Sydney from their latest tour in support of last year's A Rush ofBlood to the Head, and a CD with some of the same recordings on it. There are two new songs on the album, as well as an accompanying tour diary and various other additions 
light of both 
the CD and 
the DVD is the

live2003 


such as lyric links. Cinematically, the concert is brilliantly shot, with swoop­ing camera angles and a variety o( tones and colors to bring to life both the songs and the performers. Although not necessarily breaking any unex­plored territory, there is a definite artistic quality in its composition, and it provides a very beautiful viewing expe­rience. 
When you listen to Coldplay, you lis­ten to a broken heart. The strength of the entire effort comes from the ability of the band's music to create a texture and a complexity that renders every moment relevant and real. "A Rush of Blood to the Head" is a worthy com­panion to U2's "Love is Blindness," a loping affair of despair and potential violence; "Politik," an address of the inhumanity of world affairs; "Yellow," the elation of finding someone in which to put all the trust and love you've been holding onto for years. "The Scientist" continues its reign as the best love bal­lad in years, but the high­
inclusion of
COLDPLAY UV£ 2DOJ 
'See You Soon," an early record­ing from The Blue Room 
EP. A gor­g e o u s acoustic track filled out in concert by moaning gui­catches the listener off guard with the candid lyrics, but Spears actual­ly pulls it off successfully. "Me Against the Music" is a song that Spears sings w i t h Madonna, and there is a remixed ver­

sion featured on the album as well. 
In the Zone is full of surprises, espe­cially when considering the caliber of musicians with whom Spears collabo­rate. On track two, Spears features Atlanta rappers The Ying Yang Twins on her song "(I Got That) Boom Boom." After the initial shock of this unusual partnership wears off, the song is actu­ally catchy and definitely has the potential to be released to the radio and the clubs. It is not as good as "Get Low" (another song on which The Ying Yang Twins collaborated), but it is sure to provide sonie good rump-shaking fun. Moby produced a track called "Early Mornin,"' a little ditty about being hungover, and R. Kelly produced an R&B influenced track called "Outrageous." Spears even called on the help of Mr. P Diddy himself to pro-duce a track called "The Answer." Unfortunately, Diddy's track won't appear on the American versions of Britney's album, only those manufac­tured in the U.K. 

There are only two ballads included on In the Zone: "Shadow" and "Everytime." "Everytime" is a blatant apology to Spears' former boyfriend, Mr. Timberlake: "I may have made it rain, please forgive me. My weakness caused you pain, and this song is my sorry." 
This album is mainly for the hard core Britney Spears fans. Some songs still have traces of pop corniness, but overall it is a remarkably inventive, clever and creative record. In a nut­shell, it is just sexy. 
Contact John Lowe at jlowel@nd.edu 


tar and slight drum work, it's the tale of lost trust and isolation, a wounded man "in a bulletproof vest with the windows all closed," and it is as uplift­ing as it is tear-inducing. 
The weakness of the compilation comes from its odd track selections, as not all of the tracks from the DVD con­cert are included on the bonus CD. Although this is not the first time in musical history this has happened, it is annoying to be denied five songs when you have a CD player and not a TV. Also, even though the tour diary does illuminate, to some extent, the lives and personalities of the band members, it is not exactly thought-provoking or controversial. Granted, Coldplay's members aren't the reincarnation of The Who, but the effort seems a little too rote and obligatory -more of an assignment than an achievement. 
Unfortunately, Coldplay's newest album of live material does not climb to the top of a live album list. It has ener­gy, it has the songs, it has some incred­ible moments, but maybe it's just a lit­tle too early in their career to release such a work. What the listener gets is an album of promises and expectations, and disappointment at not being able to find tickets or time to get to a show. They certainly make their songs come alive in concert, a difficult feat that many decent bands fail to achieve, as displayed by the many mind-numbing recordings of "Corduroy" on Pearl Jam's excessive number of live albums. Of course, Coldplay are still in career infancy. As listeners, we have to give them time, because one day, they'll blow our minds. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
Page 11 

INTERVIEW 
.... 

Guitarist Robert Randolph describes his experiences 
Robert Randolph plays electric steel pedal guitar in Robert Randolph and the Family Band. The band's first record, Unclassified, was released earlier this year and was previously reviewed in The Observer. 
Randolph must listen to musicians as 

By BRIAN FOY 
uniquely talented as himself. I was not Scene Music Critic 
surprised to hear the eclectic variety that he listens to on a daily basis. The lirst thing you notice when talk­"Every day, I listen to Sam Cooke. I lis­ing with Hobert Handolph is how ten to Led Zeppelin, Stevie Wonder and vibrant and passionate he is about Joss Stone," Randolph said. It is evident music and life. Tlw man genuinely loves that his unique sound allows him to what h1· dons and makes this very clear appreciate everything from a black man as he describes his music and career who fused elements of gospel and secu­thus far. Handolph and his cousins, lar music in the 1950's to a white girl Danycl Morgan and Marcus Handolph. from the U.K. who is resurrecting soul along with John Ginty (who was eventu­music. It is this appreciation and free­ally replaced by Jason Crosby) released thinking that has allowed Randolph to Unclassified earlier this year. The four . cross all barriers with his music and 
of them, along with Joey Williams has helped set the table for his debut 
accompanying on guitar, have been album. 
touring ever since to promote the In 2002, Robert Randolph & the 
album. Handolph's tour has taken him Family Band released Live at the 
from coast to coast and will soon bring Wetlands. Following the massive appeal 
him oversnas. I caught up and success of the record, 
with him during the they decided that a studio 
Midwest portion of the release was in order and
"Madison Square 

latnst leg of his tour. tapped famed producer Handolph began his Garden is the best Jim Scott to bring the live musical career as a and energetic sound of
venue to play at as 

tnenager playing the steel Hobert Randolph & the
far as arena, but

pedal guitar in The Ilousc Family Band to the studio. of God Church in Orange, as far as playing Randolph said that "about 
N.J. After honing his 90 percent of the live steel
our own shows, it's 

craft. he was asked to pedal sound is captured"
the Chicago House 

record an instrumental on the band's debut album with the famed ofBlues.,, Unclassified. But, blues band North Randolph's fame grew Mississippi All-Stars. The from his legendary live
Robert Randolph 

humble beginnings of his performances. His unique
Musician 

younger days, coupled sound blended with his with his unique instru-longer than average sets 
ment choice, makes one typically leave fans wondnr who Handolph considers to be exhausted after a show. In regards to best I have played with," Randolph far as arena, but as far as playing our 
said. own shows, it's the Chicago House of
his influences. what people should expect from his live 
shows and current tour, Robert said Accolades seem to be coming to Blues." Randolph seems to have his foot
"Dnfinitely Stevie Hay Vaughn," was 
his rnsponse, without hesitation. By that "(he tries to] bring a lot of energy Randolph everywhere you turn these in the door in the U.S., or rather his lin­combining many different genres of to the shows. You can expect a mix of days. Rolling Stone recently named him ger on the pulse, but his tour will soon one of the 100 greatest guitarists of all take him-across the Pacific to .Japan
music, Handolph has created a diverse things on the album as well as some 
covers." time. This borders on frightening, con­later on this month.
form of music that appeals to the mass­
es and has artists jumping at the Randolph has clearly experienced sidering that Randolph has only one "Japanese people love true music; 
chance to work with him. · much in his brief career, but the future studio album of his own under his belt. they love real rock music," he said. looks even brighter. Dave Matthews Randolph says that "it was an honor" "Anybody who likes to rock out and
"The other day I got a call from John 
recently said that Randolph was the for Rolling Stone to put him in a class play great rocking music goes over well
Frusciante [of the Hcd Hot Chilli 
greatest musician he ha:s played with with such legends. there in Japan." The future appears to
Peppers!. who was interested in collab­
Randolph has been all over the U.S. be bright for Robert Randolph as he
oratin-g. Jack White [from the White thus far. 
on tour for the past couple of years. He tours the world, spreading his music to
Stripes] and I have also talked about "That is a great compliment, coming 
has opened for The Dave Matthews people of all different cultures.
working on some things together," from someone like Dave. Dave and l!andolph said. [Dave Matthews Band drummer] Carter Band and says "that Madison Square A man as talented as Hobert [Beauford] are great musicians and the Garden is the best venue to play at as Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 



Thursday, November 20, 2003 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Cannon punt return defines rivalry 
Associated Press 
OXFORD, Miss. -The most famous punt return in Southeastern Conference his­tory started with a fortuitous bounce of the ball. 
With LSU trailing Mississippi 3-0 in the fourth quarter on Halloween night 1959, the ball found Tigers star Billy Cannon on the 11-yard line as much as he found it. Once joined, the two were unstoppable. 
Cannon's tackle -breaking 89-yard punt return won the game for LSU, the Heisman Trophy for himself and became the signature moment in a rivalry that at one point 

.. was as significant as any in the SEC. The LSU-Ole Miss rivalry takes center stage in the SEC again on Saturday, when the third-ranked Tigers face the 15th-ranked Rebels in Oxford with the SEC West title on the line. "It's the first time in a long time that we have both been outstanding football teams," said Cannon, 66, who now lives in St. Francisville, La. Back in Cannon's day, the Tigers and Rebels would regu­larly contend for the SEC title and be ranked among the nation's best squads. Coach Johnny Vaught built Ole Miss into a powerhouse in the 1950s, winning SEC titles in 1954 and '55. The Tigers rose to promi­nence in the late '50s under creative coach Paul Dietzel and won their only national championship in 1958. In 1959, the dapper and meticulous Vaught had what might .have been his best squad. Led by fullback Charlie Flowers, quarterback Jake Gibbs and linebacker Larry Grantham, the Rebels won their first six games by a com­bined 189-7. LSU with a star-studded backfield of Cannon, halfback Johnny Robinson and quarter­back Warren Rabb also won its first six. 
The Tigers were No. 1 and the Rebels were No. 3 when they met at a packed Tiger Stadium on a typically sticky Southern night. 
"I was one of the 150,000 people who was in Tiger Stadium on Halloween night," said Jerry Stovall, who was in the stands as a freshman at LSU and went on to become ,a star tailback for the Tigers. "I have met that many people across the country over these past 34 years, who say 'Man I was there!' The Stadium held 60,000 at that time." 
Midway through the fourth quarter Ole Miss was up 3-0, when Gibbs lined up to punt. 
"When you're looking at the clock, you're saying, 'We got to do something soon. We're run­ning out of clock,'" Cannon said. "I had made up my mind that if I had a chance to field the ball that I was going to return it." 
Cannon was an anomaly for his time -a 215-pound back with sprinter's speed. 
Gibbs had no intention of giving Cannon a chance. 
"I wanted to kick the damn thing out of bounds," Gibbs said. "When the ball hit, it bounced about 10 feet up in the air." 
Former Ole Miss quarter­back Billy Brewer called the play a fluke. 
"He didn't want to field the football. He was trying to get away from the ball. The ball hit and skidded and jumped up into his arms," Brewer said. 
Cannon brushed off that sug­gestion and poked fun at his friend. 
"For him to say something like that, he must be dement­ed," Cannon deadpanned. 
Though even Cannon admits, "It wasn't that great a kick and I did get an excellent bounce." 
Cannon cut and crashed through the Rebels, putting his hand on the ground at one point to keep his balance. 
Then he broke free, picked up blockers and had only Gibbs to beat. 

Coaches retnetnber 100-year rivalry 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Bo Schembechler swivels in his chair to the right and smiles at a picture of him and Woody Hayes, then chuckles as he points at their bobblehead dolls on his desk. 
"I love that guy," Schembechler says. 
Woody and Bo. 
Bo and Woody. 

The teams they coached ­Ohio State and Michigan ­meet for the 100th time on Saturday, and the 10 games featuring Hayes and Schembechler are the highlight of the series. 
The Buckeyes or Wolverines were in the Rose Bowl each year the mentor and student dueled for a win in one of col­lege football's greatest rivalries from 1969-78. Hayes went 4-5­1 against the coach who played for him at Miami of Ohio. 
Seven times, both teams were in the Top 10 for what can sim­ply be referred to as "The Game." 
The Wolverines snapped Ohio State's 22-game winning streak in 1969 and ended the top­ranked Buckeyes' hopes of a second consecutive national championship. The Buckeyes gave Michigan its only loss in 1970, 1972 and 1974. A tie in 1973 spoiled both teams' per­fect seasons, leaving them 10­0-1 with Ohio State going to the Rose Bowl. 
Before and after Hayes and Schembechler led the two sto­ried programs, Big Ten titles and Rose Bowl berths often have been at stake. But those coaches added extra drama. 
"It was a very personal rival­ry," says former Ohio State coach Earle Bruce, who played for Hayes, coached for him and succeeded him. "And for the first and only tim~. it was as much about the coaches as it was about the game. 
"Bo and Woody were very close because Bo played for Woody at Miami of Ohio, then coached with him at Ohio State. But their friendship was put on hold when Bo took the Michigan job because it was the protege against mentor." 

Schembechler leans forward and in his familiar gravelly voice says: "It doesn't get any better than that, does it?" 
For Jim Mandich, it didn't. 
Mandich experienced the most-humiliating moment of his career -and the best -at Michigan in 1968 and 1969. 
Ohio State beat the Wolverines 50-14 in 1968. When Hayes was asked why he went for a 2-point conversion late in the game, he said: "Because I couldn't go for 3." 
Schembechler then took over at Michigan and shocked No. 1 Ohio State 24-12 in his first meeting. 
"Going for 2 points in '68 may have been the best thing Woody ever did for us and the Schembechler era," Mandich says. "It infuriated us and was a huge spark for Bo's new pro­gram." ' 
Mandich says beating the Buckeyes in 1969 was "the most thrilling experience of my life," even though he went on to win three Super Bowls, includ­ing one with the 1972 Miami Dolphins, still the only unde­feated team in NFL history. 
"It's not even close," Mandich says. "It was the signature event of my life." 
Many fans can probably close their eyes and see Woody and Bo stalk the sidelines. 
Hayes with a scarlet red "0" on a black baseball hat in a white, short-sleeved button­down shirt and tie. Schembechler sporting a maize block "M" on his blue ballcap. 
"They acted exactly alike," says John Hicks, who played at Ohio State from 1970-73. "They both grumbled, complained and cussed all game. And, every­body loved one or hated the other in Ohio and Michigan." 
Hayes' successful career ended in an infamous way after Clemson beat Ohio State in the 1978 Gator Bowl. 
After Clemson's Charlie Bauman intercepted a pass and was run out of bounds along the Buckeyes' sideline with 
1:59 to play, Hayes grabbed him around the collar and threw a punch. Hayes was restrained and Bauman was pulled away. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from & a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Part time, energetic experienced  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
NOTICES  nanny needed to help care for chil· dren in our Granger home M-W  FoR SALE  PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004·  TICKETS  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts:  
3pm-8pm; Th 2pm-8pm. Mom has  2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  800·648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
chronic health problems, so  ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S.  
reliability is critical. Love for kids &  STPETER 4 BEDRROMS· 718 E.  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  own transp req. Call 360-1198 & lv  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  Hottest prices Book now.. Free  
&Beach Trips on sale nowl  msg.  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  CALL KRAMER AT 234·2436 OR  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­ 
www.sunchase.com or call  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD·  315-5032  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1·866-808-0990  tours.com or 1800-426-7710  
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  
 
 
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  $84,900. email:  2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730  **LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX**  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 11 0%  
-­ •••AcT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for  WANTED  Williamson.1 @nd.edu 2001 Mercury Sable LS, 34,000  Two story house completely remod· eled 2003. Off street parking  ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Wiil pay BIG $$$$ to get these. Call 212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U  Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals &  
6+  miles, antilock brakes, alarm sys- includes motion sensor light for  have tix to sell.  Parties Campus Reps Wanted!  
tern, CD, $12,000. Call287-1147.  security. Four individually locked  1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­ 
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  bedrooms, six blocks from  need ND/UK & ND/IU b-ball tix.  tours.com  
800-838-8202.  exper. required. All looks and ages.  Notre Dame, bus stop in front of  273-9938  
Earn $1 00-$500 a day. 1-888-820­ house, surrounded by other student  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW  
Doglegleflnews.com 'Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic' Brought to  0167, ext. U187  FoR RENT  housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement avail- LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home  
you by ND Students and Alumni  Part time/Full time opportunity for  able for storage of bicycles, lug- next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including  PERSONAL  ber of home sites are available. For more info go to:  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations!  internet based business. Contact:  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  new stove and refrigerator, large liv­ www.lrishCrossings.com  
Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in  waynew54@ pronetglobal.com  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ ing room for TV or entertaining,  
Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  
 1525  free trash removal. Call 289-4072.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Congratulations Marlissa  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS.  Granger household looking for part- 
 not go it alone. If you or someone  
Organize a group and travel tor  time babysitter. Must be willing to  4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison.  JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD)  you love needs confidential support  Honk it you love hockey.  
FREE. Book now before its too late I  help with toddler s laundry.  Close to campus, ample parking,  1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT,  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
Experience & references required.  AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216)  AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  That's right. ..  
Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci- Fax letter or resume to:  408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 it  UTIL.), CONTACT BOB 607-723­ more information, see our bi-weekly  
rossi.com.  (574)247-9253.  interested  7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net  ad in The Observer.  R.W. McOuarters  

~----------------------------------------------------------------~--------~~------~---------­
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1©nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu




Campus Ministry C-M 

Freshman Retreat #so
Get involved, go on a retreat More info & applications in Room114 and 

December s-6
online at campusministry.nd.edu Sign up deadline: November 28 
Main Office (CoMo319) & Retreats·Office·{CoMo"1'1~);'•Mi:md'a~rough"'Frtday""!:J"'a~'m~o''"s·p';'m-:"..,

wh ' h · 
CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 

tuesday (cont.) considerations...
friday 11.21 
Confirmation SessionGay in a Straight World 

7:00 p.m. -8:45 p.m.

Retreat for students who are gay, 
Siegfried Chapel 

lesbian, bisexual and their friends. 
Weekly Spanish Mass Fatima Retreat Center 
NDE Retreat #78 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 


sunday tt.2J 
wednesday 11.26 

RCIA Session Graduate Student 
to:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. 
Christian Fellowship

Coleman-Morse Lounge 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 

tuesday 11.2s 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 


how to get involved 
Did you know that your hall has its own Campus Ministry Commissioner?' 
Their job is to help foster Christian community in your hall & keep you informed about Campus Ministry retreats and other offerings. Check out the list below to see who it is in your hall: 
Alumni  Keough  Pasquerilla West  
Andy Nickels  Chris Naidus  Christine Todaro  
Badin  Knott  Siegfried  
Rachel Kelley  MurfTiawphaibul  Tim Stawicki  
Breen-Phillips  Lewis  Sorin  
Margaret lkrnardin  Pat Guzman  Trev Turner  
Carroll  Lyons  St. Edward's  
Mark Venner  Shantha Ready  Bob Polchow  
Cavanaugh  Sarah.G. Perez-Stable  Stanford  
Jennitcr Radelet  McGlinn  Nick Sorg  
Dillon  Becca Saunders  Walsh  
Chris Bachner-Reimer  Morrissey  Molly Meckley  
Phil Nagel 
farley  Welsh Family  
Katie Cardinali  O'Neill  Julia Fitzpatrick  
Brian Vassel  
Fisher  Zahm  
Joseph Guimu  Pangborn  Marty Curinka  
Lauren Wons  
Howard  Keenan  
Mary Kate Radelet  Pasquerilla East  -open- 
Courtney Wahle  



weekend mass schedule 
Christ the King 

basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
s:oo p.m.  1o:oo a.m.  
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c.  Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c.  
11:45 p.m.  
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c.  

Trip to Rome 
Tears of Joy in the Eternal City 
by Fr. Kevin Russeau, c.s.c Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
Just over a week ago I was privileged to spend a week with 26 Notre Dame Alumni travel­ing to Rome. Each year our Alumni Association plans trips and cruises for our graduates and sends them all over the world. For each trip, the Alumni Association tries to find a willing chaplain to make the sacraments more readily available to the alumni and to give them again a memento of their faith life while they were still students. While I did have to miss two home football games, I was honored (and I think lucky) to be asked to chaplain for our alumni in Rome. 
Rome is a city of beautiful churches. Even the small churches that are forgotten on nearly every city map are filled with beautiful pieces of art, chapels of various famous saints, and usually a resting place for a pope or two! Simply wandering around the meandering Roman roads can be a religious experience of its own. 
Daily excursions took us to cities such as Pompei, Florence, and Orvieto. Sometimes they kept us in the city to see Ancient Rome, the Vatican Museums, and the Sistine Chapel. Each of these excursions included the expertise of a local tour guide and many of them also featured a fantastic lunch. 
In the midst of these busy days of touring, we found time to celebrate Mass with one another. On Wednesday our group had tickets to see Pope John Paul II at his weekly audience. Because the weather was still warm and there were many pilgrims in Rome, the audience was held outdoors in St. Peter's square for nearly 100,000. Perhaps our tailgating instincts directed us to depart early from our hotel to St. Peter's, but since it was first-come first-seated in the square, each of us got front row seats to greet our pontiff and listen to his address. 
Our Pope seems to never run out of surprises. I could not get over just how close our seats were to the pope-it was amazing-but even more amazing was the reaction from the alumni. These alumni who have seen so much in their lives, have taken many different trips around the world, have accomplished financial stability, and who are now enjoying the fruits of their labor -these alumni were deeply moved by the words of the pope and by his simple actions and greetings that morning. Tears filled many ofour eyes and comments like "Fr. Kevin, this was a real highlight not only for this trip but for my life" were common. Rome, and more properly 
-' 

the Vatican, has a way of really impacting people's lives! 
This coming spring break, Campus Ministry is helping to sponsor a Pilgrimage to Rome to offer students an opportunity to experience the Eternal City. St. Peter's Basilica and Square will be a featured place of prayer, but we will visit each of the major Basilicas as well as many Roman Churches. We will see the old coliseum where Christians knew pain and persecution and then visit the catacombs where the same Christians found Final Peace and the early Christian Church worshiped in hiding. We will have an opportunity to pray with and meet the general administration of the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose headquarters is in Rome. We will travel to Assisi to spend time in the city where Francis and Clare left a lasting mark of peace. Finally, if our Pope is still feeling well enough, we will see the Pope on Sunday as he leads the Church in the Angelus! 
If you have any questions about this pilgrimage, would like a rough itinerary, or would like to sign up please contact Fr. Kevin Russeau, esc or Sr. Sue Dunn, op ASAP. A deposit of $100 is due next week (Friday November 28'h) by 4:00pm-and space is limited. 
For hundreds of years Christians have been making pilgrimages to Rome. Whether this would mark your first or tenth pilgrimage, you will find inspiration and renewal. Join us. 
around campus (every Sunday)  
1:30  p.m.  s:oo  p.m.  7:00  p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
St. Edward's Hall Chapel  Law School Chapel  Mendoza COB  
Faculty Lounge  

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Daniel 7:13-14 2nd: Revelation 1:5-8 Gospel: John 18:33b-37 
--------~~----,--------------------------­
page 14 Thursday, November 20, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




LONDONPROG 


NEW OPTION FULL YEAR IN LONDON 
2004-2005 

to study for either one semes-ter o-r a full year in Lonclon 


I• •

New app rcatron deadline 
for full year, fall or spring semester is 
FRIDA¥.' DECEMBER 5
. ···. .. . . •...... ·. . .-.·.. · ...· ..... ·. 
Apply on line at: W_;;_WW~ngLedu/-londonpr/ 
Stuclents who have already appliecl1nay change their preference in wrifihg (153 Hurley Hall) or hy e~mail to §~rt?ara~J.Toth.2@nd.e<;ill. Students who have not yet applied for London may do so now for any ofthe options. 
For hn·ther details: contact the Lon.don Prog:ram or refer to the mailing you. receive. 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Father of four playing college football at age 44 
Associated P~ss would laugh at me. I'd say, 'Kyle, you need to come tickle 
JACKSON, Tenn. -Joey the bottom of my feet. I'm para-. Williams was so sore after foot­lyzed. I can't feel from the neck ball practice he couldn't get out down,"' said Williams, who at of bed the next morning. 44 years old may be the oldest 
Squeezed into a twin bed in a player in college football. dorm room, the 6-foot-3, 290-What started out as a middle­pllund man needed help. So he aged man's dream has turned called over to his teammate and out better than he could have roommate -his 21-year-old imagined. The third-team offen­son Kyle. sive guard will play with his son 
"Some mornings my son, he Saturday for Lambuth (9-2) 
~··············!······:························~
: .....·.......... lJniversity Resources 
•
•• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & . Bisexual Students 
• 
•-~~~4 .
<#l.i~,:)c 

• C:UJIAN!If It'~ 0~ 
: ::~:::t~~~-: 
•
• 
•• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
• Lesbian Student Needs 
•
• 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 

•
•
. Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent .• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
•
• Office of Cain pus Ministry • •• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
. 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 

•
•
• University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 

•
• Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
. 
•
•
•
• For moro infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.od.edu/-sc~lso/
• 
when they visit Dickinson State (10-0) in the first round of the NAIA playoffs. 
Of all the records kept in col­lege football, oldest player isn't recorded by the NCAA or the NAIA. Williams thinks he and his son may certainly be the old­est ever to play together, which he has submitted to the Guinness World Book of Records. 
"I could not have done it with­
Cal1259·~ooo for more details 


out him," Williams said of his son. "He'd tell me things like. 'Dad, everybody's hurting,' and I'd say, 'Kyle, is everyone hurt­ing as bad as me?' I don't know if he's lying, but he said yes." 
Williams thought his chance to play college ball ended in 1976 when he was a high school sen­ior and tore every ligament in his left knee. Instead, he got an associate's degree in engineer­ing, married his high school 
sweetheart and had four chil­dren. 
Then eldest son Kyle startnd playing football -first at the same middle school his father had attended, then at the same high school. Once at Lambuth, Williams couldn't stop watching his son practice. 
He posted his goal on the refrigerator-Aug. 6, 2003, the first day of practice -and asked Kyle for permission to try out for the team, even though his son didn't take him seriously at first. 
First, Joey cut back from a whole box of cookies to a half box at a sitting and started tak­ing walks around the block. Within three months, he was walking and running, eventually doing up to six miles a day and an occasional aerobics class. 
He finally called Lambuth coach Vic Wallace. whose lirst thought was that Williams had an idea to raise money for the booster club . 
"I said 'Go for it.' I looked at it as being something that's really neat, an opportunity for a father to participate on the same team as his son and vice versa," Wallace said. 
(j\otre q)ame 
"'University Club~ www.nd.cdu/-univ~l!!~ presents 
The Company 
directed by AIelanie Como 
In U1e Stadium Room of University Club Tuesday; December 2nd at 7:00PM Tickets: $12.50 Call: 631-4678 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
)' Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1·7407 };> Sr. Mary Louise Gudc, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 ) Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 :> Jolm Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-71 (j3 > Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 ~ Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Be11d Community Resources: 
);> Women's Cure Center: 234-0363 > Catholic Charities: 234-3111 

~----­
1 
I 
I 
OUND THE NATION 
page 16 Thursday, November 20, 2003
COA1PILED FROM THE 0BSERVUtS WIRE SERViCES 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Hofstra at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., CBS Villanova at Temple 11 :59 p.m., CBS VMI at Washington State 11 :59 p.m., CBS 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Middle Tenn. State at Arkansas State 7 p.m., ESPN plus TCU at Southern Miss 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
San Antonio at Dallas 7:30 p.m.,TNT 
BOXING 


Associated Press Sanders. since he was stopped on before he and Lewis were 
But as Vitali returns to cuts at the end of the supposed to meet. 
It was just a year ago the ring next month at sixth round in his June "Right now, after these that Vitali and Wladimir Madison Square Garden bout with Lewis. two losses, a lot of critics Klitschko sat in a Las against Kirk Johnson, the It's not the fight that are thinking that's it for Vegas hotel room, telling goal remains the same. Klitschko wanted. He the Klitschko brothers," jokes in one language It's only the year that's thought he would get a Klitschko said. "But I and talking about dreams different. rematch with Lewis, but think now it is even bet­
in another. They wanted "I believe next year our Lewis decided he didn't ter for us than it was to be heavyweight cham­dream will come true," want to fight any more before." pions together, and the Vitali Klitschko said. this year and it's increas­That might be opti­two giants from Ukraine "We're working hard for ingly likely he may never mistic thinking on behalf thought their time was it and it will be the great­fight again.. of brother Wladimir, who near. est moment in our lives A win over Johnson is struggling to get his 
Two losses and 12 when we're the same may be the next best confidence back after his months later, a lot has time champions." thing for Klitschko stak­shocking second round changed for the brothers. Klitschko can take a big ing his claim to a title knockout Joss to Sanders Vitali's stock rose in a step toward keeping his that may soon become earlier this year. 
brawling loss to Lennox end of the bargain when vacant. Ironically, Vitali. though, won 
Lewis, while Wladimir's he meets Johnson on Klitschko got his chance everything but the WBC fell in a crushing knock­Dec. 6. It will be at Lewis when Johnson heavyweight title when out defeat to Corrie Klitschko's first fight was injured two weeks he lost to Lewis. 
IN BRIEF 

Browns' Green hospitial­year-old would be released later Seattle in 1999 and 2000, but saw Wednesday, Policy said. little playing time. 
ized after assualt at home 

Browns owner Randy Lerner vis­"Signing Raul was definitely aBEREA, Ohio -Cleveland Browns ited Green in the hospital. priority for us," Bavasi said in arunning back William Green sus­Westlake police responded to an statement. "He is a great fit for us,tained a puncture wound to his emergency call from Green's home on and off the field. His left-handed back Wednesday following a possi­
Wednesday morning from Gray, bat will complement our line up
ble domestic dispute in his home. 

who said Green "had cut himself." nicely, and we already know what Green, currently under suspen­An emergency vehicle was sent to he brings to the clubhouse." 
sion for violating the NFL's sub­Green's residence, but he was not Ibanez was drafted by Seattle in 

stance abuse program, was cut 

there when it arrived. Police said the 36th round in 1992 and was 
after an incident with "domestic Green arrived at St. John­with the Mariners for parts of five 

overtones," team president Carmen Westshore Hospital in a private seasons, but saw little playing time. 

Policy said. 

vehicle along with another adult ''I'm really excited about the 
Browns coach Butch Davis said 

and an infant. opportunity to return to the Green was apparently the victim Free agent Ibanez settles Mariners," Ibanez said in a state­"of a domestic violence crime." contract with Mariners ment. "I enjoy playing at Safeco 
Westlake police Capt. Guy Turner SEATTLE -Free-agent outfielder Field and the fans in Seattle have 

said Green's fiancee, Asia Gray, 

Raul Ibanez signed a three-year always been great to me." 
was being questioned. Turner said 

contract with the Seattle Mariners, Mariners manager Bob Melvin police will not classify it as a general manager Bill Bavasi said he was happy to add Ibanez to 
domestic dispute until a person is announced Wednesday. the roster. 

arrested. 

Ibanez spent the past two sea­"Raul is a perfect fit for our ball­Green's wound, which police said sons in Kansas City, where he blos­club," Melvin said. "He's got a was below his left shoulder blade, somed, hitting .294 both years. He great swing for our stadium and did not require surgery or stitches. 
drove in 103 runs in 2002 and 90 I'm glad we were able to bring him 
There was a possibility the 23­

last season. He was last with back." 
._, 
Thursday, November 20, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Junior Elizabeth Commers 
(26: 16.7) and freshman Katie White (26:48.0) took 146th and 170th place, respectively. Behind them were freshman Erin Nolan (182th place; 27:09.5), senior Jessica Kosco (193rd place; 27:25. 9), sopho­more Becky Feauto (198th; 
27:46.9) and senior captain Jackie Bauters (206th; 28:26.4). 
Bauters did not have her best race at the conference champi­onships, either. The senior cap­tain developed a respiratory infection prior to the race but still competed at both the MIAA meet and the regional. 
"Jackie led this team to a great season and had a great career," Barstis said. 
Senior leadership was impor­tant in a pivotal season for the Belles, but recruiting and the performance of the freshmen have played equally important roles. 
"This is the most talented first-year class in the history of the program," Barstis said. "Another [class] like this one, and there will be no limit to how far they can go." 
White, one of the top new­comers, had trouble breathing at the regionals due to asthma. 
She regained herself, however, and had what Barstis described as "perhaps her best race of the year." The compliment means more alongside this sta­tistic -White finished in the top three Belles runners in every race but one this season. 
Joining White is a group of freshmen poised to help the team continue in its transition -if everything goes as planned -to being a perennial contender in the MIAA. 
"Sara Otto, Katie White and Erin Nolan have just started what should be very productive careers," Barstis said, going down the list of solid first­years. "The two regional team alternates, Ashley Oberst and Meaghan Herbst, are also first-year runners who will be 

-------------------------,counted on to fill the void left 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 

When: November 17-24, 2003 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hare Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDC! Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 

CLASS 
OF2006 

c.
-
a: 
1­
~ 
Oc 
c:J 
cc 
u
-
::1: 
u
$10 
by our departing seniors." 
Barstis said the team is excit­ed about next year and is already planning to run togeth­er as a group for the remainder of the school year. 
"The foundation has been built to start our climb up the conference," Barstis said. "We were less than 20 points from fourth place this year. This team is hungry, and I expect a huge improvement next sea­son." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Call 259·1000 for more details 
E cc: 0 a. 
w ~ •• 
E I
al " 
:E 0 ns 
w 
> ~ 
w­
~22 

Passengers MUST be at Library Circle at 11:30 am I Bus leaves Chicago at Spm (MUST board bus by 7:30pm) Tickets on sale now at the LaFortune Box Office. Sophomores only until12pm Fri, then open to all classes 
Boxing 
continued from page 20 
can practice and it just didn't work out all the time." 
The club has two presidents and six additional captains who all began discussing changing the format of the women's bouts in the spring. But it didn't become a reality until school 
resumed this fall. 
Now the women training for eight weeks, all in preparation for Thursday's events. Hemlig said she believes the change has been beneficial to the women. 
"It's something we talked about, but it was some­thing in the long run. It will benefit 
have been 
"It will benefit in intramurals at Notre Dame. After
practice time and 
discovering the
makes a name for 
women's club. 
ourselves." llelmig didn't think she'd make it through many
Sara Helmig 
practices. but 
women's boxing 
stuck with it. She co-president said the other girls 

practice time and make a name for ourselves and the charity we represent," Helmig said. 
The club will choose a different charity each year, with this sea­son's charity being a girls' sport camp in Honduras. The organi­zation was brought to the girls' attention by the men's coaches. 
"We decided we wanted to deal with women's issues and some international because the American dollar goes a lot fur­ther internationally," Helmig said. "We all kept our eyes and ears open to different charities we would want to get involved in. We came across this sports camp for girls and we thought it fits in really well with our pro­gram and what we represent and what we promote." 
The club is not charging any money for entrance to this year's event, but llelmig said they will be taking donations at the door for the Honduras charity. 
Many of the club's members played sports in high school and 
were looking to 
continue athletics 
have done a great job with the train­ing schedule and preparations. 
"I didn't really know anything about the women's boxing my freshman year," Helmig said. "The girls have been great. The 38 girls have put in the hours and done what it takes and made us proud. They've stepped up and gotten it done." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 20, 2003 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
"With Torrian, he did a hell of a job slashing to the rim, dunking on people and the biggest thing was those two free throws," guard Chris Thomas said. "We always knew he had that kind of identity about himself. He had great aura, great leadership." 
Being named one of four cap­tains for the Irish this year, Jones had a chance in the exhibition season to display that leadership. The Irish needed two free throws against the Illinois All-Stars with 
1.4 seconds remaining to avoid an exhibition loss. 
Jones was just a 67.2 percent shooter from the charity strip last year. While he doesn't want to discard what made him a shutdown defensive player in his first three years with the Irish, he's ready to undertake new roles this year. 
''I'm the energy guy. That's my role since I was a freshman. Even though I'm looking to be more of a scorer this year, I'm still trying to fmd ways to bring energy offensively," Jones said. "I try to get big rebounds, big defensive stops, blocks, anything I can do to get this team getting some momentum in the right direction. 
"I think [Friday night] I was able to do that in the second half with a couple of drives to the basket to the lane and making those big free throws at the end." 
Cornette took on a new role in the first half, keeping the Irish in the game on 4-of-5 shooting on 3-pointers, including scoring nine straight points for the Irish at one point. 
In his first game this season, Cornette was ready to show off his offensive game -something many are looking. for the junior to do in 2003-04. 
"I think people have been in my ear about asserting myself offensively. The capabilities I know I have, I just have to be able to show them out on the court as much," Cornette said. "[Friday night]. and as the sea­son goes on, I think I'm going to have more opportunities to pres­ent myself offensively and just show everybody what I am capa­ble of doing. I'm confident I can do that." 
Quinn also helped the Irish match the Illinois All-Stars hot 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL **SPRING BREAK** Book early and save $$! Live 
band & DJ, Hard body & ­
Venus Swimwear contest, Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 
800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
shooting Friday night going 4~of­4 from behind the arc. With Brey planning on using Thomas and Quinn on the court at the same time a lot this season, Quinn will see a lot of minutes this year along with Cornette and Jones. 
Those increased minutes force Brey to expect his former role­players to become scorers. Against the Illinois All-Stars, those three got their first chance to step it up offensively. Brey was pleased with how they reacted. 
"To have them do it in this situ­ation where you could have lost the game, just helps you," Brey said. "[Torrian] is a senior, but to make two free throws like that, that's going to help. Chris Quinn having to make plays at the end. Jordan having to make some big shots at times, especially in the first half, those were all key things. 
"I like the fact that the new guys have had a lot of experience in their new roles before we tee it up for real [against Northern Illinois]." 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu 
Come L~am About 
Mother Theresa 
And the Call to Service 
Thursday, Nov.. 20th 9pm O'Neill Hall Chapel 
Fr~ Dave Scblaver, C... S.C.. Holy Cross Mission Center 
Mass 10pm Free Food Afterwards! 
Sponsored by O'Neill Hall 



MUST BE 21 WITH VALID 1.0. TO CONSlli\IE ALCOIIOL 
NOTRE DAME FILM,TELEVISION,ANDTHEATRE PRESENTS 
Mon. Tues. Thurs. Fri. 
Sat. Sun. 
20-16 South Bend Ave 272-1766 Creal Food -Gr·eal Fun 
Open daily at 1 I :00 Monday night football bucket specials "DJ" night and 2 for 4 specials 
32 oz specials 
Live music with Jason Sapcn 9­12 Your college football hcadq WU'­ters NFL Ticket and all you can cal buffet at 5:00 for $5.95 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Playing at 
Washington 
Hall 
$10 Reserved Seats $9 Senior Citizens $7 All Students Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20 Friday, November 21 Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23 
Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office_ MasterCardNisa orders call 574-631-8128. 


Thursday, November 20, 2003 
The Observer + TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
O~f-Q.\mpu Din\n£_3:  :I COM91NED E\lt=K"'f1HIN<":f Wf: HAl:> INTO  1VNA. C.R6,.\H C.Hff.Se, ANP MAMsuttNO CHER~tes ...  ANBESOLt.  
SO WHAl'S  A POT AND  
FOR DINNER?  COOt::eD lT.  

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Sadly, plans to rehabilitate Jack-o following his conviction by sending him to Notre Dame to learn 
social justice quickly soured after his arrival ... 


JUMBLE 
J][@i!ill[b[R 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAVIT 
± 
LAANB ~ 
LESUNS 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 
YARWIA j 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: PAGAN 
Answer: The kind of headache a divorce can cause ­"SPLITTING" 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 Dollar 65 Basic 1 Underworld competitor telephone figure 39 Bandleader 66 Welcome Shaw
5 Return 67 Continue 10 Without thinking 40 Jet black 14 Fire 41 Begin to DOWN 
understand15 It sticks in the 1 Herder 
kitchen 43 Surgical 2 Peeved, afteropening?
16 Class of '98 "in" member, e.g. 44 Holly 
3 Texas's_ 
17 Join 45 Star of Duro Canyon33-Across18 Bottle in the 4 Veteran 
bathroom 46 City south of 5 OverwhelminglyYosemite19 Sight on much 6 Malt liquorold Roman 50 Rev.'s talk foamsstatuary 51 Dancing girl in 7 Riyadh native
20 Fierce military "The Return of act1on the Jedi" 
8 Site of Jesus' first miracle22 "Yikes!" 52 Collaborated 
9 Tough spot
23 Cries of pain 59 Path 10 "A Garden of24 Headache SO Grant·_ 
Earthly26 Tribal V.I.P. 61 Certain horses Delights" 30 Dry with 62 James of jazz novelist absorbent paper 
63 Ancient Greek 11 Thrashes 32 Paint choice festival site 
12 Like some 33 1967 film set in 64 Prefix with Bach works 

35 Coin word 46 Open shot 54 ·-Lama Dinga prison camp biology 
13 Individually 36 Actress Dong" (1961 hit)
47 Origincrafted 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 21 Gently 48 Lift the spirits of 
37 Former and lipstick 
,.,.......,.........,..,,.., persuade 
Nebraska 49 1978 Peace 

56 "Othello" villain 
-=-+::::+:+=-! 25 Nearby senator James 
Nobelist 57 Laura who26 Remains at a 39 Granting 50 Did telemarks, wrote "Wedding

..;+~,.....,,.;.j steel mill 42 Submit e.g. Bell Blues"

~~.,;::..pl!l ,;;~~-:,~~ll!lt~;.,.f.,:;+;;.+;;;..a..:...l 27 Suffer from 
43 Square 

53 Scott Turow 58 Personal and28 Bickering 
45 "Can I help?" book direct 29_Verde 
~~;.+.;;+-;~ 30 Modem 

For answers, call 1·900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with ainjections 
credit card, 1·800·814-5554. h:+:.fl!!!91!11!11 31 Order at a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaybutcher's 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. B~:+..+:-F-~-:+:::+;:;..~ 33 Saskatchewan Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000tribe past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Early movie Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, mogul nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Veronica Hamel, Sean Young, Bo Derek, Joseph Eiden. 
Happy Birthday: Don't second-guess yourself. The moment you let someone cloud issues or lead you astray because of your own lack of confidence, you will lose. It's time to stand up for your rights. The year ahead can be one of your best as long as you don't let your heart rule your head. Your numbers are 7, II, 17,27,36,48. 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Your outgoing nature, coupled with your sense of humor, will attract passionate partners. You can develop your creative talents if you enroll in classes. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't limit yourself by being stubborn. Your refusal to listen to the advice given by friends or relatives will be your downfall and could lead to your demise in this particular situation. ••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to express your feelings by saying exactly what you think. Keep in rrund that the problems that exist are probably based on untruthfulness.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a greater concern with your financial position. Use your creative awareness to come up with ideas that will bring you more money.**** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You won't get the reaction you want from your mate. Intimate relationships with colleagues will lead to gossip and a loss of reputation. Be cautious if you don't want to jeopardize your job. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hidden assets will make your life a little easier. Small business ventures will pay off as long as you are willing to roll up your sleeves a'!d work. What you give is what you'll receive. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Volunteer work will bring you into contact with people who have the same beliefs as you. Don't donate large sums of money to any cause even if you do believe. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't expect others to do things without being asked first. You will have to spend time sorting out other people's problems. Try to control your disgruntled attitude. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love connections can be made through travel, adventures, seminars or conventions you attend. You will have fun if you can gamble without going overboard. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should get involved in financial ventures, but don't overextend yourself to do so. Be sure that you put some cash aside in case of an emergency. H* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your interaction with others will lead to partnerships. Don't be afraid to join in if you believe in the project. Your intuition should lead you in the right direction. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can win points at work. Colleagues will back your ideas and your statements. Stand up for your rights and refuse to settle for less than you're worth. **** 
Birthday Baby: You'll have everyone in your household wrapped around your little finger. You know how to demand attention in such a way that no one can resist. You're interested in everything and willing to go the extra mile in order to have things your way. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Website at www.eugenia/a.\·t.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Irs gettJng Perhaps a 
worn out brighter color \ 
~ 
WHY 5H~ 50U0HT N~W FABRIC. FOR THe: W~L-L--U5~0 ~ASY CHAIR. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
(Answers tomorrow) 
SWISH ELICIT BANDIT 

-
-· 
-

THE 0BSER\'ER 
-
PORTS
Thursday, November 20, 2003 
Page 20 
WoMEN's BoxiNG 
·­
Queens of the ring 
Irish women's boxers finally get a chance to box separate from the men 

... 
Belles happy about finish at Regionals 
By PAT LEONARD 

Sports Writer 
After turning in an improved performance at the MIAA championships by finishing sixth at Albion College, the Saint Mary's cross country team closed its season Saturday with a 30th place fin­ish at the NCAA Division III Regional Meet at Hanover College. 
Saint Mary's scored 775 points and finished 30th out of 34 scoring teams. Mount Union College won first place with 113 points, while Jessie Lair of Calvin College claimed the overall individual champi­onship with a time of 22:13.2. 
The Belles treated the regional meet as a cool down to its biggest race of the year at the MIAA's. 
"There were no expectations for the regional meet," Saint Mary's coach Dave Barstis said. "Our goal was to com­pete well at the conference championship meet, and everyone ran their best race of the season there. The regional meet was just a bonus." 
Saint Mary's sent a limited number of runners to the regional meet, a 6,000-meter race that was longer than the usual l 5,000-meter race the Belles had grown accustomed to running throughout the sea­son. 
Barstis said the course length was not a factor. 
"The distance did not have any effect," he said. "Our training allowed us to compete at both distances. If you ask the [girls], they'll probably tell you they didn't even notice a difference." 
Freshman Sara Otto led the Belles at Hanover College with an 84th place finish and a time of 25:09.1. 
see BELLES/page 17 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
They're fighting on their own 
now, so the boys better watch 
out. 
For the first time in Notre 
Dame boxing history, the 
women's training is completely 
separate from the men's and will 
box in exhibition matches for 
their own charity tonight at 7. 
"This is our first year when 
we're having our own night of 
bouts without the men's pro­
gram," co-president Sara Helmig 
said. 
Unlike last season, when the 

men and women trained togeth­er and the men then fought in the Bengal Bouts tournament, while the women simply had exhibition matches, the women will have their own individual bouts and these bouts scored. The club has between 80-100 ·people working out at various times throughout the training period and some practice five to 
six days a week. 
For Thursday, there are 38 
women fighting in 19 bouts, with each fighter participating in one match. 
"This is a transition year so we're moving toward more of a tournament format," Helmig said. "This isn't a varsity sport but at the same time you have to practice a lot to sharpen your skills." 
Helmig said that the bouts will be scored this year, unlike last year's bouts, and there are no weight classes. The fighters will be paired by skill and height. 
The women's club has been around for eight years, but never has been separated from the men's. Helmig said the main rea­son the women chose to have their own Bengal Bouts was because of limited practice space during training and not enough coaches to help out. 
"We shared coaches with the men's program and the past two years there's been quite an over­flow in terms of practices and being in each others way," Helmig said. "It's no one's fault because we share the boxing room and it's the only place we 
see BOXING/page 17 

Irish role players need to step up 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Losing two scorers like Matt Carroll and Dan Miller left the Irish looking to replace 33.4 points each night they step on the court. 
Naturally, Irish coach Mike Brey is looking to his role players from last year -namely Jordan Cornette, Torrian Jones and Chris Quinn -to become bigger scorers this year. Last season, that trio averaged a combined 
11.8 points per game. 

That's a major jump for those three players to make, but if the Irish are to continue to score a lot of points, that jump is neces­sary, and they are ready. 
"Over the years, I've kind of played hesitant on the offensive end," Jones said. "I think this year, with Coach Brey really encouraging me and letting me know that he has confidence in me on the court, that's helping me go out on the court and play free of mind." 
Friday night against the Illinois All-Stars, Jones did just that. In the second half, when the Irish bucket. had cooled down from their tor­Using his athletic ability, which rid first half 3-point shooting, has been so present on the Jones took advantage of his slow­defensive end, is something his er defender and made a number teammates were glad to see. of moves to the basket. Each of those drives resulted in an easy see HOOPS/page 18 

BOXING
COLLEGE FOOTBAll 
Legendary coaches
With the Ole Miss­

A 44-year old father 
Vitali Klitschko is set 
continue to enjoy the
LSU game this week­

plays college football on 
to return to the ring for 
Ohio State-Michigan
end, players remember 

same Lambuth (Tenn.) 
the first time since his 
rivalry.

-..: a crazy punt return TD 
team as his son. 
loss to Lennox Lewis. 
finish several years ago. 
page 12
page 12 

page 15 
page 16 








