
VOL. XXXVII NO. 74 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.E 
Officials reject tailgating park for fans 
"The park would only be in use approximately five times a year. I stood alone in defending the project because I believed the project would open up the opportunity for Notre Dame not to move further east into the community," Schafer said. 
Fellow council member David Niezgodski countered by point­ing out that while "not opposed to new ideas or ventures that would benefit an individual or company, you cannot cause problems for other people." 
"The venture is a terrible fit. It claims to create a nice family atmosphere, but when you've got alcohol and parties you real­ly cannot get that," he said. "Besides, the community already has a family environ­ment, so the venture would bring nothing new to this area. 
"The main concerns are safe­ty, security and cleaning. Next year there will be a couple of night games. The lot is a 10­minute walk from campus, and there have already been acci­dents on the roads surrounding the University on football week­ends." Niezgodski added. 
Those opposing the plan also noted that the sales would be limited to vehicles or cars, but the owners would be allowed up to 10 guests in each lot, causing many to question where these additional guests would park, 
see TAILGATE/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 
Foley asks for respect 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES Associate News Editor 
Respect. Or. to be more cor­rect, disrespect was the topic of Trip Foley's remarks to Senate Wednesday in regard to the administration's atti­tude toward student leaders. 
"Although students are the sole reason that this University exists, all too often I find that other constituencies within the University exists for the students," said Foley, stu­dent body vice president. "All too often you are not accorded the respect you deserve in dealings with administrators and faculty." 
Foley said his remarks stemmed from several experi­ences with administrators who did not respond to phone calls or e-mails when he, staffers within Student Body President Libby Bishop's office and sen­ators attempted to contact them. Folev said administra­tors would·meet with student government officers without any intent of trying to make progress on issues that stu­dents bring forth and refuse to release information. 
see FOLEY/page 4 


and $15,000. The idea is that fans would pur­chase the lot for life, much like one would purchase a condomini­um, except instead of a living space, a fan would receive a per­manent, private tail­gating lot. 
Woods, who was present at the coun­cil's Tuesday meeting clarified that Notre Dame is not against the idea of a tailgate park, but against the location and current format of the project. "Safoty and security arc the main issues,"

Proposed common tailgating park for Notre Dame footbal fans was 
he said, "We were not 

turned down on Tuesday by the St. Joseph County Council. The park 
for the project was to be constructed by South Carolina based Go Park Enterprises because we always try 
By MELISA LOU 
News Writer 
The St. Joseph County Council has voted down a measure that would allow South Carolina­based Go Park Enterprises to develop an off-campus tailgate parking lot for Irish fans. 
The site for the proposed Irish park is located between Willis and Burdette Streets, off Douglas Hoad, and is a 10­minute walk from Notre Dame. 
"The project amounts to a commercial venture in a resi­dential ,area," said Gary Woods, director of asset management for the University. 
According to the Go Park Web site, the Go Irish! Park would provide a brick gated entry, a landscaped park, key swipe access and "a 6,000-square-foot clubhouse that provides ample restrooms, cable TV, a social area and shelter for inclement weather." 
Each parking space would be about 10-by-20 feet, purchased by fans for between $10,000 to be good neighbors 
to the areas surround­ing our campus. To put a com­mercial venture in the middle of a residential area where there are no sidewalks in a heavily trafficked road is not a good idea." 
The council voted 8-1 against granting Go Park a special-use status. Under current South Bend zoning laws, this status would have allowed the compa­ny to establish the commercial enterprise despite the residen­tial location, said Councilman Dennis Schafer, who cast the lone vote in favor of the project. 
Unkno"Wn culprit in chentistry exant heist still at large 
nothing on the spreadsheet. been stolen, he called the information leading to the "I don't have my final to By ANDREW THAGARD I thought that was strange." secretary and the spread­return of the exams, and look at," she Said, "That News Writer Creary noticed that the sheet was e-mailed to him Creary made me angry, 
approximately 200 paper again. curved the too. I have no copies of the exam were "Nothing was lost. The final grade "/ was very upset idea what my also missing a few minutes student should have figured despite answers were."
because I couldn't 
No new information has later when a student came out that backups are rou­the earlier Despite the
believe that someone theft, Creary
come to light regarding in to view his exam, he said. tine," Creary said. "I don't threat. organic chemistry final The professor scoured the see what the person had to Students would not value what plans to take no e x a m s room, looking for the exams gain from doing this unless in the I put in and would additional secu­that were before realizing that they it was a malicious act course rity precautions,
insult Dr. Creary who
stolen had been stolen. He called designed to harm the class." were sur­including keep­during Notre Dame Security/Police. Creary said that grades prised and took -the time to grade ing the door of finals "They said there was very were not substantially disap­the exams. I'm his office locked w e e k , little probability of finding affected by the incident, pointed during the day,
shocked."

according out who did it. I have however he normally re­that the saying that it will send the
to Xavier absolutely no clue as to who grades final exams of bor­e x a m s Creary. did it and why," Creary derline students before w e r e Jacqueline Bowers wrong message professor said. determining their final stolen. Sophomore to students. 
"I was "I never close
of the Although the exams and grade. This year, he did not my office door.
200-level grades were lost, Creary have that opportunity. very upset 
because I It's sort of a pol­
science said he was able to use The evening that the course, back-up copies of the exams were stolen, Creary couldn't icy," he said. 
"So far there's been no grades to evaluate each stu­sent an e-mail to the stu­believe that someone would "It's almost a routine prac­clue as to what happened or dent. The exam totaled 150 dents in the class informing not value what I put in and tice that the doors are open who did it," he said. points but needed to be con­them of the situation and would insult Dr. Creary who to come in. Students are 
asking them to took the time to grade the welcome to come in at any
The graded exams were verted to a come forward exams. I'm shocked," said time."
taken from Creary' s 200-point 
Jacqueline Bowers, a sopho­Creary has been teachingunlocked office on Dec. 19 scale to 'They said there with any infor­
while he was at lunch, he determine mation. In the more science preprofession­chemistry at Notre Dame 
was very little proba­
e-mail, Creary al student. since 1974 and said he has
said. The spreadsheet. the final bility of finding out also threat­She estimates that she never had anything like this
which contained the record­grades. ed grades for the test, was Creary who did it. I have ened not to spent between 12 and 15 happen in the past. At the 
also deleted. passed absolutely no clue as curve the final hours studying for the two­same time, however, he's Creary estimates that the along the to who did it and grades unless hour, cumulative exam. not completely shocked. job could have taken as lit­raw scores why." the exams Although Bowers received "I've learned that I'll 
to one of were returned, the final grade that she had never be amazed at whattle as 30 seconds if it was 
Xavier Creary hoping that it anticipated, she did not people can do, will do," he
planned ahead of time. the depart­would motivate have the opportunity to look said.
"When I got back about mental sec­Professor of Sclen~ 
retaries, the perpetra-over her exam, nor will she
one o'clock I noticed that 
be able to use it as a
my computer had been tam­who recom-tor to turn 
himself in. resource for the second
pered with and the spread­puted them. and e-mailed 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
No students, however, semester of the cumulative
sheet looked a little differ­them back. When he discov­
athagard@nd.edu
course.
ent," he said. "There was ered that the exams had came forward with any 



page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, January 16, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A letter to 
Irishlink 

You've been a good friend. Rarely slacking at your job, many students have grown to enjoy your ever expand• ing presence with this University, espe­cially, since we can enroll online with your help, allow­
ing many of us Justin Krivlckas the opportunity of arriving on cam­Assistant pus a day later. News Editor But, now I find that you've been delinquent in one ofyour duties, and I'm lost for words at your conduct. During the Christmas break, instead of minding the controls for online regis­tration, you jetted off to the Caribbean and left many students in the dark. You had the responsibility to remain online and functional throughout the break so students could have second thoughts and rearrange their schedules, but you blew it. Without even leaving a note on your window saying you'd skipped town, for me at least, you left on a three-week run of debauchery. Sure, other key components of your Web site worked fine for me like basic info, grade history or fall schedule, but this info was worthless to me and was most likely supplied by the army of chimps you have at your command. What I really wanted to work on was registration, but since you were not around, I too was left in the dark. Because I did not know you wouldn't be returning during the break, I awoke and sat like a possessed fool at my com­puter waiting for the registration page to load. After about a week ofthis, I thought maybe something was wrong with my mom's deluxe Aptiva 486 and tried another computer but nothing would work. I finally ended up at the local library and still nothing would happen. Everyday, until I finally became indifferent on the subject, I thought incessantly on how delinquent you were acting and plotted your doom being some virus or other catastrophe that would equal the energy and deter­mination what should have been the simple task of adding a class or two. You may be wondering why I was so fanatical about registering and the answer is simple: classes fill up (even orgo lab as I found out). As it turned out, once you were finally on the job, the class I wanted simply wasn't avail­able anymore through the Web site. Only through begging and stealing was I able to finally complete my schedule. Even now, I hear you are still causing a ruckus by dropping people from their classes or labs or not letting others add a class simply because you are too tired from sunbathing for three weeks to care. Perhaps you're not entirely the cul­prit. OIT should have shackled you down or perhaps found a way to bring you home sooner. I just hope I never have the same problems again, but then again that's doubtful. 
Hope you heal soon, 
Justin 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Kriuickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards iiself as a professional publica­tion and srrivc:s for rhe highest srandards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Reckers: mak­ing south side smile 
Reckers gets a face lift during the Christmas break with new food items and an improved ordering 
system. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATlON 
Judge rules sniper suspect may be tried 
as an adult 
A juge ruled that 17-year-old sniper suspect John Lee Malvo can be tried as an adult, making him elligible to receive the death penalty. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Sign-up frir Senior Hctrcat #8, register all day in room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 

. 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #45, all day in room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 

. 
IMHT training courses, held all day in room 210-214 of McKenna Ilall. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Sign up for free massages, call Health Services at 284-4805. 

. 
Mass to be celebrated at the Church of Loretto, held at 7 :00 a.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Tortellini with basil, cheese sauce, cioppino sauce, bianco pizza, breadsticks, honey-glazed pork chops, white beans with ham, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, collard greens, cherry crisp, baked lemon petch, baked potato, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed julienne vegetables, maypo and scrambled eggs. 
Today Dinner: Tortellini with basil, cheese sauce, bianco pizza. breadsticks, chicken strips, macaroni and cheese, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans, cherry crisp, tofu jerk, lentil and barley stew and baked sweet potatoes. 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Court upholds Disney copy­rights 
The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that the company could receive extended copyright protections over its 
creations. 

page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Graduate 
school causes 
woes 
Marlayna Soenneker's article highlights the trou­b I es senior's face applying to gradu­ate programs that do not actively recruit students. 
page 11 

SCENE 
Movie Reviews 
Scene reviews "Lord of the Rings: the Two Towers," 
"Chicago"  and  
"Gangs  of  New  
York."  

page 13 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
SPORTS 
Irish face challenges in Big East 
The Big East will prove a challenge for the Irish, and they will have to rebound from the last few games they have played. 
page 24 

Car break-in occurs on campus 
A University employee reported his vehicle was broken into while parked in the laundry lot on an unknown date. There are no suspects. 
Stolen computer returned 
A student reported the theft of his computer from his room on Monday in Zahm Hall. The student later notified NDSP his computer had been returned to him. 
Occupational accident reported 
An employee was transported to the University Health Center for treatment of a back injury in South Dining Hall on Monday. · 
Kontrol Kard lost 

A University employee reported losing her Kontrol Kard at an off-campus location on Monday. 
NDSP helps find off-campus student 
NDSP assisted an outside agency in locating an off-cam­pus student on Monday. 
Adandoned bike brought to NDSP 
An abandoned bike was found at the Rockne Memorial and brought in to NDSP for safekeeping. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Manicotti cacciatore sauce, chicken fajita pizza, quiche lor­raine, chicken cordon bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, honey-glazed baked ham, Italian risotto, cut green beans, grilled vegetable plate, potato skins, onion rings, szechuan beef and vegetable stir-fry, flame-roasted corn and black beans. 
Today Lunch: Italian beef and cajun pasta sauce, red clam sauce, chicken fajita pizza, rice and black olives, baked chicken parmesan, kielbasa and sauerkraut, roast pork tenderloin, sesame-baked pollock and corn cob­bettes sauerbraten. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 0: 
I.LI 
:c 
~ 
I.LI 
3: 
..J 
cc 
(,) 


...I 0 HIGH 24 HIGH 20 HIGH 20 HIGH 18 LOW 12 LOW 8 LOW 8 LOW 7 
Compiled from NDSP Crime Blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Vegetarian panini, herb pasta, garden tomato sauce, baked potatoes, country sizzling salads, hot dogs, corn dogs, fries and cheese, sausage and onions, chicken kabobs, confetti rice pilaf, vegetable medley, cheese pizza, santa fe pizza, bread sticks. elephant ears, cotton candy, candy apples and salt water taffy. 
Today Dinner: Grilled hummus. baguette, cous cous, sweet and sour shrimp, rice, cheese and beef' ravioli, zucchini, green bean salad, fried pizza bread, grilled roast beef wrap, herb rice pilaf, cauliflower, sausage pizza and cheese calzones. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 20 HIGH 27 LOW 15 LOW 22 
Atlanta 46 / 29 Boston 23 / 18 Chicago 24 I 10 Denver 29 / 18 Houston 77 / 62 Los Angeles 78 / 50 Minneapolis 18 / -2 New York 29 / 21 Philadelphia 30 / 22 Phoenix 75 / 46 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 24 / 11 Tampa 66 / 53 Washington 33 / 24 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Reckers: making south side smile 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
Reckers. the only 24-hour restaurant on campus, revamped its menu over win­ter break to offer students new and improved items. 
University staff decided it was time to make Reckers into something fresh. said junior Katie lluntcr, a student man­ager. 
Mike Davy, operations man­ager of Reckers since it opened in l 998, said the Heckers menu needed a change after having the same items for four years. The restaurant focused on develop­ing a new sandwich concept. seeking to differentiate itself from other campus restau­rants. 
After six months of planning and studying student question­naires, trade journals and trends in the restaurant indus­try, Reckers stalT began devel­oping now recipes for its menu about a year ago, modeling its new Artisan Sandwiches after Panera Bread and Cosi sand• wichcs. Because the reslau­rant is open 24 hours, it had to wait for an extended break to make the changes. 
The new menu offers more than t ,500 possible sandwich combinations. including five favorites. on bread baked in its own wood-fired oven. 
"It's a nice change from reg­ular bread," said senior Crystal Martinez. 
Students have a choice of cubed grilled chicken, grilled tuna. grilled veggies, sliced beef or sliced ham for $4 with one ingredient. for $4.50 with two ingredients or for $5 with three ingredients. 
Although prices have increased, the sandwiches "taste and cost as much as you want," Davy said. Students can customize their sandwich­es by choosing from nine lla­vo rings, five salsas, five spreads and five cheeses. 
Senior Byan Steel, a student 
manager, said, "They are 
unique to sandwiches any­
where else on campus or in 
the dining halls." 
Reckers also wanted to pro­vide a savory alternative to the newly opened Subway in LaFortune Student Center. 
In order to offer such a wide variety of gourmet sandwich­es, Reckers had to eliminate certain fillings. "Students can get turkey and egg salad sand­wiches anywhere on campus," said Davy. 
Reckers staff have also had to re-train its employees, including 70 students. 
"I was a little afraid of it at first because there are so many different things, but I think it's going to work well," said Hunter. 
Students have had a very favorable response toward the new sandwiches. 
"Most students are very will• ing to try something new," said Davy. 
Reckers has also added a grilled Portobello mushroom sandwich ideal for vegetari­ans, a new line of Freshen Farms high-quality ice cream and burger patties increased from a third of a pound to a half-pound. Reckers still has the same wood oven-baked pizzas. side dishes and drinks as before. 
The restaurant remodeled its order-taking area as part of the first phase of changes. The cash register is now in the middle of the counter, so stu­dents can see the fruit and pastries while in line and serve themselves. speeding up the process. And to pick up their food orders, students now take beepers to the right side of the counter to relieve the conges­tion that used to develop around the cash register. 
To pick up Show Me The Money ice cream or Jamaican Jammer smoothies, customers can now go to the left side of the counter with their receipt. 
In the future, Reckers plans to undergo a second phase of remodeling. That will include re-upholstering the furniture, changing the carpet and painting the walls in the dining area. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu 
:r:::::::::::::r::•:•:•:•..... 
,;;{~:~:~:;'.;:~:::;:::;:;:;: ;-;•:•:::::::· 

R,,.NDb~~~
:~......,......,'!........••·•·«••···•···•·•·•·•,,.,,,.,.JSJiL,,:
:Ivfl)r ti$$; i~U ttfr rt1of. 
NDbay gives students the opportunity to buy and sell books directly to other students. 
'Buy for less and sell for more' @ NDbay.com 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Ask a Notre Dame student about the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. and you'll hear a lot of words, but "cheap" likely will not be among them. 
"[The prices] are ridiculous and confiscatory," said junior Megan Olive. 
Two Notre Dame sophomores agree, and they're solving the problem. Chris Kelly, a business major, and Aaron Wenger, an engineering major, have created NDbay.com, a free online service that allows students to buy and sell textbooks online. 
The two students began their career in software development while they were high school classmates in Harrisburg, Pa. Their company, Elite Technology Solutions, develops Web sites for local businesses. 
NDbay users can employ a simple search program that 
Write for Observer NevVs. Call Helena at 631-5323. 
matches up would·be buyers and sellers via e-mail. Payment is handled privately rather than online. making the site secure and simple to operate, Kelly said. 
The Web site has rapidly gained popularity since it went live in early December, Kelly said. 
"We've signed up over lO per­cent of the undergraduates at Notre Dame," he said. 
The site has even gained cor­porate sponsorship. Notre Dame Food Services finances the oper­ation of the site, in exchange for advertising space l'or the Huddle's Burger King. 
Kelly is also considering plans to expand his site's offerings. 
"We've considered adding a foot­ball ticket exchange," Kelly said. However. NDbay.com will stay true to its motto, allowing students to "Buy for less, sell for more." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Start you, Sp,ing ,eme,ler off lhe ,ighl way•.• Be a DJ with WVFI, ND's only student-run radio station! Come to an informational meeting for new DJs on 
Thursday, Janurary 16th 
~ · 7:00pm 
Montgomery Theater in Lafortune 
(across from Sturbuck's)
wvfi.nd.edu 
HOT SPRING BREAKS 
Discount Coupons up to $250 Cancun, Acapulco, Jnmnicn & Bahamas packages with air. Our staffs 18th Spring Break 1-800-328-7513 www.hotspringbreaks.com 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 4 
PAX CHRISTI PRAYS FOR PEACE 

LISA VELTE/ Toe Observer Pax Christi members protest the upcoming conflict as a result of the rising ten­sion between the Middle Eastern nation of Iraq and the United States. 
ized their opposition to the Go tions. Irish! Park. Additionally, rep­Go Park Enterprises, based
Tailgate 

resentatives from Mothers in Greenville, S.C., has yet to continued from page! Against Drunk Driving and decide what it will do with the 
________:.......::;_____ new administrators in the 
property. The company is also how the influx of up to 5,000 county sheriff's office looking to create a tailgate people would affect the com-expressed opposition to the park in West Lafayette, Ind., munity and who would clean idea. for Purdue University fans. up the garbage left behind on For many of those who resident's front yards. opposed the project, the bot-
Homeowners from the com-tom line was that the proposal 
Contact Melissa Lou at

munity were also present at was a good idea in the wrong 
lou.l@nd.edu.

the meeting where they vocal-location with unsafe condi-
Foley 
continued from page I 
For example, Food Services declined to release information for the fall semester's Flex Point usage, Foley said, questioning why officials would think students could not inter­pret this data. 
Foley said, "I have also seen a lack of respect in my own deal­ings with administrators who fail to recognize the intelli­gence, thoughtfulness and maturity of Notre Dame stu­dents." 
Foley said students are capa­ble of making contributions and decisions and that their input should not be disregarded. 
Senators Kevin Conley, chair of the Residence Life Committee, and Jeremy Staley, chair of the Academic Affairs Committee, supported Foley's remarks. Conley said senators cannot effectively do their job and make contributions if' administrators refuse to help them. 
Staley said the University is not fulfilling its responsibility and commitment to students by not listening to their concerns. He said he understands that administrators are busy, but he does not see how they cannot return multiple messages when the University exists for the sole purpose of its students. 
"Sometimes there will be those who want to help, but there are those that are extremely resistant to wanting to hear what our committee has to say," said Staley. 
Foley said the issue of disre­spect will be highlighted and actively discussed at upcoming Senate meetings. 

"While I am deeply disturbed by what can only be character­ized as an institutional lack of respect for student opinion. I do believe that we still have a chance to reverse this trend," said Foley. 
In other Senate news: 

. 
Senate unanimously approved a resolution to send a letter to Dean Angie Chamblee from the First Year of Studies, along with other administra­tors, asking that First Year of Studies review its policy on International Baccalaureate credits for incoming students. 

. 
Senate distributed the Sexual Assault Awareness posters to senators to post in bathrooms and outside RA rooms. Courtney Kohout. Badin Hall senator and member of the Gender Issues committee, worked with the Sexual Assault Advisory Committee throughout the fall semester to discuss details of the poster's presenta­tion. 

. 
Kaitlyn Redfield replaced Kate Schlosser as Pangborn Hall senator. Schlosser went abroad this semester. 

. 
Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council president, nominated Betsy Schroder, Megan Bears, Laura Beauchamp, Maureen Ritchey, Brandon Bludau and Mike Dolson for the Judicial Council Executive Committee. The committee will review any campaign violations during the upcoming student body presi­dential election season. 


Senate will vote on the nomi­nations at its next meeting. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
LlYE WITH US FOR THE 
BEST OFF C.AMPUS U\/!N«; EXPEP.IENCE EVER1! 
~pACES AVAJU,BJ.E ll'l ALL FLOOR PUNS FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR. 
CALL !JS AT 'Z?l-&l 24 OR VISIT US AT www.T1,.1lJl £CREEK.ND COM 
onxF, 1wTURTLECRE£K.ND.COM 
The ND Department of Music Presents A Graduate Recital 
Megan Walsh, piano 
Performing works by Beethoven, Chopin, Prokofiev, Moszkowski, and Nikolay Tcherepnin 
Saturday, January 18, 2003 
2:00 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum Free and open to the public 
SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
For delrils and application forms, go to: 

http:/lwww.nd.edu/--sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies •(154 Hurley Building •Ph1,5203) 
application deadline: 3/7103 


Sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 16, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Judge rules sniper suspect may be tried as adult 
testified that she monitored one

Associated l'ress 
of the calls, made Oct. 21, from 

FAIRFAX, Va. someone claiming to be a 
A judge ruled Wednesday sniper who laid out non-nego• that 17-year-old sniper suspect tiable terms for ending the John Lee Malvo can be tried as killing spree. an adult. making him eligible The call, received two days for the death penalty. after a patron was shot and 
Juvenile Court Judge Charles critically wounded as he left an Maxfield issued his decision Ashland restaurant, ordered aflcr a two-day hearing in police to hold a news confer­which prosecutors said evi­ence and say they believed they dence tied Malvo to three fatal had caught the sniper "like a attacks and that he tried to duck in a noose." extort $10 million from author­Otherwise, the caller told ilics during last fall's killing police, "be sure to know that spree. we will not deviate" from previ­
l\1alvo and John Allen ous threats to kill more people. Muhammad, 42. are accused of Montgomery County forensic killing 13 people and wounding expert David McGill testified five others in Alabama. that a note left at the Silver Georgia. Louisiana. Maryland. Spring, Md.. location where bus Virginia and Washington. D.C., driver Conrad Johnson was last year. They are being tried slain Oct. 22 read: "ror you Mr. first in Virginia. police, call me God. Do not 
On Wednesday. a detective release to the press. Can you who interviewed Malvo for six hear us now! Do not play these hours after his arrest identified childish games with us. You his voice on tape recordings of know our demands." two threatening phone calls to The note reiterated that the authorities during the attacks. snipers wanted police to use 
Authorities lead alleged sniper John Lee Malvo out of the Fairfax County Juvenile and Domestic
"I talked to him long enough the "duck in a noose" phrase at 
Relations Court Wednesday. A court Judge ruled that Malvo could stand trial as an adult for the
to know he's very smooth and a news conference "to let us 
murder of 13 people last year.

well-spoken. I'd know that know you have received our voice immediately," Fairfax demands." hadn't responded quickly victed of trying to intimidate on the murder weapon, ballis­County police Detective June Montgomery County, Md., enough to earlier demands for the public or coerce the gov­tics evidence and the notes and Boyle testified. She described Police Chief Charles Moose money. ernment. Malvo is also charged phone calls link Malva to three Malva as calm, relaxed and read the cryptic message at a It told police, "Your incompe­under a statute that allows a fatal sniper attacks and the even "jovial on occasion" dur­news conference during the tence has cost you another death sentence for multiple Ashland shooting. ing their interview. search for the snipers. life," Horan said. murders. Muhammad faces trial in 
Defense lawyers challenged Fairfax County prosecutor The extortion allegation is a Malva is charged with the October in neighboring Prince whether the caller was even Robert F. Horan Jr. said earlier key element of a Virginia anti­Oct. 14 slaying of FBI analyst William County for the Oct. 9 male. that the note also said Johnson terrorism law that allows the Linda Franklin in Falls Church. slaying of Dean Meyers at a 
rBI agent Jackie Dalrymple was killed because police death penalty for killers con-In all, Horan said fingerprints Manassas gas station. 

Bush opposes affirtnative action at University of Michigan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush, stepping into a politi­cally charged affirmative action case. asserted Wednesday that a program of racial preferences for minority appli­cants at the University of Michigan was "divisive. unfair and impossible to square with the Constitution." 
Democrats and civil rights leaders swiftly attacked Bush's position in a Supreme Court case that could put a generation of affirmative action pro­grams in jeopardy. 
"The Bush administration continues a disturbing pattern of using the rhetoric of diversity as a substitute for real progress on a civil right agenda," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomina­tion. 
Sensitive to such criticism, the White House said a brief being filed Thursday on Bush's behalf is narrowly tailored to oppose the Michigan program. Though he called quotas unconstitutional, Bush did not say that any use of race is always unconstitutional in selecting a student body -leaving it to the high court to settle a question that could reshape affirmative action programs nationwide. The court hears the case in March. 
Some conservatives, including senior members of Bush's own Justice Department, had urged Bush to take a firm stand against ever using race. In an unusual foray into domestic policy, national security adviser Condoleezza 
Rice participated in the discussions, but it was unclear which side she took. Rice, who is black, is former provost of Stanford University. 
"I strongly support diversity of all kinds, including racial diversity in high­er education," Bush said in the Roosevelt Room to announce that his administration would file a brief. "But the method used by the University. of Michigan to achieve this important goal is fundamentally flawed" 
The Michigan program "amounts to a quota system that unfairly rewards or penalizes prospective students solely on their race," Bush said. 
He said the undergraduate admissions program awards black, Hispanic and native American students 20 points, one-fifth of the total normally needed for admission. At the law school. some minority students are admitted to meet percentage targets while others with higher grades are passed over, Bush said. 
"Quota systems that use race to include or exclude people from higher education and the opportunities it offers are divisive, unfair and impossible to square with the Constitution," Bush said. He declined to take questions. 
The last Supreme Court case that addressed affirmative action in college admissions banned the outright use of racial quotas but still allowed universi­ty admissions officers to use race as a factor. The case, the 1978 Bakke rul­ing. involved a white applicant rejected from a public medical school in California. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
North Korea rejects U.S. offers for talk: North Korea rejected as "pie in the sky" U.S. offers of talks and possible aid in exchange for abandoning its nuclear ambitions, accusing Washington on Wednesday of staging a "deceptive drama" to mislead world opinion. Keeping up a stream of anti-American invective -even as il. agreed to more high-level meetings with South Korea next week -Pyongyang declared it would accept no U.S. offer of dialogue with conditions attached. 
U.N. weapons inspections lead to Iraq ire: In a move that infuriated Saddam Hussein's govern­ment, U.N. arms experts visited a presidential palace compound Wednesday in Baghdad, spending four hours searching two office complexes and opening safes. The visit was the second to a presidential site since the inspectors resumed the search for weapons of mass destruction in November. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials find lost bubonic plague samples: 
About 30 vials of the plague that were reported missing at Texas Tech University were found Wednesday in a mysterious episode that triggered a terrorism-alert plan and showed how jittery Americans are over the threat of a biological attack. The FBI refused to say how or where the vials were found. However. an FBI official in Washington. speaking on condition of anonymity. said authorities believe the samples of the lethal bacteria were simply destroyed and not properly accounted for, rather than stolen or misplaced. 
No anthrax discovered at mail facility: 
No anthrax was detected at a government mail facility that handled a Federal Reserve letter that tested positive in preliminary readings, the Postal Service said Wednesday. "All of our results are negative," said Thomas Day, vice president of engineering for the service. 
Selected gene therapy studie.s suspended: 
U.S. officials are suspending 27 more gene therapy studies while they investigate a possible serious risk: A second toddler cured of the deadly "bubble boy disease" by gene therapy in France has come down with an apparent leukemia-like side effect. It marks the second time in three months that health officials have interrupted gene therapy studies because of the grave side effect. Bubble boy disease -an immune disorder formally called severe com­bined immunodeficiency, or SCIO -is the only dis­ease ever to be cured with gene therapy. 
NYC mayor announces school reforms: 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced sweeping reforms in the city's foundering public school sys­tem Wednesday, including a standard curriculum and smaller classes. Bloomberg said quality educa­tion i.s a civil right that minority children are too often denied. 
Thursday, January 16, 2003 page 6
The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
VENEZUELA 

Currency hits all time low 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 
A seven-week-old opposition strike against President Hugo Chavez dropped Venezuela's currency to a new low Wednesday and sent Venezuelans in tho capital scrambling to banks to buy dol­lars. 
Support for Chavez's adamant refusal to consider early elections showed signs of crumbling as three pro-Chavez lawmakers unveiled a plan for an early vote on his presidency. 
The strike has slashed oil exports to a trickle, depriving the government of half its income. Venezuela's bolivar currency closed at 1,716 to the 
U.S. dollar. down 6 percent from Tuesday. In Caracas, hun­dreds of citizens waited in long lines at banks and exchange houses to buy dollars. 
Trying to calm fears of an economic crash, the govern­ment denied speculation that it plans to devalue the bolivar so it can balance its $25 billion budget. Most government income is in dollars and a weaker bolivar would increase its domestic spending power. 
Venezuela has acknowledged the oil strike has cost $4 billion so far. 
Venezuela's opposition launched the strike Dec. 2 to demand that Chavez resign or call early elections if he loses a Feb. 2 nonbinding referendum on his rule. 
The National Elections Council is organizing the vote, but Chavez says he will ignore it, and ruling party lawmakers have challenged its legality in court. Venezuela's constitution allows citizens to petition for a binding referendum halfway through a six-year presidential term, or August. Opposition leaders fear Chavez will find a way to postpone it. 
Chavez was elected in 1998 and re-elected in 2000. 
Rafael Simon Jimenez. a pro­Chavez lawmaker who quit the leftist Podemos party, said he and two other legislators would introduce a measure as early as next week to amend the constitution. It would end and allow general elections. suspended while the region's 
The proposal by Jimenez and leaders attended the Chavez supporters Guillermo Wednesday inauguration of Palacios and Luis Salas would Ecuadorean President Lucio leave opposition legislators just Gutierrez. one vote shy of a simple major­In Quito, Ecuador, Chavez ity needed to pass an amend­lashed out at his opponents as ment in the 165-seat Congress. "a subversive movement from Jimenez said he was looking the far right, a fascist move­
for that vote.  ment backed  
Elections are  "The solution must be  by economic  
the only way to s o I v e Venezuela's  democratic, constitution­al. and, it seems, elec­ elites." Chavez was to meet  
political crisis  toral."  with  U.N.  
and end the 45­ Secretary  
day-old strike,  General Kofi  
which has raised  Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada  Annan  in  
gasoline and oil  Bolivian President  New York on  

prices abroad, Jimenez said. "We don't see an elections as a break with Chavez. We see elections as a response to the country's crisis," Jimenez said. 
Legislator Freddy Lepage of the opposition Democratic Action party said Chavez was steadily losing support in Congress as the crisis deep­ened. 'We still don't have the majority, but I'm confident we'll have it soon,' he said. 
Chavez enjoys the support of the military, which he purged of dissidents after a brief April coup. The government claims oil production is back up to 800,000 barrels a day, com­pared to a pre-strike level of 3 million barrels a dav. 
The U.S. Energy Department says American motorists could pay up to $1.54 per gallon of gasoline this spring even if war is averted in Iraq. Horne heat­ing oil prices rose 4.7 percent in December. 
Negotiations mediated by Cesar Gaviria, secretary gener­al of the Organization of American States, were briefly 
GANCl.111 . ACAPILLCO . JAMAICA BAffAMM . Fl()JIOA 

Thursday 
before returning to Caracas. Some strike leaders, meanwhile, were in the United States pleading their case with U.S. government and business lead­ers. 
Several nations voiced sup­port for a so-called "Friends of Venezuela" proposal to strengthen the efforts of Gaviria, who has had little suc­cess in mediating talks since November. 
"The solution must be demo­cratic, constitutional, and, it seems, electoral," said Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada. 
Former President Jimmy Carter arrived in Venezuela on Wednesday for a fishing trip with Venezuelan busininessess­man Gustavo Cisneros. 
Carter, whose Atlanta, Georgia-based Carter Center also is trying to resolve Venezuela's crisis, said that he would meet with Gaviria and government and opposition leaders next week. 
GERMANY 

Officials take actions against Muslim organization 
Associated Press 
BEHUN 
Germany's top law enforce­ment official outlawed an Islamic organization Wednesday, citing the spread of anti-Semitic and anti-Israel pro­paganda to explain the third such ban since Sept. 11. 
Little is known about the organization and structure of Hizb ut-Tahrir. but German authorities say the group ­whose name means Liberation party advocates the destruction of Israel and has called for the killing of Jews. 
In conjunction with the ban, police raided 30 properties in five of Germany's 16 states, seizing propaganda but making no arrests. 
Interior Minister Otto Schily expressed particular concern over the spread of propaganda at universities, noting that sev­eral of the Sept. 11 plotters studied in Germany. 
"I will not tolerate organiza­tions here engaging in anti­Jewish and anti-Israeli hate propaganda," Schily told a news conference. Inciting racial or anti-Semitic hatred is outlawed in Germany. Describing the group as secretive, Schily said it has been active in Germany dis­t ri buting leaflets with anti­Semitic messages at mosques, Islamic centers and universities. [t also has a German-language magazine and Web site, deliver­ing the same propaganda. 
But authorities have no reli­able information on how many people in Germany belong to the group, or whether it has links with other Islamic organi• zations. "We are following some trails.'' Schily said. 

Schily described an event at Berlin's Technical University last October during which a speaker made anti-Semitic remarks and urged the intro­duction of a caliphate, or strict Islamic state, in Muslim coun­tries. 
The university said Wednesday it had canceled the registration of the association that had allowed members of Hitzb ut-Tahrir to speak at the event. 
It remains unclear how suc­cessful the group was at recruit­ing at universities a concern for German authorities since reve­lations that the Hamburg cell of Sept. 11 plotters posed as ordi­nary foreign students for years before the deadly mission. 
Hizb ut-Tahrir rejects accusa­tions of extremism and says its aim is to restore the 'Islamic way of life' in the Muslim world. A spokesman for the group in Britain said Germany's action was "tantamount to thought­policing." 
"We are not against Jews or Christians. We are against the state of Israel," lmran Waheed said by telephone. The group "doesn't believe in the use of violence and armed struggle to achieve its aims." 
The group has been under observation by officials in Germany since at least 2000. In November, federal authorities raided 27 apartments belonging to members of sympathizers across the country on suspicion of founding a radical Islamic organization. 

FULL-TIME &PART-11ME 
Announcing Your Exclusive Employee Purchase Program 
SELL TRIPS, 

~~ 
THE
EADWN, 

~ 
X

'°Fl&! 1.8NMl4149 
www.ststr11Y11l.rom 
PIAN 

Did you know.....As an employee of Notre Dame, you are automatically eligible for special pre-determined pricing from Ford Motor Company and its brands. 
This plan is called 1 'X Plan". Ask for it when you buy or lease your next new Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar, or Mazda and receive manufacturer pricing below dealer invoice. 
Just bring in to the dealership proof of employment (paycheck stub or ID card) and announce you are an "X Plan" recipient. 
-

•Only 
offered to Ford Motor Company suppliers and select partners 

•Special 
vehicle pricing is pre-determined by Ford Motor Company 


•X Plan visible on factory invoice-ask to see it 
•Jordan is a volume dealership-More$ for your trade-in 
•Additional rebates available 
•Hassle-free -No negotiation necessary 

VOLVO 
Drive Safely 

Al IENTION: 1\101 lo: DAME EMPIOYEES 
THE JORDAN AUIOMOTIVE GROUP 
1-SOG-837-1981 

Thursday, January 16, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 15 
DowJones 

8,723.18 • -119.44 
NASDAQ 

1,438.80 -22. 19
ij 
S&P500 

918.22 ... -13.44 
AMEX 

831.30 ~ +0.50 
NYSE 

5,171.45 • -62.21 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.47-0.4417.35 

APPLIED MATERIA (AMAT)-5.92-0.9114.45 
:1

[•eli::iiii::;:~~ ::i:::1;00ii~i:1!iji;i:ji!i~l1:1~i 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -5. 98 -0 .11 1. 73 
IN BRIEF 
Bank of America 4Q earnings rise 
Retail banks reported earnings at or above analysts' expectations on Wednesday, with profits driven by gains in mortgages, credit card portfolios and other areas. 
Bank of America reported fourth-quarter profits of $2.61 billion, or $1.69 a share, up 27 percent from $2.05 billion, or $1.28 a share a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected the bank to earn $1.63 per share. 
The bank, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., said earnings were fueled by growth in con­sumer banking revenue and tight expense controls. Fourth-quarter earnings also were boosted by after-tax income of $488 million from a previously announced tax settlement. 
In trading, shares fell $1.03 each to close Wednesday at $71.45 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Bank of America said gains in mortgages, debit and credit cards, and deposits, were off­set somewhat by continued losses in revenue from the weak stock market. 
Wholesale prices remain constant 
Wholesale prices held steady in December as the sputtering economy made it difficult for some companies to charge more. 
The flat reading in I.he Producer Price Index, which measures prices paid to facto­ries, farmers and other producers, came after wholesale prices fell by 0.4 percent in November, the Labor Department reported Wednesday. 
Excluding energy and food prices, which can swing widely, core wholesale prices dipped by 0.3 percent in December for the second straight month, suggesting some good deals are out there. 
The Federal Reserve, meanwhile, painted a picture of a lackluster economy in its latest survey of business conditions. It found "sub­dued growth" in economic activity from mid­November through early January and little change in overall conditions. 
Court upholds Disney copyrights 
Supreme Court grants company longer copyrights 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Mickey Mouse and The Walt Disnev Co. scored a big victory ·wednesday as the Supreme Court upheld longer copyright protec­tions fur cartoon charac­ters, songs, books and other creations worth bil­lions of dollars. 
Companies like Disney breathed a collective sigh of relief' with the 7-2 court ruling giving Congress per­mission to repeatedly extend copyright protec­tion. 
The decision was a blow to Internet publishers and others who wanted to make old books available online and use the likenesses of Mickey Mouse and other old creations without pay­ing royalties. 
Hundreds of thousands of books, movies and songs were close to being, released into the public domain when Congress extended the copyright by 20 years in 1998. 
Justices said the copy­right extension, named for the late Rep. Sonny Bono, R-Ca!if., was neither unconstitutional overreach­the use of information films, such as 1928's victory not solely for rights ing by Congress, nor a vio­"threatens to interfere with "Steamboat Willie." holders, but also for con­lation of free-speech rights. efforts to preserve our The ruling will affect sumers everywhere," he 
"We are not at Hberty to nation's historical and cul­movie studios and heirs of said. second-guess congressional tural heritage" and to edu­authors and composers. It Disney spokeswoman determinations and policy cate children, Breyer will also affect small music Michele Bergman said the judgments of this order, added. Stevens said the publishers, orchestras and ruling "ensures copyright however debatable or court was "failing to pro­church choirs that must owners the proper incen­arguably unwise they may tect the public interest in pay royalties to perform tive to originate creative be," Justice Ruth Bader free access to the products some pieces. works for the public to Ginsburg wrote for the of inventive and artistic "The winners are folks enjoy." majority. genius." who hold valuable copy­The Constitution allows 
In two lengthy dissents, A contrary ruling would rights. The losers are Congress to give authors Justices John Paul Stevens have caused huge losses for everyone else," said Erik S. and inventors the exclusive and Stephen Breyer said entertainment giants like Jaffe, a Washington attor­right to their works for a the court was making a Disney and AOL Time ney who filed arguments in "limited" time. mistake. Warner Inc. AOL Time the case. "Everyone is Congress has repeatedly 
"The serious public harm Warner had said that going to pay more for lengthened the terms of and the virtually nonexis­would threaten copyrights things they would have had copyrights over the years. tent public benefit could for such movies as for cheap or free." Copyrights lasted only 14 not be more clear," Breyer "Casablanca," "The Wizard But Jack Valenti, presi­years in 1790. With the wrote. of Oz" and "Gone With the dent of the Motion Picture challenged 1998 extension, 
Copyright holders stand Wind." Association of America, the period is now 70 years to collect about $400 mil­Also at risk of expiration said that copyrights after the death of the cre­lion more a year from older was protection for the ver­encourage the creation and ator. Works owned by cor­creations under the exten­sion of Mickey Mouse por­preservation of works. porations are now protect­sion, he said. The limit on trayed in Disney's earliest "That is why this ruling is a ed for 95 years. 

United stock sale ruling delayed 
Associa.ted Press 
WASHINGTON 

A bankrupicy judge decided Wednesday to wait until next month before ruling on whether all employ­ee-owned stock in United Airlines can be sold. 
United and the independent trustee for its employee stock ownership plan, State Street Bank & Trust Co., asked Judge Eugene Wedoff to post­pone his decision until Feb. 6 while they try to negotiate a settlement. 
State Street wants to sell all the remaining shares before they become worthless in bankruptcy. But United obtained a temporary order last month barring such a sale. 
United's complaint is that it will lose a billion-dollar tax benefit if employee ownership falls below 20 percent. Responding to a court order, United consented Friday to the sale of an additional 12.9 million shares, which it said would take employee ownership down to that 20 percent level. 
The employee stock ownership plan, created in 1994 and now with 75,000 members, held about 55 per­cent of the company's shares until September, when State Street began selling them oIT. 
State Street wants to take a deposi­tion from United's chief financial offi­cer, Jake Brace, as part of its effort to show that lifting the stock-trading ban is merited. United has declined, calling the effort "harassment." 
The trustee has begun but not com­pleted the sales of the additional 12.9 million shares. United shares fell 4 cents to close at $1.33 Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Numerous other legal matters involving United, including the pay package of CEO Glenn Tilton, went unresolved in Wednesday's four-hour bankruptcy court hearing. 
The world's second largest airline is working on a new business plan that it expects to present to its board of directors on Jan. 31. 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 16, 2003 
Israel closes 2 West Bank colleges 
accompanied by cement trucks homes to deter Palestinian troops in stone-throwing clash­troops fatally shot a
Associated P rcss 

and Asian workers, filled three attacks but Palestinians con­es that erupted later in Palestinian man who houses with barrel after barrel demn the tactic as collective Tulkarem. Palestinian witness­approached them. despite their JERUSALEM of' wet cement. They also punishment. es and officials said. The army warnings to stop. They identi­
Israel closed two Palestinian punched holes in opposite sides Palestinian leader Yasser said soldiers shot a Palestinian fied him as Ribhi Zakarn. They colleges on Wednesday and of the houses and placed long Arafat said Palestinian factions hurling firebombs at troops, but were among more than 20 pumped cement into three east steel beams through the houses were trying to reach a consen­had no information on his fate. suspected militants arrested in Jerusalem houses to destroy at chest level to further dis-sus on a possible ceasefire but In Kabatiya, a village in the West Bank sweeps apartments belonging to courage any-Israel was northern West Bank, Israeli Wednesday, the army said. Palestinians convicted in a . one from "The Israelis are continu­making it dif­series of deadly bombings. returning. ficult.
ing their military escala­
Also Wednesday, three Unlike The Israelis
tion against our people. ·······························~················ 
Palestinians were killed in dozens of "are continu­
: University Resources 
scattered clashes with Israeli o t h e r lands, institutions, ing their mili­
•

soldiers in the West Bank· two Palestinian tary escalation • teenagers and a man said by homes, these women and children against our •• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & relatives to be mentally ill, were not torn everywhere." people, lands, •
• 

according to Palestinians and down because institutions, •• Bisexual Students the Israeli army. each contained women and • liliiiiillllllilllllilllll
Vasser Arafat e STANDING The United States criticized other apart­children THE 
• COllllll'IT1'"EE OHPalestinian Leader • ca,...v A.NP l.ualAN
Israel's closure of the Islamic ments police everywhere," •• STUDENT NU!IHI University and the Polytechnic said they did he said after 
•

Institute, both in the West not want to damage. Wednesday's violence in the •
• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Bank town of Hebron. But another home in east West Bank. •
•

Israel was responding to a Jerusalem was bulldozed after Arafat aide Nabil Abu Rdeneh • Lesbian Student Needs Palestinian suicide bombing Israeli forces blew up part of it. said that Egypt is to host a •• (Confidential information, education, and resources) that killed 23 people in Tel Israel said the homes belong series of meetings next week of • Cont(lct" Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student
•

Aviv earlier this month. to four Hamas militants con­Palestinian factions, aimed at •
• members (see web site for student contact info.)
But State Department victed of organizing bombings forging a common program. 
• 

spokesman Richard Boucher that killed 35 people last year, Earlier meetings in Cairo •
•

said the action was not in the including live Americans who between Arafat's Fatah and the • Office of Campus Ministry 
•

interest of either side. died in a July attack at Hebrew violent Islamic Hamas, aimed at • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students Palestinian Educati on University. All are serving life an end to suicide bombings in •• and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
Minister Nairn Abu'! Humus sentences except one, who Israel, ended inconclusively. •
• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support)
accused the Israelis of attempt­received a 60-year prison term. Israeli soldiers shot a • 
Contact" Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
ing to 'sabotage the education Wednesday was the first time Palestinian who detonated sev­process, which already has in the current Palestinian eral bombs as they were trying been badly affected through uprising that Israel has torn to arrest suspected militants in University Counseling Center sieges, closures and curfews.' down homes of militants in a refugee camp in Tulkarem, (Individual counseling) . . . . 
Several thousand students east Jerusalem. Previous the army said. Mouhi Aldin Contact· Dr. Pat Utz ai Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen attend the two colleges. The demolitions during the last 28 Hamza, 16, was killed, 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
army said some are using the months of violence took place Palestinian hospital officials facilities to plan and launch in the West Bank or the Gaza said. •• For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn'
•

attacks.In mostly Arab east Strip. A second 16-year-old •
•

Jerusalem, Israeli police, Israel says it destroys the Palestinian was killed by Israeli •
• 

················································ 

Do you know why these leprechauns are 
so happy? Because they have jl.1-st been ACCEPTED FOR HOUSrNG AT 
TURTLE CREEK APARTI\IIENTS. 
DON'T 1V1ISS YOUR CHANCEJAPPLY TODAY FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR.!! 

Tl_JRTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Call 272-8124 or vis.it us on the web at w~.tu.rtiecreek.nd.com 
01-"fice(@,turtlecrecknd. ~~on:! 

Thursday, January I 6, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 



-
e 1verv 

I 
¦ 

. 

Over 300,000 New and USED textbooks 

~... 
. 

FREE shipping on 2or more items 
~... 
. 

convenient Online Book Buvback Program
11 , 



BARNES NOBLE 
www.bn.com 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 16, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bax Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHlfF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  Bm,INESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Krisrin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hmler and Matt Lozar SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTR0I..LER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS ....................................................... ...631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................... .............631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAllv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llaburoer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insricurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qiu,tiom regarding Ob,erverpolicies ,houUbe direct­ed u, Edil()r in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obtct'YC'r (USPS 599 24.0) ~ publi1hc-d Monday rhro u.gb Friday exupr J.uring a;un and v.:•cion periods. A subscripcion ta The 0b5e'tvcr is S 100 for one academic yc.r; f55 fw one >Crnatcf. 
The ~rvcr is publishd ~t~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send :;aJdJcss t:011«1:iom u,; Notre Dam~, JN 46)56 TfieOhiervcr 
l'.O.Bo.<Q Paiodica.l po1tagi:. paid ;u Notrt Dame Notre D.un,. IN -46556-0779 vid .11.ddi{iunJ mnlingofu,. 
The~cri1a mmi~oflh~ kmci::ittd Pmi. All reproduction tighrs att
-· 


On the Mediterranean coast of Egypt, there lies the ancient city of Alexandria. Named after its founder, Alexander the Great, the city was once home to a library the greatness of which was unrivalled throughout the world. The Library of Alexandria was more than a place where books were collected and stud­ied; it contained lecture areas, gar­
Peter Wicks 
dens, a shrine to each of the muses (the original meaning of the Latin word "museum") and even a zoo. At one time 
Englishman
the Library is thought to have held more than half a million documents Abroad from Greece, Persia, Egypt, Assyria, India and elsewhere. 
Scholars from around the Mediterranean flocked to it to study. It was at the Library that Euclid wrote his geometry, Archimedes made the first discoveries of what may mean­ingfully be called science, and at the request of Ptolemy II a team of 72 rabbis translated the Pentateuch into Greek. 
It is difficult to know when or by whom the Library was destroyed. Amongst those accused are Julius Caesar, Theopholis (Patriarch of Alexandria from 385 to 412 AD) and Caliph Omar. Inevitably, the question of whether the Library was destroyed by a pagan, a Christian or a Muslim has never been able to escape an ideological dimension, and since what evidence we possess is tantalizingly incon­clusive this will no doubt remain the case. 
Whoever is to blame, it is known that when the Library was destroyed, countless great works of antiquity were lost forever. All but seven of the 90 plays of Aeschylus, the sec­ond book of Aristotle's Poetics, and countless other works of literature, philosophy and history were lost to us. James Billington, the librarian of Congress, has said, "One ghostly image haunts all of us charged with preserving the creative heritage of humanity: the specter of the great, lost Library of Alexandria." 
Whoever was responsible, the books of the Library were destroyed by fire, and the destruction of the Library thus forms part of the long and terrible history of book burning. The most famous book burnings in modern history took place in Germany afteT the Nazis rose to power. In one of the remarkable acts of prescience to which poets are some­times prone, a century earlier Heinrich Heine had written that, "Wherever they burn books they will also, in the end, burn human beings." 
The Nazi book burnings and the Holocaust were not unrelated atrocities. The destruction of culture is integral to the genocidal program, which is not simply to kill a peo­ple, but to obliterate (the word literally means "to erase writing") them from human history. 
The connection between genocide and the systematic destruction of culture was officially recognized by the Genocide Convention of 1948. As the century continued the enormity of the Holocaust gradually entered into Western consciousness with the effect that Nazism is now perhaps the only universal symbol of moral evil, the touchstone we reach for when we need to reassure ourselves that not everything is relative or a matter of subjective opinion. 
Holocaust education is undoubtedly important, but the fact we continually turn to Nazism for our examples of absolute evil shows that many of us have yet to hear the news that the 20th Century was the bloodiest in history and is replete with examples of human brutality. Some scholars estimate that between the October Revolution and the fall of the Berlin Wall, 100 million people were killed under communist regimes, a number that defeats the imagina­tion, like the distance to the stars. 
The largest single act of book burning in history took place in our lifetimes. On August 25, 1992, Serb nationalist forces began a three-day incendiary assault on the National and University Library of Bosnia. 
Estimates of the amount of books destroyed approach 1.5 million, including 155,000 rare books and manuscripts, along with the state archives. During the attack, the people of Sarajevo formed a human chain to save books from the flames. They did this while under fire from snipers. 
Last October, on the Mediterranean coast of Egypt, the new Bibliotheca Alexandrina opened on what scholars believe to be the site of the original Library. The opening is the culmination of a 20-year project supported by the United Nations. Compared to the Library of Congress or the British Library in London its book collection is currently modest, but it is set to expand rapidly and the Bibliotheca Alexandria should eventually become a center of learning for scholars from around the world. 
The new Library of Alexandria is already a symbol of hope for those who have not despaired that the inverse of Heine's dictum may also hold true and that in the future mankind, having learnt to treat books with due reverence, will finally do the same with human beings. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. His column appears every two weeks. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. Peter is pleased to report that on his recent return from England he made it through customs without incident. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Justin Krivickas Joe Trornbello Himanshu Kothari 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard Graphics Chris Naider 

Sports Joe Hettler Joe Lindsley Charee Halloway Scene Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kacmar 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Have you changed your opinion of going off­campus since Chad Sharon's disappearance? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on." 
Sir. Winston Churchill former British prime minister 

OTHE BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 16, 2002 
page 11 

Graduate school causes woes 

GUEST COLUMN 
Affirmative action bolsters higher education 
Affirmative action gives Hispanics, blacks, women and other minorities special consideration for employment, education and contracting decisions. It was created to allow minorities to have an equal 
chance of advancing.  
Affirmative action has always  
been in the center of a lot of  Elmer Alvarez  
controversy.  
Many opponents, mainly white  
men and the white women that  
it still benefits, claim that affir- The Heights  
mative action is discriminatory  
towards white people. You  
would think that white women  

would not disagree with affirmative action but embrace it. It seems as though once they got the 
fruits of affirmative action they want to abandon it for all other groups. 
A majority of the white resistance do not mind when a white woman receives 20 points lower on the SAT than a man and gets into MIT to boost its female population. Many pay no mind to the fact that small liberal arts schools such as Vassar admit men with lower SAT scores than their female counterparts just to get a 50/50 male to female ratio. That seems like a quota. But when you try to get more blacks and Hispanics into colleges and universities there is major white resistance and that seems contradictory. 
Some may argue that diversity in ideologies is more important than cultural diversity. Then why do schools try to get an equal male to female ratio? 
It is said that college is not only a place of acade­mia. but a place of edification. A diverse college community fosters this. Lee Bollinger, president of Columbia University, states, "This society has been committed to trying to create a successfully diverse and integrated society, and universities across the county have played an important role in trying to meet that goal." 
It is beneficial to the white students to have affir­tive action] has done a disservice to minority stu­mative action policies implemented at colleges and dents by placing them in schools in which they are universities. The white students can get a better unable to compete ... There is also no evidence understanding of what black and Hispanic people are [again contrary to prevalent misperceptions] that the like. They can learn how to interact with consideration of race stigmatizes minority 
other ethnicities. It also gives a better, not students. Black graduates of the most 
accurate, representation of the racial selective schools are the most satisfied and cultural diversity that exist in with their college experience." the United States. Now I pose a question: Are 
The opponents of affirmative white men threatened with more action such as Washington Post women, blacks, Hispanics and journalist, Roger Clegg, argue other minorities getting the that "It [affirmative action] skills they need to be real sets a terrible legal, political competitors for jobs usually and moral precedent to allow held by white males? This is 
racial discrimination; creates why they want to axe affir­resentment and stigmatizes mative action, starting with the so-called beneficiaries in the universities, where they 
the eyes of their classmates, will gain the skills they need teachers and themselves; fos­to go up the economic lad­
der.

ters a victim mind-set; removes the incentive for aca­I am a proponent of affirma­demic excellence and encour­
tive action. 1also believe that ages separatism among racial racism is not obsolete, so affir­and ethnic minorities; compro­mative action is necessary. The mises the academic mission of the only way black and Hispanic peo­
university and creates pressure to plQ can advance is if they are given discriminate in grading and gradua­the chance and skills they need to tion; breeds hypocrisy within the school become successful in life. A diverse com-
and encourages a scofflaw attitude among col­lege officials; mismatches students and institutions, guaranteeing failure for many of the former." 
There is no evidence that these downsides to affir­mative action actually exist. A study done by William Bowen and Derek Bok debunked those myths and noted that, "Minority students admitted to selecUve schools had strong academic credentials, graduated in high numbers and did very well after leaving col­lege ... This evidence dispels the notion that taffirma­
munity nurtures a more enriching college experience. It benefits all parties. after all, why are you going to go to a college where everybody is going to be and look just like you? 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 14 edition of The Heights, the daily newspaper ofBoston College. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I'm applying to graduate schools right now. Why? Because I am a psy­chology major. My two options in life arc graduate school or spending the rest of my life asking people if they'd 
like fries with that.  
Actually, I have a  Marlayna  
third option: I can  Soenneker  
go into business.  
This is also the only thing you can do with every other  Here We Go Again ...  
BA in the College  
of Arts and Letters.  

That's how the business majors get their revenge on us for making fun of them for four years -they're the ones who preside over our pathetic attempts to sell out. 
Applying to graduate school is not like applying to college. For one thing, graduate schools, at least in psycholo­gy, do not appear to want students. They have a 3 to 5 percent acceptance rate. These are not people who want to teach. These are people who want to hole up in their offices and play Snood. 
Applying to graduate school is also ridiculously complicated. First, you have to find information. As graduate schools are not interested in having students, they do not recruit. I had two boxes full of college materials, but so far the only people who have recruited me for graduate school are Notre Dame and the Philadelphia School of Podiatry. 
The place to find information, as we all know, is online, which is also com­plicated. The first thing you have to do is find the graduate school application. So, if you're me, you first look at the graduate school web page. 
It says that the application for the the graduate school page that says that graduate school is available on the the graduate application is available department web page. Okay, that from the department. makes no sense, as there are 50 Back button again. Another 
departments and only one grad school, but who are you to ask questions? So you cruise over to the psychology depart­ment and look around for some­thing in valving the word gradu­ate and click. 
This takes you to a page that talks about their graduate pro­grams. So you pick the Clinical Program and click. You are then taken to a page that talks about the pro­gram. After five minutes of search­ing, you finally find a link involving the word admissions. It does not, however, have the application, because this is about getting admit­ted, not about applying, two obviously separate things. 
So you hit the back button and begin combing the page for "application." You finally find the word and click. There are many links, and one says it is the link to the graduate application. It is, however, actually a link back to 
link. A different page that 
eventually links you back to the original page that says that the 
graduate applica­tion is available from the depart­
ment. This time the back button doesn't work, 
so you are forced to re­log in to the 
Universitv's webpage·and go through all 16 steps again. You try the last link 
you see, and the application is beginning to 

load when the computer crash­es. So you try giving the department a call. Maybe they will send you a paper application. The recep­tionist picks up, and you politely request a paper appli­
cation. There is a pause. "A what?" "Um, a paper a µplication, please." "We don't have paper applications. 
They're all online now. It's much more 
convenient. Just check the website." 
And she hangs up. 
Now, if you're smart you're applying to at least 15 schools because even then, with your top estimate of a 5 per­cent acceptance rate, you only have a 
53.7 percent chance of being accepted anywhere at all, with a 46.3 percent chance of living in a box some time in the immediate aftermath of gradua­tion. So you have to do this hide-and­go-seek thing with 15 different gradu­ate applications. 
You also have to do it again with 15 different departmental applications, because you have to apply to both the graduate school itself and the depart­ment. Apparently departments are not capable of good choices about who to let into their school. 
I guess the grad schools are worried that the department will be so over­whelmed by great research records or fabulous essays that they will fail to notice students' 0.9 GPAs. Or perhaps if the departments were left to their own devices they would accept 6 or even 8 percent of the applicants, and then where would the University be? 
I'm not really worried about getting into grad school, though. My family never throws anything away, and I know for a fact that we have some very large boxes in our garage. Maybe my parents will give me one for gradua­tion. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a second semester senior without any classes, also known as a first semester alumna. She can still be reached at msoen­nek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 
page 12 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Lord of the Rings' schmaltzy but visually stunning 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Movie Critic 

The second installment of Peter Jackson's adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien's saga of the struggle for Middle Earth, "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers," follows in its predeces­
sor's footsteps "The Lord of the Rings:and sets a new 
The Two Towers" 
standard in fan­tasy films and seamless CGI integration. 
"Two Towers" 


Director: Peter Jackson
continues mild 

Writer: Frances Walsh, Philippa 
Hobbit Frodo 
Boens
Haggins' (Elijah 

Starring: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellan,
Wood) quest to 

Viggo Mortensen, Christopher Lee, 
return a ring of 

Sean Astin
awesome power to the fires of the volcano in which it was forged and destroy its evil legacy forever. Separated from his fellowship of protectors led by the dauntless Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen). Frodo and sidekick Sam Gamgee (Sean Astin) are menaced by the evil wizard Saruman (Christopher Lee) and his monstrous Uruk-Hai warriors. 
Jackson's artistry using cutting edge computer-generated images really shows its teeth in "Two Towers" with the addition of the all-CGI character Collum, an emaciated and tormented former possessor of the ring. The digi­
tal Collum plays a number of scenes in which his spilt person­alities emerge to argue with each other; the effect is startlingly con­vincing. 
T h o u g h Jackson has cre­ated a cinematic masterpiece, the movie eats up a good part of its three-hour run­time with stoic, 

John Woo-esque slow motion shots of it heroes looking bravely toward the end­less throngs of advancing monsters. Such dashing heroics are expected in a fantasy epic, but with six of an estimat­ed nine hours of the trilogy already 

Aragorn (Viggo Mortenson), Legolas (Orlando Bloom), and Gandalf (Ian McKellan) prepare for battle In "Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers." 
brimming with stoicism, it's beginning will certainly be up for multiple Oscars to feel a bit schmaltzy. this year. Despite the forced dire circum­stances atmosphere of "Two Towers," Contact C. Spencer Beggs at the movie is a definite must-see and cbeggs@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Chicago' paints the town red 

Photo courtesy of www.imdb.com Catherine Zeta-Jones plays club singer and murderess Velma Kelly In the film revival of "Chicago." 
NowP1av1nu Josi Married .·.·.· " The lord DI Ille Rings: Thtflwtl' Towers catch Men You can Two weeks NoUce 
About Schmidt 

Chicago Maid in Manllanaa : · Ganus or New York Antwone Rsher TIie WIid Thornberrvs 101111 · 
By JACK WATKINS 
Scene Movie Critic 
Critics have claimed that "Chicago" will revive the movie musical. Some have even called it the year's best film. Others, clos­er to the mark, have called it the movie event of the year. 
Whether the movie musical can really be revived is debatable, but the other claims are undeni­ably untrue: "Chicago" is neither this year's best film nor biggest movie event. What it might be, though, is the most fun movie of the awards season. 
Two women, sultry flapper Velma Kelly (Catherine Zeta­Jones) and straying housewife Roxie Hart (Rene Zellwegger). have committed murder and vie for headlines, while paying sleazy lawyer Billy Flynn (Richard Gere) to get them out of jail. 
"Chicago" has several great musical numbers, a fantastically talented supporting cast (Queen Latifah and John C. Reilly are the standouts) and a remarkably competent script, given that the musical was long considered to be inadaptable to film. The script has its flaws -a cast of fine actors should not be given such 
"Chicago" 


Director: Rob Marshall Writer: Maurine Dallas Watkins, Fred Ebb, Bill Condon Starring: Catherine Zeta-Jones, Renee Zellweger, Richard Gere, Queen Latifah, John C. Reilly, Lucy Liu 
cliched dialogue, and certain conventional themes are bela­bored -but it serves its purpose of linking the songs together coherently. The "Dancer in the 
ii,,.,,··;··;>;
·1··.h".•.s·r·'·:·:·C·;" '·;·•.·. 

Dark"-inspired strategy of turn­ing the musical numbers into fan­tasy sequences achieves this admirably. 
Director Rob Marshall deserves quite a bit of the credit for the success of the film. "Chicago" demands a garish, showy style. If Marshall had been more self­indulgent, he might have pro­duced something akin to Baz Lurhman 's "Moulin Rouge," which frequently had the effect, both musically and visually, of yelling in the audience's face. Instead, Marshall has made sure that the showmanship in the musical numbers reflects the media's glamorization of the female killers. This makes the film's most garish moments also its most subtle. 
"Chicago" may not be art, but it is enjoyable, and, after all, what more can we ask? 
Contact Jack Watkins at John.F.Watkins.25@nd.edu 
· Jan.31 The Recruit 
BlkerBovz l1st1n la Ma· ··tea 
Mav Final DesUD8ll0R 2 
•I'll Be Tbere 
The Guru Amen. 
THE OBSERVER 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Gangs of New York:' A smashing, bashing success 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Movie Critic 
H's said that good things come to 
those who wait. Well. moviegoers 
have been waiting 25 years for 
acclaimed director Martin Scorsese to 
finally get "Gangs of New York" 
through production. And it was cer­
tainly worth the wait. 
The movie is a revisionist look at 
American history. Opening in 1846 in 
an underground labyrinth of the tene­
ment slums of New York, an immi­
grant Irishman called Priest Vallon 
(Liam Neeson) gathers warriors to 
form the Dead Rabbits, a fearsome 
gang of ruthless Irish brawlers. 
Bursting into the daylight they meet 
their opponents, the Nativists, led by 
William "Bill the Butcher" Cutting 
(Daniel Day-Lewis). 
The rivals settle with blood and iron 
which gang will control the ghetto 
they live in on the Lower East Side of 
Manhattan known as the Five Points. 
The melee turns against the Irishmen 
and the Butcher cuts down Vallon in 
front or his own son. 
It will be 16 years before Vallon 's 
son returns to the Five Points from 
hiding in a Protestant seminary. The 
young man (Leonardo DiCaprio) takes performance, delicately balancing the Scorsese wanted. He points out that niques help choreograph the actionthe name Amsterdam and returns to Butcher's animalistic bloodlust with a the history of America was founded sequences and rebuilding a number ofFive Points, which has fallen under 
darkly cynical yet partially on the 
New York neighborhoods.
the tyrannical iron fist and suspicious 
poignant philoso­

ethereal ideals With $100 million spent on details
glass eye of the Butcher. The wily 
phy and a deeply "Gangs of New York" imbued with like these, Scorsese manages to make
Amsterdam infiltrates the Butcher's 
poetic sense of words such as the film more of a hyper-realisticorganization and broods on his 

justice. 

freedom, liberty Kafkaesque impression of the period
revenge even as his boss takes the boy 
At times the 

and equality but
under his wing. But draft riots, pres­
rather than a traditional historical
movie can seem a 

constructed cor­
portrayal. While venturing too far into
sure from Boss Tweed's (Jim 
bit preachy, like in 

Director: Martin Scorsese poreally with 
the fictional realm of historical fiction
Broadbent} Tammany Hall and a 
a scene where the 

Writers: Jay Cocks greed, crime and 
is one of the best ways to ruin a per­developing romantic interest with a Butcher slings a 
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Daniel Day­violence.
beguiling thief named Jenny (Cameron hatchet into the fectly good movie, Scorsese shows 

Diaz) complicate Amsterdam's cer­Lewis, Cameron Diaz, Jim Broadbent, John "Gangs" is his­why he is often considered America's
back of a newly 

C. Reilly, Henry Thomas, Brendan Gleeson torical fiction
tainly self-destructing scheme to mur­elected Irish offi­most talented living director by
and Scorsese
der the Butcher. cial and then rewriting the rules of cinema.
took great pains"Gangs of New York" is a dark screams manically into the camera, to paint the period broadly even down
movie and Scorsese seems to revel in "Here's the minority vote." 
to the nitty gritty details like having Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
it. Day-Lewis turns in a spectacular 
But this is exactly the effect an expert on vintage fighting tech-cbeggs@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of www.imdb.com

"BIii the Butcher" (Danie! Day-Lewis) and Jenny Everdeane {Cameron Diaz) 
Amsterdam VIiion (Leonardo DiCaprio) struggles with his Infatuation with the
embrace In "Gangs of New York." 
wlly thief Jenny Everdeane (Cameron Diaz) as he seeks to avenge his father. 

Thursday, January 16, 2003 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Sixers snap 6-game streak with win over Nets 


. Van Horn scores 
Boston 86, Atlanta 66

16 points in final The Boston Celtics playedfive minutes the Atlanta Hawks at the right time. Paul Pierce scored 28 points
Associated Press 
as the Celtics snapped a three­PHILADELPHIA game losing streak with an 
Keith Van Horn waited five 86-66 victory over the Hawks months to play this game. It on Wednesday night. took him 31/2 quarters to The Celtics beat Atlanta for show up. the third time this year and 
Van Horn scored eight of his swept the season series for the 16 points in the final 5:06, and first time since the 1985-86 Allen Iverson had 34 points, season. Boston has won seven including five free throws in of their last eight against the lastl 1.5 seconds, helping Atlanta and five overall. the Philadelphia 76ers snap a six-game losing streak with a "We knew it was going to be 108-107 victory over the New a tough, physical game," 
Jersey Nets on Wednesday night. It was Van Horn's first game against his former team  "It's always good to get a win. but going against our former team makes it sweeter."  Pierce s a i d . " B o t h teams had long road trips, and we just  
since the Sixers  wanted to  
acquired and  him Todd  Keith Van Horn  get back on track."  
Macculloch for  Slxers guard  Shareef  
Dikembe  Abdur- 
Mutombo  last  R ah i m  

Aug. 6. had 19 points for the Hawks, 
"It's always good to get a who lost their 12th straight win, but going against your road game and have lost eight former team makes it sweet­of 11 overall. er," said Van Horn, who was "We've played some tough in foul trouble most of the road teams," Abdur-Rahim game. "This proves we have said. "We've had some situa­the ability to beat any team if tions where we should've won we play our game." hut the road seems to be our 
Eric Snow added 16 points nemesis right now. If I had the and eight assists and Aaron answers, I would change it." McKie scored 12 for The 66 points for Atlanta Philadelphia, which had lost was a season-low, eclipsing 14 of 18 after a 15-4 start. the previous mark set on Dec. 
Lucious Harris scored a sea­3 against New Jersey. 
son-high 26 points, Kenyon The Celtics extended their Martin had 24 and a career­largest lead of the night to 86­high 16 rebounds, and 62 on a pair of free throws by Richard Jefferson added 20 J.R. Bremer with 3:58 remain­for Atlantic Division-leading ing in the fourth. New Jersey, which had won "They are a great help 
defensive team," Hawks cen­10 of 11. 
ter Theo Ratliff said. "WeJason Kidd had a season­
didn't move the ball well andhigh 16 assists, but missed 17 
they were causing turnovers.
of 21 shots and finished with Standing around is not going
just nine points. It was his 
to get it done."

second poor shooting perfor­Abdur-Rahim cut the Boston
mance in three games. He 
lead to 58-46 with a dunk atscored just 10 points on 5-for-the 5:30 mark of the third, but17 shooting in a 36-point loss the Hawks would get no clos­
to the Sacramento Kings last Thursday. er. 
Pierce had 95 points and 30"I had some great looks. It's rebounds against Atlanta this
all part of the game," Kidd 
season. Antoine Walker, who
said. "It doesn't stop me from 
earlier this season had a
finding my teammates." 

triple-double against the 
After McKie hit a 3-pointer 
Hawks, had 20 points and 
to give Philadelphia a 101-97 
seven rebounds for Boston. 
lead with 1: 5 7 left, the Nets The Celtics won for the third 
tied it at 101 on a short 
time in the last 11 games.

jumper by Jason Collins and a "We just need to get back to 21-footer by Kidd. our winning ways," Walker Van Horn made two free said. "We had a tough road throws for a 103-101 lead, but trip so we wanted to get off to 
Martin made one of two free a good start." throws and Harris got the Boston opened up a 47-32 rebound, giving the Nets a lead, its biggest of the first 
chance to take the lead. half with 1:08 remaining, Harris, however, missed an courtesy of a pair of free 18-footer that bounced over throws by Pierce. the backboard with 11.8 sec­Trailing 24-14. the Hawks onds left. closed out the first quarter 
AFPPHOTO 
Jason Kidd attempts to block Keith Van Hom during the Sixers' 108-107 victory over the Nets Wednesday In Philadelphia. Van Hom came through In the final minutes In his first game against his former team. 
with a 9-1 run capped off by a Fred Jones each scored two fifth road victory of the sea­runner in the lane by Abdur­points. Brewer's nine minutes son. Rahim. were only three less than his Baron Davis, back in the 
total in three games this sea­lineup for the first time in six 
son -and his first game since games for New Orleans,
lndlanapolls 104, Miami 81 
Nov. 12. scored 20, including four 3­
It wasn't a surprise that 
'Tm not used to playing," pointers, but couldn't get a
Jamison Brewer played in the Brewer said. 'Tve never really basket in the fourth quarter as
fourth quarter. After all, that played before. I just have to the Hornets lost their fifthis a sure sign of an Indiana take advantage of the oppor­straight.
blowout victory. 

tunities I do get. It was Jamal Mashburn added 19
But playing in the first quar­strange to be out there early. for New Orleans, while Davidter? That was a sign his extra I'm more used to playing with Wesley scored 14 and P.J.
practice was paying off. 

the other guys." Brown had 12 points and 14Brad Miller scored 21 points They all got their chance rebounds.
and Ron Artest had 18 as the 
after Indiana blew the game Robert Horry added 10
Pacersbeat the Miami Heat 
open in the third quarter. points for the Lakers, who104-81 Wednesday night for 
Artest, who said before the have gone 9-5 since losing totheir fifth straight victory. 
game he'd rather go to Walt New Orleans in Los AngelesThe Pacers (28-10) are off to Disney World than play in the on Dec. 13. New Orleans is 3­the best in their NBA history All-Star game, scored 11 of his 13 since then.
and improved to a league-best points in the third quarter and New Orleans' last field goal17-1 at home. But with six of 
shut down Miami's Caron of the game was a 3-pointertheir previous seven games 
Butler. that gave it a 77-76 lead. Thendecided by five points or less Miami cut a nine-point half­O'Neal took over, scoring eight
-including three overtime 
time deficit to four after open­of the Lakers' next 10 points,games -coach Isiah Thomas ing the third on a 7-2 run. But including a three-point play
said earlier this week he 
Jermaine O'Neal, who scored when he was fouled insidewanted a chance to reward 
13. followed by sinking two after getting a loose ball. 
the deep reserves for their 
free throws, Artest hit a 3-New Orleans, which trailedhard work. 
pointer and Miller added a 

most of the second and thirdSo he told Brewer he would jumper to make it 63-51.
play early, and he did, coming quarters, pulled head 65-64 off the bench late in the first on a baseline jumper by quarter. All 12 players scored, Los Angeles 90, New Orleans 82 Brown. Davis and Wesley each and the starters rested the Kobe Bryant scored 36 had steals and lay-ins leading entire fourth quarter. points and had 11 rebounds, up to Brown's shot. 
"I was very happy to get while Shaquille O'Neal scored But Bryant gave the Lakers those guys in the game," 10 of his 23 points in the final the lead right back with a pair Thomas said. "Jamison is one period to lead the Los Angeles of free throws. As the third of those guys who's really Lakers to a 90-82 victory over quarter came to a close, been working hard behind the the New Orleans Hornets on Bryant got the ball on a break scenes and really trying to get Wednesday night. and muscled the ball up and his game together. I wanted to O'Neal also had 11 rebounds into the hoop even as Wesley put him out there early so I for Los Angeles, which held bear-hugged him. Bryant could let him know that I New Orleans without a field made the ensuing free throw respect what he's doing." goal for the last 8:20 to win its and the Lakers led 74-69. 
Brewer, Primoz Brezee and fifth straight and register its 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit aU classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Just keep those.  casting, let's start the cast party  The other day I helped a triend of  Hey philo girls ­ 
now!  mine stay put. It's a lot easie~ than  it's just not the same without 20th  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  Roomate­ helping someone move.  century. We need to work on that.  

 Se llama llama says hi!  So, about those TPS reports.  
CasllePoint room for rent available  Hi!  Oid you get that memo? no i did not  Yeah  classifieds are cool  
1989 Toyota Corolla 40R, 5 Speed  for female roomate \Sp03  hear about the memo  
148 K , Runs good, $1,300  Semester), apt fully furnished.  Mer- Hey, want to touch my book?  I'm tired so this is my classified ad  
Call 277-3189  Please call 243-4537 if interested.  If carrots made you drunk, rabbits  

page 15 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 16, 2003 
NHL 
Hurricanes continue slide, lose 2-0 to Penguins 
. Caron records first career shutout in win 
Associated Press 
HALEIGH, N.C. 

Rookie goalie Sebastien Caron is making it look easy in net for the Pittsburgh Penguins. Then again. who isn't these days against the struggling Carolina Hurricanes. 
Martin Straka scored in the first period and Caron recorded his first shutout in his third NHL game as the Penguins beat the defending Eastern Conference champions 2-0 Wednesday night. 
Caron, who won his first start 2-1 at Boston on Monday night, stopped 26 shots against the Hurricanes. Carolina, which lost its fifth straight home game, fell to 4-12-2-1 since Dec. 3. 
The Hurricanes have been 
outscored 16-6 during their 
recent home losing streak. 
"The bottom line for us is 

we're on the outside looking in 
and we have to understand that, 
we've got to be aware of that 
and the urgency has to come 
from within our room," Carolina 
captain Ron Francis said of the 
playoff picture. "It's 20 guys 
understanding that and putting 
everything on the line for each 
other when they step on the ice." 
Kent Manderville scored an empty-net goal with 1.5 seconds left to seal it for the Penguins. 
Carolina's Rod Brind'Amour hit the post in a wild scramble in front of Caron just seconds before Manderville closed it out against his former team. 
"It's never done until the buzzer goes," Caron said. "I am really happy. Th is is like a dream right now, but I'll try to come down and focus on the next game I have to play or tomorrow at practice." 
NIIL scoring leader Mario Lemieux sat out for the third time in Pittsburgh's last four games with a groin injury, but the Penguins didn't need much offense against the Hurricanes. 
Carolina didn't get many quali­ty chances on Caron through two periods. He then turned away 11 shots in the third to secure Pittsburgh's second road win in a row. 
Carolina was O-for-4 on the power play, managing four total shots. 
Rangers 2, Capitals 1 

Joel Bouchard scored on a 
rebound 1 :58 into overtime, and 
the New York Rangers beat the 
Washington Capitals 2-1 
Wednesday night for their first 
three-game winning streak of 
the season. 

Mike Dunham stopped 24 
shots for the Rangers and kept 
the Capitals scoreless for the 
final 61 minutes. Dunham is 4-0 in his last four starts, allowing only four goals during that span. 
In overtime, Dave Karpa took a long slap shot that hit the left post. Mark Messier got his stick on the puck before Bouchard gained control and flipped the puck past Capitals goalie Olaf Kolzig. 
Kip Miller scored the lone goal for Washington at 1:40 of the first period, but that ~as the extent of the offense from a team that scored 16 goals in its previ­ous two games. 
Jaromir Jagr received an assist on the Capitals' goal but was held in check the rest of the way. After tying tho NHL record for points in successive games (1]), Jagr fell far short of matching the record of 15 points in three games held by Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux and Peter Stastny. 
Tom Poti also scored in the first period for the Rangers, who failed four times previously to win a third straight game. 
Despite the loss, the Capitals extended to 14 their run of games in which they have earned at least one point, tying the team record reached twice in the 1980s. 
But Washington's five-game 
unbeaten streak came to an end. 
Early on, it appeared as if Jagr 
and the Capitals would enjoy a 
huge night. The right wing 
earned the second assist on 
Miller's goal, starting the play with a pass to Michael Nylander, who got the puck to a wide-open Miller on the left side of the net. 
Poti made it 1-1 at 15:36 of the first period, scoring his sixth goal of the season on a slap shot from the left circle. He missed New York's last game because of a strained neck. 
Devils 5, Islanders 0 
Jeff Friesen and Jamie Langenbrunner each had a goal and an assist, and Martin Brodeur made 27 saves for his 60th career shutout as the New Jersey Devils beat the New York islanders 5-0 Wednesday night. 
Patrik Elias, Oleg Tverdovsky and Sergei Brylin also scored for the Devils, who extended their unbeaten streak to a season-high five games (4-0-1). 
Friesen, who set a club record with two goals in a span of 26 seconds Monday, scored the only goal of the opening period. 
Joe Nieuwendyk set it up with an excellent pass from the right boards. The puck arrived in time for Friesen to deflect it past Chris Osgood at 16:07. 
In the second, Devils defense­

man Scott Stevens prevented the 
Islanders from tying the game. 
New York defenseman Radek 
Martinek took a sharp angle shot 
that Brodeur blocked with his 
pads. The puck trickled behind 
Brodeur and was bouncing in 
the crease toward the open net 
until Stevens swept it away. New Jersey expanded its lead to 2-0 when Elias scored at 
11 :45. Scott Gomez passed to Elias, who drilled a shot from the left-circle dot past Osgood. 
Mighty Ducks 4, Blue Jackets 3 
Jason Krog assisted on two of Anaheim's three first-period goals as the Mighty Ducks beat the Columbus Blue Jackets 4-3 Wednesday night. 
The Mighty Ducks, who have won three straight, jumped to a 3-0 lead but had to hold off Columbus' rally in the third. 
Stanislav Chistov, Alexei Smirnov and Steve Rucchin scored on three consecutive shots during a 3:02 span late in the opening period. With the score 4-1 in the third, Andrew Cassels and Mike Sillinger scored for Columbus. 
season-worst seven-game win­less streak by beating Colorado, St. Louis and Columbus. 
The Blue Jackets played their first home game since general manager Doug MacLean took over as interim head coach. He guided the team to three wins during a just completed four­game Western road swing. 
However, Columbus was just 
as sluggish early against 
Anaheim as they were in its last 
home game, a 5-1 loss to 
Nashville on Jan. 6. Coach Dave 
King was fired the next day. 


page 16 The Observer Thursday, January 16, 2003 
I 
I • I 
I 
I 
I I 
' 
I 
I I I I 
I ~ 
' 
I I I I 
I I I 
THE OBSERVER 
IS CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
2003-2004 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT BOTH A RESUME AND AN 8-PAGE MINIMUM PROPOSAL EXPLAINING THEIR INTEREST IN THE POSITION AND THEIR PLANS FOR RUNNING THE NEWSPAPER. 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE MONDAY, JANUARY 20. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVE~S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
CONTACT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JASON MCFARLEY AT 1-4542 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 page 17 
NFL 
After 6 seasons, Niners nix Mariucci 

As•ociaied Pres, 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

Coach Steve Mariucci was fired by the San Francisco 49ers on 
Wednesday after years of' growing division with owner John York. 
Just a few days after Mariucci's fourth trip to the playoffs in his six 
seasons ended in a 31-6 loss to Tampa Bay, York released Mariucci 
from the final year of his contract. The men hugged Wednesday 
morning after a 90-minute meeting at team headquarters. 
"It's a very emotional and unpleasant situation for both of them," 
general manager Torry Donahue said. "Dr. York has a very strong 
idea about how he wants the 49ers structured.... This .is a philosoph­
ical split between what John wanted to do and what Steve wanted." 
According to Donahue, Mariucci wanted a bigger role in the 49ers' 
football decisions, including the position of vice president of football 
operations. But Mariucci's agent, Gary O'Hagan, said Mariucci never 
made those demands. 
York and Mariucci had a phone conversation Monday that went 
poorly. and York flew from his home in Youngstown. Ohio, to 
California to complete the first coaching change since he took charge 
of the team in 1998. 
The Jacksonville Jaguars have the NFL's only other coaching vacancy. and Mariucci was thought to be a prime candidate for the job. But Jaguars spokesman Dan Edwards said the team doesn't have any plans to interview Mariucci, and he isn't considered a can­didate. 
"I was as shocked as anyone else," Jaguars owner Wayne Weaver 
told The Associated Press. "His agent told us that Steve's interest 
right now is taking some time off and doing some broadcasting." 
Dennis Green. who coached the Minnesota Vikings from 1992-01, is a logical candidate to replace Mariucci. Green was on 49crs con­sultant Bill Walsh's staff when Walsh was coaching the NFL team and Stanford. 
Mariucci went 57-39 in San Francisco, with a remarkably brief rebuilding period sandwiched between four seasons of double-digit victories. This season, San Francisco went 10-6 and reclaimed the NFC West title before making the second-biggest comeback in NFL playolT history to beat the New York Giants 39-38. 
But no matter the owner or the circumstances, ruthless firings are nothing new for an organization that always expects to add to its col­lection of five championships. 
San Francisco parted ways in 1997 with George Seifert -who won two Super Bowls -after the 49ers lost in the second round of the playolTs. 
For as much success as Mariucci had, Walsh and Seifert led San Francisco to a total of five Super Bowl championships, the first in 1982 and the most recent in 1995. 
Mariucci made $2.1 million this season, 19th among the NFL's 32 head coaches and a bargain rate for a coach with his track record. 
But he angered the 49ers' front office last winter by campaigning for a new contract through the media, and then talking to Notre Dame and the Buccaneers about their vacancies. 


-
We invite University of Notre Dame Juniors to a presentation about Summer Internship Opportunities 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 7:00pm The Notre Dame Room at The Morris Inn 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer 
Our advice about your next career move: be bullish 
ml.com/careers ~Merrill Lynch 
10 2003 Merrill Lynch & Co.. Inc. 


Thursday, January 16, 2003 page 18
The Observer . SPORTS 
l'lllll'l!Otrr%003 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Man gets 45 days in jail for hitting Wells 
. Man punched Yankees pitcher, knocked out 2 teeth during dispute Sept. 7 
Associated Pres• 
NEWYORK 

The man who punched New York Yankees pitcher David Wells and knocked out two of his teeth was sentenced Wednesday to 45 days in jail. 
Rocco Graziosa was jailed immediately following the sen­tencing after Criminal Court Judge Robert M. Stolz denied a defense request for bail. The judge also ordered three years probation for Graziosa and signed an order of protection for Wells. 
Graziosa, a bartender who lives in Yonkers, called the attack an "unfortunate circum­stance" and said he was a decent hardworking man who had accepted responsibility for what happened. He did not apologize to Wells. 
Stolz said the punch was "more than an unfortunate cir­cumstance. It was a crime, and the jury found that it was of your own making. I'm not going to treat this as an act of fate. You've got to learn that there's a price to be paid for everything." 
A jury convicted Graziosa on Nov. 22 of misdemeanor assault for hitting Wells during a dispute inside a diner last Sept. 7. 
All sides agreed that the con­versation between Wells, Graziosa and his friends when they introduced themselves was pleasant enough until it deteriorated to insults. 
Wells testified that Graziosa repeatedly cursed at him, mocked his weight and insulted his late mother. 
Wells testified that when he got up and approached Graziosa's table to say "enough is enough," the 5-foot-7, 150­pound man landed a sucker punch on his jaw. 
-
Wells lost two teeth, requir­ing seven hours of dental work the next day, and cut hi'> head on a table as he fell. Meanwhile, he said, Graziosa and his friends celebrated by exchanging high-fives and laughing. 
Graziosa's lawyer, Henry Mazurek, said his client hit Wells because he was afraid Wells , who is 6-foot-4, 245­pounds, was about to attack him. He said Wells was "stink­ing drunk" and Graziosa knew his reputation for aggressive­ness. 
Wells testified that he never touched the defendant. 
In a statement to the Department of Probation, Wells said that since the attack he has received death threats, obscene telephone calls and has been ridiculed by other baseball players. 


"Can you boom mic 
HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM 
7:30 &9:45 P.M. $4.00 ADMISSION THUR. FRI, SAT &MON JANUARY 23. 24, 25 & 27 TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHllE THEY LAST) 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION. AND THEATRE www.nd.edu/-ftt/sludentfilms.shtml 
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Huskies tie record with win 
. Connecticut grabs 54th straight victory 
Associated Press 

SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 
Geno Auriemma took a strange delight in seeing Connecticut tie the NCAA Division I women's record for consecutive basketball victories in a game in which it struggled mightily on offense. 
"Maybe it's fitting it hap­pened in a game like this," Auriemma said after the Huskies tied Louisiana Tech's record of 54 straight wins with a hard-fought 53-48 victory over Seton Hall on Wednesday night. 
"Over the years we've been known as a team that scores a Jot of points. Everybody talks about Connecticut's offense," Auriemma said. "But verv few people ever mention how· good our defense is year in, year 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 
FILM 
FESTIVAL 
'2 0 0 .3 p I ease gee the !#@%! OLJt of Che frame" 

out. So it it's fitting the game that ties that record is done because our defense was so good tonight." 
Connecticut (15-0, 3-0 Big East) had to play tremendous defense to overcame a night in which it was held to a season low for points. 
The Huskies also benefited from big games from freshmen Barbara Tumor (14) and Willnett Crockett (11 points and a career-high 11 rebounds), and a. big play by junior star Diana Taurasi on a night she was hP-ld to a season­low six points on 1-for-12 shooting. 
"Hey. it's 54 in a row, we're happy," said Taurasi. who fed Jessica Moore for a layup with 
1:27 to go and Connecticut up by two. "No one said it was going to be easy. Seton Hall is always tough to play here. It was hard my freshman year, and today we fought for 40 minutes." 


Washington Hall 

StthmlalJ Ja11um·9 '1.8 
Just buy a hockey ticket for $10 at Lafortune Info Desk and we' II take care of the rest! 
Hit tt1e shops on Michigan Ave. Visit the museums downtown. Ct1ow on some Chicago pizza. Then cheer on the hockey team! 
Bus leaves ND at noon and returns at 1 am 



Thursday, January 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Edwards named new Redskins defensive coordinator 

Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 

The Washington Redskins will make linebackers coach George Edwards their fifth defensive coordinator in as many years. 
Edwards replaces Marvin Lewis, who became the new coach of the Cincinnati Bengals on Tuesday. 
Coach Steve Spurrier con­firmed Edwards' promotion late Tuesday to reporters in 
Mobile, Ala., where he is scouting practices for the Senior Bowl. Spurrier had long hinted that Edwards wrmld be his choice if Lewis left, and several players had lobbied publicly for Edwards because they didn't want to learn yet another new defensive system. 
Edwards follows Mike Nolan, Ray Rhodes, Kurt Schottenheimer and Lewis in the yearly turnover of defen­sive coordinators since Dan Snyder bought the Redskins in 1999. was a perennial head coaching Lewis was made the highest­candidate. 

p a i d assistant in the league when he w a s h i r e d I a s t year, but the team didn't expect 
Edwards is expected to keep

"He's the most qualified. 
Lewis' schemes

I'm confident we'll be 
intact. The defense able to keep the system had a steep learn­in place." ing curve under Lewis early in the season, but it ral­
LaVar Arrington 
lied to finish fifth Redskins linebacker in the league in 
him to stay long because he 

yards allowed by year's end. 

"I think George Edwards 
PRO TENNIS 
Hingis might never play another match 
Associated Press 
Martina Hingis might never play another competitive ten­nis match because of foot injuries. 
The former No. 1-ranked player and owner of five Grand Slam tournament titles had surgery on her right ankle in October 2001 and on her left ankle in May. 
"It is quite possible that that I will never play top-level ten­nis again, because my feet don't allow it," the 22-year-old Hingis told the Swiss news agency Sport Information in an interview published Wednesday. 
After the second operation, 
Hingis pulled out of the French 
Open and Wimbledon -the 
first majors she missed since 
turning pro in 1994. She 
returned to the tour in August, 
then went back to rehab in 
October. 
"I am not even thinking of a 
comeback," she said. 
Hingis has been playing 
recreational tennis the past 
two months. But when she 
Introducing 
1 IB3Uitifif~n(Q) wnmi~§ 
1 Call 631-2924 to reserve your 1 Superbowl pick-up order!* 
I 
20 Piece Buffalo Wings ............................... $9. 99 17" New York Style Cheese Pizza ............... $9.99 17" New York Style Pepperoni Pizza ......... $10.99 17" Gourmet Pan Meat Delight Pizza ....... $11.99 

should be the clear-cut choice," linebacker LaVar Arrington said the day after the season ended. "He's the most qualified. I'm confident we'll be able to keep the sys­tem in place." 
Edwards played for Spurrier at Duke in the 1980s and was on Spurrier's coaching staff at Florida in the 1990s. He spent four seasons as the Dallas Cowboys linebackers coach before Spurrier brought him to the Redskins last year. 
practices more seriously, she said, pain spreads through her feet and ankles. 
"Tennis was and remains my passion. But I've also grasped that after eight years on the tour. I will only return if I can practice without pain," Hingis said in the interview. "Competition is no fun if you can't come in perfectly pre­pared." 
Hingis was just 16 years, three months old when she won the first of her three Australian Open titles in 1997. making her the youngest Grand Slam singles champion of the 20th century. 
She made six straight finals 

at the Australian Open, win­
ning the first three and losing 
the last three. She also won 
the 1997 Wimbledon and U.S. 
Open titles, and lost the French 
Open final that year to Iva 
Majoli. 
Hingis spent a total of 209 

weeks at No. 1 in the WTA 
Tour rankings, but she has 
slipped to 11th after being 
sidelined 10 of the last 16 
months. 
Hingis has been tuning in to 

the Australian Open on televi­
sion this week and said, "It 
was fun watching the others 
run around in the heat." 
She said WTA Tour needs to 

realize that the crowded 
schedule is endangering the 
health of the sport's stars. 
"If a player is at the top and 

always plays until the end of 
the tournaments, she's sacri­
ficing her health to the tour 
quite quickly," Hingis said. 
Hingis was born in Kosice, in 

what is now Slovakia, and later 
became a Swiss citizen. 
She has won 40 singles titles 

and 36 doubles titles, including 
nine at Grand Slam tourna­
ments, and has earned more 
than $18 million. 
In 2001, Hingis filed a $40 

million lawsuit against Italian 
sportswear manufacturer 
Sergio Tacchini, with whom 
she had a five-year sponsor­
ship deal, saying her shoes 
were defective. Sergio Tacchini 
said the claims were made 
only so Hingis could avoid pay• 
ing damages for breaching her 

2 Liter Coca Cola products $0.99 with whole pizza purchase. contract with the company. 
The New York State Supreme 

] ,imit one 2 Liter bottle per piZ7:a. 
Court dismissed the suit in 

Cash, Domer Dollars, and Flex Points accepted. 
September because there is 
c--­
I 
c -­

---[.PQJNJS similar litigation pending in
f-e¾ 

DomerDoHars 1 Milan, Italy. 
*Guaranteed availability for orders received by f'riday, January 24th. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, January 16, 2003 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Pitcher Bartolo Colon was expected to be traded to the New York Yankees or Boston Red Sox, but was obtained by the Chicago White Sox in a complicated trade with the Montreal Expos. 
White Sox acquire Bartolo Colon 
Associated Press  Hernandez with handed pitcher  right­Rocky  became clear that the Expos would be trading  chart of my stocks than anything."  
NEW YORK Bartolo Colon got traded Wednesday, but not to the Boston Red Sox or New York Yankees. Instead, Colon went to the Chicago \,Vhite Sox in a three-team deal that included the Yankees and provided New York with the fringe benefit of keep­ing Colon away from the Red Sox. In the three-way swap, the Yankees sent pitcher Orlando Hernandez and $2 million to Chicago for reliever Antonio Osuna and minor league pitcher Delvis Lantigua. Then the  Biddle, outfielder Jeff Liefer and cash to Montreal for Colon and minor league infielder Jorge Nunez. The Expos will be responsible only for $300,000 of Hernandez's salary next season, with the White Sox using the $2 million from the Yankees and their own money to make up the difference. Hernandez is expected to make between $4-5 mil­lion. The architect of the deal was White Sox general manager Ken Williams, who pursued Montreal GM  either Colon or pitcher Javier Vazquez to reduce payroll. "Early on, I was proba­bly the most aggressive guy," Williams said. "As soon as the end of the sea­son hit, I was trying to launch a pre-emptive · strike in that direction. You kind of selectively pick and choose your spots. You don't want to go away and allow this thing to develop. "You kind of go in and out of this situation. Really, there were so many twists and turns to how this evolved. If I were to make a chart, it would  The Yankees and Red Sox were believed to be in the best position to get Colon, who won 20 games last season for Cleveland and Montreal. But when the Yankees added Cuban free agent Jose Contreras and re-signed Roger Clemens, it created a log­jam of eight starting pitch­ers. Yankees GM Brian Cashman was looking to ease that glut and reduce payroll while also trying to shore up a bullpen that lost free agents Mike Stanton to the New York Mets and Ramiro Mendoza  
White  Sox  packaged  Omar  Minaya  once  it  probably look more like a  to Boston.  

IN BRIEF 
Phelan to retire at end of sea­son 
Mount St. Mary's basketball coach Jim Phelan will retire after this season, following a remarkable 49-year career in which he amassed more than 800 wins. 
The school called a press conference for noon Thursday, and Phelan will announce his decision to retire at that time, according to a source close to the team who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
No one has coached more college basketball games (1,339) over more seasons than Phelan, whose 824 career victories is the most among active coaches and fourth on the to retire. 
"Sometimes, it's just time." Phelan said. ''I'm not going for 50 years just for the sake of making 50. That's just a number. It just means I'm terribly old." 
The Mountaineers are 5-7, a vast improvement over their 3-24 mark last season. Although The Mount had endured three straight losing seasons before the current one, there was no push for Phelan's dismissal. 
Since his arrival at The Mount, Phelan has taken his team to the NCAA Tournament 16 times. including five trips to the Division II national semifi­nals. He led The Mount to the 1962 College Division title. After the school moved up to Division I in 1988, he Bob Bowlsby made the announcement Wednesday. 
"The attention I have received regarding an NFL head coaching posi­tion with the Jacksonville Jaguars has been flattering, especially because I have the utmost regard for Wayne Weaver and the entire Jacksonville organization," said Ferentz. "However, my heart continues to lie with the University of Iowa, and I will remain the head coach of the Hawkeye football team." 
Ferentz will receive an eight percent increase in salary. Ferentz' contract has been restructured and will take effect July 1. The restructuring of the contract pertains primarily to incentive 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Boston College at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Louisville at East Carolina 9 p.m., ESPN2 
guided the Mountaineers to the NCAA clauses.
Arizona at Southern California 10:30 p.m., career list behind Dean Smith (879), 
"I am very pleased that we have
Adolph Rupp (876) and Clarence "Big Tournament in 1995 and 1999. 
FOXCH 

been able to restructure Kirk's con­
House" Gaines {828). All but Gaines coached at least part of their careers at Ferentz to stay at Iowa tract in a way that meets his needs as 
NBA BASKETBALL Kirk Ferentz has decided to remain well as those of the University," said
the Division I level. 
Bowlsby. "The increase which goes
Magic at Wizards 7:30 p.m., TNT Before beginning his 49th consecu­at Iowa as head football coach and ¼ill tive season at the Mount in November, not continue to pursue a job with the into effect on July 1st is additional 
NFL's Jacksonville Jaguars. recognition of the outstanding work he the 73-year-old Phelan was asked
Supersonics at Jazz 1 0 p.m., TNT 
Ferentz and Iowa athletic director has done for our program." 
what factors would go into his decision 
Thursday, January 16, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
big guy who could -Jordan certainly could. I think

Big East 
Jordan has played that role continued from page 24 for us. He likes to guard, he's _o_f_a_d_e_fc_n_s_e_,_a_n...:d_w...:e=--,-r-es-ta_r_t_-~~~ -~ presence about that 
ing to prove that with nights Using his long arms, quick­like [Tuesday!." 
ness and awareness,

Cornette entered the game
to neutralize the scoring Cornette blocked eight shots threat of Wright and and grabbed seven rebounds Lamizana in the middle, and in 33 minutes of play. He the 6-foot-9 sophomore all even made a couple of nice but eliminated the post assists, one on a crosscourt threat of the Scarlet Knights, pass that found Carroll wide forcing them to the perime-open for a 3-pointer in the ter. where their weaknesses corner and another on a were exploited and the Irish blind pass to Torrian Jones were able to pull away. beneath the basket who fin­
"We've got to have a big ished the play with a guy who can guard another momentum-grabbing jam. big man one-on-one," Irish But if Notre Dame, now 14­coach Mike Brey said. "Tom 2 and 2-l in conference play, [Timmermans] and Torin is to remain successful. it's [Francis] could not do that going lo need lo see the solid [Tuesday]. but we found a performances out of 
HOCKEY 
Timmermans and Francis on a regular basis. Even though Cornette has played well in that capacity through the first half of the season, Timermans and Francis are the big bodies at that posi­tion, and they are the ones who will likely be .looked toward to stop a Sweeney or an Okafor from plowing his way through the middle en route to another two points. 
"We have the presence to be a physical tc am," Timmermans said. "We can bang with them, and we can rebound with them and everything. I don't think it's really a challenge; we just have to go out there and do it." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Senior named finalist for award 
. Wroblewski is one of 15 finalists 
Special lo The Observer 
Notre Dame hockey stand­out John Wroblewski (Sr., Neenah, Wis.) has been select­ed as one of 15 finalists for the college hockey Humanitarian Award. The award is presented every year to college hockey's finest citi­zen for their contributions to society in all areas. 
This is the eighth year for 
the award that will be pre­sented on April 11, 2003 in Buffalo, N.Y., at the NCAA Frozen Four. 
Wroblewski is a senior alternate captain for the Irish. He is in the midst of his best season ever as he is tied for second on the Notre Dame scoring list with 10 goals and 12 assists for 22 points in 22 games. He has turned in career-highs in assists (12). points (22) and power-play goals (4) so far this season. 
Off the ice. Wroblewski has been involved with Notre Dame athletics community service programs since joining the team in 1999. He is a member of the team's five­man leadership committee and was the team organizer for Notre Dame's "Buddy Walk" to benefit kids with Downs Syndrome last September. He has also par­ticipated in the other various university sponsored commu­nity service projects including Christmas in April, the team's annual Power Play Run/Walk and the team's annual Christmas party with local cancer patients. 


Congregation ofHoly Cross 

ND WOMENS TENNIS 

1hree players travel to Las Vegas tourney 
Special lo The Observer 
LAS VEGAS 
Three Notre Dame women's tennis players will participate in one final indi­vidual tournament this week­end before the team opens its dual-match slate next Wednesday, Jan. 22, versus Western Michigan at 4:00 
p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Senior captain Katie Cunha and freshman Kelly Nelson will compete in both singles and doubles in the UNLV Invitational. while junior Caylan Leslie will play singles in her return to the court for the first time in 14 months after recovering from a shoulder injury. The tournament runs Friday­Sunday. 
Cunha and Nelson will be teaming together for the first time in doubles. The first­year player will try to contin­ue the success she had in her first collegiate fall, when she led the Irish in singles victo­ries with a 12-5 mark, including the gold flight sin­gles title in the Eck Classic. Cunha, who led the Irish in clinching victories (six sin­gles, six doubles) a year ago, was 6-4 in the fall in doubles play and advanced to the 
round of 16 in  the  Omni  
Hotels  Midwest  
Championships.  

Leslie, who was 30-12 as a freshman playing mostly No. 4 singles in 2000-01, was expected to play near the top of the Irish lineup a year ago, but suffered a shoulder injury in late fall and missed the entire spring season after undergoing surgery. Her last collegiate appear­ance was in November 2001 when she was 3-0 in the Eck Classic, playing only in dou­bles. Leslie's last singles match was Oct. 19, 2001, when she dropped a close three-set decision to Anita Loyola of USC at No. 2 sin­gles in an exhibition dual match. 
The UNLV Invitational will serve as a last-minute replacement for the National Collegiate Tennis Classic. which was cancelled earlier this week due to sponsorship complications. All the play­ers originally committed to that tournament will instead participate in the UNLV Invitational. making it a prestigious event featuring competitors from many of the top teams across the nation. 
The Irish players will par­ticipate in a 32-player sin­gles draw and a 16-team doubles bracket, all contest­ed on hard courts at the Frank & Vicky Fertitta Tennis Pavilion at UNLV and the Red Rock Country Club. Weather permitting, many matches will be contested outside, giving the Irish a head start on adjusting to outdoor hard courts, on which the NCAA champi­onships are contested, though Notre Dame may not compete on them again until a road trip in mid-March, playing most of their early­season matches indoors. 
Notre Dame, 22nd in the preseason national rankings, returns five letterwinners from last year's team that finished 14-14 and 23rd in the nation. 

'Mincl "Body C(asses 

Yoga 
Mon. 1/20-3/3 

4-5:15 Rock ?32 Tu. 1/21-3/4 12:10-12:50 RSRC ~25 
Wed. 1/22-3/5 

12:10-12:50 RSRC ~25 
Th. 1/23-3/6 

5:20-6:35 Rock ~32 
Power Yoga Th. 1/23-3/6 
7-8:15pm RSRC ~32 
Registration: 1 /17, 7:30am, RSRC 
Individual may register a max of 3 people. 
/hon. 1/20-3/31 5:30-6:30 $40 'Rock 
Pi(ates 
'M. 1/20-3/3 W 1/22-3/5 5:30-6:30 
$28 ~'RC 
~ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 16, 2003 
SMC BASKETBALL SMC SWIMMING 
Hornets defeat Belles, 60-53 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Going into Wednesday's game, both Saint Marys and Kalamazoo had a lot on the line, as each team looked to go over the .500 mark in conference play. 
From the start of their game Wednesday night at Saint Marys, both teams played intense man-to-man defense. The Hornets man­to-man press kept the Belle guards on their toes, but Saint Mary's put up a fight before falling just short in a 60-53 loss. 
Saint Mary's forward Emily Creachbaum established herself early. netting seven points in the first nine min­utes. However. Kalamazoo forward Amanda Weishuhn answered every bucket with one of her own. Creachbaum picked up her third foul, however, and was forced to sit for the rest of the half. 
With Creachbaum on the bench, it didn't look good for the Belles (5-9, 1-2), who rely heavily on her offense. However, the Belles were able to withstand a 10-4 Hornet run, after Emily Pernotto, who finished the game with seven points and four rebounds, nailed a 3­
pointer to tie the game at 
22. Bridget Boyce picked up three of her 12 points with a 3-pointer, and Maureen Bush added a field goal. The Belles went 
into the half with a 29-28 lead, after withstanding the Hornet run despite Creachbaum sitting on the bench with three fouls. 
However, the second half was a different game. 
The Belles started off slow, but with 13 min­

utes to "We have to come in young team, go, had tomorrow and be ready and it's not 
extend­going to be
to practice with intensity. 
ed their easy, but 
lead to Our games will only be as someone is n i n e intense as our practices." going to have 
points. to step up." I t The Belles
Suzanne Bellina
looked take to the 
going 13-of-14 from the free throw line. 
Despite forcing 25 Hornet turnovers, the Belles couldn't get it done in the second half, as no one took charge on the floor. 
Coach Suzanne Bellina was clearly disappointed with her team's performance. 
''No one stepped up or made the adjustments that had to be made," Bellina said. "We talked about it, but no one stepped up. We are a 
like the coach Belles 
h a d 
finally taken control of the game. 
But Hornet forwards Weishuhn and Ashley Riley had different plans. 
The Kalamazoo duo took over the game with Riley fin­ishing with 14 points and eight rebounds, while going 6-of-6 from the stripe. More impressive was Weishuhn, who scored 23 points, while grabbing 13 rebounds. Including eight offensive and road next, fac­
ing Albion on 
Saturday. 

Bellina hopes that her team will he readv for the next challenge. · 
"We have to come in tomorrow and be ready to practice with intensity," she said. "Our games will only be as intense as our practices." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 




lafortune ballroom 9-12 


creamofthecrop BEs-~-AcOUSTICAFE rise to the top 
3-D MOVIE: CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 
debartolo 10110 pm $3 
fashionable 3-d glosses be afraid, be very afraid 

sday 
Belles per£ orin well over sen1ester break 
By ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team was traveling and raci'ng across the country the past couple of weeks. The 
Belles lost 147 -90, dropping their record to 1-a in conference play. 
"There was no time for recov­ery, so there was more fatigue," coach Greg Petcoff said. " ... [Still]. we swam better than I 
thought we 
would." 

Belles compet­
"We knew that The Belles 
ed in a pair of 
battled 

meets over [Kalamazoo was] a 
Kalamazoo's 

winter break stronger team this year top swimmers with mixed 
... This was going to be a closely, finish­results. 
ing first in 

The team major battle." 
four events 

opened 2003 by and second in 
placing second Greg Petcoff six others. But out of five 
Kalamazoo

coach
teams at the Palm Reach Winter College Classic. Weschester, a ranked Division II school, was the onlv team to eclipse the Belles. Th~ Belles impressively overcame vacation and travel restrictions that limited them to fewer than two days of practice together. Co­captain Lauren Smith was pleased with her team's scrappy display. 
"It wasn't total domination," Smith said. " ... But it was good for everyone." 
But Saint Mary's didn't have very long to bask in this achieve­ment. After leaving Florida, the team was forced to immediately begin training for its next meet. An exhausted Belles squad could not duplicate its strong showing a week later versus Kalamazoo. Fatigue crippled the team as the 
displayed 
superior depth. having 20 more swim­mers place than Saint Mary's. 
"We knew that they were a stronger team this year," Petcoff said. "This was going to be a major battle." 
The Belles defeated Kalamazoo 131-91 last year. The team was not too disheartened by their reversal of fortune this year, however. 
"We usually face them two weeks later, when we are more rested," Smith said. "Their team this year was bigger and stronger. We seem better this year [than last year], though." 
The Belles will complete their regular season Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 1 p.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at eoowers@nd.edu 


NO UNDERGROUND 
lafortune ballroom 8 pm 
first show in new series up and coming music groups tonight featuring millimeters mercury 
debartolo 101 8 &: 10:30 pm $3 
fashionable 3-dglasses be afraid, be very afraid 
3-0 MOVIE: CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 
debartolo 101 8 &: 10:30 pm $3 
fashionable 3-d glmses be afraid, be very afraid 

R!,~!'slCKLAGOON
3-D MOVIE: CREATUR CHICAGO HOCKEY TRIP 
bus leaves nd at noon and returns at 1 am 
cheer cheer forold notre dame (hockey that is) tickets $10 at lofortune info desk 

spend the day in chicago­shop, visit museums, and eat to your little heart's content 
I 

.... 
Thursday, January 16, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

BUT VOU AI.JZ.EA.D'/ Yf:AH, :r F'll"1U2E:. DI! ALL THO.SE-lN$T£;:AD OFOAANEJINt::J 
11-UN(:JS! 
MYU~'ft> M~MY(JJJ~~N~s,ro otA"-'~£. 
MY SlANDA12os1t) fv!E'.ET WltH MY LIFE. 
HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
~ffi 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I DUWNE jI I r 
Cl2002 Tribune Media S81Vices, Inc. 
All Right• Reserved. 
GWAON 
tJ I b 
IOTTYNK 
[IJ



www.ju"1ble.com 
DECLUD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I (J b1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
THE 

"(I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles. CABLE PHOTO RANCOR IMMUNE Answer: This was between the salesman and his good customer -THE COUNTER 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jim Stafford, A.J. Foyt, Marilyn Horne, Ethel Merman 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the staying power required to reach your goal, this year, so don't Jet anyone tamper with your plans. Follow your own timetable if you want to receive the rewards you've been dreaming aboul. Your numbers are I 0, 13, 27, 30, 43, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be ready to pick a fight if anyone looks al you the wrong way. Back off and spare yourself the grief of making a mislake that is likely to cost you dearly. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be a good listener and you will gain respect. 11 may not be apparent today, but in the long run, you will discover that the more you do for others, the more you will get back in return. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although opportunities to make financial gain, are evident, you mustn't take on too much of a burden in the process. Dorl't lei someone put pressure on you. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your sulkiness turn into a big production. You won't get the sympathy you expect if you try to make other, feel guilty today. 8-e comforting, not judgmental or opinionated. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will experience difficulties if you are working with others today. Be extra careful not to ruffle feathers or push others intc doing things your way. Pitch in and do the best you can. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial gains can be yours if you are willing tc push a little harder and invest in yourself for a change. Don'I pay for othe1 people's mistakes.**** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may take things the wrong way today. Refrain 
from making statements that you'll regret later. Ask for help and guidance 
before making a decision. ** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will get the cold shoulder if you have nol 
been doing your share. Listen to the complaints of others and assure those 
around you that you will help out more. ***** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you find yourself in a difficult financial 
position because you haven't been saving money, it's never too late to slart. 
.... 
You can rid yourself of a stressful situation by setting up a strict budget. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be too quick to judge, but don't lei 
this person take advantage of you either. Take a look at your own motives 
before you discuss your future plans. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may want to lay low today. Difficulties 
with the people you are dealing with may be disconcerting. You need to spend 
time sotting out your own life. *** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out the possibilities for lhe upcoming 
weekend. You should be making plans early so lhat you won't be disappointed 
Don't try to mother the world. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, caring and al,vays there for others. You 
will make decisions based on all sides of any issue. You will help those Jess ­
fortunate and you'll be highly regarded for your kindness and generosity. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Old ship's cargo 
6 Like kiddie rides 10 Cry to a stray 14 Mars Pathfinder, 
for one 15 Research paper abbr. 16 Tennis's Mandlikova 17 Neighbor of a Turk 18 Center of 
Catholicism 19 Extra, in ads 20 Little 'un 21 Laser beam 
target 24 Onetime 
delivery people 26 R-V interior? 27 Frequently 
flexing Ferngno 28 Grant 29 Pitcher part 
32 Race with flags 34 Sliding rod in an 
engine 37 Make out of 38 One who's good 
under the hood 40 New Year's 
song title starter 41 Inveighed 42 Good to go 44 Calif. and 
Wash. are on it 45 Kind of sheet 49 "Way cool!" 50 It's searched for 
online into 52 Straight S4 Come in like a 
whirlwind S8 Joule division 59 When repeated, 
not to be repeated 60 Sea predator 61 ·sounds like
,. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S H U --+--+-e__s..., TOR 
A P
=+,,,,...,T.....,,Ee-1

0 R I 
WAS 
1-,--1.,.,+=+-;;,+,,-t 

SH 0 L E D 
~-:e+=+--,-+,,,-t

I R I 
63 Muslim leader 
64 Loads of mutual funds 65 Whence St. Catherine 66 Suffix with tluor­
67 Slug follower 68 It starts and ends seven answers in this puzzle 
DOWN 
1 Role played by everyone, it's said 
2 ·satires· author 3 Got around 4 Follow-up: Abbr. 5 Instant 6 Four years, 
maybe 7 Looking down 
from 8 Biker women 9 Puts into 
position, in a way 10 Alewife's cousin 11 Detroit's founder 12 "Yadda, yadda, yadda" 13 Soft powder 22 Early aft. 
30 Impressionist 31 Precis 33 In a crowd of 35 Rarin' to go 


WILLSHORTZ 
l'uzzi. by MlcU.I Shteyman 
36 Walk-way 42 Popular comic 53 What online connector book since 1942 shoppers may spend
43 Irritate

38 It provides no 55 Words of
outlets 46 Kitchen thingie 
wistfulness 47 It may be run39 RegardIess 01 56 Does perfectly 
the fact that, 
48 Crepe suzette
briefly 

flavorer 57 Like tundras 
40 Old-fashioned 51 Babe Ruth, for 62 Carrier to warnings the Yankees Karachi 
For answers, call 1 ·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/!eaming/xwords. 
-----~---~-----------------------------~-~~~---------------~----~--------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ ______ State ____ Zip______
City 


PORTS 
Thursday, January 16, 2003 

MENS BASKETBALL 

Banging around in the Big East 
. Irish must get physical middle, the offensive linemen of the hardwood -are the ones who have the
inside against strong biggest impact. 
conference foes As the Irish enter their conference schedule, it will be up to their big men 
---------------like Torin Francis, Tom Timmermans By CHR1S FEDERICO and Cornette io control some of the bet­Sports Writer ter big men in the college game such as 
Georgetown's Mike Swectney, 
Through much of Notre Dame's pre­Connecticut's Emeka Okafor and conference season, the story for the Syracuse's Carmelo Anthony and Irish had been perimeter players and Hakeem Warrick. hall handlers such as guards Chris In its Big East opener against No. 5 Thomas and Matt Carroll and Pittsburgh, forward Dan Miller. But as Notre N o t r e
"I think non-conference is 
Dame's season transfers into the Dame's vul­very physical Big East play, the nothing like the Big East. nerability in focus of the team's style of play, the middle
The Big East is one of 
especially on the defensive side, became
those special conferences 
may need to shift as well. obvious as "I think non-conference is where a lot ofgames are Panthers nothing like the Big East," Irish 
won in the paint." center 
forward Jordan Cornette said Ontario Lett after his eight-point, eight-block scored 20 performance in Notre Dame's Jordan Cornette points, Tuesday night victory over con­Irish forward grabbed ference rival Rutgers. "The Big nearly every East is one of those special con­rebound and ferences where a lot of games are won made Francis and Timmermans look in the paint." like eighth graders trying to play with 
The Big East Conference in basketball the varsity squad. is much like the Big Ten used to be in Tuesday, when Rutgers came into football. There is often nothing very town with its physical style of inside fancy about play, it looked as if the Irish could the style of be poised for a repeat perfor­
"We don't want to be a
play. Two mance of the Pitt game as the teams line team known as the pretty Scarlet Knights' Herve Larnizana it up and and Kareem Wright dominated
boys in the Big East who 
smash it play in the middle for much of the 
out, and can just knock down a first half. whoever jump shot. " But a big defensive change in has the the second half showed the Irish bigger guys would not be dominated on their
Jordan Cornette
generally own floor, and that they can bash wins. Irish forward it out with some of the bigger 
T h e bodies in the Big East. unsung "We don't want to be a team heroes of those football games are the known as the pretty boys in the Big offensive linemen. They are the guys East who can just knock down a jump doing all the dirty work, scrapping it shot," Cornette said. "Teams out there out in the middle and getting almost no have to know that that is not the only 
TIM KACMAMhe Observer
credit. facet of our game. We're a heck of a 
Tom Timmermans reaches to block Kareem Wright's shot during Notre Dame's
In the Big East, the centers and 
victory over Rutgers on Tuesday.
power forwards -the big uglies in the see BIG EAST/page 21 
Cancelled tournament means no Vegas 
will wait until Indiana comes Las Vegas, Bayliss said. Some in La Hoya, Calif., on Feb. 28. Bayliss said.
. Irish will face 

-
to the Eck Tennis Pavilion on of the teams who were to par­However, this weekend's The reason Bayliss wantedIndiana at home Jan. 24 at Notre Dame. ticipate tried to loss could to participate in the Tennis next week The health problems of the "throw up a "{The cancellation] gives turn out Classic was to give some of his organizer of the National shake-and-bake to be best players the opportunity
us a little more time
Collegiate Tennis Classic tournament at N o t r e to play against other colle­forced the cancellation of the UNLV," Bayliss indoors to prepare for Dame's giate stars. but he acknowl­
By JOE LINDSLEY 

tournament that was sup­said, but the Irish gain next edged that moving from 
Sports Writer our opening match with 
posed to include some of the opted not to par­week. indoor practice to outdoor
Indiana."
nation's best talent. ticipate. "It gives play with only one day of "It's a disappointment, but Instead, they us a little preparation would have been
Six members of the 27th­
you move on." Irish head have added Bobby Bayliss more time a "difficult task."
ranked men tennis team were 
coach Bobby Bayliss said. another national indoors to 
planning on beginning their Irish coach
Three sets of the players' tournament to prepare
spring season in Las Vegas parents already have non­their schedule -for our Contact Joe Lindsley at this weekend. Instead, they refundable airline tickets to the Pacific Coast Doubles, held opening match with Indiana," jlindsle@nd.edu 
-
WOMENS TENfHS 
Irish head to Las Vegas 
Three players will participate in the UNL V invita­tional this weekend. 
page 21 
SMC SWIMMING 
Kalamazoo 147 Saint Mary's 90 
Belles fail to upset conference opponent over semester break. 
page 22 
SMC Basketball 

Kalamazoo 60 Saint Mary's 53 
The Belles fall to 5-9 with loss to the Hornets. 
page 22 
-



