Friday May 16, 2003 
The Observer 


congratulates all graduates. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 140 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Father Timothy Scully resigned as a January incident where he confronted 
The University removed Father Sam Congregation of the Holy Cross issued a 
Executive Vice President on May 2. His local television reporters. However, 
Peters as rector of Sorin Hall for having statement expressing sorrow for Peters' 
resignation eame amidst a potential lead­Scully submitted his resignation before 
an inappropriate sexual relationship actions. Though Peters has not been 
ership crisis in the University's hierarchy. the Trustees heard the report, which 
with an adult female. A representative removed from the priesthood, he is 
The Board of Trustees were scheduled to cleared him of wrongdoing. Scully will 
from the woman's family informed the undergoing counseling for his infidelity. 
hear a report from a committee formed remain a member of the Notre Dame 
Office of Student Affairs of the relation­Peters is officially banned from Notre 
to investigat.e Scully's behavior, including political science faculty. 
ship. The Indiana Province of the Dame's campus. 

SEE STORY PAGE 12 SEE STORY PAGE 13 


Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Nothing lasts forever 

Alarm clocks go ofT, kegs get kicked, curtains fall, shot clocks run out, closing hymns are sung, seemingly infallible bars get busted, even kids from a creek­side town eventually surrender their WB series and this 
weekend, college careers conclude. 
Sometimes it seems like we've spent most of the last four years try­ing not to finish things. We stayed up all night playing 

Snood and talking Kate on IM to avoid writ­
Nagengast
ing papers, wished spring break 
Managing
would last forever and saved the last Editor Flex points of the Emeritus semester for candy at LaFortune. It's all part of our denial as we try to forget that we're about to be forced into a place where a down economy and war can affect us a little more harshly than it could while we were under the shad­ow of the Golden Dome. 
Four years passed by way too fast, but they didn't just happen passively. We participated in our college experi­ences and we learned things along the way. Whether changing majors, politi­cal views, life plans or significant oth­ers, change we did; and with each change we became a little more ready to face whatever it is we will do after Sunday. 
That's why it's alright that we're leav­ing-even if we've been ready for years or never wanted to go. Besides, commencement technically means beginning. not end. And even though we're supposedly starting over and moving on, we've picked up some things along the way -a few inside jokes, ridiculous SYR outfits, damning photographs and best friends. 
Though 22 years old feels ancient when reminiscing about our favorite episodes of "Saved by the Bell," Madonna songs and stirrup stretch pants, it is truly just the beginning. The decades ahead are guaranteed to be different, but that doesn't mean they have to be worse. In fact. post-grad life should be the fulfillment of what we've been working toward since the fall of 1999. Somewhere in between Rallies in the Alley, ResLife hearings, thesis research and road trips, we learned some useful stuff. We learned the stuff that makes Notre Dame students renowned for their compassion, hard work and spirit. . 
Although this week of lasts will cause tears and farewells, it also leads us to an endless number of firsts. So we'll remember Notre Dame for its tradi­tions, those that were here long before the class of 2003 and those we initiated ourselves. Because those traditions will be here-continuing to make Notre Dame the paradox of conventionalism and perpetual change that it's always been -while we go out and commence again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Please contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54 I so we can correct our error. 


Friday, May 16 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
2-4 p.m. COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LEITERS HONORS CONVOCATION 
Washington Hall 
9 p.m.-1 a.m. GRADUATION DANCE 
Joyce Center-North Dome 
Saint Mary's ColJege 
4 p.m. BACCALAUREATE LITURGY 
Angela Athletic Facility 
7:30-10:30 p.m. 

Saturday, May 17 
liNIV ERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
9 a.m.-Noon 
ROTC COMMISSIONING · Joyce Center-South Dome 10a.m. SERVICE SEND-OFF CEREMONY 
Washington Hall 
5-6:30 p.m. COMMENCEMENT MASS 
Joyce Center-South Dome 
Saint lVIary's College 
Noon 

SENIOR RECEPTION COMMENCEMENT 2003 CEREMONY 
Century Center Court ofLeMans Hall 
SOURCE: University of Notre Dame and Sa~nt Mary's College Web s1tes 

ND awards reporters with Laetare Medal 
departure in 1972 for the
Observer staff report 
Hastings Center. a bioethics Peter and Margaret Steinfels think-tank. He continued to write will be the recipients of this year's columns for Commonweal during Laetare Medal, which is regarded his tenure at the Hastings Center, ·as the most significant annual eventually returning to become 
award given to American editor in 1979. 
Catholics and originated in 1883. In 1988, Peter Steinfels left 
The Steinfels are being honored Commonweal to become senior 
for their lifelong commitment to religion correspondent for the 
Catholic life. New York Times, where his 
"Peter and Peggy Steinfels live "Beliefs" column still appears out and articulate a compelling today. In 1994, he was a visiting response to professor in the the Catholic American
"As married people. as
vocation," Studies depart­
intellectuals. and as
University ment at Notre President children ofthe Church. Dame. Father Margaret
their witness to the
Edward Steinfels also
Kingdom has been
Malloy said in was graduated a statement. splendid and exemplary.·· from Loyola "As married University in people, as 1963. She wrote
Father Edward Malloy
intellectuals. mm reviews for and as chil­University President Today magazine 
dren of the Church, their witness to the Kingdom has been splendid and exemplary." 
The Steinfels were successive editors of Commonweal, an inde­pendent biweekly journal of polit­ical, religious and literary opinion published by Catholic laity. Both are considered among the fore­most commentators on the Catholic Church in the United States. 
Peter Steinfels graduated from Loyola University in 1963. During graduate study at Columbia University, he became an editorial assistant at Commonweal and rose to associate editor before his 
prior to joining the staff of the National Catholic Reporter as a reporter and columnist from 1969-1971. She was editor of the Hastings Center Report, executive editor of Christianity and Crisis and editor of Church magazine before suc­ceeding her husband as editor of Commonweal in 1988, resigning from that position earlier this year. In 1991, she gave the Commencement address and received an honorary degree from Notre Dame. 
A committee headed by the University president has selected the recipient of the Laetare Medal since its inception in 1883. 
Non-Resident Alien 1.8% 
Asian 4.1 Hispanic 7.1% 


Sunday, May 18 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DA\1E 
12:30 p.m. DISTRIBUTION OF BACHELOR AND MASTER DIPLOMAS · joyce Center-North Dome 2-4 p.m. COMMENCEMENT AND CONFERRING OF DEGREES 
Joyce Center-South Dome 

4:30p.m. LAW SCHOOL DIPLOMA CEREMON) 
Hesburgh Librar11 Reflectin~ Pool 
Saint l\1ary's College 
9:45 a.m. and 11:15 a.m. FIFTH SUNDAY OF EASTER MASS 
Church of Our Lady of Loretto 

MIKE HARKINS/The Observer 
Notre Dame awards nine figures with honorary degre.es 
Observer staff report 

Notre Dame will honor nine distinguished individu­als with honorary degrees, in addition to keynote speaker Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., at Saturday's Commencement ceremonies. 
Senator Lugar will receive an honorary doctor of 
laws degree, as will seven of the nine other recipi­
ents. 

Those honorees receiving doctor of laws degrees 
are: Kathleen Andrews, who is a member of the 
Board of Trustees, University fellow, and director of 
the Andrews McMeel Universal Foundation; Molly 
Broad, the president of the University of North 
Carolina; Roland Chamblee, a longtime South Bend 
family physician; Evelyn Hu-DeHart, professor of his­
tory at Brown University; Cardinal Oscar Maradiaga, 
archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras and recog­
nized human rights activist; Anthony Scirica. a judge 
on the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit 
and law professor at several law schools; and Raul 
Yzaguirre, a highly respected civil rights leader and 
president of the Hispanic organization National 
Council of La Raza. 

In addition, Allen Mandelbaum will receive an hon­
orary doctor of letters degree. Mandelbaum is inter­
nationally recognized as an authority on Dante and 
recipient of the National Book Award. 

An honorary doctor of engineering degree will be conferred upon Leslie Robertson, the lead structural engineer for the twin towers of the World Trade Center and internationally renowned expert in struc­tural design. 
"In giving honorary degrees, the University seeks to honor a variety of people who have distinguished themselves in their various fields or endeavors," Dennis Brown, a spokesman for the university, said. 
The selection of degree recipients is not as simple as it sounds. "Some people have worked with various members of the University in the past," said Brown. "But the common point is that they have all made significant achievements in their selected fields." 



ND Seniors: By The.Numbers 


\Vhere Seniors Studied ... 
London, England 363 
Rome,.Italy 152 
Toledo, Spain 71 
Dublin and Maynooth. Ireland 66 
Fremantle and Perth, Australia 65 
Angers and Paris, France 44 
Washington, D.C. 40 
Innsbruck, Austria 18 
Puebla and Monterrey, Mexiro 17 
Santiago, Chile 16 
Around the World 12 
Oracie; Arizona (Biosphere) 7 
Athens, Greece 
Kerak}' Jordan Nagoya and Tokyo, Japan 
Shanghai, China 
Berlin, Germany 
Moscow, Russia 
5 
3 2 2 1 1 

MIKE HAAKINSfThe Observer 


Friday, May 16, 2003 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Senator will deliver speech 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
Senator Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) will deliver the commencement address to the Notre Dame Class of 2003 this Sunday. Lugar currently serves as the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and has been an Indiana senator since 1976. 
University offi­cials said that in light of recent events they chose Lugar, who will receive an hon­orary doctor of laws, as the speaker because of his expertise in the area of foreign affairs. 
Lugar. who previously served as chairman of the Senate Foreign 

weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Union. More recently, Lugar has argued for the expansion of the Nunn-Lugar Program in other countries with weapons of mass destruction. 
As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar has called on the president to provide more detailed information to Congress and the public about plan­ning for American involvement in. 
post-war Iraq. 
The senator also served as the mayor of Indianapolis from 1968-75 and oversaw the expansion of the city to include all of Marion County. After graduating from Denison University at the top of his class, Lugar received a Rhodes Scholarship for graduate study in politics, philosophy and eco­nomics at Oxford University. 
Lugar follows other commencement speakers who have been involved in politics and foreign affairs, such as President George Bush and U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan who spoke in 2002 and 2001 respectively. 
However, some seniors were con­cerned that this year's commence­ment speaker was not as prestigious as previous speakers. 
"A lot of my friends and I were a little disappointed," said senior Kristin Baranack. 
Senior Matthew Teubner said he was not very familiar with Lugar but 

Relations Committee "/think he's got a lot of 
from 1984 to 1986, 
expertise in international
helped create a bipartisan initiative affairs.,. in 1991 with former Senator Sam Nunn to 
Trip Foley 
secure and disarm 
senior 
looked forward to the senator's talk. "I don't really know too much about the senator himself. I was maybe expect­ing a little higher profile speaker," he said. "I think he'll do a good job." 
Despite concerns about Lugar·~ name 

recognition, some said Lugar's talk would be relevant in light of current events. 
"I think he's got a lot of expertise in interna tiona! affairs." said senior Trip Foley. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Author to address graduates 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Traveling from New York to Saint Mary's Saturday afternoon will seem like second nature 
to Adriana Trigiani. However, instead of returning to the campus for a visit or book signing, the author, screen­writer and director will speak to hun­dreds of graduating 

seniors. a position  Trlglanl  
she faced not long  
ago herself.  
Trigiani,  a  1981  alumna of the  

College, was selected as the 2003 com­mencement speaker in late March based on the request of students. 
While many students were unaware of Trigiani's nomination until after her appointment, seniors said they look forward to the insight she would pro­vide as an alumna. 
"Having a Saint Mary's grad send us forth into the world is more touching than having someone who isn't as close to us as she is," senior Emily Storer said. "Her relationship with the school and her experience can really put a better perspective on commencement than having someone else as a speak­er." 
The Saint Mary's graduate was a fea­tured author at Notre Dame's 2002 Sophomore Literary Festival, where students from both campuses had the chance to meet Trigiani and become acquainted with her work. 
Max Westler, English department chair and Trigiani's former professor, said he and Trigiani maintain the strong friendship they developed over 
20 years ago. Westler is extremely 
optimistic in Trigiani's ability to deliver 
a powerful message to the graduating 
class of 2003. 
"She'll have something to say to this 
graduating class that they're going to 
want to hear," he said. "She's 
absolutely thrilled to be coming." 
Trigiani 's charismatic personality and personal background with Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are reflected in her novels "Big Stone Gap," "Big Cherry Holler" and "Milk Glass Moon," making them popular among members of both communities. 
She visited the Saint Mary's campus for a book signing in 2000 after the publication of "Big Stone Gap," which will soon become a major motion pic­ture, both written and directed by the author. · 
In addition to her work as a writer, Trigiani's credentials include work as a television writer and producer, play­wright, comedian and documentary filmmaker. She has been involved with such television shows as "A Different World," "The Cosby Show," and "Good Sports." 
Additionally, she served as executive producer and head writer for the film show "City Kids" and comedy special "Growing Up Funny," which earned an Emmy nomination for actress Lily Tomlin and Lifetime Television. 
Trigiani wrote, produced and direct­ed "Queens of the Bigtime" in 1996, a documentary film about her family. The film won the Audience Award for Best Documentary Feature at the 1996 Hamptons International Film Festival and at the 1997 Paim Springs International Film Festival. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 2003 OBSERVER GRADUATING CLASS THE •BSERV~R KIMBERLY BELCHER SHANNON NELLIGAN KURT BOGAARD SARAH NESTOR LAUREN DASSO HELENA PAYNE MEGHAN GORAN BRIAN PUCEVICH VERONICA KELLEHER CHRISTINA REITANO BRYAN KRONK REBECCA STUMPF PAT MCELWEE KIFLIN TURNER KATIE MCKENNA LISA VELTE KATIE MCVOY NELLIE WILLIAMS KATE NAGENGAST BOB WOODS Thank you for years of friendship, hard work and commitment to the pursuit of quality journalism. We're going to miss everything you did for us, and The Observer will never be the same. Good luck in the future.  




Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 4 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 


CHIP MARKS/The uoserv" Meghann Robinson's 4.0 GPA helped her be named the vale­dictorian of 2003 at Saint Mary's. Robinson Is graduating with a bachelor of arts In music and a minor In mathematics. 
TIM KACMAR!The Observer Margaret Laracy, a psychology major from New Jersey, Is the 2003 Notre Dame valedictorian. 


Laracy named 2003 valedictorian 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Her commitment to acade­mics may have earned her the honor of valedictorian, but classes are just one aspect of Margaret Laracy's experience at Notre Dame. The psychology major from Jersey City, N.J. has been active in community service and campus life. 
Laracy, who earned a 3.97 grade point average, made the Dean's List each semester. She is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa undergraduate honors society and Psi Chi, the national psychology honor society, and was named a National Merit Scholar. 
"It's an enormous honor," Laracy said, in reference to being named valedictorian. "I just think of all the amazing people I know at Notre Dame. I'm so excited to be addressing my class." 
Laracy is scheduled to deliver an address to the student body during Commencement Sunday. She said that her speech will focus on having courage in the face of recent national and international events, especially terrorism and war. She also intends to speak on the anxiety that is characteristic of the transition from college to the "real" world and the fear of not living up to others' expecta­tions. 
"I hope to encourage my classmates and myself to really live courageously," she said. "The main focus is not to be fearful." 
Laracy has worked to make the most out of her four years at Notre Dame, devoting her time to assisting in the Notre Dame Encounter Retreats, teaching English through a pro­gram at La Casa de Amistad, working at the Center for Social Concerns and studying abroad in Chile during her junior year. 
"It was really different than a lot of abroad experiences," she said of her semester in Chile. "I got the opportunity to not only 

i ~ live with a family but to do 
i 
L t 
some service in the community. I love Chile and the Chilean people. I could see myself going back to Latin America." 
Next year, Laracy will devote time to service, but it won't be in Chile. She plans to volunteer for at least a year through a L'Arche Community program, living in a house that assists people with special needs in Washington, D.C. 
"It's really an incredible com­munity that has a wonderful philosophy and spirituality," she said. 
Eventually, Laracy said she hopes to continue her educa­tion in psychology and use what she learns to help others. 
"I've always had an interest in working with other people," she said. "Academically it's very interesting to learn about [them)." 
Laracy, the first Domer in her family, was attracted to Notre Dame because of its sense of community and Catholic identi­ty. 
"I think that Notre Dame, among Catholic universities with a good academic program, really seems to value its Catholic identity," she said. "It wasn't just Catholic in name. It seemed like a perfect package for me." 
Notre Dame begins the selec­tion process for valedictorian in February when the Register's Oflice determines the two stu­dents in each college with the highest grade point averages. Selected candidates then com­plete an application process that includes a recommenda­tion from the college's dean and a peer and a draft of their commencement speech. A selection committee then nomi­nates a valedictorian and the second place candidate is invit­ed to deliver an invocation at graduation. 
This year, Meridith Runke, a science preprofessional studies major from Batavia, Ill. will deliver the Commencement invocation. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Robinson No.1 at Saint Mary's 
By EMILY BRAMMER News Writer 
Meghann Robinson said that she is not the type of 
student who spent all of her time studying in the library, but her love for her studies helped her to achieve a 4.0 grade point average and the title of Saint Mary's 2003 valedictorian. 
Graduating with a bachelor of arts in music and a minor in mathematics, Robinson will deliver the valedictory address at Commencement May 17. 
"I attribute much of my success to support from my family, especially my par­ents," said Robinson. "And I found something to study that I really enjoyed. When you study something that you love, it hardly seems like work sometimes." 
After graduation, Robinson will serve for The Alliance for Catholic Education, a two-year service program allowing college graduates to serve as full-time teachers in under-resourced Catholic schools across the southern United States in return for a tuition-free master of educa­tion degree from Notre Dame. 
Robinson will spend two summers studying at Notre Dame and two school years teaching in Nashville. She said she wants to keep her options open upon comple­tion of the ACE program, and considers pursuing graduate work in music theory. 
"I'm more interested in teaching than performing academic research, said Robinson. "I appreciate the value that Saint Mary's places on educating; and, 

Graduates: 
No Matter Where You May Go, Or What Your Financial Needs May Be... 
We'll Always Be As Close As www.ndfcu.org 




~ 

574/239-6611 NOTRE DAME 800/522-6611
-..:;.~· 

··· .. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 

Independent of the University 


after benefiting from a school where the focus is on teaching, I realized that I also want to be an educator. But I don't want to just teach. I want to be good at it." 
Originally Robinson applied to Xavier University, University of Dayton, and Saint Mary's and Notre Dame -all Catholic univer­sities. But after visiting South Bend one summer, she finally made her decision to go to Saint Mary's. 
"I really wanted to attend a smaller school," she said. "One of the greatest aspects of the music department here is that it's so small, and as a result there are so many 
opportunities that I wouldn't have gotten elsewhere. If I could make the decision again, I'd definitely come to Saint Mary's." 
Robinson belonged to the Women's Choir and served as a member of the Choir Board. She was elected to represent the music depart­ment in the Student Academic Council her junior and senior year and volun­teered with Campus Ministry. 
Robinson grew up in West Chester, Ohio and attended Mount Notre Dame High School there. 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3501 @saintmarys.edu 


, 
FOUR 
EARS IN 
_VIEW 
Friday, May 16, 2003 The top 10 Observer news stories from the 1999-2003 academic years page 5 
I 

TERROR HITS HOM 
ii;-;,;~:'#lli~ ~X1:<1IV,1:wi ·~ "»!0>'1 IX..(i:?O :c<<~ ..~~~· ~>:1"1 \I>:}..(·>,; ~-:h~i:.a:lt.:<,:<l'~X.:l 
w ..... ?~{t~~;~:;~·::~t~ ;l7:t?fr!~~:: g;ft~~~-$~~;§;i~ 

l!!t1ll:r;:l~·~ ~!1!\lll~:il!·: !f!l1l~-tf!J1 :lt1 .!:l~:f!f!~l ~~rf1~1·~f 



Campus responds to terrorist attacks 
The campus responded in a dramatic fashion to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and rural Pennsylvania. 
Classes were cancelled mid-session as representatives from the registrar's office visited individual classrooms. Seven thousand students and faculty attended a mass on South Quad at 3 
p.m. on the day of the attacks, which was concelebrated by all campus priests and Auxiliary Bishop John D'Arcy. Throughout the day, students streamed to the grotto and students took advantage of free cab service to 
September 11, 2002 
donate blood. 

Phone lines and Internet connections at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were overwhelmed as students called home to check on their family and friends. . 
Like all athletic events nationwide, Notre Dame's football game against Purdue on the following Saturday was cancelled as the nation mourned the loss of thousands of citizens. At the September 22 home football game against Michigan State, the entire sta­dium paused as University President Father Edward Malloy said a prayer and fans raised printed American flags into the sky in an event televised nationwide by NBC Sports. 
Four alumni were killed in the attacks: Robert Ferris, class of 1962, who worked on the 102nd floor of the south tower of the World Trade Center; Army Lieutenant Colonel S. Neil Hyland Jr., class of 1977, who worked at the Pentagon; and Peter Batacan, class of 1983, and Dora Marie Menchaca, class of 1977. who were killed on American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the Pentagon. 

4 

Boat Club busted
New alcohol 
3 Freshman's death 
2 

by Excise Police
policy unveiled 
stuns University 
Father Mark 

Police raided The
Chad Sharon, a
• ·:~;; : "<·;~;;;.;~~::~~::.:....'.. ~~. 

Poorman introduced 
Boat Club early in

freshman from 
sweeping changes to 
the morning Jan.

Fisher Hall, disap­
OR1SERVER 

the alcohol policy 
24. Over 200 cita­

peared Dec. 12, 
Poorman uuveils nt'"' alcohol policy 

including a ban on 
tions were issued to

2002 after attending
hard liquor, a can­
Notre Dame and

a party on Corby
cellation of in-hall 
Saint Mary's stu­

Street. After an 
dances and a revi­
dents. The bar was

extensive two-month 
sion of the tailgaiting 
known as a popular

search headed by
policy to allow of-age 
underage drinken

Notre Dame Security 
students to host tail­
haven for students

and Police, construc­
gate parties in speci­
on both campuses.

tion workers found 
fied lots. The deci­
Those who were

his body floating in 
sion sparked much 
cited are now being

the St. Joseph's 
controversy amongst 
sued by the owner

River under the 
students and within 
of the club. 
Angela Bridge. 

student government. 
February 12, 2003 
January 24, 2003

March 18, 2002 
5 
NCAA sanctions 
Scully resigns as
Student alleges
6 
7

ND for violations 
executive VP
gang rape 

The NCAA handed 
»···"'.w·: >.»:· ••;,w, Executive Vice
·-·;:~::.'§£-:-.::· --::::iT:';~§.::::' ;. 

A 20-year old Notre 
0 I Hl 

Notre Dame it's first 
Dame student alleged 
BSERVER ..-:.:--~.: President Father
.OBSERVER····· 

ever major violation in 
Timothy Scully

that three current 
.................,.,.....,~. ............,.,. 

connection with 
resigned May 2 due

and one former foot­
Kimberley Dunbar's 
to an apparent

ball player gang­
ND student allege.s gang rape
gifts to a number of 
power struggle in

raped her at an off­
Irish football players. 
the University's

campus house. The 
Dunbar's membership 
leadership. A report

University expelled
in the Quarterback 
investgating Scully's 

the four students and 
Club made her official 
behavior, including

University President 
University representa­
his confrontation

Father Edward 
tive, said the NCAA. 
with a reporter, was

Malloy denied their 
The University lost 
to be delivered to

appeals. The quartet 
two scholarships and 
trustees and would

are still waiting for 
received a two-year 
have cleared him of

their criminal trials 
probation. 
wrongdoing.
to begin. 

December 19, 2000 
April 10, 2001 
May 2, 2003 

8 
Eldred announces 
Bush speaks at 
First female
9 

10
retirement 
commencement 
pres. elected 
Two years ago,

Saint Mary's 
President George 
Iii -~~QTf~~..---:.:~=~Y:l~f~~~ -~!0-N 
Brooke Norton

President Marilou 
W. Bush spoke at 
accepted a position

Eldred announced 
Class of 2001 com­
.··-~"""Ljft~ ERVE R 
no female before

her retirement March 
mencement, becom­
her had held ­

5. She will remain as 
ing the fifth President 
student body presi­

president until the 
to speak at a Notre 
dent. Norton and

College completes its 
Dame commence­
her vice president

search for a replace­
ment. House repre­
Brian Moscona won

ment. Eldred has 
sentative and Notre 
56 percent of the

been president at the 
Dame alumni helped
College since 1997. 
votes.

to court Bush, whose 
Norton is also the

The College plans to 
visit was generally 
first incumbent vice

form a search comm­
welcomed but pro­
president to win the 

nittee to choose a 
tested by some who 
role of president

replacement by Dec. 
objected to his poli­
2003. since 1973. 
cies. 

March 5, 2003 May20, 2001 February 14, 2001 


. . . . . 
' • J -' ' ' 1 • I '" ' ' • ' ' ' -' 
Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 6 The Observer+ THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Sea ofGreen overtakes the Stadium. Assistant rector terminated. Saint Mary's security scandal. Boat gets bust-


By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
Sea of Green 
The winning enthusiasm and spir­it of the Sea of Green flooded Notre Dame last fall. Students, alumni and fans followed the Notre Dame foot­ball team as they returned glory to Notre Dame Stadium under Tyrone Willingham's guidance. 
At the beginning of the season. several sports analysts dismissed the team and Notre Dame entered many games as the underdog. But Willingham and his players made the Irish a force to be reckoned with and climbed the polls by win­ning their first eight games before falling to Catholic rival Boston College. 
Though the season was a roller coaster of emotions for many fans with careless fumbles, unexpected victories, losses to Boston College and USC, fluctuations in poll stand­ings and the possibility of a BCS berth, the spirit on football Saturdays and weekends did not disappear. Fans donned this year's green Return to Glory shirt and waved their green signs and foot­ball players wore green jerseys against Boston College as Willingham requested that the sea of green take the Stadium by storm. As enthusiasm for the season built up, students and fans took the Sea of Green on the road and followed the team to games against Michigan State and Florida State. 
As December approached, fans waited anxiously while praying that winter break would include a trip to Tempe, Ariz., Miami, Pasadena, Calif. or New Orleans. However, hopes of a BCS berth were dashed with late season losses. With the team headed to the Gator Bowl against North Carolina State, the spirit seemed to have run out, but loyal fans supported their team and cheered in Jacksonville, Fla. as Irish fell to North Carolina State 28-6. 
PW assistant rector dismissed 
The abrupt departure of Pasquerilla West assistant rector Cynthia Phillips left many lingering 




Stanford game i 
---------·------. ---------______ j 
October Deceillber 

Noveinber 
Nov. 7: Saint Mary's Security Officer Belinda Rathert suspended 
-·------, 
October: Cynthia Phillips terminated ji as PW Assistant Rector 
-------~---------------------­

questions for Pasquerilla West resi­dents and other assistant rectors who wondered about their job secu­rity. 
Sister Sue Bruno, Pasquerilla West rector, asked Phillips to leave in October. Though Bruno declined to comment, Phillips said she was removed after Bruno requested they have a "closer relationship." Phillips maintained she supported Bruno's leadership and never had a conflict with her. 
The Office of Residence Life for­mally removed Phillips as AR in November, following a series of meetings, but she retained her employee benefits. 
Phillips, a second year law stu­dent, was honored with the Distinguished Notre Dame Woman Award in April for her contributions to the Notre Dame and South Bend community. 
ResLife changed the AR contracts for next year after reviewing the events that occurred in the past academic year, said Bill Kirk, vice president for Student Affairs. The new contracts. which are renewed by semester and provide a more detailed definition of the AR's role, state that contracts may be termi­nated with or without cause and disputes between an AR and the University will be settled via arbi­tration. ARs who are terminated without cause will receive benefits for the remainder of the semester. 
Saint Mary's Security 
Amidst security department changes and improvements, Saint Mary's suspended security officer Belinda Rathert because her college transcripts were reportedly not on file. 
The College suspended and banned Rathert from campus while it investigated whether she misrep­resented herself to the College. Rathert questioned the profession­alism of the manner in which the situation was handled and main­tained that she contacted College officials in order to turn over her transcripts. At the time, College offi­cials stated that Rathert had not turned over her transcripts. 
In November, the suspended offi­
2002. 
cer said she filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and intended to sue the College for sexual harassment and discrimination, unequal wages and a hostile work environment. 
Pollee flood The Boat Club 
On a chilly January morning, the underage drinking haven for stu­dents, The Boat Club, faced a simi­lar fate as Finnigan's Irish Pub in 2000, as Excise Police and South Bend Police busted the bar. 
Over 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students waited in line for hours as police, assisted by Notre Dame Security Police officers armed with student directories, verified the identification of patrons and issued citations. · 
Though Saint Mary's students did not receive punishment from the College, Notre Dame students were fined monetarily and ordered to complete service hours in addition to the fines and service hours they had to complete for Saint Joseph County. 
While many cited students believed they had put The Boat Club 

· bust behind them, Millennium Entertainment Inc., owner of The Boat Club, sued every cited student in small claims courts for damages of $3,000. The suits alleged that the defendants misrepresented them­selves to the nightclub in order to gain entrance. 
In an unrelated bar bust, Excise Police raided The Library Irish Pub in April and issued 51 citations, many to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. The Library was raided two years ago when it was called Finnigan's and has changed ownership since the previous bust. It is unclear whether the owners of The Library will also file suits against cited individuals as Millennium Entertainment did this April. 
Freshman dies 
Freshman Chad Sharon was found dead Feb. 12 under the Angela Bridge after being reported missing Dec. 12 by Fisher Hall staff because he did not return to his residence hall. Friends said they last saw Sharon around 2 a.m. at a 


Friday, May 16, 2003 page 7
The Observer+ THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Freshman drowns. Students participate in protests. Saint Mary's reading day passed. Saint Mary's president retires. 


• 2003 
party on Corby Street. 
Sharon did not show up for any of his finals, and state and local police began an extensive search for the freshman. 
During their search for Sharon, police discovered a Madison Center employee who may have talked to Sharon outside the hospital around 4 a.m. the night of his disappear­ance. The employee said that an individual closely matching Sharon's des-cription asked for directions to the nearest conve­nience store. The hospital worker directed the student to the nearest 7 -Eleven. 
The investigation expanded to include searches of the area using dogs and helicopters as well as searches of the river but turned up few additional leads. 
University officials offered a $25,000 reward, which was later increased to $50,000 with the help of local businesses, to encourage anyone with information about Sharon to come forward. 
Sharon's parents visited campus in January to meet with investiga­tors and students who might have been unwilling to speak with police. 
The search ended when local con­struction workers found a body floating under the Angela Bridge that was later identified as Sharon's. Though the river had been searched, police speculated that the body had been dislodged from the river by high winds the day before. An autopsy and blood tests later revealed that Sharon's blood alcohol content was 0.224, although it could have been lower at the time of death, and that foul play was likely not involved. For Sharon's family and friends, these unfortunate developments finally brought some closure to months of uncertainty. 
Saint Mary's president retires 
Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred officially announced her retirement March 5. 
Eldred became the 1Oth president and first laywoman president of the College upon her inauguration in 1997. 
Since then, she helped to improve Saint Mary's itself, along with it5~ relationship to the local community. 

With Eldred's supervision and ini­tiative came the development of the College's Strategic Plan to improve the curriculum, technology and diversity on campus. 
Eldred also headed the develop­ment of the Master Plan, a renova­tion and construction effort to update facilities and meet the needs of the college community at large. 
Eldred secured a $12 million grant loan from Lilly Endowment, Inc., which provided crucial funding for the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership that opened in 2001. The Center is believed to be the only of its kind in colleges and universities across the country. 
Efforts such as these helped Saint Mary's earn the reputation as the nation's premier Catholic women's college. The College has received a number one ranking for Midwest Liberal Arts Colleges by "U.S. News and World Report" five years of Eldred's six year term. 
"My experience at Saint Mary's has been fantastic," Eldred said. "It has been a privilege to lead this College to the next level; to work with our faculty and staff to provide the highest quality education possi­ble for the talented students who come to lSaint Mary's)." 
Eldred agreed to hold her position at the College until the Board of Trustees names her successor, which is expected to be at some point well into the 2003-2004 acad­emic year. 
Saint Mary's Reading Day 
After a 10-year student govern­ment lead struggle, Saint Mary's Academic Affairs Committee finally approved the reading day proposal. 
The approval will now allow Saint Mary's students the opportunity to work on projects, meet with profes­sors and prepare for exams the Friday before finals week. 
War In Iraq 
While New York, Chicago and London erupted in anti-war and peace protests, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students voiced their 
March 22 and 25: Mens and Womens basketball reach Sweet 16 of NCAA Tournament 

March 5: Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred announces her reti 
March March 22: Notre Dame 2000 grad Dustin Ferrell is injured , March 4: Saint Mary's approves in Iraq Reading Day proposal 
opinions as well. 

Several students traveled to New York and Chicago to participate in protests in addition to organizing forums and demonstrations on campus. 
Hundreds of students and faculty members, including Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame, signed an anti-war petition started at Notre Dame. 
Pro-war, anti-war, pro-troops and pro-peace voices could be heard on both campuses. 
Though it is unclear whether any­one from the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's community died in Operation Iraqi Freedom, several Notre Dame professors were sent to fight. A 2000 Notre Dame graduate, Dustin Ferrell, was severely injured in a humvee accident in Iraq and is recovering in the United States. He was awarded a purple heart. 
Scully resigns 

Following a reported leadership crisis in the University, Father Scully resigned as executive vice president, at the May Board of Trustees meeting. A committee formed to investigate Scully's behavior was scheduled to deliver a report at the meeting. 
His resignation followed a January incident where he accosted a reporter and cameraman from WNDU-TV before a Mass for then missing freshman Chad Sharon at the Fisher Hall parking lot. WNDU­TV is owned by the University and Scully was director of operations for the station. The cameraman said Scully smelled of alcohol when he approached them and told them to move their vehicles. Druker filed a report with NDSP and later with­drew her complaint after Scully apologized. 
Scully will remain as a political science professor at Notre Dame. 
Teresa Fralish and Anneliese Woolford contributed to this arti­cle. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
sue cited students 

May 1: University removes Father
Apr. 19: Server crashes and 
Sam Peters as Sorin rector 
March 19: The nation goes to war in 
officials are forced to 

due to an inappropriate
Iraq as students voice 
change Web registration 

sexual relationship 
their opinions 
times 


MIKE HARKINS!The Observer 

,, 
Saint Mary's grads continue legacies 
+ Several seniors are following in the footsteps of their mothers and grandmothers

~ 
'l 
By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Wrirer 
By graduating Saturday. 24 Saint Mary's graduates will continue the legacies of their Alumnae mothers and in some instances, their grand­mothers as well. 
One third-generation grad­uate, Shaun Russell, will carry on an impressive lega­cy. Russell's grandmother graduated from Saint Mary's in 1946, the same year her husband graduated from Notre Dame. All eight of their children also earned degrees from either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
..My
Russell will 


one more cousin will be starting next spring. 
"My grandparents arc ecstatic, because they're the root of the legacy. and they stay so young because of it," Russell said. "My grandmoth­er knows more about football than most sportscasters." 
Their family get-togethers are quite the Irish extrava­ganza, and they gather near the Loftus Center to tailgate every home football game. 
"We're so lucky, because our family's so big, that we have a place like this to get together," Russell said. "And I wouldn't have it any other way. If I hadn't gone to Saint Mary's, I'd feel so out of the loop." 
Bridget Horne is also a third-generation graduate. Her grandmother graduated from Saint Mary's in 1953 and her mother graduated in 1980. 
The legacy began by her grandmother and mother and the life-long friends that they made, greatly influ­enced Horne's decision to apply to Saint Mary's. She especially admires her moth­er's lasting relationships with her roommates. They still meet once a year. 
"I was looking for some­where I would leave with great girlfriends," she said. "And after seeing how my mother still keeps in touch 
with her friends, I knevv that Saint Mary's was where I would flnd that." 
Most daughters of alumnae tell similar stories, but the memoirs of some legacies include a very pivotal time in both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's histories -the near merging of the two schools in 1971. 
Saint Mary's senior Meganne Hoffman continues the legacy of her mother who has a degree from Notre Darr.e but is an alumna of Saint Mary's. Her mother came to Saint Mary's in 1969 and declared her major in modern languages as the unification of the two

mother 
schools 

become one understands a lot about moved for­of 10 grand­ward. Fully
my college experience 
children to anticipating
because she lived it. She
have gradu­the merger, ated from can relate to the S a i n t either of the Mary's and
philosophy ofSaint 
two schools. Notre Dame
Mary's College and the
Additionally, began tu six of spirit here. , consolidate Russell's administra­cousins are tions and
Meganne Hoffman
currently academic enrolled, and graduating senior depart­
ments  and  
divided  majors among  the  
schools.  

But after the merger was called off. the students who enrolled in major programs at Notre Dame finished the departmental requirements and graduated with degrees from Notre Dame. Consequently. even though HotTman's mother applied to Saint Mary's, she graduated with a degree in modern lan­guages from Notre Dame. 
But her mother is consid­ered a Saint Mary's alumna, and she even served as President of the Saint Mary's Indianapolis Alumna Club. 
Hoffman feels that the experiences that she and her mother have shared have ~trengthened the bond between them. 
"My mother understands a lot about my college experi· ence because she lived it," said Hoffman. "And she can relate to the philosophy of Saint Mary's College and the spirit here. That still hasn't changed in 30 years." 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram3501@saintmarys.edu 

"There are 364 days when you might get unbirthday presents... and only one for birthday presents, you know." 
-Lewis Carrol 
Thanks for the Sunshine Love, Mom, Dad & Erin 



ND, SMC students add world view 
• International students provide new perspectives on campus 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associare News Ediror 
For all students, college repre­sents a journey marked by learn­ing and growth, but it se~ms even greater when they start on the other side of the world. This year's seniors hail from locales across the world -as far away as China and Argentina. 
Though enrollment numbers for international students have been on the rise at both schoo!s over the past four years, foreign students are in a definite minori­ty, as only 38 will graduate from Notre Dame and two from Saint Mary's. 
But these students say they have come to love academic and student life here and will take important lessons about life with them 3S they travel back to their native countries or choose to remain in the United States. 
"I was amazed at how wonder­ful people are here." said Saint Mary's senior Kremi Angelova, who :s from Stara Zagora, Bulgaria. 
Senior Carol Tushabee, who transferred to Saint Mary's from Holy Cross College as a sopho­more. said she chose to come to the United States because Holv Cross actively recruited he;. Tushabee, who is from Uganda, was attracted to Saint Mary's small size and academic reputa­tion. 
"Overall, my experience has been good. The students and teachers have been really friend­ly," she said. 
At Saint Mary's, Tushabee, a philosophy major and women's studies minor. was involved in a myriad of activities but focused on service in the South Bend com­munity. Tushabee worked with adult literacy programs, was a member of the Around the World Club and volunteered at the Chapin Street Clinic and St. Margaret's House, a shelter for battered women. Saint Mary's also sent Tushabee and two other Saint Mary's students to Uganda to attend the International Interdisciplinary Conference on Women. 

After graduation, Tushabee hopes to carry with her the lessons she has learned about women and leadership. Next fall, she will attend Texas Women's University to earn a masters degree in women's studies. Eventually, Tushabee hopes to earn a doctorate in public policy and then work for a non-govern­mental organization, preferably at the United Nations. 
"I would like to find a job with the U.N. that focuses on women in developing countries," she said. 
Notre Dame senior Maria Richa, who is from Panama, said that the academic excellence of American schools was a major factor in her decision to come to the United States. "There's a lot of Panamanians that go to college in the U.S.," she said. "My father graduated from [Notre Dame]." 
At Notre Dame, Richa, who is a psychology major. said that adjusting to culture differences posed a challenge at first, but she soon began to feel at home at the University. Richa participated in foreign student programs through the Office of International Students Services and Activities and helped plan international stu­dent banquets her freshman. sophomore and junior years. . After leaving Notre Dame, Hicha intends to return to Panama and eventually attend 
'.U 
graduate school for clinical psy­
chology in either Europe or the 
United States. 

"I want to practice [as a psy­chologist] and probably open a kindergarten for children vvith mental deficiencies," she said. 
Uke Hicha, Angelova, a compu­tational mathematics major, said she choose to attend school in the United States because of the aca­demic reputation of American col­leges and the influence of another Bulgarian friend who attended school in the United States. 
When Saint Mary's ofl'ered her an academic scholarship, Angelova decided to leave her family and friends behind for a· new experience. 
"It was my first time going abroad," she said. "It was difficult to cross over the barrier of com­ing from another country.'; 
But once at Saint Mary's, Angelova found a welcoming community and a variety of activi­ties to participate in. An active member of the Math Club and a founding member of the Around the World Club, Angelova said her presence and that of other inter­national students helped to change the dynamics of student life at the College. 
"[International students] broad­en everyone else's point of view," she said. 
After graduating. Angelova said she would attend a graduate pro­gram in computational finance at Purdue University. After complet­ing her masters degree, Angelova said she will consider earning a doctorate and eventually may return to Bulgaria or live in west­ern Europe but will always remember her time at Saint Mary's. 
''I'm going to miss this close knit community," she said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at 
tfralish@nd.edu 
Center ..-~. afion Technohig'ies . ol Notre. Dame · 

:8002 D~Bartolo Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 .Hours: 8-5 M-F 
,. 
LCall (574) 631.0961 ~or e-mail mmsctr@nd.edu 


Friday, May 16, 2003 page 9
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 


Diversity in Saint Mary's seniors 
By NATALIE BAILEY News Writer 
Approximately 350 women will make the transition from students to alumnae Saturday, May 17. 
While facing an increasingly tough economy, an estimated 70 percent of the· class of 2003 are going into the work force full time. 
According to Mary Regan­Kubinski, professor and chair of the nursing department, the market for nurses is excellent. 
"Our graduates are not only getting jobs, they are getting jobs in the fields that they want to go into," she said. 
Of the 14 graduates receiving a bachelor of science in nurs­ing, most either have jobs or are entering the field. Graduates are entering diverse clinical specialties from mid­wifery to on~ology. 
The outlook is not as certain for students graduating with bachelor of arts and bachelor of business administration degrees. 
"It looks like it will take three to four months for a lot of seniors to find a job," John Pauley, professor and depart­ment chair of communication studies, said. 
Many students are moving to the area of the country where they want to relocate and then starting a job search from there. Also, 30 percent of the class is looking to enter gradu­ate or professional schools. 
Kerry O'Reilly, one of the 35 graduates receiving a bachelor of arts in elementary educa­tion, plans to enroll in Marquette University's top ranked speech pathology pro­gram. 
"After taking a couple of classes in the speech pathology 

The final that could start your career. 
Are you cut out to work for us? 
The Beitler Company, a leading Chicago real estate development firm, is looking for bright college graduates who want a career in the entrepreneurial, exhilarating field of commercial real estate. Are you one of them? Take this test and find out. 
When you were a kid, you: ® Had a lemonade stand. ®Had two lemonade stands. © Recruited other kids to run your chain of lemonade stands. 
When Grandma gave you birthday money: @You spent it on candy and movies. ®You put it in a piggy bank. ©You asked her to invest it for you. 
During finance classes: @You wished you could stay awake. ®You wished you could pay other students to take your tests. © Other students wished they could pay you to take their tests. 
If "c" is your kind of answer, you're our kind of person. Email Eileen Koss at ekoss@beitlerco.com-we want to meet you. THE ________________ 
13 E ITLE R.. 
COMPANY One North LaSalle • Suite 2850 • Chicago, IL • www.beitlerco.com • EOE 
DEVElOPMENT • TENANT REPRESENTATION • CONSULTIIKi •INVESTMENT SERVICIS • ACQUISITIONS • DISPOSITIONS • PROJECT/CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT o ASsn MANAGEMENT 
SMC Seniors: By 




Source: Saint Marys Academic AHairs 
department and working at a local school for deaf children I decided I wanted to explore options other than elementary education," O'Reilly said. 
The majority of education majors are planning on going directly into the field. In the past, 40 percent of education majors enter teaching in Parochial schools. 
"Right now the suburban set­ting is very difficult area to get placement," said Helen Doyle, associate professor and chair of the education department. "Luckily most of our graduates are willing and able to go to under-served populations, including urban and Catholic, but it is difficult, very difficult." 
The biology department is graduating 27 students, most of whom will go onto higher learning. 
"Generally our students aren't looking for a job," Thomas Platt, professor and chair of the biology depart­ment, said. "They are generally looking to continue their educa­tion." 
Platt reports that students are doing the same, if not bet­ter, than past years with accep­
tance to professional and grad­Contact Natalie Bailey at uate programs. Based upon the baill407@saintmarys.edu 
MIKE HARKINSffhe Observer 

information provided to them, eight students plan to attend medical, dental or graduate school; five enter the work force and three enter into ser­vice for a year. 
Catherine Roche, graduating with a bachelor of science in biology, is part of the 23 per­cent of graduates who will be spending the next year doing service. She will be volunteer­ing with the Jesuit Volunteer Core in Yakima, Wash. Her duties will include working as a volunteer coordinator for high school students who would like to work with the elderly. 
"I just figured that after four years of receiving an excellent education I want to give back what I have received," Roche said. 
After the year of service from August to August, Roche plans on going into health care. 
"I realize this is somewhat unconventional and people might see it as delaying entry into the real world," Roche said. "But we are going to be dealing with social injustice first hand and will be very much a part of the real world." 
\ 
\. 

Saint Mary's has plan to replace Eldred 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees outlined its plan April 25 for selecting a replacement for Marilou Eldred, who announced her retirement March 5 but said 
she would remain as col­lege president until her suc­cessor was hired. 
The plan, which the Board pre­

sented to Eldred 
College facul­
ty, staff and 
students in a letter in early May, 
calls for the establishment of a spe­
cial search committee and sets a 
December goal or naming a 
replacement 
"The goal of the Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees and the entire College community is to attract an outstanding individual to serve as President." Sister Joan Marie Steadman, the chair of the Board ofTrustees, wrote in the let­ter. "This person should embody the core values of Saint Mary's, a commitment to its mission and its continued growth as a nationally recognized and ranked Catholic, women's, residential, liberal arts college." 
At its April 25 meeting, several days prior to the letter's writing, the Board of Trustees approved the search committee's develop­ment, along with the process employed to search for a presiden­tial candidate. 
Also at the time, Colleen Ryan was selected as chairperson of the committee and John O'Connor as vice chair. Both are members of the Board. 
The remainder of the Search Committee will consist of five Trustees, one member of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, two faculty members, two administrative members (one academic and one non-academic), one member of the student body, one alumna, one member of the Parents Council and one member from the South Bend community. 
As stated in the letter, those indi­viduals chosen to fill the positions 
• 
Special discounted worldwide airfares. 

• 
International and domestic savings on accommodations, museums & culture, transportation, attractions, tours and more! 

• 
ISIConnect; more than just a phone card! 



I SIC

Stay connected where ever you go. 
With great savings and benefits in over 100 countries around the globe, it has something no other card can offer! Available at ALL STA Travel branches, www.ISICus.com or call toll free: (800) 474.8214 
"will operate in an environment of 
mutual respect and cooperation, 
focused solely on the best interests 
of the College as a whole." 
"I believe the Search Committee 

well represents all Saint Mary's 
constituencies," Eldred said in 
response to the Board of Trustees' 
decision. "When I came here, the 
search was not open and I did not 
have the opportunity to meet many 
of the campus groups. I think that 
made it difficult for both me and 
the College." 
Once formed, the Committee will 

attempt to attract a broad range of 
candidates, both traditional and 
non-traditional along with quali­
fied graduates ofSaint Mary's. 
"The search will be proactive, 

reaching out to possible candidates 
who are not currently seeking a 
new position, but who would be 
excited about leading a nationally 
ranked college," Steadman said. 
Members of the Search 

Committee are required to sign a 
confidentiality agreement once 
appointed. While they will main­
tain consistent communication 
with the College community 
regarding the search process, the 
Committee's activities, discussions, 
materials and decisions will be 
kept confidential. 
When at least three candidates have been submitted to the Board, they will then be invited to campus for the purpose of meeting with key figures of the College prior to the Board of Trustees' appointing ofthe president. 
The Board will hold a meeting in December 2003 at which time it expects to name a president-elect. 
"I think December 2003 is an aggressive schedule, particularly for someone coming from higher education," Eldred said. "If the president is selected from the cor­porate world or is not in higher education, then perhaps it is a more possible schedule." 
Overall, Eldred is confident in the approach that the Board is tak­ing to the presidential search. 
She's not alone. 

"The next President of Saint Mary's College will build on the strong legacy of Dr. Marilou Eldred and her predecessors," Steadman said. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

page 10 Friday, May 16, 2003 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
I .. 

Student

I 
~ 
I finishes I degree in 
t 

3 years 
+Computer science major took several AP classes in high school 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Students often remark 
that their time under the 
Dome goes by quickly, but 
for Dan Brunner the col­
lege years have passed by 
even faster. The computer 
science major will graduate 
with the class of 2003 after 
just three years at Notre 
Dame. 
Brunner managed to 
shave a year off of his 
undergraduate education 
by taking a heavy load of 
advanced classes during 
high school. In total, he 
enrolled in 11 advanced 
placement courses that 
resulted in over 50 hours of 
college credit when he 
arrived at Notre Dame in 
the fall of 2000. 
The large number of col­
lege credit hours afforded 
Brunner several options, 
including more leeway in 
his semester schedules and 
more choices in the classes 
he could take. He also had 
the possibility of declaring 
a second major. Brunner, 
however, opted to graduate 
early instead. 
"I knew computer science 
was all I wanted to do," he 
said. "I wasn't interested in 
another field or another 
major." 
But that doesn't mean 
that Brunner hasn't taken 
the time to enjoy his years 
at Notre Dame. The Knott 
Hall resident played inter­
hall soccer. 
Brunner said that his advisers were supportive of his decision. 
He said that his parents were also pleased with the choice, especially because the early graduation will save the family over $30,000. 
While he is happy with his decision, Brunner said he will miss his friends and the Notre Dame experi­ence. 
''I'm planning on coming back for all the football games next year and hang­ing out with my friends," he said. 
Over the summer, Brunner will work for a small consulting firm in Cincinnati. 
During the internship, he will primarily focus on designing web pages. Next fall, Brunner may continue to work for the same com­pany full-time or search for a different job. 
''I'm not sure what I'll be doing long-term but I've got the [internship] lined up for right now," he said. 

Two rectors leaving residence halls 
Parrish is a University of
• Rectors of 

Portland graduate who isZahm Hall and St. completing his masters of divinity at Notre Dame. He
Edward's Hall 
will be ordained a priest next
departing 
April. 
Father Tom Eckert will suc­
ceed Mojzisek as rector at St. 

By MELISSA LOU Edward's Hall. The Notre 
News Writer Dame alumnus from 
Huntington, Ill was ordained 

The Notre Dame communi­a priest on April 26. 
ty is bidding farewell to two 
residence hall rectors who Andrew Thagard con­
will not return in the fall, tributed to this article. 
John Mojzisek of St. 
Edward's 

Contact Melissa Lou at Rector John Mojzlsek talks with a student. Mojzlsek will be
Hall and 

mlou@nd.edu leaving St. Edwards Hall at the end of this year.
Father T o m Bednar of Zahm Hall. Mojzisek, 


.. · c··. • • 
a Notre 
D a m e 

M ovmg -o .····••·•····· mc~nati alumnus , 
Bednar leaves St. Edward's Hall after one year there. 



after Graduation? 

He said that although he has enjoyed his experience, his heart is in counseling and teaching. He plans to return to Baltimore, his hometown, 
~~ \>V'1Lnttq ~~lcqrn.~ ycn.1!
to continue work in these 
areas. 
"The students have been very supportive of my deci­sion," he said. "[They are] 
•.•·· <••. ···\
·•••·.·••· i i··••••••···········~~~~$~:}~~~~~ ~l~f:ir···········.··········•·exceptional young men who are creative and very ener­
Unl\Tef,SaJ 
~(>~~ Da.fl1e NigHt

getic." 
Mojzisek will also leave his 
'"Fhwsda:y, july lOth .······••··•· 

.. --"" . ...

position with the Masters in ·. :--::::::_.:.. :·-..-' . ·...:_:··..-·-.', ·.-:.-<--....:· ··..·. Divinity Program where he 
.• Studentsel1cl~offPicnic
. . -.

taught pastoral counseling, and his job as a leader in the Sunday, August·1Oth Notre Dame Encounter 
retreats. YoWlg Alum Happy Hours · 
Bednar of Zahm Hall will 
first Thursday ofeach month
also not return next semester after three years there. He is unsure of his assignment for 
next year. 
)3()JanyqtJestiof1s onthe (Jincinnati area, we'd 
"It's been a great experi­
beglaqtqpoiJ1t}tou in ~he right direction.•
ence here," said Bednar of .. '" . -. his time at Notre Dame and 
Zahm Hall. "There's a great lSdntact•·Paul.~illenburget·· sense of community and ser­
···<atGillepburger@alumni.nd.~du
vice among the guys." 
The Office of Student .. ·/.· ·()r(5T3)S2I-6249· · ...·.·.·. Affairs has named Daniel Parrish as Bednar's replace­ment. 


The Greater Cincinnati Notre Dame Club 


CONGRATULATIONS WELSH FAMILY WHIRLWINDS CLASS OF lOO) 


BEELING ARMIJO ANNETTE GONZALEZ TAYLOR ROMIGH MARIA DE LA PAZ AROSEMENA ANNE HAINLEY LORAINNE SANTANA SARAH BAUM ANNE LIM MELISSA SLAVIN ELIZABETH BISHOP IALANE LOHKAMP KARIN SOBY JESSICA BOEHM LINDA MELCHOR RENE SOPIARZ CATHERINE CAVADINI KELLY MOORE CARIN STELP CHRISTINA CEPERO ELIZABETH MYERS KATHRYN TAFT KAREN CHOCKLEV NORMA NELSON KARATHOLEN ERICA CHRISTENSEN COLLEEN O'CONNOR CATHERINE TOnEN MARIA COLEMAN NADIA PALACIOS CAROLINE WALTERS ERIN DOWE KRISTIN PEIRANO JENNIFER VEE 
HEATHER DZIEDZIC 
AND THE WELSH FAM OFF-G4MPUSSENIOR~ 

WISHING YOU THE BEST OF EVERYTHING! 
i 

-CANDACE, KATIEANDIHE FAM" 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
I 

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 11
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
University cuts force colleges to look at budgets 
Admissions increases and construction project cuts among options for colleges 
By KATE NAGENGAST Senior StatfWriter 
Since the University Board of Trustees called for budget cuts in March as a result of losses to the endowment and a down economy. each college is now working to final­ize its 2003-04 budget and deter­mine the effects of a 5 percent cut to academic and student life expendi­tures mandated by the Board. 
Although the cut represents only a small portion ofthe University's esti­mated $600 million in annual expenses. it's significant at Notre Dame where the Board has not cur­tailed spending in nearly two decades. 
Coupled with a 6.5 percent tuition increase. which will bring 2003-04 tuition and room and board costs to $34,100. University budget cuts could affect student life -though University officials said they aim to avoid changes that would have a direct impact on students. especially student finances. 
"There's been a rigorous attempt to hold down tuition increases with wise decision making in the bud­get," said Matt Storin. University spokesman. "We want to arrive at a budget figure that will do the least damage to our University missions." 
Storin said preserving financial aid at its current levels is among the University's highest priorities. But the endowment, which provides financial aid for students. ranks 18th among U.S. colleges and universities and is the largest at any Catholic institution. dropped $200 million last year. 
''The budget cuts are not entirely 
based on the endowment drop, 
there have been additional rising 
costs . . . but the economy certainly 
affects things on the revenue side 
adversely," said Storin. 
More than half of Notre Dame's 
operating budget revenues and 
roughly 81 percent ofthe education­
al and general revenues come from 
tuition and fees, according to the 
strategic plan, thus even a small 
percentage increase in tuition or in 
the number of enrolled students 
assists with budgeting -and in 
2003 the University plans to attempt 
both. 

Notre Dame plans to admit 25 more students, making 1,960 the target size for the class of 2007. 
Eileen Kolman, dean of First Year . Studies, said her office will plan for 1,980 students, however, she also questioned Notre Dame's continued ability to attract a surplus of stu­dents during an economic down­tum. 
"I think the economy is in a bad way and Notre Dame is expensive -so we may not see the confirma­tion rate of past years again," Kolman said, in reference to the class of 2005 enrollment swell of over 2,000 students. 
First Year Studies was also asked to make a 5 percent budget cut, but Kolman said that could be accom­plished through fewer summer mailings and relying more on Internet communication. without adversely affecting students. 
According to Ava Preacher. assis­tant dean in the College of Arts and Letters, Arts and Letters will increase the number of transfer stu­
dents it admits and decrease the 

number of student leaves ofabsence 
it grants, a scenario she believes will 
be problematic. 
Preacher said Arts and Letters 
typically admits 60 to 70 sophomore 

and junior transfer students per 
year, but for 2003-04 it has been 
asked to admit 90 students. 
"It means we'll have to look at 
compromising quality," said 
Preacher. "With 90 students accept­
ed you may actually be taking stu­
dents who won't fare well in the 
classrooms here." 
Arts and Letters will also allow only 16 leaves of absence in 2003­04, roughly eight per semester, after allowing up to 40 this year. This cut could hinder study abroad opportu­nities for students who want to take a leave of absence to travel through programs outside of Notre Dame's International Studies and London Program offerings and want to receive credit for their time away. 
Preacher said her office would now prioritize leave request based upon whether applicants had already had an abroad experience and ifthey were interested in partic­ipating in programs where Notre Dame had no existing offering, such as Africa. 

Preacher said increasing enroll­ment through the combination of larger incoming classes, more trans­fer students and fewer leaves of absence could increase class size, limit course availability, or even risk students' ability to graduate in the expected four to five years with a semester abroad and mounting scheduling conflicts. 
The College of Science and the 

College of Business typically offer 
larger classes and encounter fewer 
scheduling dilemmas, but nonethe­
less find themselves with contrasting 
budget issues. 

According to accounting professor Bill Nichols, the Mendoza College of Business will have little trouble making their required budget cuts for 2003 by reducing their publica­tions, entertainment and alumni relations budgets. 
"We approached the budget cut with the objective to retain faculty slots, maintain course offerings and maintain funding for faculty research," Nichols said. 
These goals are similar to those set by the College of Science, but the College of Business results are envi­able for Marvin Miller, chair of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. 
Miller said his department like­wise prioritized faculty retention and therefore allowed for a 1.5 per­cent increase in faculty salaries to "keep morale up." 
"To cut faculty and staff salaries would be imprudent," said Miller. 'The worst thing we could do is lose faculty to competing academics or industry. The last thing we want to do is make it attractive for them to leave." 

But, according to Miller, 90 per­cent of the Chemistry and Biochemistry budget is salaries, thus forcing its supply budget to take a 30 to 35 percent cut to meet next year's University budget require­ments. He said there has been dou­ble digit inflation in the cost ofscien­tific supplies. but his department budget has not increased in five years. 
"Teaching science is relatively 
expensive," said Miller. "My biggest 
fear is that come February or March 
of next year, we'll walk into the labs 
and have to tell the students, 'Sorry, 
we're out of supplies.' Needless to 
say we'll be frustrated in our teach­
ing efforts without supplies." 
Various campus construction pro­jects have also been delayed or halt­ed as a result of budget restraints, Jim Lyphout, vice president for busi­ness operations, told The Observer in April. Delayed projects include a new science and learning building to be built north of the Joyce Center for $70 million, a new post office and security building near the Stepan Center, and improvements to the Loftus Center. Projects that were completed or are still on schedule despite cuts include the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for Performing Arts, the Stepan Chemistry Hall, O'Shaughnessy Hall renovations and Hesburgh Library renovations. 
Preacher said an additional facul­ty concern related to building pro­jects is parking as teachers will for the first time be charged for parking beginning in the fall of 2004. 
''The University is tightening the budget and in many ways they've needed to do it," said Preacher. "Every now and then it seems the University should cut back on cer­tain luxuries. You look at the grounds and wonder when they lay down and tear up sidewalks repeat­edly. Money seems to flow to some places more than others." 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 


CONGRATlJLATIONS TO ALL THE 2003 GRADUATES! Moving to New York City? Check out our webpage at www.ndnyc.com for membership info, events, 
service activities and other helpful information. Upcoming events include: 
• l\fonthly happy hours the 2nd Weds. of each month (including a Welcome Event in August) 
• Monthly meetings the 4th Tuesday of each month 
+ Boat cruise around NYC .on July 30 Larissa·Herczeg-Vice PresidentMia 1\-lontagna-President Larissa@alumni.nd.edu
Miat!yalumni.nd.edu 
.Jint }1cConneH-St'~rctary
1\uritl\ l'crdbl-·1 rt:a;..urei P~i ~ id.;-.L p\:rd L :: r; ;;.dllli jdntccnnneU·a !nn-Ll'\ rc•rn
j 



page 12 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
Scully resigns as executive VP 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 
The University's third-ranking official announced May 2 he would resign his posi­tion as executive vice president but remain a member of the faculty. 
Father Timothy Scully informed the University's Board of Trustees that his res­ignation would take effect June 30. The Trustees met on cam­pus May 2 to discuss business that was scheduled to include a report from a four­person committee formed to investigate Scully 


'j Scully's behavior,
j 
including a Jan. 16 confrontation with two local television reporters and a camera­man. 
However, University spokesman Matt Starin said Scully's resignation was ten­dered to the Board before the report was discussed. The report, Starin said, cleared Scully of any wrongdoing. 
A South Bend Tribune report on May 3 said Scully's resignation averted a possible crisis in the upper echelon of the University's leadership, according to unnamed sources in the University's administration quoted by the Tribune. 
A majority of top administrators ­including University President Father Edward Malloy -wanted Scully out, according to the Tribune, which also cited sources as saying Malloy was prepared to resign ifScully remained. 


In a prepared statement, Scully did not provide a reason for his resignation. Malloy, in the same University-issued state­ment, said, "His tenure has been marked by his creative thinking, his wise business sense and his enduring commitment to the University community." 
I 
'i A committee established by the Board of Trustees will lead a search to find Scully's successor, but Starin said he did not know when the Board of Trustees would name Scully's successor. 
"It has been an honor and a privilege to serve as an officer of the University for the past nine years," Scully said in his state­ment. "My first love has always been teaching, research and pastoral ministry. I'm excited at the prospect of returning full time to those pursuits." 
Neither Scully nor Malloy were available for comment, and the only official University response came in the form of a statement that cited many of Sqtlly's achievements. "The statement largely speaks for itself," Starin said. 
"The fruits of his dynamic decision-mak­ing and high standards for performance will continue to influence this University long into the future," said the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Patrick McCartan, in a statement. "We respect the personal nature of the decision he has made to step down but look forward to a continuing relationship with him as a member of the Board of Fellows and the Board of Trustees and as a valued member of the faculty." 
Scully, who was initially scheduled to teach a class entitled "Leadership and Social Concern" in the fall semester, is instead taking what one member of the political science department called an administrative leave. Typically, when administrators return to the faculty ranks, they can receive at least one semester off from teaching. No students were affected by the decision to cancel class because permission was required to register, and Scully had not approved any students before the class was cancelled. 
In a voice mail message left with The Observer Tuesday, Scully said he looks for­ward to the challenge of returning to the teaching and research field. 
A member of the political science depart­ment, Sc!llly said he intends to teach one of three courses: comparative politics, Latin American politics and Leadership and Social Concern. 
He will continue to chair the advisory board for the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, to serve as the direc­tor of the Institute for Educational Initiatives and to chair of the board of the Alliance for Catholic Education, which he founded. 
"I can't wait to be able to spend more time in my beloved Fisher Hall [where Scully lives] and celebrate Mass," said Scully, who was leading a retreat in Chile when he called. "That, combined with a very heavy teaching agenda and working as a Fellow and Trustee will keep me very busy." 
Scully did not talk about what made him decide to resign in the message. He could not be reached for further comment. 
Named executive vice president in July 2000, Scully was in charge of human resources, campus construction and over­saw the University's financial matters ­which included administering a University operations budget that topped $500 million and an endowment over $2.6 million. Prior to his appoint!Ilent, he had served since 1994 as the University's vice president and senior associate provost. 
In January, Scully was involved in a con­frontation with a reporter and cameraman from the University-owned television sta­tion WNDU-1V who were covering a Mass for missing freshman Chad Sharon at Fisher Hall. Sharon's body was discovered Feb. 12 in the St. Joseph River. 
According to the cameraman, who said he smelled alcohol on Scully's breath dur­ing the incident, the executive vice presi­dent grabbed reporter Bonnie Druker by the arm and angrily told the pair to move their van, which he said was parked in the wrong spot behind Fisher. Scully later apologized for the incident, but it was unclear what role -if any -the con­frontation had in Scully's decision to resign. 
Under Scully's nine-year tenure as a University administrator, the number of Notre Dame students studying abroad dou­bled and Notre Dame established academic programs in Chile, Mexico and Washington, D.C. The University also made significant progress on its master plan for campus construction. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Friday, May 16, 2003 
Father Malloy honored with 14th degree 
Special to The Observer 

University President Father Edward Malloy received an honorary doctor of divinity degree from Saint Leo University in Saint Leo, Fla., dur­ing its commencement ceremonies May 10. It was his 14th such honor. 
Malloy also delivered the com­mencement address to a record 495 students who were receiving their bachelor's degrees. 
Notre Dame's 16th president, Malloy was elected by the Board of Trustees in 1986, and he has led the University at a time of rapid growth in its reputation, faculty and resources. During his tenure, Notre Dame's faculty has increased by more than 350, the academic quality of the student body has improved dramatically, and the number of minority students has more than dou­bled. 
The University's $2.6 billion endowment is among the top 20 in higher education, and its recently completed "Generations" capital campaign raised $1.1 billion, by far the most successful in the history of Catholic higher education and just the twelfth billion-dollar campaign ever for a private university. 
Malloy has been a driving force behind efforts to promote community service and combat substance abuse. A member of the advisory board of AmeriCorps and the National Civilian Community Corps, he also is a found­ing director of the Points of Light Foundation, a member of the board of governors of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America and a member of the Indiana Community Service and Volunteer Committee and the Indiana Commission on Community Service. 

Ceremony to honor graduating volunteers 
ter; and representatives of the 
Special to The Observer 

Holy Cross Associates and the 
Some 185 Notre Dame gradu­Alliance for Catholic Education. ating seniors who are embark­Among the seniors will be ing on a year or more of service Margaret Laracy, Notre Dame's in this country and abroad will 2003 valedictorian, who will be honored at the University's serve with L'Arche, a communi­annual Senior Service Send-Off ty for developmentally disabled at 10 a.m. Saturday in people, in Washington, D.C. Washington Hall. Programs in which this year's 
University President Father Notre Dame graduates have Edward Malloy will address the enlisted include the Holy Cross seniors, speaking about the Associates, which serves the importance of service in educa­poor in six U.S. cities and Chile, tion and throughout life, and and Notre Dame's Alliance for reflections on postgraduate ser­Catholic Education, which pro­vice will be offered by Charles vides teachers for understaffed . Kenney, assistant professor of parochial schools in dioceses political science at the across the United States. University of Oklahoma and a Forty-two graduates will serve 1980 Notre Dame graduate. in programs abroad, including Kenney, who served in the Holy the Holy Cross Missions in Jinja, Cross Associates program in Uganda; the Dominican School Hayward, Calif., from 1980-81, in Johannesburg, South Africa; received master's and doctoral the Power of Love Foundation degrees in government and and The Master's Mission in international studies from Notre Kenya; the Health Development Dame in 1997 and 1998, respec­Program in Tanzania; and the tively. He and his wife, Caridad Peace Corps in several African Marchand, have four children. countries. Most of these stu­
At the ceremony, each of the dents became involved in com­participating seniors will be rec­munity service through the ognized on stage and will Center for Social Concerns, in receive a journal with favorite whose programs and courses quotations and advice from vari­some 3,000 students annually ous members of the Notre Dame participate. community. A blessing of the Music for the ceremony will seniors will be led by Father include songs chosen by the William Lies, executive director graduates and led by the Notre of the Center for Social Dame Folk Choir. Following the Concerns; Andrea Smith ceremony, there will be a recep­Shappell, director of senior tion at the Center for Social transition programs at the cen-Concerns. 
you Will Always B~ 


FarleYs Finest! 
Kathryn Anderson· Veronica Berger Araceli Bonilla Nichole Boreson lv!cagan Call Kristin Capece Julie Davis Ashley Dryer Kaitlyn Dudley Malia Durand .lill Fitzgerald Allison Hepola Elizabeth Goodhue Cameesha Gordon Diana Hlavac Katherine Jeter Christy Lindemann Kaylene Landon Allison Lovelac.e Bianca Martinez Kathleen McAdams Colleen Moran Katharine Mosesso Jane Ong · Nicole Ortega Jennifer Plasrerr Elisa Pond Elba Serrano Michelle Smith Jennifer Stoner EJizabeth VanWesten Caroline Wagner 
Colleen Weigle 
.Fa..r.J.6Y Ha.2~ . ·l./;;.1 :,.eri:"J i t:.y of No~re Da.zoe
.. .. 

~·-­

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 13
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
Sorin Hall rector fired for .~sexual relationship' 
May 1 and officially fired him a The statement said Peters
• Father Sam 

few days later, Starin said. agreed to the Province's offer of 
Peters dismissed Peters, who had served as professional assistance to help
following allegation Sarin's rector since 2001 and him in his assessment. 
was ordained a Holy Cross Priest Father Mark Poorman. direc­
last Sept .. is no tor of Student By MEGHANNE DOWNES longer allowed Affairs, offi­
News Editor on Notre "It will be important for cially notified Dame's cam­him to re-examine his life Sarin resi­
The rector of Sarin Hall, pus. It is dents of
priorities and his fidelity 

Father Sam Peters, was fired unclear if he Peter's dis­
to them.,,

after University officials said he will be missal May 6. 
had an "inappropriate sexual removed from A replace­
relationship" with an adult the priesthood ment for
Congregation of Holy Cross 

female, a school spokesman said for his inap­Peters has
statement

May 7. propriate sex­not yet been 
The University first learned of ual relation-named. the relationship between Peters ship. Before and the woman when a family A statement from the Indiana becoming Sarin's rector in 2001, member of the woman notified Province of the Congregation of Peters taught at St. Joseph's school officials, said University Holy Cross expressed concern High School in South Bend and spokesman Matt Starin, who for the woman's family and served at Christ the King declined to comment on whether regret for Peters' actions. Catholic Church in South Bend the female was a student. "We are deeply sorry and and St. Pius X in Granger. 
"The family has requested that apologize for the betrayal of the Peters made his perpetual we do everything to guard the trust that the People of God profession of the religious vows privacy of this woman," Starin place in those whom we ordain of poverty, chastity and obedi­s a i d . for sacred ence on Sept. 1, 2001 and was adding that duties," the ordained a priest exactly one the woman "We are deeply sorry and statement said. year later. His ordination was Notre Dame Magazine -the was not a According to delayed because Peters, who University's alumni magazine-
apologize for the betrayal 

minor. the statement. told Notre profiled It is ofthe trust that the Peters is still a D a m e Peters' jour­unclear People ofGod place in priest at this Magazine in an "The family has ney to the how long time but is not interview that priesthood in
requested that we dothose whom we ordain
the rela­permitted to he was a its Spring
everything to guard the 
tionship for sacred duties. ,, exercise public recovering 2003 issue, lasted. ministry in the alcoholic, was privacy ofthis woman., at one point However. immediate initially pre­likening him
Congregation of Holy Cross 

Starin said future. vented from to a Holy
statement Matt Storln
the rela­"It will be drinking wine C r o s s 
University spokesman
tionship important for at the altar -recruiting occurred him to re-exam­a problem the poster. during this school year. ine his life priorities and his Vatican cor-According to 
The University removed Peters fidelity to them," the statement rected by granting him a special the article, Peters frequently from his his position as rector said. dispensation. welcomed students into his 

room and wanted to avoid insin­uations of impropriety -given the recent sexual scandals in the Catholic Church -when he made a potentially suicidal stu­dent sleep on his couch. 
Sarin residents said Peters was known for talking about how happy he was with his celibacy. 
''I'm the happiest guy you've ever met who's poor, celibate and obedient," Peters told the magazine. 
Contac:t Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
The Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa congratulates and 
Miss Kathryn Elizabeth Anderson Ms Kimberly Jane Berg Mr Richard Tobias Biebl Mr Daniel David Birk Mr Andrew Adam Borden Ms Tona Maria Boyd Mr Zachary Neal Burkhart Ms Molly Corinne Byrnes Mr Timothy James Callan Ms Marguerite Elizabeth Clemency Mr Joshua Francis Coleman Ms Stephanie Diane Collins Ms Gina Marie Cora Ms Jessica Lee Daues Miss Julie Lynn Davis Mr Gerard DeGregoris, Ill Mr Leonard James DeLorenzo, II 
· Miss Lisa Charlotte Demidovich Ms Catherine Mary DiSipio Ms Ann Therese Effinger Mr Todd Randall Engstrom Ms Christine Therese Ferrara Ms Jennifer Jean Fibuch Miss Margaret Ann Fitzpatrick Mr John Joseph Foley, Ill Ms Mary Colleen Ganey Miss Amy Katherine Gnaster Mr Eric William Gobel Ms Annette Marie Gonzalez Ms Jennifer Diane Guintu Mr Jason Jeffrey Halvorson Mr Kevin Michael Hansen Ms Jessica Clare Higgins 


welcomes its new members of the class of 2003 
Ms Kathleen Anne Higgins Mr Nicholas Gaston Holovaty Mr Daniel Scott Hoople Ms Amanda K. Horvath Ms Megan Elizabeth Horvath Mr Jared Christian Jodrey Mr Matthew Sweeney Johnston Miss Elizabeth Anne Kahling Mr Charles Stewart Kamen Miss Ann Kellog Ms Laura Clare Kelly Ms Maura Elizabeth Kelly Ms Erin Lynn Kennedy Ms Patricia Ann Keppel Ms Elizabeth Anne Kessler Mr Jason Andrew Klocek Mr Elias J. Koliopoulos Ms Kirstin Frances Krueger Ms Margaret Rose Laracy Miss Kristin Mary Laraja Ms Beth Ann Lewinski Ms Ashlee Mary Logan Ms Rebecca Lucy Luckett Mr Michael Charles Madigan Miss Lori Kathryn Madlinger Ms Katherine Marie Malmquist Ms Amy Kiyoko Marshall Mr Jason Scott Mathias Mr Patrick Melia McElwee Mr Donovan Clark McFeron Mr Luke Anthony McLaurin Ms Katherine Marie Mercy 
Ms Cassandra Wearne Murphy 
Btou 
Mr Adam Michael Nicholson Ms Kelly Rose Ninneman Miss Christina Rose Noetzel Mr David Andrew Nordin Mr Matthew Joseph O'Rourke Ms Stephanie Frances Pall Miss Rebecca Marie Reilly Ms Ellyn Elizabeth Rideout Ms Meridith Anne Runke Mr Nicholas Edward Salazar Mr Joel Robert Schaffer Miss Amy Beth Scheck Ms Amy Marie Schill Mr Daniel Benjamin Schmid Ms Jessica Marie Schmidt Mr Patrick Edward Sluka Mr Brian Thomas Smith Miss Marlayna Ann Soenneker Ms Kathryn Louise Solie Ms Jennifer Suzanne Spanbauer Mr Robert Peter Stachecki Mr Brian Albert Staub Ms Maggie Marie Stoecker Mr Glenn Loyd Strycker Ms Carolyn Alicia Tampe Ms Jennifer Josephine Theis Ms Alexandra Vanessa Torres Ms Alison Christine Troy Ms Meghan Christine VanDeventer Ms Erica LaMonaca Walter Miss Allison Louise Werner Mr Matthew Gerad Wysocki Ms Stephanie Ann Zabela 


ijf
.. 
~-1
\. 
·t' ·,
.\ 
~ ' ~.t \i 
.:.~S:~> 
I 
Ji ­
.I •:!
' 
.\ 
J Dear Graduates, 

'' '· I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the Class of 2003. I also want to express my gratitude for the rich contributions you have made to the University during your time here. 

For those of you who are graduating seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that your commitment to your faith in God and to the service of God's people match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. We have high expectations of our graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testament to the importance of these high expectations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional degrees, I hope 
j:, 

that you will carry with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your

H 

' discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethical convictions and a commitment to justice, you will represent the very best of Notre Dame. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed 'to have you as members of the Notre Dame family. 
Sincerely yours, 


. ..
~­
(Rev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 
{ 
1 
'I / 
.,I 
I 
.i 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
j 

'l WNOTREDAME 
I 
·( 
( 
I 
\ 
i 
I 
( ( .I 
'J 
I I 
I 
r 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
Priday. May 16, 2003 page 15
The Obsen'er + CAMPUS NEWS 
,,'
,
,,,,
,,
, 
,' 
.. ,' 
, 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
,I 
,
, 
,I 
,
, 
I 
,I 
I I I I 
I I I 
' 
f 

Now it's time to put on your thinking cap. 
I I I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I 
' 
I 
' 
I I 'I 
' ' ' ' 
' ' 
' 
' I 
' ' ' ' ' 

It's time to start thinking about graduation and 
putting yourself to good use. At Ernst &Young, we 
offer a challenging, stimulating environment where 
you will be given many opportunities to use your mind 
and stretch and wow in your career. Start here.
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 


COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR~ 

ey.com/us/careers -~~~:}ERNST &YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Adding up a year atND 
• Meals eaten, classes taken, Masses celebrated, it's all here by the numbers 
Spedal to The Observer 
Another academic year is ending at Notre Dame. Most students have packed up and gone home. Seniors are enjoying their last days on campus before Commence­ment. 
There is no way to quantify what Notre Dame has meant to them, but they will leave some statistical footprints. 
For example, the Registrar's office reports that 6,837 classes were taught during the past fall and spring semesters, including graduate, undergraduate and independent study courses. 
About 180,000 textbooks were purchased at the Hammes Bookstore on cam­pus. 
Research grants totaled $43,902,214. 

Students and visitors eating on campus consumed 1. 5 tons of chicken strips, 60,000 gallons of milk, 88 tons of bananas. 
There were 2 million meals se·rved in the various dining halls, snack bars and restau­rants, including 70,000 in the Morris Inn. 
As anyone who visits the campus in autumn knows, it is hard to miss the Notre Dame Marching Band, either in performance or practice, but there are many other orchestras, bands, choirs and choral groups. They com­bined for 301 concerts and 115 band performances. 
Some of those band perfor­mances were at the Univcrsitv's 183 athletic con­tests', no"t counting tourna­ments that are under the supervision of the National Collegiat~ Athletic Associa­tion. Fans attending those events totaled 865,591. 
That makes for a few dirty uniforms. But they were just part of the story at the St. Michael's Laundry, which many students patronize. It processed 1.5 million tons of soiled fabric. 
The spiritual side of Notre !)arne is immeasurable, but Campus Ministry pegs the m·mber of Masses, including these at the Basilica of the Sacrr,d Heart, the crypt and residence hall chapels at about .? ,000. 
It's <:.n .incomplete list. There were kilowatt hours of electric power generated, gallons of water supplied, medications applied, acres of grass mowed, and so on. 
After Sunday's Commence­ment, the campus will be quiet for a few weeks before the summer session and vari­
ous visiting groups will bring 


j ; 

Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



L U M N I ND/SMC 


Congratulates 
all the lesbian, gay, bi and transgender graduates of 2003, and their graduating friends and supporters... 

& Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the 
. 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit membership organization with over 850 members representing alumni, faculty, staffand families of the University and College. 

Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation with and receives no financial support from the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength and support comes from our membership and our growing numbers. 
To receive your welcoming first-year membership packet and for more information about our organization visit our vveb site at: http://galandsmc.org/ 
------~=-e-mail us at: galandsmc@aol.com or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC 
P.O.Box 257703 Chicago, IL 60625 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 17 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hertler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CoNTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.....•••.•....631-7471 FAX...........•.•.•.............................................631-6927 AnVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF..••......•.•......••••....••........•••631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME..................•.631-4541 BUSINESS 0FFJCE.......................••.••...•••••••..631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu VIEWPOINT.........................................•.......631-5303 observer.viewpoim.1 @nd.edu SPORTS .•......•••.........••.......•....•.•••....•.•••.....•.. 63I-4543 observer.sports.l @nd.edu 
ScENE..............•..........................................631-4540 observer.scene.l @nd.edu SAINT MARv's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. 1 @nd.edu PHOTO........•.••.....•.•....•••••. ·····••··· ...•••.....••.•. 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..•••.......•.••. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns; as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views ofthe authors and nor nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obseroerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 59') 240) is published Monday through Friday except during exa.m and vacalion periods. A subscriprion to Th~ Observer is $100 for one academic 
year; $5'5 for one semester.  
The Ohsrrver is published :;u:  l'OSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send addras corrcc1iorn lo:  
Norrc D:ame.IN 46556  The Observer  
r.o. BoxQ  
Periodical p0$1agc paid ar Notre Dame  Notre Dame, IN 4655<,.on9  
.tnd addirion:ll m:ailing offices.  

The Observer is a mc:mber of the Associated Press. AH tqJroduc1ion righrs are 
rocrvcd. 

It was Freshmen Orientation 1999 and I was strolling on God Quad with my room­mate. We stumbled upon an upperclass­man that had inspired someone I knew in high school. After I told the student about his influence on my old acquaintance, the upperclassman asked, "Is she hot?" 
And so my true college experience began. 

Notre Dame has a mystique that draws people to the campus like stu­dents to South Dining Hall when it serves chicken strips. Though Notre Dame is arguably the No. 1 Catholic institution in the country (and the dining halls were supposedly No. 2 when we entered the University as freshmen), the rankings, the prominence and the "oohs" and "ahhs" can be deceiving. This is how I felt when the awe-inspiring student flippantly replied to me and my roommate. 
Even so, the world is full ofpeople, places and situations that seem inconsis­tent. As inspirational as the upperclass­man was to a high school teenager, he was also a typical20-year-old guy. Yet, his off-the-cuff remark did not destroy Notre Dame's reputation in my eyes. I've learned in these past four years that inconsisten­cies and obstacles will inevitably appear to complicate life, but there is always a chance to find a positive outcome. 
It takes more than one silly remark or a more serious incident to shatter the dreams tlmt we have tried to pursue at this institution. And the same way we entered Notre Dame with goals and ideas about positively shaping our lives and the world, we can enter postgraduate lives \\-ith the same determination and opti­mi<>m. 

Notre Dame is unique because we have 
made it that way. All of our dreams of 
traveling the world, becoming president, 
empowering the poor, building a multina­
tional firm, curing the sick or creating a 
masterpiece, seemed that much more pos­
sible when we stepped foot on this green 
campus. The University is skilled at easing 
our transition into the lifestyle of this 
Indiana oasis. 

When Notre Dame's blue skies turn gray and the green grass is covered in white, it's easy to question whether our dreams are worth the obstacles, but this Commencement Weekend -the celebra­tion of an end and a beginning-should remind us that we made the right choice. 
College graduates represent about one­fourth of the population. I had a political science professor consistently remind my class of that fact this semester, pointing out that attending an elite institution puts us in a smaller group. I will represent the roughly one percent of the population comprised ofAfrican-American female college graduates according to the U.S. Census Bureau. 
While I know that I deserve a degree on Sunday after all the papers, tests and sac­rifices I have made on behalfofmy health in attempts to study at ridiculously late hours after a day of responsibilities, I must remember that celebration is not the only must-do after I turn my tassel. 
Being a college graduate is more than a ticket to a high-paying job or a prestigious graduate school. Many Notre Dame stu­dents demonstrate this each year as they prepare for jobs in the Peace Corps, Teach for America and other programs available to those who want to build up the society in which they live. Being a college gradu­ate is about understanding that you have a responsibility to continue in your pursuit of knowledge and experience. It's about knowing th.at even ifyou have been blessed with a great opportunity after school, you will not let your idealism van­ish at the slightest barrier, but you will recognize it as a new challenge. 
Many people are drawn to Notre Dame 

for the tradition, the communal atmos­
phere and the Christian values the 
University espouses. As a student, I have 
learned that not everyone cares about the 
Notre Dame tradition, sometimes this 
community is exclusive and not everyone 
is a Christian. But I've also learned that 
the notion oftradition can be transformed. 
Mike Brown, Molly Kinder, Brooke Norton, 
Tambre Paster and Tyrone Willingham 
are examples ofthis. 
Also, students can find their niche in a sometimes exclusive Notre Dame through student clubs and other groups. As for reli­gion, there are many outlets that allow students to strengthen their faith, but encounters with non-Christians are also fruitful and allow one to see the world from a new perspective. 
I thank Notre Dame for exposing me to the real world in small doses. During the last four years, Notre Dame was the place that welcomed me with its golden reflec­tion, where I found opportunities to travel to Italy, Chile and Cuba, where I met my best friends, where I confronted unpleas­ant realities, where I was intellectually and spiritually challenged and where I learned never to apologize for being myself. 
And most recently, it is the place where I have realized that the three words the upperclassman said to me during my first week can be turned into a reflection ofthe past and hope for the future. As neo-soul vocalist Erykah Badu once sang, "Peace and blessings manifest with every lesson learned." Let the newest stage ofyour life bring many lessons and many blessings. 
Helena Payne is a graduating senior and the former News Editor ofThe Observer. She will report for the Associated Press until she decides to try a new adventure and she would like to thank the Payne family for their uncondi­tional love and support. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Meghanne Matt Luzar Downes Chris Federico Andrew Thagard Joe Hettler Will Puckett Scene Viewpoint Maria Smith Teresa Fralish Lab Tech Graphics Tim Kacmar Mike Harkins Chip Marks 
QUOTE 
"Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow . ., 
Anonymous 
QUOTE 

"In three words I can sum up everything rve learned about life: it goes on . ., 
Robert Frost poet 

, I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



page 18 Friday, May 16, 2003 
Finding my feministic side 
Ah, graduation. How long have I been I came to Saint Mary's that I began to hear Since the definition itself is so ambiguous, more opportunities than many women in waiting for it to be my turn? Well, only the term on a regular basis. people can take feminism and mold it to fit the world, that does not mean that there is four short years but sometimes it felt like It wasn't until I came to college that I many different causes, not all of which are complete equality and the glass ceiling it was never going to be my turn. So, I heard about modern feminists, such as representative or supported by all those certainly does still exist. could write about how I'm going to miss Gloria Steinem and Alice Walker. It has that call themselves feminists. For exam-As my fellow classmates and I prepare my friends or how been interesting to read their ideas, some ple, a major divergence between feminists to make a difference in the world I can't I've changed over of which I agree with and some of which I is the issue of abortion. help but believe that we are all feminists. the years or how Sarah Nestor don't. These differences in opinion are perpet-After all, as graduates of Saint Mary's, I'm going to miss Today, it seems that feminism is much uated by the fact that there are no strong can't we, graduates past and present, be 
I 
I campus, dorm life more a part of academia, with books on leaders of the modern feminist movement considered feminists as we recognize the 
I 

Browder 

I I \ and classes but Senior Staff feminist theory and the feminist move­and no set goals that women are working importance of educating women? I think instead I'm not. No Writer ment. Of course books aren't bad and if towards. A big difference between today we can. sentimental-I -can't­these books can open your eyes to new and thirty years ago though is that femi­believe-I'm-gradu-ideas, that's great. But is it really neces­nism is so much apart of the world of Sarah Nestor is a senior English writing ating-it's-gone-so-fast drivel that we've all sary to read a book to be a feminist? academia and not a grassroots movement. major andformer Saint Mary's Editor who heard before. No, instead, I'm going to To my own question I say no because Feminism seems to be coming from the is waiting to hear ifshe got into grad tackle the issue of feminism. feminism shouldn't be something that top down and not from the bottom up. school in Ireland but hopes that she is 
Growing up, feminism was not a term I should be taught in the first place. It's not as if "social, political and equali­never seen on the side ofthe road with a ever really heard. I mean I knew about Feminism, as defined by Webster, is the ty of the sexes" has been reached yet in sign that reads "will write for food. " 
! ; 
women's liberation and the suffrage "belief in the social, political, and econom­America or any other region of the world. The views expressed in this column are . } movement but I had no idea that there ic equality of the· sexes." While American women certainly live in those ofthe author and not necessarily ! 1 were feminists still around. It wasn't until Doesn't sound too bad or scary, right? much better circumstances than have those ofThe Observer.
' 
Well, we made it 
With graduation upon us, the Class of 2003 has just about crossed that proverbial threshold. Our senior year has come to an end and we realize 
1 that on a seemingly ordinary Sunday 
,,I in South Bend, 
u our lives will Jacqueline 
,,,\ change forever. 
We will gradu­ate from the University we Happily Ever have learned to After call home become a part of its alumni. 
And what a ride we've taken to get there. 
Senior year has traditionally been referred to as the last hurrah, a time to celebrate with good friends, cheap drinks and a fistful of "lasts." We begin think about the last time we'll get up at 6 a.m. to tailgate. The last time we'll pull an all-nighter to get that paper written. The last spring break. The last time we'll all be together. 
With all of these lasts, we begin to look at Notre Dame with nostalgia before we've even left it. It's as if we've found a perfect world and we're 
,( 
afraid to leave it. We're comfortable in 
'I I our surroundings. Nothing is new, and yet, we're encouraged by it. We've found our place and we understand our role in it. Suddenly, the "last" time becomes the "best" time. Life at 22 is our finest hour. However, maybe it's time to think about "firsts." Our first real job. Our first time doing our own taxes. Our first step toward a professional degree. Marriage. We begin to make these very real decisions that will affect our lives in the same way that our decisions during college affected us and maybe more. During the past four years, we've made a lot of decisions. We've changed our majors, sometimes more than once. We've taken internships and waded through rued school appli­cations. We've made a lot of friends, lost a few along the way and even fall­en in and out oflove. We've also learned a lot about ourselves, who we are and what we are going to be. And now, we're there again. At the beginning of the year, it all seemed overwhelming. We wrote essay after essay for graduate school applications, sat through seemingly endless interviews and dealt with rowdy freshmen when we were on duty. But, we made it. We were accepted into graduate schools, got 
those jobs and came to love our fresh­men. We learned something new every day, whether we paid attention or not. 
We're more than ready for that next great adventure. College has always been considered a time to grow and mature, but there is a reason why it spans a short four years. And it's not because Notre Dame doesn't want any more of our money (it's quite the con­trary, as we recently found out via the Annual Giving Fund). 
Rather, it's because after four years, we've been prepared for something more and something beyond our col­lege lives. We're ready, both academi­cally and socially and it's time to move on, remembering the lasts but focus­ing on the frrsts. After all, commence­ment isn't defmed as an ending. Quite the opposite. It signifies a beginning. 
We've accomplished a great deal during our time at Notre Dame, but now it is time to think ahead and to look forward. We have already chosen new places to live, places to work and a new life for ourselves, just as we did during our time as undergraduates. Some of us will begin a great adven­ture in a new city, some will take on the challenges of graduate school and some of us will start a life together. 
Yes, our memories are full of lasts. College, as we've been told for years, goes by quickly. This may be our last year for the parties, the dances and the tailgating, but we have so much before us. And we can congratulate ourselves because, looking back, we got through it. We're going to gradu­ate. We made it. 
It's been said that the quality of a university is measured more by the kind of student it turns out than the kind it takes in. Notre Dame prides itself on taking only the best. However, the University should hold in even higher regard the remarkable people it graduates each year. 
We have the next few days to be col­lege students, our last moments under the Dome as undergraduates. However, there are many frrsts out there waiting for us. We're certainly prepared for them. 
With a bit of luck, when we receive our diplomas this weekend, we'll be ready for them. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American Studies and Journalism major. She'll be beginning her own adventures in New York this June. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Holding on to memories 
I didn't want this column to be just one more in a long list of columns about saying goodbye. Despite the fact that I have lots of wonderful memories here in South Bend, I didn't know how many of you would share similar ones. And, if you do understand 
Katie McVoy 

them, you have 
plenty of your own. 
You probably don't 
want to read about Senior Staff 
mine. Witer 
So, instead, I've decided to offer a suggestion for how to hold on to those memories. I'm not offering ideas for scrap books or photo albums. Instead, I'm offer­ing a suggestion of how to hang on to your old memories and make a few new ones. So, here goes. 
U.T.P. 

It is about holding on to memories. 
U.T.P. 

It isn't about sappy recollections of frrst 
days on campus or last moments under the Dome. 
U.T.P. 

It's about all those things we love about Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. U.T.P. It's about leaving behind all those things 
we don't love. 
It isn't about the smell of ethanol on Sunday morning when you wish you had stopped drinking just two shots before. It isn't about unescorted males, detex cards or balls of wax, even without the wick. 
U.T.P. 
is not about bad meals, bad memo­ries or bad phone numbers you shouldn't have gotten the night before. U.T.P. isn't about 8 a.m. finals. 

U.T.P. 
is about waking up way too early to start drinking. It is about toasting every­one and everything you know. It is about cooking five-cent hotdogs on a grill you borrowed from your parents. 


But more importantly, U.T.P. is about being alumni. 
But what is U.T.P.? Easy. 
Ultimate Tailgate Party. 
Two years ago when my sister graduat­ed, she and her friends started thinking about what would be the appropriate gath­ering for her and her friends. Trips to teashops or even shopping malls didn't seem to quite fit the bill. But then they had an idea. 
U.T.P. 

But as far as Molly was concerned, it wouldn't be quite ultimate enough until my friends and I hit the big graduation mark and joined in. 
So U.T.P. was born. Two RVs, two days and two sets of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's grads. 
But what's important is that it is not just about drinking or football. U.T.P. is about 
something more. 

It's about being "those alumni." You all 
know which ones I'm talking about -the 
alumni who come back from around the 
country, play music way too loud, laugh 
too much and always end up at The 

Backer. It's the alumni who hit every place 
on campus that holds some memory for 
them, still do all the cheers and chants 

with the students, but laugh at themselves 
when they get laughed at for being old. 

Because, well, I just figured out being old 
and being alumni is OK. 

When college ends, we have an opportu­nity to move on and make new memories somewhere else. But the thing is, we can still make memories here. 
That's what U.T.P. is about. It's about 

finally being old enough that security won't 
card us or write us up for being students 
who are having a tailgate. It's about laugh­
ing about all of the stupid things we did 

when we were freshmen and were still try­
ing to impress everyone of the opposite 
sex. It's about running into those guys 

from sophomore year who you accidentally 
impressed and then tried to hide from for 
the next three years. But this time. when 
you run into them, you can stop and say hi 
because it's an old memory. 

U.T.P. is about calling home and letting Mom and Dad know you're going to a foot­ball game, but not having to ask permis­sion because you're finally out on your own. It's about fmally understanding how Mom and Dad, who are both alumni. feel when they come back to campus, look at the new buildings and say "this isn't quite the Notre Dame I remember." 
It's about understanding your family who graduated and make you stop at "their rock," talk about stealing the sign in the book from Saint Mary's, or recall Senior Death March one more time. It's about understanding that and doing it yourself. 
U.T.P. is about remembering why you came to Saint Mary's or Notre Dame in the first place. It's about being allowed to say "I had a great college experience" without everyone laughing at you. U.T.P. is about the spirit of two universities that have something no other university will ever claim -they have alumni who want to have a U.T.P. 
So next football season when you're wandering around the tailgate lots, look for the two big RVs with some recent grads who look like they're having too much fun. 
And stop by and remember with us. 

Katie McVoy is a graduating senior and former Associate Sports Editor. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~. 
O
THE BSERVER 


Friday, May 16, 2003 page 19 
What our education can and should be 
A Notre Dame education. as with any reasonably complete education, encour­ages students to grow curious, to inquire, to test old adages and to confront the pressing moral issues of our time. I can say that Notre Dame continues to do this, 
Pat McElwee
despite the growth 
of a trade school 
mentality in some circles, because any Senior Staff student who sought Writer out a real education 
here could have found it. 
During the past four years, this perpetu­ally manicured campus has given us a semi-retreat from the harsh realities of the world -an environment where moral, sci­entific and philosophical discussions could take place free from the weighty concerns of political correctness and career advancement. 
I am worried, though. I am worried about how many Darners did fmd time to learn, challenge and explore. I am worried about the death of the foreign language requirement in four out of the University's five colleges. I am worried about racist overtones in comments about Arabs, politi­cal statements torn from my bedroom door and a general unwillingness to question the status quo and even a disinterest in its immoral consequences. 
This is no time for complacency. The past four years have been politically tumultuous on a global scale. Rather than binding together in mutual understanding, the world is searing itself apart with hate and violence. Terrorists turned peaceful air­planes into weapons, targeting thousands of American, French, Muslim, Mexican and other victims in two of the tallest buildings in the world. The American government has responded with two full-scale invasions that killed and maimed at least as many innocent people -whether or not those wars were justified, the dead must be remembered. 
Indeed, this semester, the American gov­ernment, unprovoked, invaded a potential­ly oil-rich Third World country, weakened by 12 years of civilian sanctions and almost daily bombing. The justifications given by our government were flimsy and certainly appropriate targets ofinformed moral inquiry. Yet, although the Pope, the U.S. bishops, other churches and global public opinion (outside the United States, Britain and Israel) denounced the war, the infa­mous weapons of mass destruction have not been found and the "liberation" of Iraq is occurring even as the United States props up equally undemocratic regimes throughout the world, many students have opined that it would be inappropriate to question the American president at a time like this. This certainly reflects the mood of the country and of Fox News, but I worry that it has come to characterize the other­wise morally inquisitive campus of Notre Dame. 
Now is exactly the time when those who benefit from an education such as ours should perk up their ears, pay attention to 
U.S. foreign policy and demand that such grave actions be taken within a rational, moral framework. Unfortunately, I worry that the dominant mood at Notre Dame has been dismissive of dissent. But, I may be wrong. 
There are some indications that I am. For one thing, many students have experi­enced the force of Catholic Social Teaching through classes, late-night rap sessions or service-learning activities with the Center 
. for Social Concerns -perhaps the most laudable institution on campus. The Catechism leads us to challenge any eco­nomic system that fails to provide dignified work, the right to collective bargaining and a just wage. In fact, it has inspired some students and campus workers to question publicly why workers at this University are denied a just wage. Others have joined with the Coalition of Immokalee [Farm] Workers in Florida in asking Taco Bell to pay for a wage increase for tomato pickers -an increase they have not received in over 20 years. 
Students take part in the community, often in ways that challenge the status quo with an eye toward improving American and global society. They teach the path of non-violence through "Take Ten," com­plete internships or volunteer work with public interest organizations like Center for the Homeless or get to know their neigh­bors or the "townies." Plus, on the part of those students either against or for the recent war against Iraq, there has been a public discussion. 
In any case, people who have received a top-notch education at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross cannot morally lay down and allow the established line to pre­vail unquestioned and untested. 
We are men and women of privilege, and one of the unfortunate things about privi­lege is that it can blind us to the injustices endured by others. Our education should be the antidote to that. If we are really to follow the example of Our Lady, we must look to the downtrodden, to those who bear a heavy cross, to those who must give birth in a stable. We must strive not to join their oppressors, but to recognize our human solidarity with them. This knowledge is what a Notre Dame education can impart, and it is what many of us will take away. 
Pat McElwee is a graduating senior and former Associate Viewpoint Editor. 
The views expressed in this column are those oftbe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 
Four years in review: Students react to campus issues 
Campus responds to Sept. 11 
With today's tragedy comes much frustration and anger. Americans feel vulnerable; reality macks us hard and we recognize that we are not as safe as we might believe. The unimaginable happened, blatant acts of evil occured and inno­cent people died. Fathers, wives, nieces and friends were unjustly taken from us. As i watched today's tragedy unfold, I questioned world peace ... 
In the midst of such evil. thousands of people gathered at South Quad together as one. This afternoon sitting amongst my peers and profes­sors, I was overwhelmed by hope. I felt proud to be a part of the Notre Dame community ... 
On this sad, emotionally draining day we joined hands and prayed together in support and faith. On this sad, emitionally draining day we joined hands and prayed together, expressing our sor­row for the victims and a sense of hope for the future... 
Megan Horvath 
JUniOr McGlinn Hall Sept. 11, 2001 
A new line has been drawn in the sand since Tuesday's tragedy and it is not between the United states and foreign terrorists. it is between the people who believe in action and those who believe in dialogue. 
I believe that our country's military needs to take action. My opinion has been called a knee­jerk reaction and an ignorant response to what has happened ... 
Our current government will have to make diffi-. cult decisions in the coming weeks. They will get their hands dirty, and there is a good chance of added bloodshed. Do I ant more civilians killed? no i do not. But let's face it, the courts have not been a deterrrent. The old saying "actions speak louder than words" rings true in how I feel America should respond. 
So continue to talk, as I hope you all will do. Speak loudly in support ofour government or protest the actions they take in the future ... 
Ryan Lockwood JUniOr off-campus Sept. 13, 2001 

Vagina Monologues degrade women 
The last time I checked, rape and child molesta­tion were not women's empowerment issues. They were considered violence against women issues ... 
I consider myself a feminist. i worked at a femi­nist organization over the summer, Feminists for life ofAmerica. None of the women I have ever met. around town or on the job, would willing support the publication of "The Vagina Momologues" as great women's empowerment literature ... 
The shows final result is that it has pardoned and glorified rape, child molestation, pornography and prostituition. 
In a world where feminists and all those who fight for women's injustice have worked so hard over the years to gain respect and adminration for the way we manage our lives, I find it hard to see how this show could further that cause at all ... 
Katherine Hoppe sophomore Lyons Hall 
Jan. 31,2001 

Questioning revised alcohol policy 
What [Father Mark] Poorman's policies tell us is that the University does not see students as adults, but as uncouth youngsters that must be monitored and controlled in every way, shape and form. Instead of approaching us as adults, seeking our input (and I'm not talking focus groups possibly made up of anti-drinking, anti-social people here), the administration acted like bad parents. They waited until housing con­tracts were in for next year and until RAs were hired O'm sorry, guys) to unveil their tradition-killing plans. 
Jesse Hensley JUniOr Siegfried Hall March 20, 2U02 

... Inside one of the largest "drinking schools" in the United States, will the lack of hard liquor inside the dorms really have such a nega­tive effect on our community? Or will it help to make it just a little more safe and a more respectful place for those who live within it? 
Students are protesting the administration infringing on our rights while many of these same students are given more rights by the University than are legally theirs as minors. With rights come respon­sibilities ... 
Katie Fuehrmeyer Juruor Notre Dame program in Puebla, Mexico March 27, 2002 

Father Mark Poorman claims 30 focus groups were consulted before this decision was made, but declines to specifY who they were and what was said. His letter makes refernces to percentages, numbers and comparisons to.other schools, yet does not include these statistics and assumes we will simply take his word for it. 
Perhaps ifstudents had better access to the results of this study, we could better understand how this decision was made. If the situation is really that bad, then the evidence will be right there for us all to see. 
Ryan Pohlman 
junior Sorin Hall March 20, 2002 
THE 
OBSERVER 




rs 

page 20 Friday, May 16, 2003 

:r; ! 
'~t I 

\..· 
·t·· 
By ANDREW THAGARD and MARIA 
SMITH 
Scene Writer and Scene Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors are graduating this weekend, but what are they doing next? 
While a few may hit up Walt Disney 
World in the coming week, their long­
term plans are more varied. 
Former Notre Dame football center Jeff Faine, for example, will suit up in a Cleveland Browns uniform this fall while Andrew Serazin, a senior biology major, will travel to Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar. 
' I' I 
\ 
t. ,j
-,, 
;' ~ 
. ~ 

I
' ' 
,; ;_I 
-. ~I 
:II 
': 
II
.' 
i,; 

Students from both schools with a vari­ety of majors -will begin the climb up the corporate ladder as their peers head back to the classroom, enrolling in med­ical and law schools and a variety of other graduate programs. Other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates will volunteer for a year or two through serv­ice programs in domestic and interna­tional locales and seniors in Army, Air Force and Navy ROTC will fulfill their commitments to serve the country. Students from Notr·e Dame and Saint Mary's are engaged and a few plan to tie the knot in the coming months. 
Indeed, the post-graduate plans of this year's two classes are as diverse and var­ied as the students who compose them. 
Called to serve 
Students from both schools are contin­uing a long-standing tradition of giving back after graduation. 
Anne Traynor, for example, will pack her bags and head to Micronesia this fall through a Jesuit Volunteer Corps pro­gram. The science education major will dedicate two years to teaching biology and chemistry. 
"Since high school I've known I wanted to do some service after fcollege] gradua­tion," she said. ''I've done a lot of service in high school and college. I feel I learned a lot from it. I've had an opportunity to grow in my faith here and I'd love to expand on that." 
Traynor is not alone. Andrea Smith Shappell, director of senior transition programs at the Center for Social Concerns, said approximately 10 percent of this year's graduating class are com­mitted to service programs. Between eight and 10 percent of Saint Mary's graduates also plan to volunteer for the next year or two, said Sister Linda Kors, director of the SURV Center. 
Popular programs for Notre Dam_e sen­iors include Holy Cross Associates and the Alliance for Catholic Education, both of which are based on campus-. Many Saint Mary's students are volunteering through the Peace Corps and Jesuit Volunteer Corps, though graduates from both schools are committed to a variety of different programs. 
According to Kors and Shappell, stu­dents pursue post-graduate service for a variety of reasons. Many volunteer exten­sively during their time at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and want to continue assisting others. Some cite a desire to 
grow in their religious faith as a motivating factor. 
"It felt like I was getting stuff constantly throughout my years of education," said Rory Dippold, a history major who will teach middle school children in Mobile, Ala. through ACE. "I wanted to give back. I wanted to do service through teaching." 
Despite the economic situ­ation, few students said they elected to pursue service because of problems secur­ing a job. Recent events in the Middle East have also not deterred gradmttes from pursuing international serv­ice programs. In fact, the percentage of students trav­eling abroad for service at both schools is the highest in recent years. 
Back to the books 
Even though some stu­dents arc too tired of books to continuP with more edu­eation after four years of eollege, others jump right back into aeademia, pursu­ing various graduatP pro­grams. In the past, anywhere from 13 to 17 percent of sen­iors have gone on to con­tinue their studies after graduation. 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are headed on to prestigious programs or are the recipients of well­known academ­ic bon­
o r s . Senior Maura Kelly 
w i l l 
spend 1 3 months 
i n 

Brazil on a F u l ­bright scholar­ship next year study­ing democ­racy, income equality and social policy in the cities of Curitivea and Porto Alegre. The program offers up to 10 awards for lecturing and research each year to students with high academic and extracurricular qualifications. Kelly applied in September of the past year at the encouragement of many of her professors and heard back from the program on May 5. 
"It's a very humbling experience to go through your senior year knowing that what you want to do is in the hands of other people," said Kelly. "The encour­agement I've received is an aflirmation of the presence and community that exists at Notre Dame and that I think a lot of the students feel." 
Law school is another popular destina­tion for graduating seniors, attracting as much as eight percent of the dass in past years. Although law school is most popu­lar among students in the College of Arts and Letters, students from every school except architecture go on to study law every year. 
Senior Veronica Berger plans to attend either Notre Dame Law School or the law school at Cornell University. 
'Tm excited to get on my own two feet for onee, and do something that I'm real­ly intrn~sted in," said BPrger. 
WhilP approximately 14 percent of Arts and Letters graduates go on to law school, almost 40 pPrcent of seinrH~P graduates go on to m(~dieal or dental 


THE 
OBSERVER 


Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 21 

school. Many medical students enter Notre Dame with the full knowledge that they have eight years of school and up to six years of residency ahead of them and take advantage of the undergraduate years to pursue other interests 
as well. 
"I knew what I wanted to do when I started and I came in as an anthro­pology and ALPP major," said Brita Mc­Cullough, who will attend medical school at Loyola University of Chicago. "It's a good back­ground and [gives] a good perspective on 
medical school." 
For engineer­ing . students, graduate school is also a popular option. though not a necessity. Two years earning a master's degree or five years earning a Ph.D. open doors to a wide variety of jobs and teaching positions in the 
field. Engineering student Jim Dalton plans to enter the University 
of Wisconsin's electrical engineering program in the fall and hopes to earn a Ph.D. and work in the field before teach­ing. 
"A lot of people still don't have jobs, so graduate school is a good option," said Dalton. "Given the economy, it's a good choice." 
Bringing in the bucks 
After four years spending money on an education at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, many graduates have decided it's time to start making some. 
Laura Ramirez, an accounting major, will move to Sacramento, Calif. after graduation to begin her new ·job with Ernst and Young. She will work as an auditor, visiting clients' worksites with a team to review their financial state­ments. While many seniors are strug­gling to find employment, Ramirez knew her post-graduation plans last summer when the company recruited her after an internship. 
"It's extremely exciting," she said of her new job. "There's a lot of uncertainty with what I'll be doing next year. There will be a lot of firsts." 
Other students' plans an~ more tenta­tive. Maria Conticelli. a Saint Mary's thP­
launch an acting career. The Atlanta 
native will visit a lot of companies once 
she arrives and hopes to land a part with 
a traveling theatre group, she said. 
"It's something that's hard to plan for," 
Conticelli said. "When you're starting out 
they recommend you start out in 
Chicago. New York and Los Angeles can 
be extremely overwhelming. It's almost 
better to get started in a smaller mar­
ket." 

Lee Svete, director of the Career 
Center, said that on average 53 to 60 per­
cent of students are employed after grad­
uation, in addition to those pursuing 
service and graduate education. This 
year, the number of employed students 
may be slightly lower, Svete said, as the 
slow economy steers more students into 
medical and law schools. 

"This has probably been one of the 
most compressed markets in a number of 
years," said Jeff Roberts, interim assis­
tant director of counseling and wordina­
tor of placement serviees at Saint Mary's 
Counseling and Career Development 
Center. "The upside is that the economy 
is still moving along. People are getting 
hired. There are opportunities. 
Tying the knot 

Everyone's headed into a mysterious future after graduation, but some seniors aren't going alone. It has been estimated that up to 60 percent of Notre Dame graduates and 1 in 10 Saint Mary's stu­dents will eventually marry a Notre Dame alumnus. 
for many students, the dream is to be married in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus. This summer alone, the Basilica will host 3 7 weddings of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates. However, only those who plan far in advance actually get the opportunity. Reservations open the first day of March the year prior to the event, and 90 percent of spots are filled on the first day. 
Most graduating engaged couples choose to wait a year or so before tying the knot. Senior Katie Ball and junior Todd Boruff, high school friends who began dating dur­ing Katie's sophomore year at Notre Dame, plan to wait until July 10, 2004 to have their cer­emony. 

Some engaged seniors have been dating since nearly the beginning of their time here, and still plan to go on to higher education prior to their wed­dings. Phil Tribble and Alison Troy. who met on the first day of classes freshman year, plan to get married after eontinuing their educations at Ohio University and Duke University. 
Wedding bells are ringing for Saint Mary's students as well. Graduating English literaturP and danr,p major Laura Bost interfaith services and sang together in vows or medical research, the graduates the choir before they started dating. Both of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are studied abroad at the same time in headed for a variety of bright and excit­Rome, where they continued dating. ing futures. Wherever the graduates end Jeselnick proposed on a beach in up, there will be four good years spent California after picking up his girlfriend together to look back on. from her home in Arizona for a surprise trip. The couple will be married in Scottsdale, Ariz. June 22. 
Graduating Notre Dame seniors Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu
Michael Boldt and Katie Jeter chose a or Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu
different route, and were married on Saturday. The newly­weds had both planned to go into military serv­ice before being med­ically disqualified and set an early date in order to be stationed together. 
"We were both lucky," said Boldt. "We didn't have any actual finals, so it wasn't too diflicult to plan every­thing." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors are looking forward to their last few days with their old friends in their old home, and may be having trepida­tions about the time ahead. While there are years ahead to be alumni, the few short years of being Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are forever 
Photo courtesy of Jill Clark 

behind. Whether it's 
Senior Saint Mary's student Jill Clark and her fiance
the Peace Corps, 
Ryan Hunt started dating only six months before get­
Columbia law, wedding 
ting engaged. 



atre major. plans to move to Chicago with and snnior architecturP major Danielle Ledesma sews dolls during an international service convention in August some friends after the summer and Adam Jesnlnick met through 2002. Ledesma is awaiting placement in an Americorp program. 

Friday, May 16, 2003
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NO WOMENS TENNIS 
Season comes to an end in second round of the NCAAs 
• No. 21 Irish drop match 4-0 to No. 16 Vanderbilt 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
A successful season came to a tough end for the No. 21 Irish as they fell 4-0 to No. 15 Vanderbilt in the second round of the NCAA Tournament May 10 in Nashville, Tenn. 
Notre Dame, who finished the season 16-9, began the match by losing the doubles point and then the bottom three singles matches. 
Playing without the services of senior captain Katie Cunha, Notre Dame enjoyed only one victory against Vanderbilt. The doubles duo of freshman Lauren Connelly and junior Alicia Salas topped their sec­ond ranked opponent in two days as they defeated Sarah Riske and Aleke Tsoubanos. For Connelly and Salas, it was their 13th win in 16 matches. 
Unfortunately, the team as a whole was not able to achieve back-to-hack victories in the NCAA tournament. The Irish began the route to the national championship by defeating No. 3 8 Missouri 4-1 in the first round May 9. 
Connelly and Salas got the Irish off to a promising start with their upset of the No. 15 doubles duo of Urska Juric and Katka Sevikova. Their win at No. 1 doubles clinched the point for the Irish and it marked the 12th time in the last 15 matches the Irish have done so. 
Lauren Connelly's younger sister, sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly, also had success in doubles. Paired with freshman Kristina Stastny, the Irish pair succeeded at No. 2. 
Junior Caylan Leslie and freshman Jennifer Smith fell at No. 3 doubles, and the chal­lenge continued for Leslie who fell to No. 36 Juric in singles. Leslie was ranked 39th. 
The Juric singles victory was the only point Missouri would earn though, and No. 94 Salas, Stastny, Sarah Jane Connelly, and Smith all contributed to the Irish win. 
Overall, the season was a good one for the young Irish team, which saw many suc­cesses including an upset of No. 20 Miami in the Big East Championships on the Hurricanes' home courts. That win was especially pleasing for the Irish who had finished their regular season down in Miami, but with a 6-1 loss to the Hurricanes. 
The title match of the Big East conference tournament 
between the Irish and Hurricanes included a doubles match that Irish coach Jay Louderback termed an "instant classic." 
The No. 2 doubles team of Sarah Jane Connelly and Stastny fought a scrappy Miami duo to triumph 8-6 in a match that had truly come down to the wire. Stastny and Connelly had reached a 7-1 lead, but Miami's Igna deVilliers and Abby Smith put up a strong rally to surge with­in reach of the Irish pair. In the end the Irish won, and the Notre Dame claimed the Big East title. 
An important moment of the season for both the team and especially for Cunha was the Ace for the Cure event, during which the then-19th ranked Irish defeated then-No. 13 Texas 6-1. The event was held to raise funds and awareness for colon cancer, which was the cause of the death of Cunha's mother last year. 
Notre Dame's record may not entirely reflect the team's suc­cessful season given that the Irish faced much of the nation's most powerful teams. Though they will be losing the leadership and services of Cunha, the team returns all the rest of the key players, many of whom will still only be sophomores next year. 

Fortunately for the Irish,  season's  success  should  
those sophomores will already  remain high.  
have NCAA tournament experi­ 
ence  after the belt, and the  Contact Joe Lindsley at  
prospects of continuing this  jlindsle@nd. edu  

WOMENS TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish fall just short at Big East Championships, finish 2nd 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens track and field team could not overcome Miami's domination in the sprints, as the Irish placed second in the Big East Championships by scoring 126 points to Miami's 166. Miami won individual championships in the 100 meters, 100 meter hurdles, 200 and 400 meters. 
Pittsburgh (94), Syracuse (70), Villanova (62) and Georgetown (62) rounded out the rest of the top six. 
In the distance events, freshman Molly Huddle was the Irish high­light, as she won the 5,000 meters easily (15:58.51), fihishing seven seconds ahead of second-place fin­isher Mary Cullen of Providence. In 
.I 
l 
! 
CLASSIFIEDS · 

the same race, Jennifer Handley took fourth. 
Meanwhile, in the field, Emily Loomis won the individual high jump title, clearing 1.75 meters. Loomis finally got an individual championship after finishing in the top three at the last three confer­ence meets. Loomis added the honor to her first team all-Big East volleyball and Big East Most Outstanding Player award given to volleyball players .. 
Also in the jumps, Tameisha King won the long jump. She proceeded to take third in the 100-meter hur­dles, good enough for all-Big East honors. 
However, the 4x100 meter relay team's effort to three-peat was thwarted, as they took third in 
45.80. The team of Tanya Cheatham. Kristen Dodd, Ayesha Boyd and Kymia Love was good enough for all-Big East honors. 
Lauren King also earned all-Big. East honors in the 1,500 meters, as she was edged by Georgetown's Treniere Clement at the finish. Clemet finished in 4:18.57, while King ended up with a time of 4:18.85. 
However, the season is not over yet for the team. A final outdoor tunc up, the Georgia Tech Invitational, is scheduled for next weekend in Atlanta. The NCAA Regional in Columbus, Ohio is set for two weeks later, May 30 and 31, and that meet will feature sev­eral Irish qualifiers. The NCAA Championship begins June 11. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Very nice 3bdrm home. Avaii.June FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America Kate, 1st for summer/tall. East Race dist. time share apartment for full week Thanks for everything you did for NOTICES near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch. WANTED during the football season. Choose PERSONAL The 0 this year. I don"t know who to Incl. Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can week of 2nd or 4th NO home game ridicule for online shopping next 
email pictslfloor plan. every year. year, and Sharkie is going to be Study Abroad with CEA. England, Call Joe Crimmins@273-0002(H) or Good pay and relaxed atmosphere. Units accommodate up to 4. Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it mighty lonely on top of the ME Italy, Spain, France, Australia. 514-0643(cell) or Must be able to drive. Purchase at great savings from alone. If you or someone you love desk. We'll miss you a lot. Request a Free Catalog JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com Please call631-9947 or 277-8564 owner who must sell at least one needs confidential support or assis­-Andrew and Scott 

and ask for Lisa. unit. tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise www.GoWithCEA.com $650/m negotiable Great accommodations for visiting Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more McVoy and KronkDawg, 
Seeking college student for summer NO. Can be exchanged for resorts information, see our bi-weekly ad in You might have wanted to quit time 3-6 BDRM child care in our home for 12 and worldwide. The Observer. and time again, but we're glad you HOMES.WASHER!DRYER. 10 yr. old. stuck it out. And if you ever want to 
FoR RENT $175 PP/MO. Call Bob (954) 349-1880 ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are work another night. .. 272-6306,329-0308 you pregnant and dont know what The Observer Sports staff 1994 Chrysler T &C MiniVan 130K to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per­1 bdrm apts tor summer close to FoR SALE Leather, CD, $2500, cially stable woman would like to Katie and Lauren, son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. NO $450. 283-0325 202-421-534 7 consider adopting a baby. Sports Cups triumphes over all! 
Free counseling, living expenses Andrew and Chris New everything. Wired tor comput­Two 3·bdrm house next door to JUDAY LAKE HOME ON Mazda 626,1990,Sunroof,sound and medical expenses. This can be ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, each other. $650/month. Call614-LAKE.WALK TO NO. system,power lock,windows,very a good thing for you and your baby. Helena, 
262-5880 or GILLIS REALTY good shape,strong engine, Discreet and legal. Call 904-824-Good luck in Boston this summer! 235-3655 574-220-0499 272-6306,329·0308 $1400.232-2253 7006. The Observer News staff ,, 
Friday, May 16, 2003 page 23
The Observer+ SPORTS 
.'· 

ND SOFTBALL 
Big East Champs looking to qualify for first World Series 
about. They beat a lot of top
• Fourth-seeded 
teams and are going to be very
Irish travel to Ann tough." Arbor, Mich. for While a case could be made for Gumpf attempting to keep
regional tourney 
her team focused on its current 
opponent -or that Notre Dame By MATT LOZAR has never beaten Missouri in Associare Sporrs Ediror five previous meetings ­
Missouri does bring an impres­In an eight-team regional fea­sive resume to this weekend's turing the fourth-ranked team in Region VII Tournament at the 
the country, the defending University of Michigan. national champion and a host The fifth-seeded Tigers (31­team seeded 18) dropped 
third. one both of their 
..I think we are not
would think games in the Notre Dame playing perfectly. but Big 12 coach Deanna 
very well. We can't make Tournament 
Gumpf and the but collected
mistakes in these
fourth-seeded some major
Irish (36-15) types ofgames.·· wins in the would be most regular sea­concerned 
s o n

Deanna Gumpf
about one of Missouri,those top 15 Irish coach making its teams. 
first NCAA 

But it's Notre 
Tournament Dame's first round opponent appearance since 1999, splitthat is worrying Gumpf. doubleheaders with Oklahoma, 
"I am not too worried about currently ranked fifth nationally.[the three top 15 teams], but I and Nebraska, currently ranked am worried about Missouri," No. 11. Gumpf said. "That is all I care With the Tigers backing into this weekend's regional tourna­ment after a disappointing per­formance at the Big 12 Tournament, the Irish head to Ann Arbor, Mich. riding a full head of steam. 

At last weekend's Big East Championship, the Irish won all four of their games to claim their second straight title. Third baseman Andrea Loman hit a walk-off home run in the bottom of the ninth to propel Notre Dame to a 3-2 victory over Villanova in the championship game . 
Loman earned the tourna­ment's Most Outstanding Player for the second consecutive year after hitting .500 in Notre Dame's four games. Loman also won the Big East Player of the Year award prior to the tourna­ment. Pitcher Heather Booth was voted the Rookie of the Year at the same postseason awards brunch. 
Booth, Loman, Megan Ciolli, Lisa Mattison and Meagan Ruthrauff were named to the all-Big East first-team. Mallorie Lenn and Andria Bledsoe were placed on the second-team. 
The awards and impressive performance in the Big East Tournament has Gumpf feeling good, but not too good, about her team heading into this weekend. 
"I think we are not playing perfectly, but very well," the second-year head coach said. "We are playing together and that is important going into the regional. We can't make mis­takes in these types of 

"If we could get even
games." Stenglein to One major more hitters to become the bullpen difference for to work out
hot ... we are going to be 
the Irish head­the prob­
a tough team to beat. , 
ing into this lems, and it year's regional appears tournament is that deci­
Andrea Loman 
the experience sion might
Irish senior 
styles." · 
With the defense in the top five nationally, the offense ranked 14th in batting average (.301) and 15th in runs scored per game (5.25) and the pitching staff possibly finding the right mix at the right time, the Irish are looking for a consistent team effort this weekend if they are going to qualify for their first­ever trip to the womens College World Series. 
"We have always been a good defensive team so we need to continue to do that," Loman said. "If we could get even more hitters to become hot at the right time at the regional tour­nament, we are going to be a tough team to beat." 
Notre Dame and Missouri played Thursday at 10 a.m. after The Observer went to press. A win would send Irish on to a second round game this after­noon. A loss to the Tigers puts the Irish one defeat away from elimination with their next game Thursday night. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

of its pitching staff. While Booth (19-8, 1.86), who has been Notre Dame's most consistent pitcher this year, is a freshman, the other two Irish hurlers have experienced the type of pressure the regional tournament pro­duces. 
Carrie Wisen (7-3, 1.78) has been used primarily as a reliev­er and Gumpf is not afraid to go to Wisen in tight, late-game situ­ations. The one area of concern has been Steff any Stenglein (1 0­4, 3.76) who struggled through most of the season. 
Over her past six appearances, Stenglein has rebounded, allow­ing six hits, giving up two runs, walking eight and striking out five in 12 2/3 innings pitched. G u m p f m o v e d 
h  a  v  e  
wor ked.  
T  h  i  s  

weekend, Gumpf will attempt to find the right combination of her three contrasting pitchers to keep Notre Dame's opponents off-balance. 
"Steff was injured last year at the regional tournament. She is throwing better this year and that is going to be crucial for us," Loman said. "With the weaknesses of the teams we are playing, it is important to have three pitchers with different 
ROWING 
Seniors have one last chance at qualifying for NCAAs 
eight received its first invita­Natalie Ladine and Cassie Washington's yacht season. Ladine, Warren, Casey
• Irish travel to 
tion to the NCAA Rowing Markstahler were named to The Irish varsity eight placed Buckstaff. Rachel Polinski,
Central Regions 
Championships, where it the CRCA National Scholar­third in its race, the second Alice Bartek, Meghan Boyle,looking to get back placed 16th. But this year the Athlete team. The seniors eighth finished fourth in their Katie Chenoweth, Danielle senior rowers have focused on have consistently led the team race and the varsity took Protasewich led Notre Dame's
to nationals 
team eligibility. to impressive performances third. Notre Dame hopes these boat to a third-place finish in 
From the start of the 2002-this season, and Saturday's strong finishes will help them 7:00.62. By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 03 season, it was clear that races in the invitation-only as they look to advance to the On May 17 and 18, the Irish Sports Writer these seniors would be excel­2003 Windermere Cup on NCAA Championships later will race at the 2003 Central 
lent role models for under­Lake Washington in Seattle this season. Regions in Oak Ridge, Tenn., 
A team qualification for the classmen both on the water were no exception. In the Windermere Cup, the where they placed fourth in NCA<\ Championships would a and in the classroom. In 2002, The No. 24 Irish raced well Belarus boat won in 6:46.45. the team competition last perfect graduation gift for Warren became the first against several high-caliber At last year's 2002 World year. A strong finish will hope­seniors Ashlee Warren, Casey rower in the program's history teams, such as the Belarus, Championships in Seville, fully propel Notre Dame Buckstaff, Andrea Amoni, to be named a Collegiate Washington, Washington State Spain, three of Belarus' row­towards another berth in the Rebecca Campbell, Erica Rowing Coaches Association and Oregon State crews. who ers finished fifth. The two-time NCAA Championship. Drennen, Cassie Markstahler, All-American and was also a joined over 100,000 fans to defending national champions Katie McCalden and Kerri second-team all-region hon­commemorate Washington's Washington crew finished sec­Murphy. oree. centennial year of rowing and ond in 6:47.61, while coxswain Contact Christine Armstrong 
Last year the Irish varsity Last year, rising seniors to mark the opening of Cassie Markstahler. Natalie carmstro@nd.edu 
} \ 
\' 
\ 
Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
elusive national title, a feat that has escaped him for four years.
Watson 
With the four-minute mile and continued from page 40 two team Big East titles under 
his belt this year, Watson hopes upper echelon of runners. It's a the National Championships on fairly elite club." June 12 will provide the stage 
With his time, Watson to accomplish another goal on became just the second Irish his list. runner to break the four­"Individually, the goal is to minute barrier after Chuck win an NCAA title," Watson Aragon did it in 1981 with a said. "This is a really tough time of 3:59.9. year, and I think a really good 
The race placed Watson in race will put me in the top three the national spotlight of the or top five, and I'd be fairly sat­running world as he recorded isfied with that, but I'm still the fastest time for the mile in looking for that NCAA title, 2003 at that point in the year. It because that's the one thing I was a harbinger of a spectacu­haven't done in my time here." lar track season to come and the highlight of a stellar career 
Out of the shadows
for Watson at Notre Dame. 
Even with his seven All­
"On the track, I'd say the 
American titles in track and
four-minute mile would have to cross country, Watson has hadbe right up there [as one of my a difficult time coming into his
greatest accomplishments]," 
own in the Irish track and crossWatson said. "It's just good to 
country program before this
establish myself on that level. 
year.
It's kind of the sign that you've 
Running alongside 10-time
arrived onto the elite running 
All-American and national 
scene here in the U.S." 
champion Ryan Shay, Watson often ran in the shadows of the Not the full story elder Shay.
!. Watson's accomplishments in Together, they helped the the mile do not tell the whole Irish cross-country team to a story of the excellent year the sixth place finish in 2001. fifth-year senior has had on the Watson even beat Shay at the track in 2003. championship meet, earning a Running the mile and 3,000-fifth-place finish to Shay's sixth. meter race in the indoor season The two top Irish runners and the 3,000-meter steeple­often felt some friendly compe­i' chase and 5,000-meter race in tition between them, as the

I 
the outdoor season, Watson led drive to be the top runner in the the Irish mens track and field nation often caused one to have team to first-place finishes at to beat his teammate. both the "As far as indoor and competition, outdoor Big ..I kind ofwatned to be yeah there was East track definitely com­
that top athlete since 
meets. The petition,
freshman year, and rve
victories because we 
marked the been right there since both wanted to 
first time be the best guy 
sophomore andjunior
the Irish in the nation,
year, so this year wasn •t
won both and to do that, seasons in much different.,, we had to be the same the best guy on year since the team,"
Luke Watson 
joining the Watson said. league. Irish runner "Inherently, 
That sue-there will be cess was competition in due, in a large part, to the that situation." strength of the Irish distance But the drive to outdo each team, lead by its senior and other pushed the pair to new most-decorated member, limits. They often worked out Watson. together, increasing their train­
"I think our Big East indoor ing efficiency and teaching each and outdoor track wins were other new ideas to improve based on the fact that we their running. scored a huge number of points "I think we certainly helped in the distances," Watson said. each other out in that when "I think we scored 70 points in you're doing these really long the distances indoors and training runs and these really another 62 outdoors." long integral workouts on the 
Watson himself was spectacu­track, it's really hard to do by lar in both Big East meets. At yourself," Watson said. "I think the indoor meet, Watson ran to it's been really great to have a convincing two-second victory had someone like [Shay] just to in the mile and then earned a trade leads with in workouts 
I, second-place finish in the and things like that. I learned
I 
I, 3,000-meters. In the outdoor how.to run higher mileage and I 
meet, he garnered two first­how to become a stronger ath­
I I 
place finishes for the Irish, with lete from him, and I brought
I 
victories in the steeplechase some speed to the table, so and the 5,000-meters. hopefully that helped him along 
I; I ·, "We love that pressure that's the way." put on us. We love being known When Shay graduated in as the Notre Dame distance 2002, Watson remained as the team," Watson said. "When premier runner for the Irish. people talk about the Big East, Even though he had used up his they talk about how strong eligibility in cross country, Notre Dame's distance team is Watson still had one year left in ... and I think the guys on the track in 2003, after sitting out team really take pride in that." his junior track season due to a At the NCAA Indoor knee injury. Championships, Watson picked When the 2003 track season up his third Indoor All­rolled around, the pressure was American designation and sixth on Watson to be the leader of a overall with his third-place fin­strong, but young. Irish dis­ish in the mile race and added tance team. another All-America title with "I didn't really feel there was an 11th-place finish in the any more pressure, because I 3,000 meters. basically looked at myself in Watson now has one last that light. I expected myself to chance at the NCAA Outdoor be the premier athlete on the Championships to capture the team," Watson said. "I kind of 
wanted to be that top athlete since freshman year, and I've been right there since sopho­more and junior year, so this year wasn't'much different." 
Looking to the future 
Even as Watson's eligibility · runs out at the end of this track season, the fate of the Irish cross country and track pro­grams appears to be on the right track from the impact that the senior has had. 
Watson has helped take a young and inexperienced Irish distance team and make it one of the best in the history of the program. 
"I think we were at a high point in 2001 in cross country," Watson said. "This year, we came down form that a little bit with a young squad, and even the older guys on the squad didn't have a lot of experience in cross country. But I think they matured so much through that cross country season and into the early indoor track sea­son, and I think they'll be even better the next year." 
Watson helped young, talent­ed runners such as freshmen Tim Moore and Vincent Ambrico and sophomore Eric Morrison develop from high school standouts into serious collegiate threats. 
"I think a coach can only tell athletes so much, and the rest they have to pick up from their peers, so hopefully the younger guys have been able to learn tion of this season, Watson name, Watson has already from some of the things that begins training for the 2004 carved his name in an already­I've been doing," Watson said. Olympics, his ultimate goal. rich tradition of Irish running. "Freshman year is really tough "The first thing that every­"Things like school records for those guys, because they body asks about is the here mean so much because come in and they're used to Olympics," Watson said. "Those we've had a lot of great runners high school training, which is come up in 2004 in Athens, and come through here," Watson half of what we do here. So it's that's the main goal of mine." said. "If you can even make the a big jump to make, and the But even with all that work top 10 list, you know you're older guys on the team always and preparation ahead, Watson among some great company, play a crucial role in bringing can still look back on a great and I'm very proud to be a part them up." career at Notre Dame. With of that." 
As the Notre Dame track pro~ seven All-American titles so far, gram looks to the future, so too numerous school records, and a Contact Chris Federico at does Watson. After the compte-sub four-minute mile to his cfederic@nd.edu 




mCCIIAILIILZm]]) TIN §J:P(Q)ffi1r~o NOTRE DAME SPORTS. 
ocrn~w ~rnmcrQ~ WmrnmcrQ 
No.1 in The Nati~nin C,QV~rage of the Notre,pamSllght4Jg.l1.~: 

. .. ·~. ~~ 

.. 

Don't lose the R~~e·-this summer! Keep up with Nbtte Dame with th~ ~~~h Sports ~ep6rt. 
. ~. ~: ' . . . ~ -. ",,'"'~ . ~ -· ­...... ; ' 
21 colorful issues, Instant online access to daily published weekly during updates expanded coverage the season, monthly after and interactive features the season for only $39.95. for only $39.95 


Friday, May 16, 2003 page 25
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Ryan 
continued from page 40 
made more of a difference than just playing high school tennis." 
Three years of success 
Ryan entered her freshman year as a two-sport athlete, making both the basketball and tennis team. However. after practicing both sports three times a week for four hours a night, and at least one of the two sports three other days during next season focused and the week, Ryan refreshed. became She won the exhausted and "She always set a good conference decided to quit 
example ofhow to work title at No. 6 
basketball singles and
hard on the court for 
after the sea­at No. 3 dou­son ended. her teammates. ·· bles and "I couldn't helped lead just quit dur­the Belles to
Dee Stevenson
ing the season, their first of 
Belles coach

so I waited three confer-
until it was over," Ryan said. 
Ryan returned to tennis the 
ence titles. 

During her junior year, Ryan moved up to No. 5 singles and won the con­ference title and added her sec­ond MIAA title at No. 3 doubles. The Belles won another MIAA title as well. 
But when her opponents couldn't slow her down, the ulna bone in her right arm did. Ryan was diagnosed with a medical problem, similar to the one that ended professional tennis player Jimmy Connors' career. The ulna bone in Ryan's right arm was longer than normal and caused her problems when grip­ping the tennis racket. By the time her senior year arrived, many of the ligaments in her wrist were damaged and Ryan had to undergo surgery last September to correct the prob­lem. 
Ryan couldn't play tennis until January and the layoff put Ryan behind her teammates and opponents. Plus, Ryan was unsure whether she would be able to play at both doubles and singles. 
But when the season began, Ryan was there, playing both No. 5 singles and No. 2 doubles. This kind of determination is one of the biggest assets Ryan brought to her Belles team­mates. 
"She's very intense and has a never-give-up attitude," Stevenson said. "She always set a good example of how to work hard on the court for her team­mates." 

CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST WISHES ON THIS AWESOME MOMENT IN YOUR LIVES! WE HOPE YOU LEAVE LYONS HALL WITH WONDERFUL MEMORIES! KNOW THAT YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME HOME. WE'LL LEAVE THE ARCH LANTERN ON FOR YOU! GOD BLESS YOU! 
SISTER SUE DUNN OP RECTOR 
REBECCA MCCURDY, ASSISTANT RECTOR NO LAW '03 


Ryan finished her senior year prised she received the award, by winning at No. 2 doubles and but said she always strived to second at No. 5 singles at the uphold the etiquette of tennis. MIAA tournament. She compiled "Personally, I'm shocked I got a 12-1 singles record and a 10-4 it," Ryan said. "There's a whole doubles record during the regu­part of etiquette that goes along lar season. with tennis that I feel is a crucial 
part of the sport." 
Ryan was only the second

Rewarded for her work 
Saint Mary's player to receiveAt the conclusion of the sea­such an honor.

son, Ryan Ryan also
received 
picked up Saint

h e r 
..We're definitely going to 
M a r y ' s

team's 
miss her next year. , Improvement
P H D A 
Award for her

award, an 
dedication and

h on or 
Dee Stevenson 
play over the lastgiven to a 

Belles coach 
few Theplayer t h a t demon­strates the most pride, hustle, desire and attitude. It was Ryan's first time receiving the accolade after getting the Most Dedicated award during her first three years on the team. 

But the PHDA honor was small in comparison to the MIAA award Ryan received soon after. The Sue Little Memorial Award is given to an MIAA senior ten­nis athlete that showed the bets sportsmanship during her four years in college. Ryan was sur­
years. 
honor was just 
another one for Ryan, whose Belles career ended with the team's third straight MIAA championship a few weeks ago. 
Stevenson said it will be diffi­cult to replace a leader like Ryan, especially one that has been so consistent over the last four years. 
"We're definitely going to miss her next year," Stevenson said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


CONGRATULATIONS BIG MAN RUSH! MARCH ON TO YOUR OWN BEAT...BUT RETURN TO HONOR OUR LADY ON THE DOME. 

page 26 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 16, 2003 

} 
~ 
lfl 
ill
i:l 
Ill 
'" 

The Alliancefor Catholic Education is proud to welcome its tenth class of Catholic school teachers. ~give thanks for their gift ofservice to Americas Catholic schools. Please join us in congratulating thefollowing 2003 graduates of Saint Marys College and the University ofNotre Dame. 

-·-if• Yogeld Andre
~~ 
n: Cliff Arnold LauraAull
I 
I 
) Brian Bircher 
' 
I 
Kathleen Brogan 
~ ~ 
Gretchen Bryant 
. Katie Cawley
f I 
I ·~ 
I I Catherine Corke
~ '( I ; ~ Rory Dippold
-I '-I 
! DavidEsch ) I Cynthia Fidanza
! 
Tom Flanagan
' 
jesse Flores
t 
I 
) , josh Fulcher 
I 
I jim Gaffey l Michael Gracie Anne Hainley 11 Brian Hartman
I 
' Michael Hoefling Stephen Holte jill Houghton
ill>I 
Beth jeub 
I, 
Shatomi Kerbawy
II 
/I Anne Klinkhammer 
l1 
Jackson, Mississippi Los Angeles, California San Antonio, Texas Kansas City, Kansas St. Petersburg, Florida Birmingham, Alabama Memphis, Tennessee St. Petersburg, Florida Mobile, Alabama Tucson, Arizona Baton Rouge; Louisiana Brownsville, Texas Dallas, Texas Montgomery, Alabama St. Petersburg, Florida San Antonio, Texas Los Angeles, California Atlanta, Georgia Fort Worth, Texas San Antonio, Texas Plaquemine, Louisiana Brownsville, Texas Birmingham, Alabama Plaquemine, Louisiana 
Luke Klopp Charles Lamphier 
Daniel Linton 
Angela Lyzinski Crystal Martinez 
A1adekineMcKenna Kristine Monahan Brian Moscona Norma Nelson Kelly Novak A1eredith Panzica Brooke Piller Allison Ricci A1eghann Robinson Paul Rodriguez Michael Ronan George Salib Emmeline Schoen Peter Schupp Monica Stone Laura Tushaus Seth Whetzel Andrew Zengel 
Kansas City, Kansas Brownsville, Texas Nashville, Tennessee Memphis, Tennessee Mission, Texas Pensacola, Florida Atlanta, Georgia Los Angeles, California Dallas, Texas Fort Worth, Texas Brownsville, Texas Charlotte, North Carolina Kansas City, Kansas Nashville, Tennessee Mission, Texas Dallas, Texas St. Petersburg, Florida 
Tucson, Arizona Biloxi, Mississippi jackson, Mississippi Mobile, Alabama Memphis, Tennessee jacksonville, Florida 
.~ I 
= .~ 

Friday, May 16, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Women surprise country with tournament upsets 

• Irish reach fifth Sweet Sixteen in last seven years 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
All the trials and tribula­tions the Irish faced during the 2002-03 season finally paid off when the games counted the most. 
Left for dead after an up­and-down regular season, Notre Dame upset No. 6 Arizona then shocked No. 3 Kansas State at home in the first and second rounds of the NCAA Tournament to advance to its fifth Sweet Sixteen in the last seven years. 
The loss snapped Kansas State's 22-game home win­ning streak and sent Notre Dame to Dayton, Ohio where they lost to No. 2 Purdue, 66­47. 
But reaching the Sweet Sixteen seemed nearly impos­
sible after the kind of season 
Notre Dame endured. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw played five sophomores and two freshmen with regularity throughout the season and had a player quit the team midseason. That lack of expe­rience and a difficult schedule made this season a trying one for McGraw and her team. 
The Irish opened the year winning seven of their first eight games, before being blown out by Tennessee in Knoxville, 77-61, Dec. 28. The late-December loss sent the Irish into a rough month of January where the Irish lost all four of their home games, including a 72-53 defeat to eventual national champion Connecticut. In all, Notre Dame went just 3-5 in January and hit rock bottom Jan. 4 when the team fell to Purdue on national television 71-54. 
"The Purdue game was the lowest point of our season," McGraw said weeks later. 

The Career Center Congratulates the Notre Dame Class of 2003! Our best wishes to you as you pursue future ventures! 
~ We're here for you as Alumni, too* Jl~ll\ Career Center assistance is available any time this summer and 
throughout the next year. 
JI~JJ\ New jobs are added to Go IRISH almost daily -Keep checking! 
fj~]l\ City Tour web pages at careercenter.nd.edu-e-mail ndcps@nd.edu and 
indicate your geographical preference. We'll e-mail you late-breaking job 
postings for the city of your choice: 
Atlanta  Dallas  Los Angeles  
Austin  Florida  Minneapolis/St. Paul  
Boston  Fort Worth  New York City  
Chicago  Houston  San Francisco  


We've enjoyed our time with you! 
We'll see you back at ND as employers, panelists, and job experts!! 
St. Louis Washington DC 
But Notre Dame bounced back in February to collect a pair of victories over Big East foes, West Virginia and Georgetown, before falling to a tough Virginia Tech team on the road. The Irish contin­ued their solid play by win­ning five of their last six Big East games to finish the regu­lar season at 19-10. The NCAA selection committee rewarded the team with an 11-seed for the tournament and a trip to Kansas State to face Arizona and either host Kansas State or Harvard. 
The Irish raced past unsus­pecting Arizona thanks to the shooting of senior guard Alicia Ratay. Ratay, who had one of the most illustrious careers in Irish womens bas­ketball history, scored 20 points and grabbed nine rebounds, on a night when neither team could make shots, to lift Notre Dame to a 59-47 victory. Notre Dame held Arizona to a mere 22.3 field goal percentage for the game. 
Things didn't get any easier for the Irish in their second round matchup against the purple-clad Wildcats. Kansas State had lost just four games all season, none at home and had the potential to advance to deep into the tournament. Notre Dame made sure that didn't happen with, arguabiy, the biggest upset of the 2003 tournament. 
Behind another stellar defensive performance that held Kansas State without a field goal for more than 12 minutes in the second half, 17 points from junior guard Le'Tania Severe and clutch free-throw shooting down the stretch from freshmen Megan Duffy and Courtney LaVere, Notre Dame ended the Wildcats season, 59-53. 
"Coming into the game, I thought we got off to a great start," McGraw said after the win. "We tried to take the crowd out of the game early on and tried to limit their 3s. I thought we did a really good job of that in the first half. I was so pleased with our defense. I thought that's how we VllOn the game, a great defensive effort." 
After the season, forward Jacqueline Batteast was named to the second-team All-Big East, averaging 13.9 points and 8.3 rebounds per contest. LaVere made the freshman All-American team and Ratay was selected as a finalist for the National Scholar-Athlete of the Year as well. 
Ratay ended the year hitting 
46.3 percent of her 3-point attempts (50-for-108) and scored 12.1 points and­grabbed nearly five rebounds per game. She ended her Notre Dame career with the highest 3-point shooting per­centage in womens college basketball history, connecting on 47.6 percent of her 3­pointers. She also holds the mark for most 3-pointers made in Notre Dame history. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

l By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Last season, the Irish began their memorable run to the College World Series by winning the Big East Tournament for the first time in the program's histo­ry. In its first six years in the league, Notre Dame had often been the regular season leader. but struggled to fmd its groove in the post-season tournament. 
But that all changed last sea­son as the Irish pulled off a 3-2, 10-inning victory over Rutgers to capture the Big East crown and catapult into the NCAA post-sea­son. 
"That tournament has always been a tough tournament," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Last year was the first time we've won it in seven years. It's always a tough tournament. You've got some underrated teams that are playing pretty close to home." 
This year, capturing that elu­sive Big East Tournament title could be even more important if the Irish are to make a run at returning to Omaha, Neb., for the 
~! College World Series. 
I I' "The Big East Tournament has always been a real dog-fight forr us. and this year should be no 
I different," Mainieri said. 
After beginning conference play 13-2, the Irish have strug­gled lately, losing four of their last six Big East games to two very tough teams in West Virginia and Rutgers, who cur­rently sit first and second, respectively. in the conference standings. 
It appears unlikely that the Irish will be able to capture the Big East regular season title, as they have in the three of the last four years, so the Irish \\<ill hope to take the conference tourna­ment title to impress the NCAA selection committee enough to award Notre Dame its third con­secutive year hosting an NCAA regional. 
Winning the tournament would also lock up an automatic bid for the Irish in the NCAA Tournament. 
"The automatic bid goes to the winner of the tournament, so if 
. you want to make sure you're in the NCAA tournament, you've got to win that thing," Mainieri said. 
If the Irish are unable to top the field of four teams in the Big East Tournament, which will include West Virginia, Rutgers, Notre Dame and most likely Virginia Tech, they will have to hope for an at-large bid into the 64 team field of the NCAA Tournament. 
"It's really hard to gauge what the selection committee is going to do," Mainieri said. "There have been years when we've fin­ished as low as third in the regu­lar season and received an at­large bid, and there's been years when we've won the regular sea­son and not received the at-large bid." 
Mainieri hopes that factors such as his team's tough sched­ule and recent history in the tournament will influence that 
fP 
! 
\ 
page 28 
The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, May 16, 2003 
BASEBALL 
Irish eye Big East tournament, return to CWS 

bid for an at large spot. 
''I'm hoping that if we can get 
over 40 wins and with the history 
of what we did last year, that that 
might carry some weight [with 
the selection committee]. ifin fact 
we do get an at-large bid," 
Mainieri said. "But I'm certain 
that if we don't win that tourna­
ment, we will still have to have a 
good showing out there and 
probably win at least a couple of 
games in the tournament." 
But right now, the Irish have another fierce opponent on their hands in the last weekend of con­ference play, as they must travel to Blacksburg, Va. to take on fourth-place Virginia Tech (32­19, 14-9 in the Big East). 
Coming off a tough 19-inning loss to Rutgers last Sunday, Mainieri hopes his team will bounce back against the Hokies and ride into the Big East Tournament on a winning streak. 
The Irish coach knows the importance of getting hot at the end of the season, and he hopes his team will catch that fire as the regular season yields way to the NCAA Tournament. 
"When I look around the coun­try, there's an awful lot of teams out there right now that are 35­18," Mainieri said. "I just think there are a lot of teams that are going to be in the running for these at large bids. So the more games that we can win this last week plus the Big East Tournament can help." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Cc r-., 
·~~rL}~
CENTE~ tk 
F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
t ·, 
WE CANNOT DO EVERYTHING AND THERE IS A SENSE OF LIBERATION IN 
REALIZING THAT. THIS ENABLES US TO DO SOMETHING, AND TO DO IT VERY WELL. 
]T MAY BE INCOMPLETE, BUT IT IS A BEGINNING, A STEP ALONG THE WAY, AN 
OPPORTUNITY FOR GoD's GRACE TO ENTER AND DO THE REST. --Archbishop Romero, Martyred March 1980 in El Salvador 
tfje staff of tfje Center for Social Concerns 
<tongratufates afTtfje mem6ers of The 2003 Senior Class on tfjeir <Orabuation! 
BLESSINGS TO YOUJ AS YOU GO FORTH FROM NoTRE DAME & ST. M4RY's CorJ.EGEJ TO CREATE) IN YOUR OWN WA0 (~ MORE JUST AND HUMANE WORLD. " 
'· 

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 29
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MENS TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish squeak by Huskies for Big East Crown 
• Team looks 
toward May 20 
NCAA Regional 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spores Wrirer 
Since one Big East Championship was not enough for the mens track and field team, the Irish decided to repeat their indoor accom­plishment -by winning the Big East Outdoor Championship. 
The men won the Big East Outdoor Championship by a slim margin over Connecticut, 139 to 136.5 to become the first Notre Dame mens track team to win both the indoor and outdoor Big East Championships. 
"The Big East is a different meet from all the other meets," Notre Dame distance runner Eric Morrison said. "When you go there, you go there to do well individually, but the one thing that is always clear in your mind is to win the title as a team. In other meets, you might try to get a good time, or win a race, but it is never real­ly team-oriented." 
Contributing to Notre Dame's team victory was the stellar performance of three individu­als, who all garnered individ­ual championships. Highly­acclaimed senior Luke Watson won both the 3 ,000-meter steeplechase and the 5,000 meters on consecutive days. Selim Nurudeen won the 110­meter hurdles for the second year in a row (13. 95 seconds). Finally, in an upset, Godwin Mbagwu won the triple jump with a 15.32 meter effort. 
However, the Irish athletes were not the only ones being recognized. The Irish coaching staff was named the 2003 Big East Outdoor Coaching Staff of the Year. The staff consists of Joe Piane, Tim Connelly, John Millar, Scott Winsor and B.J. Linnenbrink. 
This staff led a talented squad that used a team effort to attain the conference cham­pionship. Ryan Hurd earned three points, finishing sixth in the 100 meters (21.59), while Ryan Postel added three of his own, taking sixth in the 400 meters (48.02). 
Meanwhile, in the distance realm, Morrison earned his second all-Big East honor of the year (indoor mile run), as he finished third in the 1,500 meters (3:50.65). Kevin Somok took sixth in the same race to give the Irish a combined nine points from the two. 
Despite the fact that Watson brought in 10 points for the Irish in the 5,000 meters, four other runners combined for 21 points in the event. John Keane took fourth (14:29.75). Tim Moore, fifth (14:35.09) and David Alber, seventh (14:38.83), respectively. 
Also scoring for the Irish was Mark Barber, who finished sixth in the 110-meter hurdles. 
The 400-meter hurdle group scored big for the Irish, as Napolean Suarez finished third to earn his first outdoor all-Big East honor, Barber took fourth and Roberto Garcia took sixth. 
Finally, in the relays, the 4x100 team (Nurudeen, Postel, Hurd and Barber) finished third to earn all Big East hon­ors, the first Notre Dame relay to do so since 2000. 
Also earning all-Big East honors was the 4x800 meter relay, who finished third. Thomas Chamney, Morrison, Somok and Vinnie Ambrico ran for the Irish. 
"The Big East meet is neat because everyone rallies together and puts together all the work they have put in the whole year," Morrison said. "That is basically what the Big East is all about." 
The Irish travel to the Georgia Tech Invitational next weekend for a tune-up before the NCAA Regional in Columbus, Ohio on May 30 and 
31. Following the Regional, the NCAA Championship begins June 11 in Sacramento, Calif. 
"After winning the Big East, we feel good, we feel confident going into the Regional," Morrison said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



Congratulations Howard Hall Seniors! 
Vanessa Allen  Veronica Grana  Robin Mattessich  
*Meg Anderson, RA  Jillian Harris  Connie Quinlan  
Annamarie Bindenagel Katherine Karrat  Kimberly Rollings  
Andria Bledsoe  Veronica Kelleher  *Emily Showman, RA  
Christine Bryant  Nicole Kohrt  Meg Smolinski  
Kelly Bush  Cathy Kolf  *Jenna Spanbauer, RA  
Cristina Ceballos  Erin LaRuffa  MaryTarsha  
Lindsey Davison  Colleen Lawler  *Lauren Willoughby, RA  
Maureen Doyle  Anne Liddy  




"May your past be a pleasant memory, Your future filled with delight and mystery, Your now a glorious moment, That fills your life with deep contentment." 
-An Irish Blessing 

• 

•
..I 

Best wishes and lots ollove, 
'"-&'. 

lrom your lellow Ducks 


page 30 Friday, May 16, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
FENCING 
Team attitude leads fencers to first title since 1994 

only care about fencing for
+Irish score 182 
themselves. They care about
points to edge the team." The mens team defeated
archrival Penn 
Penn State 15-12 and moved
State by three 
up to the top spot in the coun­
try for the third straight year By MATT LOZAR while the womens team lost Associate Sports Ediror 16-11. 
At the Midwest Regional 
First-year head coach Janusz Championship, the Irish auto­Bednarski did something for­matically qualified 11 fencers mer coach Yves Auriol couldn't and had to wait for Maggie do in his seven years in leading Jordan to earn an at-large bid the Notre Dame fencing team in womens sabre to let the -win a national title. Irish qualify the maximum 12 
The goal of winning the pro­fencers.I~ gram's first A major bliz-
I' 
national zard in title since Colorado
'7 don't know ifI could 
1994 start­forced the
have done it ifI
ed from the N C A A beginning didn't have the team Championships of the sea­to be con­

helping me out. .. 
son. It densed into a became two-day event truly evi­Destanle Milo at the Air 
dent wb.en Irish sabre F o r c e the second­Academy. As ranked Saturday's Notre Dame action conclud­squad hosted No. 1 -and ed and the day went on 
defending national champion Sunday, one thing became Penn State -at the Notre apparent -it was going to be Dame Duals. a very close finish. 
Before that dual match In the last round of the worn­showdown, Bednarski gath­ens sabre competition, the ered his team in a big huddle Irish were ahead by less than for a pep talk. What was five points and were facing imporiant wasn't the result of Penn State's Austin O'Neill in that dual meet, but setting the the final round. Backed by the foundation for a team to win largest and loudest cheering the national title seven weeks section, Jordan and Destanie later. Milo came through with two 
"We are trying to build a critical wins to put the Irish on team during the season. They the brink of completing their responded very well. They mission. 
I I 
I I started to work as a team," "That was incredible because Bednarski said. "There is no Notre Dame was cheering so
!l 
position they are in where they much for me and l didn't even 
I.~ 
ill 
11 
;~ 
Certified n1over 
!
i i,., 
'i 
' 
Certified shaker 
., 
Certified no more mac & cheese Certified acceleration Certified rush Certified freedom Certified bring it on Certified Pre-Owned BMW 
hear Penn State cheering for the other girl. I just blocked them out," Milo said after her 5-0 defeat of O'Neill. "Their cheering helped me, kept me going and kept my adrenaline going. I don't know if I could have done it if I didn't have the team helping me out." 
Then, the Irish went to their strength and called on the "A­Team" of Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo to finish the job. Kryczalo, who won her second individual national title in as many years, defeated Stanford's Iris Zimmerman to clinch the title for the Notre Dame and start the long-await­ed celebration. 
Besides Kryczalo's national title, the Irish had a school­record 11 All-Americans. Michal Sobieraj finished sec­ond in mens epee, Ozren Debic was fourth in mens foil and Ament took third to earn first­team All-American honors. Debic and epeeist Jan Viviani became four-time All­Americans. 
After the disappointments from finishing second or third every year since 1994, this year's team set itself out on a mission from the beginning not to join those other Irish fencing teams who underachieved and failed to win a national title. 
This year, they got the job done. 
"Coming into this year, I knew that like any other year we were going to end up in the top three," Debic said. "If we put our heads together, we could get it done." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Folllst and four-time All-American Ozren Debic attacks an oppo­nent at the Notre Dame Duals in February. The Irish defeated No. 1 Penn State at the Duals and went on to defeat the Nittany Lions at the NCAA Championships. 
BMW C•rtlfled Pre-Own•d ~ 
The UMimllte

""'""\!'"'·t;t)<'l'l
f • .f!(J(.I. ~34 ·-1SMW Drtwtng MIIONnor 
" 


.; 
'Y!tt 'il!liliT?l?TTTJJTWWFWiiiH 7 . P:r?T
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 
=:Certified Pre-Owned =:
Get warranty protection• up to 8 years or 100,000 miles. Get flexible leasing and financing options. Get pure BMW. r·r·..·rr·iiiil t!y ar.tw n ...r ...r ........" 
search up-to-date, extensive inventory at bmwusa.com "Ptotoc:llon I'Ifill provt!los c:ovorHqo lor up to 2 yoars or 50,000 mHos (wilk:hovor t:omns firs!) from !ho dato of tho OXJ~rallon of !flo 4 yoar/!ill.O<X> rnlkl llMW Now Vnhk;lo llmllod Vvmmn.y. ~)...; parllclpntlno IIMW J)HSscmoor cHr r.ontor for cloiHIIs. ror rnoro lnformH!ion. r.11ll l·fl<Xl<134 ·4llMW. or vlsll bmW\ISH.corn ©21Xl3 llMW of NorH1 flmoflc11. l LC.1ho llMW llillllll HIHllo!IO aro IIJIJislorod lrHdOIIIHrks. 

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 31
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Brey leads team to
Solomon accepts Bonnies' job 
• Irish assistant coach heads to St. Bonaventure 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
When St. Bonaventure started looking for someone to clean up the mess of an ugly basketball scandal, it turned to a Notre Dame assistant coach. 
Anthony Solomon, formerly 
a three-year mem­ber of Mike Brey's staff and a 15­year assis­tant coach, was named head coach of the Bonnies' belea­guered bas­
ketball program May 6. 
"St. Bonaventure is a tradi­tion-rich basketball program that really excites me," Solomon said. "With my 15 years of experience in the coaching profession, I feel that I have prepared myself for this opportunity." 
At Notre Dame, Solomon coached the guards and han­dled a majority of the recruiting. Brey promoted Rod Balanis, Notre Dame's former director of basketball 
operations, to fill Solomon's spot. 
"He's hungry, well-connect­ed and, most importantly, well-respected," Brey told the Associated Press. "I can't emphasize enough how the Solomon family will be such a positive for the Bonaventure community." 
Solomon replaces Jan van Brenda Kolff, who was fired in April after the Atlantic 10 Conference learned Bonnies center Jamil Terrell was inel­igible because he violated 
"St. Bonaventure is a tradition-rich program that really excites me. ,. 
Anthony Solomon fonner Irish assistant and current St. Bonaventure coach 
junior college transfer rules. 
The A-10 Conference then ruled St. Bonaventure had to forfeit six league vic­tories and banned them from postsea­son play. In response, the 

players voted to not play their final two games of the season. 
Both St. Bonaventure presi~ dent Robert Wickenheiser and athletic director Gothard Lane resigned in addition to van Brenda Kolffs firing. 
But St. Bonaventure's new athletic director, Paul Grys, had high praise for Solomon, who takes over a team that finished 13-14 last year. 
"Anthony Solomon has the leadership experience and 
character that are critical to St. Bonaventure," Grys said. 
Sweet Sixteen bid
The appointment is 
Solomon's first college head coaching job. He is also the first black head coach of any sport at St. Bonaventure. 
Notes: 

+ Former Arizona forward Dennis Latimore will transfer to Notre Dame and can begin playing for the Irish in 2004­05. 
A 6-foot-8, 240-pound play­er with two years of eligibili­ty remaining, Latimore must sit out an NCAA-mandatory one year before he can play for the Irish. 
+ The Irish landed their first verbal commitment of the class of 2008 in 6-foot-8, 210-pound forward Robert Kurz. 
The Philadelphia high school junior visited Notre Dame's campus a little over a week ago and decided to ver­bally commit to the school. Brey cannot comment pub­licly on Kurz until he signs a binding letter of intent in November. 
But the 6-foot-8, 210-pound Kurz is considered one of the top 100 prospects in the nation because he is a strong forward who has a solid medium-range jumper. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
• Irish reach third round of tourney for first time since '87 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Mike Brey will have a hard time forgetting what transpired on his 44th birthday. 
In the bowels of Indianapolis' RCA Dome, in front of a throng of screaming Irish fans, in the national television spotlight, Notre Dame advanced to the Sweet Sixteen for the frrst time since 1987 -the latest step taken by a basketball program slowly emerging as one of the nation's best. 
"Tonight, I was probably going to have a beer anyway," a giddy Brey said in the post-game inter­view. "Now I might have two." 
Sure, Arizona trounced the Irish in the round of 16. But the goal from the early days of sum­mer practice was to make it to the second weekend -a phrase that took on a life of its own over the course of the basketball sea­son. 
Behind the leadership of sharpshooting guard Matt Carroll and Maryland transfer Dan Miller, Notre Dame surged to a 5-1 start, yet flew below the national radar unranked and unrespected. 

And for good reason -Notre 
Dame had lost the nucleus of last 
year's team (Ryan Humphrey, 
David Graves and Harold 
Swanagan) to graduation, and 
most would have considered 
Notre Dame's season a success 
had the Irish simply made the 
NCAA Tournament, much less 
won a couple ofgames. 
That all changed in December. 
when the Irish knocked off three 
top-1 0 opponents in one week ­
Marquette, Maryland and Texas 
-and shot from "Others receiv­
ing votes" to No. 6 and the ensu­
ing pressure that accompanied 
such a lofty ranking. 
Suddenly, the Irish players, 
who had spent most of their 
careers playing as the underdog, 
now found themselves in the 
national spotlight. And for the 
most part, they handled it well, 
aside from a pair of blowout 
losses to Pittsburgh and 
Kentucky. 
But after Notre Dame beat 
Pittsburgh on Feb. 9 in the first 
meeting of top 10 foes in the 
Joyce Center in over a decade, 
the road to the Final Four 
appeared to run through South 
Bend. 
That's when the Irish train 
started to derail. Initially able to 
control their own destiny in 
terms of their Big East fate, the 
Irish lost four of their last seven 
games of the regular season and 
lost in the first round of the Big 
East Tournament. 
So in between the first-round 
exit and Selection Sunday, the 
Irish hunkered down to try to fig­
ure out what their problems 
were. And whatever they found, 
they appeared to fix. 
The first sign something had 
changed came the day before 
the NCAA Tournament began, 
when every Irish player shaved 
his head in a sign of team unity. 
Grinning with enthusiasm in the 
RCA locker room, Notre Dame's 
players displayed none of the 
tightness that characterized their 
final month ofthe season. 
Still, the Irish, seeded fifth in 
the West Region, survived a 
major scare in No. 12 WISconsin­
Milwaukee, who missed a layup 
with two seconds on the clock. 
Instead of getting upset, the Irish 
squeaked into the second-round 
with a 70-69 win. 
The second-round game 
against fourth-seeded Illinois, 
however. went much easier. The 
Irish relied on a commitment to 
defense and a sensational 3­
point shooting performance to 
surge into the Sweet Sixteen. 
"Everybody said we couldn't win because everything was so new, we should stick to what we were doing," Chris Thomas said. "But since we got away from the Big East, we have a new mind­set. It's a new season." 
A 88-71 loss to a red-hot Arizona team showed how far the Irish still have to go before they can truly be considered. Few doubt that Notre Dame's long-term future is bright. Its short-term future, however, is still in question, especially after Carroll and Miller's graduation and Thomas' declaration that he'll depart early for the NBA Draft. 
But then again, that's what everybody thought a year ago, too. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

--------------------------------~~ 

Friday, May 16, 2003 
page 32 The Observer+ SPORTS 

.. ! ) Loman 
continued from page 40 
! Loman is one of four seniors 
. . \ \ starting on the infield and doesn't necessarily need to be a vocal leader. 

"I mostly lead by example, but if there is something that needs to be said, I'll definitely address the issue so there is no problems and to keep every­thing in order," Loman said. 
A true captain
:! 
The list of awards Loman has captured is seemingly endless. 
Four-time All-Big East first team recognition. A two-time Big East Championship Most Outstanding Player. The Big East Rookie of the Year. A third-team All-America. 

And just eight days ago, Loman became the third con­secutive Notre Dame player to be named the Big East Player of the Year. 
At last weekend's Big East Championships, Loman hit .500 with five RBI and hit a walk-off home run in the bottom of 
the ninth to "/ am losing somone who son, Loman give the Irish has made
is irreplacable. You can't
their second only five
replace someone
straight con­errors and ference tour­like ·nrea. , leads a nament Notre Dame crown. defense that
I Deanna Gumpf 
I But of all currently is 'I those personal Irish coach tied for 
accolades, nothing that other people say really matters to Loman. It's the voice of her teammates that means the most. 
"Being named captain this 
i ~ 
year just shows the respect your teammates have for you," Loman said. "It's a mutual thing that you have for them as well and it's just a great honor." 

I ~ When the Riverside, Calif.
I • 
native does acknowledge her numerous awards, she passes 
I• 
I the recognition to anyone but herself. 
"They pay tribute to all those who have helped me get to where I am today, my parents, my family, coaches throughout the years since I've been play­ing since I was 10," Loman said. 
The career numbers show why Loman is one of the most decorated athletes in the histo­
., 
:1 
' 
·, 
I 
I 
} 
.:! 
' 
I' 
[: 
~ 
I 
ry of the Notre Dame softball program. Entering this week­end's NCAA Regionals, Loman leads the 2003 Irish in batting average (.408), which would be good for the second best sea­son in Notre Dame history, runs scored (41), hits (64), dou­bles (12), RBI (40), slugging (.662), on-base percentage (.466) and stolen bases (17). Loman is also tied with out­fielder Liz Hartmann for the team lead in horne runs with eight. 
"I am losing someone who is irreplaceable," Gumpf said. "You can't replace someone like 'Drea." 
Rock solid 
In her first two seasons at Notre Dame, Loman played first base. She switched over to third last year and made the transition without a hitch due to her experience at third in high school and in travel leagues. As a junior, Loman made eight errors, but six of those carne after she broke a finger on her throwing hand in 
early April. 
This sea­
third in the country with 

a .976 fielding percentage. 
With the bases 60 feet away, the hot corner lives up to its nickname in softball as balls come quickly off the bat. Loman never looks surprised and is ready to always make a jaw-dropping play. 
"I might be a little biased, but I think she is the best third baseman in the country," Gumpf said. "She brings intan­gibles that most people don't have. Andrea is a natural. 
"She makes plays that most people can't make." 
When the inevitable offensive struggles come at the plate, Loman wants to be able to rely on something and always be a major contributor for her team. That attitude, of being a solid defensive player, started from the beginning. 
"Throughout the years, I've been really consistent defen­sively while offensively from my freshman to my senior year, I have been getting bet­ter, but haven't been that con­sistent and my defense has always been there," Loman said. "That's something my dad has always told me, if some­thing isn't working and your offense isn't there, make sure your defense always is. 
"So I think I really pride myself in that." 
One difference she wants 
During each of Loman's three previous seasons, the Irish have qualified for the NCAA Regionals and failed to move on to the Womens College World Series. In 2001, Iowa upset the top-seeded Irish and last year, the Irish were also eliminated on the last day of the regionals, this time by Nebraska. 
Loman's won the awards and accomplished just about every­thing a player could want. The only thing she hasn't done, is get to Oklahoma City, Okla. and play in the Women's College World Series. 
This weekend is her last chance. "You have been working hard 
your past .four years and com­ing up a game short almost every year. We are looking to have a good regional tourna­ment this year," Loman said. "It is definitely going to be tough and a challenge for us. 
"I think we have some people fearing us, which is good." 
That's the one place where Loman wants to separate her­self from Myers and the rest of the great players in Notre Dame softball history. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Congratulations Squirt You are the best! 
We are so proud of you! ALISON MARY LANSER, N.D. 2003 
Love, Mon, Dad and Connor 
{h~ Notre Dame Bookstore 
throughout
Graduation 
for the following events: 
Special Hours For Graduation Weekend Friday, May 16 8:ooam -to:oopm Saturday, May 17 8:ooam -10:oopm Sunday, May 18 8:ooam -1o:oopm 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookslore.tom 
Gift wrap services are available Graduation Weekend 
Open to the public • Cqnvenient parking 

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 33
The Observer+ SPORTS 
ftnENS BASKETBALL 
Thomas declares himself eligible for draft 
not going to put any guilt trips 
• Guard does not 
on this young man.... We owehire agent, could it to him to get him the right info."
return next year 
Before his sophomore season started, Thomas said he wasBy ANDREW SOUKUP "definitely" going to be at Notre
Sports Writer 
Dame for four years. He main­tained throughout the season With a broad grin on his face that he wasn't considering the 
and his parents proudly looking NBA Draft -"It would take on, Chris Thomas declared May away from my team," he said­5 he would forego his final two but when the Irish lost to years of college eligibility and Arizona in the Sweet Sixteen,enter the NBA Draft. Brey said he was going to help
But the 6-foot-1 guard left the Thomas explore his draft door ajar for a possible return options. to the Irish for his junior sea­So Brey, Thomas' parents and son. 
Thomas buckled down to evalu­"This has long been a dream ate the guard's draft potential.
of mine," Thomas said. ''I'm Thomas also spoke with his excited at the prospects and am friend Jared Jeffries, a former glad the oppor-Indiana play­
tunity has er who left 
come so'fast." 
"This has been a dream after his 
Thomas, who sophomore
ofmine. rm excited at 
said he has not year and was 
hired an agent the prospects and am drafted byand therefore glad the opportunity has t h e 
still has college Washington
come so fast. ,
eligibility, has Wizards, to until June 19 glean 
more to withdraw Chris Thomas information his name from 
guard about the 
the draft. The draft processsix weeks and life in the between his declaration and the NBA. 
deadline will be spent evaluat­In the end, Thomas, who ing where Thomas could be averaged 18.7 points and 6.9 drafted on June 26. assists a game last season and have this chance after my
If, after participating in indi­earned All-American honorable junior or senior year." vidual workouts for a handful mention honors, decided to Thomas is the second Irish of teams, Thomas is projected declare based on the success player in three years to declare 
as a top-20 pick, the point the Irish enjoyed last season. early for the NBA Draft. Troyguard said his name would "I owe it to myself to explore Murphy left early after his remain in the draft. If it is my options in order to see what junior year -Brey's first yearlower, he said he would most I could do. I've done my share with the Irish -and was draft­likely return to Notre Dame. of work to get to this point," ed 14th by the Golden State 
"Do I want to coach this guy Thomas said. "Playing in the Warriors. next _year? Heck yeah," Irish NBA is never a sure thing, and If Thomas stays in the draft,coach Mike Brey said. "But I'm there's no guarantee I might Notre Dame would be one of 

HoLY CRoss AssociATES 
Congratulates: 
Andrew Benavidez Katie Noack Kristin Caponi Jeanna Palmer John Donnelly Sheila Payne 
Maggie Donohue TJ Pillari Paul Graham Jane Sloss Michael Greenfield Lynn Taylor Micheal McGarry Whitney Thompson Jason Villarreal 
These graduating seniors from ·Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have committed to serving in the US and in Chile as Holy Cross Associates! They follo\v 25 years of Associates and will take the program into the next chapter ofService, Community, Simple Living, and Spirituality. 
CONGRATULATIONS!!! 
There iJ Jttil a windo;p ofopportunity to appfy for HCA. Contad the home office for more in{o1mation!
. . . 

hca@nd.edu 631-5521 

only a handful of schools with a chance to have three first­round picks in as many years. Last year, Ryan Humphrey was drafted 19th overall by the Utah Jazz and now plays for the Memphis Grizzlies. 
Thomas had until May 11 to enter his name for the draft. In addition to working out for indi­vidual teams, Thomas could als·o participate in a pre-draft camp the first week of June in Chicago, where a new NCAA rule change stipulates that players can play in pre-draft workouts without having to sit out any games if they return to college. 
However, Brey said Thomas is leaning away from playing in Chicago and is instead hoping to gauge his stock via individual workouts with teams. And Thomas is looking at the exam­ple set by Humphrey. who ended his college career pro­jected as a second-round pick but boosted his stock tremen­dously via individual workouts. 
For now, Brey will remain one of Thomas' primary advis­ers and added that he expects to start hearing from NBA teams now that Thomas has made a public decision. And instead of trying to convince his star guard to stay, Brey said his role as a coach is to make sure Thomas makes the best possi­ble decision. 
"My feeling is if you're going to run a program in this era, then you have to help your players," Brey said. "If the right thing is to go in a month, I will be the first in line to shake his hand." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 




2002 IN 
VIEW 
page 34 The Observer looks back on Notre Dame and Saint Marys fall sports seasons Friday, May 16, 2003 
Jackie Bauters finished just team. 
Observer Staff Report 
behind Fieber in 49th. Warner and classmate The next week at the NCAA Amanda Guertin were the offen­
Mens Cross Country 
With junior and top Irish run­Regionals at Ohio Northern sive leaders for the Irish, as University, the Belles grabbed a Guertin led the team with 11
ner Todd Mobley running 
30th-place finish. Bauters had goals and 11 assists. Freshman
despite recovering from an 
the highest finish for the Belles Erika Bohn posted a solid firstinjury, freshman Tim Moore led at 126th, Fieber followed at year in goal. Chapman led theNotre Dame Nov. 25 to a 22nd 140th and junior Jessica Kosco defense that was especially ham­place finish at the NCAA came in at 176. pered by injuries.
Championships in Terre Haute, The highlight of the season forInd. 
SMC Soccer 
the Belles may have come at theWhile it was not Notre Dame's 
A year after the departure of
MIAA Invitational, hosted bybest-ever performance at the 
first-year coach Bobby Johnston, 
Saint Mary's, providing the onlynational meet, and Irish coach 
Saint Mary's new coach Chris
opportunity for the Belles to runJoe Piane did not think the Irish 
Pfau led the Belles to an up-and­
on their home course. Again,reached their full potential, it 
down season in 2002. The Belles 
Bauters paced the Belles with awas still a good moment for a 
finished 7-10-2 and 5-7-2 in the
30th-place finish and Fieber fol­team that had been in jeopardy 
MIAA for fifth place in the con­
lowed in 35th. 
of not even qualifying for the title ference. 
race. After barely qualifying with Mens Soccer 
In one week from Oct.8 to Oct. 
an at-large bid, Notre Dame, The Irish mens soccer team 
16, the Belles dropped three
with only one senior running, continued its marked improve­
straight conference matchups to 
was able to move up some ment during the tenure of coach 
Hope 2-0, Adrian 1-0 and con­
spaces in the field of 31. Bobby Clark, entering the NCAA 
ference champion Albion 1-0.
At the Big East Tournament for the second 
Saint Mary's then followed up
Championships, the Irish had to straight year on the heels of an 

that disappointing week with a
do without All-American Mobley, 11-4-3 regular season. 
string of three straight victories
and Moore stepped up finish first The season was highlighted 
over MIAA opponents Alma,
for his team as well as first with. an early surge, getting out 
Olivet and Kalamazoo. 
among all freshmen at the meet. to a 3-0-2 start, including upsets 
The Belles then wrapped up
His time of 24:08 landed him in over then-No. 6 Seton Hall (4-0) 
the season with a pair of tough 
tenth place, but, coupled with and then-No. 7 Furman (2-1 in 
losses to Calvin 1-0 and Hope 3­
the other Irish performances, double overtime). The Irish that was not enough to give achieved their best ranking ever 0. CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Midfielder Jen Concannon,
Notre Dame the win. In the end, -No. 5-the week following Irish forward Erich Braun sends the ball across the field In a
who led the Belles in each major 
the Irish finished fourth, and the win over the Pirates. match against Michigan State in the fall.
category with 12 goals, six
thereby continued their tradition A tough road schedule wore 
of not-winning the Big East title down Notre Dame, with losses assists and 30 points, was Elise Rupright, who was Boston College and Michigan,
named first team All-MIAA. The 
every other year when the meet on the road at Bradley and St. named to the All-MIAA team as Notre Dame struggled through a 
is held in Boston. John's and a tie at Rutgers. sophomore finished third in the an honorable mention, led the rough nine-game winless streak 
conference in goals and points 
team in hitting percentage with in the heart of CCHA play.
The Irish were able to notch a
NO Womens Cross Country behind Calvin's Tricia Dyk and .203 and blocks with 88. But the Irish came back to lifekey victory in the conference
After a progressively success­Hope's Dawn Gillam in both cat­to close out the regular season 6­ful season, a young Irish squad with its 2-1 thriller over Virginia egories. SMC Golf 2 -all games in the CCHA.
capped off 2002 with their best­Tech at Alumni Field. With the The fall 2002 season was one 
NO Volleyball Notre Dame then traveled to
win and some help, the Irish pre­to be remembered as the Belles
ever performance in program After being named a host for Oxford, Ohio, for a first round
pared for a home Big East quar­captured the MIAA womens golf
history, finishing third at the the first and second rounds of CCHA series with Miami. After
terfinal matchup with a familiar crown and rose to No. 11 in the
NCAA Championships in Terre the NCAA Tournament, the Irish dropping the first game 4-2, the
Haute, Ind. Nov. 25. foe -the Hoyas of Georgetown. Golfstat.com Division III rank­
appeared to be in good shape to Irish stormed back 5-0 and 1-0
And the Hoyas bit back, elimi­ings.
The Irish were led by fresh­advance to the Sweet 16 for the on the strength of a pair of 
man Molly Huddle, who claimed nating the Irish with a 2-1 over­The season started on a high
first time since 1995. shutouts from goaltender
sixth place overall and fifth in time shocker. note as the Belles set a school
But Michigan State had other Morgan Cey to win the best-of­
team scoring. Huddle's 19:55.7 Nonetheless, the NCAA record with a 342 one-day total
plans. three series. 
rewarded the results of Clark's in the Ferris State Invitational in 
time, 12 seconds behind individ­The Spartans came into the The Irish season ended in the
squad with the first-ever home an eighth-place finish in the
ual champion Shalane Flanagan Joyce Center and plain out domi­frrst round of the Super Six with of North Carolina, gave her the game for the Irish in the first event.
nated the Irish winning 30-28, a tough 3-2 loss to Ohio State. 
round of the NCAA Tournament, The Belles would lower that
highest finish for the Irish at the 30-20, 30-23, ending Notre Right wing Rob Globke paced
national championships since against Akron, a team Notre mark to a record-low 323 before
Dame's 36-match home winning the Irish in scoring during the 
Joanna Deeter's third place per­Dame had already defeated ear­the end ofthe season.
streak. 2002-03 season with 20 goals
I f lier in the year. Playing at the Zolner Golf
formance in 1996. The fresh­
I I The postseason disappoint­and 15 assists for 35 points. The 
!l man's perfoJ'lllance also cata­The second time around pro­ment overshadowed an other­Course in Angola, Ind., the Belles junior's 20 goals were good
pulted her into the company of vided the same end result -a wise successful season that saw used a first place finish from enough for 7th in the CCHA.
Notre Dame victory, leading the sophomore Julia Adams en route
rl All-Americans. the Irish (24-8, 11-2 in the Big Globke also had four game-'\o\lin­
Irish sophomore Lauren King team to its first NCAA to capturing the MIAA title by 10
East) win its seventh Big East ners during the season. 
t ~ finished close to Huddle. King, Tournament win since 1996. strokes over second-place Hope. 
regular season and postseason 
SMC Basketball

who normally leads the Irish, With the win, Notre Dame Adams finished as the course
Championships. Lauren Kelbley
completed the course in 20:14.5. faced a historic matchup with medalist with a two-round total The Saint Mary's basketball 
won the Big East Rookie of the 
team did not have the season

Indiana in the second round. of 161. 
She finished in 19th place and 
Year honor and was named to 
likewise garnered All-America In a hard-fought match, the Close behind Adams were they hoped for, finishing with an 
the All Big-East second team. 
honors -the second year in a Hoosiers scored early in the sec­teammates Stefanie Simmerman overall record of 6-20 (2-12 in 
Emily Loomis earned a spot on 
the MIAA). Their season ended
ond half, and the Irish were in fourth place with a 165 a.nd
row she earned such an acco­the All Big East first-team and against then-undefeated Hope inlade. Deeter and King are the unable to respond in a 1-0 loss. Meg Mattia in fifth with a 171.
setter Kristen Kinder was also on 
the first round of the conference
The Irish finished the season Adams, Simmerman, Mattia,
only female Irish runners to have the second team. earned the coveted honors twice. with a 12-6-3 overall record. Liz Hanlon and Chrissy Dunham tournament, as they were 
defeated 77-50 in Holland, Mich.
SMC Volleyball were named to the All MIAA
The post season began with 
NO Womens Soccer 
It was a disappointing 2002 team for the Belles. Sophomore Emily Creachbaum promise for Notre Dame as the The 2002 season was a frus­season for the Belles, who fin­led the way for the Belles, lead­
Saint Mary's wrapped up their Irish claimed their first-ever Big trating one for the womens soc­ing the team in scoring and
ished the year with a 7-21 fall season with an impressive
East title at Boston's Franklin cer team, as they struggled to a rebounding (12.3 points, 5.8
record and a 1-13 mark in the win over third-ranked DePauw
Park Nov. 1. In that meet, it was 13-8 record while being plagued rebounds). She will be joinedKing's turn to lead the Irish. She MIAA. in a frrst-place finish in the Tri­
by injuries all season long. next year by rising sophomores 
Saint Mary's got off to a rough State Invitational, the Belles fifth 
garnered the individual title with Notre Dame finished the year start, but found a bit of a groove consecutive tournament victory Anne Hogan (6.8 points, 4.6
20:23 performance. 
off strong, winning two games in during the month of October. For rebounds per game) and BridgetFollowing in the usual pattern, of the season.
the NCAA tournament before the first three weeks of the Boyce (7 .0 points per game).
The spring season for the
Huddle huddled close to King falling to top-ranked Stanford 1-month, the Belles went 4-3 with Katie Miller (4.2 points, 2.0
Belles continued with the NCAAduring the race and finished sec­0. The Irish opened the tourna­assists per game) will be the only 
ond in the Big East title competi­victories over Manchester Championships, held during the
ment with a win over Ohio State College, Tri-State University, senior on next year's Belles
past week. At press time, thetion. 
before exacting revenge over MIAA foe Olivet and Rochester squad.
Belles had climbed to sixth on
SMC Cross Country Purdue -a team Notre Dame College. The Belles return a core of
the leaderboard in the tourna­
The Belles had trouble com­lost to earlier in the season. The But even with the wins, the three freshmen (Boyce, Hogan
ment, and Simmerman was in a
peting in the tough MIAA confer­Irish came out in green jerseys Belles were unable to carry over and Audrey Gajor) who gained
tie for first place individually. 
ence in the fall 2002 season. against Stanford and played the the momentum into the post-sea­valuable experience this year on 
Saint Mary's finished seventh in Cardinal even for about 80 min­son, as they dropped their last Hockey the court, as they were able to
:1 
I{
1/ a field of eight teams -Olivet utes before giving up the game­four straight matches to MIAA For the second straight season, get a taste of the college game. ( did not field a team -at the winner. competition. Included in this the Irish turned around a disap­They will be joined by five ,; ./ ( MIAA Championships, hosted by Several Irish players earned streak was a loss in the first pointing first half of the season returning sophomores, led by 
Alma College. The Belles scored awards for their 2002 perfor­round of the MIAA tournament with a strong fmish to reach the Creachbaum, Katie Boyce (4. 7 
~ 
·( 195 points and were 178 points mances from the NSCAA. to Calvin College 20-30, 15-30, CCHA Super Six in Detroit. The points per game, 51 steals) and 
r 
( behind conference champion Sophomore Candace Chapman 13-30. trip to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit center Maureen Bush (5.8 Calvin, who had 17 points. The ·was named second-team All­Junior Alison Shivek finished marked the third consecutive points, 2.9 rebounds per game).~ Belles top finisher, freshman American. Ashley Dryer was the season with 180 kills and year the Irish have advanced to Creachbaum was named to the Laura Fieber finished 47th in a named to the Scholar All­350 digs to lead the team in both the Super Six. all-MIAA second team, while
J 
! 
time of 25 minutes, 58 seconds America team and Chapman and categories. Sophomore Bridget After a respectable 9-7-3 start Katie Boyce and Miller were -3:46 off the pace. Saint Mary's junior Amy Warner were named Wakaruk paced the Belles in sets that saw the Irish contend named coaches' honorable men­teammate and team captain to the All-Great Lakes Region with 554. against such national powers as tion. 
!
<. 
-

2003 IN 
VIEW 
Friday, May 16, 2003 The Observer looks back on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's winter and spring sports seasons page 35 
thunderstorm. Yet the latter Baldwin in sixth with 224
Observer Staff Report 
thunderstorm that cancelled strokes, freshman Tommy 
Mens Lacrosse the Big East Championships Balderston in 7th at 226 
The Notre Dame mens was real, not figurative like the strokes and freshman Eric 
lacrosse team had lofty expec­first, and it washed away the Deutsch tied for 11th with 230 
tations, but for the second hopes of a team that used to be strokes. 
straight year, those expecta­shoe-in into the national cham­The highest finish for the 
tions fell short. pionships. Irish during the spring, not 
The Irish (9-5, 4-1 GWLL) Notre Dame began the season including the Big East 
began the season with three 0-4, including two 6-1 losses to Tournament, was a pair of 
straight wins over ranked Ohio State and Illinois. After eighth place results at the Big 
teams, but losses in the most that disheartening start, the Red Classic in Ocala, Fla., and 
important games ousted them young team began to improve the Bruce Fossum!faylorMade 
from the top spot in the confer­its confidence and garner some Classic in East Lansing, Mich. 
ence and from playoff con­more wins. Victory still did not Gustafson had the best scor­
tention. come easy though-perhaps ing average for the Irish during 
The Irish offense put little with the exception of the 6-1 the year at 74.88 strokes. The 
and inconsistent pressure on Irish victory over Virginia Tech. best round of the season was a 
No. 4 Maryland in the season Notre Dame suffered numer­three-under 69 posted by
finale. The Terrapins kept the ous and frustrating losses Deutsch. 
ball in the Irish defensive zone against teams such as Duke, 
NO Womens Golf 
for the majority of the game. Florida State and 
In her second season, worn­
The 10-4 loss put Notre Dame Northwestern. 
ens golf coach Debby King was
out of reach for an at-large bid SMC Tennis looking to see improvement in
to the 16-team NCAA tourna­
The Saint Mary's tennis team her program as she hopes toment. 
proved they still had what it build Notre Dame into a strongThe mi<:l-season loss to Ohio 
State was the backbreaker. takes to be champions in the golf school. While some tourna­
2002-03 season. 
ments were better than others
With Ohio State losing just one 
league game to Denver, Notre After dropping two confer­this year, the Irish can look to 
ence dual matches for the first their win at the inaugural BigDame had no chance of regain­time in two years, the Belles
ing first place and an automatic East Womens Golf •
ended the season with a first­
bid. The Irish did not impress Championship to see that they
place finish at the MIAA tour­
the selection committee despite are headed in the right direc­
nament.
winning four of their final five tion. 
The conference champions
games and losing just two Led by freshman Katie 
for the Belles included fresh­
games at home. Brophy, who tied for medalist 
man Kristen Palombo at No. 2
Notre Dame played eight honors, the Irish cruised to a 
singles, junior co-captain
ranked teams this season and 44-stroke victory over top-seed­
Kaitlin Cutler at No. 3, and ished above only Adrian (12-and his swimmers will not
ed Miami. The Irish took
defeated three -No. 12 
junior Kris Spriggle at No. 4. 22-0, 4-9) and Kalamazoo (6-accept anything but the best.
Loyola, No. 16 Penn and No. 23 advantage of windy and cold 
The Belles also dominated the 25-0, 1-13). This season they again matched 
weather conditions on their
Penn State. 
doubles competition. At the No. Saint Mary's fell apart after their expectations.
Freshman Pat Walsh home course to run away from 
2 spot, Cutler and senior co­jumping out to an 8-2-1 record Led by juniors Danielle Hulick 
emerged as the top point man Miami and the other teams in 
captain Elisa Ryan won a con­during a four-day road trip to and Lisa Garcia and a slew of
for the Irish this season with 20 the field during the first two 
ference championship, as did Fort Myers, Fla. The Belles other top performers, the
goals and a team high 32 rounds. 
Spriggle and freshman Lindsay The Big East Championship outscored opponents 65-24. women captured their seventh
assists. He earned first-team 
Cook at No. 3 doubles. was the second tournament win The Belles returned home and consecutive Big East champi­all-GWLL honors and was Saint Mary's (5-2 MIAA) was onship in Uniondale, N.Y.
named GWLL Newcomer of the for the Irish on the year. and split a doubleheader with tied for second with Kalamazoo the second event where Brophy Bethel College to move to 9-3-1. Notre Dame finished with 730 
Year. 
after the dual match season. Still, a late season debacle team points. Rutgers followed
earned the individual win. The Womens Lacrosse The Belles finished second Irish team won the Notre Dame eliminated any hope of postsea­in second with 580 and Miami 
With four games to go in the overall in the MIAA behind Invitational in the fall, earning son play for a team that strug­placed third with 469. seaso.n, the womens lacrosse Albion, who went undefeated the title at their home tourna­gled to find a rhythm, especially Notre Dame (9-1-1) led sec­team was a frustrating 4-7. (7 -0) in the regular season. ment for the second time in on offense. ond-place Rutgers at the with all seven of their losses For the season the Belles three years. Alma's Melissa Tavidian Nassau Aquatic Center, 501­
428, after two days of competi­

coming to ranked teams. Four posted an impressive 13-5 Brophy, meanwhile, won the pitched her second no-hitter of wins later, the Irish ended their overall record. Several Belles Peggy Kirk Bell Invitational in the season versus a struggling tion. A few words of encourage­
season on a high note by earn­were honored with awards at Florida in March for her first Saint Mary's team that was ment from Weathers later, the ing a winning record by beating the conference meet. No. 1 sin­college tournament title. After outscored by opponents 55-14 Irish had themselves another No. 15 Vanderbilt 22-15, tying gles player Jeannie Knish was struggling some with adapting in its final seven games. title. 
Notre Dame had 16 swim­

a school record for goals in a named to the All-MIAA first to college golf in the fall, Saint Mary's defeated 
mers score on the final day,

road game in the process. team. Cutler and Palombo were Brophy raised her game to Kalamazoo 5-1 and 2-1 on capped off by a victory in theThe attack was led by senior both All-MIAA second team another level in the spring, April 2 and the season went 
400 freestyle relay -the

Danielle Shearer, who eclipsed selections. Ryan was given the leading the Irish in scoring downhill from that point on. 
evening's last event -by thethe Notre Dame records for Sue Little Sportsmanship average for the year in addition While the Belles managed to team of Katie Eckholt, Courtney career goals and career points. Award, becoming the only third to winning the two events. split with Albion, Hope and St. 

Choura, Heidi Hendrick and

Shearer broke both records on winner from Saint Mary's in the The Irish should continue to Mary's of the Woods, Saint Hulick in 3:21.18. 
Senior Day against Rutgers in award's 48-year history. improve. In addition to Brophy, Mary's lost doubleheaders to Garcia, who holds the Notre13-6 win. She had seven points three other freshmen played Adrian, Marian, Calvin and
Mens Golf Dame record in the 200 butter­
in the win, including five first­well for the Irish as Sarah Alma.
It proved another disappoint­fly of 1:59.28, won the 200 but­
half goals. Shearer, along with Bassett, Lauren Gebauer and
ing season for the mens golf Mens Swimming terfly with a time of 2:01.02.
junior Meredith Simon, were Suzie Hayes all had strong per­
team in the spring of 2003. The The Notre Dame mens swim­She also won the 200 IM.
named first-team All Big East, formances. Junior Shannon
Irish were unable to post a ming and diving team got a step Freshman Christel Bouvron
while junior Abby Owen and Byrne led the returning contin­
higher finish than eighth in the closer to the top of the heap (54.57) and Lisa Garcia (54.90)
seniors Kelly McCardell and Jen gent of Irish players, as she
regular season. The chance for during the 2002-03 season. The finished second and third in the
White were named to the sec­continued her streak of playing
redemption came at the Big Irish posted a fourth-place fin­100 butterfly.
ond team. in every tournament through­
East Championships, hosted by ish at the Big East Hulick (55.56). Kristen
The Irish finished alone in out her first three years, and
Notre Dame at the Warren Golf Championships and were 6-8 in Peterson (56.13), Kara Santelli 
third in the Big East, behind top finished third individually at
Course, but the Irish fell just dual meets. Notre Dame won (56.34) and Sarah Alwen 
ten teams Georgetown and the Big East Championship.
short of victory and an auto­the Notre Dame Invitational, (56. 73) finished third, fourth,
Syracuse. Ranked in the top 10 Senior Terri Taibl, junior
matic bid into the NCAA beating out a field of 10 teams. fifth and sixth, respectively, in 
in the preseason, the Irish were Championships. Rebecca Rogers and sophomore Sophomore Frank Krakowski the 100 backstroke. looking to dethrone the Hoyas. Karen Lotta also made major set new marks in the 50
Notre Dame held a four­
Although they fell a little short, contributions for the Irish. freestyle and the 100 butterfly. SMC Swimming 
stroke lead over Virginia Tech The Saint Mary's swimming
they continued to build and will 
heading into the final day of SMC Softball Freshman Jamie Lutkus broke team struggled to finish consis­
look to reach the top of the Big the old record in the 400 IM
competition in the Big East Teams often feel comfortable tency throughout their regular
East in 2004. Tournament, but the Irish were at home. They must define with his second-place finish at 
season, ending the year at 3-4 Mens Tennis unable to hold off the Hokies, themselves and realize their Big East (3:54.38). Matt and 2-4 in the MIAA. For the Irish, the spring sea­falling to second two strokes potential in non-conference Obringer set a new 200 free The Belles opened the season son started off much the same behind. games and road match-ups. record, and senior Jason by taking fifth out of six teams at Fitzpatrick did the same in the
way that the spring semester Freshman Scott Gustafson The Saint Mary's softball the Notre Dame relays. The team did in South Bend-dismally. gave a stellar performance for team proved it could win on the 100 breaststroke. was led by junior MeghanYet as the Irish reached the the Irish, finishing tied for sec­road at the start of the season The Irish concluded the year Ramsey. who nearly made it to conclusion of the season, and ond at 221 strokes for the 54-but could not get the job done with a team banquet. Obringer the national meet and broke the 
was named team MVP. Three
as they rose up from their mul­hole tournament. Gustafson at home. school record in the 100-meter tiple trials, the team that had was the leader after the first Despite the addition of opti­swimmers were named Most butterfly. She was the most con­
begun the season with the Improved: Krakowski, Bauman
day of competition, but could mistic first-year coach Anna sistent swimmer for Saint Mary's 
and freshman Patrick Davis.
worst start in program history not hold the lead as he fell 12 Welsh, the Belles could not throughout its season.
Senior diver Andy Maggio was
was on the verge of reaching strokes behind champion maintain their winning ways of Fellow Belle Kelly Nelis also 
honored with the Knute Rockne
their 13th consecutive NCAA Brandon De Jonge of Virginia the early season. broke a school record in the 200­
Scholar-Athlete award for his
Championships. Tech. The Belles dove from third meter freestyle with a time of
athletic and academic accom­
Unfortunately, their quest to Rounding out the scores for place to sixth place in the MIAA 1minute, 59.21 seconds. Three
plishments.
redeem the season in that man­the Irish were senior Brandon by losing its final seven games other Belle relay teams broke ner ended in the same way Lunke, tied for fourth place at and nine of its last ten. The NO Womens Swimming school records throughout the their season began -with a 222 strokes, freshman Mark Belles (15-17-1. 4-8 MIAA) fin-At this point, Bailey Weathers 2002-03 campaign. 




OUR 
EARS IN 
__VIEW 
Friday, May 16, 2003 The Top 1 0 Observer sports stories from the 1999-2003 academic years page 36 

' .•• ''"' ~}. WN.):•M 1'*t~.: bo>-~-'~C•M 
""'· .. H-1 :~Me~ OM> ·:«ON" ·~ ac.o.~. : ,,,::: ».II""'' .,,.,.. s--""':~~ll :o ~;;x« 1:..:c :-t".X::~~ .. :oC\~··< oil!i:M".: t .. N 
· *'*...;:>-:b:-;-,.::~:)(>~.»:< rv>-« r 
I 
._.....,.¢'\•;ww : ...., 
·-······-······· ..................-.... · ..·.·.··.··· . 
. 

Humiliating coaching 

-

search follows Davie firing 
December 2001 


Womens hoops2 wins national title  3 Willinghrun leads Return to Glory  4 Irish go to CWS, first trip since '57  
With 5.8 seconds remaining and the NCAA Championship game tied at 66, Ruth  In his first year asIRISH NSIDE.R head coach, Tyrone Willingham leadsTomahawk flop the Irish to an 8-0  It took an improba­IRISH INSJDER ble victory over No. 1.·:·:-:·:·.·:·:-.-:;-:,.......~...... •N.·,~--.-............. . Florida State at Tallahassee, but the  
Riley calmly it two free throws thta left Notre Dame the 2001 womens basketball national champions. Thousands of fans showed up to wel­come the team back and President George W. Bush honored the team two weeks later at the White House.  start. His 10 wins were the most by a first-year Notre Dame football coach. The season's top wins included a defeat of No. 6 Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium and a win at No. 11 Florida State.  Irish found a way to reach their first College World Series since 1957. The team played well in Omaha, beat­ing Rice on a walk-off home run and losing twice to a tough Stanford team. They also won 50 games, a new team record.  
Brey-coached Irish5 find Sweet success  April 1, 2001  ··:·:::':':':.;::.· Fall2002 6 Coaches exit SMC revolving door  June 15-18, 2002 Berticelli dies of7 heart attack  
As a five seed in the West Regional, Mike Brey leads the mens basketball team to the Sweet 16 for first time sicne 1987. Brey took over as head coach in 2000 and has steadily improved the basket­ball program. Under his guidance, his ,•,•,•,•,•.·•.•·,··.....-teams have qualified~:,g lor f<1I.<IC -~~~KK'> t......~t. I~ (i~!d<:n ~-.­for three straight NCAA Tourneys.i~Dil!il Sl'iJI<JS • ..... . March 2003  _-....,..,._~~'> In a two and a half·-......................... month period, three·""""""~'..............,.,, SPORTS Saint Mary's coached resigned.Not saved by the Belles The athletic department, which can barely pay its head coaches $6,000 a year, has been unable to attract and retain quality coach­es. Bobby Johnson, John Ganeff and Theresa Pekarek all left Saint Mary's dur­ing the spring. Spring 2002  Irish mens soccer head coach Mike Berticelli died sud­denly of a heart attack. Berticelli, 48, coached the Irish for 10 of his 23 years as head coach and com­piled a 104-80-19 overall record. Berticelli led his team to the 1996 Big East Championship title and three NCAA tour­nament appearances. January 25, 2000  
Wadsworth8 resigns as AD  Fencing finally 9 wins national title  10 Saint Mary's cuts track program  
When Michael Wadsworth resigned as athletic director, University President Edward Malloy annoucned a restructuring of the athletic department. Later that year, Malloy named Kevin White the new ath­letic director and said White would report directly to him. February 7, 2000  Having finishedSPORTS ..........................~;.:::.::... :.:.......................~............ second or third in Irish winu<ttion.tl ch.tmpionsb.ip the country every year since its last national title in 1994, the Irish were able to finish the job and win the 2003 national title Janusz Bednarski took over for Yves Auriol and led the Irish to its sixth national title in his first season as head coach of the Irish. March 23, 2003  Under the recom­mendation of athlet­ic director Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred decided to discon­tinued the track and field program fol­lowing the 2001 season. Kachmarik made the decision, in part, to keep tvvo full-time coaches February 1, 2001  

On Dec. 2, 2001, after a 5­6 season, athletic director Kevin White fired football coach Bob Davie and the search began for a new coach to lead the Irish back to prominence 
At a public press confer­ence on Dec. 9, over 1,500 fans welcomed new football coach George O'Leary. a man who found his dream job at Notre Dame. 
However, O'Leary's tenure with the Irish lasted just five days before he was forced to resign for lying on his resume. 
After over two weeks of natoinal embarassment, another 16-day coaching search finally led White to Stanford and Tyrone Willingham. who White announced as head coach on New Year's Day. 
• 

Friday, May 16, 2003 page 37
The Observer+ SPORTS 


page 38 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, May 16, 2003 FOOTBALL 
Willingham guides Irish back to winning ways in '02 

their first of the season. A week  
later, Notre Dame had to mount  
a fourth-quarter rally to beat  
lowly Navy.  
Then, with the national spot­ 
light fixed brightly on Southern  
California and a BCS berth  
hanging in the balance, USC  
absolutely embarrassed Notre  
Dame by tallying 610 yards of  
offense en route to a 44-13  
drubbing. Trojan quarterback  
Carson Palmer won the Heisman  
Trophy, USC secured a berth in  
the lucrative Orange Bowl and  
the Irish were left with a lot of  
questions and a Gator Bowl  
berth.  
The bleeding didn't end there.  
Another lopsided loss, this time  
a 28-6 beating at the hands of  
North Carolina State on New  
Year's Day, made an 8-0 start  
appear a thing of the past.  
Yet Willingham and the Irish,  
who finished the season 10-3  
and ranked 17th, weren't  
deterred. And NFL teams took  
note of the Irish prospects, as  
seven Irish prospects -the  
most since 1999 -were select­ 
ed in the NFL Draft.  
And so Willingham, who main­ 
tained as steady a perspective in  
the latter stages of the season as  
he did in Notre Dame's hot start,  
remained confident the Irish  
could prove the 2002 success  
wasn't a one-year fluke.  
"Someone told me once,  
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 'You're never as high as they  
say you are, and you're never as  
low as they say you are," the  
coach said at one point during  
turnover after turnover to set up  mention the words "national  the season. "If we keep our  
a struggling offense, the Irish  championship" and "Notre  focus on what we have to do,  
simply refused to lose.  Dame" in the same sentence.  we'll be OK."  
So by the time the Irish  Prematurely, as it turned out.  
embarrassed Florida State in  The next week, the Irish inex­ 
the Sunshine State 34-24 to earn  plicably fumbled seven times in  Contact Andrew Soukup at  
a No. 4 ranking, fans started to  a 14-7 loss to Boston College,  asoukup@nd.edu  
Seniors:  

Tyrone Willingham leads the Irish football team onto the field before its game against Michigan Sept. 14. Willingham returned the Irish to success on the field in 2002, finishing with a 10-3 record. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Somewhere in between the New Year's Day 2002 press con­ference where he boldly pro­claimed the Irish would win and the celebration at Florida State where the Irish showed they could win, Tyrone Willingham found his groove at Notre Dame. 
Few could have blamed Willingham had the Irish contin­ued their mediocre performance from the Bob Davie regime. Few could have blamed Willingham, who became the coach the Irish came crawling to after they ini­tially passed over for George O'Leary, had he just waited a year for "Resumegate" to blow over. 
But, as Irish fans would rapid­ly discover, that's not Willingham's way. 
I 
The signs were there, of course. After all, Willingham concluded his first meeting with a single PowerPoint slide that had "WIN" printed in huge let­ters. 
Not until Willingham's Irish crushed defending ACC Champion Maryland 22-0 in the season opener, however, would Irish fans believe. 
The success didn't stay in New Jersey. Shane Walton knocked away a 2-point conversion late in the fourth quarter to preserve a 25-23 win against Michigan. Against Michigan State, backup quarterback Pat Dillingham threw a short pass to Arnaz Battle, who magically turned a 6-yard slant into a 60-yard touchdown with just over a minute left to snatch victory ­the team's first against the foe in six years -from the Spartans. 
"I just want to win," Willingham said after the Irish beat the Wolverines, one of five ranked teams the Irish played in 2002. ''I'm sorry it's so simple." 
During the stretch, the 
l ~ 
t: media's magnifying glass settled 
~ 
over South Bend, yet Willingham 
~ 
didn't wilt. The Irish appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated. "Return to Glory" wasn't just a T-shirt slogan, as national scribes applied the say­ing to Notre Dame's seemingly miraculous turnaround. 
After all, this was a team that had two losing seasons in the last three years. But, almost inexplicably, the Irish still found a way to win. Behind an oppor­tunistic defense -a phrase the unit loathed -that forced 
I'
I . 
I I 
' 
a-t-e. c-/4L'/ 
d~e.~I'J'\,~ u.-14tiL 
I love you Juls, Your little sister 
Conor O'Brien Congratulations 
Love, Mom and Tommy Lasorda 


Stay up-to-date on campus issues after you graduate 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
Just $35 for 12 issues (including the football review) 
Send form and $35 to: Scholastic, 315 LaFortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Name: Address 
City State Zip 

Friday, May 16, 2003 
The Observer+ TODAY page 3.9 
SCHOOL DAZE WEI..\.., OUR REU\TIONSiiP 'T ... SAW ME. "ll'i~U)l)qt-f RetJgH Gt~DEs, ALl NlqHTE:RS AHD DRUNK£N SnJPIDITY•..:r srt:cC> ey You AS 'YOU DISArPOINT~D F"OOTBALL FANS, CHANl:::tE.DALC.O~ Pt>LIC'f.AND Mf\DE.5lVPID MOVES Uk:~ CIRCUS •----""""---­ATTHE: DININ HAL.LS...  CLARE O'BRIEN  
HAPPY TowN  JACK MONAHAN  


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
STOUJ 
I I I 


02002 Tri>une Media Se<vices, Inc. All Rights Reae<Ved 
CLOIG 
I I I 
FITHES 

rJ !
1 
www.jumble.com 

VITANY 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: DECRY ENVOY SEXTON COUPLE Answer: The gallery rejected the photographer's work because it was -OVER EXPOSED 
J'JMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To order, aend your name, addreaa and $5.116 and make check payable ID Tribune Media Servlcea, P .0. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068o-4330. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  40 Cry of derision  2 Forecast, of a  
1 Doesn't take  41 Turning point?  sort  
either extreme  42 Salute receiver  3 Hot  
16 Inflation fighter 17let go 18 Hydrocarbon suffix  43 Purpose 45 Russell of film 46 Presidential middle name  4 Cap material? 5Mauna_ Observatory 6 Fence-sitters'  
19 Bro 20 Certain  49 Vicinage  sounds 7 Moth-eaten  
55-Across 21 Drain indicator 23 Information unit  51 Yearbook sect. 55 Many an instrument  8 Rodent that makes an affectionate pet  
24 Free of errors 25 Unbar, to Byron 27 Rhone tributary 29 James Clavell novel set in W.W.II  56 Companion of Artemis 57 Wexford's locale: Abbr. 58 Entrance money  9 European legislature 10 How some ships tum 11 Refrain from singing?  
33 8 letters? 34 Atlantic City hotel, familiarly, with "the·  63 Misfit, in a phrase 64 Efficiency experts  121n 13 Daughter of Tantalus 14 Money of Costa  
37 Capital of  Rica  
ancient Syria 38 Home for Cochise  DOWN 1 Shopaholic's thrill  15 Wound up 22 Wise one  36 Carrier to Tokyo, for short  48 Denver university  56 Tiny powerhouse  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  23 Fire sign 24 Writer St. John  39 Early dialectician  50 Actress Shirley of "Goldfinger"  58 • Cried. (1962 hit)  
26 For the time  43 Tormentor  52 Estrangements  60 ·­tree falls•  
being 28 Golden State  44 Slips  53 Roll out the red carpet for  61 It may be spotted in the  
motto  46 Tapestry  54 Ones making  forest  
29 Knight of the  47 Opposite of thin  forecasts  62 Con's utterance  
Round Table  
30  flash  For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a  
31 High power  credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  
32 Meaningful work?  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  
34 Desolate spot  past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions {$19.95 a year}.  
35 Baptism introduction?  Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaminglxwords.  



EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

.... CELEB~ BORN ON 11US DAY: Olivia Brown, Steven Seagal, Omar Srunf, Oare Boothe Luce 
Happy Birthday: Stop putting your own needs on the back burner and start doing what's best for you. It's time to stop being a martyr and start being a winner. This is your year to do what you want to do. You will end up gaining respect from the very people who were holding you back. Your numbers are 3, 5, 18, 25, 31, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You'll end up in an awkward position if you've been brutally honest and outspoken. Brace yourself, as opposition is likely if you have been alittle uncaring or harsh. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Act quickly and fmish as much as possible early in the day. You will have the strength and the desire to outmaneuver ariy competition 
you encounter. ** * * 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to save rather than spend money today. You've been too generous with others and too extravagant with yourself It's time to budget *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be hard to read today. One minute you'll be 
happy and the next you'll be upset You are likely to take thin~ the wrong way today. Sudden dmges in your home will be a little unnerving. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is a good chance that someone is just playing with your emotions. Ifsomeone isn't treating you properly, be prepared to cut him or her out ofyourlili:. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Don't hesitate. When you get the opportunity to oo something worthwhile for others, take the plunge. Involvement with a group that ha<> the same beliefS :nistandards a<> you will be to your advantage. * * * * LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Be careful what you wish for today. You may be striving to obtain one thing and you may get something completely different. Focus on money, work and getting ahead. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Expand your knowledge and learn about different cultures and traditions. The more you discover, the better you will understand. Your excellent rnetrol)' will help you with JXOjects. ***** SAGfJTARJUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Alterations to your home will pay off It may be necessary to help someone you care about with his or her financial or legal problems.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 224an. 19): You may have to do a little finagling if you haven't been paying enough attention to loved ones. It's time to put everything else aside and nurture the relationships that mean the rmst to you k** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This day will get progressively more exciting. Socialize ifyou wish to meet new fiiends or lovers, but ifyou want to nwture an existing relationship, tbcus on the person you woot to impress. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Use your imagination and you will accomplish the most today. Being creative will inspire you to follow a direction that you have only dreamed 
ofin the past***** 

Birthday Baby: You will always look out for the Wlderdog and you will be there when no one else is willing to go the distance. You will prove your strength of character and will gain the respect ofthose you ei1COUI1Ier. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
. 
Name 

----------------------------------------------~----­
Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 


Friday, May 16, 2003 

OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 

est o 


ass 

• Watson steps out of the shadows to be Notre Dame's top runner 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Ask people what they consid­er the greatest accomplishment in sports, and running a four­minute mile is likely to be high on that list. 
For years, people thought the feat was impossible. But on \1ay 6, 1954, a now famous British physician named Roger Bannister shattered that belief by completing the mile race in 3 minutes, 59.4 seconds. 
In the 49 years since that day, nearly 1,000 people in the world have accomplished the feat.
1r 
And on Feb. 8, Notre Dame l l senior Luke Watson joined that prestigious list by conquering
I' 
,~ the Meyo Mile in a tirne of 
! 
3:57.83 against an extremely competitive field -four other runners broke the four-minute I mile mark in the race. 
"IThe four-minute mile] has bf~en_ a career long goal of mine," said Watson, The Observer's 2002-03 Notre 
.......

Dame Senior Male Athlete of the Year. "To accomplish that 
... 

was tremendous. I was really 
---.~­

happy to just get that done and etch my name in with that 
CHIP MARKS and CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
Luke Watson and Andrea Loman have been named The Observer's 2002-03 Outstanding Notre see WATSON/page 24 Dame Senior Male and Female Athletes of the Year. 
'I
! 
• Loman leads by example to get the job done 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

Compare Andrea Loman, The Observer's 2002-03 Outstanding Notre Dame Senior Female Athlete of the Year, to last year's recipient Jarrah Myers, and the score­book shows striking similari­ties. 
Throughout their four-year careers, both Loman and Myers played their way into the top five for batting aver­age, runs, home runs, walks, RBI, steals and fielding per­centage in the Notre Dame record book. 
But then you talk to softball coach Deanna Gumpf and she explains the two star players couldn't be any more difl"erent. 
"Jarrah was very intense and was the heart and soul of the while 'Drca is very a quiet leader. She gets in there and does her job," Gumpf said. "They are different types of leaders but effective. Two of the most opposite types of leaders." 
Myers needed to be more of a leader on the field, especially her senior year, calling her own pitches and catching a pitching staff that relied on two freshmen. This season, 
see LOMAN/page 32 
Ryan's aggressive play results in tennis success 
has worked for the Saint Paul, Minn. enthused every day." "The best basketball players are the
• Belles senior helps 
product throughout her career as a BeJle. rugged ones, the ones that play pickup lead team to third MIAA Ryan's helped lead Saint Mary's to three Learning early ball," Ryan said. "I play dirty, scrappy, 
I 
conference crown straight MIAA championships. She's won It didn't take long for Ryan to become pickup tennis. I play ticked off sometimes 
I I 
the conference title at No. 6 and No. 5 interested in tennis. When she could and my stroke isn't as graceful as other singles during her barely hold a racket, girls, but at the same time, athletically, I
~ 
By JOE HETTLER
I 
career, as well as at Ryan and her family think I'm more well-rounded."
I 
Sports Editor 
I 
No. 3 and No. 2 dou­would watch their dad Ryan credits her intense summer tennis
I. 
..She's the one that goes 
bles. A two-time cap­play at the local tennis matches as good preparations for high 
I 
out and gets people

''' Elisa Ryan doesn't think she plays ten­tain of the Belles courts. In between sets, school and college tennis. Each summer, nis like most of her competitors. That's squad, Ryan has been pumped up and Hyan and her sister Ryan would travel around the Midwest to probably because she thinks she plays a difference maker in would get a chance to play other highly-competitive girls, and at
enthused every day ... · 

the game like a guy. pushing Saint Mary's grab a racket and hit one point was ranked as high as No. 17 
"The way I play is different than the to the top of the MIAA some balls. As she grew in the Midwest's 18-year old and under way most of the girls in our conference tennis standings every Dee Stevenson older, Ryan and a male division. This competition made Ryan play," said Ryan, The Observer's 2002-03 season. Belles coach friend would practice battle-tested for college tennis. 
Outstanding Saint Mary's Senior Athlete "She brings the and play against each "If you look around the conference, all
I 
I 
of the Year. "It's a little less accurate, most spirit to the other. This helped mold the big name players have played on the
I 
,, which is negative, but it's a lot more team," Saint Mary's tennis coach Dee Ryan's aggressiveness and athleticism, USTA summer tour," Ryan said. "It's 
r i · 

aggressive. I play like a boy to an extent." Stevenson said. "She's the one that goes which she would use to mow down her No matter what style she may play, it out and gets people pumped up and opponents in college. see RYAN/page 25 

NO WOMENS TENNIS
WOMENS TRACK
NO MENS TRACK 
BASEBALL 

NO SOFTBALL
ROWING 
Vanderbilt 4 

Notre Dame 
Notre Dame at 

Central Regions 
NCAA Regionals 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 0 

2nd at Big East 
Virginia Tech

wins Big East 
Championships
Thursday-Sunday
Saturday-Sunday
Championships 
Saturday-Sunday 

The No. 21 Irish lose
A number of Notre
The Irish look to qual­
The mens team won 
The seniors have one 
in the second round of
Dame athletes earn indi­
ify for their first College 
2nd Big East title of the 
The Irish close out the 

last chance to qualify for 
the NCAA Tournament.
vidual honors.
World Series. 
year. 
Big East regular season. 

NCAA Championships. 
page 22
page 22
page 23

page 29 
page 24
page 28 




