-----~-------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Robinson Learning Center receives HUD grant 
Award will allow community resource center to expand its educational, recreational reach in northeast South Bend 


Students vvrite to troops 
Letters from SMC try to boost morale of Iraq soldiers 
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Writer 
The McCandless Hall Council "Letters to Troops" project aims to boost moral for the Alpha Company spending this holiday season in Iraq by having Saint Mary's students write letters to the 66 troops. 
"It's great for us to realize there arc so many Americans over there fighting that will be gone during the holiday season," McCandless llall vice president Jennifer Pillar said. 
"They should know we are supporting them." 
According to McCandless Hall director Christine Artz, the idea originated as a serv­ice project for the hall. 
"We thought is would be a nice moral booster for the troops to get mail," she said. 
Through the hall project, the council already sent the company 19 letters on Nov. 9, Artz said. The community's positive reaction to the proj­ect spurred the council to open it to the entire campus. 
"I was very impressed that the women here took the 
see LETTERS/page 4 "In the youth mentoring initia­By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS tive, we will utilize violence pre­
News Writer 
vention training, educational tutor­ing and recreational opportunities The Community Outreach to help at-risk children. The job­Partnership Center branch of the training component will target 
U.S. Department of Housing and high school dropouts, ages 16 to Urban Development awarded 24, and help them acquire the South Bend's skills to get decent Robinson Community jobs," Caponigro
"For the people 
Learning Center with said. "There are a a $398,097 grant. that are here on a lot of positions in For the last two regular basis and this area that pay years, the Robinson well, and it is a
know about the 
Community Learning matter of enabling Center, which is spon­money, there is a people to get the sored by the lot ofexcitement. " hard and soft 
University, has pro­skills that they vided educational and need." 
Meredith Mechenbler The lead poi-recreational services 
to South Bend's student volunteer soning prevention Northeast project will seek Neighborhood. to educate people 
According to director Jay as to the potential locations of dan­Caponigro, the grant will enable gerous lead materials in their the center to expand its activities in homes in order to ensure that chil­the areas of youth mentoring, job dren will not ingest the toxic sub­training and preparation and lead stance. poisoning prevention. "Lead poisoning usually affects children in older homes. where the paint and other building materiaL'> contain lead," said Caponigro. 
The center will undertake each initiative in collaboration with other groups and organizations. 
"We have a lot of great partners. Goodwill Industries, the chemistry department, Memorial Hospital, the athletic department, Hec Sports, the Center for Social Concerns and others are all very helpful," said Caponigro. 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are active volun­teers for the HCLC. 
Meredith Mechenbier, a Notre Dame junior and regular voluntocr, is enthusiastic about the grant. 
"Although the money is not here yet, it is clear that there will be a lot of new opportunities. at least for the people that arc here on a regular basis, and know about the money, there is a lot of excite­ment," said Mechenbicr. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 



Transgendered activist tells story 
Bergman presents anecdotes ofgender identity and confusion 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Editor 
Transgendered writer and activist S. Bear Bergman visited Notre Dame yesterday to per­form "Ex Post Papa: Life as a Freelance Dyke Dad," a multimedia presentation billed in its promotional material as "theater about men­turing, gender and getting your parenting a Ia carte." 
A dramatic monologue of a string of anec­dotes set against a backdrop of black-and­white photographs taken by Bergman's wife Nicole. the performance pulled together Bergman's experiences as a mentor and advi­sor, or Ex Post Papa, to friends living outside the world of "straight society." 
Bergman's first task was to clarify the mean­ing of gender and its greater implications. 
"I am definitely of the opinion that there are more genders than just male or female," Bergman said. "I don't identify myself as a woman. I identify myself as transgendered. To be transgendered is to transcend, transgress ... to cross genders. Someone who is transgen­dered crosses our cultural concept of genders." 
Dressed in khakis, a brown shirt and a pale yellow necktie, Bergman addressed the issues facing transgendcred people in today's hetero­sexual society, from deciding whether to use the men's or women's restroom to utilizing the proper pronouns when referring to their own identities. 
"People look, don't they? They stare, espe­cially when I get close to the bathroom ... Don't think it doesn't hurt," Bergman said during the performance, a picture of a bathroom sign pro­jected on the back wall of the stage. "Wearing a hat? Or a tie? The little skirt-wearing girl does­n't wear a hat-or a tie. The little pant-legged boy does." 
In a talkback session with audience members following the performance, Bergman discussed the way in which something as simple as pro­noun usage is influenced by our two-gender 
S. Bear Bergman, a transgendered activist and writer, performs a scene from the play "Ex Post Papa: Life As a Freelance Dyke Dad" at Notre Dame Tuesday. see BERGMAN/page 4 
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Praising Dean 

I like Howard Dean. 
That is not to say that I think the shoot-from-the-hip Vermonter is the nonpareil of Democratic candidates, or that I believe his platform is entirely unsullied. 
In fact, Dean's Beth Erickson only irrefutable selling point is Wire Editor 
that he isn't Bush. 
So what catapults him to the top of the list of contestants for Bush Whack 2004? In the words of his opponents: shock and awe. 
In the midst of high finance cam­paigning and mindless moralistic jar­gon, Dean's grassroots approach and outspoken intellect certainly aston­ish. 
However, Dean's shock value does not reside in his characteristic blunt­ness, but rather in his unexpectedly middle-of-the-road mixture of social progressivism and moderate eco­nomic stance. 
Despite the image that the GOP would love to project, Dean is a far cry from a bleeding-heart liberal. He exempts himself from extremes, rebuking liberals and conservatives alike. 
He rejects the tax-and-spending of liberal democrats, asserting that fis­cal conservatism is crucial for the realization of his social reforms. 
Americans have become accus­tomed to politicians who sit the fence and let their Teleprompter speak for them in fear of malapropisms and misinformation. Dean's frank deliv­ery reminds us of that which the American political sphere revolves around -intellectual contention. 
He's admittedly headstrong. Opinionated. Even arrogant. But should the leader of a world super­power be a weak, mindless pushover? 
In addition to his intelligence and can-do attitude, I like Dean's princi­ples and his staunch adherence to them. 
Most significantly, I applaud Dean for his proposals to promote the rights of homosexuals and to reform the overzealous system of capital punishment in America. 
Finally, I appreciate the fact that he did not support Bush's war against Iraq. While Dean supported the disarmament of Iraq and the ousting of Saddam Hussein, he per­ceived that America was not in immediate danger and that we were not prepared to help Iraqis once we won the war. 
And he was right. 
Now that we have alienated our­selves from our allies and have left an entire country in a state of disso­lution, and now that we know that our entire populace was duped into believing in non-existent nukes, we need a new man in charge. 
America needs to renew its focus on social justice and peaceful inter­vention, and Dean might just be the man to get the ball rolling. 
Contact Beth Erickson eerickso@nd. edu. The views ex­pressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

On page three ofthe Dec. 2 Irish Insider, the final score for the Notre Dame/Stanford game was incorrecdy primed. The correcr final score is 57 to 7. On the Nov. 25 Scene article "'Gothika': scary but stupid script,'" the writer and director were incorrecdy identified. Mathieu Kassovitz directed the film and Sebastian Gutierrez wrote it. The Observer regrets the errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE LINE FROM A CHRISTMAS MOVIE? 



Joe Gulnte Ashley Gross Kiley Kane 
Junior Sophomore Law student Fisher Regina Off-campus 
"Christmas. It's "Buddy the Elf, "You'll shoot so hot right what's your your eye out!" now. favorite color?" Christmas." 
OFFBEAT 

Glow-In-the-dark pet fish coming soon 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. ­The nation's first genetical­ly altered household pet ­a fish that glows in the dark -is set to begin appearing in stores next month everywhere except perhaps California, the only state with a ban on lab-engineered species. 
On Wednesday, the California Fish and Game Commission is scheduled to take up an application from Yorktown Technolo­gies of Austin, Texas, to market the GloFish in California. 
State wildlife officials 
have concluded that the Florida-grown fluorescent zebra fish poses no danger, and they have recommend­ed that the state exempt it from the ban. But environ­mental and public interest groups, along with com­mercial fishermen, oppose an exemption. 
Australian sells bottled water for dogs 
CANBERRA, Australia ­An Australian launched the latest accessory for pam­pered pooches Tuesday -­bottled water in flavors like chicken and corn, liver and bacon, or beef. 
The purified Dog Plus K-

believing. " 


9 water went on sale in pet stores at $2.10 for 1.3 pint plastic bottle. 
"It's like a sports drink for dogs," said Andrew Larkey who thought up the idea. "Dogs get bored with plain water -they deserve variety just as much as people." 
Larkey plans a similar line of drinks for cats, in roast chicken and pork fla­vors early next year. 
People can safely drink it as well, he said, but it probably won't be a hit with humans. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...J c( 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 32
.... 
LOW 23 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

35 27 



Shannon Hopkins James Rudy Kat Moravek 
Sophomore Freshman Sophomore LeMans Alumni Holy Cross 
"Believing isn't ''And his heart ''Ahhhhhh!" seeing, seeing is grew three 
times too large." 
IN BRIEF 

The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board will present its annual "Christmas Around the World" celebration at 6 p.m. tonight in the LeMans Hall Reignbeaux Lounge. 
The ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will per­form "Handel's Messiah" tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available for $3 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Come "Stump the Priest" this evening at Theology on Tap. Bring questions about the Church, religion and spirituali­ty. Food and non-alcoholic bev­erages will be provided. The event begins at 10 p.m. tonight at Legends. 
Stop by the "Howard Halliday" on Thursday from 7 to 9 p.m. The event will include Christmas tree decorating, marshmallow roasting and Christmas music. Bring a toy to donate to the South Bend Homeless Shelter. 
Start your Christmas shop­ping early. FlipSide will spon­sor a shopping trip to Chicago on Saturday from 9 a.m. to 9 
p.m. Tickets can be purchased for $5 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present their annual Christmas concert on Saturday, Dec. 13 at 6 and 8:30 
p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $3. All money raised will bene­fit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

35 22 


HIGH LOW 

------~~
-------------~---~~-----­
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 The Oburver + NEWS page 3 
fACULTY SENATE 
Members elect new chairman, debate TCE release 
College of Arts and Letters. 
By BETH ERICKSON 
Many faculty members have News Wrir<r 
expressed dissatisfaction with the new requirements these letters 
Tlw Faculty Senate elected set forth. chemistry professor Seth Brown "Many feel that the stakes have as its nnw chairperson at its been raised significantly," said Tuesday. chair of the Administrative Affairs 
Brown s uccced cd John committee Paula Higgins Hobinson, who stepped down due The Benefits committee also to an illness. updated the Senate on their 
Jacqueline Brogan wa.c; appoint­progress and announced plans to ed to Brown's pre-meet with retirees vi<JUs position, chair. to discuss issues of the Academic and concerns
"There is no great
Affairs eommittec. regarding health 
The Academic opposition to benefits for Affairs committee publication of retirees. discussed the The Student
[TCE's] as long as
library budget, Affairs committee
faculty concerns
spncilically the loss will participate in of significant jour­are met." an Academic nal subscriptions. Council ad hoc "I'm really committee to con­
Jay Brandenberger
stunnml at the loss sider student pro­
chairman
of online services posals for changes that could be made Academic Council in the format of cheaper, but aren't ad hoc committee Teacher Course being recognized by Evaluations. tho University as Committee chair legitimate," said Jay Brandenberger Brogan. "If they want us to be said that early feedback suggests tlw best of the best. then we have that faculty members wish to to have those journals." honor student concerns while 
The Administrative Affairs com­keeping facuJty issues in mind. mittee announced that it would "There is no great opposition to present revisions to the grievance publication [of Teacher Course procedure resolution at the Evaluations) as long as faculty Senate's next meeting. concerns arc met," he said. 
The committee plans to consid­er faculty complaints regarding the newly formatted letter being Contact Beth Erickson at sent to tenure candidates in the berickso@nd.edu 

l;a1l_you 
STUMP THE PRIESTS? 
Join us for the last program of the 
semester on Wednesday~ December 
3rd, to hear Fathers J. Steele & Kevin 
Russeau attempt to answer aU those 
questions you've always had about 
Catholicism but have never had the 
chance to ask. 
'JirmJ iton. , 
-Fr. Kevin 
TH E 

10-11:30pm Legends Club Side Special Food Free Soft Drinks Cash Bar 
BROUGHT iO YOU BY CAMPUS MIN ISTRY 


IiI I • I •.. I: J I •. I; ' I' 
.-------------·-­
--~~---~ --~ 
page4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
Berg01an 
continued from page 1 

society, replacing the accepted 'he' and 'she' with 'ze.' while 'his' and 'her' were replaced with 'hir.' 
"It's not that I'm against pro­nouns," Bergman said, "as long as people understand what my gender is. I definitely use pro­nouns as a teaching tool ... I enforce pronouns when I feel it's useful for people to talk about the concept of non-standard gender." 
Bergman was asked after the performance to define non-stan­dard gender, and the use of the word 'queer' throughout the monologue to identify people who identified themselves as non­homosexuals. 
"The handy thing about the word 'queer' is that it's the least descriptive and the least proscrip­tive word we have," Bergman said. "Using the word 'queer' to describe a non-standard set of sexual behavior and desires is a way to describe something that is not only a sexual orientation, but also a cultural orientation." 
Bergman went on to recount something that a "smart friend" once said. 
"I use it whenever I can: 'To be queer is to pursue your harmless heart's desire in a society that will punish you for it,"' Bergman said. "Queer, for me, is also describing the cultural and political orienta­tion that goes along with being 
Letters 
continued from page 1 

to sit down and write such nice, thick letters," Artz said. 
Monday evening the council held the first all-campus event to create cards and letters for the troops, Pillar said. The evening generate·d 25 Christmas cards. 
Artz, whose boyfriend is com­mander of the all-male Alpha Company, has been in contact with the company since they received the first letters. The letters are distributed around non-standard in many ways." ... to make sure we are staying In a talkback session with audi­
Bergman said that the visit, within the boundaries of man or ence members after the perform­which used humor and personal woman." ance, Bergman discussed the dif­experiences to tackle a subject That is why, Bergman said, ferences between biology and not often addressed within the there should be more Ex Post gender, and the way in which confines of straight Papas. modem society often confuses the society, was part of "I want an Ex two. a concerted effort to "/ am totally in favor Post Papa cen­"People think that if they under­break down stereo­ofgender. What I am ter -I want Ex stand my genitals. they will types and provide Post Papa train­understand my gender," Bergman 
against is the bipolar 
the kind of support ing," Bergman said. "That is completely untrue. Bergman experi­gender system that said. "I want a Gender and sex are not the same enced while tackling says we are man lot of classes: thing. They are a product of soci­gender identity. The how to take care etal and cultural systems that
and woman.,, 
support of of the people classify people ... dependent upon Bergman's father you love . . . but their sexual organs and second­was the subject of 5. Bear Bergman mostly I want it ary sexual characteristics." much of the per­activist for the boys and Bergman's performance, 
formance. 

"I have no student loans, no dresses in my closet, and no doubt where my father is. Every day... being a father includes protecting, it includes supporting," Bergman said. "Meanwhile, my father is now the gay answer center for parents ... [His answer?] 'Just love your kid. Is she moral, decent, kind? Does someone love her the way your daughter deserves to be loved? Gay, straight-doesn't matter."' 
Others, Bergman said, were not as supportive. 
"It does make people some­times very uncomfortable," Bergman said. "I understand gen­der in this society very well. I am totally in favor of gender. What I am against is the bipolar gender system that says we are man and woman. People begin to police their behaviors and their desires 
the camp before being posted for all to see, she said. 
Alpha Company troops plan to respond to the students to show their appreciation, Artz said. 
The council has placed fold­ers at each residence hall's front desk to collect additional cards. Guidelines for sending cards are also in the folders. Cards will be collected until Dec. 7. 
"We all know how excited we are to get mail in college," Pillar said. "Just think how excited troops are to get it." 
Contact Michelle Eggers at 
egge2272@saintmarys.edu 


NEVER STOP EXPLORINGm 
A thick ~eece coat is perfectfor winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® 

~fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am -g:oo pm Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 


girls who need unprecedented on Notre Dame's 
us ... It's not like campus, was sponsored by a you don't need each other. The number of on-and off-campus soil nourishes the roots, but the groups. Organizations such as roots hold the soil together." OutreachND and the Psychology Club joined with such academic institutions as the sociology and psychology departments, among many others, to bring Bergman's performance to campus. 
Bergman said that the perform­ance, based on years of activism and personal advocacy, is brought to campuses and other venues to elicit a change in the way people with non-standard sexual orienta­tions are viewed and treated. 
"I feel like people should be able to express themselves in gendered ways ... completely regardless of our cultural con­structs of man or woman," Bergman said. "Society should change to accept you the way you are." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
Wish someone could join you in Notre Dame, Indiana? 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. 
If you have arelative or friend who would like 
to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross College-we're right next door to Notre Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. 


Give us acall at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission. 
HOLY CROSS 
s=Ns:e~a~~~~* 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 

NewGJJUrseforSpdng2004-Register Now! 
"~·~,t.=~lll!~ ~ifferent?''
5 
1,$ C(e~Jt$, A$$ibl~d ~~adih~$ &Oi$cus$ion" No·Exams or Term Paper 9t.ectutes~Frioa!~ 1Q~40am.,.12:10pm, beginning January 16th · •--··. ~orC:JioAyqit!?rium; M~ndb";~ ¢qUegeqt(3y~iness
..... ·,•··.·· ,··,,,··.··..·......·.·.·.·.······:·:·:····-·.·:·..·•·•·.·.·.·.·.. ··.. · ........ ·.... ·.·.···. . ....... 
This timety hew lecture senesis designed for male and female students.alike, examining the "truths and myths•' aboutwomen ln leadership positions. Aprestigious group of speakers will offer theirperspectives and insights on what it's like to be awoman leader and what it's like to work with and for one. 
. ·:.··-~ 


Scfled1Jiegspeakers include~.­
Dr. P~ql¢tte .•R.•G~rkovich, Catalyst, Inc.... Dr.)§lfla.Matth?\'fSfBoulder· Quanfl.lm Ventu~$$ · Roxanne•Martidct, Hkms Alternatives, LLc··. 
· • Kathy Mendoza, formerly of Network Appliance 
• 
Danielle Boucree, entrepreneur 

• 
Sara Martinez Tucker, Hispanic Scholarship Fund 

• 
Zein Nakash, SuperCiubs International 

• 
Muffett McGraw, Notre Dame Women'sBasketball 


Visit www.nd~edU/""eba/wom.enleading for more information. 

·······~;NRQ~~ME~t AND C9URSER.EQUIREMENTS 'Women Leadhig: ls.lt r:li~~tent?;~ ~~~t~~ as BA<~2$ and MBA·525; isopen to any Notre Qq(ne or §afpt Mary's Styq~nt via f.lAR;t. There are no prerequisites to enrollment. See 
··your aca(ieQ'liP adyi~orci(yqqr g~partmeot ~hair for~ditional detait 
: ..... :.· . . . 
You a=·~~qt~d td a~i~~~~~~~ l~ctures, complete assigned readings, and be prepared· to 
engage speakers. ·This is a~satisfactory/Unsatisfaotory" course with.no more than one 
verifiect excused aq~nc¢ ~9 rec~jy(ta grade of "Satisfactory/'· There are·no examinations .and rio termpape~ requir~filents. 
·. ·· · · ' 

.·.:,.·. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Russia against Kyoto Protocol 
MOSCOW -In what would be a mortal blow to the accord aimed at halting global warming, a top Kremlin official said Tuesday that Hussia won't ratify the Kyoto Protocol limiting greenhouse gas emissions because it will hurt the country's economy. 
The United States rejected the accord for the same reason. Without Moscow, the proto­col cannot come into effect even if approved by every other nation because only Russia's industrial emissions are large enough to tip the balance. 
The pollution cuts required by the treaty would slow the economic growth that President Vladimir Putin has made a major priority. said top adviser Andrei Illarionov. 
"In its current form, the Kyoto Protocol places significant limitations on the economic growth of Hussia." Illarionov told reporters in the Kremlin on the sidelines of Putin's meeting with European business leaders. "Of course, in its current form this protocol can't be ratified." 
Loyalty to Hussein declining 
BAGIIIJAD. Iraq -Workers began demol­ishing gigantic bronze busts of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad on Tuesday, while U.S. troops to the north arrested at least 20 insurgents in a raid -both moves aimed at stamping out loyalty to Iraq's ousted regime. 
Iraqi police said a senior former member of Saddam's elite Hcpublican Guard was among those captured in Ilawija, 155 miles north of Baghdad. However, the U.S. troops failed to catch the target of the raid -lzzat Ibrahim ai-Douri, considered a key planner of attacks against U.S. troops. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Court debates warrant serving 
WASHINGTON -After knocking, police don't have to wait longer than 20 seconds before breaking into the home of a drug sus­pect, a unanimous Supreme Court ruled Tuesday in a case involving a man who said he needed more time to get from the shower to the door. 
LaShawn Banks emerged soapy and naked to find masked, heavily armed officers searching for drugs in his Las Vegas apart­ment in 1998. His case gave the court its first opportunity to say how long police must wait before breaking into a home to serve a war­rant. 
The court didn't set a specific standard but said the brief delay in the Banks case was long enough. Any more time would give drug suspects an opportunity to flush evidence down the toilet. 
Boeing scandal affects Pentas;[on 
WASHINGTON -The Pentagon will ttelay plans to acquire 100 air refueling tankers from Boeing in light of a sca:ndal at the aero­space giant that has led to the dismissal of two executives and the resignation of Chairman and CEO Phil Condit. 
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz said the Pentagon's internal auditor will examine whether the conduct of the two executives had any negative impact on the contract to lease 20 tankers and buy another 80. 
INDIANA NEWS 

Turkeys return to Portage 
POHTLAND -One of the greatest success stories in wildlife restoration in United States history may come soon to a forest or field ncar you. 
Officials from the Indiana Division of Fish and Wildlife are currently evaluating parts of cast central Indiana -including Jay, Blackford, Handolph and Adams counties ­for wild turkey habitat. 
Turkeys from other locations in Indiana. most likely southern Indiana, could then be trapped and relocated to areas where wild populations no longer exist. 
Man arrested for kidnapping 
Alfonso Rodriguez in custody for the alleged kidnapping ofNorth Dakota student 
Associated Press 

GRAND FOHKS, N.D. ­A man described by authorities as a predatory sex offender was arrested and charged with kidnap­ping in the disappearance of a college student. But authorities said Tuesday the young woman was still missing. 
Dru Sjodin, 22, a University of North Dakota student from Pequot Lakes, Minn .. vanished Nov. 22 after leaving her job at the Victoria's Secret at Columbia Mall in Grand Forks. 
"Dru. we will find you," Grand Forks Police Chief John Packett said at a briefing Tuesday. "With the arrest of Alfonso Rodriguez Jr. last night, this investi­gation has only reached the 50-yard line. As addi­tional charges and infor­mation comes available, we will not be satisfied or comforted until such time as we find Dru." 
Rodriguez. 50, was arrested Monday in Crookston. Minn., about 30 miles from Grand Forks, where he lives, police said. He had been expected to appear in court Tuesday, but officials said the appearance would be delayed until Wednesday morning. Court documents in the case were sealed. 
Authorities declined to 
. discuss what led them to Rodriguez, other than to say they had probable cause to believe he was in the mall parking lot the day Sjodin disappeared and to note it is standard to look at known sex offenders in such investi­gations. They declined to say whether he was coop­erating. "Our entire focus on this is in finding Dru," Grand Forks County state's attor­ney Peter Welte said. "This is by no means the end. This is a marathon and not a sprint." Authorities issued a plea for at least 1,000 volun­teers to search for Sjodin Wednesday in Grand Forks County and in Polk County, Minn., where Crookston is 

located. Property owners in the two counties were asked to search their land. 
Sjodin's father and brother spoke directly to their sister. 
"Honey, we will find you," her father, Allan, said. And her brother, Sven, added: "I know we are just around the corner from you right now. We love you. Keep strong." 
Rodriguez has a history of sexual contact and attempted kidnapping with adult women, and has used a weapon in at least one assault, according to a Minnesota Department of Corrections summary of his criminal history posted on the agency's Web site. 
His past offenses require that Rodriguez be regis­tered as a predatory offender, the department said. 
Authorities said Sjodin (pronounced sha DEEN) may have been abducted while talking to her boyfriend, Chris Lang, on a cell phone after leaving work the afternoon of Nov. 
22. He called her room­mate, saying he heard Sjodin say something like, "Oh, my God," before the phone went dead. During a second call a few hours later, there, was only the sound of static and num­bers being pressed, he said. 
The case had drawn more than 1,300 volun­teers who have searched the area without success. In addition, about 30 FBI agents, along with investi­gators from 20 different agencies in three states and the Canadian province of Manitoba, were working on the case. A $140,000 reward was offered. 
Neighbors of Hodriguez said a town meeting was held in May to inform them about his release from prison. They said he lived with his mother, Dolores. No one answered the phone at the home Monday night. 
Sonja Thygeson, who lives about four houses down from Rodriguez and his mother, said she's never seen him do any­thing wrong, but took pre­cautions anyway. 
"I'm a widow and I'm older, and I was scared, so I had my son-in-law come over and install a motion light after he (Rodriguez) moved in," Thygeson said. 
Another neighbor, Milton Stave, said "there were a lot of frightened people around" when Rodriguez returned to the community. 
Ohio highway shootings connected 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Twelve shoot­ings along a five-mile stretch of inter­state this year are connected, includ­ing one that killed a woman, police said Tuesday. 
Four of the shootings -three at vehicles and the one that broke an elementary school window last month -were from the same gun, Franklin County Sheriff's Chief Deputy Steve Martin said. 
Although ballistics tests could not link the remainder of the shootings along Interstate 270, investigators said they "are comfortable" saying all 12 are connected, he said. He would not elaborate. 
The shootings began in May along Interstate 270 in southern Columbus. On Nov. 25, 62-year-old Gail Knisley was struck by a bullet that pierced the side of the car she was in. Many previous shootings have been report­ed since then. 
Authorities, who have received more than 500 tips, would not specu­late on whom the shooter might be and would not release the type of weapon. 
"Collectively, we think it's not good for us to put that information out," Martin said. 
Local businesses have established a $10,000 reward for information lead­ing to an arrest. 
Investigators on Monday linked the Nov. 11 shooting at Hamilton Township Elementary School to the others -making it the 12th shooting police announced in the case. 
The school in Obetz is about two miles from the freeway. Superinten­dent Bill Wittman said he believes the shooting was not meant to harm any­one because it happened overnight. 
A house was shot at Tuesday near the freeway that circles Columbus, but investigators have not linked it to the other shootings, Martin said. 

Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Supreme Court weighs religious scholarships 
Associated Press  major because state officials  program practices the plainest  spend money.  studying other fields. Only his  
deemed it an unconstitutional  form of religious discrimina­ Justice Stephen Breyer told  chosen field was excluded, his  
WASHINGTON-The  Sup­ blending of church and state.  tion,"  Solicitor  General  Olson that the Supreme Court  lawyers said. Davey's backers  
reme Court justices appeared  "It's treating religion differ­ Theodore Olson told the jus­ could force  a vast reordering  say  that  violated  the  
deeply divided Tuesday in a  ently  from  non -religion,"  tices during a lively hourlong  of government spending if it  Constitution's guarantee that  
church-state case involving a  Justice  Antonin  argument  ses­ sides with Davey.  people may worship freely.  
college student who lost his  Scalia  told  sion. "The clear  A broad ruling that Davey  Davey continued his school­ 
taxpayer-funded scholarship because he chose to major in theology. In a case with implications  Washington's lawyer, Narda Pierce. "You can study anything  "You can study anything you like and get it  and unmistak­able message is that religion and preparation for a  had a constitutional right to the scholarship money would mean government would have to be careful not to exclude  ing without the financial aid. So, Justice John Paul Stevens asked, how did loss of the money prevent Davey from  
for President Bush's plan to allow more church-based organizations to compete for  you like and get it subsidized, except religion. Why does  subsidized, except religion. "  career in the ministry is disfa­vored."  religious programs or organi­zations in many areas, such as government contracting and  practicing his religion? "He practices it at a price," Olson replied.  
government money, the admin­ that  not  violate  Several justices  medical  programs,  Breyer  "He practices it without a  
istration's top Supreme Court  the principle of  Antonln Scalia  seemed skeptical,  said.  subsidy," Stevens shot back.  
lawyer argued it was improper for Joshua Davey to lose the  neutrality?"The  Bush  Supreme Court justice  suggesting that the country has  "The implications of this case are breathtaking," Breyer said.  As often happens, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor seemed  
Promise Scholarship he was  administration  long  had  a  That "sense  of doom"  is  to be in the middle. She closely  
awarded  by  the  state  of  backs  Davey, arguing that  hands-off policy when it comes  unwarranted, Olson assured  questioned lawyers on  both  
Washington.  states cannot discriminate  to the training of clergy and  Breyer.  sides about the case's similari­ 
The scholarship was rescind­ against religious education.  that states have considerable  Davey qualified for the schol­ ties to the emotional debate  
ed after Davey declared his  "The Promise Scholarship  leeway in choosing how to  arship along with students  over school vouchers.  

Suspected terrorist gets lawyer access 
Pentagon announces that U.S.-born suspect Hamdi will be allowed full lawyer, trial rights 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Reversing course, Pentagon officials have decided to allow a U.S.-born ter­rorism suspect access to a lawyer, the Defense Department announced Tuesday. 
The Defense Department will make arrangements over the next few days for a lawyer to visit Yaser Esam Hamdi "subject to appropriate security restric­tions," a Pentagon statement said. Hamdi is being held as an "enemy combatant," a designa­tion the Bush administration says denies him rights to a lawyer or a trial. 
The Supreme Court is consid­ering whether to hear an appeal from a public defender, Frank Dunham, who challenged had been born in Louisiana and therefore is a U.S. citizen. 
The Pentagon statement said that allowing Hamdi access to a lawyer "is not required by domestic or international law and should not be treated as a precedent." 
Officials decided to grant the access to a lawyer because Hamdi is a U.S. citizen and the military has fmished interrogat­ing him, the Pentagon statement said. Hamdi has not been charged with any crime. 
The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., reject­ed Dunham's appeal challenging his detention, ruling that the president has wide powers to detain enemy combatants during wartime. The Bush administra­tion argues that under internation­
Hamdi's detention "[Allowing lawyer al law, enemy and wanted to act combatants such
access] is not 
as his lawyer. as Hamdi can be
required by 
Dunham did not held until the war return telephone domestic or is over -which and e-mail mes­could be years, if
international law 
sages seeking not decades, away. 
and should not be
comment Tuesday Dunham and evening. treated as a other lawyers Dunham had precedent. " challenging the asked the Supreme detentions say they Court to decide if violate the prison­
Pentagon statement
the government ers' constitutional 
has unconstitu­tionally impris­oned Hamdi without access to attorneys and without charges being flled against him. 
The Pentagon announcement came one day before the Bush administration was scheduled to file a response at the Supreme Court to that appeal. 
Hamdi will be allowed to decide whether he wants to meet with Dunham, a military lawyer or a private attorney, said Air Force Maj. John Smith, a spokesman for the Defense Department's legal office. 
Hamdi is being held in the U.S. Navy brig in Charleston, S.C. He was captured in Afghanistan in November 2001. Originally taken to the prison for terrorism sus­pects in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, he was transferred to the United States in April 2002 after mili­tary authorities determined he rights to a lawyer 
and a trial. 

Hamdi is one of three terror­ism suspects being held at the Charleston brig as enemy com­batants. The other two ate Jose Padilla, a former Chicago gang member who is accused of plot­ting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb," and Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, a Qatari man accused of being an al-Qaida sleeper agent. 
PataQonia
excltiSively
ot --.~ 
Sminute~ 
from DU"T"i:::DST Campus ·1·1·Jii: 
Cold Weather Experts 


Call 259-2000 for more details 
SUV safety set to improve 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The auto industry is adopting stan­dards to improve the safety of vehicles in side-impact crashes over the next five years. 
The Washington-based Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which repre­sents 10 automakers, plans to announce the commitment Thursday. The standards are voluntary, but automakers are expected to implement them by 2009. 
Alliance spokesman Eron Shosteck said Tuesday that automakers adopted a set of performance standards that can be met through a variety of safety devices, including side-impact air bags and improved door beams and bumpers. 
Shosteck said most automakers will be able to meet the new standards by adopting side-and head-pro­tecting air bags. Automakers also may make design changes to the front of sport utility vehicles so there is a lesser height difference in collisions with passenger cars. 
The Alliance and the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, which is funded by insurers, promised to develop the voluntary standards in February in a letter to Dr. Jeffrey Runge, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
Some safety groups have argued against voluntary standards, saying they hold no weight because automak­ers can choose not to adopt them. 
Runge has said volunt:. y standards can bring safety enhancements to the market more quickly, since the gov­~rnment's regulatory process can require years. Shosteck said the Alliance planned to send the automakers' offer to Runge on Tuesday. 

Student Airfares Everywhere 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 9,853.64 -45.41 
} ones 
•~ Same: ~ Compo5ICe Volu~ 
1,614 205 "T 1,375,742,976 
AMEX 1,117.17 +4.6~­NASDAQ 1,980.07 -9.75 NYS£ 6,139.62 -7.73 S&PSOO 1,066.62 -3.51 NIKKEJ(Tol<yo) 10,410.15 0.00 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,378.90 -31.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.70 -0.18 25.66 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -0.91 -0.02 2.18 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.88 -0.11 12.40 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.56 -0.19 33.85 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.04 +0.087 4.347 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.21 -0. I I 5 1.4 7 10-YEAR NOTE -0.27 -0.12 43.80 S-YEARNOTE -0.81 -0.28 34.1 I 3-MONTH BILL +2.23 +0.20 9.17 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.83  30.78  
GOLD ($/Troy OL)  +0.80  404.60  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  0.00  88.625  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  108.7  
EURO  0.8262  
POUND  0.5776  
CANADIAN$  1.286  

IN BRIEF 
Investor Kerkorian takes stand 
WILMINGTON, Del. -Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian testified Tuesday that he never would have supported the deal creating DaimlerChrysler if it had not been portrayed as a "merger of equals" between the American and German automakers. 
Kerkorian, who is suing the company for more than $1 billion, said that in his dealings with former Chrysler chairman Robert Eaton there was no indication the Daimler Benz­Chrysler combination was anything else. 
"It was called a merger of equals .... It was always called a merger of equals," Kerkorian testified in federal court in the nonjury trial. 
Kerkorian. whose Tracinda Corp. was the largest Chrysler shareholder at the time of the merger, claims Daimler-Benz officials secretly organized a Chrysler takeover while proposing a merger of equals. 
As a result, Kerkorian claims, Daimler-Benz avoided paying him an acquisition fee of up to 62 percent on his stock when the companies merged. Kerkorian owned 14 percent of Chrysler's stock at the time. 
Invesco charged with fraud 
NEW YOHK -Regulators charged lnvesco Funds Group and its chief executive with civil fraud Tuesday in the rapidly expanding mutu­al fund trading scandal. 
In separate filings, New York State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Haymond Cunningham and his Denver-based company of defrauding shareholders by allowing cer­tain big clients to engage in market timing ­frequent, short-term trading that skimmed profits from long-term shareholders. 
lnvesco Funds denied any wrongdoing and said it would vigorously contest any charges against the company or its employees. A call to Cunningham's lawyer was not immediately returned. 
Hegulators are expected to seek the return of more than $160 million in ill-gotten gains, plus other damages and civil penalties. 
The investigation of the mutual fund indus­try has already resulted in complaints against other well-known fund companies, including Putnam Investments and the Pilgrim Baxter fund family. 
Steelworkers protest policies 
President visits Pittsburgh for fund raiser as workers rally to keep steel tariff 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­
President Bush may be fol­
lowing the course of least 
political resistance by lift­
ing the steel tariffs he 
imposed in March 2002. 
The duties on imported steel probably seemed like a good idea at the time. They enabled Bush, with an eye toward the 2004 electoral map, to extend a helping hand to a belea­guered major U.S. industry. Since then, however, the tariffs have turned into a huge policy headache for him both at home and abroad. 
By ending the tariffs, as is widely expected, Bush risks angering steel makers and their workers in vital electoral states including Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indi­ana and West Virginia. 
But analysts suggest leaving them in place could risk even more by sparking a global trade war and unleashing punitive duties against a range of American goods from yet another set of battleground states. 
Such a trade war could threaten the fledgling U.S. eco'nomic recovery and squelch the recent stock market rally. 
The controversy is cast­ing a shadow over Bush's turers, including the auto industry workers. The The president and his top fund-raising visit Tuesday industry, and their con­United Steelworkers of aides overestimated the in Pittsburgh, where one of sumers. That's important America union has political advantages of the his hosts will be Thomas J. in auto-making Michigan, endorsed Democrat Dick tariffs and underestimated Usher, chairman and chief another expected 2004 Gephardt for president. the downside, even some executive of U.S. Steel battleground, where Bush Internationally, the tariffs Republican advisers sug­
Corp. Administration offi­went on Monday. have become a source of gest privately. cials said Monday that "The political benefits, to friction with countries like The World Trade Bush has not made a deci­the extent that they exist­Britain, Italy, Spain and Organization ruled last sion on the tariffs, but ed, are water under the Japan that are supporting month that the tariffs are principal aides have rec­bridge. And the political the United States in Iraq. illegal. Bush has until Dec. ommended that they be costs have been mounting," They've also tarnished 10 to act or risk retaliatory removed. said Brink Lindsey, a trade Bush's credentials as a free tariffs beginning Dec. 15. 
Among the American expert at Cato Institute, a trader. "A trade war would be products targeted by the Washington think tank. The dispute was an irri­very hard on the U.S. econ­European Union, Japan ''I'm sure the administra­tant during Bush's trip last omy, particularly at a time and others if the steel tar­tion will try to make month to Britain, where when it's still very l'ragile," iffs should stay: orange lemonade out of the British Prime Minister Tony said Mark Zandi, chief juice from Florida, nuts lemons here. But ultimate­Blair raised the subject economist at Econo­from California, apparel ly the decision focused "not once, not twice, but my.com, a research and from North and South overwhelmingly on choos­three times," according to consulting firm in West Carolina, rice from ing the lesser of two evils Bush's count. Blair is under Chester, Pa. Arkansas and apples from from a domestic political mounting criticism for fail­"The global economic the Pacific Northwest. perspective," Lindsey said. ing to get more in return costs would be too great 
The tariffs also are hurt­It's not as if the tariffs from the United States for for the administration to ing steel-using manufac-have won over many steel his help with Iraq. risk." 

Disney CEO criticized by staffers 
mission. Gold, singled out Eisner and his man­
Associated Press 

But odds are that Eisner, credited agement style as the main factors in 
LOS ANGELES -With two once­with turning a sleepy theme park the decline of Disney's fortunes over strong allies turning on him, Michael company and also-ran movie studio the past seven or eight years. Eisner's micro-managing style of into a major media conglomerate, "You had a very successful first 10 leadership at the Walt Disney Co. is will keep his job at least until his years at the company in partnership again getting scrutinized. contract expires in 2006. with Frank Wells, for which I salute 
Still, industry experts say Eisner "Mr. Eisner did a very good job for you," Roy Disney wrote in his resig­may hold what Disney needs to a long time for the company," said nation letter Sunday. weather a difficult period and also Harold Vogel of Vogel Capital "But, since Frank's untimely death what will help him survive the latest Management in New York. "He now in 1994, the Company has lost its challenges to the chief executive's has stronger board and governance focus, its creative energy and its her­position he took in 1984. procedures than he ever had before, itage." 
Roy E. Disney and Stanley Gold which would mute complaints of Wells died in a helicopter crash. have called on Eisner to resign, say­institutional holders, and institutions Eisner is famous for managing ing he is to blame for a tumbling are not clamoring for him to leave." every aspect of Disney's business, stock price, embarrassing manage­In resigning their posts on Disney's from approving carpet patterns in ment missteps and a focus on short­board of directors this week, both hotels to commenting on TV and term profits over the company's core Roy Disney, nephew of Walt, and movie scripts. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Page 8 Wednesday, December 3, 2003 

This was a holiday to remember 
This last Thanksgiving holiday is one that I will not soon forget-at least not in the span of the next 24 hours because I went from seeing America at its best to America at its worst. 
To be perfectly 

Joe Licandro
honest, last Thursday was shaping up to be 

The Licandro 
just like any other turkey day. Like Non-Factor every other American, I planned to stuff myself to the gills with corn pudding, mashed potatoes, pumpkin pie and all the other great Thanksgiving fair. After about three, four or maybe even five trips through the family buffet line with my stom­ach on the verge of exploding, I would finally say enough is enough. Now weighing 10 pounds heavier than the day before, it was time for the only exercise of the day. Somehow I would muster the energy to get up from my chair at the dining table, walk 10 feet 
to lie down on the couch and then let the tryptophan kick into high gear. 
There is nothing like falling asleep in front of the Dallas Cowboys game. Only this year was different; this year my favorite holiday was a little more special than usual. Instead of falling asleep, I stayed awake flipping between all the major news networks hoping to catch footage from President Bush's historic visit to Iraq. I probably watched it 50 times ­President Bush popping out from behind the stage at the military bar­racks in Baghdad to surprise the U.S. troops eagerly awaiting their Thanksgiving dinner. Seeing him actually sit behind the buffet line and serve the troops their turkey is what makes our nation truly unique. While he might hold the highest office in the land, George W. Bush is no better or worse than any other American. 
Like him or not, you have to respect President Bush for putting himself in harm's way to thank the troops for their bravery and sacrifice. No, the President was not on the front lines like the troops he sent to Iraq who confront violent threats every single day. However there is still a tremen­dous amount of risk involved in suc­cessfully carrying out this secret mis­sion. As the tragic events from this past month have painfully reminded us. the security situation in Iraq remains shaky. The evil terrorists crawling in Iraq could have potential­ly fired a missile at Air Force One as it landed on the runway at Baghdad International Airport or attacked the military envoy escorting President Bush to the marine barracks. 
The bottom line is that President Bush did not have to travel to Iraq. Contrary to Will Ferrell's brilliant impersonations from Saturday Night Live a few years back, "W" is not a robot who just follows orders when fellow shoppers knocked her to the floor in a mad rush to buy a $29 dollar DVD player. A short time later. paramedics found VanLester lying unconscious on top of the prized DVD Player. 
After the incident, Linda Ellzey told the press how other shoppers remained completely oblivious to her fallen sister's condition. "She got pushed down, and they walked over her like a herd of elephants." Ellzey said. 
While this incident in no way negat­ed the power of Thursday's historic events. it unfortunately captured what is wrong with America. In some ways. it is almost comical that grown 
adults would act like 
little children fighting 
from his father. We now live in aculture ·over a toy. But truthful­Karl Rove, Dick ly, it is downright 
that ha$ grown so
Cheney, Donald pathetic. We now live in Rumsfeld or his materialistic that a culture that has dog Barney. The people actually risk grown so materialistic decision was that people actually 
their lives shopping for 
entirely his own. risk their lives shop­
This was not just Christmas presents. ping for Christmas 
some outlandish political stunt to convince the American people to reelect him as his harshest critics have suggested, but a genuine way for President Bush to express his grati­tude and to rally the American people behind the troops finishing the job in Iraq. 
If the trip helped him politically, then so be it. But the way things are going with a resurgent economy, last week's passage of a Medicare reform bill, and a Democratic Party ripping apart at the seams. President Bush does not seem to need a whole lot of help these days. Who would not want a President willing to throw himself into the fray to stand alongside the troops he has called upon to fight America's war against terror? 
All of the warm sentimental feelings from Thursday's unforgettable Thanksgiving were dampened the next day when I learned about an unfortunate incident at a Wal-Mart in Orange City, Florida. According to news reports, 41 year-old Patricia Van Lester sustained a concussion presents. Admittedly, 
visiting the malls the day after Thanksgiving has become a holiday in and of itself for many Americans, but you should not have to wear a helmet to feel safe at Wal­Mart. 
Not to get sappy, but I fear that peo­ple have forgotten that Christmas is a religious holiday. I am no theologian, but I am pretty confident that people biting and scratching each other to buy Christmas presents was not what Jesus had in mind as a way for people to celebrate his birthday. 
Despite this incident, I still remain hopefully optimistic that the Christmas spirit still hides somewhere in America today. It just might take President Bush to dip into his bag of tricks again to find it. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political science major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jlicandr@nd. edu 
The views expresses in the column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of the Observer. 
News Andrew Thagard Claire Heininger Kate Gales 
Viewpoint 
Cheryl Barker 
IUustrator 
Pat Quill 

OBSERVER POLL 
The University is considering changing the CORE course. Which alternative do you prefer? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Until one feels the spirit ofChristmas, there is no Christmas. All else is outward display -so much tinsel and decorations. For it is not the tree, not the firelight's glow. It is the warmth that comes to the hearts ofmen when the Christmas spirit returns again." 
anonymous 

--------~-----------------------~------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 page 9 
Banning partial birth abortions 
Editor's note: Because the late-term abortion pro­cedure is a current political issue and some descrip­tions of it may contain graphic content and offensive language. the letters discussing this issue may con­tain such language as well. In order to foster an intelligent dialogue on this matter. this language must be included. Readers who might be offended by such language are cautioned. 
The new federal law banning "partial-birth abor­tion" will not stop a single abortion and it will proba­bly be struck down by the courts. So why did they enact it? 
Most abortions after 12 or 13 weeks are done by dilation and evacuation. The cervix, or entrance to the womb, is dilated, the (eta! sac is punctured and drained and the unborn child's head is crushed. The body is then dis­membered and removed with suction and forceps. Abortionist Martin Haskell developed an alternative, dila­tion and extraction, because "most surgeons find dismem­berment at 20 weeks and beyond to be difficult due to the toughness of fetal tissues" and because dilation and evac­uation can involve a risk of perforating the uterus. Dilation extraction is called "partial-birth abortion." 
In partial birth abortion, which is done after 20 weeks, the cervix is dilated to allow removal of the child's body ·except for the head. The abortionist uses forceps to deliver the baby feet first up to the head which is too large for the opening. He inserts scis­sors into the back of the baby's skull and opens the scissors to enlarge the hole. He inserts a suction tube and sucks out the brains. The empty skull then col­lapses enough to fit through the opening. The new law contains Congressional "factual findings" that "during (partial birth abortion] the child will fully experience the pain associated with piercing his or her skull and sucking out his or her brain." The Alan Guttmacher Institute reported this year that 2,200 partial birth abortions were performed in the United States in 2000. In 1996, 650 were performed. 
In Stenberg v. Carhart, decided in 2000, the Supreme Court struck down the Nebraska ban on partial birth abortion because it failed to allow par­tial birth abortion to preserve the "health" of the mother. "Health" includes mental and emotional 

Charles Rice 
Right or 
Wrong? 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Respect view-s of others 

Monday night, after studying all evening in a booth in the basement of LaFortune, I packed up my books and got up to leave. I glanced at the booth beside me, where two guys were hud­dled around a laptop screen. Despite their attempts to hide it, I had a clear view of the extremely explicit porno­graphic video they were watching. 
I quietly informed the two students that I found the material offensive and suggested that they had no business bringing such videos into public. Embarrassed, they muttered apologies. 
My question is: When did the objecti­fication and disregard for the dignity of the human body become so accepted that two guys have no qualms about viewing such material, albeit covertly, in the student center of a University where one might hope that women would be respected for their minds and characters, rather than objectified by two guys who get their kicks out of using images of women for their own selfish pleasure? 
Explicit material brought into the open constitutes sexual harassment under University policy, as !learned today during a conversation in the Office of Residential Life. No one, male or female, should have to view images whose content are offensive to them, whether they are in La Fortune or walking down a dorm's hallway. When I saw the video, my heart hurt, for although they were not objectifying me individually, I am a woman and felt personally offended by the use of a woman's body as an anonymous object. 
No human being should be used as a means to a selfish end. This issue has been addressed throughout history, in fact, I believe a civil war was fought over a hundred years ago in this coun­try over the question of whether a human being should be seen and used as an object devoid of personal dignity. 
No one is anonymous. The woman in the video had parents. She was some­one's daughter, maybe someone's sis­ter. What if she were your sister? Or your daughter? 
Forgive me for daring to mention something religious on a Catholic cam­pus, but it is the season of Advent, when Christians await the celebration of Christ's incarnation, a testament to the dignity of the human body. Let us take this occasion to remember the respect and love which we owe to every human being. 
Erin Griswold senior Pasquerilla Easr Hall Dec. 2 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Jay-Z says goodbye 
By KENYATTA STORIN Scene Music Critic 
Widely regarded as one of the best in rap ever, the self-proclaimed king of rap, Jay-Z, claimed that he is leaving the throne, despite being at the peak of his career. Love him or hate him, for years no one else in rap has garnered the affection of both the public and critics as well as Jay-Z. While it remains to be seen whether The Black Album is truly Jay-Z's last record ­and likely, it isn't-it is clearly meant to be a goodbye album of sorts. 
Unlike previous records, The Black Album is an entirely Jay-Z affair. Gone are loads of guest rappers and female pop hooks, which will likely please hip­hop fans that generally find Jay-Z too pop for their tastes. The decision to go strictly solo works to Jay-Z's advan­tage, allowing him to showcase his lyri­cal prowess. He clearly feels like he has nothing left to prove on "What More Can I Say," sampling Russell Crowes' audacious "Are you not enter­tained!?" speech from Gladiator and later following with the boast, "Pound for pound I'm the best to ever come around here." 

Cleverly implementing the names of all his albums in the chorus of the Eminem-produced "A Moment of Clarity," J ay-Z defends himself for 
changing his music for money and 
popularity: "If skills sold, truth be told, 
I'd probably be lyrically, Talib Kweli I 
Truthfully I wanna rhyme like 
Common Sense I But I did five mill'-I 
ain't been rhymin like Common since." 
And even though he claims he is 
quitting rap, he maintains on his con­
cluding track, "My 1st Song," that his 
love for rap is still as strong as it ever 
was: "The song that I sing to you it's 
my everything I Treat my first like my 
last, and my last like my first I And my 
thirst is the same as when I came." 
But as good as his rhymes are, Jay-Z spends a little too much time focusing on himself. Rap has always been about self-promotion and boasting, but that is no excuse for the lack of variety in Jay-Z's subject matter, which hurts the overall longevity of the album. Thankfully, the only true lyrical mishap is the corny, autobiograph­i c a 1 "December 4th," which is bogged down by mundane anecdotes from his 
mother, Gloria Carter. Nevertheless, missing are a few more varied tracks like the party jam "Dirt Off Your Shoulders" by Timbaland, or the vibrant Rick Rubin produced story rap "99 Problems," where Jay-Z bitter­ly attacks the rap media, and contrives a clever anecdote about a run in with a racist police officer. 
As usual, Jay-Z is backed by an all­star cast of producers, and all of the aforementioned tracks have solid beats. However, other tracks are a bit more disappointing. The Neptunes ("Change Clothes," "Allure") in particu­lar fall under their capabilities as their beats are oddly tame, and lack the spice and flavor they normally have. 9th Wonder's "Threat" and DJ Quik's "Justify My Thug" have its moments, but are also not up to par with the rest of the album's production. 

On the whole, The Black Album is well done, but its narrow subject mat­ter and occasionally inconsistent pro­duction keep it from joining the same league as Jay-Z's classics, Reasonable Doubt and The Blueprint. But it is still a solid record, and there is no denying the skill of Jay-Z. After all, no other MC has had the staying power of Jay-Z. Since he debuted in 1996, Jay-Z has 
· witnessed many rappers rise and fall from superstardom, while remaining at the top. And as much as it looks like it, this is not the end for Jay-Z. Undoubtedly, either idleness, his love for rap, or maybe even jabs from his nemesis, Nas, will provoke him to return. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Beatles simply let it be 
By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 
The year was 1969, and as the tumul­tuous decade that had seen the clash of civil rights, the assassination of a presi­dent, the Summer of Love and the rise of Vietnam, came to a close, so was rock n' roll's greatest band nearing its end as well. 
Despite the forces pulling the Beatles apart, recording contracts and obligations were precariously holding the band together. In January of '69, the B~atles began sessions at London's 1\vickenham studios for an album tentatively titled Get Back. Too exhausted for the daunting task of reviewing the hours of studio record­ings, the Beatles s4elved the tapes and began work on a new album, Abbey Road. 
Over a year later, the Beatles called in legendary producer Phil Spector to edit the hours of Get Back tapes and produce what was to be their final album. Given free reign, Spector produced a hard-to-read album of contradictions. What had started as a "back to roots," raw Beatles sound was embellished with grand chorale and string orchestration. Although not over­joyed with the results, the Beatles were too engrossed in their legal battles to rework the album now titled Let It Be. Released as the band's swan song one month after their official break-up, Let It Be remained the final word from the Beatles for nearly 33 years. 
Now the year is 2003, and Paul and Ringo, with the blessings of Yoko Ono and the late George Harrison have had Let It Be stripped down to its origins and rebuilt into a new album titled Let It Be ... Naked. 
The result is a stellar collection of songs filtered to their core elements of rock n' roll -simply the Beatles and their instru­ments. There are no over dubbings or excessive productions as on the original album. The only addition is the keyboard­
ing of an old 
friend from the 

Beatles Hamburg days, Billy Preston. 
Although the title, Let It Be .. . Naked, sug­gests a sparse acoustic set, the album is far different from the Anthology series released in the 1990s. The producers, Paul Hicks, Guy Massey and Allan Rouse listened to the 32 reels of tapes, chose the best takes of each song, cleaned up the hisses and hums, and mixed each of the songs from scratch. The songs are found in a new line up with the short ditties "Maggie Mae" and "Dig It" removed from the album and the song "Don't Let Me Down" added. 

Upon listening to the new album, any Beatles' fan will be quickly struck by the obvious differences from the original song versions. The title track, "Let It Be," for example, differs from the 1970 version with a new clarity in both McCartney's vocals and piano and Preston's supporting keyboarding. Although the new version lacks the suspense of Ringo's drumming in the original, this is made up for by Harrison's spectacular guitar solo, which is brought forward with new emphasis and lucidity. 
The most strikingly different track on this album is "The Long and Winding Road." The 1970 version of this song was over-saturated with grandiose background orchestration that hid its core beauty. On this take, it is simply McCartney and his piano with subtle percussion accompani­ment and a supporting keyboarding solo in the middle. Shed of its lavish embellish­ments, the song is heard as McCartney had originally intended -a delicate bal­ance of grace and strength . 
An exciting and captivating listen for Beatlemaniacs and music fans alike, Let It Be ... Naked is the raw display of unsur­passed rock n' roll purity and talent that is essentially, the Beatles. Even with its posthumous release 33 years late, this album is yet one more testament to the Beatles as the greatest band in rock n' roll. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
Page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Blink 182 shows signs of maturity 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
When thinking of Blink 182, images of ncar-nude So-Cal punks performing songs with raunchy lyrics immediately come to mind. However, on the band's latest self­titled release, its fourth major-label album, these childish antics are noticeably absent. 
When describing this obvious change, singer/guitarist Tom DeLange told MTV, "We were young. We want to go out and break sh--and we grew up in Southern California, that's just kind of who we are, but at this point in our life, with this career, we love art, and we wanna create art that's developed from what we all learned 

By MATTHEW SOLARSKI 
Scene Music Critic 
Should the illustrious isle of our forefathers, Great Britain, ever find itself forced to restrict its exports to but two, please let them be cynicism and great music. With that said, let us now extend a hearty, red-blooded American welcome to Clearlake. On their latest offering, Cedars, the British rock outfit has achieved both par excellence. 
Clearlake came together relatively recently, consisting of lead singer, gui­tarist and principal songwriter Jason Pegg; guitarist and keyboardist Sam Hewitt; bassist David Woodward; and drummer James Butcher. 
These boys have crafted twelve superb tracks of it -all worthy of 
from being in a band for the past 11 years." 
A sure sign of the band's new-found maturity, Blink 182 eventually abandoned the working title of its recent release, Use Your Erection I and II, opting instead for the more conventional Untitled. Not only is this change a sign of maturity, it also sig­nals that something different should be expected from this album. 
With most songs addressing more adult themes, including romantic woe, depres­sion and loneliness, Blink 182's latest album has a much more serious tone than all previous releases, with the entire thing written in the vein of "Adam's Song," the track about suicide found on 1999's Enema ofthe State. 
Despite the apparent darkness of the album, an album that might even be described as "brooding," Blink 182 suc­ceeds in creat­ing a unique sound, one that still allows moments for rocking out, and one that is somewhat experimental for this band of pranksters. 

"Travis said it best when we very first started. Travis was like, 'Don't think of this as the next Blink-182 record -think of it as the first Blink-182 record,'" lead singer Mark Hoppus told MTV. "So we had this mindset that we weren't going to second­guess ourselves ... [or] worry if people are going to accept it or if it sounds like Blink­
182. If it was an idea that we wanted to pursue, we were gonna pursue it. And so we tried out all these different ideas and it was like a musical laboratory." 
This experimentation is certainly present on several of the new tracks, from the Pink Floyd-esque intro on "Asthenia" to the guest vocals provided by The Cure's Robert Smith on "All ofThis." 
Perhaps this experimentation is most evident during the heart-rending spoken word intro to "Stockholm Syndrome," in which an elderly woman recites a letter that Hoppus' grandfather wrote to his wife while fighting in World War II. This intro then leads into one of the hardest rock anthems included on the album, creating a nice juxtaposition of soft and hard sounds. 
Although Blink 182 will certainly receive a fair amount of criticism from fans for changing their sound and attempting to change their identity as a band, they must be praised for their efforts at experimenta­tion and their openness to try new things. This album may not be as light-hearted as previous releases, but Blink 182 has suc­cessfully created an album that appeals to the emotions in ways that were impossible on its other albums. 
Contact Emily Tum brink at etumbrin@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Cynical Brits Clearlake deliver a humdinger 
serious listening. Guitars ascend, crash and simmer. Eerie piano lines weave their way among brooding vocal harmonies. Smoldering bass­lines set the foundation for a concise but affecting lyrical parade. 
Only the cynical Brits can take a sunny aphorism like "keep smiling" ­from the track of the same name ­and twist it into a snide assault on the misrepresentation of one's true senti­ments. Pegg quips: "Keep smiling I It'll make things that much easier I Don't say how you really feel I You won't be helping anyone." 
A similar dark humor pervades "The Mind Is Evil," a string-adorned tune that could almost be the lead charac­ter's lamentation number in a musi­cal. Here, Pegg proclaims: "And some­times I think I if I killed off my mind I Then my heart and I I would be free." 
Not to wax opti­mistic for long, however, the singer quickly adds, "But some­how it knows I what I'm thinking about I And it's always I that one step ahead of me." Futilitarianism never sounded so good. 
Interestingly, the record in many ways echoes the cadences of the natural day. The opening track, "Almost The Same," bursts 
Cedar 
Clearlake 
Domino Records 


-
forth from the stereo like a rude awakening, only to instantly mollify any disgruntled sleeper with an uber­catchy, driving melody and harmo­nious vocals. The tracks that follow are decidedly more up-tempo and somehow daytime-oriented. Midway through the album, a ghostly locomo­tive rumbles in, heralding the arrival of night and the woozy number "Keep Smiling." From here on out, the tracks roll into one another, expertly evoking the many moods of the witching hour, from the exaltation of "Treat Yourself With Kindness" to the drunken waltz­ing of "Trees In The City." By the album's end, Clearlake has taken the listener on an aural journey that is not soon forgotten. 
Clearlake appears to be one of those rare bands whose approach seems wholly conventional and yet wildly innovative all at once. In this regard they recall American counterparts Remy Zero, however musically their style is more in tune with that of early Blur. Indeed, tracks like "There's No Other Way" would feel right at home among the poppier numbers on 
Cedars. 
If the album falters in any realm, it's lyrically, and even then only at forgiv­able intervals. At times it seems Clearlake is guilty of redundancy for the sake of rhyme, tacking on needless phrases for the sole purpose of scor­ing an easy phonetic match. A master pop songwriter can achieve rhyme, rhythm and melody while retaining the seamless flow of a narrative that actually goes places. And while Clearlake has not quite attained this, the band is well on its way, and these minor faults hardly detract from the sheer enjoyment of a listen to Cedars. 
All in all, the land across the pond does not disappoint, yet again. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
NBA 

Marshall and Rose propel Raptors over Sixers 

Dallas won despite shooting er with 2:42 left that boosted Associated Press only 41.7 percent from the field their lead to 97-90. After Jason and finishing 2-for-13 from 3-Terry missed a jumper, Redd 
PHILADELPHIA-Donyell point range. The Mavericks had grabbed the rebound and led a Marshall and Jalen Rose helped a season-high 63 rebounds, 19 two-on-one break, feeing the NBA's worst offense look more than the Wizards. Damon Jones for a layup and a much better. "We won by 25 so something nine-point lead. 
Marshall scored a season-high had to go right, but our energy Milwaukee was playing with­27 points and Rose had eight level wasn't as high as it's been out Toni Kukoc and Tim assists in their Toronto debuts to the last few games," Jamison Thomas, but used a 47-19 help the Raptors beat the said. "I don't know what it was, advantage in points from the Philadelphia 76ers 95-88 on but we didn't come out with the reserves to hand Atlanta its Tuesday night. effort we needed." second straight loss. Jones had 
Vince Carter added 21 points Steve Nash added 14 points 11 points and 10 assists off the and a career-high 12 assists as and Eduardo Najera had 11 bench. the Raptors, averaging only 78 points and 11 rebounds, both "Our bench guys were awe­points -reached 90 points for season highs, to help Dallas some, I can't say enough about just the fourth time this season. improve to 10-0 at home. them," Bucks coach Terry 
One day after finalizing a six­The Mavericks know they'll Porter said. "We were low in player trade that brought have to raise their game by numbers, but everybody had to Marshall, Rose and Lonny several notches on Thursday step up and play some extra Baxter from Chicago, Toronto night if they hope to protect minutes." led most of the way and had one their home court record against Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored of its highest shooting percent­the Los Angeles Lakers. 26 for the Hawks, the seventh ages of the season -47.2 per­"Sometimes you play as poor time in nine games he's had at cent -while scoring at least 20 as the team you're playing and least 20. Jason Terry recovered points in each quarter for the I thought that was the case from a 1-for-7 first half to finish first time this season. tonight," Mavericks coach Don with 23. 
"We have so many guys who Nelson said. "Some things may can stroke the ball, guys who have led to that. We know the 
Denver 115, Cleveland 103 
can draw double teams. We're Lakers are coming in. We have 
LeBron vs. Carmelo the
bound to score more points," to play better than that if we 
sequel had the same ending as
Carter said. are going to beat the Lakers." 
the original. 
Marshall was 10-of-14 from Larry Hughes had 12 points 
Carmelo Anthony scored 20
the field and Alvin Williams was and Brendan Haywood grabbed 
of his 26 points in the second
6-for-6. Rose shot just 3-for-10, a career-high 16 rebounds for 
half Tuesday night, leading the
but repeatedly found open the Wizards, who've lost five of 
Denver Nuggets to a 115-103
teammates while handling much six after their most lopsided 
victory over LeBron James and
of the ballhandling duties. defeat of the season. 
the Cleveland Cavaliers in a
"Sometimes when you go to a 
rematch of the NBA's top two 
new team, there could be jeal­
Milwaukee 106, Atlanta 94 rookies. 
ousy or guys don't want you to Dan Gadzuric joined a grow­Anthony was just 1-for-5 inshoot," Marshall said. "But they ing list of scorers who've taken the first half, but was 7 -of 11 in were telling me where to go so I advantage of the Atlanta the second to help Denver to itscould be open, and Vince was Hawks. sixth straight home win. Thetelling me to keep shooting it. It Dan Gadzuric? Yep, that's Nuggets (11-6) have won eightwas good that they had the con­right. of 10 overall and are off to ment. He hit a 3-pointer midwayfidence in us." 
He made all six of his shots their best start since 1989-90. Scalpers set up shop in the through, followed with a driv­Carter reached a career high and scored a career-high 15 James got off to a quick start, morning and a crowd of 19,610 ing layup and hit five of six free in assists by feeding Marshall points, helping the Milwaukee but struggled late in were at the game, giving the throws to finish with 10 pointsfor a 3-pointer with 2:47 left, Bucks beat Atlanta 106-94 on Cleveland's seventh straight Nuggets consecutive sellouts in the quarter.
giving the Raptors an 87-80 
Tuesday night. loss. The Cavaliers have lost 32 for the first time since March Anthony kept it going in thelead. 
Already this season, Vince straight road games -0-11 1996. fourth quarter, faking a pass to Carter and Allen Iverson have this season -tying for the About a dozen Denver set up a layup during a 10-0 Dallas 97, Washington 72 set season highs against the third-longest streak in league Broncos players were in atten­run that put the Nuggets up 92­The Dallas Mavericks easily Hawks, including a 50-point history. dance, including Shannon 81 midway through. He als_o overcame a bad shooting per­effort from Iverson on Saturday James finished with 19 Sharpe and Clinton Portis, who had a rebound slam after formance to rout the under­night. Gadzuric got his chance points, six rebounds and five wore Nuggets' jerseys at center James hit a 3-pointer on the manned Washington Wizards. in this one. assists, but forced several shots court. Colorado Avalanche star other end, and had a steal and 
Antawn Jamison scored 21 "I wasn't focusing on that," late and finished 6-for-19. Peter Forsberg also was at the layup to put the Nuggets up points and Michael Finley had he said. "I just wanted to pro­Denver won the first meeting game. 102-93 with five minutes left. 16 points and a season-high 12 duce as much as I could. I had 93-89 on Nov. 5, but the second Anthony didn't give them James started off well after rebounds in the Mavericks' 97-no fear." game didn't have the fanfare or much to get excited about being booed during introduc­72 victory over the Wizards on Michael Redd added 25 for the celebrities of the original. early, but got it going in the tions, but struggled after the Tuesday night. the Bucks, including a 3-point-Still, there was plenty of excite-third quarter. first quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer r.eserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- NOTICES  WANTED  .  COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 blocks from campus, 3 large bed- Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester and 2004-05 school year. Off street  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  
...ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com  Part time/Full time opportunity for honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce  FOR RENT  rooms, 2 full bath, washer and dryer, home totally remodeled, new appliances, two car garage, fur­nished. Need 3-5 students ($400  parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
or 800-838-8202.  internet based business. Contact:  ea.) for January. Need 5 students  stop in front of house, surrounded  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  waynew54@pronetglobal.com SMC alumna needs a babysitter for 3 children in my home in Granger (near UP Mall), Thursdays and/or  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525  ($400 ea.} for fall. 231-8823 nights. Large 5-6 bdrm home @ ND Ave & SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Walk to cam­pus.Off street parking. Recently  by other student housing, laundro­mat nex1 door (drycleaning also), basement available for s1orage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY .... Build your dream home nex1 to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too late! Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci- Fridays 1 Oam-1 pm. Must have own transp. 247-0690. FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED.  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  updated. Washer/Dryer. Lots of liv­ing space to spread out.Call Joe Crimmins:cell-574-514-0643 or home-574-273-0002  including new stove and refrigerator, large living room tor TV or entertain­ing, free trash removal. Call 289­4071.  info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Do it, now! Shutupl  
rossi.com. READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2­bedroom townhouse 1 0 minutes from campus. Approx. 1100 sq. ft.. For more information call katrina at 252-4663  Grad pre!. Share great condo. Furnished, own bdlbth, huge closet. Study, fireplace, prkg, walk to NDI $525 inc. utili 238-2368 FoR SALE  ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD)  Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill St).Available June2004.Basement w/washer-dryer.Convenient to downtown fun.Walk or ride to campus. On bus route. Contact Joe  TICKETS Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  Laughing time is ova'! There is someone in my house, eat­ing my birthday cake, with my family. Who spells it like that? Eight letters?  
LOST & FOUND  LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE.  1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT BOB 607-723­ Crimmins@ cell-574-514-0643 or home-574-273-0002  PERSONALS  Who are we kidding? The tie will come off at the SYS.  
FOUND: Two gift cards from local department store. Call1-7471 or stop in The Observer office in the basement of SDH.  ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED.FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net 3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND AND MALL. $1000/MO. 277-2176.  4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  I woke up in New York City from my sleep behind the wheel. Caught a train to Poughkypsee, and time stood still.  


." ' 
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels hold on at home in narrow victory over Illinois 


Icon Sports North Carolina forward Sean May posted a double-double against Illinois Tuesday night with 23 points and 14 rebounds. 
Associated Press 
GHEENSBOHO, N.C. -There were ice bags scattered all over the North Carolina locker room and players had a tough time getting their uniforms off. 
But boy, the pain felt so good for the 1Oth-ranked Tar IIeels on Tuesday night after an 88-81 vic­tory over No. 11 Illinois in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge. 
North Carolina remained unde­featnd with the victory, outlasting one of the nation's deepest teams bd1ind Scan May's 23 points and 14 rebounds -both career highs. 
"Hight now is one of those high moments in coaching that you really enjoy," Hoy Williams said. "If we play like this we've got a chance." 
May. sidelined most of last sea­son by a broken foot, was nearly unstoppable at times in the paint as Williams used just seven play­ers -two who were question­able with injuries -to improve to 4-0. 
"I grew up watching the Big Ten and it's always been the most physical conference in the country." May said. "We knew we had to match their physical play." 
May got plenty of help from Hashad McCants. who added 20 poinL'>, and Jawad Williams. The junior played with a hip pointer and had 18 points and 12 rebounds as all five North Carolina starters logged at least 31 minutes. 
"When you 'rc excited like that, playing in a big game, fatigue doesn't really play a part," .lawad Williams said. 
Meanwhile, Haymond Felton 

Hew York Stvle 17" Cheese Super Pizza 
$6.99 
Additional toppings 
$.75 each 

Toppings: Sausage, Pepperoni, Ham, Bacon, Chicken, Onions, Mushrooms, Tomatoes, Spinach, Broccoli, Olives, Peppers, Pineapple 
Limited time offer. see store for details. 
Deliverv available 6pm to 1am, 1davs aweek Domer 
call 631.2924 


At the Huddle Universitv of Notre Dame 574.631.2924 
shut down Illinois scoring leader Dee Brown, who missed his first six shots and didn't score until there was 17:36left. 
Brown had a chance to tie the score twice late with 3-pointers, but missed and finished 3-for-17 from the field for just eight points. 
"It was just one of those nights," said Brown. "Everything felt good, but they just didn't go down." 
Deron Williams led Illinois (3­

1) with 22 points, while Roger Powell added 20. 
North Carolina led 79-78 before Jawad Williams sank a follow shot and McCants hit a free throw. He missed his second from the line with 46.7 seconds left, but got the rebound and the Tar Heels closed out Illinois from the foul line. 
No. 18 Wake Forest 100, Indiana 
67 
Chris Paul is a natural scorer with an overwhelming desire to pass the ball. The freshman is learning how to balance both roles for No. 18 Wake Forest. 
Paul had a career-high 20 points, eight assists and five steals to lead the Demon Deacons to a 100-67 victory over Indiana in the ACC/Big Ten Challenge on Tuesday night. 
"He's a naturally deferential young man." coach Skip Prosser said. "I have spoken with him recently, telling him that he can score and he should look for his offense a bit more." 
Paul did in his best all-around game of his short career at Wake Forest (4-0). 
lie made his first five shots, and only missed on his sixth because A.J. Moye fouled him as he drove to the basket on a fast­break off his own steal. 
He did his best work in the first half, when he scored 15 points and had five of Wake Forest's 10 first-half steals. 
"Coach told me I must become a scoring threat," Paul said. "The first couple of games I wasn't try­ing to score and he told me it was going to turn into a 5-on-4 and teams would stop guarding me. So tonight I made a point to score." 
Eric Williams added a career­high 25 points, Vytas Danelius added 13 points, Justin Gray had 11 and Jamaal Levy had 12 rebounds for Wake Forest, which 
remained  unbeaten  in  five  
Challenge games.  
The  Demon  Deacons  also  

extended their streak to 19 straight home victories dating to last season and gave Prosser, the third-year coach, his 50th win at the school. 
Bracey Wright scored 27 points to lead Indiana (2-2). The Hoosiers lost for the frrst time in three Challenge appearances, making No. 5 Michigan State­which hosts No. 6 Duke on Wednesday night -the only unbeaten Big Ten team in the 5­year-old event. 
No. 12 St. Joseph's 84, San Francisco 52 
Jameer Nelson couldn't resist a half-court bounce pass when Delonte West was open on the fast-break. 
"That was probably the flashiest pass I'll ever make," Nelson said. "l like to keep it straight." 
Nelson scored 18 points and Dwayne Jones added a career­high 13 points in No. 12 Saint Joseph's 84-52 victory over San Francisco on Tuesday night. 
West and Chet Stachitas each scored 13 points and Pat Carroll had 11 for the Hawks . 
The Hawks (4-0) dominated from the outset, scoring the first 10 points and holding leads of 27-4 and 34-14 en route to a 46-18 halftime advantage. 
Nelson opened the game with a 3-pointer from the top of the arc and Carroll followed with one of his own two possessions later. The rout was on. as the Hawks made 12 of their first 18 shots. 
"We really put our foot on their throat and kept it there," Nelson said. "We were just hav­ing fun out there." 
No. 4 Missouri 70, Coppin St. 61 
Missouri survived its second straight scare, getting 16 points, six rebounds and three blocks from Travon Bryant in a 70-61 come-from-behind victory Tuesday night over Coppin State. 
The fourth-ranked Tigers (2-0) have won 29 straight home openers since losing to Southern Methodist on Dec. 1, 1973. They were 14-1 in the Hearnes Center last season and won this one despite allowing a 14-0 run in the first half. 
Arthur Johnson added 14 points and nine rebounds for Missouri, which was frustrated throughout by a zone defense, committed 19 turnovers and got an off-game from preseason All­
..-----------. 

enoJ7J10[lS
FLEECE 
Selecti:W• 

from DUT'i=l~ 
Campus 
Cold Weather Experts 

Coll259·1ooo for more detolls 
American Rickey Paulding. lie had seven points and seven turnovers. 
The Tigers trailed Coppin State (2-5) by eight points in the first half and seven after the break. Missouri won its opener by five points at Oakland (Mich.) on Saturday. 
Nicholas King scored 25 points and hit five 3-pointers for Coppin State after entering with an 8.5­point average. The losers, who also got 12 points from Jimmy Boykin, were 11-for-22 from 3­point range. 
A pair of free throws by Bryant put Missouri ahead to stay at 50­49 with 10:53 remaining. But the game wasn't secured until the Tigers scored nine points in a row for a 67-57 lead with 3:40 to go. The last five points came from freshman Thomas Gardner. 
No. 2 Florkla 102, Florida A&M 78 
Matt Walsh celebrated his 21st birthday Tuesday night with 15 points to lift No. 2 Florida to a 102·78 victory over Florida A&M. 
Walsh also had four rebounds and five assists and kept the Gators (3-0) perfect. the day after they climbed to the second spot in the Associated Press poll, and four days after their big 78-77 win over No. 7 Arizona. 
Florida's win came despite a 31-point effort from Terrence Woods, a former Tennessee play­er who moved to Florida A&M (0-4) before last season. It was the most an opposing player had 
scored at florida since 1989. 

Woods made nine 3-pointers, and when he hit one early in the second half. he cut Florida's lead to 43-34. 
Anthony Hoberson responded with 11 straight poinL'> in a 14-3 run to put the Gators back ahead by 17. Hoberson, who went just 4-for-13 in his season debut against Arizona, scored 16 points in a span of 4 1/2 minutes in the second half. 
--------~------­
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Jones to forego final season at Virginia Tech 
Associated Press 
Virginia Tech running back Kevin Jones will pass up his final season of college eligibili­ty to enter the NFL draft, his father and the team's running backs coach told The Associated Press on Tuesday night. 
"He's coming out," Thomas Jones said in a telephone inter­view from his Chester, Pa., home. Kevin Jones did not immediately return several messages left on his cell phone. but Virginia Tech called a news conference for Wednesday for the announcement. 
Coach Frank Beamer also did not return a message left at his office. but running backs coach Billy Hite said Jones' stature made his decision very easy. 
"I told him going into the season that if he was going to be a No. 1 draft pick, he need­ed to go," Hite said in an inter­view from him home, adding that he met with Jones and Beamer for several hours Monday and Tuesday. "It's a no-brainer." 
Jones, a 6-foot, 221-pound junior projected as possibly the top running back in the draft, has rushed for a school-record 
1.494 yards this season, aver­aging 5.6 yards for 265 carries. He has scored 20 touchdowns and caught 10 passes for 136 yards. 
"Next year could be even bet­ter, but I'd like him to take it to the next level and get better, and that's what he's going to do," Thomas Jones said, adding that the decision is the product of discussions that have been evolving throughout the season. 
"At one point during the sea­son we were saying top 10. If not that, then come on back," Thomas Jones said. "Then you start really thinking about it, and the chance of being a first­round draft pick is a great honor anywhere. When that's on the table with the chance of being injured, you just can't pass that by. It's time to move on." 
Jones said late in the season that he was unsure what he would do and wanted to wait until after the bowl game to decide, but his father said he's been pretty certain his son would make himself available for the draft since the middle of the season. 
"We started getting some pretty good feedback from sources we've got," he said. '"Continue to do this, continue to do that and things are going to look right.' 
"It's the fruit of all his labor." 

Earlier this season, Temple coach Bobby Wallace said he recruited Bo Jackson and played against Herschel Walker and that Jones fit into the same lofty category. 
"He's got the combination of size, strength, feet, cutback ability and pure speed," Wallace said. "You really have to defend the whole field with him and not overpursue, but when you can't overpursue, how do you catch him because he's so fast?" 
Jones' last game was one of his least productive as Virginia limited him to 75 yards on 25 carries, but Cavaliers coach AI Groh, a longtime NFL assistant and then head coach of the New York Jets for one season, agreed that Jones is an elite tailback. 
"He's head and shoulders the most elusive back that we've faced," Groh said. "He's got great lateral quickness, he's got a trememdous burst and he's got long speed. 
"When he gets through, ... you'll never see anybody catch 
h.
lm. " 
Jones was viewed by many as the nation's top high school tailback when he entered Virginia Tech in 2001, and he showed why right away. Playing mostly as a backup, Jones rushed for 957 yards and started the last four games, including the Gator Bowl. 
As a sophomore, with starter Lee Suggs back from an injury, Jones again was a backup and ran for 871 yards despite miss­ing almost two full games with a hamstring injury. His nine touchdowns included a 67 -yard run, his longest to that point. 
This season, with the starting job finally his, Jones blos­somed. He's rushed for at least 100 yards a school-record eight times in a nine-game span for the Hokies (8-4), and had a record 241 yards and four touchdowns in a 31-28 loss at Pittsburgh. 
One of his touchdowns against the Panthers came on an 80-yard run, a sprint down the sideline that showed off his breakaway speed. Against Boston College two weeks later, he showed even more, spinning away from a tackler just past the line and then bursting into for him to get on the field and the clear, easily outrunning the get the job totally to himself so secondary for a 62-yard touch­he could prove what type of down. running back he is," Thomas 

"It just took this time period Jones said. 
STUDENT APPRECIATION DAYS DECEMBER 4&5 8AM-10PM 
Stock up now on all ofyour ND gear! Receive an additional discount off any clothing or gift item. * 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone:(574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookslore.com 
•expires 12/5/03. Excludes textbooks, computer hardware and software, and professional reference. In store only. 

NFL 
Sanders speaks about departure from league 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Barry Sanders, one of football's smoothest backs. admits the way he left the Detroit Lions was awkward. 
During his first news confer­ence since his shocking retire­ment on the eve of training camp in 1999, Sanders said Tuesday, "The way it was done may have been a little clumsy." 
Sanders announced his retire­ment through a written state­ment released by his hometown newspaper, The Wichita Eagle. 
"Even had I retired in a more­graceful way, it still would've been taken the wrong way by a lot of people because I retired after 10 years," Sanders said. "The issue was not how I retired. but when I retired." 
Sanders did say he should have returned calls from former Lions coach Bobby Ross, who tried unsuccessfully to contact him before the 1999 season. 
"It took a long time to figure out what I wanted to do, and how I wanted to say it," said Sanders, looking as fit as ever in a sport coat, slacks and loafers. 
Sanders ran for 15,269 yards during his 10-year career with a crazy-legs style that thrilled fans and frustrated opponents. 
He walked away from the NFL with Walter Payton's rushing record well within reach. 
"At that time, I knew that I just didn't have it in me any­more to continue," said Sanders, who is eligible for elec­tion to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in January. 
Sanders, never comfortable talking to reporters, acknowl­edged he agreed to have a news conference solely to promote his book, "Barry Sanders: Now You See Him..." which was released this week. 
"It was probably good that I did the book, because I'm not sure when or if something like this would've occurred," Sanders said of his talk with reporters. 
Sminute~ 
{!om CUTPCii'T Campus s or s 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
League extends Browns' Green's suspension 
Green's original suspension for an alcohol-related violation lengthened indefinitely 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND-The Cleveland Browns took a big risk two years ago when they drafted William Green. Is the troubled running back worth another one? 
That's the dilemma facing the club after learning Tuesday that Green's NFL-imposed suspension for violating the league's sub­stance-abuse policy has been extended. 
The league's decision to length­en Green's ban indefinitely makes it unlikely he will play again this season. 
The second-year back was sus­pended four games on Nov. 8 for a violation involving alcohol. He was already in stage two of the league's treatment program. 
You are cordially invitEd to attarl: Glorel Challenges From Experience to Action 
Wednesday, December 3 Hesburgh Center C-103 Reception to follo..v  6-8 pm  
Student forum & posters  to present  

research, drawing on experience in inte:rr1Cltirnal studies and service. Bricying the gap betv..een acadanic life & international experience. 
Sp:Jnsored. by NAFSA: Institute for International Ed!cators, t:l"E KellCJg"J Institute for Intematiooal Studies, the Center for Scx::ial Concerns, and the Notre IErre College of Arts and Letters. 
and selected him with the 16th overall pick before signing him to a five-year contract worth $12 million if he reached incentives. 
When Green got ofT to a rough start as a rookie, the Browns began to wonder if they made the right choice. But he emerged in the second half of 2002, rush­ing for 726 yards in his final seven games to help the Browns qualify for the playoffs. 
Browns president Carmen Policy has said the Browns will support Green as long as he con­tinues to show a willingness to get better and make lifestyle changes. 
Green was suspended by the league after being arrested in October on charges of driving under the influence and marijua­na possession. He has a pretrial hearing scheduled for Wednesday. 
While serving his suspension, Green's fiancee was accused of stabbing him in the back with a steak knife. Asia Gray. 22, was charged with felonious assault and domestic violence. 
Police searched Green's home the night of the alleged attack and said they found marijuana in four locations. 
Green's whereabouts remain unknown. 
Green, who was eligible to return to the team Monday, will remain suspended for "treatment purposes." The league said com­missioner Paul Tagliabue will decide when the 23-year-old can return after consulting with med­ical experts in the program. 
If that doesn't happen until after the season, the Browns will have some tough choices to make on Green. Do they give him a second chance, bring him to training camp and risk Green having a relapse? Or do they release him and move on? 
Browns coach Butch Davis refused to address questions about Green's future on Monday. 
"William has some personal issues right now that he has to address," Davis said. "He's got to take care of these things. When those things are taken care of and resolved, we'll decide exactly what William's future is." 
Before the 2001 draft, the Browns were aware that Green was twice suspended for mari­juana use at Boston College. 
But the club felt it could help Green deal with his problems, 
"I want simplicity. With nine ATMs on campus, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union understands my wants and my needs." 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

9 AlMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 
Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM ll:OOAM 6:00 PM ,. Free Light Supper Afterwards 
Free TtiUISp<ll13tion for ND/St Maly'B 8tudellts. 'Call Church 272-4306 or Call Checker Cab 2&&·7777 preferably by Saturday and atiCIISI one hour befure pick up. 
-~\1. ',:.Jtl '!~~ :&; 
The Un.I,Versity of Notre~.Dame Choralei and ctiamber Orchestra'· 


Alexaryqer Blachly. Director . , 
,. .f. , 'I I ! t ~,.'~f 
~-' • ~ :~ • t.~ • ' 
;,.. ·\ . ·I' 
Tickets: · '' · · ,·~:· $6, Reserved Seotlng1· ·dents '
ne Box Office 
1~128 

OUND THE NATION 
Page 16 CoMPiLED FROM THE 0HSERVER's WlRE SERVJCES Wednesday, December 3, 2003 


NCAA FOOTBALL 


Deep South at the height of Croom tried to play down One was white," Croom 
Associated Press 
the civil rights struggle. He the significance of his hir­said. "Even though things 
STARKVILLE, Miss. -As is returning to his roots to ing, even though SEC com­were segregated you were a boy, Sylvester Croom become the first black head missioner Mike Slive called from the South. So, you would pretend he was an football coach in it historic. took pride in anything your Alabama football player at Southeastern Conference "I am the first African­state's name was on." a time when none of the history at Mississippi State. American coach in the SEC, Croom's father, Sylvester guys suiting up for the "I am in a lot of ways the but there ain't but one Croom Sr., played football Crimson Tide had his skin recipient of the sacrifices color that matters here and for Alabama A&M, an his­color. that other people made," that color is maroon," said torically black school in 
Eventually, he became he said. "I realize that it's Croom, referring to the Huntsville, Ala. When his one of the first blacks to not my doing. I'm just the school color. father was young, he would play for his hometown uni­one that's reaping the ben­The son of a preacher watch the Crimson Tide versity. efits." and a first-grade school practice through a fence 
"Things do change. And The Green Bay Packers teacher, Croom rooted for because blacks weren't that's what my dad always assistant coach was greet­Bear Bryant's powerful welcome in the stadium. told me," Croom said. "If ed with a standing ovation, Crimson Tide teams and Years later, the elder you try to do things the cheers and the clanging of idolized Joe Namath as a Croom became close with right way and put your a few of the Bulldogs fans' kid. Bryant, acting as a spiritual faith in God they will beloved cowbells as he was "At that time, throughout adviser for Alabama play­change." introduced at a packed the Southeast, there were ers and giving invocations 
Croom grew up in the news conference Thesday. two worlds. One was black. before games. 
IN BRIEF 
quences," team president Steve Steelers' Cowher apologizes Blazers' Randolf arrested Patterson said. for criticizing replay official
PORTLAND. Ore. -Trail Blazers The misdemeanor charge carries a PITTSBURGH -Steelers coach Billforward Zach Randolph was charged potential sentence of up to one year Cowher apologized Tuesday for criti­Thesday with driving under the influ­in jail and up to a $5,000 fine, cizing replay official Dale Hamer fol­ence after an officer said he smelled according to Multnomah County lowing Sunday's last-minute 24-20marijuana in the player's car. 
sheriff's Lt. Mike Shults. Randolph loss to the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Randolph was released a few hours was to be arraigned Dec. 30. Cowher appeared to questionafter his arrest, just the latest off­l~jury restricts Lemieux to Hamer's competence when he askedcourt problem for a team trying to 
s1delmes why backup quarterback Charlie
improve its image. 
PITTSBURGH -Mario Lemieux, still Batch's fumble during the finalRandolph had been pulled over for bothered by a left hip injury, will not minute of the first half wasn'tnot driving within a lane when the 
accompany the Pittsburgh Penguins reviewed.
officer "noted a strong odor of burn­on their five-game road trip that "I don't know who the replay offi­ing marijuana coming from the vehi­starts Wednesday night in cial is but, gosh, I would think hecle," police Sgt. Cheryl Robinson Philadelphia. would at least look at the play,"said. 
Lemieux has missed 13 games Cowher said. "I don't know if thoseThe Trail Blazers did not take dis­since being injured Nov. 1 against are local guys. I hope not. There isciplinary action against Randolph, Boston. He has tried to practice only no reason that play should not havesaying they would wait for results of twice since -he hasn't take the ice been reviewed."
tests taken by police. Randolph, who since Nov. 10 -and the team has Because the play occurred duringbecame a starter this season, leads said only that he is out indefinitely. the final two minutes of a half,
the team with an average of 20.7 
Penguins coach Eddie Olczyk said Cowher could not request a replay.
points and 11.2 rebounds a game. 
Tuesday that Lemieux has not been Hamer, a longtime NFL official, said"Certainly if it turns out that the re-evaluated since Nov. 17, and there he determined immediately thattests are not what we'd like to see, is no update on his condition. Batch had fumbled.
then, as I said, there will be conse­


..------------­Wednesday, December 3, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


the Belles in the first half. In the second half, the majority
Loss 
of the scoring came from the experienced core of the team.
continued from page 20 
A major concern coming 
main thing against us was that Anderson had a big advantage in rebounds." 
The depth and experience of the Belles paid off as eight different players scored for 
Pruzinsky 
continued from page 20 
ball great Bob Arnzen to become one of just two Notre Dame student-athletes to be a three-time Academic All­American. 
Those two are also the only two Irish student-athletes to be named first team Academic All-America in their sophomore and junior sea­sons. Freshmen are not eligi­ble for the award. 
It was the latest in a long number of accolades for Pruzinsky, who has been fea­tured in Sports Illustrated and on CSTV, as well as in other publications. 
Through it all, Pruzinsky has remained pretty matter­of-fact regarding her accom­plishments, attributing them to hard work and good time management. 
"You don't have time to pro­crastinate, so it forces you to be efficient with your time," Pruzinsky said. "Soccer takes up so much time, I think that 
QUOTES & FACTS 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
DEADLINE! 
Some people just need one in order to get things done. 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Now leasing all floor plans for: Spring 2004 Summer 2004 2004-2005 school year 
Apply by December 15, 2003 to lock in SPECIAL rates! 
www. turtlecreeknd. co1n 574-272-8124 
into the game was whether the Belles could compete on offense against a quick defen­sive team. The Belles passed this test in the first half but showed their durability is still 
helped also because as soon as I'm done playing soccer I have to get work done." 
Despite her efficiency, Pruzinsky is the first to admit that balancing soccer and school is not easy, especially with goals as lofty as a 4.0 every semester. 
"I probably don't get enough sleep," said Pruzinsky. "I wish there were more hours in the day, defi­nitely." 
With the soccer team's sea­son coming to an end a few weeks ago, Pruzinsky has had the opportunity now to look back on what the team meant to her over her Notre Dame career. 
"[Soccer] was basically my enjoyment for four years," Pruzinsky said. "Studying and all the homework causes stress sometimes, but soccer was always the fun part of my day and I always looked for­ward to it. It was a good break from work." 
Pruzinsky also had the opportunity to compete on two Irish teams that made the College Cup, the Final Four of women's soccer. The highlight 
"Happiness is good health and a bad 
memory." 

-Ingrid Bergman (1917-1982), Swedislt-bmTI film adre.u and dit•a. 
in question. 
The Belles (1-3) will look to turn thei-r season around as they open their home season this week and host the Roundball Tournament over the weekend. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
of those experiences came in her freshman season, when the Irish upset Santa Clara in the semi-finals. 
"We got dominated the whole game, we were playing defense for a full 90 minutes," said Pruzinsky. "We crossed midfield once and scored and won the game." 
Last season she missed all but a few minutes of action due to a nagging ankle injury that even hampered her some this year. 
"Last year was a pretty tough season to watch, we had a lot of injuries," she said. 
"Just knowing that could have been my last season hit me, so this season I just appreciated every game. It meant a lot to me." 
Having been named Academic All-American of the Year for women's soccer, Pruzinsky now is a contender to win the award for all NCAA Sports, won two years ago by women's basketball star Ruth Riley. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to illlprove record against Andrews 
Saint Mary's squad hopes to gain momentum for weekend tournament 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Already showing flashes of solid play, Saint Mary's will look to improve upon its 1-2 record Wednesday night when it hosts against an eager Andrews University squad. 
The Belles, led by coach Suzanne Bellina, commenced their season with two quick loses to Hanover College and Franklin College, but they bounced back last Tuesday with a formidable effort in a 73-62 win over Manchester. 
In this win, Emily Creachbaum and Katie Boyce looked particularly strong with solid scoring efforts of 16 and 17, respectively. 
Maureen Bush looked very active as well, contributing 10 points in only 18 minutes of play. 
In their two losses, the Belles have looked decent, particularly in the 68-65 loss to Hanover, when Saint Mary's was down eight points at the half. 
In this defeat, Creachbaum scored 18 points and grabbed 7 boards, while Bridget Boyce added 16 points and 6 rebounds. 
On the other hand, the 
Belles looked weak offensively in a 54-44 loss to Franklin. 
Andrews will come into Saint Mary's looking to defeat the Belles in an early season non-conference game. 
The two teams have already met this year, in a Nov. 4 scrimmage. Saint Mary's is currently 1-0 in conference play, going into Monday night's contest with Anderson. 
The Belles will need contin­ued strong play from Creachbaum, Katie and Bridget Boyce, and Bush in order to come out with a victo­ry against Andrews. 
Creachbaum and Bush have been the most consistent in rebounding in the team's first three games, and this contin­ued aggressiveness on the boards will ensure that the Belles improve with each game. 
If the Belles can come up with a victory, it would pro­vide the team with strong momentum going into this weekend's Saint Mary's College Houndball Tournament. featuring Saint Mary's. Illinois College. Washington University and Calvin College. 
After the tournament. the Belles play a tough home game against conference opponent Albion College. 
Saint Mary's College and Andrews University will play 
Wednesday at 7 p.m. at home. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffin@nd.edu 

Lunch Special· $4.75 Mon-Frl11 :30-3pm Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574·272·7376 

Only.A Few 4 and 5 Private Bedroom Apartments Left For The 2004-2005 School Year! 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation 


PO Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 
.·'l'el¢i!n~fiiji s74·234-9923 · ·Jbl~d@cbresb.com 
'i}i~,Finest iri. Student Housing! 
-
-

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 2003 
FOOTBALL 

Holiday's future remains uncertain 
ByJOE HETTLER and ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Editor and Sports Writer 

He's been through a lot in 2003, so don't expect Notre Dame's Carlyle Holiday to know about his future at the University just yet. 
"I really haven't thought about [next season]." said Holiday, who has one year of eligibility left. ''I'm just trying to finish the season up then after the season think about what I'm going to do." 
If Irish coach Tyrone Willingham has any say, Holiday will be back in a Notre Dame uniform in 2004. 
"We are extremely hopeful that Carlyle will return because we think he can add a great deal to our football team. I have not sat down and dis­cussed next year's possibilities with Carlyle yet," Willingham said. "At the conclusion of the season at some point, I will sit down and do that." 
Holiday started the season at quarterback for the Irish, but was moved to wide receiver after freshman Brady Quinn became the No. 1 quarterback. Next season, Holiday could either be a backup quarterback or see more playing time at receiver, similar to the position switch former Notre Dame quarterback and San Francisco 49ers rookie Arnaz Battle made two years ago. 
C,ONO 
Holiday said he's still getting accustomed to the position move. 
"Right now I'm just trying to learn how to block and being in the receiver's shape," Holiday said. "It's different because you run out there and try and attack someone on everyday. You're still going out there and trying to play. It's totally differ­ent from playing quarterback." 
BCS Implications 
Why will most of the nation be watching a game Saturday between two teams with losing records? 
Because the outcome of the Notre Dame-Syracuse game could have a tremendous effect on the national championship game. 
If Notre Dame beats Syracuse, the game will help second-ranked USC because the Irish win will help boost the Trojans' strength of schedule, one of several factors the Bowl Championship Series rankings use to determine the two teams who play in the title game. Conversely, if Syracuse wins, third-ranked LSU will be aided because USC's strength of schedule will decrease. 
"Wow, that puts us in a bind," senior linebacker Courtney Watson said of a Notre Dame win helping out the school's fierce rival. "I don't want to see USC there, but not at the expense of us losing the game." 
"It's interesting to see how 


our game affects that," quar~ terback Brady Quinn added. "But we're doing our best to win our game and not worry about the situation. If that helps them, so be it. We're going to do the best we can to win this year." 
No Intentional disrespect 
When Notre Dame ran onto the field less than three min­utes before kickoff Saturday, the team interrupted Stanford's pre-game ceremony for sen­iors, who were playing their final collegiate game. 
Stanford receiver Luke 
Powell called the move "disre­spectful", but Notre Dame spokesman John Heisler said the Irish were just sticking to a pre-arranged schedule set by ABC that determines when teams exit and enter the field prior to kickoff. 
Heisler said Notre Dame ran onto the field exactly when they were supposed to and given the go-ahead by a Stanford admin­istrator in charge of enforcing the timeline. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu and Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
ND BOWLING 

Bowlers finish strong in national match 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame bowling club's men's squad competed this weekend in the presti­gious National Collegiate Team Match Games in St. Louis. The club finished 47th in a field of strong teams from across the country. 
Pikeville College won the event, with several national powers including runner-up Wichita State, Kansas, Central Florida, San Jose State, Cal State Fullerton, Nebraska, Florida State, Purdue, and Florida following. 
Varsity teams competed with the clubs as well. 
Captain Jason Raver's 170.1 average led the Irish, with a high game of 219. Gave Torres rolled the team high game, 244, on lanes oiled for professional competition. Dan Martin and Matt Nieves each posted 193 high pin games, while Vance McClenton's top game was 169. The Irish team average of 158.2 led to the team's improved standing over last year's performance. The club's scores were progres­sively higher with each game and the strong finish has infused the club with confi­dence heading into the heart of the schedule. 

LEFT TI-lE OUILDING... 
...but Jesus is still in the house. 
praise & worship community& 
• Music • Fellowship 
every Wednesday Night 10 p.m. in the CoMo lounge 
-
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Now roJd , .s if\ce yt>t) are rtew+o ND He"\~ 5cr-VIC.CJ !ifl help "fOV 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WHEGI 

[l] I I 
~003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YEMSS 
± 
TIPIDE 
I (J

www.jumble.com 
I Jumbles: KETCHYesterday's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

AFTER EATING ALL THAT CHoCOLATE:, JUNIOR FELL A?Le:E:P AND !-lAO--­
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

-
(Answers tomorrow) 
CRACK DAMASK RANCID 
Answer: Harder to deal with after a while-A DECK OF CARDS 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 35 Swindle, 60 Bridges in slangily Hollywood
1 Admitting a draft, maybe 36 1997 Roberto 61 Model Banks Benigni film
5 Anthem opening 62 Hospital 39 One way to turn supplies
s Capp lad 
alsea 14 Actor Cronyn 
40 Hightail it DOWN15 Gabrielle's 41 Way to go

companion on 1 Melville mariner TV 
42 Georgia, 2 Dameformerly: Abbr.

16 Have the Dench munchies tor 
43 Strongbox 3 Love document

17 Commotions personified 
44 Winter apple 

18 Bullied 4 Staff symbol 45 Winner's take 
5 River bends 46 Galley tool 
20 1915 Lillian 
Gish film, with 6 Lowly laborers "The" 47 2002 Robin 
7 Small forest Williams film
22 Jimmy Stewart buffalo syllables 55 Landfall for 
8 (bor-r-ring!) 
Ponce de Le6n 23 Plating material 9 Vinegary 56 Not stay put 24 Charged 10 Control center57 Le petit prince's particles home planet 11 Cold war winner 28 Vienna-based 58 "The Good 12 In a tiecartel Earth" heroine 13 Cartoon30 Jeter stat. 

59 Michener's Chihuahua 

33 Ballroom dance 
"Centennial," 

19 Flat-bottomed 34 Gray_ e.g. 
rowboat 21
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~~~~~r enemy 24 Travel reference 25 Symbol of toughness 26 Deduce 27 CuiVed arch 28 Mountain nymph 29 Still-life item 30 Groucho's "Duck Soup" role 31 Ruffian 32 Dock site 34 Busy as_ 

35 Book jacket 46 Award since 52 Manage, items 1927 somehow 
37 Prefix with 

47 Field of honor 
53 "Ain't Got No" 
scope event 

musical 38 Cape Cod town 
48 Architect 43 Like some lines Saarinen 
54 Pool site, for short
44 1936 Loretta 

49 Race paceYoung title role 
55 "The_ Club"

50 Overly suave
45 Fencer's (1970's-80's TV deflection 51 Assayers' stuff show) 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday:Ozzy Osbourne, Anna Chlumsky, Andy Williams, 
Rick Mears 

Happy Birthday: You are truly aremarkable hwnan being. However, you may have been too generous in the past; now it's ti~ to play catch-up. If you can bring yourself to focus on the necessities, you11 find yourself back on track in no time. You have what it takes to move mountains this year, so stop vacillating and get going. Your numbers: 
8, 19, 24, 27, 36,42 

ARIES (March 21-April 19):Go over the work you've done and make sure you're totally pleased before you present it to your boss. Don't be afraid 10 discuss your goals with a superior. **** ..TAURUS (April 20-May 20):Follow your gut feeling regarding your business ventures. False information is likely if you listen to idle chatter or gossip. Focus on what you know best. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20):Uncertainty regarding your direction is likely. Look into career choices and courses being offered. Beware of indivictuals who are not reliable or well-known to you. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22):You've got a lot to do, so you'd better put your head down and dig in. The more relentless you are, the more you'll accomplish and the better you'll feel. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):This isn't the time to make mistakes. You may say something you'll regret. You'll get behind if you spend time debating senseless issues. Don't let friends talk you into taking time off. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be able to close business deals successfully. Don't let personal problems interfere with professional responsibilities. Focus on work first and the rest will fall into place. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):You can clear up important legalities and sign contracts today. Property investments, insurance, taxes or an inheritance should bring you financial gains. "'*"'"'"' SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):lf you're willing to cut loose, you'll find yourself in the midst of an exciting encounter. You can mix business with pleasure if you travel or confront large groups. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2l):Be your jovial self and you'll get the support you need. Your diplomatic nature will aid you in straightening out unsavory situations. Look out for No. I. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):Get involved in competitive sports with clients. They will appreciate your determination and playful nature. You'll make new business connections if you play your cards right. *"'* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Use your head. You may jump from the frying pan into the fire if you make your move too quickly. Someone may not be thinking of your best interest. Don't be too hard on your male. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):You need an outlet, so get into physical endeavors that will help you relieve your tension. Entertainment will be pleasing if it's of an energetic nalure. •• 
Birthday Baby: You'll be hard for your parents 10 keep up with. However, once 
you grow up and are on your own, you'll have the energy and the wherewithal to 
accomplish all your dreams, hopes and wishes, making your parents extremely 
proud. Your need to be on the move right from day one is obvious; lherefore, 
fill your days with as many activities as possible. You have much to learn and a 
great capacity to do so 

Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. . , .•.. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City _____________ State ______ Zip,_________ 
:t I f I --I

.'. ·~~··~·· Ol ... 
-
• I 
I 

• 
FooTBALL 
ByJOE HETLER Sports Editor 

There's a difference in a team's attitude coming off a 50-point win, even if Tyrone Willingham doesn't think so. 
"I think our guys have been pretty consistent and that's a reflection of the coaching staff," Willingham said. See Also "The attitude is very "Holiday's
strong and very pos­

itive and it's future still 
remained like that unsure" 
all season." 

But Notre Dame page 18 
-
players were more confident during Tuesday's practice, the team's first since thrashing Stanford 57-7 Saturday. 
"The attitude is really upbeat," defensive lineman Darrell Campbell said. "A lot of guys are feeling that swagger. We're really anxious to play this game because it's the last game and hopefully [we will] finish with a four-game winning streak." 
The Irish couldn't do anything wrong against the Cardinal. as they scored 57 points in the first three quarters before putting the second team in. Notre Dame hadn't scored that many points since a 62-0 win against Rutgers in 1996. 
The victory gave Notre Dame con­fidence as they prepare for the 
NO WOMENS SOCCER 
---~----------~~~­
Wednesday, December 3, 2003 


Julius Jones dives for the end zone In one of his touchdowns In last weekend's game against Stanford. The 57-7 win was the third win in a row for the Irish and nurtured a confident, positive attitude In the team. This outlook has now been focused on preparing for the upcoming contest In Syracuse. 
Syracuse game. 

"[The win] lightens the attitude of everybody on the team and the stress load," offensive lineman Bob Morton said. 
Now the team focuses its attention on a Syracuse team that is reeling, from a 24-7 loss to Rutgers. It was their third straight and put them at 5-6. Meanwhile, the Irish are riding a three-game winning streak after beating Navy, Brigham Young and Stanford. With one game left, Notre Dame would like nothing more than fmishing the season at .500. 
"It's a big game for us," defensive end Justin Tuck said. "We have a chance to even our record at 6-6 and ;.ve know that we need to bring our '!\ game. I'm sure they want to go out with a good feeling in the off­season and so do we." 
Morton said the team can still make the 2003 season a successful one by defeating Syracuse. 
"One thing we've always talked about is that we can make a stamp on our season," Morton said. "We can be a legendary team too. You don't have to be 12-0 to make an impact on football and that's what we're going with. If we turn the sea­son around and we finish up strong this could be our stamp. This could be what we're looking for." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

CHIP MARKSffhe Observer 
Senior scores on field, in classroom 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

Over the history of the women's soccer program at Notre Dame, very few players have distinguished themselves on the field as much as Vanessa Pruzinsky, and that does not even begin to touch on what she has done in the classroom. 
Pruzinsky, one of only three Notre Dame students ever to achieve a 4.0 GPA in chemical engineering, recently was named Academic All­American of the Year for women's soccer. She was one of three Irish players selected to the All-American team. Junior Mary Boland and soph­omore Erika Bohn both made the second team. With that distinction, the Irish became the first team in NCAA Division I women's soccer his­
..-tory to have three players named to the Academic All­America team. Pruzinsky also achieved a number of other NCAA Division I milestones. She and 

Penn State's Joanna Lohman American award three times. became the first two women's Pruzinsky also joined basket-soccer players to earn·the first team Academic All-see PRUZINSKY/page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall short in loss to Anderson College 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 

A strong first half perform­ance wasn't enough as the Belles fell short in a 76-59 loss to Anderson College. 
The Belles came out play-See Also 
ing their best 

basketball so "Belles look to far this sea-improve record son. In the first half, the against 
Belles shot 42 Andrews" percent from the field, page 17 
including 45 percent from 3-point range. 
"We were really on top of our game during the first half," said Belles coach Suzanne Bellina. "We started making shots and played more aggressively on offense." 
The Belles couldn't maintain their early momentum, howev­er. The turning point came at the end of the first half when Anderson made a run to take a 31-27 lead that they held the rest of the game. 
"We started forcing shots at the end of the half and allowed Anderson to come back," said Bellina. "We had difficulty maintaining focus once the tempo of the game had shifted in Anderson's favor." 
The quicker pace of the sec­ond half took the Belles off their rhythm. Their team shooting dropped to only 29 percent in the final half. and Anderson began to wear down the Belles' defense. 
Anderson took control of the game by forcing pressure underneath and dominating the boards. The Belles finished the game with 33 rebounds compared to 45 by Anderson . 
"We didn't make many mis­takes this game and had fewer turnovers," said Bellina. "The 
see LOSS/page 17 
en 
NBA 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
COllEGE FOOTBALl 
NFL 

SMC BASKETBALL 
MEN'S BOWUNG
LLI

1--
Co) Raptors 95 
North Carolina 88 
Jones headed to 
Green suspended 
Andrews at Saint 
National
z Sixers 88 
Illinois 81 

NFL 
indefinitely 
Mary's 
Colle~iate Team 
The No. 10 Tar Heels 
Virginia Tech running 

The Browns' running 
The 1-2 Belles are 
Mate Games
a: ~ 

== 
took care of Dee Brown
.., Nu~ets 115 
back Kevin Jones says 
back has been 
looking to get another 
The Irish club men's 
Cava iers 103 
and Illinois with a 
he will skip his senior 
suspended from the 
win under their belts 
squad finished 47th in a 
double-double from 
year to enter the draft. 
league after violating its 
before a weekend 
strong field. 
forward Sean May. 

substance abuse policy. 
tournament.
=-ti 

page 13
en page 12 
page 14 
page 15 
page 17 

page 18 
... 
_ 




