...-------------------------------------~------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Faculty health insurance will change by January 

Faculty Senate members discuss faculty benefits at their Tuesday meeting. Among the potential changes was a new health plan. 

Findit suffers &om legal repercussions 
Notre Dame students decrease use of file­sharing system due to fear of legal actions 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
N~ws Writ~r 
Firewalls, student reluc­tance and other factors have negatively impacted the use of Findit at Notre Dame, and students said they are con­cerned and hesitant after legal actions taken against music sharers across the country. 
"I am definitely worried because of everything the HIAA (Hecording Industry Association of America] is doing." sophomore Chris Finch said. "I have started taking all my music off the shared network, and I actual­ly plan to take all my music off my computer and put it on burnable discs." 
During the 2002-03 aca­demic year, Notre Dame stu­dents discovered Findit. the indexing service run out of a Dillon dorm room that allowed those connected to the campus network to search for and download files from other students. No longer was it necessary to find music on such peer-to­peer networks as Kazaa and burn it to CD. Instead, stu­dents could literally play music from a computer across campus using Windows Media Player or Winamp as if it were in a folder on their personal hard drive. Movies, music and even software were only clicks away. 
Over the summer, the Office of Information Technologies changed the setup of the campus network to make computers more secure from hacking and virus attacks. In doing so, they made it more difficult for programs like Findit to operate. 
Firewalls are operated by closing all communication ports on a computer that users have not manually opened. Network sharing, like that which Find it assists, depends on such ports to be open both for searching and for file transfer. OIT asked students to turn their fire­walls on to stop the spread of the "Blaster worm," one in a family of viruses that do not spread by email, but rather by jumping to an uninfected computer via an open port. 
Findit is being run by Jon Hilliard, a senior engineering major. Hilliard said that. at the end of last year, there were over 1000 computers "indexed" on Findit, of which about 70 were "searchable," meaning that users could get information on their files and access them like a folder on their own hard drive. Now, halfway through the semes­ter, there are only 15 search­able computers, though 235 users have indexed them­selves to the database. Many of these have not turned their firewalls off, Hilliard says, or their folders are password-
see FINDIT/page 6 By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
Faculty Senate devoted much of its Thesday meeting to the discus­sion of changes in faculty benefits which become effective January 2004. 
The self-funded North American Health Plan will replace Partners Health Plan next year as the University Health Maintenance Organization. 
A new crisis management pro­gram, Ufeworks, will be instituted as part of the University's Employee Assistance Program. Lifeworks will provide cost-free and confidential assessment and short-term problem resolution for faculty, administration. staff and their family members. 
In September, the Faculty Senate passed a resolution to amend the Academic Articles. The University Academic Council recently met to discuss the resolu­tion and, after making technical revisions, approved the bill. University President Father Edward Malloy passed the revised resolution. which will undergo final review by the Board of Trustees within this week. 
The proposed amendment will create provisions for hearings regarding severe sanctions against faculty members. It will most like­ly become an article by next year, according to Faculty Senate chair professor John Robinson. 
Faculty involvement in the NCAA Accreditation Heport was also discussed. Faculty input is necessary, "especially for those [professors] who teach a large number of athletes," said Professor Paula !Iiggins. 
Concerns were expressed regarding pressure placed on fac­ulty by the Athletic Department and the potential effects this pres­sure might have on academic free­dom. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
+ The writing of Memorial Resolutions honoring deceased faculty members was addressed and assignment of writers will be discussed at next month's meet­ing. 
+ 
The Student Affairs Committee announced that a University ad hoc committee will be formed to discuss changes in the format of Teacher-Course Evaluations. Faculty Honor Code oflicer profes­sor Thomas Flint requested input from the ·committee for revisions in the Honor Code. 

+ 
The Academic Affairs Committee plans to invite Jennifer Younger, director of University Ubraries. to speak to the Senate about the allocation of and future outlook for library resources. 

+ 
The Administrative Affairs Committee is currently revising an amendment to the Academic Articles. 


+The Benefits Committee plans to meet with !Iuman Resources on Monday to discuss insurance f(>r retirees. 
Contact Beth Erickson at berickso@nd.edu 

GSU modifies graduate grants 
Adjustments made to travel expenses 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

In just one of many budget­ary decisions made during Tuesday's Graduate Student Union meeting, members passed the motion to adjust funding for the Gordon Conference Presentation Grant. changing the amount of money graduate students can receive from the GSU to cover travel expenses. 
Rather than allow each stu­dent to apply for a $500 grant -a policy that led to a short­age of funds in years past ­the GSU will now pay 50 per­cent of the individual's expenses, up to $350. The departments will be expected to pick up the rest of the cost. 
"Because of University poli­cy, it comes across poorly that currently the departments have to fund [student travel] first before we give out grant. so the graduate school budget director suggested we come up with some way to avoid the 'last resort policy,"' said Tim Dale, chair of academic affairs. "This is it." 
The lifetime cap of $1,500 per graduate student will remain, but allowances for daily lodging and food expenses have increased to $125 and $40 respectively, in response to comments that 
see GSU/page 6 

SMC honors cancer awareness 
'Quilt for a Cure' promotes Breast Cancer Awareness Month 
By ANGELA SAOUD 

News Writer  
Saint Mary's students,  
faculty and staff are honor­ 
ing Breast Cancer  
Awareness month with  
events scheduled through­ 
out October.  
Linda Rakow, associate  
director of financial aid,  
made a quilt that is being  
raffled off to raise money  
for the Breast Cancer  
Research foundation. "Quilt  
for a Cure" was originally  
initiated by a woman whose  
mother was a breast cancer  
survivor.  
Hakow began the quilt  
last spring, after a family  
member suffered a reoccur­ 
rence of breast cancer. She  
worked on it for several  
months and decided to  The "Quilt for a Cure" was designed by Linda Rankow, the  
Saint Mary's associate director of financial ald. It will be  
see CANCER/page 6  raffled off to raise money for breast cancer research.  


, , 1 , _ I,\
I , • I '1 I\ , • , I

0 I \ . . I t ·~ : ) ) · •
( page 2 ' Th~ Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Little Bro Syndrome 
Saturday, I noticed something about Notre Dame's football opponents. For the second consecutive game, I heard obnoxious chants of "1-3, 1-3," in addition to other derogatory and offensive remarks 
from opposing fans. 
But I'm not here to complain about how offensive the Pittsburgh or Purdue fans were. I'm not going to make a call for 

action from the  Chris Federico  
schools in  
response to their  
behaviors; and I'm not even  Sports Writer  
going to brag  
about how nice  

and polite and welcoming the Notre Dame fans are. 
I just want to make a little observa­tion about the little (-minded) fans of some of these other schools. 
After being jeered for a couple of hours Saturday and having personal attacks cast toward my buddies and me, I realized that I can't hate Panther fans or Boilermaker fans for their actions. Hell, I can't even dislike them. Holding a grudge against them would be like hating a monkey for not being able to do algebra. 
Actually, I really just pity them. After all, they can't help being little brothers. 
Schools like Purdue and Pittsburgh and Boston College -schools that have a long history of losing to Notre Dame and thus, have a deep-seated hatred for "Our Lady"-have devel­oped a "little brother complex" over the years. 
Now, I must admit, I have no first­hand experience with this sad state of existence. being that I'm an only child. But I have seen its manifesta­tion in friends and family. 
From what I've noticed, these sad "little siblings" have suffered a long childhood of being bullied, beaten up and pushed around by their stronger, better, older brothers. 
Consequently, these pour souls develop an unhealthy resentment qf their bigger, better antagonists. 
But one day, these little runts grow up. They eventually get big(ger) and display some talent. And, boy, do they develop a taste-a need, even-for revenge ... a mean-spirited, spiteful revenge. 
So that day comes, when eventually Little Brother gets his due. He makes that game-winning shot or causes that big fumble. Hooray; he's crawled out of his miserable experience. 
But there's always another day, and Big Brother always remembers how he was embarrassed by the little weakling he'd smacked down on so many previous occasions. And Big Brother vows not to let it happen again. 
Saturday, Pittsburgh learned what can happen when Big Brother has had enough of his little brother's taunts -he sets a school record and runs over the little guy. 
Next year, I think its time for Purdue to learn again. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfeder­ic@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Tuesday's article "Spade show cost about $lOOK" the date of the show was inaccurate in a cutline and should have been Oct. 4. Also, the date for when the final contract was signed with David Spade was Sept. 25 not Sept. 27. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE DO ALL OF THE LADYBUGS COME FROM? 

Autie White  Becky Winston  Cardine Geist  Caroline Reams  Joe Wyss  Peter Cavadini  
Senior Off-Campus  Sophomore Holy Cross Hall  Sophomore Off-Campus  Senior Off-Campus  Senior Off-Campus  Junior OffCampus  
"The ground.,,  "They migrate here from Kalamazoo, Michigan."  "Bush says too many bad things come from France. I assure you ladybugs don't come from  ''I'm not sure, but at least they've replaced the swarms of bees.,  "They are actually not ladybugs. They are some mutilatedform ofa Chinese  "COLLEGE. ,  
France. They're definitely ND  beetle ... the invasion has  





natives!" 

Durango "Size Matters" Ad to Debut Soon 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group plans to start using a little bath­room humor next month during late-night television to pitch the 2004 model of its Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle. 
In the advertisement, two men standing side-by-side at rest room urinals are overheard discussing how "size" matters, The Detroit News reported Tuesday. The object of their atten­tion is a Durango poster on the wall. 
The spot is the latest in a 
TODAY c:: 

series of risque Chrysler ads that have implied wife­swapping among minivan owners and sexual rela­tions in the back seat of a Concorde sedan. 
Chrysler spokesman James Kenyon said the ad is a tongue-in-cheek attempt to illustrate that the redesigned full-size Durango SUV is longer and wider than the model it replaces. 
"The target market is primarily men and their interest in a bigger, all-new SUV," Kenyon said. 
Wayward Deer Enters N.J. Clothing Store 
LINDEN, N.J. -A way­ward deer entered a cloth­ing store through the front door and wandered around for more than an hour Monday, knocking down shelves and trampling clothes, before it was shot with tranquilizer darts by a New York City Police Department team. 
At one point, the deer approached a full-length mirror and apparently thinking its reflection was another deer, jumped into the mirror front hooves first. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

begun!" 
IN BRIEF 
Enjoy free Krispy Kreme doughnuts distributed by SUB today and Thursday mornings at LaFortune and outside of Debartolo. 
The campus' best comedians come together in the Campus Comedy Contest for a night of laughter to compete for the championship of campus comedy. The competition will be held tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Come to Alumni to hear a faith­filled speech followed by Mass in the chapel at the Alumni Hall Night of Faith from 9 to 11 p.m. tonight in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 
SUB invites students to come hear world traveler and syndicat­ed travel columnist Doug Lansky speak tonight in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. His speech will detail his travel experiences throughout the world. Lansky will then top it off by giving out a free, two­month, first-class Eurail pass worth almost $900 to someone in the audience. 
Dr. Robert Vacca, assistant pro­fessor in the Department of Classics, will present a colloqui­um entitled, "What was Athenian Liberalism?" The Colloquium will take place Thursday at 4 p.m. in 116 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Chicago Shakespeare Theatre on Tour will present "Romeo and Juliet" Thursday from 8 to 10 p.m. at W£¥ihington Hall. Faculty and Staff tickets are $25 and student tickets are $15. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 56 HIGH 
61 
LOW 45 LOW 
40 
IJ.I 
:c 
!;( 
IJ.I 

3 
..I 
C!: 
(,) 0 


HIGH 55
.... 
LOW 49 

47 39 


59 
35 

55 
35 

Atlanta 68 I 48 Boston 64 I 45 Chicago 57 I 41 Denver 66 I 38 Houston 78 I 56 Los Angeles 78 I 59 Minneapolis 54 I 34 New York 64 I 48 Philadelphia 66 I 46 Phoenix 93 I 69 Seattle 56 I 48 St. Louis 66 I 49 Tampa 80 I 62 Washington 68 I 47 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 The Obset;ver + NEWS page 3 

SMC Library holds sexuality issues exhibit 
Exhibit aims to publicize alternative lifestyle issues during National Coming Out Week 
By ALLISON NICKERSON News Writer 
Saint Mary's Cushwa­Leighton Library is currently holding an exhibit featuring books that examine human 
sexuality i·ssues: "Exploring Sexuality: Queer Identities in the Community." 
The exhibit, located in the library atrium, was launched last week in sup­port of National Coming Out Week and is sponsored by 
P.I.n.S. (People In Support). along with the College's Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and 
ality issues. 
"This is a chance to help people read more about sexu­ality issues and educate them­selves about some of them," exhibit organizer Bob Hall said. · 
Hall also said the exhibit 
"The exhibit raises awaresness about an issue that is often ignored on campus. I think it is very beneficial to look at the different types of literature on sexuality and raise people's awareness on these types of issues." 
Lisa Walton junior 

goes hand in hand with a year­long "Identity" exploration that is taking place throughout the College and in many of the classrooms. 
"The exhibit raises awareness about an issue that is often ignored on this campus. I think it is very beneficial to look at the dif­ferent types of literature on the issue of sexuality and raise peo­ple's awareness on these types of issues," junior 


2003 Notre Dame Prize awarded 
Brazilian leaders honored for democratic regime
change with Prizefor Distinguished Public Service 
Special to the Observer 

Brazilian President Luis lnacio Lula da Silva and his predecessor, former President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, have been selected as co­recipients of 
the 2003 Notre Dame Prize for Distin­·guished Public 
Service  in  
L  a  t  i  n  
America.  


T h e Malloy award hon­ors the leadership shown by both men in the national elec­tions last year that achieved the first democratic transition between two elected presi­dents in Brazil since the early 1960s. Though they represent opp·osing political parties, Lula and Cardoso cooperated as statesmen to produce elec­tions that were clean, fair and widely praised for avoiding political divisiveness or dema­goguery. Lula's "high-road" campaign and landslide victo­ry, together with Cardoso's even-handed management of the electoral process. yielded Brazil's historic democratic transition. 
"The Notre Dame Prize aims to underscore the personal generosity, skillful leadership and tenacious hard work that leaders bring to public life in Latin America," said University President Edward Malloy. "It also highlights the critical role that public serv­ice plays in improving the well-being of the region's citi­
zens. 
"This year, the prize is a timely tribute to democracy. As Presidents Lula and Cardoso have demon­strated, sustain­ing democracy 
especially with the eco­nomic and secu­rity problems that challenge many countries today requires leader­ship committed 

bidden from participating in political life. The two have known each other for decades. 
Malloy will present this year's prize at a ceremony Jan. 9 in Brazil. Lu Ia and Cardoso each will receive a $10,000 cash award and matching donations to chari­ties of their choice. 
"The Notre Dame Prize aims to underscore the personal generosity. skillful leadership and tenacious hard work that leaders bring to public life in Latin America. " 
Edward Malloy University President 
The Notre Dame Prize is organized each year by the University's Kellogg Institute f o r International Studies, a cen­ter best known for research on the prospects for democracy in Latin America and around the world. 
The Coca-Cola Foundation pro­
the Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, and Women's Studies Departments. It is part of a week-long series of" events that took place earlier this month dealing with sexu-Lisa Walton said. 
The exhibit will run through the end of this month. 
Contact Allison Nickerson at nickll08@saintmarys.edu 
to democratic principles." 

Lula and Cardoso both know the costs of living with­out democracy. Under the mil­itary regime that ruled Brazil from 1964 to 1985, each suf­fered from the effects of a politically repressive society. Lula was jailed as a union leader, and Cardoso was for­vides funding support for the prize, which was first award­ed in 2000. Previous winners include Cardinal Oscar Rodriguez Maradiaga of Honduras, former Chilean President Patricio Aylwin, and Inter-American Development Bank President Enrique Iglesias. 



Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
October 15, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law School Courtroom 
"Agenda-Setting and the Scope ofDeliberative Democracy" 
Presenter Paul J. Weithman 

Professor and Chair .. Department ofPhilosophy 
Commentator Patricia L. Bellia 

Associate Professor Law School· 

.. ... -.. . ..
. 
·~ .• ··. . I 
page4 Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 
JAPAN 

Japan to contribute $1.5 bilion in Iraq 
Associated Press 

TOKYO -Ahead of a visit 
by President Bush, Japan 
announced Wednesday it will 
contribute $1.5 billion next 
year for the reconstruction of 
Iraq. 

The $1.5 billion, announced -by Chief Cabinet Secretary 
Yasuo Fukuda, would go 
toward electricity, education, 
water and health support. 

Media reports have said the 
sum would be the first install­
ment of a -package expected 
to reach a total of $5 billion 
over the next four years. But 
Fukuda said medium term aid 
was still under consideration. 

"Iraqi reconstruction is an 
extremely important issue for 
the entire international com­
munity," Fukuda told a news 
conference. 

The world's second biggest 
economy is under pressure to 
send both money and troops 
to help rebuild Iraq. Japan's 
announcement could ease dis­
cussions between Bush and 
Japanese Prime Minister 
Junichiro Koizumi, who are 
scheduled to meet Friday, 
when Bush stops In Tokyo en 
route to an Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation forum 
in Bangkok, Thailand. 

Bush had telephoned 
Koizumi several weeks ago to personally plea for support in rebuilding Iraq, but at the time won only vague promises of "cooperation." Local media later said the Bush adminis­tration was secretly pressing Japan for "billions" of dollars. 
The Japanese government said it would set aside the $1.5 billion for next year. The media have reported that an amount of $5 billion, to be extended from 2004 through 2007, would be formally announced at an aid meeting in Madrid next week. 
Tokyo's total contribution would account for about 10 percent of the reconstruction bill estimated by the World Bank. But it falls short of the $13 billion that Japan chipped in during the 1991 Gulf War. 
The figure also was lower than the $2 billion previously expected, reportedly due to concerns in the government over making such a large con­tribution amid this country's fiscal woes caused by its ongoing economic slowdown. 
Japan has also promised to send non-combat troops to Iraq in addition to mon~y. It reportedly was considering sending them to Basra and Nasiriya, two cities in south­ern Iraq with a relatively sta­ble security situation. 

Officials block counterfeit drugs 
.. 
FDA, Justice Department, Secret Service among federal regulators attempting to stop fake versions oflegal drugs from entering the U.S. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -With Americans increasingly seek-· ing less costly prescription drugs, often from other countries, federal regulators are turning their attention to stopping potentially danger­ous counterfeit products. 
Organized crime is being attracted to prescription drug sales because money can be made there, FDA Commissioner Mark McClellan has said. For traf­fickers in illegal drugs, fak­ing legal ones can be an easy sideline. 
Officials of the FDA, Justice Department, Secret Service, Association of Boards of Pharmacy, Association of Chain Drug Stores and oth­ers were gathering Wednesday to discuss the problem and consider possi­ble remedies. 
While no one argues against a need for safe and effective medicine, drug importation has become a complex political issue because many drugs can be bought cheaper in other countries, ordered by mail or over the Internet. Imports are the source of many coun­terfeit drugs. 
The FDA says it cannot 
guarantee the safety of imported products, while critics charge the agency is trying to undermine congres­sional efforts to allow Americans to buy the less costly drugs. 
The pharmaceutical indus~ try also launched a major effort to block drug import legislation, spending $8.5 million on lobbying this year alone. 
FDA convened Wednesday's meeting to seek comment and guidance on ways to prevent counterfeit pills from being sold to Americans. 
Among possibilities to help defeat counterfeiters are requiring manufacturers to ship pills in smaller quanti­ties, making it less profitable to substitute counterfeits, or using high-tech gadgets such as hidden transmitters or chemical tags to help assure pharmacists medications are genuine. 
The agency's counterfeit drug task force, formed in July, says it will take multi­ple strategies because it takes no longer than a year or two for criminals to crack and copy many anti-tamper­ing measures, such as holo­grams on packaging. 
When drugs are bought from regular licensed phar­macy, the chances of getting a counterfeit are less than 1 percent, McClellan has esti· mated. 
Buying drugs over the Internet can increase the risk, however, and counter· feits are sneaking into regu­lar drugstores more often. The FDA has investigated about 20 counterfeit cases a year since 2000, compared with five a year in the 1990s. 
The FDA reported in September that of 1,153 imported drugs checked by FDA and Customs agents, 1,019 were found to be ille­gaL They included drugs that had been withdrawn from the U.S. market, animal drugs never approved for human use, counterfeit drugs, drugs with dangerous interactions, drugs with dan­gerous side effects and nar­cotics. 
The House passed a bill in July that would require the Health and Human Services Department to set up a sys­tem to allow importation of FDA-approved drugs from FDA-approved facilities in Canada, the European Union and seven other nations. 
The bill faces an uncertain future in the Senate, howev­er, and the Bush administra­tion said the bill was danger­ous legislation. 

Former Boy Scout leader sued for abuse 
Brothers allege that the organization failed to protect them from years of sexual abuse 
The brothers said they
Associated Press 

joined the organization when 
they were 9, and their 
ACOMA, Wash. -Two Scoutmaster began raping brothers are suing the Boy them soon after, between Scouts of America and a for­1971 and 1983. mer Scout The 50-year-old leader, alleging former Scout the organization leader told The
'7 want to be
failed to protect Seattle Tim·es he them from years compensated for had not seen the of sexual abuse the pain and lawsuit and from their for­declined to com­
torture and
mer leader. ment. 
Tom Stewart, suffering I went The Associated 41, and Matt through for a Press is not nam­Stewart, 38, ing him because
decade."
seek unspecified he has not been monetary dam­charged with a ages in the law­Matt Stewart crime. He had an suit filed ex-Boy Scout unpublished tele­Monday. phone number 
The lawsuit and could not also seeks to force the Boy immediately be reached. Scouts to perform criminal In April, the Boy Scouts background checks on all of began requiring criminal its 1.2 million volunteers. background checks of all new 
"I want to be volunteers. It compensated for does not con­the pain and tor­"We will get to duct back­ture and suffering ground checks
them. We take this 
I went through for of its current
very seriously." 
a decade," Matt 1.2 million vol­Stewart, a phar­unteers. Scout maceutical sales­Gregg Shields leaders say they man, said do not have the
spokesman
Tuesday at a news resources.
Boy Scouts of America
conference in "We will get front of the local to them," said Scout headquar-Gregg Shields, ters. spokesman for the Boy Scouts 
"We lost our childhood," of America, based in Irving, said Tom Stewart, a Boeing Texas. "We take this very engineer. seriously." 
"L'ignoram:e n'a jamais de fait de mal... on ne s'egare point par ce
QUOTES&: FACTS 
qu'on ne sait pas mais par ce qu'on croit sauoir (Ignorance has neuer The Nanovic Institute done any harm ... man neuer errs through what he doesn't l<now, but 
for European Studies rather by what he think: he knows)." 
-JeanJacques Rou..ss~au (1712-1778), French philcsaphcr 
"I want sin1plicity. \Vith nine ATMs on campus, Notre Dan1e Federal Credit Union understands my wants and 
..
my nee( s;· 
l 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREOn UNION You con bank on us 
to be better 
574/631.-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
9 ATMs on Campus with No Surcharge! (We have one near you) 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Saddam may be hiding in Tikrit 
TIKHIT. Iraq -Saddam Ilussein is believed to have been hiding out recently in Tikrit, influencing the anti-American insurgency, the U.S. military said Monday. Fresh attacks by resistance f(Jrces across central Iraq were reported to have killed three American sol­diers and wounded five others. 
"We have clear indication he has been here recently," Maj. Troy Smith. a deputy brigade commander, told reporters in Tikrit, the fugi­tive former president's hometown and now headquarters for the 4th Infantry Division. "lie could be here right now," he said of Saddam. 
The insurgents' attacks on U.S. occupation forces averaged 22 a day in the past week, the U.S. military reported Monday in. Baghdad. That's an increase of several a day over the pace of some weeks earlier. and has resulted in American deaths at a rate of almost one every two days. 
Serbia, Albania discuss Kosovo 
VIENNA. Austria-In the first face-to-face talks between Serbs and Kosovo Albanians since their 1999 war, rival leaders clashed Tuesday over the future of the ethnically tPnse Balkan province. 
The symbolic U.N.-sponsored talks were supposed to avoid the contentious issue of Kosovo's future status: whether it will gain independence, as demanded by the ethnic Albanians, or remain a part of Serbia, as called for by the Belgrade leadership. 
But Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders insisted Tuesday on outright independence, while Serbs rejected such plans. The ethnic rivals refused even a ceremonial handshake bdore the session started. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Senate sends genetics bill to House 
WASIIINGTON -The Senate has moved unanimously to ensure that breaking down the human genetic code will bring health bmwfits without exposing people to job and health care discrimination. 
The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act that cleared the Senate Tuesday on a 95-0 vote would bar employers from using people's genetic infor­mation or family histories in hiring, firing or assigning workers. 
Insurance companies could not use genetic records to deny medical coverage or set pre­miums. 

Sniper pleads not guilty in trial 
VIHGINIA BEACH, Va. -With his life on the line, a stone-f&ced John Allen Muhammad pleaded innocent to murder charges Tuesday as the first trial in the deadly Washington-area sniper spree got under way. 
In a strong, clear voice, Muhammad, dressed in a light gray shirt and tie, entered his plea in the slaying of Dean Harold Meyers, 53, of Gaithersburg, Md., who was cut down by a single bullet that him in the head while he filled up at a gas station near Manassas on Oct. 9, 2002. 
Muhammad, 42, could get the death penal­ty if convicted. Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo, 18, are charged with 13 shootings, 10 of thorn fatal. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Munster city police chief dies 
MUNSTEH -William Sudbury, the 54­year-old police chief of this northwestern Indiana city, was pronounced dead early Tuesday minutes after an ambulance was sent to his home. 
Sudbury was taken The Community Hospital. where he was pronounced dead around 12:30 a.m., Town Manager Tom DcGiulio said. 
The cause of death had not been officially determined, although it was thought to be either a heart attack or stroke, DeGiulio said. 
CoMPILED r;RoM THE OBsERVER's wtRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Suicide bombers strike in Iraq 
Baghdad car bomb explodes outside the Turkish embassy, wounds at least 13 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Suicide car 

bombers struck in Baghdad for the third time ·in a week Tuesday, this time outside the Turkish Embassy in yet another blow against those. who would help the _U.S. occu­pation. Witnesses said the driver and a bystander were killed, and hospitals said at least 13 were 
wounded. 
In the southern city of 

Karbala, meanwhile, gun­
men of rival Shiite Muslim 
factions clashed and wit­
nesses said several people 
were killed or injured. It 
appeared to be part of a 
power struggle between 
force's of the firebrand 
cleric Muqtada al-Sadr 
and followers of religious 
leaders who take a more 
moderate stand toward 
the U.S. occupation. 
Just who is behind the 

<:ar bombings in the capi­
tal -including two killing 
18 other people in 
Baghdad in recent days ­
remained a mystery, 
although Iraqis converging 
on the scene Tuesday 
began chanting pro­
Saddarn Hussein slogans. 
"This is the act of those we received indications whether he poses a signifi­detonated his vehicle in a 
who want to turn Iraq into that there might be cant threat. The officials, police station courtyard in 
a terror paradise," said increased danger on the speaking on condition of Baghdad, killing himself 
Turkish Ambassador Turkish Embassy," said anonymity, said they and nine others. On 
Osman Paksut, whose gov­Col. Peter Mansoor of the remain committed to dis­Sunday, a suicide bombing 
ernment has offered U.S. 1st Armored Division. arming militias -includ­killed eight near the 
peacekeeping troops to "We revved up security ing al-Sadr's -but Baghdad Hotel, home to 
reinforce the U.S. military measures based on those declined to say whether U.S. and Iraqi officials. 
presence here, a move indications." they planned to confront The string of attacks 
strongly opposed by Iraqis. He said the FBI and his followers. began in August with 
Much of the blast was Iraqi police were investi­At his headquarters in bombings at the Jordanian 
absorbed by concrete bar­gating. Similar investiga­Najaf, sout.h of Karbala, Embassy and the U.N. 
riers outside the embassy, tions of seven other vehi­al-Sadr demanded the headquarters. All the tar­
U.S. officials said. cle bombings, killing more Americans set a timetable gets have been institutions 
The bomber might have than 140 people across for withdrawal. perceived as cooperating caught U.S. troops if he Iraq beginning in August, "Whoever cooperates with the U.S. occupation. had struck last weekend, have made no known with the occupation forces The Turkish Embassy when they were deployed breakthroughs. is not a Shiite. Indeed, blast happened at about outside the mission in Following Tuesday's they are not Muslims," he 2:45 p.m. as traffic northwest Baghdad, clash in Karbala, Pentagon said. · streamed by the com­apparently because of a officials said the U.S. mili­Tuesday's attack was the pound in the quiet, mid­threat. -tary is concerned about al­third car bombing since dle-class Waziriyah dis­
"About three days ago, Sadr but is uncertain Thursday, when a driver trict. 

States can m.ake m.edicinal m.arijuana laws 
Supreme Court rules states can decide whether drug can be used for illnesses 
Associated Press  medicinal value. But federal law bans the use of pot  soup." The administration argued that public  
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court  under any circumstances.  heath -not the First Amendment free­ 
cleared the way Tuesday for state laws  The case gave the court an opportuni­ speech rights of doctors or patients  - 
allowing ill patients to smoke marijuana  ty to review its second medical marijua­ was at stake.  
ifa doctor recommends it.  na case in two years. The last one  "The provision of medical advice ­ 
Justices turned down the  Bush  involved cannabis clubs.  whether it be that the patient take  
administration's request to consider  This one presented a more difficult  aspirin or Vitamin C, lose or gain  
whether the federal government can  issue, pitting free-speech rights of doc­ weight, exercise or rest, smoke or  
punish doctors for recommending or  tors against government power to keep  refrain from smoking marijuana ­ is  
perhaps just talking about the benefits  physicians from encouraging illegal  not pure speech. It is the conduct of the  
of the drug to sick patients. An appeals  drug use. A ruling for the Bush adminis­ practice of medicine. As such, it is sub­ 
court said the government cannot.  tration would have made the state med­ ject to reasonable regulation," Solicitor  
Nine states have laws legalizing mari­ ical marijuana laws unusable.  General Theodore Olson said in court  
juana for people with physician recom­ Some California doctors and patients,  papers.  
mendations or prescriptions: Alaska,  in filings at the Supreme Court, corn­ In states with medical marijuana  
Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii,  pared doctor information on pot to  laws, doctors can give written or oral  
Maine,  Nevada,  Oregon  and  physicians' advice on "red wine to  ·  recommendations on marijuana to  
Washington. And 35 states have passed  reduce the risk of heart disease,  patients with cancer, HIV and other  
legislation recognizing marijuana's  Vitamin C, acupunctur~,  or chicken  serious illnesses.  

. ·, ·.........-.

page 6 The Observer +NEWS Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
An ad-hoc parking committee was formed to deal with the
GSU 

problem alo!Jg with the Parking Services department; it will
continued from page 1 

also address the shortage of the current numbers were too emergency phones on certain low. parts of campus, specifically by 
Another major issue dis­the Joyce Center. cussed was the availability and security of 
In other GSU business:
parking for + A request for $500

graduate 

by the Chinese Cultural 
students. "We [had to] come 

and Art Exhibition wasAccording to up with some way unanimously approved. 
E r i k a The event, to be held

to avoid the 'last
Benavides, 

Oct. 17 and 18, is the
the already resort policy. This 

first of its kind on cam­
limited 

is it." pus and will benefit
number of 

economically disadvan­
parking 

taged children who
Tim Dale
spaces 

seek to return to
available in GSU chair of academic 

school in China. 
the library 

affairs + The GSU will contin­lot will ue its association with
decrease 

"Evenings of Prayer
further next from Around theyear when the faculty lot closes World," a forum established byto make way for construction. 

former GSU orientation com­mittee chair Mignon Montpetit last year. 
+ 
Issues surrounding the printing quota have been resolved, and the allotted amount for each stu­dent will return to $300 within a few weeks. The error occurred when the new computer sys­tem was implement­ed over the summer. 

+ 
The new GSU serv­er approved at the last meeting has arrived and is cur­rently being installed. A new, more functional graduate student website is also being designed. 


Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael@nd.edu 

ALLISON NICHOLS/The Observer Two members of the Graduate Student Union contribute to budgetary discussion at their meeting Tuesday. The GSU changed its grant policy. 
of the suits have been settled making folders available to for amounts up to $10,000. multiple users, courts have

Findit 

The fact not ruled out the continued from page 1 that fewer possibility that students "I am definitely worried this sharing could 
protected. are even be penalized. 
by everything the RIAA 
The issue of free copying of trying to While students
is doing. I have started 
digital media has been in the i n d e x such as Finch, national spotlight because of t h e m -taking my music offthe however, are con­lawsuits filed by the selves on shared network." cerned about pun­Recording Industry Findit is ishment, others Association of America (RIAA) probably are not as wor­
Chris Finch 

against users of such Internet an indica­ried. file-sharing software as tion that sophomore "I wouldn't want Kazaa, !mesh and Morpheus. students it to happen, but I Hundreds of lawsuits were are wor-have no immedi­filed against users who made ried about possible legal ate concerns about being audio files of copyrighted repercussions from sharing sued," junior Patrick Scarlett music and then made these copyrighted media. While said. files available. The statutory none of the 1:urrent lawsuits limit on damages was deal with users on a network, Contact Matthew Smedberg at $150,000 per song, but many which operate precisely by smedberg.l@nd.edu 
addition, Pet£ rs, family mem­out for the cause." bers and friends have partici­"This was my first year

Cancer 

pated in the St. Louis Race organizing the event, and I continued from page 1 for a Cure for the past three plan on making it bigger and years. better for next year," Welsh donate it for the raffle. "Every year, about 100 peo­said. 
The quilt, which fits a sin­ple show up for our team, the Eighty-five percent of this gle bed, hangs behind the Peters' Pow1~r Posse," said year's participants were stu­front desk in LeMans Hall. It Peters. "We wear our neon dents, a number of which is valued at pink wigs and participated on behalf of fam­$600. Tickets walk together. It's ily members. Senior Rebekah are $1 each or "It's our hope that just amazing to Kistka was among them. six for $5 and soe all the people "My Aunt was just diag­
[the "Quilt for a 

can be pur­that turn out." nosed with breast cancer at chased at the Cure'1 is reaching This fall, sever­the end of September, and I LeMans Hall outbeyondjustour al Saint Mary's think that made me more front desk. The resident advisors aware of events happening
students, and that
quilt will be raf­participated in • during Breast Cancer
other members of

fled off Oct. 31. designing shorts Awareness month," said., "It's our hope the community are to s-ell as a Kistka. "I think starting that it's reach­fundraiser for awareness young can never
seeing it and

ing out beyond breast cancer hurt. It's good to be aware of
donating as well."

just our stu­research. They your body so that if some­dents, and that have already sold thing changes, you'll knew." other members Melissa Peters 350 pairs and are This Friday marks National of the communi­p Ianning to place Mammography Day, the next
director 

ty are seeing it a 11other order event as part of Breast
LeMans Hall 

and donating, as a1~ain soon. Cancer Awareness Month. well," said The annual Peters feels there is no better LeMans Hall director Melissa Saint M<,ry's time to start Peters. "Our goal is to be able Oktoberfest promoting to donate more money than it Run/Walk to t ene­healthy habits.
"I think starting 

cost to make the quilt." fit breast ca11cer "Team up
awareness young
Peters, herself, was diag­research was held with a friend nosed with stage two breast Oct. 2. Over 175 can never hurt. It's and remind cancer on Jan. 3, 2001. She people participat­each other to
good to be aware of 
was 27 years old. ed, raising do self-exams.
your body so that if
''I'm the living proof that, $1,805. This year, Encourage although less than one per­local businesses something changes, mothers and cent of women under the age donated products friends over the
you'll know." 

of 30 are diagnosed with and gift certifi­age of 40 to get 
breast cancer, it still can hap­cates given away tested yearly. 
pen," Peters said. at the conclusion Rebekah Kistka You need to be 
Since her diagnosis, Peters of the race. senior proactive while has taken an active role in "The feedback you're young to promoting the prevention of was very posi-prevent prob­breast cancer. She has partic­tive," said Ar:.na Welsh, soft­lems in the future," Peters ipated in the Oktoberfest ball coach a:1d Oktoberfest said. Run/Walk, Quilt for a Cure organizer. "The raffles at the and various other fundraisers end were a nic~ addition for Contact Angela Saoud at on Saint Mary's campus. In the particip~.nts who came saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Publishers say press freedom violated 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are under attack throughout the Western Hemisphere, an organization of newspaper publishers said Tuesday. 
The Inter-American Press Association concluded a five­day meeting in Chicago saying the situation is worst in Cuba and Venezuela. 
The Miami-based umbrella group of nearly all the news­papers in the Americas said Cuba stands out as the coun­try where freedom of the press "is violated most sys­tematically and completely." 
"Twenty-eight independent journalist are serving prison sentences ranging from 14 to 27 years in subhuman condi­tions, far from their families, with no medical attention and no respect for their other basic human rights," the IAPA said in a report. 
Venezuela was also men­tioned as a concern for harassment of journalists by sympathizers of President Hugo Chavez. 

"We will continue working with dignity and courage, "said David Natera Febres, presi­dent of Bloque de Prensa, the association of Venezuelan newspapers. "If we do so, the totalitarians will never get their claws on Venezuela." 
The Bloque de Prensa was one of four Venezuelan groups that shared the IAPA's top award this year -the Grand Prize for Freedom of the Press. 
The association presented the award to "all Venezuelan press," including radio, televi­sion and a reporters associa­tion. It was the first time the IAPA, an organization of newspapers, included elec­tronic media in the award. 
The association singled out the 28 Cuban journalists for "special distinction." Humberto Castello, of El Nuevo Herald, the Miami Herald's Spanish newspaper, accepted the award for them. 

Brazilian Dance 
This new class·will be high -energy, individual not couples and very ·. upbeat & creative. 

~dr~:ation. Thurs. 10/16, 8:00AM at the RSRC. 
is $15.00 1\rli:t~e:~· MON. 8~00 PM Beginning 10/27 at the IlA-~'~"'.·, Running Through 12/8. 
I!Cil!lss:ses are open to all NP faculty, staff, l~l~de,nta and farnfly (children must be 16 years 
I I \ , •; r l I 1 -'\ c; -~ -, \~ / 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 764.38 +89.70 

Jones ' 
it:·· Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,305 185 • 1,032,324,992 

NASDAQ 1,933.53 +18.22 NYSE. 5,940.75 +43.75 AMEX 1,023.69 +6.63 S&PSOO 1,045.35 +7.29 NIKK£1 (Tokyo) 10,786.04 0.00 FTSE. 100 (London)4,362.30 +51.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +10.14+0.21 2.28 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -3.54-0.13 3.54 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.41-0.05 12.28 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.22+0.37 30.80 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.45-0.13 28.78 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.15 +0.08 51.82 10-YEAR NOI'E +0.16 +0.07 42.55 5-YEAR NOI'E -0.03-0.01 31.34 3 MONI'H BILL 0.00 0.00 8.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0. 07 32.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.60 375.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.57592.175 
fxchan e Rates 

YEN 109 EURO 0.8546 POUND 0.6006 CANADIAN $ 1.323 
IN BRIEF 
Delta to sell planes due to losses 
ATlANTA -Delta Air Lines said Tuesday it would seii some of its planes as it reported a $168 miiiion loss in the third quarter. 
"Over the past two years, our industry has undergone dramatic, permanent changes," said Leo Mullin, chief executive of the nation's third-largest airline. "Today's results, while somewhat better than we expected, show that Delta's chaiienges are not yet over." 
In the three months ending Sept. 30, Delta lost $168 million, or $1.36 a share, compared with a loss of $330 million, or $2.67 a share, for the same period a year ago. 
Hevenue rose to $3.44 billion from $3.42 bil­lion for the same quarter a year ago. 
The earnings report comes as Atlanta-based Delta continues to cut costs. The airline has laid off 16,000 employees since the 2001 ter­rorist attacks. 
The company said Tuesday it had agreed to seii 11 planes scheduled for delivery to the air­line in 2005, and delay delivery of eight more. 
Stocks rise as Intel reports profits 
NEW YOHK-Stocks struggled higher Tuesday, lifting the Dow within striking dis­tance of 10,000 Jor the firsttime since May 2002, as a strong start to earnings season cased worries that the market's rally has been overly optimistic. 
Nasdaq stocks pushed to their highest levels in 20 months as investors anxiously awaited a third-quarter profit report from Intel Corp., which topped most analyst forecasts after the close of trading. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 48.60, or 0.5 percent, to 9,812.98, the first close above 9,800 since May 31, 2002. Broader stock measures also rose. 
Johnson & Johnson led the Dow's advance, rising $1.14 to $50.93 after the drug and medical product maker posted a 20 percent improvement in third-quarter profits, beating most analyst estimates. Other big names that topped expectations for the just-ended quar­ter included Merrill Lynch and Bank of America. 
The market hung lower for much of the ses­sion, an expected pause after the strong gains of recent weeks, but turned moderately high­er by mid-afternoon. 


Ford executive lectures at ND 
Robert Frederick addresses company's corporate responsibility in lecture series 
By ANNA GELHAUS News Writer 
With $162 billion in rev­enue and 6.9 million vehi­cles sold in a year, Ford Motor Company has a larg­er responsibility than ever to be a corporate citizen in the world, Robert Frederick. manager of cor­porate responsibility, said Tuesday. 
As the third in the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics, Frederick spoke on corpo­rate responsibility at Ford Motor Company and the future issues for the automaker. 
As the 25th largest econo­my in the world, "we have power and influence," Frederick said of his .com­pany. Being an internal activist, Frederick has "one foot in the. company, and one foot out," monitoring Ford's conduct and relation­ship with society. Frederick emphasized that people want businesses with ethi­cal conduct, ones that can be trusted. "The failing of few has tarnished the trust of many," he said. "This trust issue is very important at Ford." 
Frederick focused on how the company works to maintain a relationship of trust with its shareholders and customers. He stressed study on SUVs. The report interest groups and con­ments revolved around cre­upholding a reputation that discussed people's enjoy­cerned stockholders that ating vehicles with better depends on the company's ment of driving the vehicles, Ford is able to take on the fuel economy and reduced principles and values, quali­but also mentioned the challenges of the future. emissions. Frederick said ty products, and relation­concern over their poor fuel "They are like a canary in a that Ford is one of the ships. Frederick explained economy. The media was coal mine-a signal for world's greatest polluters, that "trust building requires "perplexed by us telling it change," Frederick said. creating 1.5 percent of all a shift from passive to active like it is," Frederick said. "We want to give them the man-made carbon dioxide transparency." Honest But the consumer response legitimacy they deserve." gases. The Ford Escape reporting and disclosure of paid off. There was clear Frederick outlined Ford's Hybrid and Ford Pzev Focus company information is cru­support for their honest actions in becoming a more were two of the vehicles in cial to a good world-compa­approach, studies showed, responsible company. They development that will help ny relationship. "We are and the corporate reputa­incl'uded developments in them achieve their environ­capable of engaging in hon­tion was enhanced. technology, manufacturing, mental goals. est discussion," he said. "We are a company will­their social impact, engage­
Frederick highlighted a ing to change," Frederick ment, and transparency and Ford report from a few stressed. It is only through accountability in reporting. Contact Anna Gelhaus at years ago that had a case the concerns of special Technological imp.rove-agelhaus@nd.edu 

California transit workers strike 
Associated Press  And Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies continued to call in sick, as  John Seumanutafa said. Waiting for one of the final buses  
LOS ANGELES -Train and bus  they have in spurts over the past  just before midnight, 18-year-old Allia  
mechanics for the nation's third­ three weeks, in a protest over stalled  McCoy shook her head and racked  
largest mass-transit system walked  labor talks. A court hearing was set  her brain for some other way to get  
off the job Tuesday, stranding hun­ for Tuesday afternoon on a request  from her home in Hollywood to her  
dreds of thousands of Southern  from the Los Angeles County Board of  job at a Beverly Hills store and to  
California commuters already bur­ Supervisors for a court order barring  classes at Los Angeles City College.  
dened by a supermarket strike and  union leadership from encouraging  The strike by 2,000 mechanics  
sporadic sickouts by sheriff's deputies.  deputies to call in sick. The strikes could deal a serious  brought most of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's bus and  
The labor disputes snarled traffic,  blow to the ailing California economy.  train service to a halt as thousands of  
inconvenienced grocery shoppers and  Jack Kyser, chief economist for the  drivers and other union workers hon­ 
threatened to disrupt the operation of  'Los Angeles Economic Development  ored the picket Jines.  
county jails and courts.  Corp., estimated the transit strike  The MTA carries about 500,000 rid­ 
''I'm just stranded," said commuter  could cost $4 million a day and the  ers a day, or about 80 percent of  
David Strattling, 59, who made it to  supermarket strike $6.3 million per  those in Los Angeles County who use  
Union Station on one of the buses not  day in lost wages.  public transportation, spokesman Ed  
affected by the strike before realizing he could not go any farther. "I won't  The transit strike caused the most headaches Tuesday, as commuters  Scannell said. More than a dozen non-MTA transit  
be able to go to work today."  scrambled for other ways of getting to  lines, including Metrolink commuter  
On Tuesday, 70,000 Southern  work. The freeways were even more  rail and various regional bus lines,  
California grocery clerks from three  jammed than usual.  were operating as scheduled.  
chains began their third day on the  "Most of the people affected by this  It was the second time in three  
picket lines with no sign of a new con­ strike are finding alternate means,  years that a strike halted the county's  
tract. Grocery clerks in four other  and those alternate means are getting  transit system. A 2000 walkout shut  
states -Missouri, West Virginia, Ohio  into the car that's in the driveway,"  down the MTA's bus, subway and  
and Kentucky-are also on strike.  California Highway Patrol Officer  commuter train service for 32 days.  


·----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 ' 'the Observer + NEWS -Wednesday, October 15,'2003 
Drug bill to miss target date 
Medicare prescription drug legislation still making progress 
Associated Press occurred in the Capitol at 
roughly the sanie time 
WASHINGTON -Key President Bush was meet­lawmakers working on ing with senior GOP law­Medicare prescription drug makers at the White legislation conceded House, where officials said Tuesday they will miss an he urged them to press Oct. 17 target date for ahead on Medicare while agreement, but reported he is visiting Asia. progress on a plan to dis­"I think there's a good courage companies from chance we'll pass a bill this abandoning coverage they year," Sen. now provide Max Baucus, retirees. D-Mont., told 
S e n "/think there's a reporters, after Charles the negotiating
good chance we'll 

Grassley, R­session, Iowa, said a pass a bill although he, core group of this year." like other law­negotiators makers and was likely to aides, said flat­
Max Baucus

agree to ly the Oct. 17 spend $75 senator target date billion to $80 D-Vermont would pass 
billion over a decade to help compa­nies to maintain existing retiree benefits. Much of that would go to large com­panies. 
In addition, he said there was discussion during the day's closed-door session of adding a tax credit to the legislation for companies that pre-fund health bene­fits for retirees, as they do pension benefits. "It's kind of an insurance policy," he said of the proposal. 
Grassley, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, spoke after a session of House and Senate lawmak­ers trying to agree on a Medicare bill that can pass Congress before the end of the year. The meeting 

without an 
agreement. 
GOP congres­sional leaders set that goal several weeks ago, when the negotiations plagued by policy, political and person­ality differences appeared to be making little head­way. Since then, lawmak­ers have begun making tentative decisions on a variety of issues, and have daily bargaining sessions scheduled this week on a variety of controversial items. 
Wednesday's session, for example, is to be devoted to the discussion of whether to require upper­income seniors to pay more for their Medicare health coverage than other benefi­ciaries. Neither bill includes such a provision, but the Senate signaled its support last summer, and the House is on record in favor of requiring higher­income seniors with high drug use to pay more than others. 
The issue of employer­provided drug benefits, which in some cases is more generous that what Medicare is likely to offer, is one of the most vexing for lawmakers. 
The Congressional Budget Office has estimat­ed that passage of a com­prehensive Medicare drug bill could prompt employ­ers to drop coverage for as many as 4.4 million retirees for whom they pro­vide it. 
Other estimates are far lower. But members of Congress fear a political backlash if the numbers turn out to be sizable, and for a variety of reasons, are willing to pay heavily to subsidize companies that now offer benefits. 
"We feel there's a need to, and we will put a great deal of money into the pro­gram because it's cheaper to spend some money in (that) than have it 100 per­cent dumped on the federal government," Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, told reporters. 
But Baucus said a limited amount of money is avail­able. "It's the age-old prob­lem. How much are we going to pay," he said. 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A judge on Tuesday refused to delay the state's murder trial against Oklahoma City bombing conspirator Terry Nichols despite claims that the federal gov­ernment is not cooperating in mak­ing witnesses available to defense attorneys. 
But District Judge Steven Taylor issued a Feb. 13 deadline for the government to make witnesses available for interviews, saying the delay was jeopardizing Nichols' right to a fair trial. 
"At what point do the problems presented by the federal govern­ment become the state's problem and my problem in guaranteeing Mr. Nichols a fair trial?" Taylor asked in a pre-trial hearing. 
The judge's comments renewed complaints he had made in a writ­ten order last week chiding the government about the availability of witnesses. The trial begins March 1. 
Brian Hermanson, Nichols' attor­ney, had argued that dismissal of the case would be the fairest option. "If this had been any other case, I would have interviewed these witnesses years ago," he said. 
Oklahoma County District Attorney Wes Lane sent a letter to Attorney General John Ashcroft last week, saying the judge has become "visibly frustrated" and could decide to throw out the case or prohibit the use of the death penalty. 
"It is the unfortunate circum­stance that the state finds itself in the position of having fought for several years to bring this case to trial-and to finally be on the very eve of the trial -only to find that the federal government can ham­string our prosecution by its refusal to cooperate," Lane wrote. 
U.S. Attorney Robert McCampbell said the government has misgivings over the intentions of Nichols' attorneys. 
"Some of the effort by the defense in the current case seems designed to try to undermine confidence in the federal conviction rather than to prepare for trial in state court," wrote McCampbell. 
He said only 50 formal defense requests have been made, most in the last 30 days. At least 19 of the witnesses no longer work for the federal government and "cannot be expected to drop those things at a moment's notice," he said. 
The U.S. attorney also said 16 of the 50 witnesses requested so far have already been questioned under oath by a lawyer for Nichols in his federal case. 
Nichols, 48, was convicted of fed­eral charges in the April 19, 1995, bombing and sentenced to life in prison for the death of eight federal agents. 
He now faces 161 state counts of first-degree murder for the 160 other victims in the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, plus a fetus whose mother was killed in the blast. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty. 
Taylor decided last month to move the trial to McAlester, about 130 miles southeast of Oklahoma City, because of extensive pretrial publicity. 


American forces arrest senior Iraqi terrorist 
Captured extremist Aso Hawleri may have been connected with the al-Qaida network 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -American forces in Iraq have captured one of the most senior members of Ansar al-Islam, an extremist group suspected of having ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida net­work, U.S. defense officials said Tuesday. 
The arrest ofAso Hawleri, also known as Asad Muhammad Hasan, late last week in the northern city of Mosul has not been announced. 
Larry Di Rita, chief spokesman for Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, told reporters, ''I'm not in a position to confirm" Hawleri's capture. 
Hawleri was taken by soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division, said a defense official, who dis­cussed the matter on condition of anonymity. 
The capture netted a number of other people besides Hawleri, the official said, adding that there apparently was not a gun­fight. 
No other details were immedi­ately available. 
The officials said Hawleri is thought to be the third-ranking official in Ansar al-Islam, most of whose fighters were believed to have fled their stronghold in northern Iraq before U.S. forces invaded in March. U.S. and Kurdish forces destroyed the group's main base in the early weeks of the war. 

Ansar had taken control of a slice of the Kurdish-controlled area near the Iranian border, enforcing a version of Islam only slightly less stringent than the Taliban in Afghanistan in momi­tain strongholds outside areas of Iraq controlled by government forces. 
In an analytical report in December 2001, Iraq expert Michael Rubin of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy wrote that Hawleri had led the Second Soran Unit, the largest single military unit within an Iraqi opposition group called the Islamic Unity Movement. 
In 2001 the Second Soran Unit merged with the Tawhid Islamic Front to form Jund al-Islam, later called Ansar al-Islam, according to Rubin, who says the -group received funds from bin Laden and trained in Afghanistan. 
Tactics of Ansar have included suicide bombings, car bombs, assassinations and raids on mili­tiamen and politicians of the secular Kurdish government. The group has killed scores of people over the last two years. 


Judge refuses to delay_ Okla. City bombing trial 

Feb. 13 set as deadline for Terry Nichols case 
WITH GUEST VOCALIST TRACY BONHAM + SF'ECIAL GUESTS VENUS HUM ..,uat. il"' _.....,%:7)/1 

oUS ttl1tB1iltlflltl . ~{/{Opf-:/J'
'BI\UC 
ml-o,M1N<"..to.nscr..1'flli. .. <;(!U'tRIII'J'On_N 
~OCTOBER 20 •7:30.PM 
~~Mg~p~~ ON SALE TODAY• '10 AM 
lllllcUis 23HIIriHHC15••~~..........• ._111111111.ClllllfiiiiiJ.IIIII.ICIIrca.lfllllillll• 

Wednesday, October 15, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

CHINA 


China launches first space nlission 
A.sociated Press 

GOBI DESEHT -China launched its first manned space mission on Wednesday, sending an astronaut hurtling toward orbit and becoming the third country in history to do so on its own -four decades after the Soviet Union and the United States. 
The smoky tracer was visible against a bright, azure north­west China sky. The official Xinhua News Agency immedi­atnly confirmed the launch and said the astronaut was Yang Liwei, 38. 

"China's first manned space­craft, the Shenzhou 5, blasted off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in the north­western provinee of Gansu at 9 
a.m. Wednesday [9 p.m. EDT]." Xinhua said. State television cut into its programming to announce the launch. 
It was the culmination of a decade of efforts by China's military-linked manned space program -and a patriotism­drenc!ICd moment for a com­munist government more con­cerned than ever about its pro­file on the world stage. 
Security was tight around the remote Gobi Desert base, some 175 miles northeast of Jiuquan. 
On Wednesday morning, the only road to the launch site was crowded with traflie, including military vehicles and civilian tour buses. But private cars were turned back and phone calls to the base were blocked. 
China kept details of the event secret, saying in advance only that the launch would take place between Wednesday and Friday and that the astronaut would orbit the Earth 14 times. Yang was identified as a lieu­tenant eolonel. 
The Shenzhou 5 launch came after four test launches of unmanned capsules that orbit­ed the Earth for nearly a week before parachuting back to China's northern grasslands. State media say the manned 
flight is expected to last about 20 hours. No footage of the launch was immediately shown. 
"The launch of Shenzhou 5 is long-awaited by the Chinese people," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said Tuesday. She said the flight was a key step in the "peaceful development of space"-a reflection of China's effort to reassure the world that its military-linked program is benign. 
The Shenzhou, or "Divine Vessel," is based on the three­seat Russian Soyuz capsule, though with extensive modifi­cations. China also paid Moscow to train at least two astronauts. 
But Beijing insists everything sent into space will be devel­oped and made in China. State media, trying to dispel sugges­tions that its triumph depends on foreign know-how, refer to Shenzhou as "China's self­designed manned spaceship." 

Sources to be disclosed in Lee case 
Federal judge orders reporters to reveal sources in espionage case 
Associated Press WASIIINGTON -A federal judge has ordered five 
reporters, including one from The Associated Press, to reveal their sources for stories 
that portrayed Wen llo Lee, a former nuclear weapons sci­entist, as a chief suspect in a Chinese espionage investiga­tion. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ordered the reporters to answer questions about their sources and to provide Lee's attorneys with notes and other documents from their reporting. 
"It does not detract from the importance of the First Amendment principle at stake to conclude, in the instant case at least," that making possible evidence of government leaks available for trial outweighs the interest of keeping sources confidential, wrote Jackson. 
Lee is suing the Energy Department and Justice Department alleging govern­ment officials provided private information about him to reporters and suggested he was a suspect in an investiga­tion into the possible theft of nuclear secrets from Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. 
Lee was indicted in December 1999 on 59 felony counts alleging he mishandled nuclear weapons information. He was held in solitary con­finement for nine months, then was released in September 2000 after plead­ing guilty to a single felony count. 

TICKETS: $35 
ND/SMC FAC/STAFF: $25 
lias r<,.,hllioo i! port ol .1/wMeljiiiORI ill Amotitm ND/SMC STUDENTS: $15 (onmxl/ltS, onalilool r!leoler loo!ing ~i!iolivt ~by ~,.~tJrll!lOI !ndo.m""r"" rt.e •~~ one The 5a!lie Moo Fur<! " <OOJ.Oillhln wilt! Al1l Midwest 
Coll574.631.8128 for tickets 
ln~wiJh·;·,.·SaliMael':<M 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The women told regulators of breast implants that caused rock-like scars, of silicone leaching into their organs and oozing through their skin, of unending pain. 
Dozens of women and critics who blamed silicone gel breast implants for damaging health effects urged the Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday not to lift its 11-year ban on the devices. 
But after they sat down, a line of other women pleaded for access to the implants, calling them the most natural-feeling option to rebuild cancer-ravaged breasts or enlarge small ones. 
The judge apologized to him, saying the government's han­dling of the case "embarrassed our entire nation and each of us who is a citizen of it." 
The journalists ordered to give depositions under Jackson's order are James Risen and Jeff Gerth of The New York Times, Robert Drogin of The Los Angeles Times, H. Josef Hebert of the AP and Pierre Thomas of CNN. 
Former Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, now the gov­ernor of New Mexico, has said_ in a deposition that he did not recall whether he talked to the reporters. Other Energy apd Justice Department officials also said they did not recall such discussions or did not provide the reporters with the information. 




Women urge FDA to keep ban on implants 
Victims claim breast enhancements caused health damage, call for ban to be upheld 
"We.beg you, 

The FDA opened just as passion­the two-day hear­please protect the ately defended ing to seek advice the devices, not­
younger 

on whether !named ing that today's
generation. " 

Corp. should be saline implants allowed to again have problems, sell silicone gel­Carolyn Wolf too, and that filled breast men received sil­
Implant survivor 
implants here, like it does in Europe. The two key issues being debat­ed are: 
+ 
lnamed's own research found 46 percent of breast cancer patients getting silicone implants needed additional breast surgery within three years -as did one in five otherwise healthy women who had breast enlargements. 

+ 
Whether lnamed has tracked women's health for a long enough period after implanta­tion. Its key study covered just three years. FDA's own research suggests implants often break after seven years, and many women report side effects once they've had the implants for a decade. 


lnamed argues that many studies worldwide over the last decade have exonerated silicone implants of causing serious dis­ease, and that short-term com­plications like painful scarring and extra surgery are compara­ble to today's main option ­
Please join us for another evening ofHindu centering prayer, 'Thursday, October 16,2003 330 Coleman-Morse 7-7:45 p.m. 
Experience another evening ofHindu prqyer and me.d#ation aspart ofa series exphring the beliefs and practices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evenirig ofPrayer from. Around the World" 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry Department ofTheology International Student Graduate Student U.nion Sef11ices and Activities 
implants filled with salt water. 

But women who say their sili­cone implants harmed them tell a different story. 
"My bones still scream with pain," breast cancer survivor Pam Dowd, of Boise, Idaho, said at the hearing. She described having silicone scraped ofT her chest wall when leaking implants were removed in 1995. 
Carolyn Wolf of Centerville, Va., described "a long thin greasy glob" of silicone oozing from her eye and X-rays show­ing it lodged elsewhere in her body even after the implants she had for 29 years were removed. 
"We beg you, please protect the younger generation," she said. Other women 
icone testicular 
implants without 
concern. 

Elizabeth Webber of Maryland 
told of her saline implants turn­
ing rock hard and causing dis­
abling pain, until she had them 
replaced with silicone ones. 

"I felt like myself, a whole nat­
ural and complete woman," 
Webber said. "My breasts felt 
like mine." 
''I'm offended that a woman's 
option to choose a silicone gel 
implant was taken away," added 
Lisa Bancarz of California, who 
received gel implants for 
enlargements in 1987. She 
reported no side effects. 
But it was the critics' wrench­
ing stories that appeared to 
move FDA advisers. They grilled 
Inamed about why it couldn't 
provide long-term studies prov­
ing how long implants really 
last. 
Joanne Kuhne, a company executive, said !named planned to follow the women for another seven years but wanted to resume sales while it did. 

Ninety-three percent of women in the company's study remained satisfied with the implant two years later, she told the panel. 
Today's implants may break less often than those used 20 or 30 years ago because doctors have made a key change, said Dr. Scott Spear, a Georgetown University plastic surgeon and !named consuTtant. They used to treat painful scar tissue by squeezing women's breasts to break it up, which also could break the implant. 
"It's pretty clearly known ... this is not a good idea," Spear said. 
The advisers plan to issue their recommendation Wednesday. The FDA is not bound by their opinion but typi­cally follows it. 
The FDA ended routine sales of the once highly popular sili­cone implants in 1992 amid fears that leaking devices could cause serious disease. Breast cancer patients and certain other women could still get the implants under strictly con­trolled research studies, but women wanting bigger breasts have had to use saline filled ones. 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT

Page 10 Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
Gay unions disrupt tradition of marriage 

We're leading the way for the rest of the nation," San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown said in 1996 as he presided over a "domestic partnership ceremony" for 200 gay and lesbian cou­pleswhom he 
Charles Rice

anointed as "virtual spouses." Seven years later, the mayor looks like a Right or prophet. In the wake Wrong? of the Supreme Court's recent deci­sion in Lawrence v. Texas, several states may soon rule that it is unconstitutional to deny same-sex couples the right to marry. 
Why not allow those couples to marry? One reason is that in the nature of things, the family is founded, as Aristotle put it, on "a union of ... male and female, that the race may continue." The law gives exclusive recognition to heterosexual marriage because it carries the future and common good of society and ofthe state. Despite exceptional cases to the contrary, heterosexual marriage is generally ordered to the procreation of new per­sons, to whose education and upbringing the spouses legally and socially commit themselves. Same-sex couples can make no such commitment. It would therefore be unjust to give such couples the legal status or rights belonging to marriage. 
As a June 3, 2003 Vatican statement, issued with the approval of John Paul II, put it: "Homosexual unions are ... lacking in the biological and anthropological ele­ments ... which would be the basis, on the level of reason, for granting them legal recognition. Such unions are not able to contribute in a proper way to the procre­ation and survival of the human race. The possibility of using recently discovered methods of artificial reproduction ... does nothing to alter this inadequacy." 
This conclusion of reason is confirmed by the law of God. Through marriage, 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
men and women are given the privilege of living in full and permanent communion and of sharing in the procreation of new persons. Where authentic conjugal love is open to new life, homosexual acts are a dead end with no future. They are intrin­sically wrong and the inclination to them, while not sinful, is disordered just as would be an inclination to any other objectively immoral act. Their immorality is compounded by the fact that they are contrary to nature. 
As Thomas Aquinas said, "it is most grave and shameful to act against things as determined by nature. Therefore, since by the unnatural vices man transgresses that which has been determined by nature with regard to the use of venereal actions, it follows that in this matter this sin is gravest of all." 
Aquinas also insisted that the law should not attempt to enforce every virtue or forbid every vice, lest the law be inef­fectual and held up to "disrepute." A law criminalizing private homosexual conduct could be so intrusive as to be harmful to the common good. But it does not follow that a homosexual relation should be given the legal status or incidents of mar­riage. The homosexual relation, in prac­tice as well as in theory, tends to be a par­ody of authentic marriage. A study of homosexual men under age 30 in Amsterdam, sponsored by the Dutch AIDS project and published in AIDS 2003, found that single men acquire 22 casual part­ners a year, men with a steady partner acquire eight casual partners a year and "steady partnerships" last an average of 18 months. 
When the European Parliament in 1994 approved same-sex marriage and the adoption of children by homosexual cou­ples, John Paul II said that action "does not merely defend people with homosexu­al tendencies by rejecting unjust discrimi­nation ... The Church approves ... [that] what is not morally acceptable is the legal approval of homosexual activity ... [T]he attempt has been made to tell the inhabi­tants of this continent that moral evil, deviation, a kind of slavery, is the way to liberation, thus destroying the true mean­ing of the family. The relationship of two men or two women cannot constitute a true family, still less can one gra,nt such a union the right to adopt children ... These children suffer ... grave harm, because ... they do not have a father and mother, but two fathers or two mothers." 

For the past three centuries and more philosophers and politicians have attempted to organize society as ifGod did not exist and as ifthere were no know­able, objective moral truths. The drive to legalize same-sex marriage is an·out­growth ofthis and especially of the domi­nance ofthe contraceptive ethic. If sex has no intrinsic relation to procreation and if it is entirely up to man (of both sexes) to decide whether it will have that relation, any objections to the equal treatment of heterosexual and same-sex "marriage" will be reduced to the pragn1atic or esthetic. 
But a society in which it makes no legal and social difference whether boys grow up to marry girls or other boys is certifi­ably insane and is on the road to extinc­tion. The lack of effective opposition to the same-sex marriage drive, especially in the trendy American Catholic Church, should cause us to ask whether we have become what G.K. Chesterton described as a "peo­ple that have lost the power of astonish­ment at their oWn actions." 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contracted at plawecki.l @nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 



OBSERVER POLL 
Do you approve of student body president Pat Hallahan's proposal to transfer authority from Student Senate to a reconstructed Exceutive Cabinet? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Reality is only an allusion, albeit a very persistent one" 
Albert Einstein scientist 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 page 11 
The pundits among us 
It seems like every political pundit and every talk­show host is writing a book these days. In just the past few months alone, the usual suspects Bill O'Hcilly, Ann Coulter, Sean Hannity, AI Franken, Michael Moore and Greta Van Susteren have all published Joe Licandro books now proudly displayed in the windows of Barnes and Noble. The Lincandro 
OK. I will just come out and say 
Non-Factor 

it. And for those of you who know me. you already knew this to btl true. I am a huge nerd. Exhibit A-I actually enjoy spending my free time reading all of these books. With this being said though, I don't recommend buying these books for anyone who wants to seriously study American political issues or history. If you want to do that, take a class here at Notre Dame from one of our many fine professors. Or, heaven forbid, read a thoroughly researched, credible book by an aca­demic scholar. llowever, if you are just looking for a way to kill some time at a bookstore or you are just a plain clork like me with nothing better to do, than these books hit the spot. 
l11m~'s a little tip. Books by political pundits should be judged solely on their entertainment value and not much else. For most of their authors, these books are giant ego-trips. a chance to slam their journalism rivals and make a ton of money doing it. My favorite of these battles is the no-holds barred, drag'em out fight between former Saturday Night Live funn~ man Franken and those fair and balanced hosts at Rupert Murdoch's Fox News. Wait a minute, is it still OK to write fair and balanced anymore? I would not want Fox News to sue me the same way it recently sued Franken for entitling his book "Lies and the Liars Who Are Telling Them: A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right." Actually, a judgl~ recently threw out this ridiculous lawsuit so I think I am safe. But you never know when Darth Vader and his evil empire (as Franken likes to say) might strike back? 
Franken does not pull any punches. Love him or hate him, there is no denying that the master of sar­casm does a thorough job of making Coulter look bad. I do not want to steal any of Stuart Smalley's thunder, but the egregious errors he exposes in Coulter's book entitled Slander are quite alarming. O'Reilly or Hannity ever made fun of Franken for his In some parts of her book, the queen of conser­Jewish heritage, they would be pulled off the air vatism is clearly guilty of slander herself. This being quicker than Rush Limbaugh from ESPN's NFL said though, Coulter's books are not without some Countdown. By the way, Limbaugh (whom Franken merit. Her bashing of the Carter and Clinton for­calls a big fat idiot) needed to go because he obvi­eign policies should make all of us think ously did not know very much about foot­real hard about every electing ~~mmill??S~Z:~ ball. While he has had a rough go of 
another Democrat again. But she goes a bit too far when she accuses every Democrat in this country of treason. Even some Republicans are not conservative enough for this lady, which is a scary thought. If you have 25 dollars to burn, then you can read more about these amusing allegations in Coulter's most recent book appropriately titled "Treason." 
Back to Franken. While his book has its moments especially the rather hilarious recount of his verbal spat with O'Reilly on C-SPAN last summer, I have a few problems with his style. For starters, his condescending tone gets old real fast. There is nothing wrong with ripping a conservative books to shreds, but attack­ing the author on a personal level not only crosses the line but is a sign of poor journalism. His inces­sant name calling reveals Franken for what he real­ly is -a cheap-shot artist. 
While name calling is one thing, making fun of someone's religion and ethnicity are quite another. In his assault on O'Reilly and fellow Fox News host 1-Iannity, Franken repeatedly pokes fun of their Catholic upbringing and Irish heritage. In this way, Franken hurts his own cause by just confirming what his opposition sets out to prove in their books. 
I.t is okay for the liberal media like Franken to bash a white Catholics of European extraction and get away with it. But if the roles were reversed and 
it so far this year, Donovan McNabb has been one of the 
best quarterbacks in the NFL over the last few seasons despite not having any 
offensive weapons around him. But that is another story for a dif­ferent column. 
Well, that brings this rant to a close. I could go on. but at this point I am sure any­one whose still read­

ing this column hopes I won't. Besides, I have some more reading to do. O'Reilly's latest book "Whose Looking Out for You?" is next on my list. Then again, I think I have 
read this bo_ok before-twice. I think it was called The O'Reilly Factor or maybe it was The No Spin 
Zone. With all due respect, O'Reilly's 
show is great. My roommates and I rarely miss a single episode. I wish I could freely say to annoying people, "Now, let me tell you why you are wrong!" just like O'Reilly. But for the love of God, please stop shamelessly promoting your book before every commercial break on the Factor. After all, your book is so short that I will probably just read it on my next trip to Barnes and Noble. This way, I will not have to waste my money. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political science major. His column appears every other Wednsaday. He can be contacted at licandro.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Focus on m.arketing 

Why did I stand in line for over three hours for the Michigan lottery? Why_ did only 1,500 people show up to see David Spade? Although the questions differ, the answer is the same: lack of effective marketing research. The Student Union Board is falling into the same trap as many other business organizations not devoting enough time and money to effective marketing research. Do not be ashamed SUB~ even Fortune 500 companies fall into this trap. Hemember Clear Pepsi? 
The Michigan ticket debacle is inexcusable from a research standpoint. Ten simple questions may not have prevented. but at least foretold the pend­ing disaster. Are you traveling to the Michigan game? How many friends are you traveling with? Will you enter the student lottery for tickets? Okay, about three questions could have identified the student demand for tickets. These figures multiplied by the time it takes to give someone a lottery ticket equal the amount of time ticket distribution will take. It is not exactly that simple, but that is the basic process. 
Secondly. the lack of turnout for David Spade should not come as a sur­prise had a little research been done. Marketing research is not having each member of SUB ask three friends, "Would you see David Spade if he came to campus?" and then calculating the results. Take the time, spend the money and make a survey. Identify the perception David Spade has amongst the student body. List potential comedians and asked students to rank them. Determine what factors influence the decision to go to Student Union Board events. Identify the price points of your product. Personally, I know I was not going to pay $20 when I can buy Tommy Boy for $9.99. Ten hours of work could have saved about $25,000. 
I wish the members of SUB the best of luck in their future marketing research endeavors. Go out and buy Basic Marketing Research from the bookstore. Talk to a marketing major. Talk to a marketing professor. It will only help you in the future. 
Eric Bilinski senior Dillon Hall Oct. 14 
Recognize personal prejudices 
• 

Maybe I misread the Oct. 14 article by Karamia Porter, but for some reason or 
another, it did not make any sense. First she expresses her amazement over a 
comment she overheard-a comment with very strong factual merit, yet she 
wonders how anyone could dare to make that comment in her presence. Then 
she claims to advocate tolerance, though she herselfjust showed her own intoler­
ance of opinions, however defensible, which she finds unpleasant. Finally, she 
calls for more open dialogue about racial issues, citing the recent affirmative 
action panel discussion. 
I have read the account of that panel discussion and from what I could tell, 
there was about as much diversity of viewpoint on that panel as there is on The 
New York Times editorial pages. Positions ranged all the way from "affirmative 
action is terrific': to "affirmative action is good." I do not remember seeing any 
mention of anyone who argued that affirmative action is unjust, divisive, and 
harmful to the very people it is supposed to help, setting them up for failure while 
rewarding them for underperforming and burdening them with the soft bigotry of 
lower expectations. No wonder Porter wants more dialogue like that, where 
everyone agrees with her. 
Of course whites are only going to express their real opinions in private, when 
doing so in the company of people like Porter brings swift and automatic accusa­
tions of Klu Klux Klan membership. The real mystery is how she can marvel at 
this. Call people racists for saying something totally reasonable and maybe even 
true, then say you want more open discussion-sounds pretty inconsistent to 
me. 

Porter argues that we all have prejudices, and we should confront them. I agree 
totally, and I think hers are fairly clear and easily identifiable-for instance, she 
seems to believe that all problems in the black community are the result of white 
racism, and I would confidently predict that if anyone were to mention drugs, 
crime, illegitimacy or other unflattering possible causes, she would flip out and 
call that person a racist. So maybe she should take some of her own advice, and 
face her own intolerance and prejudices before assuming them in others. 
Joel Duncan class of '0 1 Oct. 14 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
Well-traveled on a tight budget 
Traveling the world for the past decade, speaker gives advice to students about how to travel well and travel cheap 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 
Do you consider yourself well-trav­eled? Do you simply like to travel no matter where you are headed? Or are you going abroad next semester? If you answered "yes" to any of the above questions, then Doug Lansky is someone you must meet. 
Following his graduation from Colorado College, Lansky decided to embark on a journey traveling the world before entering the work force. Against his mom's best wishes, Lansky first started in New York, where, before he left. he received a job offer from The New Yorker magazine. He asked if he could travel for six months or so before he began the position, they agreed and Lansky left the United States. 
He hitchhiked his way to South America on yachts, almost. "My plan was completely ludicrous," Lansky said. "It was the wrong season. It was the hurricane season so all the yachts were going the other direction." 
He got as far as the Virgin Islands sim-· ply because he flew there. After realizing his plan to hitchhike on yachts was a failure, Lansky found other modes of travel. He spent two and a half years working his way around the world by picking bananas in Israel, snowmobile guiding in the Alps and selling carpets in Morocco until a car accident in Thailand, which required him to under­go surgery on his leg, brought Lansky home. 
While at home, he became the youngest national columnist in the coun­try, writing about his travels for over 10 million readers in 40 major newspapers, including The Denver Post, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Detroit Free Press, The Arizona Republic, The St. Paul Pioneer Press, The Raleigh News & Observer, The Seattle Times and many more. 
With his syndicated colbmn, the Chicago Tribune handed Lansky a press pass and told him to continue his travels across the world, writing about it along the way. 
But what exactly did Lansky want to do on an unlimited budget and endless opportunities? Well, he did not really know, so he sat down with his friends to compile a list of over 300 places to go or things to do. His list included such things as sumo wrestling, yodel­ing and traveling on camels. 
He ended up on an army base in Texas. where he drove a tank. "I asked if I could drive a tank for the day. So they gave me . the tank," Lansky said. "It's amazing the things you can do with a press pass." 
He traveled the world, doing things most people dream of doing. He went to Jack-a-Roo school in Australia, which taught him how to be a cow­boy. 
"It was like 'City Slickers' in Australia," he said. 

He also test drove Ferraris, which got up to speeds of 200 mph. He would accelerate up to the maximum speed and slam on the brake. It would knock his head around, making the experience painful and violent but worth it. "I thought I was going to die the whole time," he said. 
While in Africa, he spent some time with the headhunters. "It feels good that you survived it. It is so satisfying," Lansky said. "The more life-threatening things are, the more satisfying it is." 
When arriving back in the States, Doug taught journalism at Colorado College, published several books and hosted an hour-long travel documentary for the Discovery Channel. He is continuing to serve as the regular world-travel expert on Public Radio's flagship travel pro­gram, Savvy Traveler, during the recent relea1;e of his Rough Guides book First Time: Around The World, a comprehen­sive (yet delightfully readable) guide to the ultimate journey. To date. he has been ,m the road for roughly 10 years in over 100 countries. He now tours the count·y talking to college students about the bEst way to travel. 
Lan:;ky learned, from all of his travels, that getting to know the people of a country is the best way to travel. This is one of the things he emphasizes in his talks around the country. 

"If anyone went traveling for 10 years, they'd figure it all out, too," Lansky said about his vast knowledge of the best way to travel. "I have so many great tips to give people when traveling. People make a lot of mistakes. I made a lot of mis­takes." 
Lansky presents his talk with over 700 images and pictures, much like MTV does with TV shows. 
"I have an entertaining way to teach people to travel. I share about how to save money, travel safer, hitchhike on yachts the right way and how to pack," Lansky said. "I share the things people don't tell you. I don't want people to waste time going after the wrong stuff." 
He learned a significant amount while on his travels. "I want people to have maxi­mum time on the road and get beneath the skin of the culture -to do something meaningful," Lansky said. 

He will be giving away a Eurorail pass worth about $900 when he speaks tonight to one of the audience members. "It is worth more than a plane ticket," Lansky said. "I wish I had one of those." 
He will be around following his talk to answer any questions people may have about traveling and journalism. 
Doug Lansky will be speaking at Washington Hall at 7 p.m. tonight. The event is a SUB-sponsored event and admission is free. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 


In Rio de Janeiro, Lansky attended a carnival, dressed as a "cross between Liberac~ and the Three Musketeers." 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
-. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
page 13 
Jumping on the success Train 
Train and The Josh Kelly Band perform at Morris Performing Arts Center 
By BRAIAN FOY 
Scene Wrirer 
On Monday evening, Train came chug­ging into South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center with the open­ing act The Josh Kelly Band. Train's My Private Nation Tour made its final stop with The Josh Kelly Band much to the delight of the almost sold-out crowd. The nearly 80-year old venue proved to be the perfect stage for these two adult contemporary bands. The high ceilings allowed both acts music to resonate as the vocals bellowed from the front men. The atmosphere for The Josh Kelly Band was laid back as concertgoers trickled in throughout their thirty minute set. The soft pale light provided a soothing backdrop for the crooning Josh Kelly does so well. When Train took the stage, the Morris was near-full concert capacity and the smoke machine was on full-throttle. The lights remained dimmed until the songs would crescendo when the lights would brighten and elic­it cheers from the audience. 
The night began with upstart Josh Kelly and his merry band of players. The Josh Kelly Band has the acoustic guitar sound that every college kid loves. While aspects of Josh Kelly's music seem to come from the same cookie-cutter mold that Dave Matthews perfncted, the sound is definitely all his own. Beyond the standard band instru­ments. The Josh Kelly Band featured an organ and a lap steel guitar that allowed Kelly to create his unique sound. The highlights of the half-hour set were the last two songs that got the crowd on their feet. Kelly and the boys did a very unique rendition of Steve Miller Band's "Joker" complete with the lap steel added for layering effect. The Josh Kelly Band then ended their set with the new single "Amazing". The song was obvi­ously their culmination because of its catchy lyrics and familiar melody that had the crowd clapping their hands. 

The headlining act Train was the next band to pull into the station. The audi­ence voiced its approval when singer Pat Monahan told the crowd to "put you hands in the air". Towards the begin­ning of the set, Train played its first radio hit "Meet Virginia" which got the crowd of mostly 30-somethings on its feet. A few songs later. Pat began to work the audience with the line, "I was advised to say 'Go Irish,"' and then striking a pose before the opening of "Save The Day." Train then transitioned into another song from its new album "My Private Nation." "Mississippi" is a slow brewing jam that features the acoustic as well as slide guitar and was heightened by the soft blue lights to the band's back. Pat then told a story about bass player Charpe Colin's uncle. "Everyone's got an Uncle Bob," he began, "but his is different because he sings this," and Train went into a nearly flawless medley of Led Zeppelin covers. The band began with "Ramble On" then went into "Whole Lotta Love" and then back into "Ramble On". The timing and musical ability of Train was on display as they nailed the intricacies of the Zeppelin classics. Jimmy Stratford repli­cated the solos of Jimmy Page and Sam displayed the vocal range of Robert Plant. The set ended with the obligatory "I can't wait to come back" and Sam leading the crowd in a rendition of "Hey lley Hey Goodbye." Train came back on stage for their first encore to the applause of many and ended it with a cover of Aerosmith's "Dream On." Once again, Train showed their musical com­petence as Jimmy mim­icked Joe Parry's guitar and Sam imi­tated Steven Tyler's vocals. The last encore, to the surprise of no 
Train and the Josh Kelly Band 

one, ended with Train's most popular single "Drops of Jupiter". 
The atmosphere of the Morris Performing Arts Center was very unique and is a great escape to the architecture of the 1920s. The beautiful interior and state-of-the-art stage house provide the perfect venue for a quality concert. However, the "My Private Nation Tour" was the not a quality concert worthy of the grand and historic building. Josh Kelly and his fellow musicians put forth a very good effort for a young band. Kelly displayed his ability to write catchy lyrics and the band did a tremen­dous job of accompanying him. Kelly is young and with time will come into his own as a singer and a· songwriter. However, Train has been together for nearly a decade and has three albums to show for its work. Their music has not changed much over the years and the vast majority of their music sounds the same. Train is obviously comprised of talented musicians as the Led Zeppelin and Aerosmith covers show, but they fail to show much ingenuity in their music. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 15, 2003 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Wells helps Yankees to 4-2 win over Red Sox 
Associated Press starter Derek Lowe, who 
dropped to 0-2 in the series. 

BOSTON -David Wells is a Still in the minds of the Red longtime, die-hard Babe Ruth Sox is the first-round win over fan, and he's doing his best to Oakland, when Boston lost the keep The Curse alive. first two games, then won three 
Wells worked his way out of in a row. trouble to put the New York "The clock is ticking on us Yankees on the verge of anoth­right now," Red Sox manager er World Series, beating the Grady Little said. "This isn't Boston Red Sox 4-2 Tuesday for something we've never been a 3-2 lead in the AL champi­through before. We were onship series. through this about a week ago." 
The Boomer sent the Yankees Karim Garcia, who cut a back to the Bronx with two knuckle in Saturday's bullpen chances to extend Boston's scuffle with a member of perennial heartache, which Boston's grounds crew, was began after the Red Sox sold inserted into New York's lineup Ruth to the Yankees in 1920. just before game time and hit a 
"I live for this time," the 40-two-run single in the second. year-old left-hander said. "I live Boston fans taunted Garcia in for being the guy to go out the ninth with a singsong chant there and be the one on the of "Jailbird." mound, try to make things hap­David Dellucci originally was pen, try to shut slated to start the other team in right field, down because but Torre told I'm not afraid to Garcia he was
"/ live for being the guy 

fail." in the lineup New York ·to go out there and be after watch­headed home ing him in
the one on the mound." 

with Andy batting prac­Pettitte and tice. 
David Wells 

Roger Clemens "His eyes lit 
rested and Yankees pitcher up," Torre ready for the said. "He final two games thanked me." of the series, Alfonso which continues Wednesday at Soriano followed Garcia's hit of doing," Torre said. Garcia got the chance to be air, with Mueller unable to grab Yankee Stadium. One win with an RBI single -it was the "Whatever it takes to get the New York's offensive star when it with his bare hand on the would give the Yankees their first time either team scored as best out of someone-we're all he showed his manager his first try. fifth AL pennant in six seasons many as three runs in an inning in this thing for one reason, hand was OK. Garcia, 1-of-1 0 against Lowe and sixth in eight years under during the series -and later and that's the win." "I had to impress Mr. Tor:re in the regular season, lined a manager Joe Torre. made a fantastic backflip that Wells improved to 10-2 in the that I could swing the bat, first sinker into center for a 2-0 
"We never get overconfident," helped stifle a Boston rally. postseason, allowing four hits of all, and I could hit the ball lead. Soriano, 1-for-16 in the Yankees captain Derek Jeter Hideki Matsui added a run­in seven innings and just one out of the park," he said. series at that point, hit a hard said. scoring grounder in the eighth. run -Manny Ramirez's homer Garcia tried to ignore the smash into right field on the 
Boston planned to start John While New York is seeking its in the fourth. It was his second Boston fans, who taunted him next pitch for a 3-0 lead. Burkett, 0-6 against the 39th AL pennant, Boston is try­big win against Boston. The in the ninth. Boston went 0-for-5 with run­Yankees in his career in the ing to get to the World Series Red Sox had cut New York's AL "They can say whatever they ners in scoring position and is regular season, against Pettitte for the first time since 1986. East lead to 1 1/2 games before like to," he said. batting .250 against New York, in Game 6, holding Pedro And, as Yankee fans are sure to Wells beat them 3-1 on Sept. 7. Lowe, who lost to Pettitte in just .230 in the playoffs. The Martinez back for a seventh point out Wednesday night, the Mariano Rivera finished for Game 2, got in trouble in the Red Sox put runners on second game rather than pitch him on Red Sox haven't won the World his fourth save of the postsea­second when he walked Jorge and third with one out in the three days' rest. But knuckle­Series since 1918. son. He allowed his first run of Posada with one out and, fol­third and loaded the bases in baUer Tim Wakefield, who has Wells revels in the history of the playoffs when Todd Walker lowing a forceout, decided to the fifth but didn't score either both of his team's wins, said he the Yankees but both delights tripled off the right-field wall intentionally walk Nick Johnson time. Garciaparra ended the thought he would be available and distracts his team. He gets leading off the eighth and after falling behind 3-0. third with a strikeout and if the Red Sox wanted him in big wins but also causes big scor~d on a groundout by Aaron Boone hit a hard Ramirez closed the fifth by relief. trouble from time to time. Nomar Garciaparra -his first bouncer to third that went off grounding into a forceout at 
"It'll be tough," said Game 5 "We know what he's capable RBI of the playoffs. Bill Mueller's glove and into the third. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS! Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details. 800-875­4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. 
'"ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357 
KATIE CORDELLI ...Congratulations on your Bat Mitsva!! Hope you have an excellent 19th Birthday as well. Lots of love, McGlinn 1A 

WANTED 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820­0167, ext. U187 Part Time Professional Server Assistant, will train. Must be avail­able Tues.-Sat Evenings beginning at 4:00pm. Apply in person: 24460 Adams Rd., South Bend (far North West side) or call (574) 272-9220­ask for Emily. 

FOR SALE 
IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO ND. 3BR­1/2 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM RM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101 ,400. 574-272-1112 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $64,900. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6 Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD Changer Runs Great, front end damage-$600 neg. 574-271-1202 1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o. call #234-4536 

GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO ND. 3BR­
1.5 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM RM. NEW AC/SIDING,ROOF. MANY UPDATES.2 CAR GAR.$1 09,000. 574-272-1112. 

FOR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 
MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272­1525 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING: Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood available for remaining ND football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6 cars. $1 ,200 per weekend. 
No pets. (574) 231-8823 (evenings). 
3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall garage, all appliances, partially turn., 2 miles from ND, $900/mo. 
Call 298-3000. 

STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE! 2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and Townhouses available. Excellent location to campus! Contact Rod Ludwig at 574-234-9923 or Emaii:Riudwig@cbresb.com 

TICKETS· 

ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232~ 
2378 PM 288-2726 

ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
SAL!= AM -232-2378 PM -288­
2726 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. , TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­
0964. 

FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 
LOWEST PRICES. {574)251-1570. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674-6593. 
SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990 
2 GA TIX FOR USC/B0/832-428­3937. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call 276-8507. Alter 5 pm, 288-2877. 
I have 2 USC tix for sale; prefer to trade for FSU. 312-879-6256 
Will trade 2 FSU tickets for 2 USC tickets 601-249-3417 or 601-248­0368. 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A 'Reality" Spring Break 2004's Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­tours.com or 1800-426-7710 
ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, childless, stay-at-home mom and environmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adop­lion. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1­800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 
EARN MONEY OVER FALL BREAK The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame and Saint Marys College has employment opportunities over Fall Break (October 20-24, 2003). If you are available to work·part time and are interested in spending time reading childrens books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 as soon as possible. Have fun and get paid too! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR ANIKKA, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU. 
Go Thrashers! 
Get Snyder on the Cup. 


Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Thrashers rem_ain undefeated with 2-2 tie against Islanders 
Associated Press Frantisek Kaberle had a great was a great team. They are a chance to give Atlanta its third good team, but I don't think we
ATLANTA -The Atlanta straight victory, skating in alone played like we did the last twoThrashers nearly won another 
one. on Rick DiPietro. But Kaberle, a games against them. We learned 
Marc Savard scored early in defenseman, didn't get enough from that game and that's why the third period and the on the shot, and DiPietro we were able to bounce back in Thrashers twice came slapped it away. Toronto and build a little
back 

from one-goal deficits to tie the "DiPietro got us the tie," New momentum coming into New York Islanders 2-2 Tuesday York coach Steve Stirling said. tonight's game." night. Eric Cairns gave the Islanders Fresh from his 18th career 
Atlanta (2-0-1) still has the a 2-1 lead off an assist from shutout Saturday in Toronto, best start in franchise history, Sven Butenschon midway Theodore stopped 16 shots for 
an amazing beginning following through the. second period the Canadiens, who were found­a tragic preseason. Dan Snyder before Savard tied it. ed in 1909 -eight years before died from injuries sustained in a "We came out and took con­the NHL was formed. They are car wreck that also injured All­trol of the game in the first peri­53-19-15 in home openers since Star teammate Dany Ileatley, od, but it was like we were sat­the NHL began in 1917. who was driving and subse­isfied with the one-goal game," "This was a big thing for me 
quently charged with vehicular New York center Jason Blake growing up and it's just an homicide. said. "They came out stronger honor to be here playing in it," Last Friday, Heatley joined the and took it to us." said Montreal rookie Michael team at Snyder's funeral in Shawn McEachern took the Ryder, who set up Perreault's 
Elmira, Ontario, but through it puck into the corner before first goal. all, the Thrashers kept playing sending it in front to Savard, Robert Lang scored for solidly. who easily beat DiPietro and Washington, which played with­
Before the game, Heatley helped the Thrashers salvage a out suspended forward Mike expressed sadness for the wreck · point. Grier. in his first public comments "This was a very important Grier served a one-game 
since he crashed his Ferrari into point to get," Savard said. "The penalty imposed by the NHL a wall. points at the beginning of the earlier in the day for elbowing 
I leatley, the MVP of last sea­year add up just like the ones the Maple Leafs' Hobert Heichel son's All-Star game, broke his that come later." ~ as the Capitals began a six­jaw and tore two ligaments in game road trip Monday with a his knee. lie had surgery to Montreal 5, Washington 1 2-2 tie in Toronto. repair the knee, and the The Montreal Canadiens Alexander Semin, chosen 13th Thrashnrs said they expect him turned their season around overall in last year's draft, to play this season. before it was even a week old. assisted on Lang's goal in his 
"The accident has taken a Yanic Perreault had two goals NHL debut as he joined fellow huge emotional toll on me, and and an assist. and Donald 19-year-old players Boyd of' coursn, my family as well," Audette also had three points as Gordon and Steve Eminger in Heatley said. "At this time, my the Montreal Canadiens beat the Washington's lineup. focus is on the Snyder family Washington Capitals 5-1 in their The Capitals -without and my rehabilitation from the home opener Tuesday night. defensemen Brendan Witt and injuries that I sustained in the Audette, Andreas Dackell and John Gruden for a second accident. Stephane Quintal also scored for straight game because of 
"I am working hard with my Montreal. which has won two injuries -are 0-2-1 since a 6-1 rehabilitation and will return to straight while outscoring oppo­victory over the New York the icc as soon as is medically nents 9-1 since a season-open­Islanders in their opener possible. I will continue to sup­ing 5-2 loss in Ottawa on Thursday. port the Snyder family and my Thursday. Perreault got his second goal team in every possible way. I "It's been night and day," of the game just 19 seconds into sincerely thank you for your goalie Jose Theodore said. "The the second period to restore understanding." first game it seemed that Ottawa Montreal's two-goal lead. 
Author Disc·ussion 



& Signing 

Meet 
John Wukovits, ND '67 
Thursday 
October 16th 
7:00pm 
in the 
Hammes 
A riveting account of one of theNotre Dame legendary battles of WWII 

Bookstore 


"We got a lot of chances to score because we played well defensively," Perreault said. "We wanted to get a strong start ­that's what we did tonight and after that we played really well." 
Calgary 1, Edmonton 0 
Blair Betts scored midway through the second period and Jamie McLennan made 19 saves to extend his shutout streak to over 97 minutes as the Calgary Flames beat the Edmonton Oilers 1-0 Tuesday night. 
Betts scored at 10:06 with one second left on a Flames power play. 
Defenseman Andrew Ference slid a short pass to the rookie cutting across the high slot and his wrist shot through a crowd in front trickled in off the pad of Tommy Salo. 
McLennan made his first start of the season in place of Roman Turek, who was still feeling the effects after being accidentally kneed in the head by San Jose's Alyn McCauley on Saturday. 
McLennan stopped all nine shots he faced in 37 minutes after relieving Turek on Saturday and picked up right 
where he left off. The shutout was his first since March 21, 2001, when he blanked Nashville while with Minnesota. 
The Oilers managed just 10 shots through the first 40 min­utes but they increased the pressure on McLennan in the third period. 
After a sharp pad stop early in the period off a hard one-timer from Ethan Moreau, McLennan held his ground at the near post to keep the puck out as Oilers winger Georges Laraque skated in front arrd tried to jam the puck in. 
Edmonton was shut out for the second straight game, the first time that's happened since losses to Montreal and Winnipeg on Nov. 18 and Nov. 23, 1991. The Oilers were shut out only four times last season. 
The Flames are 2-1 despite no production from their top line. Neither Jarome Iginla, Craig Conroy or Dean McAmmond have registered a point yet. 
Calgary's Stephane Yelle sus­tained a head injury in the first period in a collision along the boards with Edmonton defense­man Marc-Andre Bergeron and 
-didn't return. 


Catin Club Dancing 



i8 on learning to hear dance rhythms, leading, following 
HAMMES 

gaining the confidence to get on the floor as soon 811 
NOTRE DAME 

~ign-llpt ~in; Thurfa(\a-f.lo/111 &:ooam-~ 
a~ ereg;,t i u~, 10/16 and wi\\ run 'lhrough tU'~

BOOKSTORE 

to 1.4tin Panting'~ wi\1 m~ti!J$~ from 1·1:?oprn il'l 'ITle. ~.
N THE ECK CENTER 

1m lntt.rmedlate c.~ ~i\1 mto&tifom 6-t.;opm. ~ fu. for~''-i6 $tl.
phone: (574)631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

~e~..-,,fll't!rln acivanu at tz.u~. ~l&iratlon wilt b6 on lo/t!, at &~oo NA. Open
Open to the public • Convenient parking 
il\ ND &~. &rul+fi $taff, retifm and fu&lr 6p0Uf.U. Spaa it. limit~. 
page 16 Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NBA 



Crawford leads Bulls past Pacers in overtime exhibiton 
Associated Press New Orleans 89, Orlando 84 off the scoring. Baron Davis had 20 points 
CHICAGO -Jamal Crawford and six assists to lead the New New Jersey 90, Philadelphia 88 scored seven of his 31 points in Orleans Hornets to an 89-84 Larry Lewis made two free overtime as the Chicago Bulls exhibition victory Tuesday throws with 12.3 seconds left in defeated the Indiana Pacers night over the Orlando Magic. overtime and the New Jersey103-96 Tuesday night in an George Lynch added 14 Nets remained unbeaten in the exhibition game. points and six rebounds for the preseason with a 90-88 victory
Crawford made just six of 18 Hornets (3-1). But New Orleans over the Philadelphia 76ers on shots, but was 16-of-17 from lost backup shooting guard Tuesday night. the line and dished out eight Courtney Alexander, who tore The win was the third assists. his right Achilles' tendon in the straight for the two-time 
The Bulls (2-2) dominated the fourth quarter. defending Eastern Conference extra session, scoring 10 of the Tracy McGrady, diagnosed champions, and once againfirst 12 points after the teams earlier in the day with pleurisy, Jason Kidd did not play. tied at 90 in regulation. started for the Magic and Kidd, who signed a six-year, . 
Indiana (2-1) tied the game played 26 minutes. McGrady, $103 million contract to remain with 4.7 seconds remaining on who sat out the last two exhibi­in New Jersey: has elected not a three-point play by Michael tion games with a sore hip, had to play in the first three games.Smith. His basket came on a 10 points, eight assists and five The All-Star point guard plansputback of an airball by Carl rebounds. to suit up on Friday when New 
English on a 3-point attempt. The Magic (0-4) got 14 points Jersey plays the Boston Celtics Roger Mason fouled Smith to apiece from r!')serves Gordon here. put him at the line for the tying Giricek, Shammond Williams Damone Brown, a free agent
point. and Steven Hunter. forward who is trying to win Chicago, which blew an 11-The Hornets took a 15-4 lead the final open spot on the ros­14 rebounds and five assists for 13 points on 4-of-5 shooting.
point lead in the final 3 minutes in the first five minutes and ter, led the Nets with 13 points. the Heat (4-0). Eddie Jones He also hit all four of his free
of regulation, alse got 17 points never trailed until Hunter con­Richard Jefferson added 12 and added 23 points. throws.and six rebounds from Eddie verted a pass from Williams to Kerry Kittles and LuciO!lS Trailing 98-97 with 10 sec­Pau Gasol finished with 11Curry, and 12 points and 11 give the Magic an 84-82 lead Harris had 10 apiece. onds left, the Heat set up a final points for Memphis, and
rebounds from Lonny Baxter. with 1 :04 left. 
Alonzo Mourning and Jason play for Odom. He drove the reserve guard Earl Watson had Fred Jones led Indiana with Armstrong, who played nine Collins each had 11 rebounds lane and put up a floater that nine points and 11 assists in 19
15 points, and Ron Artest and seasons for the Magic before for New Jersey, which squan­Ernest Brown swatted away, minutes.James Jones added 13 apiece. signing as a free agent with the dered an eight-point lead in the but was called for goaltending Lury Hughes led the Wizards Jermaine O'Neal pulled down Hornets, nailed a 3-pointer final 2:09 o( regulation of a with 2 seconds remaining. with 15 points and five steals.eight rebounds. with 4 7 seconds to play to put game in which both teams shot Devin Brown, who missed The Grizzlies entered theDonyell Marshall added 15 New Orleans back in front 85-less than 40 percent from the two free throws with 10 sec­fourth quarter leading 77-65points and Mason 13 for 84. He added a layup with 19.6 field. onds remaining and the Spurs and were ahead by 21 pointsChicago, which trailed 50-40. seconds to go that made it 87-Glenn Robinson had 15 points 
(3-1) leading by a point, missed twice in the final two minutes.
But the Bulls moved ahead by 
84. to lead Philadelphia (1-3). from the corner as time The Wizards had a 46-45
outscoring the Pacers 30-14 to Lynch had a steal and layup Allen Iverson (6-for-17) expired. Malik Rose scored 15 lead at halftime, after being up
lead 70-64 after three quarters. with 2.1 seconds left to finish added 13 and William Green points and Tim Duncan added 22-10 in the first quarter and 11, including a tying 3-pointer 12 as San Antonio lost for the 34-24 in the second. with three seconds to go. first time. Jarvis Hayes, who started for 
Green converted a three­The Spurs capped a hectic the injured Jerry Stackhouse,
point play to give the 76ers an day by wasting a 13-point sec­had 12 points on 5-of-8 shoot­86-83 lead in the overtime, but ond-half lead. They spent the ing for Washington. Brendan the Nets went ahead 87-86 on a morning in Washington, meet­Haywood and Jahidi White driving layup by rookie Zoran ing President Bush to commem­added 11 points each for the Planinic and a rebound follow orate their NBA championship, Wizards. 
by Jonathan Kerner. and didn't arrive in Miami until A putback by Sam Clancy put late in the afternoon. Houston 82, Sacramento 78 the Sixers ahead 88-87 with Robert Horry and Rasho Steve Francis scored 29 
29.1 seconds to play. Nesterovic added 11 points points as the Houston Rockets 
Brown tied the game, making apiece for San Antonio. Spm:s snapped a four-game losing a free throw with 13.6 seconds guard Tony Parker sat out with streak with their first exhibition 
to go. Lewis got the rebound of the flu. victory, 82-78 Tuesday nightthe second shot, was fouled and over the Sacramento Kings. made both shots. Memphis 101, Washington 85 It was clear Houston's new 
A 3-pointer from the corner Wesley Person scored 10 of coach Jeff Van Gundy did not by Philadelphia's John Salmons his 17 points in the Grizzlies' want to add to the losingbounced off the rim. big third quarter, leading streak. He stayed primarily
Green hit a tying 3-pointer at Memphis to a 101-85 exhibition with an eight-man rotation the end of regulation, which victory Tuesday night over the throughout and the Rockets came seconds after Planinic Washington Wizards. responded, leading for much of missed two free throws that Starting the second half with the evening. A ninth player,could have iced the game for its reserves, Memphis broke it Gabe Muoneke, played one New Jersey. open in the third quarter with minute. 
21-2 run that included 15 Yao Ming had 17 points and 
Miami 99, San Antonio 98 
straight points. seven rebounds for Houston (1­
Lamar Odom scored 31 points The burst began with a 19-4). Kelvin Cato added 12 and got the game-winning bas­foot jumper by Person, who had rebounds, while both Bostjan
ket on a goaltending call as the two 3-pointers in the run. He Nachbar and Jim Jackson Miami Heat rallied to beat the was third in the league last scored nine points. 
San Antonio Spurs 99-98 in an year in 3-point shooting. Peja Stojakovic added 16 
Memphis ended the run lead­points and Bobby Jackson ing 71-58 after a free throw by fueled the Kings' (2-2) second­James Posey, who finished with half comeback, scoring 10 of 
his 16 points. 
Starting in place of Doug Christie, who rested arid did not play, Gerald Wallace enjoyed his best game of the preseason, getting 15 points and 15 rebounds. 

Happy 18th 
After Brad Miller made a 3­point~r. cutting the lead to 79­76, Francis countered with two


Birthday 
free throws with 10.3 seconds left and another one seven sec­
onds later to secure the victory. Although the Kings made a comeback in the third quarter, 

Stephanie 

Pelligra 
highlighted by a vicious dunk and three-point play from the acrobatic Wallace, it wa-s Houston keeping the lead. thanks to Francis. 
The flashy point guard scored 

You've been SMEBed. 
11 points in the third period when Sacramento held a 24-19 edge, cutting the lead to 66-63 entering the fourth quarter. 




........l '-\. ••-' 
.. I' I ' 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


NBA 

Bryant's attorneys accused of ruining accuser's reputation 
Associated Press · 
EAGLE, Colo. -Prosecutors accused Kobe Bryant's attorneys of deliberately smearing the rep­utation of his accuser Tuesday as they asked a judge to make sure any evidence about her sexual history is heard behind closed doors. 
In a sharply worded court fil­ing, prosecutors said defense attorney Pamela Mackey stepped over the line last week when she asked a detective at the prelimi­nary hearing whether injuries to the 19-year-old woman were "consistent with a person who had sex with three different men in three days." 
That question prompted Judge Frederick Gannett to end the hearing, which was to resume Wednesday. The hearing will determine whether the NBA superstar will stand trial. 
Prosecutors said the question was a "deliberate and calculat­ed" attempt to elicit testimony on evidence irrelevant so early in the case and came even though "attorneys are expected to pro­ceed in an ethical manner." 
"What was even more unex­pected was her conscious mis­representation of the evidence in order to smear the victim pub­licly," prosecutor Ingrid Bakke wrote. "The bell cannot be unrung. It will be difficult enough to overcome Ms. Mackey's mis­statement of the facts." 

Mackey's voicemail said she would not return calls from reporters. The judge has issued a gag order prohibiting those involved in the case from com­menting directly on it. 
Prosecutors want Gannett to hold discussions about the accuser's sexual history in pri­vate, if he determines the evi­dence is relevant. 
Bakke said prosecutors believe that sort of evidence is protected by Colorado's rape shield law, which bars the use of an alleged victim's sexual history in rape cases with few exceptions. 
Attorney Tom Kelley, who rep­resents several media organiza­tions including The Associated Press, said he will fight the pros­ecution's request. 
The hearing began last week with sheriff's Detective Doug Winters describing the alleged assault in graphic detail. He said the woman was flattered by attention from Bryant and agreed to his request to come to his room late one night. 
After chatting for a while, they began kissing consensually, but she said no after Bryant grabbed her around the neck, leaned her over a chair and lifted her skirt, according to the testimony. She said no again after Bryant pulled down her underwear before rap­ing her, Winters testified he was told by the accuser. 
It was Mackey's cross-exami­nation of Winters that prompted the judge to end the hearing. 

r 

Knowledge is power. ~ 
Join us, and you'll find yourself in an environment where knowledge and learning are shared. An environment where you can expect to learn from your colleagues' ideas. And where they expect you to contribute your own. Don't let this opportunity pass you by. 
Quality In Everything We Do 
NHL 
Heatley expresses sorrow-s 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Atlanta Thrashers star Dany Heatley expressed sadness Tuesday night for the car wreck that killed teammate Dan Snyder, saying he was "very sorry over the loss of my close friend." 
In his first public comments since he crashed his Ferrari into a wall, Heatley issued a state­ment before the Thrashers played the New York Islanders. 
Heatley was charged with vehicular homicide after Snyder died last week of injuries sus­tained in the Sept. 29 crash. Snyder fractured his skull in the wreck and never regained con­sciousness. Heatley was also injured and might miss the entire season following knee surgery. 
Last Friday, Heatley joined the rest of the team in Elmira, Ontario, for Snyder's funeral. 
"I am deeply saddened and very sorry over the loss of my close friend and teammate. Dan Snyder," Heatley said. "The entire Snyder family ... have 
•

demonstrated amazing strength and compassion during this very painful time." 
Test results showed Heatley consumed a small amount of alcohol before the crash. His blood alcohol content was less than 0.015, far below the state's legal limit of 0.08. 
Because Heatley wasn't drunk and Snyder's relatives say they forgive him, prosecutors could decide the·car crash was just an accident, with no need to pursue felony charges and sentences ranging from three to 15 years. 
Heatley, the MVP of last sea­son's All-Star game, broke his jaw and tore two ligaments in his knee. He had surgery to repair the knee, and the Thrashers said they expect him to play this season. 
"The accident has taken a huge emotional toll on me, and of course, my family as well," Heatley said. "At this time, my focus is on the Snyder family and my rehabilitation from the injuries that I sustained in the accident. 
"I am working hard with my rehabilitation and will return to the ice as soon as is medically possible. I will continue to sup­port the Snyder family and my team in every possible way. I sin­cerely thank you for your under­standing." 

Wednesday, Octobe.r 15, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS

page 18 
BOXING 




Klitschko ready for another chance against Lewis 
Transportation to 
• 

(l'' N The way to go to the Coach USif airports! 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Two months ago, Vitali Klitschko visited Lennox Lewis in London, inquiring about the heavy­weight champion's plans and the prospects for a rematch. 
The answers he got were not exactly acceptable. 
"He said, 'I don't know. Maybe I'm retired. Maybe I'll fight again. Maybe I won't,"' Klitschko said. 
And that's why Klitschko agreed to a 12 -round match 
against  Kirk  Johnson  at  
Madison Square Garden  on  
Dec. 6.  

"I want to be active," he said Tuesday. "Lewis doesn't know what he's doing in the future. I'm ready to fight." 
Promoters hope to get the Johnson-Klitschko bout sanc­tioned as a heavyweight elimi­nator with the winner guaran­teed a shot at Lewis and his WBC title. That's, of course, if Lewis decides to fight again. 
Klitschko wants another shot after he was stopped on cuts by Lewis on June 21. He was ahead on all three cards when the fight was halted, and he remains bitter about the end­ing. 
"I was very disappointed," he said. "Why did the doctor stop it? Nobody checked me between rounds or asked me if I could continue. I don't remember them looking at me. A fighter would remember that. Nobody in my .corner 
remembers that. 
"I understand the doctor was worried about my health. But I could see everything." 
There is a thin scar under Klitschko's left eye, another next to it, souvenirs of the cuts Lewis inflicted, where enough blood flowed for the fight to be stopped. 
Klitschko wasn't even sup­posed to be fighting Lewis that night. The challenger was sup­posed to be Johnson, but two weeks before the fight, he had to pull out when he tore a chest muscle in training. 
"I was in great shape when I got injured," he said. "I knew it right away when it hap­pened. I know what it feels like. I hoped it was just a sprain but I knew after the MRI." 
Doctors ordered him to shut down and when he stepped aside.-Klitschko was the replacement. What Johnson didn't like was Lewis' reaction to his injury. 
"He talked a lot of garbage 
after I got hurt," Johnson said. 
"I think he was relieved. It was 
surprising that he did that." 
For Johnson. the injury was 
the second speed bump in his 
ambition to win the heavy­
weight title. In July 2002, he 
fought then-WBA champion 
John Ruiz but was disqualified 

in the 10th round because of 
low blows. 
That is the only loss on his 
record and it still angers him. 
"They weren't low blows," he 
Agence France Presse 

Vladmir Klitschko of Ukraine, on the right, fights Fabio ~oli of Argentina in an A_ug. 3~ fight in Munich during a WBA heavyweight match. Klitschko 1s making a comeback m boxmg. The heavyweight faces Kirk Johnson at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 6. 
said. Bates in December and Lou 
"How do you get disqualified Savavese in March put him in for hip shots?" position for the Klitschko fight. 
Then Johnson waved his "People thought I was fin-hand, as if he were brushing ished," he said. "Yet here I am, aside the bad memory.''I'm back again. I was cheated. past all that right now," he Now I have a chance again to said. show my skills." 
Quick knockouts of Jeremy Johnson comes into the fight at 34-1-1. Klitschko is 32-2. 
In the 10-round co-feature, Joe Mesi (27 -0) faces Monte Barrett (29-2). 
One of Barrett's losses was to Wladimir Klitschko, Vitali's brother. 
The card will be televised live by HBO. 






,,. (I. t 



OUND.iHE NATION 
Page 19 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERvuts Willi SERVICES Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
team 
Morrissey 
Dillon 
Keenan 
Alumni 
O'Neill Stanford 
Keough 
team 
Knott SiegfrieiJ Zahm Sorin St. Eds carroll Fisher 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 
8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

around the dial 
MLB 

Yankees at Red Sox 4 p.m., FOX Marlins at Cubs 8 p.m., FOX 
POKER World Series 8:00p.m., ESPN 

NHL Boston Bruins vs. Dallas Stars 8:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


shortstop Alex Gonzalez to early 20s, started hurling Everitt correctly ruled no 
Associated Press 

score eight runs in an 8-3 beers in his direction and he interference: this fan did not 
CHICAGO -Five outs to victory Tuesday night, forc­was escorted out by security reach over a wall. go. Wrigley Field crowd on ing the NL championship with a jacket over his face. Ivan Rodriguez hit an RBI its feet. World Series within series to a Game 7. "You cost us the World single and Miguel Cabrera their grasp. The Cubs cruised into the Series!" one fan yelled at followed with a grounder in 
Then, it was almost as if eighth with a 3-0 lead, all him. the hole that Gonzalez sim­the baseball gods realized set to end their absence Wednesday, Kerry Wood ply dropped for an error 
these were the Chicago from the World Series. pitches for Chicago; the that loaded the bases. Cubs. "[The loss] has nothing to Marlins go with Redman. Derrek Lee tied it with a 
Those lovable· losers blew do with the curse," Cubs Prior got the first out of two-run double. it again thanks in part to -manager Dusty Baker said. the inning, then Pierre dou­Kyle Farnsworth came in of all things -one of their "It has to do with fan inter­bled. Castillo lifted a fly and intentionally walked own fans. ference and a very unchar­down the left-field line and Mike Lowell to load the 
In a stunning eighth­acteristic error by Gonzalez. Alou ran toward the brick bases. Jeff Conine hit a inning turnaround, the History has nothing to do wall. The man reached up sacrifice fly. Florida Marlins took advan­with this game, nothing." for the ball -not over the Chicago fans left waiting tage of left fielder Moises Once the rally got in full wall, though -and deflect­for the Cubs' first Series Alou's run-in with a fan on a swing, fans around the man, ed the ball away. championship since 1908 foul fly and an error by who looked to be in his Left-field umpire Mike will blame the fan. 
IN BRIEF  
Warren Sapp fined $50,000 NEW YORK The NFL fined Tampa Bay defensive lineman Warren Sapp $50,000 on Tuesday for mistreat­ing officials and threatened him with a suspension if his behavior doesn't improve. NFL director of game operations Peter Hadhazy issued the fine after reviewing Sapp's conduct in three games. Hadhazy said any further mis­conduct will result in a suspension of at least one game. Before last Sunday's game against Washington, Sapp bumped into an offi­cial as he entered the field. "There was absolutely no need for you to do so," Hadhazy stated in a let­ter to Sapp. "To the contrary, it is apparent that you deliberately made contact with the official. ... This mis­conduct occurred even though you had been strongly advised by the Buccaneers' management only days before to refrain from taking actions during the pregame warm-ups that  were disruptive to your opponents, disrespectful to the game officials, and in violation of league rules regarding unsportsmanlike con­duct." In two earlier games this year, the NFL said Sapp used excessively abusive language to officials. "Your continuing disrespectful and intimidating conduct has no place in the game," Hadhazy wrote. "You have repeatedly abused game officials and ignored their directions and authority in at least three of the Buccaneers' games this season.Sapp disputed that claim, too. "They're going to fine me for some­thing that happened a month ago? If I verbally abused somebody so bad, you would think there would have been a warning or something," Sapp said. "I just want to see the report and what I supposedly said." The tackle took exception to the NFL's contention that he ignored directions and verbally abused game officials on Oct. 6.  Cecil Cooper to manageMilwaukee's Triple-A team MILWAUKEE -Former Milwaukee Brewers star Cecil Cooper will manage the club's Triple-A affiliate in Indianapolis again next season, the team announced Tuesday. Cooper, 53, made his managerial debut with the Indianapolis Indians last season. The team finished with a 64-78 record but went 45-44 over the last three months of the season. ''I'm really looking forward to com­ing back for another season," Cooper said. ''I'm excited for the opportunity to work with some of our top young talent that will be coming to Indianapolis in 2004 and helping to mold them into successful Major League players." Cooper came to the Brewers in a trade with the Boston Red Sox after the 1976 season. The former first baseman ranks among the Brewers' leaders in nearly every offensive category.  

Wednesday, October 15, 2003 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
FooTBALL 
Setta not likely to play Saturday 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Nicholas Setta will most likely not play against USC Saturday, the result of an unspecified injury the senior kicker suffered in Saturday's game. 
Setta was apparently hurt on the kickoff following Notre Dame's first-quarter touchdown Saturday, but Irish coach Tyrone Willingham wouldn't specify what injury is keeping Setta on the sidelines. 
"[Setta's status] is somewhat day-to-day," Willingham said, "but I'll probably expand that and say Nick will be out this week." 
D.J. Fitzpatrick, who is nor­mally the Irish holder, will han­dle Setta's punting and kicking duties 
against the "I take this game a by USC. He ended 
Trojans. up picking Notre
little more

Against Dame over the Pittsburgh personally." USC just days Saturday, before signing day. "Yeah, I looked
Fitzpatrick Rhema McKnight 
made field at what they had
Irish wide receiver

goals from 19 and 34 yards while missing 52-and 32-yard attempts. 
"It was nice to contribute more than just holding, and be a part of the win," Fitzpatrick said. 
Inside perspective 
In addition to breaking game film down for hours on end, foot­ball coaches often double as weathermen by trying to simu­late game conditions during weekly practices. That's because they know how much weather can have an impact a game plan. 
Saturday, for example, follow­ing Florida State's 22-14 loss to Miami, Seminoles coach Bobby Bowden blamed a torrential r&instorm for making running conditions difficult and hamper­ing Florida State's outside run­ning game. 
That's why, as heavy rains drenched the practice field Tuesday afternoon, Willingham looked at the forecast and saw that no rain was on the forecast for Saturday. So he decided to move practice indoors to Loftjls. 
"It's something you take into consideration," Willingham said about making the Irish practice in Tuesday's inhospitable condi­tions, "but we wanted to make sure we got a good day of prac­tice in." 
Hometown hatred 
Sophomore receiver Rhema McKnight grew up in California as a UCLA fan, so it wasn't too hard for him to get used to loathing USC when he committed to Notre Dame a year and a half ago. 
"UCLA-USC, those teams are big rivals," McKnight said with a grin. "I take this game a little more personally." 
Despite his hometown dislike 
for the Trojans, 
McKnight was still 
heavily recruited 
to offer," the La 
Palma, Calif. native 
said. "I just felt 
here was a better plate for me." 
No Holiday for former starter 
Even though former starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday is still taking most of his snaps in practice as Brady Quinn's back­up, Willingham said, he is start­ing to see some spot duty at wide receiver in practice. He stepped onto the field in both the Purdue and Pittsburgh games as a wide­out, but has yet to catch a pass. 
McKnight said that when Holiday does play receiver in practice, he's always asking the established wideouts what he is supposed to do on a particular play. 
"He's coming along good. Hopefully, he can come out and make plays as well," McKnight said 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

LoVecchio struggling at Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Quarterback Matt LoVecchio isn't the reason that Indiana coach Gerry DiNardo played it conservative when the Hoosiers had a chance to beat Northwestern. 
DiNardo said Tuesday he has lost confidence in the entire passing offense, not just one player, and that's why he refused to put the ball in the air when the Hoosiers (1-5, 0-3 Big Ten) were in striking distance against the Wildcats. 
"During the game against Northwestern, I had a lot of confidence in our running game, not in our passing game," DiNardo said. 
With the game tied at 31, the Hoosiers took the ball at their own 46 with 1:30 to play in the game, with a gold­en opportunity to put togeth­er a game-winning drive and snap an eight-game Big Ten losing streak. 
But instead of letting LoVecchio air it out to move into field goal position, DiNardo kept the ball on the ground. 
He had good reason. The Hoosiers rushed for 327 yards on the day, including 136 yards and three touch­downs by BenJarvus Green­Ellis and 128 yards and one TD from Brian Lewis. 
Green-Ellis and Lewis, how­ever, couldn't deliver at the end of regulation. 
The Hoosiers were only able to get as far as the Northwestern 37, and Bryan Robertson's desperation 54­yard field goal fell short as time expired. 
"That was not directed at Matt, or the pass blocking or the catching," DiNardo said. "It was directed at all of it." 
LoVecchio was a respectable 13-of-20 for 204 yards Saturday, and complet­ed 11 passes in a row during a stretch from the first to the fourth quarter. But he made two costly mistakes. 
DiNardo's lack of faith was validated in overtime. LoVecchio threw a pass to Travis Haney that was 


deflected and intercepted in the end zone by Northwestern's Bryan Heinz. It was LoVecchio's second interception of the day. 
The Wildcats took posses­sion and Jason Wright soon scored his fourth touchdown of the game to give Northwestern the victory. 
After the game, DiNardo mentioned LoVecchio's two interceptions as one of the main factors in Indiana's loss. 
Indiana is off this week andthey have a home game against No. 8 Ohio State on Oct. 25. 

MEN'S GOLF 
Gustafson leads Irish to tournament championship 
Special to The Observer especially sweet, as it came at 1998 Marshall Invitational, up his homecoming by tying 8. Oklahoma City 895 (296·301·298): 9. Southeastern Louisiana 898 (291-305-302): 10.
the expense of two squads that and Gustafson's six-under par for 69th place at 236 (78-77­
Baylor 900 (300·300-300): 11. McNeese State

McKINNEY, Texas -For the were ranked in the top 50 of total equals the school record 81). while sophomore Eric 
905 (290-301-314): 12. Tulane 909 (303-302·

first time in nearly four years, the current Golfweek/Sagarin for the lowest score in relation Deutsch completed the Notre 
304): 13. Iowa State 913 (298-308-307): 14.the Notre Dame men's golf Performance Index ratings. to par (Alex Kent at the 2000 Dame lineup with a ?1st-place Arkansas-Little Rock 917 (297-310-310): 15. team has earned the title of No. 30 Vanderbilt wound up Legends of Indiana finish at 237 (75-81-81). Louisiana-Larayette 923 (299-312-312): 16. tournament champion, win­Texas-Arlington 925 (303-306-316): 17. College
six shots behind the Irish and Intercollegiate). Meanwhile, The Irish won't have much 
or Charleston 930 (312-308-310). 

ning the SMU/Stonebridge tied for fifth place (888), while Balderston made the Dye time to celebrate their tourna­Invitational by one stroke over No. 39 Southeastern Louisiana Course his personal play­ment title as they return to the 
Top 10 Individuals Lamar on Tuesday afternoon. finished ninth with a score of ground for the second year in links Monday and Tuesday, 1. Chris Stroud (Lamar) 205 (68-72-65): 2. The Irish carded a final-round 898, 16 shots back of Notre a row, registering a score of Oct. 20-21 for The Tillinghast Colt Knost (SMU) 206 (66-69-71); 3. Scott 306 and held off the hard­Dame. two-under par 214 (68-72-74). in Scarsdale, N.Y., hosted by Gustarson (Notre Dame) 210 (70-69-71): 4. charging Cardinals, posting a Tommy Balderston (Notre Dame) 214 (68-72­
Sophomores Scott Gustafson That was one shot behind his St. John's. It will mark Notre 
three-round score of 882 (286-and Tommy Balderston were career best of 213, which he Dame's second appearance in 74): 5. (tie) Zach Atkinson (North Texas) 215 (70-74-71) and John May (Wichita State) 215
290-306) to capture their first the pacesetters in Notre set at last year's the tournament, having placed 
(72-71-72): 7. Brett Williams (Ohio State) 216championship since Oct. 19, Dame's victory. Gustafson fired SMU/Stonebridge Invitational. 15th in 2001. (72-75-69): 8. Tyrone Van Aswegen (Oklahoma 1999, when they won the a final-round 71 and finished Freshman Cole Isban was City) 217 (71·74-72): 9. Brett Bergeron Louisville Intercollegiate by in third place overall with a one of three Irish golfers who (Southeastern Louisiana) 218 (70-77-71): 10. two shots. This year's tourna­SMU/Stonebridge Invtational Luke List (Vanderbilt) 219 (72-72-75). 
career-low score of six-under struggled a bit during the final 
Standings: (54-hole totals): 1. NOTRE
ment was held on the par-72, 
par 210 (70-69-71). That round. Ishan shot an 80 on 
DAME 882 (286-290-306): 2. Lamar 883 (287-Notre Dame Individuals 
7 ,202-yard Dye Course at 
matches the second-lowest 54-Tuesday and wound up tied for 300-296): 3. (tie) North Texas 885 (298-292-3. Scott Gustat'son 210 (70-69-71): 4. Tommy
Stonebridge Country Club in 
hole total in school history, a 27th place at nine-over par 295) and Wichita State 885 (286-296-303): 5. Balderston 214 (68-72-74): 27. (tie) Cole lsbanMcKinney, Texas. mark topped only by Jeff 225 (73-72-80). Fellow fresh­(tie) Vanderbilt 888 (290-293-305) and SMU 888 225 (73-72-80): 69. (tie) Shane Sigsbee 236 (78­Notre Dame's victory was Connell's score of 209 at the man Shane Sigsbee wrapped (294-288-306): 7. Ohio State 890 (292-304-294): 77-81): 71. (tie) Eric Deutsch 237 (75-81-81) .. 
-----, 
-..

WOMEN'S SOCCER ' 
'X"ednesday, October 15, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Warner and Tancredi earn player of the week awards 
Special to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame seniors ­forward Amy Warner and back Melissa Tancredi -have received the respective Big East Conference women's soccer offensive and defensive player­of-the-week awards after play­ing lead roles last week as the second-ranked Irish rolled to wins over Butler (3-0), Georgetown (6-0) and Miami (3­
0). 
Warner had two goals and one assist in the three games while nearly scoring another goal on a shot that led to an own-goal. Tancredi repeated the Big East defensive honor after continuing to play her dominating brand of defense, helping hold the three oppo­Iltlnts to a combined 11 total shots, four shots on goal and eight corner kicks -in addition to providing an assist on a long thru-ball that sprung Amanda Guertin for a goal versus Miami. 
Warner continues to emerge as a top candidate for Big East offensive player of the year, joining Irish junior forward Mary Boland as the leading candidates for that award (Boland leads the Big East and ranks 20th nationally with 26 points while Warner is second with 25). Both Irish forwards also have been strong two-way players all season, providing an unrelenting "forecheck" approach that set the tone as the first wave of Notre Dame's suffocating defensive effort. 
Warner helped fuel Notre Dame's 12-goal week, scoring on a breakaway versus Butler and nearly adding another goal versus the Bulldogs on a shot from close range (the shot pin­balled off two defenders for an own-goal). Three days later, her header assisted on Kim Carpenter's opening goal against Georgetown and she later knocked home a loose ball for the fourth goal against the Hoyas. Warner's nine assists arc a career-high and rank fourth in the nation, behind Oklahoma State's Nikki Wojtowicz (15), North Carolina's Alyssa Ramsey (12) and Portland's Lindsey Huie (11). while she also now ranks 12th in Notre Dame history in goals 
(35) and 14th in points (92). 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles come through_ in must-win match 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles picked up a much-needed conference win as well as a bit of confidence heading into the home stretch of their season. 
Saint Mary's defeated Adrian at home Tuesday night in four games, 34-32, 24-30, 30-27, 34-32. It was the Belles third win in a row. 
"I was very, very happy with our players tonight," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "For this being midterm week, I know they've had a lot on their. minds, but they were able to pull this one out." 
Saint Mary's (13-10, 3-7 in the MIAA) lost to Adrian earli­er in the season on the road in three sets. Schroeder-Biek called that game was one of her team's worst performanc­es this season, and was extremely happy with the 180­degree turnaround her team showed Tuesday. 
Outside hitter Kristen Playko led the team with 26 kills, and also contributed two service aces, 25 digs and five blocks. Setter Lauren Temple added 
. 13 digs, three blocks and 55 assists. 
The Belles were aided The Belles will play three defensively by their two mid­more conference games in a dle hitters. o ,
r w E I i s e a
with Rupright had "Alma is a good team. But I g 0 0 d chance
eight blocks, think ·that our team, when and Shelly to make
they play their game and 
u p 

lected five ·communicate well, can beat ground blocks. anyone. in an "Our block­already ing really c I o s e 
Bender col­
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
improved MIA A 
Saint Mary's coach race.
this game," Schroeder­
" A t Hick said. 
t h i s "Adrian had one of the best point in the season we're offensive players in the con­going into every match just ference and we really did a trying to better our position," good job handling her and Schroeder-Biek said. "This frustrating her." was a big win for us in trying 
The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents A Graduate Degree Recital 
Daniel/e Svonavec, soprano Brenda Weade, piano 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 

7:00 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Performing works by Faure, Wolf, Clara Schumann, Robert Schumann, Handel, andSamuel Barber Call (574) 631-6201 for information 
HaPPV21st limbo! 
let's make it two for two at the hospital. 
love, Baron, Valv and Schild 


Tancredi has led the way dur­ing Notre Dame's current six­game shutout streak, with the Irish allowing just two goals and 16 shots on goal over the course of the last 12 games. The converted forward also continues to be an offensive threat with her skillful runs into the offensive third and has dominated her one-on-one duels throughout the season, winning more than 90 percent of her tackling and heading confrontations this season (including 16-for-16 on heading duels last week). 
Tancredi's defensive leader­ship is all the more noteworthy due to the season-long absence of injured junior All-America right back Candace Chapman and the limited play of junior Gudrun Gunnarsdottir -with freshmen Christie Shaner and Kim Lorenzen filling out the defensive lineup alongside Tancredi and fifth-year left back Vanessa Pruzinsky. All eight of Tancredi's points this season (2 goals, 4 assists) have come in last seven games. 
Notre Dame players have combined to receive seven Big East weekly awards this season, including player of the week Boland (Sept. 1), defensive play­er of the week Pruzinsky (Sept. 
15) and rookies of the week Jen Buczkowski (Sept. 8) and Shaner (Sept. 22) -making Notre Dame the Big East's only team to receive at least five awards (West Virginia is next with four). Notre Dame also remains the only team to fea­ture both an offensive and defensive player-of-the-week selection and is the only squad with multiple players among the recipients for any of the awards (doing so in the offen­sive, defensive and rookie awards). 
Notre Dame steadily has emerged as possibly the nation's top all-around team, currently ranking second nationally in both team scoring 
(3.67 goals per game, behind Oklahoma State's 3.86; min. 10 games) and goals-against aver­age (0.33, behind North Carolina's 0.28). Notre Dame and North Carolina are the only unbeaten teams remaining among 293 Division I women's soGcer programs, with just 12 

CHIP MAAKSfThe Observer 

Amy Warner goes after the ball In a win against Oklahoma Sept. 7. 
other teams having only one loss (Cal Poly, Southeastern Louisiana, Colorado, Central Connecticut, Kent State, Oklahoma State, Maine, Virginia, Texas A&M, UCLA, Hofstra and Princeton). 

to build some momentum." 
Friday night, the Belles trav­el to Alma College to face the Scots in a key conference game. The Scots defeated Saint Mary's at home earlier this season. 
"Alma is a good team," Schroeder-Biek said. "But I think that our team, when they play their game and com­municate well, can beat any­one. 
"We're starting to go into matches expecting to win, and these girls play hard." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Playoffs 
continued from page 24 
the ball. 
"Our ability to run the ball and play solid defense allows our team to control the game," McNamara said. 
McNamara believes the team's improvements in organization, dedication and desire to win will make the team tough to beat. 
" W e aren't a 
flashy 
"We know the season's so 

team. But 
short, so every game 

we do the things we means that much more, need to do 
and we're excited to play

in order to 
under the lights, it brings

w i n , 
McNamara back some old high school said. 
memories.. 

The two rivals will 
Matt Sallon

face each 
o t h e r Siegfried tackle 
tonight at 7 
p.m. on the Riehle fields. Fisher, St. Ed's face off in must-win game for final playoff spot 
Siegfried vs. Carroll 
Defending champion Siegfried takes on Carroll Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. at west Riehle field. Although its over two-year long undefeated streak has been broken, Siegfried remains' No. 2 in the league directly behind Knott. 
Tonight's -game will be the last of the regular season and affects each team's playoff entry and seeding. 
The Ramblers have been using practice to work on their defense, which proved to be their weakest point this season. 

Win 
continued from page 24 
on Sept. 24, 1994. 
"At some point, I realized it was a possibility," Prescod said concerning his chance at a hat trick. "It wasn't necessarily my intent, but the opportunity presented itself." 
Prescod was surprised to find out that there had been such a gap since the last Notre Dame hat trick. 
"It really surprised me," he said. "Out of all the talented people I've played with here over the years. I would have thought one of them might 
"We've really been working on defensive tackling, trying to cover the other team's quarter­back, and we've gotten over it, I think," said tackle Matt Sallon. 
Although Carroll has only won one game, Siegfried isn't looking pasf this game into the postsea­son. 
"We realize that to get into playoffs we need to get past Carroll; just worry about our­selves first then let things fall where they may," Sallon said. 
Carroll comes into tonight's game with one win and two losses, standing in 5th place in the Blue League. 
Unless they win tonight, the Vermin have no chance of mak­ing it to the playoffs. This contest, there­fore, is crucial to their hopes 
to continue playing after the break. 
Although Siegfried's approach to interhall is among the most serious in the league, the players haven't forgotten how to have fun on the field. 
"We know the season's so short, so every game means that much more, and we're excited to play under that lights, it brings back some old high school mem­ories," said Sallon. 
With each team's hopes riding on tonight's game, it's sure to be a worthwhile contest. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at dtapetil@nd.edu and Lauren Osterhus at losterhu@nd.edu 
3-0. 
In the second half, Notre Dame maintained the same tempo and scored the same amount of goals. 
Senior midfielder Greg Martin tallied his third of the season 13 minutes into the half, and Detter notched his sixth score of the year -and second of the game -five minutes later on a breakaway. 
Prescod completed his hat trick at the 71-minute mark off an assist from senior midfield­er Filippo Chillemi. 
Nineteen different Notre Dame players saw action Tuesday night, including soph­omore Justin Michaud, sopho­more Ben Crouse, jun­i o r 

h a v e "It really surprised me. Out Christopher already ofall the talented people High and 
done it." senior Roger
I've played with here over
N o t r e Klauer. 

Dame dom­the years, rwould have Michaud inated ball thought one ofthem might and junior 
control and Chris Sawyer
have already done it." 

pushed the combined for ball in a two saves in relentless Devon Prescod net and the 
fashion, Irish forward s e v e n t h 
drawing 14 offsides calls. The Irish fired 19 shots, putting 16 of them (84 percent) on goal. Cleveland State got off just six shots. 
Prescod opened the game's scoring at the 25:45 mark, heading in a cross hit by sen­ior midfielder Chad Riley. Riley has eight assists on the season. 
Senior forward Justin Detter then scored his fifth goal of the season less than four minutes later off an assist from senior defenseman Kevin Richards. Prescod headed another ball in just before halftime to make the score at the halfway mark 
shutout of 
the season 
for the Irish. 
It was the first time that the Irish have scored six goals in a game under Clark. 
"That was a game where we really wanted to kind of come back and show that we'd learned from the Rutgers loss," Prescod said. "We sort of went into the game with a no-hold­ing-back attitude." 
Notre Dame's next road test comes in a Big East matchup with Connecticut at 7 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 
ond-to-last game at Purdue, the Irish passed 59 times for a sea­son-high 297 yards but only rushed for 49. Those numbers were virtually reversed at Pittsburgh Saturday, when the Irish rushed for a whopping 352 yards and threw for only 33. 
To beat USC, Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham knows the Irish have to find some way to balance their offense. 
"What I am doing," the coach said with a wry grin. "is pray­ing for our Purdue passing game and our Pittsburgh run­ning game." 
Willingham even evoked glimpses of Lou Holtz's pre­game account of opponents by complimenting virtually every aspect of USC's team. While he stopped short of saying the Irish had no chance of winning, Willingham unapologetically complimented the Trojans offense -which is ranked ninth in the nation in scoring offense with 28.5 points a game -and its defense -which allows the nation's fifth-lowest 73.7 rushing yards a game. 


"This is a very, very good defense," Willingham said. "Gosh, they are physical. You just use all of the very positive adjectives you can in describing them.... And when they cut it loose, it's impressive." 
Still, Saturday's win appears to have relaxed the Irish some­what. Virtually every player who spoke after Tuesday's practice talked about how they wanted to go out and have fun Saturday. 
What they didn't have to say was how much the Irish want to win. 
"This is a big rivalry," fresh­man quarterback Brady Quinn said. "The day you sign that national letter of intent, you know that this game is circled." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Carnival buy  65 Libido  
1 Ruin, as hopes  37 Little Oz visitor  66 Jittery  
5 See 53-Down  39 Big name in  67 Loyal  
9 Precise  locks  68 Diminutive suffix t-;-.;--t--+--+­ 
14 Actor Morales 15 "The Art of Love" poet 16 Like "Goosebumps" tales  40 "Did you_ that?" 41 Theme of this puzzle 42 Like webs 43"_ and Janis"  69 Mortar user 10 Thanksgiving dish 71 Germany reunifier  
17 Flounder's filter  (comic strip)  DOWN  
18 After 41-Across, a religious set 20 Nutrition author Davis 22 You might stick a· knife in it 23 Clue gatherer: Abbr. 24 College term  44 The paradise of "Paradise Lost" 45 Map markings 46 Vagabond 48 "The Millionairess" actress 50 Unvarying 52 Backslide  1 "Dancer Lacing Her Shoe" artist 2 "Oh, by the way" comment 3 Door-to-door work 4 After 41-Across, a geographical set 5 Barrel race  
26 Something  56 _-cone  venues  
found around the house  59 City west of Tulsa  6 ·­fallen and ... !"  
28 Game show  61 "Harvey'' role  7 Florence  
announcer  P. Dowd  farewell  
Johnny 30 Within a holler  62 After 41-Across, a vaudeville set  8 To everyone's surprise  33 Cravings 34 "_ she blows!"  47 One of the Waughs  57 Actress Foch 58 Baseball's Ed  
9 Pooh's gloomy  35 Dynamic  49  Pieces  and Mel  
opening? 51 Neat 60" the 10 Crosses (out) 



• ,t .,.. r f \ · , , \ _ 
, •• 1 _ • ·. \ •( \ \' \ ) ' 
1o I 

Wednesday, October 15, 2003 page'23
The Observer+ TODAY 

CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
FIVES 
JUMBLE 

JJ~JJJJJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEJUP 
1 
rJ 

C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GADEA 
t 
tKURBEE I 
GOOD AT FINDING THING5 BEFORE
] () 
THEY ARE MI551NG. 

~~~~·c(~ U)Y t ) I 


I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as L---L-~.....L.L--C.......a.....__.J suggested by the above cartoon. 
A 
rrrxrxxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: GUEST KNELL BEWAIL INNATE Answer: What it took for him to ask her out -A LITTLE "WILE" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE pal 
36 Famous White 53 With 5-Across, Explorer" (kids' 11 Needing House pooch a Caribbean show) irrigation island, formerly
38 Pavarotti, e.g. 63 General on 12 Motion picture 54 Reality, old-style Chinese menus
41 Tranquil13 Try out 55 Short-lived Ford
45 Order to a 64 Dessert 19 Use for support 
broker 56 Big bridge win reaction 21 Easter 25 Eminent 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 27 After 41-Across, 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. a calendar set 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday29 "Lord Jim" or crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. "Lucky Jim" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ~-:+.~+:-i 31 Spellbound past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 8-:-+-7+:+:-i-i 32 Like a robin's Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, egg nytimes.com/learriing/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City __________ State _____ Zip________ 
..... 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Sarah Ferguson, Lee Iacocca, Tito Jackson, Vanessa Marcil, Penny Marshall 
Happy Birthday: The higher you set your goals, the better you will do this year. Maintain the momentum you have built. Stick to the rules. do everything by the books and you will build your own personal empire on solid ground. Your numbers: 6, 14, 23, 33, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): By standing behind your own ideas. you will gather interest and support from others. You can be the mastermind of anything you want. Your communicative skills will lead to a very informative discussion. ***" TAlJRUS (April 20-May 20):Act on a decision you recently made. The more powerful you are in your presentation, the better you will do. You will receive the help you need, but there will be a price to pay. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put some thought into self-improvement projects today. Your emotions will be close to the surface. If someone you live with is difficult, remove yourself from the situation. ** CANCER (June 21-Juty 22): You will feel better if you make some positive changes to your home. Open your doors to a group meeting geared toward something that interests you. Don't limit yourself today. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a perfect day to find love or, if you are already in love, to spend time nurturing the relationship. Show your intelligence and savvy self-expression.**** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful how you handle both work and personal situations today. Someone is likely to call your bluff. Making unrealistic promises will come back to haunt you. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Rethink your plans. If you have been procrastinating, start making things happen. This can be a perfect day to excel. Don't be afraid to mix business with pleasure. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to concentrate on your own interests, not everyone else's. Investing in yourself would be the best thing today. Don't be discow-aged-you'll do just fme. *** SAGIITARruS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work-related matters may not go your way, but if you branch out and try doing your own thing, you will excel. Emotional matters may be a little explosive, so prepare to avoid such issues. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make headway if you are persistent when it comes to work, money and getting ahead. A partnership you least expect may be the answer. You'll be inventive and innovative today. *** AQUARruS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): If you let someone rule your heart and your life, you will miss out on a very special opportunity. Don't lose sight o( what you really want to do. Make your choices based on what's best for you. *"*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Anger and disappointment may prevail if you 
discuss personal matters. Concentrate on investments and how you can benefit yourself. If a move is required, stop thinking and start doing. •• 
Birthday Baby: No one will ever quite read you right. You are complex in 
-

nature: steady and stable at times, unpredictable at times. Only those close to you will realize what you are all about. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 15, 2003 
Page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Clash of the Titans 
Irish look to get revenge after last year's embarrassing loss at USC 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spans Writer 
The Notre Dame football team doesn't care if revenge is a dish best served hot, cold or in a Tupperware container. 
It only wants to make sure the dish gets served this weekend. 
With the memory of a 44-13 blowout at the hands of USC last year still fresh in their minds, the Irish are hell-bent on aveng­ing a loss last season that knocked their team out of a BCS bowl. 
"We were See Also real embar­"Setta not likely rassed with 
to play

what hap­pened last Saturday" year," said 
page 20 

receiver R h e m a McKnight, a California native who grew up rooting against USC. "We're going to have to come out this week fired up and ready to play. We have to come out and attack." 
A year ago, the Irish allowed a school-worst 510 yards in a game that all but guaranteed Carson Palmer the Heisman Trophy. After the game, USC offensive players cut apart Notre Dame's defense by saying the unit wasn't very talented and that the Trojan offense could do whatever it wanted. 
Notre Dame knows first-hand the power vengeance has in a football game. Earlier this year, Michigan players all but prom­ised they would beat Notre Dame to pay the Irish back for their victory a year before. Notre Dame was then blown out by the Wolverines, 38-0. 
"You try to use all forms of motivation," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. " ... What we have to do as coaches is just find the right button that gets our young man to perform at the highest level." 
The Irish aren't saying much to each other about how badly they want to knock off the No. 5­Trojans. Instead, it's an attitude that everyone knows exists but don't have to talk about. 
"That loss last year is definite­ly in our heads," said running back Julius Jones, whose aca­demic problems kept him off the field for last year's USC-Notre Dame clash. "And even though I wasn't part of that loss, I want to get revenge, too." 
The 75th meeting between Notre Dame and USC-one of the longest rivalries in college football-comes as Notre Dame is trying to find its offensive identity. In Notre Dame's sec-
see REVENGE/page 22 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Prescod's hat trick leads Irish 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Irish coach Bobby Clark thought his team would benefit from playing right away after their second loss of the season to Rutgers Saturday. 
He probably didn't count on senior Devon Prescod record­ing the first Irish hat trick in
-nine years to ensure that the Irish bounced back. The Irish (8-2-3, 3-2-1 in the Big East) began a four-game road trip with a 6-0 shutout of a struggling Cleveland State (6-8) team Tuesday night. Prescod led the Irish attack with his first career hat trick. His three-goal performance was the first by a Notre Dame player since Konstantin Koloskov did it against LaSalle 
see WIN/page 22 


MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
St. Ed's, Fisher fight for spot in playoffs 
By DAN TAPETILLO AND 
LAUREN OSTERHUS 
Sporrss Writers 

Wednesday night's game between St. Ed's and the Green Wave of Fisher will not only be a battle for a winning record, but for life in the playoffs. 
After both teams lost Sunday, St. Ed's and Fisher now find themselves in a must-win situa­tion for a playoff berth. 
To secure the win, Fisher captain Tom Gorman believes that his team's running defense will need to continue its inten­sity in order to stop the improved St. Ed's offense. 
Gorman also expects the offensive line to maintain its dominance. 
"We are going out to finish strong," Gorman said. 
"Although we have beaten St. Ed's the past two years, St. Ed's looks a lot stronger this year and we are taking this game seriously." 
To challenge St. Ed's, the Green Wave are anticipating another strong performance from Kameron Chappell and Andrew Pfister. 
Just the same, Fisher won't overlook the St. Ed's ability to move the ball and play solid defense. 
St. Ed's team captain Kevin McNamara attributed Sunday's loss to the team's lack of execu­tion and inability to take advantage of several opportu­nities to win the game. 
To secure the win, St. Ed's will have to rely upon its bal­anced strength on both sides of 
see PLAYOFFS/page 22 

en 
NHl
SMC VOllEYBAll 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
MEN'S GOlF 
MlB 
loU

1-
(.) Saint Mary's 3 
Marlins 8 
Yankees 4 

Thrashers 2 
Led by Scott
z Adrian 1 
Amy Warner and 

Islanders 2 
Cubs 3 
Red Sox 2 

Gustafson, the Irish
The Belles came 
Melissa Tancredi were

a: s 
took first place at the
through in the MIAA 
named Big East Players

== 
The Cubs are unable 
The Yankees take a

After attending Dan 
SMU I Stonebridge
with a big conference 
of the Week for the 

to clinch the series, and 
one-game lead in the

Snyder's funeral, the 
Invitational.
Irish. 

the NLCS is tied at 3-3. 
ALCS over the Red Sox.

Thrashers were back in 
action.

eLm=: win. 
page 21 
page 20

en page 21 
page 19
page 15 
page 14 





