
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Saturday's loss discourages students, fans 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Coach Tyrone Willingham said at Friday's pep rally that Notre Dame students do not leave a game. However, at Saturday's loss to Florida State, several See Also 
gaps in the stu-"Broken record" 
dent section appeared. Irish Insider 
Junior Joe Swiderski said he watched the Boston College game for three hours in front of a computer but he could not bear to watch the second half of the Florida State game. Disappointment eventually. took over and he left in the third quarter. 
"It is one thing to lose and play well and it's another thing to lose by the worst margin of defeat in 


New Counc-il debuts 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Rising out of fierce debate and born from the partial merging of the Executive Cabinet and Student Senate, the Council of Representatives, as it is unofficial­ly called, meets for the first time tonight under the watchful eyes of both its proponents and detrac­tors, who are waiting to see whether the new body will spark real changes to Notre Dame's stu­dent government. 
"Right now, there seems to be the impression that the student body has an inefficient, figure­head government," said Drew Sandstrum, who joins Dan Zenker, Amy Chambers and Oaire Berezowitz as the four sen­ators chosen to sit on the new Council. "The Council of Representatives, I'm hoping, will dispel that image," he said. 
Student government's lack of action and efficiency has been a long-time concern and was con­sidered last year by Senate's Oversight Committee, but deemed "too large of a problem" to be solved by that particular group, said Elliot Poindexter, a former senator who is now president of the judicial committee. The cre­ation of the Council signals the first major, collective step toward the improvement of the current system. 
"I think that it's a good interme­diate step, and it will help us determine whether we need a more drastic change," said Sandstrum. 
Including all members of the Executive Cabinet and four stu­
see COUNCIL/page 4 . 

Professors question academic engagement 
Editors Note: This article is the first in a series of three articles focusing on academic engage­ment at Notre Dame. 
ByJOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Sunny Boyd, associate profes­sor of biological sciences, waits for the one student out of 300 in her physiology class who may See Also 
come to the three-hour long "Business office hours peri­degreesod. If a student 
worryA&L

shows up, she is 
faculty"

certain it will be to ask a question page6 directly related to the upcoming exam. More stu­dents will come right before the exam, hoping to have their last­minute questions answered; few will come merely just to chat. 
She estimates that 100 students may skip class on any given day. Those who do attend will only read the assigned parts of the textbook, refusing to spend time 
see ACADEMICS/page 6 

Humanities 

Social Sciences 
FineI Performing Arts 
Business 
Science 

Engineering 
30 years," Swiderski said. "I don't think that makes me a fair­weather fan ... It's so hard to watch the team not even being competitive." 
Saturday's loss was the third time this season Notre Dame lost by more than 30 points and ranked as the ninth-worst defeat in school history. 
The feeling of desperation pre­vailed during the third quarter in the student section as students did traditional touchdown push­ups for first downs. 
The overall feeling from most students was one of disappoint­ment, but several students chas­tised fans who left during the game. 
Senior Derek Podolny said though he expected the eventual ­outcome he was upset by the dis-
see FOOTBALL/page 4 
At left, graphic design professor Robert Sedlack and student Rozann Carter meet in Sedlack's office.
•
PHOTO BY SHAWNA MONSON 

ND Top 20 Colleges 
9.5 11.2 Total 5.4 6.4 ND Top20 1.7 5.2 
.7 3.4 6.1 11.4 
13.6 30.5 10.4 9.5 

Source: NSF Baccalaureate Origins Re~rt compiled ~y Franklin and Marshall College MIKE HARKINSfThe Observer 
International study applications increase 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
Applications for internation­al study programs have increased significantly over the last several years, accord­ing to Director of International Study Programs Thomas Bogenschild. 
"I think there's been a sub­
stantial  increase,  said  
Bogenschild. "Clearly  more  
students are applying."  

Because ISP is just now were in general the most com­beginning to track acceptance petitive. rates for its vari-Because some ous programs, locations, such 
Bogenschild said ../think there·s as Beijing, China, he could not say been a substantial only allow for exactly how selec­increase.,, two participants, tive the programs admittance for are, or if selectivi­such programs 
ty has increased Thomas Bogenschild can be very over the past few director of ISP selective depend-years. However, ing on the year 
he noted that the Dublin, and applicant pool. Ireland, Toledo, Spain, Rome, Officials from the London Italy and Australia programs Program could not be reached for comment on the number of applications being received and admittance rates. However, associate director Terry Bays said she has seen an increase in freshmen inter­est about London, even though all London program partici­pants must be juniors. 
In part due to higher num­ber of applicants, both the London Program and ISP have made changes in how they 
see ABROAD/page 4 

Monday, November 3, 2003 
page 2 The Observer • PAGE 2 . 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Catholics can't sing 

I have recently come to the con­clusion that Catholics can't sing. 
It's not really that we can't ­there are choirs at most churches, and some kind of music program at nearly all-but that we somehow Matt Smedberg feel like the busi­ness of singing, 
and of finding Wire Editor 
(and writing) really beautiful music to grace the liturgy with, is someone else's 
business. . 
The result of this attitude, which has been around since before Vatican II, is the dismal state of liturgical music today. The hymns ~ which have become the staples of the liturgical diet-"Here I Am, Lord", or "Anthem", or even "Let There Be Peace On Earth"-are just not great music. The Mass of Creation really isn't that inspiring when put next to something by Mozart or Haydn. I feel all too often like I'm being subjected to a weekly diet of schmaltz. 
Music is important. It turns a Mass into something solemn and powerful -or into a farce. It can bring people to raise their minds and spirits to God -or it can get them to join their minds and spirits to each other, and forget all about God. If you want companionship with your brother, go to the dining hall. If you come to pray, go to Mass. 
What I really wish, is that Campus Ministries were not so scared of using Latin in the Mass. Latin's a really neat language, and there is some really, really cool music writ­ten in it. 
Would it really scare students and alumni away from the Basilica if they heard the strains of "Kyrie Eleison" wafting from the choir loft instead of "Lord have mercy?" I don't think so; in fact, it might bring us more respect among Catholics who still care about the liturgy, and who now see Notre Dame as a bastion of American Catholic liberalism. 
Personally, I love Gregorian Chant. Now, does this mean that I think we should only have Gregorian Chant in the Mass and nothing else? Hardly. And yet, do I appreciate that, since I have been at Notre Dame, I have yet to hear any chant in a Mass, ever? Not at all. Chant is tied up with the whole history of the Church; if we let it fall by the wayside, it is a rejection of our heritage just when we need to remember it the most. 
Notre Dame aspires to be the pre­eminent center of Catholic theology in this country. As part of this goal, H owes it to itself to set an example of rich, Catholic liturgy. There is an old saying about the purpose and function of liturgy: "lex orandi, lex credendi," The rules of worship are the rules of belief. In other words, if, when we worship God, we do it in a way which is inappropriate, or inconsistent with what we say we believe about Him, that can very well undermine our whole faith. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at .631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE FOOTBALL GAME? 

Brian Rosenberg Paul Critser Meghan Morgavan Pat Ross Vanessa Garcia Jen Herdman 
University of off-campus Northern Illinois off-campus University of Holy Cross Southern Palatine junior University junior Illinois junior 
"It made Baby "We got "I don't care -"I still love you ..I think Brady "It was bad 
..

Jesus cry. .. bamboozled. " we're ranked Carlyle." Quinn has news. and you're not. " smoother arms than I do." 

STEPHANIE GRAMMENS/The Observer 
As part of Its national tour, the Irish dancing group "Spirit of the Dance" performed at Saint Mary's O'Laughlln Auditorium Sunday evening. The group performed tradi­tional Irish dances as well as other styles such as flamenco. 
OFFBEAT 
keys. 

But the officials who work there are fed up. They've been bitten, robbed and otherwise tormented by monkeys that ransack files, bring down power lines, screech at visitors and bang on office windows. 
The Supreme Court has stepped in, decreeing that New Delhi should be a monkey-free city after citizens filed a lawsuit demanding protection from the animals. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
High School Girls Nab Suspected Flasher 
PHILADELPHIA About 20 Catholic school girls chased down a man who had been flashing them near their high school, tackled him to the ground and held him there until police arrived, authorities said. 
The students from St. Maria Goretti's High School for Girls in South Philadelphia said the man had been flashing stu­dents since the middle of September. 
He typically hid behind a van, waited for students and then jumped out and 
TODAY a: 
exposed himself. police said. 
But on Thursday, store owners in the area saw the man flashing girls and started yelling at him. The students then chased him down the street and subdued him with the help of a passer­by, authorities said. 
Monkeys Terrorize India Workers, Tourists 
NEW DELHI-In a cap­ital city where cows roam the streets and elephants plod along in the bus lanes, it's no surprise to find government build­ings overrun with mon-
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
<
(,) 


_.0 HIGH 62 
LOW 54 


57 
54 


48 31 


IN BRIEF 

Donate blood today at the Farley Hall Blood Drive, taking place today at 11 a.m. 
Attend the journalism panel, "Journalism Ethics: The Craft of Credibility," today in McKenna Hall from 3 to 4:30p.m. in rooms 100-104. The forum will include members of the advisory commit­tee for the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
Head over to Legends for the Monday Night Football Game Watch, taking place today from 9 
p.m. to 12 a.m. 

Attend the Men's Awareness Night on eating disorders today from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Center Room 330. This event is sponsored by the group A Life Uncommon. 
Architect Leon Krier will speak today today from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Krier received the 2003 School of Architecture Prize for Classical Architecture. 
University of Texas Professor Martha Menchaca will present a lecture on "Recovering History, Constructing Race" today from 
4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Head over to Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center, Court 1, for Drop-In Floor Hockey tonight from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 
The Italian Club will sponsor a free screening of the Italian mm, "Ciao, professore!" Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo 141. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


44 27 


HIGH LOW 


Monday, November 3, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Forum examines journalistic ethics 
Speial to The Observer 
"Journalism Ethics: 
The Craft of 
Credibility" will be 
the subject of a public 
forum Monday 3 p.m. 
in Rooms 100-104 of 
McKenna Hall. It is 
free and open to the 
public. 
Panelists will dis­cuss ethical problems that recently have occurred in journal­ism and point out potential concerns for news gathering and reporting in the future. The forum will feature members of the advisory commit­tee of the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics & Democracy at Notre Dame. 
Committee members include Tom Bettag, senior executive pro­ducer of ABC News' "Nightline"; Bill Dwyre, sports editor of the Los Angeles Times; John W. Gallivan, former chairman of the board of Kearns-Tribune Corporation and pub­lisher emeritus of the Salt Lake City Tribune; Monica Yant Kinney, metro colum­nist of the Philadelphia Inquirer; John McMeel, chair­man of Andrews 
McMeel Universal; Bill Mitchell. online editor/marketing director of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies; Anne Thompson, national correspondent for NBC News; Kelley Tuthill, anchor­reporter at WCVB-TV, Boston; and Don Wycliff, public editor of the Chicago Tribune. 
The committee, which oversees the curriculum and activi­ties of the University's undergraduate con­centration in journal­ism, was formed in 1997 and is composed of Notre Dame gradu­ates involved in vari­ous aspects of com­munications. 
The Gallivan Program was estab­lished with a grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation and is now supported with an endowment creat­ed by the family of John W. Gallivan. It offers students pro­fessional training in journalistic skills along with examina­tion of the social, political, economic and philosophical concerns related to the practice of jour­nalism. 
Blak Images highlights talent 
By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 

He's Notre Dame's starting 
defensive tackle three years in a 
row. 

He served as game captain last 
year in the win against Michigan. 
He stands tall at six-foot-four 
and weighs nearly 300 pounds. 
He's also a poet. 

Darrell Campbell spoke from the 
heart this weekend about "the 
makeup of me; some things inside 
that I think need to be shared with 
you." . 

Campbell's poetry recitation was just one of the many outstanding acts at this weekend's "Bla·k Images: Bak to Basiks" talent show. The event, sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council, per­formed on Saturday evening to a packed auditorium in Washington Hall. 
"[The show was] one of our high­est turnouts in recent year~." said BCAC president Jourdan Sorrell. "It was very diversified as well, which is always our goal -[to have] as many people as possible there and to have as many differ­ent groups of people as possible.'' 
"Overall, the show was very pos­itive," said Keenan freshman Sheldon Dutes. "I thought it was awesome that Notre Dame has so much talent and so many talented, well-rounded people." 
"People took away that they can see quality acts -[that] people can come together and put togeth­er a very quality show," Sorrell said. "The perception of black images was primarily targeted for African Americans. Yes, the focus is Afro-centric but very inclusive of other people and cultures, [as shown by the] variety of artists and performers, as well as the turnout. BCAC is trying to reach out and welcome the broader Notre Dame community, therefore 
embracing African-Americans as 
well." 
Featured groups included the band StC;Ltion One, the Voices of Faith gospel choir and the dance teams Troop NO, the Swing Club, Ladies of '05 and the First Class Steppers. 
Also performing were rapper Brian Shaugnessy, football players and poets Brandon Hoyte and Campbell, singer Jenna, slam poet Grant Osborn, singing/piano duo Beth Duran and Matt Kinsella, poet Dennis Latimore and the rap-· R&B group Traxtarts. 
Student performers came from a variety of areas. 
''I had done some performances earlier this year at Legends and Acoustic Cafe with some of the people who were also in the show or who were organizers," said Shaugnessy. "I was in black coffee­house last year, so when I heard about Blak Images I thought I'd ... 

try and get involved with it." 
Shaugnessy said he was impressed by the abilities of his fellow performers. 
"I thought it was amazing ­each act was extremely talented and it was just cool to see a bunch of different views on the same kind of art," he said. 
A piano rendition of Nelly's "Dilemma," as performed by Kinsella and Duran, had the audi­ence cheering wildly and singing along. Football players Hoyte and Campbell also impressed the crowd by showing their insightful side. 
A strong point of the show were emcees Anne Marie Desir, Frank Duerson and Rick Cornett. Their humorous asides between acts provided the audience with laughs and kept everyone interested in the show. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
hinese Restaurant 

Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! . Voted Michiana's Best Chinese Restaurant Open 7 Days Lunch Special • $4.75 Mon-Frl 11 :30-3pm Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixiew S., S.B. 574-272-7376 

-----~----· 

----~---·----------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------... 
page 4 Monday, November 3, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

Football 
continued from page 1 
appearance of alumni and stu­dents in the third quarter. 
"It's a matter of seeing how truly fair-weather fans we are or have that people aren't willing to accept even one losing season and support the team through that season." Podolny said. 
The trickle of students leaving the Stadium increased through­out the second half and a sparse student section remained to sing the alma mater and the fight song. It appeared as though the senior section seemed the most deserted, while the freshman section remained full. 
Sophomore Rebecca Eckstein said that despite the team's dras­tic turnaround from last year's 10-3 season is disheartening, she remained at the game. 
"I thought we could continue the success," Eckstein said. "I feel like whether we are winning or losing it's still our team." 
Senior John Dee said Saturday's performance was dis­appointing for both the fans and the team and acknowledged the team's hard work and failure to put the pieces together. 
''I'm a senior and I wanted to stay for as much of the game as I could and as fans we expect the team to do well and we need to be there to support the team," Dee said. "We need to support the team and be there to support them and if they are playing in an empty stadium we can't expect them to do well." 
Signs of student disillusionment were evident earlier in the week as more than 300 students braved rainy weather to exchange their student to general admission. Several were turned away as the demand exceeded the allotted 300-ticket exchange. 
Senior Michael McBirnie said although he sold his ticket for Saturday's game for a personal reason, he does intend to attend the remaining games in the sea­son. 
"I had another thing to do, but [the game] was not much of a sacrifice," McBirnie said. "I still think we can pull in some more wins." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

Abroad 
continued from page I 
evaluate applicants. Previously, the top students were admitted every program they applied at, and most other applicants were forced to remain on waiting lists for long periods of time. 
Now, students must desig­nate their top choice program when they apply, although they can change their mind later on in the admission process. 
"The goal is to get as many people accepted to their first choice program as possible·," Bogenschild. 

In addition to disciplinary problems, Bogenschild said a student's motivation and for­eign language are important for gaining admission. 
Both officials said they anticipate having to make cuts to their programs because of financial problems that have affected depart­ments throughout the University. 
However, they were unsure exactly such funding cuts would affect the number of students they can send to study abroad programs. 
Bogenschild estimated that about 30 to 40 percent of Notre Dame students partici­pate during their four years 
said Bays. 

"The goal is to get in some type of 
Students' study abroad 
as many people
applications are program, such first evaluated accepted to their as summer by their top­first choice study or year­choice program, long programs. 
program as
which then The interna­decides whether possible. ,, tional study to extend an programs with offer of admis­the most partic­
Terry Bays

sion. ipants are
London program
Other pro-Australia, 
grams will only 
evaluate an application after 
the student has turned down 
the acceptance offer or if the 
first-choice program does not 
admit the student. 
On average, students apply 
to two to three programs. 
said Bays. 
One common conception 
among students is that 
admission is easier for the 
fall semester. 
"It varies from program to 
program," said Bogenschild. 
"Fall has traditionally been 
less competitive." 
According to Bays, selectivi­
ty for spring and fall general­
ly evens out because most 
science and engineering stu· 
dents are required to study in 
London in the fall, but she 
said she still sees a strong 
interest in the fall semester. 
"There is a preference for 
spring among some stu­
dents," she said. 

Both Bays and Bogenschild said that disciplinary viola­tions may hurt appli'cants, -but do not necessarily pre­vent them from being admit­
ted. 
In general, officials will 
consider what the violation 
was, when it occurred and 
whether it shows a trend in 
the applicant's behavior. 
Students on disciplinary pro­
bation are prohibited from 
studying abroad and must 
have a 2.5 GPA to apply. 
"Usually we bring them in 
to talk about it," said 

Dublin, Ireland, Angers, France, Innsbruck, Austria, Rome, Italy and Toledo, Spain, with about 20­30 students per semester. 
The London Program, where all faculty and staff are University employees, is the largest of Notre Dame's study abroad programs, with about 150 students partici­pating each semester. For the rest of the international study programs, ISP works through another university's program. 
Depending on their major, students are limited to cer­tain locations. 
All majors can study in London, with exception of architecture students who spend a year in Rome. Engineering students are lim­ited to London and Perth, Australia, while arts and let­ters students generally have the most flexibility in their choice of locations. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 





e11ormouls 
FLEECE 
Selectio 

5minutes
from CUTPCST 
Campus~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

CoU 259-sooo for more detolls 

Council 
continued from page I 

dent senators, the Council of Representatives was granted the authority to amend the constitu­tion and approve the budget, pow­ers formerly held by Senate. 
"Right now we're just starting with the constitutional changes that set up this new, enhanced Executive Cabinet, but we will eventually totally redo the student government," said student body president Pat Hallahan. 
Chambers, who argued against the resolution until its approval, said, "My reservations were that we were giving the budgetary and constitutional powers to the Council of Representatives, a body that wasn't even formed yet." 
Chambers said she felt that the way the proposal was drafted and passed -in the Executive Cabinet and the Senate independently ­contradicted its ultimate goal of unity and communication between the two groups. 
"What I wanted was this: to get everyone at the same table first. If the result of this resolution is so great, it seems like we should uti­lize that group to arrive at the necessary changes," she said. 
Other debate surrounding the transfer of powers to the Council questioned the ability of the non­elected heads of organizations, now sitting on the Executive Cabinet, to remain unbiased when approving budgetary expendi­tures. 
"I believe that there was a pur­pose why the power of budget approval was granted specifically to the Senate," said former sena­tor and former residence life com­mittee chairman Kevin Conley. "[Many members of the Executive Cabinet] have a big stake in the allotments. Can we expect these individuals to completely set aside their allegiances and make a fair determination as to what is best for the student body?" 
Despite these reservations, many look to the Council to bring about major changes to student government. Though its agenda will not be mapped out until today's meeting, members said they hope it will move plans that were previously stalled in the gap between Senate and the Executive Cabinet forward. 
"We hope to address RA train­ing, the TCE publication and other issues. We just want to make sure that this group stays the best rep­resentation of the students. and we hope in the future it can be a productive body," said Zenker. 
Members will also have to approve a new name for the body, as it is still officially called the Executive Cabinet. 
Hallahan, who will only oversee the progress of the Council his early graduation in December, said "We took the best first step together on creating this new committee together and laid a foundation for what student gov­ernment is going to look like. The ultimate goal is finding ways to eliminate overlap and make the whole system more effiCient." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amkhael@nd.edu 

Dl\TERAPE 
WATCH your drink ·wATCH your friends Don't just WATCH it happen... 
Come listen to KATIE KOESTNER as seen on MT"\1 and Tll\1E .about her experience with DATE RAPE. 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium, Nov. 4 9:00 p.m. 

BRING YOUR FRIENDS, BOYFRIEND, GIRLFRIEND....SPREAD THE WORD. 
Special Thanks to the Following Organizations: Cavanaugh, Gender Studies, Lewis, Lyons, Morrissey, Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, O'Neill, Pangborn, Pasquerilla East, Pro­gressive Student Alliance, Walsh, Women's Resource Center 


Monday, November 3, 2003 Colv\PllED FR0:\1 'THE ()L\SERVER'.S \VlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Arafat prepares for peace 
JERUSALEM -Following an Israeli offer, Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat said Sunday he is ready for peace talks, while about 6,000 Palestinians returned to jobs in Israel for the first time in a month. 
In an abrupt turnaround last week, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said contacts were already underway with Palestinian officials, adding, "We are ready to enter negotiations at any time" Sharon had previously conditioned talks on a crackdown on violent Palestinian groups responsible for attacks on Israelis. 
Asked about Sharon's remarks, Arafat told reporters he would accept an offer for talks. "There is no official communica­tion, but we are ready," he said after meeting a delegation of Greek lawmakers at his headquarters in the West Bank town of Ramallah. 
Russia . angered by U.S. 
MOSCOW-Russia's foreign minister criticized the United States on Sunday for expressing concern about actions against the oil giant Yukos, but President Vladimir Putin's new chief of staff said he doubted the wisdom of freezing a large chunk of the company's shares. , 
Last week, U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the Bush administration regarded the arrest and jailing of Yukos head Mikhail Khodorkovsky, and the freezing of 44 per­cent of the company's shares, as raising "serious questions about the rule of Ia w in Russia." 
Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, speaking on state television, reacted angrily. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Californians return home 
BIG BEAR LAKE, Calif. -With the Southern California wildfires nearly con­tained, a wave of residents Sunday returned to the San Bernardino Mountains to see if their homes survived one of the most destructive infernos. 
In the community of Cedar Glen, owners of about 350 homes found only devastation. 
"The house is completely gone, nothing," Pedro Helguera, 52, said of the home he and his wife had lived in for 24 years. "We've got to start from the bottom." 
The blaze, known as the Old Fire, was among a barrage of wildfires that have killed 20 people. destroyed more than 3,400 homes and burned nearly 750,000 acres across Southern California. 
Shark attacks surfing star 
LIHUE, Hawaii -The water was clear and there was no indication of danger when a 13-year-old surfing star went out on the waves with her best friend and her friend's father. 
But while Bethany Hamilton was lying on her board off Kauai's North Shore, a shark bit once and then disappeared, tak­ing off her left arm just below the shoul­der. 
"Nobody saw it happen. She just yelled, 'A shark bit me!"' said her father, Tom Hamilton. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Exodus of educated in IN 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Former South Bend residents Cynthia and Derrick Wozniak are young and highly educated -just the kind of people a state suffering from a prolonged "brain drain" cannot afford to lose. 
The couple joined that exodus when they left for Sarasota, Fla., trading harsh northern win­ters for a home 20 minutes from the balmy Gulf Coast. 
Their story is just one of thousands that have given Indiana the nation's worst record in keep­ing well-educated 25-to 34-year-olds from moving out of state, according to an analysis of 
U.S. Census Bureau figures. 

Strike kills 15 soldiers in Iraq 

Fallen helicopter marks deadliest day for U.S. soldiers in Iraq since March 
Associated Press 

FALLUJAH, Iraq Targeting American forces with new audacity, insur­gents hiding in a date palm grove shot down a Chinook helicopter carrying dozens of American troops Sunday, killing 15 and wounding 21 in the deadliest strike against U.S. forces since they invaded Iraq in March. 
Witnesses said the attack­
ers used missiles -a sign of 
the increasing sophistication 
of Iraq's elusive anti-U.S. 
fighters. 

Three other Americans were killed in separate attacks Sunday, including one 1st Armored Division soldier in Baghdad and two 
U.S. 
civilians working for the 

U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers in Fallujah. All three were victims of road­side bombs, the military said. 

It was the deadliest day for 

U.S. 
troops since March 23 -the first week of the inva­sion that ousted Saddam Hussein -and a major escalation in the campaign to drive the U.S.-led coalition out of the country. 


The giant helicopter was ferrying the soldiers on their way for leave outside Iraq when two missiles streaked into the sky and slammed into the rear of the aircraft, witnesses told The Associated Press. It crashed resolve are unshakable," Those two crashes -of Fallujah itself. Two in flames in farmers' fields said a White House smaller helicopters -American civilians working west of Baghdad. spokesman traveling with wounded only one under contract for the U.S. 
"It's clearly a tragic day for him. American. Army Corps of Engineers America," Defense Secretary L. Paul Bremer, the head The loaded-down Chinook were killed and one was Donald H. Rumsfeld said in of the occupation in Iraq, was a dramatic new target. injured in the explosion of a Washington. "In a long, hard repeated demands that Syria The insurgents have been roadside bomb, the military war, we're going to have and Iran prevent fighters steadily advancing in their said. tragic days. But they're nec­from crossing their borders weaponry, first using home­"This was a new lesson essary. They're part of a war into Iraq. made roadside bombs, then from the resistance, a lesson that's difficult and complicat-"They could do a much rocket-fired grenades in to the greedy aggressors." 
d,

e . better job of helping us seal ambushes on American one Fallujah resident, who 
Like past attacks on U.S. that border and keeping ter­patrols, and vehicles stuffed would not give his name, forces and a string of suicide rorist out of Iraq," he told with explosives and detonat­said of the helicopter down­bombings that killed dozens CNN. The "enemies of free­ed by suicide attackers. ing. "They'll never be safe in Baghdad the past week, dom" in Iraq "are using In the fields south of until they get out of our 
U.S. coalition officials more sophisticated tech­Fallujah, some villagers country," he said of the blamed either Saddam loyal­niques to attack our forces." proudly showed off black­Americans. ists or foreign fighters for the U.S. officials have been ened pieces of the Chinook's The downed copter was strike outside Fallujah, a warning of the danger of wreckage to arriving one of two Chinooks flying center of Sunni Muslim shoulder-fired missiles, thou­reporters. out in formation from an air resistance to the U.S. occu­sands of which are now scat­Though a few villagers base in Habbaniyah, about pation. tered from Saddam's arse­tried to help, many celebrat­10 miles from the crash site, 
President Bush was at his nals, and such missiles are ed word of the helicopter carrying troops to Baghdad Texas ranch, out of public believed to have downed two downing, as well as a fresh on route for rest and recre­sight Sunday. "Our will and U.S. copters since May 1. attack on U.S. soldiers in ation-R&R. 


Green River Killer to plead guilty 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE -This week, a slight man with thick glasses, a man who has been married three times and is the father of one child, is to stand before a judge who will ask him at least 48 times how he pleads to separate charges of murder. 
Each time, Gary Leon Ridgway will respond "guilty," sources involved with the case have told The Associated Press. When it's over Wednesday, he will have more murders on his record than any other serial killer in the nation's history. And a mystery that con­founded detectives for two decades will come to a close. 
Ridgway, 54, a longtime painter at Kenworth Truck Co., is expected to admit being the Green River Killer, named for the river south of Seattle where the first victims were found. 
The plea would spare him the death penalty in King County, instead assuring him life in prison without parole, the sources said. However, two of the bodies on the official list of Green River victims were found in Oregon, which has capital punishment, and it is still unclear whether Ridgway will plead to those. 
The remains of scores of women, mainly runaways and prostitutes, turned up near ravines, rivers, air­
ports and freeways in the 1980s. Of them, investigators officially listed 49 women as probable victims of the Green River Killer. 
Ridgway had been a suspect ever since 1984, when Marie Malvar's boyfriend reported that he last saw he r g-e tti n g into a pic k u p t r u c k identified as Ridgway's. 
But Ridgway told police he didn't know Malvar, and a police investi­gator in Des Moines, midway between Seattle and Tacoma, who knew him cleared him as a suspect. Later that year, Ridgway contacted the King County Sheriff's Green River task force -ostensibly to offer information about the case ­and passed a polygraph test. 

Monday, November 3, 2003
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Business degrees worry A&L faculty 
of fewer business students
ByJOE '(ROMBELLO 

seeking Ph.D.s than the 
News Writer 

general population holds 
true among other top 20 
Nearly one-third of undergraduate universi­Notre Dame undergradu­ties as well. as 3.4 per­ates choose to major in cent of students majoring the Mendoza College of in business attended doc­Business, a fact that trou­toral level programs, in bles some Arts and comparison with the 11.4 Letters faculty who see percent of total students the emphasis of under­who sought doctoral graduates on business as degrees. a factor that may impede 
The business response
an academic, liberal arts 

William Nichols. associ­education. 
ate dean of the Mendoza Arts and Letters views College of Business, said 
In his 2003 Dean's that business graduates Report, Mark Roche, dean often receive lucrative job of the College of Arts and offers in the corporate Letters, expressed con­world, which may explain cern about the nation-the num-wide trend of ber of low percent­
··rhe University has
N o t r e ages of D a m e rightly expressed Ph.D.-seek­
under­concern about the ing business 
graduates students.
high percentage of 
-32 per­Nichols
Notre Dame 
cent also said that w h 0 undergraduates those who choose to . . . believe busi­
maJorzng zn
major in ness to be a
business.··
business, subject that as com-• does not pro­pared to 7 Mark Roche vide a strong percent of 
dean of arts and letters liberal arts 
under­education graduates are "misin­who enroll in business at formed." He stressed that the top -20 universities business courses examine 
"The University has many of the same ques­rightly expressed concern tions and issues as arts about the high percentage and letters but the context of Notre Dame under­differs. graduates majoring in "The majority of classes business ... this high per­that business students centage is hardly compat­[take] are arts and let­ible with a ters," he VISIOn of said. "It Notre Dame ·7 don •t think that would be a 
as a Catholic mistake to
business students 
liberal arts think that
are different from 
university," classes in he wrote. other people -they the busi­
Likewise, are curious about the n e s s Robert school do
world. regardless of
Norton, not pro­
chair of the their major. •• vide a lib­department eral arts of German educa­
William Nicholas 
Languages tion."
associate dean of 
a n d Nichols
business
Literature, said that believes that he does the emphasis not believe among Notre Dame stu­business students to be dents on a business any less intellectual or degree runs contrary to less academically engaged 
the notion of a liberal arts than peers from other education. University colleges. 
"The general tendency "I don't think that busi­[of a lack of an intellectu­ness students are differ­al life outside of the class­ent from other people ­room may] reflect the they are curious about the increased number of stu­world, regardless of their 
dents who study business major. Notre Dame stu­as an undergraduate," he dents are bright, and said. "One-third of stu­bright students are curi­dents are engaged in a ous about life issues," he course of study intended said. to prepare them specifi­cally for some [career] ­
Contact Joe Trombello at
this is quite contrary to 

jtromhel@nd.edu
the spirit and tradition of a liberal arts education," he said. 
From 1991-2000, only 

Like Boyd, Robert Norton, chair of students do not always think of aca­the Department of German demia as a viable, career and do not
Academics 
Languages and Literature, said that always understand what professors 
continued from page 1 
reading material in the text that will not be on the exam but may prove useful or even interesting to them. The MCAT will not test these con­cepts. 
Boyd, like some other faculty mem­bers from different colleges through­out Notre Dame, vent these and other concerns about the lack of intellectual engagement that Notre Dame stu­dents generally display outside of the classroom. They talk about the lack of passion that many students have for an academic subject and their deci­sion to do little more than what is required of them academically. They talk about the lack of political activism on-campus. They talk about the emphasis on athletics and the lack of student interest in academia. They talk about how students at Notre Dame could do better. 
Politics and passion 
In contrast with other faculty mem­bers who comment about the lack of contact with students during office hours, Robert Sedlack, an assistant professor of graphic design, said that he has many daily conversations with students. Because faculty offices are so close to classrooms in the Riley Hall ofArt, Sedlack said that students frequently engage in causal conversa­tions to ask questions or to request a brief critique of their work. 
''These kinds of conversations take place all the time. There are all kinds of opportunities for me to have impromptu discussions of student's work," Sedlack said. 
Boyd said that she was astonished to discover how little Notre Dame stu­dents seem to care about politics, a measure of what she would consider to be true passion for learning and a personal involvement in current issues. 
"I was shocked and surprised at how un-politically involved Notre Dame students are." she said. "I get the impression here that students don't care [about politics]." 
despite his students' hard work ethic, they seem to be lackirig in passion and a genuine, personal interest in the material that they study. This per­vasive attitude contradicts with that of some students whom he taught at Vassar College, students who seemed to him to be engaged in a rich intel­lectual life. 
"[Students here don't] convey the impression that a work of literature has meant a great deal personally to them, that he [or she] has grappled with it . . . that it has challenged cer­tain convictions or that [they have] been excited by it," he said. "That has never happened to me here [at Notre Dame.]" 
Anre Venter, director of undergrad­uate studies in psychology, agreed with Norton, saying that students generally seem to learn only for the sake of earning a good grade, rather than for pure enjoyment in the disci­pline. 
"Kids here are grade-driven and performance-driven. That's where it begins and ends for most people," he said. "Notre Dame should be an end in itself. and students should learn for the sake oflearning." 
Academia and careerism 
Other professors, such as Layna Mosley, assistant professor of political science, said that they feel that Notre Dame students may not be as inclined to consider academia as a career path in comparison with peers from other institutions. Mosley said that this may be explained in part because students who attend Notre Dame may not have been exposed to academia in their family backgrounds. 
"Notre Dame students may be more likely to come from back­grounds where they are the ftrst or second generation [to attend college]. They may be less likely to come from academic backgrounds," she said. 
Ten percent of incoming freshmen in 2002 were first-generation college students, according to the Office for Institutional Research. Because of tills lack of exposure, Mosley believes that 
do. 

"I don't think that students have a good sense of what [professors] do ­they don't quite get it," she said. 
Students from the top 20 American universities sent nearly twice as many graduates to Ph.D. programs from 1991-2000 as Notre Dame, and only Notre Dame's department of engi­neering sent a greater percentage of their students to doctoral programs than engineering programs from these peer institutions. 
William Nichols, associate dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said that he believes Notre Dame students to be more career-oriented than stu­dents at other peer universities might be. Thus, Notre Dame students with aspirations in business, law or medi­cine may be less likely to seek gradu­ate work in Ph.D. programs than their peers. 
"I've got to believe that a fair per­centage of students who come to Notre Dame have a professional career in mind -that may be differ­ent at other schools. I think our stu­dents are career-oriented from day one." 
. A cutture change Some faculty said that getting stu­dents to develop a richer intellectual life outside of the classroom would necessitate a fundamental shift in the pervasive attitudes that exist among Notre Dame students. Norton said that improving the aca­demic environment among Notre Dame undergraduates would mean allowing students to believe that intel­ligence and academic engagement are valued. "It would entail a change in atti­tude, where in college, being a bril­liant person is the thing," he said. "Here [at Notre Dame], that's not the case -it's how you look and what your athletic ability is. The idea that being smart is cool would have to take hold." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtromhel@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY 0 F NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 Hurley Building Notre Dame, i11dia11a 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-5711 



BERLIN 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2003
0.7 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates majoring 


118 DeBartolo 
in business went on for a doctoral degree, a per­




'rf'WJt':its 
4:30PM
centage much lower than the 6.1 percent of under­

(}(!~largest selection 
graduates thruughout all 

onlyat~ C 
Applications Available www/ nd.edul--intlstud
Notre Dame colleges that 

Sminutes ~ 
sought Ph.D.s. The trend 

from OUTPOST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

CDII259·1ooo for more details 


Monday, November 3, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 801.12 +14.51 
Jones ' 

· .,<~•==··. Same: ~ Composite Volume: 
b792 195 • I ,443,627,776 
NASDAQ : >r .1,932.~2.1 ·. ·:HQ.4s :> · 
NYSf<. ·.··.··.·.· ..·. 5,959.01 . +7.64 
AM& · ·:,:::.::·;::::.:=:=::-.::~:~p~~,~~~--·-.::::··::.:lit~:; ..I~::·:;::::. S&P 500 1,050.71 +3.77 tjlf9KEI tto!<YPlO.:!t'Q~~~:~:;:~2:::. :_-:::.::.±:~~§.:~~)'·.::·: 

FTSf 100 4,287.60 -13.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN IPRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +5.90 +0.22 3.95 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) + 1.73 +0.04 2.35 MICROSOFT CP (MSFf) +0.08 +0.02 26.14 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.18 +0.06 32.95 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.34 +0.07 20.93 
. Treasuries ](}.YFAR BO'JD -1.02 -0.53 5 I .45 
IQ.YEAR NOTE -0.88 -0.38 43.0 I S-YEARNOTE -I. I 0 -0.36 32.47 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 9.3 2 
Commodities 

UGKT CRUDE ($ttl.) +0.64 29.11 GOLD ($/Trcy oz.) -7.00 384.60 PORK BBlJES (cmtsllb.) +1.125 87.275 Exchange Rates YIN I 09.9 EURO 0.8635 PCX..JND 0.59 
CANADIAN$ 1.321 
IN BRIEF 

Kroger gives strikers final offer 
INDIANAPOLIS-Kroger Co. said Friday that 
it has presented a final contract offer to 4,000 
workers in Indiana who are threatening to 
strike when their current contract expires. 
Union representatives called the sudden break 
in talks "unfortunate" and said they will ask 
members to reject the proposal and authorize a 
walkout against the grocer during a vote sched­
uled for Sunday and Monday. 

Cincinnati-based Kroger said Friday it has offered members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 700 a four-year con­tract that includes more than $30 million in wage increases and pension contributions. as well as an offer to pay increased health care costs. 
Sean-John charges denied 
TEGUCIGALPA. Honduras -The head of 
Honduras' assembly plant industry said 
Wednesday that claims of sweatshop conditions 
there were false. 

"The treatment is excellent, better than in any factory in the United States," said Jesus Canahuati, president of the Association of Maquiladoras, a term used for export assembly plants. 
On Tuesday, the director the National Labor Committee, a U.S.-based workers rights group, issued a report alleging poor conditions at a Honduran· clothing factory that produces a line of Sean John clothing for rap music star Sean "P. Diddy" Combs. 
Venezuela eases controls 
CARACAS. Venezuela -President Hugo Chavez eased restrictions Sunday on credit card use. easing the currency controls that he imposed to shore up the economy during a two-month general strike called by his oppo­nents. 
Under the new rules, Venezuelans will be allowed to spend up to $2,000 annually on their credit cards while traveling abroad. 
The move partly eases the strict controls introduced in January to reduce capital flight and prop up the Venezuelan bolivar. which lost 25 percent of its value during the two-month strike. Government opponents called the strike in an unsuccessful bid to force early elections. 
Mutual fund reforms planned 
New York Attorney General Spitzer criticizes SEC and demands reforms 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Federal 
regulators and New York's 
top law enforcer, pressing 
investigations of a mutual 
fund scandal, also are 
drawing up an overhaul of 
the $7 trillion industry that 
traditionally has enjoyed a 
pristine image. 

New York Attorney 
General Eliot Spitzer is 
lashing out at the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission for what he 
calls its failure to detect 
abuses and act quickly. 
"Heads should roll" at the 
agency, he says. 

Companies must be 
forced to pay back to 
investors the hefty fees 
received for managing 
mutual funds during the 
time they allowed fund 
trading abuses to occur, 
Spitzer said Sunday. 

"If they're expecting to get settlements [with regu­lators) they're going to have to give much more back than just [investors'] losses. They're going to be paying stiff fines and giving back their management fees. They violated their trust with the American investor," the attorney gen­eral told The Associated Press in an interview. 
Management fees by mutual fund companies totaled more than $50 bil­lion last year, he noted. 
Eclipsed for months by and the SEC's enforcement Several investment com­between Spitzer and the Spitzer in the pursuit of director: Stephen Cutler, panies, including Janus SEC. They already had conflicts of interest and called to testify before a and Bank of America, have sparred last summer over abuses by Wall Street Senate committee on pledged to make restitution legislation to preclude investment firms, the SEC Monday. to mutual fund investors states from signing settle­jumped into the mutual In the latest and sharpest who lost money through ments with Wall Street fund investigation in early enforcement action, the alleged improper trading. firms that mandate busi­September. Dozens of firms SEC and Massachusetts More broadly, the scandal ness changes. have been subpoenaed, regulators brought civil has tarred the reputation of Spitzer is turning up the including Fidelity fraud charges last week mutual funds, traditionally rhetoric. Investments, Janus Capital against Putnam viewed as a safe, conserva­"Heads should roll at the Group, Morgan Stanley and Investments, the nation's tive investment. Some 90 SEC," he said in a newspa­Vanguard Group. fifth-largest mutual fund million people have money per interview last week. 
It was Spitzer who first company. in U.S. stock mutual funds; "There is a whole division raised the charge that pref­Two senior investment half of all American. house­at the SEC that is supposed erential trading deals for managers at Putnam were holds invest in them. to be looking at mutual big-money customers at charged with using improp­"This is the biggest stink funds. Where have they mutual fund companies er trades to profit personal­that's ever happened to the been?" could be siphoning billions ly from mutual funds they mutual fund industry," said That division is headed of dollars from ordinary oversaw. Boston-based Roy Smith. professor of by Paul Roye. also sum­investors. Putnam denied any wrong­finance at the Stern School moned to testify at 
Congress is looking into doing but confirmed that at New York University. Monday's hearing by a the scandal and the regula­four money managers had In the process. a political Senate Governmental tors' response, with Spitzer been fired. dispute has broken out Affairs subcommittee. 

U.S. farmers push goods in Cuba 
Associated Press Florida Produce, a Tampa, Fla.-based told reporters at the opening of the 
wholesale fruit and vegetable compa­fair that the growing number of U.S. 
HAVANA -Florida fruit juices and ny. exhibitors "demonstrates the inconsis­North Carolina turkey are among The trade fair, which runs through tency, the irrationality, the absurdity products American companies are Nov. 9, comes as Congress is trying to of the policy" of the embargo. showing off in Cuba this week as they open Cuba to American travelers, a This year's American presence does­press to sell more farm products to move that goes against both White n't compete with the number of U.S. the communist island. House efforts to enforce a travel ban firms that took part in a U.S. food and 
Grouped inside a stand at the and the U.S. policy of isolating the agricultural exhibition held here a lit­International Fair of Havana, which communist country. tle more than a year ago. It featured opened Sunday, the 71 American On Thursday. the Senate voted 59-288 exhibitors from 33 states. the firms from 18 states and Puerto Rico 36 to bar the use of government District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. hope their displays will persuade money to enforce current travel But it's more than the one or two Cuban officials to buy more under an restrictions. The House last month American companies that have signed exception in a 42-year U.S. trade also voted to ease travel restrictions. up for this fair in past years. The embargo. but the White House has threatened a growing U.S. presence shows that 
"We're hoping to sell more apples. veto and recently moved to step up American firms want to keep selling _ grapes. pears, and dried fruits." said enforcement of the travel ban. and Cuban officials want to keep buy­Miguel Mauricio, president of the Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage ing, Mauricio said. 

_ CHEESECAKE CHEESECAKE CHEESECAKE 
starting at Just $120.00 ·per month, per person! 
-
~ 


"The Best Value for your Dollar!" 
~ 

+ Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus 
r-. 

+ Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue 
-:5 

+ Current l·year & 10-month Leases Available '-LIJ 
+ On-Site Laundry Facility 
~ 
~ 

+ 2 Closets and l Desk in Each Bedroom
'J) 
<t 
+ Private Parking Lots
L&.J 

+ 24 -hour-On-Call Emergency Mamtenance
-c: """ Vl u 'J) 
L&.J 


+ Up to 4Persons Per Apartment
:I: e(' u 
L&.J 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation
0~ ..ro~~ 
P.O.Box540 South Bend. IN 46624
1?>-~ s?>-\ 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwi gtaJcbresb.com 

Phone(574}282-3233 ~ 
Fax (574) 282-3234 
415 North Hickory Road South Bend, IN 46615 LYITE, CAPPL'CCI:'\0 CIIAI TEA. ~lOCI lA 
(Student & Staff discounts with I D) 
{
... page 8 
. ;l' 
No federal 
charges 

filed in arena crash 
Associated Press 

JACKSON, Miss. -Federal officials said Sunday that a woman who rammed her car into an arena where President Bush had just given a speech had no intention of harming the president and no federal charges are pending against her, but she will face state charges. 
A friend said the woman, Betina Mixon, may have wanted to hurt herself. 
I 
ij Mixon, 29, of Horn Lake had ' three children in her car when she crashed into a wall of the t DeSoto County Civic Center on Saturday. Bush had just spoken at a campaign rally for Haley 
l 
Barbour, the Republican nomi­nee for governor, and was in his limousine preparing to leave, a 
senior administration official said. 
The president left the arena less than five minutes later from an exit about 40 yards from the crash. 
After interviewing Mixon, investigators determined she had "no direction of interest toward the president whatsoev­er," Ann Roman, a Secret Service spokeswoman, told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
A federal investigation is ongoing, but "there's no federal charges pending," she said. 
Roman said the woman faces state charges that could include aggravated assault. 
Mixon was taken into the cus­tody of the DeSoto County Sheriff's Department; a call to the department Sunday was not immediately returned. 
Alicia Graves, 19, who said she had known Mixon for about 10 years, said her friend had gone through a lot the last few months. 
"With marriage, her dad just dying and her brother sick and all that, I think she had a nerv­ous breakdown," Graves said Sunday. 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 3, 2003 
Episcopal church ordains gay bishop 
Associated Press Communion have said his con­
secration puts their worldwide 

DURHAM, N.H. -The association, with 77 million 
Episcopal Church became the members, in jeopardy. 
first major Christian denomi­Assistant Bishop David Bena 
nation to make an openly gay of Albany, N.Y., spoke for 36 
man a bishop, consecrating V. opposing bishops in the 
Gene Robinson on Sunday as Episcopal Church and the 
bishop of New Hampshire. The Anglican Church of Canada. 
act almost certainly means He said his group and most 
disgruntled conservatives will bishops in the international 
break from the church. Anglican Communion will not 
Robinson, 56, became a recognize Robinson as a fellow 
bishop when at bishop. 
least 40 other Reading 
bishops attending from a state­
"[Robinson's} chosen 
his consecration ment. Bena
lifestyle is 
surrounded him s a i d for the laying on incompatible with Robinson's of hands. "'chosen
Scripture and the 
The historic lifestyle' is
teaching ofthe
moment came incompatible more than an church.·· with Scripture hour into the ritu­and the teach­al and after two ing of this
David Bena
Episcopal clerics church." Bena
bishop
and a parishioner spoke after · took advantage of Presiding the traditional opportunity to Bishop Frank Griswold asked object. if there was "any reason why 
But the crowd of 4,000 wor­we should not proceed," a tra­
shippers attending the cere­ditional part of Episcopal con­
mony at a University of New secration services. 
Hampshire sports arena was The Rev. Earle Fox from the 
overwhelmingly pro-Robinson. Pittsburgh Diocese also object­
Presented to the audience at ed. But when he began citing 
what's normally center ice, specifics of same-sex behavior, 
Robinson was greeted by a Griswold politely cut him off. 
rousing, three-minute stand­saying "please spare us the 
ing ovation. He smiled, nodded details and come to the sub­
and brushed away a tear. stance." 
In informal remarks, In all, the objections took 
Robinson's voice broke twice about 10 minutes. 
as he thanked New Hampshire Outside the ceremony, a 
for electing him a bishop and handful of anti-and pro-gay 
reaching out to the "people demonstrators were kept 
who find themselves at the apart by police. Armed officers 
margins," as Jesus did. also stood on the roof. 
Conservatives have made Dissenting traditionalists also 
moves to split from the church held a competing Communion 
over Robinson and leaders of service at a nearby church. 
the global Anglican The consecration sermon by 
Lafayette Square Tolvnhomes 
NOW is the time, they won•t last longf 

• Only 9 Blocks from Campus 
+ Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage
• 
Disposal• 4 I 5 Private Bedrooms Private Patio 
• 

Optional ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) 
•

+ Central Air Conditioning Assigned Parking
• 

Energy Efficient Gas Heating
• 
Professionally Managed
• 

24-Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 
• 

For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 
South Bend, fN 4()624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile:. 574-234-9925 Rlu<lwigralcbresh.com 

'Ibe Finest mStUdent Housifl.g : · 
Notre Dame Apartme11ts 
New Hampshire's retiring nation's conservative flank Bishop Douglas Theuner was together by building a network interrupted twice by vigorous of "confessing" diocese and applause as he defended congregations. Hobinson's gay commitment The network will exist more against detractors. or less separately from the 
Theuner said Robinson "will national denomination, claim­stand as a symbol of the unity ing to preserve the traditional of the church in a way none of beliefs of the Episcopal Church the rest of us can" because he and the international Anglican will "bring into our fellowship Communion of which it's a an entire group of Christians part. hitherto unacknowledged in Some predict this will devel­the church." op into the worst Episcopal 
Robinson won more split since the denomination applause for reaching out to was founded in 1789. And Episcopalians upset with his depending on the shape things elevation. "They must know if take, a spate of church law­they must leave, they will suits may well result. always be welcomed back," he But Griswold, the leader of said. the 2.3 million-member U.S. 
Though there have been gay denomination. has down­bishops in the past, all were played the negative fallout. He closeted when they were ele­said two weeks ago that mem­vated to their posts. Robinson bers who oppose Robinson's has been open about his 14-elevation "for the greatest part 
year relation­ ...  are committed to  
ship with his partner throughout  "[Robinson] will stand as a symbol  remaining within the Episcopal Church" and living  
the process in which he won election to the  ofthe unity ofthe church.··  with "divergent points of view." Archbishop of  
new post.  Canterbury Rowan  
The  title  Douglas Theuner  Williams,  
conferred Robinson,  on a  bishop  Anglicanism's spiri­tual leader, said  
longtime  Saturday  that  he  

assistant to New Hampshire believes divisions within the Bishop Douglas Theuner, is worldwide Anglican "bishop coadjutor," meaning Communion over Robinson's he automatically becomes selection will eventually heal. head of the diocese when "And one day we shall be Theuner retires March 7. led, in both thankfulness and 
A national association for repentance, to share with one conservatives opposed to another what we have learned ordaining gays, the American apart, to bring to one another Anglican Council, says parish­a history not without its shad­ioners already were drifting ows and stresses, but still one away in protest of Robinson's in which something quite dis­elevation. tinctive has been learned," 
It plans to hold the denomi-Williams said in London. 
''• 
Monday, November 3, 2003 page 9
The Observer + NEWS 
Treaty to ban cloning faced with opposition 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The United States is campaigning for a General Assembly vote on a resolution calling for a treaty to ban all forms of human cloning, but 23 countries are opposed and Islamic nations want a two-year delay. 
U.S. Ambassador John Ncgroponte sent letters to ambassadors from about 100 countries that support a total ban, saying a delay would be "extremely unfortunate" and urging them to adopt the reso­lution when it comes up for a vote Thursday in the General Assembly's legal committee. 
"There is a need to act now to confront the emerging threat of human cloning," Negroponte said, appealing to the ambassa­dors to vote against any motion to delay the resolution, which was sponsored by Costa Rica. 
The cloning issue has deeply divided the 191-nation General Assembly, which traditionally seeks to reach a consensus on new treaties to generate the most support. 
A rival resolution introduced by Belgium and co-sponsored by 23 countries including France, Germany, Britain, China and Japan, calls for a ban only on cloning to produce babies, leaving the question of human cloning for research and medical experiments to individ­ual countries. 
U.S. Deputy U.N. Ambassador James Cunningham said there was a fundamental difference of principle. 
"Our view, and the view of the hundred or so supporters of the Costa Rican resolution is that it's a question of principle that the ban that we should be working on is total -and should cover both kinds of cloning," he said in an interview Friday. 
The Costa Rican resolution 
Foreign study growth rate slows 
Associated Press 
Anew study says the number of foreign students attending 
U.S. colleges increased by less than 1 percent in 2002-03 ­the lowest growth rate in seven years. It's just the latest piece of evidence that interna­tional students are shying away from the United States because of tough immigration rules. 
The Institute of International Education said tightened visa procedures enacted after the 2001 terrorist attacks, which have delayed the entry of many foreigners into the United States, contributed to the low growth rate. 
The liE said in its annual "Open Doors" report, to be released Monday, that foreign enrollment increased by only 
0.6 percent last year. In each of the two previous academic years, foreign enrollment had increased by 6.4 percent. 
"It's not just the policies themselves, but the under­standing and perception of the policies that have really affect­ed the numbers," said Peggy Blumenthal, the liE's vice pres­ident of educational services. 
"The word of mouth is out in certain countries about the dif­ficulty getting a visa. And the perception is having as much of an impact as the delays." 
Foreign students started experiencing delays entering the country in the wake of the terrorist attacks on Washington in New York, as the federal government responded to calls for tighter domestic security. One of the Sept. 11 hijackers held a stu­dent visa. 
U.S. schools want foreign 
students both for the revenue they bring in -the liE said international students spend up to $12 billion annually between tuition and other expenses -and their contri­butions to academic research. 
A continuing decline in for­eign student enrollment "may damage our ability to attract the best and the brightest," said Alice Gast, vice president of research and associate provost at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
In a separate online survey, the liE said 46 percent of U.S. colleges reported declines in foreign enrollment in the cur­rent school year. There were 586,323 international students studying in the United States last year, said the liE, which promotes closer educational relations between the United States and other nations. 

Date: Wednesday November 5th Time: 5:30pm Place: Center for Social Concerns 

Coffee House RSVP: l-6841 by November 3rd 
Presented by Multicultural Student Pr rams and Services 
would set up a working group to start drafting a treaty, and would establish the goal of a total ban on human cloning. It would not ban non-human cloning. 
"What postponement really means is acquiescing in accept­ing that this research on cloning can continue without the majority of the General Assembly pronouncing itself in favor of a total ban, which will happen if we get a vote," Cunningham said. 
The opposition to a total ban was initially led by France and Germany, who proposed a two­step approach. They argue that there is very strong internation­al support for a worldwide ban on cloning babies, but less sup­port for a ban on "therapeutic" cloning for research and med­ical purposes. 
"Now there's a legal vacuum," said Belgian diplomat Marc Pecsteen, whose country is now leading the opposition. "Under our resolution, maybe there will be scientific cloning but at least it will be regulated." 
But Pecsteen said that unless there is universal support for a treaty, it won't be effective, so "we think it's better not to have a vote on the issue because we are so divided." 

IRAN 
Demands could end Iranian cooperation 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Iran's supreme leader said Sunday that "demands" from abroad could prompt Tehran to retreat from a recent commitment to give inspectors from the U.N. nuclear watchdog more access to its atomic facilities. 
The warning by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei comes as the International Atomic Energy Agency evaluates a dossier on Iran's nuclear program that 
Tehran supplied to meet an Oct. 31 deadline. The dossier was submitted to prove it is not developing atomic weapons -as U.S. offi­cials believe. 
Iran agreed last month to allow unfettered inspections of its nuclear facil­ities and to stop enriching urani­the fast for the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. 
Khamenei, who has the final say on all state matters, said he will intervene to stop the Iranian government from mak­ing decisions he considers inappropriate. 
"So far, nothing has been done against our principles," he said. "Wherever I feel that a step has been taken against the directions and goals of the establishment, I will stop it." 
IAEA Director General 
Mohamed 
ElBaradei told 

"Peaceful nuclear CNN on Sunday 
that the agency

technology is our 
still is evaluating

legitimate right and Iran's nuclear no country and no dossier. 
The United

organization can 
States accuses

deprive us ofthis Iran of pursuing right." nuclear weapons and has pressed for the IAEA to 
Ayatollah All Khamenel declare Iran in Iranian leader violation of the 
um -a process that creates fuel for nuclear plants but also can be used to build weapons. 
"If parties to the talks with us or centers of global power come up with excessive demands and we feel that our interests and values are harmed, we won't hesitate to end this trend [of coopera­tion]," Khamenei said in a speech on state-run television. 
"Peaceful nuclear technology is our legitimate right and no country and no organization can deprive us of this right, including the right for produc­tion of our own nuclear fuel." 
Khamenei spoke before a large group of military and government officials at a party marking the daily breaking of 

Nuclear 

Non proliferation Treaty. Tehran, however, insists it is only developing nuclear energy to produce power as its oil stocks decline. 
IAEA experts have found traces of highly enriched weapons-grade uranium on equipment at Iranian sites, a discovery ElBaradei has called the most troubling aspect of Tehran's nuclear activities. 
Iran insists the traces, found in enviro n men ta I sampres . were inadvertently imported on equipment meant to gener­ate electricity and says it does not know where the equip­ment originated because it was purchased through third parties. 
If the IAEA decides Iran is developing nuclear weapons, it could ask for a review by the 
U.N. Security Council, which could impose sanctions on Tehran. 
The IAEA board of gover­nors is scheduled to discuss the issue Nov. 20. 
Khamenei said Iran will not back down on seeking nuclear technology for peaceful pur­poses. 
He also vowed the country will eventually produce fuel for its future nuclear reactors so it does not have to rely on other countries for the materi­al. 

;· 
i 
I 
,) 'I 

i
[/ 
i, I'
rl 
I r 
! 
I 
I 
I 
i 
------~-------~-------------------------......, 
page 10 
MANAGING EDITOR. Scott Brodfl.i~~~q · AssT. MANA<oiNG EDITOR ·Sheila Flynn .. -. ­

. . ·.. . ... . . ~stiQm rW'rding ObsmKr:J~Qiit:~s shvUtd bt · . dircctrd m Sllior inChiifXn.drcw Saufeup. · 
.. ··.  .  .  ·.  ·.  ·.  
···.·  .  .  . . ..  .  .  .·  
..·.  .  ·..  .  .  ·.  .  

. --·...·-.· POST 0FF1CE INFORMATION 
. ~~~..~~"~DaMe . . """addilios\01 tnailbig O!f....~. . 

TODAY'S STAFF>. 
News ·Graphics 
Teresa Fralish Mike Harkins . Amanda Sports Michaels· Justin Schuver 
Beth Erickson Joe Hettler Viewpoint Matt Puglisi Dolores Diaz .·· --Scene Illustrator Sarah Vabulas -­Pat Quill 
p 


Monday, November 3, 2003 




Bush's critics are blind as bats 
I dressed up as George W. Bush for Halloween this year. It was a royal pain: the only Dubya mask left on the shelf cost $4.99 and was made in Mauritius, and believe me, it had all the quality you'd expect from a 
Mike Marchand 
Mauritian-made product. 
The mask had 
Undistinguished
tiny little eye­
Alumnus

holes that were smaller than a dime, which meant that while wearing it, I could only really see what was right in front of me, but was blind to everything else. 
A sizable segment of you readers is probably howling in laughter at that last statement and the parallels it has to the world today. 
Everybody's quick to link Iraq to Vietnam now, as if there were any similarity between a six-month desert conflict that's cost 300 American sol­diers' lives and a nearly two-decade long jungle guerrilla war that killed 58,000 troops. 
But yeah, other than all that, the sit­uations are practically identical. Or at least they are for those people who were against the war from the begin­ning. 
Take The New York Times' Maureen Dowd: "The war began with Bush illogic: false intelligence (from Niger to nuclear) used to bolster a false casus belli (imminent threat to our security) based on a quartet of false premises (that we could easily finish off Saddam and the Baathists, scare the terrorists and democratize Iraq without leeching our economy)." 
Having been wrong about everything concerning Operation Iraqi Freedom, the anti-war left has switched to a new tactic: completely lying about everything so that it makes them right. This "strategery" is all over Dowd's thesis. 
Dowd mentions the African nation of Niger (a shorthand reference to the supposed claim that President Bush made in his January 2003 State of the Union address that Saddam Hussein attempted to buy uranium from Niger) as an attempt to show that Bush lied about the reasons for war. 
In fact, the now-famous 16-word quote in the address was that "the British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought sig­nificant quantities of uranium from Africa," not just Niger. British intelli­gence stands by their work, and reports by Chief U.S. Weapons Inspector David Kay support an African connection. 
Second, Dowd asserts that the justi­fication for war was an "imminent threat to our security." This, too, is a complete fabrication: invading Iraq was to prevent them from ever becom­ing an "imminent threat." 
From the same State of the Union: "Some have said we must not act until the threat is imminent. Since when have terrorists and tyrants announced their intentions, politely putting us on notice before they strike?" 
However, constant repetition has made this lie accepted, and even "objective" sources like The New York Times, the Associated Press and Agence France-Presse have all pub­lished news stories touting that Bush declared Saddam an "imminent threat." 
These two little white lies lead to the big one, the one that the anti-war left hopes to bludgeon Bush upside the head with: that the administration "misunderestimated" the amount of post-war Iraqi resistance to instituting a stable, democratic government and is currently botching the job. 
"When you put American troops in harm's way, you better not do it with­out a plan," sneered Gen. Wesley Clark, who has little to say about poor planning (coughKosovocough). 
No matter whether or not one sup­ported the war, the postwar establish­ment of a free Iraq should be a cause everyone, certainly classic interven­tionist liberal idealists, could get behind. But four of the leading Democratic presidential candidates (Clark, Dean, Edwards, Kerry) oppose the President's $87 billion evidently­not-a-plan aid package. 
That opposition has the potential to undermine the entire series of suc­cesses the postwar reconstruction has already accomplished in just a few short months: reopening all hospitals and most schools, courts and banks; restoring most electrical, telephone and water services; creating Iraqi police and security forces totaling more than 100,000 officers; and establishing the beginniqgs of a free press and representative government. Just imagine what they could have done if they had a plan. 
It is true that an organized, sophisti­cated resistance has dedicated itself to reversing these achievements, and that they have taken quite a deadly toll, both on U.S. forces and on non­American "soft targets" like the International Red Cross. 
However, to compare this situation with Vietnam is to insinuate that the resistance is part of a much larger hostile group opposed to the United States, and to state this war is not winnable and we should just go home. The former is clearly not true, and the latter would be a bigger disaster than not having gone in at all. 
So who's really sightless? The presi­dent whose vision is prevailing, or the opponents whose theories of failure are so blinding that they're forced to shade the truth to make their point? 
Who knows, maybe Mauritius makes Stevie Wonder masks. 
Mike Marchand. class of '01. wanted to dress up as Gen. Wesley Clark for Halloween, but was afraid nobody would realize who he was. !lis column appears every other Monday. Contact him at Marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
How often do you meet with a professor outside of class? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver. com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jivfistakes are a fact oflife. It is the response to error that counts.,, 
Nikki Giovanni American poet 


Why we really went to war 
You know that "Operation Iraqi Freedom" was plagued by controversy from day one because of its so-called "illegitimate" grounds. I am here to tell you that this operation was fought for a different reason than what we were 
Greg Parnell 
told. After months of debate and discus­

Issues, Ideas 
sion, my conclusion 

and Ideologies
is that it was not really about liber­ating the Iraqi peo­ple from a tyrant, nor about eliminating a psychopath before he could use weapons against Americans, nor about the oil. True, these may indeed be effects of the war, but they are not the cause. 
The war in Iraq is an attempt to set in motion a process that will slowly and discreetly trigger the collapse of an enemy far more dangerous to America than Saddam Hussein: Islamic Fundamentalism. 
I am a firm believer that the United States must always pursue all peaceful alternatives before resorting to war. However, Islamic Fundamentalism and American Democracy cannot peacefully coexist. Why? Because there are absolutely irresolvable differences in their most basic belief systems. 
As Americans, we place our highest value in the liberal idea of freedom. Of all the things we hold dear, it is our freedoms -like the ability to pursue any career you want and the power to speak your mind without persecution ­that we are most determined to protect. 
We believe we possess the unalien­able right to choose our own actions, whether they be right or wrong, for better or for worse, out of selfishness or out of altruism. 
Advocates for Fundamentalist soci­eties are strikingly different in their views, for they place virtue above free­dom as the supreme objective. Whereas Americans often cite the Judea­Christian belief in God's gift of free will to man, the Muslim faith focuses pre­dominantly on the purity of the soul and submission to God's will. 
Therefore, Fundamentalists reject our basic assumption that we have a right to choose, for if we choose evil, then we are rebelling against God. Consequently, leaders are willing to abolish individual freedoms in order to try to preserve virtues. 
The key to understanding the dilem­ma between the American Democratic and Islamic Fundamentalist worlds is that the two sides are judging each other by different moral codes. Yes, there are many notable overlaps, but the one distinction that I have outlined is critical. 
It means that although their naming of the United States as the "Great Satan" may seem absurd to us, if we draw back and look at it from their per­spective, this judgment is indeed logical and valid. "Freedom" permits Britney Spears to exploit sexual lust to gain popularity. Would not our society be 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Social justice now 
In February, the administration cut the graduate student health insurance subsidy for lack .of funds. Notre Dame has now 100 million worth of building projects green lighted. It has received 50 million from one donor alone. When will it reinstate the health care subsidy? 
Right now, a number of graduate students are forbidden by the University from taking a second job to support their families. Right now, there are graduate student families struggling to pay their insurance costs. Right now, there are fathers sending their families away because they cannot pay their health care bills. 
That this happens at a such a well endowed Catholic university is a moral failure. Notre Dame needs to accompany its grand plans for a peace institute with some economic social justice, 
right now. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Jim Hogan graduate student Nov. 2 


more pure if this was prohibited? 
Would this not be what God wanted? 
I sympathize with the Fundamentalists because they are fighting for their most sacred beliefs. just as we are. However, my sympathy does not extend insofar as to tolerate the notion that murdering thousands of Americans is an acceptable way to pro­mote one's. moral code. 
Indeed, I have concluded that a free­dom-based society is closer to God's will than a virtue-based society, because forced virtue is not true virtue. 
Requiring a woman to wear a veil may make her appear humble publicly, but it does not necessarily make her heart so. Sure, freedom means that some Americans will choose to commit evil acts. However, many will not. It is these individuals, who have the oppor­tunity to choose evil and refuse it, who demonstrate true virtue. Obeying God's will means nothing unless one has the power to disobey. 
War is tragic, but we struck when we did because we saw an opportunity to prevent a much greater tragedy. Peaceful coexistence would be pre­ferred, but such a peace is impossible as long as the Fundamentalist moral code requires that they destroy the un­virtuous and our own demands that we give freedom to the oppressed. 
Sure, we can wait until the impending clash breaks out into an all-out reli­gious world war, the scope of which the world has never seen. Or, we can try to deal a quick deathblow, saving count-
Cheering lacked meaning 
Notre Dame's traditions are second to none and I have loved being a part of that tradition throughout my lifetime. Certainly one of these great traditions includes the players holding their golden helmets in the air as the student section cheers. 
That being said, I was not too thrilled with what occurred at the end of the Florida State game. As the players were leaving the field, they made their way once again over to the student sec­tion. 
Notre Dame students then proceeded to scream and cheer louder than on any first down during the game, and louder than after any other home game this year, except for Washington State. I think strictly clapping for the team would have been the suitable 
way to show our play­
ers we are behind 
them. 
I pose a question to the students. Do we enjoy going to the games simply to cheer, do the jig, eat a hot dog and have fun? It seems more and more students treat the game as a social outlet, and care lit­tle about the game's outcome. 
I am not saying the games should be life or death, that you should be mad for a week after we lose, etc. I just want us to impart to the players, coaches, alumni and fans that we also care about winning. Last time I checked, win­ning was one of Notre Dame's greatest football traditions. 
How much more gratifying will it be for the players to come over to the students after a win and tell a difference in the strength of our voices? Students simply clapping for our play­ers after a big loss is still showing great sup­port and no disrespect. Hell, students at Florida State would have left the game midway through the third quarter. 
less lives on both sides. 
We attacked Iraq because establish:. ing a stable democracy within the Middle East will demonstrate to Muslims that Islam can exist in a democracy, though not in the Fundamentalist form. In Iraq, dis­sention existed but had no voice, Saddam's arrogance about his weapons gave us legal justification, the economy was eager to grow if given expert man­agement and it is the most secular of the Fundamentalist societies. 
We are offering freedom to a country that has the natural and human resources to be ·a successful democracy, hoping that it can now serve as an example for the rest of the Islamic world. If it does succeed, the Islamic Fundamentalists calling for jihad will find their voices falling on deaf ears. 
Instead of fighting against America, the citizens of Fundamentalist nations will rise up and the oppressive regimes that rule them will crumble into the sands of the desert forever. World War Three will be averted. If our transfor­mation of Iraq succeeds, we may never know just how niany lives we have saved. 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore political science and economics major who tack­les issues independently from a single party's platform. Contact him at gpar­nell@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
If anything, this is respecting Notre Dame and its traditions. It is respecting all the teams before us that worked so hard to continue Notre Dame's traditions and success. It is respecting our current players by fully support­ing them, while still urging them to improve and letting them know we are not satisfied. 
Knowing that we support them, but that we still desperately want success will 
· have a better impact on the play­ers than screaming and cheer­ing every time they come off 
the field. I am pretty sure that our players would in no way be hurt if we simply clapped for 
them after the FSU game, especially con­sidering the outcome 
of the game. In fact, I think deep down they might appreciate the fact that we support 

them, but that we still demand the best of them. I assume this is one reason they chose to go to Notre Dame, to be the best they can be. We know, and the team knows. that 37-0 is not the best we can be. One thing I do not want the student body to do is lull the team into thinking that we are okay with mediocrity. 
Notre Dame players have always had a strong desire to win, and this must continue. We expect them to be the best they can be, and during the game they expect us to be the best we can be. Let the team know that we are behind them, but at the same time, let them know that we expect the same effort, drive, desire and preparation as the players who went before them. 
Quinn Eide sophomore Morrissey Manor Nov. 2 

-------------~ 

Monday, November 3, 2003
page 12 

'I failed. 
' 

I totally failed.' 
Tired ofhearing about ·I students who claim they fail' but then end up with setting the curve? 
"That was the worst test I have ever taken in my life. I am positive I failed. Maybe I . should just quit school and quit life," junior Michael Flanagan said as he 
Tom Raaf 
stormed out of his Accounting 
Scene

I 
test shortly

' Columnist
1.' before break. However, when he received his test grade from his professor after demanding it by e-mail sometime in the middle of fall break, he found that his grade was not quite as poor as he had thought; a 96 per­these students were simply considering the worst-case scenario, in hopes that their grade would be better than they thought. Since my initial 
assessment, however, I have 
seen so many flagrant viola­
tions that I know that this is 
not the case. Anything under 
a 98 appears to constitute 
"failure" for many of these 
students. It seems as though 
these poor souls are search­
ing for post-test failure pity while at the same time receiving good test score gratification. Sort of a get­ting your cake, eating it, throwing it up and eating it again type of philosophy. 
Along with 
this usually 
comes the 

cent, one So to you All-:Stars out common lie of the best about the
there I say to you this: be
-grades in amount of 
the class. proud ofthe amount 
time these This you ·ve studied, have All-Stars short little studied for
confidence in your test 
story is the test. "Oh,
performance, and, if
just one I just kind of example nothing else, bank on the flipped of a terri­through my
professor giving an 
ble prob­notes ... I
ll unbelievable curve, Just
lem on the think it ;j ,, Notre don't tell me about your shouldn't be <I (' Dame D-and then tuck away too hard" 
campus can be easily
r your A paper the minute 
involving translated students you get it back. into "I e­
who do well on tests but claim that they bombed them. I speak from personal experience in saying that there is nothing worse than when you walk home from a test with some­one who rants about how poorly they did when in fact you know that they probably beat your score by upwards of 10 points, at worst getting 
-an A-. I call this trend the Academic All-Star Pessimistic Plan to Success Team. By my rough calcula­tions, this group is made up of nearly 25 percent of the students on campus. These are also typically the same students who badger teach­ers for test grades from the hour after the exam until they receive them by some other special earlier time than the rest of the class ... because of course everyone knows that if you know your last test grade a day before everyone else it gives you an undeniable edge over the class for that 24 hour period. At first, I thought that 
mailed my 
professor 
this summer 

and outlined the course packet sometime in early July. I have known about this test since senior year of high school and 11m probably more prepared than the professor." As a result, non-All-Stars or prospective All-Stars feel a false sense of security an'd under-study for the tests. 
So to you All-Stars out there I say this: be proud of the amount you've studied, have confidence in your test performance and, if nothing else, bank on the professor giving an unbelievable curve. Just don't tell me about your D-and then tuck your A paper away the minute you get it back. 
Tom Raafis a junior who is really not quite as bitter and cynical in real life as his columns might lead you to believe. He is a Libra and is most likely having a 4-star day today. Contact him at traaj@nd.edu. 
elc~ 


The new Fox hit· 'The OC' is bac) 
By EMILY HOWALD Assistant Scene Editor 

"Saved by the Bell" was the hit of the late '80s, "90210" left its mark on the late '90s, and with its growing populari­ty, Fox's new hit, "The OC", might possibly be considered the new "it" show for this decade. 
The campus has become a bit calmer on Wednesday evening, as students have resorted to their rooms to watch the show and dramas unveil. 
"The OC", which stands for The Orange County, premiered this past summer and after a very successful preliminary season, Fox ordered an addi­tional nine episodes for the fall to bring the show to a full compliment of 22 episodes. The much anticipated fall sea­son premiere began on Oct. 29 and will run every Wednesday at 9 p.m. 
What's the show about? 

"Welcome to the OC b----; this is how it's done in the Orange County," a phrase that was originally directed at the main character, Ryan Atwood (Benjamin McKenzie), has now become emblematic to the meaning of the hot new show. 
Ryan, a young, sexy, mis­guided teenager from the 
wrong neighborhood gets caught stealing a Camara and ends up with a kindhearted public defender from the Orange County. Predictably, Ryan ends up living with his defender, Sandy Cohen (Peter Gallagher) after he is thrown out by his alcoholic mother, and he enters into a whole new realm of living, the root of the show, he enters into a life in The O.C. 
Cohen's wife, Kirsten (Kelly Rowan) is hesitant about allowing this stranger into her home, especially since Ryan is the same age as her comical, although slightly nerdy son, Seth (Adam Brody). Ryan earns his place in their house­hold, as he proves to the fami­ly that he is merely looking for a second chance at life, and the fact that he becomes somewhat enamored with the next-door neighbor, Marissa (Mischa Barton) aids in his promise of good behavior. 
Ryan, Marissa, Seth, and Marissa's best friend, Summer (Rachel Bilson) develop a close friendship, even though it is a distinct separation between the rich and the poor, the cool and the nerdy. Ryan's hope for a romantic development is dis­torted when he meets Marissa's long-time boyfriend, Luke (Chris Carmack), and is bullied into understanding that Marissa is off-limits. 
Seth has also had a n~ep lust for Summer since the begin­ning of the show and the ten­sion between them has grown as the plot has unveiled. Seth's witty humor and ability to make fun of nearly every situ­ation, has appealed to Summer, although she fits the popular girl's battle as to whether she can associate herself with someone of a less­er social status. 
Marissa's family life has gradually become more trou­blesome as the show progress­es. For her father, Jimmy Cooper (Tate Donovan) has stumbled into trouble with the Securities and Exchange Commission. After he is nearly cast out from their rich com­munity, his wife, Julie (Melinda Clarke) asks for a divorce. Jimmy turns to his longtime friend, Kirsten, and his lust for her becomes more apparent as he becomes more estranged from his family. 
Ryan gradually develops a closer relatioqship with the Cohen family and he establish­es a place within their home. Although trouble seems to fol­low him, he worked through­out the season to earn the respect of those who have helped him. Although he is still deemed somewhat deviant by the members of the Orange County, they have begun to accept him for Kirsten and Sandy have encouraged it. 
At the finale of the summer 

Photo courtesy of www.slate.msn.com 
Ryan Atwood, the Cohens, the Coppers, and friends pose together as all of the main charac­ters of Fox's hit "The OC." The show runs on Wednesday nights at 9 p.m. 
'( 

Monday, November 3, 2003 Page 13 
orne to 'The OC' 
~k on the air after a temporary hiatus ready to please -the many fans 

and Seth finds himself in interview. next-door neighbor, is a native a love triangle, a position Peter Gallagher is also excit­of England landed her role on he is entirely unfamiliar ed at the opportunity to work "The OC" at age 17. She began with, and quite possibly, on the show, but he is just her career at the age of nine in his humor may not save happy that for once he is not New York and has landed many him. Summer's head portrayed as the bad guy. parts in numerous common fea­begins to turn toward Gallagher has stared in While tures. She ·premiered in Notting Seth when a new girl in You Were Sleeping, Johnny Hill and The Sixth Sense, and school shows interest in Skidmarks, The Man Who Knew has recently been spotted on the comical little Seth. Too Little, Center Stage, and Neutrogena ads. Seth eventually has to American Beauty, amongst oth­make a decision, but ers. Gallagher is excited about 
The OC 

expect a great deal of the content of the show as well. 
"The OC" began as a replace­humor as Seth enters the "I never saw this as a teen ment for the gap that was cre­
unfamiliar territory of drama. Why tell half the story ated by losing "Dawson's
relationships. when you can tell it all? There's Creek," "90210," "Felicity", and Sandy leaves his posi­no greater joy than watching many others, but it has devel­tion as a public defender, people in a rich, gated commu­oped into a hit show that standsand tried his hand at nity fall flat on their faces, and on a level all by itself. It has 
more corporate law. He discover that regardless of 
evolved past the petty relation­finds himself in a very income level, being-a parent is ships of previous nighttime dra­
compromising position the hardest job in the world," 
mas and faces issues that arewhen he is placed in a Gallagher said. 
prevalent in society today.
head-to-head battle with Kelly Rowan stars as Although it may be a bit out­his wife's company. Gallagher's wife and is known landish in its portrayal of the
Many other surprises for her role in Hook, Assassins, 
Orange County, it is, nonethe­are expected this season, and 187. She is also very active less, a new hit for the season.
but creator/writer Josh in producing and has appeared So next Wednesday when youSchwartz said not to in several television series. 
are looking for something to do,expect the typical teen Adam Brody, who is known as flip on Fox at 9 p.m. anddrama. the geeky comic relief for the "Welcome to The OC."
"We always wanted to show, began perusing his do a multi-generational career when his parents show that was as much thought he was heading off to 
"The OC" cast sits together, with the main character, Ryan Atwood, about adults as it was college. Brody has made sever­in the center and his love interest on the left. They are with the about the kids. We cov­al appearances on TV sitcoms, other main characters of the show."The OC" is Fox's newest hit. ered a lot of territory in and he is appeared in The Ring 
seven episodes. It's impos­and Holding Out. Contact Emily Howald at 
sible to keep moving that Mischa Barton, the glamour Howald.2@nd.edusession, Marissa, Seth, Ryan "There are all sorts of sur­fast, but the show and Summer decide to take a prises, but then again, they're moves. It's pop­customary end-of-the-summer not outrageous surprises. No ping,'; Schwartz trip to Tijuana. Marissa discov­one is abducted by aliens," said in a recent ers that her parents are divorc­Gallagher said of what to interview. ing and as she expect. tries to go and Marissa The cast drink her prob­survives Benjaminlems away at a "We always wanted to her drug McKenzie is a 
club she learns do a multi-generational overdose, Texan boy who is a that Luke is but imme­cross between
show that was as much
cheating on her. diately James Dean and a Marissa escapes about the adults as it 
seeks help young Russell from the group was about the kids. We from Ryan Crowe. He recently
and overdoses on because moved to LA in
covered a lot ofterritory
pain medicine. her mom hopes to pursue
Ryan, Summer, in seven episodes. It's 
tries to his acting dream, and Seth search impossible to keep commit and he landed the for her. and at her into a lead role in "The
moving that fast but the 
the conclusion of mental OC" shortly after
show moves. it's
the show, Ryan institu­his arrival. The 24 
. ..
finds her passed poppzng. tion. Ryan year old actor isn't out in a gutter. a n d entirely like his This griping con­Marissa bad boy personali­
Josh Schwartz
clusion has left comfort ty that Fox depictsmuch anticipa­creator/writer Julie, and him as, however, tion in the view­Marissa cast members have ers as to the blatantly said that it takes a well-being of explains bit to get him to Marissa and the question of a to her mother that she chooses crack a smile. possible, long-awaited relation­her father above anything else. "It's a Fox thing, ship between Ryan and Ryan and Marissa begin their the bad-boy image. Marissa. romance, but not without the They're trying to 
disapproving glare from Julie, type me out. There and Luke's battle to win her are worse things in
What to expect 

back. This relationship has life, you know. I'm As the second part of this first been troubled from the start, just really excited 
season commences, viewers 

but hopefully in the end it will about the opportu­
should expect a lot of the 

work out in favor of the bud­nity," McKenzie Photo courtesy of wborangecounty.tripod.com 
drama to be unveiled in the 

ding romantics. recently said in Benjamin McKenzie poses as the bad boy. McKenzie plays the main char­
first couple episodes. 

The teens go back to school California at an acter, Ryan Atwood, In the new hit "The OC." 

Monday, November 3, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
\ NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sooners confident after huge win over State 
Associated Press our football team, but they cer­tainly did." 
NORMAN, Okla. -Bob In a game that featured two Stoops silently stewed as he lis­of the nation's top offenses, it tened to the chatter coming was Oklahoma's heralded from Oklahoma State all week. defense that stole the show. 
Oklahoma's coach had the Oklahoma State's celebrated final say after the rout was trio of quarterback Josh Fields, over. running back Tatum Bell and 
"Sometimes it's good to be receiver Rashaun Woods could­doubted," Stoops said after his n't do much against the top-ranked Sooners beat No. 14 Sooners when the game was Oklahoma State 52-9 on still competitive. Saturday. "All week the whole talk was 
"There's enough good things about their offense," Stoops said about us. Sometimes it's said. "You would have never good to have that sarcasm said thought we played any defense about you." around here." 
Jason White threw for two The Cowboys had more punts touchdowns and ran for anoth­(5) than first downs (3) in the er and Oklahoma's defense was first half, and· had more penalty dominant once again in ending yards (58) than offensive yards a two-game losing streak (47} late into the third quarter. against the Cowboys. In the Sooners' final show of 
Oklahoma (9-0, 5-0 Big 12) superiority, Oklahoma State remains on track for the Big 12 failed to punch the ball into the title and a spot in the BCS' end zone on three tries from national title game -the Sugar the 1 early in the fourth quar­Bowl -while Oklahoma State ter. (7-2, 3 -2) dropped a game After Oklahoma stuffed full­behind Texas and back Shawn Willis into third place in on fourth down, the Big 12 South. the school-record
..Sometimes it's 
The loss all but crowd of 84,027 ends the good to be exploded into Cowboys' hopes of cheers, Stoops
doubted." 
a BCS game. vigorously It was the first pumped his fist
Bob Stoops 
time both teams on the sideline came into the Oklahoma coach and players were game ranked celebrating on the since 1988. field. 
During the Oklahoma week, Oklahoma State coach State's only touchdown came Les Miles said the Sooners were on Williams' 11-yard return of the nation's best team "so we an interception 26 seconds into 
( . are told." the third quarter. 
··~ I 
There's no more doubt which "We showed a lot of pride team is better. and toughness on defense," 
The momentum of the game Stoops said. "Our defense not shifted late in the first quarter giving up a touchdown all day, test had been decided. on 19 carries and Jones added Stoops, a former assistant at on Darrent Williams' fumble of that's the finest defense I've "They pretty much dominated 86 yards on 22 carries. Mark Florida under Steve Spurrier, a punt return. Williams fielded seen them play." us," Oklahoma State guard Ben Clayton finished with six catch­even appeared to rub it in like the ball, dropped it, then tried The Cowboys, who came into Buie said. "We had to get away es for 96 yards and a touch­his old boss used to. to pick it up. The ball squirted the game averaging 445 yards, from our game plan. They real­down, the school-record 17th of The Sooners added two more away and Oklahoma recovered were held to a season-low 161 ly didn't surprise us. We knew his career. touchdowns in the fourth quar­at the 50. yards. what they were going to do, but "This was one of those hur­ter, including one off a reverse 
Eight plays later, Kejuan Woods, who had 20 catches we just couldn't stop them." dles we knew we had to get to receiver Mark Bradley, who Jones scored the first of his two for 355 yards and four TDs in Meanwhile, White had an off­over," Jones said. "We came out then threw the ball to reserve touchdowns to give the Sooners the previous two wins over OU, game but connected when he fired up and knew we had to quarterback Paul Thompson in a 17-0 lead early in the second was held to four receptions for needed to. He went 11-of-27 for take care of business today." the end zone. quarter. 25 yards. Fields was 9-of-24 for 194 yards with two intercep­The Sooners, who saw their The Sooners are now the 
"They are an awfully good 62 yards with an interception tions and two touchdowns and 2001 national title hopes owners of the nation's longest football team, we knew that and was sacked four times, scored again on a 1-yard derailed by the Cowboys and winning streak at 11 games. coming in," a more contrite three by Dan Cody. sneak. then lost to them 38-28 last Oklahoma has won all seven Miles said. "We didn't get Bell rushed for 122 yards, but Renaldo Works led the year, were eager to make games against Oklahoma State exactly what we wanted from most came long after the con-Sooners with 103 yards rushing amends. when ranked No. 1. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves lhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING:  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  G'lrish  
Beaut1ful home (plus two tickets) in  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  s #1 Student Tour Operator H1ring  
NOTICES  FOR SALE  nice neighborhood available for  PM 288-2726  campus reps.  When I watched the 1993 Notre  
remaining N D football games. Six  Call lor discounts:  Dame versus Flonda State game,  
blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  800-648-4849 or  I've never been happier. Saturday  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­ www ststravel com  was a different story  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets.  2726  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  NON-RENTAL  (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  Matt has a home game ·this week·  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  NEWLY REMODELED.  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX  Hottest prices Book now..Free Trips,  end wrth an easy opponent and I'm  
www.sunchase.com or ca111-800­ FULLY EQUIPPED.  STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE!  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)2320964  Meals &  guessrng he's gorng to score  
I  SUNCHASE today!  $84,900. Email:  2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and Townhouses available.  FOR SALE. ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Part1es sunsplashtours.com or 1 800-426-771 0  No Browns football this week  
Vector/Cutco  Williamson 1 @nd.edu  Excellent location to campus!  LOWEST PRICES.  
workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357  Contact Rod Ludwig at 574-234·  (574)251-1570.  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child·  If you left the game early Saturday,  
JUDAY LAKE HOME. ON  9923 or  less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ you suck  
VECTOR MKT. has many cust.  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.272­ Email. Rludwig @cbresb.com  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  ronmentalist  
sales/service openings Flex sched.  6306  Pay Top Dollar$$ 1-866-808-0990  dad, dream of shanng love with  I don't like Chris Rix  
Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece work­ 3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  
forstudents com. 574-282-2357  HONDA 93 Accord LX, 5speed,  LOW $$ 272-6306,329-0308  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick- through adoption  I just hope we beat since Navy  
(  Doglegleftnews com "Putting the  great condition, $2,850,232-2597.  HOUSES FOR RENT 3-5 BED­ ets 574-289-8048  Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at  because they are 6-3 and we are 2­6 and the last time that happened  
Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to  ROOM HOMES GOOD CONDI­ 1-800-484-6754,  Roger Staubach was quarterback  
:lOU b:i NO Students and Alumni  TION CLOSE TO CAMPUS ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896  PERSONAL  PIN· 8642  and the year was 1963  
WANTED  FoR RENT  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ••••  If that happens this weekend. I might jump out the fourth floor of my  
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  2-6 BEDROOM  TICKETS  not go it alone If you or someone you love needs confidential support  Build your dream home next to Notre Dame.  hall  
exper. required. All looks and ages.  HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS  or assistance, please call Sr Mary  A limrted number of home s1tes are  Go Browns  
Earn  MMMRENTALS COM MMM­ NO FOOTBALL-BUY &SELL.  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819 For  avarlable.  
$100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-0167,  RENTALS@AOL.COM  CHECK MY PRICES  273-3911 OR  more information, see our bi-weekly  For more rnfo  Burgle was out of col)trol this week- 
ext  U187  272-1525  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  ad in The Observer  go to  www lrishCrossings.com  end  


• 
Monday, November 3, 2003 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Thomas leads Bears to 20-7 victory against Chargers 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO --After being idle 
the last two weeks, the A-Train is 
rumbling again. 

Anthony Thomas ran for 111 
yards and a pair of 1-yard scores 
to lead the Chicago Bears to a 
20-7 victory over the San Diego 
Chargers on Sunday. It was 
Chicago's second victory in a row 
and third straight at home. 

"We're trying to get a rhythm 
and momentum going for us," 
said Thomas, who missed the 
last two games with a sore foot. 

Doug Flutie did his best to spoil the Bears' fun, though. Ten days after his 41st birthday, Flutie nearly pulled off another come­back after replacing Drew Brees in the fourth quarter. 
He found Tim Dwight on a 22­yard pass, and rushed for anoth­er 17 yards to set up LaDainian Tomlinson's 3-yard score that pulled San Diego within 13-7 with 9:13 to play. 
San Diego's defense got Flutie the ball back with plenty of time left. But Bears cornerback ·charles Tillman downed the punt at the 1, and Flutie couldn't get the Chargers beyond the 17. 
"I was just excited about the opportunity to get on the field and do something," Flutie said. "When you don't play and con­tribute, you feel like you're on the outside looking in a lot, espe­cially when you're losing .... You just want to be able to help out and do your part." 
Baltimore 24, Jacksonville 17 

Jamal Lewis had no place to run, rookie quarterback Kyle Boller was struggling and the Baltimore Ravens were having difficulty getting a first down. right ankle. 
It was up to the Baltimore ''I'll feel better about picking Ravens' defense to deliver a vic­my check up this week," said tory. As usual, Ray Lewis and his Banks, who didn't take a single gang made it happen. snap last season. 
Lewis had 14 Entering Sunday, tackles and a key his NFL career had 
interception, and "/ was just excited been marked most-the Ravens bene­about the ly by miscues: 100 fited from three opportunity to get ·turnovers in 8 5 
fourth-quarter games, mostly with 
on the field and do
turnovers by the Ravens and Byron Leftwich in something., Rams. But against a 24-17 victory Carolina's vaunted 
over the Doug Flutie defense, he was Jacksonville 13-of-19 for 154 
Chargers quarterback yards with the one
Jaguars on 

Sunday. 
The Ravens took a 13-10 lead into the fourth quarter, then con­verted Leftwich's two fumbles into 10 points before Lewis secured the win by picking off a tipped pass with 44 seconds left. 
"When you play a team like we played today, you have to find a way to get your hands on the football," Lewis said. "We did exactly what we needed to do to come out and win." 
The Jaguars (1-7) held the NFL's leading rusher in check and limited Baltimore to nine first downs, but the Ravens (5-3) won anyway. 
Houston 14, Carolina 10 
The Houston Texans told Tony Banks to avoid mistakes. He did, and they won. 
Banks played an error-free game and hit tight end Billy Miller for a 20-yard touchdown pass early in the fourth quarter, helping Houston shut down the Carolina Panthers 14-10 Sunday. 
Banks is the first quarterback other than David Carr to start for the second-year Texans (3-5). Carr was out with a sprained 
touchdown and ­importantly -zero interceptions and zero fumbles. 
Indianapolis 23, Miami 17 
Peyton Manning had clutch completions, Edgerrin James found running room, and Mike Vanderjagt remained perfect. 
With the game on the line, however, it was Dwight Freeney who saved the day for the Indianapolis Colts. 
The speedy defensive end forced a fumble by sacking Brian Griese with two minutes left, and Indianapolis stopped a comeback bid by the Miami Dolphins to win 23-17 Sunday. 
Manning threw for 266 yards and survived a potentially disas­trous interception in the closing moments, thanks to Freeney's game-clinching hit. 
"He can be a difference­maker," Manning said. "That was the biggest play of the game." 
Working against rookie tackle Wade Smith, Freeney had two other sacks and also forced a Griese fumble that led to a first­half field goal. He helped the 
Colts limit Ricky Williams to 36 
yards rushing, allowing the Indy 
offense to control the ball for 
nearly 38 minutes. 

"The biggest problem we had 
was with Freeney," Miami coach 
Dave Wannstedt said. "That was 
probably the most dominant 
defensive performance we've 
seen in a long time. We couldn't 
handle him." 

New York Giants 31, New York 
Jets 28 

The New York Giants' special 
teams threw a changeup ofsorts. 
The much-maligned unit came 
up big twice, once after failing to 
win the game early in overtime, 
then after getting a gift from the 
Jets. 
Brett Conway atoned for a missed field goal early in over­time by kicking a 29-yarder with four seconds to go, and the Giants overcame a dramatic four-touchdown performance by Chad Pennington with a 31-28 victory Sunday. 
"I told him I had a feeling he was going to get another chance," Giants holder Jeff Feagles said of Conway. "It's kind of ironic, we missed the field goal. but then we won the game with the blocked field goal. I'm very happy for our special teams. We fmally made some plays." 
The unit was the big reason the Giants ( 4-4} came into the game needing a win as much as the Jets (2-6). 1\vice already this season, special teams mistakes turned wins into defeats. 
Arizona 17, Cincinnati 14 
Marcel Shipp is not running like a backup, behind Emmitt Smith or anyone else. 
The bruising Arizona running back, the starter since Smith broke his left shoulder blade a month ago, rushed for 141 yards in 29 carries Sunday in the Cardinals' 17-14 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals, 
Shipp became the first Cardinal in 11 years to have con­secutive 100-yard rushing games. The fourth-year pro from 
Pataf!onia 
excltJSively 
at~·
Sminute~ ~ 
from DUTPDST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

Call259·1ooo for more details 
Massachusetts, who was not 
drafted, gained 165 yards last 
week in Arizona's 16-13 over­
time victory over San Francisco. 
That's 306 yards in two games. 
"I belong in this league, and I 
can play with anybody that lines 
up against us." the soft-spoken 
running back said. 

Smith, the NFL's career rush­
ing leader who was assured the 
starter's job when he signed with 
Arizona, should be back in a cou­
ple of weeks, and it will present 
coach Dave McGinnis with a 
tough decision. 
Seattle 23, Pittsburgh 16 

Dropped passes are a nui­
sance, not a disaster. Fans offer 
their encouragement, not con­
tempt. And the Seattle Seahawks 
find ways to win despite their 
mistakes. 

Welcome to Darrell Jackson's 
world. 

Jackson scored a fourth-quar­
ter touchdown on a 14-yard pass 
from Matt Hasselbeck and set up 
another late score with a 43-yard 
catch-and-run in Seattle's 23-16 
victory over the slumping 
Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. 
"I did well for myself in the 
second half," Jackson said. 

The fourth-year receiver had a 
rough start, dropping six straight 
passes through three quarters. 
One would have been a certain 
touchdown, because Jackson 
found an open seam to the end 
zone in the first period. 
Philedelphia 23, Atlanta 16 

Donovan McNabb finally 
resembled that guy who's been 
to three Pro Bowls. All it took 
was playlng the hapless Atlanta 
Falcons. 

McNabb took advantage of an entirely revamped Atlanta sec­ondary to throw for a season­high 312 yards, including a 3 7­yard touchdown pass to Freddie Mitchell, and the Eagles won 23­16 Sunday for th~ir fifth victory in six games. 
Atlanta (1-7} lost its seventh in a row, taking on the look of an increasingly desperate team. Embattled coach Dan Reeves tried to shake things up by start­ing four new defensive backs, but it didn't do much to slow McNabb. 
The lowest-rated regular quar­terback in the league coming in, McNabb completed 21 of 33 passes to go over 300 yards for the fourth time in his five-year career. His highest total this sea­son had been 186 yards in Week 
2. 

Falcon starting quarterback Kurt Kittn...er, inserting Doug Johnson early in the fourth quar­ter. 

page 16 Monday, November .:3, 2003
The Observer+ SPORTS 
"PGA TOUR MARATHON RUNNING 
Goosen ousts charging 
Okayo breaks course record in NY 
Associated Press
Singh, wins tourney 
NEW YORK -Margaret 
Associated Press 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. -Tiger Woods might be the first guy to call Retief Goosen and congrat­ulate him for winning the Chrysler Championship on Sunday. 
''I'm sure he will," Goosen said with a smile. 

I! i I Goosen made back-to-hack birdies late in the final round to turn back a final charge " · from Vijay Singh, closing with a 1-under 70 for a three-shot victory at Innisbrook. That means Singh has to wait until the Tour Championship next week in Houston to try to capture the PGA Tour money title and end Woods' four-year reign. It also kept 
Marathon.
alive Woods' "Once rm out Both made 
"I didn't know I was going to

slim hopes of bogey.
there, I just want to 
break my own record, but Iwinning the title "Why do 
was just trying to do my best," Okayo said. 
for a record fifth get as far ahead as always have to 
straight year. possible." make it interest­
Reigning world champion

On a day when ing?" Sluman said Catherine Ndereba of Kenya
several players after calling his
Retlef Goosen 
was second among the womenfelt like winners, wife to deliver the 
golfer 
in 2:23:04, followed by Lornahno one had more good news. "For 
cause to cele­brate than Goosen, the stoic South African who enhanced his reputation as a tough customer when he's in the lead Sunday afternoon. 
He never trailed on the tough Copperhead course, and when Singh made two birdies to cut the lead to one shot, Goosen responded with a 7-iron into 15 feet for birdie on No. 13 and 

'• two shots that led to an easy birdie on the par-5 14th. Singh bogeyed the next hole, allowing Goosen to coast the rest of the way. "Once I'm out there, I just want to get as far ahead as possible," said Goosen, who finished at 12-under 272. "Luckily, it happened for me again this week." The week wasn't a total loss for Singh, who has won or been runner-up in his last four PGA Tour events. The big Fijian, who could have clinched the 
ment of the year. 
"I don't think I have to win to win the money title, but I would like to win again next week," Singh said. "I'll figure it out when I get there." 
To spare him the math, Singh only has to finish in a three­
/ way tie for third. Woods has to win the Tour Championship to have any chance. 
Chad Campbell (69) could have taken $96,000 out of Singh's lead on the money list. He was tied for second until a triple bogey on the 18th, which 
' sent him to a tie for fourth with Tim Petrovic. Goosen wasn't the only win­ner. 
Briny Baird (7 2) finished alone in third to make $326,400, enough to move him up to 22nd on the money list and qualify for his first Tour Championship. 


API Margaret Okayo and Martin Lei show off their medals after winning the women's and men's New York City marathon. 
Petrovic (72) fell short of the Tour Championship, but the guy who once worked in a pizza restaurant in the Tampa Bay area still earned enough for a trip to the Masters. 
No one went through ,an emotional roller coaster quite like Jeff Sluman. 
He chipped in for eagle on the 11th hole and was poised to move up two spots to No. 40 and earn another trip to the Masters. 
But Sluman made bogey on the 17th and 18th to fall into a tie for 14th. If Jose Caceres or Loren Roberts, both playing in the group behind, had birdied the 18th, Sluman would have come up about $900 short of 
his Masters invita­
tion. 

Okayo surged past her closest competitors and took the lead with about seven miles to go in the New York City Marathon. 
There was no doubt she would win. Only one question remained: What would the new course record become? 
Okayo shattered the mark she set here in 2001 by nearly two minutes Sunday, finishing in 2 hours, 22 minutes, 31 sec­onds, and then dropped to her knees to kiss the ground. She led a Kenyan contingent that again dominated the race. Countryman Martin Lel won his first marathon ever, finishing in 2:10.30. 
Perhaps Okayo should be nicknamed The Course Record Breaker. She also holds record times in the Boston Marathon and the San Diego Rock 'n' Roll 
Following Lel, defending champion Rodgers Rop of Kenya was second among the men in 2:11:11 and country­man Christopher Cheboiboch was third in 2:11:23. · 

Seven of the top 10 men and four of the top 10 women were from Kenya. Five of the last seven men's champions have been from Kenya. The top three men last year were from Kenya. 
"I am very happy because for sure we are representing our country," Lel said. 
The top American man was Matt Downin of Bloody Brook, N.H., in 17th place in 2:18:48. The best U.S. woman was Sylvia Mosqueda of Los Angeles in lOth place at 2:33:11. 
Lei and Okayo each won $100,000, with Okayo getting a $60,000 bonus for finishing under 2:23. 
"The Americans have to get to work," Mosqueda said. "Kenyans run well, Russian women run well. They do their 
homework. They run fast, they deserve it. It's really going to take Americans to have a really . great day to really come and 
catch these Kenyans." 
Nine runners were bunched 
through the first half of the 
women's race, including Okayo, 
Kiplagat, former winner 
Ludmila Petrova, Ndereba and 
2002 NYC Marathon winner 
Joyce Chepchumba. 
At the halfway mark, the 
women were on pace to set the 
record after covering 13.1 
miles in 1:12:04. 
Okayo, Kiplagat and Petrova 
pulled away from the front­
runners at the 17 -mile mark. 
Ndereba started to make a 
move around mile 18. With 
Kiplagat opening a small lead 
over Okayo, Ndereba passed 
Petrova for third. 
But Okayo turned it on. She 
overtook Kiplagat for first and 
cruised to victory. Last year, she 
finished fifth after having back 
problems and was taken to the 
hospital after the race. 

everything I seem­ingly screwed up, I hung in there." 
Glen Hnatiuk shot 7 4 and tied for 49th, but he moved up six spots on the money list to No. 124 to keep his card for next year. 
The Canadian kept scrolling down the scores in the locker room after finishing his round, but he was a bottle of nerves and eventually cleaned out his locker and left. 
Esteban Toledo of Mexico, who was disqualified for taking an improper drop at Disney that Marco Dawson didn't Kiplagat, a native Kenyan who became a Dutch citizen this year, in 2:23:43. They also beat the previous course record. 
"It's such an honor," Ndereba said about the Kenyan domi­nance. "We are very proud of us. We feel we've made our flag fly high." 
With 35,104 entrants for the 26.2-mile run through the city's five boroughs -including pro­ducer-rapper Sean "P. Diddy" Combs -Okayo beat a strong field. And she did it on a warm day, with the temperature in the 60s. 
report for two days, finished at No. 125, but not by much. 
Thomas Levet needed a birdie on the 18th hole to knock Toledo out, but missed 

ee and Conversation
the green to the right and could only manage a par. 
The tournament turned out · 
or Gay, lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning 
to be a pretty good show, too. Goo?en started the final 
Students at Notre Dame 
round w.ith a two-stroke lead

"I don't think I 
Tuesday, November 4th, 2003
money title with a over Baird, but ·"'victory, closed have to win the he figured it with a 70 to finish would come
money title, but I 
second alone. He down to him and 
7:00 -9:30 pm
would like to win
earned $518,400 Singh, who was to extend his lead again next week ... three shots on the money list behind. to $768,494 over It didn't take 
316 Coleman-Morse
Vljay Singh 
Woods heading to long for that to
golfer
the final tourna-prove correct. 

After opening 

with a birdie to expand his lead,. Goosen pulled his approach on No. 2 and was in such a difficult lie in the rough that he had to open the blade of his sand wedge for a flop shot. He was lucky to reach the fringe, then left his par putt 10 feet short. 
Singh rifled his approach within 8 feet for birdie, and Goosen calmly made his bogey putt for only a two-shot swing that set the tone for the after­noon. 
Both exchanged birdies and bogeys until Goosen pulled away with a birdie on No. 10 for a three-shot lead. 
Singh wouldn't go away easi­ly. He birdied the next two holes to get to within one shot of Goosen, but that was as close as he got. 
"He's too good of a player to mess up," Singh said. 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Stuaent Needs invites Gay, Lesbian, · and Bisexual members ofthe Notre Dame family, 
their friends and supporters to an inforrnal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
-

Monday, November 3, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
NHL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Nothing fazed the Colorado Avalanche. 
Not a five-minute disadvan­tage in the first period, not a two-goal deficit in the third period, not a crowd giving a rare standing ovation to the host New York Rangers. 
Because once the Avalanche got things rolling, Alex Tanguay led the way to a 3-2 overtime victory Sunday over the Rangers. 
"We didn't get flustered, no matter what happened," coach Tony Granato said. 
Tanguay scored the tying goal in the third period and assisted on Karlis Skrastins' winner 1:14 into overtime to stretch his NHL season-best point streak to nine games. 
Skrastins' shot struck the right post behind Mike Dunham and then caromed off the goalie's skate and in to win it. 
"It was a good pass from Tanguay. I shot it, but I didn't see where the puck go," said Skrastins of Latvia. "It was a big goal for me and a big game for the team." 
The Avalanche won four times last season when trailing after two periods. This was the first time they did it in four tries this season. Toronto 2, Carolina 1 
Mikael Tellqvist expects to be sent to the minors within the next few weeks. Until then, the rookie goaltender is making the most of his stay in the NHL. 
Mats Sundin gave the Toronto Maple Leafs an early spark and Tellqvist stopped 24 shots in a 2-1 win over the Carolina Hurricanes on Sunday night. 
Toronto wasted little time 

rebounding from its embarrass­ing 7-1 home loss to Philadelphia on Saturday, jump­ing on the Hurricanes for two early goals to snap a three­game losing streak. 
"It always feel good to see the guys get off to a good start like that and be on their toes from the beginning," Tellqvist said. 
Tellqvist, up from the minors because of an injury to backup goaltender Trevor Kidd, lost his shutout when Ron Francis scored a power-play goal with 
9:33 left. 
Kidd is nursing a shoulder injury and may return as soon as this week. 
"I know my role in the organi­zation," said Tellqvist, the 70th overall pick in the 2000 draft. "We'll just wait and see what happens. I'm expecting to be sent to the minors." 
Dallas 7, Nashville 3 
Bill Guerin notched his sec­ond hat trick in three games, and the fifth of his career, and added an assist to lead the Dallas Stars past the Nashville Predators 7-3 Sunday night. 
Brenden Morrow, Niko Kapanen, Mike Modano and Jason Arnott each added a goal and an assist for the Stars. 
Guerin now has nine goals this season, second only to Atlanta's Ilya Kovalchuk, who has 11. 
Dallas jumped out to a 3-0 lead before Nashville rookie defenseman Marek Zidlicky nar­rowed the deficit to two with a score 6:49 into the second. 
Kimmo Timonen and Scott Walker later added power-play goals for the Predators. 
Sergei Zubov added three assists and Stu Barnes two for the Stars, while goaltender Marty Turco made 21 saves. 

Nashville starting goalie Tomas Vokoun gave up six goals on 22 shots, before being pulled 
5:29 into the third period. Chris Mason made 10 saves on 11 shots in relief. 
It was the second of back-to­hack games between the teams, following a 1-1 tie Saturday night in Nashville. 
Chicago 3, Anaheim 1 
Steve Sullivan and Kyle Calder scored power-play goals and Scott Nichol added another score to lead the Chicago Blackhawks to a 3-1 win over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks on Sunday night. . 
Chicago rookie Michael Leighton stopped 29 shots for his first win of the season. He lost his shutout when Vaclav Prospal scored 6:02 into the third period. 
The Blackhawks, who have lost just once in their last eight games (4-1-3), reached the .500 mark at 5-5-3. 
Anaheim's Jean-Sebastien Giguere made his first start in five games, finishing with 22 saves. His record slipped to 1-6­0. 
Sullivan opened the scoring at 
6:14 left in the first period, scor­ing on the power play with a low, screened shot from the top of the slot. Atlanta 2, San Jose 2 
Marco Sturm scored off a scramble in front of the net with less than three minutes remain­ing to rally the San Jose Sharks to a 2-2 tie with the Atlanta Thrashers on Sunday night. 
The tying goal came after Atlanta goalie Pasi Nurminen tried to trap the puck against his chest. But Sturm swoop in and scored his third of the sea­son. 
The scramble was part of a frenzied finale in which both teams had good scoring chances late in regulation and overtime. 
Slava Kozlov gave Atlanta a 2­1 lead with five minutes remain­ing. Daniel TJarnqvist's shot from the point hit the post behind San Jose goalie Evgeni Nabokov, and the rebound came to Kozlov, who was positioned at the side of the net. 
San Jose extended its unbeat­en streak to three games. The Sharks won for the first time in eight games Saturday, beating Florida 6-2. 




THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
There will be an Informational Meeting on The European Studies Minor 
WEDNESDA r, Nov 5:~ 4:30 PM 
108 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Free European Pastry ana Refreshments! 
Information on the minor can also be touna at 
www.nd.edu(-nanovic(programs or call631·5253. 
"
'·
l' 


page 18 



around the dial 
NFL New England at Denver 9 p.m., WBND 
NBA 

Houston at Chicago 9 p.m., FSN 
New York at Orlando 7 p.m., MSN 

ATION 
Cotv\PILED FR0:\1 'l'uE 0HSERVERS VVIRE .SERV1CES Monday, November 3, 2003 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 

BLACKSBURG, Va. ­Virginia Tech blew the national championship race wide open Saturday night -and got back its pride ­with the biggest victory in its history, 31-7 over No. 2 Miami. 
The No. 10 Hokies (7-1, 3-1 Big East) got two touch­downs from their defense and another on a 1 0-yard drive set up by the defense to end Miami's 39-game regular season winning streak, its 27 -game winning streak in the Big East and perhaps its hope for a third straight championship appearance. 
It was the first victory in Virginia Tech history in 40 games against teams ranked No. 8 or higher, and came just 10 days after one of the Hokies' most hum­bling losses in 111 seasons, 28-7 at West Virginia. 
"People were talking about how we were a fluke and all this other stuff," said linebacker Michael Crawford, whose 44-yard interception return set up a touchdown. "We demon­strated toughness tonight." 
The Hokies held Miami to 377 yards, many of them coming after Virginia Tech had used its big-play defense to open a ·31-0 lead. The Hurricanes' only touch­down didn't come until just 
7:53 remained. 

Miami (7-1, 3-1) hadn't lost in league play since a 43-10 wipeout here on Nov. 13, 1999, and the Hokies came up with a similar effort this time to get back into the race after they seemed to have been ush­ered out. 
"It feels real good. Real good," said DeAngelo Hall, who started the rout with a 28-yard fumble return after stripping the ball from Roscoe Parrish on a reverse early in the second quarter. 
"It kind of hurt us a little bit seeing how with one loss we dropped down like that" in the polls. It was just crazy. We wanted to come out tonight and show peo­ple we were for real." 
Virginia Tech did it the way it has so often under coach Frank Beamer, get­ting stout defense -and offense -from its defense and riding a thunderous wave of appreciation from 65,115 fans to victory. 
"When things have been so rough here for about 10 days, to get one like this just seems all that much better," Beamer said. 
It was his first victory in 20 games against a top­eight team, the only top-10 victories in 23 since 1987 coming against a pair of No. 9 teams. 
IN BRIEF 

Fan ini.!Ired in fall from ing bowl was built between them. beat Michigan State 97-83 in an Soldier-Field stairway There are four levels of seats on the exhibition Sunday and stretched CHICAGO -A 32-year-old man west side of the stadium. their winning streak to 283 games. was in serious condition after falling Behind 38 points from former from a stairway on the third level of Pyatt leaves field on UCLA guard Darrick Martin, includ­new Soldier Field during Sunday's stretcher after injury ing 18 in the last 6 1/2 minutes, the game between the Bears and San MIAMI -Brad Pyatt of the Globetrotters avenged a 72-68 loss Diego. Indianapolis Colts was removed from to the Spartans in November 2000 
Chicago police would not release the field on a stretcher Sunday after that snapped a 1,270-game win the fan's name, citing federal privacy he hurt his sternum returning a punt string. 
laws. against the Miami Dolphins. He was Paul Davis had 19 points to lead 
The man was on an exterior stair­walking less than an hour later. Michigan State. But the Spartans' way on the southwest side of the sta­The game was delayed 10 minutes main highlight focused on the return dium when he fell, according to a before Pyatt was lifted onto a of Magic Johnson and a weekend joint statement from the Bears and stretcher. Pyatt moved his right reunion of the 1979 NCAA champi­the Chicago Park District. Police thumb as he was wheeled off the ons. spokeswoman JoAnn Taylor said the field. With college and pro rival and man landed on a grassy area and The rookie was hit after returning close friend Bird coaching the was taken to Northwestern Memorial a punt 11 yards. Miami's Tommy Globetrotters, Johnson was 2-for-3 Hospital. Hendricks was also shaken up on the and had five points and four assists 
She wouldn't release any details on play but walked ofT the field. in 16 minutes. 
his injuries. After Saturday's dedication of a Soldier Field was refurbished as Globetrotters defeat 12-foot statue -"Always A part of a $606 million lakefront Michigan St. in exhibition Champion" -outside Breslin Center, 
beautification project, and reopened EAST LANSING, Mich. -The Johnson joined former coach Jud Sept. 29. The stadium's stately old Harlem Globetrotters, with Larry Heathcote and his teammates from colonnades remain, but a new seat-Bird on hand as honorary coach, 25 years ago for a celebration. 

page 19
Monday, November 3, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish win Big East 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
Running at New York's Van Cortland Park Friday, the fifth­ranked Notre Dame women's cross country team claimed its second straight Big East title, while the No. 24 Irish men's team finished second ahead of some higher-ranked opponents. 
While the women had all five of their scoring runners in the top 20, they did not repeat last year's success, which included then-sophomore Lauren King claiming the individual title. 
This year, Providence's Kim Smith finished 36 seconds ahead of Notre Dame's top run­ner, sophomore Molly Huddle. Huddle, who finished second last year, directly behind King, arrived at the finish line in third place with a time of 20:4 7. 
Over the past two seasons. the Irish lineup has generally been led by the duo of Huddle and King, with King leading more races last year and Huddle going ahead more often this season. Friday, though, junior Kerry Meagher, in her first sea­son running varsity, surged to second for the Irish and sixth overall as she earned her first Big East all-conference honor. 
Last spring, Meagher was a regional finalist in the 1 ,600 meters -an accomplishment that encouraged her to train harder for the upcoming cross­country season. Given the hard work and extra mileage she put in over the summer months, the junior was pleased to earn all­conference honors and to fmish second for the team, but she was not thrilled when she passed her classmate King on the course. 

"I wasn't really excited to pass her, because that meant she was not running as well as she usually does," Meagher said. 
Notre Dame's team total of 59 points put the Irish ahead of Big East rivals Providence and Georgetown. The Friars and Hoyas each finished with 80 points, but Providence won the tie-breaker to claim second place. 
Prior to last season, the Irish women had never won a Big East title, and now, winning each of the last two years is a proud moment for the team. 
As a result of the team's suc­cess, coach Tim Connelly was named Big East Coach of the Year. 
While the men failed to win the Big East title at Van Cortland Park for just the sec­ond time in the five champi­onships held at the course, the Irish nevertheless had a pro­ductive day. Notre Dame, ranked 24th, failed to catch No. 13 Georgetown but the Irish fin­ished just one point ahead of No. 11 Villanova. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brewster having stellar season 
Middle blocker leads country in blocks 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
SporlS Writer 

She leads the nation in block­ing, dominated the voting for Big East Player of the Week and leads the Irish in hitting percent­age and points. 
Middle blocker Lauren Brewster has been simply out­standing. 
It all started over fall break when Brewster registered a double-double against the North Carolina Tar Heels, with a career high 20 kills and 10 blocks. 
"I think that she just had a great match all the way around at North Carolina," head coach Debbie Brown said. 
Brewster carried the team over fall break, garnering Big East Player of the Week honors for the third time in four weeks. The week that Brewster did not receive the honor, the Irish were idle. 
"It has been a real honor," Brewster said. "If you look at the people in the Big East, there are a lot of talented girls. There are a lot of talented girls just on our team." 
Amongst the great talent of the Irish, Brewster has emerged as a young leader of sorts. Senior setter Kristen Kinder has not hesitated to set Brewster the ball when the Irish need a kill, and the rest of the team has ele­vated their play since Brewster has boosted the offense. 
"There's just something about it when you have someone who is playing at such a high level for a long time," Brown said. "The confidence that it allows the rest of the team to have is huge." 
Brewster leads the nation with an average of 1.83 blocks per game, and leads the Irish with a .373 attack percentage. She also leads the Irish with an average of 4. 9 3 points per game. Brewster is second on the team in kills per game, with 3.54, behind Emily Loomis' 3.56 aver­age. 
However, for Brewster, her strong play is not about the numbers. 
"I am having a lot more fun," Brewster said. "Playing with the girls on the team is amazing and it's so fun playing with them." 
Brewster is accustomed to success. At Brentwood High School in Tennessee, she was a four-time state champion in vol­leyball and was named MVP of the state tournament her junior and senior year. By the time she graduated, she had set Tennessee state records for kills in a season and kills in a career. Brewster earned all-state hon­ors her last two seasons before coming to Notre Dame. 
Last season, Brewster made an immediate impact as a true freshman, leading the Irish to the top blocking ranking in the country. She was named honor­
able mention all-Big East as a result of her efforts. But this year, Brewster had no idea she would play this well. 
''I'm not really sure what I thought coming into this sea­son," she said. "I was really unsure. so obviously this season has exceeded my expectations thus far." 
Brewster credits a new men­tality for her recent successes. 
"I just try to be more focused now," Brewster said. "I set more goals for myself, just for motiva­tion." 
Brown loves the fact that Brewster has been making the effort needed to get better. 
"You see her getting better and better, and that's nice," Brown said. 
But that's not her favorite part about Brewster, who is only a sophomore. 
"[Brewster's age] is what is really nice," Brown said with a smile. 
But despite the awards and the praise, Brewster doesn't dwell on her success -she just wants to play volleyball. 
"I love it when someone on our team does something really, really well, and you look over and the whole team is really excited -the girls on the court, the girls on the bench," Brewster said. "It's just the best feeling in the world." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

The Career Center)s FaJJ 2003 Workshops G(f§!f-r:J NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 
--,~· NOVEMBER 
4TUES. Alumni NetworkingSession Quick Tips 

SWEO. UNLOCK YOUR NONPROFIT CAREER 5:15-6:15 114 Flanner/ Co·Sponsorcd with CSC and the ND Nonprofit Business Masters Program CRC 
6THURS. Office Visits: The Site Interview' 

10 Mo:-~. TlllNK TANK SUMMER INTERl'lSlllP MEETING 12:00 Noon· 1:00 -Bring Your Lunch! Beverages provuled. 114 Flanner/CRC Co-Sponsored with Political Science Department 
11 Tues. Alumni Networking Session · -· · 
'···6:00.:q;S5•.·~':TcRc··i';,:·· .. 6~3Q~ 7:30 :· G-20 . .,
Job Searc,h Beyond Campus Interviews~. 
l2 Wed. Office Visits: The Site Interview 4:00-5:00 G-20 
TEACH for AMERICA 4:00-6:00 101 DeBartolo PresentatiOn by Founder and President WENDY KOPP QUick Tips 7:00 O'Neill Hall Lounge 
13 THURS. Writing Resumes and Cover Letters 
· 4,:oo::.: ,.. ,,,~:, .eRe.,·.::·'· Alumni Networking Session 5:00-5:55 ,, CRC, . 
17 MOl\. Wntmg Resumes and Cover Leners 4:00 CRC 
l8Tt1ES. ACAREERin LAW...:.JUDGEMA.l"JIER · , -Politic~i Sci~nc~·c~ee~·s~:lk~~s ··· ·. ~· Co-Spons;red with Political Sdenet:: Departm~rit·, 

19 WED. Job Search Beyond On-campus Interviews 5:15-6:15 CRC 
DECEJfBER 
2TUES. Writing Resumes and Cover Letters 
4:00 ·. CRC Alumni Networking Session 6:30-7:20 . CRC ' Alumni Networking Session 12:00· 12:55 CRC 


http:1/caret::rcentcr.nd,cd u 
The CRC is Room 114 of Flan11er Hall Room G-20 is in the lower level ofFlanner Hall 
...........••............•........•................................•.•.........•.......... 

.. -~~-· ·' 


Nov.4 TUES. 4:00-5:55 CRC NOV.ll TUES. 6:00-6:55 CRC Nov.l3 THURS. 5:00-5:55 CRC DEC. 2 TUES. 6:00-6:55 CRC DEC. 7 SUN. 12:00 -12:55 CRC 

,")Vriting Resumes &Cover Letters 
. . 
NOV.13 THURS. 4:00 CRC NOV. 17 MON. 4:00 CRC DEC. 2 TUES. 4:00 CRC 
Ren1aining Events for d1e 2003-04 AcademJc Year: 
Winter Career Fair joyce Center Field House Tuesdayjanuary 27, 2004 4:00pm -8:00pm 
A.rchitecture Career Expo iV!cKenna Hall ~ CCE Thursday, Jfarch 18, 2004 4:00pm-6pm 
/Von-Profit Career Fair Stepan Center lVednesday, Jfarch 24, 2004 TBA 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 3, 2003 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF Irish head to South Carolina for tourney 
Team hopes to play like it did in early part of season 
By ANNIE BRUSKY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's golf team has high expecta­tions for the Edwin Watt/Palmetto Dunes Intercollegiate, their final tournament of the fall sea­son, which will be held today and Tuesday in Charleston, S.C. 
The last time these five girls played together, near­ly two months 
"She's pretty much a machine out there," Brophy said."She works really hard and she deserves all the suc­cess she's getting right now." 
Byrne, meanwhile, enters her final fall tournament playing the best golf of her collegiate career. 
"Everyone's just kind of picking up their game right now, which is good because that's the direction we want to be heading," Brophy said. "The whole team is raising their level of play this year." 
This week's tournament will consist of two rounds of 24 holes and boasts a strong, competitive field. 
A f t e r 
jumping 
more than 


ago, the Irish ·"We want to go out ofthe 50 spots in won the tour­the nation­
fall season with a strong
nament and wide rank­
finish. We've been 
their score ings, how-shattered the playing a lot and we're ever, the existing school ready., Irish are record by 10 confident strokes. they can 
"We hope to Katie Brophy once again play as well as sophomore team member be success­
we did in the beginning of the year," sophomore Katie Brophy said. "We want to go out of the fall season with a strong finish. 
"We've been playing a lot and we're ready." 
The Irish lineup, which has changed for every tourna­ment, will consist of fresh­men Noriko Nakazaki and Stacy Brown, Brophy, junior Karen Lotta and senior Shannon Byrne. 
Nakazaki leads the team in scoring average. 
ful. 
" T h e 

changes on our team within the last year have been pretty drastic," Brophy said. "Coach [Debby King] is working us really hard. 
"We had to redefine our goals because the other ones we had before weren't suffi­cient for the potential this team has. We've definitely raised our expectations." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's finishes sixth at MIAA meet 
By PAT LEONARD 

) i Sports Writer 
ll 
!' I The Saint Mary's cross I i country team finished in sixth r j place at the MIAA I Championships SaturdayI 'r morning at Albion College·, 
I running its way past Olivet ') i and Adrian. Calvin College won the
ll 
MIAA championship with 28 points. The overall winner was Calvin's Jessie Lair, who
~ 
ran the course in 21:58. I 
J 
Kalamazoo finished in sec­ond with 64 points and Hope came in third with 75. 
Prior to the 6,000-meter race, coach Dave Barstis and the Belles were resigned to Calvin, Kalamazoo and Hope being stronger conference opponents. 
But Saint Mary's was look­ing to knock off Albion, Alma and Adrian, teams with what he said was more comparable talent. 
The Belles finished with 165 total points, 11 points ahead of Adrian and only 18 behind fifth place Alma. 
The home course could have helped Albion as well, who finished with 119 points. 
The results of the race have the Belles in sixth, but Saint Mary's ran hard and could have easily slid up to fourth. 
The Belles two runners fin­ished in the top 50 on the hilly golf course at Albion. 
Freshman Sara Otto placed 22nd with a time of 24:42, and freshman Erin Nolan ran a 25:38. 
Junior Elizabeth Commers (52nd place, 25:39). freshman Katie White (55th place, 
25:48) and senior Jessica Kosco {69th, 26: 12) rounded off the Belles' top five. 
The time gap between the first and fifth runner was 1:30, a steep drop from the season-best 49-second gap at the Eagle Invitational at Benedictine University to end the regular season. 
Contact Pat L~onard at pleonard@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
ND picked to finish 3rd in ~ig East 
Special to The Observer 

Connecticut, the defending NCAA champion, has been cho­sen to win the 2003-04 Big East women's basketball regular sea­son title. The poll is deter­mined by a vote of the league's head coaches who were not permitted to place their own teams on their ballots. 
The Huskies garnered all pos­sible 13 first-place votes to fin­ish with 169 points in the poll. This marks the 11th consecutive season that Connecticut has been chosen to win the regular season title, including divisional titles from 199 5-96 through 97­98. 
The Huskies have won at least a share of the last 10 regular season titles and have been Big East Tournament champions nine of the last 10 years. 
The 2002-03 Connecticut team (3 7-1, 16-0 Big East) broke the NCAA record for con­secutive games won (54) and extended that streak to 70 con­secutive victories {Nov. 9, 2001­March 10, 2003). 
After losing in the Big East Championship final. the Huskies went on to win six straight for their second straight and fourth overall NCAA title. This year Connecticut will be led by con­sensus National Player of the Year Diana Taurasi, a senior guard. 
Rutgers earned the remaining first-place vote and 156 points for a second-place fmish in the poll. Last year, the Scarlet Knights posted a 21-8 record and made a return trip to the NCAA Championship. 
The record marked the best turnaround in Division I from the 2001-02 season when Rutgers was 9-20. Coach C. Vivian Stringer welcomes back four starters, including junior guard Cappie Pondexter, the 2002-03 Big East Rookie of the Year. 

Notre Dame (21-11) earned 139 points to finish third in the poll. The Irish played in the NCAA Championship for the eighth straight year and advanced to the Sweet 16 for the fifth time under coach Muffet McGraw. 
Notre Dame fmished 21-11 for its 1Oth consecutive 20-win sea­son. Junior forward Jacqueline Batteast, a member of the 2003­04 Preseason All-Big East First Team, is expected to lead the Irish. · 
Virginia Tech is the fourth pick with 124 points. The Hokies advanced to the second 
round  of  the  NCAA  
Championship with  a  22-10  
mark.  

Senior forward leva Kublina is a member of the Preseason All­Big East First Team. Boston College, Miami and Villanova, the defending Big East Tournament champion, round out the top half of the poll. 


Monday, November 3, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Overtime 
continued from page 24 
ed the first overtime we told ourselves to just keep going at them," Guertin said. "We felt it coming; it was just a matter of when. Sometimes they just don't go in. We should have finished a few earlier but that's what hap­pens sometimes." 
"I got a little nervous at the beginning of the overtime," Waldrum said. "I felt like we'd been all over them, especially in the second half where I thought we'd played a lot better and created a lot of chances but at that point I was starting to plan out who was going to be taking our penalty kicks [if the game remained tied through two overtimes]. Once you get to that point, the best teain doesn't always win." 

The Irish got on the board first as Katie Thorlakson hit a low shot from the left side that beat Miami goalkeeper Alex Alford. Carpenter and senior Amy Warner were credited with assists on the play. 
Miami struck back with less than two minutes to go, as Jackie Garcia scored after a Notre Dame foul. The Hurricanes seemed disorgan­ized as they were setting up the play, shooting it quickly. Bohn was unable to reach the shot as it went in the right side of the goal. 
The Irish also continue to be bit by the injury bug, as senior captain Amy Warner suffered an ankle injury midway through 
eight kills in the last g·ame alone and finished with 19 on
Sweep 

the match to lead the Irish. "Loomis had a good match
continued from page 24 

offensively. Mentally, for her it was good to get back in a 
story as the Irish came out rhythm and for [setter] Kristen 
slow, but picked it up early, after tying the score at nine. 
Led by junior Emily Loomis, the Irish found their offensive punch and were able to come up with a .220 hit­ting percentage, good enough to win the game. 

[Kinder] to have the confidence to go to her." 
..We are looking at 
Notre Dame onlybigger and better hit .171 on the things.·· match, well below the~ season aver­age of .257. But,
Debbie Brown 
the Irish were able 
Irish coach to come away with the win, and that was what mat­tered. 
Loomis had "We are looking at bigger and the second half. She did not return, and her status for the upcoming Big East and NCAA Tournament games is uncertain. 
NOTRE DAME 2, MIAMI 1 at ALUMNI FIELD 
1st  2nd  OT Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  0  1  2  
MIAMI  1  0  0  1  

Scoring Summary ND-Thorlakson, Katie (10), 15:47 (Warner, Amy) UM-Garcia, Jackie {1), 17:26 (unas­sisted) ND-Guertin. Amanda (11 ). 92:54 (Warner, Amy) 
Notre Dame-Saves 2.(Bohn), Shots 27 (Thorlakson 8), Corner kicks 11, Fouls 8 
Miami -Saves 7 (Alford). Shots 5 (Buther, Britney 4), Cor;ter kicks 3. Fouls 13 
Contact Andy Troger at atroeger@nd.edu 
better things," Brown said. 
NOTRE DAME 3, SYRACUSE 0 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME  30 30 30  
SYRACUSE  16 26 21  
Notre Dame  -Kills 44 (Loomis,  

Emily19). Assists 123 (Loomis 43). Digs 51 (Kinder. Kristen 10), Blocks 29 (Kelbley, Lauren 9). Hitting percentage .171 (Kinder, Kristen .625), Aces 42 (Kinder, Kristen 24) 
Syracuse -Kills 32 (Logan, Jessica 7), Assists 129 (Conway, Kristen 32), Digs 49 (Duan, Kelly 12), Blocks 16 (McQuillin, Christen 4). Hitting percentage -.008 (Dommestrup. Aila .400). Aces 30 (Dommestrup 12) 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
the shots and cleared the rebounds when they were there. 
"We really wanted to sweep our first series of the year and our defense played really well." 
Brown's teammates gave him a lead early in the game. with Michael Bartlett scoring early in the first period. It would be all that the goalie would need, but his team added an insurance goal on the power play just ten minutes later as defenseman Neil Komadoski scored his first goal ofthe season. 
It was perhaps one of the best periods offensively and defen­sively for the Irish, as they out­shot the Mavericks 18-4 in the first stanza. 
"I thought our first period was one of the best we played all year," said head coach Dave Poulin. "We did all the little things well. It really was about as well as we could play." 
The Mavericks countered Brown with a freshman of their own, Chris Holt, who came into the game with a goal against average of over 6. It didn't take long for the Irish to beat the 
Win 
continued from page 24 
early in the second half. Prescod spun around a defender and drilled a shot past Wildcats' goaltender Craig Bald at the 52:47 mark. 
Etherington later assisted on an insurance goal from Justin Detter at 84:28. 
The stakes were high, so the game was physical, with 34 total fouls whistled. Notre Dame was on the receiving end of those calls 19 times. 
Villanova finished with 11 shots and Notre Dame fin­ished with seven. 
The Irish are now 8-1-0 all-time versus Villanova and 5-0-0 at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame closed the con­ference schedule strong after dropping two straight Big East games to Rutgers (5-2) and Connecticut (1-0). The Irish finished with three con­secutive victories over Providence (2-0), Virginia Tech (2-1) and Villanova. 
Notre Dame is the third seed in the Big East and will host sixth seed Connecticut Sunday at 1 p.m. 
St. John's sits as the first seed with an 8-2-0 confer­ence mark. Behind the Red Storm are Virginia Tech (7 -3­0, 13-4-0), Notre Dame {6-3­1, 12-3-3), Rutgers (5-2-3. 9­5-3). Seton Hall {5-2-3, 8-4­4), Connecticut (5-3-2, 8-7­3), Providence (4-5-1. 6-8-2) rookie. 
Bartlett forced a turnover by a Maverick defenseman and skat­ed in on Holt. He wrested a quick shot past the goalie, beat­ing him high to the glove side for the first Irish goal just 2:11 into the game. 
Notre Dame would then take advantage of two Maverick penalties, scoring a power-play goal with the two-man advan­tage on a tic-tac-toe play. 
Defenseman Brett Lebda took the puck into the offensive zone, then sent a perfect cross to Globke, who followed with a cross back to Komadoski. who had set up on the right post. 
NOTRE DAME 2, NEBRASKA-OMAHA 0 at JOYCE CENTER 
1st 2nd 3rd Total 
NOTRE DAME  2  0  0  2  
NEBRASKA-OMAHA 0  0  0  0  
Scoring Summary  

ND-Bartlett. Michael (2), 2:11 (Jindra, T.J.) ­ND-Komadoski, Neil (1), }2:51 (Lebda. Brett 3. Globke, Rob 5) 
Notre Dame -Saves 22 (Brown). Shots 32, Penalties 6 
Nebraska-Omaha -Saves 30 (Holt), Shots 22. Penalties 4 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
and Villanova (4-6-0, 9-7-1). 
Note 

Notre Dame started Sunday's game at Michigan State without both of its starting midfielders. Seniors Chad Riley and Filippo -Chillemi sat out due to injuries. 
Clark said sophomore John Stevens did well filling in for Riley, who has been sidelined with a pulled hamstring. Riley first pulled the ham­string on the road against Cleveland State and then re­aggravated it at Virginia Tech. 
Chillemi cut the inside of his right foot against Villanova and needed eight stitches. Chillemi reentered Friday's game but sat out on Sunday. 
"His foot swelled up a little bit," Clark said. "It didn't make any sense to play him [Sunday]. 
NOTRE DAME 2, MICHIGAN STATE 0 at EAST LANSING, Mich. 1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 0 0 1 MICHIGAN STATE 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary ND -Martin, Greg (5), 69:44 (unas­sisted) 
Notre Dame -Saves 6 (Sawyer, Chris), Shots 12 (Martin 3, Corner Kicks 5. Fouls 9 
Michigan State -Saves 5 (Robinson, Mike), Shots 14 (Minagawa-Webster. J. 4), Corner Kicks 8, Fouls 13 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


TODAY!!! TODAY!!! Men's Basketball s eason Ticket Sale 



Mon. Nov.3rd, 9:00 AM -Gate 10 of Joyce Center 
FIRST COME; 'ERVE (until sold out) 
Last year SOLD OUT, so come early! 
0$50 each ticket booklet; must have valid student ID Visit the Promotions & Giveaways Link on
IJOnly cash or check will be accepted 
www.und.com

~Each student may bring 6 IDs (including his/her own} ~Tickets will be sold on Tuesday if available 

C?ach Brey \'"if7:Jiiiil to first 1000 will pass out ~~:7.. students!! 

--------==--=---------------------­

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Monday, November 3, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
ScHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

JUMBLE 

~~11~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
A KARP 
rJ 
1 

C2003 Tribune Media Setvicea, Inc. AI Rlglrto Reserved. 
VELlA
rxJ 
I CAUABS±

I I [ J 
www.jumble.com
tPENXED t

] I I ] I
~"""---'--..L...----I..lo..."'-L-..1 
CROSSWORD 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THf JANITOR'S FAVORITE SPOT IN THE BATTING ORDER. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print ~ here: 
rrxrxxxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

saturday's I Jumbles: WALTZ TAFFY VELVET SUPERB Answer: Encountered in the old print shop -ALL "TYPES" 
WILLSHORTZ 

35 Shrub with red  47 Desirable  54 Sticky stuff  
fruit 37 Early bird's opposite 38_reflux 39 Egg layers 41 Shred  qualities 49 Comic 1982 Richard Pryor film 51 Pub orders 52 Typical  55 Not moving 59 World's longest river 60 Cameo stone 62 Outfield surface  
45"_we  53 "Casablanca•  64 Hosp. areas  
dance?"  actor Peter  65 Start to fall  

For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleaminwxwords. 
ACROSS 1 Atlas contents 5 Sonny's partner, 
once 
9 Jazz style 14 Spanish water 15 Composer 
Schifrin 16 French romance 17 Snuggles in 19 Jay Silverheels 
role 20 Some potatoes 21 Shirt part 23 Sticky stuff 24 Flops down 28 Have a look 30 And others: 
Abbr. 31 Start of long­
distance dialing 32 Piles 34 What Santa's 
making (and checking twice) 36 Ho-hum 
40 "If all _fails
• 
41 Picture puzzle 42 SK, e.g. 43 Way off shore 44 Muslim holy 
man 45 Deluxe sheet fabric 46 Hit, as the knuckles 48 Shower 
alternative 50 Mag. staffers 51 Gets ready to 
sit 56 Prefix with 
metric 57 Health resort 58 Pacific weather 
phenomenon 
61 Surgeon's assistant 
63 Stays awhile 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


66 Fortuneteller's aid 67 Duet plus one 68 Count (on) 69 Snow sliders 10 Catch sight of 71 "Jurassic Park" menace, briefly 
DOWN 
1 0. Henry's "The Gift of the _. 2 Got gray 3 Helped to relax 4 "Peter and the Wolr bird 5 Skeleton's place? 6 Western omelet ingredient 7 North Pole toy maker 8 Palace dweller 9 Michael Keaton title role, 1989 1oComic Philips 11 Drum played with the hands 
12 Words before sight and mind 
13 Conclusive evidence 18 Fountain orders 22 Genealogy 25 Oregon's capital 26 Poor woodcutter of folklore 27 Actress Winger 28 Ballpark near Ashe Stadium 
29 Snakelike fish 33 Oyster's prize 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Roseanne Barr, Lulu, Charles Bronson, Adam Ant 
Happy Birthday: This is your year to shine. Get out and follow your dreams. 
-

It's high time you put your ideas into motion. The more you can do this year, 
·the better. You'll have an interesting way of viewing things, and that will bring fnter¢st from people who can help you get ahead. Don't hold back because you are shy; just go for it. Your numbers: 13, 24, 28, 34, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 2l·Aprill9): Catch up on overdue correspondence, but be sure to be honest and direct with others if you want good advice in return. Make sure you aren't living in a dre~m world. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You mustn't overspend on large-scale projects that have only a slim chance of making back your money. Think twice before you support an idea that belongs to someone else. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It will be hard to control your emotions. Try to get involved in worthwhile causes that will take your mind off your own dilemmas. Your emotional confusion will upset your partner. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a problem with colleagues if you get involved in gossip. Don't waste too much time worrying about those you work with. Concentrate on your after-work activities with friends. **.. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Children will play a major role in your life. Your involvement with the arts or entertainment will boost your morale, but it may also make your mate jealous. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Opportunities to make changes in your home will be to your advantage. Think before you act when disputing with children or family. They may not be as eager as you are to make alterations. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do not meddle in the personal affairs of friends or family. You should be working on yourself and your own problems for the time being. Accept the changes going on around you. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone talk you out of your money. You mustn't spend on entertainment, gambling or children. This is the time to save for a rainy day. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your lover may not understand your actions. Spell out your intentions clearly if you want to avoid discord. This is not the time to ruffle feathers. Be honest but diplomatic. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Problems with authority figures will cause upset. Don't take any chances if you are traveling or dealing with large institutions. Your boss will overreact if you try to discuss your thoughts.***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expand your circle of friends if you take part in a fund-raising event that you believe in. Keep your eyes open. Someone special could waltz into your life. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Changes at home will be hectic. Be careful how you handle the ones you live with. They may be a little frazzled today. Don't let your sensitive, emotional side take over and cause friction. *"' 
Birthday Baby: You have a broad vision of life and the world. You know instinctively what others want and how to help them get it. Loyal, dedicated and patient, you're a generous individual who will always give to those in need. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source· of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please cotnplete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------------------------------------­
Address ________________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
~­
--...­

(­
!!~ 
rl 
I1!_:
II i 

I 
THE 
OBSERVER 
p
Monday, November 3, 2003 Page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Avoiding the storm 
No. 2 Irish squeak by Hurricanes in first round of Big East tourney 2-1 in overtime 
I i ~ 
By ANDY TROEGER I Sports Writer 
! 
I Coming into Sunday's game against Miami, the women's soccer team had never lost a Big East Tournament game. The Irish survived the Hurricanes, winning 2-1 in overtime, but barely managed to win their 19th all-time tour­nament game. 
While the Irish managed to dominate possession through­out the last three-fourths of the 
I ' . game, it was not until senior
l i 
Amanda Guertin's golden goal 
2:54 into the overtime period that the Irish could savor coach Randy Waldrum's 200th victory
I; as a Division I women's soccer i coach. 
; 
'! "Its exciting, although I had­, I 
\ n't even realized it until I saw; i '' ! something about it last week on f ' the Internet," said Waldrum of i the milestone. "It couldn't have come with a better group of 
...-women, so getting the 200th with this group was special. More important than that is that we're moving on with a chance to regain that Big East Championship again." 

Guertin's goal came on a set ners in her four years. "It's to on goal to only three for Miami. Jill Krivacek glanced off the piece with senior Kim go on and it's playoff time, the Still, there were some nerv­crossbar, Bohn came out to play Carpenter adding her second team has done so well, it's ous moments as well for the a ball that ended up being assist of the game, as Guertin great." Irish. Erika Bohn made a bril­deflected off an Irish player. drilled a shot into the right side The goal ended a frustrating liant save early in the game by The ball rolled toward the Irish 
of the net. game for the Irish, who outshot coming out and knocking the goal, but rolled just wide. 
i "It might be the best one," the Hurricanes 27-5 and had 11 ball away. "I think right before we start-said Guertin, comparing the corner kicks to only three for In the second half, only goal to her other 17 game-win-Miami. The Irish had 10 shots moments after a near-goal by see OVERTIME/page 21 
I. 


HOCKEY 

Brown gets his third shutout 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

-Only six games into his career, David Brown is already putting his name in the record books. 
The freshman goaltender collected his record third straight shutout and increased his record shutout streak to 186 minutes, 15 seconds as the Irish (5-2-0, 4-2-0 in the CCHA} won their fourth game in a row Friday with a 2-0 victory over Nebraska-Omaha. 
The 18-year old is also three­fourths of the way to setting the Notre Dame career shutout record, currently held by his teammate Morgan Cey. At the start of the season, Cey's recov­ery from off-season surgery opened the door for Brown to impress the Irish coaches in his short emergency stint. 
Even though Cey has returned, Brown continues to get starts in goal and is taking advantage of his chances. The freshman currently leads the CCHA with a .964 save per­centage and 1.15 goals against average. 
"I just tried to come in and play like I had been," Brown said. "The defense was great again tonight. They let me see 
see HOCKEY/page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Another sweeping win for Irish 
No. 14 Notre Dame 
beats Syracuse in 
three games 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 

Forget about losing a match, 
the Irish don't even give up 
games anymore. 

No. 14 Notre Dame (19-2, 8­
0} defeated Syracuse (16-12,I 3-5} Sunday 
I I : afternoon in See Also 
I . 
three games "Brewster
I ( 
i -(30-16, 30­I 26, 30-21 ). having stellar 
! 
I With the season" win, the 
19
Irish extend-page ed their win­ning streak to twelve matches. Notre Dame lost its last game Oct. 21 to North Carolina on the road. 

Sunday, the Irish dominated Syracuse from the beginning, holding the Orangewomen to a -.195 hitting percentage in the first game. Notre Dame took a 15-3 lead to start the match and never looked back. 
"I was really, really pleased with how we came out in game one and how we played really strong throughout that game," coach Debbie Brown said. 
However, game two was a different story, as the Irish trailed the whole way before Katie Neff's solo block evened the score at 19. Even though the Irish trailed almost the entire game, they never felt the game was out of reach, despite their poor hitting. 
"Our passing was a little off tonight," Brown said. "Because of that, our offense was also a little off." 
en 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
1-u IU 
Belles finish sixth 

z · Lauren Brewster leads the nation in blocking 
Saint Mary's defeats
a: s 

and has won three Big Olivet and Adrian at the 
= -« East Weekly awards 
MIAA Championship
this season. 
race. 
= 
A. t:i· 

en 
page 25 
page 19 

But the Irish didn't let their .140 hitting percentage in game two phase them, as they registered four blocks in the game and 15 on the match, led by Lauren Kelbley's 4.5 blocks. 
"The fact that our hitting wasn't as strong didn't affect us as much [because of our strong blocking]," Brown said. 
However, even though the Irish escaped game two, they were looking for more going into the stretch run of the sea­son. 
"I kept thinking that we were going to pick it up and get back into it faster than we did," Brown said. "I didn't feel like it was anything they were doing to us, it was just us not handling the ball well on our side." 
Game three was another 
see SWEEP/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Sawyer, defense blank Spartans 1-0 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team closed out its regular season on Sunday with a 1-0 victory at Michigan State. 
Senior midfielder Greg Martin scored his fifth goal as the Irish finished the season 12-3-3 overall and 6-3-1 in the Big East. 
It was the second victory of the weekend for the Irish. 
"This was a very tough inter-regional game," coach Bobby Clark said. "The week­end overall was great from a results point of view." 
Notre Dame's sixth confer­ence win came on Friday night against Villanova (9-7 -1, 4-6­0} at Alumni Field. The win secured the Irish home-field advantage in the first round of the Big East Tournament. 
NO CROSS COUNTRY  NO WOMEN'S GOLF  
Women claim Big East title, men finish seconCI  Irish head to South Carolina  
Notre Dame takes the title for the second straight  Notre Dame eyes a  
year, while the men's team finishes second. The  crown at weekday tour- 
women had all five of their runners finish in the top  nament.  
five.  
page 23  page 20  

"The team knew this was huge going into the weekend, both regarding the conference and the NCAA," coach Bobby Clark said. "Villanova was a very tough home game." 
It was senior night at Alumni Field, as was evident with just under three minutes remaining when senior walk­on Roger Klauer entered the game at forward. Still, a fresh­man, midfielder Ian Etherington stole the show with two assists in the match. 
Etherington found senior forward Devon Prescod with a 
see WINIpage 21 
FOOTBALL 

Florida State 3 7 Notre Dame 0 
The Irish get smoked at home by the Seminoles. 
Irish Insider 
~ 


OTHE Monday, November 3, 2003 BSERVER Florida State 37, Notre Dame 0 
Bro 
enrecor 


Florida State gets revenge with 37-0 embarrassment ofthe Irish 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sporrs Ediror 

Last year, after No. 11 Florida State 
lost at home 34-24 to No. 6 Notre Dame. 
Seminole coach Bobby Bowden said his 
team was "bumfuzzled" by the Irish. 
Saturday, the legendary coach got 
revenge for that loss by handing the Irish 
a 37-0 defeat, the first time Notre Dame 
had been shut out at home since 1978. 
After starting the 2002 season 8-0 and bringing the Irish to as high as No. 4 in the nation, head coach Tyrone Willingham has seen his team go 4-9 since. 
"This is always one of the most difficult jobs as a coach -when things aren't going well, to keep the team moving for­ward and keep them positive," Willingham said. "We will find ways to do that." 
In what has become a bit of a broken 
record this season, the Irish {2-6) again 
found themselves looking for answers 
after being dominated by a ranked team. 
Notre Dame fell on the road to then-No. 
7 Michigan 38-0 and lost to then-No. 5 
USC at home 45-17. 

Factor in a 44-13 loss on the road to 
USC at the end of last season, and the 
Irish have lost four of their last 10 games 
by 31 points or more. 

Oft-criticized Florida State quarterback Chris Rix torched the Irish through the air Saturday, completing 17 -of-31 passes for 327 yards and three touchdowns. He also threw three interceptions. but the Irish were unable to capitalize on the turnovers. 
Wide receiver Craphonso Thorpe set a­record for most receiving yards in a game by one player against Notre Dame, catching seven passes for 217 yards and two touchdowns. He jumpstarted the Florida State offensive attack with a 38­yard reception on the Seminoles' first play from scrimmage. 
"They consistently kept the pressure on us and didn't allow us to make the plays we needed to make," Willingham said. "We were concerned with their vertical passing game and I think, more than ANDY KENNA/The Observer anything else, they hurt us with the abili­

Notre Dame defensive end VIctor Ablamlrl misses Florida State quarterback Chris Rlx In the end zone. Had Ablamlrl made 
ty of their receivers to make plays." 

the tackle, It would have resulted In a safety, and the Irish could have avoided the shutout.
The affable Bowden agreed that the Florida State passing game was the dif­ference. period and returned the interception 55 you're playing a good football team," For the game, the Irish were 0-for-4 in 
"That was where we took charge of the yards to the Florida State 9-yard line. -Willingham said. "Those are the kind of chances to score inside the red zone. game, being able to get the The Irish were mistakes you cannot make." Notre Dame was also 0-for-5 in fourth long stuff," he said. "The unable to put the The Irish had difficulty getting any­down conversions, most of which came quarterback laid it out ball in the end thing going on offense, primarily because inside the red zone during the second
"We ·ve got to make
there pretty good, and our zone, hobbled by they continually left themselves in diffi­half as Notre Dame was making a des­
plays. That•s what it
receivers caught it good two key penalties cult long yardage situations on third peration comeback. 
and ran with it. comes down to. ·· -a holding call down. Notre Dame was 4-for-13 in third­"We've got to make plays," said embat­"That was the difference and a substitution down conversions, with only one coming tled Irish quarterback Brady Quinn, who in the ball game, at least infraction following in the first half. completed 20-of-52 passes for 175 yards 
Brady Quinn 
from an offensive stand­a Notre Dame time­"We just couldn't get anything estab­and three interceptions -including one
Irish quarterback 
point." out -and were lished on offense," Irish offensive coordi­that was returned for a touchdown. 
Notre Dame had several forced to try a 31-nator Bill Deidrick said. "We struggled. "That's what it comes down to. We've got chances to put points on yard field goal. D.J. You can look at the inefficiency on third­to put the ball in the end zone. We had the board, especially during a key Fitzpatrick's kick was blocked by B.J. down completions. plenty of opportunities today and we did sequence early in the game. With the Ward, and the Irish were unable to take "When you're not converting and not not do that.'' Seminoles up 10-0, cornerback Vontez advantage of Dutrs interception. getting real positive plays on first down it Duff intercepted Rix 5:58 into the first "I think that was a big play when makes it real difficult." Contact Jwtin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
player of the ' game 

quote of the game
play of the game
stat of the game 
Craphonso Thorpe 
68 

B.J. Ward's block of D.J. 
·1 don't know ifI can explain it. IfI 
Fitzpatrick's first quarter field goal 
would. then hopefully we would have 
The Florida State wide receiver set 
some answers prior to this moment...
number ofconsecutive points 
the tone for his seven catch. 217 
scored by Notre Dame opponents 
The block prevented the Irishfrom 
yard. two touchdown day with a 38 
Tyrone Willingham 

at Notre Dame Stadium 
establishing any momentum and led 
yard catch on the game's first play. 
to a very long day. 
Irish head coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 3, 2003 
report card 
quarterbacks: No touchdowns, a 38D percent completion rate and three interceptions. Not a good day for Quinn as his passes were erratic the entire afternoon. 
running backs: Overall, this group had a 
B 
good day averaging almost five yards 
a carry. When the team got down, 
Diedrick had to abandon the running game and just throw the ball. 
D-
receivers: Just compare how open the Florida State wideouts were to how it seemed the Irish receivers never 
found holes in the defense. A number of drops didn't help either. 
offensive line: Despite a number of
B-
injuries to players up and down the 
line, Quinn wasn't sacked. They 
opened up holes for the running backs and did a commendable job. 
B-
defensive line: Rix felt pressure most of the afternoon and the Seminoles averaged 2.6 yards per carry, but the 
line missed a number of chances to 
make bigger plays, including twice 
on potential safeties. 
B-
linebackers: This group held the Seminole running backs in check. 
Watson and Cutrv combined for four 
tackles for loss and Curry had the Irish's 
only sack. 

D-
defensive backs: Seminole receivers found enormous holes in the Notre Dame defense and won a large number of the 
one-on-one jump-ball situations. Three 
interceptions save them from failing. 
C-
special teams: A poor snap on what turned out to be a blocked field goal 
kept the Irish from scoring early. Fitzpatrick finished with a decent punt average. 
F 
coaching: The coaching staff thought the defense could win one-on-one 
battles with the Seminole receivers, 
but they were very wrong. The game plan from the start was just awful. 
1.59 
overall: Once again, the Irish had a chance to defeat a top 10 team and they looked like they didn't even belong on the same field. 
adding up the numbers 
passing yards by Florida State quarterback 
187 
Chris Rix in the first quarter Saturday 

1 
first downs by the Irish in the first half. The Irish got their second first down with 10:47 remining in the third quarter. 
interceptions by the Irish Saturday, matching 
3 

their entire total in previous seven games. The Irish couldn't capitalize on the turnovers 
6 8 
unanswered points scored by opponents at Notre Dame Stadium since a first quarter Brady Quinn to Anthony Fasano touchdown pass against USC 
penalty yards accumulated by the Irish in the 
6 7 
first half. The offense gained 66 yards in the same time frame. 
150 
games since the last shutout by an oppo­nent against the Irish at Notre Dame Stadium 
receiving yards ~Y Florida State receiver 
2 1 7 
Craphonso Thorpe, a record by an oppo­nent at Notre Dame player 
1 
losses by Notre Dame on All Saints Day. Prior to Saturday, the Irish were 13-0-1 on Nov. 1. 

Tyrone Willingham promised Notre Dame fans a "new Irish foot­ball team" at Friday night's pep rally. 
What he didn't mean was for that new team to become No. 2 in all-time winning percentage. 
What he didn't mean was a team that lost three consecu­tive home games for the first time since Gerry Faust in 1984. 
What he assuredly didn't mean was a team rivaling those only remembered in Notre Dame lore for their embar­rassing marks. 
The 1956 team coached by Terry Brennan went 2-8. The Irish lost three straight times at home by a combined 87 points, including a 40­0 loss to No. 1 Oklahoma. Willingham's total is 74 points, with the capper being Saturday's 37-0 embarrassment. 
The 1960 team led by Joe Kuharich, that also went 2-8, is the only Notre Dame team ever to lose four straight home games. 
It seems much longer than only a year ago that the Irish were at their peak of the "Return to Glory" and the Savior of South Bend was ready to make this program a top-10 fix­ture once again. 
Florida State handed Notre Dame its second-worst home shutout loss ever, the first home shutout since 1978 (a streak of 150 home games), 

Matt Lozar 
Associate Sports Editor 

its first-ever loss on All Saints Day, its third 30-point loss this season. The only other time that happened was 1956. 
Unfortunately the list goes on, and it's not pretty. 
Look at the past 10 games. The Irish are 2-8 in those games, just like Brennan's and Kuharich's teams, with four of those losses com­ing by at least 31 points. They have been outscored 306-133. That beats the 1956 team that was outscored 289~ 130 and the 1960 squad who lost 188-11. 
Opponents have scored 68 unan­swered points in Notre Dame Stadium since a Brady Quinn to Anthony Fasano touchdown pass with 4 minutes, 2 seconds remaining in the first quarter against USC. 
It got so bad Saturday students were doing push-ups for first downs. Students sang "You've lost that Iovin' feeling," as the final minutes ran off the clock since the band's halftime show was the highlight of the game. 
Florida State tried to give the Irish a post-Halloween treat by handing them two safeties to negate the shutout, but the defense acted as if the Seminoles had just given them an unwanted trick. When fans saw that, they left faster than minors at a bar raid. 
And it wasn'tjust new things Saturday. The Irish showed they haven't learned from previous mis­takes. 
For the second time this season, officials caught the Irish with 12 men on the field coming out of a timeout. Yes, a timeout where the whole team goes to the sidelines and gets its assignments personally from the coaching staff. 
Receivers were dropping balls and running third down routes short of the first-down marker, passes were extremely erratic, defenders didn't wrap up their tackles and stupid penalties were made. 
The first half was so bad the Irish had more penalty yards { 6 7) than offensive yards (66) and only one first down. 
How could Willingham and the coaching staff let this team get to this absolutely atrocious state? Granted, this team was nowhere near as good as its 8~0 record last year, but is it really as bad as its 4-9 mark in its last 13 games? 
Willingham doesn't think so. He saw a team that "came out with some energy and some fight," and played hard to the final whistle. 
Going out and giving your best, even when it's not apparent, isn't what Notre Dame fans want to hear. 
Fans are used to losing two or three games in a season, not per month. That Notre Dame mystique Bobby Bowden talked about being apparent in 1993 is now as common as a male in a female dorm after parietals. Teams should be calling up Kevin White and begging him to play in South Bend. 
But Willingham and the Irish haven't hit rock bottom just yet. That could come next week. 
A loss to Navy, a 6-3 Navy team, would make Notre Dame 2-7-both last happened in 1963. 
That would make Willingham and the Irish the "new team" they don't want to be. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at m lozar@nd. edu. 
-~-----•----------~------------------------------------------­
page 3
Monday, November 3, 2003 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Thorpe has record-setting afternoon 

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish had some "firsts" on Saturday against Florida State. They lost for the first time ever on November 1 and for the first time ever, they failed to score against Florida State in the first half of a game. 
But, these were insignificant compared to the day had by Craphonso Thorpe and the Florida State receivers. 
Thorpe finished with 217 yards receiving on seven catches, the most ever by a Notre Dame opponent. USC's John Jackson held the previ­ous record, with 200 yards on 14 catches in 1989. 
"Thank goodness we can throw and catch," Seminoles head coach Bobby Bowden said. 
For the Irish secondary, it came down to making the big play -or not making it. The Seminoles' Chris Rix finished with 327 yards passing and three touchdowns, completing 17 of 31 attempts. This includ­ed a 51-yard completion to Thorpe, the longest comple­tion against the Irish this sea­son. 
Thorpe caught two touch­down passes, one for 38 yards and the other for 35 yards. 

The Irish couldn't stop the Rorida State wide receiver P.K. Sam out jumps Notre Dame defensive back Dwight Ellick for a 
deep ball, as Rix continually 

ball Saturday afternoon. Sam and the rest of the Seminole receivers burned the Irish all day. 
•scoring  -­ 
summary  
1st 2nd 3rd 4th  Total  
Florida State  17  6  7  7  37  
Notre Dame  0  0  0  0  0  
First quarter Florida State 3, Notre Dame 0 Xavier Battia 40-yard field goal with 10:42 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 49 yards, 4:18 elapsed Florida State 10, Notre Dame 0 P.K. Sam 6-yard reception from Chris Rix with 8:01 remaining (Battia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 73 yards, 1:36 elapsed Florida State 17, Notre Dame 0 Craphonso Thorpe 35-yard reception from Rix with 0:39 remaining (Battia kick) Drive: 5 plays, 87 yards, 2:45 elapsed  - 
Second quarter  
Florida State 20, Notre Dame 0 Battia 44-yard field goal with 9:49 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 37 yards, 1:47 elapsed Florida State 23, Notre Dame 0 Battia 22-yard field goal with 3:45 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 69 yards, 3:45 elapsed  
Third quarter  
Florida State 30, Notre Dame 0 Thorpe 38-yard reception from Rix with 11:34 ·remaining Drive: 2 plays, 33 yards, 0:17 elapsed  
Fourth quarter  
Florida State 37, Notre Dame 0 Leroy Smith 90-yard interception return with 8:59 remaining (Battia kick)  

statistics 
-

threw it up for his receivers, letting them make the plays over the smaller Irish defen­"We just didn't make the sive backs. right plays at the right time," 
"We were concerned coming Irish defensive back Preston into the ball game," head Jackson said. "We forced them coach Tyrone Willingham said. to throw the ball, which we 
"One, with their vertical passing game, and that, more I think than anything else, hurt us with their ability of receivers to make plays." 
But despite the concerns of Willingham, the Irish found them-

wanted to do. We wanted ..We still feel that Chris Rix to put the ball in 
we are one ofthe 
the air and

best secondaries in 
match up

the nation. •• against the w i d e receivers. We
Dwight Ellick 
didn't play the 

Irish cornerback 
ball well. The defense as a 

selves outplayed by Seminole whole did not receivers the entire first half. make plays." Rix threw for 187 yards in the However, the Irish have first quarter alone. played against good wide receivers all year long and have contained them, includ­ing the likes of Pittsburgh's Larry Fitzgerald. 
"They're a very talented receiving corps, just as any other team has that we've played all year," .;ornerback Jason Beckstrom said. 
Then, what was the differ­ence against Thorpe and the Seminoles? 
"They are probably the fastest receivers we played all year," defensive back Dwight Ellick said. "We were in posi­tion to make plays, it was just a matter of us making them, and we weren't making them, so that was probably the biggest factor." 
Though Saturday's game leaves the secondary search­ing for answers, the Irish have not lost confidence in their abilities. 
"We still feel that we are one of the best secondaries in the nation," Ellick said. "It is just a matter of going out and prov­ing it." 
But, when it came down to it, the Irish didn't make the plays they needed to Saturday, and they knew it, as they let the Seminole receivers get the best of them. 
"Today, we didn't get the job done," Jackson said. 
Contal..'1: Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
e 
56-352 rushes-yards 27-8
•
5-17-1 comp-att-int 12-30-0 6-37.3 punts-yards 9-43.4 2-0 fumbles-lost 3-2 6-50 penalties-yards 6-40 14 first downs 9 
Jones passes Gipper in record books 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
With his 79 yards in Saturday's loss, Irish running back Julius Jones passed George Gipp to move into sixth place all time in Notre Dame history in rushing yards. Jones currently has 2,399 yards in his career, with four games left on the Notre Dame schedule. 
Gipp, who played from 1917 to 1920, finished his career with 2,341 yards in 28 games. He died from a throat infection in 1920 at the age of 25 and is famous for telling lhen coach Knute Rockne to one day tell his team to "win one for the Gipper," which the Irish did eight years later in a 12-6 victory over Army. 
Next up for Jones on the career rushing list is Phil Carter, who is 10 yards ahead of Jones. 

Pressed Into action 
Irish offensive lineman Dan Stevenson was injured near the beginning of the second period and backup Jamie Ryan was forced into an emergency substitution. 
"I think maybe that first play out there I didn't do as well as I liked," Ryan said. "But I'm not one to make excuses. 
"I think that practice is a big part of staying mentally and physically ready for a situation like this." 
Ryan did not see any action in Notre Dame's three previ­ous games. 
Counting on the coaches 
For the second time this year, Notre Dame had a sub­stitution penalty following a time out. 
Despite the extra time allowed to get the proper personneI onto the field, Irish coaches allowed one too many players out onto 
the field, costing Notre Dame five yards and changing what would have been third-and­goal from the Florida State 3-yard line into third-and­goal from the Florida State 8. 
"The coaches didn't get the right personnel," Willingham said. 
The mistake led to a field 
goal  attempt  by  D.J.  
Fitzpatrick,  which  was  
blocked.  

The other time the Irish had 12 men on the field in a critical time after a timeout was on fourth down late in the game against Michigan State. 
But that infraction was irrelevant as the Spartans rushed for the first down and ran out the clock. 
Frustrated fans 
A season of disappointing football finally came to a head Saturday as the Irish fan base voiced its frustra­tion, but not with boo's. 
The Irish could only man­age one first down in the first half, and after quarter­back Brady Quinn connected with Maurice Stovall for a short gain for Notre Dame's second first down with 10:47 left in the third quarter, much of the sellout crowd rose to its feet and gave a loud sarcastic cheer and ova­tion. 
The crowd began thinning out midway through the third quarter, and by the end of the game, few were left in the Stadium besides students and an excited Florida State contingent doing its signa­ture tomahawk chop cheer. 
Gameday captains 
Captains for the Irish against the Seminoles were Jim Molinaro, Vontez Duff, Omar Jenkins and Courtney Watson. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

return yards 

time of possession 

Jones Grant Quinn 
Jenkins McKnight Stovall Fasano Jones Grant 
Watson Hoyte Duff Tuck Curry Campbell Beckstrom Burrell 
passing 
..........

Quinn 20-52-3 Rix 17-31-3 
rushing 

18-76  Booker  12-35  
8-42  Washington  4-23  
4-28  Davis  1·21  
Jones  7-9  
Rix  8-16  

receiving 

5-73  Thorpe  7-217  
3-23  Sam  2-54  
3-21  Reid  2-11  
3-18  Booker  2-(-3)  
2-24  Davis  1-24  
2·5  Washington  1-9  

tackling 
... 

11 Sims 8 7 Boulware 8 5 Watkins 6· 5 Wimbley 6 5 Carter 6 3 Samuels 4 3 Augustin 4 -­3 Nicholson 4 

page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 3, 2003 
' 


For the second straight home game, an opponent embarrassed the Irish in their house. Sixty-eight unanswered points have been scored against Notre Dame at home. Florida State came out and set the tone with a 38-yard completion on the play's first game. Chris Rix threw for 327 yards and Craphonso Thorpe compiled a Notre Dame opponent record 217 receiving yards. The Irish have now lost three straight home games for the first time since 1984. 


NOTHER EMBAR 
SMENT 

SOFIA BALLON, ANDY KENNA and ALLISON NICHOLS /The Observer Notre Dame running back Julius Jones (top left) tries to break a tackle down the sideline. Florida State running back Greg Jones fumbles In front of Notre Dame defensive end VIctor Ablamlrl, but the Irish freshman was unable to come up with the loose ball. Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff (bottom left) returns his first quarter Interception Inside the Florida State 10. Seminole running back Leon Washington attempts to out run a Notre Dame defender deep Inside Florida State territory. 






