I 1 I •
. \'' 
.. f ',.
•$•I 

VOL. XXXVH NO. 77 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Project Warmth drive sets record 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
News Writer 
More than 4,700 new and slightly used coats for people in need of winter clothing were donated last semester to set a record in the seventh'· annual Project Warmth campaign, con­ducted Oct. 28 to Dec. 6. 
Competition to collect the coats was strong between some residence halls. Zahm Hall won with 8<J8 coats with nearly four per resident and Lyons Hall donated 679 for an average of three per resident to place sec­ond. 
"I have never seen so many people so fired up about doing good," said David Grennan. "It made me think twice about the supposed lack of generosity in the world today.'' 
Student coordinator Elizabeth Zwickert and task force mem­bers Kathryn Eisele, Margaret Morgan, Colin Walsh and Tom Timmermans prepared the coats for redistribution to the homeless and organized the contest among the dorms. 
Zwickert said the unprece­dented number of coats donated might have had something to do with the task force's commit­ment to getting the word out. 
"Everyone worked very hard, and they worked with a smile," said Zwickert. "That is what helped us break the record by so much." 
St. Michael's Laundry washed every single coat free of charge and then supplied the manpow­er to sort. bag and transport the coats back to the Center for Social Concerns. 
"St. Michael's really was amazing," said Zwickert. "Their entire operation shut down just to clean these coats for the poor." 
Valerie Aguilar donated a full­length coat that her Grandmother made and had given to her mother. 
"I thought it would be good to give it in her memory," said Aguilar. "I know it's special, but it's senseless to have two coats when there are people out there freezing." 
Alumni also took an active role in collection. Over 50 differ­ent Notre Dame Alumni Clubs across the country mailed in boxes filled with coats, often col­lected at local bars during game watches. 
Project Warmth also received Aircraft Landing Systems in South Bend. 

over  200 coats  from  both  
Marian  High  school  in  
Mishawaka  and  Honeywell  

About 1,000 coats were deliv­ered to 22 Ways of Giving, affili­ated with Channel WSVP, to dis­tribute among non-profit organi­zations with which the station works. Five hundred coats will be sent with students volunteer­ing in Appalachia during spring break. 
The rest of the coats were delivered to various community service organizations in South Bend. including St. Margaret's House, the Salvation Army, Center for the Homeless and St. Vincent DePaul. 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu 
Alumna leads Martin Luther King tnernorial 
to herself to carry out her dreams. 
Currently, Dawning is the Superintendent of Benton Harbor Area Schools in Michigan. The district is 91 per­cent African-American and Dawning and told those in attendance that one of her jobs was to "try to overcome schools made of one predominant race. Children must be prepared for the world, and they can learn from one another." 
The audience became aware of the need to prepare today's children during Dawning's speech. 
"What will you do at Saint Mary's to help? You can step up and do what's morally right. Maybe it's at Benton Harbor, or a Benton Harbor somewhere else. What is it that you are willing to die for?" she asked. 
Dawning finished with a reminder of King's dream. 
"He redirected history and transformed communities. He stood for character and took the hard road. He wanted to ensure that every child in America has a chance to live his or her dream," she said. 
The event was sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Sisters of Nefertiti, the InterCultural Living Community and Justice Education. 
Contact Amanda Misnik at amanda.misnik. l@nd.edu 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 


Members discuss alcohol policy 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Executive cabinet members convened Monday in their first meeting of the semester to dis­cuss the effects of the 
University's new alcohol policy, which went into effect last fall. 
Student 
B o d y 
President 

L i b b Y Bishop
Bishop is slated to present a report of the policy's effects and student responses to it to the Board of Trustees in February. Her report will specifically address the changes regarding hall dances. 
"We want to focus on the dances because that's where students' experience is and that's where the complaints have been coming from," Bishop said. Hall dances are currently allowed to be held in on-campus and off-campus venues, but not in the residence halls. 
Several members criticized the dance policy, saying the new rules have made planning and logistics for dances complicated. 
"It's difficult for the larger dorms to find places to hold dances," said calendar coordi­nator Susan Longenbaker. "[McGlinn's] SYR was in the South Dining Hall, and it was just horrid." 
Judicial Council President Danielle Ledesma expressed discontent with campus loca­tions approved by the University administration, noting that 
see CABINET/page 4 


By AMANDA MISNIK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's held its twelfth annual Interfaith Prayer Service for Justice and Peace on Monday where alumnus Paula Dawning, class of 1971, spoke about Martin Luther King, Jr. 's profound impact on her life. "He stood for excellence, stood for reaching a dream," said Dawning. "Through caring and compassion, you can make a difference." 
Dawning grew up in South Bend during a time of urban unrest, but pursued an education at the her grandmother's insis­tance. She became interested in Saint Mary's when student teachers from the College visited South Bend Central High School. Dawning sensed that Saint Mary's would be encouraging and supportive."I came to Saint Mary's to follow my dream ... faith was with me," she said. 
Dawning's freshman year was a big transition, especially because there was little diversity on the campus. In the spring of 1968, King was killed. 
"[I felt like] a vacuum sweeper had sucked all of the air out of me. I had to think about 'what did it mean?"' 
Dawning understood the impact of a sin­gle person through this time in her life. She realized that one person could make a difference anywhere, and made a promise 

NEWS ANALYSIS 


Affirmative action case should not affect Notre Dame 
acceptance of students to its undergradu­"We are picking on a group that has harmful effects on the diversity of the By HIMANSHU KOTIIARI ate program and law school. They will benefited for the least amount of time," University. News Writer also examine if Michigan said Dan Saracino, assis­"It would be very unfortunate if the 
set up racial quotas, which tant provost of Notre Dame Supreme Court took away the ability of 
The controversy surrounding the violate the Equal "We are picking on a admissions. educational institutions to use sensitively University of Michigan's approach to affir­Opportunity Act. group that has Saracino pointed out that calibrated affirmative action," said law mative action in admissions is causing Michigan's present system the Notre Dame student professor Fernard Dutile. 
benefitedfor the least 

other academic institutions to re-examine ranks students on a scale body is currently 16 per­The current case is similar to the Bakke their own policies. of 120 points and gives amount oftime." cent minorities and the case of 1978 when the Supreme Court Affirmative action, established in the minority applicants an office would like to see that ruled against UC-Davis, stating that the 1960s, was designed to level the playing additional 20 points. figure increased to 20 per­admissions policy of its Medical school was
Dan Saracino 

field for minority students who had been While the Michigan poli­cent. unconstitutional because it used race as a
assistant provost

historically discriminated against in uni­cy faces stiff resistance 'This is not a quota like criterion for admission. versity and college admissions. from President George the Michigan [admissions The University of Michigan argues that The Supreme Court will decide in the Bush, many Notre Dame faculty and policy], but a goal," he said. the method it employs was only to support coming months if the University of administrators see benefits to an affrrma­Notre Dame professors also worry that 
see ACTION/page 4 

Michigan used race as the sole reason for tive action policy. the end of affirmative action could have 
'' 
'' 
I 4 I I 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Seeking logical laws 
As most students know, Indiana has some extremely odd policies regarding alcohol. Manv students' have made the trip to Meijer ·on Sunday only to find that they can't buy alcohol (but then turn up 31 and are 
able to purchase it 10 miles north in Michigan), others have found out the hard way that peo­ple under 21 are prohibited from driving a car with alcohol in it 


(regardless of Scott whether or not 
Brodfuehrer 
someone of age is in the car or pur­chased the alcohol) Associate and all students News Editor are familiar with the rule that pro­hibits anyone under 21 from being in a bar. Perhaps the first two regulations have some logical base, but the last one seems to be pointless. 
In many states, the popular adage is "18 to party, 21 to drink." But in Indiana, you have to be 21 to party. And as anyone who has spent one weekend on campus knows, this policy does not deter many students from drinking or going to a bar, it just sends them on a quest to get a fake ID (violat­ing several state and federal laws in the process) so they can hang out at popu­lar establishments like Boat Club, Corby's and the State. And because everyone who enters the bar is "of age" they can all purchase and drink unlim­ited quantities of alcohol. leading many underage students to drink to excess on weekends. 
But what would happen if students could enter South Bend's finer estab­lishments at the age of 18? Like clubs in many other states. bouncers would distinguish between those who were old enough to drink and those who weren't with hand stamps and wrist bands and while everyone could dance and social­ize, only those of age (or, as is the pre­sent case anyone with a good enough ID stating that they are 21) would be able to drink. Certainly. some students would continue to seek out that fake ID so that they could purchase alcohol. but my hunch is that a large percentage of student<; who now have fakes wouldn't find a need for them as they could enter their club of choice and hang out in an environment a little more excited than a dorm room packed with 20 freshmen. 
Presumably. Indiana's policy is in effect to prevent minors having access to alcohol. But, instead. it just leads otherwise good students to forge state documents to try and get into a club (and of course preventing underage oldies lovers from singing karaoke at TGI Friday's). Instead of preventing access to alcohol, students decide to obtain false identifications and then can and do drink when perhaps the objec­tive on some of their parts was just to get off-campus. Obviously the best solution would be for underagers to suck it up at wait until they turned 21. but in absence of that, other changes should be considered. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suivc:s for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
I' 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Human rights 
Powell urges 
advocate 
UN to take 
speaks on 
action on Iraq 


Burma 
James Mawdsley 
Secretary of State 
described his expe­
Colin Powell urged 
riences while 
the United Nations 
imprisoned in 
not to be "shocked 
Burma for over 60 
into impotence" 
weeks. He also 
over Iraq and 
spoke of the mass 
spoke of a war 
oppression of 
against Iraq as a 
Burmese citizens. 
real option. 
page3 


page S 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture. "Unemployment, Macroeconomic Policy and Labor Market Flexibility: Argentina and Mexico and the 1990s," with Jaime Hoos, room C-04, llesburgh Center, 12:30 p.m. 

. 
International Film Series. The Son's Room, (Italian with English subtitles). Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center, 7 and 9p.m. 




WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs Brown Bag Lunch, llaggar College Center room 303, 12 p.rn. 

. 
Volunteer Service Fair, LeMans Hall, Hcignbcaux Lounge, 4:30 


p.m. 
. Hcsidcnce Hall Association Information Session, Haggar College Center Parlor, 7:00 p.rn. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled Thin Spaghetti, Boiled Shells. boiled Tri-color Rotini. Meatball with Sauce, Alfredo Sauce, Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Hawaiian Pizza, Pretzel Sticks, Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Roast. Champagne Rice Pilaf, Whipped Potatoes, Baked Cajun Pollack. Cheese & Vegetable Pie, Tomato & Cilantro Black Beans 
Today's Dinner: Roasted Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Brown Sauce, Turkey Gravy. Whipped Potatoes, Sugar Snap Peas, Stewed Tomatoes, BBQ Pork Spareribs, Applesauce, Cornbread, Broccoli Garlic Tofu, Oriental Vegetables, Chicken Taco, Taco Meat 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
I.LI 
::c 
ti 
I.LI 
3: 
..I ti( 
(,) 


BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 


Herald Tribune 
Equity from CEO ousted 
grade one would make affirmative action 
Peter Goldman, 
irrelevant 
chairman and CEO, of the International 
A columnistHerald Tribune argues America
was fired Monday should start at theover problems with bottom to correctthe paper's owner, its race problems.
The New York Times. 
page 8page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Injured students transported 
A student was transported from Farley Hall by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. In a separate incident, NDPD trans­ported a student from the Rockne Memorial to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

Calculator lost 
A student reported losing her calcu­lator in the library. 

Fire alarms go off 
NDPD and NDFD responded to false fire alarms in Dillon Hall and Welsh Family Hall. 

Minors cited for alcohol 
NDPD issued three University cita­tions for minor in possession of alco­hol at the main gate. The case is being referred for administrative review. 

Student transported, cited 
NDPD transported a student, who had been drinking, to the University Health Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. The case is being referred for administra­tive review. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch:Meatball with Sauce, Baked Cheese Ravioli, Gorgonzola Sauce, Mexican Beef Pizza. Pretzel Sticks, Macaroni & Cheese, Cauliflower, BBQ Chicken , Grilled Tuna with Lemon. Roast Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Long Grain & Wild Rice, Cranberry Sauce, Grilled Chicken. Seasoned Fries, Onion Rings 
Today's Dinner: Spinach Pie, Green Bean Casserole, Turkey Noodle Casserole, Fried Perch, Roast Top Round, Sauteed Mushrooms, Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich, Seasoned Fries, Chicken Kung Pao, Taco Basket 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
*
**** * ** 


...I 0 HIGH 17 HIGH 13 HIGH 16 HIGH 12 LOW 8 LOW 8 LOW 11 LOW 9 
SCENE SPORTS 

Alanis plays  Despite sick­ 
psychologist  ness, Irish  
swim well  
A I a n i s Morissette's new album, Under Rug Swept, possesses deeply contempla­tive lyrics and is her most intellectu­al to date.  Even with a number of swim­mers at home with a virus, the wom­ens swimming and diving team defeat­ed Illinois away with a final score of  
192.5 -175.5.  
page 7  page 7  
" '  

Cars towed on-campus 
A visitor's vehicle was towed from Washington Hall for a parking viola­tion. A student's vehicle was also towed from the Bookstore lot for a parking violation. Another vehicle parked at the South Dining Hall lot was towed for a parking violation. 
Kontrol Kard lost 
A University employee reported los­ing her Kontrol Kard at an off-cam­pus location. 
Golf cart released 
A golf cart which was brought into the Security Building for safekeeping was released. 
Dorm vandalized 
NDPD is investigating a vandalism complaint at Carroll Hall. 
Camera stolen 
A student reported the theft of a camera from Reckers. There are no suspects. 
Wallet found, returned 
A University employee found a stu­dent's wallet in DeBartolo Hall and turned it in to NDPD for safekeeping. The wallet was later released to the student. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Teriyaki cashew Tofu, spinach & Grilled Vegetable Gratin, Tossed Pasta. Brussels Sprouts, Shrimp Scampi with Linguine. Monte Cristo Sandwich, Sloppy Joe, Extreme Fries. Cheese Burger Pizza, Philly Steak Loafer, Oriental Turkey Salad, Sliced Honey Ham, Sliced Smoked Turkey, Olive Hummus, Beef Stew 
Today's Dinner: Thai Vegetarian Wrap, Soba Noodle Salad, Herb Pasta, Sizzling Caesar Salads, Carved Roast Beef, Whipped Sweet Potatoes, Green Beans Almandine, French Bread Pizza, Ham & Potato Au Gratin Casserole, Southern Pecan Pie 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 18 HIGH 29 LOW 14 LOW 14 

Atlanta 54 / 38 Boston 21 /7 Chicago 19 / 5 Denver 52 / 32 Houston 73 / 50 Los Angeles 67 / 51 Minneapolis 9 / -3 New York 26 / 11 Philadelphia 26 / 11 Phoenix 70 / 50 Seattle 46 / 40 St. Louis 29 / 14 Tampa 69 I 53 Washington 31 / 17 
I I 


~ 


Tuesday, January 21, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Political prisoner speaks out on military dictatorship in Burma 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Iluman rights advocate James Mawdsley detailed his experiences of being impris­oned in Burma for over 60 weeks to a packed crowd Monday evening in DeBartolo Hall. Mawdslcy intentionally faced imprisonment three sep­arate times to call attention to the mass oppression. displace­ment and murder suffered by thousands of Burmese citizens at the hands or their own mili­tary. 
"Since 1962, Burma has been driven into the ground by a military dictatorship," Mawdsley said. "[The Burmese army! is murdering with absolute impunity -the regime is totally backing this kind of behavior." 
A mass execution of student protesters in 1988 first brought international attention to the oppressive regime and lead to a democratic election during which 1.he National League for Democracy won 80 percent of the parliamentary seats. However, the dictatorship refused to cede control. impris­oning many of the democratic leaders and further tightening its control of the country. Thirty-nine Democratic mem­
hers of Parliament have since simply reading about the sub­died in prison and another 17 ject in a textbook. are still imprisoned as the mili­"I wanted to look into lthe tary dictatorship refuses to Burmese army and dictators'] hand over control. eyes and see if some morality 
''I'd like you all to think could appeal to them,·· he said. about what is stopping you "l thought the best way of from going to Burma right doing this was through being a now," Mawdsley said, challeng­prisoner." ing the audi-Mawdsley ence. decided to 
Mawdsley first "You don't have to do travel to traveled to Burma and
anything illegal or 

Burma in 1996 intentional­
immoral to be a prisoner

and worked ly get him­teaching English in Burma; youjust have self arrest­to refugees from ed and
to speak the truth.,. 

the displaced imprisoned. Karen tribe. Officials Government James Mawdsley deported forces burned Human rights advocate Mawdsley down his school in 1997 and forced after he Mawdsley to flee. after which chained himself to the railings he became committed to the of a school in Rangoon and cause of democracy and chanted anti-government slo­human rights in Burma. gans. He illegally returned and 
"It is almost impossible for us distributed anti-governmental to put into context the suffering posters, for which he was and injustice [in Burma]. We arrested and sentenced to five now have so much moral rela­years. Mawdsley served 98 tivism about what is right and days in l.nsein Prison, an expe­wrong," he said. rience that filled him with 
Born in Germany but raised "paralyzing, devastating fear." in England. Mawdsley left "You don't have to do any­Bristol University after one thing illegal or immoral to be a year. He said that he could prisoner in Burma; you just learn so much more about have to speak the truth,"he human rights from visiting a said. place like Burma as opposed to Despite the torture he faced 
during previous imprison­Nelson Mandella's autobiogra­ments. Mawdsley again phy. returned to Burma in 1999 and "I came to a rapacious happi­distributed anti-government ness; I was overwhelmed by leaflets. Cod's love. I 
Officials sen­tenced him to 17 years in  "We can think of.freedom as a blessing but also as  believe that God wants us to confront  
prison, and he served 418  a responsibility. "  tyranny -he hates oppres­ 
days in the Kengtung jail. During this  James Mawdsley Human rights advocate  s i o n , Mawdsley said.  
imprisonment,  Mawdsley  
Mawdsley  wrote  an  
faced solitary  autobiogra­ 

confinement in a 27-by-23-foot phy, "The Heart Must Break," cell. Prison guards rarely per­based on his experiences and mitted him to leave the cell and has returned to Burma four frequently subjected him to times since his last arrest to beatings and torture. work on charity missions and International pressure from the to gain information on the cur­United States and Europe rent political situation. forced the regime to release "We can think of freedom as Mawdsley in October of 2000. a blessing but also as a respon­
"There is no due process or sibility," he said. "I don't think legality in Burma -there is of freedom or justice as party­not even the knowledge ofit," political." he said, Mawdsley currently works 
Mawdsley said that he paced for an organization called back and forth for hours on Christian Solidarity Worldwide end to prevent insanity from and will run as a Conservative setting in and cherished any candidate for the British House semblance of human contact of Commons in the next elec­with guards or fellow prison­tion. The law school sponsored ers. Mawdsley said that his his talk. religious belief and faith allowed him to persevere and 
Contact Joe Trombello at

gleaned inspiration for read­
jtrombel@nd.edu

ings works like the Bible or 



CONGRATULATIONS 
to the following outstanding Notre Dame students accepted into Teach For America. They've shown they have the leadership and commitment needed to tackle one of our nation's most challenging problems. 
FINAL APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 21 www.teachforamerica.org 
One day, all children will have an equal chance in life. 

'I' 
If ff 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 21, 2003 

Cabinet 
continued from page I 
many of them are difficult to schedule. "If the administration says they have all these loca­tions for us, they should be available and affordable," Ledesma said. 
Some members expressed concern that the new policy might actually lead to more abusive drinking off-campus. 
"The parties off-campus have gotten more rowdy, and I've been seeing more hard alcohol and more citations," said Club Coordination Council member Joyce Deleon. 
Off-campus Co-President Dan Barabas agreed. noting the recent case of missing student Chad Sharon, who disappeared after leaving a party on Corby Street on Dec. 12 and has not been seen since. 
"Nothing like that has hap­pened before in my four years here," Barabas said. 
Bishop likewise expressed concern about the effects of the dance policy on off-campus drinking. 


Action 
continued from page 1 
and increase diversity. 
Affirmative action policies have already been discontinued at other state universities. The states of Florida, California and Texas no longer use race when making admissions decisions, a move strongly opposed by many Hispanic organizations. However, the change did not decrease the percentage of Hispanic students in the schools. 
While law school professor Donald Kommers said he feels 

Get your 

GAJ41 FACE 

on for a WIL-.p night! 
Happy 21st Jess! lo"e, the girls 

'Tm worried about seeing an increase in the number of fresh­men going off campus," Bishop said. 
However, she said she was optimistic about the new alcohol policy in general. 
"We're enthusiastic about working with Student Affairs io make little improvements to the dance policy," Bishop said. "We see a lot of potential for success, and we want to work to ensure that potential is fulfilled." 
In other Cabinet news: 
. Student leaders discussed an appeal for funding from the Coalition for Asian Awareness. The CAA, an umbrella group of campus Asian-American clubs, requested $2,200 to finance its annual conference, entitled "In Focus 2003: Unlocking the Past, Shaping the Future." The con­ference will also have work­shops on Asian cuisine, dance and crafts. The cabinet passed the request for funding unani­mously. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd.edu 
that affirmative action is rightly justified he also feels factors 
other than race could be used. 
"There are neutral factors like socio-economic status, the region [and] high school ... that could lead to higher diversity if not the same diversity [of an institution without opposing the Equal Opportunity Act]." said Kommers. While Notre Dame presently stands firm in its poli­cy, the final outcome of the Michigan case could drastically alter the way it looks at its incoming student body. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari at himanshu.kothari. l@nd.edu 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


BOG agrees to fund Circle K, Senior Retreat 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance heard presentations from Circle K representatives and the senior class president at its first meeting of the spring semester Monday. 
Saint Mary's Circle K President Melissa Bulak and Secretary Elizabeth Rossworm requested funds to attend a convention at Purdue University. 
"It is a great way to get the Saint Mary's name out to people at the convention who are from all parts of Indiana and the train­ing [will continue to helpl the chili for next year," Bulak said. 
Bulak hopes that Saint Mary's will receive the distinguished club award; the club is the sec­ond largest in the state, with 62 paid members who have logged over 1,000 hours of service. 
"This is really good when com­pared to the huge state schools like Indiana University," Bulak said. 
Bulak and Rossworm request­ed $1,180 for the trip. The Board unanimously approved this request. Senior class presi­dent Rachel Finely requested funds from the Board to co-spon­sor the senior retreat. The retreat will take place Jan. 31 and Feb. 1 at Moreau Seminary. 
"Senior retreat used to be a big deal. but it disappeared over the years," said Finely. "Last year's [senior] board resurrected it and wants to continue the retreat tra­dition. The cost per person is $40 and includes meals. 

"It's a chance to reflect, get to know people that you know even better and get to know people you didn't even know before," Finely said. The Board will allot $1,500 to the senior retreat fund. 
In other news: 

Lindsay Evans. Saint Mary's representative to Notre Dame. announced that she is coordinat­ing a dinner between the Notre Dame Student Senate and the Board with Libby Bishop. Notre Dame student body president. The dinner will be held at Saint Mary's later this semester. 
they took 20 girls." Contact Sarah Nestor at This year's senior class board sarah.nestor,6@nd.edu 

"Residing in a World of Ideas" 
The College of Arts and Letters 
and 
The Office of Student Affairs 

are pleased to announce an initiative to engage 
faculty and students in serious discussions 
within our residence halls 

Any matters of pressing importance (international, national, and local), ofconsiderable cultural currency (new and influential works in the arts, in scholarship, and in literature) of great religious importance (decisions by international religious leaders, the actions of theocratic states, the workings of religiously-inspired popular movements) or of great ethical concern ( cloning, globalization, environmentalism) 
The successful application should include: 

• 
A brief description of the topic to be addressed, with some indication that a diversity of opinion will be aired. 

• 
Names and departments of the faculty speakers (at least one must be A & L), and, if applicable, names of the student speakers. 

• 
Signature ofsupport from at least two students, one rector, and one senior staff member of the Office of Student Affairs. 

• 
Evidence that the discussion could draw twenty or more students. 

• 
Dates, times, and locations for the discussions. 

• 
An estimated budget 


Proposals will be accepted and reviewed throughout the regular academic year. Please send them to: 

--,-,, -------.-.....--------~---~----~ 
-'f I I, t f i 





WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
Powell urges United Nations to stand up to Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Secretary of State Colin 
Powell, faced with stiff resis­
tan cc and calls to go slow, 
bluntly told other nations on 
Monday that the United Nations 
"must not shrink" from its 
responsibility to disarm Saddam 
Hussein's Iraq. 
"Wtl cannot be shocktld into 
impotence because we'rn afraid 
of the difficult choices ahead of 
us," Powell told memimrs of the 
U.N. Security Council. 
Directly responding to qualms registered by several foreign ministers in two days of talks, and with only Britain explicitly standing alongside the United States, Powell spoke of war as a real option. 
Germany's foreign minister took a strong stand against mil­itary action, saying it might have "negative repercussions" for the international fight against terrorism. His French counterpart called war "a dead end." 
Powell, speaking at a U.N. conference on terrorism and at a news conference, urged reluc­tant nations to focus on Baghdad's faifure to disarm and to prepare to weigh the conse­quences by the end of the month when U.N. inspectors file a report on 60 days of searches in Iraq for illicit weapons. 
"If Iraq is not disarming, the United Nations cannot turn 
away from its responsibilities," 
Powell said. 
He said the U.N. Security Council, which is due to consid­er the report on Jan. 29, must come to grips with a regime that he said has acquired, developed and stocked weapons of mass destruction and tram­pled human rights at home. 
"So no matter how difficult the road ahead may be with respect to Iraq, we must not shrink from a need to travel down that road," Powell said. 
"Hopefully, there will be a peaceful solution," he said. "But if Jraq docs not come into full compliance, we must not shrink from the responsibilities that we set before ourselves" when the Security Council called for the disarmament of Iraq. 
Casting aside diplomatic ambiguity, Powell spoke directly of war. "Iraq has a responsibili­ty now to avoid a con l1ict, to avoid a war," he said. 
The U.N. inspectors, by con­trast, have said they were mak­ing progress in their searches, may require months more of time, and have referred to the report due next Monday as only an interim report. Some 16 chemical weapons warheads have been divulged by Iraq, a move taken by the inspectors as a sign of cooperation. 
But Powell brushed that aside. He said of the Iraqis: "We cannot let them dribble out this information, dribble these war-heads out." weapons inspectors would need 

Iraq knows how many months of additional time to weapons of mass destruction it determine whether Iraq is has hidden away, Powell said, meeting its obligation to disarm. "We will not allow Iraq to frus­"The burden of proof is on trate the will of the world." Iraq to prove that it is disarm­
Separately, Secretary of ing," Rumsfeld said in a speech Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld to a Reserve Officers dismissed suggestions that U.N. Association conference. "Thus far they have been unwilling to do so." 
British Foreign Minister Jack Straw, in his U.N. speech, said it was important to "wait and see what the inspectors actually say," but he emphasized that "time is running out for Saddam Hussein." 
SOUTH KOREA 
Russia presents nuclear peace plan to North Korea 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 
North Korean President Kim Jong 11 heard a Russian plan for ending his nation's nuclear standoff during talks Monday with a Moscow envoy, his first known meeting with a foreigner since the crisis started. 
The three-part plan, presented by Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov, envisions nuclear­free status for the Korean peninsula, and written security guarantees and a humanitarian and economic aid package for the impoverished North. 
Losyukov was quoted as telling the Russian news agency ITAR-Tass that talks were "very wa:rm" and "success­ful," but he cautioned they were only a first step in ending the standoff with the United States over North Korea's nuclear ambitions. -Still, the talks represented a possible breakthrough in the dispute, even as 
U.S. officials sought support for taking it to the U.N. Security Council -a move that would increase pressure on the North, because the council can impose international sanctions. 
Russia, along with China, is one of the communist North's few remaining allies and seen as key to resolving the conflict or helping to arrange the direct talks Washington seeks with Pyongyang. 
Kim, who like his father before him rules North Korea with an iron fist, is regarded as the only power in the isolat­ed country who can make any decision on the nuclear issue. 
His meeting with Losyukov was appar­ently his first with a foreigner since early December, when his country decided to reactivate nuclear facilities frozen under a 1994 energy deal with the United States. It since expelled U.N. monitors and quit a global anti-nuclear treaty. 
Losyukov said Kim was expected to give his answer on the "package plan" directly to Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
In Beijing, U.S. Undersecretary of State John Bolton said Monday after meeting with Chinese officials that China seems to have no objection to Jet the Security Council take up the issue. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell received similar assuran-ces from China's foreign minister in New York, where both attended a U.N. conference on terrorism, a State E>epartment spokesman said. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Britain sends 26,000 troops to Gulf: 
In an effort to persuade Saddam Hussein to disarm or face the consequences, Britain announced Monday that it is sending one-quarter of its army ­a land force of 26,000 troops -to the Persian Gulf. Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said the deployment will take place in the coming weeks and would pro­vide "the right group of forces for the sort of tasks that may be necessary." 
Iraq agrees to I0-point weapons plan: Chief weapons inspectors and Iraqi officials ended two days of critical talks Monday with a 10-point agreement to make U .N. inspections more effec­tive and possibly help answer questions about what happened to thousands of chemical and bio­logical weapons. In potentially important conces­sions, the Iraqis agreed to encourage weapons sci­entists to submit to private interviews with U.N. inspectors. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

US to begin testing of children's drugs: 
The government announced plans Monday to begin clinical tests this year on 12 drugs com­monly prescribed for children even though their safety and effectiveness has been tested only in adults. "Children often react differently to drugs than adults do," said Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. "We need to conduct testing now to fully understand the effects of these medications in children." The 12 drugs include azithromycin, an antibiotic that's used to treat different types of bacterial infec­tions, and baclofen, a muscle relaxant used to relieve muscle problems caused by multiple sclerosis or spinal injuries. The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development developed the list of drugs to be tested in consultation with the Food and Drug Administration and experts in pediatric research. It will be updated annually. 
Anny sends special forces to Persian gull: 
In a major new step to prepare for a possible war in Iraq, the Army is sending a specially tailored force of about 37,000 soldiers, spearheaded by the Texas-based 4th Infantry Division, to the Persian Gulf region, officials said Monday. It is the largest ground force identified so far among an estimated 125,000 U.S. troops ordered to deploy by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld since Christmas Eve. One of the first ground units to get orders was the 3rd Infantry Division's two brigades in Georgia, which began shipping out in early January. At Fort Hood, Texas, spokesman Cecil Green said 12,500 soldiers from the 4th Infantry Division. plus nearly 4,000 from the division's 3rd Brigade at Fort Carson, Colo., received orders to deploy to the Central Command area of responsibility, which includes the Persian Gulf region. The 4th Infantry Division will be the headquarters element of a Task Force Ironhorse. 
--, r-,-·----~ ,,~-----~---­
'j t t J • I , ~ , ,. 
', 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 21, 2003 

Debate team wins top two places 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Debate Team continues to move closer toward its goal of achieving a national championship with another victory and 21 points toward the National 
Parliamentary  Debate  
Association (NPDA)  season  
sweepstakes.  

At its last competition in November. the team won the "Gateway Invitational" hosted by Washington University in St. Louis, Mo. 
Last weekend. the team closed out another tournament, this time at the College of DuPage in Glen Ellyn, Ill., just west of Chicago. The forensics tournament, the "Frank-ly Speaking," was held Jan. 17 and 18 and featured competi­tion from 15 universities and colleges. 
Three pairs from Notre Dame advanced to the quarterfinals, each pair beating their respec­tive opponents and all advanc­ing to semi-finals. The senior pair of Victoria Fetterman and Maureen Gottlieb beat a pair from Purdue University on a 3­0 decision by the judging panel. In another semifinal round, the debate pair of senior Christopher Gallo and sophomore Meghan Callahan then met the pair of junior Mainon Schwartz and senior Clayton Swope in the semifi­nals. 
As both teams had identical 5-1 records in the preliminary rounds preceding the quarter­finals, the team of Schwartz and Swope automatically advanced to finals due to high­er total speaker points from those preliminary rounds. 
Since the final round then involved another all Noire Dame match-up between the 
pairs of Schwartz, Swope and Fetterman, Gottlieb, Notre Dame finished both 1st and 2nd and the senior women took home the 1st place trophy due to their 6-0 preliminary record. 
"I continue to be so proud of this entire team," said the team's director, Kate IIucttcman, a second-year Notre Dame law student. "I feel we have a lot of positive momentum as we head into the last few months of competition before the national tourna­rnent." 
The debate team will head to Greencastle, Ind. this weekend for the 1st annual DePauw Debates on Jan. 26, then to San Diego, Calif. for the Sunset Cliffs Classic at Pt. Loma Nazarene University, Jan. 31 to Feb. 2. and finally to Mt. Pleasant, Mich. for Central Michigan University's Spring Invitational Tournament, Feb. 21 and 22, before heading to the season-end NPDA "Tournament of Champions" in Portland, Ore., March 27-30. 
Watch out boys... 
Wojan is 21 ! 
Happy Birthday Love, the girls 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group discusses Web site in1proventents 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Web site improvement reigned as the primary topic of Monday's Campus Life Council meeting when mem­bers passed two resolutions. 
The first resolution called for collaboratiop between student government and the Office of Student Affairs to provide a centralized Web site regarding student life. 
Senior senator Erin Cushing explained that the new site would consist of links focusing on academic, social and spiritual informa­tion. as well as sites on physical health and commu­nity service. 
The intention. Cushing said, is to replace the "Current Students" link on the Notre Dame homepage at www.nd.edu. 
"What they have now is not helpful," she said. 
Trip Foley, student body vice president, agreed that there was a need for a more comprehensive and accessi­ble Web site. 
"On the homepage, it's all 
hard to find," he said. 
The estimated cost of the 
new Web site's creation, if 
approved by Student Affairs. 
would be $400 to $600. 
The second resolution, 
which was passed unani­
mously, requested that the 
University Registrar work to 
improve its online 
Undergraduate Bulletin of 
Information. The bulletin is given to all first-year stu­dents and contains course descriptions and academic · requirements. Because the information must be down­loaded, Cushing said it is burden to wait and then scour through lhe bulletin. 
In addition, the second resolution asks for the bul­letins for the following year to be released at least two weeks before registration. 
In other CLC News: 
. 
Student body president Libby Bishop reminded members to attend meetings in response to its Dec. 2 meeting. which lacked a quorum. 

. 
In an effort to promote freshman leadership, junior Hick Harris shared an idea to target freshmen who lost dorm elections through a Web site providing club information and student leadership opportunities. The Web site would be advertised on posters. 

. 
The next CLC meeting. on Feb. 3, will address the cur­rent state of residence hall dances. 

. 
Senior Jane Ong of the communications task force reported its efforts to start an "under the dome" Web site that posts student events. 


Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


9-BALL 
BILLIARD 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. JAN. 24 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at B;OOpm) 
Prizes: 1st Place: $100 gift certificate from BEST BUY 2nd Place, $SO gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift cel"tiflcate from BEST BUY (Opportunity to compete at regional tournament) 
Space limited to first 16 people who sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. (Open to ND STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Spon5or-Ed by thE Student Activities Office.. 


Tuesday, January 21, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 20 
Dow Jones 
8,586.74 • -lll.13 

N4SDAQ 
1,376.19 
-47.56 

S&P500 
901.78 -12.81
•
AMEX 
832.26 
-2.14 


NYSE •
5.108.51 -56.83 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +1.35+0.05 3.7: 




G!;-~~o1:5:x~1te~~m;:~p~s?t' n:m~Jt .:i~ 
MICROSOFT CORP(MSFT) -7 .03 -3.89 51.4E 


~~wA9~1-:t~;-g~f~:~t1:~,~w1,1;1 
. 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.00-0.8616.34 
IN BRIEF Boeing report dismissed as speculative 
Aerospace company BAE Systems on Monday dismissed as speculative a report that it has held exploratory talks with Boeing Co. about a possible merger that would create a $32 billion defense business. 
The Sunday London Times reported that senior bankers held talks on behalf of the two companies last autumn. before BAE issued a profit warning in December. Although the paper said the two sides have put their talks on hold, it cited sources close to BAE as say­ing the companies are still eager to do a deal. 
BAE Systems spokesman Richard Coltart described the report as "speculation" but would neither confirm nor deny that talks with Boeing had taken place last fall. Similar reports have surfaced in the past, he said. 
Boeing spokesman John Dern declined com­ment Monday. 
European Union urges budget cuts 
European Union finance ministers Monday 
leaned on France to slash its budget deficit 
to avoid undermining the stability of the 
euro. despite Paris' insistence that its weak · 
economy requires stimulus, not restraint.. 
A new attempt to end years of wrangling 
over how to clamp down on cross-border 
tax dodgers also was on the adgenda for EU 
finance ministers at their two-day meeting. 
Diplomats said resolution was far from 
assured. 
Ministers agreed Monday night to hit 
Germany. whose budget is in even worse 
shape than France's, with a harsher rApri­
mand. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's 
government has already moved to raise 
taxes and pledged to reduce its deficit this 
year. 
In a way his hands are tied since it was 
Germany that insisted on strict budget disci­
pline when the euro rules were drafted a 
decade ago, to prevent countries with a his­
tory of red ink from weakening the shared 
currency. 
Herald Tribune CEO ousted 
+NY Times dismisses Goldmark 
Associated ·Press 
PARIS 
The chairman and chief exAcutive officer of the International Herald Tribune was ousted from his post Monday over what he said wore "deep differences" with the newspaper's sole owner, The New York Times. 
Peter C. Goldmark 
becomes the third top­
ranking manager to leave 
the Herald Tribune since 
the Times bought out the 
half belonging to its long­
ti me partner. The 
Washington Post, in an 
acrimonious deal late last 
year. 
The Times issued a 
statement saying that 
Richard Wooldridge, the 
IHT's president and chief 
operating officer since 
1998, was taking over the 
paper's business opera­
tions. He will report to 
Janet L. Robinson, senior 
vice president of newspa­
per operations for The 
New York Times Co. and 
president and general 
manager of The New York 
Times newspaper. 
Goldmark accused the 
Times of ending the Paris­and independent perspec­The Associated Press. Tribune. 
based IHT's indepen­tives that see the world "The only time we ceased Before the deal, the 
dence. He said he had whole and are not man­publication was during Times and Post each held 
been asked to leave and aged from America." the Nazi occupation dur­half of the Herald 
that his job was being Catherine J. Mathis, a ing World War 11, when Tribune, a 115-year-old eliminated as part of a spokeswoman for the the newspaper was not daily with more than 20 
able to have an indepen­printing sites and a circu­plan for the paper's edito­Times, said the Times dis­lation of about 260,000 inrial department to report agreed with Goldmark's dent voice." 
The end of the 35-year places as divergent as
exclusively to New York. comments. "I was not quite ready "We believe that the IHT partnership between Japan, Lebanon and 
to go, but The New York International Herald the Post and the Times Spain. 
was bitter. The deal -· Wells. a former Times
Times has asked me to Tribune has always been 
assistant national editor
go," he said in a state­a strong example of inde­which the Times said who spent 21 years at the
ment. "This means I am pendent, high quality, amounted to less than $75 million was !HT, came out of retire­
the last publisher of the objective journalism and 
ment to take charge ofIHT as an independent we expect that that will announced in October, 
and the purchase took the paper, replacing exec­newspaper with its own continue," she said 
voice and its own interna­!HT Managing Editor place Dec. 30. Control of utive editor David 
management was handed Ignatius, who returned to
tional outlook on the Walter Wells echoed her 
over the next day. the Post as a columnist.
world." remarks. 
In a at the time Robert McCartney, the
Goldrnark said he and "I think what he seri­memo the Times disagreed "on ously failed to understand of the announcement. the JHT's former managing 
Post suggested it had editor, returned to the
many issues" in the last correctly is that there is 
Post to become its
few months. no more powerful, inde­been strong-armed into "That is a great loss," pendent voice in all its selling after the Times European economics cor­threatened to start a com• respondent based in
he said. "The world needs mutations than The New 
more independent voices York Times," Wells told petitor to the Herald Paris. 

Disney settles $20 million lawsuit 
A Disney executive speaking on
Disney general counsel Louis 
condition of anonymity told the
Associated Press Meisinger allegedly was angered by 
Times that there was no connection
her refusal to sign off on Disney's
LOS ANGELES 
between Meisingcr's departure and
response to an IRS audit.
Walt Disney Co. has settled a $20­
Denenholz, who was senior vice the case settlement. 
m illion "whistle-blower" lawsuit 
The IRS audit focused on how
president of the company's world­
brought by a former executive who 
Disney was accounting for taxes
wide anti-piracy division, claimed
says she was fired for refusing to 
stemming from legal and profession­
that Disney had substantially under­
help the company allegedly cheat the 
al expenses incurred in copyright
stated what it owed the IRS.
IRS. 
and trademark lawsuits for 1993.
In response to the suit, Disney said 
The case, scheduled to go to trial 
it had investigated the allegations 1994 and 1995. 
Jan. 27, was settled late last week, 
Denenholz said her bosses were
leveled by Denenholz and found
the Los Angeles Times reported 
angered when she refused to
them to be "shameful and untrue."
Monday. The terms were not dis­
approve a statement to the IRS indi­
Meisinger announced Wednesday
closed. 
cating that Disney owed back taxes
that he would be leaving the compa­
In her March 2001 suit, Judy 
of $676,000. She believed the com­
ny to serve as an adviser to a Los
Denenholz said she was wrongfully 
pany was omitting millions of dollars 
Angeles law firm and would continue
terminated afler a series of clashes 
in legal expenses, 
to be a consultant to Disney. 
with the company's chief lawyer. 
___,...._...__ ...., 
_________________________all!'_______..,___ 
_ 
, , . 
i', 
t' ''
.' I•;. I '' '' j Ii t 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR• Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: !Cristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herrler, Marr Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR• Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESrGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMIMSTRATOR: Ted Bangen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER, Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX..................................................... ....... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnroRIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .o bsnews. l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO•.... ········· ..........................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............•....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obs,rver.ndedu for daily updares ofcampus news, sporrs, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, i, not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information, 
Questiom regarding Obsmm policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obscrier (USr'S )99 240) it published Monday through Friday c:aup1 during o:arn u,d v~OOn pc-nod,. Atub1eripOon io The Obsuva U SJ 00 bone' ..-adcmic year; S,S for one K'lllCllt.r. 
Thr ObM:-n-er b publiihed .i:t: l'OSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.0 Smd addrcu ..::ona.:tian• ro; 
Nouc Dane, !N 465'56 IbeOb,c-rver 
P.O. llmQ Perioclic..l pomge paid ~1 Nocn: Dame Notre OJ111e, IN 46556-11779 and additional mailing offi~. 
n.~ OtKcm::r U. • m(tnUCr of1hc AnoW1cd rfru. All n:produaion •i&hts .ate 
...,,...... 

Equality from grade one would make affirmative action irrelevant 
I might be the picture of the typical Notre Dame student: white, Catholic school-educated and straight out of the suburbs. Many of my friends fit comfortably into this category. Together we are 
Joanna
the picture of 
Mlkulskl
homogeneity. This fall a study in the Journal of Blacks 
Tuesday Voice
in Higher Education ranked Notre Dame 22nd out of the 26 top-tier universities in diversity. The lack of racial diversity has left many in the campus commu­nity wondering how this school can attract more qualified minority candi­dates to create a more diverse student body. 
This University is not alone in its struggle. Admissions policies at University of Michigan, both in the undergraduate and graduate schools, have come under scrutiny since Barbara Grutter, a white applicant to the law school, sued the school for admission. The lawsuit, now headed to the Supreme Court, claims that Grutter would have been admitted if she were black. 
Race plays a definite role in Michigan's admissions process. On the point scale for undergraduate admis­sions, Hispanic ethnicity gets a stu­dent more points than a perfect score on the SAT. In some cases, the test scores and GPAs which gave white and Asian students a slim chance of admittance got African-American can­didates into the school 100 percent of the time. 
While an honest and well-intcn­tioned effort to create a diverse stu­dent body likely lies behind such admissions policies, many argue that the use of race-based admissions poli­cies equates to nothing more than a practice in quotas based on the assumption of underachievement. 
Furthermore, in the battle for the best students, diversity is no joking matter. Diversity in the student body gets a school more prestige and a bet­ter ranking in the all-important annu­al USA Today poll. 
As a student, I measure diversity in the classroom by the range of opin­ions and outlooks offered by my class­mates. These differences in perspec­tive, which emerge from unique life experiences, open minds and inspire new thinking. 
Given the prevalence of racism in American society, race is certainly a factor in the diversity equation. It plays a role in any American's experi­ence. 
However, differences in skin color alone do not guarantee diversity in the student body. A black student who attended a private school in a subur­ban community like my hometown would likely have a more similar per­spective to my own than a white stu­dent who grew up in a poor urban or rural community. 
Yet, at the same time, disparities in wealth and educational opportunities cannot be ignored. Consider the case of standardized tests. Whites are more likely to have the money to buy precious points on the SAT or ACT. The predominantly white private girls' high school I attended not only offered help to the low scorers, it shuttled successful students to a class intended to turn their good scores into National Merit Finalist material. 
Few students at nearby city high schools had the benefit of professional coaching, a 500-word vocabulary list and innumerable copies of old tests. 
To solve the race, diversity and col­lege admissions puzzle, Americans need to start at the bottom. It seems to me that if schools were equal from grade one, colleges and universities would end up with a racially diverse student body without the help of affir­mative action admissions policies. 
Until then, the only way to compen­sate for inherent societal inequalities is to treat each applicant as an indi­vidual. Race should be considered not as a defining label. but as one aspect of the full picture of the applicant. the person, the student. 
Such consideration requires a mea­sured effort by admissions officers to look well past the numbers, the test scores. the GPAs and race. Given the increasing volume of applicants. this no doubt becomes more difficult each year. 
But, in the end, the extra effort would be well worth it. The benefits of a diverse student body go well beyond the numbers on a stat sheet or a ranking in USA Today. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski.J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger 
Viewpoint 
Dolores Diaz 
Graphics 
•Christ Naidus 
Sports 
Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Charee Holloway 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Sofia Ballon 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should colleges be allowed to use race as a 
"So far as laws and institutions avail, men 
factor in admissions decisions? 
should have equality ofopportunity for hap­piness; that is, ofeducation, wealth, power." 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Rutherford B. Hayes 
U.S. President 
t I' I
\ \.' ' 'I I. 
, lit./ 
, t I I 
O
THE 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday,January 21, 2003 page 9 
University strays from Church homosexuality stance 
A recent Vatican statement invites reflection on the homosexual issue and Notre Dame's position. In December, the Vatican released a response sent by Cardinal Medina Estevez, Prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, to a bish­op who asked if it is licit to ordain "men with homosexual ten­dencies." The response said; "Ordination to the diaconatc and the priesthood of homo­sexual men or men with homosexual tendencies is absolutely inadvis­able and imprudent and. from the pas­toral point of view, very risky. A homosex­ual person, or one with a homosexual ten­dency, is not, therefore, lit to rece.ive the sacrament of Holy Orders." 
The inquiry and response may have arisen from the fact that most cases in the clerical sex abuse scandal involve not assaults on young children but homosexu­al relations between priests and adoles­cents or young adults. 
Whether such a response to an individ­ual bishop is authoritative is debatable. But the response raises an important 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
issue. An implicit premise of the response is thal the homosexual inclination is, as the Catechism puts it, "objectively disor­dered." That inclination is not itself a sin but it is disordered because it is a tenden­cy toward "intrinsically disordered" acts. 
The recognition of the homosexual incli­nation as itself disordered is important because the media and the academy have fostered a national brain cramp on every aspect of this issue. A cascade of laws and regulations is establishing a virtual parity between sodomitic relations and authen­tic marriage. The family, founded on mar­riage between a man and a woman. is the bedrock of civil society because it is the source of life and nurturing for future generations. 
The homosexual relation, by contrast. is a dead end with no future. If it were uni­versalized, there would soon be no civil society. Homosexual acts are not wrong because they are prohibited by the Church. Rather, the Church merely affirms the reality, recognized by millen­nia of moral teaching, that such acts are contrary to the natural law and destruc­tive of the person and the society that attempts to legitimize them. 
Which brings us back to Notre Dame. The University rightly insists that "gay, lesbian and bisexual students" are enti­tled to respect and acceptance as mem­bers of the Notre Dame community. As the Catechism says, "men and women [with] homosexual tendencies ... must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimi­nation in their regard should be avoided." 
However, while the administration affmns that homosexual acts are prohibit­ed by "official Church teaching," it refuses to affirm that the inclination toward those acts is disordered. This position is inco­herent and misleading. If, as the Catechism recognizes, "homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered," how can the inclination toward those acts be anything but "objectively disordered"? If the incli­nation is not disordered. why may it not be acted upon? The administration's poli­cy implies that the prohibition of homo­sexual acts is not an application of the natural law but an arbitrarv "official Church teaching," no more·binding than other Church teachings which are widely regarded as merely advisory at Notre Dame. 
These misleading implications are rein­forced by the solicitude extended by the administration to homosexual students beyond that accorded to students with other disordered inclinations. DuLac rightly affirms the University's "desire to support our gay and lesbian students [and its] responsibility to remain faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church." 
A standing committee identifies "the ongoing needs of gay and lesbian students and [implements] campus-wide educa­tional programming on gay and lesbian issues." In contrast, students with "eating disorders" are told merely that they have a problem for which treatment is avail­able. Smokers. the ultimate pariahs of political correctness, are offered "smoking cessation programs" and smoking is virtu­ally banned on campus. Not for them the "welcoming" solicitude offered by the Administration to those inclined to sodomy rather than smoking. 
The University's policies convey an impression that, unlike an inclination to overeating or smoking, a homosexual inclination is a neutral or even positive factor in the lives of those concerned. This could generate confusion as to the nature of marriage and the family. 
Our leaders act .in what they see as the best interests of the University and its stu­dents. Evidently. they care and they want to be pastoral. But it is neither caring nor pastoral to evade the truth. The teaching of the Church here shows the way to pro­mote the dignity of the person in accord with the nature of the family and authen­tic love. If Notre Dame is a Catholic uni­versity as it claims, it is obliged to affirm the entire truth of that teaching. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law 
Schoolfaculty. His column appears every 
other Tuesday. He can be reached at 
plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
An SUV does not a terrorist make 
I would love to have a Yukon Denali -a huge massive ton of steel fancied up with automatic win­dows. locks and a compact disc player. 
Yet, according to The Detroit Project. wanting a sport utility vehicle the size of a small house -or, even worse. owning an SUV -Meagan makes me just as much a ter-K 11 h 
rorist as the pilots who flew e e er 
those planes into the World 
Trade Center. The Detroit 
University
Project, a part of Americans 
Daily Kansan 
for Fuel Efficient Cars, is a 
group of people dedicated to 
promoting the "much more 
credible link between driving SUVs and our national 
security." 
Maybe you have seen their commercials. Groups 
of people talk about all the benefits of their SUVs. 
ranging from "My kids think it's cool" to "I helped 
blow up a nightclub." 
What? 
Well. first of all, one less nightclub in this world 
would make it a better place, but I don't think 
putting a down payment on a Chevrolet B~azer 
means you mixed the bomb that sent the future 
Justin Timberlakes and Britney Spearses of the 
world sailing into the night in a fiery mass. 
In an entirely ridiculous roundabout sort of way. 
The Detroit Project is playing a twisted "Six Degrees 
of Foreign Oil" game. This is the simplest way I can 
think of explaining it. You start with an SUV, best 
described with the overused term of"gas guzzlers." 
Apparently, because your SUV sucks up enough gas 
to light a log cabin for five years, the United States 
needs to use oil from Middle Eastern countries. So 
your gas money, your tax money and your firstborn 
all go to these Middle Eastern countries. and of 
course all these Middle Eastern countries arc run 
by tcrr~rists who despise us for even having SUVs in 
the first place. 
If I am reading this commercial correctly, and I 
like to thi.nk that I am. all Americans with an SUV 
should just paint a target on the Sears Tower and write a check to Terrorist No. 1. 
This is the most ludicrous piece of advertising and pseudo-logic that I have ever seen. The Detroit Project's Web site says that it just wants to decrease America's dependency on foreign oil and use our own instead. 
That's all fine and good, but why don't we go ahead and put up a huge electric fence around our borders and hide in bed the next time the Security Advisory System goes from blue to the far more ter­
rorizing yellow. 
The Detroit Project says it doesn't want to demo­
nize SUVs. No, it just wants to demonize the con­
sumers by making them question every foreign 
piece of merchandise that helps our nation's econo­
my and creates a greater world economy. 
We shouldn't be suckered into these cheap tactics 
of supposed patriotism. These commercials are try­
ing to pass their message off as a good deed, trying 
to get the consumer to think that they are standing 
up against terrorism. 
In reality, a.ll this is doing is convincing more peo­
ple that, no matter what they spend their money on. 
they are financing terrorism, especially if you are 
buying something even remotely and abstractly 
related to the Middle East. 
The Detroit Project needs to get a few things 
straight. Buying an SUV does not make one a patron 
for the dark arts. It is possible that I may never get 
my Yukon Denali, and I will just have to_be happy 
with my Plymouth Sundance. At least With my 
Sundance I won't be a menace to society. just a 
menace to good taste. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 17 
issue ofthe University Daily Kansan, the campus 
newspaper ofthe University ofKansas. It is reprint­
ed here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol policy should focus on 
•
community, not liability 
First, let me say I pray, like we all do, for the safety of Chad Sharon. Second, let me make clear that as a graduate student, I am not affected by the alcohol policy that began this year. 
However. when I watched the crowds of undergrads stream 
down Bulla on the weekends last semester, I could tell some­
thing like this could happen and will happen again unless the 
University makes changes. Next time it will be a young 
woman getting assaulted or someone succumbing from expo­
sure. Banning liquor in the dorms does not stop the alcohol 
abuse in the Notre Dame community; it merely tries to lower 
the University's legal liability. 
There are people who suffer from alcohol abuse in the 
administration, faculty. alumni and the graduate school at 
Notre Dame. Ignoring this fact hurts everyone in the commu­
nity. particularly those who suffer from this _abuse. Moos~ 
Krause's struggles with alcohol after an accident that se~ous­
ly injured him and hi., wife illustrate this as -~el~ as anyt~mg. 
The administration cannot say as long as 1t s Just beer m the 
dorms it doesn't matter the age. The administration can't ban 
liquor in the donns and sell it to the student., in the on-can:i­
pus bar along with shot glasses in the Bookstore. The admm­
istration can't suspend the black football player for four 
games for breaking parietals and the white basketball All­
American for five minutes for a minor in a tavern. 
The administration must enforce the legal age everywhere 
for everything on campus. Get serious about fake I~s. Get 
serious about helping and educating those that suffer from 
alcohol abuse. The administration cannot make policy to sim­
ply try to reduce the school's liability. 
Jim Hogan 
graduate school 
biology 
Jan. 13 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
Music COLUMN 
Public service with a guitar 
Last month, Joe Strummer. the founder and front man ofthe seminal British punk band The Clash, died of a heart attack at the age of 50. Strummer's was one of the most influential, politically active voices in rock and roll histo­
Steve Hoepllnger
ry and his death marks the passing of a punk rock leg­
Scene Music 
end. 
Critic 
\\"hat set Strummer and his band, The Clash, apart from the other punk rock acts ofthe late 70s was his songwrit­ing, which had neither the Sex Pistols' self­indulgent whining nor the Ramones' unde­manding expressions ofboredom. Strummer used three-minute explosions of distorted guitars and snarling. throaty vocals to tackle subjects like racism, police brutality, socio-economic inequalities and fascism. While the other punk rockers in the United Kingdom were all "too busy fighting for a good spot under the lighting." The Clash were speaking up for the people who didn't have a voice of their own. 
The Clash were also one of the most musically progressive and eclectic punk bands ever, fusing many different genres to create a sound that was distinctly their own. Their first two albums, The Clash (1977) and Give 'Em Enough Rope (1978) were essentially straight up punk albums, but their 1979 masterpiece London Calling changed all that. This was the band's Nevermind; it had the perfect balance of pop appeal and rebellious punk spirit and is widely considered to be among the great­est albums ever written. The album was musically diverse, featuring a mixture of punk, rockabilly. reggae, ska and even straight-up Brit pop. It also featured "London Calling," "Train in Vain," "Clampdown" and "Rudy Can't Fail" some oftheir biggest hi1s. 
Their next Lwo albums, Sandinista! (1980) and Combat Rock (1982) continued the musical exploration that London Calling began. Strummer and Clash guitarist Mick Jones reached new heights in their song­writing, producing material that was equal parts pop polish, world rhythms and rock attitude. "Rock the Casbah" remains a pop­ular dance hit to this day, and "Magnificent Seven" was a proto-hip hop anthem that proved that Strurruner could rhyme better than Nelly. Today, the band is best known for the ridiculously simple song "Should I Stay or Should I Go," whlch anyone who's ever been to a party can sing along to, rather ironic for a band that worked mostly for greater social equality and human rights. 
After the Clash split in 1985, Strummer stayed relatively out of the spotlight. prefer­ring to work on projects that interested him rather than get involved in petty squab­bling or other rock star antics. He dabbled in acting, appearing in the films "Midnight Train, I Hired a Contract Killer" and Martin Scorsese's "The King of Comedy." He also scored soundtracks to the films "Sid and Nancy" and "Grosse Pointe Blank." In the early '90s, he toured with the Pogues, briefly standing in as the lead singer of the Celtic rock outfit. 
Between 1985 and 1998, Strurnmer released one album ofsolo material enti­tied Earthquake Weather, a rockabil­ly-meets-world beat recording that was critically praised but commercially unsuc­cessful; for the most part. though. he shied away from releasing new mate­rial. 
Eventually, he formed a new band, the Mescaleros, made up of musical virtuosos who shared his love of world music and genre fusing. The Mescaleros sound went even further beyond The Clash's genre mixing; Strummer and his crew took elements of Latin dance, hip hop, traditional Celtic, Brit pop, rockabilly, ska and reggae and combined them for a pow­erful, unique form of musical expression. 
Unlike most punk rockers on the scene in 1977, he was not born into the poverty and abuse he wrote about. Born John Mellor in Ankara, Turkey, Strummer was the son of a British diplomat and attended prestigious boarding schools as a child. Instead of going to Oxford as his family expected, he became fascinated with the culture, music and people ofinner city London and chose the reckless, artistic life of a pub musician. Strummer had no street credibility; he never cared about it and never needed it. and no one questioned him, least of all the people whose struggles he wrote and sang about. 

In the intro to his song "Know Your Rights," Strummer shouts out, "ThiS is a public service announcement ... with GUI­TAR!!!" He might as well have been talking about his own life. Joe Strummer was a man who spent his life trying to change people's perception of the world through his music. Rest in peace, Joe. 
Contact Steve Hoeplinger at shoeplin@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Alanis plays the psychologist 
By EMILY TUMBRINK Scene Music Critic 
Under Rug Swept, Alanis Morissette's third album, is perhaps her most intel­lectual to date. Possessing deeply con­templative lyrics of self-examination and scrutiny from the world around her, this album exposes the issues that many women feel but are either afraid or inca­pable of expressing. 
Morissette's lyrics almost exclusively explore the inner-workings of relation­ships with members of the opposite sex. The diatribes against men that are so brutally present on tracks like "You Oughta Know" from her debut album Jagged Little Pill have been toned down slightly, but are still present in a more musical and less screeching form, most notably on "Narcissus" when she sings, "Dear mamma's boy/ I know you've had your butt licked by your mother/ I know 

you've enjoyed all that attention from her/ And every woman graced with your presence after." 
The hit song "Hands Clean," which apparently describes an experience of underage sex with a music-business mentor, also presents a negative por­trayal of the male gender, while at the same time explaining the possible ori­gins of her abhorrence. 
But before all the male readers run frantically for the shelter provided by a less confrontational album, let it be reit­erated that this album may be helpful in clarifying the kind of behavior that women almost universally desire. Sensitive men who hope to gain insight into the mystery that is woman might actually benefit from Morissette's critical lyrics. 
In "21 Things I Want in a Lover," Morissette creates somewhat of a per­sonal ad, questioning an unnamed man about his qualifications as a lover. 
"Do you derive joy when some­one else succeeds? I Do you not play dirty w h e n engaged in competi­tion? / Do you have a big intellec­tual capaci­ty / But know that 
alone does not equate wis­dom?" 
In "So Unsexy," Morissette recalls her teenage years, describing many belittling experi­ences to which most women can relate but that some men may not realize have such a great effect on members of the female persuasion. 
"Oh these little protec­tions how they fail to serve me / one forgotten phone call and I'm deflated / Oh these little defenses how they fail to comfort me / Your hand pulling away and I'm devastated." 
Although most of the songs on Under Rug Swept contain intense and thought-provoking subject matter. it is possible to lis­ten to the album simply for enjoyment, rather than in an attempt to understand the meaning of Morissette's life. Despite Morissette's extensive use of words like "vacillated," "self-deprecat­ing," "reciprocity," and "archaic," the music accompanying this heavy vocabu­lary is surprisingly light and pleasant, lending itself to a mellow setting. 
Abandoning Glen Ballard, producer and co-writer of her previous albums. Morissette proves that she has learned quite a bit about the music industry over the past few years. On certain tracks the 

accompaniment sounds over-produced and synthesized, but for the most part the simplicity of melody pairs nicely with Morissette's voice. Ultimately, Under Rug Swept succeeds as an album, though some listeners may still find it difficult to get past the psychological analysis that occurs on most of the tracks. 
Contact Emily Tum brink at tumbrink. l@nd.edu 
____.,....., .,.. ___lll'lZJF~....... W .P.U ,....,_..---_,,__:az____-c:-____
____'-"'D___ __... .,..------"!.--•cu------...,"l"i·µ----------,.,,..,,,:;.....__,.._,-==-----•pauwww-.........,..__----:;;,;;;,;-~.......-... _ ', ' 7 
I/ I 1, •, t I, . , t • I, I, t I t _, I 
• f I ,t I• I, I I JI I I) t •, t It.­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Phish go from. stage to studio 
By RYAN RAFFERTY Scene M u,ic Critic 
For anyone who has waited patiently for two years, the wait is over. Phish is back. After a two-year hiatus, Trey Anastasio, Mike Gordon, Jon Fishman and Page McConnell are back with their first studio album since 2000's Farmhouse. While on hiatus, the mem­bers of Phish treated fans to several solo projects. As only some of these projects panned out some fans wondered if the band had lost its spark to play together. But when Phish returned to their farm­house studio in Vermont the magic returned. While rehearsing for an upcoming New Year's Eve show the band managed to write 12 new songs and record them in four short days. The result is their latest release, Round Room. 
The album is roughly 80 minutes long and is by far the most relaxed Phish album to date. Round Room has a very loose and improvisational feel to it, mostly because of the short time in which it was recorded. Fans who have only recently discovered Phish through their latest albums Farmhouse and Story of the Ghost may have a hard time get­ting a feel for this album because it has many longer jams and is less poppy. Don't let the song length be a disguise though; Round Room doesn't have the intense energy that earlier Phish albums had. Its feel is much more relaxed and mel­low. Even Anastasio's nor­mally breakneck speed solos have been tamed, but they still retain their usual musi­cal beauty. 
By far the best song on the album is "Walls of the Cave." It begins with a typical McConnell piano solo and then enters the chug­ging rhythms of Fishman's drum­ming. Anastasio's hypnotic guitar fades in and then he begins to sing Phish's trademark nonsense lyrics about markings on a cave wall. The song then abruptly explodes into a pulsating jam that escalades until the closing moments of the song. 
Some other standout tracks include 

"Seven Below," which features a guitar solo remi­niscent of earlier Phish classics such as "You Enjoy Myself;" Gordon's bass driven "Round Hoom;" and the short but sweet "Mexican Cousin." 
Most songs on the album are very good, but some like "Mock Song" fall apart at the seams. This is probably due to the lack of time the band had to record Round Room. As well, the album has many nonsense lyrics such as "Threshold, skin, fortress, win a life 
of sin." But this lack of lyrical meaning is 
not a weakness; it only makes the songs 
more fun and spontaneous. The songs on this album are very loose 
and have several long jams that seem 
like they could go anywhere at any 
moment. The opening and closing songs are the best example of this. Both songs clock in at over 11 minutes, and have very few .i,µics. The opening song, "Pebbles and Marbles," starts off very quietly and then slowly builds into a jam that could have been pulled from any live Phish show. The closing song, "Waves," starts off very differently with the sound of distant waves. which then give way to a very structured jam, but the structure of the song soon melts away into a bass driven jam with Anastasia's guitar lightly picking out random riffs over McConnell's piano. 
While this may not be their best work, it does bring back memories of classic Phish albums like Junta and A Picture of Nectar, and it is a breath of fresh air in a pop-dominated music scene. This album also captures the band's live sound the best out of all of their studio albums. Round Room is a little more mellow than prior Phish releases, but is still worth a listen if not just for Anastasia's amazing guitar playing. 
After two years it's great to hear Phish play together and sound so excellent. Hopefully Round Room will encourage the band to be more ·open and sponta­neous on their studio albums. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
More than 'Just Whitney' 
By SHAWTINA FERGUSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Although her recent public attention focused far less on her musical talent and more on her personal misfortunes 
Whitney Houston's latest LP, titled Just Whitney, is a fitting comeback for an extremely talented artist. Working with top of the line producers and artists like Kenny "Babyface" Edmonds, Kevin "She'kspere" Briggs, Missy Elliot and 1\veet, Just Whitney proves to be remi­niscent of an artist who many thought 
was long gone. 

Houston's return to the stage is complimented by her return Lo big ballads and the mixture of H&B. soul, pop and blues that sets her apart from other artists. The tone of this diva's latest release seems to be her most defensive ever which is evi­denced in tracks like "Unashamed" where Houston sings the lines "I live my life without regrets / what ya see what ya see what ya see is what ya get." 
Houston's track "Love That Man" serves as an ode to her husband, Bobby Brown, with the pop track pro­claiming love for her man. She also shares a duet with Brown fittingly entitled "My Love." Yet perhaps Houston's biggest tribute to Brown is allowing him to serve as co-producer for her album. 
For Houston's fans anticipating high temperature ballads, they won't be left disappointed after hearing tracks like "Tell Mc No," the remade "You Light Up My Life" (originally released in 1977 by Debbie Boone) and old school slow jam "Things You 
S a y , " 
penned and produced by music m o g u 1 Missv Elliot with. back­ground vocals by Tweet. 
The ballad "Own My Own" is a subtly defiant song of Houston's which harmo­niously tells her audience that she is still growing, still maturing, but realizes that she is a stronger person now than she was before and is ready to take on and conquer new endeavors on her own. The orchestra vibe that the song delivers allows Houston to highlight her superior vocal talent ranging from high to low octaves. The up-tempo "Dear John Letter" relates to a majority of Houston's fans who have experienced the hazards of a relationship on its last leg. With lyrics like "And I can't go through with mailing this to you / I'm writing you a dear john letter / I tried to stay but it never got better/ I couldn't tell you face to face but I/ I had to let you know some-times I wanna hit the door" most of Houston's adult audience vibe with this track. 

Whether driving to work, walking to class, having a quiet dinner at home, cleaning out a garage or a dorm room "Just Whitney" o!Ters fitting tunes for all occasions. The personal flavor of this diva's first new release in the 21st centu­ry demands respect from its listeners and is rightfully rewarded. The biggest disap­pointment comes with the knowledge of learning that there are only 1O tracks to choose from, but after taking a listen and falling in love all over again most will agree that "It's Not Hight, 13ut It's OK!" 
. 
Contact Shawtina Ferguson at ferguson.29@nd.edu 

--......-------~--------------------------­
t.' f 

page 12 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
NBA 
Knicks win pathetic game against Heat, 72-65 
The Heat didn't reach 30
Associated Press 
points until Jones hit a pair of free throws with 20.5 seconds 
The tape of Monday's Heat­left in the first half, and New Knicks game will not be sent to Yorkdidn't get there until the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Howard Eisley made a layupInstead, Latrell Sprewell had a 1:45 into the third quarter. 
better idea. 
"We couldn't make any plays
"Burn it," Sprewell said. "No 
down the stretch," Miami's Pat one wants to see that." Riley said. "They deserved to 
Sprewell outscored Miami all win because they kept digging it 
by himself in the first quarter out." and New York went on to defeat the Heat 72-65 Monday as the Bulls 115, Hawks 102 teams matched the NBA record Jalen Rose had every reason for fewest combined points in a to smile -the Chicago Bulls first half¼ith 57. 
ended a 19-game road losing
Sprewell scored 14 of his 24 streak. points in the first quarter as "It's a big-time burden being
New York took an 18-12 lead. lifted," he said. "We're in decent Miami eventually went ahead by shape if we can find a way to as many as eight, but the Heat play better on ihe road." managed only 11 points in the 
Rose matched a season high
fourth quarter and lost on the with 37 points and Marcus Fizer road for the seventh straight added 24 Monday, helping the time. 
Bulls end their drought with a Kurt Thomas added 15 points. 115-102 victory over the Atlanta 
making two key plays in the Hawks. final minute while the outcome Chicago, which hadn't won was still in doubt. The Knicks away from home since opening
scored their final four points the season at Boston, hit 16 of from the line in the last 22 sec­
18 shots and outscored the onds -including a pair of free Hawks 41-19 in the fourth quar­throws by Allan Houston to dou­ter. Fizer was 5-for-7 from the ble his point total to 4 -to help floor and hit all four of his free 
account for the final margin. throws in the final period. Eddie Jones scored 19 and "l can honestly say it was the Malik Allen added 13 for the first time in my life I felt like Heat, whose 65 points were a every time the ball left my hand, season-low. it was going down," Fizer said. Miami, 0-13 when scoring "It was probably our best road fewer than 80 points, finished game, but we've had better ones 
more than 20 points below its at home." season average of 85.3 -the Bulls coach Bill Cartwrightsecond-lowest in the NBA wasn't surprised to see Brunson 
behind Denver. play so well in his first gameThe Heat shot 34 percent from with Chicago. Brunson was acti­the field (26-for-77), 53 percent vated before the game when Jay 
Danyell Marshall pulled down where," Rose said. "It was a Jordan shrugged off his shoot­
from the line (9-for-17) and Williams was placed on the 
13 rebounds and Jamal gre~t effort in the fourth quar­ing woes by making four jumpcommitted 18 turnovers. New injured list with a sprained left Crawford, starting in place of ter. shots, a driving layup and a fin­York wasn't much better, shoot­ankle. 
Williams, handed out six assists ger roll during a decisive 15-4ing 39 percent from the field. "That is a classic example of as Chicago ended a three-game Wizards 89, Nuggets 74 run. He shot l 1-for-22 in the
But the Knicks had only 12 what a pro is all about," 
losing streak. The Bulls had Michael Jordan did plenty of game.
turnovers. Cartwright said. "He came in 
dropped two straight in Atlanta talking early, and scored when The talking didn't bother theThe Knicks and Heat matched and got and an opportunity and and three straight in the series. the Washington Wizards needed Nuggets early. 
the first-half scoring record set took advantage of it. He's done a Rose was 15-for-21 from the it the most. Juwan Howard, who led theearlier this season when Detroit good job of keeping himself in floor, his biggest basket coming Jordan overcame 5-for-14 Nuggets with 25 points, scoredand Denver combined for 57 on shape." 
on a 28-footer from the right shooting through the first three 15 points in the first half against Nov.16. Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored side for an eight-point lead with quarters by scoring 12 of his 25 his former team, helping Denver Prior to this season, the record 27 points for the Hawks, who 3:15 remaining. points in final period, leading take a 42-39 halftime lead. 
of 58 had stood since Jan. 25, lost their fifth straight. Jason No one on the Hawks could the Wizards to an 89-74 victory Washington picked up its
1955 when Fort Wayne and Terry had 23 and Glenn 
stop Rose. Rose, who also scored over the Denver Nuggets on defense in the second half, hold­Syracuse combined for that total Robinson added 20. Atlanta 37 in a 10-point loss at Monday. ing Denver without a field goal-although Dallas and Indiana committed more turnovers (17) Cleveland Dec. 4, was 5-for-5 During a first-quarter for six minutes of the third quar­matched the record on Feb. 13, than its opponent for the sev­and hit three 3-pointers in the exchange with Denver rookie ter and making the stops it1998. 
enth straight game. fourth quarter. Vincent Yarbrough, who grew needed in the fourth to preventNew York scored just nine "We've just got to come out After Rose hit a 3-pointer with up rooting for the Chicago Bulls, a comeback.
points in the second quarter and and really enjoy this game," 5:07 remaining to make it 97-Jordan shouted: "You remember Before Jordan's fourth-quar­trailed 30-27 at the half. The Hawks reserve forward Darvin 97, Abdur-Rahim missed two that, you watched me. I didn't ter surge, the Wizards counted Knicks shot just 35 percent in 
Ham said. "We're not digging free throws before Brunson's 3-watch you." on Larry Hughes for their the half (12-for-34) with 10 graves for a living at a cemetery. pointer gave Chicago the lead Jordan then told his team­offense. 
turnovers, while the Heat shot We're playing basketball, man. 
for good. The last time the Bulls mates to concentrate on scoring, Hughes scored 20 points and 11-for-34 (32 percent) with nine Every guy should come out had such a prolific quarter was not trash-talking with the sparked a 21-6 third-quarterturnovers. 
excited, exuberant about the Nov. 26, 1991, when they shot Nuggets. run during which he gave"I couldn't believe it when we opportunity to make the money 17-for-19 in the third period of a "I told our guys to calm down Washington its first lead with got in at halftime and saw we we do doing what we do." 
116-79 road win over the Los and let me do all the talking," 6:06 left in the third. 
had scored 9 in the second quar­After leading 81-70 on Terry's Angeles Clippers. he said. "You guys just play, and Washington extended its lead 
ter. I can score that." Knicks 16-footer, the Hawks were 
"We'll have to bottle that up when we get a lead. then every­to 64-57 by the end of the quar­coach Don Chaney said. outscored 43-19. 
and carry it with us some-body can talk." ter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day_ from_8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ~t the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-?ay cla_ss1fieds ts 3 p.m. Al clamfieds must be p_repa1d. . 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
part time work, full time money. Energetic student to pass out our rewards catalog. Call for details 877-652-2566 
Senior Finance major at IUSB needs tutor for Applications in Financial Management class (simi­lar to FIN 476 Cases in Finacial Management at ND). Please call Kristin at 291-3240. 
Server wanted. Club LaSalle is hir­ing tor a serving position. Club LaSalle is a martini/Jazz Bar serv­ing LaSalle Grill's Dinner Menu. We are located on the 3rd floor of the LaSalle Grill. Part or full time work. is available. Must be able to work weekends. Must be 21 to apply and previous experience is a plus, but not required. Earning potential is approximately $400 per week. Applications can be picked up at LaSalle Grill in downtown South Bend. 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday-Saturday.115 West Colfax South Bend, IN 46601. 288­1155 
FOR SALE 
Oak Hill Condo for sale, 2 bed, 2 bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574-243-2621 
1989 Toyota Corolla, 4DR, 5 speed, 148K. Runs good. $1,300 Call: 277-3189 
FOR RENT 
Castle Point room for rent available for female roommate (Sp03 semes­ter), apt fully furnished. Please call 243-4537 if interested 
TICKETS 
Need 1 ticket for Georgetown game. 277-0372 
PERSONAL 
Acapulco's #1 Spring break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance" Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price! Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800­875-4525. www.ebreaknow.com 
I carry the Constitution everywhere with me... 
In fact, I even sleep with it! ft makes me feel comfortable ... :) 
FREEZING COLD!I 
I'm going sailing tonightll! 
Dude, where's my White House? 
Boat drinks Waitress I need 2 more boat drinks. 
I like escalators. When they go out of order they become stairs, but instead of saying "temporarily out of order" it should say '1emporarily stairs." 
I know, I should be leaving this cli• mate. I've got a verse, but can't rhyme it. I gotta go where it's warml 
I  I''  1 f I I, , ~ ,  ·  'I I I, l j I ~ 1  --­----:--; ~ ', • I J t I  
Tuesday, January 21, 2003  The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page 13  

S.~ A 1..•. Centerfior Socia{ Concerns .&..& & 
~0°N~~RAN~ ·1y~~n l' oo m [J) [J) @ oo . oo fE ~ r n-~l'Jl' 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-1 OPM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 1 OAM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
PLAN AHEAD: SPRING BREAK SEMINARS! 
Doyou have plans for sp,ing break? THE FOLLOWING SEMINARS ARE BEING OFFERED: 
Appalachia Seminar sends 100+ students to 3 states in the Appalachia region to work with and learn from different local partners. Sites range from building and repairing homes, working in alternative schools, and assisting in small Catholic pruishes . Livine the Gospel of Life Seminar This pi lot seminar focuses on a variety of pro-life issues ( death penalty, euthanasia, stem cell research, abortion, A etc) in Washington, D.C. Students meet with Church, legislative, and non-governmental organizations that work on "life issues". 
•:¦iiiiil!l~.:51 Washini:ton Seminar Using the resources of our nation's capital, students will explore the theme of "Christian Responses to Violence". Children and Poverty This seminar focuses on concerns that affect the youth of our nation, including poverty and violence, and examines the efforts 
to foster positive youth development. Immersion takes place in New York. L' Arche Seminar centers around travel to a L'Arche community in Toronto, Canada, to share community life with people with developmental 
~ 
challenges.
~ 
Mii,:Tant Ex1>eriences Seminar offers an immersion into the lives of migrant fam1\vorkers in Florida during the spring harvest. 

~ StuJcnts work in the fields, live with migrant families and meet community leaders. Holy Cross Seminar Students explore parish-based collaborative ministry of the Priests of Holy Cross in the Coachella Valley of Southern California. This seminar has the feel of a pilgrimage based in the parish's model of evangelization amongst Hispanics and outreach to the poor. This seminar is co-sponsore,l by Campus Ministry. 
***All APPLICATIONS are now available at the CSC 
& on-lin at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu !*** 
Questions Oil A Seminar or NYSP? 
All Spring Seminars & NYSP are holding INFO SESSIONS on Mon,Jan 27u,, At the CSC. 
6:30 Coachella 
6:45 Migrant 
7:00 L' Arche 
7:15 Gospel of Life 
7:30 Appalachia 
7:45 Washington 
8:00 Children and Poverty 
8:15 NatiDnal Youth Sports Program 
:: ·N~P-............... ::
1, 
~ 
• The National Youth Sports Program : 
(NYSP) is a 5-week summer day camp : that serves over 200 disadvantaged : 
Opening Act: Emmeline Schoen THIS FRI, Jan 24, 8PM Keenan-Stcmford Chapel 

Hosted by Pax Christi 


You haven't experienced Notre Dame until vou have been on 1Retreat .... ...And vou can still make 1now ... ... 1Senior Retreat lett 
Retreat Dates: January 31st -February is1 
Applications available at: The CSC, 114 Coleman-Morse, or http://www.nd.edu/~ministry/seniorform.html 
Cost $20 Sign-up deadline: l\1onday, January 27, 2003 
Encuentro Chica20 
ENCUENTRO CHICAGO applications available at the CSC and Campus Ministry. Join us for a weekend immersion into the Mexican immigrant community of Pilsen in Chicago. February l5th-16th. Applications due Tuesday, February 4th. 
youth from the Iocal community. • r.-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
Student Leaders receive a $1,500 Stipend, Housing, and 3 Theo Credits. 
Info Session Jan. 27th -8:15 PM Applications due Wed, Jan 29th. 
---~ 
Start the Year Off Right!! 
JOIN US AT THE SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL! 
This Thursday, January 23rd 
7:00 -9:00 p.m. at the CSC! 
Learn more about tlie many ways to get involved in service and justice activities through community organization and campus clubs. 
You Are Invited ... 
To join a weekly time for faith-sharing & prayer with Center for the Homeless guests. Beginning MONDAY, JANUARY 27T1-1 Every Monday morning, 7:00 -8:00 AM at the Center for the Homeless All ND/SMC/HCC students are welcome! 
Students are needed to serve as musicians, facilitators, and members ofa faith­sharing community. 
INFO SESSION: TOMORROW! WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22N° 
4:00 PM at 303 Coleman-Morse Questions? Email Kelly Rich at Rich.9@nd.edu 
NOTICE: ALL DRIVERS ~-~ ­
For Service/ Social Action Groups and Community Volunteer Services 
New vehicle request forms must be submitted for the spring semester ifyou plan to schedule transportation through the Center for Social Concems. Requestfonns are due the Friday prior to the week offirst use. 
. Forms are available at the CSC reception office or can be printed from the CSC web page. 
. If you did not attend a driver training session given first semester, please contact Transportation Services at 631-0293 or 631-6467 to schedule an appointment for certification. 
Summer Service & ACCION Internships 
Last Info Session for SSI! Jan 291h, 5:00 -6:00 PM at the CSC 
Career &Placement Internship Fair Jan 28'1 4:00-8:00 PM at the JACC Summer Service Internship andACCION Internship info available. Former participants will be here to answer questions! 
Did you know ..??? .. . The CSC has a Satellite Office? 
Located at 113 Coleman-Morse Open Mon, Wed, & Fri 9 AM -6 PM Tues & Thurs 4 PM -9 PM 
(Closings will be noted ahead of time or posted outside the office.) 
Come by for applications, with questions, or to hold CSC­related meetings (Sign up ahead oftime with Lauren Beyer in Satellite Office.} 
Senior Transition Proli!rams 
Interviewing for Post-Grad Service Programs?  Cap Corps Midwest  
Come to the Info Session with  Bro. Dave Schwab will be at the CSC to meet  
M.J Adams Kocovski, ACE  * John Pinter, HCA  with students about this Post-Grad Service Program  
TODAY, Tuesday January 21st 5:00PM at the CSC  Thursday, January 23rd 3:00-6:00 PM  
More info at www.capuchinfranciscans.org/capcorp.htm  

'.
'I'
'' 

\'I' 

' . 
• I 
I<' 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
fR1cEWATfRHOUsE(mPERS rl 
VOTED•1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

xTAX 2002 
Last fall, 700 students from 21 colleges and universities were given a difficult task: create a tax strategy U1at promotes economic growth for a nation, Their ideas were evaluated by a panel of PricewaterhouseCoopers professionals, who named the top teams at 21 campuses, 
Join us In congratulating all the students who participated and the top team from the University of Notre Dame: 
Mark Bellantoni Matthew Fumagalli Jason Kingery Craig Oliver Andrew Van Cura 
James Wlttenbach, Faculty Advisor 
© 2003 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP PricewaterhouseGoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseGoopers LLP and the other member firms of PncewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer . 
... 
-,-,.------------; ,-f-,-------',-,-,­
\'' 
( t' 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 -COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, January 21, 2003 


1::i::tlfli:;:ij111!1li!I, ....... :, 
; :
1,. Ste.rimeifo+::;}.lk1 Ire__I I ]­


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Ohio State at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Virginia at Virginia Tech 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Alabama at Mississippi 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Tampa Bay can offer such Oakland, which scored 71 geoning Jerry Porter vs.
Associated Press 
defensive stalwarts as points in two playoff victo­Barber, Lynch and the rest SAN DIEGO Derrick Brooks, Warren ries. including a 41-24 deci­of the Bucs' superb sec­
It looks like the perfect Sapp, John Lynch and sion over Tennessee on ondary. Super Bowl matchup: Ronde Barber. Sunday for the AFC title, is "We're good and I'm not Oakland's high-powered And for all of Jon Gruden's not just to move the ball afraid to say it," said offense against Tampa Bay's success as coach of the against Tampa Bay, but also Barber, whose 92-yard stingy defense. Raiders, he never made the find the end zone. The Bucs, interception return with 
For all the common Super Bowl with them. He who beat Philadelphia 27-10 3:12 iced the win in denominators, from their now has with the Bucs. for the NFC championship, Philadelphia. swashbuckling logos to the "We've got a tough team yielded the fewest yards and So is Oakland, of course. coach they have shared, the coming up, Tampa Bay," the fewest points in the The Raiders even seem most intriguing theme is said Jerry Rice, the NFL's league. oblivious to their lack of dis­sports' age-old one. Can the all-time leading receiver The Raiders certainly have cipline -14 penalties for prolific Raiders, led by the who already has won three the weapons, from MVP 127 yards didn't stop them NFL's most valuable player, rings with San Francisco. Gannon, who threw for Sundav. overwhelm the Buccaneers, "And it's going to be a little three touchdowns and ran "We.were making a lot of who have the league's unsual facing Gruden. But for another against the dumb mistakes out there," 
defensive player of the year? this is an opportunity of a Titans, to his bevy of Oakland linebacker Eric 
For all of Oakland's offen­lifetime and I am just look­receivers. Barton said. "Fortunately, sive playmakers. from Rich ing forward to the chal­One of the best matchups we sucked it up and Gannon to Jerry Rice to Tim lenge." next weekend will be Rice, stopped it. That shows the Brown to Charlie Garner, The challenge for Brown and rapidly bur-character of this team." 
IN BRIEF 
LeBron brings record ter, James scored 11 in the second being defeated by Maryland. crowd to HS game quarter as St. Vincent-St. Mary (12-Pittsburgh (14-1) went up a slot to More than 15,000 fans showed up 0) blew open a four-point game to No. 2 after ending Syracuse's 11­take 40-24 halftime lead. game winning streak Saturday.
at the Greensboro Coliseum on Monday to get a look at LeBron James brought the crowd to its feet Creighton (15-1) rose from 13th to James. He did not disappoint. in the third quarter when he blocked 10th after victories last week over In front of the largest crowd ever a shot, then raced the length of the Evansville and Southern Illinois. The 
to watch a high school basketball court and slammed down an alley­Bluejays' only loss was to then-No. game in North Carolina, the 6-foot-7, oop pass. He capped an impressive 19 Xavier. 240-pound senior scored 32 points 15-point third quarter by losing a "It's a nice honor for our players 
defender with a crossover dribble and fans hut hopefully we can keepas St. Vincent-St. Mary's (Ohio) beat 
Winston-Salem Reynolds 85-56. and nailing a fallaway 3-pointer at improving," Creighton coach Dana Altman said. "The season is only
On the same floor where Michael the buzzer. 
halfway completed, and while weJordan played several games while 
at North Carolina, James showed New poll brings surprises appreciate the recognition, we need Arizona jumped back to No. 1 in to keep getting better every time we
why he's widely considered the nation's top high school player and The Associated Press men's college take the floor." the likely No. 1 pick in this year's basketball poll Monday after a four­Louisville (12-1) beat East Carolina NBA draft. week hiatus, while Creighton joined and Texas Christian last week and 
James, who grew up idolizing the Top 10 for the first time in school jumped from No. 15 to No. 9, the Jordan and wears No. 23. even wore history. Cardinals' first Top 10 appearance Nike Air Jordans while the rest of his The Wildcats (13-1) led the poll in since they were ninth on Jan. 27, 
team wore Adidas. When asked why, the preseason and for lhe first five 1996. Louisville's only loss this sea­James smiled and said, "Because weeks of the regular season, until a son was at Purdue. we're in North Carolina." loss to LSU. Now Arizona moves up Texas remained fourth, and was 
followed by Florida, Kansas,
After a slow start in which he was from No. 2 to replace Duke (12-1). held to four points in the first quar-which slid two places to third after Oklahoma and Kentucky. 

• i It· •, •,. If f, 
I, .. , '.
I I' .. , JI•.• , If i''' 
Tuesday,January 21, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Miami upsets No. 11 UConn 
Auociated Press 
CORAL GABLES, !<'la. 
Darius Rice played bril­liantly for 40 minutes and still managed to save his best for lust. 
The nephew of Oakland Raiders receiver Jerry Rice capped a 43-point perfor­mance by stealing an inbounds pass and sinking a 3-pointer at the final buzzer, and tho Miami Hurricanes stunned 11th­ranked Connecticut 77-76 Monday night. 
UConn appeared to clinch a victory when Ben Gordon hit two free throws with 8.9 seconds left, giving him 32 points and the Huskies a 76-72 lead. 
But Miami's Armondo Surratt drove for an uncon­tested layup with 4 seconds to go and Shamon Tooles' hurried inbounds pass was stolen in the corner by Rice, who swished a shot as time expired. 
"The guy threw the ball in, and I just stuck my hand out," Hice said. "l said, 'This is mine.' I shot it, and I had no doubt it was going 
in." 
When it did, a jubilant Rice sprinted the length of the court with his fists in the air as Hurricanes fans poured onto the floor to cel­ebrate. 
The defeat left UConn 
HOT SPRING BREAKS 
Discount Coupons up to $250 
CRncun, Aupuko, J:1maicn & 
Bah11m11s p11tk11ges with air. 
Our stllfrs 18th Spring Break 
l-800-328-7513 
www.hotspringbreaks.com 
EAA11VlKQ 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
For details and application forms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/---sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies• (154 Hurley Building. PM-5203) 
application deadline: 3/7/03 

~ 
Sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College ofArts and Letters 
players crying in their lock­er room. Coach Jim Calhoun said Taliek Brown, rather than Tooles, was supposed to inbound the ball that Rice intercepted. 
"I did the wrong thing by passing it," said Tooles. his eyes red. "I cost us the game. They trusted me to be in the game. I'm sup­posed to make the correct pass." 
Miami (8-7. 1-3 Big East) broke a three-game losing streak, including an over­time loss at UConn on Jan. 11. The Huskies (11-3, 2-1). beaten Saturday at North Carolina. have lost two in a row for the first time since last Feb. 2. 
"It's a devastating loss for us. the way it happened." Calhoun said. "I feel awful for our kids." 
Rice's career-best scoring performance tied for the third-highest in Big East history. The 6-foot-10 junior made 16 of 27 shots, including seven of 12 3­pointers. 
"It was just one of those nights," Hice said. "The bas­ket was as big as the ocean." 
The victory could be the start of a big week for the Rice family. Darius' uncle wiJI play in the Super Bowl on Sunday against Tampa Bay. 
"Raiders by 15," Darius predicted. 
Rice carried the Hurricanes, whose only other double-figure scorer was James Jones with 11 points. 
Brown scored 13 points for UConn, which lost 
despite shooting 56 percent. Center Emeka Okafor had just seven points, five rebounds and no blocks, all well below his averages. 
The Huskies rallied from a 14-point first-half deficit, and Gordon's 3-pointer put them ahead 67-64 with two minutes left. After a Miami turnover, Gordon sllced through the defense for a leaner to make it 69-64. 
But the Hurricanes scored 13 points in the final minute as they kept fouling UConn to get the ball back. 
"Fans might have been leaving, and people might have thought this game was over," Miami coach Perry Clark said. "But our kids just did not give up." 
The Huskies lost despite making seven of 10 free throws in the last minute. 
Calhoun shook up the UConn lineup, starting senior Tony Robertson and freshman Hilton Armstrong in place of Mike Hayes and Denham Brown at forward. But the Huskies fell behind by double digits in the first half for the sixth game in a row. 
"One of these days we're going to have to finally start playing from the beginning and not wait until we're down," Gordon said. 
Rice scored 10 consecu­tive Miami points to put his team ahead 21-15. He had 24 of the Hurricanes' first 29 points, and his fifth 3­pointer of the first half put them up 34-21. 
"That's probably the best game he has played in his life," Gordon said. "There's not much you can do." 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles lose tough game to Albion 
match-ups. We got beat on theBy HEATHER VAN boards, we were out hustled, and HOEGARDEN we just aren't playing with the
Sports Writer 
desire or heart it takes to win." The loss puts the Belles (5-10,Saint Mary's had high hopes 1-3) into a four-way tie in the
heading into Saturday's game 
MIAA with Calvin, Adrian, andagainst the Britons of Albion (10­Olivet. Albion, meanwhile moved5, 3-1). However, the streaking into second place with the victo­Britons were not to be denied 
ry.
their third straight victory, as Emily Creachbaum led the
they pulled away with a 68-58 Belles with 16 points, going 8-14 victory at home. 
from the field. Creachbaum hasAlbion's Sarah Caskey led the been one of the few positives forBritons with the Belles as17 points, six she was nomi­
assist<; and five "We go into everO'MIAA 
nated for
rebounds, game thinking we can MIAA player of 
while team­win." the week. 
mates Angie 
Bridget
Spain and 
Boyce was theJocelyn Zappia Suzanne Bellina only othereach added 14 Belles coach Belle in double 
and 11 points, respectively. 
Saint Mary's jumped out to an 8-4 lead, but Albion responded with eight unanswered points and didn't look back. · 
The loss was the third in a row for Saint Mary's. The team hasn't won since Jan. 8 when they beat Olivet to open conference play. 
The struggling Belles have been dominated on the boards and no player has stepped up to take the lead of the young, but talented team. 
Coach Suzanne Bellina said she was disappointed with the team's play of late. 
"We go into every MIM game thinking that we can win," Bellina said. "Especially on Saturday. because we thought that we had some very good 
. ·· ·· 
Summer Employmenti'·-; Glacier National-Park 
DOW~ MILL 
~~O lJTNOCP 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 IWIII VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00 PM COST: $35.00 INCLUDES LIFT TICKET, RENTAL 
AND TRANSPORT 
$25.00 LIFT TICKET ANO TRANSPORT ONLY 
I I 
.__, 
' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
digits, netting 
10 points. Senior starter Shaunjl1 Russell did not play due to a coach's decision. 
Bellina said she is still search­ing for a unit that works well together. 
"IThe lineup] is just a question of how people practice," Bellina said. "But we absolutely need a win." 
The Belles look to rebound in the MIM Wednesday when they travel to Calvin College to face the Knights. Calvin is coming off an 89-51 loss to Hope College. That loss dropped the Knights to 10-5 overall and 1-3 in MlAA conference play. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
· ' .1,Y.
0·:'.-, ..-;~ 1~\.~ 





BBall 
continued from page 20 
"That was part of what we were trying to do -get their people in foul trouble and get them out of the game," Notre Dame guard Le'Tania Severe said. "I feel like their other players stepped up and we didn't adjust well enough when we got down early." 
Seeing their team leader leave the game early forced the Huskies to sharpen their game not only physically, but also mentally. 
"We knew we had to con­centrate a lot more. When Diana is on the floor, she is our floor generai and she runs everything," Turner said. "We knew that we had to run our offense to execution and keep them off the boards def~­ly and I think we did that for the most part." 
WOMENS SWIMMING 
Despite sickness Irish swim well 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
With swimmers at home with a virus and a shorthanded ros­ter heading into their meet against Illinois last weekend, the Notre Drune womens swim­ming and diving team overcame the challenge and defeated the home team, 192.5-175.5. 
Coach Bailey Weathers said it has been a while since the team traveled without so many swim­mers due to such an illness. Freshmen Christel Bouvron, Kara Santelli and Ka.lei Walker, sophomore Katie Eckholt and diver Kristina Kennedy did not make the trip last weekend, but the rest of the Irish grinded out a victory to improve to 5-1-1 in dual meet competition. 
'Tm real proud of the girls," 
said coach Bailey Weathers. "A 
lot of girls were sick and the 
swimmers did a really nice job 
of competing hard despite the 
circumstances." 
The diving team traveled to 
this meet, as well. The divers 
had not joined the swimmers in 
the previous meet against 
Kansas at Acapulco, which the 
Irish won handily 129-69. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Faculty, Staff & Family Wednesday, January 22 • 5:00pm Deadline-January 21  
Notre Dame Students Saturday, January 25 • 2:00pm Deadline-January 24  

Clinics held at Notre Dame Goll Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $10.00 Includes Rental 
R---=--7ro 22AF 
, \ \ I. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
As Taurasi watched from first half, the Irish couldn't the bench, the Huskies took get sharpshooter Alicia Ratay 
Irish 
control of the game outscoring any clean looks at the basket the Irish 30-10 over the 11 as Conlon blanketed the 
continued from page 20 minutes Connecticut's All­senior. American was off the court. "We ran a couple of screens 
time Connecticut, 72•53. 
During the run, Connecticut to get Hatay open but [ConlonJ This game simply served asguard Megan Conlon, who was very tenacious and physi­a microcosm for the thingsmissed her previous 16 3-cal with Alicia," McGraw said. 
that have gone wrong point attempts, hit three Ratay took only throe shots, throughout this season for
straight treys made her 
Notre Dame. 
to extend only 3-point­During a team scrimmageConnecticut's er with 7:19
"That was part ofwhat 
last week, Irish coach Muffet 
lead from left in the 
McGraw made the team stay an extra half an hour longer 
33-23 to 42-we were trying to do -game. She 
23 and get their people in foul finished with 
than usual because they ess en ti ally nine points.
trouble and get them out 
couldn't get Alicia Ratay 
put Notre As Ratay Dame away. ofthe game." couldn't get 
enough shots. McGraw told her team that Ratay had to
"The threes open on the take at least six shots per half
Maria made outside, the
Le'Tanla Severe 
for them to be successful.
were the dif­Huskies also
Notre Dame guanl 
Ratay took three shots against
ference in dominated 
the game right there," Auriemma said. ·'Those three in a row -that was it." 
While the Huskies got their shooters open to make 7-of-12 from behind the arc in the 
Junior diver Meghan Perry­Eaton won both diving events in Champaign, Ill. this weekend. Perry-Eaton won the one-meter board with 331.58 points on Friday. 
Weathers thought while the meet was not the best the Irish swam all season, they still over­came difficult circumstances and faced adversity in the fifth victory of the womens season. 
"It wasn't a particularly fast meet, but we won the meet," Weathers said. 
Junior Danielle Hulick cap­tured the 50-yard freestyle 
(24.22) and the 100 backstroke. Junior Marie Labosky won the 200 IM in 2:05.76. 
Although the team traveled shorthanded, Weathers still said the girls remained focused as they have been all year. 
"I don't think the preparation was any different," Weathers said. "(The girls] were really tired so they knew they needed to challenge themselves. This has always been a group that has done well once they've been put in adverse circumstances." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
I 
could better their seeding in the NCAA tournament. Now they're just hoping to make the tournament. 
Even Connecticut coach Geno Auricmma said he can tell Notre Dame is lacking confidence and not playing to their potential. 
"It is just hard for them right now," Auriemma said. ''They are going through a period of adjustment, like we are, where more people have to get shots. They just need some help on the perimeter to make some shots from the outside to take the pressure off." 
McGraw knows her team needs to do something to change the course of their season too. Basically the solu­tion is to find a way to win one game. Then gain some confidence. Then win again. 
"I think we can be a very good team," McGraw said. "I think we really need to focus in and we need fo win really badly right now to help our confidence. I think the oppor• tunities for w; to get back to where we want to be arc there. I think we are still going to be a very good team." 
McGraw's confidence should be somewhat reassur­ing for her team. They can't forget that they're still a tal­ented group, that they can still make some noise in the Big East and that they can still have a successful season. 
But beginning to do all that 
may be the biggest problem of 
all. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
the post 
game. Notre Dame forward Jacqueline Batteast scored a team-high 16 points, but shot only 5-21 from the field. The Irish were out rebounded 40-28 by the Huskies. Every entry pass to the blocks, especially to Batteast, saw the Huskies double-team and force the Irish post players into taking bad shots. 
Connecticut came out cold in the second half not scoring for the first three and a half min­utes. But the Irish couldn't take advantage as they scored only two free throws over that span. 
The Huskies extended their 
lead to as much as 27 points 
in the second half. Taurasi 
finished with four points, a 
team-high eight rebounds and 
six assists in 25 minutes on 
the court. 
Freshman Courtney LaVere 
scored 12 points, six rebounds 
and three blocked shots for 
the Irish. 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu 
Connecticut during the entire game. 
After losing to Rutgers Saturday, McGraw said in the post game conference that Teresa Borton needed to take more shots and score morn. Borton Look two shots Monday. making one. 
McGraw has also been look­ing for someone to step up besides the freshman. LaVere. No one could do that against the Huskies, although Batteast at least tried, by tak­ing 21 shots and doing all she could against a physical dou­ble team throughout the game. 
It's been the same story for Notre Dame since they began their season 7-1. They've lost confidence. They've lost focus. Most importantly, they've lost games. 
And their season just keeps getting tougher with road games against ranked foes such as Villanova and Boston College coming up. The Irish must also still travel to Connecticut to face the Huskies on their home court. 
A few weeks ago the Irish 
might have been concerned 
with playing well so they 


, 'I• 

Tuesday, Janua;y 21, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

CROSSWORD 
IIJeNtw§ork g+nnes /
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz 
61 Pearl Harbor locale 62 Seaport south of Milan 53 ArchHect Saarinen 64 Bad spot for a 
nail 65 Tear 66 Formerly, 
formerly 67 They're sometimes candied 
DOWN 
1 Indication of indignation 
2 "History of England" author David 
3 Lotion ingredient 4 Coverlet 5 Tributary of the Delaware 6 Geronimo, e.g. 7 Really ethereal 8 Southern comforts?: Abbr. 9 Humiliate 10 • to the wise
-. 
11 Burton of 'Star Trek: T.N.G" 
12 Verdi ana 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
JACK MONAHAN 
WILLSHORTZ 
No. 1029 

l'1IDlo by RlcAlnl Hugi..  
27 Construction of  39_souci  so Make amends  
snow, maybe  40 Actor Baldwin  51 Talked and  
28 City of Paris 31 Prom wear  44 Two-page ad 45 Link between  talked 52Weirdish  
33 Do well on  stories?  56Mom'smom  

46 Where trade-ins 57 _ McAn are made shoes 48 Just for men 58 Inning closers 49 More healthy 60 Dee river 
JUMBLE 
~J].
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words 
ACOME 
I I I b
02003 Tribune Media Serv,cea, Inc:. All Rights Reaerved. 
FEROC ± 
I I r J 
tREDDEG IJ 
WWW jumble.com
tYURFIP j
J I r I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
runt ~ 
h=: "[ I I I X I X J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: EMERY BUSHY INVERT LAUNCH Answer: The organ grinder per1ormed at the street fes• tival when ii was -HIS 'TURN" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Emma Bunton. Geena Davis, Richie Havens, Placido Domingo 
Happy Birthday: You're bright, articulate. outgoing and quite willing to do whatever you have to in order to reach your goals. Discipline and hard work will pay off, and you'll attract people who are just as dynamic as you are this year. Your numbers 
are l, 13,28,33,41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Yw will find a new job op(Xlllllility ifyoo look. Your quick learning ability will enable you to pick up the neres.saiy skills, and you should be able to 
increase your salary in ire~*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will feel content if you are well-0rganized and follow throogh with yoor plans. Be sure to take part in events that present an intellectual 
challenge.*****GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a51ep back and ny to view your position realistically. If yoo are having trouble separating your personal responsibilities from yoor professional roes, you may need to ask for sorre tirre off.** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social events will prove to be most enticing and 
will lead to some interesting conversations and the possibility of a new romance. Yoo can ask focfavm;today,sooon\ be amartyr.**** LEO (July 2..l-Aug. 22): Discuss your ideas and others will support you and may 
possibly even invest. Your dynamic personality will be effective with outsiders, but 
yw will have to be aflectimate ifyou want rerults al home. *** VIRGO (Aug. 2..l-Sept. 22): Although everyone appears to want you to solve their problems, you just can't take on that kind of pressure. Focus on a moneymaking 
CWJ!Ulllity and begin new fiiml.ship;. ** LIBRA (Sept. 2..'\..0d 22): Absolutely do not spend on something you can do without. You should get out socially today and you'll probably meet someone special. *** SCORPIO (Oct 2..l-Nov. 21): You will be able to get others to grant you favors if 
you ask. The only difficulties you will experience with others will be the ones you create yo.m;elf. *** * SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee-21): Keep your thoughts to yourself and you will 
eliminate half your problems today. Any involvement in gossip or other people's affairs will tockfire. FOOJS on making rncrey. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk to people in your field or who share the same interests as you. Say what you think. You will be well received. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your lowered vitality get the better of you. Opportunities to make money will be yours. You are likely to find that someone IBJT to you has ar,roblem that yoo will be able to rdp with * * * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to accomplish, especially within a partnership. You can make financial gains if you are prepared to work 
hard*** 
Birthday Baby: You may not always abide by the rules. You will have a warmth that will draw ctms inlo your circle. You will be ateam player who can and will make adilfcreoce. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
CDPYRIGHf 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 1 Nickname in the N.BA 
5 Part of a musical refrain 9 Hill's partner 13 "To Sir With Love· singer 14 Majestic poem 15 They hold water 17 Mine: Fr. 18 Cauldron stirrers, maybe 
19 Something pushed by a trailer? 
20 Drink garnish 21 •-bin ein Berliner" 22 Treal with 
carbon dioxide 23 Really taut 26 Where the 
outboard motor goes 
29Two-time 
30 "le_ d'Arthur" 
32 Royal wish 
33 Resigned remark 
'S7 Realty self· satisfied 
41 Thetis bathed Achilles in it, in myth 
42 Battle of Britain 
grp. 
43 Southpaw 44Growold 47 Link 48 Really stylish 53 Some Crimeans 54 Benzene source 55 "Hold _your 
half" 59 lsolalad 60Dr._,TV 
adviser on life and relationships 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

22 Unanimously 
drinks 25 At the peak of 26 Some stage 
equipment 34 Garret 35 Start of a play 36 Hebrides island 38 Regions 
For answers, call 1·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years; 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
' 
I 
,. l 
I 
, • I I, 


' . ' 
'' I 
'f I 
PORTS 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
. UConn dominates early in 72-53 win over Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Editor 
The opportunity to make history was there. With 12 minutes, 41 sec­
... 
onds left in the first half. Connecticut star player Diana Taurasi picked up her third foul, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma was being restrained by his assistant coaches and the Joyce Center crowd was in a frenzy with the Irish ahead 13-12. 
Then the Huskies showed why they have won a NCAA Division I womens record 56 consecutive games. 
Taking advantage of her first career start, freshman Barbara Turner scored a career-high 25 points and led No. 2 Connecticut to a 72-53 win over Notre Dame Monday. 
"I thought that Connecticut really responded when Taurasi got her third foul in the first half." Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "I felt that all of their players really collectively stepped up. in particular I thought Barb Turner really did an out­standing job. I thought they played with poise." 
Getting Taurasi in early foul trouble worked right into Notre Dame's game plan. 
see BBALL/page 18 
Opportunity lost 

. Irish still seeking answers following another home loss 
If you hadn't seen a Notre Dame womens basketball game in the past month or so, all you had to do was watch the Irish take on the No. 2 Connecticut Huskies Monday afternoon at the Joyce Center to get a feel for how their sea­son was going. 
Alicia Ratay couldn't get open, let ~onetakeanysho~. 
Jacqueline Batteast was dou­ble and triple teamed in the low post and forced shots in an attempt to generate some type of offense for the Irish 
Notre Dame was significantly outrebounded,40-28. 
Courtney La Vere was the only consistent offensive play­er. scoring 12 points on 5-11 shooting. 
And, most importantly, Notre Dame couldn't play for 40 min­utes en route to losing to another quality opponent, this 

see IRISH/page 18 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish looking to bounce back against Friars 
tion time comes around in Kentucky's Rupp Arena can efficiently offensively on the 43 percent shooting. 
.,., By CHRIS FEDERICO March. become. road," Brey said Saturday after The Irish will have to be on 
Sports Wrirer 
The more important games While the Irish, who are now watching Kentucky outshoot his the lookout for Providence for­
Only minutes after their 88-73 resume tonight when No. 16 14-3 on the season, have gone team 52 to 34 percent. "We had ward Ryan Gomes. The 6-foot-7, loss to then No. 16 Kentucky, Notre Dame returns to Big East undefeated in the comfy con­some great possessions, but you 238-pound sophomore has Irish players and coaches knew play with an inter-divisional fines of the Joyce Center, they almost need to have seven or averaged just over 18 points they would have to quickly wipe matchup against Providence. have dropped their only two eight in a row." and 10 rebounds a game for the the ugly non-conference loss "I looked at [the Kentucky true road games of the season After the poor shooting per­Friars, leading the team in from their memories. game] as a free one out of the at Pittsburgh and Kentucky. formance from Notre Dame those categories. 
"We've just got to move on," league," Brey told The South Meanwhile, Providence is 8-1 on perimeter players such as The big man could cause Irish guard Matt Carroll told Bend Tribune Saturday. "We'll its home court in the Dunkin guards Chris Thomas and for­problems for a Notre Dame The South Bend Tribune after be OK. The only thing that Donuts Center this season. ward Dan Miller, who were a team that has been dominated the game. would be disappointing about For a team in the midst of its combined 8-for•28 from the in the middle by Pittsburgh's 
As Irish coach Mike Brey said, today is if we didn't learn some­longest road stretch -the Irish field and 3-for-12 behind the Ontario Lett and Kentucky's in his post game interviews, the thing about playing on the play three road games in eight arc, Irish shooters will need to Chuck Hayes and Marquis Estill one-sided loss to the Wildcats road." days, the second of those three find their touch against a decent in those two losses. was upsetting, but not a fatal Hopefully that was a message games coming tonight at Providence squad that is 9-6 on Tip-off tonight is scheduled blow to the Irish. In fact, it was the Irish got loud and clear. Providence and the third the season and 2-2 in Rig East for 7:30 p.m. in Providence, R.I. barely even a flesh wound. After shooting only 33 percent Saturday at Boston College -play, including home victories 
The fact is, the non-confer­as a team Saturday and falling Notre Dame needs to make sure over Boston College and St. ence road loss to a very talented behind 38-30 at half, the Irish its futility away from home does John's University. Kentucky opponent will barely quickly learned how hostile a not become a trend. The Friars have allowed Contact Chris Federico at leave a mark when NCAA selec-road environment such as "I think we can move it more opponents 71 points a game on cfederic@nd.edu 

MENS BASKETBALL  WOMENS SWIMMING  SMC BASKETBALL  
Notre Dame 192.5  Albion 68  
Notre Dame returns to Big East conference play against Providence tonight. The Irish have  Illinois 175.5  Saint Mary's 58  
lost both true road games this season.  Despite many of their swimmers out fighting a  After a disappointing loss to Albion, the Belles  
virus the Irish still managed to defeat the Illini.  are still struggling to find a winning strategy.  
back page  page 18  page 17  









