
The Independent Neu;spaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 47 THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 6, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM STUDENT SENATE 
Group asks ND to form Women's Center 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed a resolution Wednesday asking the University to "commit the appropriate resources to the creation and maintenance of a 
Women's Resource Center." 
The resolution addresses what Senators perceive to be a large hole in the University's services available to students, acknowledging that many of the top 20 institutions in the country have their own women's resource centers sponsored, staffed and funded by the universities themselves. 
Pangborn Senator Kaitlyn Redfield presented this resolu­tion to the Senate, along with a separate statement regard­ing a women's resource center at Notre Dame. 
"It is widely acknowledged that Notre Dame's gender relations are below the social­ly acceptable standards required for fostering the sup­portive community needed to encourage student growth," the statement reads. 
"Notre Dame has an ever­increasing responsibility to educate its students on mat­ters of gender relations," it says. 
Currently, there is a student­run club addressing women's issues, but it cannot meet the needs of students as well as a University-sponsored facility would, Redfield said. 
Redfield cited the University's Multicultural 
see SENATE/page 8 
ANALYZE THIS 

PAMELA LOCKfThe Observer Students listen to and analyze music lyrics of U2 for messages of social justice during an event entitled "The Gospel According to Bono," sponsored by Interfaith Christian Night Prayer and Campus Ministry at the Coleman Morse Center Wednesday. 
University considers limiting business majors 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 
Due to the steadily increasing number of undergraduate busi­ness majors at Notre Dame, University Provost Nathan Ha.tch and the deans of the University's colleges are currently discussing several structural changes to the Mendoza College of Business. 
The College of Business cur­rently enrolls 1,769 undergradu­ate business majors, constituting 32 percent of all undergraduate majors. This proportion is extremely high relative to the average percentage of under­graduate business majors at Notre Dame's top 20 peer institu­tions -7 percent. 
'There has been an increasing trend in the number of under­graduate business majors," vice president and associate provost John Affieck-Graves said. "It is our responsibility to explore this and determine whether this fits with our mission statement and the overall goals and aspirations of the University." 
Many feel that the size of the undergraduate business pro­gram at Notre Dame may conflict 
see BUSINESS/page 8 

fACULTY SENATE 
Chair to step down 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 
Faculty Senate members dis­
cussed the election of a new 
chairperson and the dearth of 
library resources in the group's 
November session held 
Wednesday. 
Elections for a new chairper­son will be held during the Senate's December meeting, over which Vice-Chair Jeremy Fein, director of the Environmental Molecular Science Institute, will preside. This election has been necessi­tated by the decision of Chair John Robinson, associate dean of the Law School, to resign from his post due to medical reasons. 
Robinson expressed hope for the continued success of the Senate during his absence. "[The Senate] still has a long way to go before it has proven itself," he said. 
He said that his principal goal as chairman has been to show that, contrary to the beliefs of much of the faculty, "the inter­ests of the administration and · the faculty do converge." In his experience, the administration highly values the interests of the University and the opinions of faculty members, Robinson said. 
The University would be the worse for lack of the Senate, which strengthens the voice of the faculty, he said. 
Jennifer Younger, director of University Ubraries, was invited by the Academic Affairs Committee to address the Senate concerning the current alloca­tion of and future outlook for library resources. 

Younger informed the Senate of the pressing need of addition­al funds for the library materials budget. "No [department] has too much money," she said, but some departments are in direr straits than others. 
Throughout the past three years, the materials budget has been flat, with increases only in endowment income. This year, 
see FACULTYIpage 4 


Thursday, November 6, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Greatness at 

what price? 
I certainly agree that Notre Dame must strive for higher academic stan­dards and greater intellectual curiosity, as recent debates have indicated. 
I have to ask, however, "At what price?"
It does worry me Lauren Beck ifstudents fail to see the value of Associate learning. But, what Viewpoint I fear more is that Editor in its quest to ascend in academ­ic ranking, Notre Dame might lose the type of well-rounded students that make it unique and make me proud to attend this University rather than any other top-20 school. 
Here, I can pray, party and study with my friends; discuss politics, athletics, philosophy, relationships and religion with them. And that is the essence of Notre Dame's identity. 
Looking back, I do wish I had attended more lectures, read more newspapers, done more research and met with more professors. 
But regardless, the majority of stu­dents I know-of various majors -are indeed "academically engaged." They have used their time at Notre Dame not merely to attain a diploma or a job but to grow in both wisdom and knowledge, both inside and outside the classroom. 
Notre Dame professors deserve a great deal of credit as well. I have encountered professors who are capable of engaging students and encouraging us to pursue and challenge ideas. · 
That said, I do not want to be compla­cent. There are improvements that should be and can be made at Notre Dame. 
I'd like to see greater activism. I'd like to bring students and professors togeth­er more often. I'd like to hear more stu­dents challenge theories and opinions in class. I'd like to combat the notion that grades matter most and to foster a greater passion for pure learning. 
I hope the University seriously consid­ers these issues, perhaps putting togeth­er a task force of students, professors and administrators to probe them fur­ther. 
Please, make the improvements that need to be made in order to keep Notre Dame's standards high, its curriculum rigorous and its students motivated. 
But please, do not neglect what is right with this University. Please, do not ignore the other vital points of its mis­sion as a Catholic institution. 
Notre Dame faces a challenge that grows greater year by year -can we attain status as a top research universi­ty, recruit top professors and enroll top students while still retaining our long­standing identity as one of the nation's premier Catholic institutions? 
I can only hope that as administrators meet this challenge, they do not feel forced to choose to sacrifice one for the other. 
And I can only pray that, ifsuch a choice becomes inevitable, they strongly consider this University's heritage and character and continue to attract prom­ising students who are passionate not only about academics but also about service, faith, social life and leadership -the type of students who have made and who continue to make Notre Dame the quality school that it is. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO MOST DURING SATURDAY'S GAME? 






Mart Cannen Astorga 
Freshman Farley 

·Tm selling my ticket and going to Chicago. ,, 
Emily Kane 
Freshman Welsh Family 
"Definitely halftime ... I hear Beyonce's 
Eileen Duffy 
Freshman Lyons 
..Halftime ... I hear the band is going to be 
Sean Rose 
Sophomore Siegfried 
"Football ... and we ARE going to win!" 

Soo Han Park 
. 
Senior 
Zahm 
"Running into the stadium and tackle the 
Shawn Park 
Junior St. Ed's 
"Going to the bathroom. , 
making an CRAZY (hint, appearance!" hint)!" 


PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 
Students take a break from studying to enjoy the talents of musician Gavin DeGraw at Legends Wednesday night. DeGraw has a hit single, "Follow Through," and his own music video. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman says O'Donnell told her liars get cancer 
NEW YORK -A cancer survivor burst into tears Wednesday when she testi­fied that Rosie O'Donnell sug­gested she was lying about goings-on at her now-defunct magazine and told her liars get cancer. 
Cindy Spengler, who was head of marketing at "Rosie" magazine, said O'Donnell made the remark after a meeting to discuss the maga­zine's problems. Spengler said O'Donnell told her that her silence in the meeting was tantamount to lying. 
"You know what happens to people who lie," the wit-
TODAY 
0:::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!;( 
LLI 

3: 
.... 
ct 
(J 

0 
ness quoted O'Donnell as saying. "They get sick and they get cancer. If they keep lying, they get it again." 
Spengler testified in Manhattan's State Supreme Court, where O'Donnell and "Rosie" publisher Gruner+Jahr USA are suing each other for breach of con­tract. 
She told O'Donnell, "Your mother died of breast cancer. Was she lying?" 
"Yes," Spengler quoted the entertainer as replying. 
'Splderman' ends crane protest In London LONDON -An angry father in a Spiderman cos­
tume climbed down from a 120-foot crane Wednesday, ending a five-day protest that snarled traffic in London's busy financial district. 
David Chick, 36, descended the crane beside London's Tower Bridge at about 4 p.m., cheered by a group of mostly male supporters. 
Chick, a father of one from Sussex county in southern England, scaled the crane in a bid to draw attention to the plight of fathers who are divorced or separated from their wives and denied access to their children. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

..... HIGH 47 
LOW 40 


35 30 

44 23 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

46 32 

referee.,, 
IN BRIEF 
St. Edward's Hall· is sponsor­ing a free throw contest today, with all donations going to charity. The contest will be held from 6 to 7:30 p.m. at St. Edward's Hall. 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune box office for tonight's sopho­more class dinner at BW3s. Pay only $3 if you purchase tickets before the event and get in early at 6 p.m. Pay $4 at the door and get in at 6:30 pm. Sponsored by the Class of 2006. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present orches­tral works from the 18th through the 20th centuries tonight from 8 to 9:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
Come to the LaFortune base­ment tonight to enjoy AcoustiCafe from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
Layna Mosley, a Kellogg Fellow in the Department of Political Science, will present "Rules in International Finance: Public Institutions, Private Regulation and Everything in Between," today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center, C-1 03. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
Speaker John Carson from the University of Michigan will present "IQ and the Problem of Democracy in the Age of Human Science," today at 4:15 
p.m. in DeBartolo room 214. Sponsored by the Reilly Program in History and Philosophy of Science. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

':<: 

~~' 
. 
. 
. 

~
• 

HIGH 44 HIGH 
52 

LOW 40 LOW 
50 


Thursday, November 6, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Alumni Association 
gives award to '53 grad 
Special to The Observer 
Retired U.S. Marine Corps Maj. Gen. James McMonagle, a decorated combat leader in Vietnam and 1953 Notre Dame graduate, will receive the Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., Award during a halftime ceremony at the Notre Dame-Navy football game Saturday. 
The Corby Award is presented annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association to a gradu­ate who has distinguished him­self or herself in military serv­ice. 
During his 35-year active-duty career, McMonagle served in Korea, Lebanon and Vietnam, where he held major combat command positions with the Third Marine Division. He was awarded the Legion of Merit with Combat V and a Gold Star. 
McMonagle held a full range of military staff positions and directed a variety of training and development courses and programs. His career included three roles as commanding gen­eral -at Camp Pendleton, Calif.. the First Marine Expeditionary Force and the Marine Corps Recruit Depot at Parris Island, S.C. Also a direc­tor of personnel, McMonagle received the Distinguished Service Medal when he retired in 1988 .. 
McMonagle has served as an adviser for several law firms in military personnel cases and a volunteer for an outreach pro­gram that provides manual labor to improve the quality of life for children in the Nazareth Orphanage in Tecate, Mexico. In addition, he is a trustee for Devil Pups Inc., a non-profit Marine Corps youth summer program at Camp Pendleton. 
McMonagle and his wife. Carol, reside in Vista, Calif., and have three sons who also are Notre Dame graduates. 


Lectures center on O'Connor, Percy 
Talks to feature works oftwo noted authors 
Special to The Observer 
The works of Walker Percy and Flannery O'Connor will be the subject of a lecture series sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture Nov. 10-13. 
The title of the series, "A Reason to Write: Two Catholic Novelists," is taken from O'Connor, who once wrote, "I feel that if I were not a Catholic, I would have no rea­son to write, no reason to see. no reason ever to feel horri­fied or even to enjoy any­thing." 
According to Jennifer Bradley, a Notre Dame senior and organizer of the series, "We hope to better acquaint the Notre Dame community with the lives and work of Flannery O'Connor and Walker Percy, two figures who loom large in American Catholicism's recent past. To that end, we have put together a set of lectures which will not only each be very good indi­vidually, but that will, when taken as a whole, offer a rich and full account of the impor­tance of these Catholic writ· ers." 
The series will include four lectures, all beginning at 7:30 
p.m. in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. The first lec­ture will occur Nov. 10 and feature Ralph Wood, University Professor of Theology and Literature at Baylor University, on "Why Jesus Throws Everything Off Balance: Flannery O'Connor and Catholic Culture." 



Office 
•

remains 
outdated 

Registrar looks into ways to update process 
By MATT SMEDBERG 
News Writer 

As Notre Dame becomes an increasingly electronic cam­pus, certain offices, most notably the Office of the Registrar, seem to fall behind technologically, still requiring antiquated procedures such as requiring multiple signa­tures on documents for pur­poses as simple as cross-list­ing a class or waiving prereq­uisites. 
Class registration by Irishlink was the first step in computerizing the Registrar's functions. The next large step, according to Associate Registrar Lora Spaulding, will be the introduction of the Renovare database software currently under development for the University by SCT Corporation. The introduc­tion of the software is tenta· tively scheduled for 18 months from now, Spaulding said. Renovare will form a central database to be used for purposes of financial aid, administration, human resources and methods of interaction between students and the University. 
Spaulding said her office has looked at various ways to improve and electronicize "workflow," the process by which information, whether print or electronic, is moved between campus offices. The registrar's office concluded that there was no effective way to computerize the sys­tem to complete improve· ments before installation of the Renovare system. In the meantime, specific processes have been examined for ways that they could be stream­lined. 
"The forms which students find take most time are aca­demic program forms, such as those used to add or drop a major, and exemption forms which students must get filled out if they do not have the ordinary require­ments for a class," Spaulding said. 
Those students most prone to use exemption forms are transfer students and those from Saint Mary's taking Notre Dame courses. In many cases, lrishlink will not rec­ognize the courses that these students already have on their record as sufficient for the requirements. 
Generally, processes that only require approval from one person -such as approval for overload -are those that the Registrar's Office has successfully streamlined. Pro.cesses that require input from more than one person typically remain un-computerized and likely appear to remain so for at least 18 months, Spaulding said. 
Contact Matt Smedberg at smedberg.l@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 6, 2003 


FriiiQ,I811...uo..at...CeDIIr Break the attendance record! Game tele!!e!~~~~~TV! ~ Save your seat for the football Pep Rally! "'First 1,000 fans receive ND foam hat!."' 300 fans receive sports beads ~ One lucky fan will win 2 tickets to the ND vs Navy Football Game ~ First 100 fans receive Gold Game T-shirts ""'sponsored by Aeropostale4-FirstSOQ fans receive Senior trading cards! .Y. Gold Game! 
W8118n'S 111111111.&Dill.IS Phlsbll'lb #5laii'SSoccerIS#25 ICIDI FrldaJ, InJ,.. 4:30 PI atloisAQuatic Calllllr.··.~..·· SUDIIQ, InI ,...1:10 PIIIIIIIDIBI field 
Gold Game! Big East Quarterfinals! "-First 100 fans receive Gold GameT-shirts -sponsored by Aeropostale TICKETS: $3 forND Students (1st 100 free) and Youth, $5 for Adults **FREE. A4MittTon t() a(( WfJ Students (exeel>+ Men's Soccer)** **Viti+ the ProMot anrJ Giveaways Link at www.und.co""** 
Dean apologizes for flag gaffe 
Associated Press remarks and pledged to contin­few days because they under­
ue reaching out to Southern stand what this is about," the 
MANCHESTER, N.H. -white voters despite the criti­former Vermont governor said. Howard Dean, trying to quell a cism. "But some have not, and to politically damaging flap over But he sought to put the mat­those I deeply regret the pain the Confederate flag, belatedly ter to rest -first by expressing that I may have caused." apologized Wednesday for regret and, hours later, by apol­Speaking at New· York's inflicting "a lot of pain on peo­ogizing in an interview with Cooper Union, Dean stopped ple" by urging Democrats to The Associated Press. Rivals short of apologizing and vowed court Southerners who display accused him of saying too little, not to shirk from "difficult and the symbol of the Confederacy. too late after he had declined in painful" discussions about race 
In one of the most tumultuous Tuesday night's debate to admit relations. "Feelings will be days of his front-running cam­error. hurt," Dean said. paign, the Democratic presi­"Many people in the African­Later, he called the AP to dential candidate accused his American community have sup­clarify the comments in his rivals of misconstruing his ported what I said in the past speech. 
NotreDa1ne 
. ~University Clulrr • .·· .· .... . . . . ·W\l'W~nd~edut~univclub ··· . ... . Membership available to all ND/SMC Faculty, Staff. Alumni,2nd year PhDs, Friends ofNotre Dame Applications 63 1~4685 or stop by the Club. · 
Lunch or DiimerReservations 631-4683· Meetings and PrivateParties· <631-4681·. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
lfyou or sonzeoneyou love needS help or informationj please call.· 
Confidential Support& Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
> Ann E.· Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
)  Sr. Jean Leuz, O.S,F., Stude11t AfTairs, 1-7407  
)  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, l-7819  
).  Sylvia Dillon. Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
~  Jolm Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
~..  Dr. SusanSteibe-Pasalich; Counseling Center, };.7336  

South Bend Community Resources: 
» Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ).> Catholic Charities: 234-3111 

Faculty 

continued from page 1 
the library has subsisted only via ad hoc money furnished by the Provost, she said. 
The basic allocations of library resources were determined in the 1970s and have only been "tweaked" since. 
During this fiscal year, the library expects to see an overall decrease in library materials funds of $330,000. Concurrent with this decrease, future costs are expected to steadily rise. 
Last year, the library attempt­ed to alleviate the deficit by car­rying out a 6 percent decrease in commitments across every subject area. They also institut­ed polices canceling paper ver­sions of journals received in dig­ital form and purchasing trade paper bound books rather than hardcover editions. 
The University Libraries has published a strategic plan with which it will approach future challenges. This plan is based on "where we want the library to be in 20 years," Younger said. 
"The strategic plan is clearly based on a growth of financial resources, however," she said. 
Contact Beth Erickson at berickso@nd.edu 



Lecture 
& Author Signing 
Meet John C. Lungren Jr . LECTURE 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Friday November 7 4:00p.m. 
BOOK SIGNING 
Saturday November 8 
10:00 a.m.-Noon in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


HEALING 

RICHARD 

.t•)hn f. tUO'f"':f•, ~Ul., -tN! tot~o t: :.•J:•.:«-:c JY. ..._.!::. • t<·•""""d b~ :lid ~'l:rl:<t«o 
Dr. john Lungren, Sr. was Richard Nixon's personal physician, friend and confidante for 40 years-ftom 1952 until Nixon's death in 1994. Considered a valuabl~ contribution to presidential history, Dr. Lungren portrays Nixon as a paradoxical . .. and ultimauly tragic man. 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 


BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
ph ane: (574) 631·6316 • www.ndbookstore.tom 
Open to the public • Convenient parking 
--------------------~~ --­

Thursday, November 6, 2003 page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
"Long March" not so long after all 
SHANGHAI, China -They slogged across rugged terrain for a year, fleeing Nationalist forces and forming the cornerstone of Chinese communist legend -the .. Long March" that turned Mao Zedong's guerrillas into folk heroes of the masses they would soon command. 
Now, seven decades after the grueling trek, two Britons who retraced the march's route on foot are committing political heresy. Their conClusion: The journey was 2,500 miles shorter than the distance of 6,200 miles claimed by the Communist Party. 
Ed Jocelyn and Andy McEwan said their findings showed the journey -during which Mao cemented his rule over the party that took control of China in 1949 -was 3, 700 miles long. 
Sri Lankan chaos continues 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka-Sri Lanka's crisis deepened Wednesday as the president declared a. state of emergency giving her sweeping powers, and her rival met with President Bush and said the power grab would not derail efforts to end 20 years of civil war. 
Aides insisted President Chandrika Kumaratunga wouldn't resume fighting the Tamil Tiger rebels, a conflict that is at the root of her feud with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. Kumaratunga believes the prime minister has been too soft on the rebels. 
After meeting Bush Wednesday in Washington, Wickremesinghe downplayed the developments in Sri Lanka, a country of 19 million off the southern coast of India. 
"This is part of Sri Lankan politics," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
First lady rewards arts groups 
WASHINGTON -Hailing the positive impact of the arts and humanities on the lives of young people, first lady Laura Bush presented awards to community organiza­tions in the United States and Mexico on Wednesday for their pioneering work with underprivileged youth. 
Eighteen nonprofit organizations received $10,000 each as finalists in the sixth annual Coming Up Taller Awards, hosted by Mrs. Bush in the East Room of the White House. The organizations were recognized for train­ing school-age children in areas such as visual arts, music, dance, creative writing, theater, broadcast journalism, history and education. 

Soldiers' death benefits to double 
WASHINGTON -The House voted unani­mously on Wednesday to double to $12,000 the payment given to families of fallen sol­diers and send the bill to the president by Veterans Day. 
The bill, passed 420-0, makes the bigger death benefit tax-free and extends it to fami­lies of military personnel killed in Iraq and Afghanistan since the 2001 terrorist attacks. 
"This is what a grateful country does for the families of those service members," said Rep. Sam Johnson, R-Texas. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Anxiety attack nets crime suspect 
INDIANAPOLIS -A man who saw a televi­sion news report identifying him as a suspect in a fatal shooting was arrested after he suf­fered an anxiety attack and called 911. 
William Holland, of Indianapolis, was being held without bond Tuesday in Marion County Jail on charges of murder and robbery. A jail officer who answered the phone early Wednesday said she could not confirm whether he still was being held there. 
Police said Holland saw a TV report Monday night saying that he was wanted for the killing of a clerk during a convenience store holdup and suffered a severe anxiety attack. 


Bush bans abortion procedure 
Abortion-rights. advocates file suits to block controversial 'partial-birth' bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush signed into law the most far-reaching abortion restrictions in three decades Wednesday, an emotionally charged measure already chal­lenged in three federal courts. 
A federal judge in Nebraska called the law "highly suspect" and issued a temporary order block­ing it from applying to four abortion-rights doctors who filed suit. 
After years of frustration, legal setbacks and two presidential vetoes, hun­dreds of anti-abortion leaders rose in applause when Bush promised to vigorously defend the con­stitutionality of the law, known by its supporters as a "partial birth abortion" ban. 

"For years a terrible form of violence has been directed against children who are inches from birth while the law looked the other way," Bush told reli­gious leaders, members of Congress and other abor­tion foes at a signing cere-· mony at the Ronald Reagan Building. "Today at last the American people and our government have confronted the violence and come to the defense of Feldt, president of the twice vetoed similar bills. Alabama, Georgia, Iowa, the innocent child." Planned Parenthood While anti-abortion New York, South Carolina 
Abortion-rights groups Federation of America, forces cheered their victo­and Virginia. said the law was overly which filed suit against the ry, arguments against the In Manhattan, U.S. broad, lacked any exemp­measure in San Francisco. law were raised in court­District Judge Richard tion for the health of a The bill gave Bush a rooms in Lincoln, Neb.; San Casey appeared skeptical woman seeking an abor­major victory to show reli­Francisco and New York. about arguments by Talcott tion and could outlaw sev­gious conservatives on the In Lincoln, U.S. District Camp, a lawyer for the eral safe and common pro­eve of a re-election year. Judge Richard Kopf issued American Civil Liberties cedures. They also con­But it also revived debate a temporary restraining Union, which sought an tended it was the first step on a polarizing issue that order, citing concerns that order blocking enforce­in a larger campaign to could undercut his hopes the law lacked any health ment. Casey did not issue ban all abortions for the of winning support from exception. "It seems to me an immediate order. first time since the swing voters. the law is highly suspect, if "Doesn't the court have Supreme Court's 1973 The bill outlaws a proce­not a per se violation of the to give some deference to landmark decision legaliz­dure generally performed Constitution," Kopf said. the findings of Congress ing the procedure. in the second or third He said his order would that are spelled out in this 
"This bill marks a con­trimester in which a fetus apply only to the four doc­statute?" Casey asked, not­certed effort to set back is partially delivered before tors who filed the lawsuit, ing the findings resulted decades of progress in being killed, usually by but the ruling could extend from eight years of hear­achieving reproductive having its skull punctured. beyond Nebraska because ings. "They say there is no freedom," said Gloria Former President Clinton they are licensed in threat." 

KOREAN PENINSULA 
U.S., allies stop nuclear projects 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -The United States and its key allies agreed Wednesday to suspend con­struction of two nuclear power plants in North Korea, saying that the energy-starved communist state won't get them unless it gives up its nuclear weapons program. 
The move seems likely to kill the $4.6 billion power plants project, because the Bush administration opposes it and officials from the United States, South Korea, Japan and the European Union have agreed that a unanimous decision would be needed to resume con­struction. 
The Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, a U.S. based consortium, has been build­ing two light-water reactors as part of the 1994 accord between Washington and Pyongyang in which North Korea promised to freeze and eventually dismantle its suspected nuclear weapons devel­opment. 
But the deal went sour in October 2002 when U.S. officials said North Korea admitted to running such a weapons program. 
The deal had been part of U.S.­led international efforts to per­
suade the impoverished communist nation to abandon its nuclear weapons ambitions in return for energy aid and other economic benefits. But the Bush administra­tion says the project has lost its tactical merit because Pyongyang has been running a secret nuclear weapons program flouting the agreement. 
The four-member executive board of the KEDO met in New York on Monday and Tuesday and discussed suspending the project. The board said it would make its final announcement before Nov. 21 after consulting with the member nations' governments. 
Thursday, November 6, 2003
page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-IY1orse Center 631-7800 ministry.l@nd.edu · campusministry.nd.edu


Campus Ministry C-M 
• 

Freshman
51 
now 
Get involved, go on a retreat 

Retreat #so 
More info & applications in Room114 and 
December s-6
online at campusministry.nd.edu 

wh t' h 
thursday 11.o6 
Prayer from Around the World Series: 
Muslim Prayer 
6:30p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Lucernarium & Social (optionaO 
9:00pm 
Moreau Seminary 

sunday 11.09 
RCIA Retreat 
1:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Why the Church? 
A conversation inspired by Luigi Giussani's book Why the Church? with: Prof. Brian Daley, 5.}. Theology Dept. Prof. John McGreevy History Dept. Prof. John O'Callaghan, 
Philosophy Dept. Msgr. Lorenzo Albacete, 
Theologian & author Moderated by: Prof. Paolo Carozza, Law School 
7:30p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
· 

tuesday 11. 10 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

wednesday 11.05 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 
The Gospel according to Bono: drop the debt coffeehouse 
Presented by Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 1o:oo p.m. -11:30 p.m. Legends 
Please join us for an evening of Muslim prayer Thursday, November 6 330 Coleman-Morse 6:30-7:30 p.m. 
Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beliefi andpractices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evening of Prayer from Around the World" 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, Muslim Students Association, International Student Services and Activities, Graduate Student Union 


·mass schedule 
Sign up deadline: November 28 
Main Office (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 

considerations... 
Mission Sunday 
The Mission of Jesus is ours 
by Fr. Richard Warner Director, Office of Campus Ministry 
This weekend, Notre Dame will observe Mission Sunday, an annual moment when we reflect on the mission ofJesus, the mission of the Church and our mission, which are one and the same. It also offers us an opportunity to learn about and assist the mission character of the Congrega­tion ofHoly Cross. . 
As Jesus commends his spirit into the Father's hands, his death conquers death. After his resurrection, the Holy Spirit moves freely among his disciples. And the mission ofJesus and of the Spirit become"the mission of the Church (cf Catechism of the Catholic Church, 730). At the moment of his ascension, Jesus tells his closest followers to preach the Good News to people ofevery nation and tongue and race ofevery time and place. Through the baptism they accept in the name of our Triune God, they will be enabled through the witness they bear and the sacramental life they share to participate in the mission ofJesus. 
Some believers participate directly in spreading the faith throughout the world by serving in places where the Church is young, such as East Africa, or where it is long established but facing the threat ofsects as in Central America. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross was founded in the years following the French Revolution as a group ofyoung men and women called to be catechists and educators at home and beyond their country's borders. Father Sarin arrived in New 
Through service and tutoring and care for
York with several brothers in 1841, and one year later, 
people who are poor and in need, we 
founded the University of Notre Dame. . preach the Good News. 
When the founder of Holy Cross was told that it was likely that his Congregation would only receive papal approval if the Congregation would accept responsibility for the mission in Bengal, a group of Holy Cross religious were sent from France to what is today Bangladesh in 1853. No Congregation had been able to make a go of this mission because of the extraordinarily difficult circumstances. But this year, Holy Cross will celebrate the I 50th anniversary of that continuous foundation. Bangladesh has been a holy place because of the many religious who lived heroic lives there and a significant number who died or were killed. 
Obviously the Holy Cross ministry at Notre Dame is not so dramatic. But the root ofour commitment is the same, because the continuation of the mission ofJesus through the Church is the welcome challenge we share with them. 
Mission is not just the work ofordained and vowed men and women. It is the work ofall the baptized. Each of us shares this mission when we bear witness to Jesus as his followers by what we say and do, and by the way we try to live out what we believe. We share in the mission of Jesus when we share in the rich sacramental life of the Church together. Through service and tutoring and care for people who are poor and in need, we preach the Good News. 
This weekend is a special time for us to be grateful for our faith, and to continue to dedicate ourselves to live as Jesus did, to teach as Jesus did, to serve the most needy as Jesus did and to extend the mission ofJesus to all those people who enter our lives. 
Mission Sunday activities during these days include special collections for Holy Cross missions in the Basilica and in the residence halls this weekend, the Notre Dame Folk Choir Concert Saturday at 8:30 p.m. in the Basilica, and next Wednesday's "The Gospel according to Bono"coffeehouse at 10:00 p.m. at the Coleman-Morse Center. 
32"d Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
30 minutes after the game 
Rev. Thomas McDermott, c.s.c. 
45 minutr1s after the game 
(Stepan Center) Rev. Leonard Rozario, c.s.c. 

Sunday 
8:ooa.m. 
Rev. Thomas McDermott, c.s.c. 
to:oo a.m. 
Rev. Thomas McDermott, c.s.c. 
11:45 p.m. 
Rev. Leonard Rozario, c.s.c. 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 
Spanish Mass 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
s:oo p.m. 
Law School Mass 
Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
S,undgy's Scripture Readings 1st: Ezra 47:1-2, 8-9, 12 2nd: 1Corinthians 3:9c-11, 16-17 Gospel: John 2:13-22 
~ ~--~·--=-~-·;. . --·--·~ .. ...........__........~..L......... 
L__________ ---­
' 
I_ 
Thursday, November 6, 2003 

page 7 


MARKET RECAP Stocks 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.94 -0.04 4.23 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.02 +0.22 21.80 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.12 +0.03 26.10 IVANHOE ENERGY (IVAN) +4.35 +0.29 6.96 INTERACTivtCORP (IACI) -7.59 -2.81 34.19 
Treasuries 

~YEAABa\10 
+0.82 +0.42 51.80 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.05 +0.45 43.50 5-YEARNOTE +2.09 +0.68 33.27 3-MONTH BILL +0.54 +0.05 9.3 3 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($'bbl.) + 1.55 30.30 GOLD ($/Trcyoz.) +2.70 382.70 PORK BEWES (c:ertsnb.) -0.25 87.40 
Exchange Rates 

Ya-.J 109.9 EURO 0.8746 POUND 0.5976 CAN,t.DIAN $ 1.335 
IN BRIEF 
Manufacturing climbs in Sept., Oct. 
WASHINGTON -Orders to U.S. factories 
rebounded in September, rising by 0.5 percent 
in another signal pointing to an economic 
resurgence. 
That marked a turnaround from the 0.3 per­cent dip reported for August, according to revised figures released by the Commerce Department on Wednesday. That decline for August turned out to be not as deep as the 0.8 percent drop the government previously reported. 
September's performance was slightly weak­er than the 0.6 percent increase economists were forecasting. Gains were led by big-ticket goods including cars, machinery and furni­ture. 
In a more forward-looking report, manufac­turing in October posted its highest level of activity in nearly four years, the Institute for Supply Management said this week. 
Toyota posts $4.88 earnings 
TOKYO-Japan's largest automaker Toyota Motor Corp. reported unexpectedly strong growth in its profit for the first half of the fis­cal year on thriving overseas sales and said its profits, revenue and vehicle sales should beat its earlier forecasts for the full year. 
Toyota said Wednesday net earnings rose 23 percent to 524.4 billion yen ($4.81 billion) for the April-September period from 425.8 billion yen a year earlier. 
The results beat analyst expectations for a net profit of between 412.6 billion yen and 
440.0 billion yen ($3.78 billion and $4.04 bil­lion) as surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires. 
Cisco profits surge to $1.098 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Cisco Systems Inc. post­ed higher sales and profits for its fiscal first quarter Wednesday, the strongest indication yet that corporate spending on networking equipment is rebounding after two years of declines. 
For the three months ended Oct. 25, Cisco earned $1.09 billion, or 15 cents per share, compared with a profit of $618 million, or 8 cents per share, for the same period last year. 
Sales jumped 5.3 percent, to $5.1 billion frcm $4.85 billion. 
Martha Stewart defends herself 
In ABC interview, domestic maven admits bad temper, proclaims innocence 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Martha 
Stewart says she sometimes 
has a bad temper -but 
insists she is innocent and 
should not be lumped with 
massive corporate fraud 
cases like Enron and 
WorldCom. 
"What I did was not 
against the rules," Stewart 
told ABC's "20/20" in an 
interview airing Friday. The 
network released excerpts 
Wednesday. 
Asked whether she ever 
thought she would be con­
sidered a corporate crimi­
nal, mentioned in the same 
breath as Enron and 
WorldCom, Stewart said: 
"Absolutely not, and I cer­
tainly don't belong in that 
category." 
The maven of gracious living goes to trial Jan. 12 on charges she obstructed justice and lied to investiga­tors about her sale of ImClone Systems stock on Dec. 27, 2001. 
The government contends she was tipped that the family of ImClone founder Sam Waksal was trying to sell its shares. A negative government report the next day sent ImClone shares tumbling. 
Stewart, 62, maintains she had a standing order to sell the stock if it fell below a certain price. 
In the "20/20" interview, Stewart said she "some­times, but not always" has 

Martha Stewart arrives at the National Design Awards Gala In October. The domes­
a bad temper and can occa­

tic diva Is charged with obstruction of justice related to an Insider-trading Investi­
sionally be insensitive and 

gation, allegations she denied In a recent ABC Interview.
driven. But she said she does not know why some of serve all five counts in the the securities fraud count would be cleared of accusa­the public does not like her. criminal indictment of was "frivolous," was with­tions of wrongdoing," pros­
"Those traits and that Stewart returned in June. out legal precedent and ecutors said. "Instead, behavior, if it were applied Stewart had asked U.S. "flies in the face of common Stewart gave a forceful, to a man, would be District Judge Miriam sense." detailed and false explana­admirable. Applied to a Goldman Cedarbaum to dis­They pointed out that tion for her sale of ImClone woman, you know, she's a miss an obstruction-of-jus­shares of Stewart's media on Dec. 27, 2001." 'beetch,"' Stewart said, tice charge and a securities company, Martha Stewart The government also said according to the ABC tran­fraud charge that accused Living Omnimedia, jumped Stewart's request to strike script. Stewart of deceiving her 14 percent on June 19, down the obstruction-of­
The excerpts were shareholders when she 2002, after Stewart issued justice count in the indict­released as Manhattan fed­spoke about the investiga­a statement insisting she ment fails because it does eral prosecutors filed court tion last year. had done nothing wrong. not cite a single legal case papers urging the judge The prosecutors said "Stewart did not merely in which a similar request overseeing the case to pre-Stewart's motion to dismiss express a belief that she has been granted. 

NYSE head announces new slate 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New York Stock Exchange interim chairman John Reed nominated a set of candidates Wednesday for a trimmed-down NYSE board intended to improve regulation and sweep away conflicts of interest. 
The nominations are part of a package of reforms proposed by Reed, who joined the NYSE in late September after former chairman Dick Grasso resigned amid outrage over his $188 million compensation package. 
The proposals call for representa­tives of the securities industry or directors who were involved in approving Grasso's compensation package to step down. 
The current 27 -member board 

would .be replaced by a board of six to 12 members who will oversee regulation and compensation. A separate executive panel of the securities industry would handle operations, such as listing stan­dards. 
"I think this board will serve the New York Stock Exchange well, and I think it will serve the American public well," Reed said. 
At Reed's request, a majority of the current directors have already submitted their resignations, which will take effect if the proposals are approved by the NYSE's 1,366 members. Members are being asked to approve the plan by Nov. 18. 
The nominees include two current NYSE board members, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, and Herb Allison, chair­man of the teachers pension fund TIAA-CREF. 
Other nominees are Euan Baird, former chairman of oilfield services concern Schlumberger Ltd.; Marshall Carter, former head of State Street Bank; Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; James McDonald, former chief executive of Rockefeller & Co.; Robert Shapiro, former chairman of agricultural and chemical giant Monsanto Co.; and Sir Dennis Weatherstone, for­mer CEO of J.P. Morgan Chase. 
Other proposals include requiring the exchange to disclose informa­tion such as the amount of compen­sation for the CEO and top manage­ment officials. Companies listed on the exchange already have such disclosure requirements. 

.I 
I 
. ~ 
I 
page 8 Thursday, November 6, 2003 
The Observer • NEWS 

Business 
continued from page 1 
with the University's mission of education in the liberal arts. 
"There seems to be support for limits on majors in Business from a variety of fronts," Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said. "I am optimistic about our addressing the chal­lenge, which should bring us clos­er to our ideals as a Catholic lib­eral arts university." 
Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said the business program itself in no way diverges from Notre Dame's Catholic mission. 
The difficulty lies in the pro­gram's limited capacity to serve its large number of students, Woo said. While the college enrolls one-third of all undergraduate students, it only employs one­eighth of the University's full-time 
faculty. ''It is this severe imbalance that causes the problem," Woo said. 
In the past 10 years, the num­ber of undergraduate business majors has increased by approxi­mately 20 percent. 
Enrollment has since reached a plateau, remaining relatively con­sistent for the past five years. This plateau can be partially attributed to a recent policy that dictates no more than 18 percent of business intents shall be admitted to each freshman class. 
Business has become the most popular undergraduate major at Notre Dame because of word of mouth and role modeling, Woo said. 
"Most people can imagine themselves succeeding iri busi­ness," she said. "Most people work in business, period." 
It is an interesting major with a strong national reputation and a strong placement program, Woo said. 
"I think that it is well taught, and the highly passionate faculty care a lot about students suc­ceeding," she said. 
The strategy with which this issue will be approached has not yet been chosen. 
"We are still at the stage of exploring the problem and deter­mining why we are so different from other universities," Affieck­Graves said. 
Several possible approaches to the problem are under review: 
+ The College is exploring the possibility of creating a business minor. 
However, shifting capacity to accommodate minors may prove difficult. Woo said. If the college does opt to offer a minor and the number of majors does not decrease, this plan will backfire and require even more faculty, she said. 
Undergraduate business stu­dents have shown little interest in a business minor program, Woo said. 
+ The College may improve its 
capacity to meet the level of enrollment of its undergraduate program by hiring additional instructors. 
+ The College is considering capping undergraduate enroll­ment. 
All other top undergraduate business programs in the nation have extremely competitive appli­cation processes, Woo said. However, she does not envision a facile implementation of such an application process at Notre Dame. 
"No one at Notre Dame is unable to succeed as a business major," Woo said. "It is not a mat­ter of whether students qualify." 
Chao-Shin Liu, professor of accounting, said that, although it is not desirable for a liberal arts university to enroll too many business majors, "it is also [Notre Dame's) tradition that students are free to choose any college without restrictions [unlike Michigan and many other univer­sities.]" 
In the event of an enrollment cap in the College of Business, the University must "ensure that budgetary strategies are in place to deal with unintended conse­quences, such as an overabun­dance of students in certain col­leges or departments," Roche said. "While some departments in Arts and Letters, for example, could absorb more students, oth­ers are close to their capacity to meet student needs." 
+ Business students may be encouraged to pursue other majors. 
According to Woo, this is a University-level issue. Guidance must be provided by the University and the other Colleges to promote alternate majors. 
"Personally, I think a very pop­ular College of Business is not the problem," Liu said. "The problem is why some other colleges become so unpopular." 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 

Senate  "We're expressing a need as a concerted voice of the stu­dent body to  Redfield also addressed questions regarding potential controversies  creation," she said. "I have enough faith in the adminis­tration to believe they will  be moved to an outdoor loca­tion back to the Senate after spending the past week gath­ 
~ II  continued from page 1 Students Programs and Services as an example of a University-sponsored facility that is able to meet the needs  say, 'This is something we need a n d expect,"' Redfield said. "We  "We·re hoping that the administration will realize that [possible controversies] should not block its creation. ·•  surrounding a women's resource center on a Catholic campus, such as birth control and abortion.  realize that this is more than just contraception and birth control. It's about sexual assault and women's lives, etc." The resolution will be pre­sented to the Campus Life  ering signatures from resi­dents in their dorms. Senators reported a good response to the issue from the student body. Pasquerilla West Senator Jana Lamplota collected the petitions and said there will be  
of a large portion of the stu­ have anum­ "We're hoping  Council  at  their  meeting  a decision soon about how the  
dent body. She said that, with University sponsorship, a women's resource center  ber of the administra­tion, most  Kaltlyn Redfield Pangborn Senator  that the admin­istration will realize that  Monday. In other Senate news: + Senators brought petitions  petitions will be presented to the administration.  
would have the same capabili­ty.  students and most rectors on our side."  [possible con­troversies] should not block its  calling for the ROTC Presidential Pass-In-Review to  Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu  

Transportation to O'Hare &Midway Airports • .··Conven1e:nt • Affordab!l!:e Relialble The way to go to the !: . Coacl1 l!SA airports! .  www.coachusa,.com  

Thursday, November 6, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Ridgway confesses to killing 48 
Congress cuts funds 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE --Uttering the word "guilty" 48 times with chilling calm, Gary Leon Ridgway admitted Wednesday he is the Green River Killer and confessed to strangling four dozen women over two decades -"so many women I have a hard time keeping them straight." 
"Choking is what I did, and I was pretty good at it," the 54­year-old former truck-factory employee said in papers sub­mitted as part of his plea bar­gain. 
Ridgway, a short figure with glasses, thinning hair and a sandy mustache, pleaded guilty to more murders than any other 

lawyers said he
"I killed so many

serial killer in was, in fact, sorry 
U.S. history. women I have a and will express He struck a hard time keeping that to the fami­
plea bargain that lies at the sen­
them straight. ••

will spare him tencing, which from execution will be held with­for those killings Gary Leon Ridgway in six months. and bring life in Defense attorney
serial killer 

prison without parole for one of the most baffiing and disturb­ing serial killer cases the nation has ever seen. 
For a half-hour, he listened in court with an utter lack of expression as his own account­ing of how he picked up each victim and where he dumped the body was read aloud. In the most matter-of-fact way, he confirmed the details, respond­ing "yes" over and over in a clear but subdued voice. 
"I wanted to kill as many women as I thought were pros­titutes as I possibly could," he said in a statement that was read aloud in court by a prose­cutor and opened an extraordi­nary window on the twisted mind of a serial killer. He also said: "I killed so many women I have a hard time keeping them straight." 
He said he left some bodies in "clusters" and enjoyed driving by the sites afterward, thinking about what he had done. He said he sometimes stopped to have sex with the bodies. 
Victims' relatives wept quiet­ly in the courtroom. 
"It was hard to sit there and see him not show any feeling and not show any remorse," said Kathy Mills, whose daugh­ter Opal was 16 when she van­ished in 1982. Opal's body was found in the Green River three days later. 
Ridgway's 
Tony Savage said 
Ridgway's emo­tions came "in private, in emo­tional ways, in tears and in words .... He feels terrible remorse." 
"The Green River nightmare is over," King County Prosecutor Norm Maleng said after the proceeding. 
But Sheriff Dave Reichert ­one of the first investigators on the case as a young detective -said that the investigation continues and that charges in more cases were possible. Under the plea bargain, Ridgway is not protected from the death penalty in other jurisdictions. He has not been charged elsewhere, but admit-

for weapons research
ted dumping victims outside 
the county and in Oregon. 
Other serial killers have 
bragged of murdering many 
dozens of victims, but 
Ridgway's plea agreement, 
signed June 13, puts more 
murders on his record than 
any other serial killer in U.S. 
history. 

John Wayne Gacy, who preyed on men and boys in Chicago in the 1970s, was con­victed of killing 33 people. Ted Bundy, whose killing started in Washington state, confessed to killing more than 30 women and girls but was convicted of murdering only three before he was executed. 
At a news conference, Maleng·said his first reaction to striking a deal that would take the death penalty off the table was no: "If any case screams out for the death penalty, this was it." 
But he said he finally agreed to bring a resolution to dozens of unsolved Green River cases. Investigators had evidence to pursue charges in seven cases but had exhausted their leads in the others, and the victims' families -including those whose loved ones had never even been found -deserved answers, Maleng said. 
Since signing off on the deal, Ridgway has worked with investigators to recover the remains of some victims. Ridgway has been married three times and has a son, but none of his family members or supporters attended the hear­ing. 
"Justice and mercy for the victims, the family and our community, and that is why we entered into this agreement," the prosecutor said. 
Associarcd Press 

WASHINGTON -House and 
Senate bargainers agreed 
Wednesday to halve President 
Bush's request for studying 
"bunker buster" nuclear war­
heads and make other cuts in 
research into a new generation of 
nuclear weapons. 

The negotiators also decided to provide nearly all of what Bush wanted to continue preparatory work on a nuclear waste storage site at Yucca Mountain in the Nevada desert. 
The money was included in a compromise $27.3 billion meas­ure financing energy and water projects for the government's new budget year. Lawmakers hoped to push it through Congress in the next few days. 
The decisions came as legisla­tors struggled to meet a self­imposed Nov. 21 deadline to adjourn Congress for the year. So far, they have approved only four of the 13 must-pass spending bills, although the House voted 417-5 to send the Senate the fifth, a $9.3 billion measure for military construction. 
Bargainers on the energy-water bill decided to provide $7.5 mil­lion for work on the bunker busters, .bombs that would bur­row through earth and rock to destroy underground targets. The administration wanted twice that amount. 
The bill would provide all $6 million Bush proposed for research into "mini-nukes" of less than 5,000 tons of TNT, or one­fourth the explosive power of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, on Aug. 6, 1945. But $4 million of that amount would be provided only after the administration submits a 

. . .. . . ....· ..·· . •.... ·.· 



.. EDimR IN CJ.uu . Andrew Soukup MANAGING EoiTOR BuSINESS MNf4Gt:l{ ..· Scott Br<xifuehrer Lori Lewalski AsST. MANAGJNG EOllQl{ Sheila Flynn NEWS EDIToR: Meghanne Downes 



The Observer i§ the inclepe.ndenr, daily neWspaper· published.in print and online by the 5tlldents·Df the Uriivei~ity ofN®e Dame du Lac and SaintMary's 
College, Edi«.:~rial content.includingad~fiSements, t, . . ·.. not governed by polici~ oftheadiniJUStr3,tiori9feither 
..· institution~ The ObServer tesem:s thetightto·ret¥.· 
·.·· .. ®veu.isernenu based on®m~t.: . < .· ·.The nW/S·J$r¢pqrn!a#~¥JY¥i{f(i!)Mtci#lf11S••··· 
•possible. Unsigned Cdit<lti31S ~pfc:5erit die opuu!)I1 of · · 
•••·······~~~'::g~~jrt,l~l-~~t:•••·•··•·····•··!2~~~~~~~;t 
i 

.·•.. ··· YreWpoilld~!s.aVIUJ.ab:k~all~§,The~ ·• .> expression ofall opinions through lettet'S ~ encouraged.. lette!'i t{) the Editor musl be igned and musdrn:lude . 
~onc:actinform;~.tion.. · · ·· · · · ·· · 
~ons rrgardmg Ob1rnJtrpoficits should b~ dirrmd 10 EditOr in Cb;4'Andffu/S~p. 


.PosT 0FfiCE>INFDRMAOON ·•••·· . 

·········!~Jr~~~r~~~~tr~~·:•••••· 
. TODAY'~ STAFF·. 
News Graphics 

Anneliese Woolford .. · · Mike Harkins JQe Tr()mhello ·.· . . Spprts·. Matt Btamanti •>IJustirtschuver· . 
Viewpgigf . ...•...•.•.•.•.·... n~ Tapatino•·• ·Erm fox ····. ...••. . .< >MattMooney · . illustrator.. ·.... < . Seen~ ·.. ···.··• 
>Katie Knorr KC Kenney 


Discussing homosexuality debate 
Over the past year, a large number of columns and letters have been writ­ten on the subject of homosexuality. It is with some hesitation that I add to that number. 
However, I think I can safe­
Peter Wicks 

ly say that my 
contribution to 
the discussion 
Englishman

will be different 
Abroad

in at least one respect because 
I'm not going to tell you what I think. 
Really, it's better this way. Our views on homosexuality are based upon a whole range of deep assumptions about morality, human nature and the authority -or lack of it -of the Bible and the Church. An 800-word opinion piece is not going to change your mind. But the columns and the letters keep coming in, and I doubt I am the only person who has wondered what those who write them are hoping to achieve. 
The arguments usually fall into one of two categories: those that aren't really arguments at all, but rather cocktails of assertion and invective, and those that really are arguments, but not good ones. 
Leaving aside the bald assertions that "homosexuality is wrong" the majority of arguments made for that position are appeals to scripture or the teaching of the Church. But letters to the editor are not a good medium for arguments establishing the authority of scripture or scriptural exegesis. 
Similarly, at least since the emer­gence of widespread dissent on the issue of artificial contraception, many Catholics have ceased to believe that the Church has the authority to tell them what to do in their sexual lives. Whatever one thinks about the legiti­macy of this dissent, the issue won't be settled in this column, or on these pages. 
The argument that homosexuals tend to be more promiscuous than het­erosexuals is irrelevant to moral issue. We should -and usually do -judge individuals by their own behavior, not the statistics for the groups to which they belong. If a study came out show­ing that the English were, on average, more promiscuous than the French, I don't see why I should be concerned­though I might be a little surprised. 
Turning to the arguments on the other side, again we find little that will persuade those who do not already agree. Earlier in this semester, a stu­dent wrote in these pages that a God who gave people a homosexual orien­tation but who forbid them to act upon their sexual inclinations would be "objectively inconsistent." 
But surely we do believe that some people -pedophiles, to give the most obvious example-have sexual incli­nations on which it would be wrong to act? Indeed, if we consistently held the view that God would not give us desires on which it was wrong to act, we would have trouble explaining why he would have given us the moral law at all. The Church has traditionally avoided this problem by saying that not all of our desires are in fact God given. The doctrine is called Original Sin. 
No, I didn't just compare homosexu­ality with pedophilia. 
I won't get into the issue of whether homosexuality is genetic or cultural or a combination of both in origin. That too is irrelevant to the moral issue. The mistake is to equate this question with the issue of whether or not a homosexual has any choice over his sexual orientation. But if orientation were determined by events in early childhood then it would not follow that a person had any more choice over his orientation than if it was genetic. 
As to the recent exchange between correspondents trying to settle the issue on scientific grounds, I think the most recent position that was taken was this: The National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuals is biased and should be ignored because it produces statements saying that homosexuality is a disorder; instead we should trust the American Psychology Association when it says that homosexuality is not a disorder because the APA is unbiased. Also, NARTH is a small organization full of crackpots, but the APA has 161,000 members, and 161,000 psychologists can't be wrong. Well, they were wrong until1973 of course, but they can't be wrong now. 
Clearly we aren't going to get very far this way. 

At least for the foreseeable future, there is no chance that the debate over homosexuality will go away, but perhaps it could go better. The letters calling for understanding, tolerance and respect get the words right, but go wrong by suggesting that anyone who possessed those virtues would by necessity agree with the letter writer. 
Typically, they also err in equating respect with approval. Sometimes we show respect to someone by disagree­ing with them. But it is hard to see this in debates about sexuality, because we -heterosexuals and homosexuals alike-are taught to think of our sex­uality as central to our very identity, the key to who we are. This (question­able) assumption is shared by many on both sides of the debate and accounts for the passion and pain that accom­panies the arguments. 
The debate can and must continue, but I for one doubt whether this page is the best forum for it do so. 

Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Winning tradition lacking at ND 
This letter is in response to Kathleen Tallmadge's Nov. 3 letter "Support NO team unconditionally." In the letter, she argues that "while winning is a Notre Dame tradition, it is certainly nowhere near to being the most important." 
Quite frankly, in all sports, the purpose of the game is to win. If sports were not about winning, there would be no point in competing with other teams. Everyone would go to watch practices and be perfectly happy. But people don't enjoy going to watch teams practice. Why? Because sports are about competition and winning, and anything in sports that does not bring you closer to the goal of winning is a fail­ure. 
At Notre Dame, we have a great tradition. That tradition only exists because our teams have won. Sure, we have had a few bad stretches in our history, but if the Irish had not won consistently over the past 80-plus years, our football tradition would be no different from that of any other sub­par program or, at the least, from any of the former football greats such as the University of Chicago. 
OBSERVER POLL 
How often do you meet with a professor outside of class? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
We, as the inheritors of the tradition of Notre Dame foot­ball, should walk into that stadium every Saturday expecting a win. That has not been the case for the past six years or so. Many people even expect us to lose to Navy this year. This is unacceptable at Notre Dame. 
The coaches, the players, the fans and we students owe the former players, coaches, fans and students who built the Notre Dame tradition before us, as well as those who will carry it on after us, nothing but excellence in everything we do, including footbalL We should win, and we should win in the right way. That is what Notre Dame and her football team are all about. Cheering for a team that has just lost to FSU by 37 points like they just beat FSU by 37 points is not demanding excellence. It is embracing mediocrity or worse. 
Christopher Cascino jun10r Dillon Hall Nov. 5 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Everyone is kneaded out ofthe same dough but not baked in the same oven, 
Yiddish proverb 



• 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsider attitudes toward Iraq war 
If we view the war in Iraq with a monolithic approach, i.e. "American Democracy" versus "Islamic Fundamentalism," then we do not do justice to the political realities and complex truths of recent history. I must respectfully dis­agree with Greg Parnell's Nov. 3 column, but this is not solely a response to him. 
I did not and still do not believe we should have gone to war with Iraq. I do recognize, though, the fact that we are over there now, and we must remain until the job is completed. And neither the Republicans nor the Democrats should use the rising military death toll to their political advantage. 
At the very same time, however, we must examine the reasons given for this war so that over-simplistic generalizations do not feed further clashes; this must be done even at the risk of being labeled "unpatriotic" or part of the "anti-war left." 
It is safe to say that America sought to usurp Saddam Hussein's Ba'ath regime, for good or bad reasons. But what exactly is Ba'athism? It is a romantic, secular, radical Arab nationalism; it lit­erally means "resurrection." The party was founded in 1946 by Michel Aflaq-a Christian-and Salah al-Din al-Bitar. Arab civiliza­tion will always be tied to Islam, but Ba'athism's focus is secular and has proven to be quite hostile to Islamist goals. 
Let us think, then, how could Saddam Hussein, perhaps the least Islamic of any Arab ruler, have used God as a rallying point in 1991 and in 2003? How come we tacitly supported his regime in the 1980s to contain a rising Islamic state, Iran? If recent guerilla attacks in Iraq are by Hussein loyalists, then are the attackers "fundamentalists"? 
My questions do not aim to convert anybody's opinions about the war, and 
I realize I have not made substantive arguments here. Rather, I am wor­ried about a recent American tendency. You see, the Ba'athists and other Arab nationalists were very good at manipulating history. 
They toyed with academic curriculums, simplified past events and immersed students in a selective glorified account of Arab histo­
ry, all in the name of awakening or sustaining the "Arab nation." I do not suggest that Americans have gone that far. However, this ~·good/free v. eviVoppressed" approach of ours is 
dangerous and completely false because it ignores a shared his­tory, shared responsibilities and, more importantly, commonali­ties, and it is tiresomely self-glorifying. Ifour only understand­ings of this history come from the news networks and The Observer, I am wary that we might take on characteristics of a regime we were supposed to destroy. 
Terence Fitzgibbons semor Alumni Hall Nov.4 
LETTERS TO THE EDiTOR 
Maintain positive attitude toward team 
In Quinn Eide's Nov. 3 letter, a student voiced his concern about showing too much full support for our football team. He fears that the students' enthusiastic response to last Saturday's raising of the helmets lowered the standard for one of the greatest football pro­grams in the nation and was detrimental to the team. 
I seriously doubt that Coach Tyrone Willingham's speech in the locker room was anything like, "Well, we lost by 37 points but since our students still love us, I guess we played well enough." Do you really think the players do not realize their failures and mistakes and do not take each loss harder than any of the rest of the stu­dents here? 
The football team raises their helmets to the student section nei­ther for an assessment of their performance nor even for approval of their efforts but to show school spirit and to celebrate the unity of the Notre Dame family, both of which do not depend on out­comes. Outcomes are nice, and if you ask people what is great about Notre Dame football, you will undoubtedly hear about out­comes such as national championships and Heisman Trophy win­ners and so forth. However, outcomes can depend on factors out of our control, and thus a foundation built on outcomes is fragile. 
A truly great football program is built not only with the team but also with the entire student body and involves plays off the field as well as on the field. Cheering, doing the jig, eating hot dogs and having fun are just as, if not more, important than the outcome of the game. 
A foundation of excellence is laid when everyone does their best, not just the players but the rest of the student body as well. The band has a standard that we always play as loud and as well as we can, and likewise it is also expected that the students cheer as loud as they can. It is important to celebrate when our team succeeds but it is just as important to give our team support when they need us. As students, we are the foundation for the University and the foundation for the football team, and we must be able to raise our team's spirits when they struggle, in the same way that they raise ours when they succeed. 
As the game drew to a close last Saturday, cheering loudly would have indeed been inappropriate, for that was the moment of Florida State's victory. However, when the band takes the field to play the renowned Victory March and beloved Alma Mater and the players face the students, the outcome of the game is forgotten, and we remember that we are all part of the Notre Dame family. 
The raising of the golden helmets is not to signify a win or even an excellent performance but to remind us, just as Our Lady on the Golden Dome does, that we are united in spirit as one student body. The suggestion of "strictly clapping" is for fans whose school spirit depends solely on outcomes. The kind of unfeeling and impersonal attitude you described is what really lacks meaning. It is that atti­tude and not the cheering you witnessed·Saturday that lowers our standard for excellence. 
Dan Wasikowski 
JUniOr 
Sorin Hall Nov. 4 

NAACP misrepresented 
While I agree with his general assessment that "To Kill a Mockingbird" is a fantastic book, I would like to take issue with three things in Joe Licandro's Nov. 6 column "A Book Worth Reading." 
First, Licandro is plainly wrong when he says, "The NAACP is guilty of censorship not constitutionally permitted in this country." The constitution limits the actions of the gov­ernment, not of private organizations like the NAACP. Imagine that a high school announced that it was going to perform a play that portrayed Joseph Stalin as a hero and benevolent champion of the common man. A citizens' group-conservative, liber­al, whatever-might protest that choice, and the school might change its mind. This would certainly not be the sort of censorship pro­hibited by the constitution, and neither is what the NAACP did here. 
Second, Licandro says that "the NAACP and its tag-team partner the American Civil Liberties Union need to read "To Kill a Mockingbird" because they-more than anyone else -need a lesson in tolerance these days." What does the ACLU possibly have to do with this story? Throughout its 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

history the ACLU has consistently been a voice for free expression above all else. In the late 1970s, for example, the ACLU offended many liberals by defending the right of American Nazi's to stage a march in the largely Jewish suburb of Skokie, Illinois. While one can certainly debate the wisdom of some of the ACLU's positions, nothing in their history indicates that they would support the NAACP in this situation. 
Finally, I object to the use of the term "white trash" to describe anyone. Historically, the term arose in a racially seg­regated society where whites were consid­ered superior and blacks were all considered to be trash. The term "white trash" was used to indicate that poor whites, while not as inferior as blacks, certainly were not as valuable as human beings as whites with money. Bob Ewell's character is disgusting, but insulting him with a term meant to demean all poor whites is insulting to other poor whites. 
Jason Brost first year law student Nov.·5 


Thursday, November 6, 2003 

page 12 



Legends' biggest act yet debuted Wednesday night 
Gavin Degraw leads list of bands performing at Legends this week 
ByMICHAELBARRETT 
Scc:ne Writer 
Ah, music -the eternal magnet of the masses. Well, this week is not one to dis­appoint at Legends, where four bands are slated to play Wednesday through Saturday. Wednesday night hosted nationally renowned singer/songwriter Gavin DeGraw, who is arguably the biggest act to play Legends thus far. Thursday's show features Notre Dame's own Sudsbury Shore. Friday is also a big night with jam band Umphrey's McGee, whose Chicago-based members are Notre Dame alumni. Saturday's band is Chauncey, a critically acclaimed pop rock act out of Boston. You can call Legends butter, because it's on a roll. 
Gavin DeGraw is a 26-year-old talent­ed singer/songwriter out of New York, who has turned heads in the industry for quite a while. Now his underground suc­cess is finally paying off with critical acclaim of his album Chariot helping to add to his already large and devoted fan base. 
Growing up in upstate New York, 
·DeGraw learned at a young age to appreciate music more than simply a profession but rather a fundamental part of life. After he started playing piano and singing at age eight, he con­tinued· to develop his skills into his teenage years. It was during this time that he discovered the music of Ray Charles and Sam Cooke, two legendary artists who still have an influence on Gavin's music. He was able to further hone his craft at Ithaca College on a music scholarship. He dropped out of classes after one semester, however, when he realized that he was spending most of his time writing songs. DeGraw then moved to Boston, where he attend­ed the prestigious Berklee College of Music for a year while fronting a rock band and playing gigs. He left because he felt the school was restricting him from pursuing certain musical territo­ries. 
After moving to Manhattan in early 1998, he started playing shows, which soon gained him local recognition and in turn gave him the confidence to contin­ue. It was a few months later when fate intervened at an open-mike night at Wilson's, a popular Upper West Side club. It was here that he impressed the crowd so much that the club's owner, Debbie Wilson, became his manager the next day. Gavin's popularity spread quickly throughout the Manhattan music scene, where he continued to play his exciting shows, alternating between a solo piano act and a full rock band. When he first received an offer from a major music label, he declined in order to further develop his craft as a song­writer and performer. He subsequently signed a publishing deal with Warner/Chappell. who released a six­song CD Gavin Live, recorded from shows at Wilson's. 
It was after playing a sold-out gig at Joe's Pub in New York in the spring of 2002 that he signed a deal.with J Records and soon began work on his debut album Chariot with producer Mark Endert (Fiona Apple, Tonic, Ours). In regards to adjusting to the studio, DeGraw says that it was a "real process" because he had to "learn the language and the science of making a record." DeGraw truly exposes emotion and tal­ent beyond his years on this album, resulting in rave reviews from fans~ and critics alike. Despite his relatively sud­den success, DeGraw remains level­headed because "writing and playing songs and making a connection with people ... make a lot more sense to me than trying to be the Next Big Thing." Check out his website at www.gavinde­graw.com. 
Sudsbury Shore will be playing Thursday night at Legends. Composed of current Notre Dame students Brad Faircloth on guitar and vocals, Greg Ujda on bass and vocals, Brendon Collins on drums and vocals, and Matt Marnocha on keys/organ/guitar/vocals, this talented band mixes elements of jazz, funk, electronic and folk music. 
Friday night will feature Umphrey's McGee (www.umphreys.com), a nation­ally-renowned jam band of creative musicians who also happen to be Notre 
· Dame alumni. Based from Chicago, these guys have one of the most unique sounds out there, blending everything from clas­sical and bluegrass to gangsta-rap and metal to jazz improvisation and funk. Forming in 1997 on our very own campus, original mem­bers Joel Cummins ('97; piano/vocals), Brendan Bayliss ('98; guitar/vocals), Ryan Stasik ('98; bass) and former drummer Mike Mirro joined with percussionist Andy Farag and guitarist Jake Cinninger. The band had previously released Greatest Hits Volume III and Songs For Older Women, and after Mirro recently left for medical school, drum­mer Kris Myers joined the band. 
Known for encouraging bootlegs at their shows, they rely heavily on their fans to spread their music and name around via the Internet. This is the main reason why venues where they've never played before will often times be sold out based solely on word-of­mouth. Their captivating live performances, often likened to Phish, and their huge following across the nation has led them to increase their popularity throughout the country. Their biggest show to-date was the Bonnaroo Music Festival in Tennessee, where they played in front of 12,000 people along­side such bands as Widespread Panic. They have also played at such festivals as the High Sierra Music Festival, South By Southwest, Hookahville and HarvestFest. Another recent highlight has been the release of their DVD, as recorded at the Skyline Stage in Chicago. Umphrey's McGee recently released their third studio album aptly titled Local Band Does O.K. It is obvious they have dDne more than mediocre, ·and their exciting show is bound to "wow" the Notre Dame audience on Friday night. 
On Saturday, Legends will host Boston­area band Chauncey, a rock/pop group influenced by the Beatles and Radiohead. Steve Morse of The Boston Globe describes the band as "fine angu­lar pop with a cerebral edge, designed for people who still think pop should mean something." Fronted by John Paul Powell on keyboards and vocals, the band consists of Eliot Hunt and Jake Zuckerman on guitar, John Bistline on bass, and Shawn Marquis on drums. The band has toured with such acts as Guster, Midnight Oil and Dispatch, thus exposing their music to as many as peo­ple as possible. Their self-titled album chauncey won "Best Rock Album" by Boston Magazine, which said that the "swerving melodies, bending rhythms, and emotional truths ... revived our faith in rock 'n' roll." 

For updated schedules of events and other news, visit Legends' website at http://www.ndfoodservices. orgllegends. 
Contact Michael Barrett at mbarret@nd.edu 






Think you have vvhat it takes 

New Tony Hawk video game has more of a story feel a 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scc:nc Editor 

The new Tony Hawk sequel could be easily called, according to PlayStation Magazine, "create your own Tony Hawk sequel." It is the most customizable of any Hawk game yet. Underground gives users the ability to make their own tricks, decks and level objec­tives (complete with easy-to-use editing tools), as well as giving the ability to customize their own character or even make one them­selves. 
Users can e-mail Neversoft a photograph and then connect their PS2 to its online server and type in the given pass­word in a reply e-mail. All users need to do to finish off the process is to pin­point their eyes and mouth once the picture is uploaded to the PS2 unit, and the game correctly maps the face onto the character's body. 
And if putting yourself inside the game isn't cool enough, the new story mode, formally known as "career mode" in past Hawk games, has been dramatically improved. In the game's 27 chapters, a gamer can skate around town, fulfill the objectives and get such skaters like Arto Scari, Mike Vallely, Paul Rodriguez, Jr. and even skater/director Stacy Peralta to notice your mad skating skills. 
In Underground, rather than focus on replacing the levels and adding new layers of depth to the gameplay, Activision and Neversoft have tried to turn the entire series upside down, taking the focus off of the skaters who are already profes­sionals. Instead, the spot­light is placed on an unknown skater and his quest for fame, which takes him from the mean streets of New Jersey to the heights of skateboard­ing stardom. 
These qualities make Underground feel more personable then simply skating around, doing tricks or objectives with no storyline behind it. 
The game mirrors Grand 


Thursday, November 6, 2003 Page 13 
New Notre Dame band to playat Reekers' this Friday 
Dillon-based group, Bebop and Rocksteady, prep to live up to their name 
It was then that freshman Justin Oppel became the drummer and the third member of Bebop and Rocksteady. 
Since the guys typically practice in the basement of Dillon, people can hear them from outside the building when they walk by. Many times, people will just go down to the basement to check out what is going on. 
"We get a lot of people we've never met before come listen," Fantazier said. "Random people come down because we play different songs that remind them of when they were younger." 
Their set list is quite different and eclectic. It is definitely worth checking out. They play such songs as "Traveling Man," "Basketcase," "American Woman" and "Flagpole Sitta," among other songs by Green Day, Bush and other favorites. 
One of the most redeeming qualities of Bebop is their originality in their rendi­tions of many of the songs. They keep some in as original form as they can, while others sound completely different 

By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
Tired of the same old weekend nights? Like to support campus bands? Well, this Friday night at Reekers, Bebop and Rocksteady will premiere their talents. 
Made up of men from Dillon Hall, they play covers, many of which are reminis­cent of the middle school years. 
Sophomore Matt Fantazier and fresh­man Andrew Zwers met in Glee Club. In middle September, they began to talk about starting a band. Since Fantazier plays the guitar and sings, while Zwers plays the bass guitars and sings, they had to search out a drummer. 
"We heard about a guy that lived near the mailboxes who played the drums, so we went to find him," Fantazier said. "Justin was checking his mail and over­heard us. He told us that he played the drums, so he had them mailed here. And then here we are." 
-and in some ways, better than how the songs were originally written. They personali~e some of the lyrics to relate to being at school at Notre Dame and add humor. 
While they cover songs, they also have some originals in the making. They won't premiere Friday night, but they will come out soon. 
The band formed a description of themselves, which can be found on fliers across campus: "Alternative new wave garage country [music] at it's finest!" This fairly accurately describes the sound that comes from these three guys. 
Fantazier and Zwers both sing and strum their guitars very well, while Oppel rocks out on his drum set, complete with a cow bell for added gusto. 
Opening up for Bebop and Rocksteady is Tom Shrek, who also is a member of the Glee Club. He will join Bebop for a couple songs during their set as an added vocalist. 
"It will be fun to play for our friends," Fantazier said. '' We're excited. We're going to bebop and rocksteady all night long ... Reekers style." 
You can listen to the sounds of Bebop and Rocksteady Friday night at Reekers beginning at 10:15 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

to board vvith Tony Hawk? 
~nd allows the player to actually get into the game 
Theft Auto in many ways, making this Hawk game more than worthwhile. You find yourself driving cars, chasing drug deal­ers, harassing cops, all the while, attempting to gain sponsorship and learning new tricks along the way. 
Underground is a great improvement from the pro skater line of Hawk games. 
For the first time in the Tony Hawk universe, the game has difficulty set­tings. Since the story relies on you being an unknown skater, it requires you create your own skater rather than using a pre-made profes­sional. 
In the past games, in order to improve your skills. you must earn
. 
money to purchase skill points. In Underground, skaters are upgraded by satisfactorily executing stat-specific challenges rather than by being awarded stat points for completing goals. 
As it stands, the game essentially has you attempting to accomplish the typical sorts of goals that the Pro Skater series is known for -like col­lecting different items and doing multiple specific tricks. You'll collect scraps of sheet metal, Hawaiian leis, doughnuts, stickers and lots of other little trin­kets along the way. A gamer also have to per­form specific tricks in cer­tain situations, reach spe­cific score plateaus, and achieve other typical Tony 

Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu454 7@saintmarys.edu 
mit a picture of themselves and download a digital version of their own faces to add Into the game and run or skate around in Tony's world as themselves. 
Thursday, November 6, 2003

page 14. The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
~. NBA 
Sacramento defeats Minnesota 125-121 in OT 
Associated Press keep up without starting point guard Steve Nash. Gilbert Arenas had 25 points, 
Peja Stojakovic scored 26 of 12 rebounds and 10 assists, and his 34 points after halftime, the Wizards capitalized on a leading the Sacramento Kings shoulder injury to Nash in a to a wild 125-121 overtime vic­100-90 victory Wednesday tory over the Minnesota night. Timberwolves on Wednesday "We wanted to show the NBA night. that we can be as up-tempo, 
Mike Bibby scored 22 points athletic and aggressive as the for Sacramento, and Bobby Dallas Mavericks,'" Wizards Jackson and Vlade Divac each coach Eddie Jordan said. had 19. Divac added eight "They're a team we admire rebounds and 10 assists, and because they play a fun, wide­Brad Miller fouled out in the open game, they have scorers extra period with 17 points, all over the place and create eight rebounds and five assists. different mismatches." 
Kevin Garnett had 28 points and 11 rebounds for Minnesota, New Orleans 106, Philadelphia but he missed a tying shot in 99,0T the lane late in overtime. The way Baron Davis is shoot­
ing 3-pointers, he should stay Chclago 106, Orlando 100 outside the arc. 
Chicago's Tyson Chandler Davis scored 18 of his 37 couldn't help but be reminded points on 3s to lead the New of practice while watching his Orleans Hornets to a 106-99 Tim Thomas scored 19 of his attempts. "When we see day­points. teammates rediscover their overtime victory over the 22 points in the second half, light, we're letting it go." "It was a tough loss tonight:• shooting touch Wednesday Philadelphia 76ers on and Toni Kukoc had 21 to lead Billups scored 11 points in Pierce said. "We really played night against Orlando. Wednesday night. the Bucks to a 106-90 come­the fourth quarter, including well, and we knew what we 

"Oh man, we haven't shot this "Once I hit three in a row. I back victory Wednesday night. three 3-pointers, and finished needed to do to win the game, well since practice," said was going to keep taking them," A night after nearly knocking as one of five Pistons in double but we just didn't get it done. Chandler, who had 22 points to Davis said. off the Los Angeles Lakers and figures. There·s a lot of positives in this help the Bulls beat the Magic The former All-Star guard fin­catching a late plane to New "I know that Coach [Larry] team -we just have to clean 106-100. "We shoot this well in ished 13-for-26 from the field, York, the Bucks' legs were fresh Brown isn't big on us shooting up a few things." practice but it seems like when including 6-for 11 from 3-point enough to outlast the Knicks. 3s all the time, but that's a big Detroit trailed by nine at the 
~-... 
the lights come on, those balls range. He is shooting 46.3 per­"I keep telling them, 'When I part of this team," Billups said. half but got back into the game don't fall." cent (19-for-41) from 3-point_ was 20 years old I'd run forev­"We have a lot of guys who can with a seven-point run early in 
Chicago was shooting any­range this season, and just 37.1 er,'" coach Terry Porter said. shoot the ball and a lot of ways the third, capped by Prince's 3­thing but lights out heading into percent (26-for-70) from inside to get the open shots.'" pointer. the game, shooting 31.8 per­the arc. Detroit 96, Boston 88 Richard Hamilton shot just 7-Raef LaFrentz slowed the cent. Coach Bill Cartwright Reserve Steve Smith added 16 The Detroit Pistons love to let of-23 from the floor, but fin­rally by scoring the next four summed up his satisfaction over points for New Orleans in a it fly from long range. ished with 16 points and eight points, but the Pistons respond­his team's 54.2 shooting per­rematch of first-round playoff Chauncey Billups scored 27 rebounds, one short of his ed with a 13-2 run that includ­centage against Orlando with opponents from last spring. points and the Pistons shot 8-of-career high. Prince added 14, ed nine points from Billups and the simplest of words: "It's nice Allen Iverson scored 29 and 18 on 3-pointers in a 96-88 vic­while Ben Wallace had 13 Hamilton and led 73-70 at the when the ball goes in the bas­Glenn Robinson added 20 in his tory over the Boston Celtics on rebounds. end of the quarter. ket." home debut for the Sixers, who Wednesday night. "I've been on Rip about Four straight Pistons 
Donyell Marshall had 25 beat the Hornets in six games to It was the 15th anniversary of rebounding, and he did some turnovers allowed Boston to points and 11 rebounds and advance to the. Eastern Detroit's first game at the great things out there tonight," take a 76-73 lead, but Detroit Jamal Crawford scored 29 Conference semifinals last sea­Palace of Auburn Hills, when Brown said. "A lot of nights, a came back again. This time, points as the Bulls handing the son. the Pistons beat Charlotte 94-85 guy that goes 7 -for-23 doesn't Billups hit a pair of 3-pointers Magic their fourth straight loss. without attempting a single 3-really contribute, but Rip gave as part of a 10-2 run that made 
Milwaukee 106, New York 90 pointer. us defense and gave us it 83-78 with 7:11left. Even after a close loss at "No 3-pointers? There's no rebounding and was a key to Boston's final attempt at a Washington 100, Dallas 90 home, a late arrival and a hor­way that would happen today -the victory." · rally was thwarted by 3-point­
The Washington Wizards beat rible first half, the Milwaukee not with the guys on this team," Paul Pierce paced Boston ers from Prince and Billups Dallas at its own game, mainly Bucks were able to run away said Detroit's Tayshaun Prince, with 20 points and 10 assists, that made it 96..;88 in the final because the Mavericks couldn't from the New York Knicks. who made all four of his 3-poirit while Vin Baker added 20 minute. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale nowl www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today! 
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. 
Group discounts for 6+ www.spring­breakdiscounts.com or 800-838­8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/ 574·282·2357 
Doglegleftnews.com "Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to you by NO Students and Alumni 
WANTED 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO 
exper. required. All looks and ages. 
Earn $100-$500 a day. 
1 ·888-820-0167, ext. U 1 87 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. 
FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
JUDAY LAKE HOME. ON LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS. 272­6306 
HONDA 93 Accord LX, 5 speed, great condition, $2,850, 232-2597. 
99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. 283-Q708. 
FoR RENT 
2--6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 
CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 
MMMRENTALSCAOLCOM 
272-1525 2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two signle. Immediately East of the Campus for Game Weekends Only. 
$80 per person/per night. Call 272­0928 
3·6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS. LOW $$.272·6306,329-0308 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3·5 BED· ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS· ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 
614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS· 214 S. ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS­718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED­ROOMS. 
CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 
HOTEL ROOM·BYU game; SAT Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190 no markup. Steve 518·330-3818. 
4 Rooms -3 mi. ND. Best location. Football & graduation. 
547-287-4545. 
4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard.Contact Mike {216) 408·0780 or Matt {216) 408·0744 if interested 
TICKETS 

NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR 
TOLL FREE 877-773·3911. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED-TOP DOLLAR PAIDAM-232­2378 PM 288·2726 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232·2378 PM -288· 2726 
WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. 
(574) 232-0964. 

FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. 
(574) 251-1570. 

Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick­ets 574·289·8048 **LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX** ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay BIG $$$$ to get these. Call 212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U have tix to sell. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi· weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 with StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! 
To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Caii1·888·SPRINGBREAKI 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplash­tours.com or 1·800-426·771 o 
ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, childless, stay-at-home mom and environmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adop· tion. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1­800-484·6754, PIN: 8642 
#1 Spring -Break Vacations! 11 Oo/o Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps 
Wanted! 1-800-234-7007 endless· 
summertours.com 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
HEY LADIES! Single, very success· ful, very disease-free male dorm seeks caring, sophisticated female dorm for companionship. Must love aquatic mammals. Serious inquiries only-tired of playing games. Please no wild women or calls before noon. 4.QTTR or visit us online at www.lonelyotters.org 


Thursday, November 6, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Manning lawsuit slated for March trial date 
Father offormer University of Tennessee quarterback comes to son's defense 
Associated Press 
Former NFL quarterback Archie Manning believes son Peyton has been punished enough for a mistake he made seven years ago, and thus a defamation lawsuit should have been dismissed. 
In an interview with The 
Associated Press. the elder Manning said his son regrets dropping his pants in front of a University of Tennessee trainer and tried to apologize to her. 
"He felt it was his mistake, he tried to apologize and he was remorseful." 
Archie Manning said 
On our team, your brightest ideas get noticed. 
experience and knowledge to spot it. It's your time to shine. 
Archie Manning said he was dismayed that the "feel-good" book is now the subject of legal action. 
"Obviously, my wife and I and our family hurt for Peyton at a time like this,"he said. 
"We're sad for him, espe­cially since an incident from seven years ago seems to have gotten so twisted." 
Naughright filed the lawsuit in Polk County, Fla., in 2002, two years after the book was published. 
In the lawsuit, she accuses Manning of placing his "naked butt" on her face while in the Volunteers' locker room. 
She is seeking damages of at least $15,000. 
In 1997, she agreed to a $300,000 settlement with the university over 3 3 alleged instances of sexual harass­ment surrounding her job in the athletic department, and her complaint included the encounter with Manning. 
Manning was not personally accused of sexual harassment, and a university investigation characterized it as "horse­play." 
Manning's attorney, Slade Metcalf, argued in court papers that the lawsuit should be thrown out because the passages in the book are "substantially" true. 
He also contends the settle­ment released the university, its employees and students, including Manning, from addi­tional damages. 
"That's what we feel, that's what I feel, that's the way Peyton feels," Archie Manning told the AP. 
Peyton Manning declined to comment. 
Nau ghrigh t's attorney, Robert Puterbaugh, also wouldn't comment. 
Judge Harvey Kornstein ruled Monday that there was enough evidence to suggest the Mannings, the writer and the publisher knew the pas­sages were false and acted in reckless disregard for the truth. 
In the book, Manning says he pulled down his pants and conceded that his behavior was "inappropriate." 
"Crude, maybe, but harm­less," he wrote. He also wrote that the train­er had a "vulgar mouth." 
The lawsuit also names writer John Underwood and publisher HarperCollins Inc. 
"Peyton knows people have a right to say what they want about him," Archie Manning said. 
"He said what happened seven years ago and it's still true." 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 


CtJII259·1ooo for more details 
Tuesday night. "He got punished and he took his punishment." 
The 1996 encounter between the trainer and the Indianapolis Colts quarter­back is mentioned in a book the Mannings wrote, "Manning: A Father, His Sons and a Football Legacy." 
Earlier this week, a judge ruled there was enough evi­dence for the trainer's lawsuit against the Mannings to pro­ceed, and a trial was set for March. 
Though she's not named in the book, Jamie Ann Naughright says the passages disparaged her. 
Quality In Everything We Do 


page 16 Thursday, November 6, 2003 
The Observer • SPORTS 

NHL 

Kovalchuk's three points lead Thrashers to 7-4 victory 

Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y.-With two offensive players out of the line­up, Ilya Kovalchuk thinks he needs to play even better for the Atlanta Thrashers. 
That's a scary thought for the rest of the NHL. 
Patrik Stefan scored on a penalty shot, and Randy Robitaille and Kovalchuk each had a goal and two assists in the Atlanta Thrashers' 7-4 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Wednesday night. 
Shawn McEachern added three assists for Atlanta, which snapped a three-game winless streak and moved into first place in the Southeast Division. 
Kovalchuk leads the league with 12 goals and 20 points. 
"The sky's the limit for him," Atlanta coach Bob Hartley said. "He still has a way to go, but he's paying more attention to details now." 
Kovalchuk, who earlier this week was named NHL's offensive player of the month for October, opened the scoring at the 7:34 mark of the first with a quick wrister that beat Martin Biron. 
Kovalchuk has scored in eight of the Thrashers' 13 games and has a point in all but two games. It was also the sixth time this sea­son he recorded a multiple-point game. 
"With Marc [Savard] and Dany [Heatley] missing I have to be a much better player than normal," Kovalchuk said. "Those are two pretty good offensive players that are missing." 
The Thrashers played their first game without Savard, who underwent surgery to repair torn ligaments in his left ankle 
Afraid of commitment? 


Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., associate vocation director. 

Come anyway. 

Tuesday. He's expected to miss eight to 10 weeks. At the time of his injury, Savard was the team's second-leading scorer behind Kovalchuk. 
Los Angeles 3, Rorlda 2 
The Los Angeles Kings ended their struggles in Florida. 
Derek Armstrong and Trent Klatt scored power-play goals and the Los Angeles Kings won at Florida for the first time, beating the Panthers 3-2 on Wednesday night. 
Jonathan Sim also scored for Las Angeles, which was a com­bined 0-4-3 at Miami Arena and the Office Depot Center. 
"I read that before the game," Kings forward Luc Robitaille said. "It was a good win tonight. We needed a win." 
Roman Cechmanek made 33 saves for the Kings to improve to 6-1-1 lifetime against Florida. 
"I know they beat us in the only game we played last year in L.A., so maybe they had the Kings' number," Kings coach Andy Murray said. "It's nice for us to turn the corner on it." 
Rookie Nathan Horton and Mike Van Ryn scored for Florida. It was the second goal in two games for Horton, the third over­all pick in this year's draft. 
Roberto Luongo made 23 saves in his first start in three games for the Panthers. 
The Kings had seven power­play opportunities in the flrst two periods, while Florida had only two. 
"We had nine penalties in the flrst two periods," Panthers for­ward Kristian Huselius said. "It's tough to come back and get the momentum. If we're going to be in the box all day long, we're not going to win many games." 
New Jersey 3, San Jose 2, OT 
Jamie Langenbrunner and the New Jersey Devils overcame a sluggish start for an exciting win. 
Langenbrunner scored with 
42.7 seconds remaining in over­time Wednesday night to give the Devils a 3-2 victory over the San Jose Sharks. 
New Jersey pressed the attack in the final minute of overtime as Scott Niedermayer had three solid chances. The pressure paid off when John Madden spun and whipped a hard backhand pass across the slot that Langenbrunner slammed home from the bottom of the left circle. 
"It felt like about an hour," Langenbrunner said of waiting for the puck. "We were tired. It was the end of a shift." 

The game, which lacked pace through the first two periods, quickened in the third period and peaked in overtime. 
"They will blame us for the way we played," Devils coach Pat Burns said. "It wasn't the way we played. San Jose backed up and tried to trap us all night long. They were playing in a position where they didn't want to lose it." 
Scott Stevens set up the first two New Jersey goals, by Christian Berglund and Turner Stevenson, to reach 900 career points. Martin Brodeur made 13 saves as the Devils extended their winning streak to four games. 
Scott Thornton and Alexander Korolyuk scored for the Sharks, who have won only two games yet have 10 points thanks to five ties and the overtime loss to the Devils. 



~hats 
9ta2~~tion 
onl¥at~· 
5mznute

from DUTPD!5T 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

Be Not Afraid! 
Thursday, November 6, 2003 page 17

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Thursday, November 6, 2003 

The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Maddux fails to earn Gold Glove Widow of former RB 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Atlanta pitcher Mike Hampton ended Greg Maddux's record run of NL Gold Gloves while Luis Castillo and Derrek Lee of the World Series champion Florida Marlins won for the first time Wednesday. 
Scott Rolen, Edgar Renteria, Jim Edmonds and Mike Matheny of the St. Louis 
Cardinals were among those honored for fielding excellence. 
Outfielders Andruw Jones of Atlanta and Jose Cruz Jr. of San Francisco also were chosen. The awards are based on the regular season -Cruz stum­bled in the playoffs, falling on a fly ball in Game 2 against Florida and then dropping a routine fly that led to the Giants' extra-inning loss in Game 3. 
Maddux had won 13 straight 
times, the most by an NL pitch­er and three short of the overall record for pitchers set by Jim Kaat. Hampton beat out his Braves teammate in winning for the first time. 
Hampton made one error in 68 chances while Maddux had two mistakes in 73 chances. 
Castillo replaced St. Louis' Fernando Vina at second base and Lee took over for Colorado's Todd Helton at first base. 
Rolen won for the fourth straight time and earned his fifth award overall at third base. Edmonds was picked for the fourth time as an NL out­fielder, adding to the three AL Gold Gloves he won with the Angels. 

Matheny and Renteria each won for the second time. Jones has won six straight NL Gold Gloves and Cruz was hon­
ored for the first time. 
Gold Gloves, presented since 1957 by St. Louis-based Rawlings, are voted on by man­agers and coaches before the end of the regular season. They may not select players on their own teams, and they vote only for players in their own league. 

accused of shooting 
Associated Press with malice, and that she shot her husband a second time 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-The after the first shot rendered widow of NFL running back him helpless. Those factors Fred Lane was sentenced to outweighed the alleged abuse. nearly eight years in prison the judge said. Wednesday for shooting her Fred Lane was a 24-year­husband to death three years old running back for the ago as he walked in the front Carolina Panthers who had door. recently been 
Deidra traded to the Lane, who Indianapolis pleaded Colts. He was guilty in '"/ loved Fred dearly. He found dead 
August to was a good man ... rm just inside the 
voluntary front door of
sorry for the pain rve
manslaugh­his Charlotte ter, cried as caused." home in 2000, the judge his keys still read the in the lock.
Diedra Lane 
sentence. "It was what
widow of Fred Lane
Before her we were hop­punishment ing for," said was handed the running down, she back's father, addressed the family of her Fred Lane Sr. "Their side slain husband. should be happy. She missed 
"I am sorry for the loss of the death penalty, she missed Fred," she said. "I loved Fred life in prison." dearly. He was a good man, Deidra Lane's parents, but at times he scared me and Charles and Darlene Gary, I didn't know him then. I'm declined to comment as they sorry for the pain I've left the courthouse. caused." Deidra Lane, 28, also plead­
Judge Timothy Patti sen­ed guilty last year to unrelat­tenced her to seven years and ed charges of conspiracy to 11 months. He ruled the slay­commit bank larceny. She was ing was premeditated and sentenced to four months in deliberate. that Lane acted jail. 

Thursday, November 6, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 


Castro ordered to stand trial for rape 
Associated Press 
Florida Marlins catcher Ramon Castro was ordered Wednesday to stand trial on charges he raped a woman in his hotel room in August. 
A magistrate made the rul­ing after Castro's accuser testified during a prelimi­nary hearing. 
The 28-year-old woman said she met Castro at the hotel's bar after a game between the Marlins and the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
She said she went to his room with another couple in the early morning hours of Aug. 28. 
She said Castro asked the 
eJ1oJ~moLlS 
FLEECE 
Selection. 
5minutes~_jjjiijfL
from CUTPCST 
Campus~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Coll:zsg·tooo for more details 
other couple to leave, then attacked her. 
Castro's attorney, J. Alan Johnson, said his client is innocent and that hotel sur­veillance tapes will eventual­ly prove that. 
Castro was allowed to remain free until trial, which wasn't immediately sched­uled. 
Castro, a 27-year-old mar­ried father of two, was arrested after the woman went to police with her story. 
He was charged with rape, involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, indecent assault, sexual assault and unlawful restraint. 
The rape charge carries a maximum sentence of 20 to 40 years in prison. 
Although under state sen­tencing guidelines it's unlikely Castro would 
1 receive such a sentence if he were convicted. Johnson said he has hired investigators to review the case and said the "time ele­ment" of the woman's accu­sations was crucial. A third-string catcher used mostly as a pinch hitter, Castro hit .283 with 5 home runs and 8 RBis in just 53 at-bats last season. 
He didn't play during the World Series, which the Marlins won after beating the New York Yankees. 

Nursing Hotline: 609-748-4055 Email: careers@atlanticare.org 







!e.2!1!!S.91l
www.atlanticare.org 
A division of AtlantiCare 
EOE, M/FfDN 
Talt.i11g You Well/lito Tile Puture. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


TCU remains undefeated 
Associated Press 

TCU did just enough one more time to remain undefeat­ed and continue the debate about whether it deserves to be part of the Bowl Championship Series. 
"The difference in that game was about three inches," coach Gary Patterson said after the 13th-ranked Horned Frogs beat Louisville 31-28 Wednesday night. 
The Frogs didn't have the win until Nate Smith's 44-yard field goal attempt on the final play of the game bounced off the crossbar. That was his third miss in the second half. 
"It looked like it was right on," said TCU quarterback Brandon Hassell, who passed for 251 yards and a touchdown while running for 61 yards and another score. "My heart was beating fast. When it hit the crossbar, I just felt joy." 
And an incredible sense of relief after the Frogs' fifth three-point win this season. 
TCU (9-0, 6-0 Conference USA) and Oklahoma (9-0), the No. 1 team in every poll, are the only undefeated teams left in major college football. Both 
have  11-game  winning  
streaks.  
Smith, who failed  on a  22­ 

yard kick in the third quarter, had also missed a 4 7 -yard attempt well short with 2:36 left. But TCU wasn't able to run the clock out. 
The Cardinals got the ball back at their 20 with 55 sec­onds left and no timeouts. Stefan LeFors completed pass-

KRT Texas Christian quarterback Cory Rodgers outruns Louisville's Josh Mlnklns Into the endzone during the first quarter. 
es of 10 and 19 yards to J.R. Russell, then on fourth-and-15 scrambled away from pressure to find Robert Haskins for 29 yards to the TCU 27 to set up Smith's attempt. 
LeFors finished 31-of-46 for 459 yards with a touchdown, and ran for a 9-yard TD on a fake field goal in the fourth quarter. Lionel Gates had nine catches for 134 yards, and Russell caught eight passes for 119 yards. 
TCU is 9-0 for the first time since 1938, when the Frogs went undefeated and won their only national champi­onship with quarterback Davey O'Brien. 
The Horned Frogs are ninth in the BCS rankings, the same spot they reached in 2000 after a 7-0 start. They will have to finish three spots high­er to be guaranteed a berth in one of the four lucrative BCS games. Kenny Hayter's 1-yard TD run early in the fourth quarter gave TCU a 31-21 lead, capping an 11-play, SO­yard drive after Smith pushed his 22-yard attempt just right. 
Smith had made 13 of 14 field goals, including 21-and 26-yarders in the first half before his three misses. His only miss before Wednesday had been a blocked 47-yard attempt against South Florida. 
"In no way is this loss all his fault," Petrino said. 


Sponsored by: Communion & liberation, Notre Dame Campus Ministry, and St. Thomas More Society 

A conversation inspired by Luigi Giussani's book Why the Church?, with: 
Prof. Brian Daley. S.J.  Theology Dept.  
Prof. John McGreevy  Hjstory Dept  
Prof. John ()'Callaghan  Philosophy Dept.  
Msgr. Lorenzo Atbacete  Theologian & author  


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 20 Thursday, November 6, 2003 


'I 
I~ 
!l 
1: 
I! II I'
I) I I I I I 
around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL South Carolina at Arkansas 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
San Jose Sharks at Boston Bruins 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Indiana at New Jersey 7 p.m., TNT LA Lakers at San Antonio 9:30p.m., TNT 
NBA 


Associated Press matchup with me and offseason, scored 10 points scoreless in the second 
CLEVELAND -The kid LeBron until next month," in the third quarter to help half, and finished just 3­from the local high school said Anthony, who will next the Nuggets take control. for-11 from the field. stole the show and all meet James on Dec. 3 in Boykins added eight Anthony, coming off a 1­LeBron James could do Denver. more points in the fourth for-13 night in a loss at was watch. Anthony outscored as the Nuggets, who tied Indiana, was 6-for-17. 
James 14-7 in the eagerly Cleveland for the NBA More than 300 media
Tiny Earl Boykins, who 
grew up in Cleveland, awaited matchup between worst record (17 -65) a year credentials were issued to scored all 18 of his points the NBA's two star rookies. ago, held off a late see the first pro matchup But neither was able to get Cavaliers' comeback. between James and
in the second half as the 
Denver Nuggets ruined into the flow and disap­James ahd the Cavaliers Anthony, the two most James' hyped home debut pointed a sellout crowd of are still looking for win No. publicized rookies to enter Wednesday night, 93-89 20,562, which kept waiting 1, and the top overall draft the league at the same 
over the winless Cavaliers. for one of them to take pick is now 0-3 in his time since Larry Bird and 
Oh, and the James vs. over. career against his close Magic Johnson in 1979. 
Carmelo Anthony rivalry? Instead, it was the 5-foot-friend Anthony. "This is overwhelming," Let's just say it needs some 5 Boykins who made all James had the better stat said Cavaliers coach Paul work. Maybe it's a good the big shots and plays. sheet: 11 rebounds and Silas, who feels the early thing they'll play just once The former Cavs guard, seven assists to Anthony's comparisons of a James vs. more this season. who signed a $13.7 million, six and two. Anthony rivalry to Magic 
"I'm glad it's over. I don't five-year deal with Denver But James couldn't get vs. Bird are premature. got to hear about the as a free agent during the his game going and went "But that's the way it is." 
IN BRIEF 
Kick returner Pyatt out six Jacksonville on Sunday. paper in a telephone interview weeks with back injury Wide receiver Brandon Stokley Tuesday. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis didn't practice Wednesday after he Team and school officials plan 
Colts kick returner Brad Pyatt has a was diagnosed with a mild concus­more meetings. and neither side minor fracture in his vertebrae and sion. Starting left tackle Tarik Glenn ruled out the possibility that the will likely miss six weeks. isn't likely to practice till later this team would return to hold its 2004 
Coach Tony Dungy said Wednesday week after hyperextending his left camp in Terre Haute. initial X-rays and examinations did knee. But both Polian and Rose-Hulman not show the fracture but an MRI Dungy wasn't sure if either player President Sam Hulbert acknowl­taken later did. would return Sunday. Both are listed edged that chance was slim. 
Pyatt was injured on the Miami as questionable. "He's not optimistic they'll be back, Dolphins' first punt Sunday when and I'm not optimistic they'll be Tommy Hendricks made a helmet-to­Colts looking for new back," Hulbert said. helmet tackle in the first quarter. summer training camp site Rose-Hulman officials want the 
Pyatt remained on the ground for TERRE HAUTE. Ind. -After five Colts to pay more for the use of a several minutes and was taken off, years of summer training at the $22 million athletic complex built in immobilized, on a stretcher. Rose-Hulman Institute of 1998, saying the amount the team 
The Colts initially called it a chest Technology, the Indianapolis Colts has been paying does not cover 
injury. are looking for a new camp site. expenses. Conducting the training Pyatt leads the AFC in kickoff The team's contract with the west­camp currently costs the Colts about returns with an average of 28.6 ern Indiana school expired after this $300,000, the Tribune-Star reported. yards. He also averages 9.2 yards on summer's camp, and neither side is Polian said the team could not punt returns. optimistic a new deal can be negoti­afford to pay a substantial increase 
Dungy said the Colts would use ated, the Tribune-Star reported and was exploring other options. "It wide receiver Troy Walters to return Wednesday. looks to us like its not going to work, punts and that they could use sever­"We have no alternative," Colts so were looking with due diligence at al players to return kickoffs at President Bill Polian told the news-other options," he said. 
,. 
Thursday, November 6, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Irish quarterback Brady Quinn throws a pass against Florida State during last Saturday's 37-0 shutout. 
Scoring 
continued from page 24 
the ball on Florida State's nine­yard line following a Vontez Duff interception and the Seminoles up 10-0. 
But all the Irish could do was move the ball two yards in three plays, pick up two penalties and then have D.J. Fitzpatrick's field goal blocked, resulting in zero points and a momentum shift to Florida State. 
The Irish moved the football inside the Seminoles 20-yard line three more times in the sec­ond half and could manage only one touchdown -when Florida State defensive back Leroy Smith intercepted quarterback Brady Quinn and returned the ball 90 yards for a Seminole score. 
"[The missing piece] is putting the ball in the end zone," Irish running back Ryan Grant said. 
"We need to start making teams catch up instead of play­ing catch-up. 
"We've showed we can do good things at times, but we need to put everything togeth­er." 
Notre Dame went for it on fourth down on its two other red zone opportunities in the second half, and Quinn missed receivers Rhema McKnight and Omar Jenkins on respective drives. 
Had the Irish scored on its four trips to the end zone, the outcome of Saturday's game would have been very different. 
Instead of a 37-0 loss, the Irish could have made it a respectable 37-21 game. 
"We always look forward to scoring, but it really has gone that way for us this year," Jones said. "We're just going to stay focused and keep going at it." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
PGA 
League to market new anti-impotence drug 
Associated Press Eli Lilly and Co. and Ieos The joint venture formed by Lilly Ieos also will sponsor "The people who watch and 
Corp., the joint venture part­Indianapolis-based Lilly and electronic scoreboards at PGA play golf are an important 
The makers of a new anti­ners behind Cialis, did not dis­Bothell, Wash.-based Ieos will events and win the right to use audience to us," she said. impotence drug said close financial terms of the develop golf-themed vignettes the tour logo in advertising. Bayer Pharmaceuticals and Wednesday they had reached a four-year sponsorship. The that will air during televised Cialis (pronounced see-ALL'­GlaxoSmithKline won U.S. sponsorship deal with the PGA deal follows Lilly Ieos LLC's coverage of the tour. The iss) is being sold in at least 45 approval in August for Levitra, Tour, staking out a marketing July announcement of title vignettes will focus on emotion­other countries, with U.S. mar­setting the stage for a battle niche in golf to compete with sponsorship of the Professional al connections to golf with keting approval expected from with Pfizer's Viagra in the bil­rivals' deals in professional Golfers' Association's Western themes such as relaxation, federal regulators by year's lion-dollar-plus market for football and baseball. Open. preparation and confidence. end. Because of rules restrict­impotence drugs. A month ear­
ing marketing of drugs before lier the companies announced 
approval, Cialis' makers are a three-year sponsorship with 
offering no specifics about the National Football League. 
CONDOMINIUMS 
FOR LEASE 
FOR THE 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
109 Hill St. Across from Boat Club 
*3 Bedrooms, 2.5 Baths *Living and Family Rooms *Fencecl-in Par-Jdng * Washers, Dryers and Dishwashers 
All Un.its Are Like Ne..v 
Contact Kramer at OOMUS PROPERTIES: Office 2 3 4 -2 4 3 6 oc cell 3 15 -50 3 2 
Visit our Website at www.domuskramer.com 
what role the Cialis name might play in the golf sponsor­ship. 
Lilly spokeswoman Carole Copeland said a key demo­graphic of the PGA audience ­men 45 and older -made the deal particularly attractive. 
Pfizer has used celebrity spokesmen such as former Sen. Bob Dole and NASCAR driver Mark Martin to promote its product. 
r .illy Ieos said last month that l lis had recorded $50.2 mil­, ~1 in overseas sales. 
···············································~ 
~ University Resources 

•
• for Gay, Lesbian, &
• 
• Bisexual Students 
• 
• The Standing Committee on Gay and
• 
• Lesbian Student Needs
•
• (Confidential information, education, and resources) 
•
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent
•
• members (see web sitefor student contllct info.) 
•
•
•
•
• Office of Campus Ministry
• 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
•
• 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
•
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
•
•
•
•
• University Counseling Center
• 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen lAfferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
•
•
•
•
•
• For more information, checkout our web site: http://www.nd.edu/ .. sc~Jsn/ 
•
• 

Thursday, November 6, 2003

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
tage of some questionable calls Alison Shevik, the only senior two blocks compared to Hope's A good sign for next year's against the Belles. on this year's team, led all 12. team is that the Belles only
Volleyball 
"There were two calls in that players with 20 digs. The loss ends the Belles' lose one player, Shevik. Despite first game where the line "Alison came into the tourna­2003 season. only one senior loss,
continued from page 24 
judges called touches on our ment averaging about five kills "It was over too quick for Schroeder-Biek said that 
block," Schroeder-Biek said. a game, and she really stepped me," Schroeder-Biek said. Shevik's contributions will be 
against No. 3 "Nobody else saw it it up in this match. I was proud "These players were so incred­missed next year. 
seed Hope on our side, but we of the way she played." ibly enjoyable. Our goal in past Even though we only lose one 
! 
i 
l 
l 
',\ ~·
' 
r
I 

' 
I. 
~· 
I'
I~ 
:-. 
:~ 
'I 
'#
') 
I} 
!! 
:~ 
'I '? 
'j '( 
~ 
j 
i ·I i 
} 
right away, taking a quick  "We ·re going to  can't really complain about thhe officials  
7-0 lead in the first game. The Flying  keep moving from here.··  -they weren't the reason we lost. "We missed some  
Dutch  man­ big  serves  at  key  
aged  to  Julie Schroeder-Biek  times."  
scratch their way back into  SMC Volleyball Coach  Outside hitter Kristen Playko tied  
the game and  with  Hope's  Julie  
eventually  VanderSlice  as the  

took the win by taking advan-kills leader, with 11. Libero 
Opener 
continued from page 24 
eight rebounds. He slashed to the basket all night long, using his body to shield the ball from defenders and flip it acrobati­cally to the hoop. 
"I don't know how he gets through bodies sometimes to get to the backboard," Brey said. "I thought he was really solid for us tonight. And he can guard anybody." 
But Notre Dame's defense struggled at times, especially with the absence of Jordan Cornette, who sat out Wednesday's exhibition with a bruised knee. That left Francis and Timmermans to try to defend Hoop Group's athletic big players. 
Notre Dame's first game since they returned from Barbados was anything but a pushover. The Irish actually trailed for four minutes in the first half as they struggled to get their offense moving and never could put away Hoop Group. 
Or they couldn't until fresh­man Russell Carter, whose defensive struggles in Barbados left Brey wondering if Carter could contribute to Notre Dame, hit two 3-pointers in the last minute of the first half to give the Irish a 45-35 lead at the break. Carter, who only returned for a few more sec­onds in the second half, left Wednesday's exhibition averag­ing six points a minute. 
Even then, Notre Dame could­n't quite pull away. 
Although the Irish stretched the lead to as large as 16 points early in the second half, a handful of Hoop Group came back to draw the score to with­in six and seven points numer­ous times late in the half. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish dominate in latest tournament 
finish and senior Shannon
By ANNIE BRUSKY 
Byrne finished tied for 18th 
Sports Writer 
with 229. "Everybody contributed to theThe Notre Dame women's golf 
win. A lot of our teammates 
team recorded the second low­
pulled through on the last 
est score in school history at the round," Brown said. 
Edwin Watt/Palmetto The tournament marks the
Intercollegiate on Monday and end of the finest fall season inTuesday at Kiawah Island, S.C., 
school history and the team iswinning by 16-strokes. 
looking toward the spring sea­
This was the third tourna­
son, which opens in mid-March. 
ment win of the fall season for 
"We wish it wasn't over,"
the team, who opened the sea­coach Debby King said. "We'd 
son with a record-breaking 
like to keep our hot streak
three-under-par 285. 
going."

"We did really well. We Still, the Irish go into the off­thought we had a pretty good 
season with renewed motiva­
chance going into it and we're tion and high expectations. 
just really proud of' how we 
"We put in a lot of hard workplayed," freshman Stacy Brown this season and we can see allsaid. "We finished the fall on a 
our hard work has paid off,"
good note." 
Brown said. "Going into theThe Irish will likely move up 
season, our coach had some
from their mid-40 ranking, as goals for us and our team didthey finished ahead of several an excellent job. 
higher-ranked teams. 
"I'm really proud of how
All five Notre Dame golfers 
much we've accomplished
finished in the top 18. Brown throughout the season." 
and sophomore Katie Brophy 
Brown sees tremendous
led the way, finishing tied for 
potential in the future of the
sixth place at 224. 
Notre Dame golf program. 
Junior Karen Lotta broke out "We need to keep setting ourof a slump with her ninth place goals higher and higher." 
finish at 225, the best tourna­ment score of her career. Freshman Noriko Nakazaki Contact Annie Brusky at ended in 16th place with a 227 .J>rusky@nd.e~-' 
As a team, Saint Mary's hit­years has been to try and senior, she's a big part of why ting percentage of .177 was not rebuild this program, and I we had such good chemistry that far off from Hope's .214. think this year a foundation got this year. · The blocking department was a laid. different matter, however, as -"We're going to keep moving 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschu­

the Belles could only muster on from here." ver@nd.edu 

GREAT FOOD -14 SCREENS 
*I miss myMommyBuffet Home cooked food every Sunday 5-Spm, starts Nov. 9 *Carryout/Tailgate Trays Available-Call ahead and make us yourGameday Headquarters *LIVEMUSIC -Daryl Buchanan and Easy Ed, Nov·.7, 9pm-? 
272-1766 


Please join usfor an evening ofMuslim prayer Thttrsday, November 6, 2003 330 Coleman-Morse 
6:30-7:30p.m. Experience an evening ofMttslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe wo1·ld's greatfaith traditions: 
«An Evening ofPrayerfrom A round the World» 
Spottsored by:  
Cat1zpus Ministry  Muslitll Students Associtltion  
Grad11ate Student lT11ion  ltlteruatiotltll Stz.tdettt Services atza Actzvtttes  

•' 
·~ 
·.J 
·-F 
~-· 

Thursday, November 6, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

-------~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN
• 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HELEW 
1 ±
rJ 

C2003 Tribune Med.a Servicea, Inc. All Righta Reserved. 
LAGED  
I I r www.JuiTEie.comtSNIDUMJ I I  WHY THSY WEREJ ATTI<AC.TED TO THE 5PI<INT.EI<..t Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asJ I  

An~r= :Is "( I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: RIVET AFIRE HANGAR GROTTO Answer: The geology student flunked his rocks exam because he took-IT FOR "GRANITE" 

suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Inn order 64 Powder holder 
1 Crown 32 Formicary 65 Motivation resident
5 Store 661ssue 
34 Like some10 Spout 67 First word ofkitchensnonsense? 
"The Raven"38 The show's14 Bird in a bevy 
68 With 4Q..Down,
partly completed
15 Dupont's popular fashion
puzzle
"Fiber A• label
(category: hosts) 16 Cass, e.g. 43 Old Ford 69 Clean, as a floor 17 Biblical verb 44_Paulo 70 Appt. with an analyst
18 Roller-coaster 45 Shorten, in a parts way 
19 Brand under a 46 Subtracting DOWN sink 
49 "I'm innocent!" 1 "Stop yer 20 _ Lindgren, joshin'!•
52 Request thatcreator of Pippi will complete 2 SoakedLongstocking the show's 3 Kitschy 
22 Unwelcome puzzle strains 4 Part of an order
57 Compound 24 Action film ending 5 Soft leather· staple 
58 Impending 6 Coach 25 Popular show 59 Traveler's Parseghian 28 Way off base? complaint 7 Bluff 29 Robert Burns's 60 Interrogate 8 Like jack·o'· "O,_Thouin 62 Place for a lanterns 36 L.A. law figure 48 Placid 54 Figure of
the Cauld Blast" French lesson 
9 Protect Everglades speech
37 Modernized 
denizen

10 Wee, in the 55 Ones who make-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 39 Set
Hebrides ~ raids
50 Calendar abbr.
40 See 68-Across
~~'"" 11 Spicy cuisine 56 Moorehead of
51 Underlying
41 Prefix with "Bewitched.
~.;,;.t.;;;;.~ 12 Floor 
system of technology 57 Soothing shade

.;,;.t.~~ 13 Kind of stand beliefs 42 What money is 61 Last in a series
21 Pier grp. to some 52 Bury 63 Fat _ (fight
23 Scatter 
47 Clay targets 53 See fit memento) ~~~ 26 Manage -P+->!P+!~~ 27 The Beehive 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute· or with aState 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ' ' 
30 Lug Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
-=+~~~ 31 Old Ford Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
-=+-:-+-::+:::-e 33 DVD displayers 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:+":""t-::+::~ 35 Soul searcher's CrC?sswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,need nyttmes.comlleaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com-
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Sally Field, Maria Shriver, Mike Nichols, 
Ethan Hawke 

Happy Birthday: Stay calm and don't let your emotions influence any of your decisions this year. This will be a period of letting go of the things that are no longer to your benefit. You will have to stick to what you know best and work within the parameters that are already set. If you abide by the rules, you will find yourself moving in a positive direction. Your numbers: 6, 17, 21, 23, 32, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't be too quick to judge others. You can learn a lot if you listen to the advice given to you by friends and relatives. Sudden changes will occur through communications. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Luck will be yours in financial dealings. Involvement with hospitals or government agencies will tum out favorably. Acceptance will be the determining factor where success is concerned. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Romantic connections will be intense. You should concentrate on directing your energy into physical encounters rather than mental disputes. Use your ingenuity to win. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Anger and deception will continue to hang over your head. Be frank; however, refrain from making acquisitions until you have all the pertinent information when dealing with partners. Discord is likely if you lose control. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding friends will puzzle those close to you. Don't act in haste; think twice before you make decisions. Don't take financial risks. Doing some research just may save you a bundle. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make financial gains through conservative investments and by taking care of other people's money. Take a look at your own financial papers and organize your plans to make your assets grow.** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Deception regarding partnerships is evident. Dig deep and find out all you can rather than taking the word of someone else. Don't allow your personal life to interfere with your career. *"'*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let others put limitations or demands on your time. Older members of your family may pose a problem for you today. Money matters will be unstable. Don't lend or borrow.**'~' SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get organized and delve into one thing at a time for best results. Sudden changes regarding your home will develop. Accept the inevitable. You can avoid mishaps if you are well-organized. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make headway by taking work home with you. Recognition and rewards will come through your ability to meet deadlines and handle the responsibilities you encounter. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunities for business partnerships will develop while you are traveling. Your insight into future trends will aid you in making the right decision. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sudden changes in your home environment will free up money that was invested. Make sure that you follow legal procedures. Minor accidents could occur if you're overindulgent. ** 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong will and a determined outlook. Your -, temper will mount if others don't see things your way. You have plenty to offer, but first you have to realize what your most positive attributes are. Once you do, security will be yours. 
Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com 

--------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Page 24 
Thursday, November 6, 2003 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish defeat Hoop Group in exhibition opener 

t;.._ 

TIM KACMARfThe Observer 
Irish guard Chris Quinn drives the ball past Hoop Group defenders during Wednesday night's 88­76 victory. 
k 
·!,, SMC VOLLEYBALL 
i=· 
:~, 
~ Belles' season comes to an end with hard-fought loss 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles put up a good fight. but their season came to an end Tuesday night against Hope in the first round of the MIAA tournament. Saint Mary's fell to the Flying Dutch by a score of 28-30, 18-30, 28­30. 
''I thought we played really well in the first and third games," coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said. "That second game, though, Hope really controlled it; it just seemed we were struggling in that game." 
No. 6 seed Saint Mary's jumped out to a big lead 
see VOLLEYBALLIpage 22 


By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Torrian Jones missed a dou­ble-double by two rebounds. Torin Francis started establish­ing himself as an offensive force with a double-double of his own. Russell Carter is averag­ing six points a minute. Tom Timmermans banged down low for 31 minutes. Chris Quinn fired 3-pointers like he was try­ing to replace Matt Carroll. 
And in the midst of a new­look Irish basketball team that still showed no hesitation in launching 3-pointers, Chris Thomas remained the spectacu­lar player that made him con­sider leaving early for the NBA. His on-court management helped Notre Dame beat Hoop Group 88-76 in the first regular exhibition game of the young basketball season. 
"There were a lot of guys in new roles for the first time here," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "It was interesting to watch." 
Aided by the backcourt com­bination of Thomas and Quinn, the Irish pushed the tempo of the game to a fast pace in the first half-something Brey­coached Notre Dame teams haven't traditionally done. Thomas finished with 25 points and nine assists, while Quinn recorded 12 points -all ofT 3­pointers. 
But the goal of the night, at least early on, was to establish Francis, expected to be Notre Dame's primary low-post threat in the season. in the paint to free up the rest of the Irish offense. The sophomore fin­ished with 18 points and 12 rebounds. 
''I'm not a freshman anymore. Some of those mistakes I got away with last year I can't get away with this year," he said. "That's my mentality. I'm older, I'm stronger, I'm more aggres­sive. But now I'm more of a leader, so I have to show that." 
While the sophomore strug­gled some on defense against the Hoop Group's agile big men, he scored Notre Dame's first four points of the game. Then, with the defense collapsing on him when he got the ball, Francis fired pinpoint passes to wide-open shooters on the perimeter. 
"That's what we're trying to do all season," Thomas said. "We have to establish him early in the game. Our inside-outside combo is pretty good right now." 
Then there was Jones, who played a career-high 38 min-
see OPENER/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Irish going to focus on scoring 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
For as bad as Notre Dame played against Florida State last Saturday, the Irish still could have made the game competi­tive. 
Four times the Irish were inside the Seminoles 20-yard line. Four times the Notre Dame offense came away empty-hand­ed. 
"We just haven't been getting it done," Irish running back Julius Jones said. "That's basi­cally what it comes down to. 
If we're going to win we have to get the ball in the end zone." Lack of production in the red zone has been a reoccurring 
theme for the Irish offense. The unit has scored touchdowns in only four of 23 chances inside the 20-yard line this season. 
"As coaches, you have to see if you can get the best call possi­ble." Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
"I think in some cases we have not helped ourselves as well as we need to. I think in many cases, our execution has not been there." 
Willingham did not say youth has been a factor in the ineffi­ciencies of the offense in the red zone this season. 
"I won't call to that as an out for us, no," he said On Saturday, Notre Dame had 
see SCORING/page 21 
NBA 
NHl 

NFL
MLB 
WOMEtfS GOLF 

Colts quarterback
Kings take care of Earl Boykins outplays Kovalchuk scores 
Florida's Ramon 
Irish take first at tour­

Timberwolves in excit-LeBron James in three points in Atlanta's 
Peyton Manning's
Castro is ordered to 
nament.

ing overtime finish. Denver's win over the 7-4 win over Buffalo. 
defamation trial date
stand trial for rape. 
set.

Cavs. 
page 14 page 20 page 16 
page 19 
page 15 
page 22 




