----------------------------------------------------~~-----~ 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 30 MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Choppers give cadets ride to campus 
gear swarmed out, and the
By MATT BRAMANTI 
choppers took off after less 
News Writer 

than three minutes on the ground. 
Outlined against a blue-gray Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan, profes­October sky, the four Black sor of military science and Hawks flew again. commander of the ROTC bat­
The UH-60 utility choppers, talion, said the use of air 
belonging to the Illinois transport allows for a better National Guard, transported training weekend. dozens of Notre Dame Army "It reduces travel time and ROTC cadets back to campus increases training time," he 
Sunday after a weekend-long said. field training exercise at Ft. The training exercise, con­Custer, near Battle Creek, ducted two or three times a Mich. year, allows cadets to practice 
For about an hour Sunday, tactical and leadership con­the field between Pasquerilla cepts they learn in the class­Center and the Joyce Center room. The weekend included 
was transformed into Landing day and night land navigation Zone Irish, as the quartet of maneuvers, practical problem-large helicopters descended briskly. Cadets in full combat see ROTC/ page 8 


ND showcases performing arts 

Director offers media sneak peek of new DeBartolo Center 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame showcased its DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday through a media tour. The tour utTered University publications and local television stations an up close look at the interior of the $62.6 million, 150,000 square foot com­plex that will house the depart­ment of Film, Television and Theater and play a vital role in campus life and the South Bend community, according to officials. 
"This is the single most compli­cated thing from an engineering and design perspective that Notre Dame has ever built," said John Haynes, Leighton Director of Performing Arts, as he led guests through the building. 
The project is by far Notre 
Dame's biggest contribution to the performing arts since the con­struction of Washington Hall in 1888. 
The building, which has grand entrances on the DeBartolo Quad and Angela Boulevard, is fitted with an exterior collegiate Gothic architectural style. The visible por­tion of the building primarily hous­es offices and classrooms and con­ceals two flat-roofed areas where the performing venues are located. 
Open spaces surrounding the Center will initially serve as park­ing lots but long term plans call for the construction of a new museum to replace the Snite and a new music hall -in e!Tect creating a cultural corridor on the south side of campus, Haynes said. Angela Boulevard, which currently curves inward toward the Center, will be straightened, making room for a public park and setting the stage for revitalization of the surround­ing neighborhoods that will include shops and housing. 
see CENTER/page 4 
NDPRESENTS new arts program 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
When John Haynes announced last week that he wanted the arts to be as pervasive as athletics at a University a steeped in foot­ball tradition, located in a state dominated by basket­ball, many wondered if he was crazy. 
The Leighton Director of Performing Arts, however, announced Saturday the creation of "NDPRESENTS," a new program focused on bringing talented artists from around the world to South Bend. 
According to Haynes, a major complaint among new arrivals to South Bend ­including students -is a lack of cultural program­ming. While the Morris Performing Arts Center hosts Broadway musicals and other popular commer­cial ventures, non-profit performing arts like ballet and orchestra are being neglected. 
"There's this great big gap [in programming]. and in that gap you don't get pro­fessional touring compa­nies," He said. "Half a mil­lion people don't have access to it, unless they travel to Chicago." 
The solution, Haynes said, is NDPHESENTS, a unique link between Notre Dame 
see PROGRAM/page 8 
NDPRESENTS: 

Romeo and Juliet Thursday, October 16 Washington Hall 
The Suzanne Farrell Ballet Tuesday, October 28 Morris Center 



Opera Verdi Europa Wednesday, February 11 Morris Center 
Cirque Eloize Monday, March 22 Morris Center 

·--~ ~: .. ~ 

MIKE HARKINS/ Observer Graphic 
Police: No rape drug 
involved 
Notre Dame students live in house where incident reported 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
The off-campus house where a 21-year old Saint Mary's student claims she was sexually assaulted Sept. 28 was inhabited by Notre Dame students, but there is no medical evidence a date rape drug was used, police said. 
The woman told police that she went to the Linebacker Lounge Sept. 27 with three other individuals, including a male friend of hers. While at the bar, she said her friend's roommate bought her drinks and they went back to their house around 3 a.m. and continued to drink. The woman said she was given a blanket and pillow to sleep on the couch, but woke up naked next to the roommate the following morning. 
She said she suspected she was sexually assaulted and that a date rape drug may have been used. 
Brent Hemmerlein, com­mander of the St. Joseph Family Violence and Special Victims unit said that a med­ical test was negative for a date rape drug. lie said he could not release information on the results of the other rape exams. The Family Violence and Special Victims 
see INCIDENT/page 8 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
Monday, October 6, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Beware the voucher 
Fall break is fast approaching and that means many of you will be heading home for the week to catch up on sleep and enjoy real food. For those of you flying, pay special attention to my story. 
It begins last 
December after final exams. The semester was over and I was ready to ditch South Bend and its crappy weather for my home in Orlando. I had booked a flight 


several months Andrew Thagard 
prior and arrived at South Bend 
Assistant
Regional Airport the prescribed two News Editor hours early. 
I checked my lug­gage, went through security, boarded the plane and began perusing the in-flight magazine. 
Then, the unexpected happened. 
I heard my name called overhead and learned that I would not be on that flight. Instead, I was being rerouted to Chicago's O'Hare Airport via bus. 
"Don't worry," the gate agent assured me. "You're being placed on a non-stop flight to Orlando, and you're receiving a free roundtrip ticket valid anywhere in the U.S." 
"Wow!" I remember thinking. "Sure the shuttle's a bit of an inconvenience but I'm not in a rush to get home and a free ticket sounds like a good deal." 
I eased the pain of the shuttle ride by creating a mental list of all the places I could potentially visit with my travel voucher. 
I got home safely, unpacked and put the voucher away in a secure place. 
If only the story ended here. Unfortunately, I made the fatal mistake of trying to use my travel voucher instead of simply framing it and hanging it up on a wall. 
Since then, I have discovered that just because I have a "travel" voucher doesn't mean I'm entitled to travel anywhere. 
For example, over the summer I tried to use the aforementioned voucher to book a flight for fall break, only to discov­er that no seats were available. I pro­ceeded to inquire about every single break we have this year. There was not a seat available for any flight I was inter­ested in over the course of the school year. 
The breaking point for me came sever­al weeks ago when I attempted to use my voucher to book a flight to Atlanta. A friend from home is getting married there at the end of January. 
"Sorry," I was told. "No seats avail­able." 
How is that possible? It's the middle of January, I called six months in advance and I was willing to fly out of South Bend or one of the Chicago airports. Something like two-thirds of all flights on the planet connect through Atlanta, there must be one seat. 
You (and US Airways) may think I've given up. No! I have made it my life's mis­sion to use this infernal voucher before it expires on Dec. 20. I don't care ifI have to fly to my departure point to take a red­eye flight to a destination I don't want to go to. I will use this voucher. 
As for the rest of you, remember my story and heed this advice: "Beware the voucher." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TEAM DO YOU THINK WILL BE IN THE WORLD SERIES? 









"Cubbies, baby!" "The Cubbies." "Northsiders, of "White Sox -"The Yankees." "Yankees suck." 
course. no doubt. " 

ANDY KENNNfhe Observer 
Saint Mary's fans show their belle pride before a soccer game on Saturday. The fans took advantage of Saturday's sunny weather to tailgate prior to the game, grilling burgers and brats. 
OFFBEAT 

Bar at Unlv. of Nebraska serves oxygen 
LINCOLN, Neb.-There was no chance of students getting drunk by bellying up to a bar on the University of Nebraska-llncoln campus. 
The bar was serving bot­tled oxygen, not booze. 
''I'm not wasted," UNL stu­dent Tim Randall, 23, said after inhaling 97 -percent pure oxygen for about five minutes. ''I'm more relaxed." 
Students lined up for the chance to sit at one of three stools at student union Wednesday and inhale the oxygen scented with one of 12 aromas, including laven­der, vanilla and strawberry. 
You'd better not eat those stolen sheep 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. ­Twenty-one sheep stolen from a kudzu-munching herd might be tasty but could end up causing a big bellyache. 
The sheep were given their worm medicine one day before they were stolen last week, shepherd Meaghan Thacker said. And the worm medicine could make anyone who eats the sheep sick, she said. 
"If they haven't killed them yet, they can always bring them back," Thacker said. 
TODAY 
a:: 

The animals, valued at $2,000, are owned by New Hampshire-based Bellwether Solutions, which has a contract with the city to reduce kudzu, a fast-growing vine. A native of China, kudzu was introduced to the South 70 years ago to stop erosion-a big mistake. 
Kudzu grows at a rate of a foot a day in warm weather and chokes entire forests in weeks. Pesticides don't work well and humans tire of end­lessly hacking away amid the dense underbrush. Sheep, however, will eat it. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
u.l 
::c 
~ 
u.l 

3: 
.... 


~~ ~ 
c( (,) 0 

...I HIGH 55 HIGH 59 HIGH 71 HIGH 70 LOW 38 LOW 47 LOW 44 LOW 49 IN BRIEF 
Student Activities will host a concession stand training ses­sion at 4 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Any student organi­zation running a concession stand at an upcoming football game is required to, have at least one trained representa­tive. 
Notre Dame Professor Fred Freddoso will deliver a lecture titled "Faith and Reason." The lecture, which explores issues of faith and philosophy, takes place in room 220 of Malloy Hall at 7 p.m. 
Tim Mitchison, director of the Institute of Chemical Biology at Harvard Medical School, will deliver a lecture titled "What Governs the Size of a Mitotic Spindle." The lecture begins at 7 p.m. in room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
A panel discussion on Affirmative Action at Notre Dame will be held at 8 p.m. in room 141 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Come to Legends to watch Monday Night Football. The game watch begins at 9 p.m. 
"As You Wish Imports" will be selling assorted items, including jewelry and purses, all day Monday in LeMans Hall. 
Stop by Lafortune Hall Tuesday evening to watch the annual "Mr. Walsh Pageant." The event will feature gentle­men from across campus com­peting to win the title. Doors open at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

• 

HIGH 69 HIGH 
70 

LOW 48 LOW 
46 

Atlanta 72 I 60 Boston 60 I 42 Chicago 65 I 47 Denver 75 I 49 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 77 I 62 Minneapolis 75 I 52 New York 61 I 44 Philadelphia 62 I 43 Phoenix 96 I 71 Seattle 63 I 55 St. Louis 76 I 53 Tampa 88 I 71 Washington 66 I 48 

Monday, October 6, 2003 The Obsm,er + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Chapin sings for WHY 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
As a follow-up to her work­shop presented Thursday on "The llows and WIIYs of !Iunger", singer and song­writer Jen Chapin gave a con­cert on Friday at the Little Auditorium at Saint Mary's to benefit the cause of world hunger. 
Co-sponsored by the World !Iunger Coalition, the Center for Social Concerns and Saint Mary's, the event brought Chapin and her husband, bass player Stephan Crump. to campus in an efl'ort to raise funds and awareness for charities aimed at relieving the strain of hunger in the United States and worldwide, specifically the World !Iunger Year (WilY). 
Continuing the legacy of her late father !larry Chapin, the well-known folk singer and activist who founded WilY and performed at Notre Dame in 1979, Chapin is chairman of WilY's board of directors and travels around the country performing bene­lit concerts to further its cru­sade. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichacl@nd.cdu 
DOMER RUN 
Founder of Habitat challenges students 

By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Milton Fuller, founder of Habitat for Humanity International, addressed the Notre Dame community Saturday at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium during his visit to what he describes as "one of the most dynamic stu­dent chapters in the world." 
Fuller received a warm intro­duction from fellow humanitari­an and Medal of Freedom recip­ient, University President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh. 
"He took the Gospel rather seriously, sold all of his posses­sions for the poor and went to work building the kingdom," llesburgh said of Fuller. 
In his speech. Fuller told the story of Habitat's creation, relat­ing some of the program's great­est achievements. According to Fuller, the 28-year old program has provided housing for 150,000 families around the world. At a rate of one new house every 26 minutes, the program will have served 200,000 families and one million people by the year 2005. 
According to Fuller, Habitat for Humanity International has made it a priority to work within 
Islamic communities in the
ANDY KENNNThe Observer 
Middle East. The program
Students, faculty and alumni run In the 21st annual Domer Run 
recently completed 4,000 new
Saturday morning. The event was sponsored by RecSports and 
homes in Egypt and has already 
the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Proceeds benefited Notre 
begur. its work in Jorda!l by
Dame's Prostate Awareness Cancer Education Program. 



Student International Business Council 



It~s Not Too Late!!! 
Interested i-n joi.n.in..g· the ~.<;IBC but ll'ere u.n,able to atten,d tl ~· t . '~ It',s not too l,ltte toJOln,.. . ' 
J,e 1trs, rneetr,ng. 
ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! 

• 

*Hands on real life experience *Establish contacts with alumni +Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe 
Contact A Division Leader For More Information 
Accounting-Bill Coffey
• 

wcoffey@nd.edu Business Consulting_c.Bob Goedert 
• 

rgoedert@nd.'edu Global Development-John Boots
• 

jboots@nd.edu Internships-Dan Silva and Pedro Bollrnarm 
• 

dsilva@nd.edu lllld pbollrnan@nd.edu 
Marketing-Melanie Lauck
• 
rnlauck@nd.edu Finance-Jake Roffman
• 
jroffrnan@ndedu Hwnan Resources-Courtney Zeph
• 
czeph@nd.edu Information Technology-Michael Flym
• 
rnflym3@nd.cdu 
building 100 homes. "We are making a real, concerted efli)rt to reach out to the Islamic world," he said. "We want to let them know that while we have religious differences, we don't hate them." 
Fuller emphasized the Christian message behind Habitat's work. which he calls the "theology of the hammer." 
"It's all God's idea. We are total plagiarists," he said. "Everything came out of the Bible. We don't charge interest to the poor. All we do is give our partners an opportunity and finance their house on the Bible­finance plan," 
Fuller said that the "theology of the hammer" calls lor people of all religious alliliations to lay aside their difl'erences and work together in expressing their faith and love through hard work. 
He posed a challenge to the greater South Bend community, describing a 1992 llabitat for Humanity undertaking that raised all inadequate housing to a decent level in the community where Habitat's headquarters are located. Fuller issued a simi­lar challenge to the Notre Dame chapter, the alumni group, area churches and community cen­ters to work together with 4,000 poor families residing in St. Joseph County in order to com­pletely eliminate substandard housing in this area. 
Contact Mike: Chambliss at mcharnbli@nd.edu 


~---p-ag_e_4__ Mond•y, October 6, 2003 

==============================================Th=e=O=b=~e=r=w=r=·==~==E=~==S============================================= 
scenery and props to be raised, "Most of this room is finished in lowered or pushed to one of the a thick plaster that's all been
Center 
continued from page 1 
The building consists of five per­forming venues -including a mainstage theater, concert hall, THX-certified cinema, organ and chorale hall and a studio theater -along with workshops for set production, offices and catering facilities. The Center is unique in that it is constructed on seven sep­arate foundations, ensuring that the different venues and scene shops will not interfere acoustically with each other. 
A long, two-tiered lobby that provides access to the five venues dominates the middle of the build­ing. The lobby, which boasts an expansive view of DeBartolo Quad and a ceiling with support beams painted gold and blue, is itself designed to serve as a venue and can accommodate up to 700 guests for black tie dinners or receptions. 
Malnstage Theater 
The Patricia George Decio Theater is the Center's mainstage theatre. It is designed to host both professional and student plays. 

"It's the first truly professional stage built on Notre Dame's cam­pus," Haynes said. "I can tell you confidently that there will not be a place within driving distance that's better to see a play." 
The theater contains a state-of­the-art performance stage with an orchestra pit. Unlike Washington Hall. the Decio stage is equipped with large wing space, ceiling gir­dles that can easily be moved and hollow spaces beneath that allow sides. 
A scene shop, with a 17 -foot high ceiling and a loading dock, is located adjacent to the stage. 
The room is capable of seating 350 patrons, including approxi­mately 7 5 in the balcony. 
"There isn't a single impediment to sight for any seat," Haynes said. 
Organ and Chorale Hall 
Adjacent to the main stage the­atre is the Center's organ and chorale hall, which will seat an audience of 100. 
The room resembles the sanctu­ary of a grand cathedral. As patrons enter the hall, their atten­tion will initially be focused on the wall opposite tbem and the one­and-a-half story organ that domi­nates it. The organ is currently being hand-made by Master Organist Paul Fritts in Tacoma, Wash. at a cost of$1 million. When complete, it will be shipped to campus and reassembled. 
"He's still making organs as they were made in the 17th and 18th centuries," Haynes said. 
The side walls of the three-story hall consist of three tiers of classic­style columns that rise to the ceil­ing, which is braced by wooden trestles that match the organ case­ment. 
The hall is unique for a perform­ing arts center, according to Haynes, and affirms Notre Dame's commitment to sacred and liturgi­cal music. Concert Hall 
The Leighton Concert Hall is the Center's largest venue and can accommodate an audience of up to 1,000. 
applied by craftsmen. When you walk into this room it will be utter­ly silent," Haynes said. "This is what acousticians call an infinitely tunable room." 
The hall will be used primarily for musical performances, includ­ing choral and orchestra concerts. The room can be configured to acoustically accommodate differ­ent types of performances from solo to large scale. 
Designers utilized the finest in acoustic technology. The floor beneath the audience is pocketed with special heating and air-condi­tioning ducts that allow air to be moved in and out in absolute silence. The upper ceiling of the hall is one foot thick to mask air traffic and includes a six inch con­crete slab, insulation, substrate roof and slate. The massive roof is supported by trestles that weigh 34,000 lbs. each. The combined weight was so great, Haynes said, that engineers were forced to pre­dict the length the trestles would slide to an eighth of an inch, then bolt one side down as the other rested on Teflon. The other side was then successfully bolted down. 
Adjoining the main concert hall is a smaller performance room that can be used for rehearsals or more intimate concerts. The room is simple in design, characterized by high windows on its west side. It will seat 70. Cinema 
Opposite the concert hall is a THX-certified cinema that can accommodate 200. The cinema is accessible via a separate entrance and will have a movie theatre style 
Attend the Notre Dame 
Graduate School Fair on 
Thursday* October 9. 2:003~ from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m._ in 
.·.: . .·· ·::. ·:-·:· . :. "::· 
the. Heritage HaU "-Joy,@-­
. .. 
center to learn whafthe Purdue Graduate School 
has 'to offer you, 
concession stand. The cinema THX certification -developed by Lucasfilm in the early 1980s ­ensures top audio quality. 
"This will probably be the busiest room in the building," Haynes said. 
!fhe room, in fact, will house "ND Cinema" and serve as a' com­mercial movie theater, displaying first run films. The facility will also be available to professors to show films to their classes. 
Studio Theater 
The last major venue in the Center is the Regis Philbin Studio Theater, a smaller experimental theater. The theater's walls are painted black and the ceiling is spanned by five rows of cat walks. 
The theater floor will consist of moveable platforms so that the entire room can be rearranged to accommodate different produc­tions. 
The building, which Haynes said is on budget and on time, is slated to be completed June 1, 2004. The 
ANDY KENNA/The Observer 
Columns span the walls of the organ and chorale hall (top left). Construction continues on the Center's lobby (above). 
Center will host a community-wide grand opening on Sept. 19,2004. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagacd@nd.edu 
~­

~~ 
INDOOR SOCCER & LACROSSE LEAGU~~ 
I . . . 

SEASON#! REGISTRATION DEADLINE ~ocTOBER 81H" 
SO<:C&R J;EAGUE$-YOUTU TO ADULTS 
O.S t~ 019 AgH1roopil~ &ys & Girls M~'ti~H)p¢n, ~kn'll' .30+, \\\'lllw:t~'s Open. Adult CoEd 
LACR2DI L£.4§UES-YOUTII TO ADtT.TS 
"'"""'""'" lJ.·W t~ Ul9 Agil tkOOpl, Men'~ Opt'!'! 
SIGN UP NOW 141S Unlvmity Dr, Ci;\ ~. Itt (!74}'14J..S777 

.. [:::~::~~Ji..~~~: Women's S~~~~] 
--~~---···. a•a······~--,r· --.· .. BJ'·-a·.'I· ••, ··1··,···;--·,._.,·._r..
T__--•-·•ita· :, .. ul' u '':: · __,__ -_ · ,_.,~-· ,· :, _• ~: ••..-: . •• -_: ·, .. •-'_.. __ ­



r :~·''*1.,, ~:,%;~ t.#•1i::lJ::; ~/ IN ~,,s:.:~,,):t: "' Jf. '";::t:(;~(.':) ~ 

,. ,.,.~~ .a~_~l'P.t:f1 ~~~~,i 
... 1''¥tf¥<1!1' ~qi&¥Y, &;'.(.,,...,.YtlCT..,.i 
,__ c::r::u.:::t::' T:Di~ D,n.~fi~J'f"M"'!i~ ~.'\'*" lint!<# .·o:t;.f'liJ io.nc_• 
~ rn.:r;;:r;;; J.a:·~ iQtt/.} la~v.~ :f"V~· l.l.r~:t :~ f¢.t#· ~~ 
,.. F.Fl..E..Ehl1f1tlel~JPP~rs t.o llrst260tans 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 6, 2003 Cotv\PJLED FROM THE ()BSERVER WIRE SFRVICFS Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arafat declares emergency 
HAMALIAII. West Bank -Vasser Arafat installed an eight-member emergency Cabinet on Sunday with Ahmed Qureia as prime min­ister. an apparent attempt to deflect possible Israeli action against him following a suicide bombing a day earlier. 
Israel threatened last month to "remove" Arafat. without setting a time, and there were new demands for his expulsion after Saturday's attack by Islamic Jihad. Nineteen Israelis were killed in a crowded beachfront restaurant in the northern port city of Haifa. 
Aides to the Palestinian leader said he was clearly concerned about possible Israeli action aftnr the bombing. There was no direct move against Arafat on Sunday; instead, Israel bombed a target inside Syria that it claimed was an Islamic Jihad training base, striking deep inside its neighbor's territory Sunday for the 11rst time in three decades. 
Chechens get the vote 
GHOZNY -In their war-shattered capital and impoverished villages. Chechens voted for a president Sunday in an election condemned by critics as a sham but promoted by the Kremlin as a step toward ending a decade of violence and chaos. 
Authorities said no oflicial results would be available until Monday, but Hussian news agencies quickly reported that Kremlin­appointed Chechnya administration chief Akhmad Kadyrov appeared headed for victo­ry. as was widely expected. 
Chechen Prime Minister Anatoly Popov said preliminary results indicate Kadyrov won some 80 percent of the votes cast in 12 of 20 regions in Chechnya, ITAH-Tass reported. A candidate needs more than 50 percent to win the election outright and avoid a runoff. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Arnold ahead despite accusations 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. -Marching on the Capitol he hopes to claim in the recall elec­tion, Arnold Schwarzenegger said he sensed "an unbelievable momentum" Sunday, despite new allegations of sexual harassment and signs of a tightening race. The embattled incumbent, Gov. Gray Davis, signed a law making California the largest state to require employer-paid health care. 
A poll released over the weekend found Schwarzenegger's lead among replacement candidates waning with news of harassment claims. but the Hepublican remained ahead of the pack and voters still favored removing Davis from ollice in Tuesday's election. 
Schwarzenegger did not address the allega­tions during his march and rally at the Capitol. his only scheduled public appearance Sunday, but said Davis "has terminated opportunities and now it's time to terminate him." 

Mauled Roy in critical condition 
lAS VEGAS -Hoy Horn, the illusionist of the Siegfried & Hoy duo who was mauled by one of his tigers during a show. was able to communicate with doctors but still in critical condition and on a ventilator Sunday. 
The mauling could mean the end of one of the Las Vegas Strip's most popular shows. Its employees were encouraged to look for new jobs, and ollicials said that even if Horn recov­ers it's unclear whether he would ever be able to perform again in the rigorous show. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Widow sues makers of Prozac 
INDIANAPOLIS-A woman who blames her husband's suicide on Prozac has filed a lawsuit claiming that Eli Lilly & Co. should have warned patients that some people's bodies cannot metab­olize the drug's active ingredient. 
The lawsuit 11led against the Indianapolis-based drugmaker Thursday in Marion County Superior Court is the second to make such a claim. Lilly settled a similar case in Georgia this spring. 
But Houston attorney Andy Vickery, who has 11led more than 20 lawsuits against the drugmak­er including the Georgia suit, said this case is dif­ferent. 
Syria demands UN condemnation 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS Syria urged the U.N. Security Council to con­demn an Israeli airstrike on a purported terrorist camp near Damascus on Sunday, while Israel defended the attack and accused its neighbor of harboring terrorists. 
Syria's United Nations ambassador, Fayssal Mekdad, said the strike was blatant military aggression, telling an emergency meeting of the 15-member council that "Arabs and many people across the globe feel that Israel is above the law." 
The draft resolution calls for Israel to stop committing acts that could threaten regional security or expose "the already deteriorating situation in the region to dire conse­quences." 
The Israeli raid on what it claimed was an Islamic Jihad training base came in retaliation to a suicide bombing carried out by the Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad on Saturday. The bombing, at a restaurant in the Israeli coastal city of Haifa. killed 19 people and the bomber. EPA 
Israeli ambassador to the United Nations Dan Gillerman speaks to the media at

Israel's ambassador to 
the United Nations, Dan the U.N. Security Council, called by Syria In response to Israeli attacks. Gillerman, said the attack support Syria's resolution. bombing in Haifa. called Israel's attack a inside Syria was a defen· U.S. Ambassador John Britain, the leading U.S. violation of international 
sive response and did not Negroponte repeated U.S. ally in the Security law. violate international law. calls from earlier in the Council, was more critical "We urge the council to He accused Syria of pro­day that both sides keep of Israel. Britain's speedily adopt the deci­viding "safe harbor, train­from heightening tensions Ambassador Emyr Jones sion to condemn this mili· ing facilities, funding, in the region, and did not Parry said, "Israel's action tary aggression and to logistical support" to ter­condemn the Israeli today is unacceptable and uphold the sovereignty rorist groups. attack. He echoed Israel's represents an escalation." and territorial integrity of 
Gillerman expressed claim that Syria is harbor-"Israel should not allow the Syrian Arab anger about the timing of ing terrorists. its justified anger at con-Republic," Akram said. the meeting -called at "The United States tinuing terrorism to lead Many diplomats also Syria's request -because believes that Syria is on to actions that undermine called on all sides to it came just before the the wrong side of the war both the peace process return to negotiations led holiest Jewish holiday, on terrorism," Negroponte and we believe Israel's by the so-called Quartet­Yom Kippur. He also com­said. "We believe it is in own interests," he said. the United States, the pared Syria's calling the Syria's interest, and in the Jones Parry, however, European Union, Russia meeting to Osama bin broader interest of Middle also sounded a sympathet-and the United Nations ­Laden demanding a East peace, for Syria to ic note for Israel, saying and stick to the U.S-draft­Security Council meeting stop harboring and sup· the council must recog-ed "road map" peace plan. after the Sept. 11 attacks. porting the groups that nize that terrorists are "We need to break the 
It was unclear when the perpetrate acts such as still being allowed to vicious cycle of violence council will vote on the the one that occurred yes-attack it. and counterviolence," said resolution, but a decision terday." Pakistan's Ambassador Germany's Ambassador appeared unlikely Sunday. Other council diplomats Munir Akram and Jean-Gunter Pleuger. "There is Gillerman said he did not condemned both Israel's Marc de La Sabliere, U.N. no alternative to the road expect the United States to airstrike in Syria and the ambassador from France, map." 




Woman kills mom, pastor, self 
Police believe Wilson then shot would become violent. 

Associated Press 
Jennie Mae Robinson once in the Assistant Pastor Christy Miller said 

ATLANTA -A woman opened fire head before turning the gun on her­the pastor had just finished teaching at an Atlanta church before services self. Sunday school and was walking started Sunday morning, killing her One woman in the sanctuary at the through the sanctuary when he mother and the minister before com­time fled after the first shot was stopped to talk with Wilson and 
mitting suicide. fired, and the other took cover Robinson, 67. Congregants of Turner behind a pulpit, Quigley said. He Geraldine Andrews, the pastor's Monumental AME Church said said an assistant pastor came in daughter-in-law and a friend of 
Shelia Chaney Wilson, 43, was agi­after hearing shots and found the Wilson's family, said Robinson tated when she came to the church, three bodies on the floor. recently took her daughter out of a in the Kirkwood neighborhood on Wilson's cousin, Nekeshia Burton, mental health facility. the city's east side. said Wilson went to the church early Debra Mitchell, a member of the 
Wilson apparently shot the Hev. in the morning to talk to Reynolds, church, said Wilson had recently lost Johnny Clyde Heynolds after he 62. her job. greeted her and was walking away "Something wasn't sitting right "We knew she has some instability, with his back to her, said Atlanta with her," Burton said. But Burton but we didn't know it was this deep," police spokesman Sgt. John Quigley. said there were no signs that Wilson Mitchell said. 
Monday, October 6, 2003

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Students book spring break trips 
Anthony Travel reps say best beach, skiing deals go to those who book early 
I. 
plans in mid October, there is 
By NATALIE BAILEY 

nothing wrong with fantasizing 
News Writer 

about where you will be mid­
March. 
The first chilly breeze that "My friends and I are always sweeps through Notre Dame talking about it," said Saint Mary's brings thoughts of distant spring junior Vanessa Bejec. "It comes up break and destinations that prom­in conversation, but we have not ise an escape to tropical weather. looked for plane tickets or any­
While many students may think thing." that the beginning of October is Bejec and her friends want to too soon to be planning for March, either find warm weather in others see the advantage. South Padre Island or go skiing in 
Anthony Travel, the on-campus Colorado. Last year, the group travel agency, is already booking went to the Bahamas. While it trips for students at a rate of was a good place to go if you are about four requests a day. under 21 (the legal drinking age is 
The agency has sever-18), the group al deposits on trips to does not want Cancun and it is antici­to return.
"We just want to go
pating Acapulco, "I was
someplace warm
Jamaica, Barbados and scared going Cabos San Lucas to be and by an ocean., outside of the hot spots. hotel at night," Bejec
Saint Mary's senior Diana Capanyola 
Diana Capanyola said said. "We she and her friends have Saint Mary's student stayed in a been thinking about hotel where spring break 2004 since most of the last year. They are planning to go clubs were, so we didn't have to to either Jamaica or Acapulco. go far, but even the clubs were "We just want to go someplace sketchy." warm and by an ocean," Anthony Travel agent Kayleen Capanyola said. "And the earlier Car recommends going through you book your flights, the better." someone you know or an agency. Because major airlines reserve "There are a lot of travel scams a certain amount of seats at low out there," Car warned. "Be care­rates, for those considering ful if you do not know the compa­Acapulco or somewhere major ny, beca,use many of them will cut airlines fly, the sooner you book ties with you once they have your the flight, the better. money. Anthony Travel will help However, if you are planning on you take care of any problems taking a charter plane, the sooner that arise with your plans a-nd you get to the date of the flight, travel, even after you come back the cheaper your ticket will be from spring break." because the airline wants to fill as many seats as possible. Contact Natalie Bailey at Even if you do not have specific bail1407@saintmarys.edu 





\Vitb Prof'. Paul£\.lcDlnveU and r=ettrrlle<e:s n'f the :rn·ogram 
.... •,•.·,·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.·-·.·-·-·-·.·-·-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·........·•·.·.·.....-.... . . 
V!l~fl:~~li!.~~! ....!:~.... ~:~~~!'t~~::!.~: ~~~i;.#u~ii!:!!.i?~·~·~.~!:~:!~·{!~ !!.~:!!:!!:!~!.~H.: .!!:!!!.t.,!!:!:,~,.: 
y······················································································································-·········-···--············--··-····-···-··-··--···········---·...-·.·---·················"'"-'•'•............................................-.•.·.·-·-·,•.-.•.•.•,•,•,•,·-:--..:-:-·--..;. 
!.......................... 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, October 6, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 9 572.31 +84.51
Jones ' 
~' Some: ~ Composite Volume: 2,171 166 • 1,533,844,992 
NASDAQ 1.·,880J~~··:::;;:;:;;::';;;:;:::j#g~~~:,•:··· 
NYSE 5,831.78 +51.82 AMEX ··'·t·•~oos•r!l7'····,••·•·.:,::::::f:~,:~m~•:::::::•,:::;:· S&PSOO 1 ,029.85 +9.61 NIKKEl (TokyoJ 10;709.~9i 1 ' '• 6i(l,·i!·:•!'i1iii! 
FTSE 100 (London)4,274.00 +64.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +5.09 +0.58 11.98 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.46 +0.99 29.61 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.85 +0.77 20.76 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.04 +0.58 29.08 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.38 +0 .11 3.31 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR OOND +3.24 +1.60 50.98 10-YEAR l'OTE +4.64 +1.86 41.95 5-YEAR l'OTE +7.32 +2 .11 30.92 3 -MCM'H BILL 0.00 0.00 9.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.56 30.40 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) · -13.70370.00 FORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.4554.325 
Exchange Rates 

YJ;N 111.1 EURO 0.8638 POOND 0.6015 CANADIAN$ 1. 346 
IN BRIEF 
Vehicle road tests improved 
WASIIINGTON -After years of using a dry, 
mathematical formula to predict rollover risk. 
the government is adding a wheel-squealing 
road test intended to give consumers more 
information about a vehicle's handling capabili­
ties. 
Automakcrs say the road test will reward the best-handling vehicles in each class by high­lighting performance measures the formula could not assess. One example is stability con­trol. a system that applies brakes to specific tires and decelerates if it senses a driver is veering off course. 
The government's auto safety agency is con­sidering two different road tests and will announce its decision Tuesday at its test facility in Ohio. In the future. the government's five­star rating system for rollover risk will factor in both road tests results and the mathematical approach. 
Charter protects downloaders 
ST. LOUIS -Charter Communications Inc. has filed a federal lawsuit attempting to block the recording industry from obtaining names of Charter customers who allegedly shared copy­righted music over the Internet. 
Charter, based in the St. Louis suburb of Town and Country, filed papers Friday in U.S. District Court in St. Louis trying to quash sub­poena..<> that the Recording Industry Association of America issued seeking the identities of about 150 Charter customers. 
"We are the only major cable company that has not as yet provided the HIAA a single datum of information," Tom Hearity, vice presi­dent and associate general counsel for Charter. told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
Indiana CEO discharged 
MEHHJLLVILLE, Ind. -Utility holding company NiSource Inc. has eliminated the chief executive positions at its subsidiaries, including the Northern Indiana Public Service Co., in a companywide management restructuring. 
NiSource also said its executive leadership will remain at company headquarters in the northwest Indiana city of Merrillville, but other functions could transferred else­where. 
.: ~ ... 


Proposal divides SEC officials 
Assodated Press 

WASHINGTON -After 
a series of corporate scan­
dals, the government's top 
securities regulator 
endorsed a proposal last 
year to make it easier for 
big shareholders to install 
directors on a company's 
board. 

Now, divisions have aris­en between William Donaldson, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and his fellow Republican commissioners. Also, the biggest U.S. pension funds insist the plan does not go far enough. 
Criticism also is coming from Evelyn Davis, who is known for putting Fortune 500 chief executives on the defensive at company annual meetings. She con­siders the plan to be biased in favor of large shareholders, such as pen­sion and mutual funds. 
"It's outrageous that these institutional investors would be allowed to put in directors while individual investors would be left out," Davis said. 
Donaldson has staked his prestige on the initia­
REUTERS

tive, framing it as a crucial 
SEC Chairman William Donaldson shakes hands with New York Stock Exchange
change to make compa­nies more accountable and Chairman John Reed after a press conference In Donaldson's office last week. thereby shore up want against the fear of than by withholding The nominated candi­investors' confidence. special interests taking approval for an entire dates would have to be He said there has been a over," Atkins said in a slate of candidates chosen independent, with no trend among major com­telephone interview. by company executives. financial ties to the share­panies in recent years At a meeting -For shareholders to get holder groups putting toward "imperial" chief Wednesday, the five com-their candidates for the them forward. executives and corporate missioners likely will open board of directors official-The ownership threshold boards that often have the rules for public com-ly nominated, they would is a key issue in the acted as rubber stamps to ment. have to meet certain con-debate. Glassman is said executives' actions. Under current rules, ditions. Among them, for to consider that range too But the two other shareholders are allowed example, would be previ-low, while Atkins called it Republicans on the five­to nominate candidates for ous company resistance "sort of pulled out of the member SEC, Paul Atkins director. But they cannot toward proposals for poli-air." and Cynthia Glassman, put a nominee's name in cy changes. On the other side, the have problems with the the company's official bal-Investors backing a can-AFL-CIO believes "an own­proposal as written, at lot materials -known as didate would have to hold ership hurdle is a signifi­least in its latest draft as the proxy -that are a certain percentage of cant barrier," said Michael of Friday. mailed to investors. As a the company's stock, Garland, an official in the They are concerned it result, it is expensive and between 3 percent and 5 labor group's investment could sweep many compa­difficult to mount a cam-percent in the latest draft office. nies that govern them­paign for alternate candi-under discussion. Managers of the largest selves stringently into dates. Shareholders could pension funds -control­board takeover contests Advocates of greater nominate as many as ling more than $640 bit­and that parochial inter­access for shareholders three directors for compa-lion in eight states -say ests could prevail. say they now have no nies with large boards and the proposal heavily "You have to weigh what effective way to oust a one director for those with favors company manage-the owners of a company miscreant director other smaller boards. ment. 

West African oil project sets sail 
investment in sub-Saharan Africa. Friday.
Associated Press 

Conceived in 1996 with support West Africa, led by Nigeria, 
YAOUNDE, Cameroon-The first from the Clinton administration, already supplies the United States tanker set off from a Cameroon the pipeline was developed by an with about one-fifth of its oil ­port with crude from a massive international consortium, with roughly equal to Saudi Arabia's $3.7 billion pipeline, officials said ExxonMobile holding a 40 percent share of the U.S. market. Sunday, launching an ambitious stake, Malaysia's Petronas 35 per­The pipeline project included World Bank project aimed at devel­cent and ChevronTexaco 25 per­development of 300 wells in the 
oping West African oil as an alter­cent. Doba oil fields in southern Chad. native to Mideast supplies. A tanker carrying the first The oil fields are estimated to hold President Bush's administration, 950,000 barrels left the Cameroon reserves of more than 900 million hopeful of lessening U.S. depend­port of Kribi for world markets on barrels. ence on Mideast oil, has pushed Friday, Cameroon's National Oil The World Bank, in its first foray development of West Africa's Transportation Co. and National into supporting oil production, sup­industry. HydroCarbons Co. told The plied 3 percent of the financing for The 665-mile pipeline from the Associated Press. the pipeline. It is part of a strategy landlocked nation of Chad to the Presidents Paul Biya of Cameroon to get developing countries to use Atlantic ports of Cameroon repre­and Idriss Deby of Chad are to revenues from their own resources sents the World Bank's largest-ever inaugurate the pipeline next to alleviate poverty. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 6, 2003 
Incident 
continued from page 1 
Unit works under the authority of the county prosecutor and investigates all incidences of sexual assault within St. Joseph County, including the city of South Bend, where the alleged incident occurred. 
South Bend Police Captain Phil Trent said the alleged assault occurred in a house in South Bend. 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
solving courses, and squad tacti­cal exercises or "STX lanes." 
In the STX missions, groups of cadets are placed in simulated combat conditions and given an objective, for example, attacking enemy bunkers or clearing a sim­ulated landing area. Cadets Jearn how to take prisoners, deal with changing battlefield environ­ments and react under rifle and artillery frre, simulated by blanks and loud -but harmless ­explosions. 
"We wanted to give the battal­ion a cadet-run training opportu­nity," Jordan said. He went on to praise the younger cadets in his command, saying they brought enthusiasm to the exercise. "The freshman class in particular was outstandingly motivated," he said. 
Cadet 2nd Lt. Patrick McHugh, a junior, said the weekend was worthwhile. 
"We got a lot of valuable train­ing out of it," he said. "We did things that are hard to simulate in the Notre Dame environment." 
Cadet adjutant Leoncio Gil agreed, saying the event will pre­

"It is likely that [the alleged assailant] was someone in the residence ... the residence was rented by Notre Dame students," said South Bend Police Captain Phil Trent. 
Hemmerlein said the case remains an active investiga­tion and the woman has not yet decided on how she wants the case to proceed. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
pare juniors for the training they will receive at their mandatory summer training camp. 
"The way we've run this FIX, I think we've set these kids up for success this summer," Gil said. 
Jordan, who came to Notre Dame three months ago from Ft. Leavenworth, Kan., said he aims to reduce the time burden on his cadets, while maintaining a high degree of military professionalism and competence. 
"They're students and they're cadets and they're campus lead­ers. They have a lot of responsi­bilities to juggle," Jordan said. "ROTC should complement the college experience, not dominate it." 
Along with the members of the Fighting Irish Battalion, several civilians were on hand to witness the helicopter landings. Cory Berk, a 9-year-old from Naperville, Ill., was on campus to watch an Irish hockey game, and saw the cadets arrive. 
"I think they were so amazing," Berk said. 
Not to be outdone, his younger sister Samantha said she hopes to one day ride in the Black Hawks. 
"I want to be a cadet," she said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
.Prograin 
continued from page 1 
and the South Bend community where the University will book cultural events both on campus and at the Morris. 
"No one else was doing it," he said. "We should be." 
The program will not cost the University any additional money as funding will come from ticket sales and under­writing grants. 
"It directs no resources from any current Notre Dame activi­ties," Haynes said. "It's an additional action that I think will be warmly rewarded. I think it offers some wonderful opportunities for students." 
NDPRESENTS kicks off on Oct. 16 at Washington Hall with a performance of "Romeo and Juliet" by the Chicago Shakespeare Theater, a group chosen by the National Endowment of the Arts to tour the country as part of a new arts program. 
On Oct. 28, the Suzanne Farrell Ballet Co. of Washington D.C. will perform an evening of Balanchine cho­reography to the music of Tschaikovsky at the Morris. Next year, a Bulgarian opera company and Cirque Eloize of Montreal, Canada will perform. 
Haynes said he hopes stu­dents and members of the com­munity will attend the cultural events as they attend University athletic events. 
"You can play golf all your life; you can play tennis all your life," He said. "But, you can also go to orchestras and theater all your life." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


I I I I I I 

I 'fill~ 
il :a 
I 

Bell'-10 ' 
I 

I deftuite.l:y· :: 







I llilN'S il 
......:.. th••:r·e:
g"' :.. .'.. :.:;.c·.... ..,, «< il 
!I 
:1 
I 
..'I

i I I l\7l~l~lli~NI) I 1 
................ 
Oct. J()-12 I 
I 


lkatlllnt~ IJt}'t,. lith* ""lpplleatltJn.• n•aJinblt• at: 
W\'!..l\\1• nd.edu/~krusseau 
CM 


Monday, October 6, 2003 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Students riot after defeat 
Associated Press 
MANKATO, Minn. -Police arrested dozens of students during an alcohol-fueled riot in the streets following a home­coming football game loss at Minnesota State, Mankato. 
As many as 3,000 people were in a crowd that gathered Saturday night in a largely stu­dent residential area, some set­ting lire to trash bins, tearing down fences, smashing car windows and throwing rocks and bricks at officers, police said. 
Two officers retreated after reaching the scene and waited for backup. 
"When police backed off, the students were so excited because they thought they had defeated the cops," said Brian Boothe, a senior. 
Police in riot gear then used eye and skin irritants to dis­perse the crowd, and arrested 45 people. Four officers were injured by objects thrown at them, said Jim Franklin, the city's public safety director. 
The area became so danger­ous that it took an armored vehicle to pick up a student who reportedly wasn't breath­ing, Franklin said. Police also received reports of students being assaulted by fellow stu­dents. About a dozen people 
were treated for injuries at a nearby hospital. 
Franklin blamed 
alcohol  for  the  
problems.  
Witnesses  said  

the riot started when about 400 students at a party after the game became violent and started throwing 
ing game 20-9 to North Dakota State. The team is winless six games into the season. 
Bob Idding, who lives nearby, said he couldn't believe what was happening. 
"It was the scariest feeling in the world," Idding said. "I 
"It was the scariest feeling in the world." 
Bob lddlng bystander 
shouldn't have been there, I know that. My wife and I were telling each other, 'This isn't Mankato, Minnesota. We have police in riot gear in the streets."' 
The universi­ty's president, 

empty beer bottles at around Richard Davenport, said stu­
11:30 p.m. As the crowd grew, dents identified in videotapes students damaged vehicles and that were taken at the scene filled the street. would face disciplinary action. 
About 160 police officers "I found the events of last were called in before the crowd night deeply disturbing," he was finally dispersed about said. "To the extent that our 
4:30 a.m. Sunday, Franklin students were involved with 
said. others, we are extremely disap­Mankato lost the homecom-pointed." 
Mormon leader addresses followers 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY -The president and prophet of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Sunday told members of the faith that they must "hold back the world" by resisting the everyday evil embodied in popular entertainment and the Internet. 
President Gordon Hinckley, speaking during the church's 173rd semiannual General Conference, said that while many not of the faith would support their values, "we cannot be arrogant. We can­not be self-righteous." 
The church's leader also noted he was pleased that the church-owned NBC affili­ate in Salt Lake City had refused to air a program of a "salacious nature," appar­ently referring to the net­work's new sitcom, 
The future is our business. And the way we see it, the future is a place that is driven by ideas. The kind of ideas that make the world better than itwas the day before. If you have those kinds of ideas, we hope you contact us. 
GECareers gecareers.com 

The future relies on inventions from GE. GE's future relies on people like you. 
G E Information Session Morris Inn-Notre Dame Room October 6, 2003, 6:30-8:30PM 
All years and majors welcome! Stop by and talk with GE representatives and learn about our leadership programs 

: A~rcratt Ensm•• ' ~~~~~c•al : 
l[ 

~ . --. .~ ~-... :~
lit~ Iii~, 

r·l~du~l ..~ -.--,1, ·,n~~rancet•• ...., ' ..~ ~;:~~
Medic.al Sys 
I 

Syslems ~ ~ 

4
·-·: . ·. II · · 
-~ _ ·--•-•-. ••• 11to1 a --~­
,lA
imagination at work W 

"Coupling," a remake of a BBC show focusing on the sex lives of a group of friends. 
The NBC afliliate in South Bend, Ind., owned by the Homan Catholic-affiliated University of Notre Dame, also has refused to air the program. "It is comforting to know that there are others who feel as strongly as we feel and are willing to do something about it," Hinckley said. 
Cable stations in both cities will air the series for the full season. 
The two-day conference sessions are a time of cele­bration for church members, and also a time when their leaders deliver talks aimed at renewing their religious commitment. 
The church has 11.7 mil­lion members and more than 26,000 congregations. 

Texas 
•


primary unlikely 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas-The role of Texas in Democratic presiden­tial politics could be damaged by bitter Hepublican infighting over congressional redistrict­ing. 
As' the clock ticked Sunday without a deal on redistricting, a delay in the March 2 Texas primary became increasingly likely. 
That could leave state Democrats without much influ­ence in picking their party's nominee to challenge President Bush next year, since one of the Democratic candidates might have his party's nomination sewn up before a delayed Texas vote. 
Lawmakers on both sides of the Capitol had hoped to have an agreement in place by Saturday. No map had been filed by Sunday afternoon, and the House and the Senate left for the day. 
Gov. Rick Perry has cited Monday as the "drop dead date" for him to sign a map agreed on by lawmakers. With a required 24-hour waiting period before any map could be considered for a vote,· rhe Monday deadline was nearly impossible. 
The office of Secretary of State Geoff Connor has said the Legislature must adjourn and the bill must be signed no later than Monday to maintain the March 2 primary with new con­gressional districts. 
The Texas Senate approved the redistricting legislation Wednesday in an 18-12 vote mostly along party lines. The House adopted its own GOP­friendly map last week follow­ing two Democratic walkouts. 
Republicans, however, are arguing with themselves over the shape of three West Texas districts. House Speaker Tom Craddick, R-Midland, wants a new Midland-based district that would represent the oil and gas industry . 

www.gecareers.com 

... ~ ........ -# ........................................................................................................... .. 
-

~-----------------------------~---------~---­
THE ()BSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Page 10 Monday,Ocrober 6, 2003 


Hooray for the Cubs! 
Or, if they didn't win last night, "Wait 'til next year!" 
As I write early Sunday morning, either exclamation is a possibility, but 
I have to wait an  
agonizing after­noon to know.  Mike Marchand  
By the time you  
all read this on the way to class, in the dining  UndistinguishedAlumnus  
hall, or (as one  
ill-tempered  

grouch who e-mailed me recently to tell me where he read my columns) in the bathroom, the game will be over, and I will have either gotten drunk and cried (which means they lost) or just gotten drunk (which means they won). 
The devotion we have is an odd thing to explain to those people who aren't Cubs fans. Non-Cubs fans gaze upon us with an odd look on their faces, as if they were confronting a member of a masochistic religious cult, and wonder why we would waste our precious time following a team who hasn't had consecutive winning seasons in 30 years. It's as whimsical­ly illogical as dancing naked in the snow, and sometimes as painfully irra­tional as getting a tattoo in the middle of your forehead. OK, it's that painful­ly irrational often, not just sometimes. 
My best friend is a New York Yankees fan. Ordinarily, I wouldn't mind -the Yankees are a fine club, an organization so steeped in legends and traditions it's a wonder their games aren't broadcast on The History Channel. But what bothers me is that he used to be a Detroit Tigers supporter, but bailed on them because they haven't been any good in forever and turned to the Yankees just in time for them to win four World Series in five years. 
Cub fans hate bandwagon jumpers. And God willing, the Cubs will wipe out the Atlanta Braves, who started calling themselves "America's Team" when millions of fairweather nimrods started rooting for them and still refer to themselves that way even though the Yankees have supplanted them as the team most followed by mindless sheep. Choosing to cheer for the Yankees or the Braves just because they're winning is like hoping for the Harlem Globetrotters to win, or for Bugs Bunny to outwit Elmer Fudd. There's no effort required, and it upends the classic sports tradition, from Rocky to Rudy, of cheering for the underdog. 
The Cubs, meanwhile, have devoted fans despite nearly a century of futili­ty. They've lived and died with the Cubs. In fact, they've literally lived and died waiting for them to win a World Series. They last won one in 1908. That was seven papacies and 17 presidential administrations ago. That was four years before my great-grand­mother was born. 
I'm a Cubs fan because of Ron Santo, who played third base for the Cubs for 14 years and now serves as their radio announcer. Before the last game of this season, the team retired his jersey number. 
Santo has plenty of reasons to be upset. He's lost both his legs to dia­betes, he's been associated with the Cubs for 40 arduous, mostly losing seasons, and if all that weren't enough, while calling a game early this year he sat too close to a space heater and singed his toupee. And while his career was solid, since he was never a vital component of a championship dynasty, the Hall of Fame will probably never enshrine him. But he stood on the field upon 

OBSERVER POLL 
Were you an altar server? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
two prosthetic legs, watched a flag with his name on it take its place under Ernie Banks, and basically told Cooperstown to stick it: "That flag ... means more to me than the Hall of Fame. This is my Hall of Fame." 
I'm a Cubs fan because every game, celebrities sing "Take Me Out To The Ballgame" to honor Harry Caray, even though he died six seasons ago. I'm a Cubs fan because of Wrigley Field, which has remained essentially unchanged for decades. I'm a Cubs fan because no matter how long we wander through the desert of losing seasons, we know someday we'll reach the Promised Land. If not this year, then next year for sure. 
I'm a Cubs fan because I went to Wrigley on my 21st birthday, and even though I drank all afternoon and most of the night, I only paid for one beer the entire day. My fellow Cubs fans are that cool. 
Normally, at the end of a column such as this, I'd invite you all to watch the game with me, say at the new Hooters on Day Road, but since you all already know how it turned out, it'd be silly. So, invent a time machine, go back in time to last night, and join me in a Cubs victory. 
Or, if they lost, go back in time to 1945 and tell the Wrigley ushers to let that damn goat in. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is such a big Cubs fan that he bought a boombox from Meijer and a pack ofD­size batteries (no, that's not a veiled Hooters reference) so he could listen to the games while he works. His col­umn appears every other Monday Contact him at Marchand.J@ alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE ·of THE DAY 
"Hope is definitely not the same thing as optimism. It is not the conviction that something will turn out well, but the certainty that something makes sense, regardless ofhow it turns out. '' 
Vaclav Havel Czech playwright, president 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, October 6, 2003 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Undergraduates deserve respect 
I don't know much about Notre Dame study-abroad programs. No, let me qualify that: most of what I know is based on participants' enthusiastic reviews, which would certainly disqualify me from expressing an opinion in Will McDonald's book acoording to his let­ter that ran Oct. 2. 
I take it that he has heard one too many undergraduates rave about his or her "ultimately hollow" experiences in Rome, London or where-have-you and would prefer that students stayed in South Bend to "pray, ponder, read, ask and wonder." He is entitled to express his view on the programs themselves, albeit (in my book) patronizingly. 
For me, however, Mr. McDonald's comments express a deeper problem with graduate students' view of undergraduates on this campus. I'm a foreign national. This is my sixth year here, and before I came here I had lived in five countries on two continents (then again, my experiences there might have been just as shallow and hollow as those of Notre Dame undergraduates studying abroad, but I leave the reader to judge). In any event, I am tired of hearing from my colleagues in the graduate school about the shallowness, cookie-eutter-ncss, Midwestern-ness, and so on of the undergradu­ates whom it is their responsibility to live among and to teach. 
Who is to say that when a given student was in Rome and eating gelato she wasn't also gaining a deeper perspective on her faith and on a different culture? More to the point, who is to say that Notre Dame students arc not perfectly well aware that "there is more out there than just Heckers, dorm parties and football"? 
I consider myself proud to have more than a few undergraduates in my acquaintance, and this has never been my experience of them. Let's look to our own narrow-mindedness before we start projecting it for others. 
Christina Di Gangi graduate student Fischer Graduate Residence Oct. 4 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


GUEST COLUMN 
The double standard of church and state 
Lust month, Alabama's Chief Justice Hoy Moore was defeated in his desire to keep a granite version of the Ten Commandments in the lobby of a state building. 
People came 
Abigail

from as far away 
Wheetley

us Alaska to protest the move­ment of the two­The Daily ton monument. It 
Egyptian 

was moved, not out of the build­ing but into a back room where it would be out of view. 
CNN.com reported his response: "It is a sad day in our country when the moral foundation of our law and the acknowledgment of God has to be hid­den from public view to appease a fed­eral judge." 
This act of removing the command­ments was done in the name of preser­vation of church and state. I strongly support this separation. If it is not pre­served, there can be no trust in the elected officials of this country because they will not have to justify their actions in any way. 
In Ireland for most of the twentieth century, young women suspected of sexual impropriety were sent to live with the nuns and work in laundries in hard labor to atone for their sins. Many died there as old women. In Islamic countries today, women who have chil­dren out of wedlock are considered promiscuous. Those who have been raped can be murdered by a male fam­ily member, and this is called an honor killing. While this country was in its infancy, we burned and hanged men, women and children who were sus­pected of witchcraft. 
These actions were immoral and unethical, yet the officials responsible were able to claim a higher power. 
When there is no requirement of logic and sanity for judicial decisions, we enter a strange and horrible place. Any one of us, even the most religious, will admit that the Bible and other reli­gious writings can and have been inter­preted to ghastly and deadly ends. 
Separation of church and state is not so we can raise our children to be hea­thens, not because we are godless, but because government decisions need to be based on what is best for the coun­try, not what will best serve God, in whatever incarnation a government might adopt. 
To the end of keeping the church out of our state, we have begun to split hairs. Every small violation of the church being in the state has made big news and has brought out the knives of those on both sides. Last June the reli­gious and liberal frenzy was excited by the federal appeals court in California, announcing that "under God" in the pledge was unconstitutional. 
Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.) was quoted as saying, "Our founding fathers must be spinning in their graves. What's next? Will the courts now strip 'so help me God' from the pledge taken by presi­dents?" 
Many Liberal Democrats stood back watching their victory and nodded. Yes, there should be no mention of God in a speech or oath spoken by a president in a country where there is a separa­religious-based organization. 

There are no religious plaques in fed­eral buildings, but we quietly continue to restrict abortions and deny marital rights to homosexuals. As we wheel a big monument into a back room after driving a bunch of Christians into a religious fervor so that while their dis-world to be reborn. 

This column first appeared on Oct. 3 in the Daily Egyptian. the campus paper ofSouthern Illinois University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TI-IE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Monday, October 6, 2003 

page 12 
Quiet 
The Red Tent
please? 
So it's the day before your test and you're looking for a nice, quiet place to study on campus, interruption-free. You ask your­self the question "Where might I be able to find a suit­
Tom Raaf

able venue for my extended 
Scene 

studying 
Coulmnist

satisfac­tion?" 
Well my friends, I'm here to tell you that there isn't anywhere on campus that can fulfill this need. Although the university has designed several places that appear to be meant for quiet study, there's always that one annoying study group that ruins everything for you ... and everyone else in the study lounge. 
Sometimes it's the whole group making noise, laughing and messing around while everyone else is treating the room like the Grotto, but often enough there's the case of the single kid in the group whose parents just never got around to teaching him how to whisper. 
Personally, I like to call this kid the "loud, chubby kid with jean shorts and a cityscape T­shirt who loves to talk about capitalism's benefits," a name which was derived from a par­ticularly bad study experience of mine two weeks ago. Surprisingly though, the com­mon violators of study room eti­quette do in fact seem to have a strange fondness for nasty cargo jean shorts. 
I think the only thing worse than the single annoyance is the group who has taken on the "we're all strung out from studying so much" mentality. This is when absolutely any­thing said by anyone in the group is just unbelievably hys­terical to the other members of the group. Along with this comes the attempt at containing the laughter because the group knows they are in a quiet lounge. 
In most cases, this is even worse that open laughter because you, as the single studier, can see that the group knows they are doing some­thing inappropriate without fix­ing it. Nonetheless, this ridicu­lousness usually continues until someone says something to the group or until you decide to leave. 
As a suggestion, if you see your group digressing into this pattern, take a 15 minute break ... you need it. 
Along with such travesties comes a strange bond between all of the quiet studiers in the room. People who have never seen or talked to one another before begin to make eye con­tact and become friends, know­ing that they all have the com­monality of despising the obnoxious group in the room. Repeated looks of distress fly back and forth around the room, and thoughts of "should I say something to quiet them down" frequently run through students' heads. In most cases, however, nothing is said. 
To make sure that I was not the only one feeling this way about the situation, I decided to interview a few of my class­mates to see their perspectives. 
Junior Caroline Meehan said, "These loud studiers are the worst! The other day I flashed this group my 'You can't be serious' look five times in 15 minutes ... and you know what? They just got louder!" 
Sophomore Brian Reichart had similar things to say about this ever-present situation in the study lounges. "These groups are just frustrating. First they make you angry, but eventually break you down to the point where you want to cry and give up on all academic pursuits ... and sometimes even life itself." 
Junior Maureen Tate actually admitted that she was part of the problem, saying "You know what ... I think I might just be the kid in the cityscape shirt! Man, am I really that annoying? Wow, sorry everyone." She then proceeded to eat a quart of Ben and Jerry's Phish food in the next six minutes. 
Junior Dan Block had a unique view on the situation. "I kind of actually like these groups because they give me a good icebreaker for talking to super-hot study girls. I usually make eye-contact with them and say something like 'can you believe these guys?' From there I just approach the table and let my Dan-the-man cruise control take over." 
As a possible solution to this problem, I have laid out a list of places I believe most people view as quiet study areas on campus. These include the Como first floor lounge, the new basement of the library and every other floor of the library but the second, Bond Hall and any computer cluster. This leaves the second floor of Como, the second floor of the library, all of Lafortune, anywhere out­side and the big table in O'Shag for all of you loud studiers ... and arrogant, female, 5'7, blonde TA's who are "trying to host a TA session here." 
Now some of you might be thinking about the fact that the first floor of Coleman-Morse is labeled "social lounge." Don't worry about it; the students have converted it into a study lounge. The University can feel free to move the TV out of there at any time. . 
As you can see, group studiers, there are plenty of places for you to happily con­gregate and run amok on cam­pus while leaving adequate space for us easily distracted quiet studiers. Please take a cue and try to migrate toward some of the more acceptable places to be loud on campus ... and tuck away those jean shorts for the winter. 
Tom Raaf is a junior who loves the printers in the clus­ters because they never have problems, especially not the one in Coleman Morse. Contact him at traaj@nd.edu 
The Red Tent by Anita Diamant is a captivating tale of the Biblical story known as "The Rape of Dinah " 
largely spent introducing that is further shown in the By BECCA SAUNDERS the family of Laban, the not so picturesque scenes 
Scene Writer 
Biblical character Jacob's of the novel. uncle. The reader learns of The female spin that is 
Great ideas always start the relationships of the four put on the novel is very small. In the case of the daugh­intrigu­novel The Red Tent by ters of i n g Anita Diamant, this is quite Laban, The Red Tent through­literally the case. L e a h 
out the 
The Red Tent is the story a n d first two­of Dinah, a Biblical charac­Rachel, thirds of ter in Genesis. However, the two t h e the tale of Dinah is not one daugh­novel. that is largely noted. The t e r s Author: Anita Diamant T h e episode in the thirty-fourth t h a t introduc­chapter of Genesis is gener­Laban tion of ally known as "The Rape of claims, and Bilhah and the sisters, Jacob and the Dinah" and is a mere refer­Zilpah, two that Laban rest of the family through ence that then moves to fathered, but treats as the eyes of the women puts focus on how her brothers housemaids, so that he a very interesting spin on revenged her alleged rape. would not have to pay the all of the Old Testament In Genesis, Dinah never dowry for their mothers. characters that people feel utters a single word. In the The sisters themselves then like they already know so feminist twist of the story describe the story of Jacob well. Dinah's tale of falling by Diamant, Dinah becomes coming to the house of in love with the prince of the main character of a tale Laban and falling in love Shechem is beautiful, and that has largely left her out with each of the the reader feels the tragedy 
unique sisters in a of her loss. Diamant never, unique way. All of at any time, strays from the the conversation story of the Old Testament, and stories are told she only elongates it, from Dinah's memo­adding new details and ry, as her mother perspectives on what may and aunts passed have really happened. them on to her in The last third of the novel the red tent. The is a bit over-feminist as red tent is the tent Joseph, the alleged good where the woman of brother, is portrayed as the house of Laban selfish, arrogant and homo­went while they sexual. The credibility of were experiencing the novel begins to wane as their menstrual the level of feminism begins cycle. to make the story a bit 
Only matured unbelievable. The com­women could enter pletely unrelenting and the red tent, and the unforgiving character of women would spend Dinah starts to lose cohe­the week together, siveness in the last third of as they were ritually the novel, but until that unclean during this point, Diamant writes so time, and could not convincingly, it is almost 
for ages. exit the tent and mix with hard to believe that this 
Diamant says of her the household. may not have been how the novel, "In my retelling of As the sisters all marry story went. the story, Dinah finds her Jacob and begin to have his As a whole, "The Red voice. The Red Tent is told children, the novel becomes Tent" is a touching novel. entirely from her perspec­exceedingly graphic at While the novel focuses tive and the point of view of times. The realities of greatly on the relationships the women around her." polygamy and child­of the women in the story, The patriarchal society of birthing in the times of the the themes of the novel the Old Testament did not Old Testament are not soft­cover a very broad spec­give much notice to Dinah ened or subdued by trum that allows the novel in the writing of the Old Diamant in the novel. to be enjoyable for a male Testament, but Diamant However, although at times and female audience. In interprets the text in an the graphic nature and history classes, one is entirely new way, no longer depictive language of the always told to realize that 
giving the story to the men novel can be a bit disturb­history is written by the of the time, but giving the ing, it is largely outweighed victorious, and it is neces­story of the women, entire­by the beautiful and sary to view the situation ly from the perspective of poignant scenery descrip­from the other perspectives the women. tions in the novel. Diamant as well. While one doesn't The novel begins with the describes images of the often hear that in theology 
history of Dinah's family, desert, of the beauty of classes, Diamant's novel through the matriarchal Rachel, of the strength of "The Red Tent" makes a line, because, as Dinah Leah, that will remain in convincing argument that points out, "To know a your head for days. The perhaps one should. woman, one must first stirring imagery is 
know her mother." The first immensely enjoyable, and Contact Becca Saunders at section of the novel is fully worth the consistency rsaunder@nd.edu 

.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 
CENEMonday, October 6, 2003 
Page 13 
Spade pleases student crowd 
-------, 
Spade came out, dancing and York, where he had to be nice people who By SARAH VABULAS joking as students cheered. to a little kid since he said he have never Scone Editor I lis opening joke was about didn't want to end up on the been in 
his contract what was allowed front page of the Enquirer for one. "You 
Laughter filled the Joyce and not allowed to be on being rude to a kid by ignor­know it's Center Arena Saturday night stage. He also joked about the ing them. After that, he want­their first as a Student Union Board stage being made from cafete­ed to take a helicopter to time in a sponsored event brought in ria tables taped together and Atlantic City, and he made fun limo when over 1,300 Notre Dame, Saint the black drop curtain, which of how the helicopter was sim­they're in Mary's and Holy Cross stu­hung behind him, came from ply just a flying pile of bolts. the sun­dents. David Spade, profes­a mysterious dorm room. This After talking about airplanes r o o f , " sional actor and comedian, part of his show evoked quite and flying, Spade discussed Spade said. performed his stand-up rou­a bit of laughter seeing as hotels. This, of course, led to Then he tine, which he geared towards though most college students one of his most popular movie abruptly the students. understand how things are quotes, the '.'Housekeeping" changed 
Before Spade appeared on put together when dorms scene from his hit movie, subject to stage, the Notre Dame student sponsor events. "Tommy Boy." He did the telling a band Station One opened to Spade then went on to com­whole quote live, as the crowd story of help pump up the crowd. ment about Notre Dame, both roared with excitement for how he Although a five-member band, the campus and the quality of hearing possibly one of recently only three members of Station student who attends. "I'm Spade's funniest achievements killed a bug One were allowed to play on here at a big, good school. I done live. that was stage. Senior vocalist really don't do good schools Spade explained where this bothering Lawrence Santiago, senior much." came from. He said that he him while drummer Peter Miller and He made fun of himself and knocked on Chris Farley's he was -­sophomore bass guitarist his lack of college education. door every morning while reading his Bobby Seus played two of acquiring six credits at filming "Tommy Boy" and pre­"People their original songs. The other Arizona State University and tended to be a housekeeper. Magazine." two members of the band arc 15 credits from a local com­Each morning, Farley fell for He told the senior keyboardist Mike munity college near where he it, not realizing that it was story, step Maimone and senior lead gui­grew up in Arizona. Later in Spade -again. He also men­by step, of tarist David Miller. his act, he joked about how tioned that a lot of the movie how he 
They have a reggae flare to some of his jokes might not be was from real life experiences fin a II y their music, which sounds as funny to a Notre Dame stu­between Farley and himself. killed the quite a bit like the popular dent as a student who isn't as Spade then went on to con­bother­rock band Sublime. "We play "smart." tinue talking about hotels and so many different kinds of He then launched into a bit what makes a hotel good or creature David Spade performed his comedy act along styles. We play mostly Sublime about airplanes, where he not. He said one of the with a full with additions about entertaining Notre Dame type," David Miller said. touched on how he always requirements for a hotel is a can of students. 
Santiago humored the crowd flies coach, managing to be good TV channel selection, Raid. "I further with his rendition of stuck by children who bother complete with "Spank-tro­have atti­the theme song from the TV him and the quirky policies of vision," a channel with filthy tude for bugs," Spade said. "Better go reserve a table at show, "The Fresh Prince of the airlines. movie titles. He named a few As with any good stand-up Huddles," Spade said. He Bel-Air," starring Will Smith. "Once you get on the plane, titles, appalling and amusing routine, Spade included many allegedly heard about The 
After a large ovation while they tell you the name of the the crowd at the same time. jokes about his mom, dad and Huddle from his limo driver. clearing the stage of every­pilot. But no one ever says, The TV bit led to talking step-dad. His father left when Spade's routine ran 75 min­thing but a black stool, a 'Oh, he's good.'" about CNN and some of the he was young and would only utes and pleased the crowd microphone and stand and a He told a story about his top news stories of the day. come to visit occasionally. for the entirety. He used his lone bottle of water, David flight from Los Angeles to New Spade found out about Roy Each year, however, it would sarcastic humor that made 
Horn, of Seigfried be about the time of the him famous along with some 
and Roy, and his Arizona State Fair. very well done sound effects attack by one of Spade made fun of himself for added flare. He picked on his tigers on and his choice of clothing as a the crowd as they got up and Friday night. kid. "I was Joe Dirt so bad. down during the show. 
After that, Spade Dealing crystal meth at age One of his best parts was gave his opinion 7." when he talked about how about Saddam Following that, Spade con­bands never play their best 
Hussein and his tinued with jokes about his songs during concerts, but if new life of living mom and the bad choice of they do, they never play the with a "friend of a Christmas presents she always song like it is on the CD. friend" in some picked out for his brother and Spade, however, hit all of his dump somewhere him. One year, she gave him a best-known lines, making his 
in Syria or Libya. T-shirt with a picture of him­routine even better. Spade thought self on it and he made the The ending though, seemed that Hussein unfortunate decision of wear­weak and abrupt. Spade was 
would be missing ing it to school. just telling jokes and making his solid gold His mom also frequently vis­fun of things, and then he just lifestyle and would ited Sam's Club, a place to buy said he was finished and be "hating life.'' food and other items at whole­walked off the stage. 
''I'm political. sale prices. Spade's thoughts Charlie Ebersol, Board Look at me. I tack­on Sam's Club are that "I don't Director of SUB, said that le the issues," trust that place. Too much Spade wanted to shave Spade said about variety. I like Toy R Us. It's Ebersol's head despite the low his political only toys. Too sketch of a attendance. "I think they knowledge from place. I don't want to have to would have liked it a lot better the world. use my legs to pick up the if you let me shave your 
Following that, cheezits." head," Spade said to Ebersol. Spade talked Throughout the entire show, Ebersol said he felt that 
about his recent Spade kept increasing the despite the attendance, the trip to Las Vegas number of people in atten­show went off without a hitch and all the funny dance. He started out saying and that Spade was great, happenings of that there were about 5,000 pleasing the crowd. 
being in that large people, which finally reached and interesting 7,000 after a few more times. TIM KACMAR!The Observer town. He focused a 
He also made fun of "The

David Spade entertained students Saturday night at the JACC. Spade lot on limousines 
Huddle," thinking that it was Contact Sarah Vabulas at
made fun of himself In comparlslon to the students in attendance. and making fun of 
a popular place to hang out. Vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, October 6, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Hall's punt return lifts Chiefs over Broncos 
Associated Press return set up. By the time he Mariucci paced the sidelines 
finally got outside, there were with his usual vigor, but Detroit 
plenty of blockers to clear the (1-4) couldn't move the ball con­
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -He cut way. sistently in its fourth straight left, then right, then stutter­49ers 24, Lions 17 loss. By the final minutes, stepped and actually ran back­Once Terrell Owens and Jeff Mariucci was shivering in the ward toward the end zone. Garcia got back in step at the cold winds at Candlestick Park 
Surrounded by Denver tacklers pregame breakfast, not even as San Francisco ran out the and just a couple of yards from Steve Mariucci could trip them clock. the goal line, Dante Hall cut back up. Cowboys 24, Cardinals 7 left, looped around to the outside Owens caught five passes for Emmitt Smith was all smiles. and darted 93 yards into the end 79 yards and a touchdown as the Fans were cheering his every zone -and the record book. San Francisco 49ers spoiled move and flashbulbs were pop­
His NFL record fourth touch­their former coach's homecom­ping. He looked around happily, down return in four games came ing, methodically beating the savoring his return to Texas with 8:20 left and gave Kansas Detroit Lions 24-17. Stadium just like he'd hoped. City a 24-23 victory over Denver Garcia completed 15 of 27 Everything was going his way. and the Chiefs' first 5-0 start. passes for 192 yards and rushed Then the game began. And 
But to the other Chiefs players, for another score, but his biggest nothing went right again. the game between previously play came in the hours before Smith lost 4 yards on his first unbeaten AFC West rivals was kickoff. Over breakfast, the carry and finished with minus-1, almost secondary. They all three-time Pro Bowl quarter­the worst outing of his career. He seemed to want to talk about back and his All-Pro receiver was pounded nearly every time their remarkable teammate. reached a delicate peace in their he got the ball and was knocked 
"He's a human highlight reel," tumultuous relationship -and out early in the second quarter Darnerien McCants on a 32-yard games when people have to stepChiefs defensive end Eric Hicks they celebrated by making sev­with a sprained left shoulder. touchdown pass in the final sec­up," said Dolphins back Rickysaid. "He's like Michael Jordan. eral big plays against Mariucci's He spent the rest of Sunday's onds. Williams, whose biggest contri­It's ridiculous. The play he made, Lions. game in the locker room, his But under pressure from bution might have been as a really nobody was blocked on Garcia barely spoke to Owens arm in a sling, as his former Brandon Whiting, Ramsey decoy. the initial part of the play. My all week after the receiver criti­teammates on the Dallas rushed his pass to Coles in the The Giants (2-2) wanted to God, I've never seen anything cized him, but he was the first to Cowboys polished off a 24-7 vic­corner of the end zone and the stop him at all costs, and that set like that in my life." greet Owens for a celebration tory over his new teammates on ball sailed over the receiver's up the right conditions for 
Hall began his streak with a after a TD catch in the first the Arizona Cardinals. head. McKnight's momentum-turning 100-yard kickoff return against quarter. "Every player wants to play "Coles was wide open and I second-quarter run that gave the Pittsburgh, then had a 73-yard "Both of us were very uncom­four quarters, play his best and overthrew the ball. It was as Dolphins (3-1) the lead for good. punt return against Houston and fortable with the way it had got­do everything possible to help simple as that," Ramsey said. Panthers 19, Saints 13 followed with a 97 -yard kickoff ten and didn't want to see it go his team win," Smith said. "I After John Hall's fourth field Stephen Davis was fighting return for a score against on any longer," Garcia said. "I wasn't able to do that today." goal, a 53-yarder, cut it to 27-19, cramps alone in the locker room, 
Baltimore. Until then, nobody in don't like having any sort of neg­There was no immediate word the Redskins' Bryan Johnson determined to get back on the NFL history had ever had touch­ativity in the locker room .... from the team on whether Smith 
recovered an onside kick at field and finish the best start in 
down returns in more than two Considering the distractions that would miss any time. He's Washington's 43 with 1:13 left. Carolina Panthers' history. consecutive games. took place this week, it was a missed just four games in his 13-Ramsey then drove the Redskins Davis made it back out after Now with 11 regular-season difficult week." plus NFL seasons. 
57 yards in five plays. taking intravenous fluids to run games left, Hall has already tied It was similarly difficult for "We have to go back and do Defensive end N.D. Kalu for a final 10 yards that sealedthe NFL's single-season record Mariucci, who knows plenty more tests on it," Smith said. 
returned an interception 15 the Panthers' 19-13 victory overfor touchdown returns. about the 49ers' penchant for "But the early diagnosis is a yards for a go-ahead TO, and the New Orleans Saints, moving"I was beside myself I was so high drama. He went 57-39 in sprained AC joint. I think I'll be Brian Westbrook had a 19-yard Carolina to 4-0 for the first time. 
excited for him," head coach six seasons with the Niners, OK. though." TD run for the Eagles. 
"My goal was just to comeDick Vermeil said. "I said to leading them to the NFC West Eagles 27, Redsklns 25 Dolphins 23, Giants 10 back and finish," Davis said.
myself, 'Oh, Dante, don't go title and the second round of the Patrick Ramsey saw an open All the Miami Dolphins needed "When I got out there, I didn't backwards."' playoffs last season. receiver, hurried his throw and to win their third straight game say anything in the huddle. They The Broncos (4-1) had never Three days after the 49ers lost put his head down. was four turnovers, a little trick­told me, 'Let's get it."' 
trailed when Micah Knorr punt­to Tampa Bay last January, The roar of the crowd let him ery and more special teams Davis, who finished with 159ed to Hall with a little more than Mariucci was fired by owner know the outcome. woes for the New York Giants. 
yards and a 1-yard touchdown8 minutes left. John York. Waves of contradicto­Ramsey overthrew Laveranues Olindo Mare kicked three field run, headed to the locker room
When he started running ry feelings flowed through Coles on a 2-point conversion goals and receiver James backward, he feared he might be Mariucci as he faced the team he with 13 seconds left, and the McKnight scored on a 68-yard with the Panthers leading 19-10 about to get tackled for a safety helped build into a contender. Philadelphia Eagles held on to reverse as the Dolphins took late in the fourth quarter. and be guilty of a colossal error. "I suppose a little bit of every­beat the Washington Redskins advantage of New York errors The Saints (1-4) cut it to 19-13 
"I thought, 'Oh, I've got to get thing -hard, exciting, differ­27-25. and a freak injury to Giants kick­on John Carney's 26-yard field out of this jam,'" Hall said with a ent," Mariucci said. "I tried to Ramsey rallied Washington er Matt Bryant in a 23-10 win goal with 1:43 to play, and laugh. minimize it as much as I could. from an 11-point deficit in the Sunday. Carolina needed one last first 
But the Chiefs didn't have a Needless to say, it was different." final 3:10, connecting with "It's good to win these kinds of down to close the win. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048 NOTICES WANTED FOR SALE NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD-TICKETS ELED Alumni family needs USC tickets for SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048 I NEED GA TIXS.2726 Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to Williamson.1 @nd.edu CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR 
a few good men NO. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski and women who wish to work in a $107,000. GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO &Beach Trips on sale now! FUN and fast pace environment. (574) 273-1666 FoR RENT ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com 
www.sunchase.com or call A new store will -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 or 925-457-1057. 1-800-SUNCHASE today! be opening up in early October. IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX-2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO PM 288-2726 
We have aggressive pay. Hrs from URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 2 GA TIX FOR USC/B0/832-428­GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, 11am to 3am. your dream home next to MMMRENTALS@AOLCOM 272-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 3937. banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt Notre Dame. A limited number of 1525 SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­Music 4609 Grape Rd available. home sites are available. For more 2726 Mish, IN 2775038 Call Andy info go to: That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast 
at 574-277-0850 www.lrishCrossings.com has space available for football/par-WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. PERSONALS 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in for interview. ent TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­Acapulco is now offering 3 Fully electric hospital bed, new mat-wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full 0964. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do destinations! Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO tress $350. Power hot breakfast, $80-$115, not go it alone. If you or someone Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in exper. required. Lift Lazy boy $250. Middlebury, 30 FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. you love needs confidential support Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all All looks & ages. Over miles from campus. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Earn $100-$300 bed tables $25. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For Book by Oct 31-get a day. Student desks $25. Pews $45. Call 9487. JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, more information, see our bi-weekly FREE MEALS! 1-888-820-Q167' evenings, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-ad in The Observer. Organize a group and travel for ext. U187. 631-4969. FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL FREE. houses, prime locations, sec. sys-674-6593. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, Call for details. A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED Honda 97 Accord LX, 4 dr. auto, sil-terns, sand America's #1 Student Tour 800-875-4525 or 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties ver-beige. excellent condition 86k. V-ball, wash/dry Just Between You And Me, ADire Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call www.bianchi-rossi.com. 2 free trps high mi., call Greg 233-9947 Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs for discounts: 800-648-4849 or 
commission sunsplashtours.com keyless entry, remote start $7,600. ONLY PLEASEPH:277-1659 www.ststravel.com 
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, 1800-426-7710 574-272-2931 Rent one of the best 5 bedroom get 12th trip free. homes left for 200415. SMC grad needs USC tix. Email A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s Group discounts for 6+ TUTOR: Sixth grader. 931suzu Trooper $3,610 and 99 Rent a 4-bedroom house and Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, www.springbreakdiscounts.com or Homework. Transportation neces-Honda Accord get the 3 bedroom house next door Meals & Parties 800-838-8202. sary. $10,650. for free. Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426­
231-1127 John 231-0420. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 7710 
.. 
j 
Monday, October 6, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Wood beats Braves, Cubs advance in playoffs 
Associat~d Press homered and threw out a runner at third. "Zero-for-16 doesn't 
ATlANTA -Ninety-five years make or break a year, but that of frustration. Ninety-five years one hit you got certainly does." of ridicule. Put it all to rest. The It was the eighth consecutive 
Chicago Cubs are postseason elimination game Oakland has winners. lost -the longest slump of its 
Kerry Wood pitched another sort in major league history. dominating game and Aramis Despite making the playoffs each Hamirez began the celebration of the last four seasons, the A's with a mammoth home run, have yet to advance past the first pushing the Cubs past Atlanta 5-round. I in the decisive Game 5 Sunday "This is this year. We're wor­night for their first postseason ried about this year," Oakland. 
series victory since the 1908 second baseman Mark Ellis said. World Series. "We're trying to make some new The franchise that endured the history and win that Game 5." College of Coaches and the curse To change their luck, the A's 
of a goat moves on to play will need to beat Boston ace Florida in the NL championship Pedro Martinez after the teams series. Game 1 is Tuesday night fly cross-country for Monday's at Wrigley Field. fifth game. Barry Zito will pitch "We heard a lot of negatives for Oakland on three days' rest. from people, and they have rea­"I think we have the better son to be negative," first-year team," said Tim Hudson, who manager Dusty Baker said. started Game 4 but left after "They haven't had any reasons just one inning because of a to be positive for a long time." strained muscle in his side. "We 
They do now. When Andruw have the best left-bander in the Jones struck out swinging on the league going tomorrow." final pitch, flashbulbs went off But Boston believes it has the 
around the stadium. Catcher best right-hander. at-bats -a power outage in the The Yankees sure rediscovered fourth and knocked out Twins Damian Miller threw his arms in "It's all right," Hudson said, middle of the lineup that was their dominant postseason form starter Johan Santana. the air, then charged the mound 'Til take Barry Zito over Pedro largely responsible for putting in a hurry. They hit four doubles Bernie Williams and Hideki 
to embrace closer Joe Borowski. Martinez any day." Boston at the brink of elimina­in a six-run fourth inning Matsui hit an RBI double apiece, Sammy Sosa tore across the The Red Sox were equally con­tion. Sunday, breezing behind David and Nick Johnson added a two­grass to high-five his fellow out­fident, remembering their rally Ramirez singled twice Sunday. Wells into the AL Championship run double. Alfonso Soriano's in the 1999 playoffs when they With Boston trailing 4-3 and two Series with an 8-1 victory over bloop two-run single made it 6­
fielders. Wood, sitting in the 
came back from a 2-0 deficit to outs in the eighth, he followed the Minnesota Twins. 0.
dugout, pumped his fist before heading to the field to join the beat Cleveland in the first round. Nomar Garciaparra's double After a sloppy loss in the open­Jeter later homered for the celebration. Martinez also pitched Game 5 with a ground single to left; er that brought back memories Yankees. After losing Game 1 at In the stands. Chicago's fans that year, coming out of the Garciaparra went hard around of last year's first-round flop home 3-1, New York outscored shoutnd, hugged and derisively bullpen to throw six hitless third base, but coach Mike against Anaheim, New York beat Minnesota 14-3. p1~rformed the "Tomahawk innings. Cubbage held him up. the 1\vins three straight times to "They're a confident bunch." Chop" -the Braves' signature "We've got the best pitcher on Ortiz worked the count full clinch the AL Division Series 3-1. Gardenhire said. "If they start 
cheer. the planet going," said Red Sox before lining a double to deep­"We fought our way through hitting, they win a lot of games." "It's unbelievable," said Sosa, starter John Burkett, who right, turning Jermaine Dye it," manager Joe Torre said. "We The big-budget Yankees are who endured a beaning, injured allowed four runs and nine hits around as the ball went over his know there are a lot of distrac­under increasing pressure to win 
head. Garciaparra and Ramirez
toe and that infamous corked bat in 5 1/3 innings. tions in New York. In the post­it all this year after going con­
scored to give Boston the lead,
in 200:~. "For me and everything And now they have their hit­season, they're magnified." secutive seasons without a World I've been through, it's one of the ters going, too. and the "M-V-P!" chants began A rested Yankees team will Series title. They put themselves great seasons that I've had." Despite starting the year as a open the ALCS Wednesday night in a great situation by finishing 
anew. Same for Cubs fans. The last fill-in first baseman and DH, "I couldn't think of a better at home against Oakland or off Minnesota on Sunday. out also set off a wild party out­Ortiz had 16 game-winning RBI time for that to happen, because Boston. They'll have two days off to side Wrigley Field. in the regular season -second­the clock was running out "They're the best team in the rest before Game 1 of the ALCS, The Braves suffered another most in the AL. Twenty-four of there," Red Sox manager Grady league," Minnesota manager while the Hed Sox and Athletics heartbreaking loss in the post­his career-high 101 RBI put the Little said. "That was a good Ron Gardenhire said. play a decisive Game 5 on Red Sox ahead, and 42 came time for them to bust loose." "Somebody has to knock them Monday night after making a
season, going down for the sec­
fT .. 

ond year in a row in Game 5 of with two outs; he also set career Yankees 8, Twins 1 0 . cross-country trip to Oakland. the division series. highs with a .288 average and The New York Yankees never Wells improved to 9-2 lifetime Pedro Martinez will pitch for 31 homers. panicked, even if some of their in the postseason by going 7 2/3 Boston against Barry Zito on
'1\velve straight division titles 

But coming into the game, fans did. innings for the Yankees. New Monday, so neither ace would be
have produced only one World 
Ortiz and Manny Ramirez had "It's a series," Derek Jeter York made it easy for him, send­ready to face the Yankees on
Series championship, and the 
combined for just one hit in 25 said, "not one game." ing 12 batters to the plate in the Wednesday.
Braves face an uncertain future. Gary Sheffield, Greg Maddux, Javy Lopez and Vinny Castilla 


page 16 Monday, October 6, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 

Germans blank Americans in World Cup play 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Four years after Brandi Chastain ripped her jersey off in cele­bration, Mia Hamm pulled hers over her face to hide the tears. 

Hamm, idol­ized by countless PGE Park -many of them youngsters wearing No. 9 jer­seys with the name "Hamm" on the back -chanted "USA, USA, USA" to the finish and then after the game ended. Hamm hugged her teammates, tears streaming down her 
"They were the dominant bending and force in U.S. 
young girls and 
bending, but they 
women's soccer, 

didn't break. " 
was shut out in her last World Cup semifinal. 
Briana Scurry 
The U.S. 

U.S. goalkeeper
defense of its World Cup title ended in a 3-0 loss Sunday to a German team that was simply too good. The defeat was even more painful because it came on home turf. where the Americans had been invinci­ble. 
The capacity crowd of 27,623 in cozy but raucous 
NHL 

Thrashers player dies 6 days after car crash 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA Atlanta Thrashers forward Dan Snyder died Sunday night, six days after he was involved in a hor­rific car crash with teammate Dany Heatley. 
Snyder died at Grady Hospital from massive brain injuries without ever regaining consciousness, the team said. He was 25. 
Police said Heatley was driv­ing his Ferrari at about 80 mph on a narrow two-lane road last Monday night when he lost control, spun off the road and smashed into a brick and wrought iron fence. 
The car split in half. The players were thrown into the road. 
Heatley already was facing several charges, including a felony. 
"The charges will be upgrad­ed. It hasn't occurred yet," Sgt. John Quigley, an Atlanta Police Department spokesman said Sunday night. "I expect them to be upgraded in the near future." 
He said investigators will meet with the District Attorney's office on Monday morning. 
"It would likely be vehicular homicide first degree." Quigley said. 
Snyder underwent surgery for a skull fracture but never emerged from his coma. 
"We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of Dan Snyder," the Thrashers said in a state­ment. "Dan was a teammate and friend to all of us. We feel a tremendous amount of pain as an organization and extend deepest sympathies to his fam­ily." 
Snyder, a center who had 10 goals and four assists in 36 games for Atlanta last season, had surgery on his ankle in September before the start of 
cheeks, then gamely clapped along with the crowd. 
"All those girls in the stands, that's the legacy," Hamm said. 
Time after time, maybe this was the greatest game ever played' in women's soccer." 

Hamm and the rest of the aging core of U.S. players had wanted so badly to go out with another Cup triumph this year and then Olympic gold in 2004. Now only the games in Athens provide an attainable goal. After that, Hamm will retire. 
"It was a hard loss because of the way it went down," U.S. goalkeeper Briana Scurry said. 
"They were bending and bend­ing, but they didn't break." 
Kerstin Garefrekes' header off Renate Lingor's corner kick glanced off the crossbar and into the net in the 15th minute, then the Germans withstood one U.S. threat after another. 
Two goals in the final two minutes sealed the win. Fittingly, they came from German stars Maren Meinert and Birgit Prinz. 
Meinert, the MVP of the 
WUSA professional soccer league this year in its final season, had planned to retire but was coaxed back to the national team. Prinz scored seven of Germany's 23 goals in its five World Cup matches. 
"Everybody had a chance," Prinz said, "and I think in the end we were lucky and we fin­ished our chances. We were totally excited to beat the U.S. We usually lose important games to them." 
Hamm and her teammates threat­ened only to be thwarted by the spectacular play of goalkeeper Silke Rottenberg and the rest of the German defenders. "We brought our 'A' game in terms of the attacking," U.S. coach April Heinrichs said. "That's a great team we played. I've got to think tha·t  BREAK OUT OF THE BUBBLE TAKE THE URBAN PLUNGE  
training camp. He was expect­ed to start the season on the injured list. Snyder signed with the Thrashers as a free agent in 1999 after playing four sea­sons of junior hockey for Owen Sound in the Ontario Hockey League. He spent most of his first three professional seasons in the minor leagues, helping Orlando win the International Hockey League title in 2000­01 and playing on the Chicago Wolves' American Hockey League championship team in 2001-02. He also played 35 games for Chicago last season, getting 11 goals and 12 assists.  Immerse yourself in the realities of urban poverty. Witness the economic injustice, education.al. inequality, hunger, racism and homelessness present in urban areas today. Develop your capa_c~ty­for critical reflection and rigorous analysis as you reflect upon the challenges facmg urban ctttes across the country. As a participant, you are further invited to relate and integrate the principles of Catholic Social Teaching to your own immersion experience. · Opportunities Available in over 35 Cities Across the US!!! The Urban Plunge is a one-credit experiential learning course. The seminar is scheduled for a 48-hour period during winter break. Find Out More -Come to an Information Session at the Center for Social Concerns Information Session Dates: Wednesday October 8-630 -730 P~ Tuesday, October 28 730-830 PM Application Deadline: Friday, Oct. 31, 2003 500 PM. Applications are now available at the CSC. Any questions contact Jim Madden at jmadden@nd.edu  
\-·A;J'.A\LE···s--··_....vvn r·....··· ···-• ·.. _... w&d~ oetobtr e ~ HatJes~-Htat4ij OR, ThKts~ oeroa~.St>Q_, .... H'atJe&...HeALe·tt ·-row···.·o O.r··--_. ..N£l\7"VA~"'Y·A·····.... ':········· •.. ­.. _•... ': ..:: i..·•.··· ... :. ·. .. _·. ·.,  




OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 6, 2003 C0,\1PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 17 

around the dial 
MLB 

Boston at Oakland 8:18p.m., FOX 
NFL 

Colts at Buccaneers 8 p.m., ABC 
HOCKEY Blackhawks at Stars 1 p.m., FSN 
GYMNASTICS World Championships 7 p.m., ESPN2 
BOXING 


puncher I'd have been torn that, two weeks shy of his Toney.
Associated Press 

apart," Holyfield admitted 41st birthday, he has nei­Longtime trainer Don at one point. ther the reflexes or the Turner told HolyfieldLAS VEGAS -Evander To Holyfield's credit, he skills to continue as a before the ninth round Holyfield had just taken a offered no excuses -and heavyweight contender. began that he would stopbeating from James Toney, 
no protests -after his "No, I'm not going to the fight if the beating con­and now he was fighting corner threw in the towel retire," Holyfield said. ''I'm tinued. When Holyfieldanother losing battle. in the ninth round going back to the drawing was knocked down with a 
Sitting in a post-fight Saturday night when board." left to the body at 1 :42 of news conference, he was Toney was hitting him with Holyfield will have to the ninth round, Turner trying to explain why he every punch he threw. find a fountain of youth on climbed on the ring apron should keep fighting at his That wasn't the case in that board if he expects to to save the former four­advanced age with clearly many of his recent fights ever be competitive again time heavyweight champi­declining skills. when he blamed various in the heavyweight divi­on from more punishment. 
The problem was that injuries and opponents sion. "I had to stop the fight," every time Holyfield who weren't willing to mix Just having his warrior Turner said. "I didn't want opened his mouth he gave it up with him for his poor will isn't good enough any­to see my guy get hurt. I another argument for showings. more, as Holyfield found Jove him too much. I've retirement. But once again he blindly out when he fought brave­seen four guys get killed in 
"If he [Toney] was a big refused to acknowledge ly but futilely against the ring." 
IN BRIEF 

Win gives Woods fifth peers to vote Woods the PGA Tour ing missed an open receiver in the victory of the year player of the year for an unprecedent­end zone. ed fifth straight time. "We all missed it. I missed it. And
WOODSTOCK, Ga. -Against the best players in the world, in the tough­FSPN pregame show returns the truth is, everyone at ESPN missed est conditions this side of a major, without Umbaugh it," the former quarterback said. Tiger Woods felt right at home. NEW YORK -ESPN's NFL Fick fined undisclosed 
With momentum slipping away, he pregame show returned Sunday with amount for clubbing hit a delicate flop shot out of the first an apology -and without Rush ATLANTA -Braves first baseman cut of rough that carried a bunker and Limbaugh -a week after the com­Robert Fick was fined Sunday for stopped 4 feet away for a crucial par. mentator's race-tinged comments clubbing Chicago's Eric Karros with With his lead down to one, he blis­about Eagles quarterback Donovan a forearm in Game 4 of Atlanta's NL tered a 4-iron to the back of the green McNabb. playoff series against the Cubs. to set up an easy birdie. Limbaugh resigned from the show Fick was fined an undisclosed 
When it was over, Woods left no Wednesday, and later said he was amount by both the commissioner's 
doubt who was the best in the world leaving so the sports network's office and his team. at the American Express employees would be spared the "I just tried to hit his glove," Fick Championship. uproar over his remarks. He denied said before Game 5. "It was all a 
"Any time you get to play against the that his comments were racially moti­reaction." 
best players ... that's when it's the vated. Fick struck Karros while running most challenging," Woods said. "It's On Sunday, following a video recap to first base Saturday at Wrigley not a watered-down field. That's what of the happenings of the past week -Field. The blow knocked the ball and 
makes it so difficult to try to win these including a replay of Limbaugh's orig­glove free; Fick was called out. tournaments." inal comments -the ESPN panelists "It's not something I'm proud of. It was his fifth victory of the year, offef'ed their thoughts on the contro­but it happened," Fick said. 
and his seventh World Golf versy. Bob Watson, baseball's vice presi­Championship in 13 tries. Only Darren Though they agreed that someone dent in charge of discipline, didn't Clarke has won more than one since should have responded to Limbaugh disclose the amount of his line. The the series began in 1999. right away, Young compared it to Braves wouldn't discuss their penal­
And it might be enough for his viewing game film the week after hav-ty, either. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2003 
HOCKEY 
Five players score in preseason Irish victory 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Donohue leads Irish on final day of tournament 
Associated Press onship a day after she took the Kentucky Fall Classic. Irish 4-1 in doubles this fall. match of the bracket. flight's doubles title to lead players combined for a 33-13 Nelson was one of two Irish Two more Notre Dame play­Sophomore Liz Donohue won Notre Dame women's tennis record in the three-day event. players to win Sunday to take ers were runners-up in their 
the red flight singles champi-team on the final day of the Donohue outlasted Laura third place in their respective flights. Sophomore Kristina McNamara of Middle Tennessee draws. She beat Lindsey Adams Stastny fell to Kentucky's Sarah State 7-6 (9-7), 4-6, 6-4 in the of Ohio State 6-4, 4-6, 6-3 in Foster 6-3, 6-3 in the final of red flight title match Sunday. green-flight action. the white flight, while freshman On Saturday, she and sopho­In the white flight, freshman Catrina Thompson lost to more Kelly Nelson won the red Christian Thompson beat Aibika Kalsarieva of the host flight doubles championship. Purdue's Alyssa Rodriguez 3-6, school 6-3, 7-5 in the blue flight Donohue is 4-2 in ·singles and 6-4, 6-3 in the third-place championship. 

.. -::-­

lNTERFAlTH QA'THERlNG Satnrday~ Sept 27 l0am"3pm 
n h ': N··to...t~>< s·a·1'n~· ). ja·r~/ ~ c···•.n.tlAa;);
~et.?ma · . .nu~ · , .· .~ iVl 1 s .,.., J...~c 
A(tee workshop tbat combines great conversation~ food~ fun, faith and creal:ivitv! Be insp1:red and get. ready_· to work with clay in order to create and 
« .. ... . share abeautiful and unique t<ifaith plate.il 

No R£:$£t£~dP.:n~,9~~~ 
Sponsored by the C'enlcrfor Women:~s _InterCultural Leadership 
.·..·.·•·•·•·•·•··•·.·...·......•........·.·.~··· ..·...·.·.···•·......•...........·... 
·SJ,tp~~ai:Y,:.s.,~Ueg~ 
·NOJJ~EDAME *INDIANA 
Special to The Observer 
The Irish started and ended their preseason with a 5-3 win over the Western Ontario Mustangs Friday night at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish got goals from five different players in the victory and solid goaltending from sophomore Rory Walsh and freshman David Brown as the duo combined to turn away 33 of 36 Western Ontario shots in the game. Senior right wing Rob Globke scored the game-win­ning goal just 15 seconds into the third period when he deflected a Neil Komadoski shot past Mustangs' goaltender Mike D'Alessandro to give the Irish a 4-2 lead on the way to the 5-3 win. 
"All-in-all, this was a good game to get over with," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "Western Ontario is a veteran team. Most of their players have played major junior hockey. 
When you get a chance to schedule a strong team like this it gives you an opportunity to see your team perform." 
The Irish came out strong, outshooting the Mustangs, 17­11, in the first stanza while tak­ing a 3-1 lead. Brad Wanchulak started the scoring when he tucked a rebound of Chris Trick's point shot under D'Alessandro at 3:55 of the first period. 
Western tied the game at 5:01 · when Mike Rice controlled a rebound in front and flipped the puck past Rory Walsh to even the score. 
Notre Dame would get the lead back just 29 seconds later when Mike Walsh steered a Brett Lebda shot past D'Alessandro for his first of two points on the night. The Irish would get their lone power-play goal (in 10 chances) of the night at 16:39 with Tim Wallace cash­ing in off assists from Mike Walsh and Brett Lebda for a 3-1 lead at the first intermission. 
The Mustangs cut the lead to 3-2 with the lone goal of the sec­ond period as Jeff Martin beat Brown at 19:01 on just the third shot he faced in the period after replacing Rory Walsh with 9:51 left in the middle stanza. 
Globke, who along with Neil Komadoski was selected alter­nate team captain Thursday, gave the Irish their two-goal cushion just 15 seconds into the third period. Parked about 10 feet in front of D'Alessandro, Globke deflected a Komadoski shot from the center point to make it 4-2. 
An Irish turnover led to Western Ontario's third goal. Ryan Held knocked down Brown's clearing attempt on the right wing boards and was able to get a shot on goal before Brown could reposition himself. Held's shot got between Brown and the near post at 10:36. 
Freshman T.J. Jindra then got the insurance goal for the Irish when he and Tony Gill combined effort to bring in gritty, tough, on a two-on-one at 13:28 for the in-your-face players. Kids like 5-3 final score. T.J. Jindra, Jason Paige and 

"We really played hard and Matt Williams-Kovacs are those that's what I want to see," said kinds of players. They bring that Poulin. "We made a conscious style to the rink every day." 
Monday, October 6, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish look to continue stellar play in tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team will play in the Shootout at The Legends of Indiana beginning today in Indianapolis. 
The 54-hole tournament will be played on the par-72. (,,122-yard golf course at The Legends of 


Indiana. 
King

Along with Notre Dame, the following schools arc also participating in the 18-tcam tournament: Arkansas, Campbell, Eastern Michigan, Illinois, Illinois State, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kent State, Missouri, Minnesota, Nebraska, Northwestern, Texas A&M, Texas Christian, Toledo and Wisconsin. 
After opening the season by winning the Cougar Classic, the Irish added another title in their last tournament. the Notre Dame Invitational. by edging out Northern Iowa by one stroke. Notre Dame head­ed into the final round trailing the Panthers by four strokes, but fired a 312 on the last day for a 938 total (306-320-312) to secure the Notre Dame Invitational title for the second consecutive year. 
The Irish now enter the Shootout at the Legends look­ing for their third champi­unship in four tournaments overall, we will face all year," this fall. If successful, the team King said. "The tournament is will tie the school record for an excellent one at a nice most tournament wins in a course, and I look forward to season, which our team being was set by the able to compete 2000-01 Irish. there."
"The tournament is With their two an excellent one at King will turn to tournament vic­youth in the tour­
a nice course, and I

tories already, nament, playing Notre Dame's look forward to our four sophomores squad is only the team being able to and one freshman. second ever to After not playing
compete there. " 

win multiple reg­in the first two ular season tour­tournaments of naments in one Debby King the season, sopho­season. Irish coach more Sarah 
Earning a first­Bassett is playing place finish in in her second the upcoming tournament will straight tournament as she led not be easy according to head the team at the Notre Dame coach Debby King. Invitational with a 14-over par 
"This is the toughest field, 230 (75-78-77). 
Sophomore Katie Brophy will look to keep up her consistent play as she heads to Indianapolis second on the team with a stroke average of 
76.33. Joining Bassett and Brophy are classmates Suzie Hayes and Lauren Gebauer. who is playing as part of the Irish five for the first time this season after playing in the Notre Dame Invitational as an individual entry. Freshman Noriko Nakazaki rounds out the Notre Dame lineup, corning into the tournament leading the team with a 75.00 stroke average. 
The Shootout at the Legends of Indiana will consist of two rounds Monday followed by the final 18 holes of play Tuesday. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Squad back in action today at Windon Memorial 
Special to The Observer This will mark Notre Dame's by No. 10 Minnesota and No. the Inverness Intercollegiate will compete in his second 
first appearance in 25 California. Invitational on Sept. 19-20 at tournament or the year after 
Following a two-week layoff, Northwestern's annual fall The North Shore course is the Inverness Club course in suffering some hard luck in the Notre Dame men's golf tournament. Joining the Irish considered one of the more Toledo, Ohio. Toledo two weeks ago. The team gets back on the links in this year's 17 -team field are demanding tracks in the Notre Dame head coach John Irish rookie fired an opening­today, when it takes part in the Arizona, California, California­Midwest, having played host to Jasinski has made several round 81, then was disquali­eighth annual Windon Davis, Illinois, Kent State, LSU, three major championships in changes to his lineup for this fied for signing an incorrect Memorial Classic, hosted by Michigan State, Minnesota, its history -the 1933 U.S. week's tournament. Only two of scorecard at the end of the sec­Northwestern University. North Florida, Northwestern, Open, the 1939 U.S. Amateur the five players who traveled to ond round. 
The Irish will play 36 holes Oklahoma State, Purdue, Rice, Championships and the 1983 Toledo arc active this week, Joining Gustafson and Isban today, with the final round slat­SMU, Stanford and Toledo. U.S. Amateur Championships. paced by sophomore Scott in the Notre Dame lineup for ed for Tuesday, Oct. 7 at the Of the teams in the 2003 It will be the second time in Gustafson, who finished tied the Windon Classic will be a par-72, 7,031-yard North Windon Classic, eight currently as many tournaments this sea­for 46th at the Inverness trio of sophomore monogram Shore Country Club in are ranked among the Top 50 son that the Irish have played Intercollegiate with a three­winners -Tommy Balderston, Glenview, Ill., located just in the latest Golfweek/Sagarin on a championship-level round score of232 (77-73-82). Mark Baldwin and Eric north of Chicago. Performance Index ratings, led course, having placed 15th in Freshman Cole Isban also Deutsch. 

Monday, October 6, 2003 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish beat two Big East foes 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued its dom­ination in Big East play this weekend. 
Saturday saw the Irish shut out St. John's (18-5, 0-1). 3-0. Sunday, the Irish defeated Connecticut (11-7, 1-1) three games to one. 
Against St. John's, No. 17 Notre Dame (12-2, 4-0) turned in its best hitting performance of the season, hitting .369 on the match. Setter Kristen Kinder orchestrated the offense with 45 assists. 
Emily Loomis was once again one of Kinder's favorite targets, as she hit .500 with 16 kills. Loomis has been outstanding this season, hitting .500 or better in three matches already. Saturday's match was her 19th consecutive match with 10 or more kills, a streak that dates back to last year. 
Sophomore middle blocker' Lauren Kelbley continued her play of late, hitting .429 with 11 kills. Senior Katie Neff hit in dou­ble digits as well, with 10 kills. 
Senior outside hitter Jessica Kinder also added to the offen­sive explosion, with eight kills on .368 hitting. 
Since switching back to a S-1 rotation that they used last sea­son, the Irish have upped their hitting percentage to .319, after hitting .231 with the 6-2 rotation. 
However, the Irish have once again found strength in their blocking. They are ranked third in the nation in blocks per game, with 3.33. Saturday saw the Irish record 10 blocks on the match. 
Defensively, Meg Henican led the team with 14 digs, her eighth consecutive match with at least 12 digs. Freshman Danielle Herndon also had 11 digs for the Irish. 
Before Saturday, the Red Storm led the Big East in hitting percentage (.272) and opponent hitting percentage (.143). However, the Irish reversed that trend on them, hitting .226 high­er than their previous opponent. 
Notre Dame had a strong showing Sunday as we.ll, defeat­ing Connecticut (30-22, 20-30, 30-28, 30-18). 
Lauren Brewster matched her career high with 17 kills, and set a career high with .596 hitting percentage. She had one error in 27 attempts. Brewster leads the conference in blocks, and she was in on eight against the Huskies. 
However, the Irish hitters were not the story of this match, as the Notre Dame defense shined. Defensively, the Irish registered 88 digs as a team, with five play­ers having 10 or more. 
Henican once again led the way for the Irish, with 20 digs. This was the second best per­formance of her career. Jessica Kinder also played well again, with 19 digs. 
Loomis got in on the defensive action as well, as she set a career high with 17 digs. She is new to the back row, since in the old 6-2 alignment, she rarely played defense. In the last 15 games, however, she has been steady, with 41 digs. 
Herndon had 14 digs and set­ter Kristen Kinder added 10. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 3, ST. JOHN'S 0 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 
ST.JOHN'S 24 24 19 
Notre Dame -Kills 57 (Emily Loomis 16). Assists 122 (Loomis 28). Digs 48 (Jessica Kinder), Blocks 20 (Lauren Brewster 7), Hitting percentage .369 !Carolyn Cooper, Loomis .500). Aces 6 (Leader Kristen Kinder, Danielle Herndon 2) 
St. John's-Kills 49 (Jackie Ashier 15). Assists 127 (Ashlers 38), Digs 42 (Alicia Carmignani 12), Blocks 14 (Yana Ruban 4). Hitting percentage .236 (Dimitra Samas .333), Aces 6 (Carmignani 2) 
NOTRE DAME 3, CONNECTICUT 1 
NOTRE DAME  30 20 30 30  
CONNECTICUT  22 30 28 18  
Notre  Dame  -Kills  62  (Lauren  

Brewster 17), Assists 168 (Emily Loomis 43), Digs 88 (Meg Henican 20), Blocks 31 (Brewster 8). Hitting percentage .244 (Brewster .593), Aces 9 (Brewster 5) 
Connecticut -Kills 61 (Jamie Hadenfeldt 19), Assists 201 (Hadenfeldt 67), Digs 75 (Xaimara Coss 21), Blocks 14 (Brittany Conover 5). Hitting percentage .129 (Samantha Bell 1.000). Aces 7 (Conover 2) 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Netters dominant 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team finished strong in the Tom Fallon Invitational, winning seven of 10 singles matches Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion and. Courtney Tennis Center. The Irish, who post­ed a combined 26-14 record in the 17th annual event, will return to action Friday, Oct. 17 in an exhibition match against rival USC at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Four Notre Dame players were unbeaten in the tour­nament, with a pair of them posting singles victories Sunday. Freshman Ryan Keckley was the only Notre Dame player to go 5-0 over the weekend. He beat Army's John Houghton 6-2, 6-0 Sunday morning to improve to 6-0 in singles in his first collegiate fall. 
Junior Jimmy Bass, who competed only in singles in the Tom Fallon, beat Army's David Collins 6-0, 6-1 Sunday for his third win of the weekend. Bass is 5-1 this fall. 
Also perfect on the week­end were a pair of tri-cap­tains in senior Matthew Scott and junior Brent D'Amico. Scott won a pair of matches in both singles and doubles to improve to 8-2 and 4-1, respectively, this season. 
D'Amico returned to the court for the first time since undergoing elbow surgery in June. He won in his only two matches, both in doubles. 
Senior tri-captain Luis Haddock, ranked 64th in the nation in singles, pulled out a 1-6, 6-0, 1-0 (15-13) deci­sion against John Sabia of Army. Haddock finished his Tom Fallon Invitational career with a combined sin­gles and doubles record of 26-3. He was 16-1 in singles and 10-2 in doubles. 
Freshman Stephen Bass won four of his five matches, culminating with a 6-0, 7-6 (7-3) triumph over Army's Rafael Albornoz. Bass is 5-1 in singles and 4-0 in doubles in his young collegiate career. 
Sophomore Patrick Buchanan got his second sin­gles victory of the weekend, defeating Army's Sebastian Salas 6-3, 6-2. 
Other Sunday winners for the Irish were freshmen Irackli Akhvlediani and Bobby McNally. Akhvlediani topped Michael Good of Army 6-4, 6-7, 1-0 (10-8). while McNally beat Purdue's Scott Warner 6-4, 6-3. 


Come see us at Booth # 1 
Communication Sciences and Disorders 

University of Notre Dame Graduate Fair 
Education 

Thursday, October 9, 2003-4.-7PM Nursing 
Public Health Pastoral Studies School and Community Agency Counseling 

SAINT • XAVIER • UNIVERSITY Chicago • Orland Park 
-----~~--~ ~~ 

Monday, October 6, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Wins 
continued from page 24 
Heading into the weekend, the Irish expected a Big East showdown that would go a long way to deciding who would win the Mid-Atlantic Division. They just did not expect it to be their game against Villanova. 
After thoroughly dominating No. 5 West Virginia Friday night in a 2-0 win that was not as close as the score would indi­cate, the Irish struggled against Villanova but eventually pre­vailed in overtime 1-0. 
"We had a hard one Friday night that took a lot of our legs, and we just didn't have as much energy as we'd have liked," said senior Kim Carpenter after the Irish survived Villanova. "We got the result that we wanted, so I guess that's what is impor­tant in the long run. 
With the two wins, the Irish move to 11-0-1 on the season and 2-0 in the Big East. The No. 2 Irish arc firmly in the driver's seat, having knocked otT the two teams that are most likely to challenge them for the division title. 
"Opening up the Big East with two of the better teams in the conference was a great way to start," Irish coach Randy· Waldrum said. "We've played some good competition to be put in this position before, and I think that helps you down at the end of the road." 
The Irish continued to domi­nate defensively, having now shut out their last three oppo­nents. In addition, they contin­ued their streak of not allowing more than two shots on goal by their opponents to nine games, as the Mountaineers and Wildcats only managed one apiece. 
The Irish opened the scoring early against West Virginia. Senior defender Melissa Tancredi sent a long pass from the right side to junior Mary Boland. whose shot sent the ball into the upper right side of the net only 84 seconds into the game. 
The Irish added another goal early in the second half. with senior Amy Warner forcing a corner kick. Tancredi deflected Katie Thorlakson's cross to Carpenter, who scored her third goal of the season to provide the final margin for the Irish. 
The Irish had some tense moments against Villanova, playing to a scoreless tie in reg­ulation. While they outshot the Wildcats 14-4 in the regular 

Notre Dame -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn), Shots 17, Corner kicks 9, Fouls 19 West Virginia -Saves 9 ( Sue Bannerman), Shots 2, Corner kicks 4, 


"Then we were zigging and zag­ging and chasing the whole
Wo01en 

way." Given the strength of the com­
continued from page 24 

petition and the fact that it was Madia." the first race of the season l'or 
The performances of the top some runners, Connelly is opti­runners helped propel the Irish mistic, while acknowledging over Wake Forest, Penn State, that it is still rather early in the Duke and Vanderbilt, who season to make predictions. rounded out the top live in the "I think that those kids that 
team standings. ran five, six and seven will run Junior Kerry a little better Meagher came in too," he said. "We
"We've worked 
third l'or the Irish had l'our kids in and seventh over­really hard. there that this all. Meagher was was their first
Nobody really got 
fresh off of her race, but I also first career victory, rest in getting knew that [King) which took place ready to race and [Jiuddle) at the same site were really, really 
today."
two weeks ago as fit, and that they she surged to first would run really
Tim Connolly
place at the well. I was defi­National Catholic Irish coach nitely pleased 
Invitational. 

Meagher was fol­lowed by junior Megan Johnson, who finished in 21st with a time of 18:00. Sophomore Jean Marinangeli, who was signifi­cantly behind Johnson as far as placing goes, rounded out the scoring top five for the Irish. The sophomore's time of 18:24 put her in 42nd place. 
"They're working hard," Connelly said. "We've worked really hard. Nobody really got rest in getting ready to race today. I was pleased with the way the kids ran." 
The Irish coach sees room for improvement. For example, he thought the Irish could have handled the start of the race more effectively. 
"We didn't get out very well and kind of got stuck," he said. 
with them. 

Meagher ran awesome. And [Johnson). that was her first race in a long time. She really ran well." 
Last season, the Irish finished third at the same meet, a per­formance that -according to Connelly -wasn't impressive. But by the season's end, the Irish were third in the nation. 
"A couple of the kids who ran great for us [at the National Championships[ in November didn't run very well for us here a year ago," Connelly said. "It's really hard to guess as to where you are." 
The Irish did not fare quite as well in the junior varsity, finish­ing in 10th place. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
period, they failed to create as many good scoring opportuni­ties as in some previous games. 
Villanova threatened to take the lead in the first half, scoring an apparent goal 14 minutes into play that was waved off because of an offside penalty. About 10 minutes into the sec­ond half, the Irish also had a goal nullified because of being offside. 
"It's hard to play back-to­hack," Carpenter said. "We had a lot of people that went the full 90 minutes, and it's hard espe­cially against a team as physical as Villanova. They got on us early." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 1, VILLANOVA 0 {OT} at INDIANOLA, Pa. 
1st  2nd OT Total  
NOTRE DAME  0  0  1  1  
VILlANOVA  0  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary ND-Kate Thorlakson 97:22 (Kimberly Carpenter 
Notre Dame -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn), Shots 16 (Jen Buczkowski 7). Corner kicks 3, Fouls 15 
Villanova-Saves 7 ( Chrissy Dolan), Shots 5 ( Elizabeth Dauble 2). Corner kicks 2, Foul~ 17 
NOTRE DAME 2, WEST VIRGINIA 0 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 1 1 2 WEST VIRGINIA 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary NO-Mary Boland 1:24 (Melissa Tancredi ND-Kimberly Carpenter, 53:14, (Kate Thorlakson, Tancredi) 

October ai 2:003 McKen,na HaU " 
11:00 ·• 3:00 

R:erJr~sentatives from ove:r 60 law s,choots wiU :b~ ,avai\l¢tbl,a ~n an infonnal setting: to 
"\ll,,.....,~·'lliillkll~r···. /'flit~·~·-~~~~ ;!!!;ond·' nr·~'fi,;l>ld·'.:il.lJa. tilll"lkll~,rm: ~·:tn.iril 4;,n.
IN CONCERT! 
~J'l~Dlllll' ""'u''Y!'~l-'lllV~~~ on. · fo* V'VI· '-~· fJ!fW' :· ~UV~:J ~v 
.. .

Special guest: Guitarist of the legendary MC 5Wayne Kramer & introducing Damnwells 
s,tude,nts about their la:w etchooi$~ 
Thursday, Nov. 20 • 7:00pm Elco Performing Arts Center, Elkhart, IN 
Tickets go on sale Saturday, Oct. 11 at Elco Box Office or charge by phone: 574-293·4469 & at all ticket centers & at ticketmaster.com 7JIOO(..,~ 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2003 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 
much-needed road win. They got it in their fifth shutout of the sea­son. 
For the second straight game, Notre Dame goalkeeper Chris Sawyer only needed to make two saves in the contest. His Pittsburgh counterpart Justin Lowery had to make nine. 
"Shutting a team out is defi­nitely one of the most important goals for this team," Richards said. "We figure that once we've scored one goal, no team should be able to beat us." 
The Irish outshot the Panthers 13-5 in the contest, and led in corner kicks 8-2, again dominat­ing the offensive stats. This time, however, they also ended up leading on the scoreboard, thanks to seniors Justin Detter and Chad Riley. 
Riley had a goal and an assist, to lead the team with three points. 
Notre Dame scored its first 
goal of the game just three min­utes in when Riley's corner kick was headed down by Kevin Goldthwaite. Goldthwaite headed the ball right to Detter's foot, and the senior forward kicked it into the net for his fourth goal of the season. 
"It's especially big on the road to score the first goal, because it kind of demoralizes the home team," Richards said. "It really takes the crowd out of the game." 
The Irish maintained their one­goal lead into the second half, until Riley put the game away for his team in the 62nd minute. 
Riley took a long shot from over 20 yards out and knocked it past Lowery. It was the senior's first goal of the season, while his assist on Detter's goal was his sixth of the year. 
Fellow seniors Greg Martin and Richards assisted on Riley's goal. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 2, PITISBURGH 0 at INDIANOLA, Pa. 

1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  1  2  
PITISBURGII  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary ND-Justin Detter 3:21 (Chad Riley. Kevin Goldthwaite) ND-Riley. 71.49 (Kevin Richards. Greg Martin) 
Notre Dame -Saves 2 (Chris Sawyer), Shots 13 (Detter, Devon Prescod 3), Corner kicks 8, Fouls 24 
Pittsburgh -Saves 9 (Justin Lowery), Shots 5 (Marco Carrizales 2), Corner kicks 2, Fouls 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles slip up in defeat to Kalamazoo 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
This was not the way Saint Mary's wanted to start the second half of its conference season. 
The Belles (10-9, 2-6 in MIAA) were unable to ever take control of their game Saturday on the road against 
"We just didn't come out to play," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "It was a really tough match to watch." 
The Belles hit an abysmal .014 in the match, and no player scored in the double digits for kills. Kalamazoo col­lected 45 kills to the Belles' 20. 
"This game was probably more a matter of not taking care of the mental aspect," Schroeder-Biek said. "We had a lot of little mental break­downs." 
The Belles committed 18 errors in the match. 
with seven kills and four kills, respectively. Defensively, Ann Cusack led with 20 digs, and Alison Shevik followed closely behind with 19. 
Earlier in the season, the Belles defeated the Hornets at home in five sets, but in this game they were simply unable to mount a comeback against 
Kalamazoo after 
dropping the 
first game. 
"I think that 

Kalamazoo and "We just didn't 
we get down

ended up losing come out to play." easily, and it in three sets by 
takes us a lot of 

a score of 16­energy to get
Julie Schroeder-Blek
30, 25-30, 20­
back up again,"
Belles coach

30. 
Schroeder-Biek 
said. "It was just 
not a good 
game. 

"We didn't talk as a team and didn't do any of the little things right that you have to do to win." 
The Belles will have Monday off before facing conference opponent Calvin at home Tuesday. Schroeder-Biek says her team will make the most of their practice time before that game. 
"There's a lot of things we can fix that we did wrong against Kalamazoo," she said. "When we don't communi­cate, we begin to splinter." 
Freshmen Kristen Playko 

Contact Justin Schuver at
and Ann Carpenter continued 
jschuver@nd.edu
their positive rookie seasons 
Men 
continued from page 24 
making his debut with the Irish, put himself in 12th place with his time of 24:56. 
"Benninger, oh my golly ­what a terrific race for a fresh­man," Piane said of his team's new asset. 
Senior and former All­American Todd Mobley was third for Notre Dame and 15th overall. At the same race last year Mobley finished third, but he was plagued by an injury for much of the second half of the season and is still on the road to returning to his old form. 
"Mobley will get better," Piane said. "He's just coming back, but he looked pretty solid today .... If we have a healthy Mobley, we're going to be pretty good." 
Even though Mobley did not finish as well as he did last sea­son, the Irish are currently in a much better position than they were at the same point last sea­son, according to Piane. In fact, the coach thinks the team is "way ahead." 
"The kids all had very good summers," Piane said. "We're deeper than we've been in years. That just means the 18th guy is pushing the 17th and right on down." 
To illustrate the great improve­ments the Irish harriers have made, Piane cites sophomore Sean O'Donnell, who finished 20th overall and fourth for the team. 
"How about O'Donnell where was he a year ago? lie's just improved by leaps and bounds," Piane said. "We had a lot of good performances. If you look at who was six, seven. eight and nine-we're going to get a lot better." 

O'Donnell was followed by sophomore Kaleb Van Ort, senior Brian Kerwin and juniors Eric Morrison and Ryan Johnson. 
In the Gold race for the junior varsity runners, the Irish took second place. The less experi­enced Irish squad was led by sophomore Vinnie Ambrico. 
"Ambrico ran great in the Uun­ior varsity] race. Slip him in [the varsity lineup], and we'll be even better." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


Monday, October 6, 2003 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
HOW 171 D 1H~ PHDNE: CAL.l.. wrm )'OLIR HOH 
FIVES 
The Keough Chariot Race isn't the only thing at Notre Dame based upon ancient thought processes... 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SHE DIDN'T Ll kE. THE. 
ID£1\ OF YOU BEINq.A, PLf. MAJOR ? 
SHE. TOlD HE. I CDUL.D (/goP OUT AND ~E-f A 
1..-ll?AAIZY cAIZD. 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

JUMBLE 

JJ~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PERIT 
(IJ 

Cl003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Alghta Reserved. 
VAYEH 
(IJ 
GUBLIN ± 
www jurOOie.com 

Saturday's I Jumbles: PIVOT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

HE: C.UT THE: PHONE CAL-L­SHORT BE:C.AUSE ROVER WAS ON--­
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
FOLIO OBLONG INSIST 

Answer: What the losing fencer did-GOT THE "POINT" 
_..., 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Precedes 61 Away from the wind
1 Plaster work 35 Lower the grade of 62 Cantankerous
71cy 36 Former White 63 Undergrad
11 Jacuzzi House degs.

14 Pay a visit to 
spokesman 

64 Holler 
15 Hawaiian Fleischer cookout 

65 Far-flying
37 ·-only me• 

seabird16 What an 
38 Pay·_-view 
assessor 39 Mrs., in Madrid

assesses DOWN 
40 Babe

17 Meeting all 1 Leave a mark 
requirements 42 Monastery or on, as shoes 19 Inventor Whitney 2 Snouted Latin 
convent 

20 Christmas trees 44 Not planned American animal
21 Ahead of 46 Aussie hopper schedule 3 Ne plus_
47 Bit of sunshine 22 Backs of the 4 Finality 
48 Expensive fur thighs 

5 Firms: Abbr. 23 SubJect of an 
52 Computer in­

box annoyance 6 A while back S.E.C. inquiry 54 Prison-related 7 Bordeaux and 25 Go out with 
others 26 Heel 
56 Cafe au 

57 Santa's 8 Factory store 27 Unlikely 
subordinate 

9 Delicate Planned 
Parenthood 58 Unpretentious 10 Forehead­
member 60 Whistle-blower? slapper's cry 11 Loyal ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Body part that's sometimes "greased" 
13 Line of 
1-:+;.;.f..;~~~ symmetry 
-rio;+;:~ 

~-=+=+::~ 18 Spates 22 Barber's focus 
24 Investigate 
26 White-collar workers? 
28 Annoyed, eventually 
29 Cinema house name 
30 Raison d'_ 
WILLSHORTZ 


32 Go bankrupt 
33 19th-century 45 Embroidery reason of writer Sarah yarn insanity, e.g.

Jewett 49 Less decorated 
54 Vaulter's tool 

34 Disreputable groups 55 Orbit
50 Petrol measure 38 Dabble in 58 Calendar unit 
51 Antiknock 41 Speck compound 59 Prior to, to Prior 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Stephanie Zimbalist, Brill Ekland, Hafez al Assad 
Happy Birthday: The time has come to spread your wings and ny. You're on to something big, and if you believe in yourself and your dreams. you can achieve all that you set out to do. Your numbers: I, 14, 23, 36, 40, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's time to eslablish a slable, loving relationship. You can develop a warm rapport with individuals who interest you. Pleasure trips should be considered; you need some time oul. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make major career changes. Praise those in higher positions. Rewards for past performance will be your ticket to a betler position. Partnerships will be in your best interesl. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Mix business with pleasure. Not only will you get in the bosses' good books, bul you're likely to find yourself falling in love with someone who has the same interests as you. CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should be concentrating on yourself and let your family fend for themselves. You've neglected your own needs. Find ways to raise your self-esteem and pamper yourself. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone from your past may drifl back inlo your life. Be reluctant to Jet things pick up where lhcy left off. You don't need your heart broken all over again. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Changes at home will not be exactly what you had in mind. Limitation and stress have caused your relationship lo depreciate. You'll have to act fast if you want to rectify the problems. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be dreaming about unfamiliar territory. Mental and physical pursuits will lead to travel or learning about unusual subjects. You need a change of scenery. Boredom will lead to depression. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't lend money. You can make financial gains, but it must be through your own efforts. Don't offer to handle other people's money. They are likely to get angry with you for the choices you make. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your partner will overreact if you question their whereabouts or their spending habits. Include yourself in your partner's activities rather than condemn him or her for having interests. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your emotions stand in lhe way of doing a good job. You will be overly sensilive to personal criticism and must 
._..
trv hard nol lo retaliate unnecessarily. Focus on whal you have to do. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will feel competitive today, but don't overdo it or exhaustion or minor injury will slow you down. Think before vou make purchases or spend money on excessive entertain menI. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't gel involved in other people's dilemmas. It will backfire on you at a later date. You can make a difference if you explain things to youngsters 
Birthday Baby: Your diplomatic approach to life will help you win favors along the way. You are forceful by nature, but helpful and understanding to those in need. You are a wonderful mediator because of your great concern with honor and fair play. 
Try Euge11ia's Web site at www.euge11ialast.com 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
-
PORTS
Monday, October 6, 2003 
Page 24 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Steatnrolling ahead 
Irish trounce No.5 
West Virginia, edge 
Villanova in overtime 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Wrirer 

Heading into the weekend, the Irish expected a Big East showdown that would go a long way to deciding who would win the Mid-Atlantic Division. They just did not expect it to be their game against Villanova. 
After thoroughly dominating No. 5 West Virginia Friday night in a 2-0 win that was not as close as the score would indicate, the Irish struggled against Villanova but eventually prevailed in overtime 1-0. 
"We had a hard one Friday night that took a lot of our legs, and we just didn't have as much energy as we'd have liked," said senior Kim
.­
Carpenter after the Irish sur­vived Villanova. "We got the result that we wanted, so I guess that's what is important in the long run. 
With the two wins. the Irish move to 11-0-1 on the season and 2-0 in the Big East. The No. 2 Irish are firmly in the dri­ver's seat, having knocked off 
see WINS/page 21 away during Notre Dame's 1-0 overtime win against the Wildcats. 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish beat Panthers on road 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associare Sporrs Ediror 

Notre Dame made a state­ment early and then added an exclamation point at the end as the Irish defeated Pittsburgh on the road Sunday in a key Big East game. 
The No.4 Irish (7-1-3, 3-1-1 in Big East) scored less than three minutes into the game and added some insurance later to come away with a 2-0 win against the Panthers (3-8­0, 1-4-0). 
The Irish came into the game having lost to the Panthers in the last two matches against the teams. Notre Dame's last win against Pittsburgh came on Oct. 13, 1996. 
"I thought this was a very big win," senior defender Kevin Richards said. "We haven't beaten Pitt in a while. so it was a big win for the pro­gram." 
Coming off a 1-1 tie to Syracuse Thursday despite dominating the Orangemen offensively, the Irish were hoping to come away with a 
see REVENGE/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
No.2 women excel at home
... 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sporrs Wrirer 

The second-ranked Irish, competing with their two top runners for the first time this season, showed their prowess as they stormed through the muddy Burke Memorial Golf Course to take first place at the 48th annual Notre Dame Invitational among a competi­tive field. 
The Irish were led by one of their younger, though not inex­perienced, runners -sopho­more Molly Huddle. As was common last year, Huddle was closely followed by junior Lauren King, who took second place. The former All­Americans completed the soggy course in 17:12 and 17:24, respectively. 

Irish coach Tim Connelly, who said he expected a victory, was nevertheless impressed with Notre Dame's performance, par­ticularly since the team was still without two of its key athletes. 
"I knew we'd be really good with the first three [runners]," Connelly said. "We were actual­ly really good with our first four. I knew [the fifth spot on the team] might be a little iffy, and it was. We didn't have [senior] Maggie Nelson in there. We did­n't have [sophomore] Stephanie 
see WOMEN/page 21 

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Men ease through competition 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Wrirer 
While Eastern Michigan's Gavin Thompson took the indi­vidual spotlight at the 48th annual Notre Dame Invitational Friday, the Irish rolled through the muddy Burke Memorial golf course to take the team title at their namesake race. 
Last year at the same race, the Irish finished third on their home course behind Stanford and Michigan. The Cardinal was not present Friday, but the Irish, ranked 25th nationally, finished ahead of No. 29 Eastern Michigan, No. 12 Michigan and No. 7 Central Michigan. Michigan, with 92 points, fmished second to Notre Dame's 76 points. Eastern Michigan claimed third with 128. 
Irish coach Joe Piane natu-rally was pleased with the vic­tory. 


"It's the way you hoped it would go," he said. "We had a group of four kids that really did kind of work together pret­ty well through the first three miles, and they need to stay together a little longer." 
The Irish, who were running with their full battery of talent for the first time this season, were led by a sophomore and a freshman. Tim Moore finished in third with his time of 24:34. and freshman Kurt Benninger, 
see MEN/page 22 

en 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S TENNIS 

HOCKEY 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

MLB PLAYOFFS 
LLI

1m-
(.) Notre Dame 3 
Notre Dame 26 
Notre Dame 5 
Notre Dame 33 

Chica~o Cubs 5
z St. John's 0 

Opponents 14 
Western Ontario 3 
Opponents 13 

Atlan a Braves 1 
Notre Dame 3 

1:1:: s
c: 
Connecticut 1 
Notre Dame plays 
The tennis team domi-

The Cubs win the division series and move on to 
well at the Tom Fallon 
The Irish win their 
nates at Kentucky tour-

take on the Florida Marlins for the chance to make it
..._ 
The Irish sweep the 
Invitational. 
exhibition game in 
nament over the week-

to the World Series. 
weekend matches. 

e:a..!; 
impressive fashion. 
end. 

en 
page 15
page 20

page 20 
page 18
page 15 




