
VOL. XXXVII NO. 90 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Hallahan resigns over Bishop's dance view 
. Chief of staff wanted stronger stance on student  class president Jeremy Lao. Hallahan said the comments he made during Monday's Senate meeting concerned  would not consider bringing back in-hall dances for at least two years. Upset by the com­ments, Bishop approached  long the decision. Bishop said she was sorry to see Hallahan leave and that it was the best decision for both  President's Council] stuff. If we didn't disagree I wouldn't be resigning," he said. Trip Foley, student body vice  
interests  Bishop and they discussed w h a t  Hallahan after the meeting and the two discussed his resigna­ Hallahan and the office. She attributed Hallahan's resigna­ president, said, "I am sorry to see him go and I think Pat has  
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Editor Chief of staff Pat Hallahan said he will resign when stu­dent body president Libby Bishop returns this weekend from the Board of Trustees meeting in Naples, Fla.  options to t a k e Hallahan told Bishop he could still per­form the duties of chief of staff but he  Hallahan  tion before Bishop said she wanted to think the decision over because she did not think it was necessary. "I said that I would resign. It was getting harder to work for her when she would not inform me of issues. It was difficult to get in touch with her and she never got back to me before  tion to the stress creat­ed from being chief of staff and campaign­ing for stu­dent body president. Hallahan  "I said that I would resign. It was getting harder to work for her when she would not inform me ofissues. "  done a out­standing job and he has been a real leader in the office." As chief of staff, Hallahan ran the day-to­ 
because the two differ on poli­cy issues, specifically hall dances.  could not sit there and not voice his opinion with regard to the  she left, Wednesday, [to dis­cuss his possible resignation}" said Hallahan.  said his life was busy, but stress  Pat Hallahan chief of staff  day opera­tions of the office and was  
"I am resigning as chief of staff because of differences  report. The possibility of the chief of  Hallahan said he made his decision when Bishop did not  was not the reason he  the top policy advisor to  
with Libby particularly on the dance issue and that came to a  staff resigning arose after Hallahan, speaking at a Senate  contact him before she left for Florida. He chose to resign  decided to resign. "It really was  a  situation  Bishop. Erin LaRuffa, public rela­ 
head at the Senate meeting on  meeting Monday concerning  now  because  he  thought  where  we  couldn't  work  tions officer for the Office of  
Monday," said Hallahan, who is running for student body president with sophomore  Bishop's report to the Board of Trustees. told the group that the Office of Student Affairs  Bishop was indecisive and he did not think it was productive for student government to pro- together on this issue and I still have time to work with other senators and [Hall  the Student Body President, sec HALI.AHAN/page 3  

Boat Club survives another day 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Despite campus rumors that The Boat Club will lower its sail for good this weekend, the popular student tavern has yet to navigate the legal hot water it may have cruised into following the Jan. 24 raid that nabbed some 200 under­age Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
State excise police last week sent the report on the raid to the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, and ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer has not yet recommended sanctions, said Mary DePrez, chairwoman of the Indianapolis-based commis­sion. Bauer will review the case and propose any penal­ties to the commission before formally contacting the bar's owner, she said. 
DePrez wouldn't speculate when the prosecutor would make his recommendation on the case. But in an interview last week with The Observer, she said typically no more than a month passes between when bars are raided and when they hear from the ATC prosecutor. 
Excise, Indiana State and South Bend police raided the bar at 106 N. Hill St. early Jan. 24 and issued 213 minor in a tavern citations, mostly to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. The sweep · ­believed the biggest in South Bend history -followed a two-month investigation into complaints of underage drink­ing at the bar, police said. 
The Boat Club was well known on both campuses as a haven for freshmen and other students under 21 years old. lt was a popular destination on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. 
The bar has remained open since the bust two weeks ago, but regular patrons say atten­dance has dwindled and that bouncers ask for two or three forms or identification at the entrance. 
Rumors this week on cam­pus suggested that the bar would permanently close after the weekend. 
Boat Club owner Mike Mc Neff hasn't returned repeated phone calls request­ing comment. 
In a handwritten statement to The Observer last week, however, McNeff thanked stu­dents for their loyal patronage of the bar. 

"I want to thank everyone who has come out and sup­ported the 'The Boat,"' he said. "A special thanx to the girls who made the 'Long Live the Boat' shirts and all the die hards that won't abandon ship at the first site of an ice­berg." 
Past large-scale raids of stu­dent bars in South Bend have resulted in huge fines and loss of liquor licenses for tavern owners. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 


Female candidates in election races 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Voters first did it in 2001. when they elected Brooke Norton. 
A year later, they did it 

again, ushering Libby Bishop i n t o office. 


But this year, Notre Dame undergraduates won't even have the chance put a woman in the top student government job. Women appear on only two of the seven tickets running for student body president and vice president. And neither female candidate heads her ticket. 
The dearth of female office seekers -and the fact that no female students are cam­paigning for the top post ­is surprising, said Bishop, the current student body president. 
"l was surprised. I expect­ed to see more female candi­dates," Bishop said. "It doesn't necessarily hurt the election, but I had hoped to see more women run." 
Bishop herself was moved to run for office following Norton's election two years ago as the first woman presi­dent. 
"Brooke as herself inspired me to run," Bishop said, "and part of that was her being a female." 
In 2001, Norton defeated a field of opponents that included several women can­didates, including one all­female ticket. Last year, Bishop and male running mate Trip Foley competed against three tickets, includ­ing another female-headed one. 
This year, Mimi Matkowski and Lauren Meagher are vice presidential candidates on male-led tickets. Matkowski is running with Joe Muto, and Meagher teamed with Charlie Ebersol. 
Like Bishop, Meagher too was surprised by the drought of female con­tenders this election season, "but in the end, it comes down to the ticket with the desire to run." 
"I firmly believe that the most qualified people should be elected, male or female," Meagher said. 
Matkowski did not return calls requesting comment for this story. 
For her part, Meagher said she never considered run­ning for president. She was interested in the vice presi­dent job from the start. 
"My business background and strong sense of organi­zation and leadership makes me a better vice presidential candidate," said Meagher. "No, I did not consider run­ning for president because my strengths suit the vice president's role." 
In the 30 years since the University first admitted women as undergraduates, female students have won the vice presidency several times. 
Outside of student govern­ment, women have held other prominent positions. In 2000, Molly Kinder became the first female member of the Irish Guard, the tradi­
see CANDIDATES/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT,S UP Friday, February 7, 2003 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Who do you represent? 
Two weeks ago, 20 Saint Mary's stu­dents traveled to Washington, D.C. to participate in the annual March for Ufe -they each paid a small fee to ride a United limo bus for 12 hours and paid for their own meals while in the capital 

Teresa Frallsh
city. Four other 
Saint Mary's stu­
dents also made the 
Assistant
trip to Washington 
News Editor 
that week to attend the Never Go Back pro-choice confer­ence -they traveled by plane, the cost of which was paid for by the College in addition to the students' meals. 
Saint Mary's homepage states that the school is "the nation's premier Catholic women's college." Does anyone see a problem here? 
It is clear from the organization's Web page and the relevant advertising for the conference that the main purpose ofthe event was not the development ofleader­ship skills. as some have claimed, but rather the furthering of the pro-choice cause. For a school that apparently claims some affiliation with the Catholic Church. funding such an activity as the Never Go Back conference seems deeply disturbing. 
Saint Mary's Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, which provided a grant for the conference travel costs, is a separate entity within the College with separate funding approval procedures. 
But the overall picture still does not add up: Students who wished to attend a pro-life activity did not receive any finan­cial support -although they never asked for it-while those who desired to attend a pro-choice event were funded in full. 
I certainly don't mean to imply that stu­dents at Catholic schools should not be allowed to express their beliefs and dis­agree with what the Church teaches on a given issue. On the contrary, Catholic col­leges must encourage open debate and free discussion on all sides ofcontrover­sial issues. Yes, academic freedom is absolutely vital to the life of a college. 
But when Saint Mary's chooses to fund a pro-choice event, it crosses a line. It no longer promotes academic discourse. It takes a position, and it stops the discus­sion. Some will be satisfied, others will be hurt. 
Paying for students to attend a pro­choice conference while choosing not to offer the same level ofsupport for a pro­life event sets a terrible precedent for Saint Mary's as a Catholic academic insti­tution. Saint Mary's must foster open debate and encourage its students and faculty to openly express a wide variety of opinions. But the College is a Catholic institution and that should mean some­thing. 
Saint Mary's is both a Catholic and an academic organization -it should not prefer one identity over the other. The Catholic tradition is one oftolerance and love and it must be considered in a part­nership with Saint Mary's academic mis­sion. 
Has Saint Mary's set itselfdown the slippery path of Boston College and Georgetown, where students joke that BC stands for "barely Catholic" and crosses are prohibited in the classrooms? Will Saint Mary's financially support the posi­tion ofother students who may hold pro­capital punishment, anti-gay, anti-Semitic or racist views? The answer remains to be seen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Obsccver ,egards itBelf as a professional publica­rion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, ple.tSe contact us at 63 l-454 I so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Nothing to 
Iraqi scientist do? Compete 
talks to U.N. for charity. 
inspectors 
The annual Late 
An Iraqi scientist Night Olympics is 
agreed to meet in tonight and raises 
private with U.N. money for charity. 
inspectors Thursday. 
page3 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Dow Jones continues to drop 
1 

A weak produc­tivity report along with war fears led many investors to sell causing the Dow to drop. 
VIEWPOINT 
Pro choice trip educated SMC students 
The Observer Editorial supports the funding of the Saint Mary's pro­choice trip for edu­cation purposes. 
page 1.0 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. Mass for Peace and Justice, Basilica of the Sacred lleart, 5 to 6:30 
p.m. 

. 
Lecture: McMullen Perspectives Lecture, McKcnna Jlall Auditorium, all day. 

. 
Notre Dame Architecture Student Drawings: Designs for a !\'cw Sniie Museum, Snitc Museum of Art, all day. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Justen's Hing Sales, Haggar College Center, 11 a.rn. 

. 
Disability Awareness Speaker, Le Mans, noon. 


. 
Lilly Foundation, Ilaggar College Center Parlor, 8 a.m. 

. 
Student Athletic Advisory Committee Meeting, Le Mans, noon. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Breaded cheese sticks, meatball stroganoff sauce, smoked creole flank steak, roasted poupon potatoes, apple cobbler, Swiss spinach, Oriental vegetables, scrambled eggs, apple pancakes, O'Brien potatoes, sweet and sour chicken, cheese enchi­lada, Mexicana couscous 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, whipped pota­toes, apple cobbler, baked haddock jar­diniere, steamed carrots, steamed broc­coli. mixed vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, steakhouse fries, Cantonese BBQ chicken, jalapeno poppers. California rancho rice 
TODAY TONIGHT 
o= 
I.LI
:c 
!cc 
I.LI 


==.... 
,cc 
(.) 


0 
..J HIGH 20 15 LOW 12 10 
HIGH LOW 

South Dining Hall 
Today•s Lunch: Collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol­lock, shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, grilled turkey sandwich, chicken teriyaki, portobello fajita 
Today's Dinner: Chicken cacciatore, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, roast top round, oven-fried chicken, grilled Polish sausage, rotini with veg­etables, Polish-style kluski noodles, cabbage, honey-mustard chicken, sea­soned fries, onion rings, Chinese noo­dles and snow peas with soy dressing, flatbread beef pizza 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


25 HIGH 20 18 LOW 3 

SCENE SPORTS 
What about 
McGraw talks the woods? 
about Title IX 

Scene reviews 
Muffet McGraw "Out of the 
participated on a Woods." 
presidental com­mission evaluating Title IX. 
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Easy parking not an option
for one student 
NDSP found a University employee's parking decal in a student's vehicle Wednesday. NDSP referred the case for administrative review. 
Cell phone found and 

returned 
A cellular phone was found at O'Neill Hall Wednesday. It was turned in to NDSP for safekeeping. before it was released to the owner. 

~ployee finds cash, turns 
1tm 
A University employee found cash in O'Shaughnessy Hall and turned it in to NDSP for safekeeping Wednesday. 

Ring found outside Walsh 
Half 
A University employee found a ring outside Walsh Hall and turned it in to NDSP for safekeeping Wednesday. 
Compiledfrom the NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu was avallable. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

18 18 8 -2 


Atlanta 49 / 30 Boston 28 / 20 Chicago 20 / 8 Denver 27 / 15 Houston 44 / 32 Los Angeles 67 / 48 Minneapolis 16 / 1o New York 32 / 20 Philadelphia 32 / 18 Phoenix 65 / 40 Seattle 48 / 34 St. Louis 23 / 11 Tampa 75 / 55 Washington 36 / 26 
Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Committee to discuss SMC Ineals 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
Students at Saint Mary's are implementing a new din­ing hall committee this semester. Formed by Student Activities Board rresident Adrienne Dorbish and Sophomore Class President Sarah Brown, the committee will serve as a touchstone between the student body and the Noble Family Dining llall staff. Dorbish and Brown hope to effectively voice student concerns about the current meal plan options and the quality of food in the dining hall. 
"There arc numerous stu­dents that intern or student teach and arc forced to be off campus all day," said Dorbish. "These students do not eat 14 meals a week, but are forced to pay for the Option 14 plan," she said. 
The dining hall, operated under Sodexho Campus Food Services, currently offers two meal plans to students. 
Hallahan 
continued from page I 
said Hallahan was justified in his decision. "'I don't think it is a good working relationship if you cant voice an opinion with­out causing problems," said LaRulTa. 
Bishop, Foley, Hallahan and LaRuffa met when they returned from winter break to discuss the Board of Trustees report and decided a proposal would be made to bring back 
Option 14 yields students 14 
meals per week and $125 of 
Munch Money per semester. 
The Carte Blanche plan allows students to have unlimited meals, but only 
$10  in  Munch  Money  per  
semester.  
Dorbish  and  Brown  are  

proposing an Option Seven and Option 10 meal plan as alternatives for students. 
"We want to allow students to purchase fewer meals and have more munch money on their student account. We are also hoping to have some hot breakfast food served earlier in the morning so nurses and student teachers who are up very early in the morning can cat something more than cold cereal or fruit," Dorbish said. 
Dorbish also said she believes the majority of the student body is unsatisfied with the quality of food in the dining hall this year. 
"The dining hall staff works very hard to please the vari­ety of students on campus," she said, "but I still feel 
in hall dances, said Hallahan. 
Hallahan said Bishop did not ask him to help draft the report and it was frustrating to read the "watered down" report at Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
Hallahan said he disagreed with Bishop's decision to take out the proposal and this was the opportunity to take a stronger stance with the Board of Trustees. 
" We have a different leader­ship style," Hallahan said. "I am much more aggressive, whereas Libby is more com-
many of the students are dis­pleased with the food at times." 
Dorbish hopes to conduct a student survey as one of the committee's first projects that will ask students their opinions on the quality and varifity of food in the dining hall, as well as_ their views on the current meal plan options. 
"I think a committee like this could help alleviate a lot of the problems in the dining hall," said senior Lauren Dasso. "Efficiency is a huge issue. A lot of students don't have time to wait in the long likes and set an hour for lunch aside everyday." 
Dorbish, Brown. and other members of the Board of Governance will meet with Kevin Kirwan, district man­ager of Sodexho Campus Services, next week to dis­cuss concerns about the din­ing hall's current operations. 
Contact Amy Greene at gree7904@saintmarys.edu 
promising." 
"Overall it was a weak report and its unfortunate because we were in a good position to put dances back in the hall," LaRuffa said. 
LaRuffa said Bishop's fall report on residentiality impressed the Board of Trustees and now was the opportunity to make a propos­al regarding in hall dances due to connections between the topics. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
------~-----­Saint Mazy's College 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Nation's Prernler Cathoflc Wornen·s College 
30TH ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN SUMMER S'I,UDY PROGRAM 
l\l.lAy 21 -JUNE 18, 2003 


in History, 
Education~ English and Culture. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Danie, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-n1ail: dstefanc@saintnmrys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 

Late Night Olyntpics help raise funding 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Wric~r 
The 17th Annual Late Night Olympics kicks off today at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Tonight's wide array of activ­ities will include 15 team sport competitions, along with two mens and womens events, an exhibition basketball game between the rectors and the Special Olympians at 9 p.m. and an Open Skate from 10 
p.m. until midnight. 
The donation for the night wiJI be $1 at the door of the Joyce Center. Aside from the scheduled events, there will also be a deejay, concessions and prizes, such as University sports apparel and gift certifi­cates. All the proceeds from Late Night Olympics will benc­fi t the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Based on higher entrance fees for d o r m 
teams, raf­"Friday's Late Night raised a total fle tickets 
Olympics will be a fun of $60,000 for 
sales, a the St. Joseph
night for sport,
5 0 / 5 0 County 
drawing camaraderie, and Special and the service." Olympics. P e n n y The St. 
Wars, Bill Joseph County Reagan, BIii Reagan s p e c i a I director of RecSports director of special events O I y m p i c s night's events. Reagan and his staff are expecting more than 1,200 members of the Notre Dame community to come out for Late Night Olympics. 
"As this is my first year as Director of Late Night Olympics, 1 wanted the thrust to be on the Special Olympics," said Reagan. KThrough the advertisements and poster campaign, I wanted to show an ND student lending a helping hand to a Special Olympian to emphasize that Late Night Olympics is a noble cause to raise money for the Special Olympics." 
The idea for Late Night Olympics originally came to Notre Dame by way of Sally Derengoski, current director of RecSports and RecServices, who had previously been involved with a similar project during her time at Indiana University. 
Since its inception in 1986, 
Late Night 
Olympics 

Special Events at RecSports, is hopeful that this year's donation to the Special Olympics will exceed the $6,000 contribution that result­ed from last year's Late Night Olympics. 
"We would encourage all stu­dents, even if they have not signed up for a dorm team to stop by on Friday night to sup­port the Special Olympics," said Reagan. "Friday's Late Night Olympics will be a fun night for sport, camaraderie, and service." 
Reagan, along with Gale Bowman, interhall sports supervisor, began planning for Late Night Olympics in October. After working in coop­eration with the hall presidents and a special student planning committee to organize the 
sponsors 258 

athletes in variety of different sports throughout the year. A portion of the money from this year's Late Night Olympics will be directed towards supporting the basketball team, which has its sectional event on March 
15. If the team is successful in sectionals, it will advance to the State tournament on March 22. 
"It is a fun night for our ath­letes and as in past years, we hope to receive a good contri­bution," said Marilyn Palmer, county coordinator for St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 
-
' 

cl abbbb.....massage! 
H1rnApEUTic MASSAGE foR OpTiMAl HEAhl-l ~SrnEss REduCTioN, PAiN Rdid & INjuRy~ My officE ,, $}5/1-iAlf 1-iotJR; $60/1-iouR (oN... sin AVAilAblE-lloME OR offiCE) 
Me3itatfon for bealiHfJ min3 &ho3~
J 

for Cfroosing wRelax in a tur6ulent worloJ ( 
8 WEEk Cl.Ass STARTS MoNdAy, hbRUARY 17, 200} 
----~-----------.---------­
( 

FoR MORE iNfoRMATiON, CONTACT: 
{ 

PENNiE CffRiSTiE, CMT Pl-loNE: 'i74--247,0o61 
v I 
E,MAil: Toucl-lRiql-lT@Aol.coM 
I 

' www.rnucl-lRiqhTMASSAGE.COM I 
' I 
; 
; ; 
> 
~ 
'J 
Friday, February 7, 2003 
page4 The Observer . NEWS 
Fortner United Way executive admits theft 
As1odatcd Prc.s 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. 
A former United Way exec­utive pleaded guilty Thursday to stealing nearly $1.9 million to buy expensive show horses in what is believed to be the biggest embezzlement case in the agency's history. 
Jacquelyn Allen-MacGregor worked in the Capital Area United Way in East Lansing for 20 years before resigning as vice president for finance in November. Prosecutors said she stole the money over seven years, beginning in 1996, and used it to fund her quarter horse business. 
In pleading guilty to federal counts of check forging and engaging in an illegal finan­cial transaction, Allen­MacGregor said she once paid $45,000 for a horse. 
Allen-MacGregor, 46, faces up to 10 years in prison on each count at sentencing in May. She agreed to let the United Way seize and sell her assets in an effort to recoup the money. 
The plea comes eight years after William Aramony, a former chief of the national charity, was convicted of defrauding United Way out of $600,000 to support a lavish lifestyle for himself and hfs girlfriends. 
Following public scrutiny of charitable organizations fol­lowing the Sept. 11 attacks, United Way of America last month instituted some addi­tional checks and balances in its accounting procedures, said Brian A. Gallagher, president and chief executive officer of the Alexandria, Va.-based organization. 
Allen-MacGregor said she stole the money by writing checks to herself on the Capital Area United Way account and forging tlie names of required co-sign­ers. When the bank returned the canceled checks to the agency, she destroyed them. 
The chapter now uses an accounting firm to reconcile bank statements. 
Allen-MacGregor also said she deposited the money into two accounts she shared with her husband. one personal and one for the horse busi­ness. Celebration Quarter Horses. She said her hus­band knew nothing about the transactions because she 
handled  the  family's  
finances.  
Assistant U.S.  Attorney  

Daniel Mekaru said more than 300 forged checks have turned up dating to 1996; 45 turned up from last year alone. 
Allen-MacGregor pleaded guilty to help make amends, defense lawyer Brian Monily said. She declined comment as she left the courtroom. 
"Her mood is as you'd expect -troubled, devastat­ed," Morely said. 
Besides the possibility of prison time, she faces a max­imum fine of $250,000 and three years of supervised release on each count. 
The theft hurt the reputa­tion of the East Lansing chapter, and its president. Bob Berning, resigned Feb. 
3. Gallagher said the chapter must be open about its prob­lems and work hard to cor­rect them to win back public trust. 
Write for News to retain your sanity. 1-5323 


Priest gets 10 years for abuse 
As•ociated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
A Georgia priest convicted of sexually abusing two brothers while a student at a Washington seminary in the 1970s was sentenced to 10 years in prison Thursday. 
The Rev. Wayland Brown was sentenced in Montgomery Circuit Court, three months after his guilty plea to battery and abuse. The boys were 12 and 13 years old when the abuse began in 1974 at their Gaithersburg home. 
One of the brothers told Judge Ann S. Harrington on Thursday of the shame and bit­ter memories he has lived with since the abuse, which he said kept him from forming close relationships and drove him to consider suicide. 
"Father Brown robbed me of my future and shackled me with chains of guilt," the man, now 42, said in a wavering voice. "Father Brown made me hate being me." 
A pre-sentencing memoran­dum by prosecutors painted Brown as a serial molester who abused several boys throughout the 1970s and 1980s. One, who grew up in Georgia and now lives in Oklahoma, testified that Brown abused him on a trip to Disney World in 1978. 

Brown was removed from a post at a Savannah. Ga .. parish in 1988 and has lived in Savannah since, running a bookkeeping business. He apologized Thursday to the brothers and the Oklahoma man, all of whom were in court. 
"There is no excuse for what I did, there cannot be," he said. "l hated myself for what I did." 
Elsewhere Thursday, five men who say they were sexual­ly abused by priests years ago, including one man who said he was fondled in a confessional, sued a Roman Catholic diocese in Pennsylvania. 
In two lawsuits, the men said they were abused by two priests in the Altoona-Johnstown diocese Monsignor Francis McCaa and the Rev. Francis Luddy ­while they were preteens or teenagers in the 1970s and 1980s. One man said he was abused for six years. 
The lawsuits claim the church was negligent and failed to provide a safe envi­ronment for children, said a lawyer for the men, Richard Serbin. He said Mccaa and Luddy were not named as defendants because the statute of limitations has expired. 
In a statement, diocesan spokeswoman Sister Mary Parks said the diocese was "deeply sorry for the pain of any victims of sexual abuse" but declined to comment on the lawsuits. 
McCaa resigned in 1985 and has since been barred from public ministry, Parks said. Luddy was formally dismissed from the priesthood in 1988 after a previous lawsuit alleg­ing sexual abuse. Neither man's whereabouts could immediately be determined. 
'Tm not concerned if there's not another female president now or a few years from now. The ground has been broken." 
Students can vote in Monday's general election for one of seven tickets: Mike Bott and Mike Kirsh, Ebersol and Meagher, Ryan Gagnet and John McCarthy, Pat Hallahan and Jeremy Lao, Muto and Matkowski, Matt Padberg and David Rail or Drew,Updike and Eric Tarnowski. 
Voting is conducted online from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 
Candidates 
continued from page I 
tionally all-male squad that protects the marching band and cheers on the sidelines during football games. 
Meagher believes it's impor­tant to recognize the leader­ship roles, both political and non, that women hold across campus. 
"Women all over the Notre Dame campus have leadership positions, and I applaud those inside and outside student government," she said. "In 

terms of bringing something 
special to student government 
in particular, the success of 
the candidate depends on her 
leadership ability and person­
ality." 

While surprising, the lack of 
female candidates this year 
isn't necessarily troubling to 
Bishop. She said she hopes to 
see more women run in the 
future and eventually hold her 
office again. 

The current president isn't 
worried if that doesn't happen 
next year -or even the year 
after. 

"We've had two years with . women in office," Bishop said. 
ND 
~ v\.-

1,nq 
CorneI· 
Teddy Bears ! 

This Crafting Corner favorite makes a great SYR or Valentine's Day gift! No sewing experience needed. 
Friday, February 7, 2002 
I

9:00pm 11:00pm in the 
LaFortune Student Center 
Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
WORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. inspectors talk to Iraqi scientist in private 

Associated Press 
BAGHDAIJ An Iraqi arms cxp·crt submit­ted lo a privale interview with 
U.N. weapons inspectors Thursday. a top Iraqi official said hours after the top U.N. nuclear inspector demanded a "drastic change" in Baghdad's level of cooperation. 
If confirmed, it would be the first time a scientist linked to Iraq's weapons programs has spoken to inspectors without Iraqi officials present. Such interviews have been a top demand of U.N. inspectors, hoping the scientists will reveal clandestine weapons programs. 
"One of our scientists is being interviewed alone, as we speak," Iraqi presidential adviser Lt. Gen. Amer al-Saadi told a Baghdad press confer­ence. lie did not give any details or identify the scientist. There was no immediate con­firmation from U.N. officials. 
Earlier Thursday, top U.N. nuclear inspector Mohamed EIBaradei demanded Baghdad show greater cooperation, as he and fellow chief inspector Hans Blix briefed British Prime Minister Tony Blair on their way to Baghdad for talks this weekend. 
"They need to show drastic change in terms of coopera­tion," E!Baradei said. "Our 
mission in Baghdad this week­end is crucial. We hope, we will secure full, 100 percent coop­eration on the part of Iraq." 
Blix and ElBaradei are to present their latest report to the U.N. Security Council on Feb. 14, and Secretary of State Colin Powell said Thursday that their visit to Baghdad would be key to seeing if Iraq intends to cooperate. 
In Washington, Powell told senators Thursday that "within weeks" the Iraqi situation will be brought to a conclusion "one way or another." 
A day earlier, Powell laid down the U.S. case againsi Iraq in a speech to the Security Council, presenting tape recordings, satellite photos and testimony he said constituted "irrefutable" proof that Iraq was hiding weapons of mass destruction. 
Blix and E!Baradei will chal­lenge Iraqi officials to respond to issues raised by Powell at the Security Council Wednesday, said Hiro Ueki, their spokesman. Al-Saadi and other Iraqi officials dismissed Powell's testimony as full of fabrications. 
Preparations for a possible U.S.-led war on lraq moved forward as Turkey's parlia­ment voted to allow the United States to begin renovating mili­tary bases and ports, a first step toward opening the way comes under counterattack for the deployment of U.S. from Iraq. France, Germany troops. and Belgium had opposed the 

NATO gave tentative plan for weeks, but the prepa­approval to a U.S. plan to pre­rations will begin Monday pare to protect Turkey if it unless they raise new objec-tions. 

Of the 15 Council members, only the United States and Britain have offered unwaver­ing support for forcibly disarm­ing Saddam. 
RUSSIA 
Russia halts tourist space flights despite fiscal problems 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russia's decision to suspend tourist flights into space after the Columbia dis­aster is causing a money crunch and the country needs other sources of foreign cash to fulfill its role as the sole nation capable of supplying the International Space Station, Russia's space chief said Thursday. 
Russian Aerospace Agency Director Yuri Koptev said the country's $130 mil­lion space station budget this year is "barely enough" to pay for the two Soyuz and three Progress ships it has already pledged to send to the station. 
Earlier this week, Russia decided to suspend flights for paying tourists and crews on short-term visits into space -a move that will cut another $45 million from the budget, Koptev said. 
Koptev said during a trip to India on Thursday that other partners in the 16­nation project should cover the additional costs, the ITAR-Tass news agency report­ed. 
The Soyuz crew capsules and Progress cargo ships are now the only link to the space station and the three-man crew currently in space. 
Another two to three cargo ships will be needed each year to run the station without shuttles, and each costs about $22 million, Koptev said. 

"The approach to the 2004 ISS budget should be changed" to pay Russia for the extra spacecraft, the ITAR-Tass quoted him as saying. 
In the past, U.S. shuttles have ferried long-term crews to the station, while Russian rockets have carried cosmonauts and space tourists on short visits. The cosmonauts fly up on a fresh Soyuz craft -leaving it behind as an escape module for the crew -and return on the old one. 
An American and a South African have paid a reported $20 million each to fly to the space station aboard Russian rockets, and Russia had planned to send more space tourists to the station this year. 
Koptev said that his agency would start detailed talks with NASA in 2-3 weeks on how to run the station during the break in shuttle flights. 
The prospects of future flights were suspended pending the outcome of the investigation into Saturday's U.S. shuttle disaster that killed seven astronauts. According to estimates, it might take from six months to 2 1/2 years to resume the shuttle flights, Koptev said, according to the !TAR-Tass. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Zero tolerance for genital mutilation: 
An inter-African committee on female genital cut­ting called Thursday for an annual observance of Feb. 6 as an international day of zero tolerance of the practice. In a declaration issued at the end of a three-day conference, the committee said the day would serve as "a way to reflect and deliberate on as well as draw attention to the practice that is still common in many places in Africa." 
Protestant militants mourn in Belfast: 
With a bagpiper's wail and revenge in the air, more than 5,000 Protestant extremists walked Thursday behind the coffin of a senior Belfast terrorist gunned down in an internal feud that threatens to claim more lives. An "honor guard" of masked men in leather jackets fired a volley of shots over the casket of John Gregg, 45, a commander in the outlawed Ulster Defense Association, the major anti-Catholic paramilitary group. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Cheney remembers fallen astronauts: 
Official Washington mourned the seven Columbia astronauts Thursday as ambassadors to the uni­verse who met their deaths while trying to improve life on Earth. Leading the tributes under the soaring arches of Washington National Cathedral, Vice President Dick Cheney said the disaster would not ground the nation's manned space program. 
Sex criminals slip through govt. cracks: 
In a startling new survey, a child advocacy group found that states across the country have lost track of tens of thousands of rapists. child molesters and other sex offenders who are supposed to be regis­tered in Megan's Law databases. An Associated Press investigation revealed California had lost track of at least 33,000 sex offenders. Parents for Megan's Law contacted all 50 states by telephone to ask about the accuracy of their registries. 

Bush calls on God during 'testing time': 
President Bush and members of his war council prayed Thursday for God's guidance through "a testing time for our country," citing the showdown with Iraq, the constant threat of terrorism and the space shuttle's demise. "One thing is for certain, we didn't ask for these challenges, but we will meet them," Bush said at the National Prayer Breakfast. 
Reagan marks 92nd birthday at home: 
Ronald Reagan, who has been in seclusion since disclosing in 1994 that he had Alzheimer's dis­ease, celebrated his 92nd birthday Thursday at his Bel-Air home with wife Nancy. Joanne Drake, the former president's chief of staff, said a low-key affair was planned. She said chocolates ­Reagan's favorite -would play a part in his day. "He's comfortable and doing as well as anyone could expect for a man of 92." Drake said. "He's going to be around a long, long time." 
page6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, February 7, 2003 
States losing track of sex off enders 
Associated Pn:ss 
SAN FRANCISCO 
In a startling new survey, a child advocacy group found that states across the country have lost track of tens of thousands of rapists, child molesters and other sex offenders who are supposed to be registered in Megan's Law databases. 
Prompted by an Associated Press investigation that revealed California had lost track of at least 33,000 sex offenders, Parents for Megan's Law con­tacted all 50 states by telephone to ask about the accuracy of their registries. 
It found that states on average were unable to account for 24 percent of sex offenders sup­posed to be in the databases. And 19 states, including Texas and New York, said they were unable to track how many sex offenders were failing to regis­ter, or simply did not know. 
Federal law requires the addresses of convicted sex offenders to be verified at least once a year. 
But the survey found that up­to-date addresses for more than 77,000 sex offenders are miss­ing from the databases of 32 states. And in the other 18 states and the District of Columbia, which are responsible for 133,705 offenders, thou­sands of the ex-convicts may have disappeared. 
"They're implementing Megan's Law, then turning their backs on it," said Laura Ahearn, executive director of the non­profit agency in New York. "They need the technology and the staff to track down their sex offenders." 
All states responded to the group's survey, but only 32 were able to provide failure rates. Many of these said they have never audited their sex offender registries and provided only rough estimates of their accuracy. 
The survey, which the group plans to release Friday, relied on the word of officials in each state, unlike the AP's analysis in California, which was based on a CD-ROM of data taken directly from the registry. 
The survey said Oklahoma and Tennessee had the highest rates of noncompliance, both at 50 percent. A Tennessee official disputed this, and Oklahoma's Corrections Department spokesman. Brian Johnson, said the figure was just his best guess. 
"I don't have any specific actual information in terms of the level of noncompliance," he said. "We've not done a study of that that I'm aware of." 
The databases are supposed to help the public and police moni­tor sex offenders by keeping track of their home and work addresses and other personal details. Adults can search the database at sheriffs' offices or police departments, assuming the information is kept up to date as required. 
All states have versions of the law named for 7-year-old Megan Kanka, a New Jersey girl who was raped and killed by a child molester who had moved in across the street. 
But many states admit they don't know whether the data­bases are accurate -and they havelittlestafftodothework. 
In Oklahoma, Johnson's department mails address veri­fication forms each year to 5,415 sex offenders, who are required to update and return them. But no one monitors how many of forms come back and how many don't. 
Johnson said he spends about a third of his time on sex offend­er registration. One full-time worker has the rest of the responsibility. 
The advocacy group said Tennessee's Bureau of Investigation told it half of the state's 6,300 sex offenders were out of compliance with the law. But a spokeswoman for the agency, Jeanne Broadwell, said 37 percent of 5,812 offenders were missing. She couldn't explain the discrepancy. 
The agency receives most of its updates from local law those that come back. Offenders who don't respond often get a visit from police, spokeswoman Mary Coffee said. 

"We send a notification to law enforcement that says, 'Here's the guys who didn't report.' Certain agencies have entire units who follow-up on these folks," Coffee said. 
Several state agencies. includ­ing the department that issues driver's licenses and state iden­tification cards, which sex offenders in Florida are required to keep, have direct electronic access to the data­base. 
"We have legislative and tech­nology help that helps us do our best keeping track of these folks," Coffee said. 
Ahearn said she was surprised that some populous states reported very different results. For example, Massachusetts told the group it had lost track of 44 percent of its 18,000 offenders, while Illinois said it lost just 14 percent of its 17,087. 
After the AP's story about the California database. state and federal lawmakers, advocates for crime victims and police demanded efforts to improve Megan's Law databases. But with California and other states facing big budget deficits, more money will be hard to find. 
Johnson. the Oklahoma offi­cial, also said he doubts the databases will ever provide more than a false sense of secu­rity. 
"There's three reasons to have a sex offender registry," he said. "One is public protection. the second is it supports law enforcement investigations and it might prevent future acts of criminal behavior. I'm not aware of any research that says any of those things are accom­plished." 
Polls: UN okay still key issue 
action even if the United
. Poll says that 
Nations does not supportmost Americans that approach. accordingstill want U.N. to the NBC poll. 
Almost two-thirds in the
OK before war 
CNN-USA Today-Gallup on Iraq poll said Powell made a 
very strong case that Iraq 
Associated Press 

Secretary of State Colin Powell built public support for a possible war with Iraq with his address to the United Nations laying out the case against Saddam Hussein, accord­ing to several polls taken after his comments Wednesday. 
The number who say Powell has made a very strong case against Iraq was about six in 10 or more, according to polls by NBC News, ABC-The Washington Post and CNN­USA Today-Gallup. But that support is strongest if this country has the sup­port of the United Nations. 
About half, 51 percent, said the United States should take military action against Iraq only if the United Nations supports it. Almost four in 10, 37 per­cent, said the United States should take military is hiding evidence from weapons inspectors. About half that many felt he has made a very strong case that Iraq has links to Osama bin Laden and his terrorist group al-Qaida. 
The ABC-Post poll said six in 10 believe the Bush administration has pre­sented· enough evidence supporting its position on Iraq -an increase from 48 percent who felt that way three weeks ago. The number in that poll who said this country should give U.N. inspectors a few weeks or less before act­ing was 59 percent, up from 51 percent before Powell's. speech. 
The ABC-Post poll of 504 adults and the NBC News poll of 514 adults had error margins of 4.5 per­centage points. The CNN­USA Today-Gallup poll of 601 adults had an error margin of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
enforcement by mail, Broadwell .----------------'--='-"'-'-"'---'-"'-=;........;....;,,,;,;,;,..,;________..,;________, said, and it usually takes about six more weeks to put it into 
the Megan's Law database. 
Among the states with the best compliance rates is Florida, where state officials told the group only 4.7 percent of 27,689 offenders have failed to update their addresses. 
Florida's Department of Law Enforcement sends letters out each year and has a full-time staff of 11 to keep close track of 



CARDINAL CHARms 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... ~ ~ ~/ 

•Since 
1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competnive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible DIAL TOLL FREE 


1·800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 

..----------------------------------------
BusiNEss 
Friday, February 7, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market ·watch February 6 
DowJones 
.

7,929.30 . -55.88 
NASDAQ
• 

1,301.73 +0.23 
S&P500 

838.15  '  -5.44  
816.69  AME¥ii  -4.16  
NYSE  
4,757.30  '  -50.56  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) +0.54 +0.13 24.21 
hsi~~ 11!i!i1i~11111;11~:!i!lii1I!1ii;1111:i1l~1ili:i1:11111i11 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.30 +0.04 13.24 
~!Rl:::llll1!!i1l;!!~lixl;!;!!:li:~:1:1!ii:JJll!~J!~iil1l[~'II 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.28 -0.20 15.38 
IN BRIEF 
Discrimination cases at 7-year high: 
Federal job discrimination complaints filed by workers against private employers jumped more than 4 percent in 2002 to the highest level in seven years. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said Thursday that complaints increased to 
84.442 during the 2002 budget year, up from 80,840 the previous year. Complaints in 2002 reached the highest level since 1995, when 87,529 were filed. The poor economy, an aging and multinational work force and backlash from the 2001 terrorist attacks likely contributed to the increase, said EEOC Chairwoman Cari M. Dominguez. She noted the large increases in allegations of reli­gious, age and national origin discrimina­tion. 
Tyson executive caught on tape: 
Prosecutors played secret tapes Thursday of a man described as a manager at Tyson Foods arranging for the delivery of hundreds of illegal immigrants from an undercover agent posing as a smuggler. "Hell, I put over 700 people to work," said the man on the tape, whom prosecutors identified as plant manager Hobert Sanford. "I'm going to need to replace 300 or 400 people -maybe 500. I'm going to need a lot." Tyson and three officials are charged with conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants to work on the production lines of the company. Tyson, the country's largest meat processor. supplies about one-quarter of the nation's chickens. 
Venezuelans slam money controls: 
Venezuela's business leaders warned Thursday that foreign currency controls imposed by President Hugo Chavez will breed corruption. fuel inflation and push the nation's fragile economy to the brink of col­lapse. They also suspect Chavez will use the controls to repress opponents and punish those who staged an unsuccessful two-month strike seeking to oust him. 
Productivity news hurts Dow 
. War fears con­tribute to overall market decline 
Associated Pcess 
NEW YORK 
A tepid productivity report gave investors more reasons to sell Thursday, sending stocks moderately lower and carrying the Dow Jones industrials and Standard & Poor's 500 index to levels not seen in nearly four months. 
Analysts said trading was uneven as investors made short-term bets on whether or when the United States would wage war on Iraq. Tensions with North Korea also pres­sured the market. 
"It's been sloppy and choppy in the last few ses­sions as speculative trad­ing entered the fray," said Bryan Piskorowski, market commentator at Prudential Securities. "The lackluster productivity figures are definitely not a step in the right direction." 
"There's a massive wait­and-see mentality here, not only on Wall Street but Main Street as well," he added. "With that being the case, speculative action is making the most of it." 

The Dow fell 55.88, or nies' productivity fell at an short-term rallies based ing recent data showing 
0.7 percent, to close at annual rate of 0.2 percent mostly on bargain-hunting improvements in profits, 7,929.30, giving the blue in the final quarter of and generally positive as well as the manufactur­chips a three-day loss of 2002, the worst showing in earnings news. ing and service sectors. 180 points. It was the low­more than a year. On Thursday. Secretary "Should that be a short­est level for the Dow since Economists predicted a 0. 7 of State Colin Powell told term affair and successful Oct. 14, when it closed at percent rise. the Senate Foreign business. there could be a 7,877.40. Separately, the depart­Relations Committee the very strong lift to stocks 
The broader market was ment said new claims for Iraq situation will be from current levels," he mixed. The S&P 500 index unemployment benefits fell brought to a conclusion said. dropped 5.44, or 0.6 per­last week by a seasonally "within weeks." Agilent Technologies slid cent, to 838.15, its lowest adjusted 11,000 to Meanwhile, the White $4.06, or 24.9 percent, to level since Oct. 11, when it 391,000. That was a turn­House said it had "robust $12.26 after warning that closed at 835.32. The around from the previous plans for any contingen­its latest fiscal quarter loss Nasdaq composite index week when claims rose by cies" involving North would be greater than its inched up 0.23, or 0.02 19,000, suggesting the Korea, a day after the previous forecast and Wall percent, to 1,301.73. pace of layoffs may be sta­country said pre-emptive Street's estimates. 
A pair of mixed econom­b ii iz ing though employ­attacks on its nuclear facil­PepsiCo fell 86 cents to ic reports, particularly one ment remained sluggish. ities would trigger "total $40.22 after the soft drink showing sluggish produc­Analysts say investors war." maker reported fourth­tivity, added to the mar­remain hesitant to commit "It's only the uncertain­quarter income that met ket's foul mood as to stocks due to concerns ties of the Iraqi confronta­analysts' expectations. investors also kept watch about a war with Iraq; that tion that are currently Allstate dropped $2.37 to over the situation with reluctance has fed steep bedeviling the markets," $32.02 despite reporting Iraq. declines in the past three said A.C. Moore, chief fourth-quarter operating 
The Labor Department weeks. But they add the investment strategist for income that beat expecta­reported that U.S. compa-market could see some Dunvegan Associates, cit-tions by 10 cents a share. 

SEC: analysts to certify opinions 
Wall Street analysts have been The SEC, as a federal agency,
Associated Press 

sharply criticized by regulators and should "impose a permanent solu­
WASHINGTON lawmakers for touting stocks of tion to the issue of analysts' con­
Stock analysts will have to certify companies for whom their firms do flicts," Commissioner Roel Campos 
that their reports and public com­lucrative investment-banking busi­said at Thursday's public meeting. 
ments reflect their true personal ness. Several prominent analysts, President Bush's nominee to views and that they weren't paid by especially in the high-tech area, are become the new SEC chairman, the companies they assessed, under under investigation for possible vio­investment banker William H. a new rule adopted by federal regu­lations of federal law. Donaldson, addressed the issue at lators on Thursday. Some SEC commissioners said the his Senate confirmation hearing on 
The Securities and Exchange agency needs to take more aggres­Wednesday. He expressed only Commission voted to approve the sive action to curb analysts' con­qualified approval of Spitzer's rule, which it proposed last year in flicts of interest, going beyond a action against the Wall Street firms, response to the collapses of Enron recent $1.4 billion settlement agree­saying it was "constructive up to a and other big companies whose ment by all the big Wall Street point" as a supplement to SEC stock analysts had publicly promot­investment firms that resulted from efforts but that state law-enforce­ed despite harboring doubts about an investigation led by New York ment officials should take care not 
.the companfe,s' fin.ances. . . __ .. Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. to intrude on the SEC's turf. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 7, 2003 
NASA not ruling out foam damage as cause of accident 
Associated Pres.. 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
A day after all but ruling it out as a leading cause, NASA said Thursday that investiga­tors are still considering whether a piece of insulating foam that struck Columbia's wing during liftoff was enough to bring down the shuttle. 
Shuttle program manager Ron Dittemore said that even though the possibility appeared remote. investiga­tors must remain open to every option as they put together a so-called fa ult tree into what caused Columbia's fiery breakup just minutes from its landing Saturday. 
"The foam that shed off the tank is just one branch, and we are pursuing that even though we scratch our heads," Dittemore said. "We are going to pursue it until we pound it flat." 
Eighty-one seconds into launch, a 2 112-pound, 20­inch chunk of foam from 
I I 
Columbia's external fuel tank broke off and slammed into the shuttle's left wing. 
The accident investigation board, led by retired Navy Adm. Harold Gehman Jr., arrived at Johnson Space Center on Thursday and met with Dittemore and other shuttle officials. NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe 

Two days later, Dittemore all but discounted the theory that it was the main cause. saying NASA computer simu­lations had shown the debris hit wasn't severe and couldn't have been the sole cause of the disaster. 
Dittemore said the camera views of the flyaway foam 
during 
liftoff 
pledged from "The foam that shed off could have 
Washington been bet­
the tank isjust one

that "every ter. "It's a single piece of branch." disappoint-evidence, ment that every fact, the camera
Ron Dittemore 

every issue" with the
shuttle project manager

will be very best 
checked, and the board's conclusions will be final and absolute. 
Before ruling the foam out as a culprit, NASA will be testing its impact on the thousands of fragile thermal tiles that cover each space shuttle. 
On Monday, NASA officials had said the foam may well be "the leading candidate" for the cause of the accident. 
Recycle The Observer. 
Happy 2!5t Birthday to the sassiest guy around! 
Love, Nicole, Adam, Robert,and Jonathon 
Hat,t,v Bir+hrJav 
Rudy! 
Love +ha+ sMi(e! 
Love, Your l>oMer Girts 

The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum Daniel Stowe, director 
9:Ytusk oftfje <Counter 9Reformation 
<l)a(estriM: <mi.ssa <l)a}'lle Cffiar"m <})totets 6y <l)afestrina an& .£assus 
Sunday, February 9, 2003 
8:15pm, Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
University ofNotre Dame Free and open to the public 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPAJlTMENT OP MUSIC 

V i e W 
turned out 
to be out of focus," he said. 
Engineers also have not yet written off the possibility that other debris during the Jan. 16 liftoff might have damaged Columbia. Nothing else unusual was pho­tographed, however. 
Engineers taking part in NASA's so-called reverse analysis struggled Thursday 
to make sense of the eight minutes recorded between the time the first sign of trouble appeared aboard Columbia over California • a surge in temperature in the left landing gear compart­ment -and the shuttle's final, dying moment over Texas. 
Most of the debris field has been in East Texas said the reports have yet to be verified, and he stressed that all indications in Mission Control suggested no such breakup so far west. 
Gehman, appointed by NASA to head the investiga­tion board shortly following Saturday's accident, helped probe the 2000 terrorist 
attack on the 
USS Cole. 

a n d "They were soldiers and Meanwhile. Louisiana, scientists and doctors in the 
b u t nation's cap­
and pilots, but above all 
Dittemore ital, Vice said none of they were explorers. " President the shuttle Dick Cheney parts con­addressed a
Dick Cheney
sidered cru­memorial
U.S. Vice President
cial to the investiga­tion had yet been found. He said reports of debris west of Texas, including in California, had not been confirmed as shut­tle parts. 
NASA has been swamped with reports of sightings, some of them caught on cam­era, of pieces coming off Columbia as it streaked across California. Dittemore 
service for 
the seven 
astronauts Thursday at the National Cathedral. where a stained glass window holds a piece of moon rock. 
"They were soldiers and scientists and doctors and pilots, but above all they were explorers," Cheney said. "They advanced human understanding by showing human courage." 

Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
President Bush tells Hussein 'the game is over' 
stopped," Bush pledged, the president said. and one of the five Security ply that one can believe in."
Associated Press 
warning anew that the Pointedly, Bush did not Council members with veto Ilis plans call for going to 
WASHINGTON United States will act along renew past appeals to powers tries to block a vote South Korea to attend the 
Edging closer to war, with allies if needed. He Saddam authorizing a swearing-in of new President President Bush declared spoke before cameras in the to reveal military Hoh Moo-hyun on J:ieb. 25 Thursday "the game is over" White House's Roosevelt t h e "We refuse to think that response, his and he is also likely to go to for Saddam Hussein and Room wiih Secretary of State chemical government China.
war is inevitable. [The
urged skeptical allies to join Colin Powell at his side. and bio-may have no The visits would give in disarming Iraq. Behind the president was a 1o g i cal evidence furnished by choice but to Powell an opportunity for Bush said he would wel­painting of Theodore weapons Powell/ justifies participate in a further consultations with come a new U.N. resolution Roosevelt, who led the United and the U.S.-led attack. South Korean leaders on
continued work by the 
on Iraq if it made clear the States into war with Spain in nuclear White House North Korea's nuclear pro­world body was ready to use 1898, on horseback. and mis­United Nations weapons aides said the gram and with Chinese lead­force if Saddam will not At the United Nations in sile pro­inspectors ... next few days ers on North Korea and on reveal and give up any New York, the Iraqi repre­grams would be dedi­Iraq. weapons of mass destruction sentative, Mohammed al­t h e cated to turning At the White House, Bush 
Jacques Chirac

as demanded by an earlier Douri. said of Bush, "It United up pressure on said, "Saddam Hussein has resolution. sounds like he wants a reso­States French President reluctant allies the motive and the means 
Britain is likely to intro­lution for war." contends such as France and the recklessness and the duce such a resolution autho­In Baghdad, an Iraqi arms Iraq has. and Germany hatred to threaten the r, zing force after top expert submitted to a private In Paris. French President as well as other U.N. mem-American people." weapons inspectors return interview with U.N. weapons Jacques Chirac said that hers. "The dictator of Iraq is from Baghdad and report to inspectors, the first sign of France's position had not Bush was silent on a making his choice," Bush the Security cooperation been changed by Powell's timetable. said. Council on in that area. presentation at the United Earlier He sug-Feb. 14, "The UN must not back B u s h Nations. Thursday. gested anew
"Saddam Hussein has
British and ticked off a "We refuse to think that Powell told that there is
down. All the world can 

U.S. diplo­series of war is inevitable," Chirac senators at the motive and the a link
rise to this moment." 

mats said accusations said through a spokesman. a hearing between
means and the
Thursday. that Powell The evidence furnished by that a key Saddam and
recklessness and the
Unlike George W. Bush had lodged Powell "justifies continued to winning the terrorist Britain. o n work by the United Nations Security hatred to threaten the group al­
U.S. President

francc has Wednesday weapons inspectors. Iraq Council Qaida.
American people. " 
balkod at in the U.N. must answer their questions support "The same the idea of Security and cooperate more active­would be a terrorist net­war, and Council, ly," the French president two-day George W. Bush work operat­Jean-Marc de La Sabliere. including authorization by said. visit to U.S. President ing out of French ambassador to the Saddam to his lieutenants to In London, British Prime Baghdad Iraq is United Nations, said use chemical weapons. Minister Tony Blair acknowl­this week-responsible Thursday, "the time has not "Saddam Hussein was given edged he could have trouble end by chief weapon inspec­for the murder -the recent come" for a second resolu­a final chance," Bush said, persuading many Britons to tors Mohamed EIBaradei and murder -of an American tion. referring to the resolution support a war against Iraq Hans Blix. diplomat, Laurence Foley," 
"The U.N. must not back approved unanimously in unless the idea first won U.N. Diplomatic prospects, Bush said. Foley, a U.S. down," Bush said. "All the November by the Security approval. Powell said, hinge on Agency for International world can rise to this Council that launched new But Blair also said that if whether Iraq displays "a Development official. was moment." U.N. inspections. "He is Iraq refuses to cooperate serious change of attitude killed last November outside "Saddam Hussein will be throwing that chance away," with the weapons inspectors, and the commitment to com-his home in Amman, Jordan. 

~-•----·-·•-·•-•--~·••·· --··-~--­
------·---------------------------------------------­

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 7, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom, Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nacre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Lori Lewalski 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena l'ayne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kriscin Yemm 
Sl'ORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smich 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mtie McKenna 
SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX. ........ ...................... ,, ...........................631-6927 ADVERTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF...........,, ...........................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME.... ,,,, ............63I-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 63I-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT............. ,, ................................ ..631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS....................................................... .631-4 543 
observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu Scrm: ......................................................... 63I-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS!WF.B ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obstn1er. nd,du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaet information. 
Q=tions regarding Ob1tn1er policies should b, direct­ed to Editor in Chief J,wn McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obterver (USPS 599 240} ii pab!iibcd Monday through Friday d.-cc-pr during QW and vac:arion pe:riodJ. A1ubKription to Tbc Obtcrv= U $100 fut-one-JU!kmk }'C:V; J55 for on~ kn\Clr.cr. 
The OMC'F'VU i, publi,hed. at: l'O:,fMASTER 
014 Soulh DinW_g Hall Said wdrcu wrNIC.riom w: 
Notre O.m.c, IN. 46556 ThcOhsmier 
P.0.80.11Q Peril>dk:d posta~ p:lid u Notre Dmi< Norre O:.unc, TN 46S56-0?79 Vld 1ddirional mailing nffie't:l. 
The Ob«rvcr l1 a nu:mbc:r ofdac i\wx'i:ued ~-All rcprodu,cion righD ill'C 
~,r,cd. 

Educational goals justify pro-choice trip funding 
A Catholic college is not an oxymoron -but it is a study in its commitment to education before its vow to religious steward­duality. The Catholic Church is an institution ofstrict doctrine and ship. devout followers. Institutions ofhigher education promote novel, CWIL was not wrong to fund the students' exploration. In fact, 
diverse ideas and questioning minds. any scholarly environment should demand inquiry. College stu­But what happens when students at a Catholic college raise dents, Catholic or otherwise, are charged with a duty to educate questions about Church dogma? themselves and make informed decisions -oven When four Saint Mary's students received when the Catholic Church already has a stance on
Oill1erver 
funding from the College's Center for Women's the issue. Intercultural Leadership to attend a pro-choice According to its executive summary, CWIL was leadership conference in Washington, D.C. they established to help Saint Mary's "build on its posi­
Editorial 
raised questions. tion as the nation's premier Catholic women's col­
Why did students from a Catholic college want to attend a lead­lege and its tradition of pioneering change in women's education ership conference that promotes ideas that conflict with Catholic to create a new and unique locus for innovative thinking, reflec­teachings? Why did they receive funding from a department in tion and action." the College? Does CWIL, founded on a $12 million grant from the The students who attended the conference were immersed in a Lllly Endowment, have an obligation to uphold the College's pro-choice, feminist environment that would be impossible to Catholic traditions? Is there anything wrong with exploring ideas replicate at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. That doesn't mean that that differ from the views held by the Catholic Church? the women embraced this new rhetoric -they may be pro­
We don't know. But we do know that there is a difference choice, they may be pro-life, they may be undecided on the issue. between exposure and espousal. Upon ret11rning from the conference, all the College should ask 
There is nothing inherently wrong with Catholics attending a them to be is more thoughtful, more reflective and more active. conference to learn more about a highly controversial issue. After Their trip has already fostered discussion on an important issue. all, no one would oppose a Catholic college that funded a pro-life Now these women have a duty to share their experiences with conference. Education should be open-minded and unbiased. the students who share their faith -students who probably have Even a religiously affiliated college has a responsibility to honor questions oftheir own. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Department split harms students 
The recent suggestion that the project for South Bend's Northeast these students an opportunity to not just Economics Department be split in two Neighborhood. We compiled crime statis­crunch numbers, but lift their heads from tears at the heart ofthe University. To do tics for the different zones ofthe neighbor­graph paper and a Tl-86 and see the faces so would be an injustice to students at a hood, interviewed residents and sat in on and issues beyond the dollar signs. Most school that sells itself as emphasizing jus­town hall meetings. Again, putting a face Economics majors at other schools are tice, compassion and selflessness. Further, on policies and numbers that strikes a denied this opportunity. this suggestion is only the latest exhibit of much different chord than a zero next to IfDean Mark Roche's proposed plan the University's move from a commitment an equal sign. comes to fruition, tomorrow's lawyers, to its own Catholic values towards a desire I also learned about health care policy in executives and professors will gain the for acceptance in a sinful world of America and development eco­best understanding of modern economic corporate greed. nomics with an eye towards thought available. A new breed of profes­
As an Economics major. meeting the necessities sor will come in to give students an I took a course called oflife for the poor and unmatched level of neoclassical compre­Economics of Poverty sick, young and old hension. All of this bodes quite well if with Professor both here and you're concerned with academic ranking Jennifer Warlick. abroad. At the as Roche obviously is. But does it really My classmates same time, I foster Notre Dame's values in the College and I went out completed a Roche is paid to run? and filled a shop­very solid core Future graduates will lose the opportu­ping cart with of work in nity to put a face on textbook theories and the government's macroeconom­derivative equations. After years of buck­suggested menu ics, microeco­ing the trend within the discipline and fos­for those on a nomics, statistics tering less mainstream values that fixed income and and international answered to the University's mission, our ate a fat-filled meal fmance. fine program will buck to the national that shed more light Splitting apart trends on one hand and create an unap­on America's domestic the Economics pealing, under-supported major on the policies than any mathe­Department robs those other. matical equation. Warlick, who desperately need this The winners here? Those administra­by the way, was presented the type of eye-opening, beyond-tors who pad their walls and resumes with Frank O'Malley Award for excellence in the-numbers experience. Most ofmy top-tier rankings. The losers? That silent, undergraduate teaching at last year's classmates had aspirations for careers in unimportant voice that pays the bills ­commencement. So a few students appar­law, finance, business or graduate study. the students. ently appreciate this type of learning. Each ofthese fields presents the ultimate 
I was given the rare opportunity to work question: do the right thing, or do what Noah Amstadter hand-in-hand with the South Bend best benefits the bottom line. class of '02 Heritage Foundation on a revitalization The current Economics major gives Feb. 5 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Bill Puckett 
Matt Bramanti 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 
Sports 
Matt Lozar Chris Federico Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Andy Kenna 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you agree with Saint Mary's decision to fund a student trip to a pro-choice conference in Washington, DC? 
*Poll appears colll1esy of NDToday.com and is based on 324 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it's time to pause and reflect." 
Mark Twain American writer 


I always get the urge to write about the cam­paign for student government when I'm rushing to the bathroom. It's strange. Last year this time, I wrote an article criticizing all the candidates for their vapid, useless campaign promises and claimed that such promises would never come to light. 
John Lltle

Unfortunately for us, I'm always right. I'm back to report for you, and lo and 
Frankly

behold, as I predicted, the 
Obnoxious

Libby Bishop presidency has 
been a total failure. Worse 
than simply not passing her flex-options program, Bishop will now travel to 
Florida to explain to the Board ofTrustees that she is "recognizing a division in this report over opinion on in-hall dances." 
Bishop knows what the result of expressing this "division" will be -the Trustees will do nothing to bring back the SYR. Guess that must be what she wants. Perhaps as a student government official you just become too buddy-buddy with adminis­trators to be able to stand the ground you promise in campaign season, perhaps the administration has sweetened the pot. 
Oddly, in a comment about Bishop's being elect­ed last year, Gary Caruso reminisced that some 30 years ago, the student body president traded fight­ing for students for a recommendation to Yale. Am I saying that this happened with Bishop? No. She could have turned for less, or for nothing. She could just be naive or weak. But when Bishop didn't include the Senate's proposal for a proba­tionary return of the SYR next year in her meeting with the Board ofTrustees, she sold out every stu­dent on this campus. In the end, it is always we students who lose while these candidates are padding their resumes -or rather, you students. I won't be here next year. 
So. Notre Dame students, how does it feel to be sold out? Worse yet, you're being sold out by someone you elected who promised that she "want[ed] to be so much more responsive to stu­dents. and not become self-absorbed." Guess that got lost somewhere. 
Well, Notre Dame, this is your past student administration. and I say all this not in an effort to condemn an individual person, but in an effort to condemn the system which has created the situa­tion in which we find ourselves. Now it's time to choose your next administration. 
For those of you who haven't been here for the last four years, I'll summarize what student gov­ernment has accomplished while I was here at Notre Dame: a extra slice of PB&J in Grab 'N Go, cereal in Grab 'N Go, "Founder's Day," three terri­ble different plans for football ticket distribution and I can't think of anything else. It's all fluff, nothing of substance. Well, except the PB&J. Thanks, LaFratta. 
Now let's list just four of the bad things that happened due to student government failing to take a stand, or alternatively, actually going behind students' backs to support and advocate. The following were banned: the graffiti dance (seniors will remember), dorm dances, tailgating and hard liquor in the dorms. Is there a fair trade­off here? I don't think so. 
You might be wondering why I'm bringing this all up and what I hope to accomplish. Well, the truth is I want to encourage students not to write off candidates that have supposedly "unattain­able" campaign goals, because the truth is folks, they're not going to achieve any of their goals. Your goal in electing a student body president should be choosing a person who most represents what you want to see happen at your school and who will be the most willing to fight for you over the administration every single time. In terms of what will get accomplished next year, the candi­date you elect is irrelevant. In terms of what your choice says to the administration. your choice of candidate is very relevant. 
My hopes for a new student body president? Personally I'd love, just like last year, to see acad­emic free speech, student representation on ResLlfe panels and a candidate fully willing to dis­solve student government in protest of its ineffec­tiveness rather than cave to pressure from the administration. In short, I want a candidate with the fortitude to stand up for students -for real ­instead of just padding their resume. 
The time for the silly argument about what is and what isn't possible is over. You should be electing a candidate that reflects the changes you want to see on campus, and the changes that, without a belligerent administration could be achieved. If a forum for discussion of theology is what you want to see in Legends, I urge you to vote for a candidate that provides that. If you want printers in every dorm, there is a ticket to satisfy your agenda. Similarly, if you are looking for ResLlfe reforms or parietals changes, there are platforms that support your ideas. You have everything from several tickets ofover-ambitious, administration-coddling, self-important nerds to Hawaiians with bodyguards. 
Just make no mistake about it. Student govern­ment is not, under any circumstances, going to have an effect on your life. Better to have a leader who gives the administration as many headaches as they give us, or no government at all, than to have what we have right now -appeasement, ineffectiveness and a demeaning of our value as students and human beings. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major. He would like to remark that he has no personal relationship with anyone in, or desiring to be in, student gov­ernment, which gives him the ability to be a total jerk to the lot ofthem. He's looking forward to a personal helper monkey in his future. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Appreciating students' devotion to social action 
When I agreed to participate in the debriefing of partici­pants in the Center for Social Concerns' Urban Plunge, I did so largely to support the mission of the Center. I expected to occupy my usual professorial role of mediator and guide. 
Most professors in mid-life and mid-career, as I am, have their role and their intellectual world fairly well defined. I also knew to expect students that were polite, prepared, respectful and well-schooled in the spiritual compassion arising from the Catholic character of this university. This had been my experience with undergraduates at Notre Dame. 
What I did not expect was the thoughtful, beautifully articulated, careful consideration of their experiences. These students did not allow me my usual conceits and directions. They questioned me, each other, and the world at large. Some of them also had profound answers that were not only spiritual but also fundamentally intellectual. At universities, we can all agree that our core mission is the intellectual and social maturation of our students and the growth of our collective body of knowledge. We often forget that universities also allow teachers and scholars to grow emotionally and intellectually from our contact with students. 
The connection between social knowledge and social action has bedeviled sociologists of all generations. My pro­found understanding of that connection came not from the literature or from discussions with colleagues but from a group of students in a lounge in Molloy Hall. They under­stood that that it is both the large gestures and the small and both thoughts and deeds that set the ground for social action. As one student said. it is not about changing the world but about acting on our shared humanity. 
My generation understood the need for social action. This generation appears to know how and why to act. Thank you for this lesson. I think I needed it. 
Felicia LeClere 

Associate Professor of Sociology Director, Laboratory for Social Research Feb. 6 
Student politics create student apathy 
As I stare down the barrel of impending graduation and look to the future with much trepidation (thanks to the Jumble for improving my vocabulary), I find myself wanti­ng to share thoughts about the Golden Dome. particularly student politics. 
I opened my copy of The Observer today with shock and chagrin. [ cannot believe that one of the finest papers in all of the land would choose to endorse the Charlie Ebersol-Lauren Meaghen ticket. Frankly, it sickens me. Since when has Notre Dame politics been about being "slick and charismatic" or about having "personal connec­tions?" Those are signs of a U.S. election, not of one under the loving gaze of Our Lady. 
Notre Dame elections should be about being an insider in the political machine -about getting in early. getting entrenched and then becoming president as the capstone of a wasted political career. Or, they should be about hav­ing a woman somewhere between marginally attractive and totally hot on your ticket. Notre Dame elections are about these things and nothing more. 
I regretfully say that I will not be voting in next week's elections. Furthermore, I feel that The Observer severely wasted its endorsement this year. 
Andy Nelson senior Fisher Hall Feb. 6 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Friday, February 7, 2003 
Giants and -witches 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Cor 


Above, Little Red Riding Hood, Molly Hayden McShane, the Baker, Ryan McLaughlin, Jack, Matt Patricoski, and Cinderella Devon Candura walk into the woods. To the left, the Princes, Zach Linnert and Brian Grundy, sing about Repunzel and Cinderella. Below, the Baker and his wife celebrate her pregnancy. 
. 
Photos by 
CHIP MARKS 


By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Ediror 
Once upon a time, fairy tale characters were relegated to their own stories. In "Into the Woods," the Pasquerilla East Musical Company changes this to bring to life princes, witches and beautiful maidens all drawn from a vast collection of classic fairy talcs. 
The plot of "Into the Woods" mingles char­acters from an assort­ment of fairy tales, all ginterconnecting in a fun-filled, action­packed ride. Act I opens by introduc­ing three different storylines onstage at once, with the focus bouncing between them. 
Cinderella (Devon Candura) wishes to· go to the King's festi­val; absentminded Jack (Matt Patricoski) is told by his mother (Erin Porvaznik) that he must sell his beloved cow Milky-White; the Baker (Ryan McLaughlin) and his wife (Patricia Gilbert) long for a child; and the famished Little Red Riding Hood (Molly McShane) bursts into the house of the Baker and his wife to gather sweets and breads for her granny. 
The Baker and his wife soon learn from their ugly witch neigh­bor (Lindsey Horvath) that the Baker's father stole from her gar­den years ago. In order to undo the witch's curse and have a child, she orders them to find four ingre­dients for a potion before three days' time: "the cow as white as milk; the cape as red as blood; the hair as yellow as corn; the slipper as pure as gold." 
During the frenzied search that ensues, more characters play additional roles in the pandemoni­um, including the Narrator and Mysterious Man (Michael Federico), a ravenous Wolf (Tom Anthony), two princes (Zachary Linnert and Brian Grundy), a gigantic beanstalk, a dead Giant. a flour-covered cow and more. All problems are rnsolved as Act I ends, and it seems that all are des­tined to live happily ever after. 
Then Act II starts. 
The action continues as the characters are rAintrodnced, all considerably happier with thoir new lives. A sudden disaster involving another giant, howevor, reunites the characters in the wood once again. The play con­cludes with several surprising twists and tragedies, with a finale more realistic and less bright and shiny than Act I's. 
The orchestra is magnificent with Stephen Sondheim's difficull music, and provides an emotional musical background as well as sound effects. The wonderful lyrics and songwriting allow for standout performances by the many talent­ed singers in the cast. Candura shines in gorgeous solos, like "No One is Alone," and plays 
Cinderella as a character who changes a great deal during the course of events. 
"Cinderella matures from the first act to the second act. As you can see in the first act, she is young and nai"ve when making dPci­sions about the prince because she doesn't real­ly know what she wants out oflife. In the second act she's able to under-
I 
''Into ThEI 

Presented by The Musical C 
Director: Lizzie Bracken , 
Choreographer: Katherine Wais Music Director: Tommy Curtin 1 Stage Manager: Mary Beth Fay Producers: Matthew Curlin and ~ Actors: Michael Federico,Devonl Porvaznik, Ryan McLaughlin, Pa Lindsey Horvath 
I 
"Into the Woods" is playing at Saturday nights at 7:30 PM. Tic tor adults. 
stand herself better and make her own decisions," Candura said. "The other thing I really like about her is that she sort of 

... 
Friday, February 7, 2003

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Pittsburgh game much more important after loss 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spons Wrirer 
They had the inside track to the Big East West Division title, and now they have to work and get some help. 
After knocking off Georgetown in double overtime last Saturday, and after Big East leader and then second­ranked Pittsburgh lost to Syracuse later that night, Notre Dame stood in the driver's seat to take its second divisional title in three years. 
With a one-game cushion over mighty No. 4 Pittsburgh, virtually all that would stand in their way would be a home matchup against the Panthers Sunday, assuming the Irish could handle the rest of their Big East opponents in the second half of the season. 
But that was before No. 10 Notre Dame was upset Wednesday night at Seton Hall 78-72. 
And now the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
Currently, Notre Dame stands tied for second place in the West at 6-2 with Syracuse. After the Irish .loss to the Pirates Wednesday night, the Panthers reclaimed their spot atop the standings. 
Now if the Irish are to win the divi­sion, they will need to defeat Pittsburgh in the Joyce Sunday and take care of business for the rest of their Big East schedule by winning out. Then the Irish need some help from teams under them in the West Division standings. 
If Notre Dame and Pittsburgh were to finish with the same conference record, the tie-breaking procedure would begin with head-to-head matchups, then record in the division, followed by record against the third place team in the division and continu­ing down through the standings until a distinction can be made. 
Got that? 

What it really boils down to is that if the Irish beat the Panthers Sunday and then both teams win the rest of their conference games, Notre Dame would need Syracuse to finish ahead of Seton Hall in the Rig East standings, because Pittsburgh's conference loss came to the Orangemen and the Irish lost to the Pirates. 
But now the Irish have to focus on a very formidable opponent in the Panthers, a team that manhandled Notre Dame earlier this season in a 72-55 victory at Pittsburgh's Petersen Center. 
"The last time we played them, I think we went in there with the mind­set that they were going to lay down for us based on the things we had done and the teams we had beaten at that point in the season," said Irish guard Torrian Jones, who played an instrumental role in Notre Dame's 93­92 victory last Saturday over Georgetown by sinking the game-win­ning free throw. "Obviously, that didn't happen, and it was really just the opposite." 
Indeed, the Panthers had little diffi­culty disposing of the Irish in their first matchup as four Pittsburgh play­ers scored in double digits. 
Pittsburgh center Ontario Lett scored 20 points and grabbed eight rebounds as their was little opposition from the undersized Irish post players. 
In addition, the hyped-up matchup between two of the conference's top guards in Notre Dame's Chris Thomas and Pittsburgh's Big East Preseason Player of the Year Brandin Knight wasn't much of a contest. Thomas was just 2-for-15 shooting for five points in one of his worst performances of the season. Knight appeared to be much more at ease in leading the potent Pittsburgh offense, sinking an efficient 60 percent. of his shots for 12 points. 
As a team, the usually accurate Irish shooters only made 32 percent of their shots, while Pittsburgh shot 53 percent during the game. 
"We just need to play better as a team this time around," Jones said. "They have talent on the outside with Knight, but they can also take you inside like they did the last game against us. We just have to try to play better defense as a team to shut them down.'' 
Tipoff Sunday is 3:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


CHIP MARKS/The Obseiver Chris Thomas and the Irish look to bounce back from Wednesday's loss to Seton Hall against No. 4 Pittsburgh Saturday. 
LLI 
~ 
c,: 

C 
w 
a: 
.... 
0 

z 

u, 
ci5 
~ 
c,: 

cs:z 
COACHING 
Brey is well on his way to establishing a quality basketball pro­gram. He prepares his team well in practice, but sometimes doesn't pull the reins hard enough when his charges lose control on the court. 
STYLE OF PLAY 
One of the few teams in the Big East who doesn't play a physical style of basketball, the Irish rely on their perimeter game to spur them to victory. And when the perime­ter isn't clicking -like it was at Seton Hall ­the Irish are in trouble. 

POST PERIMETER PLAYERS PLAYERS 
Francis has seen the most minutes of the Irish big men, but he is still developing. Cornette, meanwhile, has shown exceptional defense in the post and Timmermans is playing arguably the best basketball of his career. 

Carroll and Thomas drive the Irish offense -without them, Notre Dame wouldn't have 18 wins. The duo averages 
38.8 points a game. Miller provides another scoring threat, but his value to the Irish comes in his defensive play. 
BENCH 
The Irish are an eight-man rotation, and one of the biggest guessing games revolves who the Irish will bring off the bench. Jones provides athleticism, Quinn provides offense and Timmermans bulk. 
INTANGIBLES 
Coming off a tough road loss to Seton Hall, the Irish are going to be angry. More importantly, they're looking for revenge in front of a raucous home crowd that will be fired up for a nationally tele­vised game. 

;:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
In just four seasons, Howland took a team that finished 13-15 his first year and brought them to the Sweet 16 last year. He coaches his teams well in games and is adept at putting the right player in the game in the right situation. 
The Panthers love to run their shooters around -dragging opponents into -big physical post men. And if the shots don't fall, something that hasn't happened too much this season, Pittsburgh always can dump the ball inside. 
Going inside isn't the Panthers game. But that doesn't mean they don't have the talent. Lett averages 11 points and six rebounds a game, but more impor­tantly, he and Troutman crushed the Irish when the two teams last played. 

Knight is the guard everybody loves to talk about, but he has a strong supporting cast along the perimeter. Page and Brown are ever-present 3-point threats capable of quickly dismantling opposing defenses. 
Pittsburgh loves to play as many as 10 players a game, mixing and matching parts to tailor their squad to take advantage of opposing weaknesses. 
Higher-ranked. On the road. Tops in the Big East West Division. In other words, the Panthers have every­thing to lose. However, a weak non-conference schedule means they need a quality win come tourney time -a win the Irish could provide. 


Carroll and Thomas compose arguably one of the best backcoµrts in the nation. Yet'in big games, against tal­ented guards, Thomas tends to falter. Carroll~s'·consistiihcv wi11··stilf carry½Notre Dame on Sunday. 

The Irish haven't lost at home this season, and for good reason. Every opposing coach after every game bas called the Joyce Center one of the toughest places lo play in the Big.fast. How' will the Parithers handle that challenge? 


Priday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Transferring his happiness 
Two years after he left Maryland for Notre Dame, Dan Miller couldn't be happier 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sp[)rts Wrirer 
llis old Maryland clothes are stuck in his closet back in New Jersey, one of a handful of reminders of a past Notre Dame forward Dan Miller is eager lo leave behind. 
There are the questions, too, about the national cham­pionship Maryland won while Miller sat out an NCAA­mandatory <me year f'or trans­forring tu Notre Dame. 
There's ihc calls he makes to his Terrapin friends. many of' whom he is still close to. 
Yet Maryland is unquestion­ably part of Miller's past. Notre Dame is his present. 
''I'm happy," he said. 'Tm happy with how I'm playing right now. Things are just a lot happier for me." 
The Maryland years 
When Terrapins coach Gary Williams first came calling at the Maryland household, he enticed the McDonald's All­American to come to College Park to play basketball. And Miller's Maryland career started strong. 
During his freshman year, Miller averaged a little more than 14 minutes a game, and he was ()Ile of two freshmen to play all 34 games. His sophomore season was much better, as Miller moved into a starting position and aver­aged 30 minutes a game. His teammates awarded the 
gritty 6-foot­
"Fm interested in

8 forward the ex-team­"Unsung winning. I'm not mate Ryan Hero" award. Humphrey,
interested in stats and 

T h e n , who intri­
stuff"

something cately happened. understood Miller's how diffi­
Dan MIiier 

minutes his cult sitting
senior

junior season vanished almost instantly. He unhappily 
moved back into a reserve role, and although the Terrapins made it to the Final Four, the season wasn't much fun for Miller. How could it be for a player who started one year and then averaged fewer than 20 minutes a game the next? 
"Ile didn't get along with his coach real well. He didn't like the style of basketball he played, and he wasn't real happy," Irish tri-captain Matt Carroll said. 
So Miller decided to leave. 
Why exactly he left, he won't discuss. lt's a subject he'd rather leave in his past, no maltnr how many times people bring it up. 
Bu l when Notre Dame played Maryland in l)pcembcr, Williams agreed to interviews only on the condi­tion that Miller's namo never came up. 
"I didn't like my situation, and I didn't like where things wor11 going," Miller said sim­ply. "I wanted a change of scenery." 
A year without basketball 
When Miller made his deci­sion io transfer, he went to a coach he knew well. 
Mike Brey had coached Miller's brother Greg during his tenure at Maryland, and Miller respected Brcy's hands-off approach that gives players freedom when they're on the court. 
For Mil]er, the coach was more important than the loca­tion. 
"When I had one year left, I don't think I had much time to work with a coach," he said. "I wanted to come here and build a good relationship with [Brey l because I knew him." 
NCAA rules stipulated that Miller had to sit out an entire year after his transfer. mean­ing Miller would put in all the work in practice without see­ing the results in a game. 
Every game, he walked out of the tunnel with the rest of the Irish squad. The only dif­ference was that they were wearing uniforms, and he had on khakis. 
"It was difficult at times because you're not playing basketball in the winter," he said. "My teammates and everybody did a great job keeping me motivated, and I did a lot of work with the strength coach." 
One of Miller's greatest 
a s s e t s 
came in 
the form of 
a year out 
could be. 
W h e n Humphrey transferred from Oklahoma four years ago, his teammates helped him through the season. Now it was Humphrey's turn to help Miller. 
"He knew what I was going through, he knew what to say 
and how to help me stay moti­games again.vated," Miller said. ''I'd Yet Brey cau­always talk to him and he'd tioned his relate things to his situation." fifth-year 
Things became compounded senior to oven more when Miller's old avoid playing team started making a run to out of control, the national championship. something When Miller left the Miller was Terrapins, he was keenly able to hold in aware that the squad could check. have won a title. But it was After all, something else for him to sit Miller had and watch thfl game on televi­exactly one sion with other members of year to make 

"/ didn't like my situation. and I didn't like where things were going. I wanted a change ofscenery. " 
Dan Miller senior 
At Notre Dame, Miller fit into a niche he n e v e r found at Maryland. H e ' s thrived u n ct e r Brey's direction, a type of coaching 

that gives players quite a bit of freedom on the floor. He loves running up and down the floor. launching 3-point­ers and playing solid defense. He loves the minutes he's playing -34.3 a game -and the points he's scoring -14.2 
-
a game -but loves Notre Dame's 18 wins much more. 
And his leadership in the locker room -leadership springing from a Final Four run -is invaluable. 
Miller tries to avoid looking back on his three years at Maryland. He doesn't glance down at his hand where a national championship ring could have been had he stayed with the Terrapins. 
But he doesn't mind saying that the change was worth it. 
"When I first met him. 1 knew he just wanted to play bad and last year was real tough for him," Carroll said. "He had to practice, he couldn't play at all. But now. he loves playing in games. 
"He's a lot happier now." 
A lot happier. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
A year left 
Miller entered the off-sea­son with a renewed vigor, eager to again begin working with the prospect of playing in and play my game and let things happen by myself. 

'Tm interested in winning. I'm not interested in stats and 
stuff." 
Notre Dame's basketball team. 
"Other people were saying so much to him about it," Carroll said. "Ile made his decision, and he wouldn't have been happy the whole year except in March." 
his mark on Notre Dame, and Brey didn't want his player burning himself out. 
"He told mo I didn't need to think about that stuff, because it would come natu­rally if I played my game," Miller said. "[ tried to do that 

-
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 7, 2003 
Jones provides the spark as Irish 6th man 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Ask any member of the Leprechaun Legion who is the sixth man for the Notre Dame basketball team. and they'll likely say the green-clad stu­dent body. 
But ask anyone on the team who plays that role and you'll probably hear the name of reserve guard Torrian Jones. 
The Irish junior has only averaged five points and 19 minutes a game this year, but he has specialized in being the player who brings a spark to the court coming off the bench. 
"He definitely brings a spark when he comes in the game," Irish captain Matt Carroll told und.com. "Whether things are going good or bad and he is coming in, we know he is going to bring a lot of energy into the game." 
Even though Jones has yet to start a game this season for the Irish, much of the team's suc­cess has been due to Jones' play off the bench. And that role has been one Jones has embraced and thrived in through Notre Dame's first 22 games. 
"Jones is a winner, man," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "He's a guy that's going to go out there and do whatever he has to to get the win. He under­stands his role coming off the bench, and he's willing to do whatever you ask. He's a beau­tiful guy to coach." 
Last Saturday, Jones showed just how important that role could be in Notre Dame's 93-92 double-overtime win over Georgetown. With starting point guard Chris Thomas fouled out of the game, Jones made his presence felt in the extra periods, flying all over the court on defense, grabbing rebounds and eventually sink­ing the game-winning free throw with just 5.5 seconds remaining. 
But even with the clutch free throw and Jones' sporadic high-flying dunks -like the one he slammed home in the first overtime against the Hoyas after exploding past a Georgetown defender from the 3-point line -Jones has been known mostly throughout his career at Notre Dame for his tenacious defensive skills. 
"I like to be that spark off the bench. which has been my role, since I arrived here," Jones told und.com. "Also I like to come into the game and just change the pace of it. Defensively, I like to bring a presence on the floor, which has been my spe­cialty since I was a freshman in high school." 
Whether it be taking the defensive burden off of Thomas' shoulders for a bit or getting in the face of the oppo­nents' top shooters, Jones has drawn a lot of attention as one of the fiercest defenders in the Big East. 
"I take it as a compliment in this stage in my career," Jones said. 'Tm not sure I'd like to be known as strictly a defensive player for the rest of my career, like those are my only abilities, but right now I'm happy people see that part of my game." 
But anyone who watches 
Notre Dame in the dwindling minutes of a close game and sees Brey attempt to send Jones to the court for each defensive possession knows that is where the junior guard excels. 
Sunday, those defensive skills will be tested once again as No. 4 Pittsburgh and Preseason Big East Player of the Year Brandin Knight travel to the Joyce Center. 
The Panther point guard averages 10.3 points and 6.5 assists a game this year and is often revered as one of the most explosive players in the game. 
Along with Thomas, Jones will often have the burden of staying close to the quick Panther guard Knight. 
"Knight is one of the best players in the game. and it's always a challenge to guard someone of his skill level,·• Jones said. "Obviously he wouldn't be where he is today if he couldn't handle the man pressure. If it falls on me to guard him, hopefully I'll be able to slow him down." 
If the Irish are to upset Knight and the Panthers Sunday, Jones will be a big part of the action coming off the bench and giving that some­thing extra to the Irish effort as he has for most of the season. 
"I like coming off the bench a lot," Jones said. "I know I'm just as influential in the game as any other guy, and some­times you need to have a guy who can spark you again." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Torrlan Jones screams seconds after slammlng home a dunk during Saturday's double-overtime win against Georgetown. Jones has played an Integral role coming off the bench. 


is now accepting applications for
THE 


2003-2004 General Board 
BSE 

Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accom­modations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages edi­tors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photogra• phers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 
Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's deparbnent heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
DESIGN EDITOR 
Applicants should have page design skills. The Design Editor manages The Observer's produc­tion staff and must work closely with the various deparbnent editors to coordinate and enhance The Observer's page design each day. 

ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising 
revenue. 

AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and print­ers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 
Applicants must be sophomores or juniors majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper • 
All applications must be submitted to Andrew Soukup in The Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by today. Questions about the application process can be directed to Andrew at 1-4541. 
... 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, February 7, 2003 page 13 
and vVolves, oh 111y! 
pany presents "Into the Woods" 
hccomns a mother figurn at the end, and all this time she had been praying to her own mother who passed away. She finally steps out on her own," Candura said. 
Changes are evident in many of the


Woods'' 
characters; James Lapine, who wrote the book. incorpo­rated numer­ous morals among the

Pasquerilla East 
humor and ompany drama. 
Another out­standing per­1' or man c e among many is Patricoski as ol1y McShana Urn sensitivn Canr!ura, Matt Patricoski, Erin and youthful 
rlcla Gilbar, Molly McShane, J a c k Wavering l.wlwflcn brav­
ashinton Hall on Friday and (WV and weak­ets are $6 tor students and $8 ll(;ss. obcdi­encn and deli­a11cP, Im sings a soaring reu­dilion of "Cianls in the Sky." McLaughlin and Cilberl also have ttxcellent intoraction as thP quarrnling hus­lmnd and wifn who rPalize tlrn 
extent of their love during turmoil. Hoth use their powP.rful voices during climactic moments as two of thn main characters. 
McSharrn is delightful as the independent. sonsible and foarlAss UH!e Hect Hiding Hood. while Anthony is wonderfully malicious, sneaky and smooth-talking as Urn sinister Wolf'. His "Hello, Little Girl" is as well-sung as .it .is disturbing. One of the most complex portrayals. howev­er, is Jlorvat.h's Witch. At once frightening and cruel, she harbors moth­erly instincts and hurt feelings when betrayed by Hapunzel (April 
Trimble). 
Two of the best 
moments in the play 
occur during duets 
between Linnert and 
Grundy's arrogant 
and competitive 
princes. Hysterically 
comical and cleverly 
self-indulgent, the two 
"Agony" performances 
are among the most 
hilarious parts of' the play. 
The dance sequences, 
both those with only two 
characters and those with 
the entirn cast, are lively and 
add to the action without taking 
away from it. 
Kat Walsh, who choreographed the production, feels that the audi­ence can learn from the charac­tf1rs. 
"I think the message is impor­tant at any time in your life, in any era. It's something you can relate 
1.o ... for kids it's a fairy tale, for young adults it's cool to watch, for people who are in college you're at a turning point in your life and f'or older people it's something to look back on," Walsh said. 
Director Lizzie Bracken agrees that the play will appeal to a vari­ety of people. "It's a lovely pro­duction, it's meant to be beautiful and we've all struggled to keep that consistency with every aspect of it, to make it enchanting," Bracken said. 
The cast and crew have worked since Octobm·. and the result includes touching, lyrical melodics as well as light, bubbly turn:is. The play is lengthy with one intermis­sion. but the plot moves so quickly that it is hard to notice. With impressive mood changes, from ominous 1.o chet~ry to hopeful to dismal, in everything from the act-. ing, singing, dancing and lighting, this fantastic production should lure many people "Into the Woods." 
Contact Christie Boisen at cholscn@nd.edu 


.. 
Above, Cinderella weds her Prince after the classic fairytale takes place. To the right, the Step-sisters, Shawna Monson and Cheryl Turski brood following Cinderella's mar­riage to the Prince. Bottom, Jack sings to Little Red Riding Hood. 
. 

Photos by 
CHIP MARKS 

-

.. 
Friday, February 7, 2003 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Lemieux ejected in Penguins' shutout loss 
Wednesday night for his 64th. 

~sociated Press 
Colorado is 5-0-2 since losing to Detroit on Jan. 16 at home,
PITTSBURGH and is unbeaten in a season-best 
Mario Lemieux was ejected for seven games. 

fighting late in Pittsburgh's 6-0 Detroit is winless in its pastloss to Florida. 
five games, has won only once Lemieux, who had eight penal­since beating the Avalanche, 

ty minutes heading into the 
and is 5-8-1·l in 2003. 

game, picked up 29 with 5:12 to Early in the third period, Hull play. He slashed Florida's Brad 
had a great chance to become Ference and then dropped his the sixth NHL player to score 

gloves against the fourth-year 700 regular-season goals. But defenseman. Lemieux, who was Roy stopped his first shot from upset with Ference for a second­just under the right circle, and a period cross-check to his back, goalpost stopped Hull's shot off was assessed minor penalties the rebound. 
for slashing and instigating. a Hull, whose Hall of Fame major penalty for fighting, a 10· father Bobby HuJJ was in atten­minute misconduct and game dance, has not scored in six 
misconduct. games.Kristian Huselius and Matt The Red Wings pulled goalie 
Cullen had a goal and two Curtis Joseph for the final assists each and Roberto Luongo minute, and they had two made 28 saves for his fifth chances to score, including one shutout. shot off Hull's stick with about Niklas Hagman and Marcus 35 seconds left, but couldn't 
Nilsson scored 11 seconds apart beat Roy. in a three-goal first period for Joseph made 20 saves. He is the Panthers, who moved within 0-4-1 in his past five games 
one point of Pittsburgh in the since stopping 36 shots at Eastern Conference standings. Colorado. Ivan Majesky also scored in the Late in the first period, first period, and Olli Jokinen Tanguay's shot got past a diving
.. added a goal in the third period. Joseph. Rob Blake's shot from Florida, coming off a 6-0 home the left circle went off the loss to Toronto, fired 19 shots at boards behind Joseph and Pittsburgh goaltender Sebastien toward Tanguay, who had a Caron in the first period and 47 wide-open net to shoot at from for the game, both season highs. the right circle. 
Luongo, who made 35 saves in It was Tanguay's 11th goal, off the rebound of Ralston's shot to 3-2 midway into the second Alfredsson had two assists, set­a 3-0 victory over the Penguins and fifth in five games. with 1:40 left in the opening period. ting up first-period goals by 
period, making it 2-1. Boynton beat goalie Jose Zdeno Chara and Todd White.
on Jan. 18, has blanked The Avalanche played in Joe 
Pittsburgh for 122:28 over three Louis Arena for the first time Hackett, acquired via San Jose Theodore with a slap shot from Ottawa beat the New York games. The Panthers have won since losing 7 -0 in Game 7 of the on Jan. 23 after being dealt by the point, making it 4-2 early in Rangers 5-3 at Madison Square Montreal earlier that day, still the final period. But Juneau Garden on Wednesday to end a
four consecutive games against Western Conference finals. 
the Penguins and are 5-0-1-1 in was wearing his Canadiens' slipped a wrist shot by Hackett. three-game losing streak. 
Bruins 6, Canadlens 3 

pads and mask. He was tested Rookie Martin Prusek subbedtheir last seven against them. 
Martin Lapointe scored his Flyers 2, Senators 2 
early as Murray was whistled for Senators All-Star goalie
Avalanche 1, Red Wings 0 first goal since the second game Eric Chouinard scored in the
for a double-minor for high­Patrick Lalime, who missed the 
Patrick Roy caught Ed Belfour of the season and Jeff Hackett first period and assisted on
sticking 10 seconds into the game because of the flu. Prusek 
again. stopped 28 shots against his for­game. But Hackett stopped the Jeremy Roenick's goal in the is 9-1-1 for Ottawa. second, lifting the Philadelphia
Roy recorded his 64th career mer team as the Boston Bruins few chances the Canadiens got. Philadelphia learned earlier in 
shutout, tying him with beat Montreal. Even though his new equip­Flyers to a tie with the Ottawa the day that left wing Simon Toronto's goalie for the most by Glen Murray, P.J. Axelsson, ment arrived in the first week Senators. Gagne will miss at least three any active goaltender, in Nick Boynton, Kris Vernarsky after the trade, Hackett has still Chouinard, acquired from weeks after suffering a partiallyColorado's victory over Detroit. and Joe Thornton scored worn the red, white and blue Montreal on Jan. 29, scored his torn right groin in the Flyers' 2­Alex Tanguay scored for Boston's other goals. Brian pads and mask he had with second goal in three games with 1 win over the Islanders on Avalanche, who left Brett Hull Rolston had three assists for the Montreal -an odd sight with Philadelphia before setting up Tuesday.waiting to join the 700-goal Bruins, 4-1-0-1 in their last six the Bruins playing their long­Roenick's 18th goal of the sea­Chara opened the scoring with chili. games. time rivals. son. his fifth goal on a power play, 
Roy made 28 saves and Former Bruins Mariusz Murray scored his team-lead­Flyers goalie Roman scoring just two seconds after earned a shutout against the Czerkawski and Joe Juneau had ing 28th goal to make it 3-1 in Cechmanek made 43 saves as Philadelphia killed off the first of Red Wings for the first time. His Montreal's goals, with the second period with Boston Ottawa outshot Philadelphia 45-two minor penalties. three shutouts this season have Czerkawski collecting a pair. on a two-man advantage. 30 overall, including a 19-11 Chouinard drew the Flyers come in the past six games. The Bruins grabbed the lead Czerkawski scored on a back­margin in the opening period. even just 1:44 later with a 
Belfour blanked Florida on for good when Lapointe scored hander from in close, cutting it Senators captain Daniel power-play goal. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
-CLASSIFIEDS 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  www.endlesssummertours.com  BECOME A STUDENT ENTRE- Brand New Everything. 2-story  DON T FORGET TO SEND YOUR  
NOTICES  homes 1/2 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aolcom 272-1525  PRENUER: Run your own market­ing business with no up front invest- rental house with porch and yard just blocks from campus. Off-street  SWEETIE AN OBSERVER VALEN­TINE CLASSIFIED.  
www.mmmrentals.com  LOST & FOUND  ment. Flex hours. Great compensa­lion and bonuses.  parking. 3,4 or 5 students. Summer or tall availability. 235-3655.  Back to Back weeks? Is someone  
Beautiful condo in Premier area  SPRING BREAK on South Padre  trying to be respectable?  
extra large 1 bedroom, jacuzzi tub,  Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination  Call 800-592·2121x174 or email  3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03/04 YR. SEC  It doesn't count when the first is a  
·­ large deck and pool Own for less  by the Travel Channel South Padre  FOUND: Black pea coat.  SYS. WASHER/D 272-6306  month old.  
than rent. 1ominutes from campus  Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3  Call 634-4283.  bovadia@cdicccc.com.  
59K. 574-299-4997  bedroom condos. Great location  Four bedroom house for rent: CALL  I'm just a regular Joe, with a regular  
and amenities, close to Mexico.  Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896  job. I'm your average white, subur­ 
Acapulco's #1 Spring Break  banite slob.  
Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance  Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreisland.com  FOR SALE  FOR RENT  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH  My wile, my job, my kids and my  
to Dance' Special! Book now and  OF ND. 3-5 PEOPLE. 2773097  car. My feet on my table, with a  
get $100 off our already low priceI  Dallas bound? Will pay for transport  JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON  DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3  Cuban cigar.  
Your seat is available now, but may  of baby bassinette. ND alum  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­ HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  
be gone tomorrow!  2145590868 cicib@aol.com  KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY  SCHOOL YEAR ­ Found my Parker Jotter.. sweet.  
Call now 800-875-4525. www.breaknow.com  2 or 3 BDRM Ranch House.  272-6306  WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS • STUDENT  PERSONAL  Congats roomies.  
Completely remodeled/ New stove,  Two tickets for CATS appearing on  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY  
New tour bedroom 3 bath home for  Relrig. lnci. washer/dryer. Great  March 22 al the Morris Performing  SYSTEMS • MAINTENANCE  Chemistry Tutoring. Call 360-1983  Valentine's dinner?  
rent with two car garage. Gas heat,  neighborhood. 4 blocks to ND.  Arts Center. Good seats on main  STAFF ON CALL ­ 
central air conditioning, all appli­ 273-1717 FPM,LLC  floor.  WASHERS/DRYERS -CALL  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  I love it when you try to help out  
ances. fire place.  $45 each.  TODAY· HOUSES GOING FAST ­ alone. ff you or someone you love  and then people just complain  
Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683·  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  Please call 271-9539.  needs confidential support or assis­ about you.  
5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities.  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  CONTACT: KRAMER (574)315­ lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Florida! Best Parties. Best Hotels,  1990 Honda Civic, Super depend­ 5032 OR (574) 234-2436  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  Halo first team. All-Leroy: Tony,  
Rooms For Rent $250 month  Best Prices! Space is limited!!!  able and very clean.  Coop, Sendels, Klein, Chief.  
includes utilities 272-1525  California car.  ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005  For more information, see our bi­ 
mmmrentals@aol.com  1·B00-234-7007  Paul ph. 256-2998  SCHOOL YEAR.  weekly ad in The Observer.  Sorry Tribs.  

Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Bryant's 46 pushes Los Angeles above .500 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal have the Los Angeles Lakers playing like champions again. 
Bryant dazzled New York with an array of drives, jumpers and dunks, and O'Neal overpowered the Knicks inside as the Lakers won 114-109 to enter the All­Star break with a winning record for the first time this season. 
"Kobe and Shaq have shown they're the top two dogs in the league," teammate Robert Horry said. "They're carrying us. You have to give the credit to those two guys." 
Bryant matched his season high with 46 poinl.s and O'Neal added 33 as the Knicks had no answer for Los Angeles' dynamic duo. Bryant (40) and O'Neal (28) combined to outscore the Knicks in the first three quarters as the Lakers took a 97-67 lead. 
The Lakers (24-23) then sur­vived a spirited fourth-quarter rally by the Knicks to end the first half of the season with their fifth straight win, including four on the road. 
"That was quite a show the first three quarters," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said. "Shaq and Kobe put on a show tonight. It was a spectacular perfor­mance by Kobe tonight." 
After a sluggish start left the Lakers 11-19 following a Christmas Day loss to 
52750 IN 933 
574 ¦243-1121 
Se:rving 1'4otre Dame: & St. Mary's 
Sacramento, the three-time defending champions have won 13 of 17 to close within 11/2 games of Houston for the final playoff spot in the West. 
"We just have to keep doing it," Jackson said. "The champi­onship rings don't mean any­thing unless we do it on the court. We found out the hard way that no one is really impressed by the championship banuers." 
Bryant and O'Neal are a differ­ent story. 
Bryant has scored at least 35 points in five straight games, scoring 201 points in that stretch. This scoring spree coin­cides with Jackson telling Bryant to take over more of the scoring load. 
"He's opened the offense up and allowed me to penetrate more," Bryant said. 'Tm getting the ball in position where I can score quickly. I'm being more assertive." 
The Knicks, who had won seven of 10, played the second half without leading scorer Allan Houston. who left the game with a bruised right wrist and is day to day. 
Latrell Sprewell led New York with 24 points, Howard Eisleyadded 16 and Charlie Ward had 15 points and 11 assists. 
Bryant had 16 of his 22 third­quarter points during a 25-9 run that put the Lakers up 95-61 with 1:41 to go. 
326 N. Ironwood 
574-143-1111 
Comer of Ironwood & McKinley 

FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valicl With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. 
Bryant started the run with a driving layup, knifing through the center of the Knicks' defense for the easy basket. He added three 3-pointers, a runner and a turnaround jumper from deep on the baseline. He flexed after his final 3 gave the Lakers a 34­point lead. 
The Knicks didn't go away, scoring the first 16 points of the fourth quarter to get within 14. 
Sprewell. who made all nine of his 3-pointers Tuesday against the Clippers, hit a 3 to make it 103-91 with 5:34 to go. 
A jumper by Michael Doleac made it 107-100 with 2;45 to go. After a turnover by Bryant, Lee Nailon scored underneath to make it a five-point game with 
1:52 to go. 
After another Lakers' turnover. O'Neal blocked Sprewell's layup attempt and made one free throw to make it 108-102. 
Sprewell shot an airball when Bryant appeared to hit his arm on the way up. Bryant then hit two free throws to make it 110­102 with 30.3 seconds to play. 
"Absolutely I was fouled on the play," Sprewell said. "To me it was an easy call." 
Bucks 97, SuperSonlcs 91 
Ray Allen scored 14 of his 27 points in the fourth quarter as the Milwaukee Bucks beat Seattle, sending the Supersonics into the All-Star break with a three-game losing streak. 
Milwaukee goes into the break having won 11 of 14 games. 
Allen and Michael Redd, who had 19 points, scored the first 22 points of the final quarter for the Bucks. 
Kevin Ollie hit two free throws with 19.6 seconds left to give Milwaukee a 96-91 lead. Brent Barry's pass toward Rashard Lewis sailed high out of bounds and Allen hit a free throw with 14 seconds left for the final score. 


Allen hit a 3-pointer, Toni Kukoc made a free throw and Anthony Mason added a baseline jumper with 2:06 left to cap a 6­0 run and give Milwaukee a 92­83 lead. Barry hit two free layin with 20 seconds left to bring Seattle within 94-91. 
The Sonics kept it tight most of the game, one night after losing 114-74 at Boston. Gary Payton scored on a breakaway layup to tie it at 77 with 6:45 left. 
Payton had 27 and Lewis 18 to lead Seattle. 
Ansu Sesay hit a baseline jumper with a second left in the third quarter to give Seattle a 68-67 lead going into the final 

throws and Lewis scored on a quarter. 

Ride FREE to and from MAIN Cl RCLE, ROBINSON CENTER, and LEGAL AID 
Students ride free on Transpo Route #7 between Main or Library Circle and the Robinson Center and Legal Aid with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID. 
OPERATING HOURS: Monday-Friday: 5:30 a.m. -1 O p.m. 


Saturday: 6 a.m. -6 p.rn. 
TRANSPO BUS SCHEDULE 
·•-.  
From Downtown tm\ard ~fall  
l\linulcs past the hour (A11111·1"inrntc timl'sl  
Legal Aid  25 & 55  
RL)binson Center  27 & 57  
i\lai11 Circle  29 & 59  
Library Circle  O I & JI  

From \-fall toward Dowrllo\\ll 08 & 38 
06 8:. J6 
········•..--.. 
0-1 & J-1 O::! & 32 
Schedules are a,ailable at the LaFortune information Desh. Center for Social Concerns or Student Government Ot1ices 
NOTE: Notre D:rn,e/St. i\la1,r's alicrnoon shuttle bus #'11\ill be discontinued as of\larch l_s.L Students should begin using the Transpo bus instead. Shuttle bus# I serving Notrt:.­Dame. St 11.lary's and Holv Cross 1-1 ill continue as scheduled 
-
-
Friday, February 7, 2002 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 16 


THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. TIMES FOR FURTHER 
NIGHT 


GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED AT THE END OF THE FfAST ROUND. 
OLYMPICS 

Be a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! 
XVII 

$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7 
7:00 PM -4:00 AM JOYCE CENTER 
631-6100 

All I.NO Mcd(l/s \h·I'(· /)mwt<'d hy tl,c ,\'otn• I>amt' ,t/1111111i 1hrnciario11 

VOLLEYBALL  TEAM A  9':.30  Mt:N1 B  A'ACQlJETBALL  CALL  1·61 ..  VOLL!:.Y9ALL  T£A.M A  B:CJ0  MEN°S AACQUIETt:IALL  CALL  I •t:.  00  
Tt;;.AM B  7:3 .  WOMEN1 9  RAC~UETBALL  CALL  1•610 .  TEAM 8  7:30  Wt:JMC:N'g RACQUETllALL  NA  
MEN 1 B  BABl<ETBALL  T~AM A  9:00  CQ·REC  BRC . MBALL  TEAM A  e,30  MEN1S  8A!IKETBALL  TEAM A  9:40  co~~EC  BFIOOMBALL  TEAM  A  e,oo  
Tl::AM  B  1 o:~ .  TEAM  B  NA  TEAM  B  10,20  TEAM  B  NA  
WOMEN'S 9ASKETl3ALL  TEAM A  9:00  KICKBALL  11:30  W0Ml!N15  BASKETBALL  TEA.MA  9:0 .  ,<,cK9Alt.  11: 10  
il'.:AM B  ,moo  TEAM B  10: ..  
NERF' f"COT9ALL  TEAM A  9:30  TEAM A  8:30  NERF ,--aoTSA.LL  TEA~ A  7:30  WtF'F"I..EUALL  TEAM A  7,1 S  
TEAM B  9:15  TEAM B  9: ..  TEAM R  1 . :3 .  Tt=:.AM B  a~, s  
TARl1ET GOLF"  TEAM  A  B!O .  MONSTl:.R  000L'.1E8ALL  12:00  TARGET Gau:·  T£AM A  10:3 .  MONSTER  DODOEBALI..  12:0D  
TEAM  B  9:15  INNF:ATUl;IE WATER POLO  T£AM A  9,50  TEAM B  9:00  fNNERIUB£ WA.TER P . l.0  TCAM A  B:30  
TEAM A  10,20  TEAM B  10:sa  Co-REC S CJCCER  TEA.MA.  7~4 .  TEAM B  10:10  
T£AM B  B:00  LN O  OBSTACLE. C OUFISE  TEAM A  9:30  TE:AM s·  NA  LNO 01:19TACLE COURB~  TEAM A  9:30  
KAYAKING  T€.AM A  9:3 .  TEAM B  9:45  KAYAKINC:I  TEAM A  , D:O .  TEAM B  l 1-:.45  
TEAM  B  12:00  TABLr. TENNIS  CALL  1·61 . 0  TEAM B  I Z: 15  TABLE TENNIB  CALL  1·6100  
J\hnnni / 1"1cGlinn  l\nott / P.E.  
VCLL£.YBALL  TEAM A TEAM B  9,00 e:30  MEN1 S RAC~UETBA~L WCMEN1 S RACt;IUETl:IALL  CALL CALL  1-61 .. 1·61 ..  VCLLEY8ALL  TIEAM A TtAM B  7:00 9:00  MICt•/B flACQUETBALl. WoMEN1 B RACQlJE'TBALl.  CALL t-6 l . O CALLl•6100  
McN'e BA9KETBALL WOM£N1S BA.Skl::TRALL ~  T£AM A TEAM B 'TEAM A TEAM B  9!20 NA '9:20 9t40  ca~REC BROOMBALL ,ucKBALI.  TEAM A TEAM B  e-:. . o 1 2:1 S 1 ,,so  M£N1S BABJ(E:TBALL WCM£N1 'B BASKETBALL  T'-AM A T~AM B TE:AM A TEAM B  9:40 I 1:00 9,4 . NA  Co•REc BROOMBALL P(1Cf("8A,LL  TEAM A TEAM B  NA I 1:5 .  
NERF" F"CCTSALL  T£AM A  711 S  WIPF"LltBALt..  Tl!;'AM A  7:30  NE.R~ F"CCTBALL  TE:.AM A  7\30  wu:·rLC9ALL  TEAM /\  7: 1 5  
TE.AM B  e:45  TEAM B  NA  TEAM B  7:45  TF..AM B  9•.30  
"TEAM A TEAM B  8:45 NA  MOMSTIER C>ooal!:BALL INN£RTU'EJ£ WATER PcLo  Tf.:AM A  9:10  TAt=U:n;.T GOL.F'  TEAM A Tfi:AM B  B:15 NA  M . NB"l'E;F:1 DODllE.IH\Ll. INNCRlUBI:. WATEO Pot.a  TEAM A  12:00 9:3 .  
TEAM A  9:00  TEAM B  NA  Co-REC SaOCEFI  TEAM A  9100  Tl£AM 0  , a::::10  
KAYAKINCJ  TEAM B "TEAM A TEAM B  B;4a I 0:3 . 1 2:30  LN . OBSTACLE COURSE TABLE TENNIS  i£A.M A 10:3 . 'TIEA.M B I .": 1 S CALL 1 •6 1 DO  KAYAKIND  Tt:AM 8 TEAM A TCAM B  10:40 9: .. l 1:30  LN . 0891".At;::LE TABLE TcNNIS  C . URIIIE  TEAM A 10:30 l E AM El 1 0! l 5 CALL I -6 t ..  


VCLt..£VSALL MEN1S BASKF.:TBALL W. MEN'9 BAl!!IKETBALL  TEAM A TEAM B TEAM A TEAM B TEAM A T£AM B  B~O . 7!00 9:2 . 10:00 9:20 NA  M~N°S AACQUET8ALL W . MEN 1 15 RACQUE.TEIALL co·Rr;:c BRC . MBALL. KICKBALL  CALL 1·6100 CALL 1·61 .. TEAM A B\30 TEAM B NA 1D;SQ  Vo\..LEYGALL MS:N1S BABKltTBAl.L W0MltN1!!1 BA!IKCTBALL  TEAM A TEAM B T£AM A T£AM B T!:AM A TF.:AM S  7:3 . 7:3 . 9!00 10:20 9120 NA  MCN1S AACQU£TOALL WOM£N1 g RACi:;,UETBALL Co-FU:c BROCMBALL KtC:KBALL  CALL I ·I; 100 CALL 1 ·6 I 00 TEAM A e:a . TEAM B NA I 1:30  
TARGET GOLJ" CO-REC SccCEA KAYAJ•"Na  TEAM A Tf;.AM B TEAM A Tl:AM B TEAM A TEAM B TEAM A TEAM B  B:00 NA B: 15 8:45 10:00 B:00 J0:15 NA  WIF'F"Lf'.BALL M . NSTCA: Doccn:e.A,LL INNE.RTUBE. WATER POLO LN . OBBTACLE COURSE. TASLE TENNIS  TEAM A B:DO TEAM B 9: .. 1 2:00 Tll!:AM A 9:3D TEAM B 10:3 . Tl!:AM A 9:00 Ts::AM B 12~1 5 CALL 1 ·E, 1 ..  NIE'.RF Fc . TBAl.L l<AYAKINO  TEAM A TEAM B TEAM A TEAM B TEAM A TI::A.M B TEA.MA IEAM 8  e:i s 8:45 B:45 9:30 7~40 9~2 . 11:00 12:45  w,,.-rL£SA\..l.. MONBT£R . DDOEBALL 'NNERTUSE WATER PcLa \..NO OBBTA.C:LC COUn'Bl'i iAeLE Tt:NNIS  T£/t.M A B:30 TEAM B l'l:45 12,00 "TEAM A 9:10 TEAM B NA TEAM A 1 1:::1 . TIE:AM B 1 o~oc CALL 1·61 [)O  
l1lsbe1· / Pan@,01·11 / lloly Cross  
VOLL£YBALL  TEAM A  7:00  MEN19  RAt:QUETIBALL  CALL  1 ·1$1 ..  VOLLEYBALL  TEAM A  B:t:10  MEN'B  RACQUETBALL  NA  
TEAM B  7:3 .  W. M£N1 S RACQUETBALL  CALL  1•G100  TEAM  B  9; . 0  WOMEN1!3i R:ACQUl:TBI\LL  CALL  T·61 00  
MEN19  BASKETBALL  TEAM A  9:40  Cc-REC 8ADOMflALl  Tl:AM A  8:00  MICN1S  8.ABKETSA,L.L  TEAM A  9:CJ0  Ca-REC  BROCJMBALL  T£AM A  9!00  
TEAM B  10:40  TEAM B  NA  TE:AM B  NA  TEAM B  NA  
WDMEN1 S  BASKETBALL  TEAM A  NA  K.1Cl<BALL  10,s .  WtJMEt-ls 8Al:IKE'T8ALL  TEAM A  9,20  l<ICt<BAI..L  NA  
TEAM B  NA  T£Ai.M B  NA  
TEAM A  e:o .  W1F",-L£SALL  TEAM A  7130  T£AM A  e,30  \V1,:""F"L'£1JALl.  TEAM A  NI\  
1£:AM B  7:45  Tt:AM S  NA  TEAM B  NA  TE.AM B  NA  
TA~cn:T GOLF"  ,..£AM A  B:1 S  McNgT,:.R  . DDCJESALL  1 2:00  TARDET Gau:·  TEAM A  NA  MCN9Tt:R  DooaceALL  l ?'.~00  
T&:AM B  9: I 5  INN£:RTUB£ WATCR  POL.  TEAM A  NA  TEAM B  NA  INNl;;RTU&£ WATER' '70LC  TE..._M  A  NA  
Co..Rcc SOCCER  TC:AM A  11:00  TEAM B  NA  Co-REC  SOCCER  T£AM A  7::ZO  Tr;AM B  NA  
it:AM B  NA  LNC) OBSTACL.C CCIJRSE  T&AM A  9:0 .  TEA.NI 8  I 1:20  LN O OBSTACLE COURSE  TEAM A  I 1: I 5  
KAYAltClr•lt3  TltAM A  9:45  TEAM B  I 0:45  KAYAKINB  TEAM A  NA  TcA.M B  9:45  
TEAM B  NA  TAlaLETE:NNI ¦  CALL  1·6100  T~AM B  NA  TABLE TENNIS  CALL  1·6100  
- 
 
VOLl.EYBALL  e,oo  MEN'S RACr:::IUET8•LL.  CALL  l•E, I 00  VOLLEYSALL  TEAM A  B-:::&a  MEt-lB RAC~Ul!TBALL  CALL  1 •E, I 00  
e,oo  WDMlltN1 9  RACl;Ul;TBALL  NA  TEA;M B  7:0 .  WOMCN1B  n'AC!;;JUl:TBALI.  NA  
MEN1t1 DAIIKETBALL,  9:20  CO-~IEC. BACOMBALL.  Tl:AM A  9:00  MEN1S  BASKETBALL  T~AM A  ,;i~,4n  co-s::tir:e BRDQMSALL  B;OCJ  
"TIEA.M B  I IU:,O  T£AM B  NA  Tl".AM B  10:DO  TCAM e  12:15  
WOMEt•ls  B.ASl<ETBALL  l"IEAM  A  NA  KICK.SALL  12:30  WCMEN1 S  BA.l!IKETBALL  TEAM A  9: ..  f(JCKBAl.L  I I :f 0  
TEAM  8  NA  TEAM  B  NA  
NCRF' FOOTBALL  fEAM  A  7:0 .  WIF"F"Lt:SALL  TIEAM A  7:45  NERF" rooTBALL  TEAM A  7: . o  w,r,.-LCEIALL  TE"AM A  7:45  
°t£AM B  10:1 5  TE.AMS  a:45  TtAM B  lD:10  TEAM B  9'1 5  
TAROET GOL~  TEAM A  B:30  MCN9TltR  0DOC!l£9ALL  12:00  TA\RBET GCLJ"  TEAM A  N"'  ""4CNBTl:R  Oooru:eAL\.  12:00  
Tl!:AM fJ  NA  INNt;ATUBE WATER POLO  Tl!:A.M A  e:so  T£AM B  NA  INNIE"TUBE WATER PDl. .  TE.AM A  e:30  
TEAM A  7:00  TEAM B  9:5 .  Co.. REC 50CC£~  TEAM A  NA  TEAM D  NA  
TEAM B  J 1:40  LNO OB!ITACLE CcUR9"£  -rEAM A  9: J !S  TEA.MB  NA  LNO OQBT-'CI.E CCUFID[:  TE.AM A  9! I 5  
KAYAK/NO  ,-.1!:AM A  9•' S  TEAM B  10:45  KAYAKING  TEAM A  NA  TEAM B  12:0 .  
T£AM B  11:45  TABLE TENNIS  !;;ALL  1·61 00  TEAM  B  NA  TABLE Tl:NNIB  CALLl-6100  


..,.  
VOLLEYBALL..  TEAM A  e,ao  MEN1 B  RACQUETBALL  CALL  1-6100  VCLL..t:YBALL  TEAM A  7:3 .  MEN18  AACG,'IUE.TBALL  CALL  1 ~61 ao  
TEAM 8  7: . o  W. MEN 1 !1 RAcr.,iur;;TBALL  NA  TEAM 9  7:00  WOMl£N1!1  RACQUi:TBALL  NA  
TEAM A  9:20  Ca•RE:c BRCOMBAL~  TEAM A  9:00  M EN1 9  8ABK.ETBAL.L  TEAM A.  9:00  co-REC BqoCMBALL  TEAM A  B:3 .  
TEAM B  10: . 0  TEA.Me  NA  TEAM B  10:00  
WCJMEN19  BASKETBALL  TEAM A  9~0 .  KICIC.AI.L  1 z::,a  WOMEN'S BA9J'(~TBALL  TEAM A  9:4 .  KICKBALL  1211 a  
TEAM B  9!40  T£At.1 El  NA  
NERF' FCOTIJAU..  T£.A"1 A  e:o .  WIF'n.,EBALL  TEAM A  l . t00  Nt:RF' F"DOTBALL  TEAM A  e,1 s  e: ..  
T£:AM 8  9:30  TEAM B  B:1 S  TEAM l'!  9:0 .  9;45  
TAROET G.OL,r  TEAM A  9:00  M0N!l3TEJII  Ooocu:::eAl..L  12,00  TARGET GOLF  TEAM A  B~30  MON9Tl:R  OODOEBALL  17.:00  
TEAM B  NA  INNl!:~TUBE WATl!:R POLO  Tt:AM A  B:50  TE"AM B  9:3 .  fNNEATUBC WATER POLO  TEAM A  NA  
cc-REC SCCCER  TE:4M A  9:00  TEAM El  10:10  Co-Rt;C SoCCF;;R"  TEAM A  7:0 .  T£A,.,, B  NA  
TEAM 8  B:40  LNC OtJ!IT"ACI.£ COURBI!:.  TEAM A  NA  TE--.M B  9:20  LNO OElfiTACLE COURB£  TEAM A  , 1:aa  
KAYAKING  TEA""1 A.  I 1:15  Tl!::AM B  NA  J<AYAKINO  TEAM A  I 0:45  TEA.M ~  I CJ:O .  
TcA""1 8  NA  TAal.E: TENNIS  CALL 1·6100  TEAM  B  NA  TABLE TE.NN!!1  CALL  1·6100  



Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Contreras arrives in New York to sign contract 

AFP Photo Newly signed Yankee pitcher Jose Contreras poses with New York manager Joe Torre. Contreras, a native of Cuba, defected from the Island nation to sign with the Yankees. 
PGA 

Sutherland takes lead with 66 
SEMESTER. Ml_OUND, THE} WORLD-PROGRAM 
.~~ ., LAST CALL 
. ..: 

Interviews in progress. To be considered for fall 2003, applications must be in by February 14 at the latest. For information and application forms please call Dr. PullapiUy at 284-4468 or e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 
-ttt­
SAINT 
MARY'S

SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 OR 273-5973 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, lN

e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu 
Associated Pre•s 
NEW YORK 

Joso Contreras has a nickname 
as sharp as his pitches: "El Titan 
de Bronze." 
And, he says, it was given to him by Fidel Castro. 
Contreras finally made it to Yankee Stadium to finalize his four-year contract, $32 million contract. 
At his introductory news con­ference, Contreras said the Cuban president called him "The Titan of Bronze" because the right-hander was the Cuban ace. The nickname originally belonged to Antonio Maceo, the general who led the Cuban liber­ation army against Spain in the 19th century. 
Contreras, however, wouldn't say what he thinks about Castro, whose communist regime has caused many Cuban baseball stars to defect. leaving their fam­ilies behind. 
"l can talk about Cuba. 1 can talk about Cuban baseball," Contreras said through a trans­lator. "But I'm not here as a politician to talk about politics." 
Dressed in a double-breasted blue-gray suit, the 6-foot-4 right­hander spoke softly about his departure from Cuba last fall and his hopes to make his mark in ihe major leagues. 
llis model is Roger Clemens, one of his new teammates in pinstripes. Will the Titan pitch inside, just like the Rocket? 
"Si, si, si," Contreras said, words agent Jaime Torres didn't need to translate. 
"That's the difference for a 
pitcher," Contreras said_ "That's 
how a pitcher lives, pitching 
inside." 
Asked what he admired in 
Clemens, Contreras cited "great, 
incredible physical condition and 
abilities," "pitching strategy" 
and "guts and bravado." 
Contreras, who has a burly chest and tree-trunk legs, will get to start showing his stuff next week, when the Yankees open spring training in Tampa, Fla. He'll be scrutinized along with the team's other new for­eign acquisition, outfielder Hideki "Godzilla" Matsui. 
"These people have been superstars in their respective leagues," said Yankees manager Joe Torre, looking tan following a six-week vacation in Maui. "I'm curious. I really am. They're both going to need inter­preters. But I bet they under­stand each other." 
Contreras did not get quite the welcome given Matsui, a three­time MVP in Japan. When Matsui was introduced Jan. 14, the Yankees held a news confer­ence at a Times Square hotel, and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg was the official greeter. 
Thursday's fiesta was held in the Stadium Club of Yankee Stadium, and Bronx Borough President Adolfo Carrion Jr. wel­comed him "on behalf of all New Yorkers and 1.4 million resi­dents of the Bronx, many of Latino descent." 

California native Kevin
Associated Press 

Sutherland shot a 6-under 66 PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. for a one-stroke lead over As usual, the weather was Mike Weir and Robert Gamez. the talk of the Pebble Beach Golfers expect weather National Pro-Am -only this trouble at Pebble Beach. year, it's the complete which made the surprisingly absence of rain, wind and calm conditions nearly as dif­gloom that's bedeviling pros ficult to battle. Sutherland and a few others managed sun and the fast fairways and hard Northern greens -and the tourna-
PORTUNITY 

OBC ENGLISH 
CONVERSATION SCH 


is seeking university graduates for aone year 
Open to all mtYors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
ment's usual six-hour rounds -resulting from the absence of recent rain at the tourna­ment's three gorgeous cours­es. 
''I've never seen the course as hard and as fast as this," said Sutherland, who had five birdies on the front nine at Pebble Beach Golf Links. "The fairways are really hard. The balls are going a tremendous distance. I'm in places I've never been before." 
Sutherland was born, raised and trained a short drive away in California's central valley, from his child­hood in Sacramento to his college days at Fresno State. Since he first tried Pebble Beach in the high school state championship, he estimates he has played here 70 times. 
A lot of good it did him in these kind of conditions. 
"This is going to throw a lot of people for a loop, but these courses are challenging enough," Sutherland said. 
-
... 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 7, 2003 
NHL 
Bankrupt Sabres seek additional credit line 
Aswdaied Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

Along with asking for an addi­tional $15 million line of credit to cover operating expenses. the bankrupt Buffalo Sabres are seeking court approval to pay four players their deferred sign­ing bonuses. 
Sabres' attorney William Thomas is scheduled to make both reques~ in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Buffalo. 
The request for an additional line of credit was not unexpect­ed. Judge Michael J. Kaplan granted the Sabres up to $25 million in debtors-in-possession financing when he approved an initial $10 million line of credit after the team filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
The Sabres, in jeopardy of folding or moving after the end of this season, owe their 40 largest creditors more than $206 million. 
The list of creditors includes four current players -forward Curtis Brown, goaltender Ryan Miller and defensemen Jay McKee and Brian Campbell. They are owed a combined $541,666 in deferred signing bonus money due last month. 
Miller, who is owed $250,000, was not among the initial list of creditors because his signing bonus came due on Jan. 15, two days after the Sabres filed for bankruptcy. 
If not paid, all four could be eligible to become unrestricted free agents at the end of this season. 
In a written motion submitted to the judge, Thomas argues that failure to pay the players would cause both "distraction and neg­ative publicity," and "lower the morale of the team and its fans (and) potentially result in lower 
-
attendance at games." 
Thomas also argues that fail­ing to pay the players would reduce the franchise's value "and impede the debtors' efforts to sell its assets." 
Herb Pinder, who represents Brown, welcomed the news while noting the Sabres had assured him Brown's $133,333 bonus would be paid in early February. 
"It's right on schedule," Pinder said. "We've obviously been expecting this, understanding that it was corning.... Under the circumstances, it's understand­able and at the end of the day no big deal." 
Miller's agent, Mike Liut, was also pleased the bonus issue was being addressed. 
"This was going to get resolved sooner or later. I'd rather it being sooner and rather have a hockey team in Buffalo," Liut said. 
McKee, who's owed $133,333. and Campbell ($25,000) could not be reached for comment. 
The Sabres' future has been in limbo since the NHL took control of the team last June. The team's sale hit a major setback this week when prospective owner Mark Hamister suspend­ed his bid after his majority part­ner Todd Berman withdrew his $27 million share. 
Rochester billionaire B. Thomas Golisano, whose bid was rejected by the NHL last November, has since re-entered the bidding process and could submit a new offer by next week. 
Golisano, however, would like­ly have to restructure his initial offer to satisfy both the NHL and Adelphia Communications, one of the nation's largest cable tele­vision companies and the Sabres' largest creditor. 
Get ready to whoop it up... 
Al is 21 ! 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, the,Girls 
NFL 

Raiders get appeals ruling 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
The Oakland Raiders weren't able to beat Tampa Bay in the Super Bowl. but they're winning parts of a battle with the Internal Revenue Ser\'ice. 
A federal appeals court ordered renewed litigation on the Raiders' income tax chal­lenge stemming from the team's failed proposal to move to Irwindale. 
In a separate action, the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals also sided with the Raiders over a tax dispute stemming from a scuttled agreement to build lux­ury boxes at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. 
On that issue, the dispute was whether the team should pay taxes on a $4 million loan it received from the Coliseum Commission. Under IRS rules, Joans generally are not taxable income. 
Tho $4 million was given in 1984 to help the then-Los Angeles Raiders pay for 150 luxury boxes. That construction project, the subject of other liti­gation, was never finished. 

The IRS and the federal tax court said the $4 million should have been included in the team's 1984 taxable income. They concluded it was not a loan. The court said the money was taxable because the agree­ment to build the luxury boxes never bore fruit and the Raiders kept the payoff. 
The 9th Circuit, however, con­cluded Thursday that it was a nontaxable loan as part of a failed agreement and therefore should not have been included in the team's income. 
In the other tax case, the appeals court ordered more liti­gation on whether the Raiders should have been taxed for $1 O million advanced to the team in 1987 as part of a $115 million proposed loan from the city of Irwindale. The money was sup­posed to be used to build a sta­dium in that suburb just east of Los Angeles. 
The $115 million would have come from lrwindale's sale of bonds. But in 1988, the California Legislature said the city could not follow through with the bond sale. The propos­al collapsed and the Raiders did not repay the $10 million. 
The tax court concluded that, since the deal terminated upon the demise of the bond sales in 1988, the Raiders should have included that $10 million as income in their taxes that year because the loan had converted into income. 
But the appeals court orden'ld the tax court to consider whether the $10 million loan ever became taxable because it was tied to a project that unrav­eled. And if the $10 million did become taxable, the appeals court said, the tax court should consider whether 1988 was the applicable year. 

OpenaNEW Members Choice Account and we'll give you a special BONUS RATE until April 30. 


¦ 

Liquidity, security, and total access. You'll see, you can bank on us to be better! 
'§:a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
'$25,000 minimum deposit. APY of2.50% (Annual Percentage Yield) in effect until April 30, 2003, atwllid1 time lhe APY will become variable and will change each Sunday to reflect that week's rate. Offer vafid only for newMembers Choice accounts opened wilh funds notcurrently on deposit at Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. Ifthe daily minimum balance falls betow $25.000 on any given day, a $7.00 mon1hly maintenance tee will be assessed against lhe acrount, and the share savings rate will apply, thereby reducing earnings. Funds are federally insured up to $100.000. lndependentof the University. 


AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 7, 2003 

around the dial 
FRIDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
College Basketball Skills Competition 7 p.m., ESPN 

SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL Temple at Massachusetts 12 p.m., ESPN Alabama at Florida 1 p.m., CBS Wisconsin at Northwestern 2 p.m., ESPN Connecticut at Providence 4 p.m., ESPN Michigan State at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Texas at Texas A&M 8 p.m., ESPN2 Louisville at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL NBA Rookie Challenge 4 p.m., TNT NBA Slam Dunk and 3-Point Contests 8 p.m., TNT 
HOCKEY Detroit at Colorado 3 p.m., ABC 
SUNDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 3:30 p.m., ABC Texas Tech at Missouri 1 :30 p.m., ABC Ohio State at Illinois 1 p.m., CBS North Carolina State at Virginia 4 p.m., ESPN 
COMPfLED FROM THE OBSERVER WTRE SERVICES page 19 
GOLF 


father and shot 66. this week by saying Woods won."
Associated Press 

"The real test comes has "inferior" clubs and is No one has won more
NEW YORK 

next week at Torrey the only player "good than Woods among active
It's time for Tiger Woods 

Pines," he said. "That's enough to overcome the players. He has 34 victo­
to get back to work. 

when I will find out how equipment he's stuck ries on the PGA Tour, and
Woods, who spent the 

the knee holds up in com­with." has an 8-0 margin on
last two months recovering 

petition and what, if any, Mickelson later said his Mickelson in the majors. 
from knee surgery, will 

effect walking the course comments to GOLF "I really don't worry
end the longest layoff of 

has on it." Magazine were taken out about other players or
his career next week when 

The Buick Invitational is of context and that he what they think," Woods
he returns to the PGA Tour 

a good spot for him to meant to explain Woods' said. "The real measuring
in San Diego. 

return. talent. stick on the PGA Tour is
"Things are progressing 

Along with having an "I heard it was said in how much you win, and
nicely, and I will officially endorsement deal with fun and jest, but until I that is what drives me to
enter the Buick Invitational on Thursday," Buick, Woods won the talk to him, I really don't compete at such a high Woods said on his web tournament in 1999 and know," Woods said. "Quite level." site. has never finished worse frankly, questioning my Woods has never missed In a conference call last than fifth. equipment is foolish. I'm more than five weeks since week, Woods reported no Plus, it will give him a not going to play with any­turning pro, but recurring pain in his left knee. He chance to visit with Phil thing that is going to hold pain in his left knee forced played 18 holes for the Mickelson, one of his chief me back. My career will be him to have arthroscopic first time Tuesday with his rivals who caused a buzz judged on how much I've surgery Dec. 12. 
IN BRIEF  - 
Justice confirms retirement  staying with the organization in  Blaney is coaching the team in his  
after 14 seasons in baseball  some capacity, possibly in a special  absence.  
David Justice is going through with his decision to retire.  assignment role. Beane said he was playing phone tag with Justice.  Reds win Chen arbitration  
The outfielder said after Oakland's playoff loss to Minnesota that he intended to quit baseball. On Thursday, he reiterated his playing days are over. "Fourteen seasons is long enough," he told ESPN radio. "I have a dimin­ished desire to play." Justice, 36, went to the playoffs 10 times in 12 seasons, winning World Series titles with Atlanta .in 1995 and the New York Yankees in 2000. A three-time All-Star, he also played for Cleveland and Oakland, hitting .266 with 11 homers and 49 RBIs in 118 games last season. He had a .279 career average with 305 homers and 1,017 HBls. lie became a free agent following the World Series and made no effort to  Calhoun deared to coach in three-to-four weeks Connecticut basketball coach Jim Calhoun had his cancerous prostate removed Thursday, and a full recov­ery is expected. The 60-year-old coach will be released from the hospital this weekend and will be able to resume coaching in three-to-four weeks, Dr. Peter Albertsen said, Albertsen, Calhoun·s urologist, said there were no problems during surgery at John Dempsey Hospital. "Coach Calhoun's cancer appears to be confined to his prostate," Albertsen said. The coach was diagnosed with cancer Friday, and doctors said they  The Cincinnati Reds beat Bruce Chen in the first salary arbitration case this year, and the pitcher will make $700,000 this season instead of the $830,000 he asked for. Arbitrators Richard Bloch, Kenneth Perea and I.B. Helburn issued their decision Thursday, a day after hearing the case in St. Petersburg, Fla. The 25-year-old left-hander went 2-5 with a 5.56 ERA in six starts and 49 relief appearances last sea­son, when he made $300,000. Reds general manager Jim Bowden and outside lawyer Mel Southard improved to 8-2 in arbi­tration cases. Just 17 players remain in arbitra­ - 

NBA BASKETBALL NBA All-Star Game 8:30 p.m., TNT 
sign. 
A's general manager Billy Beane said he plans to discuss with Justice caught the disease early. 

Calhoun is in his 17th season at Connecticut, and assistant George tion among the 72 who filed last month. Hearings are scheduled through Feb. 20. 
Friday, February 7, 2003 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 
After slow start, Irish look to keep winning 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spons Writer 
It took five matches -and the worst start in program history -for the Irish finallv to earn their first win of the season. 
Saturday, in West Lafayette, Ind., they hope to make Tuesday's win over Wisconsin the beginning of a win streak. 
After suffering four defeats, the Irish began to miss the thrill of winning matches. They hope the taste of Tuesday's triumph will increase their appetite for victory. 
The Boilermakers, ranked 46th nationally. may prove to be a more formidable foe than the Badgers. Notre Dame dominat­ed Wisconsin, 7 -0. 
"Purdue is a good team," junior Matt Scott said. "They're probably a better team than Wisconsin." 
Both the Irish and the Boilermakers face tough sched­ules this weekend. No. 10 Duke will visit Notre Dame on Sunday. Purdue begins a three-match homestand with a Friday match against Toledo. After Saturday's bout with the Irish, Purdue will contend with No. 57 Western Michigan Sunday. 
Under coach Bobby Bayliss, Notre Dame has never lost to Purdue. Last season, the Irish posted two shutouts against the Boilermakers, including a 4-0 victory in the second round of the NCAA tournament. And it was two current Irish players, sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior Luis Haddock, who clinched the doubles point that turned the tide in that match. Because of those stats, chances are high Purdue will be looking to make a killing against a 1-4 Notre Dame squad that has struggled this season. 
"We're going to expect a bat­tle," Scott said. "It's not an easy place to play. We're up for the challenge. and I like our chances. With [Tuesday's] win, we can use it to boost our confi­dence and take it hard to Purdue." 
A Purdue injury could poten­tially bode well for the Irish. The Boilermakers' number one play­er, Scott Mayor, ranked 120th in the nation, may not play during one of the team's three weekend matches. Mayer had elbow surgery in November and the team does not want to aggravate the injury. 
When Notre Dame welcomes Duke to the Eck Pavilion Sunday, the Blue Devils will either be rejoicing or recovering after their Friday road match with No. 2 Illinois. The Illini defeated the Irish Jan. 29. 
"[The Duke match] will be a tough battle," Haddock said. "Once again, we won't be expected tu win. We have a chance. It's just a matter of trusting ourselves." 
The Blue Devil squad boasts a good deal of talent, including junior Phillip King, who has been ranked as high as second nationally. Additionally, two Duke doubles pairs are top-25 caliber. Duke returns five of the top six players from the 2002 squad that finished ranked 17th after losing to Kentucky in the Round of 16 in last year's NCAA tournament's. 
The Irish believe they are improving and overcoming their inexperience as a whole, and the team wants the win over Wisconsin to carry them mental­ly into this weekend. Additionally, Notre Dame hopes that its four initial defeats will serve as valuable lessons for a young Irish squad. 
"We know it's a process," D'Amico said. "If you do the right things every day, good things will come out of it." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlinclsle@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope to avoid sting 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spores Writer 
To say that Saint Mary's has had a rough 2003 would be an understatement. After winning four games in 2002, the Belles have only won one game since the New Year began, as they have lost eight in a row, with their last win coming on Jan. 8. 
However, Saturday presents the Belles with yet another opportunity to turn things around, as they travel to Kalamazoo to face the Hornets, who are tied for sec­ond place in the MIAA. 
Kalamazoo (12-7, 6-3 in the MIAA), comes off a 56-52 win over Alma, while the Belles (5­15, 1-8}, look to rebound from
-
a 77 -47 loss to Hope. The last time these two teams met, it was a battle until the end, as the Hornets pulled away with a 60-53 victory. These two teams arc evenly 
matched, despite their differ­ent records. Kalamazoo is seventh in the MIAA in scor­ing, and Saint Mary's is eighth, averaging 59.2, and 
57.1 points per game, respec­tively. Another plus for the Belles is that the Hornets are last in the MIAA in team rebounding, averaging only 
31.5 rebounds per game. Saint Mary's has struggled in that department as well, creating an even matchup. 
Sophomore forward Emily Creachbaum leads the Belles averaging 13.3 points, on 50 percent shooting, and 6.3 rebounds. However, she missed Wednesday's game with an ankle injury, and is only averaging 11.1 points and 
3.6 rebounds in conference play. 
Freshman guard Bridget Boyce (7 .8 points per game, 80 percent from the free-throw line). and Anne Hogan (7 .3 points, 5 rebounds). also con­tribute on the offensive end for Saint Mary's. 
Kalamazoo will counter Saint Mary's with some bal­anced scoring of their own, led by Amanda Weishuhn, who is sixth in the MlAA, averaging 
13.6 points per game, to go along with 5.9 rebounds. Vanessa Larkin (11.4 points), and Alissa Johnston (10. 7 points), also average double figures for the Hornets. 
Larkin, who has played well of late, was nominated for the MIAA Player of the Week, as was Saint Mary's point guard Katie Miller. Miller looks to help her team take better shots, as the Belles struggled against Hope, shooting 21 per­cent from the field, and are only averaging 36 percent for the season, while their oppo­nents average 43 percent from the field. 
Saint Mary's and Kalamazoo 
tip  off  at  3  p.m.  at  
Kalamazoo's  Anderson  
Athletic Center.  

Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Meyo 
continued from page 24 
field that could break four minutes," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "We need Luke to run well." 
In addition to Watson, both the mens and womens teams will be looking to continue their strong early season per­formances this weekend. 
The men have been led by their distance group and sprinter Selim Nurudeen. Nurudeen is among the Big East leaders in the 60-meter dash and the 60-meter hur­dles, and is expected to con­tent for the 60-meter hurdles title at the Big East Championships. In addition to Watson, the Irish have many other runners that either are looking to qualify for the Big East Championship or are looking to strengthen their already solid qualifying times for that event. 
"We still need to get a few more people in the Big East," said Piane. 
For the women, the Irish will be looking for continued production from seniors Tameisha King and Jaime Volkmer. Also important will 
be the depth of the Irish 

,l'Spririters, including Big East qualifiers Kymia Love and Kristen Dodd. Lauren King and Molly Huddle will be look­ing to improve on their already strong times in the distance events. The field this weekend will also include many talented athletes, making the Meyo one of the most important indoor meets in the Midwest. The mens and womens teams for Michigan feature NCAA qualifiers, as the mens distance medley relay team also qualified for the NCAA's at the adidas Boston Games. Darnell Talbert will challenge Nurudeen in the 60-meter hurdles. Arkansas' women team fea­tures NCAA mile qualifier Christin Wurth, while Angel Heath, the NCAA runner-up in the long jump last year, will challenge King in that event. Clemson's Joana Costa is also expected to challenge Volkmer in the pole vault. Costa has previously qualified for the 2002 NCAA Championship and is a former ACC Champion in the event. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroger@nd.edu 


R1lllin1 lrlsh Ian's Lacroae 
t <3°'11\e ,Scrimmage vs. MLL Stars ~\fl.e "{eo.-r-Saturday, February 8th 
Loftus Fieldhouse 
7pm 

Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MENS SWIMMING 
Oakland provides last chance to break even 
By LISA REIJUlA 
Sports Wrircr 
Notre Dame's mens swimming and diving team will have one last chance to get back to .500 this weekend. The Irish will travel to Rochester. Mich., for a dual meet against Oakland University Saturday. 
Last weekend the Irish beat Cleveland State before losing by the slimmest of margins to St. Bonaventure on the last relay. Notre Dame currently has a dual meet record of 6-7. 
"We want to finish out the season strong," freshman Patrick Heffernan said. "We need to get some races in and we'd like Lo get a win." 
Notre Dame showed its fighting side against the talented Bonnies. Down for the majority of the meet, the Irish ral­lied to gain a slight lead before the heartbreaking finish. 
Oakland (8-5) and Notre Dame have faced several of the same opponents over the course of the season. Both teams foll to a tough Pittsburgh team, and both also beat Michigan State. However. the Grizzlies defeated St. Bonaventure on the road in January. 
A standout for Oakland this season has been freshman Scott Dickens. Dickens set new Mid-Continent Conference records in both the 100 and 200-meter breaststrokes this year. 
Named the conference's Newcomer of the Year and Co-Swimmer of the Year, Dickens is also a member of the Canadian National Junior Team. 
Dickens earned four medals for Canada at the Australian Youth Olympic Festival and is aiming for the 2004 Olympic Games. He will be a for­midable opponent for the Irish on Saturday. 
''It should be an exciting meet for us,'' Heffernan said. 'There will be a lot of good races and I think we're up for it." 
The Irish will compete in the biggest meet of the season in two weeks, when the Big East Championships arc held in Uniondale, N.Y. The conference cham­pionships have been the long-term goal and focus of the team all year. 
"We're going to rest and get geared up for the big show that's coming up," said Heffernan of the team's plans. 
The meet is scheduled to start Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 


FENCING 
Different goals this weekend at Duke Duals 
ByMAITLOZAR Sports Editor 
After two weekends of facing top competition, the mens and womens squads have two dif­ferent goals at this weekend's Duke Duals. 
The womens team (12-2) looks to rebound from losses the past two weekends to No. 4 Ohio State and No. l Penn State. With no top 10 teams on the schedule this weekend, the Irish should be able to address their areas of concern. 
"We are doing not bad. I am pleased but not happy," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We have a lot of work to do. We need to improve the best fencers and get them to 
lt\Xl(1"1J 's;Nll 

win the bouts that they can. responded well with an overall While the women are We also need to improve the record of 97-29, including a attempting to get their confi­weak part of our team which 57-15 mark last weekend. dence back, the mens team is sabre. and we are working Even with Bednarski trying (14-0) is trying to avoid a let­hard to get to build the down after defeating No. 4 this." high team Ohio State and No. 1 Penn 
The womens "We are doing not bad. I cohesion State during the past two sabre team has necessary to weeks.
am pleased but not

been the weak­win the "It is another a problem, but ness in Notre happy." national we can't celebrate too long," Dame's two champi­Bednarski said. "We started losses this onship, cur­training right after the compe­
Janusz Bednarski 

year. In those r e n t tition which was related with
Irish coach
setbacks, the sabre team went a com­bined 3-15. Junior captain Destanie Milo missed the Ohio State Duals due to an illness and is still getting hack into form. Milo's illness forced Bednarski to use his not-so­deep bench, but they have 


Wednesday, february OS Nm DeBartolo Hall, 7:311 pm Aulhor of HarnbsU, recep1ion ii Ille Cotem,m-Morse lounge featuring music of sludent acappella gmup 8~ Yelow Tad 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF '67ND 
Thurlday,Febrwry 06 -LaFortune &allroom 7:30 pm Aulhor of loyal Soos and D•Uf}Me!l ol Noire Dame: AMemoir of Noire Dame, ttVipoosored by Cavanaugh Coffeell-Ouse, leallring Ilia musi:ol female acappella group Harmonia, booll S11Jning, and rern.shrn,nts 
N!Kl<.I l'.jlOVNlNI 
Saturday, February oa ~ Jordan Alldllorlum, Men~oza COM, l'..lOpm 
Poelof Ollillng fhe Black-Eyed Pea and love POllllls, 1n-odtx:tory ramarils by NO head loolbal coa;;h Ty Willingham 
Co 111on&(l(ed by !he Hammes Nolte Dame BookslOre. lhe College o/ Aris &Lellers, Gender Sludies Program, 
OepMmenl o/ English, lhe Crealiv@ Wntu,g Pl1ll)lafl\ and lhe Oepartmenl of African and Ahican-American Studies 
STUDENT SLAM Sumlt1y, rebruary 0~ N Washington Hall, 1:30 pm FealUrng slUdenl slam poelS and SJ)Oicl!ll•WOld arlisls in a!Wlti-media slyle, followed by an oper>-mic ~sioo 
JOE GARDEN Mond~y.febMry 10 • WashlnglonHal~7:30pm One alf<mlng lalhtn o1 The Ono!, 11troductory remalks by NO profe5501 of art Robert Sedlack 
rOO!lllion lo fol-OW in ~e basemenlo/Zllhm Hall 
HEUlnCOVR[ lueidav, febnrary 11 • Washington Hall 7:JO pm ,umro1 n-.rea!f)li!ln in ll!Fortuae Ballroom r.,l!Jring I/re rmJSJC o/ male acapp,la grQttp The Undenanes 
JOIIW BUFFALO t-WI.ER 
Wednesday,rebnrary 12 • Washington Hall 7:30 pm 
/llaJY,rlPl!<:t,, ol'llelo.Herman' receptioo i" lhe laFo~uneBalkoom lo loflow 
llD UNPLUGGED II lllur1d11Y, Febnrary ll N Lafortune Huddle, 9:00 p,m, -1:00 a.m, Students and lactJll'f of lhe University of Notre Dame, Holy Cross Co!ege and S3inl Mary's College !howcase Iller 
wort as smger-songNril!!rs, poets, ftcilon and noo-ftclion Wlllers, spoken-word a~isls, essa~sls, and >1sual artrs~ 
dcm•lkrns will h•fi,,,Jt th• Sl JQ.aph County I.Jttwacy Courte/1 for morw lrtfom1..1tJon. confKI fl,fpt,t,•n Marfin (rnrn•rl16'f!lnd.edu) or Jotrtrt• CorrnnH Ut:CJttMef@nd.edu) 
m.111edtt'%7Ersfa'ISWfflll<)?es'1heM~so!IOlirOJIJiJ1I 

improve-talks about the situation that ments need we can't celebrate too long. to be made "[Penn State] is a better 
in a one-on-one situation. team than us, but it is good 
"Each fencer is an individ­news for us that we beat ual, and we have individual them." workouts," Bednarski said. The toughest competition for "We talk in training and are the mens team this weekend preparing them for bouts in will come from No. 6 Stanford. high tension situations. " Earlier this season at Penn State, the Cardinal lost 16-11 to the defending national champion Nittany Lions. Despite his team having defeated the top-ranked squad, Bednarski knows this match is dangerous. 
"They are a top team which always is in the top six in the country. We will check them out because we hear they are pretty strong but not super strong like Penn State," he said. "They are a dangerous team and have big individuals who can take others to victory. We have to be very focused this weekend." 
The Irish will be tested by the Cardinal mens foil squad. Junior Mark Mulholland and sophomore Steve Gerbermann each earned All-American honors at last year's NCAA Championships. Gerbermann defeated mens foil captain Ozren Debic for third place 15-9. 
Coming into the Duke Duals. the mens team looks to extend its 73-match winning streak, which is currently third longest in school history. 
Other schools scheduled to compete in Durham, N.C., this weekend include Air Force, the host Blue Devils, Johns Hopkins and North Carolina. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.«lu 

Friday, February 7, 2003 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish know Hokies present tough challenge 
By JOE HETTLER 
SPorts Editor 
Notre Dame won their sec­ond consecutive game Wednesday night against Georgetown and played their best half of 
too, as four starters score in double figures. 
Virginia Tech has been close in almost all of their games this season. They lost by just 12 to No. 1 Connecticut on the road. two to No. 22 Villanova and one point in overtime to 
Miami. The 

basketball Hokies are
'They have a tremendous

this season in coming off
home court record over

the second back-to-back half. But more the last three orfour conference importantly wins over
years. It's a really tough 

for the Irish, Providence 
they had fun place to play." 
and Seton in the Hall. process. "They've
Muffet McGraw 

" [ T h e just got a
frish coach

Georgetown] game was a great confidence builder for us," Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "Now we know how good we can be. We had a lot of fun too. Basketball was fun again and that was probably the best thing that came out of that game." 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame not many teams have fun when visiting Virginia Tech, the team the Irish face Saturday at 2 p.m. 
The Hokies, 15-5, 6-3 in conference, are 10-0 at home this season, while just 5-5 on the road or at neutral sites. 
"They have a tremendous home court record over the last three or four years," McGraw said. "It's a really tough place to play. So we have our work cut out for us." 
Junior forward leva Kublina, who averages 15.1 points per game, leads Virginia Tech, while Erin Gibson adds 11.8 points per contest. The Hokies distribute the scoring wealth 
really solid 
f i V e , " McGraw said. "Kublina is very difficult to guard. She can shoot threes and score inside; she can do a lot of good things." 
However, this may be a dif­ferent Notre Dame team from a week ago. They've got a lot more confidence and it'd showed against the Hoyas. Notre Dame had four players score in double figures and used a 23-0 run to cruise to a conference win. 
McGraw said she knows that the Irish are facing another formidable foe on the road, but she thinks her team will be ready for the challenge. 
"They have a very talented team and they're on a roll," McGraw said. "Every game is important now for us. We really need to go down there and play well." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Title IX 
continued from page 24 
a little bit was the widely accepted solution." 
One final recommendation that the committee discussed involved interest surveys and what part they played in decid­ing how many men and women participate in each sport. McGraw and the committee agreed that it would not be wise to base the number of partici­pants just on an interest survey. 

"Women have not always known they were interested in sports," McGraw said. "Look at the crew team. We had 140 women go out for the crew team, when probably 139 of them didn't row in high school. So I think there's a great exam­ple of how women are interest­ed." 
McGraw also expressed con­cern at the meeting for walk­ons. Under Title IX, walk-ons are counted in the percentage of men and women in each sport. 
But the committee recommend­ed that walk-ons not be counted in these percentages. 
"We as a committed group didn't think that was fair, so we voted that walk-ons not even be counted in that proportion," McGraw said. 
The group made their final recommendations Jan. 31 and submitted them to Secretary of Education Rod Paige. 

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Andrew Our love and best wishes for a Happy 21st Birthday 
Mom, Dad, and Dana 
-



Author5. . 
Meet 

~ning 
Nikki Giovanni Saturday February 8th 4:30-5:30 pm in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Lecture-Sophomore Literary Festival 
Saturday February 8th 

7:30 pm in the Jordan Auditorium, ~Iendoza College of Business 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
ptton(': (574) 631-6~U. • www.ndboolutor('.COITI 
Open to the public• Convenient parking 


-----------~--~ ~ -----­
Friday, February 7, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

------------------------------------------------------------~------------­
-
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
COVt.D 'lbU HHP t,,\E? 
I'M AAVIN'=f 1WJ6t£ 
W12rflt-lq MY ~SUM€-. 
HAPPY TOWN 
CAMPUS ANNOUNCEMENT: 
BLUTO FOR PRESIDENT/ 
PARIETALS ARE HISTORY[ 
SYRs ARE BACK! 

All of your adoleacent fanta&ies And so is hard alcohol! And ..,.""""'""" fulfilled, when we magically abolish how about... free jet packs! Parietals! Navermlnd the fact that VE.AHi Just like running for the Notre Dame would probably a real political office (except tear.gas South Quad before more pathetic), our plat-•-,, 
rescinding Parietels, we'll make it form Is built on completely happen! Student government has undeliverable (and generally power and authority, honest! 111-advfsed) promises! 
VOTE CRAIG BLUTO. Because all this Is really going to matter to you in 4 years. 
'\I~ I.ED A SELFIS lCISTE.NCE OF NEDI tz£ ~r.Acn;;s ANt> 
.'lo~ SEE,A 
'-IME-ISN'f DCN MU:'.IT. SASWCIN E:A11VE: 
I 
JACK MONAHAN 
JUMBLE 
~[!
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PYTEM ±
rJ r J 
Cl2003 Trllune Media Servlcea. Inc_ 
AJI Righta ReseNect 
YUSHK ! 
I I t J 
SENFUI 
I rJ trJ 

MS: 

HIS c r r r 1 r r J"( 1 r r J" 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday'  Jumbles  QUAIL  BUILT  EASILY  RATION  
s  Answer:  A new mixer can crea te this ­ QUITE A  
STIR  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT HE REACHED V'll-EN t-£ COvf'U=TW THI= MOUNTAIN 
RAC.I:, 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

1 She's available 57 Protesters, for future 33 Unfavorably sometimes reference 
34 One may pass 58 Record holder a Sun blocker the buck 35 Crossways
15 Like some 
DOWN

subsidiary 36 Invoice inclusion buildings 1 Tours toast
37 "_ the law" 1e Walk this way 2 Febrero follows
38 Hard heads? 
it

11 Chow holders 
40 Papal vestment J Pass

11 Fairy slipper 42 Recent 
and lady's­
additions to la 4 Tum into 

tresses 
familia something else 19 Scamp 43 Simple s Send 20 Way to deliver a 4-4 19th-century 
& Not obscured 

barb journalist/ politician_ 
1 1960's march 21 Out-and-out 

organizers: 22 Carpet meas. Abbr. 
Kendall 

4e Some charity 23 Ran runs a One of Indiana's
2s Unisex so Chuck symbolswraparound 52 Holy terror?
skirt of 9 Sure competitor 
53 Test group?

Polynesia 
PUZZie by Slle"Y 0. lllackard 54 Embellish 
to Invoice abbr. 

v It's molded in 2e Unir1tuitive thing 39 Lion tormentors 49 Sweetness or
11 "Arrow of God"

the kitchen 55 "No kidding!" for language bitterness
novelist Chinua 41 Ogle
learners ~ Up s1 Sash contents

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
29 Gothic 
-~e"T":''l":"'I 12 Oranges in a 
monument 45 They're hard to 52 Canis Major D E gallery, perhaps see through


ACI ~~..,;;;,, US neighbor
30 #1 hit by the

T H T 13 Disney tear­
5 Crystals .c1 Some Japanese
E jerker 53 It may be
descendants glossed over
14 Fleur-de-_ 31 Adam and Eve 
48 1971 title role Speaker of a 32 Bellyache for Sutherland s,c ·0Id man" E sort 
22 Political For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a L reformer Low 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. and others 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
R 
24 Handouts crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

1 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 D ',:-to~'+.:--N 2fl Romance past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).A R ~,.+,,~ s novelist's award 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leamin1;1 Network, s o ~:::..&..:..J,;,,;. E E 21 Beautiful people nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year  ..  
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester  
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip.______  ...  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIE5 BORN ON TIIlS DAY: James Sixwer, Garth Brook.5, Tma Majorinc OllisRock 
Happy Birthday: Your good seru;e and intuitioo will lead you in the right dinxtioo. Fals, 
infrnmtim am misguicbl fiieirl; rmy by to Ital yoo astray, but as kng as yoo keep your wit about you. everything will tum inyour raver. Yoo can rooify any jICX)lelm that mve rem hangini overywr!mquickly. Yo.rnmrhnare8, 19, 7:1, 36,43,48 
ARIFS (March 21-April 19): You will intrigue ahers with your ideas. If you aren't sell employed, yoo soould ami<b-stuting your oo-n rusi=. You have what it lakes to beam 
=ful.-ktt 'L\URUS (A!ri 20-May 20): Toke it =Y wmi craling with an WljRdictable per.;a1 wh might resat to harsh wcrd<i or violeoce. Argwrents will ooly lead to tiustratim and anxiel) Om;eyour rattles carefully. -ktt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be taken advanlage of if you doo\ read agreem:nt tixroJghly. Leg;:il advice may be required if you doo\ fully inmtmd the implicatioos bein1 
mad:.-ktt 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be fuced with WJcel1ainties wmi: relatiooshi~ 311 crncemed. Make plans to get togetln with liienls woo lllKffitll1d your fiustrntim. The trcaJ will cb yoo gccxl tt LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need a challenge in your life that will get your mind racing Your ability to listen to ahas and to rely m !ll5l e,qx:rience will enable yoo to rmke !Ir righ drices. The future k:d.s !:right tt--ktt VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sqlt. 22): Rest soould be your gwl IO'.lay. Ifyou overoo, you will rnak, mislakes. Toke ell thing at atnre and <hi\push !Irenvelqle even ifsan:cn: is putting~ 
ooyoo-ktt 

LIBRA (Sqlt. 23-0d. 22): Listen, rut doo\ take everything yoo're told as tring !Ir IIUth_ 0 your own investigatioo and get the answeis you're looking for. Avoid idle g=ip. ti SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Somme may have a greater interest in yoo than yoo realiz.e Be careful ID to kt tins per.;a1 get !Ir MOOg irrµesooL Think carefully befCie giving finaocia 
~-ktt 

SAGDTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Ywr best oot1et will be physical activity that gets you lrartjXlllµng 300 yourjuices fkM.ing. Toke astandm ~yoo relieve in. Ifa lealer is m:oo:! cx:md:r yanselfaauxlicble. tt--ktt 
-
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Love inlerests will develqi IIXlay ifyoo are single, or YDI can infuse 11:W life into the relatiooship yoo're currently in A greater seme ofwoo yoo are 3111 whatyoo want will mike yoo vay attraaive. tt AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Dm\ bie sight ofyour gools. Mistakes will be mad: ifYCJ1 
doo\iny d:6eattmticn Om\ ieave311)'1hing IOchaoce tttt ~(Feb. 19-Man:h 20): Crncentrate m cbing thing<, that create !Ir freewn to woo alone so that you doo't have to deal with other people's incompetence. You can malo progress and experience the satisfaction of completing things all by yourself. **j 
Birthlay Baby: The aclicn yoo lake wrn\ always l:Iingyoo the results yoo're Wcing fer. Lean patieoce. Yoo will have a~anitooe 300 a stJmg cksire to rmke scnrlhing ofyour lif< 
Oleck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGHT:.xXD UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICAlE 
-


PORTS 
Friday, February 7, 2003 

TRACK 
Watson chasing a record 
. Irish host quality field at Meyo Invitational 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

Having already qualified for the NCAA Indoor Championships in the 3,000 meters, Irish senior Luke Watson will be looking to add another great performance to the Irish record books Saturday as Notre Dame hosts the annu­al Meyo Invitational. 
The Meyo Invitational. held tonight and Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center, will high­Iight many of the top teams in the nation. Michigan, Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Windsor and Michigan State will be sending both their mens and womens teams, while Georgetown is sending only their men's team. Also compet­ing on the womens side are Arkansas, Maryland, Clemson and Tulane. 
In what could become the signature event of this year's Invitational. Watson will be looking to become the second Notre Dame runner ever to break the sub-four minute mile barrier against an elite field. 
"There are five guys in the 
see MEYO/page 20 

TITLE IX 
McGraw plays role on committee 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Edi tor 
When a representative of the White House called Muffet McGraw early last summer, the Irish coach thought her hus­band was 

playing a joke on her. 
But it was no joke w h e n President B u s h appointed McGraw to 

a 15-mem-McGraw ber commit­

-
tee called the Commission on Opportunity in Athletics in late June 2002. The group was to consider two-dozen recommen­dations concerning the opportu-


Notre Dame's Luke Watson competes In a meet against Ball State earlier this year. The senior looks to become the Just second Irish runner to break a sub-four minute mite. 
nities for male and female stu­dent-athletes at college and evaluate the Title IX law. 
Title IX has been a controver­sial issue since it was imple­mented in 1972. It states that 
colleges and universities must have an equal percentage of men and women play­ing sports as the percent­age of men and women enrolled in the school. 
improve the current law. 
"Our charge was to listen to anybody that wanted to come to any of four town hall meetings across the country and hear anyone that had experiences 
"We were supposed to listen, gather information and from that information make recommendations. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
with Title IX," McGraw said. "We were sup­posed to listen, gather infor­mation and from that information make recom­mendations." 
The commis­sion started with 24 rec­law. 

One proposal said that schools should have 50 percent male athletes and 50 percent female athletes, no matter what per­centage of men and women attended the institution. That proposal tied at seven votes apiece. 
McGraw said she voted against that issue because she didn't want to lose opportuni­ties. 
The committee also voted on whether to keep and clarify the Title IX law. That recommenda­tion passed with a unanimous 15-0 vote. 
"We wanted to clarify [the law] for everybody," McGraw said. "That passed 15-0, so it was interesting that kind of leaving it alone, but clarifying it 
see TITLE IX/page 22 
MENS LACROSSE 
Irish host talented 
pro squad 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens lacrosse team will take on a team composed of current professional players, includ­ing several former Irish play­ers, in a scrimmage Saturday at 7 p.m. in Loftus. 
The Irish, who are ranked 17th in this year's Inside Lacrosse Magazine preseason poll, will face 11 teams ranked in the preseason top 25 this year. 
This weekend's scrimmage will be a good benchmark for the Irish, who are coming off a somewhat disappointing 5-8 record from last year. 
"This is a great way to pre­pare ourselves for the sea­son," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We won't play a more talented team all year. We may play teams with bet­ter chemistry, but no one with better talent." 
Corrigan said the Irish opponent this weekend is "a bunch of guys" who make up some of the finest lacrosse talent in the world. 
Included on that team are Todd Rassas, a three time All­American while at Notre Dame; two-time Irish All­American Jimmy Keenan and the first All-American in Notre Dame history, Tom Glatzel. 
Corrigan said the team might have the two best offensive players in the world today, as well as a defense that includes three members of the U.S. National Team. 
"This will be a great test for us, not just man-to-man, but also to see how we play as a team," Corrigan said. 
The Irish will need to start strong this season, as their first game is a road matchup against No. 15 Penn State. Starting was no problem for the Irish last year; it was fin­ishing that was the team's Achilles' heel. 
Out of the eight Irish losses last year, six were one-goal games, and three were decid­ed in overtime. 
"We just couldn't seem to get over that hump," Corrigan said. "I think we're a little more determined this year." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
This law has been criticized for hurting male sports while praised for improving female participation in athletics. 
The commission was sup­posed to suggest ways to ommendations at the end of the four town hall meetings, and passed 22. McGraw said about half of the recommendation were general, while the other 11 were specific to changing the 

en 
ND WOMENS BBAlL 
MENS SWIMMING 
FENCING 

MENS TENNIS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame at 
Saint Mary's at 
Pittsburgh at
1---'-'LLI Virginia Tech 
Oakland 
Duke Invitational 

Purdue 
Kalamazoo 
Notre Dame
ccs 
Sunday, 2 p.m. 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday 
Sunday, 3:30 p.m.

Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
The Irish can secure a
The Irish look to get

.. c,: 
Irish squads look to 
A pair of top 10 teams

After rough start, the 
Belles look to break an 
7-7 dual meet record
third straight win with 
dominate competition 
battle when the Irish host 

Irish look for their sec­
eight-game losing streak 
road victory over Hokies. 
with win over Oakland. 
down Tobacco Road. 
the Panthers Sunday. 

ond win at Purdue. 
the Hornets. 
D. tc 
en 
page 22 
page 21 
page 21 
page 20 

page 20 
Insider 

-







