
VOL XXXVII NO. 88 OIT OKs online election 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
A total of 1,361 votes later, the first onHne mock election result­ed in the victory of the Knute Rockne-Tyrone Willingham tick­et, as well as the certainty that 
students will have t h e i r Orst real online election Monday. 

"It's a go," said Dave Mastic, Web technology administrator for the Office of Information Technologies. 
Members of OIT monitored the Monday mock elections, where students chose between eight tickets that included Notre Dame-related celebrities such as Hegis Philbin, Condoleezza Hice and Phil Donahue. 
The most frequent problem encountered, Mastic said, was students' inability to vote because of security features on their browsers. Many students have secured their computers against cookies, which are stored on the hard drive and enable the server to store infor­mation about the user regarding Web activity. 
"It's necessary to have cookie 
see ELECTION/page 3 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Library renovations on schedule 
. Setond floor now has wireless Internet access 
By KRISTEN KLEIN 
News Writer 
Renovations to the Hesburgh Library basement are well underway and patrons now find the air filled with the smells of fresh paint and sawdust ema­nating from the basement along with the sounds of hammers, drills, and other equipment. 
The renovations are sched­uled to be completed before the fall semester begins. The base­ment, formerly known as the pit for its old tile floor, low ceiling, '70s style lunch benches and dark atmosphere, will be only a 
, memory come August. lnstead, students will find tile work with the university seal, a service desk, government documents, 700,000 books, a study area., microfilm, microfiche and the microfilm readers. "l can promise that this August the basement will be open and will offer wireless Internet access," said Marsha Stevenson, renovation coordina­tor and head of the reference department. The study area will have new furniture, carpeting and booths along the walls. The books and microfiche will be stored in movable shelving, which pro­vides more room by placing shelves of books on rails, allow­ing them to be pushed together. This method of storage does not require an aisle in between 


BETH QUINN/The Observer Renovations to the Hesburgh Library basement are on schedule and will be completed for the fall 2003 semester. The new basement will Include a service desk, storage space for 700,000 books, a study area, mlcrofllm, microfiche and microfilm readers all for student use. 
shelves, increasing the amount of available storage space. To access the books, a person decides what shelf he needs and presses a button to have the shelves move apart. 
"Without [movable shelving] we have maxed out our collec­tion and would have to take out reader tables or store the collec­tion at another site," said Stevenson. 
The relocation of the micro­film collection will help staff bet­ter organize the collection. 
Notre Dan1e celebrates black history 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Simply themed "Celebrate Black History Month 2003," a series of events to commemo­rate the history of blacks in America began Tuesday and will continue through Mar. 3. Sponsored by the Department of African and African­American Studies, events will feature a broad range of art forms including music, film­making, several lectures and a food workshop. 
The month started with an event entitled "A Taste of African-American Food, Culture & History," featuring two speakers who discussed how food is linked to black culture, said Keith Lee, assistant direc­tor for Program Development and Operations. Lee said black dishes, like fried chicken and okra, were available for people to sample while the speakers, John Charles Bryant and Danny Chambliss, talked about the sig­nificance of these foods. 
According to Lee, the events are intended to bring about a better appreciation for black culture. 
"We hope to show that African-American culture is linked to American culture through art, film and an appre­ciation of Africa," he said. 
Events will wrap-up Mar. 3 with a lecture that Lee said was already planned prior to the planning of Black History Month. 
"We believe that while February is the month desig­nated for Black History Month, we should celebrate it through the year," Lee said. 
Christy Fleming, assistant professional specialist in the First Year of Studies and Gina Shropshire are the coordinators for the events. Fleming, who said she tries to get involved in anything involving blacks, said that there was not much of a celebration last February and from observing the itinerary of events at other schools, Fleming felt that something should be done. 
"Since Notre Dame is one of the leading institution in the community, we felt that we should be putting on some­thing," said Fleming. 
Fleming said that she hopes that a majority of students will attend the events because, although their primary intent is to uplift students who have black heritage, they are not just for minorities. 
"[The celebration] is not just for African-Americans, although they are the focus," she said. "We needed to have programs to reflect who we are but everything is open to the South Bend community." 
Fleming said students like Jemar Tisby and Tona Boyd, who are helping to organize a Mar. 2 prayer service. have been a big help. In an attempt to spread the events out, she said that they decided to have the service in March because ¥ebruary is the shortest month of the year and she wanted the prayer service to be the last event on the program. 
Fleming hopes that the events will be able to bring across awareness and understanding in light of all the talks and dis­cussions in the recent past about affirmative action. 
Contact Natasha Grant at ngrant@nd.edu 
"The staff are all excited and anxious to move and get the col­lection in order," said Barbara Connelly, access services super­visor. 
The second floor of the library has also been renovated to offer wireless Internet access. Students who have a registered wireless card in their computer can access the Internet from anywhere on the floor. Students can get assistance regarding obtaining and registering a wireless card by calling the Office of Information Technologies at 631-8111. 
Stevenson said that electri­cians are currently working on wiring the first floor for wireless Internet access, with the even­tual goal of having wireless Internet access throughout the building. 
In addition, according to Diane Kennedy, computer appli­cations specialist, the study rooms on the second floor now 
see LIBRARY/page 3 


Board sanctions ND election candidates 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Associate News Editor 

The Judicial Board sanc­tioned presidential and vice presidential candidates Mike Bott and Mike Kirsh for violat­ing three election bylaws while serving as deejays at the Cavanaugh and Knott/Lewis dances last weekend. 
No additional campaign materials will be approved for the candidates until after the general election on Feb. 10. 
According to Judicial Council Vice President of Elections Matt Corgan, the most serious violation was the fact that the candidates hung an unapproved sign at the two dance venues that stated "Vote Mike and Mike." 
"We thought that it was pretty clear that not submit­ting the sign for the required signatures was a violation of the bylaws," said Corgan. 
In a response to the sanc­tion. Bott and Kirsh said they likened the sign to writing "Vote Mike and Mike" on a whiteboard hung outside of their rooms because it was alfIXed to their personal prop­erty and not distributed throughout campus. However, Bott said he does understand that ruling. 
"I think out of all the bylaws we were accused of violating, I admit that this was the one we should have been more careful about. We misinterpreted the rule," said Bott. 
The sanction means that the candidates will no longer be able to produce new campaign materials until after the gener­al election, including updating their Web site, but will be able to continue to distribute exist­ing campaign materials. 
If the candidates are in the run-off election, they will be able to produce new materials. 
Bott said the sanction should not have a large impact on their campaign. 
see SANCTION/page 6 page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, February 5, 2003 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Reality of Heartland 
The biting cold and the faint throbs of Kylie's, "Can't Get You Out Of My Head" were some of the last things that I remember whlle braving the wmeces­sarily long wait outside of Heartland last Thursday 
night. And then of course, something else happened that would vividly stand out in my mind­seeing my friend publicly and cruelly humiliated because of ignorance. 


The sad part is Klflin Turner that she wasn't turned away 
Associate
because ofa 

News Editor 
shameless fake or 
because she 

copped an attitude with the bouncer. 
After my friend presented the bounc­
er with a legitimate Puerto Rican ID, he 
promptly responded that she needed a 
passport, because he alleged, Puerto 
Ricans need those to enter into the U.S. 
That someone could be so ridiculously 
dense I can easily forgive. Perhaps he 
didn't have geography lessons in school. 
Or maybe he didn't pay attention in 
school at all. Whatever the excuse, 
there was none for what he would 
eventually decide to say. 

Following much idiotic rambling, he 
finally said that he didn't want to allow 
admittance to Puerto Ricans anyway 
and dismissed someone based on her 
nationality. 

My friend will never go back there 
again. And perhaps none ofmy other 
friends will either. Frankly, it might not · make a huge difference. Honestly, I'm not sure ifit's the best solution either. 
In a way, never going back could be 
interpreted as submitting to the igno­
rant ideas espoused by one person. 
Thinking back on all the great social 
movements, change was never brought 
about by running away from a problem. 
The management explained to my 
friend that the incident was not racially 
motivated because the bouncer was in 
fact a minority as well. They refused to 
return phone calls and subsequently 
avoided hearing any other complaints. 
This blatant disregard for an individ­
ual's rights however, pushed me to re­
evaluate how I could possibly continue 
to frequent and support an establish­
ment that not only employs individuals 
who openly discriminate, but condones 
this behavior as well. 

Terminating the bouncer, or perhaps 
issuing an apology on behalf of the 
employee, would have placated things a 
bit. But justifying ignorance with more 
of it is inexcusable. Trunking about that 
night takes me back to a couple of years 
ago when Denny's on US 31 arrested 
two black students for apparent!Y. no 
reason. It seems like our South Bend 
community, as well as other South 
Bend's all over this country still have a 
great deal to learn. 

As students, we are constantly urged 
to step out of the Notre Dame bubble 
and expand our knowledge and experi­
ences. But for those who can never 
really escape from the bubble-mentality 
of racism and ignorance, there contin­
ues to exist an invisible boundary that 
at times makes itself more visible. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kiflin Turner at ktumer@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Viewpoint section ofTucsday's paper, the headline incorrectly said the pro-choice conference that four Saint Mary's students attended was spon­sored by the National Organization for Women. However, the conference was sponsored by the Feminist Majority Foundation. The Observer 
regrets the f!tr~r, • ..: . 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
GSU debates benefit bash 
The Graduate Student Union debated Tuesday a proposal which would use its $4,000 surplus to sponsor a benefit event for a charity. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Bush rededicates nation to space travel 
President Bush paid tribute to the seven astronauts from the space shuttle Columbia at a memorial at Mission Control in Houston Tuesday. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Heading or 1/ardball: A Season in the Projects by author Daniel Coyle, sponsored by the Sophomore Literary Festival 
7:30 p.m. at DcBartolo Hall room 155 
. 
Deadline for housing contracts 5 p.m. at Main Building 

. 
Student senate will be discussing the stu­d c n t activity fee at its weekly meeting 6 p.m. at the Notre Dame room of LaFortune 

. 
Faculty Senate Meeting 7 p.m. at McKenna llall 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Statewide wheelchair rugby scrimmage in recognition of disability awareness week 2 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility 

. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics Meeting 7 p.m. at Madeleva llall room 317N 

. 
Environmental science lecture, "Sustain­able Development, Poverty and the World Environment," given by Donald lluisingh, University of Tennessee 


7:30 p.m. at the Carroll Auditorium 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled fettuccine, cheese and mushroom spinach tortelli­ni, alfredo sauce, italian sausage mari­nara, mexican beef pizza. pretzel sticks, polish sausage, sweet and sour cab­bage, polish kluski noodles, potato and cheese pierogi, whipped potatoes, grilled tuna with lemon, asparagus tips and cuts, sloppy joes, pepper tangerine chicken 
Today's Dinner: Roast, sauteed herb mushrooms, green bean casserole, brown sauce, chicken gray, orzo porto­bello and cream, italian blend vegeta­bles, baked potatoes, kung pao chicken, plain rice, buffalo chicken wings, italian blend vegetables 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
I.II 

8 :c 
~ 
..I 
<
(.) 


.s HIGH 22 HIGH 18 
LOW 16 LOW 16 
BUSINESS NEWS 
NASA contractors take a beating 
Stocks of NASA contractors fell as investors attempt­ed to gauge the impact of the Columbia accident on their business. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Puerto Rican not allowed at Heartland 
In a letter to the editor, a senior reflects on being denied entrance to Heartland because the bouncer allegedly told her, "We don't want 
Puerto  Ricans  
here."  
page 9  

SCENE 

Snapshots of Life 
Scene reviews two feature pho­tography exhibits, which portray two drastically different facets of American culture. 
page 10 

SPORTS 
Irish have best start ever heading into second half 
Coach Mike Brey has lead the mens basketball team lo its best start ever in Big East play this year. 
page 15 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee reports assault 
An employee reported being struck by another employee at the LaFortune Student Center on Monday morning. 

Wallet found in DeBartolo 
NDSP found a student wallet in DeBartolo Hall on Tuesday morning 

Vehicles towed for violations 
NDSP towed vehicles Monday from the Moose Krause Circle, the Post Office and the Joyce Center. 

Cell phone taken 

A visitor reported that his cell phone was taken from the Hesburgh Library while he was studying Monday night. 

Staff members lose card 
Two staff members reported Monday that they lost their Kontrol Kards while at an off-campus location. 

Staff member loses tag 
A staff member reported losing his parking hang tag at an off­campus location. 

Unlocked bicycles found 
NDSP found two unlocked bicycles on Monday morning, one in the Library reflecting pool and one next to the radiation research building. 

Cell phones found at Joyce Center 
NDSP found several cell phones in the lost and found at the Joyce Center on Monday morning. 
-

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken ori­ental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans & rice, corn dogs, fishwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzels, stir-fry beef & peppers, chicken fajita: 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables mari­nara , capri-blend vegetables, baked turbot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, kluski noodles. bourbon-baked ham, baked sweet potatoes, pancakes, scrambled eggs, sausage links, sweet & sour chicken tenders 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

HIGH 25 HIGH 22 LOW 7 LOW 12 
lnforma(ion compiled from NDSP blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Grilled hummus baguette, herb pasta, cous cous salad, sweet & sour shrimp, fruit & cheese bar, grilled roast beef wrap, herb rice pilaf, sausage pizza, cheese calzones, BLT loafer, tuna salad, sliced honey ham, sliced turkey, hummus, cream of broccoli soup, chicken & rice soup, cole slaw 
Today Dinner: Vegetarian panini, herb pasta, garden tomato sauce, baked potatoes, roasted root vegetable, egg foo yong bar with fried rice and sauce, wings & things bar, spaghetti & meat­balls. asparagus spears. vegetable med­ley, cheese pizza, santa fe pizza, sicilian surimi casserole 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 31 HIGH 28 LOW 17 LOW 11 
Atlanta 52 / 39 Boston 34 / 18 Chicago 64 / 48 Denver 30 / 14 Houston 56 / 51 Los Angeles 68 / 45 Minneapolis 14 / 1 . New York 35 / 21 Philadelphia 36 / 20 Phoenix 65 I 41 Seattle 50 / 33 St. Louis 32 / 27 Tampa 69 / 52 Washington 40 / 26 
: :~ 

·-•-• IL-• I 1. I I, \ l , , L I I 1 • ~ , 
I 


Wednesday, February 5, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

I --"--LN'~,'."H~~~~~'.~f~~;;.~.::'' 
r Hours: Thursdm1, fridm1and Salurdm1
I 

5:30-11 pm Phone: 257-1792 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
GSU approves charity event 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union passed a motion in support of sponsoring an end-of-the-semes­ter social event that would raise money for a local charity during their meeting on Tuesday. 
The proposal suggested by GSU President Tim Dale calls for the $4,000 GSU budget surplus to be allocated for the event. 
Dale envisions the benefit Lak­ing place at an off-campus ban­quet hall at the end of April and featuring a cash bar, hors d'oeu­vres and a raflle that would raise money for a charity selected based on graduate student input. The surplus would go toward funding the event and money would be raised by charging par­ticipants a nominal fee. 
"I think one of the things that we can do as a graduate student organization is more community outreach," Dale said. 
Dale's desire to use GSU funds 
I
}t
t 
iif 
i;it 
t 
f: 
!.~.;;··,_1...: 
" 
~\' 

to help a charity sparked debate among some members. 
"(n a sense this amounts to compelling graduate students to make a charitable donation," said GSU Physics Representative Doran Race. "The question is, 'Do graduate students want to be compelled to support a charity?" 
Most members supported the idea. 
..Technically the money will be used for a student activity," said co-Vice President Misty Schieberle. "The ticket fees will go to the charity." 
The motion to approve the event and begin tentative plan­ning passed despite two opposing votes. Dale plans to send out an email to all graduate students asking for input in choosing the charity in the coming weeks. 
In Other GSU News: 
. Representatives discussed stu­dent reaction to the University's January decision to delay subsi­dization of graduate student healthcare. Biology graduate stu­dent Jim Hogan attended the meeting to encourage fellow stu­dents to write to their local dio­ceses and newspapers to increase publicity. 
"I believe this University places a high degree on its reputation," Hogan said. "This is a national university that should be known for its embarrassing actions." 
Schieberle, however, urged graduate students to be adamant in their plea but also respectful. 
. GSU continued to lay the foun­dation for the establishment of graduate student departmental organizations. Members passed a motion requiriug potential orga­nizations to receive a financial commitment of $100 from their department. draft a constitution. elect leadership and present a petition with at least half of the graduate student population in the department supporting the organization's establishment. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 




Election 
continued from page 1 

support in order to vote," Mastic said, adding that the OIT Help Desk (631-8111) could assist students who were unable to vote. 
Although the actual election is scheduled to occur online Monday, vice president of elec­tions for the judicial council. Matt Corgan, said he hopes more students will participate. 
"I thought [participation] was kind of low for how easy it was to vote but I realize that it was just a trial election," he said. 
Although sophomore Thomas Cordoba did not vote in mock elections, he said he would definitely be encour­aged to vote Monday. 
"I didn't even know," he said. "If it's better publicized, you're going to see a lot better voter turnout." 
Sophomore Anna Kate Milburn, who participated in the mock election, said it was important to her to help stu­dent government run a test election and that she would "definitely" vote in the upcom­ing contest. 
Library 
continued from page l 

each have one active ResNet jack, providing Internet access. Starting in May, windows from the fourth to the 14th 
floor will be replaced one col­Contact Kristen Klein at umn at a time. kklein@nd.edu 
However, some students are unaffected by the opportunity to vote online. 
Sophomore Matt Harris said, "I don't feel like !student gov­ernment] ever gets anything done." 
Brian Coughlin, director of student activities, said he was certain that more students would vote in the real online elections. 
"I have a hunch that [thel online election is going to get one of the biggest turnouts that any of us can remember," he said. "In the actual election, I think people will realize the importance of their vote." 
Just like the mock election, the student body president race will be online from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. There are seven tick­ets, all of whom will have an opportunity to share their plat­forms with students during a debate today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. Additionally, all students received e-mails this morning from the Judicial Council with information about the candi­dates and links to their Web sites. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

"The new windows will filter out UV light, so books will not fade," said Stevenson. 
Graduate students who have carrels with a window will not be allowed in their carrels while the window is gone. 

The pr. clice of fondue, firsI used b4 lhe Swiss, is derived frorn the word "fondre" which means "lo melt". 
fondue was introduced as a nalional dish in Swilzerland. It s11mbolized the comirnJ together of families and friends. Al llwse gatherings beauli­fuli11 drcoraled cermnic, pofter11, or e . rlhenwore caquelons of d1eese and 
okil accompanield bdlj cru:ted mds,hfruifs, vtegelabldli,s,dmleats, a,1d bal rnboo
1~r1

111 11 
s ewers were pace on ne a!J e so a ques s cou in II qe al ,eir eisure, Thus lodmJ,····mantJ cenluries laler -lhe same fradilion of l1ospik11it11 and 
tI gocd lasle is sfdl alive and well. Now lJOu don'! h:ive lo go lo Swilzer•land 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 5, 2003 

SMC begins plans for on-campus apartm.ents 
By ALLISON ROCHE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students hoping to live in new on-campus apart­ments by their senior year may only be setting themselves up for disappointment. 
At the Nov. 4 Board of Governance meeting, Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs, speculated that senior on-campus aparunen1s would be a part of the Saint Mary's cam­pus within 18 months. Three months later, the College is still in the very preliminary stages of planning their construction. 
Four differ­ent floor plan 

designs are in "You would have all the 
go off-campusconsideration, advantages ofbeing on­to party," said 
but a starting Blaha. "The
campus plus the freedom 
date for con­
point is to get

struction has of[living] off-campus." 
away from the 

not yet been 
rules and reg­identified. The ulations of on­

Catherine Ward 
cost of con-campus life." 
SMC student
struction is 
affected by which floor plan is chosen and the needed materials, factors which are still undetermined, College officials said. 
"We haven't defined the costs yet, which will determine how much financing is necessary," said John Hollenkamp, interim vice president of finance and administration. 
Finances are not the only rea­son for the apartments' slow progress, according to Hollenkamp. He pointed out that more attention to detail is need­ed in planning on-campus apart­ments as opposed to another residence hall in order to make it an attractive option to students. 
Once construction begins, the apartments should be completed within nine to 12 months, mean­ing many current students will not see the final product while in school. 
"I think on-campus apart­ments are a great idea that interests a lot of students," said sophomore Kate Weiss. "But at the rate things are going, it makes me doubt that I will even see what they look like before I graduate. That's kind of disap­pointing." 
A group of students will be meeting with an architect today to lend their perspective to the planning of the apartments. Michelle Russell, director of Residence Life, is hoping that student feedback will help to determine details such as the size of the structure and what features should be included in the apartments. 
"The idea is, what is it that attracts students off-campus? The services it provides? The freedom gained? What is it'!" asked Russell. 
Many students point to factors such as greater freedom and responsibility, lower housing costs and no longer having to eat dining hall food as their motiva­tion for moving off-campus. 
Emily Blaha, a senior off-cam­pus student, thinks the students who want to live off-campus ¥rill still choose to do so, despite the availability of on-campus apart­ments. 
"Truthfully, 
most people 
Bussell said 
it is still too early to comment on what regu­lations would come with living in the on-campus apartments. 
"Some sort of policy would be needed, but it would be struc­tured around what is most appropriate for senior living," she said. 
Despite the rules that would come with living on campus, other students think apartments would be a favorable option, especially if they are concerned about the safety of being away from campus or if they do not own a car. 
"As a senior, it would have been a nice place to live. You would have all of the advantages of being on-campus, plus the freedom of [living] off campus." said Catherine Ward, a senior Holy Cross Hall resident. 
Contact Allison Roche at Roch0584@saintmarys.edu 
&Mr.tlll . ACAWlt.CO • JAMAICA BAffAMM *ft.tlJllOA 

SELL TRIPS, EARIWH, ff 
L 


GO FREE! UR D 
1.800.648.4849 

-www.slstravel.com 



.. 








Congregation ofHoly Cross 

Be part of the solution. 

ffs,:,~~~,\ 
·, ·. .... -· 


WWW. nd.ellfil~vocation 
ANSWER~ THE CALL~ 


WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 5, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush rededicates nation to space travel in tribute 
were printed on the back of the 
A»ociated Pres, service's programs, allowing the HOUSTON NASA family to raise its voice in Under sapphire blue skies that 
tribute to "shining worlds in splendor through the skies." 
once held Columbia and her 
crew, President Bush paid tribute Leading the crowd in prayer, Tuesday to the shuttle's seven Harold Ilobi.nson, a captain in the Navy's Chaplain Corps, said the
astronauts and rededicated the nation to space travel. "They go astronauts found true humility in peace for all mankind. And all while viewing "our little planet mankind is in their debt," he from outer space." said. 
Fighting back tears, NASA The president joined at least Administrator Sean O'Kecfo then 
10,000 teary-eyed NASA work­declared, "Today, our grief is ers, aging astronauts. political overwhelming." leaders and families of the fallen He promised to find out why crew for a memorial service in a Columbia broke apart, correct plaza outside Mission Control the problem and make sure it usually reserved for celebrations never happens again. To the of space triumphs. 
families of those lost, he said: The shuttle broke up Saturday "We will keep this solemn as it was returning to earth. In pledge." Bush's words: "Their mission 
Bush recalled that Navy Capt. was almost complete, and we lost David Brown. a medical doctor 
them so close to home." aboard Columbia, was asked sev­The president met with family eral weeks ago by his brother members after the service, which what would happen if something ended with the ringing of a Navy went wrong with the mission. 
bell -seven times, one for each "This program will go on," the of the deceased astronauts -46-year-old Navy flight surgeon and a "missing man" formation replied. 
flyover: four T-38 NASA jets "Capt. Brown was correct," roared above the crowd, with Bush said. "America's space pro­gram will go on."
one peeling away and soaring names, habits, likes and dislikes window, where the world was The president spoke brieflyhigh and out of sight. Earlier, aides said the presi­and, in many cases, their near­reflected in her eye. about each astronaut as theirBush bowed his head and first dent supports continuing the last words. "It is this image, the image of smiling faces looked down from alady Laura Bush wiped tears shuttle program, despite criticism O'Keefe recalled that mission Columbia's crew joyfully joining picture of the crew placed onfrom her eyes as the United by some. 
specialist Kalpana Chawla, 41, Kalpana to see our beautiful stage.
States Navy Band Sea Chanters At the Johnson Space Center, told Mission Control how beauti­planet reflected in their friend's Chawla, a native of India,led the crowd in song. The words crew members were remem­ful the Earth looked from miles eye, that we will remember and wanted to reach for the stars,to one hymn, "God of Our bered in separate eulogies that above as she summoned her fel­treasure forever," O'Keefe said, Bush said, and "she went thereFathers, Whose Almighty Hand," shared with the world their nick-low crew members to the shuttle his voice cracking. and beyond." 

ENGLAND 
Saddatn denies desire for -war, possession of -weapons 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

In his first Western television interview in more than a decade, Saddam Hussein said the United States wants to conquer Iraq so it can "control the world" and insisted his regime does not have weapons of mass destruction. 
A retired British lawmaker and peace activist, Tony Benn, conducted the 40­minute interview, in which the Iraqi leader spoke slowly in precise, careful tones, his voice at times falling very low, as he sipped from a cup of Arabic coffee in what appeared to be a room in one of his palaces. 
The interview took place Sunday in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, and was broadcast Tuesday, one day before Secretary of State Colin Powell was to present evi­dence at the U.N. Security Council that Iraq has hidden large caches of banned weapons. 
Saddam, speaking in Arabic, accused Washington of fabricating false claims as a pretext to seize Iraq's oil fields. He also said Iraq does not want war and is willing to work with U.N. weapons inspectors if they have no ulterior purpose. 
"If the intention [of inspections] is to confirm that Iraq is free of biological and chemical and nuclear weapons, then they can do so. These weapons are not some aspirin pill someone can hide in his pock­et. These are weapons of mass destruc­tion, so it's simple to determine if Iraq has them or not," he said. 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, responding to the interview, said Saddam's "track record on telling the truth is not good at all." 
"Given the fact that he has biological and chemical weapons, clearly what he said today is continual denial of the truth," Fleischer said Tuesday. 
Saddam wore a dark suit in the inter­view, sitting across a table from Benn in a gilded chair in front of a curtain and a white, black and red Iraqi flag with three green stars. Occasionally he turned a pen in his hands, lining it up precisely on a green book on the table before him. 
Analysts who have watched Saddam for years said he showed no sign of strain, despite the current confrontation with Washington. 
Despite President Bush's claims that Iraq has links with al-Qaida, Saddam insisted his regime has none. 
"If we had a relationship with al-Qaida, and we believed in that relationship, we wouldn't be ashamed to admit it," he told Benn, who traveled to Baghdad in a bid to stop a war. 
An Iraqi TV cameraman filmed Sunday's interview, which Benn conduct­ed for a new television network called Arab Television, a yet-to-be-launched Arab TV station with administrative offices in London. 
Saddam has not given an interview to a foreign television journalist in 12 years, according to Benn, who said during the interview that Saddam had declined his offer to see the questions beforehand. 


WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. arms monitors visit IO sites in Iraq: 
In a busy day across Iraq, arms monitors fanned out today to 10 missile, chemical and other potential weapons production sites, as U.S. diplomatic pressure mounted to possibly cut short the U.N. inspection plans. A senior Iraqi official said Baghdad, looking to clear away obstacles to a clean U.N. report on inspec­tions, may consider enlisting foreigners as witnesses for Iraqi weapons scientists who refuse to submit to secret U.N. interviews. Inspectors have complained about interviews monitored by Iraqi officials. The Bush administration will make a bid for Security Council support for its tough line on Iraq on Wednesday, when Secretary of State Colin Powell is to present what is billed as fresh evidence of Iraqi decep­tion of inspectors and of prohibited weapons programs in this country. The U.N. teams, in hundreds ofon-the­ground inspections since November, have found no such major violations of the U.N. ban on Iraqi chemi­cal. biological and nuclear arms programs. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bombers on alert for trip to N. Korea: 
Defense Secretary Donald RlllllSfeld has put 24 long­range bombers on alert for possible deployment with­in range of North Korea to deter "opportunism" while Washington is focused on Iraq, and to give President Bush military options if diplomacy fails to halt North Korea's effort to produce nuclear weapons, oiTicials said Monday. The White House insisted Monday that Bush was still committed to a diplomatic solution to the crisis. Any decision to bolster the considerable 
U.S. military presence near North Korea was simply what Ari Fleischer, the president's spokesman, called making "certain our contingencies are viable." Rumsfeld, who Pentagon officials stressed has not yet made a decision to send the bombers, was acting on a request for additional forces from Adm. Thomas Fargo, the commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific. Fargo has concluded that the North's race to produce a nuclear weapon had significantly worsened the risks on the Korean peninsula. 
WTC finalists include tallest stuctures: 
Two designs that would put the tallest buildings in the world at the site of the World Trade Center were selected Tuesday as the finalists in the plan to rede­velop ground zero. The plan from Berlin architect Daniel Libeskind calls for glassy, angular buildings clustered around the foundations of the fallen tow­ers. The other, proposed by an international team of design firms known as THINK, evokes the original trade center with twin towers of ethereal lattice­work. 

$11 million awarded to gay employee: 
A jury awarded more than $11 million to a fonner hotel manager today after concluding he was fired by real estate maven Leona llelmsley because he is gay. The jury found that Charles Bell had endured a "hostile and abusive work environment" while running Helmsley's Park Lane Hotel. He was awarded $10 million in punitive damages and $1.2 million in compensatory damages. 


,--------=================================================================================== 
' ~ The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 5, 2003 
Sanction 



State budget gaps jump 50 percent
continued from page 1 
"I don't think it will affect us too much. We had planned on doing a few new posters, but we have accepted the penalties they have imposed on us," said Bott. 
Corgan said the candidates also violated election bylaws by campaigning in a Student Union venue during the Cavanaugh Snow Ball, which was held on in the Lafortune Ballroom, and by not submitting receipts for the materials they purchased to make the sign. 
Bott said he and Kirsh plan to appeal only their violation of the 
_ bylaw prohibiting using a Student Union venue because he said Corgan had stated that they were allowed to promote their ticket at the Cavanaugh formal. Their appeal will likely be con­sidered at today's Student Senate meeting. However, Corgan said that the sanction was levied solely in light of their violation of hanging an unapproved sign. Prior to the two dances last weekend, the candidates served as deejays at Farley's dance and follo\-ving this dance Cogan said a person made an accusation that this violated the election bylaws. However, Judicial Board did not consider that accusation because it was not considered explicit enough. The candidates will serve as deejays again this weekend at the Morrissey Hall formal on Saturday. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The nood of red ink for state governments just keeps rising: Expected budget shortfalls jumped by close to 50 percent in the past three months, and the situation is expected to worsen, the National Conference of State Legislatures said Tuesday. 
The deteriorating situation could prompt more cuts in a wide range of programs such as elementary schools, health care for the poor and more. Additionally, it will increase pressure on state lawmakers to raise taxes. 
"It's dismal and probably getting worse," said Nebraska state Sen. Roger Wehrbein, who heads his state's budget­writing Appropriations Committee. "Even if the econ­omy turns around, we don't go to war and oil prices don't go up, it'll still be two or three years before we see improvements in state rev­enue." 

Oklahoma state Sen. Angela Monson, who presented the findings of a conference study 
American Heart Association Valentine's Day Card Sale 
Make a donation to the American Heart Association and send "Healthy Heart11 Valentines to your friends! 
February 7, 2003: 12pm -2pm LaFortune/Huddle 
at a news conference, said if the federal government doesn't help, many states will have no choice but to raise taxes and fees. 
"If there was a Utopia, the 'no tax' option would be • great," Monson said. "But there is an expectation that state government will meet certain needs -education, health, roads." 


February 8, 2003: 5pm -7pm 
North and South Dining Halls 
Brought to you by PILLARS and The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

Wednesday, February 5, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 4 

Dow/ones 

8,013.01 -96.81 


NASDAQ
• 
•'

1,306.00 -17.79 
S&P5fXJ 

848.18 -12.14 


AMEX 

822.95 +2.36 
NYSE 

4,824.46 -60.33
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.89 -0.39 13.09 
~l1DI1l1i ~l•I:!!il~~!!tJ1i1~!il!!~it•(111•I ! 11~1 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.96 -0.48 24.01 


olct.e(coRe••i(let1r•••••••••,II:2Jt:s.e••1;awill•!ll:m•sc9
>.·.·.,·•,·.·.-.·..-.,-.·.·.·.··.·,··.·-·.•.·,-.'-:.·-:-:-:-:-:-.-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:,;.·.··-·-·.·.·.-;.:-.-:-:-.-.·,.··-·.-.-.•:•.·-·-·-:-•:-:. '·-:-;.:-:-:-:-::;:;.. _ .._._._:_ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.52 -0.24 15.53 


IN BRIEF 
Former Enron trader pleads guilty 
A Houston man and former head of an Enron California trading desk plead guilty today in San Francisco to two criminal charges in connection with the manipulation of California energy markets. Jeffrey Richter, 33, was charged in a sealed information Jan. 30, and appeared before U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins in federal court in California today to plead guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud and making a false statement to the FBI and U.S. Attorney's Office during the federal investigation into fraudulent market practices. 

Study finds Wal-Mart gender pay gap 
Women working at Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, earned from 4.5 percent to 5.6 percent less than men doing similar jobs and with similar experience lev­els between 1996 and 2001, according to a study conducted as part of a federal discrimi­nation lawsuit. The study. based on an analy­sis of Wal-Mart payroll data obtained under the litigation, found that among nonsalaried workers, men earned an average of 37 cents an hour more for similar work. 

Blast, cold weather boost gas prices 
Natural gas futures jumped Monday to a two-year high amid concern over frigid weather that has slashed supplies by 28 percent from a year ago. An Illinois pipeline shut by an explosion also lifted prices, traders said. Supplies may remain under strain as temperatures fall near zero degrees Fahrenheit in Chicago and other Midwest areas later this week, ana­lysts said. Gas production this year may not be enough to build inventories suffi­ciently before next winter, even as heating demand may be near a peak, some ana­lysts said. February natural gas gained 
16.1 cents to settle at $5.766 per thou­sand cubic feet on the Now York Mercantile Exchange. 




NASA contractors take beating 
• Investors flee after Columbia accident 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Wall Street pounded the stocks of NASA contractors Monday as investors tried to gauge who would be most affected by the Columbia accident and sub­sequent grounding of the shuttle neet. 
Shares of Alliant Techsystems. whose Thiokol unit makes the solid-rocket boosters that launch the shuttle, dropped 12 percent over concerns about its exposure to the shuttle program . 
Boeing . Co., NASA's largest contractor, also lost ground, as did Lockheed Martin, which makes a non-reusable external fuel tank for the shuttle. 
The shares of those com­panies dropped 1.5 percent and 3 percent. respectively. 
Predicting the long-term impact to those contractors and others may prove diffi­cult until an investigation into the accident is com­pleted and NASA deter­mines its next step, ana­
Getty lmayes 

lysts said Monday. 
Few, however, anticipate An American flag Is reflected In the window of Boeing's former headquarters In major fallout in the near Seattle. Boeing Co. Is among a group of NASA contractors whose stocks dropped. future. about 4 percent, or $2 bi!-accounts for 17 percent, or been directed to change 
In a research report lion, of the company's over-$380 million. of its annual any of the activity on the Monday, Deutsche Bank all annual revenue, a com-sales. program," Bitz said. Securities said it sees limit­pany spokesman said. Analyst Pierre Chao of Meanwhile, Moog said ed immediate impact given However, it is a "very Credit Suisse First Boston Monday it expects to lose the need to complete the important" part of Boeing's said Monday it was lower-about $2 million in expect­space station and the lack business, the company ing its rating on Alliant to ed revenue as a result of of a replacement option for said. neutral because of the accident. the space shuttle program. "It's premature to specu-"inevitable panic" around The company included 
Boeing and Lockheed late on the specific business the company's stock. about $13 million in rev-partner in the United Space impact of this weekend's However, Chao said it is enue from the space shuttle Alliance. which is responsi­tragedy, but it presumably unlikely the company will program in its budget for ble for day-to-day opera­will be affected by the see any short-term finan-the current fiscal year, with tions and management of length of the investigation cial impact as a result of a about three quarters of that the shuttle fleet. and the root cause of the temporary halt in the shut-tied to a contract for over­
"The near-term impact accident," the company tie program because such haul of flight control actua­will be fairly minor to said. "Human spaceflight is companies are under long-tors for the orbiters. Boeing and Lockheed a business we've been in term contracts and build "We would anticipate Martin ... with limited for 40-plus years and we equipment to inventory, not that that contract will con-income slippage if the fleet remain committed to it to launch. tinue," the company said. is grounded for a year," the over the long term." Alliant spokesman Rod The $2 million loss is Deutsche Bank report said. Others have a bigger per-Bitz told the Associated expected to stem from the 
Boeing's involvement centage of their business at Press that its contract with suspension of the shuttle with NASA, which includes stake, including Alliant. NASA runs through May program. The New York­work on the space station Merrill Lynch analyst 2007 and calls for 74 boost-based company refurbishes in addition to the shuttle Byron Callan estimates that ers. booster actuators after program, provides only Alliant's shuttle work "As of today, we have not each launch of the shuttle. 

Ex-Reliant lawyer must keep quiet 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

A state district judge has barred a for­mer in-house Reliant Resources lawyer from publicly disclosing details of an investigation he participated in while at Reliant. 
State District Judge Katie Kennedy, who granted Reliant a temporary injunc­tion Monday. aLc,o said Ronald Fleming could not publicly ilisclose the details of a whistle-blowing retaliation claim he wants to make with the Labor Department. 
Courtroom discussion last week indi­cated Fleming had information about the company's round-trip trades and wants to disclose it in the retaliation complaint. 
During a hearing last week, Reliant's lawyer, Michael Wilson, said Fleming's allegations would cause irreparable harm to Reliant if disclosed publicly. 
"Reliant denies the claims and is confi­dent of prevailing in any potential action filed by Mr. Fleming," said Sandy Fruhman, a Reliant spokeswoman. "At this point, it would be inappropriate for us to comment further regarding this matter." 
But Kennedy said Fleming could pro­vide information to the Justice Department or Congress if he were sub­poenaed. 
The Justice Department has notified Fleming that it would like to talk to him, said his lawyer, Ken Hughes. 
"I don't want him to think he'll go to jail if he talks or doesn't talk," Kennedy said. 
About possible talks with the Labor Department, Kennedy instructed Hughes and Wilson to "work out something acceptable." 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed in the wake of the Enron meltdown, protects whistle-blowers and calls for stiff crimi­nal penalties for company insiders who defraud investors. 
It's unclear what kind of detail Fleming has because Kennedy closed the courtroom last week, at the request ofReliant, during much of the hearing. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 5, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining lhll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McF:uley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSIN.ESS MANAGER 
Kare Nagengo.sr Lori Lewalski 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 

SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hetrler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smich 
PHOTO EDITOR; Tim l<acmar 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie Mc Kenna 
SAINT MAllv's EDITOR. Sarah Ne:sror 

ADVl'.RTISl.NG MANAGER; Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROilER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGERIGF..NERAL [NF0..............631-7471 F.AX. ............................................................631-6927 
Af>VERTISING........... .,,,,.... .,.,,•• .,........631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF......................................... 631-4542 MANAGING ErnmRIAssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFF!CE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIF.Wl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543· observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE..........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAllv's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB Af>MINISTRATORS .... .............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site ac http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse ad ,ertisements based on content. 
The news is reportec:I as aa:urately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include conract information. 
Que,tions regarding Ob,eroerpol.icie, ,houkibe direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJa«m McFarky. 


POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obm-ver ,usrs 5-99 240) ts; pubJi1hc,d Mond:i.y through Friday~' during aam~d v,llC,lJcion period,, Au.Jb:M:ription ro The Observe.. is SlOO for one academic. ycar:$5Sforonc$Clllata 
The Obst-n:a 1' pllllliihcd ar; l'OSTMASTER 

024 Sowdt Dining Hall Send addren cor=cion1 to: 
Notrr Dame, IN 46556 The0t>5n-ver 

P.Ollo,Q J'euodi.:.il past.gt" paiJ. at Nou-(' D~rnc Nocrc D-.unc, IN 46)56--077:J ..nd additional mailing offic.n. 
Th< O.b~r,-·cr is a member of rhc 1\s5odatcd l"1CLs, AJI tq,rod~tiOfl righu ;u-c mnv,d 
A eulogy for the Boat Club 
Although the ultimate fate of the Boat Club has yet to be determined, it is only fitting that such a hallowed part of the Notre Dame experience receive a proper farewell in light of recent excise events. So, before the music turns off and the lights turn on for good, let us take a moment to remember that place we fondly referred to as "The Boat." 
The Boat Club was, in its simplest terms, a place where the pitchers ran cheap, the love ran high and morals ran deceiv­ingly low. lt was a place where everyone knew our names -and subsequently forgot them 20 minutes later. It was a place of loves found, loves lost and loves just plain forgotten. It was a place where we could lose our wallets, our wits and sometimes, even our lunch. 
There it was, on the corner of Hill Street -two floors of morally casual, alcohol induced, nightly commotion. And we loved every minute of it. For many of us. it was our initial invita­tion into the South Bend nightlife. We had heard about it, wondered about it and often talked about it, but we could not fully understand all that was the Boat Club until we experi­enced it. After all, you always remem­ber your first (bar). 


Everyone possessing a plastic coat­ed, mostly legible piece of identifica­tion (no matter whose identity it hap­pened to be) could become a part of the Boat Club subculture. And once we were in, we never turned back. We couldn't. It was too crowded. Only a Kelly green shirt and a football game could bring a student body together as well and with such consis­tency. 
The Boat Club not only provided us with a place to go, it gave us things to do. Darts, karaoke and billiards were always at our slightly numb finger­tips. The game of cups became an art form. providing hours of exhilarating entertainment for those of us who spent the better part of our daylight hours studying Dostoevsky and form­ing chemical compounds. 
It could all be ours for a mere $5. 
Many of us even remember the days when $5 could not only get you in, but quench your thirst all evening long. And upon leaving. there was always that certain Boat Club scent that fol­lowed us home, only to be washed away by that welcoming and very nec­essary shower the next morning. 
Unfortunately, if the Boat Club goes. it may in fact wreak havoc on the social lives of many Notre Dame stu­dents. We may have lost our most sig­nificant social arena, as the Boat Club was arguably the best and most uti­lized place for the men and women of the Notre Dame community to meet and mate. Forget Date Week -it's often been said that if they sent the entire campus to the Boat Club for an evening. no one would ever complain about gender relations under the Dome again. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies major and journal­ism minor. Her column appears every other Wednesday. You may contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Title IX isn't about equal opportunity 
Lost in the wake of other prominent national events was the presidential commission on Title IX's failure to address several major problems it has caused over the last 30 years. I fully support equality, but Title IX isn't cre­ating the equal opportunity it profess­es. 
Right now, the George Washington University cross country program is cutting male athletes. Not because they aren't dedicated, not because they aren't talented, but because the school has been unable to find an equal num­ber of female athletes to participate on the women's team. How is this equal opportunity? 
Isn't the opportunity for everyone who is talented and dedicated enough to run cross country at GW a more equal policy than what is going on right now? Aren't equal opportunity and equal participation two different ideas? 
The men's team at GW is actually lucky. Their program wasn't one of the more than 400 male athletic teams eliminated in the 1990s alone as schools attempt to comply with Title 
IX. Over 17,000 male collegiate ath­letes have seen their opportunity to compete erased by Title IX. 
The fact that the numbers of female athletes in high school and college are skyrocketing is a great thing, but the fact that at the same time male ath­letes are being put out to pasture after high school is a disgrace. 

Athletic programs should provide equal amounts of funding to men's and women's programs of the same sport. Like it or not, football dominates the college landscape. You may or may not have noticed that big cement structure next to DeBartolo. The game of football requires dozens of skilled players to compete. Because of this, football pro­grams get a lot of scholarships. It's that simple. The women's basketball team doesn't receive fewer scholar­ships than football because men have this big, evil master plan -they receive fewer scholarships because they only play five at a time. 
We shouldn't fault every other male program just because no one ever came up with a female football equiva­lent. Is it right to allow less funds for every other male program to make up for football? Title IX isn't about equal opportunity. Two equally talented high school gymnasts, swimmers. rowers or runners face completely different prospects of earning a college scholar­ship and having an opportunity to suc­ceed in collegiate athletics depending if one is male or female. 
And that is why Title IX has to go. 
Look at our interhall football system for an example. Male dorms are forced to cut players due to a limited number of roster spots and equipment, while female teams send dozens of athletes to each game. If we want the "equali­ty" Title IX provides. shouldn't we limit the number of women competing and make it equal to the number of men? 
Additionally, there are no female members at Augusta National Golf Club. and there is absolutely nothing wrong with that. For every one all­male golf facility, there are ten female­only tennis clubs and fitness centers. Augusta lets females play on their course, but males aren't even allowed to enter the building at a brand new fitness center a few blocks from my house. 
Augusta is a private club, so is the womens' fitness center in my town. One of my friends is a member there. She says she likes working out and spending time there with no men around. Apparently men aren't entitled to that same respect. I'm not condon­ing Augusta's admission policies. but I do think they should have the same rights as the fitness center down the street. 
I don't expect the majority of women to agree with me. but don't explain your argument to me. I want you to explain it to the guy at George Washington who just found out his career is over because his dismissal was vital for "equality" in sports. 
Tom McTaggart junior Haddon Heights, N.J. Feb.4 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Scott Joe Hettler Brodfuehrer Katie McVoy Joe Trombello Heather Van Mike Chambliss Hoegarden Viewpoint Scene Claire Kelley Christie Bolsen Graphics Lab Tech Mike IIarkin Chip Marks 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

Do you agree with Saint Mary's decision to fund a student trip to a pro-choice conference in Washington D.C.? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Macho does not prove mucho." 
Zsa Zsa Gabor actress 



By MARIA SMITH and SOFIA BALLON Scene Ediror and Scene Writer 
The doorway between the Snite Museum of Art's two feature photog­raphy exhibits is a step between dras­tically different facets of American culture. 
Lauren Greenfield's "Girl Culture" 
Snapsh 

The Snite Museum presents two photograph 
and "Roll, Jordan, Roll: Photographs of the Gullah Culture by Doris Ulmann," the latest in the Snite Museum's succession of photography exhibits, provide a startling contrast. "Girl Culture" features photographs published in Greenfield's book of the same name, exploring issues of beau­ty, image and self-esteem in popular 
culture and among American women. "Roll, Jordan, Roll" goes back 70 years in American history and provides a win­dow on the lives of former slaves living on an island off the coast of South Carolina. 
Lauren Greenfield's "Girl Culture" 
The exhibition at the Snite Museum is the second showing of Greenfield's criti­c ally acclaimed photographs. Though the exhibit has attracted wide attention, the Snite Museum was the first to request an exhibition of Greenfield's work. Curator of Photography Stephen Moriarty developed an inter­est in the project after seeing some preliminary photo­graphs and looking through "Fast Forward," another book of Greenfield's photographs. 
"We were early supporters of the project," Moriarty said. "I first saw some of the preliminary photographs sev­eral years ago, and I was imme­diately interest­ed." 
In appreciation Greenfield men­tioned the muse­um's support in the introduction of her book and gave a lecture at the opening of the exhibit. 

As soon as viewers step inside the Art Gallery at O'Shaughnessy, more than 50 girls will begin to speak to anyone who is willing to listen. Diverse aspects of the female gender are shown in an exquisite collec­tion of photo­graphs. that the artist has been working on for quite some time. AIII, Annie, Hannah and Berlt, all 13, pose before the first big 
Greenfield 

"Girl Culture" exhibit. 

explained that some of the pic­tures for this exhibit were taken before she even realized she had embarked on the project. 
"[It] seems to define the contempo­rary experience of being a girl," Greenfield said. 

Not only do these photographs speak because of the cap­ti on s and inter­views that accom­pany them, but because the images themselves convey underlying mes­sages about the way girls, and women as well. play, cry, dress, laugh, worry, work, please, impress, s uffcr, ad mire, mature -the way they live. 
One of the most shocking images is found at the begin­ning of the exposi­tion, on the wall just to the right of the door. A sur­geon's manly hands 
covered in gloves to preserve an ambiance of professionalism 
PhotocourtesyofSnitaMuseum and sterility -are 
Fitness American contestants pose In Redondo Beach, Calif. 
' . ·, ', 
shaping a young woman's breasts dur­ing a breast augmentation operation. The image is striking first because of its theme -yet another woman suc­cumbing to the aesthetic pressure driven by a masculine perception of what female attributes should look like. The color and lighting of the pic­ture make this reality even harsher by contrasting the girl's light skin with the darkness of the navy blue sheets and scrubs. Toward the bottom of the shot two bloody cloths and a bunch of bloody tools give an even greater sense of vividness. as if the operation was happening right there, and also deem the action as unclean, unsafe. 
On a lighter note, one proceeds to find a photograph with an· excellent sense of composition as well as a more pleasant theme. Nkechi, a girl of Nigerian descent, is wearing a bright pinkish-orange dress and sitting on a bench towards the left of the frame. She has won a contest in the New York Times Magazine to be dressed by a top designer and be treated like a princess on the day of her high school prom. In f'ront of her lies a light-col­ored tablecloth with some beauty products wildly dispersed on it, and the white walls around her seem to be pulled towards the balcony in the back of the picture. noth the position­ing of the girl and the angles in the room around her are techniques that draw attention to Nkcchi as the main 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 5, 2003 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Discrimination in the heart of our town 
In the 21st century many would like to believe that our society has made some progress against intolerance and racial discrimination. Like many. l believed this to be true. But after last Thursday night I now realize that there is still a long way to go in the advance­ment of equality and tolerance. 
As part of Notre Dame's nightlife tra­ditions, my friends and I gather and release a week's worth of stress at Heartland. This past Thursday was no exception, and so we drove off expect­ing to have a great time. 
As we approached the door there was the usual line, but instantly we realized the bouncers were stricter about check­ing I.D.'s, obviously due to the Boat Club bust a week before. As I reached the door I showed my llcense and stu­dent I.D. to the bouncer who quickly became quite skeptical about its authenticity. 
I am from Puerto Rico. For all those who haven't seen an official Puerto Rican license, I must admit that it looks quite phony and easily replicable, but it is an official US government I.D. Since turning 21 last year I have seen this usual reaction, but all bars usually have the handy I.D. book in which the Puerto Rican license appears, so they can then verify its authenticity. 
After staring at my l.D. for two min­utes and blinding me with that annoy­ing flashlight to verify my picture, the bouncer asked me for my passport. 
This bouncer has seen this I.D. almost every Thursday in the past year and not once gave me a hard time about it, but I calmly answered that I did have a passport but that it was not a document that I, or anyone I know of, car­ried into such establish­ment. 
He 
replied that with­out a pass­port I would not be granted entrance to the club since he believed my 
l.D. not to be valid. Adding to those remarks he ignorantly stated to me, "well don't you need your pass­port to get into this country?" 
Now if this bouncer had taken U.S. history in high school he would have known that Puerto Rico is, officially. a United States territory and, 
hence, all Puerto Ricans are United 
States citizens having no need to use any sort of passport or visa. I clearly informed the bouncer of this and 
expressed how I could not under­stand why he was making a big deal about this whole situa­tion since I go 
there almost every Thursday 
night and have never encoun­tered this problem. 
He refused to answer me 
and, given my frustra­tion, decided 
not to make a scene and just to turn around and walk away. But when I turned around the bouncer simply stated, "we don't want Puerto Ricans here any­way." I was upset for being turned away from Heartland without a valid reason, 
but I accepted the fact that they had to be more stringent on admittance. There was. however, no need to make such reference to my ethnicity. To some it may seem as overreacting, but such racial slurs carry so much injury to the people that are susceptible to discrimi­nation. 
The purpose of my letter to The Observer is to inform the student body of what happened to me, and to create awareness of this delicate subject among my peers. Ignoring it would be acceptance, and I refuse not to do something to fight back against senti­ments of bigotry and intolerance. 
My l}ope is that this event will help people think more about what they say and reassess their own prejudices. I truly hope this occurrence is not repeated. 
As for my friends and I, this will not happen again because we will no longer be patrons of an establishment that hires people that discriminate. My friends and I urge fellow Domers to sympathize with my situation and make a statement against discrimination at Heartland this Thursday by not going. Besides, there are other fine yachting establishments that need our support right now. 
Kristine M. Rosario senior 
Lyons Hall Feb. 4 

Abortion is an immoral choice 
Recently, The Observer reported that four individuals from Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership were sent to D.C. to lobby for pro-choice caus­es as some type of "leadership training." This pro-choice lobbying and its funding undermines the mis­sions and values that the students of the Notre Dame community and most women at Saint Mary's believe in. 
While it would be nice for the vast majority of us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to assume that both schools are bedrocks for the Pro­Life movement, the "leadership training" provided by a Catholic school organization was aimed at perpetuating the travesty of abor­tion. 
Why is an organization that allegedly exists to foster "Women's Intercultural Leadership," which is a noble cause, working for the abor­tionists' movement and the illegiti­mate "right" to their abortion indus­try -an ignoble cause? 
Despite consistent rhetoric to the contrary by the National Organization of Women and other organizations that seek to justify abortion as a "women's issue," some polls indicate the majority of women in this country are now pro­life. 
Although there are pro-choice polls to the contrary, the majority of women on the campus arc pro-life. Why then, was leadership training not provided for pro-life causes by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership? Is that what is on next year's agenda in the name of "value diversity?" 
Second, recent letters to the edi­tor have framed this trip as a mat­ter of understanding and valuing diversity triumphing over judgment, conformity and closed-mindedness. The moral relativism and appeal to be non-judgmental were advanced in reasoning that pro-lifers should not be outraged that this trip took place. 
For those who think that it is wrong to impose their belief that abortion is wrong on others, why would it not also be wrong to impose your belief that murder is wrong on others? Or euthanasia? Or genocide by military regimes such as the Holocaust? 
If a human life is being destroyed, the only non-extremist response is to oppose that destruction by changing the law of the land. Jacqueline Cuisinier argued on Tuesday that abortions will happen whether it is legal or not, like alco­hol consumption. She claimed being pro-choice is about supporting that freedom. This ignores the fact that a civilized society draws the line on and limits certain freedoms when in conflict with inalienable rights. The right to life is the foremost of the inalienable rights. 
Third. this is not a question of promoting "value diversity" on cam­pus. A Catholic school has the right and the obligation to promote the values of the Catholic Church when determining which activities they associate with. If an individual has the right not to be represented by groups that espouse values different from his or her own, then why doesn't a Catholic institution? This is not a question of value diversity, but value integrity. 
Fourth, Marcia Maust argued on Tuesday that abortion is an issue upon which the Catholic Church is divided and should be advocated as a matter of Catholicity. This flies in 
the face of clear Catholic social 
teaching. An intentional abortion is 
automatically excommunicatory, as 
is the participation in it. 
Maust's description of the confer­
ence as an experience to help peo­
ple learn "'abortion as a choice' is 
really only an issue for the economi­
cally privileged, not for the poor or 
informationally marginalized" is 
perhaps most frustrating. This sug­
gests that pro-choicers are thinking 
of providing abortions at govern­
mental or health care coverage 
expense, both of which impose the 
financial costs of abortion on all 
Americans. 
While the abortion industry falsely 
claims to represent the interests of 
women, it has found it makes more 
money by expediting the process of 
abortion than providing women 
with a list of all their alternatives. 
Finally, coining abortion, a 
euphemism for the destruction of a 
human life, as a "women's issue" 
further euphemizes this destruction, 
and it is even further euphemized in 
medical procedures, i.e. "laminar­
ia." This ignores the fact that abor­
tion affects us all. Men, like women, 
had a part in creating the life they 
have no legal rights to save from 
destruction. We arc all missing a 
full third of our cohort, victims of 
the abortion era. 
The attitude that abortion is a 
"women's issue" suggests men 
should mind their own business and 
are not affected by abortion. Men, · too, are moved to tears thinking 
about abortion and the lives it 
destroys. 
Brian Noonan 
law student Fischer Graduate Residence Feb. 4 

Economics split unfair 
I am disgusted at the behavior of the Economics Department administration. First, although this is not what makes me the most upset, creating a new department requires a great amount of money. This is a time when extra funds are not available as other important projects wait to be completed. 
Secondly, a split would essentially be breaking the department into two different schools of thought. What makes our economics department unique is its gifted economists, both neoclassical and heterodox, who have a common flame of com­passion for the entire human race. With a split, we lose that uniqueness. 
Moreover, we say to the country and to the world that as a top university we cannot maturely handle a difference of opinion. People will forever differ in their opinions. It is people of true intelli­gence who realize how wonderful and important diversity is. What sort of university are we if we deny the existence of that diversity? 
Many other universities with esteemed econom­ics departments include individuals of both schools of thought. I don't see why ours should be any exception. If there are issues between personnel, as rumors suggest, it seems to me all that is at hand is a management problem. 
Finally, there are two additional things that real­ly upset me. First, the inattention paid to what should be the primary goal of the University: a strong undergraduate program. Clearly, it is not teaching one point of view that produces intelli­gent individuals; it is teaching many views and let­ting the mind be opened. 
Second, the students arc not even being consult­ed as to their thoughts on the issue. Instead, the school is content to let Dean Mark Roche make the final decision, one that seems to require the least amount of teamwork and compromise -in other words, the easy way out. 
Mary Ursu freshman Cavanaugh Hall Feb.4 


.. 

subject, presenting her in the royal fashion she deserves on her special day. 
The rest of the exhibit contains a wide variety of shots depicting little girls, teenagers, and grown women ­or traces of them as in the case of a shot or an ashtray filled with cigarette butts covered in bright fuchsia lip­stick. Viewers will learn from the lat­est trends among popular seventh graders, the desires of a young girl to become a woman and become famous like the female pop stars she admires, the struggles to attain ideal weight and be considered beautiful, and the daily hassle of putting on a show and pretending to be something someone is not. This exhibit portrays it all: the good. the bad and the ugly aspects of being a girl today. 
"Roll, Jordan, Roll: Photographs of the Gullah Culture by Doris Ulmann" 
The Snite Museum planned their exhibition of Ulmann's photography in honor of Black History Month and in recognition of a service seminar being run through the Center for Social Concerns. The seminar, entitled "Gullah People and Challenges of Coastal Communities," first took a group of sophomores to Johns Island in South Carolina to learn about the Gullah community in May of 2002. Volunteers painted houses, helped children paint and mural, and provid­
taken from the 
book for display. 
Ulmann 's pho­

tography dates from the era of the Great Depression. Born into a Jewish family in New York in 1882, Ulmann photographed many of the most famous people of her time, including Albert Einstein, Robert Frost and Sherwood Anderson. 
Though Ulmann had many chances to photograph famous personali­ties, she wanted to find more meaning­ful material for her work. 
Ulmann traveled through Appalachia and the Deep South for a change of scene and subject. The photographs of the Gullah people were taken between 1929 and 1933 on the Lang Syne Plantation in South Carolina. Ulmann worked mostly in portraits, which held a spe­cial fascination for her. She brought out the character and pride of the Gullah culture 
us 
though portraits of its people, which almost exclusively compose "Roll, Jordan, Roll." 
"A face that has the marks of having lived intensely, that expresses some phase of life, some dominant quality or intellectual power, constitutes for me an interesting face," Ulmann said of' her own work. 
page 11 
Greenfield's "Girl Culture" will be on view through March 9. "Roll, Jordan, Holl" will be until March 23. 
Contact Maria Smith at smith.525@nd.edu and Sofia Ballon at 
•sballon@nd.edu 
Walking into the exhibit, viewers are surrounded by faces and hands worn through years of work. The photo­graphs show Gullah culture as it was preserved in the relatively isolated barrier islands near South Carolina and Georgia. The people are shown in every aspect of life, from cooking and farm­ing to religious wor­ship. Ulmann's pho­tos highlight the strength and sim­plicity of a rural life and a close commu­nity. 
In honor of the exhibit, Gullah sto­ryteller and dancer Jacqueline Jefferson will give cultural presenta­tions Feb. 20 at 7 
p.m. at the Snite Museum and Feb. 21 at 5:30 p.m. at the Robinson 

.. 
Community Learning Center. 

Gullah culture Is depicted In "Roll, Jordan, Roll."
L a u r e n 



Wednesday, February 5, 2003 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
... 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Irish head into second half with great start 
By ANDREW SOUKUP SPorts Writer 
The first half of the Big East season treated the Irish better than any other year. Now, the second half begins tonight against Seton Hall. 
"This is one of the best starts we've had since I've been here," Matt Carroll said. "Right now, with this team and the chem­istry we are playing with. I think this could definitely be the year for us to make a run." 
At 6-1 in the Big East, No. 10 Notre Dame are off to their best conference start since they joined the Big East seven years ago. Their lone loss has come against Pittsburgh, who the Irish host on Saturday. 
But the players say they won't look tonight's road game against the Pirates, mostly because of the tendency of Big East teams to fall on the road this year. Pittsburgh, for example, lost its lone conference game Saturday at Syracuse. 
"You've got to deal with the task at hand," Carroll said. "Each game is a big game in the Big East, and we can't look to Pitt until we finish this one." 
The first time Notre Dame and 
Seton Hall played, most students 
were busy moving back on cam­
pus after break. Before a rela­
tively quiet crowd on Jan. 12, 
Notre Dame hung close to the 
Pirates before pulling away in 
the second half for a 7 4-64 vic­
tory. 
In that game, the Irish won by 
pounding the ball at the Pirates, 
shooting 29 free throws to Seton 
Hall's nine. Chris Thomas 
bounced back from a poor out­
ing against Pittsburgh to score 
22 points, and Carroll added 19. 
And on the heels of overtime 
wins against Boston College and 
Georgetown -sandwiched 
around a dominating victory 
over West Virginia -the Irish 
feel they're poised to make a big 
run. 
"I think this team has the 
players and the talent to make a 
run both through the end of the 
season and in the NCAA 
Tournament," Torrian Jones 
said. "We have great talent on 
the perimeter, and we've shown 
recently with the overtime wins against Boston College and Georgetown that we have the mental toughness that is need to make a run at the end of the season." 


Under coach Mike Brey, the Irish have had their greatest success in February Big East games. In two seasons with the third-year head coach, the Irish have compiled an 11-6 record. They also have a tendency to reel off hordes of wins in bunch­es. In 2000-01, Notre Dame accumulated an eight-game win streak in conference play, and last year, the Irish rode the wave of a five-game streak. 
Now, the Irish have won four straight games and six of their last seven, putting them in excellent position to make a run for the Big East West title. 
"Coach Brey is really big with making sure we stay focused on the next game up on our sched­ule and not look ahead," Carroll said. "We just want to take care of business at Seton Hall now." 
Note: 
For the third time in his career, Carroll captured Big East Player of the week honors after averaging 27 points and six rebounds in Notre Dames wins over West Virginia and Georgetown. 

Carroll shared the weekly award with Boston College's Troy Bell. 
In Notre Dame's win against West Virginia, Carroll scored 18 points. He followed the effort with a career-high 36-point per­formance against the Hoyas ­his third 30-plus point perfor­mance this year. 
Against the Hoyas, Carroll also set Notre Dame's career 3-point record, breaking David Graves' old record of 260. He shot 6-of­12 from 3-point range and 11­of-20 from the field overall. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Morandais scores 21 in victory 
Associated Press 
BOULDER, Colo. 
Taking control over the final two minutes, Colorado's Michel Morandais drew a rave review from opposing coach Rick Barnes, who called him "the most under­rated player in the league, maybe the country." 
Morandais scored 24 points. including a tiebreak­ing 3-pointer with 1 :58 left that triggered a 13-0 run, and Colorado upset No. 3 Texas 93-80 on Tuesday night. 
Colorado (13-7, 3-4 in the Big 12), which beat a Top 10 team for the second time in 13 days. also got 23 points from Blair Wilson and 18 points and 14 rebounds from Stephane Pelle. 
Brandon Mouton and James Thomas each scored 19 points for Texas (14-4, 5­
2). 
The Buffaloes, who beat then-No. 6 Kansas 60-59 on Jan. 22, broke open a second half that had 19 lead changes with their flurry over the final two minutes. 
After misfiring from the free-throw line most of the night -hitting only 9 of their first 20 -the Buffaloes made 12 of their last 14 over the final 3:19. 
David Harrison, who had 16 
points, hit two free throws to 
give Colorado an 80-7 4 lead 
with 2:50 remaining. Until 
those foul shots, neither team 
led by more than four points 
in the second half. 
The Longhorns countered with six straight free throws -four by T.J. Ford -to make it 80-80 with 2:14 to go. 
Morandais' 3-pointer from 
the left side was followed by 
his steal and a subsequent 
free throw by teammate 
Antoine McGee. 
After Morandais blocked a 
shot, he stole an inbounds 
pass and was fouled, making 
both free throws for an 86-80 
lead with 1 :05 left. 

The Observer acce1>ts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

...  NOTICES Oak Hill Condo for Sale 2 Bed, 2 Bath, 0.5 miles from campus. 574­243-2621  Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 112 mile from campus mmm­rentals@aol com 272-1525 www.mrnmrentals.com SPRING BREAK on South Padre  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices I Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 www endlesssum­mertours.com  FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES· HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004  Four bedroom house for rent: CALL Anlan Properties. L.LC. 532-1896 PERSONAL  Yeah for getting flowers and nose wrinkles. This. shirt is dry clean only. which means it's dirty. I have the best cast ever'  
Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination  SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN- Woo Hoo for directing Hell.  
Acapulco's #1 Spring Break Company, Bianchi-Rossi Tours, is "Going Loco" with a "Last Chance to Dance" Special! Book now and get $100 off our already low price'  by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico.  FOR SALE  TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEMS -MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASH· ERSIOAYERS · CALL TODAY •  Chemistry Tutoring. Call 360-1983 Need auto insurance? www.south­bendautoinsurance.com 574-254­2626  Arny Greene ­You, me, Fiddlers Hearth. They won't have a room big enough for all our fans!  
.  Your seat is available now, but may be gone tomorrow! Call now 800· 875-4525. www.breaknow com  Call 800-944-6818 Visit gosouth­padreisland.corn  JUDAY LAKE 3 BDRM HOME. ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. BRO­KER OWNED. GILLIS REALTY  HOUSES GOING FAST -CON• TACT: KRAMER (574)315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 ALSO LEAS- Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone. If you or someone you love  Mer-Not too long and you'll be old like  
New lour bedroom 3 bath home for rent with two car garage. Gas heat, central air conditioning, all appli­ances, fire place.  Dallas bound? Will pay for transport of baby bassinette. ND alum 2145590868 cicib@aol.com  272-6306 Two tickets for CATS appearing on March 22 at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Good seats on main  ING FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. Brand New Everything. 2-story rental house with porch and yard  needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  me! Ken-Doll and Ramon ­Yeah for squirrels and squeaks!  
._.,  Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. Rent $1600 plus utilities. For Rent $250 month includes utili­ties 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com  2 or 3 BDRM Ranch House. Completely remodeled/ New stove, Relrig. Incl. washer/dryer. Great neighborhood. 4 blockS to ND. 273-1717 FPM,LLC.  floor. $45 each. Please call 271­9539 1990 Honda Civic, Super depend­able and very clean. California car. Paulph. 256-2998  just blocks from campus. Off-street parking 3,4 or 5 students Summer or fall availability 235-3655. 3-6 BDRM HOMES. 03104 YR. SEC SYS. WASHER/0 272-6306  Roomie­I'm very disappointed that you broke the streak. Better start over at one! Yeah Toast!  L Adrienne ­CONGRATS! Karen ­Yeah Mitch! Candi -Wooooo!  



Wednesday, February 5, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Chase Anastasio out of that saw the team win a realize what you have here," 
Fairfax, Va. school record 50 games, fin­Hendry said. "This is South Notre Dame lost only one 
Football Baseball 
ish sixth in the nation and Bend, Ind. There's four to 

continued from page 20 
football in the early stages of the Willingham era. 
This past season, Notre Dame's defense gave up only 217 points for an average of 
16.7 opponents• points per game. 

Ranked 13th in total defense and ninth in total scoring defense, the Irish can only improve on this side of the ball. Willingham could add up to four top corner­backs. including Zbikowski. Labrose Hedgeman and Freddie Parish. if Wooden signs. 
t-ledgeman comes from Alabama and decommitted from the University of North Carolina last week in favor of Notre Dame. 
The most recent oral com­mitment came Tuesday from wide receiver/running back oral commitment when Florida running back David Marrero reneged on his com­mitment and chose Stanford, Willingham's former team. The biggest blow for the Irish came when highly recruited offensive lineman Mike Jones chose the Iowa llawkeyes over Notre Dame as well as other schools. Jones helped his high school team gain more than 4,500 yards total offense and made the All-USA first team. 
Irish coaches still have secured two top offensive linemen, however: Ryan Harris from St. Paul, Minnesota and John Sullivan out of Greenwich, Conn. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
continued from page 20 
the Cubs. 
Several Irish fans in atten­dance with local loyalties to the Chicago Cubs listened attentively to the GM as he promised that his club 
would  turn  around  its  
recent losing ways.  
"It's time we  won  - we  

know that," Hendry said. "The 'lovable loser' stuff doesn't fly with me. We owe the Cubs fans across the world a winning organiza­tion. We're going to make a lot of progress. and we're going to do it fast." 
During the speech, Hendry jokingly made references to the different directions that the two clubs -the Irish and the Cubs -appear to be heading. 
"We were embarrassingly bad last year," Hendry said. "It's kind of hard to believe I'm here speaking tonight. Notre Dame went to the College World Series, and we won 65 games, and I'm up here as the last guy talk­ing? That doesn't make sense." 
But the main focus of the evening was Notre Dame's spectacular 2002 season 

make its first appearance in the College World Series since 1957. 
"It takes years of hard work to become an overnight sensation," Ma.inieri joked about his team's gradual rise to national prominence in the college baseball world. "The kids that have been in our program for the last nine years, the kids that have worked in near obscurity, have given everything that they have had to Notre Dame." 
"The first seven years. I had some unbelievably tal­ented kids, but we never had the opportunity to go to the World Series," he said. "When we went to Omaha last year, you could feel the contributions of those play­ers.... In 2002, somehow, someway, we found a way to get over the hump." 
Beginning with the pro­gram's first No. 1 ranking two years ago and continu­ing with its first appearance in the College World Series since 1957 last year, Notre Dame has continued to strengthen its position as one of the nation's elite baseball programs. 
"I don't really know if you five inches of snow on the ground, and this is still one of the top four or five base­ball programs in the coun­try. No longer is Notre Dame just that Northern cold­weather school that has a good year ever now and then." 
As Notre Dame is just over two weeks away from its first game of the season. the question is starting to arise if the Irish can overcome the loss of five seniors -out­fielders Steve Stanley and Brian Stavisky. third base­man Andrew Bushey, catch­er Paul O'Toole and pitcher Drew Duff -and return to Omaha in the summer. 
Hendry tried to answer that question for the Irish Tuesday night. 
"Paul is downplaying the going back to Omaha thing, but I'm going to say right now. you're going back to Omaha," he said. "You're going back more than once here, and you're going to win a national champi­onship here at Notre Dame in front off this whole coun­try. I do believe that." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Irish reschedule against Syracuse 
finale, to be played on test.
Special to The Observer 

Saturday, Dec. 6, at the The date change enables Carrier Dome. ABC Sports to nationally 
Notre Dame's 2003 foot­The game originally had telecast the game, with an ball game at Syracuse will been listed on Notre Dame expected 1 p.m. EST kick­become the regular-season schedules as a Nov. 22 con-off. 
Crossword problems? Call Katie McVoy at 631-4543 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA GENERAL NPDES PERMIT APPLICATION PuBLIC NOTICE STATEMENT University of Notre Dame du Lac, 100 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-5663, St. Joseph Lake, is submitting a Notice of Intent letter to notify the Indiana Department of Environmental Management of our intent to comply with the requirement under 327 !AC 15-8 to discharge wastewater associated with non-contact cooling water. Any person aggrieved by this action may appeal in writing to the Technical Secretary of the Water Pollution control Board for an adjudicatory hearing on the question of whether this facility should operate under this NPDES general permit rule. An appeal must be postmarked no later than fifteen (15) days from the date of this public notice. Such written request for an adjudicatory hearing must: (A) State the name and address of the perwn making the request; (B) Identify the interest of the person making the request; (C) Identify any persons represented by the person making the request; (D) State with particularity the reasons for the request; (E) State with particularity the reasons why the NPDES general permit rule should not be available to the discharger identified in this notice. Any such request shall be maile<l or delivered to: Technical Secretary Water Pollution Control Board P.O. Box 6167 Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6167  


AROUND THE NATION 
page 14 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, February 5, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Cincinnati at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN North Carolina at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN Gonzaga at Pepperdine 12 a.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL Seattle at Boston 7 p.m., FSCH New Jersey at Philadelphia 
7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


scored 18 points for the previous games against rebounded and Hogans Associated Press Gators (18-3, 7-1), who Florida, shot 6-of-11 in the lobbed an alley-oop pass to shot 34 percent (l7-of-50), first half. The Wildcats Hayes for a dunk. LEXINGTON, Ky. including 36 percent (5-of-went 19-of-37 from the Roberson made two free 
Florida hardly lived up 14) from 3-point range. field (51 percent) in the throws, but Daniels hit a to its first-ever No. 1 rank­The Gators hit four of opening half, including 7-fadeaway jumper with 2 ing on Tuesday night. their first seven shots of-12 from 3-point range seconds left to give 
Keith Hogans scored 15 before Kentucky's defense (58 percent). Kentucky a 45-22 halftime seized control. For the rest lead.
points -all in the first After a timeout,
of the half, Florida hardly The Gators finally found
half -as No. 6 Kentucky Roberson overthrew an used overwhelming got an open look and the inbounds baseball pass to a rhythm and hit six of Wildcats seemed to track Brett Nelson on the seven shots during a too­
defense to beat the Gators 70-55, snapping Florida's down every loose ball. Kentucky side of the floor. late 16-4 run. A 3-pointer 14-game winning streak. Kentucky finished the Nelson saved the ball right by Roberson with 3:59 left 
Gerald Fitch had 14 half on a 23-4 run as to Cliff Hawkins, who cut the lead to 64-47. points for Kentucky (17-3, Florida missed 21 of its calmly made an uncontest­But Jules Camara made 7-0 Southeastern last 23 shots and commit­ed layup. two free throws with 3:22 Conference), which won its ted eight turnovers. The Seconds later, Bogans remaining to cue the 
11th straight game, its Wildcats scored 14 stole a pass and threw "Overrated!" chant from longest winning streak in straight points over one down a two-handed, the boisterous Rupp coach Tubby Smith's six five-minute stretch. breakaway dunk for a 41-Arena-record crowd of seasons. Bogans, a senior who 20 lead. Nelson missed a 24,459 and prompt Smith Anthony Roberson averaged 17 points in six 3-pointer, the Wildcats to pull his starters. 
IN BRIEF 

James asks court to let him gave James the Gale Sayers and Wes elaboration, by two appellate judges. play Unseld jerseys for free, in exchange Williams' lawyers contend the 
LeBron James' attorney asked a for James posing for pictures to be office's grand jury presentation was court Tuesday to block a ruling that displayed on the walls. flawed and the grand jury never barred the high school basketball Muscaro ruled that James broke an should have been told Williams exer­superstar from playing the rest of the amateur bylaw "by capitalizing on cised his right to remain silent after a season. athletic fame by receiving money or limousine driver was shot to death at 
The 6-foot-8 senior, expected to be gifts of monetary value." his mansion last Feb. 14. the No. 1 pick in this year's NBA Nance said in the court filing that They also accuse prosecutors of draft, did nothing wrong when he James returned the jerseys when he introducing rumors connecting accepted two "throwback" sports jer­learned the gift was controversial and Williams to organized crime while seys, lawyer Fred Nance said in docu­might threaten his amateur status. leaving out evidence that he was dis­ments filed in Summit County James sat out the first game of his traught after the shooting and tried' to Common Pleas Court career Sunday. The Fighting Irish help the victim. 
'"All LeBron did was receive a gift won the game and have four left The grand jury indicted Williams on from a friend as congratulations for before the playoffs. a more serious manslaughter charge his academic achievements," Nance than the one he originally faced, said. Williams' trial called off tripling the maximum sentence. 
"If I had known I was violating any­Jayson Williams' trial for Feb. 18 The 35-year-old Williams is accused thing, I would've never done it," was called off Tuesday when an of recklessly handling the shotgun James said. "I would've never jeopar­appeals court agreed to consider dis­that killed Costas Christofi, and then 
dized my eligibility. I would've never missing manslaughter charges trying to make the shooting look self­jeopardized my team." against the former NBA star. inflicted. Two other men charged in 
James, saying he has a 3.5 grade­An appellate panel is to hear argu­the case have pleaded guilty and point average, thought the store was ments March 12 in Trenton from his agreed to testify against Williams. rewarding him for his schoolwork. lawyers and the prosecutor's office. He could face nearly 45 years in 
The OHSAA found that the store The ruling was filed Tuesday, without prison if convicted on all charges. 
Wednesday, February 5, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Minus Wicks, Irish try to move forward 

ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

Another challenge presents itself for the Notre Dame womens basketball 
team Wednesday night, and it's not just the vis­iting Georgetown Hoyas. 
Tonight's matchup between two Big East foes that have each lost throe of their last five conference games will mark the first time the Irish play since sopho­more guard Kelsey Wicks left the team. Wicks made her deci­sion over the weekend, saying personal reasons were behind her depar­ture. 
"I think this is a situa­

"J think this is a situation where we have to circle the wagon. This is a close-knit group. They've come together well. I think ifwe can stay away from injuries, we can overcome [Wzcks leaving]. " 
Muffet McGraw lnsh coach 
tion where we have to circle the wagon," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "This is a close-knit group. They've come together well. I think if we can stay away from injuries, we can overcome [Wicks leaving]." 
The Irish get their first chance of over­coming the Wicks setback against a Hoyas team that can score from inside or the perimeter. 
Georgetown forward Rebekkah Brunson averages 17.7 points per game and 11.6 rebounds, which is good for sixth best in the country. Brunson also has posted 11 double-doubles this sea­son and has a chance to grab All­America honors at seasons end. 
If Notre Dame stops Brunson, the Hoyas likely will throw the ball out to 
guard Mary Lisicky, who has connected on 52.3 percent of her 3-point attempts this season. Lisicky also averages 13.5 points and 4.2 assists per contest. 
"[Brunson] is good on the perimeter and she's really good on the block and 
she can drive it in between," McGraw said. "So I think she's a tough matchup for us, that's going to be real difficult to stop her." 
"Lisicky is one of the best 3-point shooters in the league, so they have a great inside-outside threat. Those are their two main scor­ers right now, but anyone else on the team can step up for them." 
The Irish will 
counter with three starters averaging double figures in scoring, including the team's leading scorer, Jacqueline Batteast, who averages over 15 points per game for Notre Dame. 
The Irish are coming off a 69-64 home victory over West Virginia Saturday, which improved their Big East record to 4-4. Alicia Ratay and Batteast each scored 21 points in that win. 
Notre Dame has owned the all-time series against Georgetown, winning all but one of the 17 meetings between the two teams. The lone win for the Hoyas came in the 1988-89 Investors Classic game with the Irish, 5,206 days ago. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

is now accepting applications for
THE 


2003-2004 General Board 
BSE 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 


NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accom­modations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages edi­tors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 
Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photogra­phers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dama staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
DESIGN EDITOR 
Applicants should have page design skills. The Design Editor manages The Observer's produc­tion staff and must work closely with the various department editors to coordinate and enhance The Observer's page design each day. 
ADVERTlSING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible tor the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and print­ers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 
Applicants must be sophomores or juniors majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WED ADMINISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible tor working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Andrew Soukup in The Observer's office, located in the basen1ent of South Dining Hall, by Friday, February 7, 2003. Questions about the application process can be directed to Andrew at 1-4541. 



page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 5, 2003 
Blac,k History Month Celebration 2003 
Sp,:,nsorod by 

Af'riean and African American Studies 
February 4 

!30-9:00 p.rn. February I 0 
Taste of African American 5:30-8:30 p.m. :,Food. Culiure, &. History Film & Panel Discussion­. Soul Food Menu Open to All r~nel.ist:s: SanKofa 
Cyca:L~-t J¢htl$On•Roullie~, C' bli' Karen Rlchm.an, & Ayo Coly
l\am ss, 


7:30 p.m. 

Lecture: Before Spike : .Making Music: Jaiz to Motown 
80 Years of Ind~pentd~nt re3tured S~er & Performer 
Mr.BiUNkk:s African Am_-eric.an__:__··•,~--'_.~,_ t_:_~_> FHmmaking ~: __ i;_,~i i;:~f_·
Band Buildingt 

'!,:;.!\'.... 
Middle Rehearsal Room ChristopMr.Sie-.·_·.' ,~ . _.·_. ·_ · l)_~_:1it:_-_.

r. -~ .,_~ -
Hesburgh Lib_~-~_-.. .,,"...._:.:..::,_.1:_·: .. i·•·_:~
_··."1

"\-~;1~',;.-_.~,..,,-.j' ' • l ­
Auditoriu ....~-·-11'1· \-~~/ ; 
-~~-~-r~ 
March 3, 7: ~~~.~~lij 
Living Next Door to the KKK: Ho\v the Klan Hurts Americans 
of All Colors 
B;.ub Fuu\1-:.Hn~ Liz Dobbs, & S-1'1.Cie &,-,..,al«
Ca:.1i!:!l Ge.cit 
k':ie"1n & JJmu.JL"-!JiU!U.!'t•.1111•• rttembels o! UC·1IPEACE SJ I O'Ehiw9hl'adiff l-lC! li'NWtllllly o!!!h,m, Dun• 126 DeBartolo 
1:,•;11<:1 L'.:•~hni.
lforr. Ihmt,IM -GM!.i3 
:1r1.,._ G)t tsry n~tiul'.,;:
St4~l·~1 
(Ir 011"11 ~:l:•rt•f••h11e
IIJtt.)-f.ttt@Pd t'ttJ 
Cr.; ,!'f•:J:Uo.: :i Anl~ka."1 &i::..u.-. lL.i'.: .U,1rn,4 al lil¢1il 0..,..., Cll'Clpi.i Mi:t.Jt.:t C11n!u fo1 ~:..L Cnr,;•n:t.i E:.nt A,1a.n tl1u~1•1 r..,-.11¢1. Ot,;-,trrittr.'!.(:..a,J.,i,r $!¢.t.._ l"~~n P"r~. lr/:~lll"",11!.it&l lh<l•nl fii:,r-:am1 .ar.d t,..::virit,_ Cal\,;)!! t,! lr.,i~,;hr,r.l! l,i•II:,•. Clt\«...t In• l'rnkiffl, Pef~-ll kWfl(lf 0..Jt4iftm+'l'l. l;,~tnl vrmrrun~-l''I. 1,..\.,ltl'!ln <'.!f )(~,..~•I• ¥~::C"m.;,1r Y.,l'IJJ:r, 

Wednesday, February 5, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Hippee and Alexander really well prepared. Karasov defeating Irish junior Everyone came through. We
Tennis 
Luis Haddock and junior played with a lot of determi­
continued from page 20 Brian Farrell, 8-5. nation and we fought hard." 
"Wisconsin was a good The Irish did not expect the 
team," Scott said. 'They have Badgers to prove as formida­torious match of the day a strong doubles team. They ble an opponent than much of occurred at No. 2 doubles, have some good players, but their other competition this with the Badgers' David we came out strong. We were season. 
Saint Ma~~s College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
The Nstlon·s Premier Catholic Women's College 
30TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 
1\IIAY 21 -J'UNE 1 8,. 2003 
Courses Education, 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 

Dr. Mario Livio 
"The Golden Ratio" 
Head of New Institute Science Division at Space Telescope Science Institute 
Popular Lecture on February 5th 7:00 pn1 at Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Refreshments Provided 
Book Signing Available Before and After Lecture 

Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Saturday, February 8 2:00pm Deadline to register: Friday, February 7 12:00pm 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $10.00 Includes Rental Ski fitting at 1 : 30pm 
R~~ 
"I think everyone under­stands that Wisconsin is a team we should beat every time we go out there," D'Amico said. "It's something that we probably expect out of ourselves." 
Still, D'Amico believes that the Irish have made notewor­thy improvements as the sea­son, which began with the worst start in school history, has progressed. 
"I know that we're improv­ing every day," he said. "[The Badgers] arc not as strong a team as the other teams we've played. We're just try­ing to build on every day." 
The win over Wisconsin suggests that the Irish are, as a team, overcoming their rel­ative inexperience. Freshman Patrick Buchanan defeated Jordan Raemisch, 6-4, 6-3 and junior Nicolas Lopez­Acevedo, who has played lit­tle. triumphed 6-1, 6-1 over the Badgers' Jeremiah Fuller. 
Additionally, junior tri-cap­tain Brian Farrell, making his comeback after a season-long injury hiatus last year, topped Ward Bortz, 6-4, 6-2. 
Experienced veterans and team captains Haddock, ranked 7 2nd nationally, and Scott, ranked 119th, led the Irish at No. 1 and No. 2 sin­gles. Haddock prevailed over Kasarov, 6-4, 6-7 (4-7). 7-5, and Scott straightened out Hippee, 6-3, 7-5. 
Scott believes the team's victory will serve as an 
important confidence booster, especially with the Irish fac­ing two tough opponents this weekend. The Irish will visit Purdue Saturday and will face Duke at home Sunday. 
"I think we all knew deep down inside that we were capable of playing tennis," Scott said. "It was just a mat­ter of doing so in a match. I don't think it makes a state­ment. It just boosts our confi­dence. 
But D'Amico thinks the Irish made a statement of sorts Tuesday. 
"If you're going to beat someone, you want to beat them as bad as you can," he said. "I think it was a goal of everyone on our team today that we wanted to go out and make a statement to them and to ourselves by beating them and not giving up a point." 
With their first win under their belt, the Irish are hop­ing the lessons learned from the early season will carry on into the weekend. 
"It's one win, long year," Scott said. "It's definitely a much more positive bus ride home. We're not going to get ahead of ourselves. We're glad that we got this win and 
we're  looking  forward  to  
picking  up  another  at  
Purdue."  

Contact Joe Lindsley at lindsley. l@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 05 •155 DeBartolo Hall, 7:30 pm Aulhor of HanJbB/1, reception ii \he Coleman-Morse loonge fea\uring music of sludenl acappella group 8~ Yelow Taxi 
SR.JEAN LENZ, OSF '67ND 
Thursday, February06 • Lafortune Ballroom 7:30 pm Aulhor of loyal Sons and Daughrers of Noire Dame. AMemoir of Noire Dame, ro-sponsored by Cavanaugn Coffeehouse, featuring \he music of female acappella group Harmonia, book signing, and re~eshmenls 
NIK.Kl c;IovANNI Saturday,february OB • Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza COOA, 7:30 pm Poe\ of Oui0ng the Black-Eyed Pea and love Poems, introductory remarks by ND head foolban coach Ty Willingham Co-sponsored by lhe Hammes Notre Dame Bookslore. \he College of Arts &Leners, Gender S\udies Program, 
Depa~menl of English, \he Crea\we Wtilmg Prngram, and Ille Deparlmenl of Afncan and A~ican-Amencan S\udles 
STUDENT SLAM Sunday, February 09 • Wa;h\ngton Hall, 7:30 pm FearuIing slu1re11\ slam poets and spoken-we~ ar1isls in amulti-media slyfe. followed by an open-m~ sessi011 
JOE GARDEN 
Monday, February 10 • Washington Hall, 7:30 pm 
Or, olfoun<lc,g illhe!Sof The Olan. in\roduc\ory remarks by ND professor of art Roberl Sedlack 
receplion lo follow in the basemen\ of Zahm Hall 
Krnm cO'lnE 
Tuesday, Febniary 11 • Washington Haff 7:30 pm 
Aulhorol Don,,~, reception in LiFor\une Ballroom featuring \he mus~ of male atappena group The Undertones 
JOI/I,/ BUFFALO 1-Wl!R 
Wedne1day,februarv 12 • Wa!hlngton Hall 7:3D pm 
Play,,,eladorol "Hello, Hem,an', reception in \he Lafortune Ballroom lo fol~w 
ND UNPLUGGED II 
Thursday, February 13 • Lafortune Huddle, 9:00 p,m. -f:OD a.m, 
Sludents and faculty ol \he Unearsi~ of Noire Dame. Holy Cross Col~ge and Saint Mary·s Col~ge showcase !her 
work as singer-songwlilers, pools, ficlion and non-fiction wrirers, spollen-woro artis\s, essa~s\s, and ~sual artIs\s 
don•tlun!!t will ben•flt th• Sr. Joaeph County l.lter,acy Council for mo~ Information, contecr Meghan Marlin (mmartin@rtd.ftdu) or Joanna Cornwell (Jcornw•1@nd.ftiu) 
www.ni.!Milfidi'ISI.Mieopagel/l/Jeartsl!ophl(ISOfllOJmldil103.~m 

page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 5, 2003 
SMC BASEKTBALL 

Belles badly need win against Hope 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's basketball needs Hope like the most desperate of sports teams right now. 
Every team has hope in the literal context, but what the Belles need is a win over the No. 1-ranked Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association team, Hope College. 
The Flying Dutch (19-0) have gone undefeated in the MIAA, ousting the Belles (5-14, 1-7 in the MIAA) earlier in the season 90-73 at the Angela Athletic Center. This time around, the Belles will battle on the road. 
"I think we're at an advan­tage being the underdogs," said senior guard Shaun Russell "When a team is at this point, no one really expects anything out of them. That leaves room for a lot of surprises." 
The Belles have been await­ing a turnaround in their sea­son for a long time, with their losing streak currently at seven games. A win over the Dutch, however, could turn the Belles season around. 
"This season has kind of made us come together as a team," guard Emily Creachbaum said. "Each per­son has realized what they need to do to help the team." 
Hope College has the most wins of any Division m team and are the nation's third high­est scoring team. averaging 

80.1 points per game. 
The Dutch also boast a heavv arsenal with senior center Amanda Kerkstra, whose 1,375 
career  points  are  a  Hope  
record.  
The Belles,  on  the  other  

hand, also have a talented squad with several players scoring in the double digits. Saint Mary's Bridget Boyce walked away with 15 points, while teammate added Anne Hogan's 13 points in the Belles last game against Olivet. 
"We have a lot of talent on this team," said Russell "It's just a matter of applying talent to an entire game without let­ting up." 
The Belles were also without season scoring leader Creachbaum, who sprained her ankle early in the first half in the Olivet game. Despite her absence in the last game and her absence from tonight's game, Creachbaum remains confident. 
"We've developed into a much more mental team through practice," Creachbaum said. "We have the physical ability, but now we need to get focused on the game." 
Contact Trey Williams at williams.3 l 7@nd.edu 
Thinking About Home Improvements? wecanHelpl 
.901 
.15'j 


IntroductoryRate LowReuularRate 
Check Out Our PRIMEQUitv lina-of-Credhloan 
'6J 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
www.ndfcu.org 
------•..,...-.....,--·!""--•-·""'"'•m..... i---1 A
regarding !he deductibffity ofinterest.Aballoon payment wll rasultat maturity. AJterlheSll!-moolhintroductory period, the rate will revert to . NCUA !QUIL MOUSING thehighestptimelendingrateofthepreviousquarter.Minimumamountis$5,000.Ma><irnumamountis$100,000.lodependentoftheUmvooaity. -===-LENDER 
Wednesday, February 5, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

1Hf; WINTER WtLDUFE OF N011<E Dpt..,{E. ·. 

~ 
~ 

MAt--\MA CASS SQUIRRELS MR£ LA~£ U)()N5 10 ~COE;JN!Z..E BY f:>~161\-IT~ES~N) 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 

Idon't blame him­
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJ~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
CELEX 



CQ003 Tnbune Media Services, Inc All Rightfl Reserved. 
TUCOL ~ 
I I r 
THIS CAN L-EAD

I DROLIF I 
Tlt:5 IN THE; PUSH 
...

I rJ ID~~ 
AND PULL-OF BUSINEcSS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ONION GOING FINISH HYMNAL Answer: What he ended up doing when he went golfing -FISHING 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 39 Imminent disaster
1 Blows away 5 Turkish title 
43 Brunei native 

8 Apollo 15 44 Axis leader astronaut 
45 Comics scream

James 46 Place for an
13 Call 0. Henry 
14 Agatha surprise contemporary 
48 Jolson and 

16 Bonehead 
Jarreau 17 Cherubic child 
51 Far from buxom 19 "_ tunny, 
57 Dian FosseyMcGee!" 

subject20 It may follow a 
59 Sub system

bench-clearing 60 Auto option
21 Change form 
23 Water tester 62 Commit a deadly sin
24 Cavalier 64 Powerful
27 Language suffix 
politico28 Not sober 
66 Fragrant resin 

31 Med. readout 67 Father-and­
34 Wordsmith daughter boxers
Webster 68 Metric prefix 
38 A.E.M. singer Michael 69 Column type 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
70 Place for a fish {which is a hint to this puzzle's theme) 
71 Sets a price of 
DOWN 
1 First of all 
2 Regaled, in a 
way 3 Links rarity 4 Record 
protector 5 Gen. Pershing's troops: Abbr. 6 Texas politico Phil 7 Major maker of 
beverage cans 8 "Oh, yeah?" 9 Sony rival 
10 It flows to Khartoum 11 ·_expert, but ... " 12 Sol, say 15 Mysterious: Var. 
18 Fragrant rings 
-:-,-r..,.......,,,., 22 Gateway 
-+--+-~ 29 Olympics event 
F A C A D 0  i-:-1-+.P::-I N E  products 25 One who follows  
__-,-t-,..,....:-1-,,,,.+,-,+,S,....,.,Ec-1  the news  
=+-,-+,o,-+,,we-1L E  26 O.C.S. relative  

30 Pigeonhole's place 31 Salinger .....+---+-~ heroine 
32 Skater Michelle =+-=----• 33 Cause of a rush 
~,:-,-t--,,-t-,-,+:e-1 35 Frequently, in E N S u E verse 
N T 0 A G E N T 36 Fuss 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Merle B¦ ker 
37 "The _• (Uris 50 Lipton rival 57 Breezed novel) through
52 "My Way" writer 
40 Object bitterly 58 Traveler lo 53 Leaves port Cathay
41 Like the Romanovs 54 Tom's 
61 M.D.'s 
diagnostic tools 
"Roseanne" role
42 Old Testament 63 British recordkingdom 
55 Croupiers' gear 
label 47 Old muscle car 
56 Inferior 65 Federal 49 Good earth merchandise purchasing org. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Barbara Hershey, Andrew Greeley, Al Kooper, Jennifer Jason Leigh 
Happy Birthday: Put personal issues aside and focus on professional and financial gains this year. Once you clear up these matters you will have no trouble dealing with the rest of your life. Let your confidence lead you. Your numbers are 3, 16, 28, 31, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your mind will be on making your financial situation better. This is an ideal day to take care of an older relative's problems. *** 
TAURUS {April 20-May 20): Say what you think and yoµ will gain approval. Romantic connections can be made if you are single. The odds are in your favor. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make decisions today that will promote changes in your personal situation and your home life. You may not be able to please everyone in the process. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expand your horizons. Don't be reluctant to accept an invitation that may take you a far distance. It will be stimulating and inspiring, and may affect the way you do things. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Start taking better care of yourself. If you take precautions and do things properly, you will be happy with your results. The 
choice is yours.***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your sensitivity affect your personal relationship. Take note of what's being said, but don't take it to heart. Honesty. patience and the ability to listen to others will help you sort through any issues 
that arise. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't overdo it today. Implement an exercise program that includes some form of relaxation, such as yoga. Don't let others take advantage of you.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take another look at some of your creative 
ideas from the past. The time is right to resurrect something. The satisfaction will be rejuvenating. *** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let others cost you money. Don't make promises to help someone because you feel sorry for them. Inexpensive, minor alterations can satisfy many of the issues at home. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've been all work and no play for so long that you have forgotten about the finer things in life. A romantic relationship can grow into something special if you are attentive. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can use past experiences to make better choices in the future, but don't hold on to something that is no longer good for you. Consider a slight modification to an old idea and it might get off the ground. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a time of metamorphosis, so give yourself a chance to become the butterfly. Satisfy your own needs before trying to satisfy those around you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive toward others but hard on yourself, always looking for ways to improve. You will take life seriously and will try your hardest to do what's best for everyone around you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
> 

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
I I .. 111 I .. I 1111 .. 11111 II II I II 11111111111111111111IIIII1111111111111111 IJ 111 II I II 111111 II I II II II I I II I I I I I II 111111111111111111111111111111111 
.... 

f I 
I 
PORTS 
Wednesday, February 5, 2003 

* FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Willingham set to reveal class of 2007 
• Irish have 19 commitments and are waiting on two more 

,,. By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wricer 

This afternoon, Tyrone Willingham will announce the results of his first full recruiting effort as head coach of Notre Dame football. 
With 19 recruits orally committed, Irish coaches now wait on t'NO top prospects -teammates defensive end Victor Abiamiri and cornerback Ambrose Wooden -as signing day approaches. If the two recruits sign with Notre Dame tomorrow, they will complete a recruiting class that 
already ranks among the best of 2003. 
Abiamiri (6-foot-5, 245 pounds) and Wooden (6-foot-1, 185 pounds) played as teammates at the Gilman School in Baltimore, Md. Abiamiri attracts most of the attention, as many expert analysts consider him one of the best if not the best defen­sive end in the nation. 
"They will go [to Notre Dame]," ESPN expert To.m Lemming said. "Abiamiri is the premier pass rusher in the country. We saw that in the game in San Antonio [U.S. Army All­American Bowl]. I think he had three or four sacks in that game." 
Abiamiri was seriously considering attending the University of Maryland, but reports of illegal mon­etary offers made by Maryland coaches meant the Terrapins had to drop Abiamiri from their target list. 

With Abiamiri, the Irish would get a precocious pass rusher who seems to have the talent to play right away. Abiamiri recorded 12 sacks, 17 tack­les for a loss and one interception in a senior year in which he earned All­USA 2002 first team defensive hon­ors. The end could step in early next season and complement junior Justin Tuck to give opposing quarterbacks fits. 
"He's a remarkably quick 238­pounder with long arms, great clos­ing speed, and tremendous determi­nation," Lemming said. "He's the best defensive end Notre Dame has signed since Ross Browner." 
Wooden runs a 4.4-sccond 40-yard dash and played quarterback in high 
BASEBALL 

Cubs GM opens season for Irish 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Writer 

Last year, former Los Angeles Dodgers' head coach and Hall of Farner Tommy LaSorda set the tone for what would be one of Notre Dame baseball's best seasons by delivering the key speech at the team's opening night din­ner. 
Tuesday, the Irish hoped to extend that new tradition as Chicago Cubs' General Manager Jim Hendry served as the key speaker at Notre Dame base­ball's 2003 Opening Night Ceremonies. 
Hendry teamed up with Irish head coach Paul Mainieri to give Irish fans in the Joyce Center a night of baseball in the heart of winter. 
"I've always lived and died Note Dame, I just wasn't good enough to play here or smart enough to get in," Hendry said. "Even before Paul got here, I've had a love affair with Notre Dame." 
Hendry was invited to speak at the function by Mainieri, his close friend, and his long-time love of Notre Dame made the occasion an opportunity he could not turn down. 
In addition to his close relationship with Mainieri, Hendry also has ties to Irish associate head coach Brian O'Connor, who played under Hendry at Creighton University and was an inte­gral member of the 1991 Blue Jays squad that made a run to the College World Series. 
Hendry also spent three years in the 
Florida Marlins' organization serving 
.... 
as a special assistant, scout and a minor league manager before joining 
Irish coach Paul Malnlerl talks to Cubs general manager Jim Hendry during 
see BASEBALL/page 13 
Tuesday's Opening Night Ceremonies. 


school. similar to commitment Tom Zbikowski out of Buffalo Grove, Ill. Wooden threw for 1,006 yards and nine touchdowns and rushed for another 1,309 yards and 13 touch­downs. 
"Like Zbikowski. in high school he was a great quarterback on offense but will probably wind up playing cornerback," Lemming said. "What they [Notre Dame] get is a pure cor­nerback with height. He's an excep­tional athlete and like Zbikowski could contribute as a true fresh­man. 
The fact Lemming complements these players and compares them to former Notre Dame greats bodes well for the future of Notre Dame 
see FOOTBALL/page 13 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish find first win on road 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Wricer 
After fruitlessly looking for a win in their first four matches of the season, the Irish finally triumphed Tuesday with a road win at Wisconsin. 
And in case anyone were to suggest Wisconsin was too easy of an opponent, Notre Dame completely dominated the match, winning 7-0. 
"Everyone's very pleased with the victory," junior Matt Scott said. "When you go 0-4. you start to lose the feeling of what it's like to pick up a win. It just reminded us what that felt like and it's a great feeling. We want to keep get­ting there." 
The Irish began the match by winning the doubles point against a program that has lost to Notre Dame in each of their past 12 meetings. Juniors Ben Hatten and Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo won the first match, 8-3. The duo are now 3-1 in doubles play on the season. Then Scott, one of three team captains, and sophomore Brent D'Amico claimed the doubles point for tl,e Irish with their 8-5 win. Wisconsin's only vie-
see TENNIS/page 17 


MENS BASKETBALL  WOMENS BASKETBALL  SMC BASKETBALL  
Notre Dame at Seton Hall  Georgetown at Notre Dame  Saint Mary's at Hope  
Tonight  Tonight  Tonight  
7 p.m. At 6-1, the Irish have their best Big East start in history as they head .into the second half of the  7 p.m. Notre Dame hasn't lost to Georgetown in 5,000 days. They hope tonight won't change that.  7:30 p.m. The Belles are looking to upset the nation's lead­ing scorers in Division III.  
season.  
page 12  page 15  page 18  




