
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 40 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28,2003 
Board approves new construction 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Ediwr 
After a one-year moratorium on eonstruetion, the Board of Trustens dedded during their fall nweting to approve two new buildings -the Jordan !!all of SeieJH~e and t h e See Also 
(;uglielmino "Board re-elects 

Family A t h I n t i e s chairman" • Conter -and 
page 3 
rosume con­struction on tho security/police and post offien building. 
Tlw sdnnee hall will be locat­ed on Juniper Hoad in front ol' the Holf's Sports Heereation Center and the 201.71B squaro root building will include 40 undergraduate sdenee labora­tories, throe lecture halls, two classrooms and 22 faculty ol'lkos. The groundhrnaking c~erernony for the building will be Saturday morning and the projeet should be completed by sumnwr 2006. 
see TRUSTEES/page 4 
Above, an architect's rendition ofthe proposed Jordan Hall of Science. At left~ the location of the new security building and post office near the Stepan Center.
•
PHOTO BY 
TIM KACMAR 


'60 Minutes' editor to speak on campus 
By SHEILA FLYNN News Writer 
Hnnownnd tnlcvision journal­
ist Mike Wallaee will partidpate in a 60-minute intorview and audience question­and-answer session Wednesday 


on the Notre Wallace 
Elam avoids jail titne 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
A l'ormc~r Notre Dame foot­hall player eonvietnd of sexual battery in September will not serve jail time but was plaend on two years of probation and must com plote 200 hours of eomnHmity service. 
St. Josoph County Superior .ludgo Holand Chamblee deliv­orod Abram I·:lam's sentence J.'riday aftnr reviewing pleas 
see ELAM/page 4 

Dame campus. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will introduce Wallace, anchor and eo-editor of CBS' "60 Minutes," said University spokesman Matt Sturin. Wallace will then partic­ipate in an interview with Hobert Schmuhl, professor of American studies and director 
of  Notre  Dame's  John  W.  
Gallivan  Program  in  
Journalism,  Ethics  &  

Democracy. Audience members will be allowed to ask questions at the end of the session. 
"He's one of the great legends of our time in television, and I think it's terrific that he is actu­ally adding this event to his schedule while he's in South Bend," Storin said. lie said that Wallace is in the area as part of a benefit held by the Suicide Prevention Council of St. Joseph County. Wallace, who has bat­tled depression, is scheduled to speak Tuesday at the Indiana University South Bend campus about his personal experiences with the disease. 
"I think all students, whether they're particularly interested in journalism or not, would get a lot out of hearing about his career and what it took to get him to the elite place that he now is in," Storin said. 
Wallace, now in his 36th sea­son with "60 Minutes," has received 20 Emmy Awards, including a Lifetime Achievement Emmy, which he won this year. He is known for his enterprise reporting and no­holds-barred interviewing tech-
see WALLACE/page 9 

AMANDA MICHAELSfThe Observer A member of the Gold Demonstration section of the U.S. Army Parachute Team begins his free fall towards Notre Dame Stadium during the game against USC on Oct. 18. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE 
Members form RA task force 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Membors of the Campus Life Couneil passed a resolu­tion calling for tho formation of a task foreo to invest.igatn polieins and procod urns associated with resident assistant training Monday. 
The resolution passed 12 to three aftor a short debatn that focused on tbe nend for such an investigation. Aftnr tho voto, mnmbers quos­tioned tho procedures sur­rounding tho vote. 
"This is not a threatening resolution," said .Iordan Bongiovanni, a member of the CLC. "!The Student Senate isl simply asking us, based on massive studont opinion, to look into this. This is our purpose." 

CLC membor and student senator Aaron Zielinski asked for a secret ballot voto -a request that Committoo Chairman and student body vice president .Jeremy Lao denied. The vote was taken using a roll-call system that some members objected to at its completion on the grounds that it was not pro­tocol and that knowing the members' positions on the issue could taint the makeup of the task force. 
"It just doesn't smell right," said Father Paul Doyle, the rector of Dillon IIall. 
The issue was brought before the CLC earlier this year after several RAs either 
see CLC/page 4 

Golden Knights fall, land with game ball 



By AMANpA MICHAELS News Writer 
No defense eould touch 1st Sgt. Mike Elliot as he carried the football for over 4,000 yards in less than three minutes during the opening of the Oct. 1 H game against USC. But before the record books are pulled out, it should be noted that these wern not rushing yards; rather, thoy were falling yards. 
As part of tho pre-game spee­tade, Elliot. joinod by follow members of the (;old Demonstration section of' the 
U.S. Army Paraehuto Team dove into tho stadium from 12,500 feet, chutes llying, to safely deliver the game ball on the 50­
see USAPT/page 9 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Diversity doesn't matter 
If I'm lying on an operating table, I don't particularly care if the man (or woman) holding the scalpel is black, white, Eskimo or Aborigine. I want the most skilled surgeon available. Makes sense, right? Not if you're for affir­mative action. 
When policy­makers created affirmative action practices in the 1960s, they were trying to rectify · past racial injus­tices. Over 200 years of slavery and nearly a cen­tury of Jim Crow segregation laws put blacks at serious economic, politi­cal and social disadvantages. Affirmative action was intended to undo the ill effects of racism. 
Now, however, affirmative action has become a crusade for racial diversity. The Supreme Court upheld this imple­mentation, despite the equal protec­tion clause of the Constitution. 
Scholars at Cornell University have written that "the result of a law is not relevant so long as there is no discrim­lnation in its application." 
What they're saying, in other words, is that if a university has a race-neu­tral admissions policy, and the class ends up being 95 percent white any­way, so be it. 
Now I know a lot of people are thinking: "Think of how boring the world would be if everyone was the same." 
Here's the problem with that argu­ment. "Diversity" is generally meas­ured by race, but race is a very poor determinant of someone's character. I'm a white guy. Knowing that, what can you figure out about me? Do you know my preferences in friends, reli­gion, movies, politics, music or ice cream? 
Of course not. All white people aren't the same, just as all black peo­ple aren't the same, all Hispanics aren't the same, and all Asians aren't the same. 
Don't get me wrong; I acknowledge that there are plenty of very diverse organizations that have done a lot of good. The United Nations, with mem­bers from 191 countries, has been a strong force for peace and security. The Catholic Church emerged from the Middle East, it has thrived in Europe and the Americas, and it's experiencing explosive growth in Africa. 
But there are plenty of examples of non-diverse organizations that have achieved great things. The National Basketball AssoCiation is about 90 per­cent black, yet it produces the best basketball in the world. The U.S. Navy's elite SEALs are overwhelmingly white, yet they're some of the fmest warriors around. 
Basically, diversity is not a good thing. It's not a bad thing, either. It's neutral. 
Continuing to obsess about race is just going to deepen the divisions in American society. Instead of pigeon­holing our fellow citizens in the name of diversity, let's focus on excellence, and we'll all rise together. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ·of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publi­cation and strives for the highest standards of jour­nalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE PAST TWO FOOTBALL GAMES? 






Anne Raih  Daniel Tweedall  Dan McSwain  Jake Hamann  Krista Seidl  Marita Murphey  
Junior Pangborn  Senior Off-Campus  Junior O'Neill  Junior Off-Campus  Senior Walsh  Junior Welsh  
"I went to the beach instead of watching the Boston College game.  "My old room­mate would kill me ifI said anything because he's on the team.,  "I got my hopes up for the USC game, but now I know I don't have to worry about going to a bowl game.,  "There was more than one game?"  "They only showed the last 40 seconds of the Boston game back home, and I wasn't impressed. ,  "USC was painful, but at least we rallied in Boston. ,  


Students hold a sign at the Oct. 18 home football game against USC in support of freshman quarterback Brady Quinn. Quinn recently started his fourth football game for Notre Dame at the game against Boston College on Oct. 25. 
OFFBEAT 
Toronto man is rock­paper-scissors champ 
ORONTO -The cav­ernous club was filled with hundreds of fierce competitors. Striped­shirted referees kept order during the grueling hand-to-hand combat. In the end, it came down to two men and three "weapons" -rock, paper and scissors. 
Rob Krueger, 31, of Toronto, was the winner -hands down -of the second International World Rock Paper Scissors Championship on Saturday night, taking home the $3,750 first prize. 

Krueger, sporting a wild wig and wraparound shades, triumphed by throwing "paper" to final­ist Marc Rigaux's "rock." 
Gator gets loose in airliner compartment 
NEWARK, N.J.-An alli­gator was captured inside the baggage hold of an air­liner on Monday after escaping from its crate. 
The young alligator, just 4 to 5 feet long, remained inside a burlap bag with its 
mouth  bound  shut,  
American  Airlines  
spokesman  Tim  Wagner  
said.  

Officers captured it with a looped device and put it back in its crate with three other gators shipped from Miami, officials said. 
Authorities were looking into how the reptile got out. 
The gator was found out­side its box when the cargo hold of the Boeing 767 was opened, Wagner said. 
Officials said they did not 
know  why  the  alligators  
were  being shipped.  But  
their  paperwork  was  in  

order, Wagner said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a= 
I.&J 
:::c 
!c;: 

3: I.&J ....
cs: 
(,) 



42 
33 


HIGH LOW 

56 
45 
0

_, HIGH 47 
LOW 38 
. 
IN BRIEF 

The Filipino-American Student Organization of Notre Dame presents Princess Emraida Kiram of the Philippines. The Princess will give a lecture entitled "Being a Muslim in Christian Philippines" today at 4:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. A reception will follow the lecture. 
"What do we know about Democratization and how well do we know it?" will be the topic of a lecture given by Michael Coppedge, Fellow of the Kellogg Institute and mem­ber of the department of polit­ical science. The lecture takes place today from 12:30 to 2 
p.m. in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Peg Wynn, vice president of human resources at Xilinx will speak on "Corporate Values at Xilinx" today from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in 141 DeBartolo. 
The Suzanne Farrell Ballet performs Balanchine's chore­ography today from 7:30 to 1 0 

p.m. at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Student rush tick­ets are available at the door for $10. See the LaFortune Box Office for more informa­tion. 
Mike Wallace, long-time anchor and co-editor of CBS' "60 Minutes," will speak Wednesday from 9:30 to 11 
a.m. in the McKenna Hal Auditorium. Wallace will par­ticipate in an interview and answer questions from the audience. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

65 
50 

HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
SMC presidential candidates to visit 
Mahoney said. "So they really
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
do want to hear from us." 
News Wrircr 
Currently, the search com­mittee is in the process of nar­Saint Mary's student body rowing the lield of candidates president lilizabeth down to a small but unspeci­.Jablonski-Diehl updated fied number. Each of those board members on the Saint select candidates will be invit­Mary's pn~sidential snarr.h ed to campus during the 
and urged thnm to pro­nwte tlw can­"We really need to start didates' 
getting

upcoming 
~~ampus visits students engaged ... " at Monday's B()(; nwding. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl 
T h n 

SMC student body presi­
!'residential 

dent

Snarr.h 
C o 111 m i t t ~~ n 
has worked diligently in tlwir snarr.h for a new prnsidnnt for tlw r.ollegn, .lablonski-l>inhl reportml. One or the most imprnssive aspncts about the process, shn explairwd, is tlw Board of Trustees' dnsirn to include current Saint Mary's students. Jablonski-Diehl said she has worked extensivdy with thn committee and has met many prospPrtivt~ candidates. 
StudPnl trusteP Sara Mahorwy. who will cast a vote for thn nnw pn~sident on lwhall' of tlw student body, agret~d. saying that students have a sense of tlw sdwol, which non-sl.udents may laek. 
"Tlw board is not here everyday and tlwy don't have to deal with the ins and outs," month of November. Students will have the opportunity to meet and question the candidates and will then be asked to complete an online survey about them. 
The responses will be com­piled and review by the com­mittee and the Board of Trustees. 
This is an opportunity, Jablonski-Diehl said, which students should not overlook. 
"We really need to start get­ting students engaged because it is amazing that students are getting to meet !the candidates!." she said. 
Board members were reminded that the visits to cam\pus would include more then just students intflrview­ing the field of candidates. They will also give the candi­dates' a chance to be intro­duced to Saint Mary's. 
"This is our chance as much for us to ask them questions," said Jabloski-Diehl, "as it is to sell the school to them." 
Following the candidates visit to Saint Mary's, the Presidential Search Committee will select and submit three finalists to the Board of Trustees for a vote. 

In other BOG News: 

+ BOG voted to provide $1,440 in sponsorship money to help send 12 students to the Tax Foundation's National Conference in Washington 
D.C. The students, all junior business majors, will attend lectures at the four-day event. 
+ 
BOG also voted to give $765 dollars to a group of nursing students in order that they may attend a suicide preven­tion conference. The event will take place at the Century Center in South Bend and will outline the signs of depression as well as some techniques for handling suicidal patients. 

+ 
Saint Mary's RHA is hosting several events for Halloween. Trick-or-treating will take place in the dorms Thursday night from 6 to 8 p.m. The Ilaunted Tunnels of Holy Cross, whieh indudes Saint Mary's ghost stories, will take place Thursday evening from 8 to 10 p.m. 


Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 





Board of Trustees re-elects chairman 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 

The Board of Trustees re­elected its chairman, extend­ing his tenure to 2007, and named a new Fellow at its recent fall meeting. 
Truste·es originally elected Board Chairman Patrick McCartan in 2000. and he became an ex-oficio Fellow. McCartan, a senior partner at the Jones Day international law firm, joined the board in 1989. 
"I appreciate the confidenee and support of the Notre Dame board and I look forward to helping Notre Dame fulfill the promise of a great University," McCartan said in a statement. 
The University's Fellows ­six lay trustees and six mem­bers of the Indiana province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross who are also trustees ­named Bishop Daniel Jenky as a new Fellow. The position became open after Father David Tyson replaced Father William Dorwart as provineial superior of the Indiana province. University spokesman Miehaol Garvey said this is one of the four Fellow positions that is deter­mined ex-oficio; however, Tyson was already a Fellow prior to becoming the provin­cial superior and a Follow position remained open. 
The Fellows are responsible for electing the Univorsity's Trustoes and adopting and amdending board bylaws. 
Jenky, the bishop of Peoria, Ill., graduated from Notre Dame in 1970. !lis provious positions at the University include rector of Dillon llall, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred lleart and superior of the Holy Cross community. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesI@nd.edu 
Join the news staff. Call Meghanne at 1-5323. 



page4 Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 
Trustees 
continued from page 1 
The 95,840-square-foot ath­letics center, which is slated to be completed by fall 2005, will be adjacent to the Loftus Center and will include football locker rooms. offices and other rooms and space for student­athlete training and condition­ing programs and equipment. A groundbreaking date has not yet been set. 
Construction will also resume on the security/police and post office building, now located on the former basket­ball courts near Stepan Center, and should be completed by summer 2005. 
Prior to the Board's decision, all construction projects had been halted on campus with the exception of Legends and the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts due to the sluggish economy and the significant decrease in the University's endowment. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said in a state­ment the University would remain "cautiously optimistic" and "exercise fiscal prudence," though funding was available for the three projects. 
James Lyphout, vice presi­dent for business operations, said the trustees made the decision to continue construc­tion after reviewing the finan­cial and funding situation of the University. The status of 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
were asked to resign or were terminated after missing required training sessions due to schedule conflicts. 
In other CLC news: 
~ Members debated the effec­tiveness of a student govern­ment-sponsored presentation before the Board of Trustees on Oct. 16. Lao criticized a headline in The Observer that described the presentation as a failure and noted that the paper's reporter left the meeting early. 
"I would not say it was a failure," said David Moss, 


the endowment did not play a role in the trustee's decision­making process. 
"We were able to demon­strate that we were able to meet the financing guidelines they established," Lyphout said. 
The athletics center will be completely funded by a $21.25 million donation from the late Don Guglielmino and his wife. Guglielmino attended Notre Dame for the 1939-40 academ­ic year and has made numer­ous gifts to the University. 
The $70 million cost of the Jordan Hall of Science will be funded by both a gift from John Jordan, a 1969 Notre Dame graduate and trustee, and internal University funds. 
Lyphout said the security/police and post office building did not meet the Board's requirements. But the Board still approved the con­tinuation of construction in order to clear the current security/police and post office sites for future construction projects. 
Lyphout said definite dates have not been set for the con­struction of the proposed new hotel on the current security/police building site and the law school renovations on the land of the current post office. Lyphout said the University was also still seek­ing funding for the Joyce Center renovations. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
assistant vice president of student affairs. "I'd like to commend the committee for weathering the storm. Everyone did a nice job." 
Some members, however, expressed concern that they were not informed of the topic of the presentation, especially in light of its focus on CLC. Lao apologized for the lack of communication. 
+ Members of the Senior Privilege Committee are investigating options for stu­dent parking privileges. The group plans to meet with Bill Kirk, associate vice president for residence life, later this week. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Elant 

continued from page 1 
from both the prosecution, defense, Elam and alleged vic­tim regarding sentencing and said during his ruling he strug­gled with his decision. 
"This is as close to a no-win 
position as I've found myself in 14 years," Chamblee said according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Elam was the only former Notre Dame football player convicted on a charge stem­ming from an alleged gang rape in March 2002. 
Chamblee originally delayed Elam's sentencing from early October until a conclusion was reached in the other three tri­als. 
But a separate jury found Donald Dykes not guilty on all charges, and special prosecutor Maureen Devlin dropped all charges against Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith 
senous boots 
for slogging to that 
early morning class 
theta II and short of 
for the fall evenings of rush parties. 

how will you spend it? 
:::·r:·-rc·.·:·.t······:·.-..: ·. ·.·:·.·.·.·.···t···········.·.............·.· ·.·.·:·.·:·:·.·:·:·...............·....... ··:···:·:·:·:·:·t:·:·.· ·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·. · · ....;................·..·.·:·.·:·.;.·.·.·:·.·.·. · · .·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•. ····:···:·c·-·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.·.·.·.;.•·•·.••·.·•·•.·.·.·.·.·...-.·.·.;.;...... •.•·••• .·.;.·.·.·.· · · · 
tr----------------------------------,~ 
©] 
© 
u= 
u= 

~~ 111111111111111111111111111111 
-~"! ''ft~,:!:~(:COSIONS
\J't'' 

'.: (!§i) One coupon per purchase, only original coupon is valid, no duplications. Not redeemable ·:: for cash. Must present college I.D. along with coupon at time of purchase. Expires 11/15/03. 


.·.·.·.·.··.·.···.·.·.·.··.... ·.··.·.·.·.;.·.··:·:·:·:·:··............•........•.............;....·•··...........·...•.....:·:··=········/·
~~---------------------------------­
check out additional styles and store locations at rackroomshoes.com 
''Abram Elam is a convicted felon as he should be. Having a felony conviction is significant, 
Maureen Devlin Prosecutor 


tricked out casu a Is 
for the late nights at the library. 
after conversing with jurors from the Elam and Dykes trials and experts related to the case. 
Devlin said during the sen­tencing hearing that Elam was told no by the woman but per­sisted, and should be incarcer­ated. 
Defense attorney Mark Lenyo appealed to the sympathy of the court and argued during 
tist's office and completed his associate's degree in business at a community college, apolo­gized for his actions and asked for the opportunity to con­tribute to his community and family. 
Indiana law would have per­mitted Chamblee to consider Elam's Class D felony convic­tion as a misdemeanor for sen-the hearing that Elam 's felony conviction should be downgraded to a misde­meanor. Lenyo said a felony con­viction prevented his client from accepting schol­arships he was offered to com­plete his educa­tion. Elam, who works in a den­tencing; however, Chamblee said during sentencing he could not do this in good conscience. 
Though the woman said dur­ing the hearing Elam should be punished for his individual actions and not for the rest of the group, Chamblee said, ''I'm not going to use you as an example. She wants you sen­tenced for what everyone did." 
Chamblee said the defen­dants had already been pun­ished enough and did not find it necessary to incarcerate Elam. He gave him an 18-month sus­pended sentence. 
Elam, who is from Riviera Beach, Fla., must pay court costs and fees and may serve his two-year probation in his home county. 
Devlin said to the South Bend Tribune following the sentenc­ing that the woman was disap­pointed that Elam will not be incarcerated. 
"Abram Elam is a convicted felon as he should be," Devlin said. "Having a felony convic­tion is significant." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Three return from space station 
ASTANA. Kazakhstan -A wingless space capsule carrying an American. a Russian and a Spaniard undocked from the international space station and began streaking toward Earth. Hussian Mission Control said Tuesday. 
The 3.5-hour trip was to end in the wide­open steppes of Kazakhstan, only the second time a U.S. astronaut has come horne in a Hussian cmft and landed on foreign soil. 
The three on Tuesday's homeward-bound trip wMe American Ed Lu and Hussian Yuri Malenclwnko, who l1ew to the space station nearly six months ago in tlw same Soyuz, and Spaniard Pedro Duque, who arrived at the station eight days ago on a different cap­
suh~. 
Since the disintegration of the space shut­tle Columbia in February put NASA manned spac1~ flights on hold. tiH~ Bussian Soyuz cap­sull~s have beconw tlu~ linchpin of tlw space station program. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate will approve EPA chief 
WASIIIN(iTON -Senatt~ Democrats. facing an overwhelming vote against them, dropped their opposition Monday to Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt as head of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Minutes before the Senate was to have held a procedural vot1~ that would have ordered an up-or-down decision soon on Leavitt's confirmation, Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton, D-N.Y., said the White llouse had satislied lwr dmnands. 
Clinton and the S1mate's three Democratic pn~sidential conttmders -Jost~ph Lieberman of Conrwcticut, John Kerry of Massaehusctts and John Edwards of North Carolina -led an efl'ort for weeks to block a vote on Leavitt, protesting Bush administration environmen­tal policies. 
Senators now plan to vote on Leavitt's nomination Tuesday morning after an hour's 
ddnttl~. 
Sen. James lnhofe. B-Okla., who chairs the Senate 1\nvironnwnt and Public Works Committee, said Leavitt deserved speedy confirmation, and it was time to stop parti­san eh~ction-year politics. 


NIH reviews HIV research grants 
WASHINGTON -Spurred by complaints from a conservative group, the National Institutes of llealth is questioning govern­rnent-fundl~d researchers about the value of their work on AIDS and sexual praetices. 
Nlll spokesman John Burklow said his agency was responding to a request from Hepublican lawmakers, who were given a list of I 57 researchers with Nil I grants. 
The Washington-based Traditional Values Coalition eornpiled the list of researchers whose projects tackled subjects that include toonagers' sexual activity, sex and drug usc among truckers and sexually transmitted diseases among Mexican immigrants. 
One rost~archer. Dr. Liana Clark of Children's Hospital of' Philadelphia, said the Nlll asked her to describe the usefulness of her research into tn1~nagors' misconceptions about birth control. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Miller announces governor bid 
IMNVII.I.E, lnd. -Conservativo activist 1\ric Millor plannod to formally begin his underdog campaign for tho Hepublican nom­ination for govtmwr Monday evening at the llendricks County Fairgrounds. 
Millor has boon unofficially campaigning for two years. llis itinerary this week includes stops in Fort Wayrw. Mishawaka. and Elkhart. 
Mitch Daniels, a former Bush White llouse budget director, has tho backing of much of tho stato's Hepublican leadership and is eon­sidl~red the party's leading candidate. 
Millor, howover. has built up a network of support across the state as ex1~cutivo director of Advanco America, a Christian lobby, since I eJHO. 

CoMPILJJ) FROM T11r ()1\SFRVrR·s WIRI srRvicrs  page')  
-----=­==  
IRAQ  



Baghdad bombings leave 35 dead 
Associated Press 

BAGIIDAD -Striking in rapid succession, suicide car bombers bent on death for "collaborators" devastat­ed the Hed Cross headquar­ters and three police sta­tions Monday, killing three dozen people and wounding more than 200 in the blood­iest day in Baghdad since the start of the U.S. occupa­tion. 
From north to south in this city of:, million, the explosions over a 45-minute period left stn~etscapns of' brok1~n bodies, twisll~d wreckage and Iraqis umwrved by an escalating underground war. The dead included a U.S. soldier, eight Iraqi policemen and at least 26 Iraqi civilians. 
"We feel helpless when see this," said an Iraqi doe­tor. 
Iraqi and U.S. authorities in Baghdad blamed the coordinated quadruple blasts on foreign fighters intent on targeting those they accuse of collaborating with U.S. forces. One captive would-be bomber was said to carry a Syrian passport. 
But in Washington, Pentagon oflkials said they believed loyalists of ousted President Saddarn llusscin were responsible. President Bush said insurgents had become more "desperate" because of what he said was progress in Iraq. 
The tactics suggested a level of organization that 
U.S. officials had doubted the resistance possessed. In past weeks, bombers have carried out heavy suicide bombings but in single strikes. 
Not only were Monday's attacks coordinated, they also involved disguise: the use of an Iraqi ambulance in the Hcd Cross attack, a police car and uniform in a police station explosion. 
The blasL'i, which echoed the Aug. 19 bombing of the 
U.N. headquarters here, left the Hed Cross and other aid agencies examining whether they should decrease their presence in Iraq. Paris-based Medecins Sans Frontieres said it would reduce its seven­member expatriate team in Baghdad. 

Secretary of State Colin Powell said he hop1~d non­government organizations. contractors and the Unitt~d Nations would stay in Iraq despite the dangers. 
"They arc needed. Their work is needed. And if they are driven out, then the ter­rorists win," Powell said ir1 Washington. 
The differing theories about who was behind the bombings underscored the confusion generated by two days of bold, stunning attacks, beginning with a rocket barrage on a U.S. headquarters hotel Sunday that killed a U.S. colonel, wounded 1:, other people and sent Americans scurry­ing to safety, including the 

visiting deputy defense sec­retary, Paul Wolfowitz. Latt~r Sunday, tlm~e U.S. soldiers wt~re killed in two 
attacks  in the  Baghdad  
an~ a.  
The n .  at  H : :HJ  a .rn .  

Monday. on a warm, dt~ar morning beginning the Muslim fasting month of Bamadan. the first of l'our thunderous explosions rocked the city. 
A police car, somehow commandeered for a suicidn mission and driven by a man in police uniform. blew up af'te_r entnring the court­yard of the al-Baya'a police station in southern Baghdad, said police Brig. Gen. Ahmed Ibrahim, the deputy interior minister. 
Officers said the blast killed 15 Iraqis and one U.S. soldier, and the U.S. military said six other Americans were wounded. American troops havn benn working with Iraqi policn and guard­ing thn stations. 
Just fiv1~ rninutt~s Ialor. a second bi<L'it struck tlw local lwadquarte~rs of' the· International Comm itll~c~ ol' tlw He~d Cross. a small. thre1~-story building on a qui1~t stn~d in ct~ntral Baghdad. This bomiJC'r, t.oo, used a subll~rl'uge~ -an Iraqi arnbulanc1~ that appar­
. ~~ntly was abl1~ to approach the ICI{C oflices without sus­picion. "I saw this arnbulancn driving up toward th1~ Hed Cross, and then suddcmly it blew up," said cigarettt~ vendor Ghani Khadim. Tlw vehicle stoppt~d (,{) fed l'rom the front of tlw Ht~d Cross building, at a protc~ctivt~ linn ol' earth-fillmf barrels, and disintegratml as it blew a 15-l'oot-wide crater in the~ road. 
CHINA 


American released iri PR gesture 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -Citing his "repentant behavior," China deported a Chinese­born American citizen convicted of obtaining state secrets and put him on a plane to the United States on Monday, less than two years before his prison senWnce expires. 
Fong Fuming, 68, a naturalized American and a business consultant from West Orange, N.J., had been on a list of 13 prisoners that the U.S. government identified to China as priority eases. Officials as senior as SBcretary of State Colin Powell brought up his case with Chinese leaders. 
In the past, Beijing has freed Arnllricans or U.S. residents to coin­cide with visits from top-level Washington politicians. One source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that a U.S. oflicial who deals with human rights arrived in Beijing on Monday. 
The ailing Fung "has had his sen­tence reduced and was deported from China," thn oflkial Xinhua News Agency reported Monday night. It referred to Fong's "repentant behav­ior in jail" but didn't give details. 
"It's a happy surprise," said one of Fong's two sons, reaehed by tele­phone in New Jersey. lie spoke on condition that his name not be~ used. 

"We're just so ovnrjoyt~d that lw's corning home." 
Fong, an tllectrical c~ngirwc~r and one-time powc~r official in China, long denied chargt~s lw illt~gally obtairwd documents containing state secrl'l.s and bribml govt~rnnwnt oflicials. lin was sentcmcml to five yc~ars in March 2002 aflt~r bt~ing detainc~d for ne~arly two years, and was givt~n crc~dit l'or tinH~ served. 
Though Fong appan~ntly n~mains ill, his son said thn Stat1~ llepartmnnt told him that Fong. "apJWarnd to lw OK" wlwn hn ld't Bt~ijing. 
" It co u I d ha v n b~~ ~~ n a (; r ne~ k tragedy. Thank (iod it isn't," said U.S. Hnp. Bill Pascndl. 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Saint Mary's students travel to Haiti over break 
globalization and the role of 
By ANNIE BASINSKI 
women in Haiti. Alison Gavin, a News Writer 
Saint Mary's senior who participat­ed in the seminar, said she learned 
While many students headed a lot about Haitian people's outlook home for fall break, nine Saint on their country's present state. Mary's students went to Haiti as "[We went to Haiti] to listen to the part of the Poverty and people, to get their perspective on Development Seminar to interact their own situation, and to bring with and learn more about Haitian the knowledge gained on the trip people and the problems of their back to the U.S., so we can think country. about how we might be able to 

A faculty member, a Saint Mary's make changes for them," Gavin alumna, and two representatives said. · from Women's Perspective on Faith The participants prepared for the and Spirituality, a Connecticut­trip by attending meetings and dis­based organization that has con­cussing readings about the govern­ducted many immersions and sem­ment, economy, living conditions inars in Haiti, accompanied the and women's roles in Haiti. seminar participants. The project The group began the seminar on was funded largely by a grant from Oct.19 in Haiti's capital, Port-au­the Center for Women's Prince. They spent majority of the Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). trip there and in the mountain vil­
Seminar participant and Saint lage Gwo-Jan until they returned Mary's senior Becca Doll described late Sunday night. the experience as "not a mission­Several women's organizations ary trip, but a cultural submer­spoke with the participants about gence." legal rights and health care issues 

Realizing that they would not be for Haitian w.omen. The partici­able to make drastic changes to pants also had the opportunity to better Haitian society, the partici­listen to seven political rape victims pants went to Haiti with the intent speak out about their attempts to to learn more about the effects of seek justice for the rapes by filing 
Unmistakably Italian .~ ~ Unbelievably Good :~ 
i•· Enjoy generous portions of contemporary"·: Italian entrees and pastas Uke Salmone aUa Griglla & Papa1s signature :Siulennt• 
J· famify-.Style Jake Out 11'\eals are perfect for an.y large gathering. AU portions serve 
8-10 people. · 
574-271-1692 

RESERVED WEEKLY COURT TIME SCHEDULING. MEETING 
Any organization wi~hingtqrequest weekly basketball or vq/if~yb~U c6urt time at Stepan. Cehterfor the 2031-2004 academic yearmust attend: 
Thursday, October 30 4:00pm ~~ootgomery Theatre 
You must have a representative presentat the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will begin Monday, November 3. 
For more information, contact Student Activities 631-6912. 

legal suits against the Haitian mili­poverty," Gavin said. "They are tary. committed to work for change and Jan Pilarski, a justice education it is inspiring to learn from them." professor who participated in the Saint Mary's senior Zoe Zelazny 
seminar, said the  said  she  was  
women  took  a  personally affect­ 
"great risk to speak  "Haitian women are  ed by witnessing  
out" about their rape incidents. Formerly a military  so strong, so knowledgeable,  the hope many of the Haitian people she spoke  
dictatorship, Haiti was a country where many citi­zens gave their lives  despite their poverty. They are committed to work for change  with have for tl1e future, even though their liv­ing conditions  
as a result of stand­ing up for their beliefs. Although the  and it is inspiring to learn from them. "  are poor. "They are family oriented  
country is now a Democracy, fear of  Alison Gavin  and spiritual people," Zelazny  
persecution  still  Saint Mary's senior  said. "They have  
lingers.  hope, warmth,  
The rape victims  and happiness,  

have formed a theatrical troupe despite not having material things." that shares stories of their tragic What little they did have, they pasts through song and dramatiza­shared with the participants. tions. The seven women offered the "Even though they didn't have participants not only their stories of much food, they gave so much to sadness, but also their message of us," Gavin said. "The people were hope that they have found by work­really welcoming, really warm. ing together to fight for women's They are very community focused." rights. The participants shared in the 
"Haitian women are so strong, so community by eating traditional knowledgeable, despite their Haitian dishes, learning to cook Haitian food, and painting using Haitian style. 

They also had the opportunity to spend time with babies who live in an orphanage sponsored by the Sisters of Charity, the same order that was Mother Teresa's. The babies are placed in the orphanage either because they are severely ill or malnourished, or because their families cannot support them. The participants held and rocked the babies to sleep, giving them acts of affection that they rarely receive. 
Now that the seminar partici­pants are back in the U.S., they say that they plan to make others aware of the problems they observed during their trip to Haiti. Together, they will also reflect on their experiences and brainstorm ways they can impart their knowl­edge to others so that changes can be made in Haiti. 
"Seeing what we saw -you can't not be impacted," Zelazny said. "We will share our experi­ences with friends and family and try to always keep that a part of us." 
Contact Annie Basinski at basi0223@saintmarys.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 608.16 +25.70 
Jones , ' 
.:"Up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,9169 198 • 1,356,516,352 

NASDAQ 1,888.91 +17.32 NYSf 5,870.18 +19.04 AMEX 1,021.18 +0.41 S&P 500 1,031.13 +2.22 NIKK£1 (Tokyo) 10,454.12 0.00 
fTSf IOO(London)4,251.30 +12.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SXI' RADIO (SIR!) +2.52 +O.a:i 2.44 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.13 +0.30 26.91 ADC TELECOMM (ADCT) +6.37 +0.16 2.67 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.66 +0.13 19.93 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.09 +0.34 31.42 
Treasuries 

30· YEAR OOND +0.73 +0.37 51.39 10· YEAR l'UI'E +1.26 +0.53 42.65 5 · YEAR l'UI'E +1.95 +0.61 31.88 3 MCNI'H BILL +1.51 +0.14 9.41 
Commodities 

LIGH'I' CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.24 29.92 <X>LD ($/'!'roy oz.) -1.00 388.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/~b.) +0.55 85.225 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.5 EURO 0.8519 POUND 0.5906 CANADIAN $ 1.311 
IN BRIEF 
Group of 20 meets to plan after CanCWI 
MOHELIA. Mexico -Finance ol'ficials from 
the European Union and 19 countries, includ­
ing the United States, wrapped up a two-day 
meeting Monday with promises to help Iraq 
lower its debt load and restart global trade 
talks that collapsed last month in Cancun. 
Officials from the Group of 20, meeting in the mountains of western Mexico, were upbeat about the world economy, saying in a declaration that "while risks remain, a global economic recovery is under way." 
They also discussed identifying and sanc­tioning countries that refuse to cooperate in the light against terrorist funding, though pos­sible sanctions were not outlined. 
Mexican Treasury Secretary Francisco Gil Diaz said officials must combat the "lack of cooperation from the famous tax havens," but he didn't name the offending countries. 
Two largest Blue Cross PPO's to merge 
INDIANAPOI.IS -The two largest Blue Cross Blue Shield providers plan to merge in a deal the companies valued at $16.4 billion, creating the nation's largest managed-care provider with 26 million members from Maine to California. 
Anthem Inc. will swallow California-based Welll'oint Health Networks Inc., keeping the slightly larger company's name but consolidat­ing its operations at Anthem's Indianapolis headquarters, the companies announced Monday. 
An them will trade one share of its stock, plus $23.80 in cash, for each share of WeiiPoint. In trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, WellPoint shares rose $7 .16, or 8.5 percent, to close at $91.09, while Anthem shares fell $6.21, or 8 percent, to close at $71.05. 
If regulators and shareholders of the two companies approve, the merger is expected to close by mid-2004. 
The companies said the merger would save their combined operations at least $50 million next year, about $175 million in 2005 and at least $250 million annually by 2006. Each company now has about 20,000 employees. 


Bank of Atnerica, Fleet announce tnerger 
Buyout will create nation's second-largest bank to serve 33 million customers 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Bank of 
America Corp. announced 
a $47 billion deal Monday 
to buy FleetBoston 
Financial Corp., swallow­
ing up the last of the big 
Boston banks that have 
made the city a financial 
center since the time of 
the American Revolution. 
The agreement, if approved by shareholders and regulators. would cre­ate the nation's second­biggest banking company. Bank of America, current­ly No. 3. would have about 33 million customers and 
2.5 million business clients in 35 countries. 
The deal would also bring Bank of America into New England and elimi­nate the Fleet name. 
"We are now truly the bank of America," said Kenneth D. Lewis, chair­man and chief executive of Bank of America. 
Fleet's roots here go back centuries to when Boston banks financed the young nation's shipping and textile industries. In 1784, Fleet, then known as the Massachusetts Bank, became the first federally chartered bank in the United States. 

The deal comes less than a month after another Boston institution, John Celtics and Bruins play. already has more branch­be chairman of the board. Hancock Financial The Fleet name is every­es than any other U.S. The deal. already Services, was bought by where in New England, bank. No. 2 Wells Fargo approved by both boards Canada's Manulife from the arena to a water­has about 3,000. of directors, is expected to Financial Corp. front concert pavilion. "It's going to be one of be completed in the first 
FleetBoston and Bank of The acquisition com­the dominant banks in the half of 2004. Bank of America executives said bines banks with assets U.S. banking industry over America said it expects the that because the compa­totaling over $930 billion. the next 25 years," said merger to save $1.1 bil­nies had so little overlap, Alone, Bank of America Gerard Cassidy, an indus­lion. they expect the number of has $737 billion in assets. try analyst with RBC Analyst John McCune of jobs in the Boston area to It is third behind Capital Markets. SNL Financial Corp. said remain about the same. Citigroup, which has more Bank of America, based the deal could also signal a FleetBoston has a total of than $1 trillion, and J.P. in Charlotte, N.C., will pay new round of bank merg­47,700 employees; Bank of Morgan Chase & Co., with $45 a share for Fleet, or ers with large regional America has 133,000. more than $740 billion, about $13 more than banks joining forces with 
Charles K. Gifford, according to the trade FleetBoston's closing price big financial services as FleetBoston chairman and publication American on Friday. the only way to compete. chief executive, said he did Banker. Lewis will be chief exec­"No other single bank not know how the deal The combined bank will utive of the merged com­has the same combined would affect the Fleet have about 5,200 branch­pany, to be headquartered coverage this bank docs Center, where the Boston es; Bank of America in Charlotte. Gifford will right now," McCune said. 

RussiA 

Petroleum magnate jailed in Siberia 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Shares in Russia's largest oil firm plunged and dragged the Moscow stock market down with them Monday, the first trading day after the weekend arrest and jailing of the chairman of Russia's biggest oil producer. 
President Vladimir Putin defended prosecutors' decision to arrest Russia's richest man, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, whom special forces seized in a stunning operation at a Siberian airport. But fears were high that the move could stall the Russian economy, which recently has seen robust progress back from the 1998 collapse of Russia's currency, the ruble. 
"Capitalism with Stalin's Face," blared a headline in the daily Nezavisimaya Gazeta. "The prosecu­tor general has been allowed to turn Russia into a VIP jail," echoed the business daily Kommersant. 

Khodorkovsky's arrest was an esca­lation of the probe into the Yukos oil company that began in July and that many analysts and politicians have speculated is political revenge for the tycoon's funding of opposition parties. 
Yukos this month completed arrangements to form what would be the world's fourth-largest oil company by merging with Russia's Sibneft, and it carries a huge influence in Russia's economy. Its shares were down 15 percent at the close of trading; the RTS benchmark index of Russian stocks closed down 14 percent. 
Earlier in the day, after Yukos shares lost 20 percent, trading on the Moscow exchange was halted for an hour. The ruble, which this year has made an overall 12 percent rise against the U.S. dollar, dipped 1 per­cent. 
The arrest of Khodorkovsky rattled even risk-hardened foreign investors. Analysts and fund managers in Europe and Russia said that markets badly wanted assurances that the Kremlin wasn't going to reshuffie the privatizations of the 1990s that creat­ed some of Russia's biggest compa­nies. 
Putin tried to calm fears of a wider­ranging government move against prominent businesses. 
"Everyone should be equal before the law, irrespective of how many bil­lions of dollars a person has on his personal or corporate account," Putin said at the start of his regular Cabinet session. 


page 8 Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
On our team, your brightest ideas get noticed. 
I 
experience and knowledge to spot it. It's your time to shine. 
t . 
I 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Tuesday, Ocrober 28, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

USAPT 
continued from page 1 
the 50-yard line. 
"We've jumped into stadiums across the country, doing this," said Elliot, the team's captain. "It's one of our most popular demonstrations." 
Earlier that day, the Gold Toam practiced what they termed "dirt dives," or on­ground simula­tions of what the d<Ly's program 
"If we relax,

would be, on the compete in the tarmac at the someone gets hurt. name of the Gary Jet Center. Army. Jumpers
We always have to

Though the Team also test new
be a little nervous, 

boasl'i 13 experi­parachuting enced members always on our toes, equipment to cer­with between tify its safety and
no matter how 

400 and 4,000 evaluate . its 
many times we've 

individual logged improvement jumps, they jumped." from previous 
never let them­models. selves become To become a
Sgt. Mike Elliot 

complacent. member of the 
... U.S. Army
"If we relax, Golden Knights, 
landing in the crowd on nation­al television." 
Stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C., the Golden Knights were estab­lished in 1959, officially recog­nized by the Army two years later, to compete "in the then­Communist-dominated sport of skydiving," said Staff Sgt. Mellissa Novakovich. 
Today, the USAPT is made up of six divisions, including two demonstration teams, two com­petition teams, the aviation sec­tion and the lleadquarters ele­ment. all of which serve to promote, recruit for and 

someone gets hurt. We always have to be a little nervous, always on our toes, no matter how many times we've jumped," said Elliot. 
The procedure normally per­formed at football games is called the Mass Exit show, with all the jumpers exiting the air­craft before joining together to create a geometrical formation and landing one at a time. 
Oespite the team's experi­ence, high winds threatened to keep the Golden Knights (a nickname for the USAPT) in their C-31 Friendship Fokker -a plane specially built in the Netherlands -though, obvi­ously, calmer weather pre­vailed. 
"We never jump if the wind is gusting too hard," said Sergeant First Class Andy Leake. "We'd just get tossed around out there, and end up an enlisted mem­
ber must submit a packet detailing their qualifica­tions, meeting the require­ments of at least 150 free-fall jumps, static line certification and a flawless military career. '1\vcnty to 25 new members are chosen each year and then assigned into one of the demon­stration or competition divi­sions to serve a three-to eight­year tour. Both new and old personnel arc then taken through two months of rigorous training in Yuma, Ariz., where the maneuvers are perfected for the show. 
"Since my first dive, I knew this is what I wanted to do," said Leake, a second-year member of the Gold Team. "The fact that this is my job every day? It never gets old." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Starvation cases raise questions 
New Jersey child welfare agency comes under scrutiny 
Associated Press 
THENTON, N.J.-The body of a 7-year-old boy found in a box in a Newark basement nearly a year ago prompted a shake-up at New Jersey's child welfare agency. The agency reviewed all open cases, hired 366 more employees and received $30 million in emergency aid. 
Despite those changes. four adopted boys -one of them 19 -were found earlier this month malnourished and weighing less than 50 pounds each. 
Their adoptive parents were charged last week with starving them. and on Monday, nine child welfare employees were fired and the state announced another review of recently compiled assessments of children in state care. 
Social workers had visited the boys' house in Collingswood as many as 38 times. Child welfare officials have doubts about whether the visits took place, said Department of lluman Services Commissioner Gwendolyn Harris. The last visit was supposed to have 

taken place Sept. 15. 
"I had staff that were either incompetent, uncaring or who had falsified records," llarris said. "I have members of this division who have failed children almost to the cost of their very lives." 
Gov. James E. McGreevey said Monday the state is investigating whether crimi­nal charges should be filed against the caseworker. 
"It's inconceivable how a caseworker could go there and not detect these atro­cious conditions," McGreevey said. 
Agencies in other states have had similar tragedies and ordered reforms. But New Jersey's child-care sys­tem continues to confront such horrific abuses despite additional staff members and emergency funding. 
Susan Lambiase, an attor­ney for Children's Rights who sued the state in 1999, called New Jersey's child welfare agency one of the worst in the nation. 
"This was one of the worst I have ever seen. It's still very bad," she said. "We knew it was a system that had been in crisis for over a decade. 
We know that a lot has to be done. This horror story that we are all learning about exemplifies that it's worse than we all imagined." 
New Jersey's Division of Youth and Family Services came under intense pressure for reform when the body of 7-year-old Faheem Williams was found decomposed in a storage box in a Newark basement. llis twin brother and their 4-year-old half brother were discovered alive but emaciated in an adjoining room. 
In 1999, Children's Hights filed a class-action lawsuit against the state to force reforms. 
The state settled that law­suit and agreed to review all child welfare cases more than 14,000. During those inspections, 31 children were removed from their own homes, foster care and other living arrangements. 
DYFS supervises 58,582 children, including young­sters awaiting adoption. 
State inspectors said they are reviewing all reports filed by the DYFS caseworkers and managers who visited the Collingswood house. 
Wallace 
continued from page 1 
technique, and has interviewed such figures Presidents Bush, Heagan, Carter, Ford, Nixon, Johnson and Kennedy, as well as international figures such as Keifer Endowment for Excellence in Journalism, as well as the University's Department of Film, Television and Theatre and Office of Public Affairs and Communication sponsored Wallace's visit. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

Deng Xiaoping, Manuel Noriega and the Ayatollah Khomeini. 
The event will begin at 9:30 
a.m. in the McKenna Hall audi­torium. It is free and open to the public, with preferred seat­ing for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College students. The Gallivan 
. Program's Marguerite and Lou 

Freshman, sophomores, juniors and seniors are eligible for Marine Officer Programs that have no on-campus requirements . 
• 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

• 
No OBLIGATION • SUMMER PAY $2,000 -$3,000 


PILoT or lAWYER Commission Guaranteed 
STARTING SALARY AFrER GRADUATION 
$38,618 
SEE YouR MARINE CoRrs OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
Ifyou're looking for a unique challenge, see Captain John Williams tomorrow, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 29, in Le Mans Lobby at St. Mary's College from ll:OOam to 2:00pm. 
1-877-299-9397 
OSOIA®9MCD.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 1\1 ari ncOfficcr. com 
2003 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 




INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 

Come and meet Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
.. 
Thursday, October 30, 2003 214 DEBARTOLO 4:30PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Application Deadline: December l, 2003
Questions?-\Veber.l5@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
Catholicism demands 
'faithful citizenship' 


According to a recent Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life survey, 52 percent of Catholics intend to vote to reelect President Bush in 2004, while 31 percent intend to vote for a Democratic candidate. As far as I am concerned, the 83 percent of us voting Catholics and maybe even the other 17 percent not represented by this study are going to 
Peter Quaranta 
hell. Surely, such a statement is extreme and inflated, but my point is that the 
A Call to
approaches of many Catholics, even 
Action
most Catholics, to the political arena are misguided and immoral. There is a tremendous need as we approach the important upcoming election for us Catholics to examine our consciences and our actions in the American political structure. There is a need for true faithful citizenship. 
First, the majority of devout Catholics who vote Republican vote based on one single issue: abortion. At first glance, this seems like a legitimate rea­son for voting Republican, considering that over 40 million abortions have taken place in the United States since 1973. While the Republicans remain committed generally to an anti-life agenda on other issues, the numbers seem to suggest that a utilitarian-for­life would vote Republican. But here's the problem: Catholics cannot accept utilitarianism. 
Utilitarianism espouses the notion that individu­als and nations can judge their actions by weighing the positive resuUs against the negative resuUs. In other words. throw the relationship between means and ends out the door. Catholicism, to the contrary, espouses a definite right and wrong in regards to means and ends to which Catholics are called to adhere and witness. Catholics cannot accept the sort of moral relativism that goes hand­in-hand with utilitarianism. 
For example, the utilitari­an would support an action of killing three million people if it would end world hunger, because the number of people who would not die from world hunger would be greater than the three million. Another example is that the utilitarian would vote for a candidate who limits abortion even if that candidate sup­ports the death penalty, harmful economic policies for the poor, and disregard for the just war theory. From a Catholic standpoint, this is unacceptable. 

The many Catholics who vote Democrat also have their own faults. Democrats make their own utilitarian argu­ments as they vote for candidates who will promote the welfare of the poor, a more humane foreign policy, and promotion of civil rights, but dismiss the issues of abor­tion, cloning and assisted suicide. Again, this is not whol­ly consistent with true Catholicism. 
An analysis of the motivations and patterns of Catholics in the American political framework highlights the need for the Catholics to reevaluate their current course of action and embark on a new road of Catholic faithful citi­zenship. But what will such a road entail? 
A week ago, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops published a document titled "Faithful Citizenship: A Catholic Call to Political Responsibility." In this document, the bishops write, "Faithful citizenship calls Catholics to see civic and political responsibilities through the eyes of faith and to bring our moral convic­tions to public life." They pose a number of provocative questions concerning the modern challenges of Catholic Social Teaching and the ways in which Catholics are challenged to stand up for the poor, the unborn, the voiceless and the suffering. , 
The major message of this document is that Catholics have a moral obligation to become politically involved. Catholics have to seriously evaluate and challenge politi­cal leaders on protecting human life, promoting family life, pursuing social justice and practicing global solidari­
ty. This is an important opportunity to bear wit­ness. As I see it, this call to Catholic faithful cit­izenship should manifest itself in three ways in the coming election. If Catholics are not careful, our actions can be extremely misguided and harmful. First, if you do not have a solid grasp on the issues and the way in which your faith can guide your voting, do not vote. This is not to say that people 
should be apathetic; rather, uninformed or indecisive Catholics should turn in 
blank ballots as a symbol of not accepting the system. Dorothy Day refused to choose a candidate because she felt that Catholics could not find a place in the American political frame­work. 
Second, Catholics should present a Catholic candi­date who is consistent on 

issues of Church teaching and doctrine. Obviously, such a candidate would have little chance of succeeding in the political race. but this could also be an important symbol to political parties that they need to take the social beliefs of Catholics seriously. Finally, the position most clearly advocated by the USCCB and myself is that we Catholics should become politically engaged and vote in a princi­ple-based manner rather than a utilitari­an-based manner. Catholics need to be clear on where they stand on the many pressing issues 
of our time. and then Catholics should vote for the candidate that most clearly represents a direction most consistent with Church teaching. human dignity and the realization of the kingdom of God in this world. 
Only if we do this can we curb our current road to hell. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore political science and international peace studies major. 1/e is involved with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition. Contact him at pquar­ant@nd.edu. 
The opinions expressed in this coluT(ln are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Driven from every corner ofthe earth, freedom of thought in matters of conscience directs its course to this happy country as its last asylum." 
Samuel Adams American revolutionary leader 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you approve or disapprove of President Bush's handling of the situation in Iraq? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 28 2003 page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Don't blame 
rape victims 
I was appalled to read Jonathan Retartha's Oct. 17 Inside Column titled "A call for change," which addressed the sexual assault/alcohol policy currently in place at the University. The mere suggestion of telling potential rape victims that they will be prosecuted for alcohol violations in the event of an assault infuriates me. 
It upsets me that there are people walking around Notre Dame's campus who are actually trying to justify such a suggestion. No woman is responsible when she is raped. She is a victim of a violent crime. Period. You cannot and should not automatically assume that if she was drunk that the attack would not have occurred. That defies common sense. 
"Getting drunk on a first date just is not a good idea, and if Notre Dame insists on prosecuting alcohol viola­tions no matter what, less girls may be apt to drink on a first date, and there would be much less chance of assault," writes Hetartha. 
The fact that this antiquated and absolutely erro­neous assumption still exists is mind-boggling. A rapist is a rapist is a rapist. A rapist will probably rape regardless of the situation -drunk. sober, whatever. But if alcohol is involved, where is the blame for the rapist? Is he less guilty because he was drunk when he raped? Answering yes to this question is ludicrous-so why is it acceptable to think that a woman is guilty of letting herself be raped because she was drunk? 
I'm currently getting my master's in journalism. I'm aware of editorials, free speech, expressing an opinion. But please, Observer, be careful here. Be smart. Be educated. Articles like this are misinformed and per­petuate the very stigma that keeps rape victims from coming forward in the first place. They also shade the reality of what rape is about-power. 
Don't ever forget that rape victims are just that­victims. I am not a rape victim, but I am close to some­one who is. ller life was turned upside down 12 years ago when she was attacked. A nameless perpetrator who has never been caught almost destroyed her life. I don't get caught up in the details of whether she was drunk. I prefer to focus my attention on the violent criminal who raped her. 
The University's alcohol policy currently in place to encourage rape victims to come forward is sound and should remain intact. 
And I will not lose sleep at night believing that Notre Dame is full of women who will accuse innocent men of a heinous act just to avoid being punished for an alco­hol violation. Retartha writes, "This dangerous exemp­tion opens the door to a possible slippery slope of hav­ing violators falsely accuse people of rape just to avoid convictions." Notre Dame women should be outraged at such a statement. 
Casey Waldron class of 200I Oct.20 

Exposing Hollywood's far-left conspiracy 
With President Bush proclaiming a week in October as "Defense of Marriage Week," liberals have secretly solicited the notorious Bouvier sis­ters, Selma and Patty, as spokespersons. Some con­sider Selma and Patty to be Hollywood elitists epit­omizing everything that is wrong with this nation and our 
Gary Caruso 
society. They consider it diaboli­
cal how the two hide behind 
their weekly television comedy, 
"The Simpsons," which places Capitol 
its characters in a church set­Comments 
ting more than any program on 
television. Others think that Selma and Patty's 14-year stature as Emmy win­

ners and celebrity icons mask an agenda as moral­
ly bankrupt as that of Rush Limbaugh and Bill 
Bennett. 

Each actor manipulates her television persona as though it was her actual life. Selma and Patty hope that casual cigarette usage and two divorces make them identifiable with millions of decent, moral Americans who also have a vice or two. They use their television public service careers at the motor vehicles office to falsely connect with viewers who place patriotism above any insignificant civil liber­ty. These elitist performers are banking on their abilities to lull the public into such complacency that it sets the stage for them to spring their liberal agendas. 
Right-wingers see Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson as beacons of conservative light in the mucky sea of liberalism. They must now prepare to counter an orchestrated charade that is part of a scheme concocted by Hollywood for liberal politi­cians. The West Coast elitist goal is for the Democrats to hijack the institution of marriage in favor of special rights contrary to every value held holy by fundamentalist Christians. 
Selma and Patty hope that unsuspecting Americans will view them as sisters when in actu­ality, they are lovers. Their campaign has nothing to do with marriage, civil unions or being gay. Selma and Patty's backers are pressuring the Democratic Party and its nine presidential candi­dates to support legal rights regarding health cov­erage, personal property and child or elderly care based on the sisters' dwelling status, not personal preferences. Supporters believe that by mas­querading as sisters. the two can prevent conserva­tives from changing the issue to one of gay mar­riage. 
Selma and Patty rhyme their goal, "Those who together reside need not have a bride." They pro­pose a legal benchmark that, if applicable to sisters who live together, would solve any dwelling sce­nario of more than one person without bringing emotion or sex into the conversation. It would guarantee the portability or sharing of legal pro­tections for health coverage, property ownership, guardianship of children or the elderly and estate 
survivorship. The proposal would allow any num­
ber of persons living in the same dwelling to enter 
into a legal residential contract. 
Patty says that if a mother and daughter or two sisters live together, either should be able to pro­vide health insurance for the other. Patty believes that the United States should be a leader in health­care coverage flexibility. In her stump speech Patty tells audiences that "Americans can be contradicto­ry by expressing both bold and progressive ideas while at the same time remaining closed-minded and blinded by scare tactics." 
She goes on to say that if we would stop fighting each other over non-issues created by interest groups, we could solve our differences by including everyone rather than excluding some. Patty sees Americans as happier, more cooperative and toler­ant neighbors to each other and the world. 
Selma, having been married and divorced twice on her television series, considers herself an expert on marriage. She contends that the current rights of those who live as common law husbands and wives should be the starting point for the partner­ship plan. Selma contends that institutional religion has nothing to do with marriages performed by captains of ships, justices of the peace or mayors. She counters critics by saying that it is ridiculous for some religious leaders to assert that partner­ships violate the sanctity of marriage. 
As Selma explains the plan, legal survivorship begins with a person's dwelling arrangement. If that person did not have a will or were to lie coma­tose, priority would be assigned to those with whom the person chose to reside. Whether a per­son resides with a mother or sister, with a husband or a girlfriend or a complete stranger of either sex, that person could share health insurance portabili­ty and other legal rights. That person's life would be legally equal to married couples or common law couples without diminishing traditional institutions. 
Conservatives should beware of the "Selma and Patty Benchmark." These two professed "sisters" could standardize and simplify dwelling rights to the extent that Americans could choose any num­ber of combinations of living arrangements result­ing in a better quality of life. The American public would be a big winner leaving the fundraising efforts of the Falwells and Robertsons of this nation as big losers. 
Now that's what anyone would call a far-left con­spiracy. 
Gary Caruso served as a public and legislative affairs director in President Clinton's administra­tion. His column normally appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER To THE EDITOR 
Hom.osexuality not a m.ental disorder 
While ordinarily I would dismiss Michael Gerardi's fringe contentions in his Oct. 17 letter with a roll of my eyes, in this case, I believe three important points need be made. 
First, in support of his view that homosexuality is a "psychological dis­order," Gerardi cites the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality, a group that pro­motes the "curing" of homosexuality through "reparative" or "conversion" therapy. It should be noted that no published scientific evidence supports such a view, and all valid health and mental health professional organiza­tions, including the American Medical Association, the American Counseling Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics, staunchly oppose any assumption that homosexuality is a mental disorder. 
Second. Gerardi argues against gay families. Initially, he reasons that gay relationships are unstable. Unfortunately, many relationships today, whether heterosexual or homo­sexual, that are unstable, and most people agree that, sexual orientation aside, children are better raised by parents in stable, as opposed to unsta­ble, relationships. But Gerardi further states that even gay families that maintain loving, stable environments are still immoral because "no end jus­tifies an evil means." Aside from the fact that using the word "evil" to explain why one finds something immoral is an easy and non-persuasive escape from using rational, logical arguments to justify such a position, the use of the word "evil" borders on hate speech, as most people commonly associate evil with the need to elimi­
nate it. 

In addition, having spent time work­ing with children in homeless shelters, I have seen abused, malnourished, unwanted, and drug-addicted babies brought into this world. I imagine that many such children, starved for loving, stable environments. would take par­ticular issue with a per se determina­tion that homosexual couples willing to offer love, care, attention, support, devotion and guidance are unfit mere­ly because of how they choose to express their feelings for each other behind closed doors. 
Finally, because Gerardi apparently believes that homosexual individuals will die earlier than their heterosexual counterparts, he suggests that intoler­ance is the best way to keep society from losing so many people before their time has come. I suppose homo­sexuals around the world should be thanking him for this consideration. To think that such homophobic comments 
·.come from a Notre Dame student rep­resenting a University that. according to du Lac, "strives for a spirit of inclu­sion," "prize[sJ the uniqueness of all persons as God's creatures", and "value[s] gay and lesbian members of th[e] community as [it] values all mem­bers of th[e] community" is quite dis­appointing. 
I only hope that the remainder of Gerardi's four years at Notre Dame open his mind to the possibility that society's intrinsic wrongs stem not from non-traditional sexual practices, but from people unwilling to accept and eager to condemn others who hap­pen to be different from themselves. 
Meghan DiPerna class of 2002 Oct. 18 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Sylvia' explores heights, depths of poet's life 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Movie Critic 
The film Sylvia has many parallels with the writings of its subject, poet Sylvia Plath. It is full of dark yet beauti­ful images, it is at times confusing and frightening in its sheer intensity of emo­tion, and it leaves you with a resigned sense of despair and a number of unan­swered questions. The movie, much like Plath's own life, is not a light-hearted romantic comedy but is instead a fasci­nating study in how blurry the line between art and insanity can be and how living between these two worlds can inspire one to creativity and drive one to madness at the very same time. 
The film traces Plath's life from her college days at Cambridge to her finalchaoticyearsin "Sylvia" his temper, London, but her 
strayed from stormy marriage to his wife and fellow poet Ted frequently con­Hughes emerges as cerned himself the central focus of Director: Christine Jeffs only with his 


the movie. Writers: John Brownlow work. -Neither Their tumultuous Starring: Gwyneth Paltrow, Daniel Craig, party is blame­relationship consists Blythe Danner and Michael Gambon less in their 
melding his love, anger, moodiness and unfaithfulness into one equally convinc­ing character. The interaction between the two actors brings the passion and perils of the two poets' relationship to the screen with all of the necessary emotion, which is especially important because there are few other characters in the movie, and none play a particu­larly major role in the movie. 
The film avoids the major pitfall of presenting the relationship between Plath and Hughes in not portraying Plath as the blameless victim of a vio­lent male aggressor. Instead, the film attempts to look at the realities of their relationship. Plath was needy, some­what bipolar, suspicious and driven to have her poetry embraced by main­stream culture. 
Hughes had 
difficulties with 
of emotional ups and downs stemming from the personal flaws of both characters. Gwenyth Paltrow embodies the role of Plath well -she avoids making Sylvia a pitiable and victimized character and instead brings out the brilliance of her wit, her frequently grating and unlikable nature and believable bouts of insanity. 
Ted Hughes, played by Daniel Craig, emerges as a character as flawed and brilliant as Plath herself, with Craig 
tumultuous relationship and both suffer from and are inspired by their bond between their souls that both ties them together and drives them apart time after time. 
The end of the film is no surprise to anyone who knows about Plath's life. The movie seeks not so much to answer the question of, "Why did she do it?" but instead shows the factors that con­tributed to her desperation and, ulti­mately, shows the very depths of Plath's _ 

mental instability. 
The film, like Plath's own life, has ups 
and downs, moments of intensity and 
dull stretches, but, in the end, it is a 
fascinating study in the life of an artist. 
It is geared towards those who are 
already fans of Plath's life and works, 
but for those new to Plath, the film is an 
in-depth introduction to Plath and her 
personal demons. 
Slow sections and a bit too much 
emoting can make the film seem tedious 
at times, but upon leaving the theatre, 
one feels a deeper understanding of 
Plath, art and mental instability, mak­ing it a picture that is enjoyable to watch and even better to ponder once the film has ended. 
The film opens and closes on a large weeping willow, a bold image that sears into the mind and recalls the large, foreboding, black sadness that inhabit­ed Sylvia Plath and drove her to the heights of artistry and the depths of insanity. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Coppola lives up to family name with latest film. 
ing. laughs. because the conversations are not a hugeBy MARY SQUILLACE Bill Murray stars as out-of-work actor Young Johansson successfully comple­stretch of the imagination. Scene Movie Criric Bob Harris who is shooting a whiskey ments this performance with her naivete. Similarly, Coppola achieves dramatic 
commercial in Tokyo. The monotony of Her natural reactions to Murray's wise­tension by acting with the same delicacy. 
For a director with the last name his life drives him nightly to the hotel bar cracks prove to be far more entertaining Though her protagonists are somewhat Coppola, there's a lot on the line. where he encounters Charlotte (Scarlett than an overly scripted banter. Overall, dysfunctional by nature, she avoids slip­However Sofia Coppola, daughter of leg­Johansson), a college graduate and fel­the interactions between Murray and ping into typical over-the-top melodrama end Francis Ford Coppola, does not dis­low soul-searcher. As the week progress­Charlotte come naturally and are posi­-the film is completely void of hysterical appoint with her second feature film Lost es and the two restless Americans spend tively endearing. outbursts, escalating sappy music, and in Translation. more time together, a unique relationship However, the true breakout perform­emotional monologues. 
While Lost in Translation does not daz­blossoms between Charlotte and Bob. ance is Sofia Coppola's role as director. Coppola presents nearly all of the char­zle its audience with state-of-the-art spe­The role of Bob fits Murray perfectly. She strips the film of cliche and gaudy acter development and mounting tension cial effects and a dramatic score or gar­With his artful mannerisms, he adopts a elements and tells her story in the sim­visually. Additionally, each scene serves a ner laughs with slapstick antics, Coppola convincing air of despondency, but plest of terms. purpose by succinctly (but subtly) offer­proves that less is more by creating a no­Murray does not withhold his character­By using dia­ing some insight or frills film that is as compelling as it is istic humor. Rather, his classic sarcasm logue and music plot advancement.
"Lost in Translation"
unique and as entertaining as it is mov-and dryness punctuate the film with sparingly (many In this way, scenes early in Coppola demon­the film lack strates true skill either), she cre­and a style all of ates a silence that her own. 

Director: Sofia Coppola
speaks. Coppola Furthermore, she 
Writers: Sofia Coppola
creates empathy reminds her audi­
Starring: Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson
for her characters ence that film is a by allowing the medium and what audience to observe Bob and Charlotte they're watching on the screen is truly a doing the most mundane tasks. work of art. What's more, unlike most 
Likewise, comedic relief only works in films of this caliber, in spite of being this context because, once again, it innovative, Coppola's style remains comes so naturally. Rather than contriv­unpretentious. ing situations for laughs, Coppola lets Lost and Translation ·may not be her characters play off of their surround­action -packed or rolling-in -the-aisles­ings. She recognizes that much of the hilarious, but it is so honest, captivating, humor lies merely in the Americans' and original that moviegoers would be efforts to communicate and function in doing themselves a great disservice by Tokyo, and allows subtle humor to stem missing this film. from this premise. 
In addition, Coppola does not try to fill characters' mouths with straight-from­

9:··';.. :<­


Charlotte (Scarlett Johansson) and Bob Harris (Bill Murray) explore downtown Webster's words and witticisms. While Contact Mary Squillace at Tokyo together in the new romantic comedy from director Sofia Coppola. the writing is smart, it's only effective msquilla@nd.edu 


NSIDER 
d 
HE 

Tuesday, October 28, 2003 BSERV-Boston College 27, Notre Dame 25 
Opportunity dropped 
Irish come back from 18 points down, only to lose 27-25 to Boston College 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spom Writer 
CHESTNUT IIlLI., Mass. -As dntnrmined as Boston College seemnd to be to give the game away Saturday, Notre Dame appeared just as reluctant to want to win it. 
Tlw Irish capitalized on mis­take after mistake to rally from an l H-point defkit to take a one point lnad, only to see that lead disappnar when Sandro Sciortino kieked a game-win­ning linld goal with :{8 seconds remaining. The Eagles went on to win 27-25, the third straight ynar Boston College has beaten the Irish. 
By winning, Boston College dealt a serious blow to Notre Damn's already slim postseason bowl aspirations. The 2-5 Irish need to win fi1ur of their last live gamns just to become bowl eligible, and they'll face No. 5 Florida State in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 
"Thn problem at this point is just trying to lind a way to win a ballgame," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "We don't want to look at anything too far down the line. We're looking at tho wrong things." 
A year ago, Boston College captialized on seven Irish fum­bles to deal Notre Dame its lirst loss of the season. 
Despit11 falling behind early Saturday, Notre Dame had every opportunity to win the game thanks to a ferocious sec­ond-half comeback. Trailing 24­6 in the third quarter, Omar .hmkins caught a 10-yard touchdown pass from Brady 
Notre Dame receiver Rhema McKnight drops a long pass in the first half of the Irish 27-25 loss to Boston College. Notre Dam
Quinn on the second to last play 
dropped Its third straight game to the Eagles and are 2-5 on the season.
of the quarter. The 2-point con­version failed, however, and the 
Irish were down 12. 
momentum on our side and every time out." And for the second straight failed to win three of their lirsBut a pair of miscues by the everything favoring us." Notre Dame's coverage gave game, the Irish running game seven games only four timmBoston Colloge punt unit led to 
two more Dame Or at least Notre Dame did the Eagles scoring opportunity was virtually non-existent. since World War II, are search·
Notre touch­until Will Blackman returned after scoring opportunity. Only Although Quinn completed 23-ing for any way to stop a seasordowns. A botched snap on a the ensuing two of Boston College's three of-39 passes for 350 yards, the dangerously elose to spinnin~punt gave the Irish kickoff' to mid­touchdowns came on drives most yards thrown for by a out of control. And how canthe ball at the Boston 

College 23-yard line, field. In nine longer than 45 Notre Dame they do that'? and Quinn connected "The problem at plays, the yards, and the one quarterback "I don't know, I'm guessing it with Maurice Stovall Eagles drove that did ended in a "Most of us are since Joe will be prntty tough," Watson
this point is just 

on the next play for down to the 26-yard touchdown Montana pass~d said. "We had a huge momen­
trying to find a way tired ofnot playing 
his second touch­Notre Dame pass from Quinton for 358 yards in tum swing toward the nnd of down pass of the to win a 12-yard line, Porter to David the type offootball 1978, the Irish the game. game. Then. with ballgame." setting the Kashetta. we can. only gained 4 7 "And when you get a chance :{::H left in the game, stage for The Irish did hold yards on the to step up and win the ballgame Nate Schieeatano Sciortino's Derrick Knight, the ground. and you don't, that hurts." blocked a punt that Courtney Watson heroics. nation's leading Omar Jenkins "I can't put So does another loss to' Boston Carlos Campbell Irish linebacker "Too little, rusher, to 43 yards Irish receiver my linger on it," College. returned 25 yards for too late," Irish on 23 carries. But receiver Omar a touchdown. The 2-coach Tyrone they had trouble Jenkins said. point conversion failed, but the Willingham said about Notre containing Porter, who scram­"Most of us are tired of not Irish wnre still up 25-24. Dame's comeback. "We put our­bled for 41 yards rushing -playing the type of football we 
"I thought that was our time," selves behind the 8-ball, and we many times on key third-down can." Contact Andrew Soukup at Sehkeatano said. "We had can't do that and expect to win conversions. Now the Irish, who have asoukup@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Quinton Porter 

Boston College's junior quarterback played well. running for a touch­down and throwing for I 99 yards and another score. 
stat of the game 
5 
number oflosses Notre Dame now has on the season through seven games 

play of the game 
Sandro Sciortino 26-yard game-win­ning field goal with 38 seconds left 
The kick sent Boston College to its third straight win against the Irish. 
quote of the game 

"We put ourselves behind /.he 8-hall. and we can't do that and expect to u•in every time out. " 
Tyrone Willingham Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
report card 

B 
quarterbacks: Quinn threw for 350 yards and two touchdowns and 
helped lead the Irish comeback. But 
his two interceptions were costly, and 
he missed open receivers several 

D+ 
running backs: Jones and Grant man­aged a mere 47 yards on the ground 
8-
and failed to break off any big gains. The poor performance put more pres­sure on Quinn and the passing game. receivers: McKnight's drop in the first half knocks this down a letter grade 
right away. The receivers did play well and had two nice touchdown 
receptions. 

C-
offensive line: While the line didn't allow a sack, they couldn't open 
holes for the backs. The unit 
allowed the backs to be stopped for 
losses on first down on numerous 

c defensive line: The line did a fair job stopping the run, allowing 147 yards on 50 carries. They couldn't record a sack while playing without Campbell for the entire second half. 
8 
linebackers: Watson led the team with 
13 tackles, while Curry added six 
more. The unit couldn't get a sack but 
contained the rush fairly well and 
didn't allow a big play. 
defensive backs: Bible got beat by a tight end for a touchdown and the unit could-.

D+n't get an interception. They allowed Adams to make several key receptions late in the game too. 
c 
special teams: This unit hit the highs and the lows Saturday, blocking two 
punts and scoring a touchdown as well as allowing big returns and the 
critical 42-yard kick return late in the 
D 
coaching: The Irish weren't prepared 
for the Eagles and it showed 
Saturday. They came out flat and couldn't recover from a bad start. The coaches failed to prepare the team for the game. 
1 9 6 
overall: The Irish started lousy and lost again. The team is 
• left without answers and a tough Florida State game on the horizon. 
adding up the numbers 

consecutive wins by Boston College against Notre 
3 

Dame. The Eagles have also won four of the last five meetings. 
number of passing yards by Quinn -the most by a Notre Dame quarterback since

350 
Joe Montana in 1978 

total career punt and kick return yards 
2 ' 1 o4 

for Julius Jones -a new Notre Dame record 
1997 the last time Notre Dame started 2-5. The Irish also began the 1963 season with a 2-5 mark. 
rushing yards -on 34 attempts -gained by 4 7 Notre Dame Saturday. 
1 
number of times Notre Dame has had the lead at halftime in a game this year. They 
trailed Boston College 14-6 Saturday. 

yards on the final kick return by Will Blackmon 
4 2 

to set up the Eagles game-winning field goal. 
0 
number of coaches who didn'i know why defensive tackle Darrell Campbell did not 
play in the second half Saturday. 


CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. -Irish coach Tyrone Willingham thought his team responded well in practice fol­lowing its 45-14 blowout loss against USC last week. After watching the Irish make the same mistakes 
they have all season, a good week of practice didn't make a difference. 
The Irish had the same mis­cues and got the 

same result this 
Joe Hettler
weekend, losing their fifth game -this time against a very Sports Editor average Boston College team. 
At this point in this dismal season, you have to ques­tion what the Notre Dame coaching staff is doing to improve their team, because it's obvious their tactics are failing. 
Give them credit, the team did make a nice comeback and looked solid for much of the fourth quarter before allowing Boston College's game-wining field goal. Much of that credit should go to the coaching staff for putting the team in a position to make plays and overcome an 18­point deficit. 
But before that comeback, Notre Dame once again came out flat and went into halftime trailing for the fifth time this season. Once again, the Irish ran the ball for negative yardage on numerous first downs and couldn't convert a third-down play. And once again the special teams return coverage, which has had a tendency to give up big yards this season, gave up another one Saturday and put the Eagles in great position for a game-winning field goal. 

Were the Irish prepared for Boston College? No. Did the team make the same mistakes as they did in losses to Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and USC? Most definitely. 
While it's easy to criticize the coaches and players for their strug­gling season up to Saturday, you have to give them a chance to right the wrongs. But it's been too many con­secutive weekends without improve­ment or positive consistency, and the coaches are mostly to blame. 
An example of the poor coaching was when Willingham and defensive coordinator Kent Baer said after Saturday's loss that neither knew why starting defensive tackle Darrell Campbell had not played in the sec­ond half. How those two could not know Campbell's status and ability to return to the game is beyond any comprehension. 
A few weeks ago, things didn't seem so gloomy for Notre Dame. After the dominating win against Pittsburgh game, it seemed like this team had turned the corner. They had just beaten a top 20 team on the road, and done so convincingly. But then USC came into town and cut up coordinator Kent Baer's defense like a butcher slicing meat, and the Trojan defense made the necessary adjustments after a rough first quar­ter to baffle coordinator Bill Diedrick's offense for the remainder of the game. 
This week, while quarterback Brady Quinn did throw for 350 yards, the offensive playcalling was very questionable at times. Have the Irish lost so much confidence in their offensive line that they have to fake a punt to tight end Jared Clark on fourth-and-1 in hopes of getting a first down? Apparently, because that's exactly what Willingham had his punt team try -and fail -on Saturday. 
After scoring late in the game to take a one-point lead, Diedrick called for a formation with three receivers right, one receiver left and one tail­back, Julius Jones. Instead of throw­ing the ball, which the team had done successfully for most of the game, the Irish tried to run the ball behind the three receivers. The result of the play? Jones getting pummeled well short of the goal line. If you're going to run, why not simply go off­tackle behind 300-pound lineman, instead of 200-pound receivers? 
Give them credit, the team fought back to nearly beat Boston College after trailing by 18 points in the sec­ond half. But when some parts of the team did well, other units couldn't respond. This time it was the kick coverage team. 
On the kickoff following the Irish go ahead touchdown with under four minutes to play, Boston College's Will Blackmon caught D.J. Fitzpatrick short kick at the 8-yard line, then cut to the right and saw a clean hole. The Eagles blockers successfully sealed off Irish defenders and Blackmon did the rest, racing down the Notre Dame sideline for a 42­yard return that set up the Boston College offense for a game-winning scoring drive. 
It's always been one thing or anoth­er that's ruined Notre Dame's games this season. After every loss the coaches say the same thing -they will get better in practice and pre­pare for the next week's opponents. 
But talking about getting better and actually getting better are two very distinct concepts. Until the Irish coaching staff figures out the latter, the Irish will continue to not execute and not win. 
And their season will continue to go from bad to worse. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
.-----------------------------­
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Defense couldn't stop final drive 
•

scoring SUIDlllary
Unit allows Eagles 39­yard game-winning drive in final minutes of fourth 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spnns Writer 
CHESTNUT IIlLI,, Mass.-The mantra 
of llw Notre Dame defense that always 
snnnwd to eonw up big in eluteh situa­
tions last year was "bend, but don't 
break." 
This year, it seems to be the exact 
opposite. 
For tho socond time this season, the Notre Damn def'ense took the field rHHHiing only to stop the opponent's final drive to lock up a win. The first time, against Washington State in the s1mson opener, the Irish surrendered a touchdown but still won in overtime. Saturday, aftnr Notre Dame had taken a 2!i-24 lead, the dnfense allowed the l·:agles to drive 39 yards to kick a game­winning finld goal. 
"You go out there and get a chance to win tlw ballgame, and we couldn't get off the field," a disgusted Courtney Watson said Saturday. "It's very dis­lwartnning." 
Sonw of Notre Dame's dnf'ensive woes Saturday's game stemmed from a nllll­titudn of injuries. Not only did safety (;Jenn Earl not travel to Roston because of an unexplained injury, but Darrell Campbell sat out the entire second half. And wlwn safety Quentin Burrell hob­bled oiT the liPid with an injury, Notre Damn was left trying to pincn together a defense. 
"We wen~ scrambling, all right," defensive coordinator Kent Baer mut­tnred. 
The Notre Dame defense, which is 
ranked :~!ith in the nation in yards inducting two players who didn't play a forward. allowed but 73rd in points defensive down until this "We had to create some plays and it allowed, has only held year (Freddie Parrish and pulls you out of your comfort zone,"
"You go out there

l'illsburgh to less than 20 Quentin Burrell) and one Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham points. Saturday, Boston and get a chance more who has seen only said. "When you don't have that, you Collnge quarterback to win the ball-limited action this year have to come up with some designs and Quincy Porter seemed to (Lionel Bolen). And while some things you normally don't prac­
game and we 

pass at will through a the players weren't will­tice, things you have to patchwork and Notre Dame secondary in couldn't get off the ing to pin the poor defen­play through." tlH~ first half. The Irish cut field. sive performance on the "We made a couple of adjustments, down Porter's completion mix-and-match secondary tried to keep things as simple as we percentage in the second -"To stand back and say could," Baer added later. "But a couple
Courtney Watson 

hall', mostly because they we had too many young of those kids were put in a bad situa­substituted linebacker Irish linebacker guys playing in the sec­tion." Jerome Collins for a safe-ondary, I don't think ty. you're going to see too 
Still. Notre Dame used eight different many on this defense saying that," Contact Andrew Soukup at defensive baeks in Saturday's game, Watson said -the coaches weren't so asoukup@nd.edu 

1st 2nd :~rd 4th Total Notre Dame 3 3 6 13 25 Boston College 7 7 10 3 27 
First quarter Notre Dame 3, Boston College 0 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 38-yard field goal with 12:29 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 58 yards, 2:31 elapsed Boston College 7, Notre Damn :l 
David Kashetta 26-yard reception from Quinton Porter with 0:21 remaining (Sandro Sciortino kick) 
Drive: 6 plays, 39 yards, 2:22 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Boston College 14, Notre Damn 3 Horace Dodd 4-yard run with 11:21 remain­ing (Sciortino kick) Drive: 6 plays, 39 yards, 1:54 remaining Boston College 14, Notre Dame 6 Fitzpatrick 27-yard field goal with 6:34 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 56 yards, 4:47 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Boston College 1 7, Notre Dame 6 Sciortino 30-yard field goal with 9:12 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 35 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
Boston College 24, Notre Damn 6 Porter 1-yard run with 3:27 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 44 yards, 3:23 elapsed 
Boston Colh~gn 24, Notre Dame 12 Omar Jenkins 10-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 0:03 remaining (Quinn pass failed) 
Fourth quarter 
Boston College 24, Notre Dame 19 Maurice Stovall 23-yard reception from Quinn with 12:42 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 1 plays,23 yards, 0:08 elapsed Notrn Dame 25, Boston College 24 
Carlos Campbell 25-yard blocked punt return with 3:34 remaining (Julius Jones run failed) Boston College 27. Notre Dame 25 
Sciortino 26-yard field goal with 0:38 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 43 yards, 2:56 elapsed 
-
Quinn plays fairly well in comeback 
goal," Quinn said. Jones was especially upset Boston College coach Tom
By JOE HETTLER 
Both of Quinn's intercep­with another Notre Dame loss. O'Brien said in reference to a 
Sports Editor 
tions came ofT tipped passes "It stinks. There's nothing question about the Eagles' and were caused by miscom­positive about losing," Jones problematic pass defense and CIIESTNUT IIILL, Mass. -A munication. said. "The only positive thing punt protection. "They've bright spot for Notre Dame "Both interceptions were the was that we played hard in the beaten Notre Dame four times was the play of quarterback same exact thing. It was mis­second half and didn't give in five years and three years in Brady Quinn. communication between the up." a row. It's a tremendous 
While he made some mis­tight end and myself," Quinn Jones also said the team accomplishment." takes, the true freshman led said. "That's just something must pick themselves up and The Irish lost after allowing his team on an 18-point eome­we both need to communicate focus on Florida State next two long touchdown plays by back and put them in a posi­on better and recognize what weekend. running back William Green tion to win. Quinn finished the the defense is trying to do and "I think everybody has to in 2001, then fumbled six game with the most passing what we're trying to do." motivate themselves," Jones times and saw their national yards sinee sinee Nov. 25, Where's the running game? said. "We've lost live games championship hopes die in 1978 whnn Jotl Montana Two weeks ago against and everybody has to step up 2002 when the Eagles won 14­tl1r11W for 3!i8 yards at USC. In Pittsburgh the Irish offensive and look at the situation and 7 at Notre Dame Stadium. that game, Montana lnd Notre line looked great, pushing the play individually the best they The upcoming schedule has Ilame haek from a 24-6 deficit Panthers around and opening can so we can get some wins." the teams meeting at Notre to takn a 2!i-24 lnad before up holes for Notre Dames Irish must walt for another Dame Stadium in 2007 and sn11ing the Trojans win on a baeks. In that game, Julius chance Alumni Stadium in 2008. last-s11cond field goal. Jones broke a Notre Dame sin­Notre Dame doesn't play Gameday captains 
It was also the first two­gle-game rushing record with Boston College again until The gameday captains were touchdown game of Quinn's 262 yards. Saturday, he and 2007 ,and that might be a very Vontez Duff, Omar Jenkins, young r.arner. fellow running back Hyan good thing for the Irish. Billy Palmer and Derek Curry 
()uinn thought the team Grant could only muster a With their 27-25 loss for Notre Dame. would have won if tlwy had mere (>8 yards combined. Saturday, Notre Dame just a fnw more seconds. Jones couldn't explain what dropped its third straight 
"I was trying to stay positive. the difference was between game to the Eagles and fourth Wn just ran out of timP.. If you the Pittsburgh game and the in the last five meetings givn us I 0 morn seconds I Boston College game. between the two teams. think wn get a field goal team "I don't know what it was," "I told the team that every­Contact Joe Hettler at out thorn and we get a linld Jones said. thing was excused right now," jhettler@nd.edu 
statistics 
total yards 397]
IND I 
rushing yards 147
IND I 
passing yards 
IND I 350 I return yardsIND ··-i27] I 
time of possession 28:231
IND 
I 

34-47 rushes-yards 53-147 
-, 
13-25-0
23-39-2 comp-att-int 5-33.0 punts-yards 6-32.7 1-0 2-1
fumbles-lost 2-20 6-40
penalties-yards 20 18
first downs 
passing 

Quinn 23-39-2 Porter 13-25-0 
rushing 

Jones  15-40  Dodd  12-64  
Grant  10-28  Knight  23-43  
Powers-Neal  1-3  Porter  16-41  

,. 
·­-
.... 
receiving 

McKnight  4-121  Adams  4-103  
Fasano  4-48  Knight  3-23  
Stovall  3-80  Kashetta  2-41  
Schmidt  2-16  Toal  2-2  

tackling 

Watson  13  Henderson  6  
Curry  11  Glaspt>f  6  
Burrell  Flores  6  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 2003 



Notre Dame came out slow and fell behind 24-6 before coming all the way 
back and taking a 25-24 lead, only to see Boston College kick a 39-yard field goal with 38 seconds left to win 27-25. The Irish now look towards a home meeting against No. 5 Florida State to try and rebound after their fifth loss Saturday. The Eagles have won three straight from Notre Dame and four of the last five meetings between the teams. 
JUST NOT ENOUGH 
·<~;' 
-· -


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Eastwood crafts a powerful masterpiece 

'Scary Movie 3' brings franchise back to life 
Associated Press 
Thn 5)cary Mot•ie franchise has risen from the grave, with part three of the horror-spoof s11ries opening as the top weekend nick with $49.7 million, the bost Oetober debut ever. 
Scary Movie 3 bumped the previous weekend's No. 1 movie, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre to second place with $14.7 million, according to stu­dio ostimates Sunday. 
PremiPring in third place with $14 million was the feel-good drama lladio, starring Cuba Gooding Jr. in the rnal-lifn story of a mentally dis­abled man befriended by a high school football coach (Ed Harris). 
Angelina JoliP -whos11 career had bnen on the skids with the flops Original Sin and Ufe or Something Uke It plus a wnak return on last summnr's Tomb Raider snqunl ­delivnrod another turkey with Beyond llorders. 
A downbeat story of doomed romance between humanitarian-aid workers (Jolin and Clive Owen), /Jeyond /lorders opmwd at No. 11 with just $2 million. 
The ovnrall box ofTicn soared, with tlw top I 2 movies taking in $121.1 million, up 31J perc~ent from the same wnnknnd last year. 
Scary Mot•ie 3 was a lesson in resur­recting a declining franchise. Created by the Wayans brothers, Scary Movie was a surprise hit in summer 2000, with a total gross of $157 million. 
Their Scary Movie 2 the following spring smacked of a rush job and did less than half the business of its pred­ecessor. 
Miramax, whose Dimension banner releases the Scary Movie flicks, tapped David Zucker, part of the team behind the disaster-film spoof Airplane! and the police parody The Naked Gun, to direct Scary Movie 3. 
The audience was mainly younger than 25, but Zucker's involvement helped bring in older adults, Miramax co-founder Bob Weinstein said. 
"David Zucker almost semi-invented this genre," Weinstein said. "You have those people who loved Airplane! but said, ah, Scary Movie, that's not for me, then going, oh, Zucker's doing it?" 
Miramax also broadened the audi­ence to younger teens by toning down the raunchy sight gags, holding S'cary Movie 3 to a PG-13 rating. The first two Scary Movie installments were rated H. 
"The traditional wisdom is you don't mess with a franchise formula because you run the risk of alienating tho eore audience," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box­of'f'ien tracker Exhibitor Helations. "In this ease, the combination of' retooling it and making it more accessible with a PG-13 rating was a perfect combi­nation." 
Zucker is returning to dirnet Scary 
Movie  4,  due  out  late  next  year,  
Weinstein said.  
Disney's  latest  animated  flick,  


By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
A~sisranr Scene Editor 
Clint l·:astwood will forever be type­east as an Ameriean f'ilm leg<~nd for his work in sonw of the greatest Wnstnrns that Hollywood had to offer, speeil'ieally for thn 1<JIJ2 film l!nforyitwn. Eastwood has sinen strayPd from that genre to direct films likn the aeelainwd /Jridyes of Madison County and tlw mndioern films Blood Work and ,<.,'pare Cowboys. It has been morn than a dneade since his Oscar­win l'or best dirne­tor in llnforgiven. 
hut his latnst efTort, "Mystic River" film heads to Mystic /liver. is a its chilling 
tour dn foreo for his ••••• conclusion. 
dirnel.ing abilities Eastwood and hn wnav11s an and his pro­Pmotional power­duction crew
Director: Clint Eastwood

house that delvns managed to
Writers: Dennis Lehane and Brian Helgeland

into tho darknr sidn cull a winning
Starring: Sean Penn, Kevin Bacon, Tim

of human emotions. cast composed
Robbins, Laurence Fishburne, Marcia Gay
Childhood f'rinnds of veteran
Harden and Laura Linney

.Jimmy Markum (Sean Penn), Sean Dovirw (Kevin Bacon) and Dave Boyle (Tim Bobbins) have drifted apart over timo despite continuing to live in the sarnn rough neighborhood in Boston. Their distance is dun to a disturbing and violent episode that occurred during their childhood when one of thmn was captured by a child moles­tor. Even now, as adults married with kids. l.lwy have never managed to overeornn their fear and guilt about what happnnnd. Dave, now a handy­man, and his wife, Celeste (Marcia Gay Harden), still live next door to .Jimmy, who is an ex-con operating a corner store and is married to Annabeth (Laura Linney), his second wife and a very tough woman, and has three daughters. 
When Jimmy's oldest daughter is brutally murdered, the homicide investigation is led by Sean and his partner Whitey (Laurence Fishburne). But when the difficult and disturbing investigation doesn't seem to be pro­gressing, Jimmy gives the police a deadline to solve the case or threat­ens to take matters into his own hands. The three protagonists soon f'ind themselves embroiled in a web of 
lies and . 
secrets as the 
actors who 
are all at the top of their game in this dark drama. Of the six principal actors, five have been nominated for an Oscar in the past. Every one of them has proved to be perfectly capable of carrying a Hollywood film on their own, but in this ease they are cast in roles that play to their individual strengths and the film boasts an undeniable chem­istry among the cast mates, especially 
between  the  triumvirate  of  Penn,  
Bacon and Robbins.  
The  dynamics  between  the  three  
principal  actors  form  the  backbone  

for the film as each has his own inner 

demons to wrestle with -demons that throughout the film seem on the brink of engulfing each of them once and for all. The film does an excellent job of exploring the darker side of' human emotions and how we can never truly escape the consequences of our past as it forges us into the men and women we will always be. 
The scene where Penn discovers that his eldest daughter has been murdered is one of the most harrow­ing scenes in any film of recent mem­ory. Hestrained by a legion of police officers, every line of Penn's face is etched with smoldering rage and helplessness as he realizes that he was unable to proteet the one person who forced him away from his previ­ous criminal lifestyle and inspired him along the dif'f'ieult journey to becoming a doting f'athnr and hus­band. 
Mystic River is nothing short of a complex, haunting masterpiece that will likely stay in the minds of' audi­ences for some timo to come. 
Contact Rama GottumukkaJa at rgottumu@nd.edu 
courtesy www.imdb.com Anthony Anderson, Simon Rex and Charlie Sheen brandish shovels against a threat in 'Scary Movie 3'. The film brought In $49.7 million over the weekend. 
Brother Bear, debuted impressivnly in limited release, taking in $2S5,000 in two New York City and Los Angeles theaters. 
The movie, which features the voice of Joaquin Phoenix as an Inuit boy seeking to undo misdeeds that have transformed him into a bear, opens in wide release of about 3,000 theaters this coming weekend. 
Also opening strongly in limited release were Jane Campion's dark murder thriller In the Cut, starring Meg Hyan, and Gus Van Sant's Hlephant, featuring a group of unknown teen actors in a drama loosely inspired by the Columbine school shootings. 
In the Cut took in $95,000 at six the­ater·s. Elephant, the top prize winner at last spring's Cannes Film Festival, grossed $90,000 in six theaters. 
----------------------------------------~· ~~­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water polo loses in conference final 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's water polo club came within inches of capturing the Great Lakes Conference Championship and a berth in the nationals this week­end, with a 7-6 loss to nationally ranked Grand Valley State in the fmals. 
The weekend started off with bracket play, with the Irish surgi­cally dismantling undersized and undermanned teams from Toledo and Western Michigan. The Irish used their suffocating defense to their advantage in both games to spark their counterattack and their offense. 
The Irish defeated Toledo by a score of 13-3 while the WMU fmal tally was 15-4. The success­ful bracket play set up a champi­onship match-up against rival and defending champion Grand Valley State University. 
Playing off the tremendously enthusiastic crowd at Rolfs, grad student Jay Nunez got the Irish the early lead with a dazzling shot that balled the GVSU goalie, while ·the Notre Dame goalie Scott Tagwerker gave the Lakers fits early on, stopping three straight shots. 
After the Lakers managed to tie the score at one, the Irish took the lead on a goal by grad stu­dent John Penilla off a pass from senior captain Danny Wiederkehr. Two possessions later, the Irish added another tally as freshman sensation Steve Shepard blasted home a look­away shot that beat the Laker goalie to the near side. 
However, the Irish knew the game was not over and, as expected, GVSU clawed its way back and tied the game at three before halftime on a pair of counter-attack goals in the clos­ing 37 seconds of the half. 
The second half was a see-saw battle as the teams traded goals throughout. Junior captain Mike Grow tied the score at four after GVSU took the lead and Shepard again found the back of the cage to give the Irish a 54 advantage. Yet again, the Lakers fought back to take a 6-5 lead. However, the strong two-meter play of the Irish hole-men paid off big time late in the fourth quarter, as Penilla drew a penalty shot. On the shot, the goalie had no chance as he guessed to one side of the goal and Penilla calmly threw the ball to the empty net, tying the score at six. 
On the next possession GVSU scored, and the Irish hopes looked dim, trailing 7-6. But Nunez was able to draw a man­up situation with 25 seconds remaining. Unfortunately, despite two good looks, the Laker defense was up to the task and denied the Irish the equalizing goal. The final disappointment came with four seconds remain­ing as tri-captain Deimel, who had been sensational all game, fired a point blank shot that slammed the post with four sec­onds remaining, thus ending the Irish comeback. 
Equestrian 
· The Notre Dame I Saint Mary's Equestrians captured another reserve high point team honor this weekend at IUPUI. First place Purdue featured high point rider Christina Walsh, while Notre Dame's Liz Bell earned reserve high point rider acco­lades. Bell, Andrea Oliverio, Walsh and two other riders need­ed to participate in a ride off to determine the individual awards. Bell garnered first in intermedi­ate flat and second in intermedi­ate jump, while Oliverio claimed frrst in novice flat and second in novice jump. 
Other team members who con­tributed to team scoring included Chelsea Brown, third in interme­diate jump and sixth in interme­diate flat; Lauren Ball, fourth in both novice jump and novice flat; Lauren Croall first and Kristen Lasota sixth in advanced walk trot cahter; and Kendall Anderson third in beginner walk trot. 
The club will compete this coming weekend at Taylor University. 
Figure Skating 
Lisa Horstman represented Notre Dame at the 2004 Upper Great Lakes Regional Championships in Figure Skating Oct. 16--18 in Bloomington, Minn. After qualifying during the first day of competition, Horstman placed fifth in the short program on Thursday, and finished sixth in the free skate Friday, for an overall sixth place showing. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
Due to a scheduling conflict, the women's ice hockey club had to play two conference games over fall break. The league games were not scheduled until recently and most of the team was unable to return for the games. Only eight players dressed for the game, with a for­ward having to step into goal for the first time. As expected, the Irish lost two games to Northern Michigan, 15-1 and 6-1. However there was marked improvement from the opening face off through the end of the second game. 
After being peppered for 10 goals in the frrst period, the Irish goalie adjusted well and made 11 saves while giving up just five goals during the fmal two periods of play. Saint Mary's Megan Mattia scored the lone goal for the Irish on a breakaway pass from Tori Blainey with 24 sec­onds remaining in the first peri­od. 
Saturday's game was much more balanced, although the Irish couldn't stay out of the penalty box and gave up five shorthanded goals in losing 6-1. After trailing 3-0 at the end of the frrst period, the Irish recorded 13 saves in a scoreless second peri­od. The Irish dominated posses­sion in the third period, but only scored once on sixteen shots, while Northern Michigan was scoring three goals on four shots. Emmy Venechuk scored for the Irish, assisted by Blainey and Mattia. 
Men's Rowing 
The Notre Dame men's rowing club competed in two regattas over the fall break. On Oct. 18 the novice team along with one varsity boat competed in the Head of the Eagle in Indianapolis. A frrst place fmish by the varsity four and a second place finish by the novice eight were the high points in what turned out to be a solid day of racing for the entire team. 

In the frrst event of the day, the novice eights raced well against crews from Purdue. Both boats showed noticeable signs of improvement from their regatta the week before. The 'A' crew finished second with a time of 14 minutes, 46 seconds, while the 'B' crew was not far behind fin­ishing fourth, only eight seconds behind the third place crew, with a time of15:14. 
The novice four, despite being hit twice by other boats during their race, also faired well finish­ing fourth with a time of 18:39. In one of the last races of the day the varsity four of Trisha Black (cox). Dave Mercante (stroke), Evan Donoghue (3), Jordan Frankel (2), and Dan Bak (bow) took home first place with a time of 15:00. 
The varsity team built on the success of the novices with a strong showing at the Head of the Elk in Elkhart on Sunday. In the open four events the Irish 'A' crew of Abbi Dougherty (cox), Rich Mciver (stroke), Dan Robertson (3), Nick Mathew (2), and Mike Kaupa (bow) finished 12th with a time of15:52. The 'B' crew of Trisha Black (cox), Brad Voler (stroke), Dave Mercante (3), Dan Bak (2), and Jon Mack (bow) finished ninth in their event with a time of17:00.7. 
The lightweight four competing against some of the top light­weight crews in the Midwest had an exceptionally good row. Led by cox Trisha Black the crew of Dave McCormick (stroke), Larry Bailey (3). Mark Bohay (2). and Jordan Frankel (bow) finished lOth with a time of 16:57.2. 
In the op(m pairs event the two Irish pairs of Joe Blakely and Evan Donoghue, and John Chin and Nick Catella placed within a second of each other with times of 17:37.2 and 17:37.9 respec­tively. In the men's open eight both Irish crews raced well. The 'A' crew finished sixth with a time of 13:30 while the 'B' crew finished fifth with a time of15:07. 
FOOTBALL 
Dolphins defeat Chargers 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. -With their home stadium being used as an evacuation center and the nearby hills in flames, the San Diego Chargers moved their long-awaited Monday night game 365 miles to the east ­and fell flat. 
Brian Griese, in his first start for Miami, completed 20 of 29 passes for 192 yards and three touchdowns and the Dolphins intercepted Drew Brees three times in a 26-10 victory over the Chargers. 
Griese, at least for one night, lived up to the heritage that his last name carries in Miami. He completed his first six passes and was 13-of-14 for 145 yards and three scores as Miami built a 24-3 halftime lead. 
Patrick Surtain had two interceptions, setting up Miami's first touchdown with the first and stopping a San Diego scoring threat with the second. 
Less than 24 hours before kickoff, NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue decided to move the game to Sun Devil Stadium because of the deadly wildfires that have devastated the San Diego area. 
Admission was free, and the place was ro.cking and rowdy. There was no official crowd count, but all 73,014 tickets were distributed. Five Arizona Cardinals players helped col­lect donations for the San Diego Fire Relief Fund at the stadium entrance. 
The game, San Diego's frrst on Monday night since 1996, was supposed to be the cele­brated return of Junior Seau, who was the heart and soul of the Chargers for 13 seasons before he was traded to Miami before this season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING:  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT·  Spring Break 2004 with  •••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW  
NOTICES  WANTED  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood  ED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­2378 PM 288-2726  StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home  
available for remaining ND football  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  next to Notre Dame. A limited num- 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  games. Six blocks from stadium.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of  ber of home sites are available. For  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  exper. required. All looks and ages.  Sleeps 10.  SALE AM • 232·2378 PM -288  the hottest  more info  
Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820·  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  2726  destinations. Book early for FREE  go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  0167  ext. U187  cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets.  MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150%  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Lowest Price  G'lrish  
lions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get  FoR SALE  STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE!  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)2320964.  Guarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit  She didn't have a sign on her  
Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI­ 2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  www.studentcity.com or Call 1-888­ 
ROSSI TOURS.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  Townhouses available.  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  SPRINGBREAKI  Touchdown Browns!  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  Excellent location to campus!  
Organize a group and travel for  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD- Contact Rod Ludwig at 574·234­ JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  Lozar and the Browns have one  
FREE.  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  9923 or  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  game coming soon to Keough Hall  
Call for  $84,900. Email:  Email: Rludwig @cbresb.com  BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674  campus reps.  
details. 800-875-4525 or  Williamson.1 @nd.edu  6593.  Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or  I want to go to bed  
www.bianchi-rossi.com.  4 Bedroom House for next semes­ www. ststravel.com  
1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­ ter and/or next year. 1136 E.  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  Charley's has reopened for busi­ 
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get  speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o.  Madison. Great for parties. Contact  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  ness and should be in full swing this  
12th trip free. Group discounts for  call #234-4536  Mike (216) 408·0780 or Matt (216)  Hottest prices Book now.. Free  weekend for Halloween  
6+  408·0744 if interested  Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick- Trips, Meals &  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON  ets 574-289-8048  Parties sunsplashtours.com or  I hope we beat Navy, although they  
....  800-838-8202.  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.272­ 3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS.  1800·426-771 0  are 5-3 and have almost beaten  
6306  LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308  TCU which does not have a loss his  
Vector/Cutco  PERSONALS  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate,  season  
workforstudents.comf57 4-282-2357  childless, stay-at-home mom and  
VECTOR MKT. has many cust.  FoR RENT  TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  environmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with  We haven't lost to the Midshipmen since 1963  
sales/service openings. Flex. sched.  you love needs confidential support  Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  
..  Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  ND FOOTBALL -BUY & SELL.  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at1-7819. For  through adoption. Legal & confiden­tial. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll  I want Tony Rice back at quarter­back and Derrick Mayes at receiver  
workforstudents.com.  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  more information, see our bi-weekly  free at 1-800-484-6754,  
574-282-2357  1525  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911  ad in The Observer.  PIN: 8642  And Rocket too  

Tuesday, October 28, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Bryant likely to miss opener against Dallas 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Kobe Bryant said he probably will miss the Los Angeles Lakers' season opener against Dallas on Tuesday, and again lashed out at teammate Shaquille O'Neal. 
"My knee is not strong enough to play yet. I know it. When it is, I will play," Bryant told ESPN by phone on Monday. 
"I probably won't play tomorrow night or until I'm ready." 
Bryant, coming back from offseason knee surgery, and O'Neal traded barbs through reporters over the weekend. Neither spoke with reporters after Monday's practice, although Bryant did a tele­phone interview with ESPN. 
A call to the Lakers on Monday night was not immedi­ately returned. 
Bryant said he didn't need O'Neal's advice on how to play hurt. 
"I've played with IV's before, during and after games. I've played with a broken hand, a sprained ankle, a torn shoul­der. a fractured tooth, a sev­ered lip, and a knee the size of a softball," Bryant said. 
"I don't miss 15 games becausn of a toe injury that everybody knows wasn't that serious in the first place." 
O'Neal was hampered by an 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
arthritic right big toe through­
out the 2001-02 season and 
underwent surgery on Sept. 
11, 2002. 
O'Neal missed the first 12 
games of last season -nine of 
them losses. 
Bryant had knee surgery July 1 in Colorado. 
He faces trial on a charge of sexual assault that allegedly occurred the night before his operation. He has acknowl­edged having sex with a 19­year-old resort worker, but claimed it was consensual. 
The latest in a series of feuds between Bryant and O'Neal flared up over the weekend when O'Neal said Bryant needs to be more of a team player based on Bryant's play in two exhibition games. 
Bryant responded by saying he didn't need O'Neal's advice on how to play. 
Bryant has said he intends to opt out of his contract after this season, which would allow him to become a free agent. 
O'Neal said that's fine with him -since it's his team, any­way. 
"It doesn't matter whose team it is. But this is his team, so it's time for him to act like it," Bryant told ESPN. 
"That means no more com­ing into camp fat and out of shape, when your team is rely­ing on your leadership on and off the court. 
· 
"It also means no more blaming others for our team's failure, or blaming staff mem­bers for not over-dramatizing your injuries so that you avoid blame for your lack of condi­tioning. 
Also, 'my team' doesn't mean only when we win, it means carrying the burden of defeat just as gracefully as you carry a championship trophy." 


O'Neal and Bryant led the Lakers to three straight cham­pionships, but they were elimi­nated by San Antonio jn the Western Conference semifinals last May. 
... 
Coach Phil Jackson and first­year Lakers Karl Malone and Gary Payton spoke at length after Monday's practice. 
There was no mention of the 

-
possibility that Bryant would­n't play in the opener. 
Malone said O'Neal and Bryant were getting along. 

Justice Education Events Focus on Peace, Faith and Fair Trade 
Father Elias Chacour light the immense suffering will speak on "Peace & endured in the many wars Reconciliation Efforts in that receive little attention in Palestine." the headlines and focus on 
approaches to peacemaking.
Fri.., Oct. 31, from 4-5 pm. CSC Coffee House. "The Christian Gospel 
Fr. Chacour has been and Friendship with nominated three times for the Poor: The Witness the Nobel Peace Prize, and ofthe Community of was honored with the World Sant'Egidio." Methodist Peace Award and 
Mon., Nov. 3, 7:30pm.
the Niwano Peace Prize. 
St. Augustine Catholic Parish, 
"Being a Muslim in 150 I W Washington Street, Christian Philippines" South Bend. presented by Princess Emraida Kiram This lecture will discuss this 
special history and witness Wed., Oct. 29, at 4 pm. 
Community ofSant'Egidio,Hesburgh Center Audito­a public lay association of therium. Reception to follow. 
Catholic Church that prays and serves the poor all acrossMs. Kiram will speak on the world. 
the Muslim Secessionist Movement in Mindanao, Contact Daniel Philpottits political and religious at 631-7667 or Richardimplications, and possible LaSalvia at 287-4705 for resolutions of the conflict. 
details. 
"The World's Forgotten Wars and the Witness ofthe "Open Dialogue with Ray Community ofSant'Egidio" Offenheimer, President of 
Oxfam" 
Mon., Nov. 3, 4:00 pm. Coleman Morse Center, Wed., Nov. 5, at 8:00 pm. Hammes Student Lounge. Center for Social Concerns 
Multipurpose Room. This lecture will bring to 
Learn about Ray's journey from Notre Dame to Oxfam. 
The Free Trade Area ofthe Americas: Local Voices Of Opposition, 
Wed., Oct. 29, at 7 pm. 102 DeBartolo 
A discussion about the impact of FTM from the perspective ofemployment, faith and the environment. There will be a march to raise awareness ofthe difference between free trade and fair trade. 
Panelists include: 
• 
John Broden-Indiana State Senator -Moderator. 

• 
Donald O'Blenis, President, Indiana Building Trades -Building Trades 

• 
Fr. Robert Pelton, CSC-Catholic Diocese of Ft. Wayne and Kellogg Institute for lnt'l Studies-Catholic Church, Latin America: Catholic Church and Latin America. 

• 
Tony Flora, President, National Association ofLetter Carriers Local 330: Public Sector. 

• 
Dr. Kristin Shrader-Frechette, ND Biology/ 



Philosophy Professor and National Science Academy Member: Environment and Chapter 11. 
• David Ruccio, ND · Economics and Policy Studies Professor: Globalization context and the Global Justice Movement. 
• Fred Redmond-United Steelworkers ofAmerica Distict Office. 
Seminars and Programs 
Take the Urban Plunge Immerse yourself in the realities ofurban poverty. The Urban Plunge is a one-credit experiential learning course scheduled for a 48-hour period during winter break. Information Session Held at the CSC: Tuesday, October 28, 7:30-8:30 pm 
Summer Service Project Internship (3 credits) Applications are now available for the Summer Service Project In­ternship. SSP! is eight weeks ofvolunteer work in service agencies serving disadvantaged people during the summer months. Information meeting: Wednesday, Nov. 5 in Morrissey Hall. Students from SSPI '03 will talk about their experiences. 
See posters in your Halls for more informacion. Contact: Sue Cunningham (cunningham.5@nd.edu), Director Summer Ser­vice Projects, Alumni Relations with questions. 
International Summer Service Learning Program Learn more about the Center's eight week service-learning program in 12 developing countries. Information session held October 28 and 29 6:30, at the CSC. Applications available at the CSC or online at the CSC web site. Applications due Nov. 1. 
Hispanic Leadership Intern Program This is an eight-week immersion into the Latino community ofmet­ropolitan Chi"%0. Intern with one offive community agencies. 
Application deadline is November 19. Contact Colleen Knight Santoni (knight.28@nd.edu) with questions. 
.... 


OUND THE NATION 
Page 16 Tuesday, October 28, 2003 



.• 
-

around the dial 
INSIDE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
8:00 p.m., FOXCH 22 
MLS SOCCER 
DC United at Kansas City, 12:00 p.m., FOXCH 22 
NHL HocKEY 
Anaheim Mighty Ducks at New York Rangers, 3:00 p.m., FOXCH 22 NASCAR Featherlite Southwest, 3:00 p.m., FOXCH 22 
MLB 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -Red Sox manager Grady Little will not be back next year, paying the price for his decision to stick with Pedro Martinez in Game 7 of the AL championship series. 
The Red Sox let Little go on Monday, less than two weeks after Boston blew a chance to play in the World Series when its ace couldn't hold a lead against the New York Yankees. 
The Florida Marlins beat the Yankees in the Series that wrapped up Saturday, ending base­

ball's embargo on major moves and freeing the Red Sox to cut Little loose. 
Little's contract expires Friday, and the team decided not to exercise its 2004 option. 
Team president Larry Lucchino said team offi­cials notified Little of the decision in a telephone conversation Monday morning. 
"He took it very well," Lucchino said. "He was very gracious. There was no anger or raised voices. On the contrary, he thanked us for the oppor­tunity he had been given to manage the Red Sox and to manage in the big leagues." 
General manager Theo Epstein declined to dis­cuss Little's possible suc­cessors, but Jim Fregosi, Bud Black, Glenn Hoffman, Charlie Manuel and Jerry Remy have been mentioned as candi­dates. 
"We're going to take as long as necessary to find the right manager," Epstein said. 
The Red Sox won 93 and 95 games in Little's two years as manager, reaching the playoffs this year for the first time since 1999. They lost the first two games against Oakland, then swept three straight to advance to the ALCS, and Little's job seemed secure. 
The Yankees took a 3-2 lead in the Series as it headed back to New York, and Little seemed to be making all of the right moves. 
He left struggling Nomar Garciaparra alone, and the shortstop snapped out of his slump with four hits in Game 6, helping force a seventh game. And, because Little chose not to use Martinez on short rest, he had his ace available for the decisive game. 
Boston staked Martinez to a 4-0 lead, and he led 
IN BRIEF 

Hesburgh recieves NCAA He was educated at Notre Dame and Eric Young. athletic leadership award and the Gregorian University in Guerrero, Tejada and Sheffield INDIANAPOLIS -Former Notre Rome and has received 150 hon­figure to be among the most prized Dame President Father Theodore orary degrees. hitters in the free agent market. Hesburgh was named Monday as Guerrero, Tejada, Sheffield and Colon is one of the top pitchers. the first recipient of an NCAA file as free-agents Colon rejected a three-year offer award honoring leadership and NEW YORK -Vladimir Guerrero. from the White Sox. His agent, advocacy for collegiate athletics. reigning AL MVP Miguel Tejada and Mitch Frankel, said the pitcher has­
NCAA President Myles Brand will Gary Sheffield filed for free agency n't ruled out returning to Chicago. present the award, named after Monday along with pitcher Bartolo "We will still continue to talk to former President Gerald Ford, at Colon. the team and see if there's some­the 2004 NCAA Convention on Jan. Relievers Keith Foulke, LaTroy thing that can be worked out," 
11. Ford is expected to attend. Hawkins and Armando Benitez also Frankel said Monday. "He does like 
"Rev. Hesburgh's 35-year career were among the 71 players who Chicago. He liked the players on as president of one of the most filed on the second day following the team. He would welcome the prestigious universities in the coun­the World Series, raising the free opportunity to come back. If some­try enabled him to be a major influ­agent total to 106 among the thing could equitably be worked ence on the evolution of higher approximately 225 players eligible. out, he would stay in Chicago." education in the last half of the Others who filed included Rafael Colon was only 15-13 with a 3.87 20th century," Brand said. "He also Palmeiro, Ruben Sierra, Mike ERA this year and made $8.25 mil 
is one of the strongest advocates Cameron, Rickey Henderson, plus lion. for the contribution intercollegiate the Philadelphia relief duo of Jose "If you look at the other free athletics can make to the acade­Mesa and Mike Williams. agent pitchers· that are available, my." Five players filed from the San Bartolo has pitched more innings,. 
Hesburgh, 86, was named the Francisco Giants: first baseman J .T. won as many games, had as good president of Notre Dame in 1952 at Snow and shortstop Rich Aurilia, an ERA over the last three years," age 35, stepping down in 1987. plus Andres Galarraga, Tim Worrell Frankel said. 
Tuesday, Ocrober 28, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
FOOTBALL 
Trojans blow out Irish for second straight year 
USC's 31-point win keeps Irish from getting revenge 
By ANDREW SOUKUP SpomWriter 
Notre Dame players said they were determined to avenge a 31-point loss to USC a year ago that knocked them out of BCS contention. 
Another 31-point loss 10 days ago wasn't exactly what they had in mind. 
Keyed by an explosive offense that generated 551 

yards of offense, the Trojans blew out the Irish for the sec­ond straight year, winning 45­14 Oct. 18. 
"We had great respect for their offense," said head coach Tyrone Willingham, whose team gave up 610 yards of offense to the Trojans a year ago. "But I don't think I anticipated that they would be able to perform in that man­ner." 
The two teams essentially picked up where they left off a year ago, with USC's high­powered offense moving at will against a beleaguered Irish defense. The Trojans drove 80 yards on their first 
QUOTES & FACTS 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies www.nd.edu/-nanovlc 


STUDY IN TOKYO JAPAN 
three touchdowns of the game Notre Dame touchdown drive and never looked back. of the year -with a 22-yard 
In fact. the only difference touchdown run. between the Then, after 2002 game and Reggie Bush ran the 2003 game 58 yards for
"We're not 

was that the USC's second
anywhere near
Irish offense touchdown, managed to where I hoped Anthony Fasano move the ball or expected for caught a two­
effectively. yard touchdown 
us to be."

After USC wide pass from Brady receiver Keary Quinn to tie the Colbert caught Tyrone Willingham score at 14. an 18-yard After that,
Notre Dame coach 
touchdown pass from quarter­back Matt Leinart, Julius Jones capped a 10-play, 73­yard drive -the longest 
"War is delightful to those who haue had no eHperlence of it." -Desitkrius Erasmus (14961-1536), 16th-century Catholic scholar and reformer 

Careers for Political Science Majors Series 
presents 
Anthony DePalma 
The New York Times 
correspondent I writer 
Politics, Newspapers and the Big Apple: Writing and Working in New York City 
Wednesday, October 29, 2003 
6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
G20 Flanner Hall (lower level) 

Co-sponsored by the Department of Political Science & The Career Center 
though, it was all 

USC. The Trojans shut down the Irish offense the rest of the way, and USC offense, led by Leinart's 351­yard passing day, exploded. 
"We just broke down," Jones said. "We were playing good the first couple of drives, after that, we fell apart." 
Willingham thought that the 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles split four 111atches over break 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's went 2-2 over fall break, collecting a much-needed conference win and a win over non-conference opponent Rose­Hulman. The Belles' record now stands at 15-12, with a 4-9 MIM record, good for sixth place in the eight-team conference. 
The Belles traveled to Alma Oct. 17 and came away with a loss in straight sets by the score of 17-30, 25-30, 25-30. 
Outside hitter Kristen Playko led the Belles in kills with 10 and tied for the team lead of 15 digs with defensive specialist Alison Shevik. 
It was a good defensive game for the Belles, with four Saint 

weot. oetobtY g 
~ t+A~es-HeALt~ 
OR. 

Thw.YS. OCTO"S-6R.. 30 
:123 H-&ltjts-H'eAle!1 
or NAGOYA, 
Irish, as they did in Los Angeles last year, looked ten­tative. They missed tackles, missed open receivers, missed blocks and missed a chance to avenge last year's embarrass­ing loss. But as to why the Irish played so lackluster, Willingham had no answer. "If I knew, we would have solved that before the final second ticked off," he said. 
The Irish offense, which only recorded 109 yards a year ago, managed 279 yards in the 2003 meeting. It wasn't enough. though, as the Irish season continued to spiral downward. 
"We'r:e not," Willingham said, "anywhere near where I hoped or expected for us to 
..

be. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Mary's players finishing in dou­ble digits for digs. Setter Launm Temple led the team with 18 assists and also led with three service aces. 
As a team, the Belles hit .152 for the match, compared to the Scots' .229 hitting percentage. 
Saint Mary's continued its road trip last Tuesday as the Belles traveled to Hope to participate in the Hope College Triangular, fac­ing two conference opponents while at the tournament. 
In the first match, Saint Mary's defeated Olivet in three games by the score of 30-17, 30-15, 30­
15. The Belles defeated Olivet earlier this year as well. 
Playko again led the team in kills, collecting 17 for the match. and also chipped in a team-lead­ing 11 digs. Shevik followed closely behind with 10 digs. 
Libero Michelle Gary had one of the best serving games all year for the Belles, collecting six service aces. Middle hitter Emily Seif added four more aces, and the Belles as a team collected 14 aces against the Comets. 
Temple led the team with 32 assists. 
The Belles were unable to keep their winning streak going against host Hope in the second match of the tournament, how­ever, falling by a score of 17-30, 28-30, 25-30. 
Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team with 11 kills, and Playko led all Belles with 16 digs. Again, Saint Mary's had a solid defensive game, with four players finishing the match with 10 digs or more. 
Saint Mary's completed its final road trip of the season with a trip to Rose-Hulman Thursday. The Belles defeated the Engineers in four sets. 
The Belles have only one more match in the regular season, a conference match up at home against Albion this Friday. Saint Mary's then awaits its seed for the MIM tournament, to be held beginning Nov. 3. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Very few scoring goals against Irish 
For their first seven years in the Big East, the Irish won the confer­ence tournament, usually knock­ing off Connecticut in the finals. They also made the Final Four six times in seven 
Andy Troeger

years cover­ing roughly the same time Sports Writer 
period. 
Then last year the Irish did not even qualify for the Big East Tournament, losing three games within their division to fmish tied for fourth in the division. It appeared that maybe the rest of the conference was catching up with the Irish. 
Maybe not. 

The Irish returned to their old ways this year, steamrolling through their conference slate. They won all six of their games within the Mid-Atlantic Division and beat Miami and St. John's of the Northeast Division. As if that were not enough, they also played Connecticut in a non-conference game and beat them too. 
You say you're not impressed yet? Well the Irish also accom­plished another feat in those nine wins by not allowing a single goal in any of those nine games. The Big East is a solid conference, as the Irish wins included a 2-0 whitewashing of then No. 5 West Virginia and another 2-0 blanking of then No. 15 Connecticut. All told, the Irish scored 22 goals and gave up none in those nine games. 
With one more game to go before the postseason tourna­ments begin, the Irish stand at 18­0-1, having now won 12 in a row since playing Stanford to a score­less tie. The last ten of those wins have also been shutouts. as the Irish have not allowed an oppos­ing goal since North Texas scored a late tally in an 8-1 rout. 
Through 19 games, the Irish have allowed only five goals, three of which have come after the Irish had taken dominating leads. Only once has Notre Dame trailed all season, with that deficit coming early against Arizona State, who led the Irish for all of seven min­utes before becoming succumbing 3-1. 
Not surprisingly, the Irish are ranked No. 1 in the nation in goals-against average at 0.26 goals per game. Goalkeeper Erika Bohn's personal average is even lower at 0.22. Her streak of not allowing a goal in 989 minutes ranks fifth all-time for the longest such streak in NCAA history. Since 1989, only the 1998 Santa Clara team has compiled a longer shutout streak (14) than Notre Dame's current 10 game streak. 
The Irish task is not nearly done, however. To accentuate their regular season title, they must win the Big East Tournament, to be held over the next two weeks. First up in that tournament will be Miami, who fell to the Irish 3-0 at Alumni Field a few weeks ago. The Irish will be looking for a similar result this weekend in the rematch as they hope to keep surging through the postseason. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd. edu. 

Challenee Yourself! Make a Difference! 
The JET Programme 
SPONSORED BY THE )APANESE GoVERNMENT 
Experience life in Japan while teaching English or working for a local government on the Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program. 
BENEFITS: ¥3,600,000/yr, tax-free; round-trip airfare; health msurance; generous vacation; international alumni network . 
• 
QUALIFICATIONS: U.S. cthzenshtp; bachelor's degree in any major by July 1, 2004, No teaching experience or knowl­edge ofJapanese required! 
APPLICATIONS: www.us.emb-japan.go.jp/JET%202004/homepage.htm; or e-mail/write: Japan Infonnation Center, 737 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 1000, Chicago, lllinois 60611 Phone: (312) 280-0434 Email: Jicmext@webkddi. com 

DEADLINE: Complete application must be received on or before December 5, 2003 

. INFORMATION SESSION Saturday, October 25, 2:00-5:00 pm at JIC If interested, please RSVP to jicmext@webkddi.com. 
·JET FAQ: www.chicago.us.emb-japan.go.jp/jic/ jetfag.html. 
Streak 
continued from page 24 

Heading into their final regular season game of the year, the Irish led the nation in goals­against average, with goal­keeper Erika Bohn riding a 989-minute shutout streak that dates back to a Sept. 21 game at Santa Clara. 
The Irish opened the break by dominating No. 15 Connecticut 2-0 at Alumni Field. The Irish got their first goal from Katie Thorlakson on a corner kick sequence, with defenders Christie Shaner and Melissa Tancredi getting assists. Freshman lizzie Reed. playing forward for the first time this season, provided the Irish with instant offense by registering the second goal. The Irish closed out the Huskies by not allowing a shot on goal in the final60 minutes. 
The Irish then went to Pittsburgh and won 1-0 on jun­ior Mary Boland's team leading 12th goal of the season. as Shaner again got the assist. The Irish outshot the Panthers 18-6, but missed the defensive presence of Tancredi who was held out of the game with a nagging leg injury. 
For their efforts in those two games, Shaner was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week and Bohn was named Big East Goalkeeper of the Week. 
The Irish got off to a strong start against Rutgers, notching two goals in the first four min­utes of the contest. Thorlakson and Tancredi combined for three goals and an assist as the Irish won 3-0. 
Thorlakson scored the first goal off of Amy Warner's team leading lOth assist of the sea­son. Thorlakson then lofted a corner kick into the box for 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Bring your gear ready to practice 
-Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
-Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
Tancredi, who gave the Irish a 2-0 lead. Thorlakson then scored the game's final goal later in the first half. The Irish held the Scarlet Knights to only one shot on goal in the game·. 
Warner became the eighth Irish player to score multiple goals in a game in a 2-0 win over Seton Hall. She regis­tered her first goal only 90 seconds into the contest on a pass from freshman midfield­er Jill Krivacek. Warner used her speed to get to the right side of the box and shot inside the right post for the 11th game-winning goal of her career. Warner then added the final margin via assists from Thorlakson and junior defend­er Gudrun Gunnarsdottir. 
With the strong weekend, Warner now leads the Irish with 30 points on ten goals and ten assists, with her ten assists putting her in tie for fifth in the nation. 
The Irish will conclude the regular season at Alumni Field against Michigan Wednesday, before hosting Miami in a Big East Tournament quarterfinal at Alumni Field. The winner of that game will head back to New Jersey for the rest of the Big East Tournament. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 2, SETON HALL 0 at SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  1  2  
SETON HALL  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary ND-Warner, Amy (9), 1:30 (Krivacek, Jill) 
NO-Warner (10), 84:35 (fhoralakson, Katie, Gunnarsdottir, Gudrun) 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn 1), Shots 18 (Warner 5), Corner kicks 2, Fouls 11 
SETON HALL -Saves 8 (Buffy Wojciehowski 8), Shots 6 (Rita Massot 2), Corner kicks 3, Fouls 11 

Amy Warner dribbles against Miami Oct. 12. 
NOTRE DAME 3, RUTGERS 0 at PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  3  0  3  
RUTGERS  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary NO-Thorlakson, Katie. 2:44 (Warner, Amyl NO-Tancredi, Melissa, 3:53 (Thorlakson) NO-Thorlakson, 31:27 

NOTRE DAME -Saves 1 (Erika Bohn 1), Shots 9 (fhorlakson 2), Corner kicks'2, Fouls 13 
SETON HALL -Saves 3 (Robyn Jones 3), Shots 4 (Courtney Hudson 2), Corner kicks 5, Fouls 13 
NOTRE DAME 1, PITTSBURGH 0 at INDIANOLA, PENN. 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 1 0 1 PITTSBURGH 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary NO-Boland, Mary (12), 21:03 (Shaner, Christie) 

NOTRE DAME -Saves 3 (Erika Bohn 3), Shots 18 (Boland 7), Corner kicks 4, Fouls 15 
PITTSBURGH-Saves 7, Shots 6, Corner kicks 1, Fouls 10 


Tuesday, October 28, 200.3 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
HocKEY 
Stats don't tell story in split with Bowling Green 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
period. then made a crucial stop with 
2:08 remaining in the period by pouncing on the puck just in front of the net. 
Boston College's Patrick Eaves had a one-on-one opportunity early in the second period, but Brown knocked the shot away, preserving the 0-0 score. Throughout most of the middle of the second period, Boston College had a few long shots, near the blue line but none seriously threatened Brown. 
One of the Eagles' best chances came with 4:48 left in the second peri­od when Ryan Murphy took the puck at the left circle and fired a shot to Brown's left. Brown couldn't react in time, but the puck ricocheted ofT the crossbar. 
After Brown made a glove save with 
1:25 remaining, the Irish had two shots to score but couldn't convert either thanks to a Kaltianinen save and a poor pass on a two-on-one break. 
After going back and forth for much of the third period, the Irish finally broke through for a goal. With just over five minutes left in regulation. Notre Dame's Aaron Gill won a face­ofT in front of the Boston College goal. Gill got the puck to Walsh who fired a low shot toward Kaltianinen's left, just under his left side for the only goal of the game. It was Walsh's third career goal and second of the season. 
But the Eagles didn't quit after the Irish goal and had several shots to tic the game near the end of regulation. 
With 1:30 remaining, Boston College's Joe Hooney had a shot go high and to the left. Brown made another good -save in front of the net with 1:05 left, then stopped a flurry of shots in th€ final minute to send Notre Dame to 3-2 on the season. 
"This was a big win for us tonight," Poulin said. "It came early in the sea­son and should give us confidence the rest of the way. We don't have to talk about playing well, but losing. They showed what they can do against an outstanding hockey team." 
Notes: 
+ 
Brown has not allowed a goal in his last seven periods, covering a span of 120:44. 

+ 
The win was Notre Dame's first against the Eagles in their last nine meetings, dating back to 1994. 

+ 
All three of Walsh's goals have been game-winners for the Irish. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
After a disappointing start at home, the Irish needed some­one to step up and inspire the team to play better. Youth was served as freshman goaltender David Brown and sophomore forward Mike Walsh answered the call. 
After shoddy play in net by Irish goaltenders in a 5-3 loss at home Oct. 17 against Bowling Green, Brown posted back to back shutouts for Notre Dame in a 3-0 victory over Bowling Green on the road the following day and a 1-0 defeat 

NDPRESENTS: BALLET AT THE MORRIS 
DIRECT FROM THE KENNEDY CENTER 
THE SUZANNE FARRELL BALLET COMPANY 
Tuesday, October 28 7:30 PM 
Morris Performing Arts Center Call 574-235-9190 for tickets or visit www.morriscenter.org Family/Group discounts

11Rapt, lyric, gloriously unified" 
Sponsored by "f.US.Cellular 

-NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Pl!lroiUGNG Ali'S CI!N1D *SCKTlliiiND, IN 
of top-ranked Boston College on the road last Saturday. Walsh collected the game­winning goal in both games. 
"Mike really missed his entire freshman year with injury and mononucleosis," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We've basically got a first­year player in Michael and we have very high expectations for him. 
"l think it took him a while to get going, but he's starting to really come around now. He looks more comfortable and has a nice start for the year." 
Brown stopped a total of 67 shots in the two games, and currently has a shutout streak of 120 minutes, 44 seconds. 
Ile became the second Irish goaltender to post back-to­hack shutouts in team history. Junior Morgan Cey did it last year against Miami (Ohio) in the first round of the CCIIA playoffs. Cey also holds the Irish shutout streak with 
147:19 seconds, which he set in those same playoffs. 
Brown and sophomore Hory Walsh have handled the goal­tending duties for the Irish this year while Cey recovers from off-season surgery. 
"David's made a lot of big saves and some very timely saves," Poulin said. ''I'd like to ultimately have the best group 

of goaltenders in the NCAA, 
because that means you,have 
depth. 

"We're all in this for the 
same goal, and that's to win 
hockey games." 
The win against Boston 
College was especially sweet in 
view of Notre Dame's previous 
series against Bowling Green 
in which the Irish did not play 
particularly well. 
It was an odd series, in 
which goalies proved the pri­
mary difference in both games. 
Falcon goaltender Jordan 
Sigalet stopped 56 shots in his 
team's 5-3 win over the Irish, 
despite the fact that Notre 
Dame outshot Bowling Green 
59-25. 
In Saturday's game on the 
road, Brown provided a nearly 
reciprocal performance, stop­
ping 40 shots despite the fact 
that Bowling Green outshot the 
Irish 40-17. 
"While those games look 
numerically the same, I really 
think we were dominant at 
home Friday night, but we 
weren't dominated on 
Saturday either," Poulin said. 
"The number of shots in 
Saturday's game is very mis­
leading, because a lot of shots 
were outside the zone. 
"Again Friday, though, we just couldn't solve Jordan Sigalet. I suppose the closest analogy would be a pitcher dominating a baseball game. ·because a goalie can really 
dominate a hockey game." 
D'Arcy McConvey, Hich 
Meloche, Ryan Minnabarriet, 
Kevin Bieksa and James Unger 
"The Elegant Universe" 
Deep Down, are you composed of vibrating strings? Arc there 7 extra dimen­sions in our universe? Are there an infinate number of universes out there? Who has the right TOE (Theory of Everything)? 
The Notre Dame Physics Department is inviting you to a special, large­screen viewing of NOVA's "The Elegant Universe" at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 28 in Room 129 DeBartolo Hall. Refreshments at 7:30p.m. 
ND's brainiest scientists will explain brances, string theory, TOEs, M-theory, and an 11-dimenslon universe in a Q&A follow­ing th~ NOVA presentation. 
each had solo goals in the Falcon victory. Notre Dame got goals from forwards Michael Bartnett and Cory McLean and defenseman Wes O'Neill in the loss. 
The Irish penalty kill unit, which to that point had been flawless, allowed two power­play goals to the Falcons out of six opportunities. 
Notre Dame's goaltenders never seemed to get into the flow of the game. Walsh start­ed and gave up three goals on 13 shots through two periods before giving way to Brown, who did not fare much better with two goals on nine shots. 
"I need better play from my goalies," Poulin said after that game. 
His statement must have been heard by his netminders as Brown came back with a vengeance against the Falcons in the next day's shutout. 
Forwards Mike Walsh, Josh Sciba and Hob Globke all scored for the Irish, who scored two goals in the first two minutes of the game before Globke's goal early in the third period extinguished any hope of a Bowling Green comeback. 
Notre Dame returns to CCHA action next week with a pair of home games against the Nebraska-Omaha. That series will begin Thursday with a 
7:35 p.m. game. Friday's game is also set for 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

~------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 
Irish take two of three in B-arbados 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
While most students get a tan over spring break, the Irish changed that trend and came back from fall break with tans of their own. 
A trip to Barbados allowed the Irish to play three games and hold some practices. It was the men's basketball program's first trip since an excursion to Italy under former coach John MacLeod. 
But the trip wasn't all work; the Irish got to hang out on the beach, go snorkeling and even take a cruise. 
"During practice days, we usu­ally practiced early in the day so we had a lot of free time during the day because we understood it was business down there," Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette said, "but at the same time, Coach [Mike Brey] knew we wouldn't have a chance to go on breaks like that, especially to a place like Barbados." 
The Irish played a club team from England, the Milton Keynes lions, last Sunday and Wednesday nights. In the first game, the Irish simply dominated the Lions en route to a 93-67 win. But Wednesday night was a different story. 
Playing their third game in four nights in a hot and humid gymna­sium, the Irish lost to the lions 77­7 4 in their final exhibition game in Barbados. 
That loss to the older English club team could help this Irish squad down the road, in the mid­dle of its schedule against a Big East opponent in a hostile envi­ronment. 
"I think in ways it was, but the numbers weren't as high as a Big East game. At the same time, there weren't any fans cheering for us," Cornette said. "It was all of them against us out there. In that respect it was like a Big East [road] atmosphere." 
On last Tuesday night, the Irish beat the Barbados National Team 112-65, a team that didn't provide nearly the challenge the-English team did. 
"It was definitely great to just get into a game situation. The teams are quality teams," guard Colin Falls said. "We lost Wednesday night when we didn't play well. The European team was very good. The Barbados team didn't have as many players, probably because they aren't as big of country." 
Falls was part of the lineup experiments Brey and the coach­ing staff tinkered with in Barbados. A main purpose of this trip was for Brey to find out, earli­er than in previous years, about what the style of this team would be. According to Cornette, that was accomplished. 
"We more or less got a feel for what our team will be like this year," Cornette said. "I think we learned a lot of things about our team and what our strengths are and what our weaknesses are." 
The Irish play their first exhibi­tion game in the United States at the Joyce Center Nov. 5 against the Hoop Group. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
V-Ball 
continued from page 24 

games in her fourth start of the season. She contributed seven kills and six digs. 
Defensively, Jessica Kinder led the way with 11 digs, her 12th match of the season hit­ting double digits. 
The road trip concluded with a trip to bitter Big East rival Boston College (15-6, 2­3). Friday night. There, the Irish overcame poor hitting to defeat the Golden Eagles in three games (30-26, 30-21, 30-23). 
Despite the poor hitting performance (.165 hitting percentage on the match). the Irish registered 19 blocks. 
Once again. Brewster was unstoppable, getting in on 11 blocks, seven assists and four solos. She missed the Notre Dame record for blocks in a three-game match by two, and the record for solo blocks in a three-game match by one. 
This was the fourth time this season she had 10 or more blocks in a match. Before the match, she was third in the country in blocks per game, with 1.67. 
Boston College, meanwhile, finished with a .007 hitting percentage, as the Irish net play was too much for them to handle. 
The Irish attack ·was led by Loomis, who had 11 kills on .333 hitting, and Brewster, who had seven on .353 hit­ting percentage. 
Notre Dame is now off to its best start since 1994, and has won 25 of its last 27 games. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Now Accepting Applications for a New Controller 
MUST BE A SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING . ]OR 
Please Contact flanagan.33@ nd.edu for more information 


Danlelle Herndon digs a ball against Seton Hall Oct. 10. The Irish have not lost a match since Sept. 24. 
NOTRE DAME 3, BOSTON COLLEGE 0 at CHESTNUT HILL, MASS. 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 
BOSTON COLLEGE 26 21 23 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 33 (Emily Loomis 11). Assists 30 (Kristen Kinder 27), Digs 38 (Meg Henican 10). Blocks 19 (Lauren Brewster 11 ), Hitting per­centage .165 (Brewster .353). Aces 2 (Loomis, Lauren Kelbley 1) 
BOSTON COLLEGE -Kills 40 (Dorota Niemczewska 12), Assists 31 (Ven>na Host 26), Digs 38 (Allison Anderson 11), Blocks 4 (Alison Shepp 3). Hitting percentage .007 (Niemczewska .231). Aces 0 
NOTRE DAME 3, RHODE ISLAND 0 at KINGSTON, R.I. 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 
RHODE ISlAND 20 23 20 
NOTRE DAME -Kills 46 (Lauren Kelbley 10), Assists 35 (Kristen Kinder 30), Digs 43 (Jessica Kinder 11), Blocks 11 (Lauren Brewster 6). Hitting percent­age .311 (Brewster .412). Aces 6 (J. Kinder 3) 
RHODE ISLAND -Kills 35 (Amy Kauppila 9). Assists 35 (Mary Kate Reardon 16). Digs 36 (Kaleena Miller 10), Blocks 5 (Abby Thornbladh 5). Hitting percentage .070 (Reardon .375), Aces 5 (5 players with 1) 
NOTRE DAME 3, NORTH CAROLINA 1 at CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
NOTHE DAME 30 26 30 30 
NOHTII CAROLINA 27 30 21 26 

NOTHE DAME-Kills 61 (l.aurPn Brewster 20). A~sL~l~ 56 (Kristen Kinder 50), Digs 64 (Jessica Kinder 24). lllorks 17 (Brrwster 10), Hitting percentage .215 (Brewster .361). Aces 6 (K.Kinder, Emily Loomis 2) 
NOHTII CAROLINA -Kills 62 (Dani Nyenhuis 16). A~sisl~ 58 !Norma Cortez 55), Digs 67 (Molly Pyles 21). Blocks 7 (Katie Wright 5). Hitting percentage .165 (A1etha Green .316). Aces 4 (4 players with 1) 

Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Peg Wynn Vice President of Human Resources Xilinx 
"Corporate Values at Xilinx" 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 7:00p.m. 141 DeBartolo Hall Mendoza College of Business 
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MEN's SoccER 
Irish clinch spot in postseason tournament 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior forward Justin Detter chipped the ball over Chris Harrison's head seven minutes into overtime, and all the Virginia Tech goal­tender could do was watch. 
Harrison had saved nine of the 10 previous Irish shots, but the 11th snuck by. 
The Irish (10-3-3, 5-3-1 Big East) ended a pivotal 11-day, four-game road trip Saturday with a 2-1 overtime victory over No.9 Virginia Tech. 
Detter scored twice in the contest to tie teammate Devon Prescod with a team-high eight goals on the season. 
Since Oct. 14, the Irish had been 2-1 on the road trip, defeating Cleveland State, 6-0, and Providence, 2-0, but losing to Connecticut, 1-0. 
The much-needed win over Virginia Tech vaults the No. 13 Irish into third place in the Big East standings, clinching a spot in the postseason confer­ence tournament. Notre Dame still must finish in the top four to receive home field advan­tage in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament, but Detter's overtime goal could go a long way to securing that home field. 
"These last two games are very important," coach Bobby Clark said. "It helps to be in the top four because you play one of the bottom four teams. In theory you should be getting an easier team, though that is not always the case. This con­ference is very competitive, and there is no way you can take any team lightly." 
The Irish did not take Virginia Tech lightly. They knew coming in that the Hokies were still in a position to take the conference. 
So Notre Dame took the lead early when Detter scored his first goal of the match off an assist by defender Kevin Goldthwaite (5) just 6 minutes, 40 seconds into the game. 
Virginia Tech roared back to tie it with Scott Spangler's fifth goal of the season just over four minutes later. Play was relatively even the rest of the first half. 
Notre Dame then set the tempo and controlled play throughout the second half and into overtime. 
Goalkeeper Chris Sawyer made eight big saves to stave off the Hokies attack until Detter put the game away seven minutes into the extra period. 
Still, it was the Irish on the offensive throughout most of the second half. 
"It was more a case of them holding off our [attack]." Clark said. 
"We were the team pressing to win the game. 
It had been fairly even in the first half. They had better chances at beginning of second half. But near the end there was only one team pushing hard to win it and that was Notre Dame." 
The Irish out shot the Hokies 16-11, including a convincing 4-0 in overtime. 
Notre Dame moves to 4-0-3 in overtime games this season. 
The loss to Connecticut last Saturday, however, was the first time the Irish dropped a contest that potentially would have serious effects on their postseason hopes. With a vic­tory, Notre Dame could have moved ahead of the Huskies in the standings. 
Shots were even at 11 and Sawyer made four saves, but Connecticut's Adam Schuerman made five saves. The Huskies' Easton Wilson scored his first goal of the sea­son at the 42-minute mark. 
Late chances by midfielder Greg Martin and defender Greg Dalby were not enough as Notre Dame suffered its second straight Big East loss. 
The team regained its foot­ing four days later at Providence, winning a 2-0 decision at Glay Field. 
Goals from Martin and for­ward Prescod sealed the victo­ry in the team's seventh shutout of the season and the first home loss for the Friars. 
With the win the Irish had 13 points in the Big East, putting them one point behind Connecticut and two behind Virginia Tech and Rutgers. 

A clutch performance when the team needed it most against Virginia Tech Saturday boosted the Irish to third in the conference. 
Although St. John's has secured the first seed, the next three home field advantage seeds are wide open to a field of six teams: Rutgers, Notre Dame, Virginia Tech, Seton Hall, Connecticut and Providence. 
Notre Dame and Seton Hall have one Big East game remaining. 
Virginia Tech, Connecticut and Providence still must play two conference match ups. 
The Irish will play No. 25 Villanova Friday at 7:30 at Alumni field. Villanova recent­ly knocked off a Rutgers team that beat Notre Dame Oct. 11 at home. 
"The win against Virginia Tech puts us in a good posi­tion," Clark said. "This game on Friday is another huge game. 
It is the first time Villanova has been ranked, so they are very excited. 
It should be a good matchup." 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME 2, VIRGINIA TECH 1 at BLACKSBURG, VA. 
1st 2nd OT Total NOTRE DAME 1 0 1 2 VIRGINIA TECH 1 0 0 1 
Scoring Summary ND-Detter, Justin. 6:40 (Goldthwaite, Kevin) Vf-Spangler, Scott, 10:49 (Nason, 
Ben) ND-Detter, 96:01 NOTRE DAME-Saves 8 (Olris Sawyer 8), 
Shots 16 (Detter 6), Corner kicks 9, Fouls 8 
VIRGINIA TECH -Saves 9 !Chase Harrison 9), Shots 11 (Spangler, Nason 3 Comer kicks 6, Fouls 11 
NOTRE DAME 2, PROVIDENCE 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 1 1 2 PROVIDENCE 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary ND-Martin. Greg (4), 1:40 
(Goldthwaite, Kevin) ND-Prescod. Devon (9). 78:00 NOTHE DAME -Saves 3 (Chris 
Sawyer 3). Shots 15 (Justin Detter 5). Corner kicks 3, Fouls 14 
VIHGINIA TECH -Saves 8 (Jeff Newman 8). Shots 6 (Eoin Lynch 2). Corner kicks 2, Foul~ 14 
CONNECTICUT 1, NOTRE DAME 0 at STORRS, CONN. 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 0 0 0 CONNECTICUT 1 0 0 
Scoring Summary UCONN-Wilson, Easton (1), 41:15 (Moloi, Mpho) 
NOTHE DAME -Saves 4 (Chris Sawyllr 4), Shots 11 (Kevin Goldthwaite 4). Corner kicks 8, Fouls 8 
CONNECTICUT -Saves 6 (Adam Schuerman 5), Shots 11 (5 players with 2), Corner kicks 3, Fouls 8 

.. 
-


rz1ie Career Center 
at the Universaty ofNotre Dame du Lac 
Get The Edge! Come Meet the Recruiters!! Immediate Application Deadlines for Top Notch Companies! 
**Apply via Colrish by logging on to http.//careercenter.ndedu Ouestions? Call the Career Center 831-5200 
Application Deadlines Upcoming Presentations 
Company Date/Time/Location Company Date/Time/Location 
IBM 10128: BUS SPX Corp 10/28/03 7:00"9:00pm Citigroup 1112/03 5:30-7:30

{]nly 4applicants for 13 spots 

Open to All Students Alumni Rm. Morris Inn Invitation NcNeill Rm. Lafun
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield 

Lincoln Financial Grou~ 10/28/03 6:00-B:OOpm Boston Beer Co 11/3/03 6:00-B:OOpm
10/30 AHL. BUS. SCI 

Open to All Students Room 100. CCE Open to All Students Montgomery Theater. Lafun
13 interview slots. ONLY 6applicants. 

Dsram Sylvania 10/28/03 7:30-8:30pm Jones Lang Lasalle 11/4/03 6:00-B:OOpm
General Reinsurance Cor~. 11/1 

Invitation Room 112. CCE Open to All Students Alumni Room. Morris Inn BUS. AHL. SCI 
News America Marketing 10128/03 S:30-8:30pm E&J Gallo Winery 11/6/03 6:00-B:OOpm14 applicants for 13 interview spots 
Open to All Students Alumni Rm. Morris Inn Open to All Students McNeill Rm. Lafun Summit Partners 1111 Raytheon 10128/03 6:00-B:OOpm AHL. SCI. BUS. ENG Invitation Montgomery Theater. Lafun 13 spots for 24 applicants AMS 10129/03 7:00-8:30pm 
Los Angeles County De~artment Invitation Foster Rm. Lafortune Df Public Works 11/3: ENG Johnson &Johnson 10/30/03 6:00-B:OOpm 8slots to fill. only 5applicant Multicultural Series Montgomery Theater. Lafun 



...
~· 
"-: ~ . 

'~ 
.;c..______ 
-~u compare 
=;oJ-­
.·-" ' 
opinions with others. 

"'-...;.­
explore what matters · 

-..;-· 
at pwc.com/lookhere. 
···"-.·. 

Tuesday, October 28, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 
m003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
www.jumble.com
tTOAPIE j 





HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
I told you no lood or drinks in here 


WHE:RE: THE: TE=E=N­AGE:R E=NOE:O UP WHE:N HE: SPIL.L.E:O THE: DRINK. 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  33 Birthplace of a  
1 Wheelchair·  hurricane  
accessible  35 Ford popular In  
routes  the 1970's  
6 Either end of a  38 Homer  
gate  42 Bowl sites  
10 Is in the red  43 Easy out  
14 Love, in Roma  45 Beer buyers'  
15 Subject of  needs, for short  
fission  47 Gas, to a Brit  
16 Crooked  50 Explosive  
17 Horner  initials  
20 Become lively,  51 Yale students  
with •up•  since 1969  
21 Poor movie  54 Needing some  
ratmg  kneading?  
22 Calligrapher's  55 "For _  a jolly  
need  good fellow"  
25 Frost's "The  56 Got free  
_Not Taken"  59 Gamma  
27 Ecru  preceder  
28 Become eX1inct,  61 Homer  
with "out"  66 "A Death in the  
29 St. Francis of  Family" author  
James  
32 Prefix with natal  67 Biblical sibling  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 University of ,_Island 69 Understands 70 Ogles 71 Iron Mike 
DOWN 1 "Let's go, team!" 2 Friend of Pierre 3 Bon 4 Skull in 
"Hamlet," e.g. 5 Pay after a 
layoff 6 Warm jackets 7 Hall-of-Famer 
Mel 8 Manhattan district 
9 Some feds 10 Corpulent plus 11 Explained 
thoroughly 12 Pen 13 Less than 
quadraphonic 
18 Son of Aphrodite 19 Presidents' Day mo. 
22 Words Pres. Buchanan never said 
23 Pleasing 24 What a blabbermouth can't do 
31 Drive up the wall 
34 Subject of E.P.A. monitoring 
WILLSHORTZ 

taken point39 Econ. statistic 
48 Signs of spring 60 Like fireplaces 40Norma_ 
49 Subjects of 62 Whopper 41 Adjust, as a assays 63 Pair of radio 52 July 4, 1ne, Mexicans and others 
44 Goals, e.g.: 64 Hubbub Abbr. 53 Restful place 65 Hangout 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: [I]THE rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: PRIME INEPT SPORTY BEMOAN 
...
Answer: What she earned by selling her handmade brooches-"PIN" MONEY 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julie Roberts, Bill Gates, Annie Polls, Jonas Salk, Cleo Laine, Bruce Jenner 
. .> 
Happy Birthday: You'll get back what you put out this year. If you choose to sit back in a corner all by yourself and contribute nothing, don't expect anyone to hand you something on a silver platter. It will be up to you to interact with anyone who can benefit your cause. You have Jots to offer, so slop wasting time. Your numbers: 5, 16, 22, 30, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be in the mood for love. Your quick wit and charm will attract new romantic partners. Make sure you're honest ahoul yourself and your intentions. Travel opportunities will be exciting. HHHH TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your money-making ideas will he lucrative. Talk to relatives and friends about your plans. Travel will he favorable hut ­expensive. HHH GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Enhance your romantic chances by gelling involved in organizations that C<lll offer you a host of new connections. Be prepared to spend along the way. HHH CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken for granted if you arc too willing to give of your own time. Do not take on problems that do;1't concern you. Lending money lo friends or relatives will result in ill feelings. HHH LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Travel will he most satisfying. You will meet new lovers en route. Don't try to win hearts by exaggerating your worth. Be yourself and you'll find that people will like you a lot more. HHHH VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at your assets and investments. It's time to start making changes. Liquidate and move your cash into areas you feel are safer. Follow your own instincts when it comes to money matters. HH LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do a little socializing with your clients or colleagues. You'll have the know-how when it comes to charmingly getting your own way. Don't be afraid to present your ideas. HHHHH SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make professional gains. Your determination will enable you to persuade others lo see things your way. You will be praised if you help the underdog. Don't hold back. Speak your mind. HHH SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You're ready for just about anything. Gel 
-
involved in competitive activities. Include family and friends in your plans to get the most enjoyment out of recreational events. HHH CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone you live with will give you a hard time. Don't force your plans on him or her; just do your own thing. If you want to make changes at home, do so yourself. HHH AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 1!!): You really need to lake a break. Do things that will enable you to meet new people. A change of pace would do you a world of good. HHHHH PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll accomplish a great deal if you focus on getting ahead. You will heighten your reputation at work if you arc willing to put in a little overtime, but make sure that you get paid for your services. HH Birthday Baby: Your serious demeanor may help you accomplish things, but it isn't likely to win you popularity. You'll have to lighten up a lillie and Jearn to enjoy life. Open up and learn the joy of living, and you can have it all. Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on peo­ple and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and ·mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________~---------------­
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, October 28, 2003 
Page 24 
HOCKEY 
Irish stun top-ranked Boston College 
Freshman goalie Dave Brown fills in for Morgan Cey and leads the major upset 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Ediror 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. -It was only freshman Dave Brown's second career start at goalie and it just so happened to be against the No.1 team in the nation, in their home opener in front of nearly 8,000 fans. 
But Brown didn't seem both­ered by the circumstances, en route to stopping 27 shots while 
.... 
left wing Mike Walsh scored off a face-off with 5 minutes, 4 sec­onds remain­ing in the third period to lead Notre Dame to See Also a 1-0 upset 
"Slats don't tell 

victory against 
story in split

No. 1 Boston College Friday with Bowling night. 
Green"

• "We wanted to get respect page 19 
<. and we want­ed to get confidence," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "But those are things that people can't give you, you have to take them. It would­n't have been enough for us to come out of this game by just playing well. We took the next step and beat them." 
The key for the game was Notre Dame's defense and the goal play by Brown. The Irish defenders interfered with Eagle passes throughout the game and cleared the front of the net for Brown to get good looks at Boston College's shots on goal. 
"I would have never been able to do this without the team in front me and having them play so well defensively," said Brown, who recorded his second shutout in as many collegiate starts. "It was a great team effort overall." 
The Irish came out aggressive­ly in the first period and con­trolled the puck, but failed to get any serious shots on Boston College goaltender Matti Kaltiainen. 
From the 6:00 mark until the end of the first period, Boston College took control of the puck and had several good shots against Brown. The freshman made two key saves early in the period, then made a crucial stop 
see HOCKEY/page 19 


-ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Shutout streak at 10 games 
Goalie Erika Bohn hasn't allowed a goal in 989 minutes 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
One year after missing the Big East Tournament due to a 3-3 record in the Mid-Atlantic
-
Division, Notre Dame completed its sweep through the conference by beating Connecticut, Pittsburgh, Rutgers and Seton Hall over the fall See Also break. 
"This year's

The Irish continued team like those their dominat­
of past"

ing play, shut­
page 18

ting out all four oppo­nents in run­ning their school record shutout streak to 1 0 games. The Irish did not allow a goal to a Big East opponent all season, outscoring their conference opponents 22-0. 
see STREAK/page 18 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Three more victories puts win streak at 10 
Irish haven't lost in over six weeks 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Sept. 14 was over a month ago. It was also the last time the Irish lost a match, when they lost 3-1 to South Carolina at the Joyce Center. The Irish have done nothing but win, as they won three matches over break, extending their winning streak to 10 matches. 
This success has been in large part due to middle block­er Lauren Brewster. Last Tuesday, in the first match over fall break, Brewster racked up a career-high 20 kills and 10 blocks to lead the Irish (17 -2, 7-0 in the Big East) over North Carolina (15-7). The Irish took the match in four games (30-27, 26-30, 30­21, 30-26), as they beat the defending ACC champions. 
Senior Katie Neff was also in on seven blocks for the Irish, who finished with 17 team blocks. This upped the team average to 3.59 blocks per game, leading Division I. 
Meanwhile, Jessica Kinder led the team with 24 digs and Meg Henican added 19. Offensively, Emily Loomis added 10 kills. 
In the second game of the break, Brewster came up big once again, with nine kills on a .412 hitting percentage to go along with six blocks, as the Irish swept Rhode Island (9­
14) in three games (30-20, 30­23, 30-20) Thursday evening. Setter Kristen Kinder ran the offense for the Irish, finishing with 30 assists and leading her team to a .311 attack percent­age. 
Middle blocker Lauren Kelbley also added five blocks to go along with ten kills on .333 hitting, while senior Kim Fletcher played all three 
seeV-BALL!page 20 
MEN'S BBAll
MEN'S SOCCER 
fOOTBALl 

SMC VBAU. 
WATER POLO 
IRISH INSIDER 
..... 
u Notre Dame 2 

Grand Valley St. 7
usc 45 
Boston Colle~e 27
z Virginia Tech 1 
Mike Brey takes his 
Notre Dame 14 

The Belles split their 
Notre Dame 6 
Notre Dame 5 
s team to Barbados where 

four matches over the 
The Irish defeat the 
the Irish won two of 
For the second 

past week. 
The Irish lose in the 
Down 24-6, the Irish 
three games. 

~ 
= < Hokies and win two of 
straight year, the Trojans 

championship match of 
rally to claim the lead, 
three games over break. 
beat the Irish by 31 

the Great Lakes 
but the Golden Eagles
ti points. 
Conference. 
win on a late field goal. 
page 21 
page 20 
page 17 
page 17 

page 14 
Irish Insider 




