
VOL. XXXVII NO. 126 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND graduate awarded Purple Heart 
hospital today. Ferrell still suffers from was flown first to Kuwait after Germany, he was barely able 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Gen. William Nyland, second facial injuries caused by an the accident and then to to move, but he has regained
Scriior Staff Writer 
officer in command of the U.S. Iraqi ambush Germany, strength through walking and Marines Corps. presented south of where he physical therapy. 
U.S. Marine and former Ferrell with the award March Nasiriya. Iraq. "They were tearing my underwent a Ferrell said he has forgotten Notrn Dame gradualc Du::;tin 31, one day after his arrival at On March clothes off and they were tracheotomy. most of what occurred in the FPrrPll was awarded a Purple the National Naval Medical 22, Ferrell Ferrell's jaw Humvee because he was
stabilizing my head. It

I le art, the oldest military dec­Center in Bethesda, Md. and three is still wired knocked unconscious by the or al ion, The award is given to "mem­other Marines was all a blur. I do not shut, but he grenade. after sus­
bers of the armed forces of were travel­remember what is able to He only remembers waking taining the U.S. who are wounded by ing north in a speak. up in Iraq later after the
happened."

injuries an instrument of war in the Humvee when 'Tm doing ambush. W hi [11 0 ll hands of the enemy and a rocket-pro­a lot better," "They were tearing my cl uty in posthumously to the next of p e I I e d Dustin Ferrell Ferrell said clothes off and they were sta­Iraq. Ile kin in the name of those who g r e n a d c in an inter­b i li zing my head," Ferrell
U.S. Marine 

will be are killed in action or die of struck the relPased wounds received in action," vehicle, from a according to the Military killing the driver and injuring Maryland Ferrell Order of the Purple Heart. the three passengers. Ferrell 
2006-'07 minority admissions increase 
"We're just doing what we're applicants with more visits 
By WILL PUCKETT doing, and we'll keep on doing being made by admissions staff 
Nt"ws Wrucr 
what we're doing until they tell to schools with a high concen­us to stop," Riley said. "We're tration of minority students. 
Minority applications and not concerned about it at all." "[The year before last] admissions or minority stu­The admissions department maybe the visits were 50-50," dents both dramatically said it is making an effort to increased at Notre Dame this reach out to possible minority see ADMISSION/page 4 
year. 
Over 2,000 minority appli­cants were offered admission to the Class of 2007, a 41.5 percent increase from this year's freshman class. 
The admissions department has said for some time that incwasing minority enrollment is a priority for them through­out each fall and spring appli­cation cycle. 
llowcver, according to James Hiley, assistant director in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, the admissions department is not concerned with the University of Michigan af'firmative action case that was heard by the Supreme Court April I. 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

view Monday  said. "It was  all  a  blur. I do  
with  the  not  remember  what  hap- 
Observer.  
He  said  that,  while  in  see FERRELL/page 4  

Janet Reno to speak on service, politics 
tant director of programs
. Former 

for the Office of StudentAttorney General Activities, worked lo bring to speak in Stepan Reno to Notre Dame. 
"We wanted to bring a big
Center Tuesday 

name to campus" said Zigich. "(Reno] is a leader. she was the first woman
By NICOlA BUNICK attorney general and she is 

News Writer 

well respected." 
In addition to being the Former U.S. Attorney first woman attorney gener­General Janet Reno is al while serving on the scheduled to speak on cam­Clinton administration from pus tonight about the value 1993 to 2001, Reno previ­of public ously served as the Dade service as Country, Fla. state attorney, well as where she was the first discuss state prosecutor to assign her career lawyers to force "deadbeat" in politics dads to pay child support. and her "A lot of people were like, work with 'Why would you bring her?' t h e said. Zigich. "But [Heno] Clinton represents a lot more then adminis­just her liberal stances. She tration . would be interesting for 
Reno's talk, entitled "A anyone to listen too." Conversation with Janet Senior Mark llayes, presi­Reno," will be held at 7:30 dent of Notre Dame's 
p.m. in Notre Dame's Campus Hepublicans Stepan Center. Following agrees. her talk, "I haven't Reno will heard any­
answer "You can learn a lot by body who 
select writ­listening to other people, was upset ten ques­that she is
especially those with 
tions from coming to the audi­opposing views. " campus,·• he ence which said. have been Not only
Mark Hayes 
submitted in docs Haynes

College Republicans President
advance. believe that Tickets for it is impor• the program tant for a are on sale at the school like Notre Dame to LaFortune Box Office and bring speakers with a wide cost $3 for the general pub­variety of perspectives to lic and $2 for students. campus to enrich the stu­
The Student Union Board dent body, but also feels is responsible for bringing that even conservatives can Reno to Campus along with gain from hearing Reno's the College of Arts and point of view. Letters, the College "You can learn a lot by Democrats and Pi Sigma listening to other people" he Alpha. said. "Especially those with 
Junior Kim Zigich, the opposing views." current SUB Director of Programming, along with Contact Nicola Bunick at 
Peggy Hnatusko, the assis-nbunick@nd.edu 


page 2 The Observer . WHAT,S UP Tuesday, April 8, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
That time of year 
It's that time of year again. Syracuse is pounding Kansas, the 
U.S. is pounding Iraq, Geraldo Riviera is pounding his head and the contestants on Married by America are 
WIii Puckett
pounding, well, whoever. So you know what this 
News 
all adds up to ­
Production
income tax time! 
There, l suck­ered you in with the sports and sex, then sucker punched you just like Uncle Sam. Anyway, I'm in dire need of some assistance involving my taxes, so I'm coming to all of you for help. 
No, I'm not stuck owing more than I have to my name. No, I didn't try to copy Willie Nelson's tax shelter scheme. In fact, the government owes me a refund. But that's where the problem is: my refund will be for $1.65. 
No matter how much entertain­ment Hoosier Daddy's stupidly incessant ads may claim my tax refund will buy. I think I'm a little bit short of the big-screen TV or gigantic stereo of my dreams. 
Therefore, I've turned to my friends, my classmates and those random crazy people who read my AIM profile even though I don't know them -all in my quest for what to do with that money. What can I buy? What can I do? 
Oh yeah. I'm under 21, and I don't think $1.65 will buy off Father Poorman or ResLife, so let's keep it sober. Of course, feel free to submit ideas while drunk -some people say the most amazingly pro­found things that way. Assuming, of course, that you're over 21. Right. 
So far, I have the grand total of one idea -buying six quarter dogs and letting a Huddle employee keep the change. Actually, they'll proba­bly make you pay for condiments there soon, so maybe the change can be for that. We all know $0.15 ketchup and mustard fees will com­pletely compensate for those $15 bajillion budget cuts ... 
Now, that idea seemed pretty nifty at first blush, but now it doesn't seem so hot. I've racked my brains trying to come up with some low-cost thing that won't either get me labeled a dork or get me labeled "that kid who got bust­ed doing some stupid thing." But I confess, according to all my friends, I'm just an "Arts and Leisures" major, so what call would I have to think about anything? 
Maybe my friends have a point. Maybe I really should just put an ad in the paper, looking for ways to spend my pitiful tax refund. Actually, I even checked that out, but The Observer's cheapest ad costs 20 bucks -and that's a birthday ad. Somehow, I don't think a "Happy Tax Refund!" ad would help matters much. So with that, I turn it over to you guys: e­mail me, IM me, stop me in the hall, whatever -help me get rid of my tax refund! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest srandards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Multimedia  American  The Federal  Bone marrow  Matthews and  Players drink,  
yearbook  forces seize  Reserve  donors save  Reynolds  dunk and wear  
makes its  Saddam's  creates  lives  perform on  diapers at  
debut  presidential  emergency  college tour  Bookstore  
palace  economic plan  Basketball  
Notre Dame graduate Aaron Peri '02 has made a  U.S. stormed Baghdad  forces into on  Confronting fears of recession, the Federal Reserve  Ann Guruchari and Camilla Pollock, co-com­ Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds performed at  The 32nd Annual Bookstore Basketball contin­ 
video yearbook for the 2002-03 school year.  Monday, in a bold daylight raid to demonstrate the American presence in the city.  has a plan that includes interest rate cuts and bil­lions of dollars in cash for the bank­ing system.  missioners of the third annual bone marrow drive, encourage new donors to register Thursday in  Purdue University last Thursday night in the second-to­last stop of the duo's acoustic col­lege tour.  ued Monday as students lived up to their team names, drinking and firing up the court.  
Lafortune.  
page 11 page 13 page 24 


page 7

page 6 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Nicholas Boyle "Literature as Bible: Faces" 4 p.m. at lfcsburgh Center, room c-103 

. 
Lecture with Michael \Valzcr "Emanicipation and Empowerment: Domestic Society" 

4:15 p.m. at Ilesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Lecture with Janet Heno 


7:30 p.m. at Stepan Center 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Contemporary Drama Heading 

4:30 p.m. at Noble Dining Hall, president's dining room 

. 
Boom selections 

6:30 p.m. at LeMans, Heignbeaux lounge 

. 
Kaleidoscope: An evening of Irish dance and music A bcnolit for tho Saint Mary's Godsisters program 


7:30 p.m. at Fiddlers Hearth 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee loses Kontrol Kard 
On Monday, a University employee reported mis­placing her Kontrol Kard at an unknown location. 
Car towed for parking violations 
Two student vehicles were towed for parking vio­lations on Monday. 
Missing bike found near classrooms 
A bike that was reported missing from outside 
Welsh Family Hall was recovered outside of 
DeBartolo on Monday. 
Employee injured 
NDSP escorted a University employee from South Dining Hall to the University Medical Center on Monday for treatment of an inury. 
Two car accident reported 
NDSP responded to a two car accident on Bulla Road Monday. There were no injuries reported. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled linguine, shells, tri-color rotini, meat sauce, marinara sauce, breaded chessesticks, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, veg­etable pizza, tomato soup, cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, whipped potatoes, corn, oriental veg­etables, baked potato, hamburger, chicken patty, chicken breast, steak­house fires 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, brown sauce, pork gravy, peas, whipped potatoes, corn, steamed carrots, steamed broc­coli, mixed vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, hamburger, chicken breast, 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, boiled fettucine, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, whipped potatoes, corn, turkey gravy, baked potato, roasted vegetables, spinach, hamburg­er, chicken nuggets, krinkle kut fries, chicken taco, taco, meat, spanish rice, mexican bar, portobello fajita, chinese noodles, fried rice, oriental vegetables 
Today's Dinner: Thin spaghetti, shells, mostaccioli, linguine, alfredo sauce, spaghetti sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, French bread pizza, whipped potatoes, corn, roasted vegetables, roasted top round, oven fried chicken, cabbage 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
w 
% 
~ 
3 w 
.... 

~ 
<
(.) 
0 
_,J HIGH 39 HIGH 38 HIGH 45 HIGH 56 LOW 31 LOW 28 LOW 27 LOW 33 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Falafels, saffron rice, marinated cucumber salad, buttered noodles, light tomato sauce, parmesan muffins, sweet and sour chicken served with sticky rice, pork cutlet, patty melt, garden vegetable patty, bat­tered onion rings, montery turkey, flat bread sandwich, potato chippers, fresh green beans, cheese pizza, bread sticks 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu, herbed pasta, marinara sauce, corn­bread, fried plantains, grilled Italian sausage with pasta and Italian vegeta­bles, broiled hamburgers, BBQ chick­en, Texas grilled cheese, baked beans, gypsy schnitzel, buttered noodles 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 57 HIGH 60 LOW 38 LOW 41 
Atlanta 62 / 41 Boston 38 / 31 Chicago 40 / 26 Denver 62 / 38 Houston 69 / 40 Los Angeles 82 / 52 Minneapolis 44 / 28 New York 40 / 35 Philadelphia 45 / 37 Phoenix 86 / 59 Seattle 62 I 44 St. Louis 44 / 31 Tampa 83 / 67 Washington 50 / 40 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group plans to improve campus visits 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Wmer 
Board or Governance com­rnissiorrnrs continued lo settle into their new positions at Monday's meeting and heaped praise on Sunday's Accepted Student Day on Campus. 
"It was a rr.ally great turnout, and it went really well," board member Katie Ilarrison said. 
Accepted Student Day at Saint Mary's is a day when accepted students visit campus with tlrnir families in order to giv11 the school one last review bd'ore making their final deci­sion. Students and their parents have to opportunity to meet and Lalk with current Saint Mary's studcnlc; and faculty. 
Board members did offer sug­gestions on how to improve i\cccptcd Student Day to better cater to visitors. 
"One concern is the quality of tour guides on campus." said llarrison. Problems such as dependence on only a few enthusiastic student volunteers and freshman tour guides were noted. 
Harrison and Student Body President Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl mentioned several changes that arc being put into effect in order to improve the tour process. One change men­tioned included elevating the prestige of the tour guide posi­tion by providing guides with name tags and polos. 
"It is going to be much more or a commitment then people are making it now," Harrison said. 
In other BOG News 
. BOG voted to give the Women's Care Center $100. The crisis pregnancy center provides pregnancy testing and a hotline to women who may be pregnant. BOG donates money to the center bi-annually to help pay for critical pregnancy testing, supplies, and the hot­line. 
. Residence Hall Association President Shay Jolly confirmed that Saint Mary's residence halls would sponsor a boat in this Saturday's Fisher Regatta. 
"We've gotten a lot or feed­back," said Jolly. "It looks very promising." Construction of the boat will take place every after­noon this week in Moreau. 
. BOG voted to give club status to the Sister School/God Sister Project. The club, which was founded in the fall of 2002 under the guidance of Brooks DeVita, seeks to raise money for Saint Mary's of Bukedea, Uganda. The school is a safe haven for young women seek­ing to escape the cultural prac­tice of female circumcision. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Hallahan closes meetings to public 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Executive cabinet meetings under new student body president Pat Hallahan will be closed to students and the Observer, leaders revealed Monday night. 
Despite their campaign promise to "provide a means for constructive criticism" or ~1utl1"11l g""'rnment, llaliahan and viu president Jeremy Lao banned media at the weekly meetings. 
The executive cabinet serves as an advisory body to the president. It also admin­isters the Collaboration Fund, a portion or student activity fees set aside to help finance campus program­ming. 
According to Lao. a reporter's presence at the meeting might stifle open and honest debate. 
"People might not say what they really want to say, for fear of [being quoted]," Lao said. 
The move, which was never officially announced, estab­lishes the cabinet as the only student government group that meets in seclusion. Hall Presidents Council, Student Senate and Campus Life Council meetings are open to students. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
SUMMER1ij~J TOURGUIDES NEEDED 
The Office ofUnder~aduate Admissions Office is seekin~ full-time tour guide/office workers for thls summer (May 1~•August 1~) Our 1)-minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and] p.rn. 
Notre Dame students from the South Bend area and students ~lanning to attend Summer Session are encoura~ed to consider this op~ortunity. 
Please visit Room 1W in tne Main Builain~ to ap~ly for this position. ~:00 am-):00 pm M-F 
Application deadline is Wednesday, April lb 
Irish dance progrant aids African w-omen 
By ANNIE BASINSKI News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and local corrummity will bring Irish music and dance alive tonight at Fiddler's Hearth in downtown South Bend. 
Mira. Eirforce and The Cros.c;roads School of Irish Dance will perform "Kaleidoscope: An explosion or Irish music and dance" at 7:30 p.m. 
Proceeds from the event will benefit the Saint Mary's College Uganda Sister SchooVGodsisters Program. 
The Godsisters Program was fanned at Saint Mary's earlier this year to rescue women in Uganda from circumcision. Money raised by the program is used for schol­arships for Ugandan women wish­ing to attend Saint Mary's, a col­lege in Uganda. 
'The Student Diversity Board at Saint Mary's has made it a goal to help provide the means to educate these women of Uganda who are being threatened with circumci­sion," said Alexis Brooks De Vita, Saint Mary's English professor and Student Diversity Board facul­ty advisor. 
According to Brooks De Vita, the women of Uganda are less likely to be circumcised if they are edu­cated. As educated individuals, they achieve a sense of prestige in the eyes of Ugandan society, she said. 
Every $350 donated to the sister school provides a Ugandan woman with enough funds for one year of schooling at Saint Mary's, which offers a three to four year study program. 
After attending former Ireland President Mary Hobinson's Oct. 3 lecture at Saint Mary's dLr;cussing the need to aid developing coun­tries. Saint Mary's junior Marickc Van Der Maelen became inspired to help others in need. 

Van Der Maclen, an Irish step dancer who performs regularly at Fiddler's I!earth, proposed an Irish music and dance show to benefit the Godsisters Program. 
She. along with Saint Mary freshman Brighid llanrahan and Notre Dame sophomore Meghan Kearns, comprise Eircforce, a tra­ditional Irish stepdance group that performs and teaches others about Irish music, dancing, and folklore. 
Traditional Irish music will be provided by Mira. a group of musi­cians all under the age of 21. Mira members and Michiana residents Autumn Rhodes, Nolan Ladewski. and Sally Joyce will play tin whis­tles, low whistles, the bodthran and fiddles during the perfor­mance, as well as sing vocals. 
Six of Van Der Maelen's stu­dents from The Crossroads School or Irish Dance, who range in age 7 to 16, will also perform. 
"I ask that everyone go and enjoy the show and all the energy the dancers and musicians have put into it," Brooks De Vita said. "Know that by attending the show, you are changing lives with your donations." 
Tickets for tonight's show, spon­sored by the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership, can be purchased in advance for $15 for reserved seating and $8 for stand­ing room only. Tickets may also be purchased at the door for $10. 
Contact Annie Basinski at basi0223@saintmarys.edu 
1~1Bargain Bool(s
~...;1------· Why Pay More? The Browsing Bookstore at 5505 Grape Road 574~271~1273 
Hundreds of new Oxford and University Press Titles at 50-90% off Publisher's List price delivered fresh every month. 

Tuesday, April 8, 2003 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Ferrell 
continued from page 1 
pcned." 
Ferrell, who is on convales­cent leave and unlikely to return to combat, said doc­tors estimate that it would take a year to complete the facial construction and oral surgery needed after his acci­dent. 
His jaw will remain wired shut for about five more weeks. 
During his stay at the hos­pital, Ferrell received visits from several congressmen, including Speaker of the House of Representatives Dennis Hastert, to congratu­late him on his Purple Heart and wish him a safe recov­ery. 
Ferrell's wife, Rachael, said she is proud of her husband's accomplishments and that he has returned but she is still "taking it all in." 
"It's kind of a strange feel­ing but definitely a good feel­ing," the 1998 Saint Mary's graduate said. 
The couple said they are thankful for the continued support of the Notre Dame community. 
"People just keep popping out of nowhere," said Dustin Ferrell. 
In Maryland, Ferrell has also had support from his mother, Vicki Isgrigg, who flew to the East Coast from her home in Vacaville, Calif. 
Today, the couple plans to return to their home in North Carolina. Ferrell had been overseas since Jan. 9. 
His father, Richard, was also a Marine and served in the Vietnam War. Both his maternal and paternal grandfathers served in the military also, one in the Army and the other in the Air Force. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
AdIDission 
continued from page 1 
said Riley. "But this past year, maybe 60 percent [of the vis­its] were to minority schools." 
In addition, the office has purchased the names of stu­dents who listed Notre Dame on their SAT forms rather than simply letting students come to Notre Dame, as in the past. 
With these kinds of recruit­ing efforts being made, the office was hoping to see a pay­off in the number of applicants and acceptances -and such a payoff has apparently materi­alized. 
There were 2,075 total minority applications this year, compared to 1,466 last year. Eight hundred and fifty-five of those applicants were accept­ed, a 30 percent increase from the 563 minority students admitted a year ago. 
The total percentage of minority applicants who were admitted dropped from 41.2 percent in 2002 to 38.4 per­cent in 2003. 
Over 12,000 people applied for admission in 2003, the highest-ever number of appli­cations the Office of Undergraduate Admissions received. 
Specific minority groups saw similar increases as well, with blacks, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans -all the minority groups data was available for -applying and being accepted in greater numbers. 
The greatest change occurred among blacks, where there were 420 applicants compared with last year's 254, a 65 percent increase. One hundred and ninety five black applicants were admitted ver­sus 126 last year. 
While in every category a lower percentage of applying students were admitted this year, the admissions office attributes this largely to the increased number of appli­cants across the board and views the increased numbers as a sign that the aggressive school visitation, recruiting, and other efforts are working well. 
While these numbers do show increases in the raw number of applicants and admits in every category, the increase from aggressively seeking minority applicants may not show its true potential for some time to come. Over time, the admissions office said it would like to see still more minority applications and hopefully raise the percentage of minority students overall at Notre Dame. 
Accepted students have until May 1 to decide whether they will attend Notre Dame, after which final figures will be available to show any changes in the number of minority stu­dents deciding to enroll at Notre Dame. 
Contact Wi11 Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 

IRAQ 
U.S. forces bon1b area where Saddan1 believed to be meeting 
BAGHDAD 

The U.S. bombing of an upscale neighborhood where Saddam Hussein and top aides were believed to be meeting blasted a 60-foot-deep crater, ripped orange trees from their roots and left a heap of con­crete, mangled iron rods and shredded furniture and clothes. 
At least three buildings were destroyed in Monday's 2 p.m. attack on the western Baghdad district of al-Mansour, which broke windows and doors as far as 300 yards from the site. 
Rescue workers looking in the rubble for victims said two bod­ies had been recovered and the death toll could be as high as 14. They didn't release any names. 
A single B-1 bomber dropped four "bunker-busting" bombs on the district after U.S. military intelligence was tipped that Saddam, his sons Odai and Qusai and other Iraqi leaders might be meeting there, U.S. officials said. 
"A leadership target was hit very hard," said Marine Maj. Brad Bartelt, a spokesman for 
U.S. Central Command in Qatar. 
He said he could not comment on casualties or say how long it would take to determine the damage. Battle assessment typi­cally involves ground reconnais­sance or satellite imagery, though Bartelt would not say what method was being used. 
Those close to Saddam have 
,--------. ---------------­
Shuwna. .Mons~nt1r.: 

Ha..,,.,,y 21•t: Birt:nda.y Love, T'h.e room.friend a.nd -t'ke boynia.'te 
said the Iraqi leader is so obsessed with security that very few people would know about his movements. He maintains dozens of residences and uses doubles to keep people guessing. 
An exiled dissident told The Associated Press that only two people are kept posted about Saddam's whereabouts -his son Qusai, who commands the Republican Guard and heads the president's security and his pri­vate secretary, Abed Hameed Hmoud, a member of Saddam's Tikriti clan. Even oldest son Odai is thought to be out of the loop because he is considered to have a reckless nature. 
About three miles from the al­Mansour district, white smoke from U.S. artillery fire rose early Tuesday from Saddam's Old Palace grounds on the banks of the Tigris River. 
Heavy machine gun fire and the buzz of aircraft broke the silence of an uncharacteristical­ly quiet night and silent, yellow flares illuminated a sky even blacker from Baghdad's wartime power outage. 
Under cover of darkness, U.S. Marines spent the night patrolling a field in the south­east corner of the capital, prob­ing foxholes, trenches and what appeared to be bunkers dug under roads. Snipers, machine gunners and infantrymen made sure the area was free of Iraqis. 

Marines stopped suspicious vehicles. Snipers saw two men carrying an AK-47s. They shot two of them and the rest fled into the night. 
Their vigil came less than 24 hours after U.S. troops stormed the Iraqi capital and seized Saddam's New Presidential Palace. 
PPE THE MINOR IN 
PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, doconnor@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 11. Late applications will be accepted only if openings arc still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 4:30-5:30 PM, 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
American forces seize Saddam's presidential palace 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDi\D 

U.S. forces in tanks and armornd vehicles stormed into the c!•nter of Baghdad on Monday. seizing one of Saddam Hussein's palaces in a bold daylight raid aimed at demonstrating the Americans ca11 come and go as they pll'aSt'. 
I11 the al'lcr noon, some 10 hours after the battle began, Iraqi snipers !ired on U.S. sol­dinrs from rooms in the state­ow,wd J\1-Hashid llotel while the platoon con<lucled a patrol in a neighborhood near the palace, soldiers said. U.S. tauks rt!turned fire with their main guns and .50-calibcr machi1w guns. 
Morn than 70 tanks and 60 Bradlt•y fighting vehicles took part in tlw lightning thrust by tl11• Army's 3rd Infantry Division, with tank-killing A-10 Warlhog planes and pilotless drones providing air cover against mostly disorganized resistance. 
At lhc city's southern edge, though, Marines and Army lroops faced bloody fighting. 
Two Marines were killed and two wounded when their armored troop carrier was hit by an artillery shell at a bridge spanning a canal. The Marines advanced into the capital by foot after the Iraqis blew apart the bridge. 
Also, a group of U.S. armored personnel carriers in southern Baghdad was hit by rockets. according to field reports. Six American soldiers were reported missing and a large number were wounded. 
In the heart of Baghdad, American soldiers who reached the gold-and-blue­dorned New Presidential Palace used the toilets. rifled through documents in the bombed-out compound, and helped themselves to ashtrays, pillows, gold-painted Arab glassware and other souvenirs. The Americans also blew up a statue of Saddam on horse­back in tho center of the city. 
"I do believe this city is freakin' ours," boasted Capt. Chris Carter of Watkinsville, 
Ga. 
The troops secured the main roads in the area, leaving sol­die rs at every intersection. They made forays to the Al­Rashid and to the bombed-out Information Ministry. but unlike the palace, they did not stay to occupy them. 
U.S. troops set up a prisoner of war collection point in the palace compound. As Iraqis were captured in street fight­ing outside, they were brought to the palace for processing 
before being sent behind U.S. Iraqi casualties from the raid, lines. At one point, a group of but 10 miles outside the capi­nine Iraqis surrendered after tal, about 100 Iraqi soldiers hearing on loudspeakers that if were reported killed at the they did so they would live. Baghdad airport in seven There was no estimate of hours of fighting that ended 

U.S. to test samples from. possible chetnical w-eapons site 
A.ssociatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 
t\rmy soldiers searching a com­pound in central Iraq found metal drums that may contain chemical weapons, although testing of samples has not been completed, U.S. military oflicials said Monday. 
Lab()ratory tests in the United States are needed to confirm whether the drums found south of Baghdad con­tained chemical weapons, pesticides or something else, Pentagon officials said. 
A unit of the Army's 101st Airborne Division searched the compound near llindiyah, about 60 miles south of Baghdad. CNN shot video of the search that showed soldiers in gas masks 
using handheld chemical weapons detectors to investigate metal drums. 
"This could be either some type of pesticide, because this was an agricul­t urat compound," Gen. Benjamin Freakly told CNN. "On the other hand, it could be a chemical agent, not weaponized." 
If confirmed as containing chemical agents that could be used in weapons, the drums found near Hindiyah would be the first components of weapons of mass destruction discovered in Iraq during the war. Finding and eliminat­ing Saddam Hussein's chemical and biological weapons is a goal of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, and finding some could mute international criti­cism of the war. 
As U.S. troops occupied one of Saddam Hussein's presidential palaces 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
British tighten their grip on Basra: 
British forcl!S took control of tho heart of Basra on Monday, met by fow pockets of resistance and greeted by hundreds of people who shook their hands and welcomed them lo Iraq's second-largest city. Royal Marine commandos seized a vacant, pink-hued mar­ble palace belonging to President Saddam Hussein. Elsewhere in the impoverished city, there was wide­spruad looting in the city's narrowing streets, and even reports of some retaliatory attacks by Iraqis against militiamen still loyal to Saddam. "The last 48 hours have been historic for Basra. After decades under thl\ heel of Saddam's brutal regime, U.K. forces arc in the process of delivering liberation to the peo­ple of Basra,'" Air Marshal Brian Burridge told reporters in Qatar. "There will be some dillicult days ahead, but the Baathist regime is finished in Basra." For two weeks, the British had held ofT from storming the city of 1.3 million people to avoid civilian casual­ties. 
early Monday. On Sunday, a giant C-130 transport landed at the airport in the first known arrival of a U.S. plane since the airfield fell into U.S. hands last week. 
in Baghdad Monday, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said "the circle is closing" around the Iraqi leader. 
"We do know that he no longer runs much oflraq," Rumsfeld said. 
Rumsfeld suggested, however, that complete victory would come "later rather than sooner, simply because it's a big country." 
Air Force Gen. Richard Myers, chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said there were now 125,000 coalition troops inside Iraq and that all but "a couple of dozen" of the Iraqi Republican Guard's tanks had been destroyed. 
The number of American troops con­firmed killed in the Iraq war rose to 89, the Pentagon announced Monday. The military said 73 of the deaths were from hostile action and 16 were non-hostile deaths. Seven are missing and seven are prisoners of war. 

Rumsfeld and Myers both expressed optimism that a top Iraqi official. Ali Hassan al-Majid, had been killed in a 
U.S. airstrike on his home in southern Iraq. Al-Majid, Saddam's cousin who commanded the southern region of Iraq during the war, was known to his opponents as "Chemical Ali" for his role in chemical attacks on Kurds in northern Iraq. 
Myers showed a video of the missile attack to reporters at a Pentagon news conference. 
"We believe that the reign of terror of Chemical Ali has come to an end. To Iraqis who have suffered at his hand, he will never again terrorize you or your families," Rumsfeld said. 
Postwar Iraq talk widens U.N. rift: 
Just as the Iraq war has caused a trans-Atlantic rift, ini­tial postwar plans that rule out a major U.N. role are drawing fire from allies like France, Russia, Germany and. this time, even Britain. President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair were discussing reconstruc­tion and a future government for Iraq in talks in Northern Ireland. Staunch allies on the war, the two leaders differed on how Iraq and its 24 million people should be governed once the fighting stops, The dispute was front and center as well at the United Nations, where Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Monday pressed the c115e to the Security Council for a substantial 
U.N. role in postwar Iraq. "U.N. involvement does bring legitimacy which is necessary, necessary for the coun­try, for the region and for the peoples around the world," Annan told reporters. But thus far, the Bush administration has shown little inclination to give the United Nations much say or to ask for much help from the rest ofthe world. 
U.S. plane crashes in Colombia, pilot dead: A U.S. State Department plane used to fumigate drug crops crashed Monday and its American pilot was killed, the U.S. Embassy said. It was not immediately clear if the crash was caused by an accident or if the T-65 Air Tractor plane had been shot down, the embassy said. The American. whose name was not released pending notification of relatives, was the fourth to die in three crashes of U.S. government planes in Colombia this year. Three other Americans were killed when their single-engine Cessna plane crashed and burned in southern Colombia on March 25 while searching for three other Americans who were captured by leftist rebels after their plane went down on Feb. 4. The rebels executed a fourth American and a Colombian soldier while taking the others as hostages, Colombian officials have said. Monday's crash occurred in southwest Colombia's Narino state, where there are large plantations of coca, the main ingredient of cocaine. 

Tuesday, April 8, 2003

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
CWIL discussion circles tackle racism 
By LAUREN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
For the past three weeks, Saint Mary's Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership has hosted a Study Circle on Race, an opportunity to discuss race in a confidential and wel­coming atmosphere. 
The Topsfield Foundation, a private nonprofit and non­partisan organization, founded the Study Circles Resource Center in 1989. The project has exploded nationally. bringing commu­nity members together for dialogue and action. 
A study circle usu­an
"The study circle is such a
ally consists important of at least hopeful thing because issue on 
eight peo­racism is such a persistent S a i n t 
ple, with Mary's
and destructive part ofour
each bring­campus. ing a society ... "I saw unique per­this as a spective to good way
Bonnie Bazata 
the group. to increase 
The circ I e Director of Community Connections my experi­
meets sev­eral times to discuss a spe­cific issue and attempt to discover ways to act on the problems stemming from the issues. 
Issues that study circles can focus on include educa­tion reform, crime and vio­1en ce, immigration, strengthening neighbor­hoods and youth concerns. 
The Human Rights Commission is the sponsor for local study circles in South Bend and approached Bonnie Bazata, director of community connections for CWIL, to start a study circle on Saint Mary's campus. Study circles also meet at other schools and churches in South Bend. 
The CWIL Study Circle on Race consists of 16 mem­bers, six of which are College staff. Sara Tallman, a sophomore Women's Studies major, is the only Saint Mary's student partici­pating. The remaining mem­bers are from the communi­ty. Mary Lauck, a 1983 alumna, is the facilitator of the study circle as well as the CEO of the Singing Sands Girl Scout Council. 
"I think there is something really vibrant about the mix of staff and community," Bazata said. "The power of the study circles is that everyone gets to speak from their own experience." 
Topsfield publishes guides for each issue that include different viewpoints and dis­cussion questions. Topics for 
Recycle The 

Observer. 
the study circle range from race relations and racism to transforming words to actions within the communi­ty. 
Rather than seeing a cer­tain view as right or wrong, the circle is about discussing how other people experience racism. The dialogue is the central part of the study cir­cles which Bazata views as important to the work of building community. 
"Dialogue is like building a foundation for a strong and fortified building," she said. 
Tallman learned of the CWIL Study Circle on the College Web site and decided to participate because she 
feels race 
is 
ence and awareness of race," Tallman said. 
With two sessions remain­ing, Tallman's experience in the circle thus far has been a powerful one. The commu­nity members who partici­pate in the circle are active members of the community, so they have a lot to share about how Saint Mary's affects the community. Tallman plans to be trained as a facilitator and organize a study circle for students next year. 
"The study circle is such a hopeful thing because racism is such a persistent and destructive part of our society," Bazata said. "It relies on the power of con­versation and honesty that we can have with each other. The lack of that is really a part of racism." 
Contact Lauren O'Brien at obril648@saintmarys.edu 
Multi1nedia yearbook 111akes debut 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Wrirer 
A new multimedia version of the Notre Dame Yearbook will make its debut this year. The 90-minute video yearbook cov­ers events from the first day of classes through commence­ment during the 2002-03 school year. 
"If you've been on campus this year, you're probably in it," said Aaron Perri, creator of the video yearbook. 
The idea for a video year­book has been a long-time goal of Perri. He produced a video yearbook while a student at Adams High School that he said won some awards. 
During his years at Notre Dame, Perri majored in Film, Television and Theatre, but 
U-YJIRE 

1 dead, 5 injured in shooting at U. Arizona 
By AREK SARKISSIAN II 
Arizona Daily Wildcat 
TIJCSON 
A Tucson, Ariz., woman was killed and five others injured Sunday morning after several rounds of shots were fired in a west side student apartment complex. 
The six were among several people attending a gathering in front of Building 19 at University House, 2525 W. Anklam Road, at about 1:15 a.m. when someone fired shots into the crowd, said Sgt. Judy Altieri, Tucson Police Department spokeswoman. 
The woman, Sallie Garcia, 19, was rushed in a private vehicle to St. Mary's Hospital, where she died. The five others, four males, ages 20 and 21, and one female, 18, were wounded. Both 21­year-olds were seriously injured, one with life-threatening injuries, Altieri said. One of the two 20­year-olds also sustained serious injuries; the other had a graze wound. The wounded woman also suffered serious, but not life­threatening, injuries, she said. 
also took a few entrepreneur courses. He did some research and wrote up a business plan for a production company. 
"It just made sense to do it," Perri said 
APT productions is one of only a few companies to pro­duce video yearbooks. Notre Dame will be one of less than 10 schools to have a video yearbook. Perri hopes "the Notre Dame video yearbook will be a model for other uni­versities." 
Though the project has offered many challenges, Perri still believes that the company will reach its sales goal of 2,000 copies by the end of the year. 
"The students have shown great interest in the videos," Perri said. 
This year's yearbook is titled 
Altieri cannot release the names of any of the wounded until TPD finds out the exact motive of the incident. Tucson Police officials did not know whether the unidentified five were UA students. 
Battalion Chief Randy Ogden, spokesman for the Tucson Fire Department, said the injuries among the five consisted of shots to the head, hip, back and chest. He said one of the injured was transported privately to St. Mary's Hospital, three others were transported by paramedics to University Medical Center and the other was taken to Tucson Medical Center. 
Altieri said there were several parties going on in the complex at the time of the shooting, with people moving from gathering to gathering. 
The complex, which is split into two parts, is accessible to residents and visitors through two gated entrances. 
Journalism senior Cara Haley, who lives a few buildings away on the side where the incident occurred, said the night was fair­ly quiet when she got home at 


Captains Meeting 
April 9th, 7:30 
Montgomery Theater 
There will be a meet:ing held on 
-Wednesday, April 91:h, at 7:30 in the Montgomery Theater in 
Lafortune (across from $1:arbucbs) 
A member of each boat must be 
in attendance 
~:Jril1:l._, ::1. 0~3­
"Notre Dame in Motion: A Year Under the Dome." It can be purchased through the APT productions web site at www.aptproductions.com. A DVD copy can be purchased for $30 and a VHS version for $25. The videos will be shipped to the buyer by mid­June. Video clips and student request forms for events to be included can be found on the website as well. 
Aaron Perri has high hopes for the Notre Dame video year­book in the future. Next year, he wants to, ''get students involved [and] shoot the video through a student's eyes." His ultimate goal is to have a DVD coupled with the print year­book. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 
about 1 a.m. until suddenly the area was swarming with police and fire personnel. She said there were only small groups of people gathered in front of build­ings. 
"People were coming back from the bars. with little gather­ings; nothing unusual for a Saturday night," she said. 
According to Mike Rocque, a recent U. Arizona graduate, the other side of the complex was completely packed with at least 400 people. 
"The whole basketball court was just filled with people. I had a hard time parking when I got there. People were parking ille­gally all over the place," he said. 
Then, at about 1:15 a.m. he heard a series of cracking sounds. 
"I was in my living room and kind of thought, 'Were those fire­works going off?'" he said. 
Rocque, who has lived in the complex since August, said he has never seen a gathering that big. However, he said the prob­lem could have been quelled if the entrance past thr rlrctronic gates were better patrullcd. 
• 


Tuesday, April 8, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch April 7 
Dow Jones 

8,300.41 +23.26
e-
J\MSDAQ 

1,389.51 ~ +6.00 
S&P500 

879.93 +1.08
e­
M1E¥ 

822.23 ~ +2.23 
NYSE 

4,923.27 ~ +25.22 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +-0.32 +-0.8 25 .17 CISCO SYSTEMS (CS€0) L~.02 @i.t1:J),i;~i57 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.76 +-0.30 17.35 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (~QNW)tt>.~ .. fii~@i1i!:1~i;~~i 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.99 +-0.3411.71 
IN BRIEF 
GM, Ford plan large budget cuts 
Ford Motor Co. is intensifying efforts to slash its $30 billion budget for costs not directly related to vehicles, and General Motors Corp. is digging deeper to reduce expenses as the world's two largest automakers adjust to slug­gish sales and rising competition. 
GM, the industry's biggest manufacturer, has asked departments to eliminate costs such as nonessential travel and, in some cases, to trim budgets more than what was expected at the start of the year, spokeswoman Toni Simonetti said. 
At No. 2 Ford, the automaker is working to reduce its nonproduct expenses -in market­ing, sales and service and information technol­ogy, for example -by as much as 20 percent over the next two years. 
McDonald's CEO announces plans 
Pledging to make McDonald's Corp. "better, nol just bigger," the burger chain's new CEO disclosed plans Monday to sharply reduce capi­tal spending and open fewer restaurants this year amid an unprecedented slump . 
.Jim Cantalupo, under pressure to revive McDonald ·s sagging sales and stock price, also unveiled a new marketing effort and said the company will improve its menu but overall "do fowcr things and do them better." 
Ucvealing more specifics of his turnaround strategy, Camalupo told analysts in New York Lhat his plan relies on improving sales at exist­ing restaurants rather than more rapid expan­sion for the world's largest restaurant chain. 
Borrowing slowed by recession 
Prewar jillers and job worries turned con­s um ers into more cautious borrowers in February. New financing for cars and other big­ticket items dropped by the largest amount in a dncade. The Fl~deral Reserve reported Monday that consumer credit edged up in February from the previous month by just $1.48 billion, or at a soasonally adjusted annual rate of 1 percent, the slowest pace in two months. 
Fed creates emergency plan 
• Economic rescue would include loans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Confronting new fears of recession, the Federal Reserve is refining an emergency economic res­cue plan that includes further interest rate cuts and billions of dollars in extra cash for the bank­ing system. 
The Fed's effort would be aimed at pulling the country out of a nosedive that has seen 465,000 jobs evaporate in just the past two months, raising fears among economists that the weak recovery from the 2001 recession is in danger of stalling out altogether. 
"Clearly, the Fed is in uncharted territory," said economist David Jones. "I think they will try some experimental moves." 
One key element of the plan Fed officials are con­sidering hasn't been used successfully in a half-cen­tury. · 
Based on comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and other Fed officials, the central bank is signaling that it is poised to move beyond its cent, it is Ii kely to stay "The Fed is trying to term Treasu ry securi­traditional buying and at the lower level as long buck up fragile confi­ties and bought long-term selling of short-term as needed to get the econ­dence," said Mark Zandi, securities in the early Treasury securities to the omy on its feet -which chief economist at 1960's in an effort to influ­direct purchase of longer­would help ease Economy.com. "They ence rates at both ends of te rm securities in an investors' worries about a know that everyone is the yield curve -was effort to pump more sudden jump in interest asking the question: what judged to be a failure money into the banking rates down the road. can be done if the U.S. because the central bank system and influence The fact that Fed offi­economy slides back into did not make the transac­long-term interest rates. cials have been so open in a recession and it ignites tions in large enough 
Also, Fed officials have discussing these options a deflationary cycle?" amounts. indicated they are pre­underscores the need the Greenspan in a speech "If you want to produce pared in the event of an central bank sees to in December in New York results, you have to convince unexpected shock to the restore investor confi­noted that the Fed from markets that you are serious system to lend massive dence that has been shak­1942 to 1951. as part of an and will do whatever it takes amounts of money direct­en by the fact that the agreement with the White to alter the rate structure," ly to commercial banks to Fed's aggressive two-year House, successfully capped said former Fed board make sure that financial campaign to cut short­long-term Treasury yields at member Lyle Gramley. markets do not freeze up. term rates has yet to pro­2.5 percent as a way to hold The Fed made just such a 
And as a third policy duce a sustainable eco­down borrowing costs to massive response on Sept. option, Fed officials have nomic recovery. The Fed's finance World War II. 12, 2001, the day after the indicated they would target for the federal funds However, private econo­terrorist attacks, when it explicitly state that if the rate, the interest that mists note that a later Fed lent a record $46 billion to federal funds rate is banks charge for overnight effort dubbed "Operation banks in a single day to keep moved below its current loans, is now at a 41-year Twist" -in which the the financial system func­41-year low of 1.25 per-low of 1.25 percent. central bank sold short-tioning. 

OPEC calls meeting to avert crash 
Most OPEC members have been price for oil falls below the 
Associated Press 
producing at maximum capacity group's minimum threshold of $22 
LONDON to keep world oil supplies plenti­a barrel. 
OPEC members plan to hold an ful during the war. However, oil "You don't wait for the crisis to emergency meeting this month ministers are increasingly worried happen. You act before," the aimed at curbing runaway crude that OPEC might be oversupplying source said. production to avert a possible the market just as demand starts Oil prices have fallen sharply price crash, a source at the pro­falling to its seasonal low. since peaking at almost $40 a 
ducers' cartel said Monday. "There is some serious concern barrel on Feb. 27, before the out­
Oil ministers at the Organization among some of the ministers that break of fighting in Iraq. May con­of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices could be headed for a crash tracts of U.S. light. sweet crude have agreed to meet April 24 in if they don't act quickly to stop fell to a low on Monday of $27 .15 Vienna, Austria. The meeting will the trend," the source said. "No before bouncing more than a dol­take place whether or not the war one is talking about cutting pro­lar on news of OPEC's planned 
in Iraq has ended, the source duction of course, but that would meeting. U.S. crude for May deliv­said, speaking on condition of be the only feasible thing to do." ery was trading at $28.12 by early anonymity from OPEC headquar­The group has decided not to afternoon in New York, still 50 ters in the Austrian capital. wait until OPEC's benchmark cents lower than Friday's close. 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 
European journalists 
covering war killed 
Associated Press 
CAMP AS SAYLIYAH, Qatar 

Two journalists and two soldiers were killed Monday in an Iraqi rocket attack on the U.S. Army's 3rd Infantry Division south of Baghdad, 
U.S. Central Command said. Fifteen soldiers were also wounded. 
Spaniard Julio Anguita Parrado, 32, of the newspa­per El Mundo, was killed when the missile struck south of the Iraqi capital, according to his newspaper and the· Spanish Defense Ministry. Anguita Parrado was the son of Julio Anguita. former leader of Spain's leftist lzquierda Unida coali­tion. 
The second dead journalist was identified as Christian Liebig, 35, who was covering the war for the German news weekly Focus. He had been with the 2nd Brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division since the war began, moving with it from Kuwait to the outskirts of Baghdad. 
"We are shattered and deeply saddened," said 
Focus'  editor  in  chief,  
Helmut Markwort.  
Liebig also  was  a  former  

editor on the international news desk of The Associated Press German language ser­vice. 
The deaths brought to eight the number of foreign journalists who have died while in Iraq to cover the war. 
Also Monday, armed Iraqis abducted two Polish journal­ists at a checkpoint near the Iraqi town of Hillah, about 80 miles south of Baghdad, their editor said. 
Marcin Firlej, 27, a reporter for the private TVN24 news channel. and 31-year-old J a eek Kaczmarek, with Polish state radio, were traveling from the town of Nasiriyah with a larger group of jour­n a Ii sts when they were seized, TVN24 editor Malgorzata Laszcz said. 
TVN24 reporter Marcin 

Woroch, who was in another car in the same convoy, described their abductors as "five or six armed men, some still in military uni­forms. some in black," in a report aired on his channel. 
Among the journalists who have died while covering the war are Americans David Bloom of NBC News and Michael Kelly, editor at large for The Atlantic Monthly and a columnist for The Washington Post. Kelly was killed Thursday along with a U.S. soldier when their Humvee plunged into a canal; Bloom died Sunday from an apparent blood clot. 
The others are Kaveh Golestan, an franian free­lance cameraman for the BBC, Gaby Rado of Britain's Channel 4 News. Terry Lloyd of Independent Television News in Britain and Paul Moran of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 
Two other Independent Television News journalists, cameraman Fred Nerac of France and Hussein Osman of Lebanon, are missing in Iraq. 
Liebig was one of the few German journalists who were traveling with the U.S. troops. He detailed the daily trials and joys of life with the troops, from surviving a sandstorm to the first hot meal in days. 
Yet his reporting often focused on the frustrations and even apathy of some soldiers he accompanied. Hours before the brigade approached Saddam's Republican Guards on March 26, Liebig quoted one private comparing the war in Iraq with Vietnam. 
Liebig began his career in 1995 as an intern for the German news agency Deutsche Presse Agentur in Zagreb, Croatia. He joined The Associated Press the fol­lowing year as an editor on the foreign desk of its German-language news ser­vice, where colleagues recalled his thoroughness and attention to detail. He joined Focus in 1999. 
GERMANY 
Rescued POW buoyed by visits from family 
LANDSTUHL 

Rescued POW Jessica Lynch's mood has been lifted by visits from her family -not to mention the applesauce she had been craving and a teddy bear with a red-white-and­blue ribbon. 
Lynch's parents, Deadra and Gregory, two siblings and a cousin arrived Sunday from West Virginia. Their visits have been private and as fre­quent as allowed. Iler mother joined her for lunch Monday. 
"She was in good spirits," said Landstuhl Hegional Medical Center spokeswoman Marie Shaw. 
When her parents can't be 

with her, they have left a stand-in: the white teddy bear with a red-white-and-blue rib­bon. There's also a stuffed bunny hy her bed. 
Lynch, a 19-year-old supply clerk, was in stable condition Monday in intensive care, where she was being treated for a head wound, an injury to her spine and fractures to her right arm, both legs and her right foot and ankle. 
She has endured several surgeries, but doctors have said the prognosis for Lynch's full recovery is excellent. And the addition of applesauce to her diet is just one outward measure. 
IRAQ 

Marines battle for bridge; enter Baghdad 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Under cover of rattling machine-gun fire, Marines grabbed planks, poles and twist­ed rails Monday and surged ar,ross a shattered bridge over a Tigris River tributary into Baghdad. 
"Go! Go! Build that bridge!" an officer screamed, slapping troops as they ran under thundering fire, grabbing more scrap to patch a 6-foot hole the Iraqis had blown in the span. 
With its repair job and dramat­ic on-foot push across the Tigris, the 3rd Battalion, 4th Marines became the first Marines to pen­etrate the Iraqi capital. 
They needed bridges able to support 70 tons to cross with their tanks and amphibious armored vehicles. The broken bridge could hold only infantry -but infantry would be enough to secure the other side for Army and Marine engineers to work on the makeshift spans. 
The crossing Monday opened the way for thousands more Marines advancing from the southeast, as the Army's 3rd Infantry Division marched in from the southwest. 
But the long-awaited entry was bittersweet: Just an hour earlier, the battalion, trained at Camp Pendleton, Calif.. suffered its heaviest loss of the skirmish­heavy two-week drive toward the capital. 
Two Marines died and two were wounded in an artillery assault on their armored amphibious assault vehicle -an "amtrak'' designed to float in 12­foot waves but used mainly inland in Iraq. 
The Marines had been gua.rd­ing the American-held south bank of the reed-lined Tigris tributary. 
As U.S. artillery whistled over­head and slammed into targets on the far bank, an incoming shell tore into the top of the 
THE 

green. metal amtrak. 
The impact peeled back the steel like paper and blew the Marines out. Pellow Marines gathered the dead, treated the wounded and collected bulletin boards, photos and scrawled notes. 
"Take care of it," a gunnery sergeant said, passing down a cardboard box scrawled in markers. "That's something for the families." 
The assault left the Marines grimfaced. Before, they had spo­ken of nothing but taking Baghdad -seeing that as the first step to the trip home. 
Entry into Baghdad "means we can get at 'em. They can't hide behind a river anymore," battal­ion commander Lt. Col. B.P. McCoy said, adding that his unit had been planning its infantry assault since Sunday night. 
As it was, crossing into the capital found the battalion mourning Hl'wly dead friends instead of fop\ing elated. 



"This should be required reading in this post-9/11 world... " 
-Library Journal, September 15, SOOS. 


'l'he New Iraq articulates a far-reaching humane strateg_y to work toward Iraq's globalization. 
"The myth of the liberal media is an idea that is gaining currency; this is a strong opening salvo in that much­needed discussion." 
-From Booklist 


r-----------~-----------------------------------------~·--~ 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 
U.S. tanks push Saddam's government to the edge 
BAGIIDAD many palaces. 
More than 100 U.S. armored It was the third straight day vehicles rumbled t.hrough down­the Army penetrated Saddam's town Baghdad with unstoppable seat of power. This time, though, force on Monday, seizing one of there were plans to stay. Rather Saddam llussein's opulent than withdrawing at nightfall, as palaces. toppling a 40-foot statue units did over the weekend. 
ol'  the  Iraqi  members  of  
ruler and pushing his rngime to the brink of irrele• vancc. Some Iraqi  "These guys are going to die in droves ... They keep trying to ram the tanks with car bombs."  the 2nd Brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division hun­kered down for the night at  
soldiers  the sprawling,  
jumped  into  Col. David Perkins  splendored  
the  Tigris  N  e  w  
River  to  flee  Presidential  

the advancing Americans. More Palace where Saddam once slept. than a dozen others were cap­Several miles away, two sol­tured and placed inside a hastily diers and two journalists were erncted POW pen on the grounds killed in a rocket attack on the ol' lhc bombed-out, blue-and­3rd Infantry Division south of gold-domed New Presidential Haghdad, the U.S. Central Palace. Command reported. Another 15 
An eslimntnd 600 to 1,000 soldiers were injured in the Iraqi troops were killed during attack on an infantry position the operation. said Col. David south of the city. Perkins. "We had a lot of suicide On the other side of town. attackers today," he said. "These Marines encountered tough guys are going to die in droves ... lighting as they entered Baghdad Thny keep trying to ram the for the first time, coming under tanks with car bombs." machine gun fire. Lt. Col. B.P. 
Tank-killing /\.-10 Warthogs McCoy said two Marines were and pilotless drones provided air killed and two were injured after cover as Americans briefly sur­an artillery shell hit their rounded another prominent sym­armored personnel carrier. bol of Saddam's power, the Marines crossed into Baghdad Information Ministry, as well as from the east, their engineers the citv's best-known hotel, the deploying a temporary pontoon :\l-lla;lrnl. Tanks rolled briefly bridge over a canal at the south­up to another orrn of' Saddam's ern edge or the city after Iraqis 

g 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Presents The 19th Annua] Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
Women Who Hear Voices: 
rendered the permanent struc­ture unsafe for heavy, armored vehicles. 
Hours later, the sound of occa­sional American artillery split the night air. 
The regime. i1s brutal hold on a country of 24 million slipping away, d1mied all of it. "There is no presence of American infidels in the city of Baghdad, at all," insisted Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al­Sahhnf. 
The Iraqi government main­tained its hold over state-run television and radio -arguably its most important remaining levers of control over the country -and broadcast emotional appeals to resist U.S. forces. Also shown were images of Saddam meeting with key advisers. 
The American military flexed its muscle in downtown Baghdad while British officials said one of the regime's most brutal leaders, Ali Hassan al-Majid, had appar­ently been killed in a weekend airstrike in the southern city of Basra. 
A cousin of Saddam, al-Majid was dubbed "Chemical Ali" for ordering a poison gas attack that killed thousands of Kurds in 1988. 
Defense officials also said test­ing was underway on samples taken from a site where soldiers found metal drums possibly con­taining nerve gas or another type of chemical weapon. A local commander said it was possible the substance was a pesticide, since it was found at an agricul­tural site near Hindiyah, south of Baghdad. 
After a two-week siege, British forces claimed control over Basra. a city of 1.3 million. Hundreds of" civilians. women in chadors and barefoot children among them, poured into the street to welcome the invaders. Some handed pink carnations to the British troops in apprecia­tion. 
American and British troops advanced in Iraq as their politi­cal leaders were meeting in Belfast, Northern Ireland. ror President Bush 
wore camoufiaged body armor and a black beret as he llew by Blackhawk helicopter from Qatar into Iraq. 
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs or staff. said all but "a couple of dozen" of the Iraqi military's tanks had been destroyed in less than three weeks of combat. 
Senior officials at the Pentagon said the Army assault into Baghdad was part of an attempt to persuade Iraqi forces that fur­ther resistance was futile. The military would like to avoid an all-out urban battle in Baghdad. with its 5 million inhabitants. 
"We can basically go wherever 
we want, 

and British whenever we
"The hostilities phase is
Prime Minister want, even if' Tony Blair, it coming to a conclusion." Saddam is still was the second alive," said summit since Perkins. who
Colin Powell
the fighting commanded
Secretary of State
began. the Army 
"The hostili­ties phase is coming to a conclusion," Secretary of State Colin Powell told reporters. Without elabora­tion, he said the U.S. government is sending a team this week to Iraq to begin laying the ground­work for an interim authority. 
In the war zone, Americans felt confident enough for Gen. Tommy Franks, overall comman­der of Operation Iraqi Freedom, to visit troops in Najaf and else­where. The four-star general 
troops inside 
the city. 
Missiles screamed overhead and explosions shook buildings inside the city as more than 70 Army tanks, more than 60 Bradley fighting vehicles and an estimated 3,000 troops pushed their way into the heart of Baghdad. 
Iraqi snipers fired on soldiers from rooms in the al-Hashid hotel. and tanks returned fire with their main guns and .50 cal· iber machine guns. 

The Challenge ofReligious Experience 
by 

Sidney Callahan, Ph.D. 
McKeever Chair in Moral Theology, St. John's University, Queens, N.Y. Noted author and columnist for Commonweal magazine 
Thursday, April 10, 7:30 p.m. (Central Standard time) Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary=s College 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC INFORMATION: (574) 284-4636 E-MAIL: manuszak(it),saintmwys.cdu 
Saint Ma:s Collegg 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 

OTHE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April 8, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN C!iIEI' 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSIN!lSS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR, Joe Hettler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Ha,kins 

SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haighc 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek CoNTROLUR1 Michael Flanagan 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFfl<:E MANAGERIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX....................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR !N CHIEF ....................................... 631-4542 
MANAGING EmroR/AsS'r. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS.........................................······ .........631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llob,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universt[y of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofche administration ofeither insricution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as rossible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and deparanent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of che authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all teadm. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qumions regarding Ob,erverpolicies ,hou!d be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O'mcrvcr (USPS S'r:J 240) b published Monday through Friday except during a.;;m •nd v-=acion period~. A subii:riprion to The Ob,crvrr is Sl00 for one academic yc.r: 155 for one >C.fflesrer. 
Th.-Of>l,t"!VCJ i, p\Wlli~d at: POSTMA..qER 024 South fhning Hall ~J address H•~ctloru to: Norrr: lhm", IN 4/;t;S6 Th,. Oh$ct>'ct 
P.O. BoxQ ?-e1iodic~ pomg,(' pa!J a1 Nmre Dame Nolt,; D;1,mc, IN 46556-0779 an,I additioniil m.1.iling office, 
·1 h" Oh.crvcr i• • mcmOO uf th«-Ai.SOW~1«i Pres,. All r~rOOucuon righu: w 
tCSf"nC'd. 
People, not place, matter most 
A student recently admitted to this University, e-mailed me this weekend. A non-Catholic. he asked me how I thought he would fit in at Notre Dame and what I believed were the best and worst aspects of attending Joanna college here. 
Mikulski

These aren't questions with quick or easy ·Tuesday answers; any Voice student here could write pages on the subject of "being a Notre Dame student." Nevertheless, he deserves a response from me -since he's obviously smarter than I was as a high school senior. I didn't corre­spond with many actual students dur­ing my college search. Although I grew up with this University -my father is an alumnus -sometimes I still think that I chose a college by flipping a coin. 
It's a choice that I have struggled with -a decision that I have second­guessed. During the spring of my sophomore year in Innsbruck, Austria, I doubted whether I could return to the South Bend campus. I often wondered where I would be ­who I would be -if 1had attended another school. What I ultimately questioned was whether I fit into the "Notre Dame family." Freshman year I listened to orientation officers, seniors and professors talk about the family on campus. "Welcome home," they said, during my first weekend on campus. I remember thinking, "Home where? I just got here." Later, I tried to identify the places on this campus, where I felt at home: McGlinn Hall, where I lived my freshman and junior years, the classroom, where I was taught by amazing professors or the Stadium, where I cheered with my fellow students. 
At times I felt trapped. Without a car until last year, I had no easy way off the acres of green grass, class­room buildings and perfect cement sidewalks. Campus is a bubble, and it's become most apparent to me this year. as I moved into an apartment in the Northeast Neighborhood. Years in the dorms seem to have made the transition by seniors into the 
South Bend community diffi­cult. Every year tensions rise between students and other neighborhood resi­dents, due in part to the students' difficulty in realizing that they too are part of the gener­al community. Consequently, I believe that any student who comes here should (must) go abroad if possi­ble. 
However, while campus can cut students off, it also brings them together. After spending hours. years, with the same people in a relatively small place, I have made friendships stronger than any I could have imagined as an incom­ing freshman. I have met roommates who have stood together through a less-than-simple year, friends with whom I have traveled around Europe and professors, who have encouraged me to learn and to grow as a person. 
They have all shown me that what truly matters is not where you are, but whom you are with. Home is not the dormitory a student is assigned to, the football stands or classroom. Here at this University, it is the peo­ple around you -the friends who become a part of you. This school truly is a family. I didn't believe it as a freshman, but I do now. 
Of course, part of the family charac­ter is its Catholicism. Although it is working to welcome non-Catholics and minorities, this University is not for a student attending college pri­marily to encounter diverse lifestyles 

and perspectives. I imagine that 
a non-Catholic student could have difficulty fitting in. However, there are oppor­tunities to express a dif­ferent faith or encounter different viewpoints for stu­dents who seek them out. A number of 
Protestant groups operate on campus, and Muslim Friday prayer is held in 
the Coleman-Morse Center each week. So to finally answer the stu­dent's question. I believe that the best aspect of life 
at this University ­
the Notre Dame family -is also at times its worst. 
At their arrival, every student encoun­ters the family atmos­phere that makes this school wonderful and 
unique for some and hard­to-swallow for others. For myself, I would not 

trade my college experience for any other. No school is perfect, but a student can find a place almost any­where. To that recently admitted stu­dent: Remember that wherever you choose to go to school, it's not the place, but the people that count. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Affirmative action fails as a quick fix 
In response to Helena Payne's April 2 Inside Column regarding the Michigan admissions case. there are at least two good reasons not to support race-conscious policies. The one that is receiving the bulk of the attention in this case, that they are unfair to members of non-preferred groups, is in my opinion the lesser of the two. 
Much more importantly, affirmative action is not a solu­tion but a patch. By padding scores to create artificially diverse populations, education officials and politicians are able to avoid dealing with the real underlying problems of why minority applicants disproportionately tend to lack the educational and social background to meet standard admission requirements. 
This is one of the huge, glaring social injustices of our time, and actually fixing it will require a lot more work than simply adding 20 points to a score sheet and pre­tending that everything is fine. Call it a cynical lack of faith on my part, but I believe that as long as such an easy option is available, little real progress will be made. Eliminating this quick fix will not be creating an unfair environment for minorities but unmasking the true urgency of the situation we are already in so that it can no longer be ignored. Whatever the motives of the plaintiffs in this case, it is an opportunity for positive change. Let's not settle for less. 
Catherine Young 
graduate student off campus April 5 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Nestor Katie McVoy Maureen Lauren Dasso Reynolds Charee Holloway 
Claire Heininger Scene Viewpoint Julie Bender Dolores Diaz Lab Tech Graphics Chip Marks Chris Naidus 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think that women are sufficiently represented in the University's administration and faculty? 
Vote at NDToday.corn by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A family in harmony will prosper in everything." 
Chinese proverb 
r----------------------------------------------.. 
O
THE 

VIEWPROINT 
Tut:sday, April 8 , 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bone marrow donors save lives 
Tm.lay, over 3,000 desperate patients awa.it a hone marrow donor to save their lives. These paticn1.'i fight life-threatening bluod disorders. such as leukemia and aplastic anmnia, as well as certain immunn system and genetic disorders. I toward I I all invites the entire Notre Dame community to join us in offering a second chance to those in nP.ed. 
On Thursday, lloward llall and the Minority Prn-MHdical Society will sponsor the third annual bone marrow drive to register new potential donors in the National Bone Marrow Hcgistry. Join us in LaFortune ballroom anytime from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Enlflring the National Registry only requires an initial blood sample. simi­tar to a mono blood test. You will not have to pay the $60 registration fee, and you will be registered until age 61. 
After just two drives at Notre Dame, over six potential donors have been con­tacted for further testing. One transplant has been made, and one donor is current­ly in the final stage of preparing for trans­plant. Last year, we registered 642 donors. and this year we are prepared to register up to 1,000 new donors. 
If you do become someone's lite-saving match, you will undergo both a physical exam and secondary blood tests to ensure that you are indeed a genetic match and able to give your marrow. You will then go to the nearest collection center to have approximately one pint ofmarrow drawn from your hipbone under local or general anesthesia. Typically, the donor feels slight pressure in the hip area for about three days following the procedure. Most return to normal activity the day after donation. The cost of this outpatient pro­cedure and travel is covered by the recipi­ent's insurance. 
Because minorities are under-repre­sented in the National Registry and matches are often consistent with ethnic backgrounds, we join the Minority Pre­Medical Society in extending a special invitation to those ofus of non-Caucasian and mixed ethnicities. 
Having your bone marrow typed not only enables you to help a stranger, this information might one day quicken a fam­ily member's search or even your own in the case that you yourself become sick. For more information regarding the National Bone Marrow Donor Program and donation eligibility guidelines. visit www.marrow.org. 

You could be save a life! Sec you on Thursday. 
Ann Gu.rucharri 
Camilla Pollock 
cercommissioners 
Howard Hall/Minority Pre-Medical Society Bone Marrow Drive April 7 

Debating the meaning ofAmerica 
Don't hide aggression and arrogance behind the flag 
As I was preparing for bed this past Sunday evening, I walked into the restroom and was greeted by a large, flamboyantly blue sign taped to the wall at eye level above my destination. Healizing that I was stuck there for a moment, I decided to go ahead and feast my eyes on the gaudy advertisement. Within a frame of American Flag and Liberty Bell clipart, it read: "Pro-America Hally ... Thursday. April 10th ... help sup­port our troops by bringing letters or donations ... free flags ... sponsored by College Hepublicans." Right away this sign struck me as quite the atypical bath­room advertisement. but it also made me wonder what exactly a pro-America rally is. What does pro-America mean at this moment in history. and why are rallies being held that espouse such virtues as pro-Americanism? Do we really need morn flags to be handed out at this time so that Old Glory can become increasingly associated with the horrors of war and the hitherto fiercely debated "war or not" dispute? 
Perhaps a more relevant question would be the contrary: What is considered to be Anti-American? Why do the College Republicans feel such a need to rouse American sentiment at this time? Has anti-Americanism gained such a strong­hold on our campus? Is it anti-American to question the actions of our administra­tion and urge them to consider new and challenging methods of diplomacy and means of solving problems? 
Well, I am afraid that is still what this is all about because if there were not two sides to this ongoing debate, it is doubtful that any group would be rallying under the guise of nationalism with such fla­grant usage of the American flag in an attempt to ostracize one group as less American than the other; at least that is how I felt when I read the big blue sign. 
I have been increasingly disappointed to sec the American flag. which the vast majority of us hold sacred. being used as a mascot of sorts for those with a. "pro­war" stance as if to say "the flag is on our side, the rest of you should be ashamed of yourselves." I feel like the image of the l1ag has been used so readily and often carelessly in recent months that it has become less a symbol of solidarity and commonly held ideals (life, liberty, pursuit of happiness) within our nation and now represents the great amounts of conflict and bickering in the world. 
A friend of mine who is studying in Santiago, Chile this semester recently told me that some Chilean students at her uni­versity posted flyers that depicted the American flag with 50 swastikas in place of the stars. The caption read: "Yankees go home." Now something is wrong here. 
Though this may be an isolated exam­ple, it is obvious to me that a giant rift exists between America and the rest of the world. How is it possible that the symbol of our flag, which suppos­edly represents all that is good in this world, has been mis­construed as a clear symbol of aggression, arrogance and greed throughout much of the rest of the world? Is it because aggressive, greedy and arrogant people are using the flag to push their own views and ideals onto the rest of us? 
I do not think that the world needs any more pro-American rallies designed, knowingly or not, to propagate this divide. What we need are some "pro­understanding and open-mindedness to the rest of humanity" or "stop hiding under the American flag" ral­lies if we will ever reach the roots of what divides much of the world. Tho flag is a symbol of harmony and agreement amongst the American people (and previously a great deal of the rest of the world) on the basic ideals that our country was founded upon. Stop defacing our flag by pinning your own ideas and virtues onto it and using it as a tool to divide the two sides of the debate; the flag is far greater than this petty bickering. 
Justin Brandon junior Dillon Hall April 7 

America is about fighting for human rights 
In response to Mr. Wiens's April 3 letter, I firmly believe that an unbi­ased look, like the one Mr. Wiens professes to portray, regarding the recent history of American military action does not exist. Everyone has a view on the morality of conflict, and for most, it is strong enough to color every opinion. Your opinion, Mr. Wiens, is no different, nor is mine. I personally take issue with your idea that we should only take action when 
American liberty is directly threatened. The United States was founded on the idea that everyone, regardless of nation­ality. has certain 
rights: life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness among them. We struggle 
even today to make that ideal a reality 
at home, and now due to the global nature of society, we must also strive to pro­
tect other people around the 
globe. These are called human rights because they apply to all, not 
just Americans. Martin Luther King, Jr., in his letter 
from the Birmingham jail said. "Injustice any­where is a threat to justice 
everywhere." This sentiment can be aptly applied to all the military actions sited in your article. In Panama, Manuel Noriega was a known drug trafficker, Cuban spy and a harsh dictator. Only after the military under his command mur­dered a U.S. Marine did the United States take action. Murder is a direct threat to life and liberty. In Somalia and Kosovo, action was taken to stop genocide, and the first Gulf War was in response to an invasion by Iraq into Kuwait. While Wiens is correct in observing that they are not part of the United States or a threat to American liberties, one cannot deny that human beings were being deprived of their human rights in these situations. 

The 12 years of "starvation and bombings" mentioned were in response to the methodical killing of the Kurdish people by Saddam and his henchmen, using torture and chemical weapons. The bombings were in direct response to Iraqi attacks on U.S. aircraft protecting Kurdish refugees by patrolling a no­fly zone. The sanctions were imposed as a diplomatic solution aimed at preventing the Iraqi military from rearming. Instead Saddam used his countries resources to build lavish palaces for himself and buy weapons for his military, while his country­men suffered through drought. 
The Iraqi people will continue to suffer if the regime is not eliminated. Removing sanctions would only increase Saddam's ability to kill, rape and torture. How can anyone advocate sitting idly by and watching these things on 1V? If the Gulf War was truly about resource control, why didn't we finish the job the first time? I am not about convincing Mr. Wiens to support the war; everyone has the right to have opinions, but his argument is a little thin at the moment. I realize that oil will proba­bly pay for some of the war, but it will also provide money to rebuild Iraq into a functional and free coun­try. 
Mr. Wiens is correct. This war is not about preserving American liber­ties. It is about removing the source of oppression for the people of Iraq. There may be other motivations as well, but don't dismiss this one. If you are still ashamed to be American, move elsewhere. But sleep easy with the knowledge that wherever you are. I'll still fight for your inalienable human rights. 
Peter Sweeney senior Morriss"}' Manor April 7 
THE 
OBSERVER 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Band covers both studio and stage 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Fast, slow, light, hard, rock, gospel -it is all explored and well found in Jars of Clay's newest album Furthermore: From the Studio From the Stage. In this, essen­tially a greatest hiis album with a twist, Jars of Clay shows every aspect of their musical talent, producing songs that elicit different emotions throughout the duration of the album. 
Furthermore is composed of two discs. The first, From the Studio, contains 11 songs recorded in their own studio in Nashville, Tenn. Eight of the songs are new arrangements of old Jars of Clay hits, accompan:ied by three new songs. The sec­ond disc, From the Stage, is a recording of their latest Eleventh Hour tour. The two discs have very different tones, even though some songs actually appear on both discs. From the Studio has a much sorter and acoustic tone to it. While From the Stage is much more upbeat with a harder sound, as is appropriate for a recording of a concert. 
From the Studio features Jars of Clay newest single, "The Valley Song." A mournful tone and soft guitar with light percussion creates the mood of the song. Lead singer Dan Haseltine shared at a recent concert that "The Valley Song" was written years ago during a painful time for the band and "was not a song that we planned on ever recording." It is lucky for all that thev did decide to record this beau­tifully and earnestly written song. Behind a soft melody, Haseltine sings beautifully composed lyrics such as, "When death like a gypsy comes to steal what I love" and "though the pain is an ocean, tossing us around, around, around." The imagery is moving and the melody carries the lyrics gently and fluidly throughout the song. 
The rest 
of the 


songs on
Furthermore: From the the first disc are also very gentle, but this does not weak­Studio From the Stage 
Jars of Clay 
en the album at

Brentwood/BMG Records 
all. In fact, it actually strength­ens it. While the Christian themes are very heavy throughout the album, with track titles such as "Love Song for a Savior," "Redemption" and "Needful Hands," the direct Christian theme is not the sum of what the album covers lyri­cally. The focus is definitely on Christian:ity but not to the extent that it begins to distract from the music. 


The second disc is much more upbeat than the first. From the Stage features most of the songs 

The new double album from Jars of Clay contains a fresh
from Jars of Clay's 

mix of both live and studio songs from the band.
Grammy winning 


Eleventh Hour album, live, in concert form. From the Stage is a disc that is enjoyable for anyone and everyone as the music styles jump all over the place, while maintaining a uniquely consistent Jars of Clay style and sound throughout the entirety of the disc. The songs move from slower emotional songs with light guitar and slight bass. such as "The Eleventh Hour" to songs as unique as "Revolution," which features a gospel choir backing up the lead vocals of Haseltine. 

Furthermore is an album that is immensely enjoyable for all Jars of Clay fans. There are a lot of improvising and slight variations on favorite songs through­out the album. However, even for those who have never even heard of Jars of Clay. the album is strong and carries itself. By the completion of the album, it is near impossible to not be a fan. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Nada Surf floats in on a high tide 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Previously written off as the one-hit won­der of the MTV buzz bin generation, alt­rock trio Nada Surf attempts to achieve a new brand of popularity with their latest release, Let Go. Upon hearing the acoustic strumming of the first track, "Blizzard of '77," it is immediately obvious that the Nada Surf of 2003 is quite different from the Nada Surf of 1996. Listeners expecting Let Go to possess the same quirkiness and frantic shouting of "You don't need date insurance!" that characterized their hit sin­gle "Popular" will either be shocked or rnlieved at the massive stylistic change. If there is one word to describe Nada Surfs new album. it is "subdued." The melodies of each track seem to drift through space, with many songs taking on the dreamy character of a lullaby, most notably their ode to Bob Dylan, "Blonde on Blonde." This is not to say that every song on the album will lull listeners into a trance. There are also many catchy and upbeat tracks on the album, just nothing quite as urgent as "Popular." 
Many of the tracks on Let Go continue to focus on the troubles of late adolescence that characterize much of their previous work, but the band has obviously matured musically. The songs possess deeper and more complex melodies. sometimes brood­ing and melancholy, at times light and refreshing. The album's sound is reminis­cent of Pablo Honey and The Bends-era Radiohead, the more recent releases of The Flaming Llps and Coldplay. 
Surprisingly, 
Nada Surf 
might even claim Cheap Trick as one of their influ­ences from the familiar sound of the lyrics on "The Way You Wear Your Head." ''I'd love to love you / I want to want you I l need to need you/ I'm begging to beg you." 
Perhaps the most surprising song on Let Go is "La Pour Ca," with lyrics entirely in French and not translated in the liner notes. Although the members of Nada Surf are all Americans, problems with Elektra, their pre­vious record label, caused their 1998 album Proximity Effect to be released only in Europe. The label claimed that the album possessed no marketable single and refused to back down, despite the album's European popularity and critical acclaim. "La Pour Ca" may be written specifically for the band's sup­portive European fans. 
Although the album shares its name with the album of a cer­tain necktie-sporting Canadian, the similarities between the two end there. Soothing and cohe­sive, Let Go delivers far more than anyone expected from this supposed one hit wonder. Abandoning the pure alternative rock sound that characterized their debut album, Nada Surf 


Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com 
After a seven year lull, Nada Surf Is back on the music scene with an album of a theme quite different than their 1996 hit, "Popular." 
feet radio hit. but rather with creating an 
transitions nicely into a more mature and admirable album with an attractive and eclectic genre. The album possesses a flow pleasing sound. And it is at this that they that is rare in modern albums, albums succeed. which seem to consist solely of back to back radio-friendly singles, Nada Surf does Contact Emily Tumbrink at not seem concerned with crafting the per-tumbrink. l@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, April 8, 2003 page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Matthews and Reynolds, duo-ing guitars 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistani Scene Editor 
i\t a time when stress is running ram­pant on college campuses and war is weighing heavy on people's minds, cvNvone needs a little diversion. And that is exactly what Dave Matthews and his long-time friend, Tim Reynolds, brought to Purdue University last Thursday night in their second-to-last stop of the duo's acoustic college tour. 
The evening began with the sold-out crowd of 6,025 swelling through the doors, anxiously awaiting the night's music. Unlike the giant, impersonal sta­diums Matthews easily sells out when he tours with his band, the atmosphere provided by the Elliott Hall of Music was intimate and relaxed, setting the mood for the evening to come. 
Cheers greeted Matthews and Heynolds as they entered the dimly lit stage. Keeping with the minimalist approach to the acoustic evening, Matlhcws seated hirnscll" on a stool with only a small table and lamp separating him and Hcynolds. With a few opening remarks from the performers and the sweet smell that so-often accompanies concerts hanging thick in the air, the familiar. heavy strumming began almost immediately. The audience welcomed the opening notes to the crowd-favorite, "Bartender," f'rom Matthews' 2002 album Busted Stuff. 
Without the layers of instrumentation the band usually provides, Matthews and Heynolds' version of the song was gentle and subdued, but the exquisite guitar work was by no means soft around the edges. The audience was serenaded by Matthews' smoky vocals, "When I was young I didn't think about it, now I can't get it out of my mind." 
Matthews initially claimed to have "frog" in his throat. but throughout the entire three-and-one-half-hour per­formance, this was never evidenced by thti fans. 
Another favorite from Busted Stuff, "Grey Street," took the second spot in the set list, with Matthews and Reynolds efTorllcssly rolling through a charming rendition of the song before plunging into the paranoid plea of "The Stone" from 1998's Before These Crowded Streets. 
Other highlights of the evening included a touching rendition of "Cry Freedom." from the 1996 album, Crash; a playful version of "Satellite," in which Matthews and Reynolds teased the audience by playing the opening notes in a minor key before switching to the familiar major key; and a taste of a lovely new song that Matthews and Heynolds have only been playing in concert for a week, "Stay or Leave." 
In addition to playing his own songs, Matthews is known for tapping into the well-known song catalogs of other musicians during the improvised outros of his songs. On Thursday, he did this many times, slipping into Elvis Presley's "Fools Rush In," the Beatles' "Norwegian Wood," Buffalo Springfield's "For What It's Worth" and the Woody Guthrie's "This Land is Your Land." 
Perhaps best moment of the night occurred when the Matthews-Reynolds duo played the quiet and often over­looked song. "Pay For What You Get" from Under the Table and Dreaming. A song that hadn't been heard live since 1999 before this most recent college lour, "Pay For What You Get," was played with a poignancy that moved one fan to tears as Matthews sang. "Words, words, words, have you heard I A bird in hand is much better than / Any number free to wander." 
Although Matthews is the better­known artist who most fans came to see, the guitar maestro Reynolds cer­tainly charmed many fans who were unfamiliar with his solo work. His tal­ent on guitar is extraordinary, and Matthews credits Reynolds as the one 


who encouraged him to perform 
onstage. As well as contributing exquisite gui­tar work on all of Matthews' songs, Reynolds played two of his own num­bers, hypnotizing the audience with fin­gerings that seemed to flit over the entire fret board. Reynolds also used a multitude of different strumming meth­
ods, from the basic up­down stroke to actually slapping and banging the strings with his hands. At first sight, the guitar seems a massive object on the diminutive Reynolds, but after a few notes, Reynolds proves that he is the one in charge, manipulating the guitar at his every whim and fancy. 
In the moments of quiet acoustic noodlings and frenzied strumming between songs, Matthews kept the atmosphere comfortable and loose. warming his audience with delightfully bizarre anecdotes. Ile joked about a friend of his who had an unfortunate, girl­repelling habit of smelling his fingers, as well as a baboon he once saw with a vibrantly col­ored and somewhat "stifr' appendage. 
Matthews also poked fun at the many cameras floating around the stage that at times seemed easily forgave the cameras due to the possibility that a DVD may be made chronicling the performance. 

Although most of Matthews' ram­blings were light-hearted, at times he carefully alluded to the war in Iraq and revealed his distaste for violence and desire for peace. He dedicated an aching version of "Grace Is Gone" to all those involved in the Middle Eastern fighting, hoping for their safety. 
For the close of the show. Matthews and Reynolds turned out an explosive performance of the jam-classic "Two­Step" before leaving the stage only to be called back for an encore by the insis­tent fans. 
Matthews and Reynolds fed off one another for an improvised session in which Matthews rambled about a dread-locked beggar who had no access to a shower. This unnamed diddy turned out to be the opening to a stun­ning version of the inquiring song. "Dancing Nancies." Although the song questions the many possibilities of life's outcomes, Matthews and Reynolds pro­vided all the answers in their music. The ambiance was one of elation al the end of the show, as Matthews sang, "Look up at the sky / My mouth is open wide, lick and taste / What's the use in worrying, what's the use in hurrying?" 
Certainly there was no worrying or hurrying at Purdue while the music played last Thursday. Matthews and Reynolds enchanted the audience for a spectacular show where time was non­existent and troubles seemed miles away. And as any fan at the show can certainly attest to. on Thursday night, celebrate they did. 
Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds played for a solld three and a half hours on Thursday, 
invasive during the show. Contact Julie Bender at covering songs from Matthews repertoire which showcased their Individual talents on guitar. The audience. however, bender. IO@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 8, 2003
The Observer . SPORTS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Diamondbacks end losing streak with 6-4 win 
Roberts beat out an infield hit to 

Associated Press 
keep the inning alive. 
McGriff hit a two-out, full­LOS ANGELES count pitch into the right-field Lyle Overbay couldn't stop pavilion in the sixth for his sec­smiling. ond homer of the season and the 
His first major league home 480th of his career to give the run, a two-run shot in the 12th Dodgers a 3-0 lead. inning, gave the Arizona But they couldn't make it Diamondbacks a 6-4 victory over stand up. Los Angeles on Monday in the Brown threw 99 pitches in his Dodgers' home opener. second strong effort of the sea­
"You kind of dream about it," son -both against Arizona. The he said. "I was wondering if it 38-year-old right-hander would ever come or not." allowed one run and five hits in 
The 26-year-old rookie need 6 1-3 innings. wonder no longer. Pinch hitting for Matt Mantei (2-0) with two Giants 7, Padres 4 outs and a runner at first, Jose Cruz Jr. couldn't escape Overbay hit a 1-0 pitch from Benito Santiago's motto. All Andy Ashby (0-1) into the right­spring, Cruz heard it from the field pavilion. Craig Counsel! had catcher. singled to lead off the inning. '"Once the lights come on,' 
Scott Service, Arizona's sixth Benito has been telling me all pitcher, got three outs for his the time, 'that's when it first save since Sept. 22, 2000, counts,"' Cruz said. for Oakland at Seattle. It was the That was the case for Cruz. 16th save of his career. San Francisco's new right fielder 
The Diamondbacks overcame homered twice, had three hits a three-run deficit to stop a four­and drove in three runs to lead game losing streak. the unbeaten Giants over the 
"At the beginning, it looked San Diego Padres in their home like once again the guys weren't opener. able to generate enough After a sub-par spring, Cruz Gonzalez drove in two more the Atlanta Braves over the three and walked three, throw­offense," Diamondbacks manag­has hit safely in all seven games. runs with an eighth-inning dou­Florida Marlins. ing just 49 of 90 pitches for er Bob Brenly said. "Hopefully, At 7-0, the Giants are off to ble that chased Felix Rodriguez, "He pitched good but he made strikes. this will get us jump-started .." their best start since moving to and pinch-hitter Mark Loretta three mistakes and it cost him," Ortiz threw 25 pitches in the 
Arizona scored only 12 runs in San Francisco, topping the 6-0 doubled to drive in Gonzalez for said Andruw Jones, who home­second inning, loading the bases its first six games with one mark that began their pennant­the tying run. red for the second straight with two outs on a bloop single homer. The Diamondbacks were winning 2002 season. When the San Francisco starter Jason game. and two walks. He escaped the blanked by Kevin Brown in the franchise was in New York, the Schmidt retired the side in the Pavano took a two-hit shutout jam when Pavano (0-2) ground­first 6 1-3 innings Monday and Giants started 7-0 in 1930 and first, then allowed runners the into the sixth, then allowed ed a 3-1 pitch to first. The ball trailed 3-0 before Chad Moeller 9-0 in 1918. next five innings. Sheffield's second home run in bounced off the glove of Robert hit a solo homer. "These guys are serious about Barry Bonds went O-for-3 with two days, a 405-foot drive into Fick to second baseman Marcus 
Counsel! hit a two-out, RBI this season," said Alou, who won two strikeouts and a walk, and the left-field stands. Giles, who threw him out. triple off Guillermo Mota later in his debut in Pacific Bell Park. he fell over fielding a high flyball Last year, Pavano allowed 19 Florida loaded the bases in the the seventh off Guillermo Mota "The feeling is that we know we to left by Ramon Vazquez in the homers in 136 innings for eighth off Roberto Hernandez. and Luis Gonzalez tied the game have a shot. What attracted me sixth, appearing to lose the ha.II Montreal and Florida. and Kevin Gryboski got Ivan with his first homer of the year, to this job besides the offer -in the sun. Bonds is hitting .200 "They say solo home runs Rodriguez to ground into a 6-4-3 a drive off Tom Martin leading the offer brought me here -(4-for-20) in his first six games. won't hurt you, but three in a double play. off the eighth. It was Gonzalez's was this franchise." Alou received a standing ova­row sure will," Pavano said. John Smoltz allowed a two-out third hit of the game and first Cruz hit a solo shot in his first tion and fireworks when he was Atlanta won three of four double to Juan Encarnacion in RBI this year. at-bat. and his two-run homer in introduced, and he tipped his games from the Marlins after the ninth, then struck out Todd 
The Diamondbacks took a 4-3 his next plate appearance stayed hat to the crowd. The cheers for getting swept by Montreal in its Hollandsworth on three pitches. lead off Paul Quantrill in the just fair of the foul pole in left. him were louder than those for opening series. It was the first Pavano allowed three runs 10th on Steve Finley's two-out, He singled in the fifth. five-time NL MVP slugger Bonds. shutout of the season for the and five hits in six innings, run-scoring single, but the Aurilia followed Cruz's third­Braves, who tied Los Angeles for struck out five and walked none. Dodgers tied it in their half when inning shot with a homer that Braves 3, Marlins 0 the NL high last season with 15. 'Td like to have those three Brian Jordan hit a two-out, RBI just cleared the fence. The The Braves' outfield had its Russ Ortiz (1-1) won his first pitches to take back, but you single off Mantei. Giants also hit back-to-back own home-run derby. game for Atlanta, combining have to move on. I just left those 
Los Angeles went ahead home runs on opening day in Gary Sheffield, Chipper Jones with three relievers on a five-hit­pitches over the plate," Pavano against Elmer Dessens in the San Diego last week when and Andruw Jones hit consecu­ter. Ortiz, obtained during the said. "I definitely felt good. You third on Paul Lo Duca's two-out Santiago and J.T. Snow connect­tive home runs in the sixth offseason from San Francisco, can't ask for more than that, but run-scoring single after Dave ed on consecutive pitches. inning off Carl Pavano, leading allowed three hits, struck out you can ask for a win." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Very nice 3 bdrm home. Avail. June Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per-Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each I don't know how I teel about 1st for summer or fall. East Race son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. way all taxes included' If you can coming in second to the salad at 
NOTICES FOR SALE dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe New everything. Wired tor comput-beat these prices start your own the Olive Garden... Church. Incl. alarm ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, damn airline! Book on line syst,washer/dryer. Can email picts. 23S-3655 www.airtech.com or Hey Ramon, squeak, arfl 
Study Abroad with CEA. England, Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire-Call Joe Crimmins @ 273-0002 (212)219-7000. Italy, Spain, France, Australia. place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage, (h)or 514-0643(cell) or LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-Nothing like finishing dinner by Request a Free fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. Tl ONABLE AREA JUST NORTH talking about walking funny. Catalog www.GoWithCEA.com 288-2001 $650/m negotiable. OF ND 277-3097 THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF 
THE OBSERVER IS Kendall: the Big Easy. 3-6 BDRM HOMES. $195 PP/MO. Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30. 272-6306 walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com Suck it, Trebek 
New Schwinn w/lock $100. Call Good luck to the boys of Hickory 
PERSONAL 

Leaving town? We II buy your car. Mark @ 4-2061 DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 High. Don't let the shorts hamper And no, Adrienne, a movie about 574-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 your success. ;) Double Jeopardy starring Alex Sales 52081 933 No. So. Bend, IN SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN-Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it Trebek is NOT a good idea 
JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM-alone. If you or someone you love 2 weeks until this cool person's WALK TO ND. GILLIS REALTY PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR-needs confidential support or assis-birthday! That Rob. He's so hot right now 272-6306 HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise 
WANTED MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 43 Don't play your Chinese food mind Oakhill Condo. Bdrm down/loft up. WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL information, see our bi-weekly ad in games with me! 2 baths. Asking $88,500. Mike @ TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!ll-The Observer. You know, if you weren't a nice 
Spend a great summer in NY. ND 330-393-1584. CONTACT KRAMER (574) American girl you'd be a dirty I was drunk the day my mom got alums in Westchester County look-315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are French man... our of prison. 
mg for live-in help this summer lo 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE you pregnant and dont know what help with the care of their children @ WWW DOMUSKRAMER.COM to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan-Merideth, did I kill any more pieces And I went to pick her up in the rain including their autistic daughter. FOR RENT cially stable woman would like to of your heart today? ;) 
Person will be trained in the princi-2 BDRM House, NC, close to cam-consider adopting a baby. Free But before I could get there in mypies of applied behavior analysis. pus. 269-699-5841 counseling, living expenses and Hole-1 pick up truck, she got run over hV. Job will include ABA therapy & Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom medical expenses. This can be a Tim-0 an old train. childcare responsibilities homes 1/2 mile from campus. 1 bdrm apt. summer sublease at good thing for you and your baby. 
Weekends free, private room. Call mmmrentals@aol.com Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price Discreet and legal. Hi, My name is Suzy and I make A peanut is neither a pea, nor a nut 914-241-9238. 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com negotiable dboudon@nd.edu Call 904-824-7006. moves as fast as paint dries. Talk amongst yourselves. 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Morton awarded to Redskins 
MLB 

A,sociatcd Pr.,.. 
WASHINGTON 

Kick returner Chad Morton was awarded to the Washington Hndskins on Monday by an arbi­trator who ruled that the New York Jet., failed to meet all terms of an offer sheet. 
"The New York Jets do not have a binding agreement," arbi­trator Hichard Bloch wrote in his decision. 
Morton becomes the fourth Jets player to move from New York to Washington this offseason, join­ing rnceiver Laveranues Coles, guard Handy Thomas and kicker John !tall. 
The issue before the arbitrator 
••·--···'--..,L-.. .o.1_ Y. 
matched the live-year, $8 million offer the Redskins made last month to the restricted free agent. Washington made the final two years of the deal voidable at Morton's option, provided he attained certain incentives. 
The Jets matched the dollar amount of the o!Ter, but did not match the voidable years clause. The NFL sided with the Jets, but players union filed a complaint. Bloch, a Washington lawyer, heard arguments from both sides last week. 
The Jets said they would match the disputed clause, if necessary, but that wasn't enough to satisfy the arbitrator. 
"However willing the !Jets] may have been to subsequently abide
. . . . .. 
As temps drop, hitters heat up
required, the unavoidable conclu­sion is that ... there was no match," Bloch wrote. 
Because Morton was a restrict­ed free agent, the Jets will receive a fifth-round draft pick from the Redskins as compensation. 
The 25-year-old Morton ranked second in the AFC in kickoff returns last season and set a team record with 1,509 return yards. He returned two kickoffs for touchdowns, including one in overtime, on opening day in Buffalo. 
Morton signed with the Redskins after the team promised him more playing time at running back. He played tailback and receiver at USC under then-assis­tant coach Bue Jackson, now the 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Look out, pitchers! 
The lowly Chicago Cubs had the biggest opening-day win by any team in 52 years, with Corey Patterson driving in seven runs. 
Boston's Shea Hillenbrand already has 15 RBIs, and Pittsburgh's Reggie Sanders a n d 

The 196 homers in the first week came to 2.18 per game. up 15 percent from the 1.90 average last year but well below the 2.74 in 2000. 
"I've seen some lopsided scores," Los Angeles Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. "I don't know why." 
Wintry weather may be a big reason. 
On a freezing March 31 at Shea Stadium, the Cubs routed the New 
Oakland's York Mets
"Maybe some ofthe
Erubiel 15-2, the Durazo have pitchers aren't ready yet. largest mar­11 each. gin of victory
Some guys are pitching
Tampa Bay's on opening
in cold weather. and it's
Rey Ordonez, day since the who had 42 hard to play in it. " Chicago RBIs all of White Sox last season, beat up the
Robert Fick
has eight. St. Louis 
Braves infielder
In the first Browns 17-3 
CDPED g..BALL TOOJ~NAMENT ND/SMUHCC STUDENTS ONLY f PJDA.Y AopfL fl Pf~tZ£S: ' ) 1'\1­' UNIVWSITY PAHK' M~LL &lfr C.mnflcAris g,30P"J\ f2 rm PL~CL) rsr PL>.CL -$!00 · , f \ 2ND PL~CL • $5'0 31w PL~a • $2' NO EXPJ<:f.S S tWW!J~ L£.Vfj_ Of LAfOn.nwi) -fluo LIMIT£D TO n1~sr 16 TU.MS •Tf:MAS MUST 8~ WY ~ f &lt~t ·OPUI PRJ..CTta &~&INS 8PM ·ND WTI~Y ft£ St&N UP NOW AT ND EXPRESS! SPONSORED WY Tl:[ STUDcNT Acnvmis DfflCl  

week of the season, scor­ing and home runs both were up more than 10 percent as hitters regained some of the punch they lost last year. 
"Maybe some of the pitchers aren't ready yet," Atlanta's Robert Fick said Monday. "Some guys are pitching in cold weather, and it's hard to play in it." 
It seems as the temperature goes down, scoring goes up. 
Games in the first week averaged 10.03 runs, accord­ing to the Elias Sports Bureau, baseball's statistician. That marked an increase of 12 per­cent from the 8.97 last year, the lowest scoring first week since 1993. 
on April 17, 

1951. Tom Glavine, a two-time NL Cy Young Award winner, didn't make it past the fourth inning. 
Maybe he should have been playing hockey -after all, Glavine was drafted by the Los Angeles Kings. The weather was more suited to a pond than a diamond, with a tem­perature of 39 and wind at 20 mph. 
At Denver's Coors Field on Sunday, it was 36 degrees. 
"When it's cold, sometimes it's hard for them to grip the ball," Arizona's Carlos Baerga said. "Curt [Schilling] had trou­ble gripping the ball. At the beginning, his breaking ball wasn't working." 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call I 631·5015 for apersonal appointment. 


Happy 21st, Erin, 
Rock it out Cali. style. 
Love, 
Robert 
Uh•oh, puMp up +he jarv.s! 
And puMp up 
+he jarv.s she 
wi((• •• 

HAPPY 21ST MEGAN! 
Love, 3N 



Tuesday, April 8, 2003
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Krause steps down as Bulls general manager 
the mission not totally complet-in 1987. In one of the best deals There would not have been Krause publicly when he
Associated Press d .. 
e . in NBA history, he maneuvered Scottie Pippen. Bill Cartwright. resigned in December 2001. Chicago (27-50) will finish with Seattle for the draft rights Dennis Rodman, or a host of "Before I came here, 1 really DEERFIELD, Ill. v.rith a losing record for the fifth to Scottie Pippen, who went on others who wore Bulls uniforms didn't understand. I had the 
Jerry Krause had a rare eye straight season and miss the to become Jordan's famous side­during those championship sea­impression of, 'Why did the for talent. assembling two very playoffs again. The Bulls have kick and was selected as one or sons." team break up?"' Chandler said different supporting casts for won only three road games all the NBA's 50 greatest players in But Krause's people skills Monday. "But once you get here. Michael Jordan and laying the season. 1996. weren't always the best, and he you see a different side of it. All foundation 
Krause. 64, didn't elaborate He drafted Horace Grant and alienated Jackson, Jordan and great things have to come to an for the on his health problems. But he's signed Toni Kukoc, a Croatian Pippen -often over who should end. That came to an end, and it Chicago been bothered by a variety of star who was a key player on get credit for the champi­wasn't all one person's fault." B u I I s ' ailments in recent years and has the final three championship onships. When Jackson left and The Bulls finally arc showing decade of had a bad back all season. teams. He also gambled big by Jordan retired before the lock-some signs of promise this sea­dominance. "The rigors and stress of the trading for the out-shortened son. as Chandler and Curry 
It's the job have caused me some minor mercurial season of make strides. But they're a long
"He brought with him a

destruction physical problems in the past Dennis 1999, Krause way from being a contender. 
of the vision ofhow to build a
few years," he said in statement Rodman, dismantled the "I guess we all have to leave c h a m P i -Krause released by the team. "Those whose many champion, and he team. our job at some time or anoth­onship team problems can be eliminated if I eccentricities He gave er," Pippen said. '"Jerry's ready
proceeded to create one

that will be lessen my load for a while and threatened to away virtually to move on and be something
ofthe most dominant

Krause's legacy, though. concentrate on overcoming outweigh his any talent the else. Obviously. Plan B is not The man blamed for breaking them," physical skills. champions of all time. ,, Bulls had, fig­working." up the Bulls' dynasty and dri• Still, his decision caught But the uring he could Now the Bulls must lind a new ving Jordan out of Chicago everyone by surptise. Players moves all paid rebuild on the plan. Reinsdorf said he hoped to
Jerry Relnsdorf

resigned as general manager said Krause was emotional off as Chicago fly and avoid have a new GM within the next Monday, stepping down for when he met with them before won six titles Bulls chainnan the long years month, and former Bulls 13.J. health reasons with only a week practice Monday, and he left the from 1991-98 of losing other Armstrong and John Paxson fig­left in the season. Bulls' practice facility without and set an champions ure to be among the top candi­
"Physically, he wasn't feeling speaking to reporters. So did· NBA record with 72 victories in had endured. He planned to dates. that great. He's had a lot of Bulls chairman Jerry fieinsdorf. the 1995-96 season. Krause was stockpile top draft picks and give Armstrong is a special assis­
stress on him." said Bulls coach "The whole thing is sad," named the league's executive of the cash he was saving to big­tant to Krause, and Paxson is Bill Cartwright, the center on guard Jamal Crawford said. the year twice. name free agents. the team's radio analyst. Chicago's first three champi­"People criticize him a lot for "He brought with him a vision But the free agents didn't Jordan might even be in the onship teams. different things ... but he had a of how to build a champion. and come, preferring to sign with mix, too. He's retiring as a play­
"I think it'd be easier to walk vision." he proceeded to create one of other teams that could win right er for the third time after this away with a championship, Others couldn't always see it, the most dominant champions of away, and the losses mounted. season, and although he has obviously," Cartwright said. "But though. all time," Reins dorf said in a Krause then switched course, said he'll return to his front­he and I had an opportunity to The Bulls already had Jordan statement. deciding that the Bulls' future office job with the Washington
talk this morning, and I basically when Krause became GM in "No basketball fan in America lay with high schoolers Eddy Wizards, no deal is in place yet.told him, 'You should be really 1985, but it was Krause who can begin to imagine the world Curry and Tyson Chandler. His family still lives in Chicago, proud of what you've accom­found the pieces that formed a champion Chicago Bulls without Tim Floyd, Krause's hand­and he was widely criticized for 
plished.' I know he is, but it's dynasty. his imprint. There would not picked successor to Jackson, got trying to run the Wizards from really tough to walk away with His most brilliant move came have been a coach Phil Jackson. so frustrated he didn't thank out of town two years ago. 
~:~Cit 
Centerfor Socia{ Concerns
F 
O R~({Jfi 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

00 fil ~ ~ @ 00 . 00 ~ ~ 


http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Rosary for Peace 


9:00 PM Monday -Friday 

Tutorin& The rosary will be said in different residence halls A tutor is needed to help a small family learn con­each weekday night Monday through Friday. 
versational Spanish one hour a week. The family TONIGHT'S rosary will take place in O'Neill Hall. lives about 10 minutes away in Niles, MI. Contact: TOMORROW eveninfs will be in McGlinn Hall. Jenny Sergio at 269-683-3886. 
Votive Mass for Peace 

A tutor is wanted to help an adult woman learn the 
Every Friday, 5:15p.m. Mass in the Basilica basics of computers at her home only 1 or 2 times a 
Candlelight Vigil at the Grotto

month. She lives about 10 minutes from campus in Niles, Ml. Contact: Jenny Sergio at 269-683-3886. 11 :OOp.m. every weeknight 
r------------------------------~
I What Does It Have TODo With Me?: I I Perspectives on War in Iraq
I I Come join other sh1dents, faculty and staff inexploring issues ofwar and peace 
I A Student Dialogue on War withIraq · I TOMORROW April 9th, 7:00 PM,Coleman Morse Lounge I With perspectivesfrom ROTC, Peace Action Gtoups and others 
"Implications and Morality ofa Pre-Emptive War" 
THIS Thursday April 10th, _7:30 PM,Coleman Morse Lounge . . ATalk by:E<r. BryanJiehir . . ..·... . President and CEO, Catlwlic(;fiarities U.S.A., Former Chakof the Executive Committee at Harvard Divinity $~hooIF .·.. · 
II · · •. -·• ·,_· -·. -·:;.i•··./1\-:·:_.:_;{.~_---:~ft:::,:;:::.:·j·'. 
.. ..· .. The PropheticYoic:e,pf]!e~c~\;:r:t1, !;:\J,;;;;~,~W,: ·. · April 24th, 7:00-8:30 PM Presentationand Questions; Debartolo 141 
8:30 PM Procession to Grottofor concluding prayerfor peace ATalk by Fr, JohnDear,S.J.:• .. ...·.·•· ,[, ,
Peace Activist andautlwr/editor of20 books on peaf_e&justic,e, 
··11·• +·

Former Executive Director ofthe Fellowship ofReconciliation 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? CAREERS AS VOCATIONS: LAW 
THIS Sunday, April 13, 4:00 -6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns 
A panel presentation with: Mary Meg McCarthy '80, '88JD HCA in Chile, Director ofMidwest Immigrant Rights Center, Chicago, IL Pete Morgan '90, '98JD, '99LLM Indiana Legal Services, South Bend, IN Ann Firth '81, '84JD, Exec. Assistant to Vice-President, Student Affairs 
Pizza will be served. 
Sponsored by the Centerfor Social Concerns and the Notre Dame Vocation Initiative 

Tuesday, April, 8, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ing seconds. Inside, Boeheim's 'D' came
NCAA 
close to turning Kansas into a 
continued from page 24 one-man show. All-American forward Nick Collison was valiant -he finished with 19 
shot 6-for-20 -3-for-12 from points and 21 rebounds. But in '.i-point range, and missnd twice the end, he simply didn't have with a chance to tie in the clos-enough help against the tall and long Syracuse players and that well-coached defense. 
Of course, there are some things you simply can't coach, and McNamara, Anthony. Warrick -the whole team, really -played a one-on-one style of offense in t_he first half that looked as if it came straight 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
Nicholas Boyle, University of Cambridge 
Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
"Literature as Bible" 
April 8, 2003 *  Faces: Melville's Moby Dick and Austen's Mansfield Park  
April l 0, 2003  Rewards and Fairies: The Idea ofEngland and The Lord ofthe Rings  

The lectures will begin at 4 p.m. and are expected to be two hours in length {with a refreshment break). They will be held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies except for the April 8* lecture that will take place in Room C I03 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Be a part of the wellness movement at Notre Dame -contribute your ideas! 
Become a member ofUBWell2! 
What: 
Why: How: 
When: 
We will contact you for an end-of-the year meeting! 

uBWELL2ta:ND 
1,,.., £Dl' 

UBWell2 was established in the fall of 2002 through collaborative efforts from Health Services, RecSports, Food Services, the Physical Education Department, the Counseling Center, and Memorial Health Enhancement Program. It is a student-driven organization by undergraduates with several faculty/staff members who act as advisors. Our goal is to better inform and educate the student body through the use of various media and special events about topics related to the wellness. 
You could be a part of change and provide valuable information according to what you the student needs! 
Fill out a UBWell2 application available at Rolfs, RecSports, or Rockne Memorial. Return the application to Marisha Fortner at 215 Rockne Memorial. /'
,\ 
'\.f

Return by April 17th ) A 
from the playground. 
McNamara was relentless, unabashedly hoisting shots from 23, 24. 25 feet and making almost all of them. By the end of the first half, he was 6-for-8 ­his season high -and the Orangemen led 53-42. The 53 were the most points scored by one team in the first half of a title game. 
But was McNamara the best player out there'? 
Ask any of the three or four players who had the task of guarding Anthony, the Final Four's Most Outstanding Player, after he took passes at the top of the key. A ball fake here, a drib­ble between the legs there, a spin or a pull-up 3-pointer ­nothing was out of the question with this guy, and very little of it was stoppable. 
Before his back started acting up, Anthony look destined to join Dwyane Wade of Marquette as the second player with a triple-double in this year's tour­nament. As it was, he finished three assists shy. 

Even with Anthony struggling down the stretch, Kansas couldn't play catchup well enough to tie or take the lead. A great chance came with 14 min­utes left when, trailing 61-58, the Jayhawks picked off a bad pass and started rushing down­court. But Kansas turned it right back over, and Anthony made a 3-pointer to keep the Orange ahead. 
Syracuse stretched it to 12 with 7 1/2 minutes left, and KU could never overcome after that. 
It was another bitter defeat for Williams, who stayed with­out the one victory that would round out an otherwise impec­cable resume. 
Now, his next job is to decide whether he's interested in the opening at North Carolina, his alma mater, or wants to return to Kansas to try to complete his still-unfinished business. 
Boeheim, meanwhile, improved to 1-2 in title games. Nine years after the 1987 loss, Syracuse fell to Kentucky in the final. 
Clapacs will stay as interim director 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Terry Clapacs wouldn't 
walk away from his adminis­
trative job at Indiana 
University, and he didn't 
want to give up his job in the 
athletic department. 
So interim President Gerald 
Bepko made it easy: Clapacs 
will do both. 
Bepko announced Monday that Clapacs, Indiana's inter­im athletic director since November, will continue to oversee the department for at least the next year while retaining his job as vice pres­ident of administration. 
"I could have said 'Hey, I only have six years until I retire, so I'll just stay here,"' Clapacs said. "But it has been fun, and I have enjoyed it." 
Bepko also sweetened the deal by adding an extra $40,000 to Clapacs' base salary of $250,000. 
Clapacs, 59, called the con­tract open-ended. Indiana's next president, who has not yet been named, will review Clapacs' status in June 2004. Bepko has served in an inter­im role since Myles Brand left in January to take over as president of the NCAA. 
To help in his job-sharing duties. Clapacs has also asked Pat Sullivan, deputy vice president for administration, to assume more responsibility on the administrative side. 
Clapacs is Indiana's third athletic director since 2001, when Clarence Doninger retired. Clapacs followed Michael McNeely, who resigned in November after 16 months on the job. 
His first task will be getting a department that lost nearly $1 million last year out of debt. 
"We think il.'s the best way to go," Bepko said at a news conference. "It is the right decision. It will make us all stronger." 
Men's soccer coach Jerry Yeagley, who has won five national championships and chairs the coaches' cabinet, said there was unanimous 

support among coaches for 
keeping Clapacs. 
Clapacs also won the sup­
port of several trustees, 
including trustees President 
Fred Eichhorn, who said he 
asked Clapacs to stay in 
December. 
Men's basketball coach 
Mike Davis did not attend 
Monday's news conference 
because he was in Alabama, 
but he said by telephone he 
welcomed the choice. 
"Terry is a guy I really like a whole lot," Davis said. "All of the coaches I've talked to are real excited about him, and I'm happy about him being the guy." 
Bepko said the move would save money, but that was only one reason for keeping Clapacs. 
He said coaches and athlet­
ic department administrators 
believed Clapacs had brought 
more harmony to the depart­
ment, and that he hoped sta­
bility and unity would help 
lead the department out of its 
budget crunch. 
·Clapacs said he intended to make a strong commitment to football and improving facili­ties. 
He also set a goal of having 16 home basketball games each season and improving attendance at football games. Indiana has ranked near the bottom of the Big Ten in aver­age football attendance for three consecutive years. 
Rectifying those problems, Clapacs believes, would give the department a better financial foundation. 
Clapacs graduated from Indiana in 1965 and received a master's degree from Indiana in 1968. 
Since 1970, his work has focused primarily on upgrad­ing existing facilities and adding new ones. 
His responsibilities have also included internal audits, risk management and devel­
opm en t of the university's funding requests to the General Assembly. 
He also served as liaison to the athletic department for two former presidents, Brand and Thomas Ehrlich. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2003 
I 



NHL 

Panthers win No. 1 draft pick 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The Florida Panthers are enjoying a rare winning streak. For the second straight year they finished first in the NHL draft lottery. 
The Panthers. who would have picked fourth based on their regular-season record, should've had just a 10.7 per­cent chance of coming away with the top pick in Monday's lottery. 
But because of a draft-day deal with Columbus last year, the Panthers had the right to trade first-round picks with the Blue Jackets and ensure a greater lottery chance. 
It worked. as Florida had a 
24.9 percent chance to win, the combined total of both teams' percentages. The Panthers jumped up three spots, past Columbus, Pittsburgh and Carolina, which finished with a league-low 61 points. 
Only the teams with the five worst records had an opportuni­ty to win the first choice. A team is not eligible to move up more than four places. The lottery determines the selection order for the 14 teams that missed the playoffs. 
Last year. the Panthers traded the No. 1 selection to Columbus, which chose forward Rick Nash. Florida picked defenseman Jay Bouwmeester with the third choice they received from the Blue Jackets. 
Carolina, which went from the Stanley Cup finals a year ago to having the NHL's worst record, had a 25 percent chance to get the top pick. They will instead choose second, followed by Pittsburgh and Columbus. 
Buffalo will pick fifth, followed by San Jose, Nashville, Atlanta, Calgary, Montreal, Philadelphia -which owns Phoenix's pick ­the New York Rangers, Los Angeles and Chicago. 
The remaining first-round positions will be determined after the playoffs. The Nashville Predators will host the draft June 21-22. 
3 loss -nine different ver­sions of the theme song from

Bookstore 
their namesake. According to 

continued from page 24 Gilligan. his relationship with the Skipper went back to 
Botz said. 
Although not coming at all spelled victory for No. 9 seed Growers not Sowers, who won with a forfeit, Gilligan's Island was determined to not only show up but make their pres­ence known. 
Gilligan, the Skipper too, the movie star, the professor and Mary Ann appeared on the Bookstore courts. Referring to each other only by their character names, the theology grad students who made up Gilligan's Island had little chance against the more focused Y Tu Mama Tambien, but Mary Ann and Ginger, complete with drinks in coconuts, seemed uncon­cerned. 
More importantly, they had music to accompany their 21­when they were in the Navy and he just wanted to be able to play ball with him. 
While the music may have been distracting for Y Tu Mama Tambien, Roe Sports had another party favorite to distract them -Catholic uni­form plaid. Catholic School Girls Gone Wild drew focus away from the basket long enough to score 11 points on the way to the 21-11 loss to Roe Sports and, according to Jason Kellman. it was the fault of the material they were wearing. 
"Plaid makes you dizzy," he said. 
Catholic School Girls Gone Wild had one goal -they each wamed a basket. By the end of the game, they had all scored. 
"[Roe Sports] were very nice to us," Katie McDermott said. 

Catholic School Girls Gone Wild had to don sweatshirts and tights to go with their uniform skirts and blouses due to the cold weather. According to McDermott, Roe Sports was lucky it wasn't warmer. 
The all male Team 436 had a tougher time with its all female competition. Word to Your Mother played a solid game against Team 436, tak­ing an 11-10 lead into half­time. 
However, Team 436's half­time refreshments seemed to spice up the team and give them the strength and courage to try some new moves -such as one team member squatting on the ground while another launched himself off his back and Team 436 managed to pull out the 21-17 win. 
Team 436's win, which took well over an hour, was under­scored in part by the fine musical selection of God, Country Theory II, who all donned sweat bands and played Green Day on their way to a 21-2 loss to Team 963. 
In an initial musical perfor­mance, Bette Middler took out Roddington 21-3 despite hav­ing to suffer through a ball that wouldn't bounce on the wet courts in the opening minutes of the game. 
Topping off Monday's book­store activities was scoring. We Score More than Wilt Chamberlain defeated a Weak Sauce Warrior's team that had come complete with pro­fessionally-screened jerseys 21-8. Meanwhile, This is the Most We're Ever Going to Score at Notre Dame didn't score very much during its 21-5 loss to Bye into the Second Round. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


Magna Cum Laptop 
You don't need to be valedictorian to get a hot deal on a cool laptop 
Gateway 450EB 
1.3 GHz Pentium M 
'256MB DDR SDRAM 30GB Hard Drive DVD/CO-RW Drive 
$1679* 

Visit the Solutions Center, 112 IT Center Bldg. or order on line at http://solution.nd.edu 

~ofuttoh~ Ceht&r 
Phone orders also accepted Call (574) 631-7477 or (877) 561-7477 
If your looking for a unique career, see Captain Williams on April 8th, 2003 in the Lafortune Student Center or Call 
1-877-299-9397 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
iBook 

800GHz G3 256MB SDRAM 30GB Hard Drive OVD/CD-RW Drive 
$1686* 

Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
~-==-=--=--=--·----=---=======-=:::..:=-================================================================================================= 
WOMENS GOLF NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish finish 7th at Indiana Invitational 
Hy ANDY TROEGER 
Sport, Writer 
Battling gusty winds and frigid temperatures in addition to the golf course, the womens go Ir leam fired sol id second and third rounds to finish sev­enth at the 11-team Indiana Invitational this weekend with a score of963 (327-318-318). 
"The weekend was really tough weather-wise." coach Debby King said. "And because the par on this course was 74 as opposed to the usual 72, our 312 goal corresponds more to a 320. So other than the lirst round or 327, we really played two shots under the goal the other two days." 
The Irish were led by Katie Brophy, who fired a final round 77 for a 233 (82-74-77) total lhal was good for 14th. After trailing by 10 after the first round, Brophy only lost one more shC>t to tournament win­ner Kim Benedict who won at 222 (72-74-76). 
"Katie Brophy did just awe­some," King said. "Especially shC>oting par on the middle round with a 74. The final round was the worst conditions C>f them all and for anyone to break 80 was pretty darn good." 
Following Brnphy for Notre Dame was Shannon Byrne, who shot a final round 76 to finish at 242 (82-84-76). 
Purdue won the tournament, finishing at 916 (307-304-305) for a 12-strokc victory over Missouri. Kent State, Indiana and Wisconsin rounded out the top five. 
Freshman Sarah Bassett tied for 33rd at 245 (82-83-80) to post the third-best Notre Dame score, while classmate Suzie Hayes finished at 249 (81-83­
8 5) to tie for 40th. Rounding out the Irish contingent, Karen Lotta shot 251 (84-78-89) to tie for 48th while Terri Taibl shot a 261 (88-84-89) to finish 62nd. 
"I was really pleased with the team's performance," King said. "It was really hard to turn because it was so cold. Seventh place out of 11 with a lot of Big Ten schools I think was fairly impressive." 
The Irish now have the next two weeks to prepare to host the first-ever Big East Championship in womens golf at the Warren Golf Course on April 21 and 22. Four of the six teams in the conference that have a womens golf team will participate in that tournament. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Coaches ready for showdown 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Tennessee's Pat Summitt is the stern disciplinarian with an icy glare, yet her players con­sider her a surrogate mother. 
Connecticut's Geno Auriemma is the ultimate agi­tator, a wisecracking needler who enjoys zinging friend and foe alike. Who else would call Summitt's program the "Evil Empire?" 
Different personalities to be sure, but two intensely compet­itive coaches with the same goal. Their teams meet Tuesday night to decide the national championship in women's basketball. the latest installment of the sport's hottest rivalry. 
Tennessee (33-4) has six titles but none since 1998. Connecticut (36-1) has won two of the last three championships and three overall. 
"Strictly from good theater, you couldn't ask for a better matchup," Auriemma said. 
That theater extends to the coaching rivalry. Both insist they don't dislike each other. They even chatted for 15 min­utes or so Monday when they crossed paths in the Georgia Dome. 
But friends? Hardly. Summitt invited Villanova coach Harry Perretta and his team -the only one to beat UConn this season -to her house for a cookout before the Mideast Regional in Knoxville. The East Tennessee mountains would turn into flatland before Auriemma secured such an invite. 
"We're not talking on the phone every week," Summitt said. "As a matter of fact, we don't talk on the phone. But I would just say that you have a great rivalry and certainly a coach that I respect tremen­dously." 
Auriemma caused a stir when he needled Perretta, one of his good friends, over his relationship with Summitt, say­ing the Villanova coach had 
"dumped  me  for  the  Evil  
Empire."  
Hey,  Auricmma  pleaded,  

lighten up. He was just having fun. 
"I live in Connecticut and I'm a Red Sox fan," Auriemma said. "If you talk about Tennessee, they are the Yankees and Pat is George Steinbrenner. We make fun of it. 
"There is nothing evil about them -unless you live in Connecticut. Her program speaks for itself and her repu­tation certainly speaks for itself. Throwing snowballs is part of what you do in a tour­nament. We are just throwing a couple of snowballs at each other." 
Summitt's reaction to how she was characterized? 
"Well, I have been called a lot worse in my career," she said. 

That's the thing about Auriemma. It's hard to tell sometimes when he's joking and when he's serious. Junior guard Morgan Valley said she didn't get it straight until her third season with the Iluskies. 
"He would say stuff and l would cry," Valley said. "That's the one thing you never want to do. You never want to let him see you cry. Then you get adjusted to him and realize he docs it to everybody." 
Added guard Maria Conlon: "You just have to take a lot of that lightly. When he's not dig• ging you or not saying anything about you, that's when you should be worried." 
This is the third NCAA title game between the coaches; UConn won the others, in 1995 and 2000. The Huskies beat Oklahoma last year and are 3. 0 in national finals. 
"The reason we're 3-0 is all three of those games l felt we had the best team," Auriemma said. "I don't know if we're going in tomorrow night with as much of a comfort level as we have in the past." 
That's because the Huskies are young. Two freshmen and a sophomore start and another freshman is a key reserve. They do have national player of the year Diana Taurasi, though, and she has been the difference in the NCAA tourna­ment. 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, April 8, 2003 

around the dial 
WOMENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL National Championship Connecticut vs.Tennessee 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Pacers at Bulls 7:30 p.m., FOXCH 
GOLF 

Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 
A federal judge upheld a law that allows the sheriff to regulate protests like the one planned by Martha Burk at Augusta National Golf Club. 
Monday's ruling was only a partial victory for city officials, however. 
U.S. District Judge Dudley Bowen Jr. hasn't decided if Sheriff Ronald Strength violated his dis­cretion by denying Burk the right to protest at the front gates of the exclusive club, where the Masters begins Thursday. 
Burk is planning to 
protest Augusta National's all-male membership on Saturday. Aware of the time constraints of the case, Bowen said he would decide the second issue soon. 
The Georgia chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union filed the lawsuit on Burk's behalf. 
"Obviously, we're disap­pointed with the ruling," said Gerry Weber, legal director of Georgia ACLU. "But the judge hasn't addressed whether our clients can be relegated to the outer limits to have their demonstration or whether they can be in a place where they can actu­ally communicate with the folks they want to commu­nicate with." 

Burk, who heads the National Council of Women's Organizations, wants to post 24 demon­strators outside the front gate of Augusta National and 200 more across the street during the Masters' third round. 
Strength, who has broad authority over public protests, has told Burk and other groups the only place they can protest legally is a 5.1-acre site nearly a half­mile from the gate. 
Strength says there's too much traffic along Washington Road, which runs in front of the club, to ensure safe protests. 
ACLU lawyers challenged the ordinance, saying it gives the sheriff too much power to approve or deny protests and dictate their location. 
While acknowledging that "the ordinance was passed in anticipation for protests during the forth­coming Masters golf tour­nament," Bowen said the city had crafted a constitu­tional law. 
"The ordinance does not discriminate against a par­ticular viewpoint or limit speech to certain subject matters," he wrote in a 17­page decision. 
IN BRIEF 
Four home openerscancelled 
Four home openers were wiped out Monday by a springtime storm, which snowed out games in three cities and rained out the first game of the year in Pittsburgh. 
The Yankees and Indians called off their games Sunday, before the first snowflake had fallen. The forecast in both cities was for several inches of snow. 
The Cubs waited until Monday morning after the snow fell in Illinois overnight, and Pittsburgh called off its game Monday afternoon. 
All four games were to be made up Tuesday, which was scheduled to be a day off for the teams. The Cubs rescheduled their game against the Montreal Expos for 2:20 p.m.. the Indians and White Sox meet at 3:05 p.m., the Yankees and Minnesota Twins play at 4:05 p.m., and the Pirates and Brewers start at 6:05 p.m. 
This is the second time in Jacobs Field history that the Indians have had to postpone their home opener. In 1996, Cleveland had its game with the Yankees called off because of snow. 
Tuesday's late start could cause some major traffic problems outside the ballpark. That night, Michael Jordan will make his final appearance in Cleveland as the Washington Wizards play the Cavaliers at Gund Arena, next door to the Jake. 
The last time the Cubs postponed their home opener was 1990, when their game against the Philadelphia Phillies was rained out. The Cubs' last snowout was April 16, 2001, also against the Phillies. 
Red Sox re-sign Martinez 
Pedro Martinez's $17.5 million option for 2004 was exercised by the Boston Red Sox on Monday, seven months before the team needed to make a decision. 
Martinez has made two stellar starts that were squandered by the bullpen, showing no sign of past arm problems. 
"We're pleased that it's done and behind us," Red Sox president Larry Lucchino said. "We've got a satisfied and focused Pedro Martinez." 

Martinez, 31. is 0-0 with a 0.60 ERA this season. The three-time Cy Young Award winner is second in the AL with 14 strikeouts. 
Martinez was 20-4 and led the AL with a 2.26 ERA last season while staying off the disabled list for the first time in four seasons. But with the Red Sox out of the race, he skipped his final start to protect his arm a decision that might have cost him a fourth Cy Young; he finished second to Barry Zito. 
Although both sides have always agreed that a healthy Martinez would be a bargain even with the highest sin­gle-season salary for a pitcher in base­ball history the Red Sox had delayed their decision for fear that his right shoulder would act up. Martinez had lobbied to settle things before the sea­son instead of waiting for the Nov. 5 deadline, even threatening to leave after his contract was up to pitch for the New York Yankees. 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women gymnasts finish 1st at Clover Classic 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women took first place at the Clover Classic, held Saturday at the club's home gym, Gymnastics Michiana. The Irish women fin• ished ahead of second place Purdue by nearly five full points, with teams from Minnesota, Miami (Ohio), Penn State, Indiana and Washington round­ing out the final standings. 
The highest individual all­around honors went to fresh­man Anne St. Clair, who aver­aged a 9.2 on each event and took first f)lace on floor and vault, third place on beam and nflh place on bars. Senior Emily Smith, competing in her last regular season meet for Notre Dame, placed third all-around, and also took fourth on vault, second on beam and second on floor. Sophomore Caitlin O'Brien placed sixth all-around and second on vault, while her classmate Mary Blazewicz placud fifth on vault. Susan Jennings, Danielle Reyes. Liz Maher and Kristi Peterson also contributed to the Irish victory. 
The Notre Dame men turned in impressive individual perfor­mances, particularly on the floor exercise. Mike Gartner lead the Irish men on floor with a 9.0, while freshman Aaron Hoberts contributed an 8.05 to Lhe learn total. 
The Irish men placed fourth, behind first place Purdue sec­ond place Northern Illinois and third place Miami of Ohio. 
Both the mens and the wom­ens teams from Notre Dame will travel to Austin, Texas on April 11 tu compete in the national competition sponsored by the 
National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs. 
Womens Ice Hockey 
The Notre Dame womens ice hockey team was rewarded for its season of hard work and improvement with an historic first victory in the CCWHA in its season finale. but the Irish dropped their first-round game to Oakland by a 6-1 score. 
Tori Blainey's slapshot from the top of the circle at 13:12 of the second period provided the only score for the squad. 
The second game was against host and defending national champion Michigan State. Despite dropping a 6-1 game, the Irish played well throughout the game and Megan Mattia's goal closed the score to 3-1 after two periods. 
However, a tired Irish squad playing its second game with only a very short break wilted in the third period. 
On Sunday, the Irish faced off against Western Michigan. After the Broncos opened the scoring at 13:28 in the first period, Megan Mattia was a one-player highlight film as she first scored on a rebound to knot the score at one. Mattia then scored unas­sisted on a power-play goal, screened the goalie on a goal by Tori Blainey and assisted Lizzy Coghill on the final Irish goal for a 4-1 lead. 
Western mounted a come­back, but Anne Wenger was exceptional in goal, posting 26 saves as the Irish closed the sea­son with a 4-2 victory. 
Salllng 
Notre Dame's St. Joseph's Lake was the venue for the 
annual Icebreaker Regatta this weekend as 13 schools compet­ed in 14 races in both the A and B divisions. Notre Dame finished 10th in the A division, seventh in the B division and eighth overall. Big 10 teams took six of the top seven spots with Minnesota claiming first, fol­lowed by Purdue, Michigan, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Miami and Indiana. 
Equestrian 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Equestrian Team faced tough competition at the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis Huntseat Horse Show this past weekend. Star Katy Ryan blew the competition away with a first place in Novice over fences. 
Other jumping highlights include a sixth place in Open Fences for Saint Mary's student Katie Heywood. and in Intermediate Fences, a second for Liz Bell and a fifth for team co-captain Julia Burke. In flat, Heywood placed fifth for the Open Division and for the Intermediate Division, Bell placed third and Burke placed sixth. 
In Advanced Walk-Trot­Canter Claire Berezowitz rode very well and placed sixth. 
Mens Volleyball 
The Notre Dame mens volley­ball team traveled to Ann Arbor to play in the conference cham­pionships last weekend. The tournament, where the Irish went 4-3 and won the bronze division, was its final stop before nationals at the end of April. 
The Irish started off the two­day competition with a match against Bowling Green early 
Choosing a Major? You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! 
~c..;!le ~1001,-1~ ft1~ "w,r11 ~."'.. Le6\1N0..1'1 :C s~£;.'l)oN-T~~.,.·s 1',\Co<;.~U>l""1 U.~\""'S 
p, 'Rv,.1.. 13..~~I) ?.' f\i\\>"Bcc,. Rqin,•C.Ta A )<At£ i•• C•"'"~'1 111•T. IT WM 7imu li<,.,. :r: 
Ouf'l1" Tttt. f~i.m.uU.~-·" 
,oun"l ENov411, I t,t!l P., 1'An•C,< 
;. R,,,,..,~L 
ITS ft= 0 ~ 
jl$£••• 
• t> 
Saturday. Normally slow to get started, Notre Dame came out swinging and put the match away in two games thanks to a solid setting performance that the Irish have sorely needed from freshman Dan Zenker. 
Next, the Irish faced highly ranked Illinois. Although Notre Dame fell short in the match, big improvements were seen in the Irish passing game. After losing a close contest to Purdue, the Irish knocked off Northwestern in the final match of the day. Clutch play by libero Nick Abrams and outside hitting by Mike Ciampa helped the Irish to gain the confidence they needed to come away with the victory. 
The win secured a playoff with Iowa the next morning in which the Irish fell just short and were placed in the bronze division. Thanks to play from all-conference middle-turned­outside hitter Drew Mascarenhas, the Irish again rolled over Northwestern on their way to the final against Iowa State. 
The first game of the match went down to the end, with Iowa State squeezing out the victory. After a tough string of morning matches, opposite hit­ter Rob Dombrowski coupled with veteran outside play by Jim Lowder proved to be key com­ponents for the success of the Irish offense as they pulled away with game two. The win sent the match to deciding game three for the championship. 
A strong Irish block set up by middles Ryan Goes and Dan Parziale maintained the momentum and secured the win and championship in the bronze division for Notre Dame. The 
Buyor SellyourHome with aGrad from the Dome 
Call r.faria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVEREIT/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 

Irish arc 9-4 this season in the two tournaments at the University of Michigan. This weekend's wins should prove to be quite valuable when the Irish travel to Ohio State to play in the nationals in two weeks. 
Mens Water Polo 
Rolf's Aquatics was packed this weekend as the Notre Dame mens water polo club hosted its annual spring invitational. The Irish opened with wins over Gannon, 17-10; James Madison. 14-3; and the ND Alumni, 15-3, before dropping the champi­onship game to Grand Valley State, 8-5. 
Michigan took third with the Alumni, Purdue, Gannon, Penn State and James Madison finish­ing in order. In the entertaining game with the Alumni, the first half was very competitive before the Irish slowly pulled away. 
Ultimate 
The womens squad on the Ultimate club placed second among 12 teams in the South Bend Invitational this weekend. Temperatures in the 30s with winds gusting to 20 mph made for very difficult conditions. 
The club dropped its first three games to Washington D.C., 8-4, Oberlin, 4-3, and Indiana, 7-5, before defeating Michigan B, 9-3, to close the day. 
After reseeding on Sunday, the Irish fell from third to sev­enth, forcing a much more diffi­cult draw. After an opening win over Ohio Northern, the Irish beat Washington D.C. in a rematch, 12-10. 
The club then defeated Purdue in the semifinals 10-5, setting up a championship game with Michigan A, the 16th ranked team in the country. 
After 90 minutes, the game was tied at 10-10. The Wolverines were able to out­throw the Irish at the end to close with a well-played 13-11 victory. Newcomers Liz Fallon, Danielle Weber, and Saint Mary's Amanda Schramm teamed with veteran handlers Jill Daugherty and Julie Schutte to lead the club this weekend. 
Ever wonder why 
PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch . instead of leaving them in the class room? 
The answer is 
because PLS is demanding, fulfilling, and because we have fm1. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
recently selected as an "Outstanding Example of the Best in American Higher Education" 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov ... 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser ... 
WHAT DO THEY HA VE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2003 
NO PREREQUISITE 
http;/ /www.nd.edu/ ~grl 
We are accepting applications for the entering sophon1ore class until April 8. Applications are now available in 215 O'Shaughnessy 
and on the web ay www.nd.edu/~pls. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2003 
BASEBALL 
Irish hope to snap Falcon's 4-gam.e winning streak 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sporrs Edi[or 
Coming off their best two games of the season and riding an 11-game win streak, Notre Dame just wants to keep play­ing baseball. 
But the South Bend weather might not let that happen. 
The Irish (20-6, 7-1) are scheduled to face Bowling Green (8-11, 3-3) at 5:05 p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. However, snow covered Notre Dame's campus Monday, putting today's game in jeop­ardy. 
"[The weather] does get frus­trating because I feel like we're getting better every day," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "The more we play, the 
better we get. If you can just get a chance to play on the schedule days, you're geared up and you feel like you're going to keep making improvement at the nor­mal pace." 
The Irish also had a doublehead­er against Boston College can-celled 
Saturday thanks to rainy con­ditions. 
Bad weather seems to be the only obstacle stopping Notre Dame right now. The team has won 11 straight games and is coming off a two-game sweep of Big East foe St. John's, 11-3, 18-3. The Irish thoroughly dominated the Red Storm in every aspect of the two games, scoring 29 runs while allowing a mere three earned runs in the two games combined. 
Mainieri said his team must overcome the possible weather conditions to have success against the Falcons. 
"We talk a lot about mental toughness on our team and part of our mental toughness has to do with dealing with the weather conditions and how it may affect when games are scheduled, what time you're playing or any delays you 

RecSports has openings for this summerandthe 2003-2004 academic year in the following positions: 
~ludenl ~upervi~or~ front De~k ~upervi~or~ fitne~~ Room ~upervi~or~ •~~ue Room ~upervi~or~ 
Lifeguard~ 
Any onewhoisinterested Inapplyingfor these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out on application. Office hours are 8:00• 12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 10, 2003. 
"We talk a lot about mental toughness on our team and part ofour mental toughness has to do with dealing with the weather conditions and how it may affect when games are scheduled, what time you 're playing or any delays you have." 
Paul Malnlerl Irish coach 
have." 
rf the Irish can play, Mainieri will send right-hander John Axford to the mound. The 6­foot-5 sophomore is 5-0 this season with a 2.31 ERA. He has struck out 35 batters in 35 innings pitched. 
Notre Dame's offense has been led by an array of play­ers, specifically second base­man Steve Sollman and third baseman Matt Edwards. Sollman leads the team in bat­ting, hitting at an even .400 clip with three home runs and 24 RBIs. Edwards is second on the Irish with a .385 average and also has four home runs and 32 RBIs. 
Five freshman have also made significant contributions to the Irish lineup. Cody Rizzo, Steve Andres, Brennan Grogan, Craig Cooper and 
they've developed. They still have a ways to go, believe me, but they've more than held their own in the early part of this season." 
While the Irish have played well of late, Bowling Green has also ripped off a win streak. After starting the season losing seven of their first eight games, the Falcons have won four in a row. They have been led by first baseman Kelly Hunt, who is hitting .427 with three home runs and 20 RBIs. 
"Without sugar-coating it, [Bowling Green coach Danny Schmitz] is a very good coach and works very hard at his job," Mainieri said. "He will have his team very prepared to play against us. I have no doubt about that." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@ml..edu 
Greg Lopez are all hit­ting above .300 and. have been regulars in Mainieri's lineup. 
"We've got five fresh­men and position play­ers con­tributing in an extremely large way," Mainieri said. "I can't tell you how pleased I am with how 
CHIP MA An lrlsh baseball player slides Into second base during their win against Toledo on March 25. The lrlsh are currently on an 11-game winning streak. 

45he's gonna' be off the he£Z-1 fo' she£Z-1H 

I ILove, 
3 La"e 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
(~cated between Frances & Eddy Streets) 

He'd fit comfortably I 
With 1:860 square feet ofliving space, Lafayette Square Townhomes can accommodate you and your roommates. There are FIVE 5­bedrooni townhomes available, all fully applianced kitchens with dishwasher, disposal, stove and fridge. Washer/ dryer too ! 
Ifyou think all ofthese advantage carry alot ofweight, just call ore­mail us and see just how comfortably you'd fit! 
574..234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 

(11000 square feet apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments) 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIR1ON 
~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 

-
to form four ordinary words. 
I MYAIT I (J b
Cl2003 Tribune Media Se,vlces, Inc.
r;fflJ 


b 
WHAT THE= HAIR­l?Rf;55ER DID WH::N THE RACK Of 
CABEEM 
DRE:55E:5 WENT
www.jumble.com 
ON '5ALE.
I BOEDUL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
tJ r (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

An~r: "(III I I J't I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BLANK HENCE VIABLE TYPHUS Answer: Camping under the stars can be this ­HEAVENLY 
CROSSWORD 
11,tJ~wlorkltntt, j
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz 
ACROSS 37 Diamond 1 Five Pillars of 38 Running things 40 Part of WWW 6 Tobacco wad 
41 NBC weekend 1OPrez's backup comedy, briefly 

14 Impact sounds 
42 Thoroughly 15 Heavenly circle thumps 16 Not prerecorded 43 Nerd 17 It may bring you 45 Lifers, e.g. back to reality 
47 Like heaven's 19 Warts and all gates 
20 Pail problem 48 Bee's bundle 
21 Queried 50 Say coquettishly
22 Splinter group 51 Sailor's hail
23 Cowgirl Evans 52 Warning wail
25 Enter 27 Exit 
55 Nada 30 Not the main 59 Fancy marbles office 
60 Academic 32 Opposite of enclave spicy 
62 Algonquian 33 Replay option • language 
34 _-Locka, Fla, 63 Understands 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
64 Laker star Shaquille 
65 Aesop's also­ran 
66 Big Board initials 
67 Full of good cheer 
DOWN 1 Result of a flea, 
maybe 2 "Get lost!" 3 Break in the 
action 4 Appended 5 Ed.'s pile 6 Picked out 7 Dove's opposite 8 Downwind, at 
sea 9 Scrabble or Boggle 10 Pickle brand 11 President whose grandson wed a president's daughter 
12 Kick out 13 Trattoria topping 18 Sentry's 
command 
WILLSHORTZ 
No.0225 

39 Advertising lure 53 Actress Judith 44 Combat area 54 Goes bad 46 Parisian palace 56 Water pitcher 47 Undersized 
57 Spot for a 48 Antismoking 
spanking aid 
58 Air France 49 Scarlett of Tara locale 
50 Inherently 61 Barnyard male 

30 Ink stains_ 31 Column crossers 
33 Go over 35 Part of a lemon 36 "Dear" advice-
giver 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIE'i BORN ON 11IIS DAY Julian Lennon, Taran Noah Smith, Izzy Stradlin, Panicia Arquette 
Happy Birthday: You have lots of terrific things coming your way but you must stop living in the past. You don't want to waste one more minute. This is the first day ofthe rest ofyour life. YournlBTibcrs are 12, 16, 21, 28, 33, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have a problem following what's going on around you. You may have to think about what it is you want and what you must du to change your direction. tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Finding solutions to other people's problems will be your skill. The help you olfcr will make you feel good about yourself and bring you in contact with someone who could alter your future in a positive way. tttt GEMINI (May 21.June 20): You should be thinking about your future and what will make life a little easier. Consider educational pursuits or apprenticeships that will enable you to learn new skills. -ktt CANCER (June 21.July 22): You will find it difficult to contain your emotions today. The more you do that is creative or involves children, the better. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may discover that you aren't getting the complete story regarding something going on at work or with one of your peers. Ask questions ifyou aren\ sati,fied with the answers that you've been given. -ktt VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Get down to business and make adifference. You will have notable suggestions that will be well received by your peers. Loosen up a little **** LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): You will have a hard time convincing anyone ofanything today, so don\ waste your time. Reevaluate your motives and beliefs rath~'T than talk about them. Listen to people with experience, but don\ follow someone else's dream. tt SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Your creative awan.= and ability will be teetering on genius, so you must put your ideas on paper. You can make money if you invest 
in your.;elf *'**** 

SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can do no wrong when it comes to your money matters. Take the initiative to make financial changes. Your creativity and vivid imagination will lead to some JXEitivc ideas -ktt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22.Jan. 19): You will have to deal with emotional issues today. Be honest about the way you feel. Don't let a business partner get the better of you. Listen but take your time to comment tt ' AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Implement your ideas and you should receive recognition. Mix business with pleastre and you11 discover that you have more in common with your oolleagues than you thought 1ftt PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should consider booking a vacation or checking out different cultures, traditions or beliefs. There is much to discover and you will 
be in the perfect frame ofmind *'**** 

Birthday Baby: You will be caring, warm and giving. You will follow a path that will enable you to help others and to make adilfercncc in the world. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugcmalast.com, wnctwork.com 
CDPYRIGITT 2003 UNlVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

hear 
26 Coming 
27 OPEC units: 
Abbr 
28 Lena ol "Havana• 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name --------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Tuesday, April 8, 2003 

-
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXII 
Players drink, dunk and wear diapers 
By KATIE McVOY Senior SraffWrire.r 
Drinking and music was the theme pf some­thing other than Saturday night entertainment at Notre Dame. The pastime inspired diapers, halftime refreshments-and the crew of Gilligan's Island as the participants of the 32nd annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament shunned the cold temperatures and fired it up on the court. 
When Fighting Sisco showed up, their compe­tition certainly seemed to fit the name that was on the schedule. DOA (Drunk on Arrival) lived up to its name. Led by team captain Jim Botz and rounded off by a jester's hat, a full Winnie the Pooh suit and a diaper, DOA seemed to be interested in anything but winning a basketball game. 
Although their stunning scoring display that consisted of two points when their opponents were up by 18 had Fighting Sisco worried momentarily, DOA just couldn't pull it out in the end as Fighting Sisco took the 21-2 victory. 
But fans watching the game, who were con­sistently shouting, "This is alcoholism at its best," seemed to enjoy the match. 
Despite its slightly distracting nature, the Winnie the Pooh suit was not a planned part of DOA's strategy, but rather the "icing on the cake." 
However, as part of their halftime strategy, DOA decided to remove not only Mike Fitzgerald's Pooh suit, but also most of their clothing. By the end of the match, Fitzgerald in his bikinis and his teammate in his diapers ­more specifically Depends Overnight -had the spectators feeling cold. But DOA just considered 
. 

it part of its team motto. "You come hard or you don't come at all," PHOTOS BY 
see BOOKSTORE/page 18 TIMKACMAR 


NCAA MENS BASKETBALL 
Boeheim wins long awaited national championship 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Syracuse Orangemen were playground players early, a bundle of nerves late. They juked, jammed and barely held on for a victory that gave coach Jim Boeheim his long-awaited championship. 
Freshmen Carmelo Anthony and Gerry McNamara did the scoring and Hakim Warrick came up with a huge block at the end Monday night to lift the Orange to a thrilling 81-78 vic­tory over Kansas. 
Warrick, who missed two free throws that would have sealed the game with 13. 5 seconds left, made up for it by coming from nowhere to swat a 3-point attempt by Michael Lee that would have tied it. 
Kirk Hinrich, cold all night, shot an airball at the buzzer and the Orangemen (30-5) ran to the floor to celebrate their first-ever title. Boeheim threw his arms in the air and ran to shake hands with Roy Williams, deprived once again of the championship. 
Anthony showed he is certain­ly ready for the NBA if he choos­es, fighting off a bad back to fin­ish with 20 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists. McNamara hit six 3-pointers in the first half to finish with 18 points. 
In a marquee coaching matchup between Boehcim and Williams, a pair of brilliant tac­ticians who had never won it all, it was Boeheim who finally broke through, after 27 years coaching at his alma mater. 
Sixteen years ago, Syracuse lost by one to Indiana on Keith Smart's game-winner with 4 seconds left on the same Superdome floor. Boeheim said he wanted to get the last 4 sec­onds right this time, and he did just barely. 

"I think this building kind of owed us one," he said. In the first half. it didn't look as if he'd have to sweat it. 
The Orangemen built their lead to 18 during a breakneck first half. But things ground to a halt in the second. and it was Boeheim's famous 2-3 zone that closed out the game. 
When it was over, bad free­throw shooting killed the Jayhawks (30-8). They missed an amazing 18 of 30. They also never really found the outside touch to force the Orangemen to guard them up high. Hinrich 
see NCAA/page 17 
-

CLUB SPORTS 

WOMENS GOLF 
The womens gymnastics team took first and the 

Notre Dame finished seventh in the Indiana::5 winning streak when they face Bowling Green 
z The [rish are looking to continue their 11-game men placed fourth at the Clover Classic last 
Invitational this weekend after battling gusty today, despite whatever weather they may also 
Saturday. Members of both teams will travel to winds and freezing temperatures. The Irish were

c= 
Austin, Texas to compete in the national competi­led by Katie Brophy, who finished 14th. 

face.
cc 
tion sponsored by the National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs. 
~ 

page 22 
page 19page 21 





