.,. 4 ~ -" ..: ... ~ ...... ... • • • ' ' ' ' .4 ..... " " -. " . 
.. . ' .. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Faculty vote to decide fate -of Core program 
the group, said George Howard, matter. better in National Academy youngnr faculty members don't By AMANDA MICHAELS director of Core and professor of After Dee. 9, aspects of the win­Science ratings, and you do that like it bocauso they would rathor 
News Wrircr 
psychology. ning proposal will by getting even teach something morn spndftc in ThP first two choiens included a be further devel­narrower special­t~ei~. o~n lie_ld. That's tho dividing 
The Corn program, a staple of Core based on the examination of oped by the Council. 'We all want to do ists. Twenty-five hne, (,uo smd. 
libnral art<> studies at Notre Dame, classical texts, and one with no The changes years ago, we have In a momo sent to the Collego
what's best for the 
may undergo sweeping changes 
requirempnts. However, Howard come amid cries of faculty members Council eommittee set up to devel­aft1•r faculty mnmbers and depart­indicated that the two most likely dissatisfaction from University, and our who had the back­op Core course proposals, the ment chairs that make up the options were for a one-semester student<>, but, more · input is just ground and intel­Core advisory committee, made 
College Council vote on the course during the sophomore year notably, from mem­lectual tastes to up of laculty members with a long
another strong point 
mursn's littn at thnir Dec. 9 meet­
ba.snd on material chosen by each bers of the faculty. view things as a association with the program,ing. faculty member, eliminating the "It's not that stu­against Core. , generalist, and that expressed their displeasurn that 
Tho curnmt Core curriculum, common core of readings, or a dents have turned is who the Core the changes made to tho program. 
olli1ring a two-semester eourse on one-semester course during the more negative, it's program "For my 40 years at Notre
Ashley Luchese most 
one broad topic, finished third of sophomore year, plus a•senior that Notre Dame's appealed to." Dame, we have always had in thn
Core Congress
limr options in a straw poll taken capstone course. The latter pro-. faculty has become Li Guo, member college a year-long course com­
at thn College Council two meet­Representative
posal would maintain the current less able to teach an of the Core faculty mon to all our student<> involvingings ago. Based upon those two-semester requirement, and intellectually broad and professor of writing and discussion and a eom­rtlsulL<>, tlw survival of Core in it<> the capstone section would allow course," said Howard. "We've just classics, agreed. mon set of texts," said Thomas prnsont lilrm was unlikely, so four 
students to delve into more gone through 25 years of depart­"Actually, I like teaching Core. 
nnw proposals wnre prPsnnted to detailed, major-related subject ments being told they have to be I'm really having fun, but the see CORE/page 4 

Retailers optitnistic about holiday shopping 
By ANDREW THAGARD A'>.~istant News Editor 
It's bnginning to look a lot like Christmas -and local retailers, who enjoyed a prol"itable Thanksgiving weekend and pre­diet high volumes throughout the holiday season, couldn't be happier. 
For the past two y11ars the economic recession has con­vinced many consumers to tighten their bnlts and curb hol­iday spending, something that Mark Eagan, president and CEO of tlw St. Joseph County Chamb11r of Commerce, expocts will ehange this year. 
"The past few. years ~av?, seen a dncrease m spnndmg, l~n said. "This year all sir,ns are lor a very strong season. 
Salns ovnr Thanksgiving wnnknnd at the University Park Mall wnre high, said General Manager Sara Zappia, who attributed the increase over pnwious years to a higher lnvel of eonsurnnr confidence and rnpairs made to Grape Hoad and Main Street that make trav­eling to the mall less of a has­sle. 
"We've seen a steady increase since the beginning of the fourth quarter and that's car­ried over to the start of the holi­day season," she said. "In talk-

Health Services treats record numbers 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG News Writer 
Ht1cord numbers of students fell sick in the days before Thanksgiving as a flu-like bug cireulatnd around campus, and University Health Center offi­cials said thny strugglnd under the load of hundreds of students seeking help and nwdieation. 
Thn llealth Centnr, which reg­ularly sees :{00 to 400 patients wenkly, saw almost I ,000 in the wn11k nnding Nov. 22 and anoth­nr 700 tlw week bnfore that. 
"t\pproxirnatPly I ,500 stu­dnnts prnsentlld with upper res­piratory disonl!ws" in that two­week span, said Ann Kleva, director of llealth Services, and about 250 were eventually treated specifically for influen­za. 
"My staff has been working unbelievably well as a team, pitching in and working over­time and covering for each other to mPet the needs of all the students who streamed in" she said. Students often faced long linPs before evPn being seen by a nurse. 
Freshman Katie Gallagher waited at least 20 minutes to be treated in the Health Center Nov. 24. She had bonn sick since the previous Thttrsday, she said, but her friends had finally convinced hPr to be treated. 
"I missed all my Friday class­es," she said. "I couldn't get ofi' the futon." 
Gallagher said that she made up material she missed with her calculus professor, but her other professors didn't seem to care. 
Some professors said they had not noticed significant numbers of absences over the week. 
"Everyone has been in class," said Pit-Mann Wong, a calculus professor. 
Chemistry professor Graham Lappin agreed, saying he had noticed no ehange in his class' attendam~e. lie added, however, that his sBetion "is eomposed mostly of' engineers; I think most of them are tough and will stick something like that out." 

Still, students affected by the circulating illnesses must take care, Kleva said. 
"Supportive measures, ade­quate hydration, rest and time are the core factors in recov­ery," said Kleva. "[We] only wish there were more they could do to make the students feel more comfortable." 
Students who still want or need a flu shot can visit llealth Services' Web site to find area locations where they are being offered. · 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l @nd.edu 
BoARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Officers debate roles 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Ollicers debated the role of Notre Dmnn and lloly Cross stu­dent government representa­tives to the Board of Govnmancn at Monday's menting, with mem­bers disagreeing about the three inter-eampus positions that exist. 
Some board members claimed the three ollices are rndundant, while others said they provide a uniqun perspective f(Jr the board in it<> dndsion-making process. 
Thn rn-nvaluation of thn cross­campus positions eamn amidst a year-long el'l'ort by BOG to revamp the existing Student Government Association Constitution. Under the current document, a rnpresentativn from both Notre Damn and lloly Cross attends tho weekly BOG meet­ings and holds full voting privi­leges. A Saint Mary's rnprnsnnta­tivn then attnnds Notre Dame student senate meetings. The Saint Mary's representative, however, is unable to votn. Board members discussed whether BOG should relinquish the vote lbr the vL<>iting represen­tatives. 
"I didn't rnalizn we didn't votn over there; I thought Lindsay's position was a voting position," said alumnae commissioner Anna Baum~ "I think it says a lot about the eoopnration bntween the schools. I don't think we should do it out of vengnancn ... but the positions should be rndproeal." 
Junior dass prnsidont Sarah Cathorinn Brown nxprnssnd hnr diseomlhrt at t.he idmt of a Notrn Dame or lloly Cross student. 
see BOG/page 4 


ing to our retailers, they said sales were up across the board." 
According to Zappia, popular items for this year include apparel, gill items and electron­ics. Both she and Eagan said the consumer focus is broader this year, compared to past sea­sons that were dominated with a particular "must have" toy or electronic. 

"l don't think there's one national trend," Eagan said. 
see RETAIL/page 4 
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
ResLife lockdown 
It has now been two weeks since the University locked me out of my own house for a day and a half. 
Well, that is not completely fair. They left one door, not quite unlocked, but breachable with a swipe of a card ­
Matthew
the one door they judged to be the Smedberg 
one most traveled through; but they prohibited all Wire Editor entrance through my house's many 
other doors. 
They did this without consulting me or any other person who lived there. They did this to my house and 26 other houses on campus. 
They did this "for my safety" -to prevent anyone whom I do or do not know from coming in and stealing my things -never mind that hundreds of alumni, visitors and random well-wish­ers flock through my house despite all the "security" measures, let in by me and my pack of ever-trusting and gen­erous housemates. 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing deemed it intolerable that dorms were accessible to anyone wielding the ID card of a resident, and his or her birth date, through any of that dorm's doors. No, the only entrants should be one wielding such a card and such a birth date, through one door to be determined from on high. Is this not a little absurd? A little -dare I say it -overprotective? 
Frankly, I am tired of Reslife putting all these restrictions on when and how I can and cannot go into my own house. (I need not remind my reader that I, being a guy, have it far easier in this regard than my companions of the fairer sex.) 
There is a lock on my door. That lock has an induplicable key which opens it, and a solid wood door between the room and the hallway: If I wish to cor­don off my space, I am perfectly capa­ble of doing so. 
Why, then, spin an extra layer of false "security" around the dorm, in the process making life unseasonably diflicult for those of us who do, in fact, have every right to come and go from it? 
While visiting a female friend last year, I saw this slogan plastered across . the wall of her hallway: "Would you leave your home unlocked? Then don't leave your room unlocked either!" I was surprised, because I would indeed leave my home unlock-ed, as does the rest of my family. 
It is more important to me that I send a message of welcome and hospi­tality, whether I act as part of my bio­logical family or my University family, than that I give rise to paranoia and "trust not thy neighbor as thyself." 
It says a lot to me that the University will accept any donations from alumni and friends, but will no longer wel­come them in, even to the very build­ings which they called home in years past. I, for one, say "Roll out the wel­come mat: Let them all come in!" 
Matthew Smedberg can be reached at smedberg.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
"Members take time ro develop issues, ideas" in the Mon., Nov. 24 Srudem Government section ofThe Ob;etver, stated that member.; ofthe Division on Student LiJe ofthe Office ofthe Student Body President met with reptesemarives ofthe Counseling Center. The anide should !me1k!id that they met with adminisoatOtS fiom University Health Services. The Ob;etver regrets the error. The Oi:lsern:r regards itselfas a professional publication and strive; lOr the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, howev­er, recognize that we will ntake mistakes. Ifwe have made amis­take, please mmaa us ar 631-4541 rowe can mrrect our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE FOOTBALL GAME S4TURDAY? 






my hero." time." 
IN BRIEF 

International Student Services and Activities will present the Russian film "Russian Ark," in subtitles, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center tonight. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Class of 2006 will sponsor a blood drive in the LaFortune Ballroom today from 11 a.m. to 3 
p.m. today. 
The Higgins Center Labor Film Series will continue Wednesday evening with a screening of "Cappuccino Trail" at 4 p.m. The film will be followed by a discussion led by political science professor Layna Mosley. The event, which is fre{l to the public, will be held in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
The Inner-City Teaching Corps will hold an informational session Wednesday from 4:30 until 5:30 
p.m. and again from 7 -8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will present its annual production of Handel's Messiah from Wednesday until Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets, which are available at the LaFortune Box Oflice, are $6 for reserved seats and $3 for studenL'>. 
Howard Hall will present its "Howard HALL-iday," a cam­pus-wide tree decorating con­test and marshmallow roast. The event, which is open to all of campus, will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. in front of Howard Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

33 27 

HIGH LOW 

Keith Harwood  Paul Critser  Adam Kaufmann  Patrick Ross  Jen Herdman  Brigid Kelly  
Junior  Senior  Junior  Junior  Junior  Junior  
O'Neill Hall  Off-campus  Off-campus  Offcampus  Holy Cross Hall  Holy Cross  
"!guess God  "Jones for  ''I'm glad  "I haven't seen  "Julius Jones is  'It's about  

really does love Reisman." Tyrone has no our team score us more. problem crush-like that since ing his former Spring 2001." team on senior day. .. 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 

Students returned to campus from Thanksgiving break Sunday with work waiting to be done. Many headed to the LaFortune Student Center to prepare for the last days of classes before finals begin. 
OFFBEAT 

The popular Israeli TV series has brought fame to its hero, the hapless Steve Frankel, though not in the role he believed he was play­ing. 
"We decided to take the story of an actor in a soap opera and follow him get­ting the role, and base it around life behind the scenes in the world of show business, from unknown to star," Shilon said. 
"In fact, he isn't a star, but he becomes a star by default because of being the victim of this hoax," Shilon said. 
lnfo·rmation compiled from the Associated Press. 
Christian fish,
Muslim sharks swim 
through Cairo traffic 
CAIRO, Egypt-First came the fish bumper stickers, imported from the United States and pasted on cars by members of Egypt's Coptic minority as a symbol of their Christianity. Before long, some Muslims responded with their own bumper stick­ers: fish-hungry sharks. 
It's not exactly war at sea, but the competing symbols that have cropped up on Cairo streets are a tiny reminder of the tensions between Egypt's Copts and majority Muslims. Some Christians are annoyed at the Muslim response. 
"All I wanted to say is that I expressing my Coptic identi­ty," said 25-year-old Miriam Greiss, who has a fish sticker on her car. "I think choosing a shark doesn't make sense, as if someone is saying, 'I am a violent, bloody creature, look at me."' 
am  a  Christian,  kind  of  
TODAY  
a::  


Israel debuts "The 
Steve Show" 

TEL AVIV -Take a bit actor yearning for stardom, a cheeky director, and cam­eras hidden in the actor's limo and makeup room. 
The result is "The Steve Show," an audacious piece of reality TV with a twist: the star had no idea he was being filmed, and the pro­ducers had no gtiarantee he would allow the show to go on the air. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
u.l 
:::1: 
!(( 
u.l 
== 
....I 
c( 
CJ 

0 
HIGH 36
...I LOW 20 

HIGH LOW 


37 21 

HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Me111bers discuss Student Union Board_ restructuring 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
The Council of Hepresentatives con­vennd Monday evening to discuss deadlinns for the restructuring of stu­dnnt govMmnent, but little progress was made. 
Student loaders continued last wnek's discussion of when to finalize the new constitution for the Student Union, which has been in tho works for months, hut no solid dates emerged. Student body vice president .Jernmy Lao said the council wasn't rna.dy to sot a firm deadline. "That final date is still up in the air," he said. 
Scnnn mnrnbnrs of the council, like Studnnt Union Board manager Charlie Ebersol, criticized the council's failure to set a dlladlinc. "We are really, real­ly not in a good position right now," Ebnrsol said. "Wn need to choose a mode~ I this week." 
Several possible models have been diseussnd at council mnetings "We need more 
and unoff'i­
money for better 
eial working 
groups, and programming ,, on more are in campus. the works. 
I> o n 
Jeremy Lao
Norton, 

student body
chairman of t h e vice president Financial 
Management Board, said that he and several unnamed members arc still working on th{~ir proposal. "Before we bring it to the table, we want to have as many questions answered as possi­ble," Norton said. 

Ebersol criticized what he called the work of "a secret group," and demanded that the proposals be debated openly and promptly. "We only have one more meeting this semester," he said. "We need to get this done." 
In other Council news: 
+Lao announced that his report to the University's Board of Trustees in February will focus on funding big­ticket programming. In his first report 

to the board as president, he will pro­pose creating an endowment that will be used to fund expensive concerts, speakers, and other events. "We need more money for better programming on campus," Lao said. He also announced the creation of a commit­tee to help develop the proposal, and expressed optimism about his plan. "I think there's good potential that this could get done," he said. 
+A special task force is continuing its discussions with athletic officials regarding basketball and football tick­eting. Season tickets for the men's basketball games sold out quickly, and many students were left without seats. In addition, the group is looking into allegations of hostile or unfair treat­ment of students caught throwing marshmallows at football games. Hall Presidents Council chair Sarah Keefer said the group is in contact with assis­tant athletic director .Jim Fraleigh and coordinator of stadium personnel Cappy Gagnon. 
+ Keri Oxley spoke to the couneil about the Center for Social Concerns' upcoming Social Concerns Festival. The fair will bring together "all the different servic~-1 organizations and social justice groups on campus," she said. Oxley urged council members to raise awareness about the festival among their constituents, as atten­dance at the annual event has declined for the past two years. The festival will be held at the esc on Jan. 21 from 7 to 9 p.m. 
+Lao announced the appointment of his new chief of staff. Patrick Corker, currently director of communication for the office of the president, will become chief of staff at the end of the semester, when student body presi­dent Pat Hallahan graduates. Corker will replace Emily Chin, who will become student body vice president. Corker pledged to continue Chin's work. "I really want to continue the initiatives Emily's been working on," Corker said. "She's done a wonderful job." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu. 

-
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 

page4 The Observer + NEWS 
Core 
continued from page 1 
Scwartz, member of the advisory committee and professor of eco­nomics and policy studies. "The proposed changes are radically different, and a radical departure over what we've done in my life at the college. I'll be saddened to see the loss of that common experience for our sophomores." 
The student interests in the ordeal are voiced by the Core 
Retail 
continued from page 1 
The increased spending is good news for area retailers but Eagan warned that as a result consumers should expect fewer discounts and sales that begin later into the holiday season. 
Sales at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore over the Thanksgiving weekend were lower compared to other retail­ers, but this is not surprising since the campus is closed for the holiday, said Hedge Harridge, manager of special events and community rela­tions. 
"We're really unique because our store doesn't typically fol­low mall store [trends]." she said. 
The busiest day for the book­store is generally Saturday, Dec. 
20. On this day, the store hosts an open house complete with carols, Christmas stories read by University President Father Congress, made up of student representatives from each Core class, who were able to meet with faculty members and offer suggestions on how to improve the program. 
"The faculty members were very warm and accepting of our opinions," said representative Ashley Lucchese. "We all want to do what's best for the University, and our input is just another strong point against Core." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Edward Malloy and a Santa's workshop where children can make arts and crafts. The book­store is donating a percentage of the profits earned on this day to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
This week, the store also expects increased traffic due to faculty, staff and student appre­ciation days where those affili­ated with the University receive a discount of 25 percent and enjoy free gift-wrapping. Faculty and staff can redeem their discount on Tuesday and Wednesday and students on Thursday and Friday, Harridge said. 
Eagan, Zappia and Harridge said that business generated from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities boosts sales but the small size of the two institutions diminishes the effect. 
"St. Joseph County helps with spending," Eagan said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
BOG 
continued from page 1 

casting the tie-breaking vote on an issue relevant only to the Saint Mary's student body. Student Body President Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl said it seemed irrational for such an officer to vote on financial allocations that pertained solely to Saint Mary's. 
Other officers agreed and ques­tioned whether a representative both to and from Notre Dame is even necessary. 
Lindsay Evans, the current Saint Mary's representative to Notre Dame, admitted that the positions might be redundant. She said that she and Notre Dame representa­tive Allison Ferber know the same information and simply cut it in half to convey to fellow BOG offi­cers as a formality. The advan­tages of having representatives between the schools however, should not be overlooked, she said. 
"I see both sides of this," Evans said. "Times when I feel I should be able to vote and when I think they should be able to vote because students use both cam­puses." 
Public relations commissioner Stephanie Patka expressed con­cern that eliminating the repre­sentatives' ability to vote at BOG meetings would undermine the positions and minimize the partici­pation of those officers. 
"What does it imply when we say we want them to stay active but don't want them to vote?" Patkasa1d. 
She added that BOG should establish its own stance on the subject, not turn to Notre Dame for answers. 
"If we are looking to Notre Dame for the standards, that takes away from the character of this board," Patka said. 
Board members chose not to make a final vote on the issue at Monday's meeting. Instead, they will continue the discussion next week and examine the possibility of creating a new position of Saint Mary's representative to Holy Cross. 
In Other BOG News: 
+ 
Holy Cross College is hosting a Toys for Tots auction Thursday, Dec. 4 at 8 p.m. The event, which will include items such as home­baked goods, laundry service and dinner dates, will raise money to purchase Christmas gifts for local underprivileged children. 

+ 
SGA is sponsoring its first bus trip to Chicago on Saturday. Tickets, which are free, will be available starting today at 11 a.m. at the Haggar front desk. Students can receive two tickets per ID. 



Contact Megan O'Neil at oneil0907@saintmarys.edu 
U-WIRE 




Bill would study textbook prices 
By MARNETTE FEDERIS 
The Guardian 

LA JOLLA, Calif. -In response to reports alleging that college textbooks used in the United States sell for as low as half the price in other coun­tries, Rep. David Wu, D-Ore., introduced legislation to the 
U.S. House of Representatives on Nov. 20 that would require an investigation of textbook pricing practices. The bill would ask the U.S. General Accounting Office to determine why American college students are paying more for textbooks compared to students overseas. 
"The price of college tuition is rising to unprecedented lev­els, making it difficult for fami­lies to send kids to college," said Wu's press secretary Cameron Johnson. "There were a number of press reports that came out saying that a lot of textbooks were available for half the amount overseas." 
The New York Times report­ed on Oct. 21 that textbooks cost far less in other countries. These books are available for purchase online, and with the rise of college tuitions, many students are looking to order the cheaper textbooks abroad. 

ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 CoMPILED FROM TliE 0BSERVER'SWIRE sERVICES page 5 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Researcher guilty in plague case 
LUBBOCK. Texas -A jury on Tuesday found a researcher guilty of 47 of the 69 charges he faced after reporting samples of plague bacteria had been stolen from his Texas Tech University lab. 
Thomas Butler, 62, closed his eyes, shook his head and appeared to fight back tears as the verdicts were read after two days of deliberations. 
The charges stemmed from an investiga­tion following his report to police Jan. 14 that 30 vials of the potentially deadly plague bacteria-the Black Death-were missing. 
The report sparked a bioterrorism scare in this west Texas city in January, and President Bush was informed of the incident. 
In a statement written later, Butler said he accidentally destroyed the samples. 
The professor declined to comment after­ward. His attorney, Chuck Meadows, said: "We are disappointed that the jury did not acquit Tom of all the charges. We're going to analyze the jury's verdict." 
Post-Sept. II registration ends 
WASIIINGTON -The government is scrapping a rule imposed after the Sept. 11 attacks that n~quired men and boys from countries with sus­pected links to terrorism to register multiple times with U.S. officials. 
The rule forced tens of thousands of Middle Easterners and others visiting America to provide personal information to government officials. 
Asa Hutchinson, the Homeland Security Department's undersecretary for border and transportation security, said a new registration system that will apply to more foreigners will be in place next month, making the current pro­h'ram unnecessary. 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mideast peace accord launched 
GENEVA -Hundreds of Israelis and Palestinians joined Nobel Peace Prize winners Monday for a ceremony filled with song and hope, celebrating an unofficial peace accord intended to guide their peoples out of conflict. 
The "Geneva accord," negotiated over almost three years by former Israeli and Palestinian officials. tackles the issues that have torpedoed other peace efforts: the fate of Israeli settlements, the borders of a Palestinian state, the status of Jerusalem and Palestinian refugees. 
"The alternative, and the only alternative, to this initiative is sustained and permanent vio­lence," former President Jimmy Carter told the conference. "It is unlikely that we shall ever see a more promising foundation for peace." 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat sent a mes­sage calling the accord "a brave and coura­geous initiative ... that opens the door to peace." However, he did not explicitly endorse the agreement, which has been opposed by Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and con­demned by Palestinian militants. 
The agreement envisions a Palestinian state based roughly on the borders before the 1967 Mideast war. Most Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip would be disman­tled. It divides sovereignty in Jerusalem, but avoids a large-scale return to Israel by Palestinians who fled or were driven out in the 1948-49 war that followed Israel's creation. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Results in delayed execution awaited 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana State Police are still awaiting laboratory results on blood samples in the case of a convicted murderer whose execution was postponed so the evi­dence could be tested. 
Tina Noel, a spokeswoman for Gov. Joe Kernan, said Monday that a private laborato­ry hired to conduct DNA tests on blood evi­dence found on Darnell Williams' clothing was nearly finished with the testing. 
"We expect that the results will be here very soon," Noel said. 
IRAQ 

Insurgency shows signs ofcentral funding 
Pattern ofattacks indicates connection among rebel groups, U.S. officials say 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The Iraqi insurgency in Baghdad appears to have a central leadership that finances attacks in the capital and gives broad orders to eight to 12 rebel bands-some with as many as 100 guerrillas, 
U.S. Army generals said Monday. 
Decisions on individual 
attacks against U.S. occupa­
tion forces in the capital, 
however, are left up to the 
men who carry them out, 
said Brig. Gen. Martin 
Dempsey. 
There is still no sign of a military-style command structure in the city or in Iraq as a whole, Dempsey told a group of reporters in an unusually detailed account of the Iraqi insurgency. 
''I'm increasingly of the belief that there's central financial control and central communications," said Dempsey, who commands the Army's 1st Armored Division, which controls Baghdad and the surround­ing region. 
The division's picture of the insurgency has grown clear­er as its intelligence gather­ing has improved, he said. Last month, the Army round­ed up what Dempsey believes is one of the guerrilla cells blamed for attacks in Baghdad, including the Oct. 26 rocket strike on the Al­

Rasheed Hotel that occurred November. Dempsey said he -even to U.S. intelligence learned in an interview with during the stay of Deputy believes the lull stems from a and military officials. the 4th !D's leadership. Defense Secretary Paul leader's ordering guerrillas to American officials have said The 1st Armored Division Wolfowitz. lie low during the Army's anti-coalition guerrillas has been tracking Baghdad 
Although Dempsey spoke current offensive, "Operation showed evidence of regional insurgents using a computer about the Baghdad opera­Iron Hammer." control, but little has been database that catalogs infor­tion, an ambush Sunday in A yet-unidentified central made public about those net­mation on rebels and dia­the town of Samarra north of leadership appears to give works, or to indicate individ­grams links among insur­the capital also showed guerrilla cells broad orders ual bands were linked in the gents, Dempsey said. The heightened coordination. U.S. such as, "Go attack the coali­way Dempsey described. database has proven useful forces successfully routed a tion," Dempsey said. A look at the rebel move­in identifying insurgent group of about 50 fighters He said he believes the ment north of Baghdad groups forming in the city's who laid in wait at banks and manner of attack is left up to appears in a November 88 neighborhoods. ambushed two American the individual cells, as long as report from Anthony Later this week, the divi­convoys carrying Iraqi cur­the efforts disrupt and dis­Cordesman, an Iraq expert sion will embark on an anti­rency, killing dozens of Iraqis. credit the U.S.-led coalition with the Center for Strategic smuggling and corruption 
In Baghdad, rebel attacks and any progress it has and International Studies in drive aimed at breaking have come in waves that made. Washington. Some 70 per­financial links to the capital's Dempsey said appear to start "There's clearly some cen­cent to 80 percent of insur­insurgent groups. The opera­when an order is given. The tral communications," he gents captured by the 4th tion, dubbed "Operation Iron Iraqi capital has been quiet said. Infantry Division are paid Justice," aims at smugglers in recent weeks, after a The insurgency's members attackers. mostly criminal of gasoline, cooking fuel and series of attacks in early and leaders remain unclear elements, Cordesman said he other items, Dempsey said. 

Court to consider government reach 
if the decision by the 9th U.S. Circuit torture and questioning to find out what 
Associated Press 

Court of Appeals in San Francisco were he knew about a drug cartel. 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court allowed to stand, it would jeopardize The doctor, who spent more than two agreed Monday to decide if people U.S. efforts "to apprehend individuals years in prison, was acquitted and working for the U.S. government can who may be abroad, plotting other ille­sought millions of dollars in damages covertly arrest suspects in other coun­gal attacks" in the United States. from the U.S. government and five or tries, a case the Bush administration For example, he said, federal agents six Mexicans hired by the government said was a key test of America's terror­could not bring Osama bin Laden to to abduct him. fighting powers. America from his presumed hideout Attorneys for Dr. Humberto Alvarez­
The justices will review a lower court near the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier Machain accused the government of decision critical of such law enforce­to face charges in the Sept. 11 attacks. overplaying the threat to prosecutions ment actions. In appealing that ruling, The appeals court sided with a of terrorist suspects. the administration said kidnappings of Mexican gynecologist who was abduct­"The question is, should the govern­suspects in uncooperative countries are ed 13 years ago and brought to the ment be able to go and round up people very rare but sometimes are needed to United States to stand trial in the tor­in foreign countries, without a legal ensure justice and protect national ture death of a U.S. drug agent, Enrique basis," said Erwin Chemerinsky, a law security. Camarena-Salazar. He was accused of professor at University of Southern 
Solicitor General Theodore Olson said keeping the agent alive for extended California. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
ITALY 
U.N. clitnate conference opens atnid doubts 
Associated Press 
MilAN -A U.N. conference on 
climate change opened Monday, 
with organizers stressing there 
was "unquestionable" scientific 
proof that human beings caused 
global warming. 
The meeting was clouded by new doubts that the U.S.-rejected Kyoto pact on curbing green­house gas emissions would ever go into effect. 
Italian Environment Minister Altero Matteoli, the conference host, said in opening remarks he would rather have welcomed del­egates to a conference on a Kyoto agreement already in force. But with Russia now signaling it will not join the pact, the opportunity appeared lost. 
"But this does not mean that our commitment and our work to strengthen the global strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emis­sions and to strengthen the adap­tation of the planet's most vulner­able regions to climate change should be weakened," he said. 
The Kyoto Treaty, negotiated in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, sets a 2012 target of cutting green­house gas emissions by 8 percent below 1990 levels. Greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels, trap the Sun's heat and are held responsi­ble for global warming. 
The Bush administration rejected the treaty in 2001, say­ing the cuts would unfairly harm the U.S. economy. The president also questioned the science behind the restrictions proposed in Kyoto, and called for more studies. 
The United States is sending a delegation to the conference that includes the U.S. Undersecretary for Global Affairs Paula Dobriansky and U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration chief retired Vice Adm. Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr. 
In a telephone interview ahead of the conference, Lautenbacher said scientists differ among themselves about how much of global warming can be blamed on humans. 
"Climate science is at the beginning of its life," he said. "I do believe we need more scientif­ic info before we commit to a process like Kyoto." 
Hungarian Environment Minister Miklos Persanyi, the conference chairman, urged del­egates to stay on course because "we should never forget that human-induced global environ­mental change presents a risk to our common future." 
He said scientific data to be presented during the meeting would show that greenhouse gasses are steadily increasing, and that "the link between the higher concentration of these gases in the atmosphere and human activities causing these emissions is already unquestion­able." 
To take effect, the Kyoto pact must be ratified by at least 55 countries, including those responsible for causing 55 per­cent of world greenhouse gas emissions in 1990. With the United States out, that minimum can be reached only with Russian participation. 
JAPAN 

Surrogate-born twins denied citizenship 
Associated Press 

AKASHI -A year after Yasunao and Yoko Kondo sub­mitted paperwork to register their newborn twins for citi­zenship, the couple's sons are still foreigners. 
As far as the government is concerned, the twins aren't Japanese. 
After years of trying to have children on their own, the Kondos, who are in their 50s, had gone to a California fertil­ity clinic that introduced them to an egg donor and an American surrogate mother. In October of last year, the Kondos became parents of twin boys. 
The government saw it dif­ferently. Japan has no laws on surrogate births, so officials ruled the boys are not the couple's children. 
The two sides are now in a legal fight over the couple's parental rights -and are testing a legal system that made no provision for births using modern fertility tech­niques. 
Yasunao Kondo, a slight, nervous man, says he and his wife are demanding full rights as parents and citizenship for their sons. 
"We want this whole idea of the parent-child relationship reviewed," says Kondo, 53, who wrote a book about California's surrogacy laws while studying for a Ph.D. there and now teaches junior high school in Akashi, 270 miles west of Tokyo. 
"We will probably lose. This is not a society that can be easily changed by ordinary people," he adds. "But is that a reason not to try?" 
How their ordeal ends could 

sway Japan's debate on surro­
gate births and affect thou­
sands of childless Japanese 
couples who seek help from 
fertility clinics overseas every 
year. 
Surrogate births involve removing an egg for fertiliza­tion and implanting it in another woman who carries the baby to birth. While such births are commonplace in nrany developed countries, Japan is not known to have had one until a doctor announced one in May 2001. 
After that, the Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology set ethical standards restrict­ing in-vitro insemination to married couples and opposing any surrogate births. 
The government is now drawing up legislation that would outlaw surrogate births and impose criminal penalties, based on a health ministry panel's recommendation earli­er this year. The panel also urged that egg and sperm donations be illegal. 
Every year, about 12,000 Japanese babies -one in every 100 -are conceived through some sort of fertility treatment, according to gov­ernment statistics. 
Pro-surrogacy doctors and activists say a ban on surro­gate births would severely limit the options for many childless couples, forcing them to clintinue seeking fertility help abroad. A ban also would undercut Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's attempts to reverse the nation's record­low birth rate, at 1.32 births per woman last year, they say. 
"In reproductive assistance treatment, the rights of the parents, family and other cooperating parties to make their own decision should be respected as much as possi­ble," Fertility Rights of Mothers, a Tokyo-based organization, said in a policy statement issued in November. 
Advocates of a ban say a woman's body shouldn't be a reproductive tool. Surrogate mothers often sign on to earn money, not out of good will, they say. 

"An overwhelming majority of the women around the world who offer to be surro­gates are socially deprived. It's a cruel abuse of women who give up their motherhood to make money," says Dr. Hisako Watanabe, a Keio University medical school pro­fessor who was on the health ministry's panel. "Just because other countries have legalized it doesn't mean Japan should." 
With few Japanese doctors willing to offer surrogacy services, many couples unable to have children have gone to the United States, South Korea and other countries that have well-established practices. 
Most couples who return with surrogate children are able to escape challenge from the government. But the Kondos were snared by a 40­year-old regulation that requires checks on children of couples over age 50. 
"This is the first application the government has stopped for this, though there were probably cases like this in the past," a Justice Ministrv offi­cial, Yoshikazu Nemura, "said. 
Christ the King Lutheran Church 17195 CI9Villall<J"RoM ,. South Bend (574) 272-4306 



Sunday WorShip and Communion 
$;30.AM 
U~AM 
6:00 P¥.,.Free Ligli.t SupperAfterwards 
fft¢T~nforND/StMmy'uwdc!!tS• ~Call~~1~306w Ca11Ch¢lt¢r cab ;:$s-7777 ptef~Jy by s&turd&y llldat1-OIIC! hour bempidt up. 

P~ Ce-Ylter for SocU:iWCOY\.CeVVW 
C~tl~ (pO"Ofl,pyovLd.e,d,) 
'RSVP: 1 ~6841 by V~ 11it 
Presented by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
* * *k 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9 899.05 +116.59
jones ' 
A_ Same: • Composite Volume:
rG7' 151 1,342,402,944 
AMEX 1,112.55 ' +14.45 NASDAQ 1,989.82 +29.56 NYSE 6,147.35 +74.33 S&PSOO 1,070.12 +11.92 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 10,403.27 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,410.00, +67.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.51 +0.13 25.84 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRQ +5.77 +0.12 2.20 CISCO SYmMS (CSCO) +2.11 +0.48 23.18 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +4.08 +0.49 12.51 INTEL CORP (INTQ +1.49 +0.50 34.04 
Treasuries 

30-YEARBOND +0.62 +0.32 5 1.58 I()..YEAR NOTE + 1.67 +0.72 43.92 5-YEARNOTE +2.63 +0.88 34.39 3-MONTH BILL -I. 21 -0. I I 8. 97 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.46  29.95  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  +5.80  403.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  +0.55  88.625  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  109.5  
EURO  0.8361  
POUND  0.582  

IN BRIEF 
Euro reaches all-time high in Asia 
FRANKFURT. Germany :........ The euro rode to a new all-time high against the U.S. dollar Munday on fears about the U.S. budget and trade deficits, then slipped back in European and U.S. trading. 
The 12-natiun currency hit $1.2039 in trad­ing in Asia, pushing past the previous high of $1.2015 reached Friday. But by late in the day in Europe, it had fallen back to $1.1982, and in late New York trading the euro was quoted at $1.1976, down from $1.1987 late Friday. 
The dollar also gained ground against most other major currencies in late New York trad­ing. 
The euro has risen steadily against the dol­lar because of concerns about the large twin 
U.S. deficits, which economists say can under­mine a country's currency in the long term. 
Currency analyst Armin Mekelburg at HVB Group in Munich said the euro was likely to easn following its recent sharp rise. "It was too quick, too much." he said. 
The euro has risen 14 percent since the beginning of this year and about 4 percent over the past month. 
Dollar, gold up in Europe 
LONDON -The U.S. dollar rose against other major currencies in European trading late Monday, after having sunk to a new low against the euro in Asia. Gold rose. 
The euro was quoted at $1.1976 in late European trading, down from $1.1995 Friday. Later, in midday trading in New York, the euro traded at $1.1941. In earlier trading in Asia, the surging euro hit a record $1.2039. 
The 12-country currency has risen because of concerns about large U.S. trade and budget deficits. 
Other dollar rates in Europe, compared to late Sunday, included 109.50 Japanese yen, up from 109.40; 1.2962 Swiss francs, up from 1.2908; and 1.3028 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2992. 
The British pound was quoted at $1.7216, down from $1.7221. 
In midday trading in New York, the dollar bought 109.65 yen, and the pound was worth $1.7201. 
Gold traded in London at $398.20 bid per troy ounce, up from $397.50 on Friday. 
Roy Disney resigns from Disney 
Disney ally follows suit, both criticize Michael Eisner and call for his resignation 
Associated P~ss 
LOS ANGELES -A key ally joined Roy Disney in resigning from the Walt Disney Co. board Monday, becoming the second vocal opponent of chairman and chief executive Michael Eisner to quit in two days. 
Stanley Gold issued a long rebuke to Eisner and the Disney board Monday, sec­onding complaints made Sunday by Roy Disney and further criticizing the board as a rubber stamp to senior management. 
Gold also repeated Disney's calls for Eisner to resign. 
"It is clear to me that this board is unwilling to tackle the difficult issues I believe this company continues to face," Gold wrote. Among the problems, he said, were "the cannibalization of cer­tain company icons for short-term gain, the enor­mous loss of creative talent over the last years, the absence of succession plan­ning and the lack of strate­gic focus." 
Gold's resignation comes as Disney's board begins two days of meetings in New York. 

Gold played a key role along with Roy Disney in 1984 to save the company from a takeover attempt and install Eisner as chair­seven years, according to The board's presiding one of the highest-grossing man. He heads Shamrock The Wall Street Journal. director, former Sen. movie studios. Holdings, which manages which first reported the George Mitchell, said in a But Eisner has taken heat Roy Disney's investments. story. statement Sunday he for what critics see as 
But Gold's role has been "It is my sincere belief regretted Disney's actions micromanaging leadership diminished over the past that it is you that should be and confirmed that the gov­style. Detractors also accuse two years as he has become leaving and not me," Disney ernance and nominating him of presiding over a more of a critic of Eisner's told Eisner in the letter. committee recently "brain drain" that saw top performance. He accused Eisner of informed Disney that the executives leave the compa­
Disney, 73, is the last fam­"muzzling" his voice on the age-limit rule, instituted ny over the past 10 years, ily member active in the board. last year, should apply to including former studio company, founded in 1923 "Michael, I believe your him. chief Jeffrey Katzenberg, by his uncle Walt and his conduct has resulted from A call to Roy Disney on Steven Bollenbach, who father, Roy Disney, who was my clear and unambiguous Sunday was not immediate­now heads the Hilton Corp., the business manager. He statements to you and the ly returned. A message also and most recently Paul also is quitting as chairman Board of Directors that was left for Eisner. Pressler, who left last year of the company's animation after 19 years at the helm, Eisner is credited with to head Gap Inc. division. you are no longer the best transforming Disney from a Roy Disney's letter also 
Disney has called for person to run the Walt producer of mediocre mms blames Eisner for a loss of Eisner's resignation in the Disney Company," Disney and caretaker of two theme morale at the company and past, but the idea was wrote. parks in 1984 into a media for causing a perception rejected by the board. On His departure may have giant, whose holdings that the company "is rapa­Sunday, he sent a three­been a pre-emptive move. include five theme parks cious, soul-less, and always page letter to Eisner that because the company said around the world, the ABC­looking for the 'quick buck' criticized the chairman's he is over the mandated TV network, the ESPN rather than the long-term leadership over the past retirement age of 72. sports cable channel and value." 

Stocks surge on strong manufacturing 
Cowen Securities. 3.5 percent. The tech-dominated
Associated Press 

"I think a lot of people were off last index last closed higher on Jan. 15, 
NEW YORK -Investors sent stocks week, so they're coming in and buy­2002, at 2,000.91. surging Monday, propelling the Dow ing today,' Leone said. 'Construction The Standard & Poor's 500 index Jones industrials up more than 115 spending was good, but these ISM also reached a significant high, rising points and into the shadow of 10,000 numbers have really pushed the 11.92, or 1.1 percent, to close at after a pair of reports showed better­market up.' 1,070.12, after gaining 1.5 percent than-expected growth in the nation's The Dow closed up 116.59, or 1.2 last week. The S&P last closed higher manufacturing sector and construc­percent. at 9,899.05, following a gain on May 28, 2002, when it stood at tion spending. Retail stocks dipped last week of 1.6 percent. The last 1,074.55. although stores had solid sales over time the index of 30 actively traded 'The last two months of the year the Thanksgiving weekend. blue chip stocks closed higher was are traditionally a strong seasonal 
Investors returned to the market May 31, 2002, when it ended the day period for the market, and we've had with enthusiasm following a holiday at 9,925.30; it last closed above a strong 10 months going into it,' week of lighter trading, and the man­10,000 on May 24, 2002. said Steven Goldman, chief market ufacturing report from the Institute The Nasdaq composite index closed strategist at Weeden & Co. in for Supply Management contributed at its highest point in nearly two Greenwich, Conn. 'All in all, the mar­to their zeal. said Todd Leone, man­years, up 29.56, or 1.5 percent, at kets are moving to new recovery aging director of equity trading at SG 1,989.82, following a weekly gain of highs here." 
page 8 The Observer u PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 2, 2003 

LONDONPROG 

NEW OPTION FULLYEARINLONDON 
< • 

2004-2005 
.A¥ts c# !~l:i:ii-~ ~i1tt :Bil§i11.1§§ sttitill@fit:s t~a:' :tf<J.W choose to study for either one semester or a full year in London 

deadline 
for .full y-~E~r1 f~ll or spring semester is 

Students '\\fJJ.o have..a1teady applied may change tl1.eir preference in writing (153 Hurley H.all) or hy e-mail to Barbara.J.Toth.2@nd.edu. Students who h.a.ve. n<lt ·yet aJ.:tplied for• ton<lort•• may do so now for .anyof the options. 
For further details..: . 
contact the London ·Program or refer to the mailing you receive. 

~-------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer + NEWS 
Advisers urge Bush to drop tariffs 
Associated Press • 
White House advisers are urging President Bush to head off a global trade war by rolling back steep tariffs on imported steel, administration and industry officials said Monday. 
If he concurs -he is still reviewing the matter, the White House spokesman said -Bush risks alienating steel companies and workers in states that are important for his re-election. If he doesn't, a broad range of U.S. products could face retaliatory sanc­tions from Europe and else­where. angering other voters. 
A senior Bush adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity, said several key aides and agencies. including the office of the U.S. trade rep­resentative, have urged the president to drop the tariffs, imposed in March 2002 to ease foreign competition while the beleaguered U.S. steel industry consolidates and restructures. 
"The EU gets what it want­ed," said a steel industry offi­cial on Monday, even as the European Union renewed its threat to slap $2.2 billion in retaliatory sanctions on U.S. exports if the tariffs are not eliminated by Dec. 10. 
But White House spokesman Scott McClellan said the presi­dent had not made a final decision on the tariffs, which range from 8 percent to 30 percent on certain kinds of foreign-made steel and are currently set to expire in March 2005. 
The administration is still reviewing various options, said Hichard Mills, spokesman for 
U.S. Trade Representative Hobert Zoellick. 
"We feel it's got to come from the president. It's unoffi­cial until it does," said Rep. Joe Knollenberg, R-Mich .. a leading voice on Capitol Hill to repeal the tariffs. 
Since they were enacted last year, the tariffs have served as a flashpoint for global trade tensions that also had unin­tended consequences in this country, for steel consumers in key political states. 
Bush imposed the tariffs and fulfilled a 2000 campaign promise to traditionally Democratic voters in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania -three states the White House hopes to win in 2004. But foreign trading partners almost immediately protested, leading the World Trade Organization earlier this year to declare that the sanc­tions violate global trade rules. 
At the same time, the auto industry and other steel con­sumers in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin com­plained the tariffs hiked steel prices just as small manufac­turing companies were being hit by the slumping economy. 
"The last thing our economy needs right now is a trade war, and that's exactly what we would have gotten had the steel tariffs remained in place," Rep. Jeff Flake, R­Ariz., a free-trade advocate, said Monday. 
"We shouldn't set aside our free trade principles to satisfy a small political constituency," Flake said. 
Bush is expected to announce his decision later this week, after he completes a fund-raising swing to Michigan and to Pittsburgh ­America's "Steel City." The anticipated $1 million Pittsburgh fund-raiser Tuesday is being co-hosted by 
U.S. Steel Corp. Chairman and CEO Thomas J. Usher, who said Monday he remained hopeful the tariffs would remain in place. 
"To remove these and to buckle under to the Europeans would be a mistake -not only for steel but for manufacturing in general," Usher said. "In my opinion, the president has done an awful Jot of right things, and my expectation is that he will see the right of this." 
''I'm a natural optimist ­that's what you have to be in the steel business," Usher added. 
Industry insiders believed a small number of tariffs might be left in place on specialty steel products. But even that was beginning to look less likely Monday. 
European Union spokes­woman Arancha Gonzalez in Brussels, Belgium, said the 15­nation trading bloc would retaliate if the tariffs were not completely abolished, as demanded by the WTO. 
"The U.S. knows this," Gonzalez said. 
Yet rolling back the tariffs could also incite a backlash from Republican lawmakers­including Senate Steel Caucus Chairman Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and House Administration Committee Chairman Bob Ney of Ohio ­who urged Bush to stay the course on the three-year tar­iffs program. Without the tar­iffs, they said, low-priced for­eign steel will again flood the 
U.S. market, potentially elimi­nating thousands of steel jobs. Forty-one steel companies have declared bankruptcy since 1997, erasing more than 50,000 jobs. 
page 9 

Colorado court strikes down Republican bid 
Associated Press 
Accusing the Republicans of overreaching, the Colorado Supreme Court threw out a GOP state redis­tricting plan Monday in favor of a congressional map that gives the Democrats a better shot at retaking the narrowly divided U.S. House. 
The high court ruled 5-2 that passage of the GOP plan violated a section of the Colorado Constitution that says the state's congressional map can be redrawn only once per decade. 
The fight in Colorado is not over: The GOP plan is also being challenged in federal court. 
And with a Texas redis­tricting plan similarly tied up in court, the U.S. Supreme Court may end up deciding how often states can redraw their congressional maps. The Texas case is set to go to trial Dec. 11 in Austin. 
Colorado's seven congres­sional districts now revert to boundaries drawn up by a judge last year. 
The judge acted after state lawmakers failed to agree. But earlier this year, the Republicans pushE!d a new map through the Legislature. The issue before the high court was whether that map was illegal. 
Colorado's constitution calls for redistricting only once a decade -after each census and before the next general election -and Democrats contended that task was completed by the judge. But Republicans said the judge's map was tempo­rary and the law requires redistricting to be done by the Legislature. 
The court rejected that argument, saying: "Because the General Assembly failed to redistrict during this con­stitutional window. it relin­quished its authority to redistrict until after the 2010 census. There is no language empowering the General Assembly to redistrict more frequently or at any other time." 
The court also chastised legislators for claiming they should be able to redraw the maps "two, or even 10 times in a single decade," when federal law calls for redis­tricting only once. 
Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar, a Democrat who challenged the GOP map, pleaded with Republicans to let Monday's decision stand so candidates can get on with their campaigns. But there seemed little chance of that happening. 
"It's far from over. There's still a federal case to play out," said Carl Forti, spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. 
Colorado House Speaker Lola Spradley, a Republican, said: "In order to protect this Legislature's rights, as well as those of other state legis­latures around the country, we will now proceed to the federal courts." 
Republicans now hold five of Colorado's seven congres­sional seats, but the judge's map bolsters Democrats' changes in two of those dis­tricts. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, December 2, 2003 


Depending on reading speed, by the time you finish reading this piece, approximately two to three women will be sexually assaulted in this 
country.  
The phrase  
"Nowhere Else  Kamarla Porter  
but Notre Dame,"  
used in compli­ 
ment or criti­cism, inappropri­ately isolates our  Breaking the Habit  
campus. True,  
conditions here  

are highly conducive to a lifestyle of splendid isolation from world issues, current events and the outside com­munity. Yet the argument of environ­mental determinism only holds to a certain point, at which we must rec­ognize student and administration choices in what elements of communi­ty living receive priority. 
Issues surrounding gender relations are not only marginalized in discourse at Notre Dame, but people here choose to focus only on certain aspects of this complex topic. Debating single-sex dorms and their effect on an individual's ability to form a successful union only speaks to a narrow worldview. I would agree that the separation of the sexes, to borrow from Jewish philosopher Martin Buber, "creates gendered relation­ships of the brand in which parties view each other solely as objects." 
Student experiences of alienation from the opposite sex come from real places, yet I stress community com­plicity and misguided action in the preservation of these dynamics. The focusing on courtship -a highly indi­vidualized aspect of gender issues -I feel does us injustice and further insu­lates our community from the outside world. 
Sexual violence against women is an important and hidden issue in the United States and abroad. Over 135 million women and girls worldwide have undergone female genital muti­lation, which ranges from the removal of the clitoris to infibulation, in which a female's clitoris and labia are cut off and her vagina is sewn shut. Although this trend predominates in Middle Eastern and African countries, FGM occurs in the United States largely undetected. 

More locally, in 2002, 248,000 Americans were victims of completed or attempted rape -seven-eighths were female, and the majority of the perpetrators were intimate partners or acquaintances of the victim. The full volume of this problem cannot be grasped because most rapes -by acquaintances-occur in private spaces within relationships or are viewed as isolated problems of a union. 
Even more relevant to our campus, an estimated three percent of college women are raped yearly; 90 percent of these cases involve an intimate partner, friend or classmate. Some sources declare one in four women will be victims of sexual violence dur­ing their college careers. Notre Dame's supposed exceptionalism can­not escape the reality of sexual vio­lence. Rape, stalking, harassment and sexual coercion exist on this campus. The lack of discussion and influential institutionalized assistance concern­ing these issues only adds to their proliferation. 
The manner in which our University addresses gender and sexual violence issues is appalling. The pseudo­mandatory session concerning rape offered to first year students is insuffi­cient. Our University Health Center does not stock rape kits to facilitate immediate and easily accessible response to incidents. A woman's only sources for treatment and further specific aid lie off campus. Health Services' UB Well 2 hotline reference sheet lists no numbers for rape and sexual violence assistance. 
We need constant and institutional­ized structures to address gender issues and sexual violence. The pro­posed creation of a Gender Resource Center would be a giant leap in the right direction. The center would cre­ate permanent positions dedicated to education on gender issues, provide literature on topics of sexuality. health, sexual violence and other gen­der themes, be a haven and resource for various existing campus organiza­tions addressing women's and gender subjects, give victims of rape the local support they deserve and plan pre­ventative and educational sessions to eradicate sexual violence on our cam­pus. 
To encourage varied and substan­tive discussion of gender issues and sexual violence, I urge everyone to participate in February's V-Day cele­bration on campus in some way. The V-Day movement-"V" standing for Vagina, Victory and Valentine -is a global initiative to end all forms of violence against women through rais­ing awareness and fund raising and distributing. The crowning event on our campus will be a performance of the Vagina Monologues on Valentine's Day. 
Lastly, we need to shed our social­ized myths about sexual violence and grotesque view of gender issues. No woman-whatever her lifestyle, choice of dress, class or race ­deserves to be raped. Every man needs to take responsibility in ending violence against women. Students here must realize concerns of gender relations reach beyond questions of finding a spouse under the Dome and not all female-male interactions here uplift the humanity of women. 
Creating a world without violence against women is a movement we can all be personally invested in. Such a world, I believe would bring greater overall harmony and lay ground work for the elimination of the other mar­ginalizing ideologies dividing people in our world. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore his­tory major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. She would like to wish everyone in her dorm section and PSA a happy holiday. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
The University is considering changing the Core course. Which alternative do you prefer?  "Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever."  
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com  Napoleon Bonaparte French Emperor  


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 page 11 
Debating the price of an education 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debating same-sex marriages 
Homosexuality not an 'objective disorder' 
On Nov. 24, a Notre Dame undergraduate wrote "Attempting to live out these (Christian) virtues in the context of a homosexual relationship is a manifestation of disordered affections." 
She went on, "To be clear, I am not suggesting that homosexuals have a disor­der; I am saying that their affections, which were meant to be ordered toward the good, are disordered. There is a difference." 
Neither the rest of the letter, nor the bald assertion that there is a difference, enable me to understand what she thinks the difference amounts to. 
For example, I'm sure she wouldn't say my deafness is a disorder affecting cru­cial parts of my ear or auditory cortex, but not a disorder of mine. Deafness affects my life in very serious ways, and only rarely for the better. If someone tells me my golf swing is disordered, I assume they mean I could be a better golfer if I just shaped up. 
This stuff about despising sin but loving the sinner is way too simple to put into practice given the specific circumstances of homosexuality. It's as if one thought that homosexuality was like an addiction. But if it were, we'd need detox centers for homosexuals, maybe a special wing of the emergency room. If you think that's what's needed, have the guts to say so. 
Nor am I enlightened by the unspecified and unsubstantiated premise that there is a clearly specifiable sense of the "good" to which our affections are ordered. Gametes (egg, sperm) and genitalia are good things as far as I'm concerned. 
It is possible to do some obviously terrible things with them. I know enough biology and enough ethics to understand an argument supporting a conclusion that it is wrong to use genitalia for purposes that don't entail the possibility that a sperm will unite with an egg. 
I don't see such an argument in this letter. but standard versions of such argu­ments abound, as do standard and equally impressive rebuttals of all those argu­ments. 
Folks who like to talk about the "objective disorders" of others ought to consider the possibility that dogmatic and unsympathetic repetition of religious dogma to reject requests for equal respect and support for committed civil unions, by gay and straight couples alike, might be symptoms of an objective disorder of the intellect. Brains are even easier to abuse than genitalia. 
Wasn't the question at issue, "What specific threat to straight marriage is posed by the legalization of gay marriage?" It's not polite to ignore a direct question. Worse, it amounts to ducking a challenge to do some thinking for one's self. 
The letter raises other issues, but there are times when less is more. It's always a good idea to deal with one issue well before going on to others. 
Ed Manier class of 1953 Nov. 25 

Don't threaten non-conformists 
I'm writing in response to Lauren Galgano's Nov. 24 article against gay marriages, "Preserving Church and U.S. law." I'm tired of being threatened with eternal damnation by writers who claim to speak on behalf of Rome whenever I read the Viewpoint section. These writers are seemingly inca­
pable of making valid follows the Church's eco­arguments without nomic teachings. threatening the What's more, immortal soul of the Galgano is in good reader. company. Peter 
Galgano writes, Quaranta's recent "In conclusion, Viewpoint column please consider began, "The 83 that Dante's percent of us 'Inferno' voting Catholics reserves the and maybe hottest places even the other in Hell for 17 percent not those who in represented by a time of cri­this study are sis maintain a going to Hell." position of Quaranto both neutrality." began and ended The "Inferno" is his article, which a poem, nota admonished precious pearl of Catholics to seri­dogma, and any­ously rethink their way, couldn't support for political Galgano have made parties and presidential the same point about candidates who do not neutrality and moral subscribe to all facets of 
courage in a "culture war" only stronger by not referencing a punishment for cowardice as severe as never-ending torment? 
There are lots of things I miss about going to an ideologically diverse inner city public high school; one is that this sort of fear tactic simply wouldn't fly. In a pluralistic society, one has to defend one's claims and cannot merely assume, as Galgano ignorantly did, that her read­ership is Catholic and therefore will agree with whatever the Church supposedly has said on an issue: "If you are Catholic and most of you reading this are, you ought to be in accordance with this statement." 
Catholics can never disobey or disagree about Church teaching? That seems strange. As capitalists we rarely 
Catholic social teaching, with the friendly threat of eternal damnation. Aren't we capable of a more sophisti­cated level of discourse? I think so. Convince me. Don't threaten me. 
Anna Nussbaum sophomore Farley Hall 
Nov. 25 

We've reached the end of the begin­ning here at Oxford: the last week of Michaelmas term. With the end of a term comes more work and thus less free time, so I won't be able to provide any literary snap­shots of interesting 
Geoff Johnston 
sites in and around England. No Shakespeare. No 
A Domer al
Brussels. No Philip 
Oxford
Glass concerts (that's next week). No Alpine ski trips (also, next week). Instead, I'll talk about "top-up fees" (forewarned is forearmed): 
"Yeah, we heard about all the perks you Americans get." 
I started laughing. 
lie was talking about the Thanksgiving meal that the New College Americans had been invited to. The Warden, Alan Ryan. had been a professor at Princeton for the past decade, and he knew the importance that Americans place on Thanksgiving. So he had treated us to a turkey dinner in his lodgings. 
I responded to the above remark by pointing out how much more we Americans pay to attend university. The big issue around here right now, excepting the war in Iraq and the incessant Bush-bashing, is whether or not universities should be allowed to charge "top-up fees." There have been rallies and picket lines in London. Students talk about the legislation over their daily cups of tea in the hallways. Currently, students in Britain have to pay, at most, about 1,500 pounds­roughly 2,500 dollars-to attend any university in Britain. 
The government has proposed to allow universities to charge their stu­dents up to 3,000 pounds per year, . based upon the student's ability to pay. The first time I had heard about this controversy, I didn't believe that I had the figures correct. When I tell stu­dents how much tuition is at Notre Dame, their stares are priceless. But no, there is an uproar about having to pay, at maximum, 5,000 dollars to attend Oxford, Cambridge or any other English university. 
Certainly, there are convincing argu­ments for state-supported education. Some propose that all students should have an "equality of opportunity" to attend university and that the most practical way to achieve this equality for all strata of society is that universi­ties should be taxpayer-supported. Another argument posits that students shouldn't be forced to burden them­selves with debt, because debt might be a disincentive for choosing a rewarding but lower-paying profession. When I think of all of the Notre Dame students footing huge bills and signing for student loans, and all of the stu­dents who forego their life-long dream of becoming, say, a zoologist because of its impracticality, I admit that the flat-fee universities' scheme has defi­nite appeal. 

However, Oxford, among others. is convinced that unless it is allowed to charge fees, it will continue to fall behind the "prestigious Ivy League" universities in America. I have found that Oxford's services are, indeed, poor compared to Notre Dame's: their recre­ation facilities lack equipment (their main weight room has two bench presses), their computer rooms are tiny, and their libraries close at 10 
p.m. So, even from what I have seen, there is a funding shortage. What's to be done? 
Well, the solution that will probably be adopted is, of course, a compro­mise: universities will be allowed to charge fees, but students will not have to pay those fees unless they meet cer­tain criteria, such as earning more than 20,000 pounds a year. For those students who choose lower-paying jobs, society will pay for their educa­tion. 
What is at least as interesting as the actual fees debate is the fact that both sides refer incessantly to America as a standard of reference. For the free uni­versities position, people claim that the high costs in America are a disincen­tive to poorer students, and that there exists a two-tier system in America of rich universities and poorer ones. The proponents of top-up fees cite American universities' huge endow­ments and professors' (comparatively) lucrative salaries, they note that the United States spends a higher propor­tion of its GDP on education than almost any other country and they comment on the prestige American universities hold throughout the world. 
America seems to be the standard of reference for almost every debate, from economics to politics, from sports to entertainment. I've found that one of the most enlightening aspects of study­ing abroad is to see America "from the outside in." America looms large in almost every debate here in Britain, whether as the villain (usually) or as the exemplar. 
On a final note, did you ever wonder how foreign students perceive Notre Dame? There are three reactions when I tell students here that I attend Notre Dame: Some look puzzled, some ask, "Isn't that an Ivy League school?" and for some, their faces brighten and they ask, "Like in that movie Rudy, right?" 
For the first group, I try to explain where South Bend is. The second group I correct, saying, "Now, would I go about insulting your school?" and to the third I just shake my head and say, "Yes, like in Rudy." 
Who would've thought students here have seen Rudy? 
Geoff Johnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. lie would like to wish everyone good luck on finals and a merry Christmas. Contact him at gjohnsto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
CONCERT REVIEW 
JSomething's missing' at John Mayer concert 
By TIM MASTERTON Scene Critic 
Arena rock just isn't what it used to be. Very few musical artists belong playing in front of thousands and thousands of people or are even capa­ble of it. Among this elite group would have to be rock giants like Metallica, U2, Kiss and Bruce Springsteen. 
But just because the venues can sell thousands of tickets does not mean that an artist should be playing domes and stadiums. John Mayer fits this last statement almost perfectly. 
This tour, in support of his newest album Heavier Things, rolled into suburban Chicago's Allstate Arena, capacity 18,500, last Friday night. But the arena was not nearly this crowded, due to blocked out seats and just not selling out. 
The opening act, The Thorns, held the crowd's interest well, despite its overwhelmingly short attention span. 
Once Mayer takes the stage, again, the crowd did not respond much. 
They wanted to hear the songs they knew best, from his first album, Room for Squares, as heard on com­pact disc at home. I personally think it's better to want this and be a John Mayer fan rather than being a boy band fan, but still, a lack of apprecia­tion for music could be felt. 
Although Mayer does not have a deep musical catalog to draw from, he did mix things up as best as he could. He drew from both of his full­length albums. 
He even pointed out the fact that he was playing "deep album cuts" and that he'd get back to the songs they knew best soon enough, basically admitting he does know his audience well, in an almost cynical way. 
He played the crowd-pleasing hit "Your Body Is a Wonderland," and even I will admit I enjoyed holding on a little tighter to the girl I brought with me that night. He also played his current single, "Bigger than My Body," as well as a "Wonderland" 


one might expect John Mayer like new more crowd noise 
album cut, in general called "Come screaming, young Back to Bed." girls fainting ... Musically, the something, at show was out­
Venue: Allstate Arena, Chicago
least. But when standing. But
Location: Chicago, Ill. 
he appeared, and this was the
Date: November 28, 2003 
throughout the night, the applause and cheering was never long-lasting, with the exception being before a three-song encore. 
Mayer switched between acoustic and electric guitar throughout the concert. He was backed by musicians on rhythm guitar, bass, piano, drums, trumpet and saxophone/clarinet. It made for some interesting arrange­ments and some prolonged jams that were more than just guitar solos, but wrong crowd 
and venue to play drawn-out guitar solos. And even so, it was evident that they were meant primarily to fill time. 
From my seat up in section 214, row M, I was one of no more than ten people in the section to stand, or even want to stand, for any part of the show. The "adults" behind me even came prepared with binoculars and more than once yelled, "Down in front!" in my direction. And although they thought it was the funniest thing they had ever said, I laughed even harder as I stood tall in front of them throughout the show, all six feet, four inches of me. A concert in this size arena, especially if the demand_for tick­ets is there, ends up drawing peo­ple who might not have otherwise come, good or bad -and, in this case, bad. These folks might have been better off saving some money and buying a John Mayer con­cert on DVD. 

Mayer also spoke in between songs about somewhat ran­dom, yet funny topics, including spending the holidays with family ("You gotta get your identity back after your family f***in' stole it away from you") and what he wants for Christmas ("I want world peace for the good countries and for the bad ... some sort of bowel disorder.") 
The highlight of the concert was the three-song encore. It consisted of an acoustic cover of the Stevie Ray Vaughn song, "You're Gonna Miss Me Baby," as well as "St. Patrick's Day" and "83," two original songs from Mayer's major label debut. The ener­gy gradually built, and these songs were a strong close to a very solid show. 
He definitely left the crowd wanting more, but most probably only wanting more straight radio hits, played as originally recorded. 
In an ideal world, John Mayer would be able to perform for fans aged about 18 to 30, in a club that did not hold anywhere close to 18,000 people, for fans who would be willing to stand, cheer and appreciate impro­vised solos. 
But until then, catch John Mayer at an arena near you. He really does put on a good show. 
Contact Tim Masterton at tmastert@nd.edu 
'Cat' tops weekend box office by whisker 
Associated Press 
The Cat in the Hat came back to narrowly beat Eddie Murphy at the box office over a Thanksgiving weekend dominated by several fam­ily flicks. 
Dr. Seuss' The Cat in the Hat earned $25.6 million from Friday to Sunday to finish as the No. 1 movie, a whisker ahead of Murphy's spooky comedy The Haunted Mansion. 
The 10-day total for The Cat in the Hat, starring Mike Myers as the mischievous feline, hit $77 million. The Haunted Mansion earned $25.3 million, and has grossed $35 million since its debut Wednesday. 
Will Ferrell's Elf held up well with $22.2 million, lifting its four-week sum to $130.1 million. Elf became the 24th movie released in 2003 to top $100 million, tying last year's record of 24 films over that mark. 
"Thanksgiving is the perfect time for family films," said Paul Dergarabedian, president· of box­office tracker Exhibitor Relations. "If you've got the kids home and you have family activities going on, what better way to keep the family together than going to the movies?" 
In initial box office reporting early Sunday, The Haunted Mansion 
had the top spot, but Universal revised its numbers upward to put The Cat in the Hat in the lead. 
Universal spokesman Jeffrey Sackson said a company publicist had released incorrect weekend numbers early Sunday. The compa­ny called reporters to correct the error once it was discovered, he said. 
The family films held off a rush of new movies for adults. Billy Bob Thornton's Bad Santa, about a foul­mouthed boozer who poses as a mall Santa to rob department stores, debuted at No. 6 with $12.5 million from Friday to Sunday and $16.8 million since opening Wednesday. 
Ron Howard's Old West thriller The Missing, starring Cate Blanchett as a pioneer woman who enlists her estranged father (Tommy Lee Jones) to track her abducted daughter, premiered at No. 7 with an $11.7 million weekend and $16.5 million since its Wednesday debut. 
T h e s c i -fi a d v e n t u r e Ti m e lin e , about a team of archaeologists hurled back in time to a deadly 14th century battle, opened in eighth place with $8.5 million for the weekend and $12.6 million since premiering Wednesday. 
The top 12 movies took in $209.5 

million from Wednesday to Sunday, said. ahead of the $208 million haul for "You have people who want every­the previous No. 2 Thanksgiving thing to be so artistic. That's not weekend in 1999. what family movies are about. 
The best Thanksgiving weekend They're about enjoyment and laugh­ever was in 2000, when Dr. Seuss' ter and having fun." How the Grinch Stole Christmas Three films did well in limited­paced the industry to a $232.2 mil­release debuts. lion haul. Jim Sheridan's semi­
Based on Disney's autobiographical In theme-park attraction, "You have people America -about an The Haunted Mansion Irish family adapting to
who want 

stars Murphy as a real­life in New York City ­
everything to be so
estate salesman stuck had a weekend haul of with his family in a big artistic. That's not $202,730 in 11 the­old house full of ghosts. what family movies aters, averaging Playing in 3,122 the­$18,430 a cinema.
are about. They're 

aters, The Haunted The Cooler, a black Mansion averaged a about enjoyment comedy starring William solid $8,104 from each and laughter and Macy as a Las Vegas cinema from Friday to loser paying off casino
having fun. " 

Sunday. . debts by working as a 
Like The Cat in the "jinx" on other gam­Hat the previous week­Chuck Viane blers, grossed $130,000 end, The Haunted Disney head of in 11 theaters, averag­Mansion found a solid ing $11,818.
distribution

audience despite bad The madcap French reviews. animated flick The 
Critics tend to judge Triplets of Belleville family flicks too harshly, said took in $114,636 in six theaters for Disney head of distribution Chuck a $19,106 average. Viane. Estimated ticket sales for Friday 
"They're sometimes put up through Sunday at North American against a much more critical stan­theaters were generated by dard than they should be," Viane Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Tuesday, December 2, 2003 BSERVER Notre Dame 57, Stanford 7 
Ruthless return 
Tyrone Willingham's first game back at Stanford is a57-7 thrashing for the Irish 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Sports Writer 
I'AI.O AlTO, Calif. -It might havn IHwn both homncoming and snnior day at Stanford Stadium Saturday, but Irish c~oach Tyrone Willingham and snven other Notre Dame c~oadws who formerly served at Stanford didn't go easy on the 13 seniors they recruited at The Farm, embarrassing the Cardinal with a 57-7 defeat. 
Tlw 57 points seornd by Notre Danw worn the most since the (,2 seored in a shutout over Hutgers on Nov. 23, IIJIJ6, Lou Holtz's f'inal ganw in Notre Dame Stadium. Tlw loss was Stanford's worst ever at honw. 
The performance was what Willingham had been looking for all snason. 
"This was morn of what I anticipate out of our football tnam," he said, later adding, "Wn'rn getting dosnr to where I want to be." 
Julius .Jones opened the ganw with a 25-yard rush, set­ting the tone for a 21 H-yard, orw touchdown performance that moved him to fifth among Notrn Dame's all-time single snason rushers. 
"After that first carry, I fell pn~tly good. From then on, the offcmsivn linn kind of dominat­ed," said Jones, who became the first player in Notre Damn history to rush for over 200 yards in three games in a sea­son. 
"It's incredible, never would have thought it would hn me," he added, "II ami just thankful, give all the credit to my offensive line, my full­hal~ks, they played a hell of a game." 
Three of Notre Damn's touchdowns eanw on short Hyan (;rant rushes into the end zorw. 
Dindrirk the in thn 11rst quartnr and a 45-The defense only allowed yard touchdown r11ception to "I thought we did pull in the improv1~nHmt of the oiTensivn yard reenption by Mauriee Stanford to gain 251 yards flanker Mark Bradford. horns a littln bit," he said. linn, which also did not allow Stovall in the third quarter. during the game. Early the fourth quarter, The team's main rngrnt any sacks, with the team's "Wn r11ally Stanford's Stanford put in backup quar­Saturday was that tl111y had not ability to rush the ball. haven't stretched lone score terback Kyle Matter. The reached this level of play until
"We're getting closer 

"IWn have ani oiTensive front tho linld likn that came in the Cardinal threatened to score 11 games into the season. with orw guy who has two all ynar," Quinn to where I want third quarter on his first drive, moving to the "(It's! sad wn couldn't havn starts to his carenr, not a said. "It just felt after Notre Notre Dame 33, but Matter done it narlinr. What's donn is
to be." 

wholo lot of expnri1meo," groat to g11t a cou­Dame had was sacked by Corey Mays and done," Jonns said. "We'vn got Dind rick said. "... Now, lthoy pln big passes to already put 41 fumbled the ball, whieh was one more game and hop1d'ully are I hnginning to not only have !Stovalll and Tyrone Willingham points on the reeovered by Stanford 24 we will get four lwinsl in a a good deal of eonfid11ncn in IShelton I." Irish coach board. The yards backfield, and Stanford row, hopefully get somnthing themselves, but thny're exo­The defense Cardinal was forced to punt two plays startnd for thn guys noxt year." ruting a lot better and they're returned to last began the later. playing as one unit and it does year's dominating style of play drive at its own 35 following a Willingham pulled most of feml ofT itself." by forcing three turnovers, ILl. Fitzpatrick kickoff that the starters by the fourth quar­
Two touehdowns came on including two fumbles that went out of bounds. On the ter, and dispelled any notion long passns from Quinn, a b5-Quentin Burrell and Garron first play of the drive, quarter­that he intended to run up the Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at yard rncnption by Matt Shnlton Bibl~ roturned for touchdowns. back Chris Lewis threw a 65-score. sbrodfue@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Julius Jones 

/lis 218 yard performance made Jones the only player in Notre Dame history with three 200-yard games. 
stat of the game 
475 
yards gained by the high-octane Notre Dame offense through three quarters Saturday before the Irish put in the backups 

play of the game 
Stanford deferring the coin toss 
Giving the uncharacteristically potent Irish offense the ball first started a long day for the Stanford defense. 
quote of the game 
"This was more of what I anticipate of our football team. " 
Tyrone Willingham Irish coach 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
report card 
8+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn continues to use a strong running game to his advantage by connecting on two lengthy touch­
down passes. Diedrick only needed him for 13 attempts. 
A 
running backs: Just another 200-yard day for Jones and Grant continued to run with a renewed passion. The 
group had its first 300-yard rushing day since the Air Force game last year. 
receivers: With the successful running 
A-
game, the receivers don't need to 
make a ton of plays. Stovall hauled in 
a long touchdown pass, catching his first pass since the Florida State game. 
A 
offensive line: As the season goes along, this group continues to 
improve, giving up no sacks once 
again. The running backs had large holes to run through. 
A 
defensive line: The line hit Chris Lewis so much the Stanford quarterback was being iced down before the 
game was over. Tuck had another impressive performance. 
A 
linebackers: Curry was all over the 
place, Hoyte and Mays each forced a 
fumble and the group had 2.5 sacks. Everybody was making plays. 
A-
defensive backs: Minus the long touchdown pass, this unit kept the Stanford passing game in check. Even by giving up the 
only Cardinal touchdown, the secondary 
put two Irish scores on the board. 
8-
special teams: Two kicks were blocked and Stanford almost broke a couple of 
kickoff returns. The bright spot was the punt returns. 
A 
coaching: The relentless attack by this team showed the coaches really wanted this one. With two weeks of 
preparation, Stanford essentially had 
no chance. 

3.70 
overall: The largest margin of · victory in seven years gives the Irish their third straight win as they continue to beat up on the easy part of the schedule. 
adding up the nuinbers 
seconds into the game when Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn called the team's 
31

first timeout 
8 
1,000-yard rushers in Notre Dame history after Julius Jones' 25-yard run on Notre 
Dame's first play from scrimmage 
total yards for the Stanford offense in the first 
7 

quarter. Notre Dame's offense gained 210 ­yards during the same timespan 
rushing yards accumulated by Jones in
106 

the first quarter on nine carries 
days in between Ryan Grant rushing scores and Notre Dame defensive touch­
372

downs prior to Saturday 
sacks recorded by Justin Tuck this season, aNotre Dame record. Twelve and ahalf of
13.5 

those have come in the last nine games 
margin of victory in Saturday's game -it was 
50 

the worst home loss in Stanford history 
10 
quarters in between receptions for Maurice Stovall with his last catch before Saturday com­
ing in the third quarter against Florida State 

PALO ALTO, Calif.-For the umpteenth time, Tyrone Willingham jogged off the field at Stanford Stadium with a win, pumping his fists as the crowd 
cheered. 
Except that Willingham's 26th win in foot­ball-indifferent Palo Alto came with the visiting team celebrating a win, with the 

coach wearing a 
blue Notre Dame Andrew Soukup shirt, and with green-clad fans cheering the Irish Sports Writer 
head coach while the home crowd chanted, "Ty, you suck." 
Not since 1996 has a Notre Dame team put so many points on the board, and there's little coincidence that Willingham hung half a hundred on a team he used to coach in a city he knows intimately well. There's no mistaking which team Willingham coaches now, and with Notre Dame's ruthless victory Saturday, he let every­one it. 
~ But that didn't stop some of the Stanford players from wandering up to their old coaching staff to talk for the briefest of seconds. Stanford quar­terback Chris Lewis, who last year interrupted an on-field NBC interview at Notre Dame Stadium to talk to Willingham approached his old coach with tears in his eyes before embrac­ing his former mentor. 
The upperclassmen in Palo Alto so miss their old head coach that they still call the Irish coaching staff even though Notre Dame's present coaches have tried-and failed-to make a clean break from the Stanford pro­gram. 
Stanford assistant coach David Kelly said as much in a story Saturday in the Alameda Times-Star, when he blasted the Irish coaching staff for their relationship with current Stanford players. 

"No comment," was Willingham's official response, even though an edgy smile let everyone know both that he read what Kelly said and his reaction to it. 
The coaches mayhave insisted Saturday's game wasn't personal, that Stanford was just any other opponent, but they weren't kidding anybody. And maybe that's why the Willingham-coached Irish did many uncharacteristic non-Willingham things Saturday. 
Did the Irish intend to intentionally disrupt Stanford's pre-game senior ceremony by classlessly running onto the field? Did Willingham intend to embarrass his former team by calling for a fake punt with the Irish up seven touchdowns in the fourth quarter? Did offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick want to make a statement about his long beleaguered-offense by continu­ing to call long pass plays late into the third quarter? 
"I thought we did call oil' the horns," Willingham coldly said after the game. 
After the shelling, Stanford players mixed regret that Willingham had left with frustration about how he had returned. But their reminiscent responses, coupled with what Willingham has accomplished with Notre Dame over the second-half of the season, suggest that the Irish should be lucky Lionel Tyrone Willingham wears blue shirts instead of red ones. 
An offensive line that was once among the worst in the nation has now gelled to the point where it can help Julius Jones produce 200-yard games at will. A Swiss cheese-esque defense now can set up the offense with good field position. A squad that seemingly had lost its direction with three 30-plus point losses to future BCS teams now is reincarnated into a machine that leaves Irish players­and fans-wondering, "What if?" 
To see the impact Willingham's calm demeanor has had on the Irish. look at what happened two years ago when Notre Dame played Stanford with a 4-6 record. Led by Bob Davie, an ineffective Notre Dame ofl'ense sputtered in the rain as players seemed to be more intent on return­ing to South Bend than playing foot­ball. Players were visibly angry after the loss, and Davie was fired a game later. 
Now, even though the Irish are 5-6, Willingham had the Irish singing the fight song so loud it echoed outside the visitors locker room at Stanford Stadium. Where the Irish gave up two years ago, now they don't know how to give in. Where coaches searched for answers two years ago, coaches found them this year. Where players struggled, Willingham's crew improved. Now, the Irish have a dif­ferent attitude -one this cocky and overconfident team was missing at the beginning of the season. 
"It's just sad we couldn't have done it earlier," Jones said. "But what's done is done." 
Admittedly, the Irish are soundly beating poor football teams. But to see the impact Willingham can have, look at the team he left, and then crushed. 
It may not be as easy to see when the Irish are 5-6 as when they were 10-3, but riding a three-game winning streak into the end of the year, Willingham has Notre Dame pointed in the right direction. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Touchdowns bring back memories 
Defense gets in the end zone for the first time in 13 games 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO. Calif. ­Against. Brigham Young, the Notre Damn defense rntu rrwd to its dominance of 2002. At Stanford. the dnfense finally found thn end zonn. 
Building oiT its impressive pnrformance in the last homn ganw, the Irish scored two touchdowns, only allownd 20 rushing yards, rncorded soven sacks and simply dominated the Cardinal offense all night long. 
But tho key Saturday night was those 14 points scored by the defense as it finally got tlw monkey off its back. 
"It's about time. It's the onn thing wn haven't done this year," Notre Dame dnfensivn coordinator Kent Banr said. "It was nice to gnt a coupln of scores. It's good to sen those kids rly around and have some fun because anytimn you play hard it givns you a chance 
t.o havn fun." 
Capping ol'f an impressive first half by a high-octane Notrn Damn oiTnnse, corner­hark Dwight Jo:llick forced a fumhl•~ with lf)SS than a minut.n rnmaining and safe­ty Qunntin Burrnll pir.kml up thn loose ball. With a num­lwr of players just watching as if thn play was ovnr, no whistlns wern blown and Burrnll took the fumble, ran down thn sideline and made a 1:oupln of Stanford players miss «Hl routn to a 65-yard touchdown return. 
"It felt real good," Burrell said. "On 
Thursday we havn a fumbln drill where wn  "We did a good job of reading their stances and knew what was coming."  Bible took the fumble 44 yards for the  "I thought that was a real plus and as our guys contin­ue to get stronger, we'll be able to make some plays of  
try to score  defense's  that nature," Willingham  
and those things that wn do lin practice! finally paid off." In thn third  secondJustin Tuck score onIrish defensive end the night. The call­ing card of last year's Irish defense reemerged at quarter, line-Stanford, something Irish  said, "Those are things that you see once every ball game or once every couple ball games, and we were fortunate last year to get them last year to get them almost every game.  


backer Brandon Boyte forced the defense's second fumble of the game, and safety Garron 
head coach Tyrone Willingham would like to see more of, but knows it's something you can't count on every week. 

"Would we like to get back to that? Yes, indeed." 
The big-play ability dis­played by the youthful sec­ondary meshed well with the relentless pursuit of the defensive line. Virtually every time Stanford quar­terback Chris Lewis went back to pass, somebody on the defense hit Lewis hard. 
As those hits keep corning, the secondary can just sit back in its coverage and make the big plays like it did Saturday. 
"It helps us so much and makes it so much easier," Burrell said. "You see when the quarterback is scram­bling because of the defense line turnovers come so much easier. My hat goes off to them." 
The leader of that pass rush on the defensive line once again was Justin Tuck. For the second game this season, Tuck had three and a half sacks. Early in the game, he set the tone by constantly getting to Lewis. 
Saturday was Tuck's sec­ond game this year with three and a half sacks, the other was against Pittsburgh, and the junior has 13.5 on the season. 
At Stanford, Tuck and the rest of the defense's success might have been the result of something picked up in the film room. 
"We had two weeks to prepare for them, our for­mations sets, their offensive line, we did a good job of reading their stances and knew what was coming," Tuck said. 
Regardless of the great scouting report, simply put, Tuck was unstoppable 
"l-Ie's really unbelievable. I'm not sure there are too many guys that can block him. He was geared to have a great day today and he really did," Baer said. "No matter what the protection they had in, they couldn't block him. It really helped us." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Willingham defends late fake punt 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spons Writer 
PAJ.O AI.TO, Calif. -As mtu:h as Tyrone Willingham said lw didn't want to do it, he called for a fake punt late in the fourth quarter with the Irish up by 50. 
With Notre Damn lnading 57­7 and fadng a fourth-and-17 from midl'inld, Stanford drop1wd 10 players into the box to try to bloek the punt, leaving gunner Chinedum Ndukwe unguarded by t.hn Stanford sidelinn. Earlier in the game, the Cardinal had shown a similar Ji1rmation and blocked a ILl. Fitzpatrick punt. 
But this tinw, Fitzpatrick threw a 14-yard pass to Ndukwn that left the Irish short of the first down hut drnw angry reactions from Stanford players and prompted Stanford fans to chant, "Ty, 
you suek." 
"That was a call on my part," an unapologetic Willingham said after the game. "They were leaving the guy uncovered, that was the right thing to do in that situa­tion. 
"You don't like to do it, but if they're going to make the block, then you have to got to make them pay and get the lirst down." 
Ilowever, Stanford coach Buddy Teevens shrugged oiT any anger at the fake. 
"At that point," he said, "it really didn't make a differ­ence." Shelton's big grab 
Matt Shelton had only caught two passes in his collegiate career, but his third one just happened to be a 65-yard touchdown that broke the game wide open for Notre Dame. 
Late in the first quarter, 
Shelton -one of the fastest men on Notre Dame's roster ­ran a post route, outraced his defender, caught a Brady Quinn pass and scampered vir­tually untouched into the end zone to give Notre Dame a 14­0 lead. 
"I was surprised as anybody when they threw it to me and I was sitting there as the ball was corning thinking, 'Oh God, what do I do?"' Shelton grinned after the game. "Then it was there, and it was a sur­real feeling." 
Shelton also partially deflect­ed a punt and narrowly missed another touchdown catch in the second quarter. Banged up Irish 
Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff hurt himself while leaping to knock down a long pass in the first half of Notre Dame's 57-7 victory over Stanford. He didn't return to the game and came out of the 

locker room at halftime in street clothes. 
But Willingham said the cor­nerback should be ready to play in his final collegiate game next week at Syracuse. 
Meanwhile, running back Julius Jones hobbled off the field several times and didn't play at all in the fourth quar­ter. Part of that was because the Irish had the game easily in hand, but part of that was because Jones was slightly wounded. 
But he said he would be ready to go against the Orangemen. Game day captains 
Notre Dame's game day cap­tains were defensive lineman Darrell Campbell, Duff, wide receiver Ornar Jenkins and offensive lineman Jim Molinaro. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
• ­
scoring suininary 
1st 2nd :1rd 4th Total Notre Dame 21 13 23 0 0 
-
Stanford 0 0 7 0 0 
First qum·ter Notre Dame 7, Stanford 0 Julius Jones 10-yard run with 10:17 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 10 plays, 90 yards, 4:43 elapsed Notre Dame 14, Stanford 0 
Mall Shelton 65-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 2:27 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 78 yards, 1:39 elapsed 
Notre Danw 21, Stanford 0 Ryan Grant4-yard run with 0:00 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 2 plays, 14 yards, 0:35 elapsed ­
Second quarter Notre Dame 27, Stanford 0 Grant 3-yard run with 3:34 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick blocked) Drive: 8 plays, 72 yards, 3:31 elapsed Notre Dame 34, Stanford 0 Quentin Burrell 65-yard fumble return with 0:36 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) 
Third quarter Notre Dame 41, Stanford 0 Maurice Stovall 45-yard reception from Quinn with 12:20 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 71 yards, 1:03 elapsed Notre Dame 41 , Stanford 7 Mark Bradford 65-yard reception from Chris Lewis with 12:10 remaining (Eric Johnson kick) Drive: 1 play, 65 yards, 0:10 elapsed Notre Dame 48, Stanford 7 Garron Bible 44-yard fumble return with 7:23 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Notre Dame 50, Stanford 7 Team safety with 5:05 remaining Notrn Dame 57, Stanford 7 Ryan Grant46-yard run with 2:13 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6 plays, 66 yards, 2:52 elapsed 
Fourth quarter No scoring 
statistics 
total yards 
-


-
I 

50-334  rushes-yards  35-20  
10-16-1  comp-att-int  22-39-1  
5-28.6  punts-yards  8-38.5  
2-0  l'urnblns-lost  4-2  
7-55  penalties-yards  3-24  
20  first downs  17  - 

passing 

Quinn 8-13-1 Lewis 14-29-1 
rushing 

Jones  23-218  Tolon  9-39  
Grant  14-84  Marrero  5-25  
Wilson  8-18  Lemon  5-10  

receiving  
McKnight  2-35  Bradford  7-129  
Ndukwe  2-15  Powell  5-39  
Shelton  1-65  Crochet  2-17  
Stovall  1-45  Lofton  2-10  

tackling 

Tuck  7  Torrence  8  
Hoyle  6  Atogwe  7  
Curry  5  Bergeron  7  
Mays  5  Hooper  7  

page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
-
-
From Julius Jones' 25-yard rush to open the game to the fake punt on fourth-and-17 with four minutes remaining, Notre Dame went to Stanford 
on a mission and didn't stop until the game was over. The offense was able to do whatever it wanted and the defense got pressure on the quarterback, stuffed the running game and scored two touchdowns. Tyrone Willingham's first game in Palo Alto since he left Stanford showed his allegiance is undoubtedly with the blue and gold. 



-. CRUSHING THE CARDINAL 

TIM KACMAR and CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Safety Garron Bible scores a third quarter touchdown (top left). Running back Julius Jones breaks a Stanford tackle (top right). Defensive end Justin Tuck sacks Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis, one of his three and a half sacks (middle left). Matt Shelton runs for the end zone (bottom left). Running back Ryan Grant and wide receiver Rhema McKnight celebrate one of Grant's three touchdowns (bottom right). 
-~ 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE ­
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
Carrey shines in Almighty DVD 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Movie Critic 
.Jim Carrey playing God may sound likn his latost bid for an Oscar nomi­nation, hut it's actually the premise of his latest comedy, Bruce Almighty. Though the thorne may seem to bor­der on heresy, it's actually a funny movin that deals with God and faith without hnavy-handP.d preaching or an approach to tho topic from a par­tkular religious view. 
In /Jrucp Almighty, Carrny plays Bruen Nolan, a frustrated news anchor covnring human interest sto­rins instnad of sitting bnhind the dnsk. lie is firnd from his job follow­ing a huge on-air mnltdown following tlw rnvnlation that he has failed to got llw anchor job tw had been long­ing for. Nolan blames nvnryone and nvnrything around him for his prob­lnms instiHLd of' himsn)f, a pattern of bnhavior that nventually leads to him to hold God directly responsible for ruining his lif'e.-(iod (played by Morgan Freeman) then endow-s Bruce with his heavenly powers and challenges him to take over the role of the Almighty. 

Bruce initially does what anyone would be tempted to do, using his powers to further his own interests, but he soon discovers that being God requires a much broader perspective on the ways in which the world works. 
.Jim Carrey is f'unny, as usual, in Bruce Almighty, but his cast of' sup­porting actors is truly what makes the movie. Steve Carrel (of The Daily Show fame) is pitch-perfectly smarmy as Carrey's rival news anchor, and Jennifer Aniston proves that she can be funny outside of tele­vision and hold her own against Carrey in the role of his long-suffer­ing girlfriend, Grace. Morgan Freeman plays God and possesses the voice and the bearing that allow him to play a pretty convincing Almighty, but he also has a great deal of fun with such a (literally) awesome role. 
The Bruce Almighty DVD is fairly standard; it has director com­mentary, short feature about what working with Jim Carrey is like, outtakes, the film's 
trailer  and  deleted  
scenes.  
A  comedy  with  no  
aspirations  for  an  

Oscar or similar award has no real need for a director's commentary, but learning what it's like to work with someone as frenetic as Carrey is interesting. 


The outtakes and deleted scenes, like most, are funny, but you can usually tell why they didn't make the final cut. One annoying feature of the DVD is the fact that there is no way to skip the opening trailers short of hitting the fast forward button, a fact which is unfortunately becoming more and more common on DVDs. 
The sound and video quality are good and there were no major prob­lems, but the fine points of audio and 
-
visual quality aren't necnssarily 
pushed to their I i m its on a .I i m 
Carrey comedy. Overall, Bruce Almighty provns to 
be a funny movie; it's a little on the 
sappy side, but in the best possible 
way. The DVD provides good extras 
that enhance viewing the f'ilm with­
out overloading it with too many 
things that you'll never actually 
watch. --. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Too much plotline for so little time 
century. Why the 14th century? Well, trying to unravel the mystery of why the present seems really unneces­By C. SPENCER BEGGS the movie never really explains that. they can only travel to 14th century sary. Since the science behind it is so Scene Movie Critic A company trying to create an Prance, rather than to any other vaguely laid out, the audience dons­
instantaneous "fax machine" for place or time. n't have much of a clue what is going 
Timeline is one of those movies that three-dimensional objects stumbles Of course, someone gets stranded on. In fact, the plotline at the begin­makns you leave the theater think­across a wormhole that sends things and then someone goes after him. ning of the movie progresses so ing, "Gen, I bet that was a really back in time to a 14th century battle­And in good sci-fi style, somebody quickly, it's hard to make heads or groat book." ground of the Hundred Years' War at blows up the machine in the present tails of who's who or what's going on 
Adapted from Michael Crichton's Castelgard, Prance. day, stranding all of them. until the movie jumps back to best-selling novel, Timeline follows In good sci-fi style, the evil corpo­But time travel is really just a lame Castelgard. the adventures or a team or archae­ration starts sending teams of sol­excuse to make a period action film. But Time line doesn't Ieave the ologists who get stranded in the 14th diers and researchers into the past, Timelin e is really just a medieval audience high and dry. All the plot 
battle epic. Luckily for us, the time elements in the movie do come machine sends our heroes back to together in some fashion at the end ­April 4th, 1357, and there aren't the fictional day any big lingering of the French's "Timeline" questions in the routing of a 
plotline. British strong­Director hold, rather Hichard Donner than April 4th, probably would 1722, when have done better
Director: Richard Donner Writers: Michael Crichton and Jeff Maguire
nothing of note by cutting out 
-
happened. Starring: Paul Walker, Frances O'Connor, rn ore of the Gerard Butler, Billy Connolly and Anna Friel
Ironically, extraneous plot Timeline doesn't points and focus­have enough time to tell its story. ing more on the action sequences. Like the many movies adapted from Timeline is a decent epic battle film Crichton's books, such as Jurassic but a lackluster sci-fi flick. Park and The Andromeda Strain, Crichton fans might be bettor Timeline has to crunch a lot of tech­advised to save their ticket money ­nical explanation into a two-hour and buy the book instead. Those film while making time for action­looking f'or a decent action-adven­adventure mayhem and madness. ture flick won't be disappointed with Unlike Crichton films before it, Timeline, but let's just say the film Timeline only gives a mediocre gloss isn't going down in the annals of cin­of the science behind it. ematic history any time soon. 
-· 
The movie focuses on the medieval 
Photo courtesy of www.imdb.com adventure and rarely returns to the plotline of the present day. But the Contact C. Spencer Beggs at drama of trying to fix the portal in beggs.3@nd.edu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------'--­

Tuesday, December 2, 2003 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS
-
NFL 

Even with McNair healthy, Titans still fall to Jets 
-
Titans lose for the first time in 7 games, remain tied with Indy for division lead 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-The Tennessee Titans had the perfect chance to sit atop their division alone for the first time all season. 
Chad Pennington and the New York Jets took it away from them. Pennington threw two second-half touchdown pass­es and the Jets beat Steve McNair and the Titans 24-17 Monday night. 
The Jets (5-7) kept their slim playoff hopes alive and handed the Titans (9-3) their first loss in seven games. 
McNair started the game despite a strained right calf, hoping to give the Titans sole possession of the AFC South after Indianapolis lost Sunday to the New England Patriots. They now have to wait another week for that to hap­pen, with a home showdown against the Colts this weekend. 
The NFL's top-rated passer heading into the game was mostly ineffective. McNair finished 21-of-35 for 272 yards with two touchdown passes and two interceptions. He threw an 8-yard scor­ing pass to Derrick Mason with 1:52 remaining to get the Titans within a · touchdown, but Chris Baker recovered the onside kick for the Jets to close out the win. 
Mason finished with 11 receptions for 133 yards and one touchdown. 

Pennington, meanwhile, finished 18­of-23 for 231 yards and also had two interceptions for his third win in five starts since returning from a broken left wrist. His play in the .second half was nearly perfect. ':c<> 
After the Titans tied the game at 10 on a 35-yard field goal by Gary Anderson in the third quarter, Pennington engineered two straight touchdowns -thanks to Moss. On sec­McCareins on the opening drive for a like conduct penalty. scoring drives to take control of the ond-and-5 from the 42, Pennington quick 7-0 lead. It was the longest com­But the Jets challenged the call, and game. threw a pass to tight end Baker. But the pletion for the Titans this season. the official ruled that Rolle did not have 
The first featured a little trickery. A ball deflected off his hands and up, and The Jets tied it up on the following possession. The Jets got an automatic reverse to Santana Moss gained 6 yards, Moss was there to catch the ball and possession. After converting a fourth­first down at the 6, and Curtis Martin and a flea flicker that Pennington threw make a 32-yard completion. and-! from the Titans 14 when ran in for the score on the following to Curtis Conway got them 27 yards to Conway then caught an 8-yard touch­Pennington completed a 4-yard pass to play for his first touchdown of the sea­the Titans 27. down pass, barely keeping his toes Jerald Sowell, the Jets faced second­son. 
On the next play, Pennington threw a inbounds, to cap the drive. and-goal from the 12. Doug Brien kicked a 27-yard field goal beautiful 27 -yard touchdown pass to McNair tried to rally the Titans, but Pennington threw a fade to Moss in just before the break to give the Jets a Kevin Swayne for a 17-10 lead. It was Sam Garnes broke up a pass in the end the right corner of the end zone, but 10-7 lead. Swayne's first reception of the year and zone intended for Erron Kinney on Samari Rolle got his hands on the ball. The Titans played without defensive his tlrfot career touchdown catch. fourth-and-goal with 5:21 remaining. Officials initially ruled it an intercep­end Jevon Kearse, who missed his sec­
After forcing the Titans to punt, McNair started off well, throwing a tion, and Rolle did a throat slash ges­ond straight game with a sprained left Pennington put the Jets up by two 59-yard touchdown pass to Justin ture that earned him an unsportsman-ankle. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
SMC alumna needs a babysitter for  TOP GUN SELLING The six selling  JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD)  4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison.  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 110%  
-·  NOTICES  3 children in my home in Granger (near UP Mall), Thursdays and/or  systems that are used by virtually every business in America and  1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES  Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216)  Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book  
Fridays 1 Oam-1 pm. Must have own  Europe. Reference STU-466:  UTIL), CONTACT BOB 607-723­ 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if  Now & Receive Free Meals &  
transp. 247-0690.  Student Special: $49.971ncludes  7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net  interested  Parties Campus Reps Wanted!  
***ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get  
 the full Selling System Prospecting,  1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­ 
12th trip free. Group discounts lor  Go Team Irish Communications has  Account Management and Closing.  3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME,  tours.com  
6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com  many positions available. Flexible  www.sales-job-training.com  MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND  
 
or 800-838-8202.  hours, Great Pay! Owned & opera!­ AND MALL $1000/MO. 277-2176.  **** IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW.  

 ed by ND alumni. Call 802-893­ COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  TICKETS  LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY ****  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  0558 or send your request for  Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT:  Build your dream home next to  
Acapulco now offers 3 destinations!  information to Go  S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5  Notre Dame. A limited number of  
- Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with  Teamlrish@ myexcel.com  blocks from campus, 3 large bed­rooms, 2 full bath, washer and  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  
BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize  FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED.  dryer, home totally remodeled, new  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808.0990  
 
a group and travel for FREE. Book  Grad pre!. Share great condo.  appliances, two car garage, fur- A group of stand up comedians per- 
now before its too late! Call 800­875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com.  Furnished, own bdlbth, huge closet. Study, fireplace, prkg, walk to NDI  FoR RENT  nished. Need 3-5 students ($400 ea.) for January. Need 5 students  formed at Legends on Saturday November 22nd. The show went  
$525 inc. utili 238-2368  {$400 ea.) for fall. 231-8823  really well and the group plans on  
READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2­ evenings.  having about one show per month.  
bedroom townhouse 1 0 minutes from campus. Approx. 1100 sq. ft.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  Large 5-6 bdrm home @ND Ave &  PERSONAL  Anyone interested in doing stand up comedy may email Peter Wicks at  
- For more information call katrina at  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Walk to cam­ pwicks@nd.edu. On a side note,  
252-4663  FOR SALE  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM  pus.Off street parking. Recently updated. Washer/Dryer.Lots of liv- Malt Barringer, one of the comedi­ans, was approached by a girl who  
272-1525  ing space to spread out.Call Joe  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  complimented him immediately fol­ 
Crimmins:cell-574-514.0643 or  not go it alone. If you or someone  lowing a Keough dorm mass the  
WANTED  HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ home-57 4-273.0002  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  night after the show. Regretful that he did not introduce himself, he  
·­ LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE.  ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S.  Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly  would appreciate it if she would contact him at mbarring@nd.edu.  
ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S.  St).Available June 2004.Basement  ad in The Observer.  
Part time/Full time opportunity lor  ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL.  ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E.  wlwasher-dryer.Convenient to  
 Hi Angie.  
honest, motivated, success minded  NEWLY REMODELED. FULLY  WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS.  downtown fun.Walk or ride to  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
individual. Exciting !-Commerce  EQUIPPED. $84,900.  campus.On bus route.Contact Joe  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  True Blue.  
internet based business. Contact: waynew54@ pronetglobal.com  email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032  Crimmins@ cell-574-514.0643 or home-57 4-273-0002  campus reps. Call tor discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  Matrix Revolutions is awtul.  

Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
-
Penguins use late goal from Abid to defeat Thrashers 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII -Hamzi Abid scored on a two-on-one break with 3:43 remaining and the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied twice to beat the Atlanta Thrashers 4-3 on Monday night before their smallest home crowd in nearly eight years. 
The turnout of 9,576 was the Penguins' worst since 7,170 braved a snowstorm Dec. 19. 1995, to watch them play Calgary. 
Tho Penguins' attendance is down more than 3,000 per game from last season, causing the team to announce earlier in the day that owner-player Mario Lemieux had turned down the $5 million raise offored him by the team's board. 
As Atlanta dcfenseman Chris Tamer tried to control the puck while on his knees along the left wing boards, Aleksey Morozov skated past, grabbed it and found Abid breaking in from the opposite wing for his second goal. 
Penguins rookie goalie Marc­Andre Fleury stopped a six­game losing streak that dated to Nov. 1. turning aside 24 of 27 shots and holding Atlanta scoreless for the final 33 min­utes. The No. 1 draft pick is 4­8-2. 
The Penguins won for only the third time in 13 games, while Atlanta -1-14-0-2 in its history against Pittsburgh ­lost its third in eight games. 
The Thrashers led 2-1 and 3­
2. but the Penguins rallied to tie it each time against goalie Pasi Nurminen. Dick Tarnstrom scored his fifth of the season off a rebound in the slot to make it 2-all early in the second, 41 seconds after J.P. Vigier's short-handed goal gave Atlanta the lead. 
Drake Berehowsky fanned on a shot, allowing Vigier to scoop up the puck and beat Fleury on a breakaway for the league­high ninth short-handed goal against Pittsburgh in 23 games. 
Marc Savard put Atlanta up 3-2 about five minutes later on a power play. Savard returned after sitting out a one-game suspension Saturday for biting the glove of Toronto's Darcy Tucker. 
Ryan Malone tied it again for Pittsburgh midway through the period, going to the net to tap in Mike Eastwood's pass-the game's first even-strength goal since Brian Holzinger scored his second in as many games with 12 1/2 minutes gone. 
Ilya Kovalchuk answered that with his third in four games, taking Frantisek Kaberle's pass from the right point to beat Fleury from the high slot for his18th goal. Kovalchuk has five goals in eight games against Pittsburgh. 
Ottawa 4, Philadelphia 1 
Martin Havlat scored twice to help the Ottawa Senators end Philadelphia's 12-game unbeaten streak with a 4-1 vic­tory over the NHL-leading Flyers on Monday night. 
Philadelphia, 10-0-2 in November, remained a point ahead of Vancouver in the overall standings. 
Havlat opened the scoring 

early in the second period, the first time the Senators have scored the first goal in a game since Nov. 3. He made it 2-0 late in the period with a power­play goal. 
Flyers captain Keith Primeau scored a short-handed goal early in the third, beating goalie Martin Prusek on a two­on-one rush with defenseman Eric Weinrich. 
Senators defenseman Anton 


THE CAREY AUDITORIUM OF" THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
Volchenkov restored Ottawa's two-goal lead midway through the period, scoring his first goal of the season off a center­ing pass from Marian Hossa. 
The Senators were denied a goal with 4:18 remaining when a video review determined that Hossa's pass in front on a power play was kicked in by Radek Bonk at the edge of the crease. 
Daniel Alfredsson scored into an empty net with 1:16 left. 
The Flyers, who have lost just three times in regulation, hadn't been defeated since a 3­2 loss in New Jersey on Oct. 30. 
Ottawa improved to 3-4-0-2 in its last nine games. 

Prusek made 31 saves, start­ing in place of Patrick Lalime, who fell ill with the flu prior to the game. 
Neither of Havlat's goals came on direct shots on goal. 
On the first, Havlat's attempt­ed pass to Bonk struck Weinrich's right skate and was redirected past goalie Robert Esche into an open left side. 
Havlat made it 2-0 just four seconds after Ottawa failed to score on a four-on-three power play. With the puck behind the goal line, Havlat fired the puck into the crease at Esche. bank­ing the puck into the net off the goalie's right pad. 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfectfor winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
DUTPDST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pmCold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 

--
-
-
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
NCAA FOOTBALL

-
Croom to become 1st black coach in SEC 
Associated Press 

STARKVILLE, Miss. Sylvester Croom became the first black head football coach in Southeastern Conference history, accepting an offer Monday to take over troubled Mississippi State. 
"We went after the 


Croom

best football coach and we're confident we found that individual in Sylvester Croom," athletic director Larry Templeton said. 
Croom informed Templeton that he would take the job less than 24 hours after Templeton said he had offered it. A news conference will be held Thesday to intro­duce him. 
Croom, 49, has never been a head coach, but has been an NFL assistant with five teams since 1987 and worked for Bear Bryant and Ray Perkins at Alabama from 1977-86. 
The SEC's hiring history came under increased scruti­ny earlier this year when Croom was passed over for the top job at his alma mater, Alabama, in favor of Mike Shula, another former Crimson Tide player, who is white. 
Every other BCS conference has had at least one black head coach, but a lack of diversity among major college football head coaches is not exclusive to the SEC. 
There were only four black head football coaches among 117 Division I-A football schools this season. 
The SEC provided its mem­bers lists of potential minority candidates to help promote a more inclusive hiring process. 
Alabama was criticized by so·me, including civil rights activist Jesse Jackson, for not hiring Croom, who had more experience than Shula. 
Messages left at Croom's home and office were not immediately returned. 
Templeton said Sunday that Croom, who has been coach­ing running backs at Green Bay since 2001, has been cleared by the Packers to assume his new position immediately. 
He replaces retiring coach Jackie Sherrill and inherits a program that has been in a free fall for three years. 
The Bulldogs are 8-27 since 2001 with just three SEC vic­tories. They completed a 2-10 season last week, the school's worst since 1988. 
Mississippi State is awaiting the results of an NCAA inves­tigation into possible rules violations by the football pro­gram from 1998-2002. Templeton said he has dis­cussed the NCAA issues with Croom. 
Bearcats fire Minter, offer other position 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI The University of Cincinnati fired football coach Rick Minter on Monday and offered him another position within the athletic department. 
Minter was fired three days after the Bearcats (5-7) ended their season with a 43-40 
"You know when 
-
loss to Louisville. you get in the 
Minter has business, it's liable 
been at 

to happen ... 
Cincinnati for 10 years, and with a 53-63-1 Rick Minter record had the 
former Bearcat coach 
most wins and 
losses in 

Bearcats' history. He had
-three years remaining on his contract. Minter, who was Notre Dame's defensive coordinator in 1992-93 after seven years as an assistant at Ball State, took Cincinnati to bowl games 
--four of the past six seasons but had come under increas­ing criticism for failing to cre­ate a larger fan base and national profile. 
"When I came here, in ret­rospect, it wasn't a very good 
-
job," he said of his 1993 
arrival. "We got it better. The guy who comes in next is going to find it a more desir­able job than I found it." 
There was more pressure on Minter to produce a con­sistent winner when Cincinnati accepted an invita­tion last month to leave Conference USA for the high­
er-profile Big East. 
Athletic direc­tor Bob Goin declined to say what new job Minter has been offered. 
"I believe he has some administrative talent," Goin 

said. "We'd be happy to have him do that." 
Minter said he would con­sider the offer to complete his contract in another capacity but was disappointed to be fired as football coach. 
"You know when you get in the business, it's liable to happen," he said. "At heart, I'm a football coach." 
After a 3-0 start this year, the Bearcats lost seven of their final nine games for their first losing season in four years. 
LSU still in 3rd in BCS poll 
Sooners will likely stay in top 2 even with loss in Big XII Championship 
Associated Press 
' 

LSU narrowed Southern 
California's lead for second 
place in the BCS standings 
Monday but still needs some 
help to play for the national 
championship in the Sugar 
Bowl. 

The Trojans (11-1) hold a 
1.53-point lead over the Tigers 
(11-1) going into the final 
week of the regular season, 
down from 2.15 points a week 
ago. 

The top two teams in the 
final Bowl Championship 
Series standings Sunday will 
play for the title in New 
Orleans on Jan. 4. 

Oklahoma (12-0) maintained its grip on the top spot with a nearly five-point lead over . USC and would likely remain in the top two even with a loss Saturday to Kansas State in the Big 12 championship 
game. 

The Sooners are a unani­
mous No. 1 in The Associated 
Press media and USA 
Today/ESPN coaches' polls and 
the top team in all seven BCS 
computer~. They have a 1.0 
for poll average, 1.0 for com­
puter-rank average, 0.56 for 
strength of schedule, zero for 
losses and 0.5 bonus points for 
beating sixth-place Texas for a 
2.06. 

USC has a one-point lead in 
the polls over LSU, has a 0.25 
advantage in the computers 
and a 0.68 lead in strength of 
schedule. The Tigers have a 
0.4 bonus for a quality win over Georgia. 
While LSU would gain in the computers and strength of schedule by beating the Bulldogs (10-2). the Tigers would also be penalized because Georgia would drop -costing them quality-win points. 
A win by Syracuse over Notre Dame would be a big help for the Tigers, likely mov­ipg them to second in the 

Icon Sports LSU quarterback Matt Mauck rolls out In the Tigers' 17-14 win over Ole Miss In Oxford, Miss. The Tigers are currently ranked third In the BCS behind Oklahoma and Southern Cal. 
Colley Matrix computer if they can beat Georgia. USC beat Notre Dame earlier this year. 
"I think our focus needs to be on the game that we are playing and what is in front of us and nothing else," LSU coach Nick Saban said. "I think that when you start thinking of those other things, which I have referred to on occasion as clutter, it affects your ability to perform like you need to." 
USC finishes the season at home against Oregon State (7­
4) on Saturday. 
Michigan remained fourth and is in the best position to move up to second if USC and LSU both lose. Ohio State is fifth, followed by Texas, Georgia, Florida State, Tennessee and Miami. 

~~~~~ 
only at ;&:!~.. Sminute5 ~ {!om DUTPDST 
Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


The change from high school to college is huge. You can lessen that change at a small school like Holy Cross College where one-on-one instruction is the rule rather than the exception. Our students receive the highest level of personal attention from a dedicated, caring faculty while pursuing an Associate or Bachelor of Arts degree. And, the recent addition of Pulte apartments makes on-campus living very inviting. 
Ifyou are looking for a college that's affordable, where a little one-on-one is a big part of student life, give Holy Cross College a call at 574-239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu. 

«:> 2003 Holy Cross College 

Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Kentucky holds off 2nd-half comeback in win 
Aasociated Press arena, the only loss to Dayton Jose Olivero led Lehigh with Richardson was slow getting "The way it went gave in 1999. 17 points and Ra Tiah was 3-started Monday, but once he Anthony more opportunities." First-year Marshall coach of-5 from behind the 3-point did it was all over for Tim Pickett added 21 for the
CINCINNATI -Gerald Fitch Ron Jirsa was an assistant at line and finished with 11 in the Northwestern. Seminoles (5-0), who had runs
scored 24 points and No. 9 
Kentucky withstood Marshall's Dayton when it pulled off the losing effort. Richardson didn't score his of 24-9 and 18-3 in the second 3-point flurry and second-half upset. He also was one of After a quick 7-0 run on first basket for nearly 16 min­half when they outscored the comeback Monday night, hold­Tubby Smith's assistants at transition baskets in the first utes, accounting for his two visitors 45-22. No other ing on for an 89-76 victory. Tulsa and Georgia. minute of the points at half­Florida State player had more 
Fitch, a senior guard who Jirsa tried every sort of game, the Huskies time when than five points. had a career-high 36 points defense to slow Kentucky, with quickly cooled off "We were just not Northwestern SMU 62, Texas Tech 59 against Tennessee Tech on little success. The Wildcats with sloppy play led 31-26. Bryan Hopkins scored 19
able to contain
Friday, was the only consistent took a 4 7-34 halftime lead by and poor shooting. "You stay with points as Southern Methodist threat for Kentucky (3-0). running fast breaks and taking Connecticut went [Richardson] in the it, you stay beat Texas Tech 62-59 on which let a 13-point lead dwin­advantage of Marshall's front four minutes with­second half" focused," Monday evening. 
dle to six in the closing min­line. out a field goal Richardson said. 
SMU (2-1) didn't hit a field 
utes. Four turnovers set up a 13-and the Mountain "The game is goal and scored only two
Bill Carmody 
Marshall (1-2) hit 10 3-point­point run that put Kentucky Hawks didn't fare played in two 
points in the final 4:29 of the ers to keep Kentucky fidgety, ahead to stay 28-17 midway much better, hit­Northwestern coach halves. game, but the Mustangs had 
but missed its last five shots through the half. The Wildcats ting just two of "I just tried to three steals in the final minute 
from behind the arc and faded repeatedly had players slip their first 12 stay positive," he to hold off a surging Texas in the closing minutes. free inside for easy baskets, shots. The teams combined for said. "I wanted to make them Tech (4-2). Kelenna Azubuike added 16 making up for their poor out­20 turnovers in the first 20 stop me." 
After blowing a 16-point first 
points and Erik Daniels had 14 side shooting. minutes. Richardson erupted with 25 half lead and falling behind for Kentucky, which has won Fitch had 12 points in the Lehigh managed to stay close of a career-high 27 points in 
53-50 on an Andre Emmett 
with five 3-pointers and the second half to catapult the
all 11 of its games with first half, when his main job lay-up, the Mustangs scored 10 
Marshall. Bonny Dawn led was to try to shut down Dawn caught Connecticut with 2:49 Seminoles to a 71-53 victory in straight points to take a 60-53 
Marshall with 23 points, going after an early flurry of 3-point­left in the first half on Dayne the 2004 opener of the annual lead on a lay-up by Eric Castro 7 -of-9 on 3s. ers. The junior guard shoots Mickelson's jumper that tied it Atlantic Coast Conference-Big 
with 4:29 left to play in the 
The overwhelming majority 42 percent from behind the 24-24. Ten challenge. game.of the crowd wore blue and arc, one of the best marks in The Huskies broke away He made 9 of 11 shots after 
SMU guard Justin Isham 
while for Kentucky's annual Marshall history. with a 13-2 run in the closing the half, including four of five stole the ball from Michael 
visit to Cincinnati, the equiva­Connecticut 75, Lehigh 55 minutes to take a 37-26 half­from 3-point distance in addi­Marshall with 4 seconds left in lent of a home game away Ben Gordon scored 19 points time lead. Connecticut was 6-tion to a trademark thunder­the game and was fouled with from home. The Wildcats are and had a career-high five of-6 from the free throw line in ous dunk as Florida State won the Mustangs leading 61-59,8-1 all-time at the downtown steals to leP ' No. 3 that spurt. Lehigh's only points going away. Isham hit the second of his two 
Connecticut to a 7 5-55 victory in the final 2 1/2 minutes came "We were just not able to free throws to give SMU a over Lehigh on Monday night. off free throws made when contain [Richardson] in the three-point lead. 
The Huskies (5-1) were play­Brown was called for a techni­second half," Northwestern Texas Tech's Robert ing their first game after relin­cal for trash talking. coach Bill Carmody said. Tomaszek's potential game­quishing the No. 1 ranking, Connecticut shot 55 percent Florida State shot 67 percent tying 3-pointer as time expiredwhich they held in the presea­in the second half and led by in the second half and was hit the front of the rim. son poll and for the first two as many as 26 points with five even better from long distance Emmett led the Hed Raiders weeks of the regular season. minutes to play. hitting 8 of 11 tries. with 28 points and 12 
Rashad Anderson finished Emeka Okafor finished with "We got on an offensive roll rebounds. with 14 points and Denham 10 points and two blocked that really made a difference," Patrick Simpson finished Brown had 13 points and eight shots for Connecticut and Florida State coach Leonard with 11 points and nine rebounds to help Connecticut freshman forward Josh Boone Hamilton said. rebounds and Castro scored 10 overcome a rocky first half had five blocks. "The now of the game some­points for SMU. against the smaller Mountain FSU 71, Northwestern 53 times dictates who will have Tech only shot 2-of-17 from Hawks (1-3). Florida State's Anthony opportunities," Hamilton said. three-point range. 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 

2004-2005 Assistant Rector Application.s 

for University Residence Halls• are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 
316 Main Building 
For More lntort'l1ation call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
or go to 

www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the applicgfion 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 6, 2004 
Jayhawks claim top spot in new AP poll 
Associated Press season. Georgia Tech was 13th, and the Boilermakers were 20th. Bill Self didn't have to wait to Kansas was ranked No. 1 for be No. 1 at Kansas. four weeks in the 2001-02 sea­
The Jayhawks, taking advan­son, its first stint at the top since tage of losses by the top four getting there for five straight teams last week, jumped from seasons from 1992-93 through sixth to No. 1 in The Associated 1996-97. Press men's college basketball Nine teams received first-place poll Monday. votes this week, backing up Selfs 
Their move to the top was the point of not being deserving of biggest in almost 40 years and the top spot. matched the second biggest in "Although it's very early, we'll the history of the poll, which enjoy the time we have it and we started in the 1948-49 season. certainly hope to maintain it," 
"I don't believe we're deserv­said Self, who took over when ing of it, but I don't know if any­Roy Williams left after 14 sea­one is right now," the first-year sons to become coach at North coach said before Monday morn­Carolina. ing's shootaround. "There are The Jayhawks were at Texas probably 10 to 12 teams out Christian on Monday night, their there who could be No. 1 the first game since starting guard way things played out last Michael Lee broke his right col­week." larbone in practice last week. He 
Kansas (2-0) beat then-No. 3 is expected to be out for up to Michigan State 81-74 in their two months. only game last week, and com­Kansas' jump from No. 6 to No. bined with losses by Connecticut, 1 matched Duke's rise on Dec. Duke and Arizona (Nos. 1, 2 and 14, 1965, and those were second 4 last week) and an unimpres­only to West Virginia's moving sive win by then-No. 5 Missouri, from No. 8 to No. 1 on Dec. 24, it meant another trip to No. 1. 1957. 
Florida beat Arizona to move The Jayhawks received 52 up from eighth to No. 2 this ftrst-place votes and 1,750 points week. Georgia Tech defeated from the 72-member national Connecticut. and Purdue beat media panel, 146 more than Duke, moving them into the Florida (2-0), which was No. 1 on rankings for the first time this eight ballots. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
NBA 
MeDyess returns, but Knicks lose in overtime 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Antonio McDyess grinned in embarrass­ment and blew a kiss to the crowd, his frrst point as a mem­ber of the New York Knicks finally on the board almost 14 months after he fractured his kneecap in a preseason game. 
McDyess' point came from the foul line after he missed five shot attempts and a free throw, and he scored only one other point Monday night in a 79-78 overtime Joss to the Detroit Pistons. 
''I'm not going to step on the court and get 20 and 10 the first night. It's going to take time," McDyess said before the game. 
He couldn't have been more correct. 
The former All-Star and Olympian finally appeared in a regular-season game almost a year and a half after the Knicks acquired him. He was warmly received but played tentatively, showing plenty of rust while shooting 0-for-5 with two turnovers and three rebounds in 13 minutes. 
Merely having him on the court was a welcome sight for the Knicks, who had yet to receive any dividends from Scott Layden's blockbuster draft night deal of two summers ago that cost New York two starters and a lottery pick. 
As poorly as McDyess played, it was not his fault that New York lost the game. That blame could be spread around after the Knicks scored only nine points in the third quarter and 14 in the fourth to fritter away a lead that had grown as large as 15. 
Chauncey Billups scored seven of his 24 points in overtime for the Pistons, who walked off with the win after Mehmet Okur blocked Michael Doleac's jumper just before the final buzzer. 
It was the third straight victo­ry for the Pistons, one of only seven NBA teams who began the night with a winning road record. 
Grizzlies 96, Celtlcs 89 
Paul Gasol finally got a win ­and some revenge -against the Celtics. 
Gasol scored 19 points and Lorenzen Wright added 14 points and 13 rebounds to lead Memphis to 96-89 win over Boston on Monday night, the Grizzlies' first victory against the Celtics in more than three years. 
"It's nice to finally get a win against them because I've been here three years and lost a few close ones," Gasol said. "It's really satisfying, especially after the season-opening loss." 
Memphis snapped a five-game losing streak against the Celtics and avoided being swept by Boston for the third consecutive season. The last time that the Grizzlies beat the Celtics was a 98-87 win on Nov. 26, 2000. 
Paul Pierce finished with 26 points to lead Boston. Mike Miller had 10 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds for Memphis and Shane Battier added 12 points. 
"It's very frustrating," Pierce said. "We're stagnant too many times on offense. A lot of guys depend on me to make a play every time down the floor and that puts a lot of pressure on me. We have to stop depending on me so much." 
The Grizzlies, who have won two straight, avenged a season­opening 93-91 home loss in which Celtics point guard Mike James sank a 15-foot jumper with 1.8 seconds left to win the game. 
Bulls 97, Bucks 87 
This latest version of the Chicago Bulls is a winner. For one night, at least. 
Playing just a few hours after the trade that brought them from Toronto was finalized, Jerome Williams and Antonio Davis gave the Bulls the energy and enthusiasm they've lacked, and the Bulls made coach Scott Skiles a winner in his Chicago debut with a 97-87 victory over the Milwaukee Bulls on Monday night. 
When the buzzer sounded, 

Jamal Crawford and Williams ran to the sidelines and hugged Skiles. The victory snapped a seven-game losing streak for Chicago. 
Williams finished with 13 points, a team-high 10 rebounds and four steals -includiiig a floor-burner that immediately endeared him to Bulls fans. Davis had 11 points, five rebounds and three blocked shots. 
And this was a true team effort. Crawford scored a career-high 30 points and tied his season high with eight assists. He also had eight rebounds. Eddy Curry had 22 points, including a monster dunk to stop a 12-0 Milwaukee run that pulled the Bucks within 91-87 late in the fourth quarter. 
Utah 91, New Jersey 84 
Andrei Kirilenko and DeShawn Stevenson scored 18 points apiece, and the Utah Jazz won their fourth straight game by holding off the New Jersey Nets 91-84 Monday night. 
Utah let a 19-point second­half lead dwindle to three with less than a minute to play before sealing it with four straight free throws to improve to 9-1 at home. It was the Jazz's fifth win in six games. 
Greg Ostertag had 10 points and 10 rebounds, and Matt Harpring added 16 points and nine rebounds before fouling out in the fourth quarter for the Jazz. 
Kirilenko also had three blocks and 10 rebounds for Utah, which outrebounded the Nets 51-25. 
New Jersey, which lost by 13 points the previous night at Sacramento, overcame a poor start with a strong fourth quar­ter, but still lost its the third straight game. 
Richard Jefferson led the Nets with 22 points. Jason Kidd added 15 points and Kenyon Martin 10 for New Jersey. 
Utah was pulling away in the third quarter and appeared to have the game almost wrapped up before New Jersey started hitting some shots. 
The Nets trimmed a 19-point lead to 66-56 at the end of the third quarter with an 11-2 run, then continued to chip away in the fourth. Jefferson made two free throws and then a layup with just under than 5 minutes remaining to cut the lead to 77­73, and the Nets kept it close from there. 
Jefferson cut it to 87-84 on a 3-pointer with about 35 seconds to go, but that was the last gasp for the Nets. Raul Lopez drew a foul and went 2-for-2 from the line, then after Kidd missed a 20-footer, the rebound kicked out to Raja Bell who was fouled and made both free throws to seal it. 
McDyess plays in first game after 14-month hiatus 
Associated Press had played only 10 games the presence on the floor really previous season while coming helps us," Chaney said. "In the off of knee surgery. long run, I think it's going to be 
NEW YORK -Nearly 14 Yet team president Scott great for us." months after Antonio McDyess Layden met Denver's asking McDyess looked spectacular in heard a pop in his knee as he price and gave up the rights to the three exhibition games be went up for a dunk, the former draft pick Nene Hilario along played for New York prior to the All-Star and Olympian was with starters Marcus Camby and 2002-03 season, but his for­ready to play his first regular­Mark Jackson -a move that tunes changed in the fourth season game for the New York brought Layden heavy criticism game when he crumpled to the Knicks. throughout McDyess' hiatus. floor holding his knee. 
The Knicks knew they were "It's great to have our team McDyess had fractured his taking a risk when they back together. It's going to be kneecap -the same knee was acquired McDyess from the great to see him out there," surgically repaired the previous Nuggets two summers ago. He Layden said after the team's season -and he was distraught 
later that night as he struggled

r----------..
shootaround Monday. 
Coach Don Chaney planned to to come to grips with the possi­use McDyess off the bench for bility of yet another career­six minutes in each half of New threatening injury. 
Pata~onia 
York's game against the Detroit It turned out to be so serious Pistons. McDyess entered to a McDyess needed two surgeries
excltiSively 
warm ovation with 2:06 left in to correct it, the final procedure the first quarter but played ten­coming last spring after the tatively, missing his first four Knicks failed to make the play­shots and committing turnovers offs for the second consecutive 
at-~~ 
Sminute~ 
two of the first three times he season.
from CUT"PCST 
touched the ball. After a summer of rehab con­
Campus :f.l•Jii: 

"He's not going to be perfect tinued into training camp and
Cold Weather Experts· 
out there, but just to have his the early part of the regular
Cal1259·1aoo for more details 
season, McDyess finally began ~-------------------------. practicing with the team in the middle of November. 
The big moment of his return was expected to come with about three minutes left in the first quarter, which is when EPA 
Happy 21st Emma! 
Don't come home Chaney planned to play New York's Antonio McDyess attempts to pass over Detroit's Ben Wallace In his first game back on the court In 14 months.
McDyess.tonight! "I feel like a part of the team 
the last couple of days. Before, it includes Dikembe Mutombo, York began the night just 1 1/2 ...but don't forget just seemed like I was an out­Kurt Thomas and Keith Van games out of first place in the sider," said McDyess, who aver­Horn -though he figures to Atlantic Division. If McDyess is 
your socks. aged 20.8 points and 12.1 eventually replace one of them able to stay healthy, the Knicks' rebounds in 2001-02 -his last in the starting lineup if his knee two-year postseason droughtproductive season. holds up and he regains his figures to be coming to an end. 
McDyess is joining a Knicks form. "I got in an elevator last team that has rebounded from a ''I'm not going to step on the night," McDyess said. "Some
Love, 
poor start to win four of its last court and get 20 and 10 the first woman said she's going to cook five games. night. It's going to take time," me dinner when we get to theUs For the time being, he will be McDyess said. playoffs, and I'm like, 'Look, I a backup on a front line that Despite a record of 7-10, New just want to get on the court.' 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
OUND THE NATION 


Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
H 
12 
1a 
14 

1 2 
3 
4 
6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 
~ 20 
22 23 
25 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Willi SERVlCES Page 19 
MLB 


Associated Press In addition to Sexson, best pitching prospect," sider this just a one-sea­
Arizona received left-ban­Brewers general manager son acquisition. 
PHOENIX -Right after der Shane Nance and a Doug Melvin said. "He's "We'll cross that bridge trading off a power pitch­player to be named. ahead of our young pitch­when we get there, but er, the Arizona ''I'm pretty excited," ers. We were reluctant to the bottom line is we have Diamondbacks acquired a Sexson said in a confer­do the deal unless he was the ability to sign him," power hitter who ranks ence call. "I enjoyed my in the deal." Colangelo said. "We're not among the best in the time in Milwaukee, but as Sexson tied Barry Bonds looking at this as a one­game. a player, we obviously for third in the majors year deal." 
The Diamondbacks got play to win, and it got with 45 home runs last He was the Brewers' Richie Sexson from tough in Milwaukee." season, and had 124 RBis. most popular player, but Milwaukee in a nine-play­The deal was finalized Arizona had no player with the franchise looking er deal Monday that sent after Curt Schilling passed with more than 26 home to cut its already meager infielder Craig Counsell his physical with the runs last year. payroll to about $30 mil­and second baseman Boston Red Sox. Sexson, 28, will make lion next season, his Junior Spivey to the De La Rosa was one of $8.6 million next year, the salary was too high. Brewers. four players sent to final season of his con­"We were faced with the 
First baseman Lyle Arizona for Schilling, and tract. reality of losing Richie Overbay, catcher Chad could not be traded until Colangelo said that Sexson and probably get­Moeller and left-bander the Schilling deal was despite the franchise's ting nothing in return Jorge De La Rosa were finalized. financial constraints, the except for a few draft dealt to Milwaukee. "He was the Red Sox's Diamondbacks don't con-choices," Melvin said. 
IN BRIEF 
Cincinnati fires football 
coach 
CINCINNATI -The University of Cincinnati fired football coach Rick Minter on Monday and offered him another position within the athletic department. 
Minter was fired three days after the Bearcats (5-7) ended their season with a 43-40 loss to Louisville. 
Minter has been at Cincinnati for 10 years, and with a 53-63-1 record had the most wins and losses in Bearcats' history. He had three years remaining on his contract. 
Minter, who was Notre Dame's defensive coordinator in 1992-93 after seven years as an assistant at Ball State, took Cincinnati to bowl games four of the past six seasons but had come under increasing criti­cism for failing to create a larger fan base and national profile. 
After a 3-0 start this year, the Bearcats lost seven of their final nine games for their first losing season in 

four years. Colts TE Clark likely to miss season 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts tight end Dallas Clark will have surgery on his broken right leg Tuesday and is likely to miss the rest of the season. 
Coach Tony Dungy said another ex~mination Monday revealed liga­ment damage on the inside of the leg along with the broken fibula on the outside of the leg. 
Clark had 29 receptions for 340 yards and one touchdown this sea­son, including two catches for 18 yards before getting hurt Sunday, and was becoming more of a threat in the Colts' offense during the past month. 
Clark, the Colts' first-round pick out of Iowa in April's NFL draft, hurt his leg during Sunday's 38-34 loss to New England when he landed awk­wardly after trying to spin away from a tackle. Clark went airborne and came down with his weight on the right leg. 
He was taken off the field on a stretcher and his leg was placed in an air cast. Indiana center Leach out with knee iniury 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana center George Leach will be out indefinitely because of a left knee injury, the school announced Monday. 
Leach, a 6-foot-11 senior, left Saturday's game against Xavier with about nine minutes left in regulation, then limped to the locker room. Following the game, he had an ice pack on the knee and was expected to get an MRI. Leach said he hurt the knee when he landed on someone's foot while trying to block a shot. 
Leach led the Big Ten last year with 79 blocks and is fifth on the Ho•lsiers' career list (155). He started the first three games this season, posting season-highs of 11 points and five blocks at Vanderbilt, and was averaging 8 points. 
page 20 about two minutes later after collecting his own rebound to

Sweep 

give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead going into the second intermis­
continued from page 24 

sion. dispatching the Wildcats Captain Aaron Gill scored a Friday. jumping out to a 5-0 little over six minutes into the lead before Northern third period off a pass from Michigan's Nathan Oystrick forward Mike Walsh, and for­scored with less than three ward Jason Paige closed the minutes remaining to spoil Irish scoring about six minutes what would have been Brown's later on the power play. fourth shutout this year. The Irish dominated play, 
Globke opened the scoring a outshooting the Wildcats 34-20 little more than halfway for the game. Irish head coach through the first Dave Poulin said period as he he was happy scored a goal off with Notre Dame's a feed from for­"It was one ofour offensive output. 
ward Noah Babin, better efforts ofthe "We really did a 
taking the puck lot of the little
season.,
and depositing it things that we behind Northern always stress well Michigan goal­Dave Poulin tonight," he said. tender Craig Irish coach "We got solid con­Kowalski after a tributions from Wildcat turnover everyone. It was led to an Irish one of our better odd-man break. efforts of the season." 
Defenseman Chris Trick That effort took a while to scored the first goal of his show up the following day, as career a little more than 11 Notre Dame fell behind the minutes into the second, scor­Wildcats 2-0 before surging ing a shorthanded goal to put back to win by two. the Irish up 2-0. "This was another important 
With the Wildcats on a five­building block for our team," on-three power play, a center­Poulin said. "Now they've expe­ing feed went off the mark and rienced coming from behind. Trick was able to leave the box You can talk about things like and collect the errant pass to this all you want, but until you beat Kowalski with a backhand experience it, it's not the shot. same." 
"I was standing in the box," After a scoreless first period, Trick said. "And all of a sudden . the Wildcats took advantage of the puck is coming toward me a five-on-three power play as as I came out of the penalty Darin Oliver took a feed from box. I could see that the goalie Dirk Southern and fired a shot was giving me the stick side, past Brown a little less than but for some reason I went to four minutes into the second. the backhand and it worked for Geoff Waugh would increase the best." the Wildcats' lead to two seven 
Forward Cory McLean scored minutes later, but the Irish 
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 



ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish suffer rude awakening 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

After starting the season 2-1, the Irish were unable to main­tain the momentum gained in their first home win Nov. 21 when they faced Michigan State and Tennessee last week. 
The holiday games started for the Irish Wednesday night, when they traveled to East Lansing to face the 3-0 Spartans. 
Notre Dame 

"We are a long
found they were in nine minutes of for a fight when way from where we the game. The Michigan State want to be. , Irish turned the ended the first ball over 14 half with a 45-29 times, and by
Muffet McGraw 
lead. the end of the "Offensively, I Irish coach first half, the of Lindsay Bowen and Kristin Haynie were just too much for the Irish, as they combined for 49 points, 26 for Bowen and 23 for Haynie. 
Jacqueline Batteast and Courtney LaVere led the Irish with 12 points apiece. 
Sunday, the Irish traveled to Knoxville to face No. 3 Tennessee (2-0), and the results were not much different than Wednesday night. 
The Lady Volunteers came 
out firing, jump­
ing out to a 20-7 
lead in the first 

thought they made every shot they took," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "They just had one of those games when 
everything  went  right  for  
them."  
The  Irish  fell  victim  to  

turnovers, committing 19. They also failed to grab an offensive rebound in the first half. 
In the end. the Spartans handed the .Irish their worst loss in ten years, 92-63. 
"I thought Michigan State just played a great game," McGraw said. "They came out with a lot of intensity and played harder than we did. And we were flat­footed the whole game." 
Michigan State's dynamic duo Irish were down 
45-23. 

Shyra Ely led the Lady Volunteers with 20 points on 8­18 shooting. Ashley Robinson added 14 and Shanna Zolman added 13 points. 
"We are a long way from where we want to be," McGraw said. "Shyra Ely was able to set the tone for Tennessee and she created several problems for our defense. I was definitely impressed with her play." 
However, not all was lost on the game for the Irish. Against Tennessee, guards Megan Duffy and Le'Tania Severe played fairly well. Duffy finished with 14 points on 6-11 ·shooting, with two late three pointers, were able to start a comeback with a power play goal with about six minutes left in the second period. 
Defenseman Neil Komadowski took a hard shot from the left point, which Kowalski stopped, but Globke was able to swoop in and poke the rebound between the goalie's pads for his ninth goal of the year. 
"I thought our power play goal was the key goal of the game," Poulin said. 
while Severe tallied 13 points on 6-10 shooting. 
The play of these guards allowed the Irish to have a strong second half, scoring 36 points to the Lady Volunteers' 38. 
The Irish also had only seven turnovers in the second half. 
"We didn't turn the ball over as much in the second half and we competed much better, something we can carry into our next game," McGraw said. "I thought our guard play, specifically Le'Tania [Severe] and Megan [Duffy]. was posi­tive for us. They each played well defensively and provided important contributions offen­sively." 
Batteast also had 16 points and seven rebounds for the Irish. 
The loss improved Tennessee's all time record against the lr!sh to 16-0. They are the only team who has played at least ten times against the Irish and never lost. 
The Irish now have to search for answers, as they drop out of the top 25 for the first time in the early season. 
"Tennessee did a good job of taking us out of what we want­ed to accomplish on the offen­sive end," McGraw said. "We just couldn't seem to find our rhythm offensively and they were able to force us into many mistakes." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

The floodgates opened soon after, as Notre Dame scored three unanswered goals in the third period to put the game away. 
Walsh scored just a little less than two minutes into the peri­od, and Globke scored his sec­ond of the game with a little more than five minutes left. Forward Matt Amado closed out the scoring a minute later with a hard slap shot past Kowalski. 
Brown made 25 saves in the game as the Irish outshot the Wildcats 30-27. The freshman goaltender currently has a six game unbeaten streak (6-0-2). 

The Irish have one more CCHA series remaining this season as they travel to Michigan this weekend for a pair of games. Notre Dame will not play at home again until Jan. 3 against Findlay. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to even up record at Anderson 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 

The Belles have been making adjustments since their season began and will look to keep benefiting from this change when they face Anderson College tonight. 
In a 73-62 victory last week against Manchester College, the Belles (1-2) made improvements that 
they hope will "With Anderson, carry over the rest 
we're facing a 
of the season. 
team that plays in 
"We came out against a style very similar Manchester and to ours., were a much quicker and more 
Suzanne Bellina
aggressive team," said head coach Belles coach 
Suzanne Bellina. "We had four play­ers in double figures and shot the ball much better." 
The Belles will need to contin­ue that effort as they face a tough Anderson team that is 3­1 and plays with a hard-nosed defense and quick offense. 
"With Anderson, we're facing a team that plays in a style very similar to ours," said Bellina. "They play scrappy defense with a quick transition game and we'll have to be prepared to keep up with them." 
The Belles will continue to rely on a core group of juniors that has consistently led the team this year. 
Center Emily Creachbaum has been the leader for the Belles along with guard Katie Boyce and center Maureen Bush. Against Manchester, Creachbaum had 16 points and 10 rebounds while Bush and Boyce contributed 10 and 17 points respectively. 
"The juniors have been there 
shot 43 
to keep the team positive all sea­son," Bellina said. "We've had great perform­ances this year f r o m Creachbaum, Boyce and Bush." 
The Belles hope to continue their improvement wherever they can. The team 
percent against 
Manchester compared to shoot­ing less than 34 percent in both games to start their season. 
"We need to keep getting bet­ter every game to get to the level we want to reach," Bellina said. "Our defense has been very good so far. but we're look­ing to force some more action on offense." 
The Belles play tonight at Anderson College at 7 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

------~ ~--~­
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
eight. 
"They were disruptive," Clark said. "It was a competitive game, and I was most proud when they were having fouls [that[ our guys never once lost their discipline or composure. That was satisfying to sec as a coach." 
Both teams would stay score­less through the remainder of regulation and both overtime periods, even though Notre Dame managed 24 shots to Michigan's total of 11. 
Wolverines' goalkeeper Peter Dzubay turned in a strong per­formance with nine saves. Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer made three. 
"If you take away the first half. we outshot them 16-3," Clark said. "But their goalie made several excellent saves." 
Michigan seemed to lay back in the two 10-minute overtime periods and play for the penalty kicks, Clark said. 
The penalty shots came after 110 intense minutes of soccer, and the Irish seniors were put to the test. Midfielders Filippo Chillemi, Chad Hiley and Martin all converted for Notre Dame, and Michigan's Kevin Taylor, Adam Bruh and Brian Popeney scored as welL 
On the fourth shot, Dzubay 
e11orm.ous 
FLEECE 
Selection 
Srninutes -· 
{!om CUT'i=ID!5'T 
Campus .-J•1•1U: 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Coll2~9·1ooo (or more details 

~----------­
turned away Prescod, and Wolverine sophomore Michael O'Reilly hit his shot over the crossover to keep the score knotted at 3-3. 
Dzubay, however, made his second consecutive save when he blocked the attempt by Detter, the Irish leading scorer and a first team all-Big East selection. White blasted a shot past Sawyer for the Michigan victory. 
Michigan will either host Coastal Carolina or travel to Santa Clara for its next tourna­ment game in the Elite Eight. 
For Notre Dame, this season has been a strong and memo­rable one. Clark, who has been around soccer for a long time, said he recognizes how special this team has been. 
"It was a fabulous season for the team, but winning isn't the most important thing," Clark 

Happy 21st Birthday Beth! 
Lot4 ~ LOtte, ~. "Dad. ~· Utde '?~. A«Ht fhM. Utde .LeH, ad A«Ht 
~ tJttau 
Hyperleariliizg MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. score improvement-better than any competitor. 

• 
Over 4,000 pages of materials & 30 MCAT's worth of practice -all yours to keep. 


Classes start in January. Space is limited. 800-2Review www.PrincetonReview.com 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
said. "It's trying to win, and our effort was tremendous. This has been a fabulous group to work with, speaking for myself and the assistants. 
"The only thing I regret is that I don't have another two weeks to work with the team." 
Notre Dame reached the third round by defeating Wisconsin­Milwaukee 4-1 in the second round Wednesday night. 
The game was tied 1-1 at half, but goals by Prescod, Martin and Detter put the game away. Detter had two goals in the game, his twelfth and thir­teenth on the season. 
Notre Dame outshot Wisconsin-Milwaukee 18-7, ending Sawyer's five-game shut out streak with a penalty kick goal. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 
into the air, but instead of jumping into his man, ducked around him and almost banked in a 3-pointer. 
Marquette grabbed the rebound and iced the game away with free throws. 
Jordan Cornette continued his poor shooting from the outside, missing all four of his 3-point attempts. Chris Quinn couldn't buy a basket either, finishing 2­of-11 and 1-of-8 from behind the arc. Both Quinn and Cornette fouied out late in the 
game. 
Scott Merritt had 18 points and 12 rebounds for Marquette while Travis Diener scored 12 points. 
Notes: 
Thomas led the Irish in their 78-64 win over Mount St. Mary's Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
He struggled early, missing four of his first five shots, but then he found the hot hand and made 6-of-7 throughout the rest of the game. Thomas fin­ished with a game-high 22 points. 
Francis had 13 points, but only six rebounds. Cornette had a rough afternoon, shooting 2­of-10, including 1-of-5 from behind the arc, finishing with five points. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
page 21 

Slide 
continued from page 24 
will be going to the University of Illinois where the Illini are the 15th seed in the Tournament. Notre Dame will play Louisville in the first round. The four-team sub­regional where the Irish are playing is the only bracket with three teams ranked in the top 20. 
Brown switched around her lineup for Saturday's game by putting Jessica Kinder opposite her sister, setter Kristen Kinder. Lauren Kelbley moved to the outside hitter while Emily Loomis moved to inside to mid­dle blocker. 
[The new lineup] was really good, we just needed better execution," Jessica Kinder said. "Everybody wanted it so badly, we just weren't making the plays." 
The Cardinal (23-6) were led by U.S. National Team member Ogonna Nnamani's 23 kills and .409 hitting percentage. Whenever Nnamani was on the front row, Stanford ran its offense through her. The junior and two-time All-American just overpowered the Notre Dame block, which is ranked first in the country averaging 3.76 blocks per game. 
"She is very good, she is a phenomenal athlete and a great person too," Brown said. "She is very hard to defend and she is an explosive player." 
In the first two games, the Irish came out strong, hitting . 293 and .303, but the Cardinal were just a little bit better, hit­ting .310 and .373. Early in all three games, Notre Dame took the lead, but Stanford was able to stay close and eventually take command of each game. 
Down 2-0, the Irish wanted to come out in game three and establish an early presence. However, it turned out to be their worst game of the match. The Irish committed 10 errors in the game and hit ,079. 
Despite the number of mis­takes in game three, the Irish stayed close and had their chances late in the game, being up 21-20, but they couldn't take advantage and let Stanford pull away. 
"I think we were looking in game three to come out and be a step better than that. But Stanford took it to us a little bit more in that game than they did before," Brown said. 
"Certainly it wasn't a good game three, but we didn't feel like it was over. We felt like we could still compete to the end, but we didn't come through in game three when it was the most critical." 
Kelbley led the Irish with 10 kills. Kristen Kinder and Lauren Brewster tied for the game high in blocks with 10. Meg Henican recorded 10 digs. 
Traditionally before the NCAA Tournament, the Irish travel to a top opponent in preparation for postseason play. Going to Stanford allowed Brown to try her new lineup, which she plans to use in the NCAA Tournament, against a top 10 team and see what her team needs to improve on when it's a do-or-die situation. 
"It is a new lineup, we switched some people around, and we feel the team was very committed and we felt it was the right move to make," Brown said. "I think we need to play a top 10 team, right before going into the NCAA [Tournament) . 
"The main thing is to continue to learn and to continue to get better. The season isn't over. We certainly haven't peaked." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

MEGAN DAVISSON!The Observer 

Irish guard Chris Quinn brings the ball up the court against Mount Saint Mary's. The Irish lost 71-58 to Marquette Monday. 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 2, 2003 


Tuesday, December 2, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
~ 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, I can't believe Aw, quit to form four ordinary words. 
I lost again your moaning I 
THECK 
(XJ 
02003 Tribune Media Services, lnc. 
r~f;fl 

fiVES 
t t
SAKMAD 
HARDER TO DEAL 
WITH AFTER
IJ I J 
wwwTuffible.com 
AWHILE.
I CARNID j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r [J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: A rI I I JOF rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BRINY SINGE MYOPIC TIMING Answer: She gave him a good night kiss because he seemed -"PROMISING" 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE J o B s A B E T 
C 0 L A 
~:+.i:+.::+:+=-L..,v~ 
1~W.m~•E•S•
-i 

*.+-~ _,.:-:+.:::+::+::-! 23 Mama Cass 24 Literature -=+-:+:+.;+.;~ Nobelist Gordimer 26 Princeton's historic _ Hall 28 Rubbed out 
-:+.i:+.i~t-:-1 ..;..&.;~..&.;;..~ 29 Free (of) 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on peo­ple and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
67 Slalomed 68 Author Kingsley 69 Bygone 
autocrat 70 Waits on 71 Subway, to Brits 
DOWN 1 Firms: Abbr. 2 Home of "The 
Sopranos" 3 Earthlink 
competitor 4 Is a monarch 5 Mold-ripened 
cheese 6 Uncreative education 
method 7 friends B N.BA's Abdui­
Jabbar 9 Lt.'s subordinate 10 Druggist, to Brits 11 Apollo's 
play1hing? 12 Iridescent gem 13 Mail delivery, to 
Brits 18 Jalopy 
21 Trig ratio 
22 Fruits of victory 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 Makes up (for) 46 _ the side of 57 Turner known as caution the Sweater Girl 
32 Update the alarm system 49 Chastise 59 Kind of page 
60 Berths
33 Holds up 51 Proficient in 62 It doesn't fly 
36 Uniform, to Brits 53 Violin bow 
anymore 40 Surprised gasps application 
63 It doesn't fly 43 Elementary 55 Apartment, to 64 Tease textbook, to Brits Brits 
65 Indianapolis-to­44 Just 56 They're charged Atlanta dir. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800·814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network. ny1imes.com/leaming/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _______________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Rick Savage, Julie Harris, Bryan Millard, Cathy Lee Crosby 
Happy Birthday: You can do it if you try. Nothing will stop you from reaching your goals this year if you are determined. You will have innovative ideas that are likely to lead to something concrete. Tie up loose ends 4uickly so that you don't find yourself dragging dead weight. Your numbers: 6, 13, 21, 34, 37,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions will be unstable if you allow your partner to take you for granted. Secret love affairs or infatuations will he enticing. Be carefuL This type of temptation could daniagc your reputation. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be able to pick up some valuable 
information if you are willing to listen to those with more experience. Be prepared to do some traveling to pursue your interests. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Older relatives may he a burden. Don't let them 
frustrate you. Take care of their needs 4uickly and get on with your own plans. Sudden financial disruptions will limit your spending. **"** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something special with your mate. The stress you've both been under has caused disagreements. Put that behind you. You mustn't let others meddle in your personal affairs. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Unreliable individuals may try to borrow money from you. Give them sound advice, hut certainly not financial assistance. Don't let anyone take you for granted. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your position at home appears to he unsettled. Sit back and be observant. It is best not to instigate changes. Just he willing to accept· the inevitable. Don't let children alter your plans. **• 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Tempers will tlarc if you decide to put in overtime at work. Your partner is really tired of being neglected and having to pull your weight when il comes to domestic chores. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Short jaunts should he on your agenda. Your mate will be upset if you don't make special plans for two. Consider a trip to the slopes for a little skiing and some romancing by a nice hot fire. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-l)ec. 21 ): Your partner will be emotionally unable to cope. Try to take some time to listen to his or her complaints and, in turn, do something appeasing. Don't overextend yourself in the process. ***• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will he in the mood for romance. Join in the festivities. You'll he surprised at the number of potential mates you meet. Someone from your past may try to waltz back into your life. ** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): Don't push your luck if you have to deal with officials or institutions. Carelessness will lead to a series of mishaps. You arc likely to be misinterpreted if you arc the least hit evasive. ***** PISCES (lo'eb. 19-March 20): You'll enjoy doing things with youngsters. Don't overspend. You can find things to do that won't break your hudgeL Don't let a lack of funds depress you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You see, you do. Nothing will stantl in your way once you have a goal in mind. You arc relentless, courageous and forthright in all that you pursue. You're a great team player with a strong will to succeed . 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 rea, to Brits S Slow 
10 Sound on cobblestone streets 
14 Slender instrument 15 Like some numerals 16 Shot in the arm, maybe 17 Lawyers, to Brits 19 Eram, _, erat 
20 Graham who wrote "The Quiet American' 
21 Got a whiff of, old-style 22 Drug-yielding shrub 25 Guardian spirits 27 Bandage, to Brits 30 Hip roof 
34 Like the farmer MacDonald 35 Composer Satie 37 Sofa 38 Richard 39 Parting south of the border 41 Night watcher 42 Dodo has two 45 Those, to Robert Burns 47 Actress Peeples 48 Tougher, as a parent 50 Doctor's office, 
to Brits 52 Tree with catkins 

54 Gift to a diva 55 Thin and light 58 Foul-up 
61 Gardener's soil 62 Garters, to Brits 66 Pulitzer winner 
Quindlen 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, December 2, 2003 
Page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Payback time 
Marquette takes revenge on cold-shooting Irish in 71-58 victory 
on their own hot shooting -Steve Novak led Marquette (5-defense on denying entry pass­runs, going on an 8-0 spurt to
By MATT LOZAR 
defeating the Irish 71-58 at the 0) with a career-high 21 points es. With two minutes, 30 sec­get to 48-37, but Marquette
Associate Sports Editor 
Bradley Center in Milwaukee. and was 5-of-7 on 3-pointers. onds remaining in the half, the countered with a quick 7-1 run For the game, Marquette shot The Irish (2-1) made just five 3-Irish had just five field goals of its own to push the lead back 
The Golden Eagles had one 47 percent overall and 53 per­pointers on 30 attempts. compared to six turnovers. to 17. date on their mind heading into cent on 3-pointers while the Marquette took control of the The Irish came out in the sec­A 9-0 run got the Irish closer Monday's game against the Irish shot 31 percent from the game from the start, going on a ond half with a higher defen­at 57-4 7 and set them up for a Irish-Dec. 2, 2002. field. 20-2 run at one point and mak­sive intensity and were more late push. With less than two 
One year ago today, a hot­After scorching the Golden ing nine of its first 16 field goal committed to getting Francis minutes remaining, Marquette shooting Notre Dame team Eagles last season for 32 points attempts to eventually build a the ball in the low post. It missed its second consecutive dominated Marquette en route last season, Irish guard Chris 34-11 lead. The Irish started 1-appeared at times coach Mike front end of a one-and-one, and to an easy 21-point win at the Thomas was the total opposite of-11 on 3-pointers. Brey wasn't going to let his the Irish were down 65-58. Joyce Center. Monday night, going 4-of-19 In the first half, the Irish had team take a shot without get­Thomas brought the ball up 
Marquette got its chance for from the field, including 3-of-14 trouble getting the ball into ting Francis a touch in the pos­court, pump-faked his defender payback Monday night when from behind the arc, and scor­Torin Francis as the Golden session. the Golden Eagles capitalized ing only 11 points. Eagles concentrated their The Irish made a couple of see REVENGE/page 21 
MEN's SoccER 
Michigan knocks 2nd Irish squad from tourney 
Irish fall to Wolverines 4-3 on penalty kicks 
The teams ended regulation that. When you have knockout
By PAT LEONARD 

deadlocked at 1-1. Wolverine stages of competition in soccer,
Sports Writer 

goalkeeper Peter Dzubay some days it can be the other stopped penalty kicks by senior team's day." What secret formula does forwards Justin Detter and The Irish (16-3-4) got on the Michigan have? Devon Prescod, and a goal by board first when senior captain 
Its football team trounced Mike White -who also had the Greg Martin assisted on a goal Notre Dame 38-0. Then its only Michigan goal in regulation by Detter at the 16:57 mark. The women's soccer team ended the -on the fifth penalty kick goal was Detter's 14th on the magical season for the Irish in a ended a historical playoff run by season. 1-0 defeat, and now this. the fifth-seeded Irish. Michigan then tied the game at 
After advancing further into "It's not a loss, it's a tie," coach 1-1 with White's goal at 20:11. the NCAA tournament than any Bobby Clark said, since the The Wolverines played a fierce team in program history, the defeat in penalty kicks does not and aggressive style as they Notre Dame men's soccer team appear as a loss in the stand­tried to take the lead, fouling the fell 4-3 in penalty kicks to 12-ings. "But we had chances to Irish 33 times to Notre Dame's seed Michigan in a third round win the game. We can blame all match Sunday at Alumni field. sorts of things, but soccer's like see UPSET/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Irish move into tie for 1st with sweep 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish find themselves in an unfamiliar position going into December. It's a good position to be in, though, as Notre Dame is currently tied for first in the CCHA after 5-1 and 4-2 victories over Northern Michigan last week­end. 
This is the latest in the sea­son that Notre Dame (8-3-2, 7-3-2 in the CCHA) has ever been ranked number one in the CCHA. The Irish are cur­rently tied with Ohio State for 16 points. 
Forward Rob Globke scored three goals on the weekend and goaltender David Brown continued his impressive sea­son with both wins in the sweep of the Wildcats. Notre Dame is currently on a five game unbeaten streak (3-0­2). 
The Irish had little difficulty 
see SWEEP/page 20 
N D VOLLEYBALL 

New lineup, same result in loss 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO, Calif. ­After losing three of their last five, including the Big East Championship, Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown decided her team needed a new lineup heading into Saturday's match at No. 6 Stanford. But when it came right down to it, the Cardinal simply executed better. 
The Irish (23-6) lost 30-28, 30-24, 30-24 at Stanford in their last regular season match of the 2003 season. 

"I don't think it's easy to sum up. I think what it comes down to is the team that made the fewest number of errors [won]," Brown said. "Stanford played steady throughout, we played okay in games one and two but then obviously not in game three." 
The pairings for the NCAA Tournament came out Sunday and the Irish 
see SLIDE/page 21 

en 
NO WOMEN'S BBAU 
SMC BASKETBAll 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NHl 
FOOTBALL 
w 

Lousiana State gains 
Green Bay assistant 

A wrapup from
Saint Mary's at 
Notre Dame 57,

1--c..=. Michi~n State 92, 

Sylvester Croom is 
ground on second place 
around the National
z Notre ame 63 
Anderson 
Stanford 7 
named head coach of 

Southern California in 
Hockey League in
:3 

the latest BCS poll, but
Mississippi State, mak­
Monday's games. 

Tennessee 83, 
Today, 7 p.m. 
Notre Dame running

will likely need a Trojan
ing him the first black

= c::c Notre Dame 59 
The Belles (1-2) travel 
back Julius Jones ran for 
football head coach in 

loss Saturday to play in 
The Irish drop out of 
to Anderson (3-1) for a 
218 yards and the Irish 

ti 
SEC history. 
the Sugar Bowl.
the top 25 with losses. 
non-conference game. 
cruised to victory. 
page 16
page 16 

page 15
page 20 
page 20 
Irish Insider 





