
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------­

THE 

OLUME 38: ISSUE 34 
Hallahan pushes for resolution 
President attempts to increase power of Student Government 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 

. Student Body President Pat Hallahan introduced a resolu­tion at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday which would, if passed, make three significant changes to the Student Government. 
First, the resolution would grant Student Government the authority to approve the budg­et to be transferred to the Executive Cabinet. Second, it would allow for three senators to be seated on the Executive Cabinet and the Vice President to be granted voting authority on the council. Finally, the resolution would give sole power to amend the Student 
Union Constitution to the Executive Cabinet. 
Hallahan said he placed this resolution in front of the Senate for two specific rea­sons. He would like the resolu­tion passed before his report to the University's Board of Trustees, scheduled for next Thursday. He said this would be a strategic move in garner­ing more cooperation from the administration. 
"If we can say we are mov­ing in the right direction [in fostering cooperation within 
see HALLAHAN/ page 6 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10,2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Cheney raises funds for Chocola 
Vice President speaks at luncheon on campus 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 
Vice President Dick Cheney delivered the keynote address at a fundraising luncheon held on behalf of local Congressman Chris Chocola's reelection cam­paign Thursday. 
Cheney remained on campus long enough to host a brief $2000 per-couple reception prior to the luncheon, and gave a 20-minute speech to a gath­ering of Chocola supporters, who paid $250 per-plate for lunch at the Joyce Center. 
In his short appearance, Cheney endorsed Chocola for the 2004 Congressional Election and--praised him as an outstanding new member of Congress. Cheney's visit raised $200,000 for Chocola's re-elec­tion campaign. 
"The 2nd District of Indiana definitely needs this kind of ·support," Notre Dame College Republican president Brandi Gill said. "We're one of the most highly contested districts in the country, and Chocola, being that it is only his first term, can only benefit from 
this extra attention."  
Notre  Dame's  College  
Democrats had  a  different  
take.  

"I think Cheney's visit shows that the Republicans are wor­ried about this seat really early in the cycle. The district is one of the most closely divided in the nation, and Chocola is a 
see CHENEY/page 4 
Above, Vice President Dick Cheney speaks to supporters at a dinner. At right, protesters wave signs outside the Joyce Center during Cheney's visit.
•
PHOTOS BY PAMELA LOCK 

Students, faculty ·protest Cheney visit 
mislead Americans about the war 
By SHELIA FLYNN 

in Iraq and about who will profit News Writer 
from it," said Notre Dame English professor Valerie Sayers, who 
Approximately 100 protesters participated in the event. lined both sides of Juniper Road "Cheney and his pals stand to Thursday, waving signs and make millions in Iraq, while shouting chants against Bush American soldiers die and the administration policies as Vice Iraqi people continue to suffer," President Dick Cheney spoke she said. inside the Joyce Center for a Cheney spoke at the $250-per­fundraising luncheon. plate luncheon to raise funds for 
''I'm here because the Cheney­local Republican Congressman Bush administration continues to Chris Chocola. The event was not sponsored by Notre Dame, which simply rented space in the JACC to Chocola's campaign. 
Protesters met at the Clarke Memorial Fountain at 10 a.m., and then marched across God Quad and South Quad as a num­ber of student<> looked on in sur; prise. Members of a social psy­chology class, observing the protests for an assignment, said they did not think many Notre 
see PROTEST/page 4 

Alumni clubs welcome Irish fans for games 

Club plans sea ofgreen Pittsburgh style 

By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
When the Irish clash with the Panthers this Saturday, they will see an island of green Domers hyped for a win amid Pitt's sea of gold -the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh has plans to make sure of it. 
In the tradition of the ever­loyal Notre Dame family, the Club has been pushing The Shirt as well as its own kelly green creation for the last few weeks, in addition to planning game weekend events that will make the Irish feel right at home. 
As is the custom in Pittsburgh, the Club will hold a pep rally Friday night, fea­turing Notre Dame cheerlead­ers and alumni, Irish dancing and music and classic game 
highlights on the big screen. "(This is] the very first pep rally in the brand new [David 
L. Lawrence Convention Center] -a very cool 'green' building," said Club president Lauren Trocano. 
The emcee of the event will be local newscaster Stacy Smith, father of a recent Notre Dame grad. 
Unlike the pep rally, which is open to the public, the pre­game tailgate on the Riverwalk outside of PNC Park is a\'ailable by presale tickets only. Those in attendance will prepare for the 6 p.m. game with a lunch buffet and enter­tainment by the local Mt. Lebanon High School Percussion, the Notre Dame Bagpipe Band and current and former members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. A parade will lead fans down a short road to Heinz Field for kickoff. 
The Club expects at least 500 fans at the pep rally and over 200 at the tailgate. To add to the group, the Club scheduled a chartered bus that Pittsburgh-area students could buy tickets for to bring them home for the weekend and back to school in time for midterms. 
All of this will cost the Club over $10,000, with no real expectations of breaking even. "The primary reason for doing all this is to support the Irish and give local club members and fans a place to be togeth­er. Generating revenue for the Club is nice, but secondary," said Trocano. 
Pitt will counter these revels with events their own, as they set up PNC Panther Alumni 
see CLUB/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The joys of interhall 
Everybody knows that Notre Dame 
is all about football. However. what 
most people don't realize -unless 
they're students -is that the real 
football isn't on Saturdays. 
Sure, we buy 
The Shirt and Kate Gales 
wave shillelaghs 
and shake our 
keys on third Wzre Editor 
downs -we love 
the game. But 
being a spectator gets old after a 
while. And that's why interhall foot­
ball defines Notre Dame to me. 
I started high school with a ready­
made group of friends -my field 
hockey teammates. It made the tran­
sition from elementary school to high 
school that much easier. 
Unfortunately, I didn't have that com­
fort zone coming here to college. The 
first week of school was a difficult 
changeover for me. 
However, during Frosh-0, a sopho­

more told me about her favorite Notre 
Dame activity-interhall football. li. 
sounded fun, and a great way to get 
to know the people in my dorm. so I 
went to the first meeting. 

The highlight DVD of last year's sea­
son was more professional than any­
thing I'd seen in high school varsity 

sports. Practices were serious and our 
coaches looked tough. 
Suddenly I was having second 
thoughts about coming out for foot­
ball -watching it on Saturday after­
noons with my dad was different than 
Cavanaugh interhall. 
Joining the football team was the 
best thing I have done so far this year. 
I've gotten to know so many people in 
my dorm. especially my fellow clue­
less freshmen. 
I got two really cool T-shirts and 
some hot green-and-white striped 
socks. Our coaches give advice on 
everything from doctor's appoint­
ments to what to buy for our broth­
ers' birthdays. They send inspira­
tional e-mails and lead us in cheers 
on the sidelines. 
Six weeks ago. I didn't know a 
defensive lineman from a linebacker. 
Now I can impress my friends by 
explaining that we run a mix 
option/passing offense with a lot of 
trips right and three back sets, mostly 
just to grind out some yards from 
down series to down series. 
Some high school teams could not 
rival our 60-page playbook, and 
watching our defensive coordinator 
call three-two-cover-two plays from 
the sideline will never cease to amuse 
me. 
There's nothing better than football on a crisp October Sunday afternoon. Playing it, however, has given me a new appreciation for the sport. I don't get into the games much, but watch­ing from a sideline is a much better view than my 50th-row seats in Notre Dame Stadium. I'm so impressed by the girls on the team and their skills: I feel like they could teach trained receivers a thing or two. I can't believe the time and effort our coach­es invest in us -they're truly won­derful people. 
And I can't wait for the postseason. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself a.s a professional publica­non and smves for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. \X1e do, however, recognize that we wall make mistakes. If we have m01de a mistake, plcoue concact us 011 631-4541 so we can 'orrelt our error. 

Friday, October I 0, 2003 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE NO/PITT GAME THIS WEEKEND? 




David L. Zhang Joe Lattal Jennifer Stagl Tiffany Mah David Esparza Jeff Albert 
Morrissey Manor Knott Hall Lewis Hall Howard Hall Morrissey Manor Fisher Hall Freshman Freshman Freshman Senior Junior Freshman 
"Hopefully we ''Vontez will "Go Irish. We're "We will win.·· "Total "Pitt-3· can salvage make Pitt's going to win ... Domination ... ND -35· something passzng game no questions.·· by who. I don't Ditka-742. 



before USC  look like Zahm's  
embarrasses  interhall  
,.us.  team's...  


PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 

Students, faculty and community members, some clad In hazardous materials suits to demonstrate their opposition to the Bush administration's military presence In Iraq, protest a fundralslng visit by VIce President Dick Cheney Thursday. Cheney was on campus to promote the reelection campaign of local congressman Chris Chocola. 
OFFBEAT 
Elderly robber pleads guilty 

LUBBOCK. Texas -A 91­year-old man who walks with a cane and is hard of hearing pleaded guilty Thursday to stealing nearly $2,000 from a bank. his third such robbery in less than five years. 
Leaning on his cane and wearing a headset to listen to the judge, J.L. Hunter "Red" Rountree initially responded "not guilty" when asked for his plea. 
"I mean, 'Guilty,"' Rountree later said. 'Tm sorry." 
In August, Rountree handed a First American Bank teller in Abilene an envelope with "Robbery" written on it in red marker, prosecutors said. lie gave 
TODAY 0::: 
her a second envelope, telling her to put money in it. Twice the teller asked if he was kidding. After the first time, Rountree said, "Hurry up or you will get hurt." 
A bank employee and some customers got Rountree's license plate number as he left the park­ing lot. Authorities stopped him about 20 miles from Abilene. 
His lawyer, Shery Kime­Goodwin, declined to com­ment. 
Authorities say Rountree's crime spree began in 1998, a week before his 87th birthday. lie was arrested in Biloxi, Miss .. minutes after robbing a bank. He was given three years' pro­bation, fined $260 and told to leave Mississippi. 
French underwear 
ads too risque 
PARIS -The French don't blink at the topless look, but an ad campaign for thong underwear geared toward young peo­ple proved too risque even here. 
The campaign for Sloggi thongs drew fire from con­sumers and elected officials who said posters displayed around the country were degrading to women. 
"Women are sick of being treated like merchandise," said lawmaker Segolene Royal, who was family affairs minister in the previ­ous Socialist government. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 75
..J LOW 56 

HIGH LOW 


77 47 

65 
43 

know!'' Ditka wins.·· 
. 
9 to 11 p.m. at Legends. Admission is free. 
Stanford Hall will sponsor its second annual Iron Grill com­petition Friday from 9 p.m. to midnight on the Fieldhouse Mall. Two-per;son teams may enter the competition, and the event is free and open to the public. 
The German Club will spon­sor its annual Okdomerfcst Saturday in the LaFortune Ballroom from 9 to 11 p.m. 
Lyons Hall will sponsor the Mara Fox Fun Run Saturday from 9 to 11 a.m.. starting on the Lyons Hall basketball courts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

71 42 


HIGH LOW 


Friday, October 10, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

First campus Relay for 


Multi-campus clubs increase 
Life to be held tonight 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame community will begin walking for its first Relay for Life tonight. This event, which raises money and awareness for the American Cancer Society, is the organization's most pres­tigious activity and holds the record as the largest communi­
By ASHLEY DYER 
News Writer 
said. The University of Notre Dame has sponsored mem­
The number of clubs and the bers of the Notre Dame com­
diversity of their missions seem munity in the annual St. 
to be expanding every day Joseph County American 
among the Saint Mary's, Holy Cancer Society's Relay For 
Cross and Notre Dame campuses. Life since 1996. This event, 
Various clubs exist on two of the generally held in May, had 
three campuses, but more and few participants. As a result, 
more students are in the process the sophomore class and the 
of formulating clubs that accent American Cancer Society 
and expand club selection Student Group 
offered. tackled the prob­
Often, clubs that extend 
ty fundraiser in "As a campus lem and decided 
between two of the campuses 
remain somewhat similar to each
the world. to sponsor a sec­
cornmunity, we are
The Relay will ond Relay espe­
other in mission and content. In 
fact, two tmofficial clubs develop­
begin with an all working cially for the 
ing at Notre Dame, known as
opening ceremo­together to find a Notre Dame 
ny today at 6:30 community. 
"Feminist Voice" and
cure.·· 
p.m. and will Notre Dame 
"OutReachND" say they hope 
that next semester their applica­
conclude has received two 
Saturday at 12 Jessica Brookshire American Cancer 
tions for official recognition, 
which mirror Saint Mary's newly­
p.m. officer Society grants, 
'Teams consist­ing of dorms, clubs, friend and work groups have been formed to support the Society's efforts. 
"Faculty, staff, students and their friends and family are invited to participate. All are invited to come out, even if they are not on a team," said Jessica Brookshire, an officer of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Cancer Society 
Those taking part in tonight's relay have secured donations from sponsors in exchange for their participa­tion in the event. For the duration of the relay, one member of the team is required to walk the course at all times. 
"Many individuals choose to spend the night and walk not only their shift but with their friends as well," Brookshire 

. ,.. 

established Feminist United and total of 
accumulating a 

Sexuality Support Group organi­$1,476,000, for its efforts 
zations are approved. toward cancer research. 
The question remains why cer­Crislyn D'Suoza-Schorey 
tain groups have been estab­and Edward Hinchcliffe of the 
lished on one campus and not department of biological sci­
granted club recognition on ences direct the research. 
another. All three colleges stern They, along _with. Rudy 
from a Catholic belief system of Navari, a medical oncologist 
education and campus life. Each faculty member, will address 
individual institution, however, participants at the opening 
holds the right to determine what ceremony. 
the college will and will not allow. "Everyone [benefits from 
Even though the three colleges this Relay]: ·cancer patients 
are often lumped together under benefit by seeing survivors 
the umbrella of the Holy Cross walking who have beaten 
community, they act as separate their cancer. Family members 
institutions. find the Relay to be a healing 
Applying for club recognition at process. As a campus commu­
Saint Mary's consists of picking nity, we are all working 
up an application at Student together to find a cure." 
Activities, obtaining approval Brookshire said. 
from the Board of Governance's Oub Commissioner and ushering Contact Jen Rowling at 
the application through BOG for jrowling@nd.edu 
debate and approval. Notre 

YOUR WORLD. 
YOUR CHANCE TO MAKE IT BETTER. 

www.AME R I C 0 R P 5.oR6 1.800.942.2677 [1.800.833.3722 TTY] 
AMERICORPS. GIVE BACK FOR AYEAR. SERVE YOUR COMMUNITY. CHANGE YOUR liFE. 
WE ARE lOOKING FOR MOTIVATED. SElF-DISClPUNED AMERICORPS AlUMNI iNTERESTED IN PROMOTING AMERICORPS. EARN SOME EXTRA MONEY AND HELP PROMOTE NATIONAl SERVICE ON YOUR COllEGE CAMPUS! FOR MORE INFORMATION. CONTACT: MICHAEL BOWEN, 312.353.1959, MBOWEN@CNS.GOV 
Dame requires would-be clubs to 
go through a similar process, 
with the application moving 
through the Club Coordination 
Council in order to be approved. 
Presently, the CCC at Notre 
Dame is in the process of revising 
current standards to garner a 
higher rate of club approval into 
the sponsorship of Student 
Activities. There has been an 
influx of 300 total groups that 
have applied for club status this 
year at Notre Dame alone. 
Consequently, the CCC has put a 
hold on all applications until new 
standards have been drafted, 
which is predicted to be deter­
mined by January. 
"The case presently is that the 
CCC is revamping its standards 
due to the dramatic increase in 
the number of clubs which have 
applied for official university 
recognition," said Heather M. 
Rakoczy, faculty advisor for the 
Feminist Voice. 
Nonetheless. members and advisors of the developing groups on the ND campus said they are in high spirits regardless of the delay. Rakoczy said she was told that Feminist Voice would more than likely be approved in January 2004, at which time it will be officially recognized as a club. 
Mayra Gomez, president and founder of the developing Feminist Voice, feels that club recognition will allow for aware­ness and education as to what feminism is in terms of gender, class and race across the Notre Dame campus. 
"As the Feminist Voice, we hope to focus on feminist issues on the community level while working our way to bring aware­ness of feminist issues on a national level," she said. 
Group members from Saint 
Mary's Feminists United and Feminist Voice have been cross­ing channels until club status at Notre Dame is granted for the latter. Once Feminist Voice is rec­ognized, the groups say they hope to work together in estab­lishing awareness on all three campuses. 
OutReachND has also been seeking club recognition in order to utilize the advertising channels that go along with such official status in spreading awareness to the student body. The group, already affiliated with the faculty­run Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, said it hopes club recognition will bring more awareness to Notre Dame in respect to sexuality issues. 
"We feel it is necessary to be recognized by the administration as a club to create visibility on campus," said Janeka Joyce, co­chair ofOutReachND. 
Joyce said she feels club recog­nition will build and broaden support systems linked to educa­tion about various sexuality issues between students and fac­ulty. 
Already this year at Saint Mary's, faculty/student rapport 
· has been building in order to spread sexuality awareness on the campus. PINS, a faculty support group similar to the Standing Committee at Notre Dame, planned this week to begin dia­logue on sexuality issues through films and speakers. PINS has worked alongside student groups Feminist United and the Sexuality Support Group as a precursor to National Coming Out Day on Oct. 11. 
Contact Ashley Dyer at dyer 1865@saintmarys.edu 
A\t~~ 
~ Announces the followlnc lnlnMiuctmY ....,,. of••• 
·----··---··----··----··----· 
I $IS I I $Z6 I I $69 I I I I $79 I
$79

I I I I I Color, Cut ac. I I · I I Highlights, I I Mens Cut I ICut & Style I I Style I I Perm. Cut lk Style I I Cut & Style 1 One Process 

·----··---··----··----··----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must b~ pr~unted to R~c~ptionist Be/Ore Services Are Performed 
Jennifer -KJ -Kefly -Elena 
Noc wlid lo..,pral pcnno. t..oosor cinaod hoir add SIO. No oohcr dio­ATRIA SALON oounrs apply. Open some~ ATRIASalon n:xrves me right 11> 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr.

ldWo: Javia: "' anydiem who.: hair a>ndiaon io ~ Corner of EdUon 
OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 
Quality 
Diamonds 
·~;.;.:..;..:.;----............ 
® 

A-/~7t--~ 
~ 
'----·-··-···························· 
John M. Marshall's 
Incfirp-o:rated lF}(15 
Jew~lers / Gemn·Jogist~
Goldsmiths I Platinunismiths Ke-1 Bank Building, Suite #101 
South Bend, Indiana 16601 
287-1427 
Friday, October 10, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 




Cheney 
continued from page 1 
vulnerable freshman having won with only a slight majority in 2002," said Casey Fitzmaurice, president of the group. "The election next fall will ultimately come down to his record, not just how much money he can raise." 
Cheney dedicated most of his 20-minute address to discus­sion of the 2004 Presidential Election. 
He told the crowd that involvement in elections is cru­cial, using Bush's close victory in the 2000 election as an example. 
"Never let anybody tell you that what you do in a campaign doesn't matter. Every dollar matters, every contribution, every hour of volunteer work matters," Cheney said. 
Cheney reminded his audi­ence of the fall of Baghdad to U.S.-led forces, which occurred exactly six months prior to yes­terday's luncheon. He defend­ed the government's actions in 
"I've never been more proud of the 
U.S. military," he said. 
He did not address any ques­tions concerning the issue of weapons of mass destruction, despite investigations being conducted in Washington and protests in front of the Joyce Center Thursday morning. 
Cheney said he and Bush are "determined to solve problems" and credited Bush for "con­fronting whole problems and acting decisively." 
"The American people can be confident of a better future, a stronger economy and greater Iraq. 
"The Iraqi people prefer free­dom and hope to tyranny and terror," Cheney said. 
The vice president said al­Qaida had "realized what a grave mis­take it was to make 
enemies of [the "rve never been duced the U.S.] and of more proud ofthe largest tax cut 
President Bush." since Reagan's
U.S. military.··
Cheney praised presidency. The the bravery and energy plan honor of America's Dick Cheney currently under 
discussion

troops. VIce President 

go With friends, leave with friends be aware ofyour surroundings 
never walk aJ.one. 
USE T H E AVA I LAB L E 
·~r.. ... PUS SAFETY RESOURCES ... 
Walk. 634·-BLUE to andfrom anywhere on campusfi'om8prri to 2pm 
. ' 

ty's telephone number. 631-5555 answered 24 hours ado) 
visit Notre Dame':s security/police website for further information 
· www.nd.eduj-ndspd 
fir memory afa .litmlent i11 the dttss o{1006 
Bernardo's Fine Mens Clothing October Sale 20-30-40o/o off 
Great Selection of Suits & Sport Coats for Your Interviews 


Famous Brand Names 
Kenneth Cole Suit $495 for $325. 
Hart Shaffner Marx Joseph Abboud Austin Reed 
Tommy Bahama
Bernardo's 3131 Grape Rd. 

Mishawaka 255-8818 
security because of the charac­ter of leadership of President George W. Bush," Cheney said. 
Cheney said the Bush admin­
istration's actions have soft­ened the effects of the recession and have pro­
focuses on 
reducing 

America's dependence on foreign oil, he said. 
He acknowledged that he and Bush had many challenges ahead and many goals yet to accomplish. This visit was Cheney's second fundraising appearance at Notre Dame. His first visit was a similar engage­ment, held on behalf of Chocola for his 2002 Congressional campaign. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
rights," said sophomore Sturges Lochridge.
Protest 
Protesting groups included the continued from page 1 Progressive Student Alliance, the 
Peace Coalition and Women's Dame students were aware of Action for New Directions the anti-Cheney campaign. WAND, whose members wore 
"Our teacher just told us about yellow hazardous material suits it," said freshman Jaclyn Riffert, on which were printed the who said she would not have words "Hunt for WMD [weapons otherwise known of mass destruc­the protests were tion]." taking place, despite "/ think it can show The majority posters and other of protestors
that, even at a
advertisements. "It's said their man kind of offending fairly conservative goal was not to me. I'm a Bush fan." school like this.· I elicit a response Other Bush fans from Cheney,
think there are a 
-members of the but rather to
lot ofpeople that 
College Republicans show that who volunteered to are really mad., Americans are work at the event -discontent with stood outside the administration
Matt Larner
JACC before policies.
student
Cheney's speech, "I think it can holding signs sup­show that, even porting at a fairly con­Bush/Cheney for 2004. They said servative school like this; I think that, although they did not agree there are a lot of people that are with the protesters' views, they really mad," said sociology grad­supported their decision to uate student Matt Lamer. protest. · 
"I think it's a good way to Contact Shelia Flynn at express their first amendment sflynn2@nd.edu 


Friday, October 10, 2003 Co.t-.1PILED FROi\1lQHE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomber kills nine in Iraq 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -A suicide car bomber crashed a white Oldsmobile into a police sta­tion in Iraq's largest Shiite Muslim enclave Thursday, killing himself, nine others and wounding as many as 45. Earlier, gunmen ­one dressed as a Muslim cleric -shot and killed a Spanish military attache. 
The violence, six months to the day after Baghdad fell to American forces, under­scored the predicament of a capital whose deliverance from Saddam Hussein's tyranny has been repeatedly undermined by terror­ism, attacks on U.S. forces and sectarian unrest. 
The ancient city's landscape is now lined with massive concrete blast barriers and coils of barbed wire outside hotels, government departments and along stretches of road near 
U.S. military bases. 
As in previous attacks, there was no claim of responsibility for the 8:30 a.m. bombing in Sadr City, a Baghdad district with an estimat­ed 2 million Shiites. 
"It was a huge blast and everything became dark from the debris and sand. I was thrown to the ground," said Mohammed Adnan, who sells watermelons opposite the police station. 
China preps for first space mission 
BEIJING -China has picked three candi­dates for its first manned space mission later this month, but performances "at critical moments" in the run-up to this week's expected launch could decide who gets the single spot on board, an official newspaper reported Friday. 
Another, less substantiated Chinese media report said the mission would be equipped with weapons to protect astronauts upon landing from animals and other threats. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
D.C. street gunfight kills one 
WASHINGTON -A gun battle erupted in the capital's bustling Mount Pleasant neigh­borhood Thursday, killing one man and wounding the driver of a bus caught in the crossfire. 
Five suspects were arrested and two guns recovered after the shootings, which sent people running for cover. 
"It looks like it's gang-related," said Metropolitan Police Chief Charles Ramsey. "It has very strong gang overtones." 
Much of the ballistics evidence was collect­ed just a few feet away from a church child­care center's playground. 
The trouble began around 2:30 p.m. An ofT-duty police officer in a restaurant heard gunshots and saw a group of youths running. 
"He called 911 and saw a [police] scout car coming down the street and flagged it down," Ramsey said. "They heard more shots go ofT." 
The dead man was not immediately identi­fied. It was unclear whether he was a target or a passer-by. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gary Aiport seeks new carriers 
GARY -A multimillion-dollar project to improve the city's airport continues. but talks with two commercial carriers have yet to pro­duce a deal for passenger service. 
The Gary/Chicago Airport has been in talks with Pace Airlines and Southeast Airlines for several months, but officials are still awaiting an agreement. 
"We're in limbo now," said Otho Lyles III, a member of the board that oversees the air­port. 
Pace Airlines is based in Winston-Salem, 
N.C. Southeast Airlines is based in Largo, Fla. 
Incentives have been offered to attract a carrier. but Lyles declined to elaborate. Representatives of both airlines expressed interest in the Gary market over the summer. 
If an airline decides to serve Gary, the agreement would likely include a provision involving length of stay, Lyles said. 
Democratic candidates debate 
Field ofnine pushes platforms, criticizes Bush on Iraq 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Democratic 
presidential contenders 
heaped fresh criticism on 
President Bush's postwar 
policy in Iraq on 
Thursday, faulting him in 
campaign debate for fail­
ing to win significant help 
from other countries. 
"You remember on your 
report card you had your 
English grade, your histo­
ry grade and then it said, 
plays well together? He 
flunked that part," jabbed 
Rep. Dick Gephardt of 
Missouri. 

In the opening moments of their fourth debate in five weeks, some Democrats turned their fire on one another instead of the Republican in the White House. 
Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean accused several rivals of giving Bush "a blank check to go to war in Iraq" by voting for or voicing support for congressional legislation last year. 
Retired Gen. Wesley Clark bristled at that. "I would never have voted for war. The war was an unnecessary war and it's been a huge strategic mis­take for the country." he said, responding to Dean's charge that he had urged a congressional candidate to support the legislation. 
Sen. Joe Lieberman of replied the former gener­bearing a CNN logo. The ground," said the war vet­Connecticut, a supporter al, participating in his cable network sponsored eran. of the war, jabbed at Dean second campaign debate the debate, and Judy Rep. Dennis Kucinich of and Clark simultaneously. in a party he pledged his Woodruff, a network Ohio, former Illinois Sen. In a backhanded compli­allegiance to only days anchor, served as moder­Carol Moseley Braun and ment, he said the former before declaring his can­ator. AI Sharpton are consid­Vermont governor had didacy. Sen. John Edwards of ered long shots at best. been steadfast in his The field of Democratic North Carolina sought to Polls show Dean tied or opposition to the war. contenders -shrunken make the case that his ahead in Iowa and New 
By contrast, he criti­by one with Florida Sen. working class background Hampshire, the first cized Clark for what he Bob Graham's withdrawal as a millworker's son major contests of 2004. called a history of incon­from the race -met made him the best candi­His anti-war, anti-estab­sistency on Iraq. He said onstage at the Orpheum date to defeat Bush. lishment message has Democrats need a candi­Theater in Phoenix, capi­Sen. John Kerry of caught fire through the date who can "reach a tal of a state that holds.an Massachusetts, who grew Internet, helping Dean conclusion and stick to early primary on Feb. 3. up wealthy and remains raise three times more it." The candidates sat on that way, quickly rebutted money than any of his 
''I'm not going to attack tall chairs in front of iden­that. "In Vietnam, nobody rivals from July through a fellow Democrat," tical lecterns, each one cared about your back-September. 

JAPAN 


Parliament prepares for major elections 
passed. The bill was expected to be promise to privatize the postal serv­
Associated Press 

approved Friday. ice and the weak economy, while TOKYO-Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's ruling Liberal challenging his strong support of U.S. 
Koizumi ordered the lower house of Democratic Party already controls a President George W. Bush's positionJapan's Parliament dissolved Friday, majority in the chamber. with 244 on Iraq.paving the way for national elections seats. The largest opposition bloc, Takako Doi, head of the Social that he's counting on to strengthen the Democratic Party of Japan, has Democratic Party, accused Koizumi his party. 137 seats. of deliberately obscuring details of 
The dissolution places the 480 Although Koizumi, fresh from a planned Japanese military and finan­seats of the powerful lower house up landslide re-election as ruling party cial support for Iraqi reconstruction for grabs. Koizumi is expected to set president, enjoys support ratings of so that the unpopular issue won't Nov. 9 as the date for the balloting. around 60 percent, he has been become a focal point during the elec­
The order was issued after a morn­dogged by Japan's lingering econom­tions. ing Cabinet meeting, Japan's public ic woes and criticism within his own . Koizumi defended his policies and broadcaster NHK and the Kyodo Liberal Democratic Party of his maintained that lawmakers from his news service said. It will formally reform plans. Some party members bloc were unified behind them too. 
take affect after its read to the lower fear the reforms will alienate impor­"My platform will become the plat­chamber chamber Friday afternoon. tant interest groups. form of the LOP when elections are 
Before that, the charismatic prime Opposition leaders pounced on this held," Koizumi said. "Party members minister wants a bill extending weakness Thursday in the last day of may debate among themselves, but Japan's military support of the U.S.­face-to-face Parliamentary debate. don't worry -in the end they will led war on terrorism in Afghanistan They hit Koizumi over his failed cooperate with my policies." 

page 6 Friday, October 10, 2003 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Club 
continued from page 1 

Headquarters in a tent outside of Heinz Field. The Pitt band and cheerleaders will pump up fans as they greet the play­ers and coaches whose buses unload directly outside the venue. There will also be a pre-game scouting report and a fan question and answer session with the "Voice of the Panthers," local sportscaster Bill Hillgrove. 
The celebrations in Pittsburgh are certainly not 
isolated events. They are com­mon practice, especially by the alumni associations in cities where Notre Dame often plays. 
In Boston, the Notre Dame Club plans to hold 

their annual "Legends Luncheon", with a keynote address by Kenneth MacAffee, 1978 alum and MVP of the 1977 National Championship team. Other weekend activi­ties will include the Endangered Eagle Pre-Game Party at the Irish pub Clery's, a gamewatch for those who cannot obtain tickets and a post-game Mass at Saint Mary's Chapel on Boston College's campus. 
The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles celebrates each away game in the City of Angels with its biennial "The Game Is On" Luncheon. Held together with USC, the ·event features former coaches and players from both schools, and epito­mizes the good nature of the "great rivalry between the 


, Got news? Call 
N %e Ca~~!u!:,£S,,~~!.w


Meghanne at 
Get to Know the Recruiters! Attend Company Presentations I 
ImmediateApplication Deadlines for Top Notch Companiesl

1-5323 today! 
**Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.fld.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Fidelity Management 10/16 A&L. BUS, SCI




------o:·--.""-<'­
1 & Research 10/13 13 open slots for 7 BUS. A&L. SCI. ENG applicants
I 
13 interview slots for Abbott laboratories

I 29 applications 10/16: BUS, ENG Citigroup 10/13 BUS 18 open interview 26 available interview slots. Only 9 students 
slots applied Boston Beer Co. Procter &Gamble 10/13 BUS. A&L. SCI 10/16: BUS
wf'lu 
Progressive10/13 lord Abbett 10/16: 
BUS, BUS. A&L ENG, SCI 
I . .
• fl.,,..,_ ,,.@ p _,i\ it·······a\,.,r..·@ u .~,, 
ENG 16 slots 13 interview slots with 
for 30 applicants only 5 applicants 
I JJI II I"ll @]' \/~f V1'1JA. fJ -~~\t· ·• · I 
Jones, lang, LaSalle Anson Industries, Inc 10/14 BUS, A&L, SCI 10/16: ENG Only
:33~ W M:rSH.AVJIAt(A AVtNOtJ 
26 Interviews and only 2 total applicants for 25 applicants 13 interview slots Oeloitte Consulting
I MISHA.WA~A, IN.. 46545 I Chicago Consulting 
10/14 BUS, A&L SCI Actuaries 10/16 BUS 
R.A. Smith & Assoc 11 applicants for 8 
I PH €674> asq.48o7 : 10/14 ENG 8 slots interview slots available. ONLY 2 
National City Corp. students have applied 10/16 BUS, A&L
:EXTENO!O HAC.LOW££N HOURS:: 
E.J. Gallo Winery 39 interview slots 10/15: A&L. SCI, BUS, Group One Trading, 
1 MON ... fRl. ~AM TO 8PM 1 
ENG 26 LP 10/16: A&L. SCI, 
interview slots and 46 BUS, ENG 8
: SAT. 9AM TO tPM : applicants total. interview slots for n Speedway applicants SuperArne rica, llC Epic Systems Corp. 10/15 A&L. BUS, SCI, 10/17: ENG, BUS. A&L
:wrfH fH!~ XI.P. COUPON YOU CAN~ 
ENG SCI. ARCH 22 
Davis Conder total interview slots 
Enderle & Sloan, Inc for ONLY 4 total 
:GEf 10% OF ONEQOSfUM£ RENfAU~ 
.· ',. .·.··.. ·.·. ·<· .·.·.··.· ···-·-·-·-··--.-... ··-·.··.·>> ---:-.-.-·.-.-...··· --.. _. __._ ... _..: 
"Wear green! Wave green! Be green!, 
Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh mantra 
University 
whole. 

"If we don't pass it
President Emeritus 

"It just and for 
Father Theodore 

m a k e s on Sunday, we're the Executive Cabinet consider not only the Senate's 
Hesburgh, a 

sense," he going to pass it in to be given the power authority but the new body's 
Syracuse native, 

said. "I to amend the authority. I'm still considering 
the near future. ,,
the Club will pres­

don't think Constitution. all the options." 
ent one part of the 

anyone dis­"If we give that Hallahan did comment on 
Hesburgh Lecture 

agrees with Pat Hallahan power [to amend the the possibility that the Senate 
Series on Dec. 4, 

the idea of Constitution] to this could fail to approve either or
student body 
followed by a 

working group, we can get a both of the two sections he
president
Father Hesburgh 
together 
Tribute Dinner on 
with all the 
Dec. 5. In the 

groups in Student 
student group at one table at Board of Trustees. a new setting," said Hallahan. However, Senators 
"I want that group to be charged with making the entire student union more effec­tive." 
With such a goal in mind, Hallahan commented that, at least, he would like to see the Senate pass the sections of the resolution calling for Senate mem­bers to sit on the Executive Cabinet 

lot done," Hallahan would like to see passed. 
said. He continued "Well, I think, first of all, if that two sections of the reso­[the Senate doesn't] pass it, it lution "are the two most will be a major statement to important things." the student body that 
The section regarding the 

"I think the thing 
budget could pos­

sibly be held in we want is to get 
the Senate for people from every further discus­
student group at
sion at a later 

one table at a new
date. 
The passage of setting." the two sections to which 
Pat Hallahan 
Hallahan is 
student body

devoted could likely happen at president the special meet­ing the Senate has called, scheduled for everyone 
Sunday. They decided on the together and realize that this extra meeting in order to try is best for everyone." to come to some conclusion about this resolution before Contact Maureen Reynolds at Hallahan's report to the mreynold@nd.edu 
applicants 

Towers Perrinl0/17: A&L SCI, BUS, ENG 8 slots, ONLY 2 resumes received Hewitt Associates, llC 
10/17 A&L, SCI, BUS 13 slots for 6 applicants 

Upcoming Presentations 
Company Date/Time/Location 
Mercer 10/13/03 6:30-8:30pm 
Open to All Students Alumni Rm. Morris Inn Carson Pirie Scott 10/13/03 6:00-7:30pm Open to All Students Montgomery Theater, Lafun 
Schlumberger 10/13/03 7:00-9:00pm 
Open to All Students Rm 112, CCE Smart & Assoc 10/14/03 7:30-9:30pm "Open House" Rm TI2, CCE Open to All Business Students 
Teach for America 10/14/03 6:30-8:30pm 
Open to All Students Rm 117, Debartolo The Vanguard Group 10/14/03 7:00-9:00pm Open to All Students Rm 210, CCE 
AON Corporation 10/15/03 6:00-8:00pm Open to All Seniors Foster Rm., Lafortune 
"It just makes sense. I don't think anyone disagrees with the idea of working together with all the groups in Student Government. ·· 
Pat Hallahan student body president 

Senators are choosing their own interests over the inter­ests of the stu­dent body," he said. 
"If we don't pass it on Sunday, we're going to pass it in the near future~ I have every expecta­tion that the Senators and 
else will come 
expressed con­cern of hand­ing over such large powers to what would be a new body. 
J a n a Lam plot a, Pasquerilla West Hall Senator, said, "I was a little skeptical of being intro­duced to this idea so quickly. I need more time to think about it and to Irish and the Trojans," said Maryadele Clougherty, Club administrator. As in Pittsburgh, the Notre Dame Club of Orange County holds a Pep Rally the night before the game, followed the next day by an Irish Fest celebrated right outside the Coliseum. 
With a budget of over $25,000, the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse is packing the weekend of Notre Dame's first ever away game in· Syracuse (and their first game against the Orangemen since 1961), with "40 years of party," said Club secretary and treasurer Jim Bonaventura. To honor 

Hallahan 
continued from page 1 

the Student Government,] then we have more power and opportunity with the administration to ask them to make changes also in cooper­ating with the Student Government," Hallahan said. 
Hallahan said the second and more important reason for the resolution is simply to make the Student Government a more efficient body as a 
grand tradition of the South Bend campus itself, there will be a Kegs-N-Eggs Pre-game Tailgater on game day, as well as a post-game Mass. Club leaders project that upwards of 1, 500 people will attend the festivities, and have been working on the event for over two years. 
The outpouring of support for Notre Dame in cities across the country, whether it be in the form of pep rallies or pub gatherings, tailgaters or t-shirts, is a testament to the spirit of the Irish. In the words of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh's weekly mantra, "Wear green! Wave green! Be green!" 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amkhael@nd.edu 
Government." 

The current body of the Executive Cabinet is com­prised of members from every committee in the Student Government except the Senate. 
In seating members of the Senate on the Executive Cabinet, it would, in effect, create a new committee, which is exactly what Hallahan wants to see hap­pen. 
Ultimately, this body would become the Council of Representatives. In the long­term plans for Student Government, this body would be the main committee in the government, with members from every council. 
"I think the thing we want is to get people from every 

Friday, October 10, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

COMPANY 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.34 +0.10 29.77 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.60+0.09 3.55 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.38-0.30 12.33 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.42 +0.12 28.94 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +10.21+3.96 42.75 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR OOND +0.95 +0.49 52.16 10-YEAR IDl'E +1.41 +0.60 43.02 5-YEAR NJTE +2.91 +0.90 31.85 3-MONTH BILL +0.34 +0.03 8.80 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl. ) 1.19 31.09 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.20369.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.77588.175 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 109.2 EURO 0.8522 POUND 0.6006 CANADIAN$ 1.339 


IN BRIEF 
Steel company fights to stay afloat 
FAIRLAWN, Ohio -Republic Engineered 
Products LLC workers could know soon whether 
the specialty steel bar company will keep oper­
ating, as it seeks financing from lenders to keep 
going during bankruptcy proceedings. 
The steelmaker filed for Chapter 11 reorgani­
zation protection from creditors in U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court on Monday, citing the Aug. 14 
blackout that disabled its main blast furnace in 
Lorain, Ohio, a slow economy and other factors. 
A potential agreement with lenders fell apart Wednesday night, company attorney Shawn Riley said. President Joseph Lapinsky was hop­ing financing could be approved in court Thursday. 
The company doesn't have enough money to operate beyond that, spokesman John Willoughby said. 
"It is very difficult for us to continue to operate without fmancing," he said. He also said discus­sions with lenders have been "very tense." 
The dollar gains on euro, yen 
NEW YORK -The dollar advanced on many of its global rivals Thursday, thanks to surpris­ingly upbeat U.S. labor market data, but still weakened against the yen. 
The dollar's mixed performance stemmed from the day's dominant theme in currency markets -heavy euro selling, particularly against the yen -which maintained the downward pressure on the dollar against the Japanese currency. The greenback did, how­ever, manage to rebound from new three-year lows against the yen, if only a little. 
After climbing earlier Thursday to a four­month high within a cent of its all-time peak at $1.1934, the euro was primed for a fall. The 
U.S. jobless claims data was the perfect excuse, and the dollar broadly benefited as a result. 
Currency market participants have inter­preted a Group of Seven communique last month calling for more "flexibility" in exchange rates as an endorsement for a weak­er dollar, the burden of which should be car­ried by Asian currencies. 
"Given that the G7 statement was aimed at Asian currencies, and then the slight improve­ment in jobless claims, you wouldn't want to be short of dollars against the euro," said Andreas Mann, senior dealer at Commerzbank in New York. So, selling euros against the yen "is the obvious trade." 



Stocks surge, cap year of growth 
. Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Powered 
by a streak of upbeat earn­
ings and economic news, 
Wall Street surged higher 
Thursday, completing a 
remarkable year that saw 
the major indexes make a 
stunning r,ebound from the 
depths of the three-year­
long bear market. 

As of Thursday's cJose, 
the Nasdaq composite 
index had recovered an 
impressive 71.6 percent of 
its value since Oct. 9, 
2002, while the Dow Jones 
industrials were up 32.9 
percent and the Standard 
& Poor's 500 index had 
regained 33.7 percent. 

A Labor Department 
report suggesting the pace 
of layoffs has slowed fed 
the market's good mood, 
especially after a spate of 
mixed economic news in 
recent weeks. 

"Maybe the market is finally believing that this rebound we've been seeing is real," said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan Beck & Co. "If things continue to have a sunny outlook, peo­ple won't want to miss it." 
The Nasdaq rose 18.12, or 1 percent, to close at 1,911.90. The most bat­tered of the market's major indexes during Wall Street's three-year slump, the Nasdaq last closed higher 19 months ago, on still on the sidelines, look­news so far. Many compa­Yahoo doubled its earn­March 11, 2002, when it ing for positive signals that nies are to release reports ings with strong revenue stood at 1,929.49. the economy is really in the next two weeks, from advertising sales, and 
A year ago, on Oct. 9, improving. including Dow component beat Wall Street forecasts 2002, the Nasdaq was at a But the market got a lift General Electric Co. on by a penny a share. Yahoo six-year low of 1,114.11. from the government's Friday. rose $3.96, or 10.2 per­
The Dow advanced 49.11 report that new claims for After the market closed cent, to close at $42.75. Thursday, or 0.5 percent, unemployment insurance Wednesday, biotechnology Wal-Mart advanced 44 to 9,680.01 -its highest fell last week to their low­company Genentech Inc. cents to close at $58.96 close since June 18. 2002, E-st level in eight months. and Internet search engine after the retailer reported when the average was at Analysts said a decline in Yahoo! each reported prof­same-store sales, those 9,706.12. On Oct. 9 of last the pace of layoffs could its that beat analyst expec­from stores open at least a year, the Dow stood at a signal companies are more tations. year, rose 6 percent last five-year low of 7,286.27. hopeful about the recov­Genentech saw a 70 per­month, beating its own 
The S&P 500 index rose ery's staying power. cent jump in profits on expectations and analyst 4.95, or 0.5 percent. to Solid retail sales reports strong sales of two cancer­estimates. 1,038.73. A year ago, the from Wal-Mart Stores Inc., fighting drugs and a one­Gap, which said same­S&P 500 had fallen to a Gap Inc. and others also time legal settlement. The store sales were up 13 six-year low of 776.76. contributed to the market's company's results beat percent last month, rose 
Although the market hit positive tone. analyst expectations by 2 96 cents, or 5.3 percent, to its lows a year ago, the Investors are also cents a share. Genentech close at $19.15. Same­current rally didn't take focused on third-quarter rose $3.23, or 4.1 percent, store sales are considered shape until mid-March. earnings, which have to close at $81.98 on the best yardstick of a And many investors are delivered mostly positive Thursday. retailers strength. 

Former Enron exec. to pay $500,000 
Enron used trading profits to offset coming. He said Colwell was cooperat­
Associated Press 

losses in a, retail energy unit and squir­ing with the Justice Department inves­
A former Enron Corp. executive on reled away higher-than-expected trad­tigation. Thursday agreed to pay $500,000 to ing profits to report in future quarters The complaint did not mention others settle Securities and Exchange to smooth out volatility. at Enron by name or title. Commission allegations that he helped In the first half of 2001. for example, Colwell will continue cooperating manipulate the energy company's the reserve accounts were used to with probes into Enron's 2001 collapse earnings in the months before it went mask more than $1 billion in losses by the SEC and the Justice Department bankrupt. associated with Enron's retail energy as part of the settlement. 
Wesley Colwell, the former chief business, the SEC said. The only other former Enron execu­accounting officer for Enron's long­Colwell neither admitted to nor tive to settle with the SEC was Michael defunct energy trading unit, became denied the allegations in agreeing to Kopper, once the top lieutenant to the second former executive from the the settlement, the SEC said. Colwell Enron's former finance chief Andrew company to settle with the federal gov­did not immediately return a message Fastow. ernment in an accounting scandal that left at his home by The Associated In August 2002, Kopper pleaded sent shock waves across the U.S. econ­Press. guilty to fraud and money laundering omy. Luis Mejia, a lawyer in the SEC's charges for helping run schemes that 
A civil complaint filed Thursday by enforcement division, also did not enriched himself, Fastow and others at the SEC said Colwell, 40, inflated the immediately return a call for comment. Enron's expense. As part of his plea, he values of assets to make Enron appear Justice Department spokesman agreed to surrender $12 million in ill­to have met earnings targets. Bryan Sierra declined comment on gotten gains, $8 million of which went 
The complaint said he and others at whether criminal charges were forth-to the SEC. 

Friday, October 10, 2003 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
·~ust get it down on paper, and then wet/1 see what to do with it" 
-Maxwell Perkins 
Submit to ... 

Do you have a short story, poem, painting or photograph? Submit your work to The juggler. NO's student literary. art and design magaz.ine, and "we'll see what to do with it"... it might appear in the Winter 2003 issue! 
Please stlbmit ~rtwork to Robert Sedlack in 212 Riley Hall. Supply slides for pieces larger than I l"x 17" or· 3-D work. 
Written work can be submitted to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall ore-mailed via attachment to juggler@nd.edu. No entries ofmore than 2,500 words please. All submissions should include title of piece. autlwr/artisc's name and an e-mail address. 
CUBA 
Security breach investigation continues 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL STATION -Investigators are searching for security breach­es at the U.S. prison for terror suspects. officials said Thursday at the camp where espionage charges have heightened tensions. 
There were indications that more arrests were possible. A Pentagon official said a mem­ber of the Navy working at Guantamano was being closely watched. A lawyer for some of the detainees and a former 
U.S. intelligence officer said two arrests were imminent. The sources spoke with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
Nearly two dozen investiga­tors from the Miami-based 
U.S. Southern Command reported to the island over the past few days. Also reporting were five non-American-born interpreters contracted by the same company that employed an American translator who has been arrested. 
Investigators will try to establish how a translator already under investigation got secret clearance and was allowed onto the base, and how a second translator man­aged to leave with classified information. In addition, a Muslim chaplain is under investigation after allegedly leaving with diagrams of the prison layout. 
The translators, from San Diego-based Titan Corp., arrived as officials boosted security by closely monitoring e-mail messages, asking troops to report suspicious behavior, and postponing the assignment of another Muslim chaplain. 
Army Maj. Gen. Geoffrey Miller, who commands the detention mission, said they also are increasing baggage checks and considering lie detector tests. 
He thought Titan had done a good job but said its contract is under review: "They go through a very thorough screening process. but that contract is being reassessed." 
"I was surprised" by the arrests, Miller said, but would not discuss how security might have broken down. 
Titan employed Ahmed F. Mehalba, an Arabic translator charged with lying to federal agents when he denied the compact disc he was carrying contained secret information from Guantanamo. 
A second translator, Senior Airman Ahmad al-Halabi, was already under investigation for allegedly making anti­American statements before he arrived at Guantanamo. He is now charged with espionage and aiding the enemy. 
Both say they are innocent. 
Army Capt. Yousef Yee, the chaplain, is being held on sus­picion of aiding the enemy. 
Military and civilian officials acknowledge part of the prob­lem is finding qualified lin­guists for Guantanamo, where about 70 translators help 200 interrogators in 17 languages. 
"They're always looking for Arabic interpreters," said Peter Peterson, an Iraqi­American translator who arrived Tuesday. "I believe in what I'm doing, though, and I believe in the mission." 
The detention mission began Jan. 11, 2002, as an impromp­tu operation with 20 shackled terror suspects locked behind crude chain-link cells. 
The prison camp -now an enclosed facility called Camp Delta -has grown to 660 detainees suspected of links to al-Qaida terror network or Afghanistan's ousted Taliban regime. 
"You can have the most secure cells and an isolated military base, but if you don't control the people who come 
onto the base, you have a seri­ous problem," Matt Levitt, a terrorism analyst and senior fellow at the Washington Institute, said by telephone. 
Levitt said if there were 
three security breaches at 
Guantanamo it represented "a 
colossal intelligence failure." 
The prisoners, from 42 coun­tries. are not allowed access to lawyers and none has been charged. At least three are teenagers. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has said they could be held until the war on terror ends. 
Construction workers said Thursday they have begun building a permanent concrete prison. 
New leaflets at the base warn troops to watch what they say. Soldiers who a month ago would start up conversa­tions with translators said they no longer do so. 
"Now, you think twice about what you do," said Army Sgt. Jovani Barber, 24, of the U.S. Virgin Islands, who has been guarding detainees for two months. 
Miller, a Texan, took com­mand in November 2002 and quickly started rewarding detainees who cooperate in interrogations. 
Rewards range from bottled water to being moved to a medium-security wing that Thursday held 120 detainees, according to Army Col. Gerry Cannon, who took charge of Camp Delta in August. Cannon said 130 detainees considered the least cooperative were in a separate section. 
Miller has said the rewards system has yielded valuable information about terror cells and recruiting. "We have five times as much intelligence" as a year ago, he said Thursday. 
But as restrictions eased, relationships reportedly grew between detainees and cap­tors. 
GAZA STRIP 




Israel sends tanks into refugee camp 
Associated Press 
RAFAH -Israel sent tanks into a Gaza refugee camp early Friday to destroy tunnels allegedly used to smuggle weapons, after warnings that militants were trying to acquire anti-aircraft missiles. Two Palestinians were killed. 
Meanwhile, in the West Bank, Palestinian politics were in tur­moil after the legislature on Thursday failed to approve the emergency Cabinet appointed by Yasser Arafat. Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia indicat­ed he no longer wants the job, and a Palestinian suicide bomber struck an Israeli liaison office, wounding two soldiers and a Palestinian. 
Witnesses said tanks and other armored vehicles entered Rafah from two directions. They were joined by special forces, including engineering units with dogs trained to uncover tunnels. A gunbattle erupted between soldiers and Palestinian gun­men. 
A man and a woman were killed and 19 people were wounded by Israeli fire, Palestinians said. They said most of the casualties came when an attack helicopter fired a missile at the camp. 
Residents said the Israelis destroyed three houses near the border and fired machine guns to drive families away from oth­ers. Explosions could be heard, possibly Israelis destroying tun­nels or militants throwing explosives at tanks, they said. 
A military commander at the scene said that weapons smug­gled in from Egypt to Gaza eventually make their way to the West Bank, so "we had no choice but to strike deep against the tunnels." 

Israeli military officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Israel had intel­ligence warnings that Palestinians were planning to use tunnels under the border to smuggle in weapons that could have a strategic impact on the three-year Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but the Egyptians were not taking steps to stop them. 
The officials said Palestinians were attempting to acquire mis­siles that could knock out tanks and aircraft, weapons they have not used up to now. These would include Stinger shoulder­mounted anti-aircraft missiles that could shoot down the attack helicopters Israel often uses in operations in Gaza, the sources said. Stinger missiles could also threaten Israeli war­planes or civilian aircraft flying close to Gaza. 
Also, they said, the Palestinians were trying to smuggle Katyusha rockets, which would have the range to hit Israeli cities near Gaza. During the conflict, the Palestinians have been aiming homemade mortars and rockets at Israeli towns and settlements. 
Israel has mounted dozens of smaller missions during the conflict, including several in recent weeks. aimed at uncov­ering and destroying the tun­nels, turning the Rafah refugee camp into a constant battlefield. 
Aides said Arafat received reports about the Rafah incur­sion and went to bed at 2:30 
a.m. Friday. They denied rumors that he was seriously ill. 
On Thursday, in a heated closed-door meeting at Arafat's headquarters in the West Bank town of Ramallah, Qureia sug­gested he no longer wanted to be prime minister, just four days after taking office, officials said. 

Friday, October 10, 2003 
page 9

The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Arnold introduces transition tearrt 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. ­Gov.-elect Arnold Schwar­zenegger introduced key mem­bers of his transition team Thursday, saying the first thing they would do is conduct an audit to find out just how seri­ous the state's deficit is. 
He also called on Gov. Gray Davis not to make any more appointments or sign legisla­tion in the waning days of his administration, although Schwarzenegger acknowledged it is Davis' right to do so. 
"I would like it really if he doesn't sign any more bills, as far as that ·goes," Schwarzenegger said. "But we will be working on that, and I'm absolutely convinced that when the governor says that he wants to have a smooth transi­tion, that we will in fact have a smooth transition. And I am looking forward to that and the process has already begun." 
Davis spokesman Steven Maviglio said Davis will contin­ue to make appointments and 
Tan like the Hollywood Stars! 
As Seen on Good Morning America, Regis and in People Magazine 
¥Tan in 20 min! Perfect for upcoming SYR s and Formals! 
¥ $5.00 discount with Student ID!!! Now availabe in Mishawaka at 
KC SAIR­BRUSH TANNING 
World Gym Fitness Center Town & Country ShoppingCenter 
255-4508 
for cgointm:nt 
Republican said· the state's budg­et shortfall for "! would like it next fiscal year 
really ifhe doesn't 
may have risen 
sign any more
to at least $10 billion. bills.,, "One of the first things we 
Arnold

have to do is 
Schwarzenegger
audit. Open up the books and let California the people look governor-electinside. Let the sun shine in," 

International Study l)rograms 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 





INNSBRUCK 
2003-2004 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. I-Iannelore Weber and returnees of the progra1n 
Question: "Can I Really Spend a Year Away fron1 N.D?" . Answer:" It Was the Best y·ear of.My .Life!'' 
.....------------·····························-··----------------, 
I  Tuesday, October 14,2003  
i i  216DEBARTOLO  
.li  4:30PM  

·······························----------=-:::..=.__:.._________; 
Applications Available "'\V\v/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Questions?-Wcber.JS@nd.edu Application Deadline: December l, 2003 
Schwarzenegger's team. 
"They may need our help and if they ask, I want you to provide it," said Davis, who did not take ques­tions from reporters. "Our service is not com­plete until we've done everything humanly possible to prepare the 

U.S. set to provide France plutonium
act on legislation. He added, "The governor-elect might be interested in learning that bills that Gov. Davis does not act on before Oct. 13 automatically become law." 
In California, the governor may veto a bill, sign it or allow it to become law without sign­ing it. 
Schwarzenegger, who will take office as soon as the results of Tuesday's recall elec­tion are certified, said his first priority will be investigating the state's finances. The 
as well as former U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz and Hewlett-Packard chief executive officer Carly Fiorina. 
Schwarzenegger has vowed to immediately repeal the recent tripling of the state's car tax and to preserve education­
al programs as he trims the  
budget.  
Meanwhile,  Davis  met  

Thursday afternoon with his cabinet members, congratulat­ing each one and asking that they cooperate with 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­

ernment has asked the 
Nuclear Regulatory Comm­
ission for an export license to 
ship 300 pounds of weapons­
grade plutonium to France for 
processing into reactor fuel, 
prompting criticism from 
nuclear nonproliferation 
groups. 
The plutonium shipments 

are part of a long-range plan 
to dispose of 34 tons of excess 
plutonium in the government's 
nuclear weapons program by 
turning it into a mixed oxide 
fuel for use in commercial 
U.S. reactors. 
The plan calls for building a 

plant in South Carolina to 
process the plutonium. In the 
meantime, the 300 pounds of 
plutonium powder -enough, 
critics say, for 50 or more 
nuclear weapons -must be 
shipped to France for process­
ing so it can be used in a com­
mercial reactor test run in 
2005, officials said. 
The Energy Department, in its request to the NRC for an export license, said the pluto­nium will be shipped across the country from the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in. New Mexico to a Navy base at Charleston, S.C., and by a spe­cial armed and escorted ship to France. 
The shipments are to occur sometime next year. 
Energy Department spokesman Joe Davis rejected suggestions by critics of the program that the shipments pose a terrorist risk. 
"We will have safe and secure transport for any plu­tonium that we ship," Davis said. "Charleston and federal DOE officials are capable of making sure the shipments arrive safe and secure." 
Davis said the department is committed to the plutonium disposition program, which is being conducted in conjunc­tion with a similar effort in Russia. He said the reactor test runs, expected to begin in 2005, are an essential part of 
the program. 
But some nonproliferation 
groups have long opposed 
using converted plutonium in 
commercial power reactors, 
maintaining that it erases the 
separation of military and 
commercial nuclear programs 
and adds to the chance that 
some plutonium might be 
diverted improperly. 
The shipments to Europe of 
some 300 pounds of plutoni­
um in powder form as 
planned by the Energy 
Department "presents an 
unacceptable proliferation 
and safety risk and should be 
canceled," said Tom Clements, 
a nuclear materials expert 
working for Greenpeace 
International. 
While the department has 
openly discussed its plans to 
convert excess weapons-grade 
plutonium to so-called MOX 
fuel and burn it in commercial 
power reactors, the request 
for an export license was not 
publicized. 
The application was placed 
quietly on the NRC's Web site 
this week and first disclosed 
Thursday by Greenpeace, the 
environmental advocacy 
group that has strongly 
protested nuclear waste 
reprocessing in Europe and 
opposes the U.S. government's 
plutonium disposal program. 
The United States is sending "a message ... that commerce in weapons plutonium is acceptable," said Clements. 
Under a U.S. agreement with Russia, both countries planned to dispose of 34 tons of excess weapons-grade plu­tonium by turning it into MOX fuel. Several utilities in the United States have agreed to use the converted fuel, which once processed is no longer usable for weapons. in com­merCial reactors. 
Duke Energy plans the first reactor test runs using MOX fuel assemblies at its Catawba reactor south of Charlotte, N.C., over a period of three years. beginning in 2005. 
Schwarzenegger said at a news conference at a Santa Monica hotel. 
Schwarzenegger also intro­duced Rep. David Dreier, R­Calif., who is heading his tran­sition· team, and the two said they hoped to select a broad group of Democrats and Republicans to help them. 
The first name they announced was the team's finance director, Donna Arduin, who is on loan from the administration of Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, where she is budget director. 
Other members of the team include two prominent elected Democrats -San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown and Los Angeles Mayor James Hahn-
next administration for their assignment." 
Davis has about 100 pending appointments to make, 15 of which require Senate confir­mation, Maviglio said. 
Another 21 appointments already are pending before the Senate. Majority leader John Burton said he is considering calling the upper house back into session to act on the appointments before Davis, like Burton a Democrat, leaves office. 
Even after becoming only the second governor to be recalled in U.S. history, Davis still has a sense of humor. On Friday. he was to read the Top 10 list on David Letterman's "Late Show." 




.. TH·.r··o··D·~nn;trr1n········.
---:---1· ··. :-JO· __ . -~t;J::E::JX::V:.:-£~ _: _ _ 
ntJ~~~~~~.~--~~···· 
eo. ~ Q, NI'Ul: Dam~JN 46S~ . 024 South Dlillng ffi!l; NOJ:tc: Dam~ lN 46~$6 · EOITOlUN OlmJ . Andrew Sollkup 


Consider the consequences 
Rape. It's an issue typically not pondered in everyday life. It is some closure. But in the process, five students' lives were an issue that few people willingly admit they fear. It is an issue turned upside down . that people tend to dismiss as a reality in their own lives, an All had to place their lives on hold as the incident was deliber­issue that is not addressed as often as it perhaps should -until ated in the criminal justice system, and the men were expelled it hits close to home. from school and stigmatized as sex offenders. 
For the Notre Dame community, it already has. College is supposed to be a worry-free place Although alleged incidents of rape have dotted where students can do as they please. But this
QH"gerver 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's records in the past, Edi •al incident and others show that going out and par-few have been as publicly scrutinized as the ~on tying without thinking of the consequences can charges filed against former football players U have drastic consequences -for both men and Abram Elam, Donald Dykes, Lorenzo Crawford women. and Justin Smith for their participation in a March 2002 inci-A man has the responsibility to control his behavior and not dent in which a former student claimed the men gang raped take advantage of a woman who has been drinking. A woman her. has the responsibility to use caution in deciding to go home with 
On Thesday, Special Prosecutor Maureen Devlin announced a group of men, especially ifshe has been drinking. her intent to file a motion dismissing charges against Crawford Random hookups, and occasional one-night stands, dominate and Smith, the final two defendants to be tried. Devlin was rela-the relationship scene at Notre Dame. But students should con­tively unsuccessful in prosecuting Dykes and Elam and said her sider the consequences that one night could have on the rest of decision to file the motion to dismiss came, in part, after consid-their lives. If you asked the woman if she regretted going to the ering how likely it would be for her to obtain a conviction. She off-campus house and the football players if they regretted their also noted that the "prosecution of a case involves the utilization decision to have sex with the woman, they would certainly say of substantial resources and involves an emotional and financial yes. price for the victim, the witnesses and the community at large." Learn from their mistakes, assess your behavior and help pre-
A year and a half after the incident 'occurred, there is fmally vent future incidents from occurring. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Meghan Martin Graham Ebetsch Will Pucke~t Sports. ··· ·


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Rape trial dismissals send wrong message 
I felt great dismay after I read Oct. 7 article about the rape trials. I found special prosecutor Maureen Devlin's announcement that she intends to file motions to dismiss the charges against Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith sadden­ing. Devlin is not dismissing these charges in the interests of justice, it seems. 
Rather, she has considered her personal record. After an acquittal and one lesser charge found against Abram Elam, she has decided her evidence, which was enough to indict, is not enough to warrant a successful result. . 
I pray Crawford and Smith were not involved in this rather personal attack on a fellow community member. However, there seemed to be enough evidence at one time to suggest to Devlin that they were. Now, she is going to throw in the towel, citing the cost ofgoing to trial. 
This alleged victim has allegedly cooperated with authori­ties and the district attorney's office up to this point. so I don't believe Devlin's assertion that these upcoming trials would involve an additional emotional and fmancial price for the victim, the witnesses and the community at large. 
I wonder what kind ofclosure the alleged victim in these cases felt about the months she has put into these trials. Does she feel satisfied that Devlin has given up her cause, essen­tially saying, "You're not worth our time or our money?" 
I'd suggest to Devlin that a great emotional price will be paid for by the Notre Dame community at large. The special prosecutor is essentially sending the message to the female student body: "If you feel you were raped, we have little or no recourse to successfully prosecute the individuals you feel harmed you." Devlin is also discouraging future victims of rape to keep the alleged crimes to themselves. What kind of message does that send to the female population of Notre Dame? 
I pray for all individuals involved in this case. From my point ofview, the process of seeking justice in these cases has gone awry. 
Jude Seymour 
class of '02 Ocr.9 
OBSERVER POLL 
The Vatican is considering · curtailing female altar service. 
Have you ever been an altar server? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 240 responses. 




Questioning altar 
server decision 
It was with great dismay that I read in the Oct. 8 Observer that the Vatican may be considering disallowing the use of altar girls as part of a large-scale plan to correct abuses in Roman Catholic liturgies. What is the reasoning behind such a move, and what is the underlying principle at stake here? 
The Vatican officially, albeit reluctantly, allowed female altar servers in 1994, and, prior to that, it was common practice in many U.S. dioceses. According to The Philadelphia Inquirer, "The Vatican document wants parishes to rely primarily on altar boys and use altar girls only for just pastoral cause." The document states that, "Parishes should never feel obliged to seek girls for 
• this function." Why? Is it because they might feel called to further serve their Church at the altar? 
What is it about a person's gender that makes him or her more or less able to set table at a feast? What is it about a woman's presence at the altar (or even a little girl's presence, as many altar servers are children) that is so repulsive to the Roman Catholic hierarchy? What is it about a person's gender that makes him or her more or less able to be the face of Christ in the world? How long will women in the Church be treated as second class Christians? When will the Church acknowledge that all Christians are baptized just as Christ was baptized priest, prophet and king? 
Anna Nussbawn sophomore Farley Hall 
Ocr.9 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..What you do speaks so loudly that I cannot hear what you say.·· 
Ralph Waldo Emerson American essayist 

Cushioning the Gospel message 
Call it the softening of the Gospels. Or, if you would, it's clever marketing. The desire to make the yoke easier and the burden lighter than Jesus had in mind. There is no point in fooling ourselves; those parts of the Gospel that challenge our John lnfranca conspicuous con­sumption and excessive mili­Dissident tarism, among Poetry other things we find difficult to question, are dangerous. Not just to the social order they criticize, but also to those who might speak these truths. 
So Catholic churches and Catholic universities stick to what is safe those things that might not challenge their constituencies too-much. Commencement speakers can be as far out of step with Church teachings on the death penalty, economic justice and wealth distribution, immigration and other social issues so long as they pass the litmus test of their stance on abortion. Outside observers might be led to believe that this issue and sex comprise the whole of Catholic moral teaching. Sex is an interesting and worthwhile topic, but there is more to the Gospel message. At least I hope. I vaguely remember remarks like "woe to you who are rich, it is easier for a camel to enter the eye of a needle," "turn the other cheek" and "put away your sword." 
Church teaching on war, economics, migration, the environment and count­less other social issues -the Catholic social teaching tradition -is widely regarded as the Church's best kept secret. Why is it kept secret? Perhaps because the message it offers is, at times, less than socially acceptable. It 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Clarify Charlie Ebersol' s identity 
Maybe it's me. I decided to move off campus 
this year, so maybe I am out of the loop, but I 
still think I keep up on campus news. I was 
wondering, then, ifsomeone would tell me who 
Charlie Ebersol is? 
I saw his name in an ad for David Spade's 
show this weekend. I do not follow the career 
ofSpade, so ifEbersol is his manager, then 
even ifI was on campus, I would not know. 
If 3,500 came, then Ebersol volunteered to 
shave his head. I was going to, but I decided to 
stay home and rent Tommy Boy from 
Blockbuster and save myself some money. So I 
have my own proposition: Ifthe University 
brings in a good college stand-up comedian, I 
will shave my head. I am not asking that 3,500 
or even 100 people come out for it. If we get 
someone like Mitch Hedberg I will shave my 
head bald. I will also sweeten the pot a bit. 
Ifwe get a good comedian I will not only 
shave my head, but I will also shave the mous­
tache I have been sporting lately. I think this is 
a very fair deal. We all see a funny comedian, 
and then I shave my head and face. I just . thought I would throw this out as an option. 
Brian Foy 
sauor 
off-campus 
Oa.9 
might ruffle some feathers. It might war against the people of Iraq is objec­upset the powers that be. That's funny, tively grave evil, a matter of mortal this sounds a bit like the experience of sin." a first century man named Jesus. His reasoning was simple and direct. 
This Saturday, another man not Because the war clearly did not meet afraid of ruffling feathers will visit the standards of the just war the-Notre Dame's campus. ~-----ory, killing within the war Bishop John Michael would be unjust. 
Botean, Roman s· PEA""·.·.' l".e.. o••r "Unjust killing is by
Catholic I' Ny t.4 definition mur-
Archbishop of Canton, Ohio, will speak at Moreau Seminary. Botean chose, shortly before the start ofthe war in Iraq, to speak a danger­ous truth. He chose to remind his 
. diocese that their religion makes demands on their lives that go beyond the personal realm and into the social and the political. 

Botean, aware of the sheer absurd­ity of the drive toward war in Iraq and cognizant that the situation in no way fit the minimal standards of the just yvar theory, felt it his duty to speak out. In a clearly and persuasively argued letter read at every parish in his diocese, Botean declared that "any direct participation and support of this 
der. Murder is intrinsically evil and 
therefore absolute­ly for­bidden, 
no matter what good 
may seem to 
come of it," Botean 
argued. By this 
logic, he concluded that "direct 

participation in this war is the moral equivalent of direct participation in an abortion." Botean's rea­
sons for arguing so passionately against participation in the war are important to consider. As he himself said in the letter, he did not speak as a theologian or a private Christian expressing his opinion. Nor, it might be argued, did he speak as a political lob­byist. a partisan or even, for that mat­ter, a committed member of the peace movement. Rather, he spoke as a bish­op, as a person with loving concern for the people he was called to serve. This calling rendered it a "moral impera­tive" for Botean that he not allow the people of his diocese to "fall into grave evil and its incalculable temporal and eternal consequences." 
Botean could have chosen to remain silent. He even says he would have preferred to do so, for that would have been easier for both himself and his family. This silence, however, "would be cowardly." For though such silence might have saved him from criticism; it would also have prevented him from speaking the truth that he believed to be the teachings of Jesus. 
Botean had the strength to affirm that, as Dorothy Day often said, "Christ came not only to comfort the afflicted, but also to afflict the com­fortable." We might consider whether those who proclaim the message of Jesus truly challenge us to make the economic and social sacrifices the Gospels demand. At Notre Dame, caught up as it seems to be in the con­spicuous consumerism and unques­tioned militarism of our secular socie­ty, these questions grow even more important. If more graduates were taught and shown by example how to live the radical calling of Jesus, our endowment and multi-million dollar buildings might be in danger. Are we willing to take such risks for the Gospel? 
John lnfranca is a graduate student in theology. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at infranca.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



r­
,., 
'·jt' 
I' 
1~ t 
i 
page 12 Friday, October 10, 2003 



By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Theatre Critic 
"I see people accepting things at face value are deceived by illusions and are too gullible. I just think that we don't penetrate the mes­strong acting from a remarkably talented cast. The ensemble includes three freshmen along with a number of seniors and staples of Notre Dame theatre, but it would be hard to pick out who's who. 
"I was really con­
"Tartu1 

sages we get from the media, from fident about every­politicians, from the culture in gen­one in the cast ­eral," Frederic 
there's three 
Syburg said in 
freshmen in 


his characteris­the show and DepartmE
"/just think that 

tically slow 
I've never Film, Television
speech. we don•t 
worked with 
It's seems Director: Frederic Syburg
penetrate the them before 
rather odd that Playwright: Moliere (adapt1
and I never
messages we get

this soft-spoken Stage Manager: Elise Del
doubted their 
man, who from the media, talent at any Starring: Sean Nelson, Ade ambles slowly from politicians, point," senior Dennis, Megan Olive, Tom De! through the cor­T J. McNally, Andre Valdivia, I
Megan Olive
from the culture 


Above, senior Sean Nelson as Organ. At left, senior Michael Federico as the pompous courtier Loyal. Below, freshman Elizabeth Grams as Mariane begs her father for mercy as her mother, maid and uncle look on.
•

PHOTOS BY 

C. SPENCER BEGGS 

ridors of 
Washington in general.,, Hall, recom­mends a healthy 
Frederic Syburg 

dose of ques­

director

tioning authori­ty to students, but that's exact­ly what Syburg said he wants to accomplish with his presentation of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theatre's first show of the year, Tartuffe. 
But Syburg is also doing some questioning of his own with the show. Tartuffe is part of FTT's "best of" season, during which the department is reproducing some of its favorite shows from its 138-year tenure in Washington Hall before it relocates to the grand Marie P. Debartolo Performing Arts Center next year. Syburg directed over 40 shows, including a 1964 adaptation of Tartuffe, for the department while he was a professor at the University from 1954 to 1991. This time around, Syburg said he sees the show in a whole new light. 
When Syburg first produced his own prose adaptation of Moliere's famous social satire, he added a monologue to the beginning of the show from a character playing the French poet himself defending the production from being seen as an attack on religion. This time, Syburg said he doesn't feel that the message needs to be drawn out as pointedly and is a reflection on a shared human frailty. 
"I've done message plays, but this isn't one of them; this is a kind of universal observation of human nature," Syburg said. 
Set in 17th century France, Tartufl'e is a comedy about Orgon, a well-respected Frencp nobleman who lives happily with his wife and two children in bourgeois society. lie takes in a man named Tartuffe, whom he believes to he exceedingly pious, to act as a spiritual guide for his family. But not every member of his household sees Tartuffe's lofty speeches and melodramatic. sighing as an indication of a deeper spiritu­ality. They see him for what his is: a charlatan out to profit from Organ's gullibility, ready to steal all he can from his benefactor including his newly betrothed daughter, Mariane. 
Tartuffe is anchored by some 
Michael Federico, Patrick Vas!

said. The female 
Friday and Saturday ni1

cast members 
and Sunday at 2:30p.m. 1

are especially 
$10 general admission,$!

strong. 
and $5 tor st1

Leading the way is Megan Olive ali 
Marianne's pragmatic and clear­headed maid, Dorine. Olive, who is known for her skill playing rye, saucy wench types, infuses Tartuffe with a rambunctious spirit and brings out a lot of comedic moments from her character and from others. Senior Rose Lindgren and freshman Krysta Dennis also submit command­ing per­formances ·as Orgon's mother and wife, giving 
,, 
.J..' 
Friday, October 10, 2003 Page 13 




Jffe" 
new meaning to the Freudian idea 
gentle touch,

~·%~~;# 11/'41 
guarding a 

delightfully1ent of devious smirk 1 and Theatre just below his 
angelic exte-J rior. Hanash 
of wanting to marry your mother. 
Senior Adel Hanash, known for his fiery performances as passion­ate characters like Hamlet's Laertes and Henry IV's Hotspur, plays the villainous Tartuffe with a surprisingly 
nl was really 
religious confident about groups for being seen as
everyone in the 
an attack on
cast-there's. 
the church. 
before." Dennis said." I love work­ing with Adel -he's an amazing actor. I couldn't have picked some­one who is easier to work with." 
Tartuffe is a fun play to watch, and the cast gets some really big laughs from the audience at times. But this adaptation of Moliere's classic seems a bit tame for a play that was once censured by 
pted by Frederic Syburg) 
is able to pull three freshmen in The biting
JeBroeck 
some particu­cynicism and
the show and I've 
del Hanash, Krysta 
larly funny stinging wit 
legnan, Elizabeth Grams, reactions never worked with Moliere is l, Rose Lindgren, from senior them before and I famous for is lssel and Elizabeth Melly 
Sean Nelson's diluted in the
never doubted their 
volatile and 

night at 7:30p.m. 
exceedingly 

1. in Washington Hall 
stupid Organ.

$9 for senior citizens 
But the true 

students 
show stopper here is senior 
Mike Fede:rico 

as the pompous courtier Loyal. Federico, who is one stage for no more than five minutes, had the audience howling in laughter and bursting into applause when he exited. 
Dennis said that working with such a range of tal­ents was a learning experience for her, though she seems quite able to teach the rest of the cast a thing or two 
about acting herself. 
"It's nice to work with peo­ple who 
h a v e 
done it a l l 

FTT produc­
talent at any 
tion by a lot of 
point.,, gratuitous 
and self-serv­
ing slapstick
Megan Olive 
antics. Like 
actor 

FTT's produc­
tion of 
Machiavelli's The Mandrake last 
year, this show focuses too much on 
getting the cheap laugh than really 
burning the audience with its mer­
ciless insight. Moliere's text is rich 
in its psychological depth, and the 
FTT production glosses over a lot of 
the extremely powerful material 
that makes. his words truly ven­
omous rather than just pithy. 
The set for the play also feels 

cumbersome. Set Designer Emily 
Phillips crosses a French drawing 
room with an abstract landscape of 
half-erect pillars, half-painted 
floating walls at jutting angles and 
selected words from the script 
splashed across the set. Syburg 
described the design as an "unfin­
ished world," which resonates with 
an academic authority, but in prac­
tice, it looks a lot more like an 
unfinished set. 
The real drawback to this staging 
is that it leaves the actors with little 
room to maneuver and a lot of the 
show is played dead on to the audi­
ence, which makes the perform­
ance feel like a series of mini­
speeches rather than the razor­
sharp repartee that made Moliere 
famous. 
Even if the play has been 
defanged, it's certainly enjoyable 
with such a talented cast. Audience 
members won't leave questioning 
authority, but they will have had a 
good time. 
Tartuffe is currently playing at Washington Hall. Performances are tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. General admission is $10, $9 for senior citizens and $7 for students. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. To reserve tickets call (574) 631-8128. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 
Above, junior Elizabeth Melly as the maid Flipotte. At right, senior . Megll:YJ Ql~~e as the saucy wzseacre Dorine. Below, senior Adel Hanash as Tartuffe tries to seduce Elmire, played by jresh1nan Krysta Dennis.
•
PHOTOS BY 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 




page 14 Friday, October 10, 2003 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
ROWING 







Veterans anchor promising squad 
SMC GOLF 
Improving Belles travel to Olivet 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's is peaking at the right time, which could mean major problems for the rest of MIAA at this week­end's conference champi­onship at Olivet. 
"This is the biggest tourna­ment of the fall," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. 
Saint Mary's is first in the conference standings and is coming off its best perform­ance of the season. The team placed first at an MIAA com­petition at Adrian Sept. 27, beating rival Hope by 12 shots. Stefanie Simmerman took the individual medalist honors with an 81. Julie Adams fired an 83 and was followed. by Megan Mattia's 
84. The Belles had finished right behind the Flying Dutch in three previous tourna­ments before that victory. 
The win put Saint Mary's nine strokes ahead of Hope 
heading into this tournament, which will be played today and Saturday. 
Hamilton said his team is ready for this weekend's challenge. 
"They're peaking at the right time. They've really worked on the mental side and learning what is expect­ed of them," Hamilton said. ''The team is also learning how to practice better and better." 
This weekend also show­cases two of the best in the MIAA in Hope's Lacey Wicksall and Simmerman. Wicksall leads the conference with an 81.7 scoring average, followed closely by Simmerman's 83.0 average. The Belles have three of the top five individual scoring averages in the MIAA, with Adams third and Mattia fifth, averaging 83.3 and 87, respectively. Adams is just one stroke behind the Belles are the best in the conference, but they will have to prove that this week­end. 

"[Last week] we felt like we got back to where we should be," Hamilton said. "We know [Hope] is a good team, but we honestly feel that we're better. This week we have to make that for real." 
The winner of this tourna­ment should get a better seed in the NCAA tournament and that could go a long way to helping one team win the national title. 
The Belles have steadily improved from their first match this fall. They have placed no worse than fifth, took second twice and won one tournament. 
The team will look towards a solid spring season after the fall and the possibility of placing in the national tour­nament. 
Simmerman for the fall. Contact Joe Hettler at Hamilton said he believes jhettler@nd.edu 
TENNIS 


Co-captain loses national match 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame senior co-cap­tain Alicia Salas, ranked No. 63 nationally in singles, lost to No. 27 Tammy Encina of Tennessee Thursday at the Riviera Tennis Club in the Riviera/ITA Women's All­American Championships, the first leg of the collegiate grand slam. Salas and the rest of the Notre Dame women's tennis team will return to action on Friday, Oct. 17 in an exhibi­tion match against rival USC in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
After: winning three matches against ranked players to qualify for the main draw of the All-American Champion­ships, Salas lost 6-4, 6-0 on Thursday. She is 5-2 on the young season, with both defeats coming against top-30 players. 

In qualifying, Salas beat No. 85 Ashley Schellhas of Vanderbilt 6-4,. 3:-,~ 1 6-0~and No. 33 Alix Lacelarie of Clemson 6-1. 6-0 on Tuesday before defeating No. 39 Megan Muth of William & Mary. 
! 
! 
' 
~ 
1\ 
. 
t 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
Sports Writer 
The Irish kick off their sixth season Saturday when they travel to Rockford, Ill. for the 18th annual Head of the Rock Regatta. The rowers, who ended the 2003 spring season with a second place finish at the Big East Rowing Challenge and a gold medal performance at the 2003 Central/South Sprints, are ready for fall com­petition. 
Last year, Notre Dame's var­sity four boats took first and third places at the Head of the Rock, while the varsity eight crews had third, fifth and sev­enth place finishes. The Irish are working toward equally strong performances this week­end. 
Martin Stone, a national Coach of the Year finalist in 2002, returns for his sixth year as head coach. He is flanked by assistant coaches Pam Mork ­recently named Central Region Assistant of the Year-and Joe Schlosberg. 
"Pam and Joe have been instrumental in developing our rowers," Stone said. "Both have also been very active on the recruiting front." 
Twelve returning seniors complement the veteran coach­ing staff. Stone is confident that the team will have another tri­umphant fall despite the gradu­ation of key rowers, such as captains Ashlee Warren, a 2002 All-American who earned her third consecutive first-team all-Central Region honor in 2003 and second CRCA National Scholar-Athlete Award, Casey Buckstaff and coxswain Cassie Markstahler. 

Natalie Ladine, Alice Bartek, Danielle Protasewich, Kathleen Welsh and Jacqueline Hazen are among the seniors expect­ed to assume the leadership positions that Warren, Buckstaff and Markstahler vacated. 
"I think we have the makings of a ve'l"y fine team," Stone said. "We have high expecta­tions of our team both on and off the· water." 
The Irish have consistently met such expectations in the past. Each semester, the team has boasted an impressive overall grade-point average of at least 3.2 or higher. Ladine is one rower who has garnered honors for work both on the team and in the classroom. She has two years of experience in the first varsity eight and is a Collegiate Rowing Coaches Association National Scholar­Athlete. Last spring, Ladine was named a CRCA second­team all-Central Region winner for the second time. She also clocked the third-fastest erg score in Irish history last spring. 
Ladine and the Irish look to start their season with a suc­cessful weekend at the Head of the Rock. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at cannstr@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is j cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSiFIEDS 

93 lsuzu Trooper $3,610 and 99  ND FOOTBALL HOUSING:  SMC grad needs USC tix. Email  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
NOTICES  WANTED  .Honda Accord $10,650. John 231-Q420.  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood  Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps.  

..  I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call  SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment.  1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6 Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD Changer Runs Great, front end dam­age-$600 neg. 574-271-1202  available for remaining ND football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laun­dry, parks 6 cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets . (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar$$ 1 -866-808-0990 BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048  Call tor discounts: 800-648-4849 or WW'N. ststravel.com A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now.·. Free Trips, Meals &Parties  
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  A new store will be opening up in  1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­ 3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall  sunsplashtours.com or  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11am to 3am.  speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o. call #234-4536  garage, all appliances, partially turn., 2 miles from ND, $900/mo. Call 298-3000.  Alumni family needs USC tickets for reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048  1800-426-7710 ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child- 
Music 4609 Grape Rd  In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt  WOMENS GOR-TEX JACKETS,  less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ 
,--- Mish, IN 2775038 #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­tions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI- available. Call Andy at 574-277· 0850 for interview. Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $100-$300 a day.  NEW WITH TAGS, FOREST GREEN,SIZES SMALL AND LARGE. $60 EACH. GREAT FOR THE FOOTBALL GAMES. 574-289-8048  TICKETS ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com or 925-457-1 057. 2 GA TIX FOR USC/80/832-428­3937.  ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adoption. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at  
ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS!  1·888-820-0167, ext. U187.  FOR RENT  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642  
Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details.  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726  276-8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877.  One more week until fall break  
800-875-4525 or WW'N.bianchi-rossi.com.  2 free trps high commission sun­splashtours.com 1800-426-771 0  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Selling GA USC ticket ­klindgre@nd.edu  Satan will lose tonight  
.r  ***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip tree. Group discounts for 6+  FoR SALE  272-1525 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for tootbaiV  SALE AM -232-2378 PM • 288-2726 WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  I have 2 USC tix for sale; prefer to trade for FSU. 312-879-6256  the Browns finally get off the practice field this weekend Bar Boveda, plaza de cuba  
WW'N.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800·838-8202.  IRISH CROSSINGS ·A NEW LUX- parent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964.  PAYING $175.00 EA FOR USC TIX 574-289-8048  I had your mom  
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357  URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available.  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  PERSONAL  I just want to know how a 1 0 point game can be classifed as a nail-biter  
LOST & FOUND  For more into go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  Rent one of the best 5 bedroom homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed­room house and get the 3 bedroom  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT· BALL GAME.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Happy Birthday, Lizzie. Holla back. Impervious. Hoovies. Smooches.  
I  Lost-Glasses, browr frames. Between 0 Shag and Welsh Fam or in 0 Shag. Wed night 10/8.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED.  house next door for free. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532·1896 B&B 3 miles ND 1 king USC 2 Twins Navy 4 Rooms BYU  PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Just Between You And Me, ADire Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs ONLY  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at  behold the florist P-Uzzle, the first round draft pick, moves to the top of the rankings  
If found, please call4-1406.  FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1 @ nd.edu  Best area 287-4545  PLEASE PH:277-1659  1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  Seriously, how can you not just be in awe of sports dominance  

Friday, October 10, 2003 
page 15

The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 




Celebrations all around for Bullfrogs 
By ANN LOUGHERY and 
ANNIE BRUSKY 
Sports Writers 
One bloody nose, two touch­downs and a round of "Happy Birthday" later, the Badin Bullfrogs found themselves vic­torious over the Pasquerilla East Pyros 13-6. 
On the same night of Badin freshman Lizzie Shappell's birth­day, Badin quarterback Steph Heath temporarily left the game with a bloody nose after colliding with a Pasquerilla East player. 
"We just need to 
Teammates Laura Feeney watched with con­have more blocked a Pyros cern as they pass, eventually
consistency on
watched Heath forcing a punt.
offense and some
recover from the The Pyros punt accident and were big plays on was short, and at first unsure as gave way· to a
defense.·· 
to whether she quick Bullfrog would return to touchdown by the game. Their Anthony Pilcher running back qualms vanished Badin coach M e g a n 
were more laid back in the sec­ond half," he said. "We just need to have more consistency on offense and some big plays on defense." 
The Bullfrogs slowly began their offensive drive in the sec­ond half with Shappell running for 10 yards to put the Bullfrogs at first and goal. However, Badin failed to capitalize on the oppor­tunity for a touchdown·. On fourth and inches, Zachry was sacked. 
The Bullfrogs countered the Pyros' defensive .advances with 
some of their 
own. Sophomore 

when she 
returned to the 
game later in the second half. 
The eventful game began with a number of key Badin defensive plays, including a sack by Rita Morgan. A short punt by the Pyros part gave Badin good field positioning and ultimately a touchdown pass from Heath to Jenn Carter. The Bullfrogs got the extra point after alternate quarterback Erin Zachry com­pleted a successful pass to Mariah Marsh to put Badin ahead 7-0. 
· ;'Badin coachf-'Antlicmy Pileher 
praised his players for the early 
touchdown. 
"We played very well, but we Charlebois. Badin 
failed to convert for two points following the touchdown. 
With about two minutes remaining in the game, the Pyros still looked for an opportu­nity to score. Long passes from Pyros quarterback Katherine Lent to sophomore Leslie Follmer and freshman Rachael Maricich made the opportunity to score more attainable. 
Pasquerilla East accomplished its pre-game goal to finish the season on a high note when Marcie~ scored the· final touch-· down of the game. The Pyros, however, failed to convert on a two-point attempt following the touchdown. ­
"We haven't been doing well, so we just wanted to go out there and have fun," Marcich said. "We decided we needed a touchdown." 
On the contrary, the Bullfrogs viewed Thursday's game as an opportunity for experimentation and practice. 
"We tried a few different plays we don't normally do," Feeney said. "Today was all about get­ting ready for the playoffs." 
Lyons 13, McGlinn 12 
For a game that was supposed to answer the all-important playoff question, Thursday's even matchup between Lyons and McGlinn fell short of its mis­sion. 
After losing to McGlinn the first game of the season, Lyons redeemed itself by coming out with the 13-12 win last night, thus tying McGlinn for their 3-3 record and for third place in the Gold League. 
"It's a great feeling," Lyons senior Allison Shenk said. "We really needed this win." 
Lyons came into the final regu­lar season matchup down by one game and needing a win to stay in the playoff hunt. By escaping with its one-point victory, Lyons extends its winning streak to 3-0 and anxiously awaits the out­come of the tiebreaker. 
"We've finally found our offen­sive rhythm," Lyons coach Andy Kowieski said. "Hopefully we can keep it going if we make the playoffs." 
McGlinn began the game strong with On-Kay Wong mak­ing a 40-yard run after a double reverse to score on the 
. ~----
Santt lVlary:'s College 
N'C)TH.. E DAME " INDIANA 
The Nation's Pron7lor Catholic ~omen's Co/lsfle 
31st ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 

~e>--...1rse:s e>ffe::red ir1 :::E-:Ii.st<>:ry-, I:r1te:ma.t:ie>r:t.a.1 :::E:3~s i:r:Les s, ::E.d..~~a..t:ie>:r:L, a.:r:Ld Se>c:ia..1 -w-<:>:rk_ 
Jlor further information contact: 
Professor David Stet'ancic 54 1\tladeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint l\fary's College Notre Dan1e, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-uw.il: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Suiilll1.er Study Program (574) 284-4866 
Shamrock's first possession. 
"Usually it takes us a long time to get into the swing of things but today we just stepped right up," Meacham said. 
The Shamrocks caught the extra point but it was called back due to offensive pass inter­ference. Then, late in the first half, Shenk, one of Lyons' key receivers, beat the last defender and caught quarterback Roxie Trevino's 30-yard pass in the end zone. 
The two Lions connected moments later for the extra point, putting Lyons ahead 7-6 at halftime. 
Meacham began McGlinn's second-half drive with a remark­able 40-yard run into Lyons ter­ritory. 
After key plays by running back Raquel Ferrer and receiver Liz Maher. Wong caught a slant and ran it into the end zone. 
McGlinn's defense struggled, however, and gave up several critical first downs late in the game. 
Erin Brattoli made a huge catch out of the backfield on third and seven, giving Lyons a first down and the needed momentum. Lyons worked their way down the field with 20-yard passes to Shenk ·and fellow receiver Megan Regan. 
Regan's height and athleticism gave her an advantage as she grabbed the final touchdown pass out of the air above McGlinn defenders' outstretched arms. 
Her 15-yard penalty for spik­ing the ball hindered Lyons' • attempts at an extra point, but a strong defensive showing for McGlinn's final drive preserved Lyons' win. 
The teams know there's noth­ing more for them to do and are hoping to receive an answer from RecSports Friday. 
"If we get the tie breaker, I feel we can make a serious run in the playoffs," Kowieski said. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alousher@nd.edu and Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
Ill Ill
·-.r.·. 
~~:...

Ill 
BASEBALL 
Blue is 
•

winner In series 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's big sopho­

more pitching tandem of 
7 -foot-2 righthander Ryan 
Doherty and 6-foot-6 left­
bander Tom Thornton 
both turned in solid starts, 
each with no unearned 
runs allowed. But the 
game featured more mis­
cues from both sides in 
Thursday's third and final 
game of the Notre Dame 
baseball program's annu­
al Blue-Gold series. 
Doherty's Gold team regis­
tered a 5-1 win but it once 
again was a case of win­
ning the battle but losing 
the war, as the Blue team 
narrowly won the series 
title based on run differ­
ential. 
Only one of the runs in 

Game 3 was of the earned 
variety, with the teams 
combining for just seven 
hits manufacturing runs 
in several unique ways. 
Doherty picked up the 

win after pitching just 
three innings due to the 
65-pitch limit, allowed an 
unearned run on one hits 
and three walks while 
striking out four Blue bat­
ters. 
Thornton was the 

tough-luck loser after 
yielding two unearned 
runs in the maximum four 
innings, allowing two hits 
with one walk and a hit 
batter. 
A pair of freshman 

right-banders closed out 
the game with four 'shutout innings. 
Jess Stewart retired all 

seven batters he faced, 
needing just 13 pitches to 
do so. Walk-on Nick 
Bertucci picked up the 
save. 
! 

The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business I 
I

and I 
I 

The Institute for Ethical Busint~ss Worldwide ! i 
Proudly Present 
' 

Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Robert Frederick 
1\'lanager of Corporate Responsibility Ford Motor Company 
"Corporate Responsibility at Ford" 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
• 


\ page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 10, 2003 
! MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
l
I 




Keenan and Morrissey battle to stay unbeaten 
By KATHERINE GALES and 
KATIE WAGNER 
Sports Writers 
Neither team has given up a point to an opponent this sea­son. Both boast strong returning players and solid freshmen. On paper, the matchup could not be more even as Keenan (2-0) and Morrissey (3-0) meet Sunday. 
"Our record reflects the talent on this team," Morrissey captain Aaron Rohsheim said. "We have a chance not only to win on Sunday, but to make a deep run in the playoffs and eventually the championship.'' 
The Manorites, however, are also a defensive powerhouse in the men's league. 
"We forced nine turnovers in· the first two games," Ronsheim said. "Our offense has a good passing attack with Marty Mooney -it lets us open it up, get big plays, get touchdowns and score points.'' 
This weekend's game is also a chance for both the Manorites and the Knights to improve on the finer points of their game. 
''We're not very balanced on 

Marathon 
continued from page 24 
this year," Nystuen said. "This is a testament to the quality of the event and to how main­stream the sport of running has become. We are delighted to bring this event to the 40,000 participants and to the one mil­lion spectators who rally the runners race day." 
This will be a very different kind of race for Shula who has never ran, in practice or any other running competition, for more than 20 miles at one time.. But he still feels he can break the three-hour barrier, which would qualify him for Boston. 
''I'm from Maine, so I'm used to running around lakes so this offense," Keenan quarterback Patrick Downey said. "Right now, we run the ball a lot better than we throw the ball against Morrissey and Dillon. We'll have to show a lot more balance to be successful." 
Ronsheim has identified spe­cial teams as a point of improve­ment. 
"Our special teams haven't done much this year," he said. "Last year we blocked a lot of punts -we're looking to improve." 
Morrissey's roster has helped them with its 3-0 start this year: 
"The biggest key to the team is our depth this year," Ronsheim said. "We don't have a lot of guys who play two ways, so we keep really fresh. We depend on a lot of guys to make plays." 
A particular strength for Keenan is the senior trio of Ryan Crochet, Sean McCarthy and Brian Long. However, the incom­ing class of 2007 has brought both teams some new standout players. 
"We rely on them offensively and defensively. They're the ful­crum of the front seven and con­trol the line of scrimmage," 
will be a different experience," Shula said. ''I'm looking for­ward it." 
The Chicago Marathon had several records broken last year, including a new women's World Record set by Paula Radcliffe (2 hours, 17 minutes, 18 seconds) and the crowning of Chicago's first four-time win­ner Khalid Khannouchi. 
A unique feature to the race is the final five miles. During that stretch a different band plays music during each one­mile interval, motivating run­ners to finish the marathon strong. 
Additionally, if anyone breaks a world record in either gender division, Volkswagen will give that person a new car. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 

• 

Downey said. "Freshmen in key positions will have to step up and have a big game on Sunday." 
There is also history at stake in this game. The 2002 regular sea­son closed with Keenan and Morrissey in a battle for the final postseason spot. The Manor pre­vailed in a close 6-0 victory ­but the Knights are ready for payback. 
The Keenan and Morrisey game begins at 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle South field. 
Alumni vs. Keough 
Since both Keough and Alumni have lost to Dillon and been shut out by Morrissey, Sunday's game appears like it will be fairly even. Alumni already has one win under its belt defeating o··Neill. This game, however, was Alumni's first of the season, so it's been a while since the Dawgs have tasted victory. 
"We've had a couple of tough games," Alumni captain Larry Rooney said. "We're pretty banged up." 
Both of Alumni's losses were shutouts, which seems strange for a team that had done so well last fall. This might be due to the eight players missing in this year's roster that had helped lead the Dawgs to the stadium in 2002. 
Despite Alumni's current slump, Rooney still is pleased with his team's efforts and play in games and practices. 
"I think if we play to our potential we can win," said Rooney. 
Despite Keough's winless sea­son, one of Keough's senior cap­tains John McCarthy is confident that his team can still pull through with a victory. He is happy with the improved atti­tudes and playing of his team­mates since last fall. McCarthy credits Keough's new addition of a non-player coach to being largely responsible for his team's improved play this fall. Having a player-coach made calling out plays very difficult last year for Keough. 

To win Sunday, Keough will need to forget its mistakes from its last two games and become more focused. 
"We've given up two big plays each game," McCarthy said. "We have to show up to play four quarters." 
McCarthy is also concerned with Alumni's running back, Alex Roodhouse. 
"We have to stop him," said McCarthy. 
Both teams respect their oppo­nent and feel capable of winning. Alumni needs to defeat Keough to qualify for the playoffs. 
Keough and Alumni will battle Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle South field. 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgalesl@nd.edu and Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 
Friday, October 10, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

Women's 
continued from page 24 
slipped in its dominance the past couple years and we want to show everyone that we're back. I think everyone who played [in the loss last year] remembered how terrible the game was. No one forgot that feeling." 
The Hoyas, who ended up tied with Notre Dame in the Mid-Atlantic Division last sea­son, stand at 0-3 in the Big East and 4-8 overall comi"ng into their game against the Irish, which will be at 7 p.m. tonight. 
The Irish will then play their seventh game in 15 days when they take on Miami on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Due to their depth, the Irish have been very strong when playing only two days after a previous game, going 7-0 while outscoring their opponents 22­2. 
"Our depth plays a huge part in getting through this stretch," Schefter said. "By being able to play more people it helps keep everyone's legs fresh and the team's energy up. It's important mentally to with school being near midterms. It takes a toll dealing with the mental aspects of the game plus school." 
The Irish rank fourth in the nation offensively and defen­sively, scoring an average of 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to end three-game losing streak 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
It's been a roller coaster sea­son so far for the Saint Mary's volleyball team, but the Belles hope to get out of their current valley as they travel to the Tri­State University Triangular this weekend. Saint Mary's will face Tri-State University at 11 
a.m. Saturday and the University of Michigan­Dearborn later that day at 1 p.m. 

The Belles (10-10) started the season 8-4, but since then, inconsistent play has dropped the team back to a .500 record. Saint Mary's is cur­rently mired in a three-game losing streak, but this tourna­ment could be just the boost they need to get out of that slump. 
Saint Mary's played Tri-State at home earlier this year in the SMC Triangular and defeated the Thunder in straight sets. Despite· this fact, Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek isn't 
SMC SoccER 
Practice makes perfect 
The Belles will_focus on basics against a winless Adrian team 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
It isn't quite practice, but playing Adrian College in soc­cer is pretty close. 
The Bulldogs are 0-11 over­all, 0-7 in the MIAA and face ::. Saint Mary's Saturday at Adrian. 
The Belles beat Adrian 7-0 in the two teams' first meet­ing. 
"The challenge we have is to play quick and not hold on to the ball," Belles coach Peter Haring said. "We need to work on the "things we do in prac­tice." 
Saint Mary's will use the Adrian matchup to tune up for several more difficult games in the near future. 
Haring also said he wants to get more players involved in this game. 
"We just want to continue to develop a rhythm," Haring said. "We can also get more bench players involved in case we need them, then they're ready." 
The biggest task Haring wants to accomplish is work­ing on the Belles two-touch game plan. This involves hav­ing players receive a pass then quickly deliver the ball to another teammate and ignite more ball movement. 
The goal is to get the ball to the outside and look for opportunities from that point. When the Belles perform this strategy well during games, they usually have success, Haring said. 
"Our center and midfield players haven't done a great job with [the two-touch strate­gy], which allows other teams to step in and win," Haring said. 
When the Belles struggle, they usually have players try­ing to run with the ball and not pass it to teammates. 
Then other teams have an easier time intercepting pass­es and converting those turnovers into fast break opportunities. 
In their last meeting, Carolyn Logan scored three goals, while Ashley Hinton 
added  two  goals  and  two  
assists.  
The Belles  have  a  tough  ·  

stretch of their schedule com­ing up in the next few weeks. After playing Adrian, the team faces MIAA leader Hope, which hasn't lost a conference game, standing at 7-0. 
The Belles then take on non-,.. conference foe Tri-State before playing Alma in the team's final home game. 
Alma is tied for second in the division with Saint Mary's. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
3.54 goals per game while only giving up 0.33 on average in each contest. The Irish have only allowed two goals in their last 905 minutes of action, beginning with their game against Oklahoma. 
Notes: 
+ Goalkeeper Erika Bohn's 
0.33 goals-against average ranks fourth in the country +Warner ranks fourth in the nation with 8 assists. 
+ Junior Mary Boland is four­teenth in goals (10) and tenth in points (24). +Notre Dame's success comes despite seven Irish players hav­ing already missed a total of 70 
games this season due to injury. 
+ Notre Dame has been ranked either No. 1 or No. 2 at some point in nine of the last 11 sea­sons. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroege@nd.edu 
expecting a cakewalk at all. 
"Looking at their website, they've beaten some good teams recently including [MIAA member] Albion," she said. "We're not taking any­thing for granted." 
The Belles are coming off perhaps one of their most­competitive matches of the year, losing in five games to MIAA leader Calvin Tuesday night at home. 
"After the Kalamazoo loss [when the Belles lost in straight sets Oct. 4] we had a 
good long talk about how we have to stay strong and build on our successes," Schroeder­Biek said. "Against Calvin we had a lot of successes, and we need to improve on those and take them into this weekend." 
The Belles hope to be suc­cessful at the Triangular and carry that positive streak into their next conference game Tuesday at home against MIAA-opponent Adrian. 
ContactJustin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



... 



OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 18 Co~\1PILEo rRol\1 ·rt-n: OBsERVER \A/tRE sERvtcEs Friday, October 10, 2003 



NBA 


!,I 
I 
I 
around the dial 
NOTRE DAME: The Season Weekly 3:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Michigan at Minnesota 7 p.m., ESPN Texas Christian at South Florida 7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB PLAYOFFS Chicago at Florida 7 p.m., FOX 
Asaodated Press 

EAGLE, Colo. -The woman who accused Kobe Bryant of rape told police a flirtatious encounter quickly turned ugly when he grabbed her by the neck, bent her over a chair and attacked her, repeatedly asking, "You're not going to tell anybody about this, right?" 
The 19-year-old woman was raped after agreeing to go to Bryant's suite at the resort where she worked, Eagle County Sheriff's Detective Doug Winters tes­tified Thursday at a prelimi­nary hearing to determine whether Bryant will stand trial. 
Winters described in graphic detail for a packed courtroom how, according to the woman, an exciting, chance meeting with the Los Angeles Lakers' superstar led to a nightmarish assault that left her shaken and in tears. 
She said she told Bryant "no" at least twice and he ignored her, pulling her dress up and her underwear down and raping her from behind. 
At one point, the woman told police, Bryant forced her to face him and say "no" when he asked if she was going to tell anyone. After the attack, Bryant made her kiss his penis, Winters said 
the woman told investiga­tors. 
Bryant, 25, has insisted the sex was consensual. He sat at the defense table star­ing straight at Winters for much of the hearing, hands 
folded  in  front  of  him.  
Bryant  occasionally  
clenched  his  jaw,  but  

showed little other reaction. 
Though the testimony was graphic, the most explosive statement came from Bryant's own defense attor­ney when she suggested under cross examination that the woman's injuries would also be "consistent with a person who has had sex with three different men in three days." 
That led an angry Judge Frederick Gannett to empty the courtroom and summon the lawyers to his chambers. Gannett was also upset ear­lier when defense attorney Pamela Mackey said the woman's name four times when asking questions. 
She apologized, saying she would write herself a big note not to say it. 
·:or I could get you a big muzzle," Gannett said. 
The hearing -expected to last only an afternoon ­was finally adjourned after more than six hours, an indication the trial could be long and laborious for both sides. Gannett said it would continue next Wednesday. 
IN BRIEF 

James might play Sunday 
INDIANAPOLIS -Edgerrin James could play for the first time in three weeks Sunday for the Indianapolis Colts as he continues recovering from a back injury. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said Thursday that James was in good shape after practicing Wednesday for the first time since he was hurt in a Sept. 21 game against Jacksonville. 
"It was a good sign, I think, coming back a second day after a hard prac­tice. I'm optimistic about his chances this week," Dungy said. 
The Colts (5-0) hope to have the two­time NFL rushing champ back on the field for Sunday's game against the Carolina Panthers (4-0). 
"It'll be a game-time (decision)," Dungy said, "but I would think if he goes three practices in a row without any problems, he should be fine." 
The Colts also are watching James Mungro, one of the running backs who have filled in for James the last two games. 
Mungro suffered a sprained right knee late in Monday's game against Tampa Bay and did not practice Wednesday or Thursday. He had an MRI on Wednesday and the results showed a slight cartilage tear. 
Dungy said Mungro's injury could heal on its own, but there was a chance he would need arthroscopic surgery. 
"I think the thought process now is to probably let it go," Dungy said. "He's going to practice [Friday] and hopefully it will he OK." 
Y~din applies for alcohol education program 
HARTFORD, Conn. -Olympic skat­ing champion Alexei Yagudin applied Thursday for an alcohol education pro­gram that would clear his record of a drunken driving charge. 
Yagudin, 23, who trains at the International Skating Center of Connecticut in Simsbury, was pulled over just after midnight on Aug. 31 while driving near his home in Avon, a Hartford suburb. 
The four-time world champion was charged with operating under the influ­ence of alcohol. traveling too fast and making an improper lane change with­out signaling. 
Police said the skater's blood -alcohol content level was above the legal threshold of 0.08. Yagudin wa'i cooper­ative during the arrest, police said. 
He appeared briefly in Hartford Superior Court on Thursday to apply for the special program for first-time offenders. He agreed to pay the $150 application fee and court costs. The one-year program includes 10 to 15 counseling session administered by the state Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. 
In a statement, Yagudin said: "I am appreciative to the court for its offer to me to apply for this education program. I know I can benefit from it, and look forward to using what I learn in the future." 


Friday, October 10, 2003 page 19
The Observer • SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Fisher playoff hopes rest on win over Zahm 

By RACHEL SCHIROS, ANN 
LOUGHERY and STEVE 
COYER 
Sports Writers 

If you hear the sound of thun­der on Sunday, don't look to the skies. The Zahmbies clash with rivals from Fisher this weekend and each team is looking to storm on for a run at the play­offs 
Both teams are coming off their first wins of the season and hope to continue to pick up speed toward the playoffs. A win will put the Green Wave one game away from matching last year's 3-1 record or help Zahrn even their record to 2-2. 
"This game is ... a huge game for us because Zahm is one of our rival dorms and it is always an intense match up," Fisher captain Tom Gorman. "We really look forward to playing them." 
The Zahm loyalty is noticeably apparent as the team looks to make up for a playoff loss to Fisher last year. Zahm has a group that is about a quarter freshmen and is significantly strengthened by the number of returning starters framing their lines, especially on defense. 
"We are rock solid at every position," Zahm captain Mike Maimone said. "A lot of guys only have to play one way." 

Happy Birthday

Reno 
...hats on 
to JODI 

i( VON DUTCH * SEVEN JEANS ~~ BLUE 
n 
~ 

8 
~


Inspire Me 1 ~ 
5281;. Colfax ~ve., Suite #2 South $end, r.J'lf46617 514/232-1822 
312 W. C(eve(and%f. (jranaer, ~1'1f46530 514/277--6693 
Leading the defense are line­backer and co-captain Pat McGarry and freshman defen­sive back Kyree Blackwell. 
The new talent on the offen­sive side has improved with experience and the focus they've shown in practices. Standouts include quarterback Mitch Knapke, running back Eric Tarnowski and wide receiver Mike Russell. 
The Fisher team also counts on strong hall support for this game. Last year's pre-game even included a dorm pep-rally and barbeque. 
The players hope to satisfy their spectators by building off momentum after defeating defending champion Siegfried last week. 
"It's going really well because we are finally getting used to playing with each other and it certainly is going much better," Fisher captain Tom Gorman said. "We are improving every week which is the most impor­tant part -to not be at your best at the beginning of the sea­son, but to finish off the season at your best." 
Gorman notes Fisher's strengths to be the defensive intensity and the balance of passing and running in the offense. 
The Green Wave has a mix of upper and lowerclassmen in their ranks this year. 
"They are a really good class and a lot of fun to play with because they obviously were very good in high school football as well," Gorman said. 
The game begins at 2:00 p.m. Sunday on Riehle North field. 
Carroll vs. Knott 
It's tough being the little guys. The Vermin of Carroll Hall (1­
1) are all too familiar with this situation. As the smallest dorm on campus, Carroll is forced to combat teams of larger num­bers. Up to half of the team's players step up to play on both sides of the ball, estimates Carroll captain Jim Butz. 
"We just have to keep every­one fresh and ready to go," Butz said. "It's tough on the team, but we manage." 
This past week, Carroll had a bye after a 6-0 loss to St. Ed's. The bye provided much needed rest for the Vermin before they meet the Knott Hall Juggerknotts (1-1-1) Sunday. 
"We had a chance to get all the nicks and injuries healed up," Butz said. "We're ready to play." 
And so is Knott, according to captain Drew Donovan. 
The past two years have been rebuilding ones for the Juggs, but this year Donovan said the team has played with more con­fidence. Confidence will be espe­cially necessary in Sunday's 
•QUOTES &FACTS .. Spanish film directorPedro Almo46uar (b. 195llbas made 27 films to date.' ms·tatestfilm, "Bad Education• is in post~pniduttion and is slated 
The Nanovic Institute for release in 2094. fllmodouar unm an Oscar for "BeslWriting, · ··· · for European Studies Screenplay Written Diredty for tbe Streen"for his 2882 film, •Jalk: to www.nd.edtlf-nanovic Her. • Check out his other films at: 'alww;imdb.tom/nam«/n.m0000264/. 
"I can even make Student Account Payments at the LaFortune Branch. It doesn't get more convenient than that." 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

game, Donovan said, because a win over Carroll would send the Juggs to the playoffs. 
Over the past week, Knott has focused on execution, team dynamics and consistency in preparation for the game. Donovan cites consistency on the offense's part as the Juggs' pri­mary weakness. 
"There are times when the offense moves the ball well and there are times when the offense is discombobulated," he said. 
Both teams anticipate a hard­fought battle, despite their weaknesses. 
Sunday's game will ultimately test the two teams staying power. The game will take place at 1 p.m. at Riehle North field. 
Sorin vs. St. Ed's 
Sorin and St. Ed's have had their share of excitement this year with close games decided by a field goal and tight defen­sive battles. On Sunday the stakes are raised as both teams fight for a playoff spot. 
Sorin's record stands at 1-2 and is looking to turn things around going into their last game. After a thrilling 3-0 win to start their season, the Otters have had problems maintaining their intensity late in the game. 
"We've had some problems keeping the team focused, but if we win this last game we'll have a good shot at making the play­offs," Sorin captain Collin O'Keefe said. 
St. Ed's enters the week com­ing off a tough 6-6 tie against Knott. They are currently unde­feated (1-1} with both games being low scoring with neither side scoring more .than six points. 
Key players for St. Ed's are running back and defensive threat Mike Giampa and quar­terback Chris Wagner. The team looks to stay strong on defense and create more scoring chances on offense. 
"We're going to keep up our strong running game and defense but we need to find a way to get the ball in the end zone," St.Ed's captain Kevin McNamara said. 
Sorin also hopes to jumpstart their offense behind the strength of its wide receivers. The Otters' offense has struggled all year, only scoring a total of 17 points. 
"We need everything to come together on offense with our wide receivers leading the way," O'Keefe said. 
The game will be played Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle North 
field. 
Contact Rachel Schiros at rschiro@nd.edu, Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu and Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

Student Account Payments! (In the LaFortune Student Center for your convenience) 
·' 
~ 


Friday, October 10, 2003 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
~o.._ WOMEN'S GOLF 
Tournament score shows late-round resilience 
The Irish rebound from early trouble in the Shootout at the Legends 
with Big Ten teams, and we
ByJOE HETTLER 

were able to beat quite a few 
Sports Editor 

of them." Perhaps the biggest indicator 
\· Notre Dame shot a 308 in of the team's improvement the first round of The Shootout from last season was its score at the Legends tournament this year -41 strokes better earlier this week, and they than when the Irish took 13th

ll \ 
would have been pleased with in 2002 at the same tourna­\1 such a score last season. ment. They shot 308-294-300
1\ But this during the three
~ 
\\ \I year, the Irish rounds. 
I) weren't. The biggest I I II \1 "We were "That was the difference in the I\ upset after the shootout at the
toughest field we will
first round," Legends tourna­
face all season. ·· 
coach Debby ment and King said. throughout the "And that's a Debby King fall has been the big step for consistent play
coach 
us, because last year we would have been happy with that score." 

The Irish came back to pro­duce two solid rounds and fin­ished the tournament in sev­enth place. with a three-day total of 902 against a very dif­ficult field. The Legends had schools from all across the 
" nation, including some very strong Big Ten foes. 
"That was the toughest field'l we will face all season," King\ said. "It was massively filled
\ 
' 
., 
't• 
)l 
~~ 
' 
f, 
(. 
i 
(, 
\ 
of two freshmen 
and the strong 

effort from the rest of team. Freshman Noriko Nakazaki leads the team with an 18-hole scoring average 75, while fellow first-year golfer Stacy Brown has averaged just over 81 strokes per round. 
Katie Brophy and Sarah Bassett have also been crucial in lifting the Irish to impres­sive showings at all of their fall tournaments. They have averaged 76.33 and 76.67 strokes per round, respective­
ly. 

King said she is extremely pleased with her team's'play in the fall. 
Notre Dame has already accomplished several team goals, such as being ranked in the top 50th. The Irish started the year at 99th and have jumped to 36th. 
"We might have to rework our goals," King said. 
One of the biggest keys for the team's ascension in the rankings is their ability to fire rounds near 300. 
King wants to continue to see that score reached by her team. 
"We still want to be around 300 for every round," she said. 
The Irish have a week off before heading to Palm Harbor, Fla. for the adidas Invitational Oct. 19-21, where King says the competition will be fairly strong once again. 
They will end the fall season in Charleston, S.C. at the Edwin Watts/Palmetto Dunes Intercollegiate Invitational Nov. 3. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

·•• .. ;:Y'VJe, the·*gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender 
:' :...... 
.·.·"" 

Alumni/ae of and Saint Mary's friends of OutreachND for your courage, your dignity, your spirit 
I 
l 
) -­
~ 
) -and your convictions. 
GALA ND/SMC and OutreachND are not affiliated with the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. 

Fri & Sat 9pm Full Menu & Full Bar 



All Irish Fans Welcome 
corner of Penn & 24th in the Strip District 

Ifyou see this girl., wish her a Happy 21st birthday! 
We love ya., Em! Tim-tim., )uaes., Turf ana the Gamma Chi"'s 


. ­


Friday, October 10, 2003 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 





Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
Richards and junior Kevin Goldthwaite man the wing-back positions, and reliable junior Jack Stewart and precocious freshman Greg Dalby are the unit's core at the mid­dle of the field. 
On offense, Irish seniors Justin Detter and Devon Prescod share the team lead with 11 points. Detter has taken 42 shots and gotten 18 on goal. Prescod leads the team with five goals. 
His fiv·e goals so far already surpasses the amount of three he netted last season. 
Saturday will be the thirteenth meeting between Notre Dame and Rutgers. The Scarlet Knights lead the all-time series with an 8-3-1 record, including five straight wins from 1998 to 2001. That losing streak ended for the Irish last season with a 1-1 tie in Piscataway, NJ. 
The last win for Notre Dame over Rutgers came in 1997, when the Irish pulled out a 1-0 shutout at Alumni field. 
Rutgers is 2-1 all-time at Notre Dame's home field. 
Saturday's game begins at 7:30 p.m. It marks the first of Notre Dame's final two home games. 
The last regular season game at Alumni field will be on Oct. 31 versus Villanova. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
fAIA'IItil


ooorr•...-· 
Open House Wednesday, October 1511; 424 North Frances Street Apt 17 2-6p.m. 
October Special Free DVD player for all lea~ Signed by October 31, 2003! 



Nou·e Dame Apartmenl'i Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunities and has Clearlv Become The Best Value in Off-Campus Living' • · 
Opt~n House Thursday, October 16'h 83"5 Nor1h Notre Dame Avenue, Apt IA 2-6p.m. 
October SJiedal Next year leases signed by October 3 I, 2003 will lock in current year rates~ 
Reserve Yours Todsy! 574-234-9923 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Sophomore setter Kelly Burrell elevates to set up sophomore middle blocker Lauren Kelbley. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOW"NHOl\fES "The Best Value Per Student" 
• 
415 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Apartment 

• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
ADT Security Systems 

• 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 


Professionally Managed By: Real E~tate Management Corporation 
P.O. Bm( 540. 130 South Main Street, Ste 450 South Bend, IN 46624 
Jblad@cbresb.com 

Reserve Yours Today! 574-234-9923 
NOTRE DAME APARTI\-IENTS 
Some Reasons Why You Should Join Our Communitv 
• 
Over 1,000 SF of Living Space 

• 
2 Bedrooms: I Bathroom-Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
On -Site Laundry Facility 

• 
5 Blocks from Campus 

• 
On Route of"Transpo" Bus-Line 

• 
Professionally Managed 

• 
24-Hour Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 


NO VOLLEYBALL 

Potent Irish offense awaits visiting teams 
By HFATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Domination has been key for the Irish of late. 
Last weekend's Big East play saw the Irish cruise on the East Coast, defeating St. John's and Connecticut. 
"Our passing was very good," senior Kim Fletcher said. "Offensively, we're always a good team and when the passing is there, we just dominate." 
Dominate they did, as the Irish (12-2, 4-0 in the Big East) out hit St. John's .369 to .236 Saturday, and they out hit Connecticut .244 to .129 Sunday. 
Lauren Brewster led 
"Offensively, we·re there's two set­

the hitters with 
ters to adjust to

24 kills on .457 always a good team, 
having different

hitting to go 
and when the setters, and for

along with 15 
passing is there, we the setters to

blocks on the 
adjust to having

weekend. just dominate. ·· 
different hit­

Brewster's 
ters," Fletcher

efforts gar­
Kim Fletcher said.

nered her the 
senior The Irish have J 

Big East Co­Player of the week. She was the fourth Notre Dame winner in the six weeks of this sea­son's awards. 
Brewster stepped it up Sunday, matching a career high with 17 kills on .596 hit­ting percentage. 
She made just one error in 27 attempts, along with her eight blocks. Brewster ranks sixth in the nation in blocks per game, with 1.61. As a team, the Irish are ranked sec­ond, with a team average of 3.44. 
But there is no time to dwell on the wins for the Irish. 
"We work hard every week in practice," Fletcher said. "This weekend is going to be a big one." 
This weekend finds the Irish in the Joyce Center tonight 

./ 

halimar 
·r.~·-···· 
.. ..... 

~c:;:ble ..Chi~/i€111/ ()~,;;~;;,€! 
508 W. McKinley Avenue ,• Mishawaka, IN 46545 

574-254-9070 Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
,.--~--·-·········· ~~= 

DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! 
iYJ r;;J.I:,

Monday-Sunday 11:30-2:30 pm ;;., ~ 
~+· =~ ~l'l:::lf.m~· '-<! 
R~tav~il'!:~ ~~ 

Dinner Hours ' : • -' 
..,._____• -.M­

••,-.·-···+···•--1 Sunday-Monday 5:00pm-9:30pm ............................:~~:~::::....:.:.:..v.·-~--L-1 
Friday & Saturday 5:00pm-I O:OOpm 
r':-~---:-..... --~ ... -.----... --........ ~..;.. ~-...._ ..... -.... ,........
,su~t..l:n(~Dmnc.>t_l'..rltr~~.• }SOL OFF •$1 00 QFF:-1
<...>et a ~~cond f..:ntrt'l' 10 · 1 • · I
1 I 1/2 OFF •1 Carry-out order • AU you can eat : 
I ,.. . : 1 Daily Lunch Bufft>t I
1 ~"...1~ '""',~-l<.>"'f•"' ~ c.mt<. f'ln<··>>l co<~~~ 1 c...,l""'I"" 1~. t 
sue·~ ..Uh ony A•m• dl~>...ar" I S<:t ~-:ttl;l -..ut> .,~. <41->lHn><mt I t!p t<• l!K-t!J~ l..tln"'·lu <JUl)"l I I !'ok46«:-M(~~..$.,-»c.r.,.:<tJ«<..,...,.;~. I .flii:.CX•,.,,..~.._~ ....t•)lo'*"'a~·bix·"'Hft. I~· W xt:.e.tot.....oh <-A.c ~ I
L. ~»XX :.eN!'~ I \"*-'~c.,~ . I . , cc• 2IMt t •*<c ... --------..................... .._---------':!!"!:!..~!:.~---_J 
against Seton Hall (14-6, 0-3) and Sunday afternoon against Rutgers (7-10, 1-2). Both teams would love a win over Notre Dame. 
In fact, one Seton Hall player has the single goal of beating the Irish before she graduates. 
"They're going to come out ready to play." Fletcher said. "Seton Hall always comes out strong when they play us." 
The Irish will counter with some firepower of their own. Emily Loomis has hit double digit kills in the last 20 consec­utive matches. 
Also leading the offense is senior setter Kristen Kinder. Kinder has taken over the set­ting duties after the Irish switched their rotation to the 5-1. 
"It's always 
hard when 
really caught 
fire with the 
new offense. 
Lauren Kelbley had 15 kills and was in on five blocks for the Irish against Connecticut. Against Rutgers she had 11 kills on .429 hitting percent­age. 
"When we have good pass­ing, it's easier to get the offense going," Fletcher said. 
For the Irish, winning the Big East is just another step in the right direction. 
"Our goal is to win the Big East and with the Big East Tournament because that gets us a NCAA bid," Fletcher said. 
With their 4-0 record in Big East play, the Irish are on the right track, but still have a long road ahead. 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



page 22 Friday, October 10, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Irish open with familiar foe in Ohio State 
)  
>  
\  
)  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  \;'  
I  '\.  
I  
I  
~ \  
\  


I 
I. 
r
,:l 
I 
(
\• 
/.' 
; 
h 
,, 
...... ~> 
,( 
~~ 
(. 
t}, 
I 
I 
i 
I i 
; 
,. 
i 
i,. 
( I· 
i' 
'>
,, 
),,. 
! 
/.' 

/·
·• 
I. 
'i ..,. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

It might seem like deja vu for the Irish as they take the ice for their first game of the regular season this weekend on the road against the No. 15 Ohio State Buckeyes. 
Ohio State ended Notre 
. Dame's 2002-03 season with a 3-2 come-from-behind win over the Irish in the first round of replace two talented forwards in R.J. Umberger and Ryan 
· Kesler, who signed with profes­sional teams over the summer. Kesler scored one of the goals in that 3-2 win over the Irish at Joe Louis Arena last year. 
Goalie Mike Betz will almost certainly be looked at to lead the Buckeyes this year. The sen­ior goaltender led the CCHA in goals-against-average last year . Despite the loss of Umberger and Kesler, the Buckeyes still feature a vet­
the CCHA eran team
"It's a chance to maybe
Super Six in with nine 
go out and show the 
Detroit last seniors who yef,lr. It's a pollsters that maybe are used to game that has playing for
they've underestimated 
still left a sour ,. one of the 
you.
taste in the top teams in mouth of the the league. Irish, according Dave Poulin "I think to head coach [losing
Irish coach 
Dave Poulin. 

"Believe me, [revenge] has been mentioned," he said. "Any time a team knocks you out and you're as close and we played as well as we played in that game, you certainly want to come right back and get right at them. 
"We would have preferred to have played them the next night rather than after six months, but it definitely has been men­tioned this week." 
The Buckeyes (1-1-0) partici­pated in the Lefty McFadden Invitational last weekend, losing to Denver 5-2 and defeating Miami (Ohio) 5-3. Ohio State returns 14 of 22 letterwinners from last year's team that fin­ished third in the CCHA. 
The Buckeyes will have to 
. Dances 
Umberger 

and Kesler] changes them a lot," Poulin said. "I think it does change their team dramatically, and I really think they'll be looking at Betz in net a lot more." 
The Irish will have to go against Betz with their backup, however. Junior Morgan Cey, who was slated to be the num­ber one goalie, is still recover­ing from off-season knee sur­gery and will be unavailable for the Ohio State series. 
Sophomore Rory Walsh, who was the MVP of the Blue-Gold scrimmage game, and freshman David Brown, who picked up the victory in Notre Dame's pre­season win over Western Ontario, will compete for the chance to start in net against 



. Graduation parties . Complete banquet and catering services . Tent parties 

235-9985 
the Buckeyes. 
"Somebody's going to have to be ready, but I don't know who that is yet," Poulin said. "They're very close right now. ... They both played well last weekend and they both played well in the Blue-Gold game. 
"Certainly you don't replace Morgan Cey at this point, but someone will step up." 
As with any new season, the Irish will also look to replace its departed seniors. Among those who graduated last year were captain and number-one defenseman Evan Nielsen, backup goaltender Tony Zasowski, Michael Chin, Connor Dunlop, Jake Weigand and John Wroblewski. 
Also, junior Kyle Dolder and Yan Stastny left the team to play major junior hockey in Canada. 
"I think you look at your team and see who will step up. Certainly our senior class, par­ticularly on defense, is full of veterans," Poulin said. 
Seniors Tom Galvin, Neil Komadowski and Brett Lebda will serve as a trio of talented offensive defensemen on the Irish back line. The three com­bined for 11 goals and 46 assists last season. 
On offense, the Irish feature one of the best senior forwards in the country. Despite being drafted as a sophomore by the Florida Panthers, Rob Globke has remained with Notre Dame his entire career and has stayed among the CCHA's top scoring leaders each season as well. 
Last year Globke led the team in scoring with 21 goals and 15 assists for 36 points. His class-


mate Aaron Gill, a talented cen­he said. "Because it's a chance ter, will serve as the 2003-04 to maybe go out and show the captain. Gill was an alternate pollsters that maybe they've captain last season and scored underestimated you." 25 points with 13 goals and 12 The Irish face the Buckeyes at assists. the Value City Arena in 
Notre Dame was voted sev­Columbus, Ohio, tonight at 8:05 enth in the 12-team CCHA pre­p.m. and Saturday night at 7:05 season poll, another fact that p.m.Poulin has noticed. 
"It's great to start against a Contact Justin Schuver at team as good as Ohio State is," jschuver@nd.edu 

Better Ingredients. Better Pizza. 
STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME HOLY CROSS
271-1177 LATE 
271-7272


NIGHT SPECIAL 
Needs\ 0
\e Your part'/ Pen for L we can Hand Mon-Thu 11 am-1 am Linch and LateN' 
'9

Fr-Sat 11 am-3am ht Sun 12pm-1am 


·-------------· 
I AFTER 9 p.m. I 
I I I I 
I I 1 Large I I 
I I I I 
I 1 Topping I 
I I $6.99 I I 
·-------------· 
Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 


Friday, October 10, 2003 

The Observer+ TO·DAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHIN SKI 

JUMBLE 
~}].
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FRIGE 
1 
rJ 

C2003 Tribune Medoa Service&, Inc All R;ghls Reoerved 
IPPUL 
1 

rJ (] 
YILSAM ± 
www.jurmle.com
I EPIDEM ±
·1 rI J I 
Ms: 
rI I J"[ I I I I J" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: LEGAL BRAND TRAGIC AGENDAYesterday's I 
Answer: What the sailors did when they crashed the 
..,.
private party-THEY "BARGED" IN 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
I'm so excited. I know Ican win 

-
10-10 
WHEN HE ENTERE:D "ffi: B~ c.ol'l­Tt=ST, HE WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 

ACROSS 35 Subjects, say 57 St. Lawrence Seaway port of
1 Goddard of 37 Junho to junho,

"Modern Times" .R,Qtry
e.g. 60 Hal Foster's
9 Really succeed 38 Lightly brand Queen of the 14 Spots 

39 Getting Misty Isles 15 "Buenos Aires" something in 
61 Redistributedmusical the eye? 
62 Like some16 Ravi Shankar 41 One going off to divorces was part of it college, maybe 63 Airport worker 17 Prediction tool 
42 East ender? 18 Evil 

43 Out of the oven, ·DOWN19 K1nd of lepton 
say 

1 Philadelphia20 Tongues may 44 Show suburb 
cover them 2 On_ (hot)
46 Ring bearer? 

22 Did farmwork 3 Teutonic 
48 "Thou canst not24 InJures connectorthen be false to25 Flap 
_·: Polonius 4 On the Big 26 Hagar the Board
52 New York City Horrible's bridge, 5 Nueva York, pordaughter 
informally ejemplo 27 Not just any 
6 Big chunk of 54 Cigarette
30 Both, at the moola
holder: Abbr. 
start 7 Case studier,55 Cooler

33 Pumped up, in slangily
• 30 Requirement for 40 Saturnine 51 Future away 56 Fair collection 
8 One mushed some games 44 General effort? preceder 31 "Jerry Maguire" 52 Public •
9 What a waiter 45 There from the 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
or a track bettor actor Jay start transportation does 32 Relative of 53 Stir up
47 Supports, in a muttonchops
~~~~~;,J 10 Like a violet leaf way 54 Variety of 33 Arteries trout
~~-="+,;.t-~;..t 11 Rubber giant 49 Dye obtained 34 Posh from aniline 58 Flash
12 Crowning 36 "U!'fortunately 50 Contemporary 59 Like many a
13 Dumpsite sights 
~....,...+..~.......~ of Freud mot 1-=+T+-:~~ 14 Needle 
f-:-+-:-+-,:+.:...4 21 A perfect square 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 23 "Mule Train" credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Singer, 1949 Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
24 Actress Doherty -=+-:-:+-:-+::~...4 Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 .:+=+i;;.f 28 Extremely 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
popular 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ...;;;..r,...:.....;~ 29 Early home nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying for~ and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 ­D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name--------------------­
Address __________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip________ 
• 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Richard Jaeckel, Julia Sweeney. Ben Vereen, David Lee Roth, Tanya Tucker 
....

Happy Birth.day: Be careful what you wish for. You will be inclined to deceive yourself emotionally if you refuse to n:cognize your true motives regarding your relationships. Honesty will be necessary if you want to move forward in a positive manner. If you make the right choices, your life will stabilize. Yournumbers:4,17,21,29,35,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Erratic behavior will cause isolat1on. If others want to do their own thing, let them. You'll find it difficult to relate to children right now, so spend time doing things that will make you happy. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Outings with family or friends will provide you with interesting conversation. Your knowledge and good sense will help more 
than you think. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This will not be the period to take chances. Lock up your money where it's safe. Don't lend to anyone. Put your legal affairs in order. Leaving loose ends will cause problems later on. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll have trouble controlling your actions. Your emotional well-being will depend on the rest of the family. Don't take on too much. You need to let others do things for you for a change. 2 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Arguments with peers or relatives will set you off. Try hard not to instigate unnecessary friction with others. It is best to stay put and avoid conversations that are controversial to begin with. 4 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Children may be on your mind more. Get involved in organizations that help youngsters who are experiencing difficulties. You have a lot to offer and a lot to learn. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Generosity will put you in the poorhouse. You mustn't give your children too much. Your time, not your cash. will do a lot more for your relationship. Unpredictable events will disrupt your routine. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your involvement with family will be interesting. You may want to watch what you say. You could be misinterpreted. Take the time to let your mate know how much you care. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can get others to do things for you if you use your charm. Children may not be that eager to listen if you don't make your conversation interesting enough to capture their attention. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect disagreements with your partner if ·­financial irresponsibility has left you in a tight spot. You must put limitations on each other's spending habits, which won't please him or her. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems with foreigners or authority figures could lead to confinement or delays. You must make sure that all your personal papers are in order. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take some time out to do things with children. You will find that they need more helt> than you imagined. Don't lose patience. Support will work better than criticism. Be positive. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: Follow your basic instincts. and you will do well. Follow what others are doing, and you will fall short of your life goals. Exercise your rights and don't fear the unknown. Discovery must become your passion. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 


nr 
(I 

THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, October 10, 2003 

Page 24 

I 
\ ~ 
~~1 
\\\.\ 
(I 
~ .' 
i. ·. 
~ 
·, 
\ 
I 

I 
t/ 
i
?\,\~! 
I ' 
I 
i) 
) 
' 
) > 
) 
! > 
) 
> 
~ 
> > 
I 
) 
, > ) ~ f;; 
) ~ ·,1 ) ' 
.'I, J
• 
> 
t<
"' 
> {, i
•
•
• ~q
•) I' 
~' 
' I ~ 
l 
) >'}'; ~ ) ' > 
) ~­> lj 
t n. 
~~~ 
I'
~ /) 
! /i
(I 
·.' 
~ ~ 
> 
~ 
) > I 
~ /! 
I 
( r 
> 
~ 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
( 
I.( 
( 
I 
MEN'S SOCCER 





Proven versatility 
Notre Dame brings the same level of play at home and on .the rorzd 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

They rarely lose at home. They do not lose on the road. 
The No. 5 Notre Dame men's soccer team has proven it can play anywhere through its first 11 games of the season. 
The Irish (7-1-3, 3-1-1) look to continue their i:lominant play -particularly on defense -when they play host to No. 25 Big East foe Rutgers this Saturday at Alumni field. 
Notre Dame has lost just one game this season, a 3-0 home defeat at the hands of confer­ence opponent Saint John's. 
Otherwise, the team has been solid regardless of the venue. 
The Irish won five of seven games and tied once in a seven-game home stretch in September. The team then went 1-0-1 on a weekend road trip to Syracuse-and Pittsburgh, returning with still just one blemish on its record. 
This weekend's match-up 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

with Rutgers is the beginning of the end. 
The Scarlet Knights (6-3-1, 3-1-1) enter South Bend three days after tying Seton Hall, 1­1. 
Notre Dame and Rutgers are in a three -way tie with Providence for third place in the Big East. Connecticut sits in second place with a 3-1-2 conference record, and St. John's is first at 4-1-0. The Irish can overtake St. John's for first place on Saturday with a win over the Scarlet Knights and a Red Storm loss to Providence. 
A team effort will include the same of what Clark has been getting from his disciplined squad. He will look for the defense to halt the Rutgers attack and remain stable to give the midfield and offense chances to advance. 
The defense is tied for first in goals allowed (7) and first in goals against average (0.58) in 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

the conference. Senior Kevin 
Midfielder Chad Riley sprints downfield in an earlier match versus West Virginia. The Irish can see RUTGERS/page 21 make huge strides in the Big East conference standings with a victory over Rutgers this Saturday. 
Irish ·eager to dominate conference 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

A month ago the Irish were challenged in the early going by then No. 13 Arizona State, who took a 1-0 lead early in the game. It was the frrst time in the young season that the Irish had faced a deficit. 
Now through their first thir­teen games, there has not been a second time. The Irish rallied quickly against the Sun Devils, winning 3-1. Furthermore, they have not allowed more than two shots on goal in a game since, a stretch of ten games. In those ten games, the opposition has man­aged only a meager 13 shots, while the Irish have scored 31 goals. 
The No. 2 Irish will look to con­tinue that streak and their over­all dominance as Georgetown and Miami pay visits to Alumni Field this weekend. 
The Irish, now 12-0-1, will have revenge on their minds against the Hoyas, as they dropped a 4-3 decision last year despite current senior Amy Warner's second career hat­trick. 
Based on past history, the 
HOCKEY
en .....

1-u Notre Dame at 
z Ohio State
a: ::5 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Senior forward Amanda Guertin makes a tackle against a challenging Northern Illinois player. 
Hoyas do not stand a good chance of duplicating their upset, with Notre Dame having won its past 46 home games against Big East opponents. Before last year, the Irish had won the first seven games in the series by a com-
VOLLEYBALL 
Tonigh~ 7 p.m.Seton all at Notre Dame 

Tonight, 8:05 p.m. 
Sunday, 2 p.m.

The Irish look for 
Rutgers at Notre

revenge against the 
== 

en 
Dame page 22 
A.t« Buckeyes. 
page 21 
bined score of 55-1. 
"Our mindset in all our Big East games is really to pound the opposition," midfielder Annie Schefter said. "Notre Dame has 
see WOMEN/page 17 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
The Shootout at the Legends 
Notre Dame finished in seventh place with a total of 902 strokes. 
page 20 
CHICAGO MARATHON 
Students race with ambition 
-under your belt. It's going to 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Drew Shula has never run 
26.2 miles at any point in his life. The fourth-year Notre Dame architecture student hopes that changes Sunday. 
Shula, along with 39,999 other runners will compete in the 26th annual Chicago Marathon Sunday for a chance to qualify for other national races, win money or simply accomplish a goal of finishing the marathon. 
For Shula and several other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, this week­end also gives them an opportunity to challenge themselves in one of the most famous marathons in the United States. 
"It's something I always wanted to do," Shula said. "The first time you're sup­posed to just try and finish it and get one [marathon] 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Alumni vs. Keough, 1 p.m. Fisher vs. Zahm, 2 p.m. Keenan vs. Morrissey, 2 p.m. 
Check out men's interhall games this Saturday. 
pages 19 and 16 
be a challenge to finish so I'm a little nervous." 
The race begins at Grant Park and ends at that same location, 26.2 miles later. It began in 1977 and has become one of the biggest events in Chicago ever since . Supporters and fans usually total over one million for the race. 
A significant difference between the Chicago Marathon and other national races, like the Boston Marathon, is that there is no qualifying time needed to participate. The runners all give an $80 to $90 entry fee and must be one of the first 40,000 people to register. This year that quota was met Wednesday, to the delight of event chairman and chief marketing officer for LaSalle Bank Mark Nystuen. 
"We have reached our reg­istration cap in record time 
see MARATHON/page 16 
SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's at Adrian 
Saturday evening 
The Belles play the winless Adrian squad on the road. 
page 17 


t 
~ I ' \ 
• 

• • ,. .,' .. ' I t ' ' ' o 
..... 

page2 Friday, October 10, 2003 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Holiday accepts demotion with class 
Carlyle Holiday doesn't listen to the snide remarks people make after they walk by, does­n't read the newspapers that say he can't play 
and does­n't bother looking over e­mails he receives that say he has no business 

playing 
Andrew Soukup 
college football. But 
Sports Writer 
three weeks ago, lloliday did hear something he would never forget. 
With the Irish trailing by a touchdown to Michigan State, lloliday didn't see Michigan State's Greg Taplin standing between him and his receiver. So lloliday ftred a pass directly into Taplin's arms, an inter­ception that was returned 40 yards for the game's back­breaking touchdown. 
Holiday snapped ofl' his chin­strap in disgust and started trudging toward the sideline. That's when he heard it. 
Not loud at first, but it start­ed in eaeh eorner of Notre Dame Stadium and crescen­doed to the point where the sound reverberated through Holiday's helmet. 
Boos. 

"That," Holiday said weeks later of an image bound to give him nightmares, "was pretty tough not to hear." 
In Holiday's 24 games as the starting Notre Dame quarter­back, he knew he had to devel­op elephant skin -and not just to handle the crushing hits he would receive courtesy of a porous offensive line. lie watched how Notre Dame fans ruthlessly pummeled Matt LoVecchio two seasons ago, begging Irish coaches to install Holiday at quarterback. He heard those same fans first praise him, then criticize him, then boo him and beg for true freshman Brady Quinn to start over Holiday. 
Two weeks ago, Notre ·Dame coaches apparently grew tired of trying to cram the square peg into the round hole and dumped Holiday, a 24-game starter whose greatest asset was always his legs and never his arm, in favor of Quinn. The Irish coaching staff has given every indication that Quinn will start Saturday against Pittsburgh and probably the rest of the season. 
That means Holiday is rele­gated to spot duty on the field, like taking snaps at wide receiver, while he prepares himself to go back in and face the boos if Quinn gets injured. 
Holiday could have sulked. He could have moped. He could have blasted the fans. He could have ignored reporters. He could have called out his teammates. 
But he didn't. 
When he first heard about a T-shirt that read, "The Holiday is Over," he smiled it away. When he got bombarded week after week with questions about his ability, he openly dis­cussed his flaws. When Notre Dame got embarrassed by Michigan and beaten by Michigan State thanks largely in part to an offense that had as much life as Venus, Holiday shouldered all the blame. 
And never once did he fire a salvo back. 
"That's something you have to deal with," he shrugged. "For you to start to hit back and let your anger show, that sticks out more than any other thing." 
Publicly, Holiday hid his dis­appointment and frustration. Privately, you couldn't blame him if he didn't want to leave his room or go to class. Why not'? He'd just be walking by or sitting with fellow students who lambasted him Saturday after Saturday. 
So Holiday took it all in stride, laughing away ques­tions that wound him to the core, taking too much blame even though the rest of his ofl'ense wasn't clicking, trying to ignore the jeers he received in his own stadium. And dur­ing the week Holiday was replaced as the starting quar­terback -a decision coaches appeared to make during the week but didn't reveal until game time -the senior was the consummate team player by not letting on that his days as Notre Dame's starting quar­terback were likely over. 
Now, Holiday walks unmo­lested by the throngs of media members who once clamon~d for a sound bite from him but now only want to hear from Notre Dame's newest golden boy. So far, he says he hasn't given Quinn any advice on how to handle all the off-the­field pressure of being Notre Dame's starter, which he knows makes lining up under center against Michigan seem appealing in comparison. "That's something he has to experience for himself," the deposed startnr said. 
But maybe Holiday should talk to Quinn. He might have known he was walking into the lion's den two years ago when he was named the starter, but he certainly didn't think he'd get eaten to pieces if he didn't succeed. 
Depending on how Quinn's next four years at Notre Dame turn out, the day he was named starter could be one of the best days of the freshman's life. 
But as Holiday knows, it could also be one of the worst. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@ nd.edu. 


game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
../feel much more rested and a lot better. " 

Vontez Duff Notre Dame cornerback 
..1 think Notre Dame is dangerous any time." ..We could be very easily sitting here right now being 3-1 and not 1-3." 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"'It's like every week to me. This is just the next 
J\ T ,,
1vO. I. 

Walt Harris Pittsburgh head coach 



Better Ingredients. Better PizZa. 
HOURS 
St. Mary's &Notre Dame 

M-Th 11:00AM-1:00AM F-Sat 11 :00AM-3:00AM 
Holy Cross

271-1177 
Sun 12:00PM-1:00AM 

271-PAPA (7272) 

Papa Predicts: 
NOTRE DAME 17 
Pittsburgh 14 
r----------------u----------------••----------------~r----------------•
II II I
: LATE NIGHT SPECIAL:: One Large One Topping II IRISH SPECIAL II Add· Chicken Strips at I 
II II I
One Large One Topping,
: 2 Breadsticks & :: $8.9 9 $3.·99
II II I 
1 2 Liter of Coca-Cola product u OR II Breadsticks &a 2 Liter of II I
or Cinnapie at

II Coca-Cola product II I
I $7 99 II
1 11 Two Large One Topping II II I II II I
I • II $ $2.99

14.99 $12.99
1 after 10:00 PM 11 II II I
to any order

I II II II I 
~----------------n----------------••----------------••----------------~ 
FAST + HOT + QUALITY + GO NDI 


Friday, October 10, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A constant reminder 
Vontez Duff's seven tattoos remind him of his roots 
things could have been better. He From a runner to a hitterBy CHRIS FEDERICO is thankful for the opportunities At Notre Dame, Duff met
Sporrs Writer 

and the abilities he did have. another minor challenge as then­"It's like that sometimes, and head coach Bob Davie asked the Notre Dame cornerback Vontez everybody has their story," Duff young star running back -who Duff is like a human canvas. 
said. "You just try to make a posi­in his final two years of highIn all, he has seven tattoos. But tive out of every negative and be school racked up 3,400 yards none are more important -or glad for the opportunities that rushing and 38 touchdowns -to more visible -than the two he you have ahead of you." change positions and sides of the wears across his throat. On the 
ball and become a cornerback in 
left side is "Wynoka," the name 

Excelling on the field the thin Irish secondary. 
of Duffs mother and the woman 
Those opportunities were Duff accepted the challenge
who raisf'd four children virtually many for the Duff, a three-sport without a second thought. 
by herself. On the right side is star at Copperas Cove High "When [Durn came in, there 
"Warren," the name of Duff's 
School in Copperas Cove, Texas. was a real need for a corner,"father, who passed away when In fact, in his younger days, Duff said defensive line coach GregVontez was only two years old. 
first saw himself as a basketball Mattison, who was defensive "I got my dad in memory of 
standout. coordinator under Davie at the 
him passing away," Duff says of "Growing up, I thought I was time Duff made the change. "To his most noticeable tattoos. "But I going to be a basketball player," show you the kind of man he is,had to get my mom as well, Dufl' said "I thought I was going he was one of the most highlybecause she'd have been mad if I to be like 6-foot-9 and the next touted running backs in the state got him and not her." 
Michael Jordan. But then it came of Texas, and he gladly made the lie says it with a laugh, but the to a point where I was playing switch. He just said, 'I'll do any­tattoos serve as both a tribute football well, and I knew that's thing to play and help the team.' 
and a remmder. They pay respect what I had to be. So I was going He's always been an unselfish to the father he barely had the to try to be the greatest football football player and the kind of chance to know and the mother 
player that ever played." guy that wants to do somethingwho helped mold him into the But off the field and· court, to help."
person he is today. 
Duff's real love came on the Duff not only accepted the But they also serve as a 
track, where he was a top-class switch, but he committed himself reminder of the important things 
long jumper and sprinter. In high to becoming one of the best cor­[Dufl1 really does -he has fun Three more tattoos in his life and the obstacles he's school, Duff recorded a 1 0.5-sec­ners in the game. Duff worked playing the game of football," Back home, in Copperas Cove,had to overcome. 
ond 100-meter dash time and a diligently on learning the position Mattison said. "Vontez is more of Texas, there are three pairs of Rottweiler long jump of 23 feet. The events and perfecting his technique. a guy that when you look in the eyes on big brother Vontez. 
On Dutrs lower right arm is a really gave Duff a chance to show In just his first year with the huddle, he's always bouncing They probably watch him every tattoo of a rottweiler dog. He off his superb athletic ability. Irish, Duff saw significant playing around. He always has a lot of football Saturday as he bats calls it his "young and stupid" "Track -I loved running time filling in for cornerback energy, and that's how he leads." down a pass or returns a kickoff tattoo -the first one he got and track," Duff remembers. "It was Shane Walton against Rutgers Last season, Duff was part of 100 yards for a touchdown. But the characterization of an eager just fun being out there with all and corralled his first career an Irish defensive backfield that they also watch him all the time, young man trying to break out the fellas, running up and down interception in that game. He made its presence known to its day-in and day-out, just as he onto the big scene. the track and long-jumping. I moved into the starting lineup in opponent every game. With watched them so many days 
But there was really very little had a pretty good jumping career just the fourth game of his sopho­Walton in the mix, he and Duff when their mother was working "young and stupid" about Dufl' at and our 4 x 100 [meter] team more season. As a junior last went hand-in-hand bouncing all to support them. _.the time. As the oldest of four was pretty good -we went to season, Duff started every game over the field, joking with each Even though they may not like 
-children, Duff often served as state. But that was all fun and at cornerback for the Irish oppo­other, talking to opposing players to admit it, Duff knows they look surrogate dad to his two brothers games to me, although I knew in site the All-American Walton. and, generally, just playing off up to their big brother. and one sister while their mother the back of my head that it "Dutrs progress has been out­each other's success. "They try not to show it ­worked. While others may have helped me with my speed." standing," Mattison said. "That's With the graduation of Walton, especially my brothers, they don't taken the circumstances as the In the long jump, Duff was a his other strong point. He's total­Duff has tried to carry over that want to show it. But when you go freedom to find trouble, Duff was major rival of Texas star wide ly coachable. He comes in every excitement and love for the game home, they love seeing you," he busy making sure his siblings receiver Roy Williams. The two day with a great attitude and an to this year's squad. says. "They want to wear your stayed out of trouble and on the squared off head to head in the attitude to want to get better." "Most definitely, it's my job to Notre Dame gear and your shoes right path. event in many important meets. But Duff has not forgotten his bring that attitude to the field and everything else you own, and 
"Being the oldest child of two "We competed in the long jump roots and how difficult it can be this year," Duff said. "But it can they want to be just like you. You brothers and a sister and with a few times in state and region­to come into college football and be kind of different when guys know they try to hide it on the my mom working, I was always als," Duff said. "We both were learn to play in such a new envi­don't have as much experience, outside, but you know its there." the big brother in the house," he jumping like 24 feet and every­ronment. Now, as the experi­and they're still learning the Maybe those three have a tat­said. "I spent most of the time body else was behind us. We enced senior, he takes time to position a little bit. It's harder for too to get too, someday. just watching after them, making were really the only guys that coach the younger members of them to get out there and run all I low about the same one Duff sure they were on top of every­were competing for first place. the Irish secondary who are· over the place and yell and be has on his stomach -"Vontez." thing and not getting in trouble." He ended up beating me in state, breaking into the Jineup. excited, because they're still try­
But Dufl' doesn't like to harp on but I beat him at regionals "I sit with the young guys after ing to learn what their role is and Contact Chris Federico at 
what could have been or how before." practice and ask them how they what their position is." cfederic@nd.edu played that day and what they could have done better," Duff said. "Every time we do one-on­ones, I talk to the younger guys and coach them up on what they did wrong and what they did right. 
"It just comes with being a sen­ior, you feel as though you have to do it. The younger guys will usually come to you anyway, so ,you have to accept that role." 
Still a little kid 
While Duff's family situation may have forced him to mature a little before his time, the senior cornerback is still just a kid at heart. 
"Yeah, it helped me grow up in some ways. but I still love to be a little kid," he says. "I love playing the video games and just having that opportunity to just relax and havn fun. I love being around my brothers and sister and just watching them grow up and things like that." 
Duff's fun-loving personality even carries over to the football field, where he is often the one jumping around in the huddle like it was his first game on the field. 
SHAWNA MONSONfThe Observer "When you're a coach, you love SHAWNA MONSON/The Observer 



The name of his deceased father, Warren, Is on the right side of to have players around you that Vontez Duff got a tattoo with his mother's name, Wynoka, as a Vontez Duff's neck In remembrance of Warren's death. have fun playing the game. And reminder of the woman who helped him become who he Is. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October I 0, 2003 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 1-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
55-42-1 
at Notre Dame: 
11-6 
Tyrone Willingham against head coach Pittsburgh: 1-0 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  230  SR  
2  Freddie Parrish  DB  6-1  195  FR  
4  Ryan Grant  RB  6-1  211  JR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  207  so  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  194  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  214  SR  
8  Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  180  SR  
8  Quentin Burrell  FS  6-0  180  JR  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  186  SR  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  209  JR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  210  FR  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  199  JR  
12  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  220  JR  
13  Nicholas Setta  KIP  5-11  184  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  259  SR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  177  SR  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  FB  6-2  227  JR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  183  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  180  FR  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  WR  6-4  211  SR  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  205  SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  KIP  6-1  192  JR  
20  Travis Thomas  RB  6-1  200  FR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  221  so  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-10  210  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  190  FR  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  177  JR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  RB  6-3  224  so  
26  Garron Bible  FS  5-10  197  SR  
27  Lionel Bolen  55  6-0  206  JR  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  SR  
28  ColeLaux  FB  5-10  229  SR  
28  Tom Zbikowski  DB  6-0  185  FR  
29  LaBrose Hedgemon  DB  5-10  180  FR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  6-1  188  so  
31  Jake Carney  DB  6-0  180  so  
32  Jeff jenkins  RB  6-0  211  so  
33  Courtney Watson  ILB  6-1  234  SR  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  194  SR  
35  Ashley McConnell  FB  6-0  240  FR  
36  Isaiah Gardner  DB/RB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Matt Mitchell  DB  5-9  184  so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  ILB  6-0  226  JR  
39  David lkmenderfer  55  5-11  195  SR  



QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
NOTRE DAME 

1M 
OFFENSE 'f:lt' 
LEfT TACKLE CORNERBACK 
70·Molinaro 27-Ferguson 79·Mattes 9·Lay 
FREE SAfETY 20·Morrls 7-Humphries 
I 
' 
·' 
PITTSBURGH 
DEFENSE 


One word has described the Irish offensive scheme this year -inept. Just one year removed from an 8-0 start, the Irish are 1-3 through their first four games in 2003. That com(~S down to coaching, scheming and execution.  Quinn will be the starter this week, but even his role isn't safe, as Holiday could come in at any time. Quinn threw for nearly 300 yards against Purdue and looked bril­liant at times, but he also looked like a typical freshman at times too, with four interceptions.  The Irish only gained 49 yards on the ground against the Boilermakers. Through four games, the Irish are ranked 109th in the nation in rushing with just 91 yards per game. They have only one rushing touchdown all year.  Quinn has the potential to have a strong year for the Irish. He will have to make some bet­ter decisions Saturday than he did against Purdue, and the offen­sive line will have to protect him better than they did against the Boilermakers.  
Harris hasn't had a par­ticularly stellar head coaching career. Pittsburgh is his second head coaching position after starting out at Pacific University. His last three Panther teams were over .500 and he has a lot of talent to work with this year.  Rutherford is the top rated quarterback in the nation -by a comfort­able margin. lie has com­pleted nearly 62 percent of his passes, with an astounding 16 touch­downs in only four games. He only has three interceptions and can be a threat to scramble.  The Panthers have a solid rushing defense that has allowed only 120 yards a game this season. Pittsburgh's opponents average 3.4 yards per rush, but have only put the ball in the end zone three times this year on the ground.  If Pittsburgh has a weak­ness. it is passing defense. The Panthers are ranked 99th in the nation. yield­ing 264.5 yards a game. Their biggest mishap came in their only loss of the season, when Toledo went 24-for-36 passing for 315 yards and three touchdowns.  
Neither side has really distinguished itself in this area. Harris nearly. · lf ~",«·····e_in e i tst y .. in • n dsHto s ow t at e·can pro­vide that little something extra that helped the Irish to big wins last year.  The Panthers clearly have the edge here. Rutherfo~~~is ~t the top of the cJass,. _·. '~ _llegiate passers.t~i ' ig and stron~,,With· •. ,_,,~curate an~t ah4 .c~n!EWf!lhbe a thr,ellr''to run''&bt Or the pocket. Quinn sii'nply doesn't have the experi­ence to compare.  Notre Dame has not dom­inated anybody with its rushing ga.m~ yet this season. cmn~:and Grant have S1;.,$gg.le'dJ1tO find hole~,. ?l&Ege~yc.~~cause thEf olfens.rv~~lin~· has strugg'1ed to ·op~\hem up for the runners. The Panthers are ranked 35th in rush defense.  The Panthers have shown they can be beat through the ait·.1 Q1,ltnn should have the first game jitters o._ut_._··-of___ ·.. th-···-~---·-·_way. Against Purdll~. h. showed flas}les nt;br~l.; · Uance. such as his io:.;; yard--touch~ pa,St.i"to Stovall. He coul(f have a strotfg'dttY. b" -· ·  

40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 165 SR 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 SR 42 Ambrose Wooden WR 6-1 190 FR 43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 226 so 44 justin Tuck DE 6-5 246 ]R 45 Carl Gioia r 5-11 Jn.o:; FR 46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 238 ]R 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 210 FR 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 250 SR 49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 228 SR 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 295 SR 51 · JamiP Ryan OT 6-5 290 so 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 215 FR 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 271 so 55 Zachary Giles c 6-3 281 JR ~ Nick Borseti LB 6-1 205 FR .57 Dwight StephPnS<.>n LB 6-3 2..17 FR 58 l'aul Jancha LS 6-1 245 so 59 James Bent OL 6-2 253 so 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR 62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 300 so 64 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 255 JR 65 Sean Milligan OG 6-4 291 SR 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 265 so 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 270 I'R 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 JR 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 301 SR 71 David Kowalski OG 6-2 249 SR 71 James Bonelli OGIOT 6-6 282 so 72 Jpff Thompson ClOG 6-4 287 ]R 73 Mark LcVoir TE 6-7 309 JR 74 Dan Stevenson OG 6-5 297 JR 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 264 so 76 Bob Morton c 6-4 299 so 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 291 SR 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 280 FR 79 Brian Mattes OT 6-6 250 so 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 SR 81 Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 190 FR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 JR 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-4 190 FR B4 Mike O'Hara WR 5-10 174 so B4 Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 so 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 SR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 242 so 88 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 24..1 SR 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 253 so 89 John Carlson TE 6-6 230 FR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 283 JR 91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 165 so 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 270 SR 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 270 so 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 245 FR 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 264 so 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-2 290 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 256 SR 
Ul 
::?! 
ct 
c 
Ul 
a: 
t­
o 
z 





The Irish may have had a week ofT to figure The good news was Notre Dame had the out how to contain -not stop -Rod week to improve. The bad news is this week they're facing one of the best offenses in the
Rutherford and Larry Fitzgerald, but it still
Irish 
nation on the road. Notre Dame needs to con­

won't be enough. And unless the Irish import­ed new offensive linemen, Notre Dame's offen­tain Fitzgerald and Rutherford to keep the offense in the game. Quinn could have success
sive woes are going to continue. Add a hostile
experts 

road environm{mt to the mix and the Irish will against a weaker Pittsburgh passing game, but if the Irish don't show much improvement this 
lose their third straight. week, it muld be a long day against Pitt. 
Andrew Soukup FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 31 FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 27
Editor in Chief 
Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 17 
Joe Hettler Sports Editor 
Friday, October I 0, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

PittsburghPanthers 

Walt Harris PITISBURGH WIDE RECIEVER 
PITTSBURGH 
sixth season at

B-8rodlellfnough 
80-AIIen
OFFENSE 
Pittsburgh

2003 Schedule 
career record:

CORNERBACK 
15-Jacbon 
Sept. 6 KENT STATE -W 50-60
9-Beckstrom 
at Pittsburgh:

Sept. 13 BALL STATE -W 39-36
TAILBACK LEFT GUARD INSIDE 
25-Millle F BA 52-LaCaltt LINEBACKER 
34-Walker ULL . CK QUARTERBACK n-Siates 31-Hoyte 
against Notre Walt Harris
32-Pollle 
• 46-Mays 

Sept. 20 at Toledo-L 
Dame: 1-3 head coach
= ,)
~Ji\:ll~­

Sept. 27 at Texas A&M -W Roster 
No. Name Poo. Ht. Wt. YR INSID£ 
1 Larry Fitzgerald WR 6-3 225 so LINEBACKER 
Oct. 18 at Rutgers 
2 Marcus Furman DB 5-8 190 JR 33-WaliOn 
2 Joe DelSardo WR 5-8 200 FR 
46-Mays 
3 Tyler Palko QB 6-2 220 so 4 Chris Curd WR 6-3 220 SR

Oct. 25 SYRACUSE 
5 Kennard Cox WR 6-1 180 FR 6 Malcolm Postell LB 6-1 235 SR 7 Corey Humphries DB 6-2 210 SR

Nov. 1 at Boston College 
7 TomKail WR 6-4 220 FR 

STRONG 
8 PrinceU Brockmbnrugh WR 6-3 205 SR 

SAFETY 
9 Bernard Lay DB 6-2 195 so 
1~rt 

Nov. 8 VIRGINIA TECH 
9 Ryan Regula WR 5-9 170 so

27-Bolen 
10 Mike Phillips DB 5-11 180 FR 10 Andrew Garcia WR 5-11 175 FR 11 Luke Getsey QB 6-2 220 so

OUTSIDE 
Nov. 15 at West Virginia
LINEBACKER 
12 Rod Rutherford QB 6-3 225 SR 

49-Curry 
15 Joe Fiacco QB 6-6 210 FR

48-Collins 
16 David Abdul PK 5-10 185 so

Nov. 22 at Temple
CORNERBACK NOTRE DAME 
17 Clint Session LB 5-11 230 FR34-Dufl 18 Adam Graessie P 6-4 205 FR
24-EIIIck 
DEFENSE 
19 Shawntae Spencer DB 6-2 180 SR

Nov. 29 MIAMI 
20 Tez Morris DB 5-10 190 JR 21 J.J.Home DB 6-3 225 JR 22 Reggie Carter DB 6-{) 190 so 23 Tim Murphy FB 5-10 235 JR 24 Jemeel Brady DB 6-{) 190 FR 24 Alex Zavackis WR 6-2 195 so 25 Tuazama Edwards DB 5-10 230 SR 25 Brandon Miree RB 6-{) 200 SR 26 Darren McCray RB 5-9 200 JR 27 William "Tutu" Fergt1soo DB 5-10 190 SR 28 J.B. Gibboney PK/P 5-9 175 SR 28 Matt Flaus QB 6-2 180 so 28 Mike Vranescvich DB 6-0 205 FR

PANTHER RUSHING PANTHER PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
30 Doug Roseberry LB 6-0 225 JR 30 Mark Yezovich FB 6-0 220 FR 31 Tyrone Gilliard DB 5-11 195 JR 32 Lousaka Polite FB 6-0 245 SR 34 Jawan Walker RB 5-10 215 so 35 Larry Moore DB 5-9 180 so
Miree has gotten off to a ; Setta has been one of the 

36 AndyLee · P 6-2 205 . SR"

This is where the 
37 Chris McKillop LB 6-2 230 FR
solid start in 2003, gain­

few standouts for the 
Off to a 1-3 start, the 
38 Kellen Campbell FB 6-{) 230 JR

Panthers excel. They 
z
ing 4.4 yards a carry to Irish so far this year. He 

Irish are hungry for a 
38 Mike Hull FB 5-10 240 FR

have the nation's top 
0 
39 Oerron Thomas LB 6-1 220 FR
compliment a potent 

has made nine of his 10 
win. This game could 
-f 
40 Joe Dipff' LB 6-4 250 JR

passer in Rutherford
Panther passing attack. 
:::0

field goal attempts.. Duff 
41 Azzic Beagnyam LB 6-1 245 so

be the first of a four­and one of its top 
41 John Pettiford RB 5-11 185 FR
m
lie has four touchdowns has yet to break a return 

game slide if the Irish 
43 Raymond Kirkley RB 5-10 225 JR

receivers in Fitzgerald.
through the first four 
44 Brian Bcnnl'lt LB 6-0 235 so

for a touchdown this sea­
aren't careful. Quinn 
0

The pair has gotten 
44 Erik Gill TE 6-5 265 JR
games. The Panthers arc 

son, but he has been has one game under his 
> 
46 Sam Brvant DB 6-0 210 so

together for nine of
in the middle of the pack 
47 Malcolin Pinder DL 6-1 235 SR
s:

close on a couple of belt, so first-game jit­
Pittsburgh's 16 passing 
47 Lance Asbec RB 6-1 240 FR
m
in rushing offense, gain­punts. Kick protection has ters should be gone. 

48 Lewis Moore LB 6-2 245 SR

touchdowns.
ing 165 yards a game. 
49 Jus tin Acierno FB 6-1 240 JR 50 Joe Villani OL 6-2 290 so 51 H.B. Blades LB 5-11 245 FR 52 Dan LaCarte OL 6-4 290 SR 52 Ron ldoko DL 6-2 260 so 

been shaky for the Irish. 
The Irish have been con­Abdul is 4-for-6 kicking

The Irish defensive 
The Panthers are still 
53 Troy Banner DL 6-3 295 JR 
53 Matt Parsons OL 6-2 290 JR
sistent in containing the this season, but his miss­

backs will have their 
stinging from last year's 
54 Charles Sallet LB 6-0 225 so 
run this season. 

es came from 49 and 50
hands full with 
loss at Notre Dame. They 
55 Thomas Smith DL 6-4 275 JR 
56 Charles Spencer DL 6-5 320 JR
Opponents have rushed 
-

yards. Lee averages overPittsburgh and the likes 
outplayed the Irish in 
-f 
56 Pat Borelli OL 6-4 330 so
-f
for 130 yards a game and 

46 yards a punt. Theof Rutherford and 
nearly every facet of the 
57 Andy Alleman DL 6-4 260 so
en 
58 Joe Clermond LB 6-2 220 FR
only have five rushing 

Panthers' longest kickoff
Fitzgerald. On the plus 
game, but fell victim to 
aJ 
58 Joe Perri OL 6-2 270 FR
touchdowns. Hilliard may 

return of the season was
side, the Irish have 
Notre Dame's uncanny 
59 Nick Pietracatello OL 6-3 295 SR 60 John Simon it is OL 6-3 300 so 
c: 
:::0
be hobbled, but Landri only 21 yards. Ferguson

allowed less than 200 
ability in 2002 to pull out 
61 Eric Fritz DL 6-3 295 so
G)
has done a solid job fill­

has a 41-yard punt
passing yards per game 
wins. Plus, Pittsburgh 
62 Justin Belarski C 6-3 285 SR
% 
63 Mike McGlynn OL 6-5 320 FR
ing in. The Irish are deep return to his credit, but

this season and rank 
will be at home, where it 
64 Chris Vangas OL 6-2 300 FR 
on the defensive line. 

no touchdowns. 
66 Penny Scmaia OL 6-5 330 SR 67 Mike DeLuca OL 6-3 290 FR 68 Matt Maiers OL 6-3 290 SR 69 Kurt J<>hnson LS 6-1 250 SR 70 Jason Capizzi OL 6-9 ~ so 

34th in that category. 
has been tough. 
The Panthers probably 

The Pittsburgh passing 
71 Jon Schall OL 6-4 300 SR

Setta has been consistent The Irish have had a bye 
72 Rob Frederick C 6-3 295 SR
aren't looking to beat 

attack is ranked 14th in 
74 Dale Williams OL 6-5 295 JR

on field goals for the Irish week to Pf~P~fC for this
Notre Dame on the 

the nationt~~;r;f:iging just 
75 Matt Morgan OL 6-7 300 SR

and has handled punting 
76 Neal Tracey C 6-3 295 FR

game, h.U.tso obave theground. Even if the Irish 
over 30~ya~ ·a game. 
l>

d. . . . ill 
77 Zach Slates OL 6-2 325 FR

Panther§;i~ lJ)th teams 

:z
Ruthertftt, ·''·· onlyhave to run nickel and 
78 Rob Petitti OL 6-6 330 SR 
0 
80 Marco linor WR 5-11 190 SR

were o{f1~~t:saturday. 
>
dinw set.<>, they_sh~d ~· 

throw"tfu,-~ .{-ercep­
80 Terrell Allen WR 6-0 185 FR
0 

PiU.~I)urgb .wa~t.;; to 
-!:<
a.ble ·. to co,~ tailt ., t!t,~ 
81 Joe Stephens WR 6-0 190 JR
(/) 
82 Yogi Roth WR 5-10 195 SR

nation. The Panthers 
m'\J&:upr f'ol'ln~ltng a
~iZ~!~i: I{Jr;t~~~ ~h~~
Pittsburgh rwuling gatn,e. 
83 Kris Wilson TE 6-3 250 SR
(/)

have a very strong kick­
ga'ine it thouglh it
whichtlt. co'ttld\ inchH1 e down the opponent's top 

84 Steve Buches TE 6-3 240 so 

ing game with Abdul and 
86 Greg Lee WR 6-2 180 FR

should have won last
Rutherford scr'ib,ling 

wideout and has a big 
88 Kyle Smith DL 6-5 240 FR
Lee. 
season.
out Ortlf~"pocket. """'-·-' 
90 Claude Harriot DL . 6-4 255 SR 
91 Jonathan Sitter LS 6-1 270 SR 
92 Michael Hearn DL 6-5 235 FR 
93 Jake Holthaus DL 6-1 285 SR 
94 Dan Stephens DL 6-2 295 SR 
95 Keith Hill DL 6-3 260 JR 
% Vince Crochunis DL 6-4 290 SR 
97 Kevin Harris DL 6-5 285 JR 
98 Vernon Botts DL 6-4 255 so 

challenge in Fitzgerald. 


Matt Lozar Associate Sports Editor 

Chris Federico Sports Writer 


The Irish are 21-2 in their last 23 games Brady Quinn showed against Purdue that he can be the coming off a bye week, but the Panthers had quarterback to lead the Irish. But he can't do it on his a week to recover after their impressive win own. The Irish still need to establish a running game to at Texa'i A & M. Brady Quinn will have a bet­get the defensive pressure of the quarterback. ter grasp of the offense, but the running Defensively, the Irish will contain Hutherford, and -for game must get going. Larry Fitzgerald, Hod the first time this season -create the turnovers to turn Rutherford and the Pitt'iburgh offense prove the game in Notre Dame's favor, as they did in 2002. to be too much. 
FINAL SCORE: Pittsburgh 28 ·FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Notre Dame 16 Pittsburgh 24 

Friday, October 10, 2003 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Panthers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allow~d 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored 
points allowed 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE PITTSBURGH'S OFFENSE 
vs vs 
PITTSBURGH'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 


35.8 
'.__1_____4_1_._11_] ~·· 
13 


9 

KEY MATCHUP lARRY FITZGERALD VONTEZ DUFF 

Pittsburgh quarterback Rod Hutherford is hav­ing a breakout season and the man he looks to most is Larry Fitzgerald. 
Fitzgerald has hauled nine of Hutherford's 16 touchdown passes and made countless remark­able catches among a number of defenders. 
Vontez Duff has shut down every No. 1 receiv­er the Irish have faced so far this year. On Saturday, he faces his biggest challenge yet from Fitzgerald. 
by the numbers 
point difference in the last 11 games between Notre Dame and Pittsburgh. The 
260
Irish have outscored the Panthers 414-154 
number of yards gained by Pittsburgh against Notre Dame last year. The Irish
402 
number of wins in the last 22 games following 
21 
a bye week for the Irish 




Friday, October 10, 2003 page7
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Schedule not getting any easier for the Irish 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Through four games, the combined record of Notre Dame's opponents is 18-5. 
And that was supposed to be the easy part of the first eight games. 
In the upcoming four weeks-. the Irish face three top-15 teams -Pittsburgh, USC and Florida State -and one of their bitter rivals in Boston College. But accord­ing to Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham, it's not a problem at Notre Dame, but at each school. 
"The truth of the matter is today that game doesn't 
\AI •
ex1s ' t . n e ' re sent ng an unprecedented level of com­petitiveness on every team that you play," Willingham said. "So I don't think in today's football that that exists. Yuu're probably bet­ter off having the schedule that we have, provided you can be successful." 
One-of' the problems that does exist at a school like Notre Dame is getting your opponent's best game every week. Each and every team wants to beat the Irish. 
This year. with the Irish appearing vulnerable at 1-3, there is extra motivation for teams to jump on the Irish when they are down. 
"I don't think there's any question as to whether or not every team on our schedule gets up for Notre Dame," Irish offensive coor­dinator Bill Diedrick said. "It's probably one game that everybody looks forward to. Regarding the schedule from our standpoint, the most important game is the next one, and that's Pittsburgh. 

You've got to play them  one  
game at a time."  
Freshmen  making  the  

jump to college have a num­ber of adjustments to make on and off the field. Instead of seeing a Division I door­mat in their collegiate game, this year the freshmen played Hose Bowl participant Washington State the first week. 
The next week they trav­eled to the Big House and played Miehigan. That's not an easy start to their college careers, but Diedrick feels it might help down the road. 
"It's probably difficult. I think that's really getting wet the hard way. But I think in the long run it truly helps. Every week you're seeing the best, competing about the best nationally," Diedrick said. "Sooner or later, when you arrive and meet your potential ... it's going to allow you to develop a Jot quicker than probably you normally would." 
The past bye week gave the Irish a chance to do a number of things. Diedrick was able to work with Brady Quinn and get him more familiar with the offense in preparation for his second collegiate start in his fifth collegiate game. Nagging injuries had time to heal. 
The coaches had two weeks 
to prepare for the best 
offense the Irish have seen. 
But one thing that was 
hanging over the team was 
its 1-3 start. Students, fans 
and critics have been quick 
to jump on this team and 
that's where Willingham has 
to jump in. 
"It always falls, I think, on 
the head eoach first. So then, 
of course, that falls on the 
coaches, then to our players, 
our leaders, our seniors, 
etc.," Willingham said. "You 
can't accomplish anything, I 
don't believe, in a negative 
state of mind.. So you've got 
to stay positive, you've got to 
be motivated to be positive." 
As the schedule doesn't get any easier and the pressure to get back into the win col­umn builds, the Irish have a lot on their shoulders. The 1-3 start seems to have ban­ished the Irish for a horrible season. 
But Willingham isn't ready to write off the year just yet. 
"I like our football team. I like a lot of the things that I'm seeing from our football team," Willingham said. "But what we have to continue to do is continue to improve, believe in rour]self, the indi­vidual and team, and I think we can get some things done. 
..

"Our focus cannot be all that we have in front of us, but simply Pittsburgh this week." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Duff wants to get physical to stop Fitzgerald 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 

Vontez Duff knows about Pittsburgh wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald. He knows the chal­lenge Fitzgerald presents to the Irish second­ary Saturday. He knows that Fitzgerald is one of the top offensive players in the nation. 
But Duff also says he knows something else -how to contain him. 
"I think most people try to get in great posi­tion to play him," Duff said. "But I don't know if anybody has gotten up in his face and been real physical with him. They just let him run down the field and run all over the Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "That is a very diflicult combination for us to defense or even attempt to defense. As of right now, no one has really done a good job of doing that." 
Fitzgerald uses his size, quickness and speed to dominate games. During his fresh­man season, Fitzgerald caught 69 passes for 1005 yards, which broke Pittsburgh's previous freshman records by Antonio Bryant. He was a first-team all-Big East selection and named the conference's Rookie of the Year. 
To stop such a force, Duff knows he must be physical and pressure him from the line of ....,._ scrimmage. 
"He's a good receiver. He goes up and gets 
the ball. He's the type of 
guy that 


always catches it away

place. I'm going to be a ..1 think most people try to 
little more physical with form his body," Duff said.
get in great position to play 
him; that's the type of per­"That's why I feel like 
son I am. We're going to him . ... rm going to be a you've got to get in his face, 
try to disrupt his timing a little more physical with disrupt that and get him little bit." out of his game." 
him, that's the type of
Notre Dame's defense The Irish did a decent job will need to hinder person I am. " against Fitzgerald last sea­Fitzgerald's performance son, holding him to only if the Irish have a chance seven catches for 83 yards
Vontez Duff 

of upsetting No: 15 and zero touchdowns. 
Irish cornerback 
One of Fitzgerald's best

Pittsburgh on the road. The Panthers offense is one of the best in the nation, and Fitzgerald is a major contributory to that success. 
The Irish have been able to contain other teams' passing attacks, ranking 34th in the nation against the pass and allowing 192 yards per game. 
But Fitzgerald brings something to this game that the Irish have not seen yet this sea­son. The 6-foot-3, 225-pound sophomore has averaged 145 yards and eight catches in Pittsburgh's first four games. He also has nine touchdowns and 583 receiving yards this sea­son. He grabbed three touchdowns for the Panthers win over Kent State, took in 201 yards in a Joss to Toledo and had three more touchdowns against Texas A&M two weeks ago. 
"He is very consistent and spectacular," 
attributes is his ability to go 
up and get the ball in midair. He uses his jumping ability and good hands to take passes away from defenders. ­
Duff said stopping this aspect of Fitzgerald's game may be the most important task the Irish defense must accomplish. 
"He's real good at catching the ball in traf­fic," Duff said. "lie's real good at using his body, too. He's always using his body to out­jump you or get in position to make ·­the catch and be sure he's the only one that can make the play. 
"You've got to play him and the ball and the quarterback, as well. There's times when you 
know the ball is coming, and you can see it, and you have to go up and be just as ­
physical as him." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


l l ' 
page 8 Friday, October 10, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Thinking of The London Program For Fa/12004 or Spring 2005? 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed 
application by 4:30pm, Friday, October 17, 2003 
Applications will be accepted until 4:30pm on Monday, October 27, 2003 
The ND/SMC German Club proudly presents
I ' 
I 

I , I ' 
I , I , I 
Saturday October 11th 
9:oop.m. -1:30 a.m. 
I 
!l
I 1 I , 
LaFortune Ballroorn
I , I ' 
I : 
I .~ 
I I 
I 
I ; 
FREE 

: I 
Join us for free food, beverage, and authentic German music 
Featuring a live German band with Poll<a dancing 9-11 and a DJ playing all the hits 11-1:30 
I 
I • 
I ' I ' 
I 
i . 






