
VOL. XXXVII NO. Ill HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
A year later, Poorman sees effects of alcohol changes 

Editor's note: A year after Notre Dame announced the most significant alcohol policy changes in over a decade. The Observer examines what effect the changes have had. This is the first in a four-part series. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 
One year ago Notre Dame students returned from spring break to find an e­mail from Father Mark Poorman explain­ing the most drastic changes to the school's alcohol policy in over a decade. 
in-hall dances and tail­ abuse as a community ...  ly heading downhill.  
gating rules. Students f1ooded the steps of the Main  the dialogue has been very good."  But a year after Poorman sent his e­mail to students, the  
Building protesting the  vice  president  for  
changes and, urged by  Father Mark Poorman  Student Affairs said he  
student government, signed a petition calling  vice president for Student Affairs  believes the changeshave already had a  
for  an increased stu­ beneficial effect on the  

dent role as the policy changes were campus community. However. Poorman implemented. added that the overall success or failure 

about it, but I think the dialogue has been very good." 
Following an exhaustive two-year study of alcohol abuse on campus that involved focus groups whose members were drawn from the campus and local com­munity, Poorman presented a plan last March designed to deter what he called a dangerous belief among some students 
see ALCOHOUpage 6 

ND announces tuition increase 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
University officials announced Monday tuition for lhe next acade­mic year will increase by 6.5 per­cent bringing the total cost, includ­ing room and board, to $34,100. 
Despite the additional revenue from lhe tuition increase, planned budget cuts will still occur but financial aid will not be affected, according to Matt Storin, a spokesman for the University. 
"Because of economic condi­tions in the nation as a whole and how they affect us as a unit, it will be a challenge to continually fund financial aid at the same level although we hope to do so," Storin said. 
Next year's tuition cost marks a significant increase over previous years when the increase had been under five percent, said Storin. 
"The tuition is part of the gener­al revenue that makes up for the loss of interest on the endowment and any possible drop-ofls in con­tributions," he said. 
However, Storin said that the University intends to wremain competitive and come in below where [the tuition levels of] other elite schools are." 

ND TUITION INCREASES 
Undergraduate Tuition w/Room & Board 
o/o Increase 
Graduate School Tuition 
% Increase 
Rank in cost among top private colleges 

Storin explained that though economic difficulties were affect­ing the University's financial sta­tus, he expected that Notre Dame would still provide the same level of financial aid as previous years. 
"We have increased financial aid in recent years so it is possible now to assure any students who [are] admitted that they would have sufficient funds to attend Notre Dame," Storin said. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said that changes made to financial aid in recent years would help sustain the University through the economic downturn. 
"Not only do we admit studen1s regardless of ability to pay, but we also meet the full demonstrated financial need of all our students and increasingly we have replaced loans with scholarships in our financial aid packages," Malloy said. "Faced with the financial challenges of the moment, we've fashioned a plan that makes the necessary hard choices wWJe still allowing us to maintain our com­mitment to excellence in the acad­emic and student life of the University." 
Parents were informed of the increase in a letter sent last week from Malloy. 
Natasha Grant contributed to this report. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

Bush to Saddam: Leave Iraq or face -war 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush said Monday the United States will unleash war against Iraq unless Saddam 
Hussein See Also flees his 
"Students respond to
country 
within 48 possible war in Iraq"hours. The 


page3
president warned Americans that terrorists may strike in retaliation and put the nation on higher alert. 

"The tyrant will soon be gone," vowed Bush, comman­der in chief of 250,000 U.S. troops poised to strike. 
Bush set a course for war without U.N. backing after months of futilely trying to per­suade Saddam to disarm. In an address televised worldwide, he spoke to several audiences at once, starting with the American public and skeptical allies and including Saddam. 
see BUSH/page 6 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Springbreak in New York 
Spring break is over and we are starting the downhill slide into the summer and the beginning of the next year. However we still have memories to reflect upon, from sit­
ting on the beach  
to going to Big  Chris Orenchuk  
East basketball  
tournaments. Spring break has io be my  Lab Technician  
favorite break of  

the entire school year except for summer break, of course. I believe that spring break is, of course. the most needed break. It gives all of us students the well-needed rest that we all deserve. 
My spring break was spent in the wonderful city of New York. New York gives you many opportunities from shopping on 5th Avenue to Central Park. New York most likely has everything that you could ever want. 
However, it is not quite the spring break location that we all wanted. [ made the best of the situation and enjoyed the many things that New York had to offer. This included get­ting lectured by the cops outside of Madison Square Garden for trying to buy tickets to Michael Jordan's last game to buying fake Oakley's. Buying fake Oakley's probably had to be my most favorite memory from spring break. 
The best part of New York has to be the street vendors who try to sell you Oakley's and Rolexes at every street corner. It really embodies the true American spirit and free enter­prise. 
My spring break took on a new pretense when I decided that l did need a fake Rolex. So as I strolled past a street vendor who asked "Rolex?," I said, "Yes." After this we haggled on the price for a minute and I finally worked him down to $15. For that amount even a cheap watch is fine. 
This is where this adventure took an interesting turn. After going to a location where the cops couldn't see us. I proceeded to look over the selection that the street vendor had provided and to my interest the watches were not fake Rolexes but very nice watches of lesser brands, such as Geneva and Citizen. 
So as I perused the selection. it came to my realization that most likely these watches were stolen. At this point, I got scared that the cops would bust us, so I said, "No thanks" and moved on. However, I very much still wanted to purchase a fake Rolex more than ever. 
This phase passed me and I moved on to buying fake Oakley's. This proved to be a much more enjoyable purchase. I approached another vendor and haggled with him about the price till we settled on $5. At this point he opened up his trash bag and I got to select which sun­glasses I wanted. This purchase led to me to the true meaning of spring break -lllegal activity. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Chris Orenchuk at corenchu@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself 24 a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
OIT installs  UN inspectors  Stocks surge  Community  Scene gives  Baseball  
new e-mail  prepare to  after news of  expresses  high marks to  acheives  
servers during  depart from  possible war  opinions on  the latest new  success on  
spring break  Iraq  in Iraq  Iraq  music  the road  
Students begin to  After  being  The Dow Jones  Students weigh  Reviewers give  Baseball played  
use  the  new  warned  by  the  Industrial average  in on the possibility  high grades to Ben  seven games over  
Webmail  system  United  States  to  gained  over  280  of military action in  Harper, Alabama,  spring  break  in  
installed  during  evacuate the coun­ points  Monday  Iraq and express  Everclear  and  Jacksonville, Fla.  
spring  break,  try because of the  after news of possi­ opposing opinions  Transplants.  and won six.  
although  some  possibility of war,  ble military conflict  on the situation.  

have had problems UN inspectors 
in Iraq. with the new sys­began to leave Iraq. tem. 
page3 page 5 
page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Spanish Mass 

10:30 p.rn. at St. Edward's Hall 

. 
Homcro Lecture / p.m. at Hosburgh Center 

. 
Campus Bible Study 7 p.m. at Coleman-Morse Center 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lenten Lecture Series 

12:15 p.m. at Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Mentoring Group 

4:30 p.rn. at Haggar Parlor 

. 
Minority Women in Business Development Council 


6:30 p.m. at Madeleva Hall Hoom 247S 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Penne with gorgonzo­la, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, cheese and pepperoni French bread pizza, breadsticks, fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risot­to, baked potatoes, spinach, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage patties 
Today's Dinner: Southern fried chick­en, collard greens with ham hocks, brown sauce, chicken gravy. whipped potatoes, corn, apple crisp, spinach quiche, baked herbed zucchini, baked potato, yellow rice with raisins, stir­fried garlicky kale 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Linguine with three­pepper sauce, three-pepper sauce, cheese pizza, apple turnover, herbed noodles, sugar-snap peas with sesame, lemon-lime chicken breast, haddock with herbs, roast turkey breast, whipped potatoes, curried rice vegetable pilaf, roasted red-skin potatoes with rose­mary, baked potatoes 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable rice casserole, Italian-blend vegetables, chicken-fried steak, rotisserie chicken, grilled redfish, whipped potatoes, cut corn, couscous, apple crisp, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, sliced carrots, peas and pearl onions 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LI.I 
::c 
!c 
LI.I 
~ 
_. 
c( CJ ..J 0 HIGH 63 HIGH 53 HIGH 60 HIGH 48 LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 40 LOW 30 


page 14 
page 28
page 13 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Parking violation 
Thursday, a University employee's vehicle was towed for a parking violation near the Stadium. 

Employee taken to hospital 
A University employee was transported by ambu­lance to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an ill­ness Friday morning. 

Student reports missing bike 
Friday afternoon, a student reported the theft of his locked bike from a bike rack on the south side of the Law School. There are no suspects. 

Student reports missing bike 
Sunday, a student reported the theft of his locked freestanding bike from outside Knott Hall between March 7 and March 16. There are no suspects. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu available. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 40 HIGH 35 LOW 22 LOW 25 
Atlanta 74 / 59 Boston 45 / 34 Chicago 54 / 45 Denver 36 / 26 Houston 77 / 51 Los Angeles 68 / 46 Minneapolis 48 / 38 New York 56 / 40 Philadelphia 60 / 40 Phoenix 66 / 48 Seattle 54 I 42 St Louis 68 / 53 Tampa 84 / 73 Washington 60 I 44 
page 3
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
OIT installs new e-mail server 
lems. According to Russell, the
BySCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
new system is still in the begin· Ni,ws Writer 
ning stages and the OIT is work­
ing to resolve issues that may be 
The Office of Information causing performance problems. Technology successfully Freshman Brett Springman, replaced the campus e-mail who uses Outlook Express, said 
servers over spring break. he has received 
although problems with the new servers still exist. 
Some users have recicved orror mes­sages when they try to check their e­mail, and nei­ther OlT nor users have seen a perfor­m a n c e increase as a 
"/ do not believe that the number or scope of problems we have seen is unusual given the magnitude ofthe upgrade. Anytime you make a change there will be problems. " 
Paul Russell OIT senior systems engineer 
result of the upgrade. 
According to Paul Russell, OTT senior systems engineer. techni­cians had not yet worked out some performance problems with the e-mail system and problems with the upgrade itself. 
"I do not believe that tho num­ber or scope of problems we have seen is unusual given the magnitude of the upgrade. Anytime you make a change there will be problems," said Hussell. 
Users have had mixed reac­tions to the upgrade, ranging from those who have been unable to check their e-mail to those who experienced no prob-several error 
messages 
since the upgrade. 
"I keep get­ting error messages when I check my e-mail and I am not sure if Outlook is actually working. I looked at the OIT documen­tation once but I think I 

need another shot at it [because I wasn't able 
to fix the Russell
"Many users are

problem]," encouraged 
Springman apparently not having users with 
said. problems because they problems to L o r i contact the
haven't reported them." 

Goffeney, OIT Help Desk 
administrative for assistance assistant to Paul Russell on using the the associate Oil senior systems engineer new system. 
deans of the College of Science, said she uses Eudora and did not experience prob­lems since the upgrade after performing the steps recom­mended by OIT. 
"I made changes to two areas of my e-mail program. I didn't encounter any problems and it only took 30 seconds to do," Goffeney said. 
Junior Danielle Protasewich said she primarily uses Netscape Messenger and had no problems following the upgrade but experienced some difficul­ties when using Webmail. 
"It was frustrating because 1 was writing a long e-mail and it said I had only five minutes left before I was logged out of the system. I had to save my e-mail and open it up again," said Protasewich. 
Junior Megan Thomas, also a Webmail user, said she encoun­tered no problems with the ser­vice but does not like the new 
design. 
"I think it offers you more options than the old one, although it looks more like a Web page and the old one was more aesthetically pleasing," 
said Thomas. 
"Many users 
are apparent­ly not having problems because they haven't reported them," Russell said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Students respond to possible w-ar in Iraq 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Students responded Monday night to President Bush's address to the nation. which gave Saddam Hussein 48 hours to leave Iraq or face military action. 
The president's speech drew mixed reactions among Notre Dame students and some praised the president's remarks as necessary and prudent. 
"You could see this coming for a while now ... but I think it's what needs to be done," said freshman Nick Stahlschmidt. 
However, not everyone agreed that military action was the best way to resolve the situation in Iraq. Freshman Samantha Raneri described the ultimatum as "completely unreasonable," and said that further diplo­macy might bring about a peaceful solution. "I think we could do more for peace," she said. 
Not all students expected that Bush would take such a hard-line stance in his address. Freshman Courtney Campbell called the remarks "alarming" and felt that the United States had not made the case for war and that the American military might eventually be overcommitted in Iraq. 

"I think we're biting off more than we can chew," Campbell said. 
Several students comment­ed favorably on the manner and tone of Bush's speech. 
"Bush clearly set out his objectives and he made it clear he's al'ler the govern­ment of Iraq, not the people," said junior Chris Edwards. 
Near the end of his address. Bush spoke directly to the Iraqi people and said that the United States wanted to free them from an oppres­sive regime. 
Even students opposed to 
U.S. military action in Iraq characterized the president's address as clear and deci­sive. 
"I thought he was well-spo­ken, but I see more evil com­ing out of this than good," said freshman Mark Szczuka. 
rreshman Kathy Peterson agreed, saying, "Bush has good intentions about pro­tecting the American people. I thought [the speech! was sincerely delivered." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 
There's alwavs something going down... You'll findllJNJOIEJR entertainment,1IBIIE sports, club events,]D)(D)MJB speakers, and more at: http://underthedome.nd.edu ND's new comprehensive calendar ofcampus events  

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Students prepare for new men1bers 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
In its last meeting before the new student government takes office, the Board of Governance prepared to hand over its responsibilities Monday. 
Outgoing student body President Kim Jensen instructed board mem­bers to prepare their office binders and letters of advice for the incom­ing officers. 
"You also need to clean out your mail boxes," Jensen added. "Next week they are no longer yours." 
Both incoming and outgoing board members will be present at next week's turnover meeting and new officers will be officially sworn in March 28 at the Student Government Commissioning Ceremony. A farewell dinner will be held for outgoing officers on Apr. 13. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
The BOG granted FlipSide $570 to help sponsor two dances on Saint Mary's campus. The dances will take place on March 22 and Apr. 4 and have been widely attended in the past The money "'ill pay for deejays, food and decorations. 

.BOG 
officers voted to endorse the 


Wellness and Physical Education Proposal. The proposal seeks to increase the depth and variety of physical education available to stu­dents. 
. SAB also selected a winner for its "What would you do for a Hundred Dollars?" contest. Elizabeth Voss vol­unteered to sing an Ace of Base song Wednesday outside of the Haggar College Center and w~ar a Saint Mary's Bell Head for two days straight in order to win the cash prize. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Group travels to Mexico for retreat 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
New, Writer 
During spring break, a group of Saint Mary's students and staff trav­eled to Mexico to participate in a spiritual development retreat. 
Students Mary Braun, Sheila Egts, Sheila Marie Guerrettaz, Julianna Harman, Megan Kennedy and Mary Watrobka, along with Sister Linda Kors, director of the Spes Unica Resources Volunteer Center, Sister Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality and Marcia Good Maust, fellow at the Center for Womens Intercultural Leadership, participated in the trip which was sponsored by the SURV Center. 
"I told myself when I came here that I would get involved ... and this was a really great opportunity to experience a different culture," said Kennedy. 
Hosted by Daughters of the Holy Spirit, the travelers stayed at a retreat center in Cuernavaca, Mexico, where they experienced Mexican culture and poverty. 
"I don't think that most people have seen that type of poverty and it is just really shocking." Kennedy said. 
The group had the opportunity to visit the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City, as well as the sight where Mary is believed to have appeared as Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patron saint of Mexico. 
"Almost every house has at least one picture of [Our Lady of] Guadalupe. You can find her every­where," said Kors. 
One of the main events of the 1rip involved a one hour hike to Tlamacazopa, a Mexican village located in the Andes Mountains. 
"I just realized that they have so much less than we do but they are so much more devote. It was truly motivating," said Kennedy. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

IRISH STEP DANCING IN LAFORTUNE 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. tells weapons inspectors to evacuate Iraq 
As,ociateJ Press 
B/\GIIDAD 

The United Nations ordered its weapons inspectors out of Iraq on Monday, widening the stream of diplomats and foreign journal­ists heading for the exits before any shooting starts. 
Defiant to the end, Saddam Hussein gave no sign of heeding President Bush's demands that he step down within 48 hours, or race war. lie warned that American forces will !ind an Iraqi lighter ready to die for his coun­try "behind every rock, tree and wall." 
But he made a last-minute bid to avert war, admitting that Iraq had once possessed weapons of mass destruction to defend itself from Iran and Israel -but insist­ing that it no longer has them. 
"We arc not weapons collec­tors," the official Iraqi News Agency quoted him as telling Tunisian Foreign Minister Habib Ben Yahia, who was visiting Baghdad in a last-minute quest to avert war. 
"When Saddam Hussein says he has no weapons of mass destruction, he means what he says," Saddam said. 
His admissions were pushed aside, as President Bush set the countdown clock for war. "The tyrant will soon be gone," Bush said, either by Saddam's own choice to leave or by force. Saddam and his sons must leave Iraq within 48 hours, Bush said. 
In advance of the speech, Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf said Saddam wouldn't leave. "He will stay in place like a solid rock," he told Qatar-based television broadcast­er Al-Jazeera in an interview Monday. 
Baghdad residents prepared for the worst, llooding markets to stock up on food. lining up for gas and bread and taping their windows for fear of flying glass from U.S. bombs. Store owners moved their merchandise to the relative safety of warehouses, fearing bombs and looting if a war starts. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan announced that he was ordering all U.N. staff out of Iraq, including 156 inspectors and support staff, humanitarian workers and U.N. observers monitoring the Iraqi-Kuwait bor­der. 

Homeland Security raises alert level to high after Bush speech 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Worried that war in Iraq could lead to terrorist reprisals at home, the Department of Homeland Security raised the terror alert Monday to orange, indicating a high risk of attacks, and implemented enhanced security measures nationwide. 
"Operation Liberty Shield" was announced just as President George W. Bush com­pleted his speech giving Saddam Hussein 48 hours to leave Iraq. 
The homeland security plan includes more Border Patrol officers, stepped-up patrols at seaports, airports and nuclear power plants, and increased safeguards over the nation's food supply. 
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Hidge also called on gover­nors to deploy National Guard troops or extra state police to protect bridges and other key infrastructures. 
The terror alert was raised from yellow. or elevated, to orange, the second-highest level on a five-color scale. Counterterrorism officials said the decision was based on threats from al-Qaida, Iraqi operatives and freelance terror­ists. 
"A large volume of reporting across a range of sources, some of which are highly reliable, indicates that al-Qaida proba­bly would attempt to launch terrorist attacks against U.S. interests claiming they were defending Muslims or the Iraqi people rather than Saddam Hussein's regime," Ridge said in a statement. 
He also referred to "reports of suspicious activity in and around military facilities, ports, waterways, general infrastruc­ture and targets that are con­sidered symbolic to U.S. power and influence." 
The FBI has increased sur­veillance on certain Iraqis in America and other suspected terrorists or terrorist sympa­thizers. Homeland Security offi­cials said any asylum-seeking Iraqis and people from 33 other countries would be detained for background investigations. 

Turkish law-makers to vote on U.S. plan 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL, 
Turkish leaders said Monday they were ready to press ahead with a measure to allow the 
U.S. military to use Turkey as a staging area for a war against Iraq. 
Deputy Prime Minister Abdullatif Sener said the Cabinet would discuss autho­rization for American troops Tuesday, and parliament could take up the measure Wednesday, private NTV tele­vision reported. 
"A unanimous decision was reached ... that there is a need to move urgently," presidential spokesman Tacan lldem said. 
An earlier resolution failed 

by just four votes, and Turkey's government has been dragging its feet on reintroduc­ing the measure. Polls show that more than 80 percent of the Turkish public opposes a war. 
The United States has repeatedly called on Turkey's government to quickly resub­mit a resolution that would let in tens of thousands of U.S. soldiers to open a northern front against Iraq that would divide Saddam Hussein's army. Turkish and U.S. generals agree the strategy would made a war shorter and less bloody. 
On Monday, political and mil­itary leaders called on parlia­ment to take steps to let in for­eign troops. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Libya opens U.N. human rights meeting 
Libya, a nation accused of widespread rights abuses, began its controversial leadership of the United Nations' top human rights body on Monday, leading to accusations that the entire meeting was a "masquerade." 
"Censorship, arbitrary detention, jailings, disap­pearances, torture -at last the U.N. has appointed someone who knows what she's talking about," Reporters Without Borders said of Najat Al-Ha]aji, the Libyan chair of the 53-nation U.N. Human Rights Commission. 
Rwandan cons to serve time in France 
The French government has agreed to allow peo­ple convicted in the Rwanda genocide to serve their sentences in France, the U.N. tribunal for Rwanda said Monday. 
France is the first European country to agree to provide prison space for those convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
NYC revelers mark St. Patrick's Day 
Marchers and spectators enjoyed spring-like weather in the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade along Fifth Avenue. The parade, which featured clusters of bagpipers and drummers, was among many events that celebrated Irish pride. The day also was marked in the Middle East, where British troops preparing for a possible war with Iraq participated in a traditional shamrock cere­mony. 
Gandolfini and HBO may renew talks 
"The Sopranos" star James Gandolfini and HBO are considering a deal to drop their dueling law­suits and proceed with contract negotiations, a newspaper said Monday. 
The dispute stems from a breach-of-contract lawsuit that Gandolfini, who plays mafia boss Tony Soprano on the award-winning series, filed against HBO in a Los Angeles court earlier this month. 

Sheen defends Hollywood protesters 
Actor Martin Sheen defended the rights of Hollywood anti-war activists to express their views in an opinion piece published Monday in the Los Angeles Times. 
"Whether celebrity or diplomat, cabdriver or stu­dent, all deserve a turn at the podium," Sheen wrote. 
Sheen criticized those whom he said were trying to denigrate his and other Hollywood activists' views, "solely due to our celebrity status." 
Moynihan critical following surgery 
Former Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., was in critical but stable condition Monday, suf­fering from an infection after an emergency appendectomy. 
Moynihan, who turned 76 on Sunday, was in the intensive care unit of the Washington Hospital Center, said Paula Faria, a hospital spokes­woman. 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

a pre-emptive strike. Bush told journalists and
Bush 

weapons inspectors to leave 
Iraq immediately. 
He issued his ultimatum after Iraq's military and its citizens U.N. allies refused to back his "The day of your liberation is bid for a resolution sanctioning near," Bush told lraqis. military force. The diplomatic 
The speech did not silence defeat led Bush to move toward opposition from home and war .accompanied by Britain, abroad to Bush's tough-on­Spain, Australia and a handful Saddam policies. Senate of other nations in his self­Democratic leader Tom Daschlc described "coalition of the will­said Bush had failed "miser­ing." ably" at diplomacy, forcing the He lashed out at France and United States to go to war with other wary allies at the U.N. Iraq. "These governments share our 
· From the ornate cross halls of assessment of the danger but the \-\lhite House, Bush said for not our resolve to meet it," the first time that Saddam could Bush said. not retain power even by begin­For the first time since he ning to disarm his nation of drew the nation's attention to weapons of mass destruction -Iraq last fall, Bush focused on long the stated goal of U.S. poli­the questions most asked by cy in Iraq. The only way war Americans: Why war? And why can be avoided now is now? Saddam's exile, Bush said. Spelling out the threat, he 
"All the decades of deceit and said Saddam has a history of cruelty have now reached an hating America, has ties to ter­end," the president said. rorists and is a destabilizing "Saddam Hussein and his sons force in the Middle East. must leave Iraq within 48 Primarily, he said Saddam hours. Their refusal to do so could turn his weapons of mass will result in military conflict destruction over to terrorist commenced at a time of our groups. choosing." "Before the day of horror can 
The 48-hour clock started at come, before it is too late to act. 8 p.m. EST Monday, White this danger will be removed." House spokesman Adam Levine Bush said. said. Iraq denied it has weapons of 
At home, Bush raised the ter­mass destruction, and Bush ror alert status from yellow to offered no new evidence to "high risk" orange, the second­counter Baghdad's assertion. highest level. Poised to exercise his doctrine 
"War has no certainty except of pre-emptive military action, the certainty of sacrifice," Bush Bush said responding to ene­told a worldwide television mies who strike first "is not self­audience. defense. It is suicide. The secu­
An intense White House rity of the world requires dis­debate over whether to estab­arming Saddam Hussein now." lish a timetable was settled Bush said that after 12 years hours before the president's of diplomacy and weapons speech. Some argued that Bush inspections, "our good faith has should not set a deadline not been returned. The Iraqi because Saddam could use the regime has used diplomacy as a notice to build opposition to the ploy to gain time and advan­president's case or even launch tage." 
continued from page 1 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS & INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
PROUDLY PRESENT 
William George Former CEO ofMedtronic, Inc. who will be honored with the Hesburgh Award for Business Ethics 
and 

Professor Kenneth Goodpaster Koch Professor of Business Ethics University of St. Thomas 
Speaking on 

'~ New World for Ethical Business Leadership" 
As the 2003 Frank Cahill Lecmre 
Wednesday, March 19, 2003 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 
changes will harm Notre "I think that students who Dame's residential community. were looking for an alcohol-dri-·
Alcohol 
And Poorman himself admits ven party have been disappoint­
that students are going off-cam­ed by the changes in the SYR," 
pus more than other students Poorman said. "I think that stu­that alcohol must be a central did 20 years ago -something dents who have been looking part of campus life. he attributes to increased social for a general dance have been 
Already, Poorman claims the opportunities in South Bend. encouraged by the changes." changes have had some positive But as to whether the alcohol The University doesn't plan to effects. He said the Office of policy changes have caused revisit the alcohol changes any­D r u g s more stu­time soon, Poorman said, most­Education dents to head ly because of the "exhaustive" and Alcohol, "/ think that most off-campus in research that went into devel­which tracks students were upset greater num­oping the new policy. Moreover, instances of b e r s , the Board of Trustees endorsed 
continued from page 1 
because they believed 
alcohol abuse Poorman the changes -although on-and off­that obsessive drinking doesn't see University spokesman Matt c amp us, was a part ofwhat you do enough infor­Storin said the trustees general­reported 51 m a tlon to ly leave student life issues to
in college ... ,.
cases of alco­make a argu­student life officials -and pro­hol poisoning ment either vided additional funding for hall in the fall of Father Mark Poorman way. dances next year. 
2001. In the vice president for Student Affairs 
"Some peo­Poorman said he docs not feel fall of 2002, ple say this the culture of drinking that the that number has increased changes were designed to cor­dropped to 20 cases. and others have said that it re1,;t will change rapidly, nor 
Poorman said he has received hasn't, but nobody has offered does he believe the changes will positive feedback from hall staff reliable evidence to support adversely affect campus life. He members. with hall rectors say­their case," he said. "I think said the number of students ing they have had to make less time will tell if that really has wanting to live on campus trips to the hospital for alcohol­become a significant trend." increased 1. 7 percent and related reasons. The University's intent in applications to be resident 
Parents have been supportive implementing the changes was assistants -those charged with of the changes and first-year not to eliminate alcohol from enforcing policy changes ­students say they feel less pres­campus, Poorman said. He increased 13 percent to their sure to drink. pointed to events like last fall's highest level since 1997. 
Reaction from students, how­Margaritaville, where seniors While he acknowledges that ever, has been miJi'.ed. drank alcohol on the beach by students may complain about 
"I think that most students St. Joseph's Lake, as a "tremen­the potential changes, Poorman were upset because they dous success" and an example said only time will tell what believed that obsessive drinking of how students of legal age effect the alcohol policy changes was a part of what you do in could enjoy alcohol in moderate have had on campus life. college and they thought that amounts. "As I wrote last year," he their freedoms were being cur­Instead, Poorman said the said, "I have lived in the halls tailed," Poorman said. "To University wanted to curb abu­for 20 years as a rector, AR and those students, I would have to sive drinking in dorms that RA and I just think it is going to say that Notre Dame is not often occurred around in-hall take a lot more than taking going to overlook obsessive or dances. When the dances were away hard alcohol or moving abusive drinking just because in dorms, Poorman said, the dances out of the hall to nega­some people think it is typical of focus was more on drinking tively affect a 160-year tradi­a college student. Abusive than dancing. Now that the tion." drinking is far too dangerous to dances have been moved out of be treated like that or to be dorms, hall government leaders Meghanne Downes con­treated as a rite of passage." have had to plan in advance to tributed to this report. 
The majority of negative feed­secure appropriate venues with back from students, Poorman appropriate space for dorm res­Contact Andrew Soukup at said, centers on a belief that the idents. asoukup@nd.edu 
Hollywood: War won't stop Oscars 
Sunday, he has said ABC
Associated Press 
might break away from the 
ceremony for news updates LOS ANGELES or even run a news crawl 
Organizers of the 7 5th across the bottom of the annual Oscar awards say the screen. impending war in Iraq won't Many nominees noted the derail Hollywood's biggest show would likely be a much event on Sunday. more somber affair if the 
President Bush's 48-hour country is at war. ultimatum for Saddam Nicole Kidman. a lead­Hussein to leave Iraq or be actress nominee for "The forced out by military action Hours," said at an Oscar lun­increased the likelihood that cheon last week she is "in news coverage could super­two minds" about attending sede the live Academy the event during war. Awards telecast on ABC. "There are two arguments, 
Show producer Gil Cates aren't there, where they say has acknowledged that war you need to continue on with would change the tone of the things and not be stopped, production, but as of late and then there's the other Monday the glitzy red-carpet thing where you·just say, of ceremony was still scheduled course. it would feel very to proceed as planned. strange to show up," she 
If the country is at war on said. 
Bus0iNESS 

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEit WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 17 

Dow Jones  
8,141.92  ~  +282.21  
NASDAQ  
1,392.27  ~  +51.94  
S&P500  
862.79  
 +29.52  
820.65  AMFX•CJ  +5.58  
NYSE  
4,783.95  ~  +142.32  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +3.42+0.88 26.60 
MI~~2~2flts2~i;::::~m111111:1111i~:11111111~11:!111i 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) +3.15+2.65 86.78 
c1sco••·•.•$t-~r:§~i!:i:li~lli:~Jill::iii!l~fi1~:~i1•:iiil~I:~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +S.18+0.89 18.06 
IN BRIEF 
Goldman sacks more stock analysts 
Goldman Sachs Group inc. laid off three more stock research analysts Monday, includ­ing brokerage industry specialist Richard Strauss. 
Besides Strauss. specialty retail analyst Tom Filandro and video gaming software Chris DeBiase were let go, said spokesman Ed Canaday, adding that the move was part of a cost-cutting and reorganization plan by Goldman Sachs. 
The Wall Street firm has been changing the way it covers various industries to eliminate specialty coverage and regional industry ana­lysts. 
Last month, the firm let go of six other stock research analysts, including financial services specialist Howard Shapiro. 
Beer heir Joseph Coors dies at 85 
Joseph Coors, who used his brewing fortune to support President Reagan and help create the conservative Heritage Foundation. has died at age 85. 
Coors, whose grandfather founded Golden­based Adolph Coors Co. in 1873, died Saturday in Hancho Mirage, Calif., after a three-month battle with lymphatic cancer. 
In the 1970s. Coors began providing money and his famous name to start the Heritage Foundation, the influential think tank in Washington, O.C. 
Japan: Economy flat but improving 
The Japanese government raised its assess­ment of the economy for the first time since July despite uncertainties over a possible war in Iraq. 
In its report for March. the Cabinet Office said Monday the economy was essentially flat, citing stronger investments in the corporate sector. In the report for February, it had said the economy was weak. 
The report said corporate profits are improving, although private consumption is llat and the unemployment rate remains high. 
War drums push markets up 
. Hopes for a quick win in Iraq fuel big gains 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The growing likelihood of war with Iraq sent stocks rallying for a fourth straight session Monday, as investors became confident the United States would prevail in a short-lived con­flict. The Dow Jones indus­trial average surged more than 280 points, catapult­ing itself to a four-day gain of more than 600 points. 
Investors who had feared that war would threaten the economy are increas­ingly optimistic about the outcome of a conl1ict with Iraq. 
A brief war "allows busi­nesses to stop waiting and watching and get back to spending and hiring. And it allows consumers gets back to spending.... [It] should put the shaky [economic] recovery back on more solid footing," said Joseph Keating, chief investment officer at AmSouth Asset Management in Birmingham, Ala. 
However, analysts say stocks can't sustain a meaningful advance until the situation with Iraq becomes more clear. 
The Dow was up 282.21, or 3.6 percent, at 8,141.92. The Dow has climbed 

617.86 in four days, allow­depressed the market for for a war and that recent rallies have simply ing it on Monday to close months, investors in recent President Bush would give put the major indexes back above the 8,000 level for sessions have been buying Saddam Hussein an ultima­to levels last seen a month the first time in nearly a on the belief that there will tum during an address to ago. month, or since Feb. 21, be a rally after a war the nation Monday night. The retailing sector trad­when it stood at 8,018.11. begins. That has been the Last week, the market's ed higher Monday on 
Monday's advance sup­market's pattern in past indicators posted weekly upbeat news about sales planted the Dow's 269-conflicts, including the Gulf gains, snapping their two­and profits. Wal-Mart point gain on Thursday as War in 1991. week losing streak, on advanced $2.61 to $51.97 its biggest one-day gain in "We are getting closer investors' growing confi­after reaffirming its March five months, or since Oct. and closer to some sort of dence about a war. While and April sales forecasts. 15, when the blue chip conclusive event, and peo­investors had been selling Dollar General rose $1.71 average rose 378.28 to ple are trying to position on fears that a Jong war to $12.48 after the discount 8,255.68. themselves for that," said would quash an already retailer reported fourth­
The broader market also Brian Belski, fundamental weak economic recovery, quarter earnings that beat rallied sharply higher. The market strategist at US they are now showing a analysts' expectations by 2 Nasdaq composite index Bancorp Piper Jaffray. willingness to place bets on cents a share. jumped 51.94, or 3.9 per­The market advanced on the notion that a conflict Oil stocks rose in antici­cent, to 1,392.27. The Monday following would be over quickly and pation that a war would Standard & Poor's 500 announcements that the the economy will be bring down crude prices. index rose 29.52, or 3.5 United States, Britain and harmed less than previous­Royal Dutch climbed $1.25 percent, to 862.79. Spain had ended their ly thought. to $40.15 and Exxon Mobil 
While war worries have efforts to win U.N. support So far, however, the rose 66 cents to $35.05. 

United asks court to void contracts 
Eugene Wedoff would enable United employees at a time when labor 
Associa.ted Press 

to impose its own, stricter terms, turmoil can doom a struggling car­
CHICAGO helping it stay on its lenders' rier. 
United Airlines asked a bankrupt­timetable to show progress in bank­United has warned since January, cy judge Monday to nullify its labor ruptcy or lose its financing. when it secured interim wage cuts contracts after failing to reach That would send ripples through worth $70 million a month in sav­agreements by a self-imposed dead­the beleaguered airline industry, ings, that it would begin the con­line, raising the pressure on its where other troubled carriers are tract-scrapping process if unions unions to agree to long-term cost closely watching United's efforts to didn't agree to concessions by rnid­cuts. lower costs in hopes of making their March. 
The move gives the two sides until own severe labor cost reductions. But the talks with unions remain May 1 to settle on negotiated terms It also would effectively wipe out bogged down over both the size of or the court could void the con­decades' worth of negotiated con­United's requested labor cuts -31 tracts -a drastic and risky means tract provisions at United, the percent, or $2.56 billion annually. of slashing labor costs that is rarely world's second-largest airline. through 2008 -and its plan to employed in airline bankruptcies. Nullifying contracts is generally start a low-fare carrier, which 
If agreements aren't in place by avoided in the industry, in part would entail a lower wage scale then, the requested ruling by Judge because of the danger of alienating and separate work rules. 

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~.''"•'•~ .a 1..A. _ Centerfior Socia{ Concerns -~ & 
~0°N~~RAN~ ·Jty~~n 1 oo m ep ep @ oo n oo ~ ~ r n~~--r1r 
* Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
~ .....-,'1~•............. -... -----..---------------------.. 
.. :·, '':~;¾-« .. _·:'' 
·"':"The?lodneyF. (?aney, PhJJ. . . Fll¢ultypofn,nzunity-BasedResearch Award 
. . . ":Jil'& . .· . . . . . ' .... ,·: .... \ ,. . . . • . ::· . . 

Nominees shou.ld be Regi1larFac1,l~ who ~czy~ cornpl(?.,tedorir or more res.earch projepts that address a need ofa South Bend area community based organization. Greater considerationwill.be give~ to' aproject that is: 
. . •. . . ••. .. ..• .. ; .... ···,;# ••. •·· ........ Jlli.. 1•..... ·, • ·; .•,. ,. •· 
* oriented ar?µnd ach~It~tg~ ~icul.l·lJ~g ?r.~ .I?c!Is~p:imµnity 
gi;cmp; 
* conducted m collaborat1Qnw lo~alqrgamZ11fa~n;, 
* 
inclusiveofgraduate~ndlor ··gr&~~~t.~tudi~ts;•a:: .. ·. :;1~\/': 

* publishecfm ~. refer~eijjq ·.·. . ' " ' .. in..t'tlierforms{juried exhibition~, 
distdbuted films, etc.) recognized as highly valued in the 

recipiellt'S ar~a Ofexpelti; .. . . . 'i!fi': • >t\'B 
· · ,·,;;,..-... •sf..., · . ··,·-"• .·. · • · I Thi~ ~s a ~onetary ~;ward of$~~PBi}!~ .JK' .•• "'''•~,®:~4:; • ..s~·•·;,\?7,L,JJ:fd by 5pm, l\f9nday, M~rcb 31 ..Please vi.sit the CSC website for I add1t10nal mformat10nabo1JtP:QQUlYltt1,1g,:~rc;tilptc.,t!JU,i1-~~ryJ3e~kman, Ph,D~,at,6~1-4172,filbeckman@nd.edu. I
.. _____._____.._.______~.,.--:~,~~,.-~'i..--·~---·~--:;;._____________________.. 
Annual Romero Week Lectures 
4:30-6:00 PM, TODAY, March 18 -Hesburgh Center Auditorium Showing of Film: "Justice and the Generals" A Historic U.S. court trial of fo1mer Salvadoran Generals 
7:00 PM. TONIGHT, March 18 -Hesburgb Center Auditorium 
"Archbishop Oscar A. Romero: Martyr ofthe Option for the Poor" 
Bishop Samuel Ruiz; Chiapas, Mexico 
Gustavo Gutierrez, OP; Respondent, Department ofTheology, University ofNotre Dame 
12:00 Noon. Wednesday. March 19 -Haggar Parlor* Saint Mary's College "Neris Gonzalez & Shawn Roberts: Voices for Peace and Dignity in El Salvador" Neris Gonzalez; Salvadoran church worker and torture survivor Shawn Roberts; International human rights attorney; Former Legal Director, Center for Justice and Accountability 
7:00 PM, Wednesday. March 19 -Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"Has Justice Been Won? The Case ofthe Salvadoran Torture Survivors and the Generals" 
A panel presentation featuring: 
Neris Gonzalez, 
Shawn Roberts, and 

Garth Meintjes, Center for Civil and Human Rights, University of Notre Dame 
Annual Romero Week Lectures are sponsored by the CSC; Justice Education Program at Saint Marys 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 
LAY MINISTRY CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
THIS SUNDAY, March 23rd, 2003 
4:00 -6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns A pizza supper will be served. 

Rob Ercoline, MA '89, High School Teacher, Pastoral Associate at Little Flower 
Parish, Spiritual Director, currently with Retreats International 
Sheila Provencher, MDiv '00, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Assistant Director of NDVI, currently a writer and an activist 
Kathy Schneider, '78, MDiv '84, Holy Cross Sisters Program in Brazil, Pastoral Associate in New York parishes, currently Director of St. Margaret's House in South Bend 
eJoi~. 
other ~•~~ff!} Cp'f[e,e !fousefor Peace! 
<:.i/i.t.:!:1tf1Y ,./ ·..:~ -,.J\5,. 

"Coffee House for Peace" 
NEXT WEDNESDAY, March 26th, 8:00 -10:00 PM 
.·· ..·.. ·.. .. .... :~I c:oJeman MorseLounge 

Fea=ring: EmelineBhone (NI) '03), Poetry Readings & Open Microphone 
Prayers for Peace Campus Ministry would like to invite you to join other students, faculty, and staff to pray for peace. 
Each Friday, the 5:15 p.m. Mass in the Basilica will be a Votive Mass for Peace. As our country and the world face much con­flict, we recognize the importance of gather­ing as a community of hope to pray for the perfect peace Christ gives. 
Please join us this Friday 
and in the weeks to come. 
"When Did I See You Hungry?" Film Viewing and Presentation by Filmmaker Gerry Straub 
Wednesda A ril 2 7:00 PM 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium Reception and book signing following 



Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Panel will study Sn1art investigation 
Associated Pr.ess 
SALT LAKE CITY 

An independent commission will be appointed to investigate how police handled the Elizabeth Smart abduction case, Salt Lake City's mayor said Monday. 
Rocky Anderson said the five-member panel will begin its work after the completion of the case against Brian Mitchell, who is suspected in the kidnapping. He did handy­man work at the Smart house one day in November 2001 and was identified by Elizabeth's younger sister as the man who may have taken the teen. 
The commission will likely focus on the level of attention authorities gave the self-pro­claimed prophet during the investigation, and whether they concentrated too hard on Richard Ricci. 
Hicci had worked as a handy­man at the Smart home more than a year before the kidnap­ping and was considered a possible suspect in the weeks after Elizabeth's disappear­ance. Ricci died last August of a brain hemorrhage in jail, where he was being held on an unrelated parole violation. 
Elizabeth was spotted with Mitchell and Wanda Barzee in Sandy, Utah, on Wednesday, nine months after she van­ished. 
Mitchell, 49, and Barzee, 57, remained in jail Monday as prosecutors weighed their case against the pair. They will like­ly face federal or state charges by Wednesday, said Melodie Rydalch, spokeswoman for the 
U.S. Attorney's Office in Utah. 
Mitchell's father and attor­ney said authorities should be lenient. 
"There's a lot of people that kidnap little kids and murder them," said Shirl Mitchell, 83. "He took care of the girl and she came back in good health." 
Attorney Larry Long, who is representing Mitchell, said that giving his client a light sen­tence could encourage kidnap­pers to keep their captives alive. He said Mitchell consid­ered Elizabeth's disappearance a "call from God" and took her as his second wife. 
Mitchell also told his attor­ney he wants Smart to be renamed "Remnant Who Will Return." 
"He wanted me to tell the world ihat she is his wife, and he still loves her and knows that she still loves him, that no harm came to her during their relationship and the adventure that went on," attorney Larry Long said in an interview aired late Sunday on KUTV. 
Smart family spokesman Chris Thomas dismissed Long's comments. 
AUSTRALIA 

Australia comtnits troops to Iraq strike 
Associated Press 

CANBERRA 
Prime Minister John Howard said Tuesday his government would commit 2,000 military personnel to any U.S.-led strike aimed at disarming Iraq. 
At the same time. the gov­ernment announced it had ordered the five diplomats who work at the Iraqi embassy and their families to leave the country, giving them five days to pack their bags -a direct result of Australia's decision to join any war against Iraq. 
"The government has autho­rized the chief of the Australian Defense Force to place the Australian forces 
Student Appreciation 
SALE 



HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 


IN THE ECK CENTER 
JOYCE CENTER 

phono: (574) 1,31-ollf> • www.ndbookstore.tom 
Hours: Hours: 8:30am-10:00pm 9:00am-5:00pm 
STUDENT ID REQUIRED-NOTRE DAME, HOLY CROSS AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
*Discount does not include the following items: Non-Notre Dame logo merchandise, Textbooks, CD's, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, Health & Beauty, Electronic Items, and Class Rings 
already deployed in the Gulf 
region as part of any U.S. led 
coalition operation that may 
take place in the future," a 
somber Howard, flanked by 
two Australian flags, said in a 
televised address to the 
nation. 
Howard's comments came 
just hours after President 
Bush called him to ask 
Australian troops to join his 
"coalition of the willing." 
"The action that has to be 
taken as a result of this deci­
sion has a sound legal basis in 
the resolutions of the Security 
Council that have already been 
passed," Howard added, 
Howard said if international 
forces massed on Iraq's bor­
ders were withdrawn, "any 
semblance of cooperation from 
Iraq [with weapons inspectors] 
would disappear." 
Howard said he was "very 
conscious" of the opposition to 
his decision in the Australian 
community. A poll published 
Tuesday showed 71 percent of 
voters oppose U.S.-led strikes. 
"This government has taken 
a decision which it genuinely 
believes is in the medium and 
longer term interests of this 
country," Howard said. 
Another sign of opposition 
was emblazoned on the 
Sydney Opera House early 
Tuesday in the form of huge 
red letters spelling out "No 
War" on the landmark build­
ing. 
Howard, one of Bush's 
staunchest supporters, pulled 
his Cabinet in for an early 
morning emergency session to 
consider Bush's request for 
military support. 
The meeting broke up after 
only 50 minutes and Howard 
then briefed lawmakers before 
addressing the nation. 
Answering questions from 
reporters in Canberra after 
the address, Howard refused 
to discuss a timetable for mili­
tary action, saying that was 
now an "operational" matter. 
Howard said the government 
had no intention of increasing 
its deployment from the cur­
rent 2,000. 
Howard's decision was to be 
debated later Tuesday in par­
liament but would not be put 
to a vote. 
Opposition Labor Party leader Simon Crean earlier warned Australian involve­ment in a U.S.-led strike would put Australia at greater risk of terror attacks. 
"Our involvement in this war will spawn terrorism and encourage terrorists and Australia will as a conse­quence become more of a tar­get," Crean told reporters. 
Bush placed the call follow­ing an announcement Monday that the United States, Britain and Spain would not seek a Security Council vote on their 
U.N. resolution seeking autho­rization for war -a move that all but ended diplomatic efforts to avoid military action. 
Australia has elite troops, fighter planes and navy ships in the region. 
The government Monday issued new warnings to travel­ers in the Middle East, advis­ing citizens to leave Iraq, Kuwait and Israel, and to defer nonessential travel to Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Qatar and Bahrain. 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
page IO The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
Campus Ministry C-M 
•
S1 


wh t' h 
today 1.1s 
Confirmation Session #12 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 3. 19 
Solemnity of St Joseph Mass 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:oop.m. 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
frjday J.21 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

special celebration 
Solemnity of St. Joseph 
Come join in a special celebration honoring the Brothers of Holy Cross on their Patronal Feast. 

·---'' 

Wednesday • 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
mass schedule 
Retreat Date: March 28-29 Retreat Date: April 4-5, 2003 

Retreat Date: April 4-5 Sign-up through March 21 Sign-up through March 31 Sign-up through March 31 
contact Fr. John Pearson: 631-7953 or pearson.1@nd_edu 
Pickup info & applications in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight 
considerations.... 
. 
[r;day (cont. l 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
sunday 3.23 
RCIA Session 
10:00-11:00 p.m. 
CoMo Student Lounge 
tuesday J.2s 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 
St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 3.26 
Conversation with Sr. Sue 
about Vocation to Religious Life 
7:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
War in Iraq? 

Not Too Late to Consider Peace 
by Kelly Rich 

Intern, Campus Ministry 
In struggling over the past year and a half with issues of war and peace, the questions I find most difficult co answer are the pastoral ones. Our church does have a Just War Theory and it is taught as a valid and acceptable Christian response for times of war -that is, when "times of war" fie the criteria mandated for justified military action. (Let us keep in mind that, as has been declared repeatedly by the US Bishops as well as leaders of other Christian churches, the conflict we are currently facing with Iraq does not fit the criteria.) Still, considering that a large part of the church understands our options for military response in the context of this Just War teaching and not from the Church's pacifist tradition, there is certainly a pastoral need for sensitivity in approaching these issues. The question it seems we must ask ourselves is, how do we face the reality of our political situation, be realistic about our options and the decisions our leaders and other nations' leaders must make, but without compromising the ideals of peace and justice? It is 
undoubtedly a But for me, as I accept this challenge and difficult task. 
consider who it is I pledge to follow, I find I do 
Nevertheless, what I have returned not understand Jesus except as someone who to over and over 
lived and taught a life of radical love and 
again in asking myself these mercy. I do not understand the message of questions, is the 
the Gospel but as one of peace, and yes,
example of Christ 

himself. This year justice, but above all, peace. the staff at Campus Ministry has accepted a renewed challenge, as part of our common Christian mission of evangelization, to 
consider the example of the life ofJesus in all we do -in programs we plan and coordinate, in encounters with students and staff, in every opportunity we might find co minister. Certainly among us, and among the entire community of the faithful, there are different interpretations of what this will look like; variation is inevitable, as each of us experience God and the life of Christ in distinct ways. But for me, as 
l accept this challenge and consider who it is I pledge to follow, I find I do not understand Jesus except as someone who lived and taught a life of radical love and mercy. I do not understand the message of the 
Gospel but as one of peace, and yes, justice, but above all, peace. Realizing these things, I am left asking 
myself, how will our world ever know the way of peace, true mercy and love, ifwe who follow the Prince 
of Peace do not make explicit that message? If we are the church ofJesus Christ, who gave his life to give 
us everlasting peace, what can we consider in rimes of conflict but the same path of peace which he 
walked? 

Today we, as a community of believers, are challenged to .:!~cide how we will respond to what is daily becoming a more threatening global situation. Christ was explicit in calling for peace, for love of our enemies, for mercy and forgiveness even before justice. Though across campus we may find it difficult to agree as to what course of action our nation should pursue, let us remember that as Christians we are called co be undivided in recognizing the need for prayer at this time. Campus Ministry continues to offer mass each Friday at 5: 15 in prayer for peace. I hope you will join us. 
Third Sunday of Lent 

basilica of the sacred heart· 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 
5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s-c. Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Samuel l. Peters, c.s.c. 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 

7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Ex 20: 1 -17 2nd: 1Cor 1: 22 -25 Gospel: John 2: 13-25 
-· 

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Experts urge against panic over illness 
Associated Pre.s 
A handful of suspected cases of a deadly flu-like illness sur­faced in new spots around the globe Monday, but medical experts said there "should not be panic" because the spread is not as aggressive as most forms of influenza. 
Thero also were no new fatalities since the nine first reported when the World llealth Organization issued its unusual global alert over the weekend. WHO officials said they were investigating suspi­cious cases in England. France, Israel, Slovenia and Australia, all of which previ­ously had none. 
Most of the 167 cases that have appeared in the past three weeks are health work­ers in !long Kong, Vietnam and Singapore. China said 300 peo­ple had what appeared to be the same illness in an outbroak that began last November in Guangdong province. 
In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was skeptical Lhal the four cases it was look­ing into would be verified as "severe acute respiratory syn­drome," or SARS, the name given the unidentified illness. The CDC already has ruled out 10 other suspicious cases. 
Disease investigators said it could Lake weeks to determine the cause of the mysterious outbreak. 
WHO officials also said that for the first time, China was allowing teams of experts into the country to take a closer look at its own earlier out­break. which killed five people before it was brought under control. WUO investigators should be there by week's end, the U.N. agency said. 


Experts believe that the most likely explanation for the respi­ratory illness is an exotic virus or -the most feared scenario ­a new form ofinfluenza. 
However, WHO's communi­cable diseases chief. Dr. David Heymann, said the illness doesn't seem to spread as quickly a nu. 
"Ii isn't contagious at the level of many other infectious diseases," he said. "A normal inlluenza would be very conta­gious to people sitting in the same room." 
So far, experts say there is no evidence the infection spreads by casual contact. Such as sitting next to some­body in an airplane. 
"There should not be panic. This is a disease which, ii seems. requires very close con­tact with patients and it is mainly hospital workers who have been infected in the first wave of infections. Now we are seeing that some other family members have been infected," Heymann said. 
CDC head Dr. .Julie Gerberding said she doubts the nu virus is responsible, since Hong Kong labs, which are very good at diagnosing influenza, have not been able to idc n tify it. 
The incubation period for SAHS appears to be three to seven days. It often begins with a high fever and other llu-like symptoms, such as headache and sore throat. Victims typi­cally develop coughs, pneumo­nia, shortness of breath and other breathing difficulties. Death results from respiratory failure. 
The Chinese said 7 percent of patients there required breathing tubes, but most 
eventually got better, especial­ly if they were not also stricken with a bacterial infection. In addition. the disease seemed to weaken as it passed from per­son to person. 
That's encouraging, WHO officials say. adding that some of the patients in the latest out­break seem to be recovering. 
China's provision of a written summary of its outbreak was an unprecedented step of cooperation by Beijing in glob­al disease surveillance. Heymann said. It was also an important one, partly because scientists have for years been warning that a new influenza pandemic is inevitable and new types of flu often develop in that part of the world, Heymann said. 
"The big concern i.n this area of the world is that one day another influenza virus could hop the barrier between ani­mals and humans. In the 20th century three viruses crossed, and the last two, in the '50s and '60s, occurred in the southern China area," Heymann said. 
In another unprecedented move. the WHO on Monday created a "virtual research center," which links 10 labora­tories in 11 countries to search for the cause in cooperation instead of competition. 
A Slovene woman suspected of suffering from the illness was listed in stable condition Monday at a hospital in the capital, Ljubljana. She had returned from a trip to Vietnam 10 days ago. 
French health authorities said Monday that two people who returned from Asia were hospitalized in Paris after doc­tors suspected they might have the illness. 
Announcing the Year 2003 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program 
is pleased to announce the year 2003 annual competition for travel in support of summer 
research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed 
$3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and 
undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of 
summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one 
year of Italian language. The course work wiII normally be in Italian; wi11 involve the 
study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's 
degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I) an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree: program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow . 4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of two references. 

Application Deadline: Wedoesday, March 26'\ 2003 Albert Ravarioo Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughuessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
/___________________________ 
ENGLAND 

Iraqi oil exports dwindle as war loom.s 
A•sociated P rcss 

LONDON 
Skitlish banks and buyers, and a steep rise in freight rates, have constrained Iraq's ability to export oil even before the outbreak of any hostilities in the Persian Gulf, industry sources said Monday. 
A U.S.-lcd war against Iraq is widely expected to interrupt Iraqi oil exports and probably also halt it.s production of crude. Although Iraq shipped about 2 million barrels of crude a day last month. ports that handle Iraqi crude under the U.N. oil­for-food program have already gone quiet, 
said to be quiet. 
French bank Societe Generalc used to do a small but steady business financing Iraqi crude shipments. However, concerns about a war-related disruption in supplies led it to stop approv­ing fresh letters of credit start­ing in February. said Thomas Petitbon, the bank's commodi­ties group director. 
If a war breaks out, banks worry not only that Iraq might not be able to export its oil, but that even if it is able, the price of that crude could fall if it appears the war will be swift. If oil prices fall, that reduces the value of the cargoes serving as 
collateral for 
analysts and the banks and 
"This is the highest rates 
traders said. therefore
have been since 
The largely increases the Russian­September 1973, just risk that the owned trad­banks won't
prior to the oil crisis. " 
ing firms that be repaid. have acted as April con-middlemen Leo Drollas tracts of U.S. for Iraqi oil Center for Global Energy Studies light. sweet 
have had increasing difficulty finding buyers. Without sales invoices from refiners and other customers to use as collateral, these traders have had trouble obtaining bank financing for their own purchases from Iraq, said Leo Drollas, chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies. 
Although Iraq exported 10 million barrels during the week ending March 7, data were like­ly to show that shipments dwin­dled to 7 million barrels in the following week. With war fears intensifying, Iraqi exports are likely to plummet to 2 million barrels this week, assuming a war hasn't begun, Drollas said. 
Mina al-Bakr, the Gulf termi­nal for shipments of crude from southern Iraq, was idle Monday. 
"I think the last vessel loaded and sailed yesterday," said Peter Gignoux, head of the petroleum desk at Salomon Smith Barney. 
The other main gateway for Iraqi oil, Ceyhan on Turkey's Mediterranean coast, was also 
crude fell 45 
cents to $34.93 a barrel in afternoon trading in New York. May con­tracts sank 82 cents to $32.54. 
May contracts of North Sea Brent, the European benchmark crude, were 65 cents lower at $29.48 a barrel in London. 
Higher freight rates have added to the cost of buying Iraq oil. Shippers now must pay $3.25 a barrel to charter a 250,000-ton tanker for a voyage from the Persian Gulf to north­western Europe or the U.S. East Coast. The perceived risk of war has driven rates up from $2.50 a barrel in December. 
"This is the highest rates have been since September 1973, just prior to the oil crisis," Drollas said. 
Iraq has the largest oil reserves after Saudi Arabia, but with limited facilities for storing oil, it also has cut back on pro­duction. Iraqi output is expected to fall by almost half this month, from an average of 2.5 million barrels a day last month to 1.3 million barrels in March, Drollas said. 
There's No Place Like Rome 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 

page 12 Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No,re Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUS!Nl'.SS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettlcc 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRA!'HICS EDITOR, Mike Harkins 

SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haighr 
WEil ADMINIS'IRAT0R: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Flanag-.m 
SYSTEMS MANAGER: Tcd Bangert 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX...........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR ....................................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS ........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENF..........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MAR'k"s.............................................631-4324 
obsetver.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEI! ADMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observl!T.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insrirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec­essarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obrervl!Tpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Cl,iefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obs.c:rvcr (USPS S99 240) iia publi,hcd Mond~y through Friday c:u.cpt during o:am a.nd v...:ation perioJ1. A1ubscriprii,n to The Obk."rver is SI 00 fo.r one acadcmi.: ~ar; 555 for 0llC' SCfflO(a'. 
Tiu OhliCn<:r i, po.hli,hed ar: l'()S'TMASTER 014 Mlulh Dining Hall :tt-nd ~ddreu r.orl?'.Criam: to: Norn: Dmu::, IN 46556 rhc:O~·cr 
P.O. Bu"Q l'M-iodic.,J ponag(' plld -~! Notre Dml( Notre O;unc, IN 4fiS56-0779 utd ~dirio,nl m1Uing off.ca. 
The: QbliffVQ' II a iDChlbe'I-of dx AaociatOl I"ra.. All ,q,roJCk.,ioti 1ighis-"' ,.......!. 
A call for dedication to the other America 
A couple of weeks ago, I traveled to Mt. Vernon, Kentucky to interview for a vol­unteer position with the Christian Appalachian Project (CAP). Now. I know what you're thinking, "Oh, funny girl can't get a job. She thought she was so Amy Schill smart. Who's laugh­ing now, funny girl?" If you're 
Dazed and
thinking this, you're 
Amused
absolutely right, but I'm still srna11er than you are. Yes, perhaps the demand for English litera­ture dilettantes isn't as high as I thought it would be four years ago. Regardless, my decision to do a year of service after graduation actually has very little to do with my job prospects and a whole lot to do with the fact that, for some strange reason that I don't yet fully fathom, I feel called to spend the next part of my life in Eastern Kentucky. 
The breath-taking beauty of the east­ern Kentucky mountains is overshad­owed only by the devastating poverty of its inhabitants. When the coal industry was thriving, good jobs were plentiful. Now, with the coal companies gone, there's plenty of black lung but very few jobs with decent wages. As a result, the mountains are littered with shacks and trailers, many without access to running water. This is the other America. Like the poor in urban ghettos who are clumped tightly together just out of sight of the wealthy suburbs, the poor in Appalachia are tucked away in the mountains, com­pletely forgotten by the American con­scious and the mainstream media, except for the occasional mocking. 
Unfortunately, the picture of Appalachians that most of Americans see is as negative as it is false. The comments of a man on the plane on my way to Kentucky confirmed my suspicions that many Americans have no real under­standing of the plight of Appalachians. (This guy also said the government should tie the tubes of women who had illegitimate children, so you be the judge.) We think of Appalachians as hillbillies, lazy. stupid, mountain people who talk funny and would just like their welfare check and to be left alone, thank you very much. Truth is, our ideas about Appalachian couldn't be further from the truth. 
All right, they do talk funny, and the place makes Notre Dame seem racially diverse. But that other stuITjust isn't right. Sure, there are lazy people every­where. but I haven't been able to find many in my time in Kentucky. 
I've met Louie, who took an active role in CAP's work to fix up his trailer, shout­ing not a few orders for my soft college hands. 
I've met Gilbert, a man unable to work because of a debilitating injury sustained on the job, who is bringing up a very bright twelve year-old on his own. CAP reimbursed him to get running water set up in his home (a beautiful little house that Gilbert worked hard to maintain). When he picked up his check, Gilbert, like the selfish bum he is, wanted to know if he could donate some old clothes to CAP's clothing program. 
Finally, I've met Octavia, a wonderful Appalachian storyteller who wowed everyone as a young woman with a superb ACT score despite being constant­ly told she had to be stupid because she was poor. She earned a college degree, but she and her husband still barely get by because of economic depression. 
Appalachians were self-sufficient before they became dependent on the coal industry, and they can be self-suffi­cient again. That's where CAP comes in. 

CAP and its over 70 programs are not about handouts. they are about helping Appalachians help themselves. For those who need more than temporary assis­tance, CAP always does what it can to get people working. Take this typical conver­sation between CAP and Bobby Ray (yeah, I'm really all about knocking down stereotypes). 
CAP: So, we've helped you fix up your house, now how about trying to get a job? 
BR; Well, I've got these elderly parent. 
CAP: Elderly Services will care for them while you work! BR: I don't have any education or skills. CAP: Adult education and job training [arc] available free 
of charge! 
BR: Well. um ... 
CAP: Speech impediment? We can help! 
It's this kind of dedication to doing something for a region that is so often ignored that gets me excited about work­ing for CAP. So yeah, it's not a paying gig, but with all these friendly people, beauti­ful scenery and a great program, I can't wait to get to my new Kentucky home. Now if you'll excuse me, I have banjo lessons to attend. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major and Catholic Social Tradition minor who sincerely apologizes, especially to her mother, that this column wasn't very funny. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. Ifyou forgive her, and would like to team more about Appalachian or the Christian Appalachian project, please visit www.chrisapp.org, or better yet, go on an Appalachia seminar next year. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Do not forget Cuba 
Do not forget Cuba. Traveling and studying with of group of Notre Dame students and faculty in Havana. Cuba over spring break clarified for me the important need for political and social awareness. 
Today's news programs highlight the hottest topics around the world but often fail to address the most fundamental rea­sons and causes of human tragedy and triumph. A pending war with Iraq, hostility in North Korea and continued Middle East conflict are fierce reminders that understanding politics and international relations is not only the job of leaders and academics, but vastly important for all participants in civi­lized society. 
Cuba, a poor country, is a fascinating case study with rich­ness in both culture and historical significance. With the exception of the most inflammatory of news events such as Elian Gonzalez, meaningful discussions about Cuba have fal­tered in recent years. Yet other relevant and important top­ics such as the relation between church and state, the influ­ences of a burgeoning tourist industry in a Marxist society and the advantages of a strong social welfare system contin­ue to unfold in Cuba and hold great insight for the rest of the world. 

Whether it is human rights or trade embargoes, discussing Cuba and its revolutionary effect in Latin America and beyond will only increase awareness and illuminate truth. Ultimately, the realities of globalization and democratization make understanding the pitfalls and successes of diverse peoples crucial to creating a 20th century climate that is not defined by complacency but rather vision and perspective. 
Ken Seifert 
scrnor Carroll Hall March 17 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Teresa Fralish  Bryan Kronk  
Maureen  Joe Hettler  
Reynolds  Charee  
Matt Brarnanti  Holloway  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Dolores Diaz  Julie Bender  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Andy Devoto  Tim Kacmar  

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What effect do you think the change in the alcohol policy has had on campus life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Peace is not enough, they must also be content." 
Ben Hecht novelist 

O
THE
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 page 13 
Notre Dame has paid a price in pursuit of greatness 
"Megalomania. That's what ails Notre Dame." A now-deceased Holy Cross priest told me that referring to Notre Dame's decision to abandon its historical mission in pursuit of "big school'' pres­tige. The mission of Notre Dame had been Lhe provision of affordable education in the Catholic trn.di­tion to undergrads, with research and graduate programs, especially in the sci­ences, in an impor­tant but complemen­tary role. 
"Megalomania" is an "obsessive desire to do things on a grand scale." The priest's comment comes to mind because this is the 25th anniversary of Notre Dame's great leap forward, its defi­nition of itself as a "National Catholic Hesearch University." 
In the 1970s, the major universities went heavily into the "research universi­ty" business. In 1978, income restrictions were removed on eligibility for federal student loans. The universities then raised tuition to finance their research programs and buildings. They then lob­bied Congress to raise loan limits. As the limits went up, so did tuition and back to Congress went the universities to lobby for higher limits. And so on. The research empires were built on the backs of bor­rowing students. Notre Dame, while far from the worst offender, played this game. 

Our leaders act in what they see as the best interest of Notre Dame and its stu­dents. It may be useful, however, to ask what price Notre Dame has paid for the greatness project. 
1. 
Cost. Notre Dame's tuition and foes make up 55 percent of the budget. The undergrad tuition, room and board charge for 2002-03 is $32,020. In 1978­79, it was $5,180. !fit had kept pace with intlation it would now be $14,245. Notre Dame, through its excellent financial aid oflice, tries to provide University aid to students. The student loan, however, remains the primary form of financial aid. Predictably, the only non-wealthy students at Notre Dame will soon be those whose test scores won heavy dis­counts, scholarship athletes, ROTC stu­dents, minority scholarship students, fac­ulty and staff children and those non­wealthy students, diminishing in number, who choose Notre Dame even at the price of a crippling loan burden. 

2. 
Diminution of the undergrad experi­ence. Notre Dame undergrads are paying more than twice as much, in real dollars, than they did in 1978, but they are get­ting less. Members of our family were Notre Dame undergrads every year from 1977 to 2000 in various majors. In the variety of available courses, class size, 


quality of teaching and the recognition of students as persons, the undergrad expe­
rience has deteriorated since 1977. Twenty-two percent of 100-level courses 
are taught by student instructors. The University's report on Graduate Education, 1996-2001, noted that Notre Dame needs 507 more grad students 
"because the number of graduate stu­dents has not kept pace with the increase in faculty in Ph.D. granting depart­ments." In the Research University, you hire more and more researching faculty who teach less and less. The rhetoric puts teaching on a par with research. But everyone knows better. Notre Dame's answer to inadequate teaching is not to reward faculty as teachers but to get funding for a center to do research on teaching. As one tenured philosophy pro­fessor put it, "You really don't need to have any impact on the undergraduates" to get promoted. "You just need Ito have written] a book." 
3. The campus. Undergrad life is diminished by the "binge building" which has transformed Notre Dame into a cramped, urban-style research campus, with at least 40 of the· 90 buildings built after 1980. The economy has put some projects on hold, but no end is in sight. Which donor will have the most buildings named after him or her? Will the world­class parking garage be the crowning feature? In contrast to the more humane design of older buildings, the newer cre­ations evoke technocratic images, such as the DeBartolo rendering of the con­cept of five half-pint milk cartons on line and the relentless triangular patterns of other new buildings. The open recre­

ational spaces have given way to con­
crete. Social restrictions tend to induce undergrads to leave the campus, some­times to their peril. 
4. Catholic character. Notre Dame accepts the authority of' the federal gov­ernment, the NCAA and many other enti­ties, as well as the secular "academic community." The only authority it will not accept is that of the Catholic Church to define the meaning of a "Catholic" uni­versity. The problem is truth-in-labeling. For reasons beyond our space limits, Notre Dame's "Catholic" character erodes in proportion to its pursuit ofsec­ular prestige. 
We can fairly ask, 25 years on, whether Notre Dame's excursion into "megaloma­nia" has come at an unacceptable price. It is possible for a research university to maintain its Catholic character and a positive focus on undergrad education without the imposition of crushing stu­dent debt. Perhaps it is time to reconsid­er a few things. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at Plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect our 
armed forces 
In this trying time. where crucial decisions are not backed by clear, unanimous support. a certain group of men and women are being asked to carry out duties intended for our national defense. Whether you support U.S. involvement in the Arab world or not, please remember that these military men and women don't have the luxury ofsitting comfortably at home with the morning paper or the evening news, criti­cizing or cheering world leaders. It would be all too easy to lapse back into the Vietnam-era disrespect and dishonor of military personnel, seeing these people not as patriots who devoted their lives to the preservation of our nation but as propagators of a single event. 
The tradition of Notre Dame students serving in their coun­try's military dates as far back as the Spanish-American War. when a young graduate was one of the sailors killed during the mishap on the USS Maine. It is a tradition that was built by naval midshipmen living and learning at this University during the Second World War and continues onto our three branches of ROTC students who currently reside in our halls. It is a tradition that our University administrators have publicly supported and honored in speeches and cere­monies to the cadets and midshlprnen. It is a tradition that so many ofour classmates have supported through private acknowledgement. respect, and curiosity. 
In an effort to show solidarity, or at least respect, it is time that this University properly and formally recognizes its stu­dents who turn away from the higher-paying civilian world and enter into the United States armed forces. Instead ofhid­ing the annual Pass and Review inside Loftus, Notre Dame needs to reinstate it lo South Quad. Bringing this military event back into the public should not be a political statement about our present situation. but rather an expression ofgrat­itude and recognition by the University, students and faculty alike. I believe support for the military is strong among our student body, and I would like to see our newly elected and soon-to-be-elected senators implement this change. During such an uncertain time for ROTC and non-ROTC students, now is not the time to let divisions and misconceptions grow. 
Scott Bn:wtig freshman St. Edward's Hall March 16 

Democracy requires activism 
I am writing in response to Paul Benedict's March 6 letter "Anti-American is so yesterday." I believe Mr. Benedict is confused as to the purpose ofstudent activism and the anti-war movement at large. To clear up his confusion, I invite Mr. Benedict to join me at the next campus peace rally so he might hear and contemplate the sound moral and practical argu­ments for alternatives for pre-emptive U.S. aggression in Iraq and not mistake them with "whines about foreign policy" or reductionist argu­ments about oil. However, in case Mr. Benedict decides to decline my offer, in the following I offer a response to his most troubling concerns about stu­dent activism. 
First off, the notion that Americans should unfailingly sup­port the administration in its deci­sion to wage war in Iraq (or in any decision. for that matter) is not a democratic one and certain­ly not American. As members of a democracy, it is fundamental that we, as citizens, call into question the actions of our leaders. This plu­ralism of opinion is what drives democracy and differentiates America from a dictatorship like Iraq. However, ifwe self-censor or simply choose follow blindly, not thinking criti­cally about the decisions of our government, we might as well live in a dictatorship. 
While Mr. Benedict is correct in asserting that Saddam Hussein is a ruthless dictator and should be removed from power, he errs in claiming that "war is the only way." He later speaks of the hegemony of Saddam's regime, however failing to recognize the hegemony he and others of the same mind are uncon­sciously upholding when blindly digesting and regur­gitating the weak justifications our president and his officials give for starting a war. The United States will not be doing the people oflraq a justice by bombing their already decimated country, still suffering from the structural violence done by the U.S. in the Gulf War. While democracy should be a right, by defmi­tion, it cannot be imposed by force. Implementing a democracy (read: installing a puppet government enforced by U.S. military) after eliminating Saddam by aggression will not allow Iraq to achieve democra­cy. Furthermore, ifwe are to justify a U.S. attack with such moral and idealistic goals as promoting democ­racy and forging justice, we should expect our govern­ment to uphold these same ideals. For instance, we might expect our country to sign the treaty permitting 

the establishment of an International Criminal Court, by which many enemies to humanity, 
including Saddam Hussein, could be tried and imprisoned. When the United States refuses to sign the treaty implementing 
the ICC in order to protect our own war criminals, top-level government offi­
cials such as Henry Kissinger, is the it upholding the ideals of truth, justice, and the American Way? When we 
completely ignore peaceful alterna­tives to war such as the ICC, are we even employing a common-sense "cost-benefit" approach as Mr. Benedict suggests? 
In closing, I encourage all who are, like Mr. Benedict, tired ofseeing "No War for Oil" signs to come to the next 
student protest and hear some of the more convincing arguments against a war in Iraq. Perhaps you might do your 
research and come up with some arguments of your own. And for all those who will not 
come out of disinterest or disagreement, please do not belittle the attemplS of the students on our cam­pus to think critically about the war and make our voice heard. I would hope that more students on this campus would formulate informed opinions about the actions of our government, especially when these actions violate basic principles of human rights. Just as "anti-American is so yesterday," it is also passc to be an unchallenging supporter of the dominant dis­course which you are spoon-fed. 
Beth Webber 
sen tor 
off campus March 7 
THE OBSERVER 


page 14 Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Harper's diamonds are sparkling 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
Ben Harper first emerged on the music scene in 1994 v.'.ith his release Welcome to the Cruel World. Harper's first album was very laid back and acoustic. Since then, he has released three other studio albums, all with progressively broadening sounds. Ben Harper has always been known for creat­ing music that reflects several different styles of music, and his latest album, Diamonds on the Iru,ide, is no different. 
The songs on Harper's latest album range from reggae and funk, to blues and rock. Diamonds on the Inside showcases Harper's wide range of musical styles bet­ter than any previous album, making it appealing to fans of any type of music. Harper wears his influences on his sleeve, as is most apparent in the Bob Marley sounding reggae track "With My Own Two Hands." Influences from Bob Dylan, Lenny Kravitz and Al Green can be heard on this album as well. Diamonds on the Inside also showcases some of Harper's best Weissenborn style guitars, which look almost like an acoustic guitar but has a deeper sound and is played like a lap side guitar. Harper has been a pioneer in Weissenborn guitar playing in recent years, most recently appearing on Jack Johnson's solo album playing Weissenborn on Johnson's single, "Flake." 
The lyrics on Harper's albums have always been very religious and poetic, but his latest release features some of his best lyrics. Many songs have biblical references and are built around Harper's intense spir­ituality. The best example of religious influ­ences is in the song called "Picture of Jesus." This song is entirely vocal with no instrumental accompaniment. The Ladysmith Black Mambazo sings the rhythm to the songs beautifully and is rem­
iniscent of 
P a u I 
Simon's Graceland album. Harper s i n g s about how he prays, " ... when­ever I feel lost," and about how Jesus will guide him in life whenever he prays. 
Amongst the religious refer­ences and serious poetic tracks, there arc several fun pop songs. One of the best, "Bring the Funk," sounds like it could have come off of any George Clinton album. A heavy synth bass line lays out the groove in the song and a very George Clinton-like key­board wails over Harper's lyrics. Another fun track is the title track, "Diamonds on the Inside." It is a mainly acoustic song with an incredibly catchy chorus and more excellent guitar work by Harper. Tracks like "Temporary Remedy" and "So High So Low" sound very similar to Lenny Kravitz's elec­tric sound with melodic dis­torted guitars. The best track is "Blessed to Be a Witness," which is a track played exclu­sively by Harper. He plays sev­eral types of conga drums and percussion instruments, along with the melody played on a tongue drum, which is very similar to a Jamaican steel drum. 

Overall, Diamonds on the Inside is Ben fan will enjoy. No matter the musical taste, Harper's strongest album to date and reggae, folk, rock, blues, funk or just good showcases his blend of different styles of music, this is the perfect album for every­music perfectly. The only bad apple on this one. album is "When She Believes," which is bogged down by too many strings and sounds more like a song a symphony Contact Ryan Rafferty at would play. Other than that, this is an rafferty.3@nd.edu 

Ben Harper shows his musical versatility on his new album, ranging from reggae, folk, rock, blues and funk. 
excellent album with something any music 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Alabama offers southern lovin' 
By CHRISTIE 8O1.SEN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Note to listener: country super group Alabama's latest release, In the Mood: The Love Songs, is a quality compilation of two discs worth or classic Southern ballads from an incredible career of hits, but it will probably not actually get anyone of college age "in the mood." 
Unfortunately, or fortunately depending on the point of view, sounds like Alabama's are fading away in today's country music. A rundown of today's top country artists is comprised mostly or crossover sensations and regulars on adult contemporary and pop radio stations. The result is that albums like In the Mood seem a little bit too much country and not enough rock 'n roll for younger audiences that cut their 

In the Mood: The love Songs 
Alabama 
RCA Records 


teeth for country music on the likes of Toby Keith and Trick Pony. 
Yet the faithful fan base that made the band the best-selling country group of all time will not be disappointed by the romantic lyrics and familiar tunes on Alabama's 24th album. The band, which writes its own songs and plays its own instruments, has a style of recording and performing songs that has made it a big­ger-selling band than legends such as Led Zeppelin, The Doors and Pink Floyd. Their announcement of this latest album was paired with the surprising announcement of "The American Farewell Tour." 
In the Mood has two newer tracks, 'Tm in the Mood" and "The Llving Years." 'Tm in the Mood" is an example of Alabama's stellar ability to sing emotional lyrics with­out any emotion, a significant weakness in some of their songs that have passionate 
words but none of the pas­sion u1 the sung ver­s i o n s . When they sing, "Girl, I'm in the mood to be your man / To win your heart all over again / Let my eyes trace, let my lips taste/ Nothing but you" it sounds like they could be singing about milking cows or plant­ing soybeans, with their voices seem­ing so disinterested. 
Their other new single fares much better. It features quick guitar and drumbeats with slow, melodic lyrics. Unlike the songs about romance, it handles the weightier topics of parental loss, familial love and regret. "Say it loud, say it clear/ You can listen as well as you hear / It's too late when we die / To admit we don't see eye to eye." The quartet has already enjoyed considerable radio play with this more recent song, proving that their influence is likely to endure long after the farewell tour ends. From their first No. 1 hits in 1980, they have com­piled an impressive set of classic bal­lads that made this album. 
Their cover of the Carpenters' "Touch Me When We're Dancing" from the 80s is another highlight of the first disc, but many of the best parts are on the second disc. Their countrified version of "God Must Have Spent a Little More Time on You" gets a helpi11g hand on the harmonies from 'N Sync, and some chart-topping hits on both discs include "Fallin' Again," "Lady Down on Love" and "In Pictures." 
While Alabama clearly has had success with showing their softer side, like on many of these ballads that have reached the top, they are far more fun on their fast-paced good time songs celebrating the South and all that is country. Any fan of "Mountain Music," "Dixieland Delight," "If You're Gonna Play in Texas (You Gotta Have a riddle in the Band)" and "Song of the South" would do themselves a favor by picking up their greatest hits album, For the Record: 41 No. 1 Hits, instead of this mediocre collection. 


Contact Christie Boisen at holsen. l@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 

...... 


Tuesday, March 18, 2003 page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
No surprises froin Everclear 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
The struggles of life in suburban America -everyone is aware that they exist. but they are brought to a whole new level of attention by rock band Evcrclear in their new album Slow 
Motion Daydream. This is not the first time Evcrclear has 
chosen this theme as a dominating force 
on an album; in fact nearly all of their 
past albums have been focused on the 
hardships of those people in middle­
class suburbia. This suburban theme is 
especially exemplified in Daydream's 
first single. "Volvo Driving Soccer Mom." Although credit must be given for originality in making the overall claim that "all porn stars become Volvo driving soccer moms," the premise of a parent struggling to have their own identity in the midst of a suburban family is not an idea that is new to an Everclear album. 
The repetition of subject is one thing. but through­out the album repetition is also strongly felt in the music. On many occasions, the beginnings of songs sound nearly identical to past Everclear hits. The energetic guitar is present on most tracks, lightening to a more sentimental sound on softer numbers 
such as "TV Show." The potent voice of lead singer Art Alexakis is a promi­nent force when paired with the strong guitar and 
p u n k y 
rhythm. 

Slow Motion oavdream
Lyrically, 
S I o w 
Motion Daydream 
Everclear is very strong. 
Capital Records 
The wistful 
wisdom of Alexakis comes through on 

e v e r 


y 
track. A former cocaine addict, Alexakis turned his life around in the mid-80s and since then has written with a wisdom one can only have from having personal experi­ence. Everclear has been around since the early 90s and grew to prominence beginning with 1994's album, Sparkle and Fade. The band continues to carry the punk rock tone in their music, as well as empathy with common middle­class American struggles. 
Overall, the album is a commentary on the true nature of people. At times, a depressing nature overtakes songs such as "How to Win Friends and Influence People" when Alexakis warns, "People love to break your heart" and "People love to hurt you when you close your eyes." "I Want to Die a Beautiful Death" begins, "Everybody here in this small town looks used and abused today." Just as one is about to lose faith in the world, the album turns the mood around with songs such as "Science Fiction." where Alexakis sings, "You need to remember, life is always getting better." Slow Motion Daydream brings itself to conclu­sion in the sentimental song "The New York Times" in which Alexakis earnestly claims, "I want to believe in this world / I want to believe in this life." 


The music causes emotions to range from high to low. and although some of the tunes are extremely familiar, the recipe of punchy vocals and a strong guitar presence is what creates success for Everclear. Even if it has been heard before it is still very much an enjoyable listening experience. 

Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
New punks on the block 
By STEVE HOEPLINGER 
Scene Music Critic 
Imagine that parietals were a thing of the past, food services was worth the cost, and every issue of The Observer had witty, entertaining comic strips -what could possibly be better than all that? The answer is the Transplants, a band that blows away everything about the rai:-'rock genre with a debut album that is destined to stand out as one of the best independent releases of the past decade. 

With a name that is very reflective of their music, the Transplants' moniker is one that actually makes sense, something all too rare among modern bands (for instance, what is a "hoobastank"?). Guitarist Tim Armstrong. vocalist Rob Aston and drummer Travis Barker take elements of hip hop, punk, dancehall, tech­no. rock and jazz and fuse them together for a sound that is like nothing ever heard before. Their self-titled debut is one of the most wholly original recordings -an opening shot in what may well be a new punk explosion. The bands' name also 
applies to its members; Armstrong and Barker both come from estab­lished bands {Rancid and Blink-182, respectively). though neither of them considers the Transplants to be a "side project." The album also fea­tures artists from several other bands, including Lars Frederiksen of Rancid, Davey Havok of AF!, Brody Armstrong of the Distillers and rap­pers Son Ooobie and Danny Diablo. 
The album is equal parts hip-hop and punk rock. Armstrong's punk roots are a perfect match for Aston's rhyming. and Barker's drumming lies somewhere in between, creating beats found nowhere else. Most of the songs consist of distorted punk riffs with hip hop vocals layered over 
them, splitting the rock and rap influences evenly, though the track "D.R.E.A.M.," which features under­ground rapper Diablo, is a hip hop anthem that even the Rudeboys can 
chant along to. 
Newcomer Rob Aston, who had never been in a band before this and whose only previous music experi­ence was rodieing for AFI and Rancid, is right at home behind the microphone, furi­ously spitting out lyrics with a passion that puts him in the running for the title of White Male Rage Personified. "Gimme a chance to shine and I'm a blind the world" he proclaims 1n the song "DJDJ," and you know from the seriousness in his voice that he means every word. 
The opening track, "Romper Stomper," a furious blitzkrieg of Aston's vocals and Annstrong's atomic buzz saw guitar work, quickly sets the tone of the album. Next up is "TaU Cans in the Air," which Aston describes as "a party song" that keeps up the album's manic pace (it also features the first of Armstrong's raps. which Rancid fans wiU either love or hate). 
"Diamonds and Guns," the single that is currently getting much attention, has an addictive piano riff that digs its hook into the listener's brain as soon as it's heard. The band lightens it up a little with "California Babylon," a slinky, sublime little number that just can't hide its own appeal before getting back into the dark, heavy territory on "We Trusted You," a musical indictment of liars and backstabbers every• where. The album wraps up with a jazzy song called "Down in Oakland," a spooky tune that Armstrong's trademark raspy voice is just perfect for. The album's high­light is "Sad But True," a beautiful song about the loss of loved ones that is brutally honest and poignant even with distorted guitars and double syncopated drum beal'l. 


The Transplants have created an album that is not quite punk or rap, but some­thing more. Their greatest success is their ability to make music that is appealing to a diverse cross section of music fans but still unique and refreshing. This is musical artistry at its finest. 
Contact Steve Hoeplinger at shoeplin@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Canseco released from Miami prison 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Jose Canseco was released from jail Monday and resen­tenced to two years of house arrest for his part in a 2001 nightclub brawl. 
The former major league star, wearing a jail-issue red jumpsuit, apologized to the court for failing to complete all his probation terms. His twin brother, Ozzie, was in the courtroom, as was his father and a priest. 
"This has been embarrassing to my family and to my friends.... I now understand the seriousness of probation and I'm truly sorry," Canseco told the judge. 
Canseco also received three years' probation. If he com­pletes his first year of house arrest without problems, Canseco could be freed with the second year converted into an additional year of proba­tion. 
Prosecutors said they believed Canseco was genuine­ly contrite, saying he was teary during a private confer­ence. 
"I saw it in his face," prose­cutor Jonathan Granoff said. "Jail was a wake-up call and it served its purpose." 
Canseco had spent the last 30 days in jail for violating his probation when he pleaded guilty to battery charges stem­ming from the Oct. 31, 2001, fight. 
The 38-year-old Canseco was released on the probation violation charge, but Judge Leonard Glick warned him that any future violation would result in a 15-year prison sen­tence. 
Canseco originally was sen­tenced to probation in November after pleading guilty to felony aggravated battery and two counts of misde­meanor battery related to the Halloween night fight inside a Miami Beach nightclub. 
Glick ordered that the house arrest be served in Florida. He denied a motion by defense attorney Gustavo Lage that Canseco be allowed to serve the house arrest in California where he could continue pur­suing custody of his 6-year-old daughter. 

Canseco will be allowed to leave his home for certain events and may ask the court for permission to travel under special circumstances. Further conditions of his house arrest will be determined following interviews with the officers who will monitor his sentence. 
Glick had issued a warrant for Canseco's arrest on Feb. 14, after a probation officer reported that the six-time All­Star had violated several terms of his probation. Canseco had failed to attend anger management classes, had not worked his community service, had been outside of Florida for longer than 30 days and still owed a small fine -all probation violations. 
Canseco appeared before Glick on Feb. 18 and said he had been in Los Angeles because of a custody battle for his young daughter. The judge denied Canseco bond and ordered him held until Monday's sentencing hearing. 
Canseco said last month that he unsuccessfully tried to arrange the anger manage­ment classes, misunderstood the timeframe during which his community service was supposed to begin, and spent several weeks in Los Angeles. 
Canseco and his twin fought with two men at the nightclub. Ozzie Canseco also pleaded guilty to battery charges and received probation. He has complied with his sentence. 
One of the men allegedly involved in that fight, Christian Presley, filed a lawsuit in January seeking at least $1 million in damages. 
Canseco hit 462 home runs, the 26th-best total in baseball history. He retired in May after 1,887 games with seven teams, finishing his career with a .266 average, 1,407 RBI and 200 stolen bases. 
Canseco was the 1988 American League MVP and helped lead the Oakland Athletics to three straight World Series appearances from 1988-90. Oakland won the championship in 1989. 
NBA 

Cavaliers won't fine Davis 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Ricky Davis will not be fined by Cavaliers coach Keith Smart, who said Monday that embarrassment is punishment enough for the stunt against the Utah Jazz. 
"The deed is done," Smart said after a morning prac­tice. "What good would it do to slap him on the wrist? He has to live with what he did. Wherever he goes, people will remember it." 
Davis attempted to pad his statistics during a 122-95 victory over the Utah Jazz on Sunday. To get his first career triple-double in the final seconds of 1.he lowly Cavs' biggest wiu of the sea­son. Davis purposely missed a shot at the wrong basket and grabbed the rebound, thinking it was his 10th. 
Davis, the team's scoring leader, was fouled hard by the Jazz's OeShawn Stevenson, angered that his club was being mocked. Davis made the two free throws to finish with 28 points, 12 assists and nine rebounds. 
"No comment," the usually exuberant Davis said as he left practice Monday. 
Davis apparently did not know that his stunt back­fired even without Stevenson fouling him. The rulebook states: "It is a violation for a player to attempt a field goal at an opponent's bas­ket. The opposing team gets the ball." 
Davis did not get a shot attempt or his rebound. 
"I talked with Ricky after the game," Smart said. "The thing is, one tiny moment ruined the team's most suc­cessful game. Ricky had his finest game as far as blend­ing in with his teammates. None of that will be remem­bered, but what he did will 
follow him always."  
Smart  said  he  and  
Cavaliers  players  were  
embarrassed.  

"I felt very, very bad and before Ricky shot the free throws -I went and apolo­gized," said Smart, who walked over to an incensed Utah coach Jerry Sloan. 


Cleveland's Ricky Davis holds the ball over his head In a game earlier this season. Davis will not be fined by the Cavaliers as a result of his botched triple-double attempt. 
Davis signed a six-year, two games this season for $34 million contract before arguing with teammates and the season. The 6-foot-7 being selfish. guard is averaging 20.7 The win was just the sec­points and is the first player ond in 15 games for the in team history to record Cavaliers, who have a three 40-plus scoring games league-worst 12-53 record. in a season. Cleveland needs four wins 
Davis also had two run-ins in its final 17 games to avoid with former coach John tying the franchise's worst Lucas, fired Jan. 20 after a mark of 15-67, set in the 17-point loss at Utah. inaugural season of 1970-71 
Lucas suspended Davis for and matched in 1981-82. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES WANTED 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN-Make a ditterence in the life of a TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM• childl Summer therapy PUS-STUDENT NEIGHBOR· camp for children with disabilities. HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS-Located on shore of Lake Superior MAINTENANCE STAFF in Big Bay, MT. Positions available ON CALL-WASHERS/DRYERS for Counselors, Waterfront, CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING lnstl'l.lclors for Nature/ Arts &Crafts/ FASTl!I -CONTACT KRAMER Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses, 
(547) 315-5032 OR (574) 234-2436 Therapists, Food Se1Vice, -ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 and Auxiliary. Musi be enthusiastic, VISIT OUR WEBSITES @ responsible, and love children. June DOMUSKRAMERCOM 15 lhrough August 10. Salary, room 
& board, and experience of lifetime 
provided. STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3.4 Call or write tor application and OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 information. Suite 300, Marquette, BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW Ml 49855, EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM-(906) 228-5770, email PUTERS ECT. AVAIL SUMMER BayCliffHC@aoLcom OR FALL. 235-3655 Summer Job-North Shore suburban Chicago Financial Planning and Investment Management Firm seeks serious student for fUII time summer internship" Skills required: excellent Excel and courteous com­munication. Demands utmost dis­cretion and reliability. Resume and professors references required. Please send inquiries, interview availability in Chicago, and resume to ccberto@aol.com. 
Camp Counselor for children w/dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a d iflerence in the life of a child. $7-$11hr, 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, near Akron, OH" Must enjoy outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO CAMP for an application" EOE Katie, Lauren, you guys both owe me... big time"

FOR RENT PERSONAL 

It I beat news working my first dou-
Walk to School. 2·6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272· 1525 www.mmmrentats.com 
Very nice 3 bdrm home" Avail. June 1st for summer or fall. East Race dist.near Cortiys Pub &St. Joe Church. Incl. alarm syst,washer/dryer" Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins @273­0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@mylandGrantcom. $650/m negotiable. 
B&B for ND grad close ND 4 Rooms Best area 287-4545. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE furn. 4b2ba, walk to campus" jo5225@aol.com 

Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it ble ever... wow. alone. If you or someone you love needs It could happen. confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude. Probably not, but I can dream. CSC, at 1-7819. For more informa­lion, see our bi-weekly ad in The Summary of Spring Break. Observer. Fly, work, drive, work, drive, fly, 
work 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are 
you pregnant and don! know what I am really running out of classified 
to do? Loving, open-ideas 
hearted. financially stable woman 
would like to consider adopting a Anyone? 
baby" Free 

counseling, living expenses and Spring Break summary: 
medical expenses. This can be a Yeah, it was the under -congrats 
good thing for to Lazar and Federico. 
you and your baby" Discreet and 
legal. Call 904-824-7006. You let me down, boss" 
Sorry for ruining your St. Patrick's If you can't be with the one you night, Tim. love, love the one you're with. 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Slow start could lead to quick exit in NCAAs 
NEW YORK 

The storyline for the Irish the pac;t few games has been read­ing like a broken record. The Irish start slow while the oppo­nent builds an early lead, then the Irish make a huge come­back in the second half. 
This has happened several times in the past three weeks. In Notre Dame's last five games, the Irish were down by 17, 24, 21, seven and 23 points. 
Not surprisingly, the Irish only won one of those five games. 


Wednesday's loss to St. John's in the first round of the Big East Tournament. "It may be refreshing to get out of' this league now. They have got us figured out in the league so I think it's kind of good to get out of this league." 
Things that the Irish need to improve on in the off-week include early shooting and rebounding. In the first half against St. John's, the Irish allowed 13 offensive rebounds for the Red Storm from which St. John's scored 15 points. 
In contrast, the Irish only grabbed seven offensive rebounds while shooting just under 31 percent from the field in the first 20 minutes. 
The Irish also committed eight turnovers in the first half. Halfway through the first half, Notre Dame had committed five turnovers and scored only six points. 
"It's almost like it's two differ-

Finding the source of these slumps is crucial to Notre Dame's postseason success. Irish coach Mike Brey believes that getting out of Big East confer­ence play when the Irish face olT against Wisconsin­
"It's almost like it's two different teams, the first and second half We should be coming out with the high intensity we had in the second half" 
Matt Carroll Notre Dame guard 

Milwaukee Thursday night will be a huge step in the right direction. 
"We're excited and proud that we'll play in the NCAA Tournament," Brey said after ent teams, the first and second half." Matt Carroll said. "We should be coming out with the high intensity we had in the second half." 
That high intensity was obviously lacking in the early going of each of the 

last five games. Luckily for the games, however, the Irish took Irish, the team snapped out of the entire first half -or longer ­its slump early and was able to to dig themselves into an insur­hold on for a victory against mountable hole. Georgetown March 8 . While the Irish made valiant 
In each of the other four comeback attempts in each of 
those games, being behind late in the game is not a position that the Irish want to -or should -be in if they expect to win the game. 
After the disappointing loss to St. John's, the Irish are more than ready to get back on track. 
"We're very disappointed [about the loss]," Carroll said. "I think we just have to get away from it for a little bit, maybe just to clear our heads and forget about what's happened the last couple of weeks. and just move on and realize that we have a great opportunity ahead of us, and just take it from there." 
Big East opponent or not, the Irish need to execute better on both sides of the ball right from the opening tip. 

Otherwise, people will be opening Friday's sports section and reading another story about another failed Irish second-half comeback. 
After returning to South Bend from New York Thursday, the Irish will have had a full week of practice under their belts when they face olT against the Panthers at the RCA Dorne in Indianapolis. 
Let's hope they got an early start on those practices. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
MINI-MEDICAL SCHOOL 2003 Presented by Indiana University School of Medicine's South Bend Center for Medical Education Sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation The South Bend Center for Medical Education Session I-March 18 Session 4-April 8 offers an annual series of "The Promise and ''Heart Health: presentations tailored to Perils of Stem Cell Advice&om a the general public free of Research" Cardiologist" charge. We engage the Mervin Yoder, MD Paul Howard, MD services of experts in their field to bring you interesting talks about medically related topics and current issues in sci­Session 5-April 15 Session 2-March 25 ence and medicine. "Bioterrorism""Surviving the Col. Charles Holt,Our 2003 series will be Wonder Years" DO, USheld in 102 DeBartolo Patricia Keener, MD Army ReserveHall on the Notre Dame camus. It will run for 6 consecutive Tuesdays, starting at 7:00p.m., from March 18 through Session 6-April 22April 22. MEdical profes­Session 3-April 1 "Nutrition: The keysionals may receive two "Pain:Why does to Good Health"CME credits per session. it hurt~" Carolyn Monroe, RD,Michael Vasko, PhDCall Stephanie at CD,MPH (574) 631 7908 for more information or to register.  


CAMP COUNSELOR FOR CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES 
Must have strong work ethic and be interested in mak­ing a difference in the life of a child 
$J-$11 hr,  S sites in Summit County, near Akron, OH.  
35 hr/wk,  Must enjoy outdoor activities.  
summer only  Call 800-CYO CAMP for an application  

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
MENS TENNIS 
Blue/Gray Classic provides problems for Irish 
• Losses to Tulsa, Boise State eliminate Irish from tournament which Notre Dame has won in past 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Spores Writer 
The Irish usually see much success at the Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic, held in Montgomery, Ala. over spring break. 
Two years ago, the Irish brought home the coveted green jackets awarded to the victors, and last year they reached the finals. 
Last week though, No. 46 Notre Dame began the tour­nament with a close 4-3 loss to No. 57 Tulsa, after the match was postponed due two days of rain delays. The Irish then came back on the same day to defeat UAB 4-2 in a consolation round match Friday, but Boise State ended the week on a sour note for Notre Dame, as the Broncos (10-6) shut out the Irish 4-0 in another consolation match. 
Notre Dame is now 5-8 on the season. 
The Broncos began by securing the doubles point with wins at No. 1 and No. 3. 
The team of sophomore Brent D'Amico and junior Matt Scott was defeated for the only time during the 
break,  and  the  pair  of  
sophomore  Paul  
McNaughton  and  junior  

Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo lost their second match of the week. 
With the doubles point clinched, the Broncos' Marcus Bernston, ranked 67th nationally, and Nils Klemann defeated junior tri­captains Luis Haddock and Brian Farrell, respectively. 
Haddock and Farrell each lost in straight sets, and the Broncos were up 3-0. The remaining matches were close though, and Notre 
Dame still had the opportu­nity to rally. Before they could put up their first point, Boise State's Thomas Schoeck defeated D' Amico, 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. and the Broncos claimed the win. 
Haddock was winless in singles at Blue/Gray, but Farrell picked up two sin­gles victories, including the match-clinching win against UAB. The two had success in doubles together, and they contributed to Notre Dame's winning of the doubles point against Tulsa. 
D'AJJiico and Scott's upset at No. 1 doubles of Tulsa's Ryan Livesay and Dustin Taylor, ranked 55th as a duo, combined with Haddock and Farrell's victory to put the Irish ahead 1-0. But severe thunderstorms inter­vened, and caused the sin­gles portion to be delayed until Friday morning. 
Lopez-Acevedo continued the seeming Irish shutout with his victory at the No. 6 flight over Alek Charpanditis, 6-1, 6-3. After Haddock succumbed to Livesay, Farrell put the Irish up 3-1, and within just a point of victory, when he defeated Shunsuke Shimizu, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4). 
Notre Dame lost the next three singles contests though, all of which went into three sets. Freshman Patrick Buchanan and D'Amico began their match­es with victorious sets of 6-4 and 6-3, respectively, but both of their opponents ral­lied to win the remaining sets. Meanwhile Scott won his second set 6-7 (6-8) after losing the first one 6-1, but No. 66 Alejandro Tejerina came back to win 6-0. 
Notre Dame will have a pair of tough home matches this weekend. No. 12 Minnesota visits Saturday and No. 44 Virginia Tech will be at the Eck Pavilion Sunday. 
Both matches begin at 1 p.m. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

HOLY 
CROSS 
COLLEGE 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED AT HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 

CHIP MARKS/l he Observer Notre Dame's Brent D' Amico prepares for a forehand In a recent match. D' Amico and the Irish lost twice at the Blue/Gray Classic In Alabama over spring break. 
CHEERLEADING 
a.

®~L¢ptt¢cbaun 
Tryouts 
I,~formal INFORllJ~4TION Meeting Wednesday, March 19,,2003 --5:30 pm Joyce Center Gym 2 -Above Gate 10 
_J 

Guys -No prior cheerleading experience required-Clinics start 3/20/03 Gym 2 ­Joyce Center 
:iTryouts 4/12/03 



Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Winning streak halted at Arizona State 
the seventh straight top-50 gles matches against together, spending a whole 53 Mhairi Brown and Cindy
By JOE LINDSLEY 
team to face off against the Brigham Young, and the week together, at each Sureephon. The Sun Devils 
Spom Writer 
No. 15 Irish. Notre Dame pair, playing at the bottom of other's side at every minute secured the doubles point notched a 4-3 win over No. the lineup, gave Notre Dame of the day," Kristina Stastny though as Megan Yeats and 
The Irish began spring 49 Brigham Young March 9 its two points against said with a slight laugh. Joslynn Burkett triumphed break with a close win that at the beginning of the Arizona State. Stastny was serious though over junior Caylan Leslie and extended their winning break. Overall, the Irish believe about the positive qualities freshman Jennifer Smith, 8­streak to three matches, but The Connelly sisters, the week of practicing out­see saw in 4. they ended the week with a sophomore Sarah Jane and doors in Arizona will benefit her team-In singles 5-2 loss at No. 7 Arizona freshman Lauren, proved to them as their tough schedule mates over play. 16th
"It definitely made our
State Friday. be an asset for the Irish. The continues. the week. ranked The Sun Devils (7-3) were siblings each won their sin-"It brought the team closer "It defi­team closer. I noticed Engel domi­
PHOXY PHACTS: 
A Brother-Sister Trivi<1 Contest 
March 20 at 9:00 P.M. in 155 DBRT. 
Donations will benefit the American Cancer Society 
PHOXY PHACTS questions: 
1) Jessie joins a singing trio with Kelly and Lisa. Zack confronts Jessie in the famous "I'm so excited" scene about her addiction to what? 
2) In 1993, what NBA star le~ the hardwood to pursue a career on the baseball diamond? 
3) George Bush doesn't want Bart to touch his photo album because he probably has what on his hands. 
4) Which dorm is the home of the PHOXY LADIES? 
·nlk to yout dorm presidents TODAY qbout ioining your dotm's br-other--sistei-tec1m. & don't For5Jet to PRACTICE! 1 
answers: 
1) caffeine pills 
2) Michael Jordan 
3) Mud and cookies 
4) Pangborn Hall 
COME WATCH: Food, Fun & Competition!! (Pt-ize for Winners & Te4m with highest clttenc¼4nce) 
nitely made [many] things about my nated No. 51 our team Leslie 6-4,
teammates. like how 
closer," she 6-2 at the 
said. "I much we give our hearts No. 1 flight. 
noticed out while we're playing a Then Dora [many I Krst u Iovic,
match."
things about ranked 48th, my team­defeated No. mates, like Kristina Stastny 65 Salas, 6­how much 0, 6-2. The
freshman 
we give our Sun Devils' hearts out Brown and while we're Calallilo playing a match. Every girl then topped Cunha and fought really hard. we have Stastny, respectively, to give a lot of persistence on the Arizona State the win. team. These are very good After the Sun Devils had qualities that I had not [real­clinched the match, the ized] before we had spent so Connelly sisters made the much time together." win a little less sweet for 
The Sun Devils, with two their opponents. Sarah Jane ranked doubles teams, began defeated Sureephong, 2-6, 7­the day by claiming the ini­5, 1-0, and Lauren tri­tial point. The 4 7th-ranked umphed over Burkett, 3-6, 7­pair of Adria 6, 1-0 (10­Engel and 4). L a u r e n "[The loss] was really "It was 
Colallio upset really
hard. It could have gone 
No. 27 Katie h a r d , " Cunha and either way. We played Stastny 
Stastny, 8-5. really well and so did said. "It Cunha, a could have
[the Sun Devils]. " 
senior, and gone either Stastny, a way. We freshman, Kristina Stastny played have had a really well
freshman 
successful and so did partnership [the Sun this season, but the duo was Devils). Unfortunately we winless over a week that were a little bit unlucky on begin with their 8-4 loss to certain points." Brigham Young's Dominique Against Brigham Young, Reynolds and Leeza Leslie and Salas earned wins Klemper. in addition to the Connelly 
The younger Connelly, sisters. Notre Dame began Lauren, paired with junior the match by losing the dou­Alicia Salas, kept the dou­bles point, but Leslie and bles point in reach for Notre Salas put the Irish ahead Dame against Arizona State with their singles victories. with their 8-6 upset of No. After Cunha and Stastny lost 
their matches, the Connelly 
sisters secured the win for 
Notre Dame. 
The Irish will next see No. 
62 Iowa when the Hawkeyes 
travel to Notre Dame Friday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
·_-_.·~-­
)
1'"
,-'·' . 
• llr­
~~-­
·i!' .. 


Tuesday, March 18, 2003
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS LACROSSE 
Irish -win 2 very different games 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spores Wricer 
Notre Dame's womens lacrosse team won two games over break in very different fashions by knocking off' Boston College 13­12 and dominating Ohio 19-4. The two victories gave the Irish a 2-1 record with their only loss coming in their opener at Cornell. The Irish were also scheduled to play Brown, but that game was cancelled due to snow. 
The No. 11 Irish were severely tested by the Eagles in Chestnut Hill, Mass., but preseason All­American senior Danielle Shearer scored the eventual game-winner with 2:44 remain­ing in the contest. 
The game featured many goal spurts by both teams, with the Irish reeling off four goals in a row on two different occasions, while Boston College countered by scoring three unanswered goals on three different occa­sions. It was the Eagles' last such streak that tied the game at 12 before Shearer's game ½'inner. 
The Irish received multiple­point efforts from four different players. Shearer had six points on two goals and four assists, while classmate Eleanor Weille contributed five points on three goals and two assists. Junior Abby Owen had two goals and two assists for four points, with classmate Lauren Fischer scoring two goals. 
It was the fifth time the Irish had faced Boston College, with Notre Dame taking all five games. 
In their first game of spring 
break, Notre Dame fell behind Ohio 1-0 before taking over. The Irish scored four quick goals to take the lead on their way to a 10-3 halftime lead. 
Junior Meredith Simon paced the Irish against the BobcaLs with seven points on three goals and four assists while Shearer added three goals and three assist<; for six points. Freshman Crysti Foote added three goals and senior Anne Riley scored twice for the Irish, who had 13 players on the score sheet. The Irish out-shot Ohio 37-12 and outscored the Bobcats 9-1 in the second half. 
Notre Dame completes their season opening road trip today with a game in Orlando against Yale at 10 a.m. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Observer File Photo 
Notre Dame womens lacrosse player Kassen Delano is hit with 
an opponent's stick in a match last year. The Irish won two games over break to Improve to 2-1 on the season. 

The woman who fought for the right to vote also fought for the right to life. We proudly continue her legacy. 
Refuse to Choose."' Wome11 Deserve Better.~M 

FOR LIFE 
OF AMERICA 
femi n istsforlife.o rg 

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Storm 
continued from page 28 
the ball spun out of the cylin­der. Francis missed the two ensuing free throws, forcing the Irish to foul St. John's guard Marcus Hatten with 8.6 seconds left. 
"That's where we would have to win it, right there," Brey said. "Ile makes that 3­point play, that's one of those where you steal it. That's how you arc going to steal the win. But we had a similar situation in the Syracuse game where wo came back. Chris [Thomas] had a great look, and it went in and out. 
"It's almost like you don't deserve ii because you haven't played consistent enough for 40 minutes and the basketball gods say, 'Not today, you are not stealing it today."' 
After Francis' missed free throws at 82-80, Hatten made the first free throw but have had enough time to grab the ball and call for it. 
"[Carrolll shooting a runner right there ... I will live with that, you know, given we couldn't get our hands on it," Brey said. "If we got it clean I was going to use a time out. We didn't." 
Francis led all scorers in the game with 19 points. 
"I thought Torin was fabu­lous," Brey said. "I don't want him hanging his head on the free throws. He continues to improve for us." 
Francis provided all of the offense in the early going for the Irish, scoring the team's first six points of the game. 
Howlwer, in that same time span, St. John's used a combi­nation of deadly 3-point shoot­ing by Willie Shaw to jump out to a 21-6 lead halfway through the first half. 
In addition, the Red Storm cleaned up on the boards, 
grabbing  13  offensive  
rebounds  in  the first  half  
alone.  and  
holding  a  


NCAA 
continued from page 28 
ty much set up for us where we can get some wins and have support." 
The 22-9 Irish, who earned their highest seed since 1987 and are seeded in the West Region for the first time in school history, will play 24-7 Horizon League champion Wisconsin-Milwaukee Thursday at 9:40 p.m. If the Irish win, they will play either No. 4 seed Illinois or No. 13 seed Western Kentucky Saturday. 
What school officials had ini­tially planned as a celebration in the Joyce Center when the Irish were ranked in the top 10 quickly became scaled back to a small private viewing of the selection show in Brey's home. 
And the Irish admit there was some anxiety as they wait­ed nearly an hour for Notre Dame to appear on the televi­sion screen. 
But the players are con­vinced there is a fundamental difference in the way the team has approached qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. 
"It's funny the way things have changed. Now we're expected to be in the tourna­ment," Matt Carroll said. The Irish were seeded No. 6 and No. 8 in Brey's first two years. 
At one point in the season, the Irish were projected as high as a No. 2 seed. But after Notre Dame dropped five of its last eight games, the Irish hoped they could land a No. 5 seed based on their strength of schedule and the wins they accumulated against high qual­ity opponents. 
"I would have been disap­pointed if we were lower than a five," Brey said. "We've done everything we're supposed to do." 
Beginning last year, the NCAA Tournament selection committee used a pod system to determine where teams would head for first-and sec­ond-round games. The idea is that the higher the seed, the greater the probability that a team could play closer to home. That kept the Irish in 

Indianapolis as opposed to 
heading out to Salt Lake City or 
Spokane, which are traditional 
West Region sites. 
Of the 65 teams in the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame has played nine -Creighton, Connecticut, IUPUI, Kentucky, Marquette, Maryland, Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Texas -and accumulated a 5-6 record against those in the Tournament. 
The Irish were one of four Big East schools to earn an NCAA Tournament invitation, joining Connecticut, Pittsburgh and Syracuse. Boston College. who won the Big East East Division, and Seton Hall entered Selection Sunday on the proverbial bubble but didn't get a bid. 
For the Irish, the focus now shifts to breaking down tape of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, who clinched an automatic bid by beating Butler in the Horizon League conference champi­onship Tuesday. 
The two teams have never played each other, and the only common foe they had in 2002­03 was Valparaiso, whom Notre Dame beat by two and Wisconsin-Milwaukee beat by 14. 
A veteran team that relies heavily on a full-court press, Brey said the Irish will spend most of their time focusing on their first-round foe and not looking ahead to any potential second-round matchups. 
"We have our hands full on the first night," Brey said. "They've got a real good pro­gram over there. I think the focus is just going to be on us and just get familiar with them." 
Tickets for Notre Dame's first-and second-round games in the RCA Dome cost $135 for the lower arena and $105 for the upper arena. Because University officials only have a handful of tickets for distribu­tion through the school, offi­cials are encouraging fans to obtain tickets through Ticketmaster, either online at www.ticketmaster.com or by calling (574) 272-7979. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
missed  the  "It's almost like you don't  25-15 edge  
second. Wilh precious seconds tick­ deserve it because you haven't played consistent  in rebounds overall in the first hair.  
ing away, a  enough for 40 minutes  "That was  
s c r u m ensued for possession of the ball  and the basketball gods say, 'Not today, you are not stealing it today."'  deflating when they got ... two, three. four  
and Carroll  chances,"  
emerged with it. He drove the  Mike Brey Irish coach  Brey said. The Irish finally start­ 
length of the  ed to get on  
court and let  track in the  

off a desperation heave that early stages of the second clanged off the back of the half. After a steal and layup rim. by Hatten extended the Red 
"I knew we didn't have time Storm's lead to 51-28 -its to call time out and grab the biggest lead of the game ­ball," Carroll said. "I got it ofT Carroll and company took in time, I made sure I was over. behind the line ... I thought "The past couple of games, that thing was going in, to tell at the start of the game, we you the truth." come out, and it's almost like 
While the Irish did have a it's two different teams, the time out remaining, Brey did first and second half," Carroll not think his squad would said. "We should be coming 

out with the high intensity we 
had in the second half." 
After Carroll scored the first 
seven points of the half for the 
Irish, Dan Miller added a free­
throw and a 3-point play to 
bring the Irish within 14. 
The Red Storm and Irish exchanged baskets for a few minutes, but a 3-pointer by Thomas, followed by a Miller jumper after a Red Storm charge, brought the Irish back to within seven at 7 5-68. 
"(We were] more aggressive driving the ball in the second half," Miller said. "I think we just moved the ball a lot better in the second half. We didn't force that many shots, [which] helped us defensively as well. When we're patient on offense it helps our defense." 
The Irish cut the Red Storm lead to live at 80-75 with just over two minutes remaining in the game, setting up the gut­wrenching finale. 
The loss, Notre Dame's fourth in its last five games, gave the Irish some motivation in the extended break between the conference and national postseason tourna­ments. 
"It's a long season, but to come down and lose these last couple of games in the Big East ... yeah, it's tough, but you know what?" Carroll said. "The off week of rest is going to help us, and we're going to bounce back and have a strong NCAA Tournament, where everybody's got a clean slate. We've just got to move on and play better basket­ball." 
Note: 
. Carroll was named to the Big East first team. while Thomas was named to the second team and Francis was named to the All-Rookie Team. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 19 
4:30 •6:00 p.m. Library Concourse 


Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide information and answer questions for all students. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 22 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVJCES Tuesday, March 18, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Opening Round NCAA Tournament UNC-Ashevllle vs. Texas Southern 7 p.m., ESPN 
Opening Round NIT Tournament Georgetown vs. Tennessee 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Hawks at Bulls 8:30 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA will consider postponing games in the men's and women's basket­ball tournaments and other national championships if war with Iraq begins this week. 
President Myles Brand acknowledged Monday for the first time that the NCAA was checking the availabili­ty of arenas and hotels for the days after first and sec­ond-round games are scheduled to be completed. That would give the offi­cials more flexibility in making a decision about postponements. 
"We don't know when it will start, and we have to be respectful of our men and women in uniform," Brand said following an NCAA town hall meeting on sportsmanship that was sponsored by Indianapolis television station WISH. 
"On the other hand, I think we have to be very careful not to let Saddam Hussein control our lives. We have to balance those," he said. 
The primary considera­tion, Brand said, would be the safety of the athletes and fans. 
Brand said his office has been in contact with the Homeland Security Department and security officials as it finishes con­tingency plans. He declined to give details, saying they would be announced as events take place. 

He also said there has been no determination about changes in television coverage. 
CBS holds the rights to the men's tournament, but the network, which is owned by Viacom, has dis­cussed switching the games to ESPN if CBS needs more air time for war coverage. 
ESPN and ESPN2 already are scheduled to show the women's tournament. NCAA vice president Donna Noonan said Sunday she had been assured by ESPN that the women's games would not be affected. 
If a deal cannot be reached with ESPN, the games could be shown on other Viacom-owned net­works such as such as MTV, UPN, BET or TNN. 
"We're doing a lot of planning, but we don't know what direction it will go," Brand said. 
The NCAA men's tourna­ment would be the first big sports event affected by any conflict in Iraq. The first game, between North Carolina-Asheville and Texas Southern, is sched­uled for Tuesday night in Dayton, Ohio. 
IN BRIEF 

RodriW1:ez hopes to be back 10-year, $.252 million contract, had years, a move widely anticipated for in time for season opener problems with his left shoulder, but months by everyone, including Lavin. Alex Rodriguez doesn't expect to be he said that was helped by an anti­"I've been leaning toward this deci­fully recovered from a neck injury inflammatory shot he was given sion over the last several weeks," when the season starts, but he does Thursday. said first-year athletic director Dan plan to be in the Texas Rangers' line­He said he is feeling stronger every Guerrero, who fired his second major up. day. coach at the school in 3 1/2 months. 
The All-Star shortstop rejoined his "There is zero pain, but it was "Can a coach have a bad year? Sure teammates Monday after missing five almost if my shoulder felt anemic," they can, but it's about looking to the days of spring training because of a Rodriguez said. "It just felt weaker. I future." 
herniated disc. did some test where they check the Lavin went 145-78 in seven years 
Rodriguez thinks he will need three sensation in your hand, and my left and took the Bruins to the final 16 of weeks of rehabilitation work with hand was less sensitive. The spinal the NCAA tournament five times in team trainer Jamie Reed. The test was perfect, but it's the nerve." six years, a feat matched only by Rangers open the season March 30 He was re-examined by Dr. Drew Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski. against the World Series champion Dossett on Sunday and cleared to Lavin's teams won at least 20 Anaheim Angels. return to the team. games every season except this one. 
'Tm doin~ double treatments," Rodriguez led the major leagues UCLA went 10-19 overall and 6­Rodriguez said before heading out to with 57 home runs, 142 RBIs and 12 in Pac-10 play, finishing sixth join teammates for morning work­389 total bases in 2002. for the second straight year, its 
outs Monday. "I'm expecting it to worst-ever conference showing. 

take three weeks to get back to full 

Lavin fired by UCLA "That's not acceptable,"
strength. The doctor says I'm basical­Steve Lavin's hiring as UCI.A bas­Guerrero said after a 13-minutely in good shape." 

He's missed every exhibition game ketball coach in 1996 was shocking. campus news conference. "You since playing against Arizona last His firing sure wasn't. need to be consistent throughout Tuesday. Lavin was dismissed Monday after the year. You need to finish at the 
Rodriguez, in the third year of a the team's first losing season in 55 top of your conference." 
Tuesday, March J8, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
HOCKEY 
Cey records 2 shutouts to put RedHawks on ice 
advance to Detroit that many
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
times." 
Sports Writer 
After Friday, it looked as though the Irish would go 
Morgan Cey picked a good nowhere as the RedHawks' time to register his first leading scorer Greg shutout of the year. He picked Hogeboom scored a hat trick an even better time to regis­to pace Miami to a 4-2 win ter his second. over the Irish. 
Tho Irish shocked Miami of Miami took the early lead in Ohio on the road this week­the first period when fresh­end in the first round of the man forward Chris Michael CCII/\ playoffs, winning the slapped a shot from the top of best-of-three series two the left wing circle that beat games to one and upsetting a Cey high to the glove side. for top-six seed in the first round the period. the RedHawks of the playoffs for the second outshot the Irish 15-6. straight year. The Irish tied the game just 
After losing 4-2 Friday and 39 seconds into the third peri­on the brink of elimination, od when Aaron Gill beat the Irish eked out a 1-0 win HedHawk goalie David on Saturday to even the series Burleigh with a wrister from at a game apiece. On Sunday, the slot for his 11th of the the noodgatcs opened and the season. Irish punched their ticket to llogeboom, the CCHA's top Detroit for the CCHA's Super power-play goal scorer during Six with an impressive 5-0 the regular season, scored his win over the lledHawks. first with the man-advantage 
The player of the series was to regain the lead for Miami. goaltender Morgan Cey. The Forward Mike Kompon took a sophomore netminder made a shot from the right point that total of 69 saves in his con­Hogcboom deflected past Cey secutive shutouts. Cey also about eight minutes into the held the Hedllawks scoreless period. for the final 124:35 of the The Irish answered just 14 series. seconds later, when freshman 
"Morgan was huge for us," Matt Amado fed sophomore said Irish coach Dave Poulin. Cory McLean, who beat "Two shutouts in the playoffs Burleigh for his 10th goal of are quite an accomplishment. the year. unable to score. neither team scoring in the Junior Rob Globke got the Ile really played well the Hogeboom scored his sec­Cey made 33 saves on the first 40 minutes of the game. Irish offensive explosion enlire series." ond goal of the game just night, and his Miami counter­At 7:18 of the third period, started in the first period 
Notre Dame advances to the three minutes later when he part Burleigh made 24 saves junior defenseman Brett when he beat Burleigh with a second round of the CCHA beat Cey with a low wrist shot in the RedHawks' win. Lebda corralled a bouncing rebound shot eight minutes playoffs for the third straight to put the RedHawks ahead The following night, a goal puck and slapped a shot at into the period. It was year. Only Michigan and for good. from freshman forward Tim Burleigh from the left point. Globke's 20th of the season, Michigan State have made all He completed the hat trick Wallace was all the Irish Wallace held off a Miami making him the first Irish four years since 1999-2000. four minutes later off a one­would need as Cey collected a defenseman and managed to player to score 20 goals in a 
"That's quite a legacy for time feed from Kompon that 37-save shutout. collect the rebound and slip season since Aniket our seniors," Poulin said. "It whistled over Cey's glove. The Burleigh and Cey battled the puck past Burleigh. Dhadphale during the 1997­really is a remarkable thing Irish tried to pull Cey for the toe-to-toe through the first "We worked the puck deep 98 season. 
into the zone and then back Lebda scored on a beautiful to Lebda at the point," end-to-end effort with less Wallace said. "He got off a than a minute left to give the great shot and I just went to lrish a crucial two-goal lead the net. The rebound after one period. The defense­bounced right to me and I man picked up the puck from just snuck it in low to his behind the Irish net and glove hand." raced up the right side before 
Hogeboom had a chance to cutting to his left to beat two tie the game back up, but Cey Miami players. Lebda then was up to the task. Miami's ripped a shot through hero Friday came out of the Burleigh's five-hole from left wing corner alone and between the circles. got off a great shot with 25 "I just carried the puck up seconds left. the boards and really didn't 
"(Hogeboom) came down have anyone to give it to," the side and I just tried to Lcbda said. "I kept going and play the angle all the way," when I got to the blue line Cey said. "I played the short their defense pinched up on side and was lucky to get a me. I went past them and had pad on the shot. Luckily he a clear shot to the net and didn't try to pass it, because I shot it in over his blocker." was watching him all the "Brett's goal was the turn­way." ing point," Poulin said. "It 
Cey's shutout was the first really gave us a boost that in Notre Dame's playoff histo­late in the period. We really ry and it made the Irish the played with confidence and last team in the CCIIA to poise the rest of the way." record a shutout this season. Junior forward Aaron Gill 
Sunday, the Irish completed then scored two goals in the their remarkable comeback third period, including one on in impressive fashion as the a power play, snapping an O­offense gave its goalie a little for-24 drought for the Irish breathing room. Cey didn't man-advantage that extended need it though, as he made over seven games. 32 saves in the lrish's deci­Sophomore wing Brad sive 5-0 victory. Wanchulak put an exclama­
The 5-0 win matches the tion point on the victory as he Irish 's largest margin of vic­scored on an odd-man rush tory ever in a postseason with a little more than five game, with the previous five minutes left in the game. goal wins coming when Notre The Irish will face off Dame was a member of the against Ohio State on Western Collegiate Hockey Thursday in the first game of Association (5-0 and 8-3 ver­the Super Six at 4:05 p.m. sus North Dakota in 1973 and The Irish had a 0-1-1 record 8-3 versus Michigan in 1980). against the Buckeyes during 
It was also the first time the regular season. Notre Dame has put together back-to-back shutouts since Contact Justin Schuver at November 1999. jschuver@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March I 8, 2003
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS GOLF 
Brophy takes title at Florida invite 
FENCING 

Irish qualify maximum number 
captain and three-time All­national championships. 
ByMATTLOZAR 

American Anna Carnick. Call On the mens side, the No.1
Associa,e Spom E<liror 

fenced in the NCAA team in the country easily quali­Championships as a freshman fied the maximum six fencers They had to wait it out, but and sophomore. but watched with no Irish fencer finishing the Irish got what they wanted. from the sidelines last year. lower than fifth at the regional 
After qualifying 11 fencers "I was not surprised. I know competition. through automatic bids at the that we have two great fencers The Irish took the top three Midwest Regional in Anna Carnick and Meagan," spots at mens foil, but a school Championship at Ohio State Bednarski said. "Meagan can only qualify two fencers at Univcrnity March 8, Notre Dame focused her attention in the each weapon. The odd man out needed junior sabre Maggie final bouts a little bit more than was Forest Walton as senior Jordan to earn an at-large bid Anna and she gained confi­Ozren Debic and sophomore to give them a complete team dence. If the competition was Derek Snyder return to the for this weekend's NCAA tomorrow, Anna might fence NCAA Championships. Championships. The announce­better and qualify." At the talented mens sabre ment came Friday that Jordan In womens sabre, junior cap­weapon, senior Gabor Szelle was selected. tain Destanic Milo qualified finished second while senior 
"We have automatically Matt Fabricant was fifth. The worked very but Jordan fin­Buckeyes took first, third and hard the ished fifth. fourth, but could only qualify
"'I was not surprised. I

entire year. With only the two at the weapon. l had a feel­know that we have two top four earn­The domination continued at ing that we great fencers in Anna ing automatic mens epee with the Irish taking w e r c berths, Jordan the top two spots. Senior Jan
Garnick and Meagan

strong," needed to be Viviani and sophomore Michal Notre Dame {Call].,, an at-large Sobieraj were first and second, c o a c h qualifier to respectively. Janusz make the Debic and Viviani can become
Janusz Bednarski

Bednarski N C A A four-time All-Americans with
Irish coach

said. "But, Championships top 12 finishes at the national you have to field. What championships. get a Iittle makes Jordan's The Irish and host Buckeyes bit lucky when you are fencing performance impressive is the were the only teams in the to only five touches. Sometimes, fact this is her first year fencing country to qualify the maximum there are unpredictable results. solely at sabre. 12 fencers. Defending champion You can work hard and lose by "Jordan is not young as a stu­Penn State qualified 11 fencers one touch. It is very hard to dent, since she is a junior, but but they have the NCAA alter­make predictions." as a fencer she is young nate at mens epee should some­
Bednarski's statement about because in other competitions one not be able to participate. unpredictability is no more evi­she used to fence at foil," The NCAA Championships dent than in womens epee. Bednarski said. take place Thursday to Sunday Defending national champion Completing the womens team at the Air Force Academy. Kerry Walton claimed one of at foil are sophomores Alicja the spots for the Irish, but the Kryczalo and Andrea Ament other spot went to senior who finished first and second, Contact Matt Lozar at Meagan Call and not to epee respectively, at last year's mlozar@nd.edu 
Georgetown University 2003 Summer Sessions 

Pre-Session: May 19-June 13 
First Session: June 2-July 3 
Second Session: July 7-August 8 
Call 202-687-5942 for a catalogue or visit our website. On-campus housing is available. 

~-t-\~~i\ Georgetown University 
School for Summer & Continuing Education 
website: www.georgetown.edu/ssce/summer email: surnmer@georgetown.edu 
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
After struggling in its first tournament of the spring, tho womens golf team came oui fir­ing in Florida over break. 
Leading the way was fresh­man Katie Brophy who parred the final two holes to win the Peggy Kirk Bell Invitational in Orlando. 
Brophy fired rounds of 73 and 7 4 to win by one shot over Penn State's Katie Futcher and Cynthia Skilton Penn State. 
"Katie told me right before the start of today's round that she felt like something just clicked," Irish coach Debby King said. "She had a great swing the last two days." 
"The thing that clicked for me was my putting," said Brophy. "I didn't putt very well in the fall and that's what I was known for in high school. Everything dropped for me the last two days. I got my confi­dence back." 
The event came down to the last hole and Brophy needed a 12-foot par putt on the last hole for the win. She took her time before making the winning shot. 
"I didn't know exactly where I was going into 18," she said. "I just wanted to par it. I got near the green and put my second shot about 12-feet away. I knew I had made those before and I just said to myself, 'Just do it,' and then I stood over it awhile to focus." 
Brophy became the first Irish golfer to win a tournament since current junior Rebecca Rogers won the Notre Dame Invitational in 2000. As a team, the Irish finished eighth with rounds of 314 and 317 for a 631. 


Sophomore Karen Lotta and freshman Lauren Gebauer fired identical rounds of 156 (78-78) to aid the Irish team effort, \vith freshman Suzie Hayes one stroke behind them at 157 (76­81). 
Following their performance in Orlando, the Irish traveled to Tampa for the Northern Illinois Snowbird Invitational where they fired a season best 297 to tie for third. Notre Dame was led by senior captain Terri Taibl who shot the two best rounds of her career to tie for fourth at 149 (75-74), only four strokes away f'rom giving the Irish their second winner in as many tournaments. 
Gebauer and fellow freshman Sarah Bassett also recorded top 10 finishes for the Irish at the Snowbird by tying for seventh at 152. Gebauer fired rounds of 77 and 75 while Bassett shot 78 and 7 4 as an individual entrant. 
Junior Shannon Byrne also had a good showing, finishing at 153 (78-75 as an individual entrant. Brophy followed up her win with a 156 (82-74) to tie for 22nd. 
The Irish play next March 23­25 at the Baylor University Tapito Springs Shoot-Out in Boerne. Texas. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Go.metBegln;at9:00 pm, 

Gir4'WG~ 
T~~ettLOJ F~B&t!o{fla: M~-Thur~ 
(Sha.mrOCKJ wRoli -karaoke;rontet 
Th«rw.ay 6pr,1; Reder})
L-~·-·-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-·~•-·~ 
. ----·--·----· .. -. ·' --~ •-~-··-·· ------··-----­

Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
SOFTBALL 
Rain and sickness plague Irish on the road 

forced the lation of the
"We had a lot ofpeople
cancellation second half of the playing out ofposition of the tourna­remainder of ment means
and people batting in 
the Kia that the Irish
different spots in the 
Classic. have lost six Worse, the batting order. It was games to the Irish encoun­weather even
tough to get things
tered a strep though they
going."

throat virus have yet to that caused play a game Lwo players in South
Andrea Loman 

to miss the Bend.
Irish third baseman

Nebraska Not only game and has the five Notre weather Dame players to miss the forced the Irish to cancel DePaul game. games this season, it also ''We had a lot of people play-forced Notre Dame into a 15­
hour bus ride back to campus after a weekend tournament in Georgia. 
"It is frustrating, but we can either be frustrated or we can move on and that is what we need to do," said Irish coach Deanna Gumpf. "We need to look forward and get ready to start the second half of our season." 
The Irish (8-9) started off their spring break trip with a double-header against Cal­State Northridge (12-10). 
In game one. the Irish were able to put together a 4-1 lead heading into the seventh behind 12-hits and a home run by first baseman Lisa Mattison, but Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein couldn't hold the lead. 
After Stenglein retired the first two batters, pitch-hitters Shannon Acevedo and Christy Menefee produced singles to bring the tying run to the plate. Christen Bedwell responded by 

drilling a three-run home run Amanda Bucholz. 
over the right-field wall to send The Cornhuskers ended up 
the game to extra innings. winning 10-3 after each team 
In the bottom of the 10th the traded runs in the seventh. 
Matadors completed the come­Things wouldn't get better 
back when .Jan Moshier singled for the Irish against No. 14 
to drive in the winning run and DePaul, as Notre Dame battled 
give Cal-State Northridge a 5-4 not only the Blue Demons but 
victory. also a strep throat virus that 
"ll. was one of those things decimated the team. 
that just happened," Loman The Blue Demons wasted lit­
said. "It fell apart in the end. tle time as they jumped out to 
We have to get stronger in the a 4-0 lead on Booth. After a 
sixth and seventh innings. two-run double, third basemen 
When things are getting a little Katy Kukman blasted a two­
tough I think we need to come run homer for the quick lead. 
together as a "Were get­
team at that ting down 
time." "We are very excited to early in too 
The Irish many games,"
practice outside and
salvaged a said Loman. split in by being able to take "After the 
winning the groundballs on dirt first few 
second game innings it was
instead ofthe turf"
3-1 behind a 4-0 DePaul. strong pitch­We need to ing perfor­Andrea Loman learn to get mance by ahead. Once
Irish third baseman
Irish pitcher we do that it 
Heather takes a lot of 
Booth and a pressure off 
two-run double by Mattison. our pitchers and when we get 
The Irish opened the Kia ahead we are a lot more confi­
Classic with a 3-1 victory dent team." 
against Fresno State (7-14). The Irish were able to get 
Booth was terrific again as she back in the game by taking 
gave up only two hits over advantage of two DePaul 
seven innings of work. errors in the bottom of the sec­
The Irish got all their runs in ond as they cut the lead in half. 
the third inning as left fielder After the Blue Demons added 
Liz Hartmann hit her team a run in the fifth, they scored 
leading forth home run to lead six runs on five hits with the 
off the inning. The Irish added big hit coming from pitcher 
two more runs on a bases Lindsay Chouinard, who would 
loaded two-out single by third finish with six RBI on the day, 
basemen Meagan Ruthwauff. as she picked up her ninth win 
Booth would make that stand of the season. 
up as she picked up her sixth "She did a great job against 
victory of the season. us," said Gumpf. "She kept the 
"She [Booth] has done a ball down against us and 
tremendous job and she is just jammed us all afternoon." 
going to get better as the sea­After playing their first 17 
son progresses," Loman said. games on the road, the Irish 
In their second game of the are looking forward to kicking tournament, the Irish faced No. off their home schedule with 4 Nebraska. After both pitch­Western Michigan next Sunday ers traded zeros for the first and getting the chance to prac­three innings, Nebraska scored tice outside. two runs in the top of the forth. "We are very excited to prac­The Irish responded in the bot­tice outside and being able to tom inning with a run as cen­take some groundballs on dirt ter fielder Megan Ciolli hit a instead of the turf," said 
....
bases loaded single to score Loman. "Hopefully we can 
Mattison. start our next phase of the sea­
Nebraska would ruff up son with a win against Western Stenglein for four runs in the Michigan." top of the fifth and scored three runs in the sixth off Carrie Wisen. All three runs Contact Aaron Ronsheim at came on a home run by aronshei@nd.edu 
!I-Ill :;
1!: 
By AARON RONSHEIM Spom Wricer 
.Just when the Notre Dame softball team thought that they left their bad luck and bad weather in South Bend, the Irish ran into inclement weath­er that 
ing out of position and people batting in different spots in the batting order," said Irish third baseman Andrea Loman. "It was tough to get things going. 1 think that once we get every­body healthy and get back into the swing of things we'll do a lot better." 
The cancel­

page 26 The Obmver . SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
BASEBALL 

Wann weather equals hot streak for Irish over break 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Writer 
With snow on the ground and a chill in the air, the Irish left the wintry conditions of South Bend for a seven-game. eight­day road trip to Florida during spring break for the Kennel Club Classic. 
The warm weather stint paid dividends for Notre Dame as the team went 6-1 during the span to improve to 9-5 on the season. 
The opportunity to hit the field every day helped the Irish return to the level of play they demonstrated during last year's College World Series run. The Irish batted .307 as a team dur­ing the trip, led by second base­man Steve Sollmann's .482 average during the seven-game span. 
Other Irish batters leading the effort were catcher Javy Sanchez, who contributed a .407 average during the trip, and infielder Matt Edwards and outfielder Kris Billmaier, who each batted .393 with 11 hits and collectively recorded 15 RBIs. 
Irish pitchers, meanwhile, began to establish themselves on the mound by posting a 2.37 staff ERA for the week with a .185 opponent batting average. 
Notre Dame 3, Vanderbilt 1 
The Irish kicked off their spring break trip with a hard­fought 10-inning victory over the Commodores. 
Sophomore Chris Niese! held the Commodores at bay until the Irish bats could get going, allowing only one run and three hits over eight innings before reliever J.P. Gagne came in to pitch two perfect innings to earn the win. 
The powerful right-hander Gagne struck out four Vanderbilt hitters in two innings to earn his second vic­tory of the season. 
The difference for the Irish came off the bat of freshman outfielder Brennan Grogan in the top of the 10th. After Sollmann reached on a single, Grogan smacked a triple to the gap in right center for the even­tual game-winning run. 
Notre Dame 7, Navy 3 
After a rainout of Sunday's action, the Irish returned to the field Monday with a potent and balanced offensive attack to knock off the Midshipmen. 
After falling behind 3-0 in the third inning, Notre Dame responded in the bottom of the fourth with three runs of their own to tie the score. After Edwards was hit by a pitch and Billmaier doubled to put run­ners at second and third, sophomore shortstop Matt Macri smacked a two-run dou­ble to bring the Irish within one run. Sanchez then singled to center to bring in Macri with the game-tying score. 
After yielding the three early runs, sophomore John Axford held Navy at bay in two more scoreless innings to eventually earn the win, his second of the year. 
Notre Dame got the go-ahead run in the fifth inning, when Edwards singled in freshman Craig Cooper. The Irish would add three more for the victory. 
Notre Dame 6, North Florida 1 
In their third game of the break, the Irish received two more strong offensive perfor­mances from Sollmann and Edwards as the pair went 5-for­9 in the game with two runs scored and two RB[s. 
Clinging to a 2-1 lead in the sixth, the Irish would add four runs in the last three frames, capped by Edwards' two-run home run in the top of the ninth to seal the victory for the Irish. 
Senior pitcher Ryan Kalita contributed a strong outing for his first win of the season, allowing only one run and three hits in seven innings pitched. 
Jacksonvllle 9, Notre Dame 6 
The Irish got their only taste of defeat of the Kennel Club Classic at the hands of Jacksonville in a tough 10­inning loss. 
Notre Dame fell behind early, yielding four-first inning runs and another in the third to dig themselves into a 5-0 hole. The Irish fought back from the deficit and narrowed the lead to 6-4 in the eighth inning. 
Notre Dame appeared to take control in the top of the ninth with Sanchez's two-run, game­tying home run with nobody out. But the Irish did nothing else in the inning and the game went to extra innings. 
In the top of the 10th, the Irish had the bases loaded with two outs but freshman Greg Lopez struck out swinging to end the inning. 
With Gagne on in relief in the 10th, Jacksonville got a leadofl single from left fielder Chad Hauseman. With two outs in the inning, Gagne walked right fielder Chad Hart before third baseman Brett Nagy ended the game with a three-run, walk-off homer. 
Notre Dame 3, Eastem Illinois 2 
The Irish returned to their winning ways the next day with a 3-2 victory over Eastern Illinois. 
Sollmann, who was 2-for-2 on the day. gave Notre Dame an early 3-0 lead with his three-run inside-the-park home run in the second. 
That lead would be enough for Niese!, who contributed a dominating performance on the mound for the Irish. The right-hander allowed two runs -both unearned -over eight innings and had nine strike­outs. 
Gagne came on with two outs in the ninth and faced one bat­ter, whom he struck out, to get his third save of the season. 
Notre Dame 11, Navy 2 
Notre Dame's second matchup with the Midshipmen in the Kennel Club Classic would prove as successful as the first for the Irish as six Irish hitters collected multiple hits as Notre Dame pounded Navy. 
The Irish plated 11 runs on 16 hits as a team led again by the efforts of Billmaier and Edwards, who finished a com­bined 6-for-9 at the plate with five RBIs and four runs scored. 
Freshman Tom Thornton earned the victory for the Irish in his first career start, logging four shutout innings and allowing only three hits. 
Notre Dame 10, Creighton 3 
The Irish wrapped up play in Florida with a solid victory over the Blue Jays that was indicative of their style of play through much of the week. 
Notre Dame utilized a bal­anced offensive attack with 10 runs on 14 hits and strong pitching from Axford and a cast of relievers. 
Axford had some early trou­ble with Creighton in the first inning when he allowed his only two runs of the game. The tall right-hander would then cruise through the next five innings by allowing only two more hits and getting seven strikeouts. 
The Irish quickly matched Creighton's pair of runs with two of their own in the bottom of the first. Sollmann and Grogan got the offense going with a pair of leadoff singles, followed by an RBI double form Edwards. Billmaier then hit a sacrifice f'ly to score Grogan and Lie the game at 2­2. 
In their next inning, the Irish jumped on top for good with four runs on three hits to grab an early 6-2 lead. 
Sollmann. Edwards and 
Billmaier led the way at the 
plate by going 3-for-5, 3-for-4 
and 2-for-2. respectively, while 
combining for six RBIs and 
four runs scored. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 



Attention Students li 
Leprechaun legio,i 
we are "Back on the Map." The Joyce Center is an exciting arena once again. Our opponents do not like coming to the Joyce Center..and that is because ofyou. 
My deepest thanks for making this home season such an exciting one for the players, coaches and the rest ofthe fans. 
I am extremely proud and appreciative ofthis year's 6th man for the Irish. You are a class act. Now get ready for some ''March Mactness." 
Coach Brey 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
LAfLIN CANDY 9:,MEON~ 51-\CLILD HA\/ £,VE:R'I PA'/!! WARNE:D ~;n-1A1ONCE 5
I 
SD BAD.

IZZA INSTEAD Ziet.m CAJ FL 
E.ARliS FDINlN~ HALL S DA'/" D!?:r:. i.:ov ORn-1 
ALL! 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KYWAG 
j 
1 ±
rx I I 
C2003 Tnbune Madia Service&, Inc. 
All Righta ReeaNed. 
GUVEA 
I I r J 
THEZIN 

EASY TO GET 
IF YOU'RE AN
(J I 

ONLINE: NOVICE:. 

www.jurrtile.com

tNECBOK 
I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J rJ I I 
>
Pulswer:[ I I I I I]INTHE [II] 
(Answers Monday) 
I Jumbles: CUBIT FLOUR CANDID MUSKETYesterday's Answer: 
What the tough cookie did when he met his match -CRUMBLED 


Puzzle by EJw,i,.th C. Gorski 
30 Home in Rome 46 Big Apple 
31 Loafer mayor who asked "How'm I 32 Office stations doin'?" 
35 Parasols 
47 "At the Milliner's" 36 Early arrival, painter shortly: Var. 
48 Expect 38 Cool, 60's-style 
49 Ski lift 39 Falls 
so Prefix with 44 Ground cover sphere 

CROSSWORD 
1 Punishment for 33 "You've got Flowed Likea child, maybe mail" co. 
Wine" 5 Ill-gotten gains 

34 Martini's partner 

60 Range maker 9 "The Lord of the 36 Reason for not 61 Oklahoma cityRings" figure 
apologizing 

62 French film14 Notion 
37 Some training 
63 Angers15 Bandleader for a football 

Puente 64 Jet set jets
team 65 Brain's site16 Land colonized 40 100 bucks 
by ancient 
41 Kind of checking

Greeks 
DOWN 
17 Hoops contests 42 Albanian money 1 Spanish child since '38 43 Did 2 Norse deity18 "What's gotten groundwork? 
3 French for
_you?" 
44 Ukr., once 65-Across 19 Zeal 
45 Uses finger 4 Land user of 20 •Just a moment paints, say yore 
5 Affixes with glue 23 Pumps for info 
47 Homer Simpson 

outburst 6 Skid row types 24 Sparkler 
48 Battery liquid 7 Abbr. at the top 25 Peter Graves's of a memo
49 Minivacation

role on "Mission: 8 "Oh!" 
9 What to do "for 
28 lt may be 58 Figure in murder" in a 
framed academia Hitchcock film 10 Had on 11 
nme half

12 Mexican rivers 13 Subway 
purchase 21 Verve 22 Penthouse 
centerfold 25 Nicotine 26 "In what way?" 27 Bond on the 
run? 28 John Jacob 29 White House 
spokesman Fleischer 
WILLSHORTZ 
51 Tabriz money 52 Feminizing 
suffix 53 Cravings 54 Falco of "The 
Sopranos" 55 Zola novel 56 Like Easter 
eggs 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Charley Pride, Vanessa Williams, Wilsm Pickett, Queen Latifah 
Happy Birthday: Everyone will gravitate toward you because of your great enthusiasrr and desire to get things done well. Don't be a loner this year; it's time to rely on others t< do the things you really don't have time for. Delegate. Don't run yourself ragged. Yow nwnbers are 6, IO, 13, 24, 27, 32 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Open and honest communication will be fruitful especially when dealing with peers and colleagues. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be in the right frame of mind to delve int< new projects or hobbies that interest you. Your sensitivity toward others will enable ym to give help where it really counts. ***** 
GEl\UNI (May 21-June 20): You should make plans to get together with friends, bu don't get involved in other people's troubles. Educational pursuits will bring you i1 contact with interesting people. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get out with friends or relatives inslead of staying a home. Services or items bought for your home will not be satisfactory. *.. LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): If you aren't happy with what you are doing, now is the tim to look into all your options. You can make a decent financial deal today, but you mus be sure to read the fine print *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): You are likely to say something that you may regret late, Take heed of the advice given with regard to your personal life and direction. *.. LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): Problems with colleagues may arise, causing unccnaintie regarding your work. You may want to look into alternative medicine for a recwrin! minor health problem. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Get involved in different kinds of projects. Your abilil) to put your creative ideas into play should not be overlooked. Use your talents. ***.. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your thoughts to yourself today. Colleague: will sleal your ideas and the people you live with are not likely to understand. Tak, SOm! time to do something you enjoy doing by yourself. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Communication and travel will be your strong poin today. You can get a lot accomplished ifyou talk about your beliefs and ideas fer future 
Progress can be made. ***** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of personal papeiwork and legal matters This is the day to make your IIDve regarding IIDney, health issues er domestic problems Be straightfocward. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't neglect your domestic duties and tend to ani partnership issues quickly and with compassion. This could tum into an emotiona day fer you. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will stand up for yourself and thu;e you care about throughout life You will be too hard on yourself, which may cause you to take on more than you should 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
... 
PORTS 
Tuesday, March 18, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Same old story 

Irish slump early, respond late, but still fall short in the end in 83-80 loss to St. John's in first round ofBig East Tournament 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Wricer 

NEW YORK 
Notre Dame's dominant second half was not enough to overcome St. John's' strong first half, and the Irish fell to the Red Storm in the first round of the Big East Tournament, 83-80, Wednesday at Madison Square Garden. 
The Irish were unable to recover from a 21-point halftime deficit -a deficit that climbed to 23 points in the second half -despite shooting 66.7 percent from the field in the second half. 
"I am very proud of our group to give us a chance to win the bas-See Also ketball game," Notre "Slow start Dame coach Mike Brey 
could lead to
said. "But it was just too much of a hole to quick exit in dig out of." 
NCAAs" 
The Irish seemed poised for an amazing page 17 comeback when Matt Carroll hit a 3-pointer with just over a minute left in the game to bring the Irish to within two points at 82-80. 
After forcing the Red Storm to take a bad shot with the shot clock winding down, the Irish called a timeout with 
24.2 seconds remaining to draw out their final play. 
Guard Chris Thomas took the ball and drove to the hoop, but his layup missed. Luckily for the Irish, Torin Francis grabbed the rebound and went back up with the ball. 
His layup seemed destined for the bot­tom of the net as the whistle blew, but 
see STORM/page 21 


. Irish earn highest seed since 1987, will face Wisconsin-Milwaukee in first round Thursday 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spons Writer 
After a season that saw the Irish spend multiple weeks in the top 10 and knock off four top 10 teams. Notre Dame was rewarded Sunday with a No. 5 seed, its highest seed in the NCAA Tournament in the No. 5 Irish Mike Brey era, and a first-round game in
vs. No. 12 
Indianapolis againstWisconsin­No. 12 seed 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Milwaukee 
But for Chris 
. Round of 64 
Thomas, Selection match, NCAA Sunday gave the Irish sophomore a chance
Tournament 
to play in his home­
. RCA Dome, town for the first time in his college basket­
Indianapolis 
ball career. 
. Thursday, 9:40  The  Notre  Dame  
p.m., CBS  point  guard  last  
played  in  the  RCA  
Dome,  the  site  of  
Notre  Dame's  first-round  game  

Thursday, as a freshman at Pike High School when he helped lead his team to the state championship. 
Now Thomas hopes his team can start another run in Indianapolis. 
"I just felt that feeling that we'd be there," he said, adding that he leapt to his feet in excitement when he saw where the Irish were heading. "It's pret­
see NCAA/page 21 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

No upsets for Irish in Pittsburgh win, 'Nova loss 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports E<licor 
Notre Dame didn't get upset at the Big East Tournament, but they didn't upset anyone either. 
The sixth-seeded Irish defeated No. 11 seed Pittsburgh 73-65 in the first round March 8 before losing to No. 2 seed Villanova 50­39 March 9. 
After winning their first game, Notre Dame hoped to upset Villanova for the second time this season. They had defeated the Wildcats 58-56 at Villanova Jan. 25. 
But the Irish couldn't shake a horrible shooting slump that plagued them throughout the game, and fell short against the eventual tournament champions. 
In the first half, the Irish shot 6­for-23, or 26.1 percent, which was actually better than Villanova's· 4-for-24, 17 percent performance. Both teams' poor shooting caused the game to be tied at 13 at halftime. 
"I thought that was some type of Guinness Book of Records first half," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish continued their bad shooting in the second half, while the Wildcats pulled away by mak­ing 12-24 shots. 
"It was a bad shooting night," Villanova guard Trish Juhline said. "But that happens. We played hard the whole game and made shots down the end." 
Juhline had 12 of her 14 points in the second half to lead the Wildcats. Teammate Nicole Druckenmiller also contributed 10 points. 
Notre Dame was led by Jacqueline Batteast's 15 points, while Courtney LaVere added 12. Alicia Ratay, who usually aver­ages 12 points per game, was held scoreless on just 0-of-5 shooting. 
Villanova went on to defeat No. 1 Connecticut to win the Big East Tournament. The Huskies' loss was their first in 70 games. 

Against Pittsburgh, the Irish picked up a win that sealed their NCAA Tournament berth. The Irish had four players score in double figures, led by LaVere's 18 points on 8-of-10 shooting. Ratay added 16 points and nailed 10-of­11 free throws. 
The game was somewhat slop­py, as the two teams combined for 42 fouls and 56 free throws. 
Pittsburgh took their first lead of the second half at 39-38 with 
17:23 to play. 

But the Irish responded with a Batteast layup on their next pos­session and never trailed again. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to as many as 14 with 7: 17 left before Pittsburgh made one final 11-3 run to cut the lead to six. 
But the Irish held on down the stretch and improved to 11-3 in games decided by 10 points or less this season. It was also Notre Dame's fourth straight win. 
The No. 11 seed in the East, the Irish will head to Manhattan, Kan. for a first round NCAA Tournament game against No. 6 seed Arizona March 23 at 7 p.m. The Wildcats are 22-8 on the sea­son. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
en 
MENS TENNIS 
BASEBALL
FENCING 

WOMENS LAX
HOCKEY 

SOFTBALL 
I.LI 

The Irish were elimi-
The Notre Dame 
During their road trip 

At its two road
Thanks to two consec-

As a result of foul
I­
a:sc., 

nated from the 
mens and women each 
to Florida, the Irish won 

weather and foul health 
games, the Irish won by
utive shutouts by goalie 

Blue/Gray Classic in 
qualified the maximum 
six of their seven games 
Morgan Cey, the Irish 

on the Irish squad, the 
two very different 
Alabama over spring 
number of fencers for 
over break at the Kennel 
advanced to the Super 

Irish dropped several 
results -a close match 
c.::s 

break, falling to Boise 
the NCAA Tournament, 
Club Classic in 
Six of the CCHA play-

games over break. 
at Boston College and a 
D. ti er: 
State and Tulsa. 
which is held this week. 
Ja~ksonville. 
offs. 

blowout at Ohio. 
en page 18 
page 24 
page 26 
page 23 

page 20
page 25 






