--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 58 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER21. 2003 
TCE issue remains under debate 
Faculty offers mixed responses about publishing results 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
The Student Government pro­posal to publish Teacher Course 
f 
Evaluations is arousing mixed opinions among faculty mem­bers, who think TCE publica­tion may merely serve as a way for students to find easy class­es. Some faculty members also worry about professors giving higher grades in exchange for better evaluations and are con­cerned about the issue of confi­dentiality of the TCE, which fac­tors into earning promotions and tenure. 
One common sentiment among both students and pro­fessors is that comprehensive information about professors should be available to students. The disagreement is over how 
see TCE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Club sets for Asian Allure 
By KATE GALES News Writer 

The Asian-American Assoc­iation will present their cul­tural performance "Asian Allure" at 7 p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 22 at the Century Center. 
Under the direction of AAA President and Asian Allure programs director and stage Manager Ryan Leung, a vari­ety of cultural groups on cam­pus will present an assort­ment of acts celebrating Asian life. 
"Asian Allure showcases Asian culture and beauty through showing different acts from different cultures, tied in with a fashion show [illustrating] Asian beauty and the beauty of diversity," 
see ALLURE/page 6 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
In an effort to promote intel­lectual discussion on campus, assistant professor of political science Dan Lindley will have lunch with students today to discuss current events in international relations. 
The Current Events Table in South Dining Hall will be spon­sored by the Kroc Institute for 
depending on the availability of space. 
Lindley said that while his immediate goal is to encour­age debate of international issues, he has a broader cause in mind. 
"My mission is to break down the bubble and to fostf'r intellectual life on campus," Lindley said. 
Lindley said he hopes a broad range of students will attend and participate in the discussion. 
"You might have a ROTC person sitting next to a Pax 

Academic Council 
forms committee to 

consider proposal 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
In order to better evaluate the issue of publishing Teacher Course Evaluations for student use, the Academic Council has formed an ad hoc committee to evaluate the Student Government proposal. 

Jeremy Staley, chairper­son of the Academic Committee in the Office of the Student Body President, is chairing the Student Government committee working on the TCE propos­al. Staley said the new Academic Council commit­tee has not yet set a date for their first meeting, but he -is prepared to present his plans whenever that time 
A student puts a TCE form Into a TCE drop box. If proposed changes are approved, TCE results will be published. see PROPOSAL/page 4 

Professor prepares for 
current events lunch 
International relations will be discussed 

International ..You might have a 
the current

Peace Studies. 
ROTC person Miami negotia­
The lunch will 
sitting next to a tions for the Free
be held from 11 
Trade Area of the 

a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Pax Christi person. 
Americas -will

in either the 
I think that,d be likely be includ­
northwest corner 
great.,, ed.
(right-right) or 
Lindley said he

northeast corner 
aims to make the

(left-left) of South Dan Lindley 
lunchtime forums

Dining Hall, 
professor a monthly event, 
Christi person," he said. "I think that'd be great." 
Senior Lauren Fowler was excited about the prospects for discussion. 
"Professor Lindley is quite possibly one of the most intel­ligent professors on campus," she said. "[The lunch] will be quite beneficial to the univer­sity." 
Topics will include the gamut of international relations, though some domestic issues with an interna­tional tint -like 
or possibly more 
frequently. 

"We'll have them more often if other faculty members jump on." 
He joked that the event was a cost-effective one for the Kroc Institute, which recently received a $50 million bequest from philanthropist Joan Kroc. 
"They spent $30 on the sign and any faculty member can get free meal tickets from the dean," Lindley quipped. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



NO students move off-campus 
Housing shortage contributes to off­campus popularity 
By TERESA FRALISH Assistant News Editor 
As increasing numbers of Notre Dame seniors opt for off-campus housing, the trend of declining amounts of undergraduates living in the residence halls poses a major problem for Notre Dame. 
For a University that prides itself on the quality of its resi­dence hall system, the trend toward off campus housing is problematic. 
Scott Kachmarik, associate director of residence life, said about 52 percent of current Notre Dame seniors live off campus. 
Because on campus housing for Notre Dame currently stands at 101 percent capaci­ty, a certain number of stu­dents must live off campus each year to allow the University to meet the demand for housing. 
"We need about 1600 stu­dents every year to move off campus," Kachmarik said. 
Since the freshmen and jun­ior classes are larger than normal, Kachmarik said the housing crunch would likely continue for the next several years. 
The University has also seen an increase in the amount of sophomores and juniors who choose to live off campus, Kachmarik said. 
Over the past 10 years, the diction." 

As part of an attempt to keep more of its seniors on campus, Notre Dame's sister school Saint Mary's has opted to build on campus apart­ments that are set to open next year with space for 70 occupants. In this decision, Saint Mary's joins a growing number of colleges and uni­versities that have provided on campus apartments for their students. 
Students said they are excit­ed about the chance to remain 
see HOUSING/page 6 
percentage of undergraduate students living on campus has declined 5 percent to its cur­rent level of 76 percent, according to the University's strategic plan Web site. Traditionally, about 82 to 83 percent of undergraduates live on campus. 
Many students say they sim­ply want the increased free­dom of living off campus. 
"It's a chance to have your own place," said junior Phil Koesterer, who plans to move off campus next year. "The entire idea for me is getting outside of Notre Dame's juris­
. . 

. . . . J 
' : 
. . . . ' 
Friday, November 21, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Macaroni and... 

Now that football fans everywhere are done cursing or cheering at their TV screens, depending on what they think of mid-majors in NCAA Division 1 football, .I think it's high time for a few cheers of "Macaroni!" 
Oh, wait, wrong situation. But if you feel com­pelled enough, and the dining hall food just isn't getting you over the proverbial hump (again), feel free. 
Seriously though, football season is starting to get serious. Ohio State plays Michigan tomorrow, and that's never insignificant. 
Growing up an Ohio State fan (and probably still having a little of that in me), it's pretty cool watching scarlet and grey uniforms beat maize and blue uniforms to a pulp. 
Maybe this year they could use marshmallows to do so? Those cer­tainly seem to be considered lethal instruments around here... 
Nah, I think everything's positively peachy on that front. Now we just need to be ready to buy impressive "ND" labeled styrofoam cups next season, since water bottles are a hazard as well. 
I've been hit with several of those over my time here at Notre Dame, so I suppose one could say the issue hits home for me. 
Of course, I've waited until the season ended to say any of this, since I'm not a fan of RoboUsher coming to kick me out of the Stadium for supposedly throwing marshmallows -from the sopho­more section. What's it take to get a rimshot around here nowadays? 
Now, before someone sets their sights on writing me a nice long let­ter -that's right, hold your horses, Cappy-I really don't care that much about marshmallows or the lack thereof at games, regardless of the reason they're missing. 
Unless, of course, they're in the middle of s'mores. Take s'mores away, and then I'll fight. 
Ah, who am I kidding? A pile of Honey Maid boxes, Hershey wrap­pers and Jet-Puff bags tossed on the steps of the Main Building and lit on fire just wouldn't get much done. 
Somehow, Save Our S'mores does­n't have much of a ring to it, either -at least one that anyone really important would listen to. 
Ooh, I know! I can petition Student Government to get started on the "S'more Saving Committee" now, as opposed to six months after the fact! 
Ahhh ... I think there's something slightly wrong with my reasoning facilities. Maybe it's just all the ethanol in the air... 
Well, time for me to go stick a feather in my cap -you fill in the rest. A sometime columnist I may be, Yankee Doodle I'm not. At least, not if one of the requirements is to "with the girls be handy" -this is Notre Dame, remember? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR THIS NON-FOOTBALL WEEKEND? 



Claire Holpkemler Debdeep Jena Diane Duran 
junior faculty freshman McGlinn off-campus Farley 
"Ifit weren't for "This is my last "Going to 
papers and weekend as a Chicago with illness I'd go to single man. JJ some friends." the SOA vigil in 
Georgia ... 

Berlin to get talking trash cans 
BERLIN -Fed up with garbage-strewn streets? Berlin thinks it has found a solution -trash cans that say thank you. 
Starting next spring, the German capital's trash service will build electron­ics into a handful of the city's 20,000 street-side wastebaskets that will allow them to speak or sing to the public, a spokesman said Thursday. 
"We want to encourage people in a nice, funny way to throw their trash in the baskets and not on the street," said the official, 
TODAY a:: 



KunaiSaxena Rich Whitney Tim Jaeger 
junior O'Neill 
"Chicago maybe.·· 


ADAM MIG LORE/The Observer 

Many students took advantage of the somewhat unseasonably warm weather Thursday to spend time outdoors, like these students on South Quad. With temper­atures In the mid-60's and sunny skies, frisbees and shorts made rare late­November appearances on campus. 
OFFBEAT 
Todd said he observed Keene picking up used cups from tables and refilling them without rinsing them at a Bud Light booth near the south end zone of Raymond James Stadium. 
"I've never seen anything like it," said Todd, who works stadium security at Buccaneers games. "Naturally, you think of health issues." 
Keene was a volunteer with a military retiree group manning the booth, but Todd did not know the exact name of the group. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Bernd Mueller. The talking trash cans -powered by solar cells -are meant to show that Berlin is "a mod­ern city with high-tech serv­ices, and that it is also very cosmopolitan," he added. 
Cops: Bucs fans bought beer In used cups 
TAMPA -A concessions worker filled used plastic cups with beer and resold them at Sunday's Tampa Bay Buccaneers game and pocketed $1 ,080 in unre­ported sales, police said. 
John Angelus Keene, 68, was charged with felony grand theft, said Tampa police Detective Bill Todd. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
UJ 
:::c 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
.... 
c( 
CJ 



0 
..J HIGH 55 HIGH HIGH HIGH 62 LOW 43 LOW LOW LOW 37 


sophomore sophomore Stanford Dillon 
"Going to ..Just go have 
Windsor. fun. .. Canada." 
IN BRIEF 
Author Antonia Logue will be reading from "Say of What You See in the Dark" today from 3 to 4 p.m. in 424 Flanner Hall. Her reading is sponsored by the Keough Institute. 
From 8 to 9 p.m. the Moreau Seminary Chapel will host the ND Collegium Musicum, directed by Daniel Stowe, pre­senting a concert of sacred choral works. Admission to the concert is free. 
RecSports is holding extra drop-in badminton hours from 7 to 10:30 p.m. at Holfs Sports & Recreation Center's Court 2. All are welcome to participate. 
"Pirates of the Caribbean" is showing at 8 and 10:30 p.m. tonight courtesy of the Student Union Board. Tickets may be purchased at the door for $3. 
Vienna Tang, featured recently on David Letterman's Late Show, will be in concert tonight at Legends. Doors open 
_at 8:30 p.m. with the show beginning at 9 p.m. 
Borracho Burrito welcomes off-campus students from 11 to 
12:30 tonight for a late-night snack. A discount on food of $4 will be given to students with 10. 
The Class of 2006 is sponsor­ing a trip to Chicago leaving at 
11:30 a.m. Saturday morning and returning that evening. Tickets are available at the LaFortune box office for soph­omores only. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
.. 


HIGH 40 LOW 22 

Atlanta 67 I 58 Boston 57 I 43 Chicago 56 I 37 Denver 65 I 27 Houston 71 I 50 los Angeles 80 I 57 Minneapolis 51 I 34 New York 63 I 55 Philadelphia 69 I 57 Phoenix 80 I 51 Seattle 56 I 35 St. Louis 65 I 41 Tampa 75 I 69 Washington 70 I 55 


Friday, November 21, 2003 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Protestors turn out en masse for Bush visit 
What's Your Sleeping IQ? 
Marisha Fortner 
A test that may be more challenging than you tl1ink! Are you getting enough sleep? Does it take you more than 30 minutes 
to fall asleep at night? Do you wake up frequently or too early or have a hard time going back to sleep? When you awaken, 
do you feel groggy and lethargic? Do you feel drowsy during the day particularly during a monotonous situation? If you 
answered "yes" to any of the these questions you may have a sleep debt. A recent NSS"Sieep in America" poll found that 
60% of American adults experience sleep problems. 
Sleep ... it's as fundamental to our health and well being as food, water and air. Sleep deprivation impacts both quality of life 
and health. In the past 25 years we have added a month to our average work/commute time and in the past century we 
have reduced our average time asleep by 20 percent. Our bodies have not changed but our society has and we are ipaying the price. For example, when sleep deprived, we are less alert & irritable. Our productivity is sabotaged because 
our JUdgement and ability to concentrate decreases. Did you know that most car accidents occur between 2am-6am? 
Feeling fully rested and energized constitutes a good nighfs sleep. In general, most healthy adults need an average of 8 hours a night but a more 
demanding day may require as many as 9 hours. So how do you know you're getting enough sleep? We have a natural clock that's regulated by an 
internal biological "clock" that runs on a cycle of about 24 hours. Some people are "owls" or more alert late in the day, others are "larks" or morning 
people-plan your activities accordingly with your own clock. Most people's clock is set to sleep at night, especially in the early morning hours between 
midnight and dawn. There is also a natural decline between 1-4pm, reserve this time for less critical activities i.e. checking e-mail, doing laundry. 
exercising or even taking a nap. A study at Harvard University showed that a 15-20 minute nap reverses information overload. It can also improve 
alertness and sharpen memory and ease the impact of lost sleep. But, a nap is just a short-term solution and not a substitute for a full night's sleep. 
Don't nap if you are having trouble falling asleep at night or staying asleep during the night.
1 
What you do during the day may interfere with how well you sleep at night as well. 
• 
Avoid caffeinated beverages for at least six hours before going to bed. • Avoid ~lcohol for at least two hours before bedtime. • Stress... considered to be the number one cause of short-term sleeping difficulties. Learn to manage and cope with stress. • Eating too much before bed or being hungry can make it difficult to sleep. Keep your last meal light and enjoy a small snack before bedtime. • Say good~bye to n~cotine! Research suggests that it's linked to problems waking up and difficulty falling asleep. • Exercise regularly, and if possible, in the late afternoon. 

• 
Get up at the same time every day regardless of when you went to sleep & utilize a nap if tired. • If taking medication, check the label for any sleep side effects. • Your bed is for sleeping only! No more studying, reading or watching tv before bedtime! 


How do I fix a sleep debt? On your next vacation go to bed when you feel tired (even if it's 9pm) and get up whenever you're ready with no alarm clock. 1 Sleep until you are slept out. It may take a few days to get rid of the sleep debt you've accumulated. After you've accomplished this your body will tell 'you how much sleep you need on a regular basis. If you don't have a vacation coming up, then get up at the same time everyday, even on the 
weekends and vary the times you go to bed until you've discovered how much sleep is enough for you to feel restored and ready to face the day 
Look for our quiz "Sleeping and Driving Don't Mix" in today's Observer. Send your answers to UBWell2@nd.edu by midnight Sunday, November 23 and you'll be entered to win one of three "Health Solutions for Sleep" kit. Don't forget to include your full name, campus phone number and address! 

Associated Press 
LONDON -Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched through the heart of London on Thursday, toppling a 17 -foot tall papier mache statue of President Bush and burning his life-size effigy to show their anger for the Iraq war and Prime Minister Tony Blair's support of the inva­sion. 
As Bush and Blair vowed "not to flinch or give way or concede one inch" to terrorism in the wake of deadly bombings against British targets in Turkey, protesters said the close rela­tionship between the two leaders made them deeply uneasy. 
"We're angry that Bush appears to be leading our coun­try," said marcher Ted Edwards. "Why Blair is allying himself to Bush I do not know." 
Many in the crowd said Thursday's bombings in Istanbul, which killed more than two dozen people, strengthened their resolve to oppose U.S.­British policy in Iraq. 
"There have been more and more bombings since the action in Iraq and more terrorism," said Mischa Gorris, a 37 -year­old London lawyer. "You will never change the hearts and minds of terrorists by bombing them. This is what you will get." 
Amid chants, the blast of foghorns and the beat of drums, protesters marched past the Houses of Parliament and through the heart of governmen­tal London to Trafalgar Square. 
The march took almost two 
hours to clear its starting point 
at the University of London. The 
Stop the War Coalition, which 
organized the march,. said 
200,000 people participated; the 
police estimate was 70,000. 
As the work day ended, many people who had not marched joined a rally in Trafalgar Square, where the bronze-paint­ed statue of Bush was toppled to wild applause -a mocking ref­erence to the toppling of Saddam Hussein's statue after coalition troops took control of Baghdad on April9. 
After sundown, protesters burned placards and at least one life-size effigy of Bush. The 17­foot papier mache statue was shredded by organizers and given out to the crowd. 
The protests were generally orderly, but as night fell police struggled to contain a few hun­dred demonstrators who broke away from the Trafalgar Square rally and darted down a nearby street. Officers linked arms sur­rounding the protesters and arrested several who refused to move ofTthe road. 
Other groups headed toward Regent's Park where Bush was hosting a dinner for Queen Elizabeth II at Winfield House, the home of U.S. Ambassador to Britain William Farish. 
Police outside the grounds of the mansion handcuffed and searched two men after protest­ers tried to jump the fence into 
the neighboring gardens. The 
men were bundled into police 
vans and officers scoured the 
gardens with flashlights for 
more possible intruders. 
When the queen and the presi­dent drove away from the man­sion after the dinner, around 15 protesters waiting outside shout­ed "terrorist!" 
Despite the general peaceful­ness of the demonstrations, police reported two officers had required treatment for injuries. 
Opposition to the Iraq war, and Britain's role as the largest part­ner of the United States, has been strong and vocal in Britain. The largest protest, in February, drew about a million people. 
Security, which has been tight for Bush's state visit, was intense on Thursday, with more than 5,000 officers on duty in London. Rows of yellow-jacketed officers lined the march route. 
Protests during Bush's visit have been largely trouble-free. Police said about 50 people were arrested on charges that includ­ed theft. drunkenness and drug possession. 
As marchers chanting "George Bush, terrorist" made their way through a business district, a few scuffled with three Bush supporters holding U.S. flags and a sign saying "support America." Police quickly inter­vened and hustled the three counter-demonstrators into a nearby building. 
"I think it's a disgrace that these people are basically siding 

Photo courtesy of Newscom Many protestors In London wore costumes and held signs Intended to ridicule President George Bush and U.S. policies. British pollee estimated 70,000 people attended the protests. 
with Saddam Hussein and al­ gist who lives in London.  
Qaida," said one of the three,  Protesters said they  were  
Robert  Temple  of  London.  uncomfortable with Blair's rela­ 
"Where were they when [former  tionship with Bush. Some plac­ 
Romanian  dictator  Nicolae]  ards referred to Blair as Bush's  
Ceausescu came to town and  "poodle."  
why  aren't  they protesting  The protests did not appear to  
against the people who blew up  faze the president.  
Turkey today?"  "Freedom is beautiful," Bush  
But some protesters said U.S.­ said Thursday, adding he was  
British policy in Iraq was helping  happy to be in a country where  
fuel terrorist attacks.  people were allowed to speak  
"It wouldn't have happened  ·  their minds freely. "All I know is  
without Iraq.... America is ere- that people in Baghdad weren't  
ating their own terrorists," said  allowed to do this until recent  
Ziggy Dlabal, a German sociolo­ history."  


page 4 Th( ObsmJ(r + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 2003 
TCE 
continued from page 1 
to organize that information, and many professors feel the TCE in its current form is not the best way to do that. 
Biology professor Martin Tenniswood is in support of the proposal. 
"I don't really understand why anyone would be concerned about it being secretive," he said. Tenniswood said the main issue in the debate is how stu­dents and administration will use the published TCE results. 
The University of Ottawa, where Tenniswood previously taught, has published their equivalent of the TCE for over 50 years. He said the institution even went as far as to post the five highest and lowest evalua­tions in each department. Those professors posted in the lowest category never allowed them­selves to show up there more than once, said Tenniswood. 
Clive Neal, associate professor in the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, said published TCE's would have two effects: "One, it allows students to avoid a hard class. On the other hand, it holds professors more account­able." 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean for the College of Arts and Letters, sat on the Academic Council in the mid -1990s when a similar proposal was written by Student Government. "There is more predilection this time than there was [in the mid-90s] in trying to find a way to get information to students," said Preacher. 
Preacher said that for the pro­posal to be successful, students will need to find a way to distill the TCE's into a digestible for­mat. "It's going to mean a lot of work on the students' part and on the faculty's part," she said. Preacher noted that publication of such reports at other schools, like Harvard, have been organ­ized by students. 
"There is a reasonable hesita­tion in publishing the TCE's in their present form," she said. "The data in present form can be subjective." 
Preacher added that the issue of confidentiality is at the heart of the debate because faculty jobs partially depend on the results of TCE's. "This is a really difficult, complicated issue." 
Currently, the TCE results are compiled by the University's Office of Institutional Research and are then given to respective professors, deans, and depart­ment chairs. Since students are not allowed to see the compiled results of the TCE's, they must turn to other media for informa­tion about professors. Traditional word of mouth is one useful method and another is surfing the Internet. Students can obtain a rudimentary evalu­ation of some professors through the student-run website NDtoday.com, but the site's pro­fessor evaluations are not as comprehensive as the TCE and are not available for all profes­sors. 
Jeremy Staley, chairperson of the Academic Committee in the Office of the Student Body President, and the person in charge of the proposal, sees the popularity of NDtoday.com as an indication of the need for students to know about a pro­fessor before jumping into a class. He also thinks the University could do better. 
"The University could provide something much more complete that could better serve stu­dents," he said. 
In regard to faculty concerns about TCE publication, Staley believes they have greatly underestimated the quality of students and professors at Notre Dame. 
"The typical student attracted to this university seeks an edu-­cation of a caliber and compre­hensiveness far beyond what any grade-point-average could provide. Instructors who would resort to grade inflation in hopes of higher TCE evaluations would be easily identifiable by administrators," said Staley in his proposal draft for TCE publi­cation. 
If the proposal is approved, Student Government plans to publish the TCE results on Irishlink so they would only be available to members of the Notre Dame community. Staley said some schools. such as Brown and Northwestern, pub­lish their teacher evaluations on the Internet for anyone to see. 
In addition to the numerical results of the regular TCE ques­tions, the published results will include a space for professors to write any information about themselves that they feel stu­dents should know. This could include information about their teaching style, requirements for their courses, or possibly why their TCE's were particularly good or bad and how they will respond to those evaluations. 
By allowing professors an opportunity to tell students about themselves, Staley hopes to reassure faculty that TCE publication is a means for pro­ducing good matches between students and professors, not GPA boosting. If some profes­sors are still against the idea of TCE publication, Staley said they would be allowed to opt out of the process. 
If nothing else, Staley said he is satisfied with the dialogue motivated by the proposal. 
"It's healthy for the University to have this discussion," he said. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
do not make that information available to students-Notre
Proposal 

Dame is one of those three," said Staley. "The majority of
continued from page 1 

our peers are doing this; why comes. can't Notre Dame do the 
"We believe we have our same thing?" act together." said Staley. In mid-September, the "Since mid-September we've Student Government commit­
been waiting for these com­mittees to form 
so we can pres­"This preliminary ent our propos­research can act as 
al to them." 
a starting block for 
Staley has 
the Academic 
studied the TCE process and Council to further believes that by 
investigate. ,,
publishing them the University will Jeremy Staley help students Academic Division ere ate their 
chair 
own education. 
"This has the chance to impact every student on students. 

tee began the process of get­ting TCE's pub­lished by pre­senting their proposal to the University's Academic Council, which is chaired by University President Father Edward Malloy and includes mem­bers of the administration, faculty and four 
campus," Staley said. "It's a Staley hopes the proposal big issue because students will be approved by the end will be in a little more con­of spring semester at the lat­trol over their education." est. Ideally, he hopes it will 
ties. overhauling the 
Staley said he  take  no  more  
and other Student  "The  than a months.  couple One  
Government  Administration is  possibility that  
members have also researched TCE publication  not blatantly opposed.''  could lengthen the process is that faculty are  
at other "Top  discussing  the  
20" universi­ Jeremy Staley  prospect  of  

Academic Division

"This prelimi­TCE, which has 
chair

nary research been used at can act as a Notre Dame for starting block over 20 years. for the Academic Council to Staley is interested to see further investigate," said who will side with whom. as Staley. Duke University is one students, faculty and admin­"Top 20" university that has istration continue to discuss recently begun publishing the proposal. their teacher evaluations. so "The Administration is not Staley believes that may be a blatantly opposed." Staley good example for Notre said. Dame to follow. 
"Of the [Top] 20. we're sure Contact Kevin Allen at there are three schools that kallen@nd.edu 


Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Oixieway S., S.B. 574-272-7376 



TWO MEN ANOA 
TRUCK 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Pocking Supplies  
• Packing Service  •loading &Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57ll) 675-9700 
www.twomenandatrvck.com 
Visit Our Box Slots/ 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
lnternation:tll Education tweek 
On the occasion of International Education Week (November 17-21, 2003), the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Office of International Studies salute our students in languages and l'iteratures, our participants in international study programs, and all of our applicants for international fellowships. 
"We are all students of the world we live in, and today, our world is more interdependent than ever before. The challenges we face in areas such as security, democratic development, economics, and health cannot be addressed by any country acting alone. International education -learning about other cultures and languages through study, living overseas, and interacting with people of other countries -promotes the free exchange of ideas, allows us to seek joint solutions to problems, and helps create lasting partnerships to meet our shared concerns." Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
"Since the inception of International Education Week in November 2000, Americans have experienced several world events that should leave us with little doubt that we are living in an interconnected world. The need for understanding other cultures, languages, and global issues has become increasingly more significant. We should do our very best to give our students the skills they need to be successful global citizens." Secretary of Education Rod Paige. 


Friday, November 21, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's vvrRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chevron workers held hostage 
LAGOS, Nigeria -Ethnic militants reportedly armed with automatic weapons and hand grenades were holding 14 ChevronTexaco oil workers hostage aboard two ocean P.latforms off southeastern Ni~eria, company officials said Thursday. 
Four other workers were released by their captors late Wednesday, company spokesman Deji Haastrup said. All the cap­tives were Nigerian nationals . 
.!~e militants, members of an ethnic Ijaw militant group from the Foropa municipality of southeastern Bayelsa state, used speed­boats to capture ChevronTexaco's Middleton and Pennington oil platforms early Wednesday. 
Violence continues in Chechnya . VLADIKAVKAZ, Russia -Rebel attacks and land-mine blasts in Chechnya have killed four Russian soldiers, two Chechen police­men, and wounded 17 people in the past 24 hours, an official in the region's Moscow­backed ~dministration said Thursday. 
Two girls. aged 14 and 15, were wounded when an explosive went off along the road in Makhkety in the southern Vedeno region, the official said, speaking on cond.ition of anonymity. 
The Interfax-Military News Agency report­ed the girls were going home from school when a radio-controlled land mine exploded, lashing them with shrapnel and stones. Their condition was not immediately available. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Translator pleads innocent 
WORCESTER. Mass. -A former Guantanamo Bay translator arrested with classified documents in his luggage pleaded innocent Thursday in a brief appearance in federal court. 
Ahmed Fathy ·Mehalba, who has been in federal custody since his arrest Sept. 29 at Logan International Airport, was charged in a Nov. 12 indictment with gathering, trans­mitting or losing defense information and making false statements. 
Mehalba, 31, was arrested as he arrived at Logan after visiting his native Egypt. The government alleges he lied to federal investi­gators when he told them he was not carry­ing any government documents from Guantanamo Bay. Customs agents found 132 compact discs in his luggage, including one that contained hundreds of classified docu­ments labeled "SECRET," authorities said. 
Feds charge computer hackers 
WASHINGTON -Federal prosecutors have charged more th-an 125 suspected computer hackers, identity thieves and other cyber­space scammers in a nationwide crackdown on !nternet crime, law enforcement officials said Thursday. 
Those facing charges include run-of-the­mill counterfeiters and software pirates, as well as a man who illegally tried to sell ' Congressional Medals of Honor online and another man who hijacked the Web site of the al-Jazeera Arabic language news net­work to display a patriotic U.S. message. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Edwards criticizes Bush's policies 
INDIANAPOLIS -Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards, on a fund-raising stop in Indiana, said Thursday that President Bush's policies in Iraq are a failure. 
The North Carolina senator said the presi­dent had alienated other nations by taking unilateral military action in the invasion of Iraq. 
"We have to convince both NATO and the United Nations that America is willing to let go of the reigns of power," Ed wards said. 
"If we lead and bring coalitions together, it makes us more effective in addressing the world's problems." 
TURKEY 

Blasts kill 27 in nation's capital 
Attacks are worst in muslim country's history, Bush vows to stay on course 
Associated Press  
ISTANBUL-Suspected  
al-Qaida suicide bombers  
blew  up  trucks  packed  
with  explosives  at  the  
British consulate and ·a  
London-based  bank  
Thursday, killing at least·  
27 people and wounding  
nearly  450.  The  twin  
attacks  coincided  with  
President Bush's state visit  
to Britain.  
The blasts, just minutes  
apart, were the worst ter­ 
rorist bombings in this  
Muslim nation's history,  
and marked the second  
attacks in Turkey to be  
blamed  on  al-Qaida this  
week.  On  Saturday,  
bombers  struck  two  
lstanbu l  synagogues,  
killing 23 people.  
Turkey's security forces  
were  put on  highest alert,  
and  the  army  bri-efly  
deployed soldiers in the  
streets. Arab and other  
world leaders were swift to  
condemn the bombings in  
Turkey,  NATO's  only  
Muslim  member  and  a  
close ally of the United  
S,lates and Israel.  
Among Thursday's dead  
were  Consul-General  
Roger Short, Britain's top  
diplomat in Istanbul, and  
British diplomatic staff Agence France Presse  
member Lisa Hallworth. Injured people are evacuated from the HSBC bank building after It was rocked by  
Istanbul Gov. Muammer a bomb attack Thursday In lnstanbul. British Consul-General Roger Short was  
Guler said two other of the among the dead on the deadliest day of terror In Turkey's history. ·  
16 people killed at the con­ 
sulate were British, and  president said.  About 10 minutes later, a  crying and shouting for  
that the death toll  was  U.S. and Turkish officials  second  truck  crashed  their relatives.  
likely to rise.  said the bombings bore the  through the gate of the  Shattered glass littered  
"Once  again  we  are  marks of an al-Qaida oper­ British consulate five miles  the area.  
reminded of the evil these  ation, with near-simultane­ away in Beyoglu, a historic  "Cars were flying. there  
terrorists ROSe to people  ous timing and the use of  district  popular  with  was  blood everywhere,"  
everywhere and to our way  fertilizer-based explosives.  tourists.  The  vehicle  said Mehmet Dag, a  deliv­ 
of life," Prime Minister  The first pickup truck  looked like a food delivery  ery man who was just 100  
Tony Blair said in London,  exploded outside the head­ truck with the explosives  yards from the consulate.  
with President Bush by his  quarters  of HSBC,  the  in large metal food  con­ The explosion outside  
side. "The.re must be  no  world's  second-largest  tainers, the Anatolia news  the bank was so strong it  
holding back, no compro­ bank, shearing off the  agency reported.  scattered body parts and  
mise, no hesitation in con­ white facade of the 18­ The  blast  destroyed  bloodied pieces of charred  
fronting this menace."  story building and expos­ annexes to the main build­ metal across a  four-line  
Bush said the bombing  ing  the  gray  concrete  ing and tore apart a wall  highway in front of the  
showed "utter contempt  beneath. Windows were  surrounding  the  con­ building and into a  ceme­ 
for innocent life."  blown out and scraps of  sulate's garden. Wounded  tery. A policeman went  
"The terrorists hope to  white ceiling material dan­ people covered in dust and  · into the cemetery to collect  
intimidate, they hope to  gled, caught on torn elec­ blood staggered away from  body parts, includiq.g a  
demoralize. They are  not  trical wires swaying in the  the  area.  Two  women  charred, severed leg that  
going  to  succeed,"  the  breeze.  stood outside the consulate  he put inside a plastic bag.  

Free trade protesters clash with police 
union members. up against police lines and hurled
Associated Press Officials from 34 nations are taking water bottles at officers. Police MIAMI -Police in riot gear fired part in the Free Trade Area of the responded with tear gas and rubber 
rubber bullets and tear gas and used Americas talks in Miami this week. bullets. batons, plastic shields, concussion The goal is to reduce or eliminate The protesters threw up barricades grenades and stun guns in clashes trade barriers everywhere in the of wooden boards, concrete parking 
Thursday with hundreds of demon­Western Hemisphere except Cuba. blocks, trash bins and other materi­strators protesting talks aimed at ere-. Before the march, at least 1,000 als. ating a hemisphere-wide free-trade protesters-many wearing bandanas Police Chief John Timoney said the zone. across their faces, surgical masks and "rough start" to the day's protests At least 36 demonstrators were blue batting helmets -approached came because police were trying to arrested on charges including aggra­lines of police blocking downtown clear demonstrators who did not have vated assault, .unlawful assembly, streets. Others carried gas masks and permits to be in the streets. resisting arrest, trespassing and bur­tried to pull down security fences with The clashes delayed for more than glary. large hooks. · an hour the march organized by the Police said two officers suffered The officers used their batons most­nation's major unions, which arc also minor injuries. At least three demon­ly to push back the protesters but opposed to the proposed trade pact. strators were treated at. a hospital for occasionally used them to strike the The demonstrators say it would minor injuries. demonstrators. take thousands of American jobs to The clashes took place before and After the march, demonstrators set other countries, exploit cheap labor after a march by 8,000 to 10,000 small trash fires in the streets, pushed and drain natural resources. 
page 6 Friday, November 21, 2003 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
on campus but have additional space and freedom. College officials have not yet decided whether the apartments will be governed by the same policies as the residence halls. 
Because the College opted to provide the on campus apart­ment opportunity to its seniors, Saint Mary's will keep at least one more senior on campus. Junior Melissa Montoya said she hopes to live in the new apartments, and would defi­nitely consider moving off cam­pus otherwise. 
"We want the experience of living off campus," she said. 
Montoya said she does not hope to see the same residence hall policies put in place for the new apartments. 
"It's ridiculous to have pari­etals for seniors," she said. "If they want us to act like adults they should treat us as such." 
If Notre Dame chose to pro­vide seniors with other on campus housing options besides the residence halls. several students said they would highly consider staying on campus. 
"We loved the dorm. but we'd had enough," said Notre Dame senior Megan Horner. who lives at Turtle Creek. 
Both Horner and Koesterer said they might have consid­room configurations to allow ered such an option if any on students more space. In Farley 
Allure 

campus apartments were free and Cavanaugh, two triples 
from Residence Life policies. were converted into doubles. 
continued from page 1 

In dorms with limited Kachmarik hopes to see more amounts of singles such as changes, but is faced with a 
Leung said. Stanford, Lewis and Keenan, severe housing crunch. 
Troupe ND and the First students may choose to move "In order for us to do that, 
Class Steppers will also per­off campus to find increased we have to reduce occupancy 
form on Saturday evening. space. at a time when demand has 
"Our mission is to spread "Some students said if they never been higher," he said. 
diversity on campus. You weren't going to get a single Long term, Kachmarik said 
don't have to be Asian; you they would be he believes the 
just have to love it," Leung moving off cam-University will 
said. pus, said Mark need to build 
The show will include fan Thesing, rector of ..Some students more dorms to 
dance and modern Korean Keenan Hall, accommodate the 
pop music performed by the
said ifthey weren't 

which has only numbers of stu­
Korean Student Association,
going to get a

four singles. dents who want to 
a traditional dance by the Thesing said single they would live on campus. 
India/Pakistan Association, that having sen­be moving off According to the 
and performances from the iors, in addition University's 
Filipino-American Student
campus''

to the resident strategic plan 
Association, the Hawaii and assistants. choose Web site, Notre 
Guam Student Association, to stay in Keenan Mark Thesing Dame intends to 
the Japan Club and the was important implement a 10 
Vietnamese Student
Keenan rector 

for the atmos­phere of the dorm. 
"I think seniors add a great deal to the life of the dorm," he said. 
Students in dorms with more variety in room types said they might be more likely to stay on campus. 
"Last year I was in a quint," said junior Rebecca Tapp, who plans to stay on campus her senior year. "We had a really large common room." 
Kachmarik said Notre Dame has made some changes to 
. . . . 
·''Sleeping andDr.ivi.il.gDon't·MiX'' Quiz 
Answer True or False 
1
. Coffee overcomes the effects of drowsiness while driving. 

2. 
lean teU.when l'm·falting asleep. 3~ l'm a.safe driverso >itdoesntt matter if lfm 


·.sleepy. 4.. ·rcan't take naps. · 
5. 
I. getplentyofsleep. 


6. 
·Being.>sleepy makes you· misperceive things. 

7. 
Young people need less sleep. 



!'11~ot1Mtiu" ,.,..,IJlM•t bl( tl.~ Stu.p /1ta~t~~:;t>t\1'11t rfo..,,datl<ffl Send your answers to UBWell2®nd.edu by midnight 11/23 and you'll be entered to win one Qfthree "HealthSolutions for Sleep.. kit. Don'tforgettolncludeyour fu.Uname, campus 

Mon. Tues. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun. 

phone number ~1l<l address! . 
11 ~ 
·11t'11t.·,. .·.akees 
~·UB 
20-16 South Bend Ave 272-1766 Great Food -Great Fun 
Op<~n daily at 11:00 ~1onday night Joo.tball bucket specials 
"J)J" night and 2 for 4 specials 
32 oz specials 

Live music with Jason Sapen 9­12 Your college football headquar­ters NFL Ticket and all you can eat buffet at 5:00 for $5.95 
MtrST RE 21 \\'ITII \':\LID J.D. TO CONSlii\IE ALCOHOL 
percent bed 
Association. reduction, build 
The Chinese Culture four new resi­
Society plans to perform, dence facilities and consider 
and the Asian International the possibility of alternative 
Society will retell a famous types of senior housing, includ­
Chinese fairytale. "This is a ing co-ed housing, within the 
new element to the show," next 10 years. 
Leung said. "We've never Notre Dame requires all 
done storytelling. [The story freshmen to live on campus, 
is] told in a very enjoyable. while students who transfer to 
creative way and will be Notre Dame or return from a 
enjoyable to the audience." leave of absence are placed on 
The show will be told in a waiting list. 
eight lines. Six are themed around the cities of Hong Contact Teresa Fralish at 
Kong, Saigon, Manila, Seoul, tfralish@nd.edu 
Bombay and Tokyo. Tbe 
show begins in Los Angeles and ends in New York. 
Asian Allure has been going on since the mid­1990s, consistently selling out the Washington Hall the­atre. This year, the group moved off-campus to the Century Center. which seats 718. 
Although Leung expressed concerns that moving the show off-campus would deter some potential audi­ence members, the seven­dollar tickets sold out on Tuesday. 
"The show is mainly geared to the Notre Dame community," said Leung, "but we welcome people from South Bend and Michiana. We have people from other colleges coming, such as the University of Michigan and Purdue." 
AAA secured the venue of the show and invited clubs around campus to perform said Leung. 
"AAA is not exclusive to Asians," Leung said. "We welcome members of all eth­nicities and backgrounds and have members who aren't Asian. We're having fun and spreading awareness of 
· Asian culture. This has been our mission statement from the conception of the club." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

eno1moLLS 
FLEECE 
Selection. 
Sminutes~~ 
from CIUTPDST 
Campus~ 
Cold Weather Expert• 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL **SPRING BREAK** Book early and save $$! Live band & OJ, Hard body & Venus Swimwear contest, Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 800-488-8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
Quality 
Diamonds 

,J<>ltn M. Marsh:all's 
Inc-or}mra ted 
l\)(-):,) 
.Jewelers I GemologistsGoldsmiths/ Platinu1nsut.iths 
K·~~y Bank Building, Snite,-~101 South Bend, Indtana 4Hb0 1 
287-1427 



Friday, November 21, 2003 

page 7 


MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,619.42 -71.04
'one!' 

~-_.,A, 
· Up::... Same: Qown: Composite Volume: 1,259 179 • 1,281,735,040 
AMEX 1,0Ji7.11 :-J.6S .. )~ 
NASDAQ 1,881.92 -17.73 ::~ 
.·:::~NYSE. 5,924.78 -42.35 S&PSOO 1,033.65 -8.79 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 9,796.09 -69.61 fTSf IOO(London) 4,308.00 -19.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.99 INTEL COP.P (INTC) -2.12 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) -1.80 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -4.04 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.50 
, Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.20 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.91 5-YEAR NOTE -2.37 3-MONTH BILL -0.54 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Exchan Rates 

YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
IN BRIEF 
-0.25 25.10 -0.69 31.83 -0.06 • 3.28 -0.09 2.02 -0.11 21.94 
-0.61 SO. 19 -0.81 41.54 -0.76 31.33 -0.05 9.22 
-0.21 31.86 -1.20 393.70 -0.20 85.775 
109.1 
0.8408 
0.5872 
1.304 
Mutual fund faces fraud charges 
NEW YOHK -The founders of the Pilgrim 
naxter mutual l'und family were charged with 
civil fraud Thursday for allegedly making mil­
lions of dollars for themselves and friends in 
an improper trading scheme that hurt other 
fund shareholders. 
Gary Pilgrim and Howard Baxter were accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission and New York's attorney general of defrauding investors by allowing selected customers to make in-and-out trades prohibit­ed by fund policy. 
The charges mark the first time that mutual fund leadership has been directly charged in a trading scandal that has rapidly spread across the $7 trillion industry. Previously, regulators had tu.ken action against two former Putnam Investments portfolio managers, as well as the firm, but Putnams top executives were not directly accused. 
Authorities said it appears Gary Pilgrim ben­efited the most financially from the trades, while Baxter broke the law by allowing them. One trading arrangement netted more than $13 million in profits, including $3.9 million for Pilgrim, according to the SEC complaint. 
Employees will receive $1 OOK 
INDIANAPOLIS -Employees of Golden Rule Financial Corp. are expected to receive an average of about $100,000 from the fami­ly-owned company's sale to UnitedHcalth Group. 
The windfall is the result of an employee stock ownership plan Golden Rule started in 2001 to replace a profit-sharing plan and supplement a 401(k) retirement plan, The Indianapolis Star reported in a story Thursday. 
Golden Rule created a trust that borrowed money to buy stock in the privately held com­pany, and gave stock to employees as the loan was paid down. When UnitedHealth closed on the $500 million cash acquisition Nov. 1_3, the trust was able to pay off the $55 million loan and hand out the remaining stock. 
The stock was valued at $71 a share in a December 2002 appraisal and UnitedHealth paid $133 a share, sald Patrick Carr, Golden Rule's chief financial officer. 
Stocks drop following attacks 
Blasts in Turkey make traders nervous, employment numbers remain strong 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall 
Street retreated Thursday 
as a wave of terrorist 
attacks continued in 
Turkey with the bombings 
of HSBC bank and the 
British consulate. Upbeat 
reports on employment 
and the economy helped 
limit the market's losses. 

The Dow Jones industri­
al average fell in early 
trading and then rose as 
much as 35 points before 
pulling back again late in 
the day. Though the econ­
omy seems to be improv­
ing, analysts say renewed 
political uncertainty could 
keep indecisive investors 
from making major com­
mitments. 

"Investors are very 
nervous about continued 
terrorist activity, but at 
the same time, they are 
showing more confidence 
in the economy and the 
equity market," said Peter 
Dunay, · chief ma-rket 
strategist at Wall Street 
Access. "So we have a lit­
tle battle of the pros and 
cons here." 
The Dow closed down 

71.04, or 0.7 percent, at 
9,619.42, having declined 
in four of the previous five 
sessions. 
The broader market 
also finished lower. The 
Nasdaq composite index 
fell17.73, or 0.9 percent, 
to 1,881.92. The Standard 
& Poor's 500 index 
declined 8. 79, or 0.8 per­
cent, to 1 ,033.65. 
In Turkey, two truck bombs exploded outside London-based HSBC and the British consulate. killing at least 25 people and wounding nearly 400. The explosions, which came during President Bush's trip to Britain, 
were blamed on the al­Qaida terrorist network. 
Until this week, terror­ism had receded as a fac­tor in stock trading, but the bombings of two syn­agogues in Turkey over the weekend and Thursday's attacks reminded markets around the world of the danger that terrorist organiza-tions still pose. 


Perhaps adding to the uneasiness on Wall Street was the brief evacuation of the White House after birds or possibly atmos­phere disturbances trig­gered a false radar read­ing, which initially was thought to be an unautho­rized plane flying near the White House. 
But the economic news lent support to the mar­ket, and enabled the major indexes to move briefly into positive ground. 
The Labor Department reported that new jobless claims fell by a seasonally adjusted 15,000 to 355,000. The reading, which beat economists' estimates, marked the seventh straight week 
that claims have been below the 400,000 level that is associated with a weak job market. 
And the Conference Board said its Index of Leading Economic Indicators, the widely watched economic fore­casting gauge, increased 
0.4 percent to 113.6 last month compared to a flat reading in September. Analysts were expecting a more modest 0.2 percent rise. 
"It's all about the unrest as far as the terrorism," said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. "It's given people the excuse to stay away." 
He added that many investors, nervous that stock valuations might be 

a bit high after several months of advances, are being cautious to make sure they can end the year with gains. 
"The volume has crept to a standstill," Clark said. ··we need to see some kind of a change in terms of macroeconomic numbers or earnings guidance to get people back into the game here." 
Schering-Plough Corp. fell 72 cents to $15.28 after the drug company said its Polish subsidiary is being investigated by federal regulators. 
Hewlett-Packard Co. declined 7 5 cents to $21.59 even though the computer company posted a doubling of quarterly profits that beat analysts' expectations. 

Cell phone companies utilize gimmicks 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-Don't leave! Pick me! 
Cell phone companies are blan­keting the market with price cuts, extra minutes, premium services and sleek handsets to lure cus­tomers from rivals and make sure their own subscribers don't bolt come Monday. 
That is when new federal rules will begin that allow legions of dis­satisfied customers and bargain­hunters to switch wireless compa­nies without losing their cell num­bers. 
Wireless phone companies tried hard to block the rule from taking effect, but are trying to make the best of it now that it is here, baiting customers with some of the most generous deals ever. 
They are offering more minutes and cheaper rates, camera phones and other cutting-edge handsets, as well as enhanced features such as faster Internet connections and walkie-talkie services. 
T-Mobile, for example, expanded its free weekend calling feature to include all day Friday, the busiest calling day of the week. 
Sprint and Cingular have taken a similar tack, offering to roll back the start time for off-peak calling from 9 p.m. to 7 p.m. The option costs $5 a month at Sprint, and $7 at Cingular, which is also offering 500 extra minutes for customers to use if they exceed their monthly allotment. 
This week, AT&T Wireless unveiled major upgrades in speed and features for its wireless data services. Next, the company plans to cut the charges for calls above a subscriber's monthly allowance to 8 or 9 cents per minute, down from 25 to 40 cents. Previously, it also halved the charge for extra phones on an account to $9.99 a month. 
Also this week, Sprint launched an aggressively priced walkie-talkie service, an area long dominated by Nextel, which along with Verizon Wireless has generally stood on the sidelines of the marketing frenzy. 

----~J 
-
November 21, 2003

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

• 
Friday, November 21, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress sends Syria legislation to President 
Associated Pn:ss 
WASHINGTON -Congress passed legislation Thursday to impose economic penalties against Syria, reflecting broad agreement among lawmakers that Syria has been a detri­ment to the fight against ter­rorism in the Middle East and Iraq. 
President Bush is expected to sign the bill even though he is not enthusiastic about such restraints on his foreign policy. The measure requires the president to act if Syria does not make significant steps to reverse its tolerance and sup­port of anti-American forces. 
The House voted 408-8 in favor of a Senate-amended version oirthe legislation that, at the urging of the White House, gives the president greater leeway to waive the punishment on the basis of national security. 
"The Syrian regime has the blood of Americans on their hands," said Rep; Ileana Ros­Lehtinen, R-Fla. Administration officials agree, she said, that "Syria is on the wrong side of history and now it is time for it to suffer the consequences." 
Syria long has been on the State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism, along with North Korea, Sudan, Cuba, Iran and Libya.· But Syria is the only country on that list to have full diplomatic relations with the United States. 
Awarding normal relations to Syria never made any sense, said Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., a lead sponsor of the bill. Congress is saying to Syria in the legislation that "the time is up ... we are not coddling you any more," Engel said. 

U.S. officials acknowledge that Syria, at Washington's prodding, has taken steps to prevent anti-American terror­ists and weapons from crossing its border with Iraq. But law­makers said the Damascus government has fallen shor! in numerous other areas. 
The legislation notes that Syria has provided a safe haven for anti-Israel terrorist groups such as Hamas and Islamic Jihad and is accused of pursuing the development and production of biological and chemical weapons. 
The bill states that Syria must end its support of terror­ists, terminate its 27 -year mili­tary presence in Lebanon, stop efforts to obtain or produce weapons of mass destruction and long-range ballistic mis­siles and interdict terrorists and weapons from entering Iraq. 
If Syria fails to meet those conditions, the president must ban sales of dual-use items, which can have both civilian and military applications. 
He also must impose at least two out of a list of six possible penalties: a ban on exports to Syria, prohibition of U.S. busi­nesses' operating in Syria, restrictions on Syrian diplo­mats in the United States, lim­its on Syrian airline flights in the United States, reduction of diplomatic contacts or a freeze on Syrian assets in the United States. 
"I can Account 

Sniper jury sees tapes,. car 
Associated Press 
VIRGINIA BEACH -Jurors deciding the fate of sniper John Allen Muhammad saw a softer side of the convicted murderer Thursday, watching a home movie in which he plays with his children and encourages them to take their first steps. But prosecutors said "that per­son no longer exists." 
The jury was to begin delib­erating Friday on whether Muhammad should live or die for masterminding the Washington-area sniper spree last year. Muhammad was con­victed Monday of two murder counts related to the wave of killings that left 10 people dead and three wounded. 
The 42-year-old Army veter­an appeared glum as he watched the five-minute video Thursday, alternately wearing a frown and hanging his head. 
"You can walk. Now go ahead and walk to daddy," he says on the tape as one of his daugh­ters takes her first steps. In another clip, Muhammad says to the girl, "Let me see the teeth" and the girl flashes two baby teeth and a big smile. 
But prosecutors said during closing arguments in the trial's penalty phase that evidence about Muhammad once being a good family man is irrelevant stacked against the terror of last year's killing spree. 
"That person no longer exists.... That person was mur­dered by this individual just as viciously and just as completely as everybody else," Willett said, pointing to Muhammad. "This is not a question of whether there once was a good father, whether there once was a good husband." 
even make Student Payments at the 
The tape was played immedi­ately after Muhammad's sister, Aurolyn Williams, described the difficult circumstances of their early childhood. Their mother died of breast cancer when Muhammad was 3 and was in constant grief because they could not afford pain med­ication for her. 
"She'd lay there and cry and moan. John would sleep in bed with my mom," Williams said. "He loved his mom. That was our backbone. That was all we had. He was like a cat with kit­tens." 
Sniper sus­pect Lee Boyd 
Malvo, 18. is on "I fell to the ground intended to shoot a trial separately busload of children 
... I thought I was 
in nearby but the buses
going to die ... 
Chesapeake. pulled in the wrong His attorneys way at the school. do not dispute Iran Brown Stracke said. that he took sniper shooting victim Stracke also said 

LaFortune Branch. It doesn't get more convenient than that." 
'§.. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Student Account Payments! (In the LaFortune Student Center for your convenience) 
L--------------------. ---------------·-------------------------------------~---.. ------­

!'­
part in the sniper attacks, but contend he was brainwashed by Muhammad and is innocent by reason ofinsanity. 
At his trial, 14-year-old Iran Brown testified Thursday that he thought he was going to die when he was hit by a bullet as he arrived at Tasker Middle School in Bowie, Md., on Oct. 7. 2002. Brown, who was 13 at the time, was the only child shot during the spree. 
"My aunt drove me to school. I got out of the car, and I got shot," Brown said, speaking in an emotionless monotone. 
"I heard a big bang and then I fell to the ground. Then I felt a burn," said Brown. · 
"I thought I was going to die," he added. 
In other testimony, a guard at a Baltimore prison where 


DUTPCIST 

Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

CaU 259·1ooo for more details 
Malvo was taken after he was arrested testified that the teenager told him he shot Linda Franklin "because she was standing there, lazy." 
"He said he blew her head off." Joseph Stracke said. Malvo is being tried for the Oct. 14, 2002, shooting of Franklin outside a Home Depot in Fairfax. 
Stracke also said that Malvo told him he shot Brown to make then-Montgomery County, Md. police Chief Charles Moose upset. 
Malvo said the 
day Brown was 
shot, he initially 
Malvo told him that 
Muhammad would 
give him the go­ahead on a walkie-talkie before a shot. Malvo said at one time he was goiiJ.g to shoot a preg­nant woman in a cemetery in Baltimore but that Muhammad called it off because there was a police helicopter overhead, Stracke said. 
Malvo was smiling, proud and polite and spoke very well but "showed no remorse," Stracke said. 
Also Thursday, the Malvo jury took a field trip to a jail near the courthouse to look at the 1990 Chevrolet Caprice that Muhammad and Malvo are believed to have been driving during the shootings. 
Prosecutors say the car was used as a killing platform. with a back seat that lifted up to allow access to the trunk. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL **SPRING BREAK** Book early and save $$! Live band & DJ, Hard body & Venus Swimwear contest, Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 800-488-8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
$1 0 Reserved Seats $9 Senior Citizens $7 All Students 

Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20 Friday, November 21 Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23 
Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCardNisa orders call 574-63 1-8128. 

-


THE OBSERVER 

Support women's Bouts
111•/ntbpm"-' (>llit,N""'P"P" Mrnt1f~l>.,.yDHI$1PniM,.Y• . 
P.O. B~Q; N~,re ~· Il'fMi556 024 Si7uili Dilling Hiill; Notte o;nne; 1N4~55(; ,... 
For over 70 years, Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts have rep­Women have been working in the Bengal Bouts training 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

resented one of the most unique and admirable charity for nearly a decade and it is only appropriate that they Andrew Soukup events in the country and one of the most popular exhibi­finally have their own charity match. In past years the malP MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER tions at the University. competitors have overshadowed the women, but, because of Scotr Brodftl<:hrcr Lori l,.ewalski Bengal Bouts started in 1931 and raises money for the the hard work of the presidents of the club, the women 1\!.ST, MANAGING EDil'OR Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Amateur student boxers finally received the publicity they deserve as over 400 peo­Sheila Flynn compete against each other in different weight classes for a ple watched last night's fights chance to win a boxing title. But not until Those involved with the event this year 
N.E\VS EmmR: Meghanne Downes 

1997 were women allowed to train with the should help the women's club continue the
O
Jhe
. VIEWPOINT EDITOR: TetC$4 fraJish 
development of their own Bengal Bouts in the
men. userver 
·.··SPORn EoiroR: }Qe. Hettler future. Next year, women should be allowed to
Last year. the women were able to host SCENE EotTOII.:. $arah VabuW contend in matches similar to the men's com­
exhibition matches for the first time. although SAINT MARYs Eorroa: Armdiese WooJfohi petition-with weight classes, scored rounds
Editorial
the matches were not scored. 

PHQ'I'O .Ep1'1'()1C Tun kaemaf.. and a tournament-style format, including a 
. . This year, women's boxing separated com­GRAPHiCS EDITOR: Mike Harkin~· • pletely from men's and Thursday, the club culminated eight winner for each class. That is the natural next step and ADVEtrrlSING MANAGER! Maura Cenedella ·•· weeks of training when 38 women boxed in 19 scored exhi­Bengal Bouts officials, RecSports and presidents of the AD DESIGN MANAGER: TQm Haight bition matches that raised money for a new charity. men's and women's club should make that a reality next SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Te<i Bangerr Officials of Bengals Bouts, RecSports and the members of year. WEB ADMINISTRATOR: J=n Creek the men's women's boxing club should be commended for Notre Dame has a strong tradition of hosting unique CoNTROLI.ER: Mike Flanag-.tn making the women's part of Bengal Bouts a separate func­events on its campus-including interhall football, tion this year. Not only does it give more exposure to the Bookstore Basketball and Bengal Bouts. By havi~ the 
CONTACT Us 

women boxers. it also continues a great tradition of charity women's club become separate from the men's, the OFfiCE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO work for Notre Dame students as the women will be boxing University is helping make a great tradition that much bet­(574} 631,7471
FAX . 
for a girls sports club in Honduras.' ter. < (574} 631~69.27 <> ··•···• . .
<• ·AovB:!TtstNG-o• ....... .· 
(574)63l~9QQ. obseiY<,ld@J)d.#dli 

.. ............... (~~~j~~~~~~2 .: >.................· MANAGIH~ EDITOR & ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR .... 
Remembering
•{574}631-4541 .· obsme@ri(Ledu · ·· ·· · BuSINESS OFFICE 
(574}631-<5313 . NEWS DESK . (574} 631-5323. obsnews;l @nd.edu. 

President Kennedy's assassination 
. . VIEWPOINT DESK . (574) 6.~1-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 

I 
{)74}631-454J ~ports.J@nd.e4u In the early afternoon of a sunny Eisenhower couple during the laid back huddled around the small radio. We stu­. . .· ·..• • . SCENE DESK .. • . November Friday, immediately following a 1950s. John and Jacqueline Kennedy gave dents sat quietly as we strained to hear the 
... .. .... (574}631-454~ scen~.l@od.edu. hope to the nation, made us feel young reports. It was only ten minutes later
typical school lunch featuring tuna boats, I sat in the third seat from the front along and vibrant again in the early 1960s. They when I heard, "It's officiaL The President
I :-:~:.:::!:::::::::,.:•:•:t1-1_tt::{5Z41••~.3~;~H\z:+sr:~nd•.¢4.ti•:•:.:•·.•:...•:.···.·-··-···· .· .....·. the row of\.vindows in my seventh grade ofthe United States is dead."
brought style and glamour to the White classroom. I House. They were American.role models My English teacher ran from the room in
~;=·=;~l=!=~:·=::=·•ii·r=•===:=·:~~I7tis~~;alu~E& X:f~~+~f~·::-'=·-=··-···· -: 
liked that seat to emulate who gave us a sense of national tears. The other teachers slowly left in
t 
.....·..·.·.·....::··· :){:~:<· (~:7:4}_6,_~:788~?. Gary Caruso
where I could pride. silence. When the bell rang to change
~ 
l 
glare out at the That pride in the president drove my classes, I headed down the hall for my
••·•·······••·.r L.·:••;:•...oi\StR\ll:~·bNLJN~!i <·••.<•·········· 
railroad tracks father to drag me to see President English class. Nobody spoke in the hall­
Capitol

..· • ...... wwYI.ndsmcobserver.conf ·· beyond the Kennedy campaign. On a Saturday in way. It was like a walk through the parking lot and Comments October of 1962, during the height of the Twilight Zone. Students walked in a daze PouciEs · the dairy farm Cuban missile crisis which only the White without shouting, without laughter, with­
·The Observeris·rhe independ~rtr, daily newspaper • on the other House knew at the time. Kennedy came to out poking at each other. Only the shuffiing pubIished 1n print andonline hy the stu~entsofthe · side of those tracks. I eagerly awaited for the Pittsburgh area to campaign for of feet and the creaking of the old wooden Unlvc.;r>il}' ofNo1.reDa.n1e du Uc and SiuntMatys . 
freight trains to roar by so that classes Democrats running for governor and U.S. hallway floor could be heard. 
Coi!Cgt;. &iil:oriafUnrellt, iriduding adveroSerilen~.js·. 
would stop because the noise was deafen­Senate. I stood three feet from Kennedy as For me, only once since that Friday 40 
nor governed by polides ofthe adminisuadotl ofeither · · 
ing. It was a Friday like so many before. It he sat on the trunk of a convertible during years ago has silence so absolutely domi­
institution. The Observe: reserves the right: to refuse 
was Nov. 22, 1963. the motorcade. So a year later I ~as nated the day, and that was after the Sept. My seat was located exactly between shocked for the first time in my life when I 11 attacks when federal workers walked
..·.·.·····~tZe:Z~1re1~~itdf·~a·~bjectively•~•••·•••·•..!·
<pos£ibl~; Uruigncii editi>riak reprcsenfthe ()pinion 9f two large \\-indows. A photograph of heard of Kennedy's assassination in my from downtown Washington past my President John F. Kennedy hung on the classroom. home. Before those attacks, the two wall between those two windows and While I sat wishing I was already in my moments in American history that we directly above my head. I had never next period class, my English teacher marked our whereabouts were the Pearl
iliill8l~~/' 
thought twice about the president's official barged into the room and whispered to my Harbor attack and Kennedy's assassina­portrait for it hung in so many locations in teacher. She, in turn, then shouted as the tion. Everyone alive on those days remem­
Viewpoimspac.e iS2vailablero aU rea&$;; Th~ free. 
public buildings and throughout Catholic two ran from the room, "The president bers exactly where they were and what
expression ofall opinions through letters is encQunged. 
homes. But my teacher in this public jun­and governor ofTexas have been shot." they were doing when the news arrived.
Letters to the &hror must be signe<iand mustinclu<k 
contaCt information.. · ior high school was a Catholic and proud I sat there trying to figure out who was Today I am much older than I was on that a Catholic had fmally been elected to the president of Texas. I had never heard that Friday in junior high schooL Our . Qu~tium regllrdir1g Ob>ervupolimhlmuld k the highest office in the land. ofa president of Texas. I concluded that nation is older as well, but not as much in 
•·· •· •.· il1rtctidwJ!.ditt»'in ChiefAnt/rttr.i Sc:Uiit4p. .·. When Kennedy ran against Richard there was no president of Texas. It never comparison to any individuaL And while I Nixon in 1960, I was attending the fourth occurred to me that she meant President continued through high school and Notre grade. I knew little about politics, but my Kennedy and the governor ofTexas. Dame and beyond as a young man, I and parents were adamant in their support of Both teachers returned with a radio my fellow Americans lost our youth on Kennedy. My best friend supported Nixon which frantically blurted that President Friday, Nov. 22, 1963. because his parents, both Protestants, Kennedy had been shot but could not favored Nixon. To them, the Catholic report on his condition. When the class Gary Caruso served as a public and leg­Kennedy was as undesirable in office as a heard ofthe shooting, my friend, Bruce islative affairs director in President Jew or a "Negro," the term they used to Engel, who sat across from me in the sec­Clinton sadministration. His column 
... .. . . . . 

identify African Americans in those days. ond row from the windows. looked up ~t appears every other Friday He can be con­
~Ob~ i> •-krof..,~ ..._,~l<:d ~· ~li.:pi:i:>ll~W.. li&lt•nr• 
....."tee.· . . . . ... .. ..•· ..... 

Kennedy's election was a milestone in the president's photograph above me and tacted at hottline@aol. com. American society. The refreshing young joked, "Oh, you went and got shot." At the The views expressed in this column are family with their infant children occupying time, I could have slapped him. those ofthe author and not necessarily the White House contrasted with the aged Other teachers entered our room and those ofThe Observer. 



TODAY'S STAFF 

News• ·  Graphics  
.Maureen  ·Mike Harkins .  
Reynolds  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Will Puckett  MattLozar  
· >_MeganO'Neil  .Joe Hettler  
Viewpoint  ·Kevin O'Neill  Should Notre Dame football  
Nicole Clery  Scene·  join a conference or  
Illustrator  Sarah Vabulas  remain independent?  
Vanessa Saenz  
*Poll is based on 345 responses.  


------------·___ :. ----------=--­
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Life is short. but truth works far and lives long; let us speak +he truth.,. 
Arthur Schopenhauer German philosopher 
---~------­


Bush inspires mass group therapy 
I had the distinct privilege of attending several of the organized protests across London against the visit of President George W. Bush this week. Media projections from both American and British 
Bill Rlnner 

news sources made me expect near­riotous condi­A Voice of tions from Reason the over­whelming opposition to Bush's visit. 
Instead, I witnessed a carnival of protesters participating in an act of self-indulgence. 
The right to protest and demon­strate is one of the most crucial liber­ties ensured by Western democracies, and the events preceding President Bush's visit inspired me to attend the protest to gain a better understanding of European opposition to the leader of the free world. In a jam packed theater at the London School of Economics, I listened to George Galloway, the leading anti-war Member of Parliament, mock the president during a speech to the Stop the War Coalition, then continue to state, "I cannot condemn suicide bombers in Iraq attempting to rid their country of the foreign invaders." My stomach turned as I considered the thousands of Americans placing their lives on the line for their country whether they agree with the presi­dent or not, yet rvowed not to be dis­couraged. 
Posters around school advertised a "Stop Bush" party in the Underground Bar-one pound for a pint! I never imagined the limitless social opportunities that existed for those who despise the president before I arrived in London, and the week's events were no exception. The highlight of the party was a heated debate between two individuals who could not decide if Bush was more of a terrorist or a war criminal. He was finally deemed a ter­rorist because the title of war criminal is more apt for a leader who is demo­cratically elected, of course. 
Finally. Bush arrived on Tuesday, and the streets were abuzz with gen­eral fervor as the historic three day visit commenced. I ventured out with my head low toward the protesting hot spots, not knowing what to expect. After approaching the crowd with caution, my apprehension allayed when I beheld the scene. 
Many of the trademarks of a nor­mal protest were present, from the upside down American flags to the Bush effigies. The most elaborate was a Bush doll gripping a missile in one hand and a flag in the other, complete with a sign reading "Smart bomb for a stupid president." 
A bit confused by the seemingly overstated signs that compared Bush to Hitler or painted Cheney with oil overflowing from his mouth, I politely 
asked the protesters their humble 
opinion of my president. Their 
responses covered a variety of issues, 
and most of which were as short­
sighted and irrational as their signs 
were untruthful. 
When one man with a "No Blood for Oil" shirt voiced his anger against Bush for failing to ratify the Kyoto treaty, I couldn't help but explain how President Clinton put ofT ratifying it during his term, and AI Gore, author of "Earth in the Balance," probably would not have signed the treaty him­self had he won the 2000 election. Before I could continue and explain the treaty's blatant anti-American bias, he jumped on the mention of the 2000 election and spouted ofT some Michael Moore-inspired rant about how Bush stole the election with his gang of thugs. 
Another protester, a woman carry­ing a copy of "A Terrorist Comes to Town" rallying poster, told me that she thought Bush's administration was composed of neo-Nazis who want to take over the world. And she was serious. I stopped myself before I could respond because a large crowd was forming around a protester with a loudspeaker who drew my attention away. 
The crowd was the largest yet, and at that point rrealized the massive protest was astoundingly similar to group therapy, with throngs of rabid Bush haters voicing their oft misguid­ed, though not entirely invalid, argu­ments against the president to wel­coming listeners. The act of scream­
ing obscenities against a person 
completely out of earshot in 
the midst of a sympathetic 
audience can be a cathar­
tic experience for some­
one with pent up rage. 
The social dimension 
of the entire event 
pervaded the crowd 
where people could 
connect through 
their one shared 
character trait: 
hatred for Bush. 
The personal 
benefits of their 
protest started to 
make everything 
from the last week 
come together, and 
I almost disregard­
ed the fact that the 
media attention they 
draw only makes 
them look bad in the 
eyes of a rational-mind­
ed individual. 
Ifyou watch CNN and 
hear tales of the noble protest­

ers voicing their utter rage against the Bush juggernaut, you're hearing a skewed version of the actual events that unfolded. Hardly any voices of intellectual honesty existed in the crowd; otherwise, we would hear more praise of Bush for bringing together one of the largest support groups in history in the streets of London. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major currently attending the London School ofEconomics. He believes that the most effective protests are for a common goal. not against a common enemy. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Demand for English courses recognized 
There seems to be some confusion as to the makeup of the English Department's Spring 2004 curriculum. In an effort to alleviate some of this anxiety for our majors and others, I would like to clarify the situation. 
The English Department is offering, in the Spring 2004 semester, the exact same number of required courses for majors we offered in the Spring 2003 semester. We also have available the same number of seats in 300-level courses that satisfy the University literature requirement. As for 400-level electives, this Spring we are, in fact, offering more of them than we did last Spring. 
We understand the concern students have regarding the number and availability of courses in English. As demand for English courses grows, not only from the increasing number of majors we have but from the University as a whole, we do all we can to pro­vide the broadest, most accessible curriculum possible. 
Stephen Fredman Chair Department of English Nov. 20 
A call for equality 
On Nov. 18, 2003, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court struck down that state's ban on same-sex marriage, and homosexuals across the nation rejoiced. Gay columnist Andrew Sullivan tri­umphantly declared, "Thank God Almighty, we are free at last." 
Specifically, the Massachusetts Court found the state's current marriage statute inconsistent with the Massachusetts Constitution and has required the state legislature to remedy the situation within 180 days. The legislature has two options: either to enact a changed mar­riage statute consistent with the Court's ruling, or to amend the Massachusetts Constitution to include a ban on same-sex marriage. 
While gay-rights supporters have hailed this decision as a victory, it has neverthe­less come under fire by several Christian­conservative groups and prominent Republicans. The Republican governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney, has called for the state legislature to draft an amendment to the state constitution to exclude same-sex marriage, and President George W. Bush declared firmly that "Marriage is a sacred institution between a man and a woman," and vowed to work to protect the "sanctity of marriage." 
As a gay Christian Republican, I freely admit that r am at this time conflicted in my loyalties. The party of Lincoln and the emancipation of the slaves has morphed into a party that too often resists chang.e merely for the sake of protecting the sta­tus quo. But alas, I am not a one-issue voter and will not let my disagreement with Republicans on gay rights dominate my political judgment. 
Cultural attitudes towards homosexual­ity are undergoing significant change, as society's understanding of it increases. Where most people used to think of homosexuality as a choice, hence the term sexual preference, many now think of it as a natural identity, or sexual orien­tation. This is no accident. Any homosex­ual will confidently proclaim that it is not a choice, and several scientific studies all point towards homosexuality as a genetic disposition. 
Once the understanding of homosexual­ity that has forever been in the hearts and minds of homosexuals enters the public consciousness, society's laws will begin to recognize homosexuals as a class of individuals with a common physi­cal trait, and thus subject to equal pro­tection under the decree of the 14th Amendment of the United States Constitution. 
In Lawrence v. Texas, a recent Supreme Court decision striking bans on sodomy, and in subsequent cases, our nation's highest court has indeed recognized homosexuals as a group deserving of pro­tection. This realization, taken to its nat­ural conclusions, will inevitably end gov­ernmental discrimination against homo­sexuals, in the same manner that govern­mental discrimination based on race and sex has also been Constitutionally prohib­ited. The rights entitled by marriage, whether referred to as marriage or as a civil union, must extend to all. 
Opponents of same-sex marriage argue that the sanctity of the institution is endangered by removing the requirement that marriage involve a man and a woman. Yet, they offer no convincing evi­dence that such will actually be the case; only the most bigoted individual would argue that homosexuals are incapable of the love, respect, loyalty, honesty and other qualities necessary for a successful and fulfilling marriage. 
Therefore, they fall back on tradition and religious arguments. Tradition alone is never sufficient reason to resist change. If it were, then blacks would not be free today and women would not be allowed to vote. In regard to religious arguments, nobody is wishing the govern­ment to force any religion to accept a dif­ferent definition of marriage. Rather, they want the government to confer the solely civil rights of the civic institution of mar­riage equally upon all. Asking the govern­ment to define a civic institution based on religious grounds would be an unconsti­tutional breech of the First Amendment Establishment Clause, and therefore is an improper request. 
In Lawrence, Justice Antonin Scalia said this nation is becoming entangled in a "culture war," and in a sense he was right. We have the choice today between tolerance and equal treatment and big­otry and discrimination. Ultimately, the challenge facing society is the same chal­lenge that faces each one of us in our hearts and souls, and is best captured in the words of Martin Luther King, Jr.: "The good neighbor looks beyond the external accidents and discerns those inner qualities that make ali men human and, therefore, brothers." 
Lucas Sayre 
semor Dillon Hall Nov. 20 
. j 
---· 
THE OBSERVER 
E
page 12 


Friday, November 21, 2003 
By SARAH VABULAS and SCOTT FONFERKO Scene Writers 
With Irish football home games at a close for the season, you might just be wondering what there is to do on the weekends besides sitting around your dorm room and complaining that there is nothing to do. Well, hit the road! There is an abundance of activities to the west of Notre Dame on 1-90. 
Downtown Chicago has many things to offer besides fine-dining and world-renowned shopping. Seeing as though South Bend does not draw many popular bands, Chicago is the best place to go to see that desired concert. From now until Christmas break, if you can break away from those books, many popular bands will be appearing across the city. 
The House of Blues in Chicago, found near Navy Pier at 329 N. Dearborn, features several concerts and is a great venue for concertgoers and musicians alike. HOB, unless otherwise noted, is an 18 and over venue with general admission and standing room only. Valid identifica­tion is required for entry. All tickets can be purchased from Ticketmaster at ticketmaster.com or by phone at 312-559-1212. The phone number is 312-923-2000. 
Better Than Ezra, who played at The Show in Aug. 2002, is just one of many popular bands who is sched­uled to play at the HOB in upcoming weeks. Tickets for the Nov. 28 9 p.m. show are available for $22.50. Doors open at 7:30p.m. 

ntertainment a 

With football home games at a close for the seas to find fun activities to do, but Chicagc 
Umphrey's McGee, a band who has quite a future for them, will play at HOB on Nov. 29 at 9 p.m. Umphrey's played Legends a couple weeks ago and packed the house. They are defi­nitely worth checking into again. Tickets are $20 and doors open at 7:30p.m. 
After two killer concerts on Friday and Saturday night, HOB closes the weekend with Something Corporate, a band who is gathering quite the fol­lowing for themselves. Rx Bandits, Days Away and May will also be per­forming. This is an all ages show. Tickets are $16. The show begin at 
6:30 p.m. and the doors open a 6 
p.m. Default, a hot band wowing audiences across the country, plays on Dec. 1 at 6:15 p.m. Tickets are $15. This is an all ages show. 
For those of you who still enjoy the high energy, swing-dancing music, Brian Setzer Orchestra will play HOB on Dec. 6 at 9 p.m. Tickets are $45. This is a 21 and over show, presented by VHl. The doors open at 7:30 p.m. 
Rounding off the good shows at HOB for the next couple weeks is the ' hot hard rock band Chevelle. The all ages show is Dec. 17 at 6:15 p.m. Tickets are $19.50. Doors open at 5:30p.m. 
There are many other concerts show starts at 8 p.m. Tickets range Written by Mel Brooks· and directed around Chicago besides those taking from $33 to $43. and choreographed by Susan place at The House of Blues. Some of For a change of venue, among Stroman, this irreverent musical the larger scale shows are at bigger other things, Ringling Bros. and comedy is the biggest Tony Award 
venues to accommodate the desire Barnum & Bailey Circus is currently winner in Broadway history. It will for tickets. in Chicago performing at the United not be in Chicago much longer, so 
John Mayer, a favorite to so many Center until Nov. 30. Tickets can be check it out while you can. It leaves for his melodic sounds, plays on Nov. bought at ticketmaster.com and following the closing performance on 28 at 7:30 p.m. at the Allstate Arena range in price. Nov. 30. Tickets are tough to come 
in Rosemont, Ill. Tickets are still While concerts and the circus are by, and can be hefty in price. They
available and are $35.50. Tickets always an incredible experience, they range from $40 to $80. include a 50-cent are not usually made for dressing up Another musical marvel that is sure donation to charity. and going out on the town. If that is to please is "The Lion King'' perform­


Opening for Mayer something you are interested in, ing at the Cadillac Palace. The are The Thorns, a Chicago is offering a variety of amaz­reviews rant and rave of the enter­special guest appear­ing Broadway Musicals. tainment quality of the musical. ance on the tour. "The Producers -the new Mel These tickets, too, are difficult to Visit johnmayer.com Brooks Musical" has been sweeping obtain and can place a burden on for further informa­the country with its amazing per­your wallet. They range from $28 to tion about his tour. formances. The musical marvel that $125. Although $125 sounds like a 
The Deftones play started in Chicago makes its tri­lot of money for a musical, sitting so the Aragon Ballroom umphant return to the Windy City. close to the stage enhances the per-on Nov. 30 at 7 p.m. Tickets for this show are $24.50 for gen­eral admission. Thursday and Thrice are special guests at the concert. Doors open at 5:30p.m. .. 
Popular Hadio Station Q101 pres­ents the Twisted 10 show on Dec. 6, fea­turing Korn, Jane's Addiction, 311, .,, D a s h b o a r d Confessional and AFI at the Allstate Arena. The show begins at 6 p.m. Tickets are 34.50 and for the assigned seating show. 
Also on Dec. 6, for those who may not run with the Twisted 10 show, Lynyrd Skynyrd will play the Star Plaza Theatre in Merrillville, Ind. The 

THE OBSERVER 
E
Friday, November 21, 2003 



Page 13 
[)UD 
SID 
tea 
;on, weekends may become a time of struggle 

ois aplace that can please any taste 

formance. But the show is very audi­ence friendly, with many appear­ances by cast members in the aisles. It is a beautiful event and not to be missed. Beware; this magical musical leaves Chicago after Jan. 18, so go while you can. 
With Christmas rapidly approach­ing, there are many traditional events to choose from. One of those is the "Nutcracker" performed by the Joffrey Ballet Company of Chicago. This rendition of the classic is at the Auditorium Theatre and runs from Dec. 5 until Dec. 28. Tickets range from $13 to $63. So take a friend or that special someone and get in the Christmas spirit with this classic bal­let. 
Coming on Dec. 16 is the highly acclaimed "Hairspray" musical. It will be in Chicago until Feb. 15. 

Tickets are moving quickly and range from $40 to $80. "Hairspray" will be at the Ford Center for the Performing Arts. It is sure to entertain and make you laugh. 
While this is simply a brief overview of special events in Chicago in the coming months, it can hardly explain the overwhelming amount of things to do on a daily basis. Blue Man Group performs nightly at the Briar Street Theatre. Visit www.blue­man.com for further information about the group. 
After all the fun and you feel like enjoying an educational, but enter­taining experience, visit one of the many Chicago museums and revisit the days of elementary school, going on field trips and goofing around the museums. There's the Museum of Science and Industry, the Field 

Museum, the John G. Shedd 
Aquarium, the Adler Planetarium 
and Astronomy Museum and the Art 
Institute of Chicago. All the museums 
are within an hour and a half driving 
distance from South Bend. 
The Museum of Science and 
Industry, located on Lakeshore Drive 
is a museum that encases a full size 
submarine to a fully intact jet. The 
museum also has the luxury of an 
IMAX theater as well. The hours of 
the Museum of Science and Industry 
are 9:30 a.m. to 5:50 p.m. everyday 
except for Christmas Day. The admis­
sion charge for the museum itself is 
$5.50 for children, $9 for adults and 
$7.50 seniors. For admission with a 
ticket to see the IMAX movie the 
charges are $10.00 for children, 
$15.00 for adults and $12.50 for sen­
iors. 

The Field Museum, slightly smaller than the Museum of Science and Industry, showcases a lot of specified items. It is located north of Solder Field on Lakeshore Drive. The muse­um is currently featuring a special about the history of flight. A perma­nent Egyptian exhibit is encased within a pyramid inside the museum. This museum also includes a full size skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus Rex. The hours for the Field Museum are 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. The admissions charges for the Field Museum are $5 for children, $10 for adults, and $7.00 for seniors. 
The John Shedd Aquarium, which is also located on Lakeshore Drive, is north of Soldier Field and on the east side of the Field Museum. It is one the most renowned aquariums and is divided into the different waters of the world. The sections include a coral reef, the Pacific Northwest and the Amazon, and each features fish that are indigenous to the specific area. The aquarium also showcases dolphins, beluga or white whales, seals, otters and numerous salt water and freshwater fish. 
planetarium theaters. This includes the famous Zeiss Planetarium Projector that is capable of reproduc­ing every aspect of the night sky. The planetarium currently features an exhibit about Ancient Polynesian navigators and the art of steering by the stars to the history of astronomy and the thousand years of discovery. The hours of operation for the Adler Planetarium are 9:30 a.m. to 4:40 
p.m. 
weekdays and 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 

p.m. 
weekends. The admission charges are $11 for children, $13.00 for adults and $12.00 for seniors. Each admission includes a planetari­um show. 


The Art Institute of Chicago, locat­ed on Michigan Ave, is home to a variety of art from different cultures and includes 300,000 works of art from ten different curatorial depart­ments. It even houses 33 paintings by Claude Monet. Two exhibits that are currently featured at the Art Institute are Manet and the Sea and Aerospace design: The Art of Engineering from NASA's Aeronautical research. The hours for the Art Institute of Chicago are Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Saturday and Sunday 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. 
and Tuesday 10:30 a.m. to 8:00 

p.m. 
The cost of admission is $10 for adults, $6.00 for children and seniors and free for children under age 5. Every Tuesday is free due. 


So while football is over, there is still much to do -all that is required is a short drive or a ride on the South Shore Railroad. If none of this suits you, there is always the amazing cui­sine found all over Chicago, or a short trip along Michigan Avenue can please even the toughest critic. So when all else fails, go to Chicago. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu and Scott Fonferko at sfonferko@ha:-nd.edu 

It also has a center tank that houses a sea turtle and shark. The aquarium's win­ter hours, Labor Day to Memorial Day, are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekends. Hours during sum­mer months, Memorial Day to Labor Day, are 9 
a.m. to 6 p.m. both weekdays and week­ends. Admission charges are $21 for adults and $15 for children. 
The Adler Planetarium and Astronomy Museum, located in the same vicinity as the Field Museum and Shedd Aquarium, is the first planetarium built in the Western Hemisphere. It's also the only planetarium in the world to fea­ture two full-sized 

......................... 

Friday, November 21, 2003
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Recchi's three points lift Flyers to 3-1 win 

.-­
Associated Press Hurricanes. the season at 12:39 as defense­
. \ PHILADELPHIA Mark Hossa, who leads the Senators man Bruno St. Jacques left him Recchi had two power-play goals with 10 goals and 20 points, unattended. and an assist, helping the assisted on Vaclav Varada's tying Hossa got the Senators' second Philadelphia Flyers extend their goal with 9.6 seconds left in the power-play goal-their 10th in unbeaten streak to eight games first. It was Ottawa's first even­four games-at 16:41. with a 3-1 victory over the strength goal in four games. Lightning 3, Islanders 2 Minnesota Wild. Jason Spezza, Radek Bonk, Cory Stillman scored his 1Oth 
The Flyers, 7-0-1 in their last Peter Schaefer, Todd White and goal of the season in the third eight games, are 8-0-2 at home Hossa scored in the second as period to help lift the Tampa Bay this season. the Senators outshot Carolina Lightning over the New York 
Alexandre Daigle scored 17-4 in the period. Islanders. against his former team for the The six goals in the game tied Stillman's goal from the left Wild, who shut out the Flyers in a season high set in a 6-2 win in circle gave Tampa Bay a 3-0 lead 
consecutive games last February. Montreal on Oct. 25. 4:27 into the third. Fredrik Tony Amonte added a goal and Bryan Smolinski and Zdeno Modin and Brad Richards had 
assist, and Jeremy Roenick had Chara each had two assists for the other Tampa Bay goals. 
. ) two assists for Philadelphia. The Ottawa, which ended a 2-2 Arran Asham and Mariusz line of Roenick, Recchi and homestand. During that stretch, Czerkawski scored for the Arnonte has 51 points in 15 the Senators lost consecutive Islanders late in the game to games since they \\·ere united home games for the first time in make it close. It wasn't enough 
. \ four games into the season . two years. to keep the lightning from tying 
Robert Esche stopped 21 shots Radim Vrbata scored his first the series between the teams at to record his career-best sixth goal in nine games for Carolina, 22-22-3-1. straight victory. which tied Philadelphia 2-2 on Asham brought the Islanders 
Just 80 seconds after the Wild Tuesday and remained winless within 3-1 at 14:19 of the third, tied it at 1 in the second period, in three. and Czerkawski made it a one­the Flyers regained their lead on Ottawa allowed the first goal goal game with 1 :24 left. Amonte's seventh goal. Recchi for the seventh straight game Modin's backhander put the 
backhanded a pass toward the when Vrbata finished off a two­Lightning ahead at 13:28 of the net that hit a defenseman and on-one with Eric Staal12:38 in. firSt. Tampa Bay (10-2-2-1) is 9­went right to Amante, who lifted Staal, a 19-year-old center 0-1 when scoring firSt. Richards it over goaltender Manny chosen No. 2 overall in the June made it 2-0 after a New York Fernandez. draft, broke down the left side turnover at 17:21, scoring his Reuters 
Recchi made it 3-1 just 66 sec­and fed a charging Vrbata. first goal in nine games. Philadelphia's Mark Recchi eyes the goal last night against onds later with his eighth goal. Vrbata drove the slot and put a The Islanders recorded the Minnesota. Recchl had two power play goals and an assist. 
l 
l 
IIo took a pass from Amonte and shot between Patrick Lalime's first five shots during the open­
) 
slapped it past Fernandez with pads for his third of the season. ing 10 minutes of the game,
~ ( 
32 seconds left in the period. The Senators tied it late in the including an in-close backhander game Florida road trip with a six minutes remaining. i\ Recchi's first goal came 37 sec­period after Kevin Weekes by Oleg Kvasha. The New York victory over the Panthers on Jaromir Jagr cut the Bruins' i\ onds into a two-man advantage. stopped Hossa's shot. Varada left wing also hit the post during Wednesday night in Sunrise. lead to 2-1 with 1:26 remaining 
I'· 
The Flyers moved the puck jumped on the rebound and put the stretch. Bruins 3, Capitals 2 in the second period when his 
,.I· 
around well as it went from Joni the puck into an open right side. Most of the offensive activity Mike Knuble had a goal and an shot deflected off a Boston Pitkanen to Kim Johnsson to Ottawa got the lead early in came in the final period when assist, and the Boston Bruins defenseman and into the net. 
Roenick, who centered to Recchi the second when Spezza took a New York scored twice on 14 stretched their streak without a Knuble put the Bruins (11-2-3-.J
I 
'' 
;'\ for a wrister. flip pass from Smolinski and beat shots and Tampa Bay had one regulation loss to 11 games by 3) ahead 1-0 when he took Hal Fernandez made a brilliant Weekes from the slot 1:14 into goal on 11 shots. beating the Washington Capitals. Gill's pass and beat Olaf Kolzig at 
~-. •' 
save in the third period, stoning the period for his fifth goal. New York goaltender Rick The Bruins, who have won 5:17 of the first period. Knuble Simon Gagne on a short-handed The Senators went up 3-1 DiPietro fmished with 29 saves, four straight at home, have has a team-high nine goals, and ' breakaway. when Bonk deflected Wade including stopping all 13 shots earned at least one point in has recorded 10 points in seven 
Daigle scored his tying goal on Redden's point shot on a power he faced in the scoreless second every game since they lost to games. the power play when Sergei play at 9:35. period. Carolina on Oct. 23 (7-0-1-3). The Capitals missed a great Zholtok's slap shot hit his skate Ottawa added another goal Nikolai Khabibulin made 26 Washington (5-13-1) is tied opportunity in the closing two and went between Esche's legs. just 12 seconds later when saves to improve to 8-2-1 for the with Pittsburgh with an NHL-low minutes of the first period when 
Schaefer fired a wrist shot from Lightning, who played for the 11 points. Jagr was denied four times by Senators 6, Hurricanes 1 the slot into the top right corner frrst time in six days. Other than After Martin Lapointe gave Raycraft in a span of about 10 
Marian Hossa had a goal and at 9:4 7. He was set up by the All-Star break, Tampa Bay Boston a 3-1 lead, Sergei seconds. an assist, and the Ottawa Smolinski, who forced a turnover doesn't have more than two days Gonchar scored to bring the Glen Murray gave the Bruins a Senators scored five times in the along the right boards in the off the rest of the season. Capitals within a goal. His slap 2-0 lead when his slap shot trick­second period en route to a vic­Hurricanes zone. The Islanders had a three-day shot went over goaltender led in ofT Kolzig's glove at 13:01 tory over the Carolina White scored his first goal of break before starting a two-Andrew Raycraft's shoulder with of the first. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refund~. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips,NOTICES WANTED MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 TICKETS Meals & 272-1525 (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT Parties sunsplashtours.com or BOB 607-723-7373, 1800-426-771 0 
•

WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ &Beach Trips on sale now! exper. required. All looks and ages. PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS-EMAIL: ~hdds@pronetisp.net Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866·808-0990 •••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW 
Earn $100-$500 a day. ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• www.sunchase.com or call 2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, **LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX** Build your dream home 1-800-SUNCHASE today! 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND ND@ Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay next to Notre Dame. A limited num­
214 S. ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS-AND MALL. $1000/MO. BIG$$$$ to get these. ber of home sites are available. 
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get Part time/Full time opportunity for 718 E.WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED-277-2176. 12th trip free. Group discounts for honest, motivated, success minded ROOMS. Call212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 For more info 6+ individual. Exciting !-Commerce CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: if U have tix to sell. go to: www.lrishCrossings.com www.springbreakdiscounts.com or internet based business. Contact: 315-5032 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 
800-838-8202. waynew54@ pronetglobal.com blocks from campus, 3 large bed-I need ND/UK &ND/IU b-ball tix. All you need is a chip and a chair 
4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. rooms, 2 full bath, washer and 273-9938 #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Granger household looking for part-Close to campus, ample parking, dryer, home totally remodeled, new If the Browns had a game this Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! time babysitter. Must be willing to AC, huge yard. appliances, two car garage, fur-weekend, they would be probable Go Loco in Acapulco, Party In help with toddlers laundry. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or nished. Need 3-5 students ($400 Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with Experience & references required. Matt (216) 408·0744 if interested ea.) for January. Need 5 students PERSONAL but for Tuesday, they aren't even on BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. ($400 ea.) for fall. the injury report Organize a group and travel for Fax letter or resume to: Two story house completely remod-FREE. Book now before its too late! (574)247-9253. eled 2003. Off street parking 231-8823 evenings. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Muck Fichigan 
includes motion sensor light for not go it alone. If you or someone Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci-SMC alumna needs a babysitter for security. you love needs confidential support The Browns can bury the Steelers rossi.com. 3 children in my home in Granger Four individually locked bedrooms, or assistance, please call Sr. Mary this weekend 
(near UP Mall), Thursdays and/or six blocks from Notre Dame, bus FoR SALE Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. Part time, energetic experienced Fridays 1 Oam-1 pm. stop in front of house, surrounded how would that taste nanny needed to help care for chil-by other student housing,laundro· For more information, see our bi· dren in our Granger home M-W Must have own transp. 247-0690. mat next door (drycleaning also), LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO weekly ad in The Observer. Tapis 3pm-8pm; Th 2pm-8pm. Mom has basement available for storage of FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. chronic health problems, so bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new NON-RENTAL. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America I'm writing the final philosophy reliability is critical. furnace and central air, new kitchen s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring paper of my undergraduate career
FoR RENT including new stove and refrigerator, NEWLY REMODELED. campus reps. this weekend Love for kids & own transp req. large living room for TV or entertain-FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Call360-1198 & lv msg. ing, free trash removal. Call for discounts 800-648-4849 or Good job news with the pullout, I 
2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730 Call 289-4072. email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu www. ststravel. com hope it turns out well 
Friday, November 21, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
DAVIS CUP 
Americans blow early lead, trail by one point 
International team leads 3 1/2 to 2 1/2  He and Nick Price were 1­down with two holes to play against Phil Mickelson and David Toms, the top American  
Associated Press  tandem from last year's Ryder Cup.  
"We  needed  something,"  
GEORGE,  South Africa  - Weir said.  
Tiger Woods, Davis Love III  Facing the par-3 17th with  
and the rest of the Americans  bunkers and rough to the right  
could not have asked for a bet­ and a  6-foot trench protecting  
ter  start  Thursday  in  the  the left  - a  difficult shot for  
Presidents Cup.  left-handers  - Mickelson  
It was  the finish that left  turned away in disgust as his  
them dazed. disappointed and  ball sailed well right of the  
facing another deficit.  green.  
"They all want to go kick  Weir took aim at the· flag and  
themselves in the  rear end,"  Price walked off the tee clap­ 
U.S. captain Jack  ping and shaking  
Nicklaus said after  his  fists.  Price  
the International  converted  the  
team rallied over the final three holes in the final three matches to  "They all want to kick themselves in the rear end. "  birdie, then hit a nice chip to 5 feet that Weir finished off for  
take a 3 1/2 -2 112  birdie  on  the  
lead.  Jack Nicklaus  18th and a  1-up  
Determine-d not to fizzle the way  American captain  victory. Then  came  
they  did  in  Adam Scott.  
Australia  five  His  swing  
years ago, the Americans were  reminds everyone of Woods,  
poised to take a commanding  and so did the shots he hit on  
lead in the opening session of  the clo~ing holes.  
alternate-shot matches.  The clutch birdie putt from  
Woods and Charles Howell III  12 feet on No. 16. The tee shot  
needed only 15 holes to get  on the difficult 17th that Ernie  
their partnership off to a great  .Els converted for birdie to  
start. Love and Kenny Perry hit  square the match. From the  
spectacular shots and won eas­ 18th fairway, Scott hit a 2-iron  
ily.  from 265 yards that covered  
The United States led 2-1,  the flag and left his teammates REUTERS  
and it was  2-up on  the back  in awe. International player Mike Weir clutches his fist after making a putt Thursday at the President's  
nine in the other matches.  "Only two players can hit Cup. The International team came back after trailing the American team to lead by one point. 
"It could have been quite  that shot," Els said, referring  
ugly,"· ·Peter. Lonard ·'"'of Australia said. "Knowing we could be 5-1 down and looking down the barrel of the gun, and we can still pull it out somehow ... that's probably the most important thing." For the Americans. it all fell  to Scott and Woods. The ball skipped just over the green, and Els hit a nice chip that was conceded for birdie and a 1-up victory over Justin Leonard and Jim Furyk. "Ernie told me, 'Just stay on course,"' Scott said. "And we  for a halve. "We pulled the rabbit out of the hat today," International captain Gary Player said. The good news for Nicklaus? At least he knows his guys came to play.  "He hit some unbelievable short-game shots, and it was fun to watch," Perry said. Woods and Howell never trailed, and kept the momen­tum when Woods recovered from his drive into a pot  5-1 today," Nicklaus said. "That's disappointing, but that's also very good play on the part of Gary's team." No one was better than Weir, who kept his team in the match when Price was struggling off  
apart quickly. First came the gutsy 6-iron from Masters champion Mike Weir, winning yet another bat­tle of the lefties.  finished strong." The final blow was Robert Allenby and Stephen Leaney, 2­down against Jay Haas and Fred Funk with three holes to  That wasn't the case in 1998 at Royal Melbourne, where a listless U.S. team fell behind 7­3 after the first two sessions and suffered its worst loss ever  bunker by stuffing his wedge into 2 feet for par to halve the hole. Howell was a model of confi­dence in his first team compe­ the tee. The most impressive shot of all might have come at No. 6, when Price played an iron off the tee on the 341-yard hole  
play. Facing certain defeat, Allenby holed a 15-foot birdie  in any cup, 20 1/2 -11 1/2 . This time, they played with passion and pulled off some  tition, paired with the No. 1 player in the world. "Chuck is a great kid to play  and still hit into a bunker with a steep face, 61 yards from a tiny green guarded by a steep  
from the fringe to halve the hole and stay alive. Haas' tee shot on No. 17 drifted into the  amazing shots. Perry holed an 80-foot putt on No. 2, up a steep slope with  with, and I rode him hard today," Woods said. Howell didn't buy it.  slope. Weir hit an explosion shot with an 8-iron-a shot no one  
trench, and Funk conceded  a sharp bend to the right, for a  "How can you carry Tiger?  practices  -that banged into  
after his bold play from the gunch hit the rock wall and ric­ocheted over his head.  birdie to win the hole. Love chipped in for birdie on No. 5, hit out of a hazard to  Are you kidding?" he said. "We both played well." Ultimately, it wasn't enough.  the slope and stopped 12 feet away. Instead of going 3-down, Price holed the putt to cut the  
Haas hit his second shot into  salvage a par on the 12th, and  Vijay  Singh  and  Retief  deficit to one.  
rough so thick on the par-5Cold Weather Experts 18th that Funk couldn't reach5minutes from Campus the green. They lost the hole Cal1259·1ooo for more details with a bogey and had to settle  chipped over a bunker and into the hole for an eagle on the 16th to close out Lonard and Tim Clark, 4 and 2.  Goosen never trailed and won, 3 and 2. against Presidents Cup rookies Jerry Kelly and Chris DiMarco. Then. they watched the rest  "One of the best shots I've hit in a long time," Weir said. "You've just got to trust your imagination." He and Price were 2-down on  
of their teammates show plenty  two  occasions during their  
of  resolve  and  give  the  match, and kept clawing back.  
International team an  unlikely  In the end. the rest of the  
lead.  Interna tional team followed  
"We had a good shot at being  their lead.  

IRISH ATHLETICS THIS WEEKEND 
"h.· 
~~ 






~• .~.~-¥~~
A 

• Monday, Nov 24th 
7:30 PM; Joyce Center Gate 10 
..~ ....Get your 2.003-04 Schedule Magnets++ • •Students wear your Leprechaun Legion T-shirts! • • Receive up-to-date promotional emails. Visit promos and giveaways link at www.und.com. Follow the instructions on the "Be there" link. 
-,-~. ------~~~-­
-----------------.---------------­
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2003 
NFL 

Johnson hired as in-studio guest on pregame show 
Associated Press touchdowns. He wasn't happy with his role in the offense and, last month, told coach Jon 
NEW YORK -Keyshawn Gruden and general manager Johnson has found another way Rich McKay that he wanted to to spend this Sunday afternoon. leave after this season. 
I 
No longer wanted by the Green's fiancee pleads not guilty 
II. Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the Pro William Green's fiancee plead­I I·._ •. Bowl receiver will be an in-studio ed innocent Thursday to charges ! ' guest analyst for Fox's weekly she stabbed the Cleveland I -NFL pregame show. Browns running back at their 

The outspoken receiver, deacti­horne. vated by the Super Bowl champi­Green was wounded under his ons on Monday, will appear on left shoulder blade during a fight "Fox NFL Sunday." Wednesday, police said. His I', "We look forward to having lawyer, Brian Downey, said the I I Keyshawn in this weekend to dis­player was released from the I ~ cuss his situation in Tampa Bay hospital later that night after get­
! ( 
,, I­and find out what the future ting three stitches. 
I\ holds for him," coordinating pro-Asia Gray, who has two chil­
I 
ducer Scott dren with Green, 
I, I \ 
Ackerson said was ordered held Thursday. on $18,500 bond.
"We look forward 
: l ! It was not imme­She is charged with 
~ ~ ' 
to having 
diately clear if assault and domes­
REUTERS
i 
Johnson would Keyshawn in this tic violence, and if Keyshawn Johnson stretches for a first down earlier this season. Tampa Bay deactivated Johnson 
reprise his analyst 

weekend ... ·· convicted on both this week and the receiver will be In the Fox booth for a pregame show Sunday.
role in subsequent counts could face weeks. two to eight years
l 
Scott Ackerson was stabbed with. league will make an exception thing. Now I know. We'll just see
"We've done in prison. 
Fox coordinating Green was arrested Oct. 27 and permit the club to help Green how it plays out." 
I stuff with "She was in 
after police said they spotted him deal with his problems. Vick refused to offer details of
Keyshawn in the producer another room 
driving erratically. Police said he Vlck may miss Titans' game how he was hurt, but linebacker 
past, we're doing when it happened failed a field sobriety test and a Falcons quarterback Michael Keith Brooking acknowledgedstuff with him in and she called for 
breath test, and had a bag of Vick missed practice Thursday that he was blitzing and acciden­the present and will likely do help," said her attorney, Henry marijuana in his car. and indicated he won't play tally pushed Bibla backward.
stuff with him in the future," Hilow. "It's also important to note
{ 
The NFL suspended Green for against the Titans this weekend. Vick and 'Bibla were working
Ackerson said. "Let's get through that she took him to the hospital." 
four games last week for violat­Vick sprained his right ankle in with the scout team. and~ ~ this week and then go from Judge Maureen Gravens pro­
I : ing the league's substance-abuse a morning walkthrough Brooking with the first-team
there." hibited her from having any con­policy. The Browns suspended Wednesday, when guard Martin defense.
Ackerson said Johnson will tact with Green. 
him for the Nov. 9 game at Bibla accidentally stepped on his "I can't help it. That's just the
play a prominent role in the Just three weeks ago, Green 
Kansas City for "conduct detri­foot. Vick hasn't played in a game way it goes, man," Brooking said. 
show, which will feature a seg­appeared in the same courtroom mental to the team," and the since breaking his leg in the pre­Added Bibla, "Nobody's going ment on Dallas coach Bill after he was arrested on charges league will count that game as season. full-tilt, but Keith goes a littleParcells. Johnson played for of drunken driving and marijua­
part of its suspension. "I wanted to cotne out and try harder than usual sometimes.
Parcells with the New York Jets na possession. He is under sus­Green is not permitted to be at and play this week, get a couple That's just Keith, though." 
and has often cited him as his pension for violating the NFL's 
( the team's training facility, and of snaps," Vick said. "But what The Falcons (2-8) have lost
favorite coach. substance-abuse program. 
the Browns are not allowed to happened yesterday was some­eight of their last nine as theyWhile Johnson will address his Earlier Wednesday, Gray made have contact with him. thing that we all didn't expect. I prepare to host the Titans (8-2).
situation with the Bucs, Ackerson an emergency call to police say­Browns president Carmen got a little taste of what it's like to Doug Johnsun will start at quar­said "it's more than just having ing Green cut himself. Green Policy said the team hopes the get it touched, and that's a good terback for Atlanta. 
Keyshawn on to talk about being later told police he was injured 

deactivated because I don't think when he fell down stairs. that would be the best use of his "It's sad that he was involved in skills." a situation like that," Browns 
On Monday, the Buccaneers coach Butch Davis said. shelved Johnson for the rest of "Certainly his teammates and the season, saying he had coaches are glad it was not more become disruptive after the severe." defending champs began the sea­Police responded to the 911 call son 4-6. Tampa Bay has lost from Gray, who requested an three straight and is in danger of ambulance for Green. But Gray missing the playoffs. had taken Green to the hospital 
Johnson, in his eighth year out by the time the emergency vehi­
I of Southern Cal. was the Bucs' cle arrived. third-leading receiver with 45 Police wouldn't say what the catches for 600 yards and three fight was about or what Green 
I 
I 
~07/~.,(~· ,q;/~lic¥It (;r.,,:._·iiu-· 
SOB '\-\'. McKinley Avenue Mishawaka, IN 46545 
574-254-9070 Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. r--~·---~-~-N....,............, --:::..~ DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! j ; l
\? .~. M.~>l . ~ 

Monday -Sunday 11:30 -2:30 pm 
l•':
r
-.-~.~ !~:i~~v ~~(a<YZ'~ 

Dinner Hours Sunday-Monday 5:00pm -9:30pm !.................""....~~~::~.~:::.~...~· Friday & Saturday 5:00pm-!O:OOpm 
~----------r-------------· -. 
1Soy On~ Dinm•x Entree, 1 ---:"1
ISO'-OFFT$·1 00-0
1 Get a Second Entn~t.' 70 • FfI I 1/2 0 FF 1• Carry-out order 1 I -~U you can ea! : 
f . . . . • 1 Dally l.unch Buffet 
1 ~~-<~> :><~1). .•l ~.•x<~~' 1.,,'""""· I •:"<"'·•:><...sr ;~·...,;x...., ;.-·~t>lt:. I . . I 
<I ••· -•· ••>r <14•1<:< "'"'"""· I S<'l n.k! w•d: •"v>xi>M :!toc:xw. I L•(' I<> <1 ~:k (oJiM·m onlyi II ~4·)-(~""'''o,:ntt•»:Y ....~.~..;w.c I :-~.. ~......,~·).,..o))l,,~'l'·~~•..,~t~c·' I~...,,_.~ h ~. I 
__________ ~~ • .)I"*'..·
I

L ...... \':.lld "'*-= Silo~ I ..............t·~·t 4(0"(__._______ I ... . . ..~ ,.., ~ •
:;!!:~~---....J 


2004 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Hall Manager 

• 
Assis~ant Hall Director/Manager 

• 
Desk Clerk 


The application and position descriptions are available in the Office of Residence Life and Housing or on-line at: 
orlh.nd.edu/employment 
Application deadline is February 13, 2004. 
-
OfFICI OF RISIDINCI LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phonct 631-5171 I·Mail: sumstaff@nd.edu

of &9 
. 

Friday, November 21, 2003 page 17
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Those who participate can ear.n three 
credits in either English or FTT while getting the chance to work alongside professional actors andproduction 
crew! Roles are available both on stage and behind the scenes, and housing an 
tuition are paidfor! ·non't miss the chance to be a part of 
this once-in-a-lifetime experience! 

November 24, 7-11 pm 
November 25, 7-11 pm 
Washington Hall Mainstage 
All those auditioning are asked to prepare two Shakespearean monologues, one comic and one tragic. 
-·--­
Call jeffEyerman at 631-9840 with any questions!! 




OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Page 18 Cot-..1PI LED Htot-vt ~fHE OBSERVER'S \VBli SERVtcEs Friday, November 21, 2003 

~ ' 
'' 
l I ( ~ ' I ' I ' 
\ 
l' 
I 
'' 
I ., 
I,' 
~ 
.,, 
; 
•I
(• 
:.~ 
:~ 
,, 
~ 
I 
( I 
II
'. 
I 
/ 

around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Boise State at Fresno State 9 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL UMASS at Texas Tech 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Minnesota at Cleveland 8 p.m., ESPN Chicago at LA Lakers 10:30 p.m., WGN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

HATTIESBURG, Miss. ­TCU in the BCS? Southern Mississippi put an end to any debate by fighting off a frantic comeback attempt by the Horned Frogs. 
Dustin Almond threw for 227 yards and three touch­downs and the Golden Eagles capitalized on four turnovers to hand the lOth­ranked Horned Frogs their first loss of the season, 40­28 on Thursday night. 
Southern Mississippi (8­3, 7-0} clinched at least a share of the Conference USA title and can win it outright with a victory over East Carolina. 
TCU (10-1, 7-1) trailed by 31-6 early in the fourth quarter before scoring three touchdowns in a span of 4:30 with the aid of two straight recovered onside kicks. 
Brandon Hassell led the comeback attempt with his passing and running. 
He swept around right end for a 1-yard TD with 
6:55 left and then threw for the 2-point conversion to cut the lead to 31-28. 
Hassell finished 18-for-31 for 260 yards with two interceptions. 
Southern Miss kicked a field goal to make it 34-28, then put the game away by forcing TCU's final turnover of the game. 
Greg Brooks got free on a corner blitz and knocked the ball from Hassell. Rod Davis recovered inside the TCU 20 with less than three minutes left and moments later Anthony Harris hulled into the end zone from 2 yards out to make it 40-28 with 1:30 left. 
TCU was eighth in the Bowl Championship Series standings this week and needed to stay unbeaten to have any shot of becoming the first school from a non­BCS league to receive an invite to one of the four high-dollar major bowls. 
Now, the best the Horned Frogs can hope for is a piece of the league title and a spot in one of five bowls with C-USA ties. 

That's a difference of about $13 million. 
Southern Miss, which has won five straight games, can earn a bid to the Liberty Bowl by beating one-win East Carolina next week. 
The win was the Golden Eagles' first ever against a ranked opponent at home, and the fans celebrated by taking down a goal post. 
Almond, who has thrown 12 TO passes since regain­ing the starting job five ga.rpes ago, was 14-for-23 with an interception. 
IN BRIEF 

Baseball play~rs appear cuss the grand jury or the scope of its "Glen's been talking to the league before grand JUry secret proceedings, but two sources and trying to get some of those things 
SAN FRANCISCO -Baseball players familiar with the grand jury have said settled, but other than that, rm pretty became the latest athletes to appear the probe is focusing on drugs and optimistic." before a grand jury probing a nutri­taxes. Rangers coach Glen Sather declined 
tional supplements lab, joining NFL It's not clear what, if any, drug to comment about the exhibition, say­players and track and field stars who charges might result from the investi­ing he was concentrating on New in previous weeks testified before the gation. An appearance before the York's game against the Colorado 
federal panel. grand jury, or being subpoenaed to Avalanche on Thursday night. 
Catchers A.J. Pierzynski and Bobby testify, does not mean an athlete is a The game will be played outdoors at Estalella and outfielder Armando Rios target of the probe. Commonwealth Stadium, and Sather all appeared before the panel on An attorney for Victor Conte, will be behind the Edmonton old­Thursday. founder of the Bay Area Laboratory timers' bench. After that, the present­Pierzynski was traded from the Co-Operative, has said his client is a day Oilers and Canadiens will face ofT Minnesota Twins to the San Francisco target of the grand jury investigation. in the first outdoor regular-season 
Giants last week. The other two are BALCO has supplied scme of the game in NHL history. former Giants -Estalella played with nation's top athletes with nutritional The Rangers' schedule could help the Colorado Rockies last season and supplements. Messier. After Thursday's game in is now a free agent, while Rios is with Rangers' Messier ho~ to Denver, the Rangers don't play again the Chicago White Sox. play In outdoor exhibition until Sunday afternoon, when they 
Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi are DENVER-New York Rangers for­host Ottawa. among the other major league players ward Mark Messier plans to play in "We got lucky in that regard," subpoenaed to testify before the grand Saturday's exhibition game for former Messier said. "A quick flight up to jury in upcoming weeks. Bonds' attor­Oilers and Canadiens but needs to get Edmonton from here, and then we fly ney has said his client will appear Dec. the final word from his coach. home Saturday afternoon. I was really 
4. ''I'm not sure what Glen's decided," lucky with the schedules, the way they Federal officials have refused to dis-Messier said Thursday. meshed." 
Friday, November 21, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 

teams await Irish 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The women's swimming and diving team looks to make a splash as theNo. 19 Irish (4-1) travel to College Station, Texas to compete in the Texas A&M Invitational this weekend. 
l\'otrc Da.me will have its hands full with a field that fea­tures some stiff competition, including the likes of No.8 SMU, No. 11 UCLA, co-No. 17's VIrginia and Texas A&M, No. 20 Florida State and Purdue. 
Last Friday, th~ Irish dominat­ed a triangular meet against Bowling Green and Louisllille, 188-90 and 187-89, respective­ly. 
Failing to win only the 200­yard medley relay due to dis­qualification, the Irish took 15 or the meet's 16 events. Nine different Notre Dame competi­tors recorded at least one first-
SMC BASKETBALL
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Tip-Off Classic starts season 
Numerous top 25 
know what needs to be-done to turn things around for us," Bellina said. 
The Belles will have their share of opportunities to prove themselves this year including a game against national pow­erhouse Washington Univer­
. sity. The challenge is there, and the Belles look ready to take it with experience and confidence on their side this season. "We have more speed and quickness to the ball this year along with a great group returning," Bellina said. "We're ready to go from worst to first." St. Mary's will play in the Tip-Off Classic today and Saturday at the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

For the past six weeks the Belles have being doing the lit­tle th\ngs in practice with hopes of doing big things this season. 
This weekend they look to put their practice into play as the Belles open their season in the Tip-Off Classic Tourn­ament. Saint Mary's will play the first game tonight against Hanover College and the sec­ond against Franklin College Saturday. 
The team emerges this year with nine returning players that add experience and depth to its lineup. With a core of 
place finish, and four-seniors 
four juniors and one senior, Usa Garcia (100 and 200-yard 
the team has already found the butterfly and 200-yard individ­
chemistry that it lacked last ual medley) and Meghan Perry­
season. Eaton (one and three-meter div­


"We're really coming togeth­er as a strong group," Saint Mary's coach Suzanne Bellina said. "We try to cover all the details in practice and I think we've already made big improvements." 
The Belles will be helped by the return of junior Emily Creachbaum who was a lead­ing scorer last year in the con­ference and an all-MIAA per­former. Junior Katie Boyce and senior Katie Miller will join Creachbaum as the tri-cap­tains for this year's team. 
After a disappointing season last year, the Belles are ready to move up in the conference and establish themselves. They face another tough schedule in the MIAA but the team has a determined outlook this sea­son. 
"Last season left a bitter taste in our mouth and we 

ing) and freshmen Katie Carroll (50 and 100-yard freestyle) and Ellen Johnson (200-yard back­
FENCING 

stroke and 1 ,000-yard freestyle) -each took at least two events. While a number of under­
Fencers will compete individually·
classmen, including Carroll and 
Johnson, among others, have 
been stellar thus far, head coach 
Bailey Weathers points to the 
seniors as the team's leaders 
both in and out of the pool. 
"[The seniors] are a real good · group," Weathers said. "They 
all have been really important 
to us for a long time." 
The Irish return to action next 
Thursday-Saturday when they 
host the Notre Dame 
Invitational. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
be competing en masse. The want to beat us. It's tough men will· split squads on from the beginning." Saturday, sending some The stiffness of the competi­fencers south to compete indi­tion will be a baptism by fire vidually in the Ohio State for both teams. Having suf­Open. The rest will head east fered heavy losses on the to Penn State also for individ­men's and women's sides due ual competition in the Max to graduation (five total All-Garret Open. Americans), 
The women will Coach Janusz also be divided. Bednarski will
"Freshmen are an

Part of the team look to his will remain here in unknown position young duelists .,. South Bend to take until you see to pick up the part in Sunday's · slack. "We still
them in action. ,,

Notre Dame have a good Turkey Shoot. In team but it's the meantime, the Janusz Bednarski hard to predict other women Irish coach because we 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum 
Donie/ Stowe, director 
9:ltass 
<Sui!laumc ht ma~fja.ut ··1Hesse 'be Q:to.stre 'Vam~ a.9or @tra~insfW:. '})'tass 
, -:· 

Friday, November 21r 2003 8:00pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel University ofNotreDame Free and open to the public 
~UNIVERSfTY OF 
~ ~~::.~~~~~~ 
CJ@tre CJ)ame 

Irish take a break from team schedule 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 

The defending champs aren't sitting on last year's national crown. 
The Notre Dame fencing squads hope to build on their successful start last weekend as they clash against national powers Ohio State and Penn State Saturday and Sunday. But for senior Kerry Walton, the big names are just busi­ness as usual. 
"There's always a little bit [of pressure] but it's been so close the last couple of years that it's always been between us and Penn State," she said. "It's an individual sport and people are always used to other people gunning for them." 
However, the teams will not fencers will follow the men to match up against Penn State on Sunday. Both women's events are individual competition. 
Despite their division, the Irish fencers will face stiff competition at all locations. Penn State finished a very close second to Notre Dame at the national championships last season, and always main­tains a perennially powerful program. In Columbus, the men's squad will face the fencers who last year ousted them in the conference semifi­nals. They prevented Notre Dame from attaining its 19th consecutive combined confer­ence championship. 
"Ohio State is growing as our big rival," coach Janusz Bednarski said. "[As the defending champs,] all fencers 
Pataf!onia 
excltdively 
at~·
Sminute~ ~­
from CJUTPC!i'T 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Coll259·1ooofor more details 
""UniversityClub-·x,. ·•· www.nd.eduf.....univclub 
presents Houses for Rent Th..eCompany 
It's not too late to find quality 
directedbyMelanie Como 
hot1ses close to campus for the 
In the Stadium Room ofUniversity Club Tuesday, December 2nd at 7:00PM 2004-2005 school year Tickets: $12.50 Call: 631-4678 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-r895 
have a lot of 
freshmen. 
Freshmen are an unknown 
position until you see them in 
action." 
Youth was served last week­
end at Northwestern as the 
new fencers combined for only 
one loss. Freshmen sabers 
Patrick Ghattas and Matthew 
Stearns were a combined 15-0 
while epeeist Aaron Adjemian 
won all six of his bouts. 
Fellow freshman foilist 
Frankie Bonatempo finished 8­
0. On the women's side, Valerie Providenza and Angela Vincent added a combined 15­1 record to give the rookies an impressive 44-1 weekend mark. ''I'm not worried about anyone," Walton said. "They know what they're doing they really don't need anyone to back them up." 
But the leftovers from last year haven't exactly gone stale. Leading the young freshmen are six returning All­Americans, including individ­ual national foil champ Alicja Kryczalo and national epee runner up Michal Sobieraj. 
Even though it's early in the season, Bednarski looks for these tournaments to provide invaluable experience to be used later in the season. 
"It will be good to check out what we have to be improved and what can be done," he said. "It will be good training for next year's champi­onships." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

I. 
-----------------------------------------------------............ 
page 20 Th~ Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2003 
HOCKEY 


I 
l i : 
) ' ' 
~ ' 
' 
) . I 
I
\ . 

~. . 
·' 
\: l 
! l : 
I '• 
' 
\; 
" 
I',_·.. 
< ,. 
I I 
~ 
\ 
' 
~ 'r
l 
\ ) \ ' 
i I •!
! 
·,
I,. 
Irish open four-game homestand against Lakers 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
If their games from earlier this season are any indication, Notre Dame's series against Lake Superior State could be over quicker than you can say, "He shoots, he scores." 
The Irish (5-3-1, 4-3-1 in the CCHA) and the Lakers (4-3-3, 2­3-1) are the first and second least penalized teams in the CCHA, respectively, as well as two of the least penalized teams in the nation. With fewer whis­tles and stoppages of play, the games 

are over much "We want to make "We showed faster. this a building our players film. "I think [fewer and it was pretty
where people look 
penalties] are a .evident in the 
at and say, 'I don't
sign of discipline film that Lake and I think the way even want to go State is playing both teams play, play there.,., pretty well right that's what we'll now," Poulin said. have to covquer, is "I think we have the disciplined play Dave Poulin a lot of respect of Lake State," Irish coach for them. and 
Irish head coach Dave Poulin said. "I think you're going to see a heck of a game; I'd much rather it be 5-on-5 than a special-teams­fest, no question." 
The Irish are off to their fastest start since the 1998-99 season, when the team opened the season with a 7-1-1 record. The Lakers have been equally hot, going 2-0-1 in their last three years. 
Lake Superior State is a team that has had a history of success in the college hockey world, including winning the national championship in the 1988-89 season. Head coach Frank Anzalone led the team to four NCCA Final Four appearances from the years 1982-1990. 

Anzalone then left the college ranks for a professional career. but returned to the Laker bench in the 2001-02 season, in which the Lakers went 8-27-2 -a far cry from L.heir dominant 80's teams. Now in the third year of his second stint with Lake Superior State, the team is starting to show signs of reload­ing. 
Last season, Notre Dame won both matches against Anzalone's Lakers by 3-2 and 6­3 scores. Poulin serves note that this is not the same cellar­dwelling team as Anzalone's 
teams in 2001 
and 2002 were. 
certainly bringing 

back a coach who had a lot of success has given that team something to feed otT. 
"They're going to be perhaps even more disciplined and play even harder now that they've actual1y won a few games here recently." 
Notre Dame is coming off a 4­0 exhibition win last Friday against the U.S. Under-18 National Developmental Program. Freshman goalie David Brown collected his unof­ficial fourth shuto.ut of the sea­son, as the exhibition shutout wil1 not count toward his official statistics. 
Poulin said that he will start Brown on Friday against Lake Superior State, and then make his decision about Saturday's starter after Friday's game. 
Notre Dame's series against the Lakers is the first of two straight CCHA series at the Joyce Center for the Irish. Poulin stressed the importance of doing well in these four con­secutive home matches, espe­cially having opened the season with six of nine games on the road. 
"We have to make this a very difficult building to play in," he said. "We want to make this a building where people look at and say, 'I don't even want to go play there.' The band has been just tremendous at our games ­the energy they create is so great and they work so hard at creating noise and being a lively atmosphere . 
"I think it should be a great weekend." 
Forwards Trent Campbell and Nathan Ward lead the Lakers with seven points each. Like Notre Dame and Brown, the Lakers have a capable freshman netminder in Jeff. Jakaitis, who collected his first career shutout last Saturday in a scoreless tie against Bowling Green. 
Matt Violin is the other mem­ber of the Lake Superior State goaltending tandem and played well against the Irish last year in the 3-2 game, making 4 7 saves tii the Lakers' loss. He currently has a 2-3-2 record with a goals-against average of 
2.90 and a .877 save percent­age. 
Notre Dame faces Lake Superior State at the Joyce Center this weekend. Fac_eoff is scheduled for 7:35 p.m. tonight and 7:05p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

• TIM KACMAR!The Observer Irish right win Rob Globke checks a Boston College player In Notre Dame's 1-0 upset win of then-No. 1 Boston College Oct. 24. 
' 
I 
i ;; 
)' ,. 
Boxing 
continued from page 24

l:.: 
dents.

r,,. "It was really great," captain ! ·: Sara Sweeney said. "This was
(; 
the first time we have been

i~ 
able to do something like this." ! The women first started box­
&F 
ing publicly at last year's! annual Bengal Bouts~ where I they had six exhibition fights.
I ·,
I However, this started a stir
I 1 
amongst students, faculty and even the media at Notre Dame. 

"The public response to that ,.... [last year's fights] was amaz­ing," Sweeney said. 
This year, the women's box­ing club opted to put on their own bouts. With over 400 peo­ple in attendance, the bouts 

) brought in almost $5,000 in donations, T-shirt sales and pledges. This money will be
l ' I 
used to cover the expense of the event, and the remainder t.. will go to the sports camp. 
I:)! "We always knew we would be successful
L 
once we got to

!, "We always knew 
this point," were paired up Sweeney said. "It we would be based on ability
I 
/. was an amazing successful once we and size, in 
tping to see." order to pro­
got to this point. " 
The women vide for fair ! credited the and exciting event's success to Sara Sweeney bouts. .: advertising. They wor:nen's boxing captain The night 
l ; 
I made signs, T­was about the shirts and even determination the local media interviewed of the club to come through the captains. The men's box­with the successful season­ing club helped out Thursday ending bouts. The exhibition night, performing various tasks at the bouts. 

By the end of the bouts. fam­ilies and faculty alike compli­mented the boxers on well-fought bouts. The boxers 
ty Bouts: Results 
Jessica Fickey def. Meghan Whealan 
McGlinn Hall XtcG/inn Hall 
Courtnev Selph def. Taiss Lewis 
OJ]' C111npus HouJard Hall 
jessica Brogan def. Melanie Irvine OffCampus · · Hall 
OffCampus OffCampus 
MIKE HARKINS/The Observer 
ended with two senior cap­tains, Lisa Danielson and Sarah Panko dueling until the end. 
"It finally became a reality," Sweeney said. "We are defi­nitely looking forward to next season, and we hope to build off the success we had tonight." 
Sweeney, a senior, and her fellow captains leave the box­ing program with a sense of accomplishment. 
"It has been more than any­thing we ever dreamed of." she said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
In their first two games, Valparaiso was led by Katie
Bball 

Boone who has averaged 13.0 continued from page 24 points a game and hit all four of 
her 3-point attempts. ThE. some preparation time for that, Crusaders showed a trend in and we know what to expect." their first two contests of staying 
The game is both teams' third close to their opponent in the of the season. Valparaiso started first half before getting beaten the season 0-2 after falling to oadly in the second half. Against Villanova and Oregon, while the Villanova, Valparaiso led 32-31 Irish opened with a at halftime, but split by beating No. was outscored
"They're always a

2 2 Auburn 77-64 37-18 in the sec­and falling to No. 20 tough team to play. ond half. The Colorado 67-63. Crusaders were
For some reason .

Irish forward tied with Oregon
we've always 

Jacqueline Batteast 23-23 at inter~ had a solid first two struggled with mission before games, scoring 27 losing by 13
them.'' 

against the Tigers points. and 13 points and Even though 10 rebounds against Muffet McGraw Valparaiso also the Buffalos. Irish coach seems to have a 
Last season the Crusaders battled the No. 9 Irish, finally losing 74­68 at Valparaiso. Batteast and forward Katy Flecky had 13 points each in that contest. Notre Dame didn't score in the final 4 minutes, 52 seconds of the game and had to make 30 free throws to hang on for the victory. 
The last time the two teams met at the Joyce Center, points were at a premium. The Irish downed the Crusaders 42-35 after ending the game on a 7-2 run. 
"They're just a solid team. They have really good balance and they play a lot of people," McGraw said. "They work really hard and they're just a smart team and very well coached." 

poor record 
when they play the Irish, including this season, McGraw said she isn't sure why the Irish have struggled so much with them the last several sea­sons. 
"It's a challenge for us to play them every year," McGraw said. 
The team is excited for the home opener, especially after playing well in Colorado last weekend. 
"They're excited. They're excited just to be in the season. Now we're getting a little taste of what we can do," McGraw said. "It was. a great start for us. I thought we made great steps from last season." 
ContactJoe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Friday, November 21, 2003 
Tht Obstrvtr + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw lands top 20 class 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
For the eighth straight year, 
Notre Dame has landed a top 
20 recruiting class after 
bringing in three of the coun­
try's top players during the 
early signing period. 
"We are really pleased and proud to welcome to Notre Dame three young women of this caliber, both athletically and academically," Irish Coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish signed Charel Allen, Melissa D'Amico and Tulyah Gaines Wednesday and the group was named No. 13 by Blue Star index. 
Allen had an outstanding season as a junior when she averaged 29.9 points, 11.4 rebounds, 7.2 steals and 4.8 assists at Monesson High School. She was the top recruit in the East region of the country and could make an immediate impact for Notre Dame. 
"She has a wonderful gift for getting to the basket and put­ting points on the board, and I believe she will be a major asset in our transition game," McGraw said. "I am also impressed with her work ethic and intensity on the court, which fits well with our pro­gram." 
Blue Index ranks Allen No. 27 in the nation. 
McGraw helped add some height to the future by signing 6'5" center Melissa D'Amico from Manorville, NY. D'Amico will be the tallest player on the team, and she averaged 
16.8 points, 9.8 rebounds and 
3.5 blocks last season for her high school team. D'Amico had a very solid summer camp, which helped put her on the map for many schools and she considered a rising star entering her senior sea­son. 
"For a post player, she is so multidimensional.," McGraw said. "She can play with her back to the basket or step out and knock down the outside shot. She's also a solid defend­er and someone who will be a great addition to our team at both ends of the floor." 
The third signee, Gaines, averaged 18.9 points and 5.1 assists. Her biggest asset is her quickness, and she will make the Irish a more athletic and fast team. 
"Tulyah may be the quickest player we've ever had come through our program, and that includes some of our cur­rent players," McGraw said. 
"She is a great on-ball defender and has great court awareness. She also is a strong passer and like Charel, we think she will help with our ability to get the ball up the floor quickly in transi­tion." 
With its eighth straight top 20 class, Notre Dame is only one of three schools to claim such an accomplishment. 

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
--------------------------------------------------........................ 
Friday, November 21, 2003 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
just happened to be in warm weather areas and areas that had 
Recruits 

been good to us." Mainieri's continuation of Notre
continued from page 24 

Dame's streak of 15 seasons with 
guys that we wanted, and we did 40 wins or more, which is the a good job." third longest active streak in the The fact that the Irish had such nation, combined with his team's recruiting success in the talent­100 percent graduation rate of laden southern states such as four-year players over his nine­Florida and Texas -in this class. year tenure, has attracted some 
Brezovsky, Korpi and Williamson of the top recruits in the nation. 
are all from Florida and Langford "I think what has happened in hails from Texas -points to recruiting is that the prospects Notre Dame's emer-have become so gence on the national much smarter collegiate baseball "/have a lot of now in how they scene. In past years, analyze their
courage when it 
it has been difficult options," Mainieri 
comes to playing said. "Getting a
for northern schools like Notre Dame to freshmen. " quality education, out-recruit tradition­playing in a pro­al southern powers gram that has
Paul Malnlerl 
such as Florida State, proven it can get
Irish coach 
Texas and Rice, but to the College 

,,-. 
I 
I ' 
\; 
\ :"• 

:_ \ 
'·· >'.>
l i•· 
1.''
'>· 
\' . 
I . 
I, 

I .:
I . 
I·.;.: 
i I
!
I! ?!.·'I J.'il 
with currently five players on the Irish roster -not including the current recruits ­that hail from Florida and Texas, Notre Dame is showing it can compete on this level. 
"It's funny how things run in cycles for you, but we have kind of a rich tradition in bringing in kids form Texas and south Florida," Mainieri said. "This par­ticular year, those were the play­ers that we identified, and they 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
Irish lead the nation in blocking, with a 3.73 per game average. Brewster is second in the nation, with 1.79 blocks per game. 
"Our block is key to our suc­cess," Brown said. 
However, that is not all that the Irish bring to the table. They have benefited from the out­standing play of Iibera Meg Henican and defensive specialist Danielle Herndon. 
When Notre Dame puts it all together, they have been a tough team to stop. 
"In order for us to be smooth, passing has to be good, setting has to be good hitters have to be on and they have to be smart," Brown said. "Overall, throughout the season, we've done a lot of good things -it's just a matter of everyone doing their job." 
But the Irish know they have room to improve, and they will work on this as they try to repeat as the Big East Tournament Champions. 
"We're not looking at the last match," Brown said. "We're tak­ing it a day at a time and looking forward to playing Miami. We feel like we have a good block defense, serving strategy, and we think our offense can do well [against Miami]. They will be hungry and we expect it to be a very competitive match." 
Game time is set for 3:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. At 1 p.m., Pittsburgh will face Villanova in the first semifinal game. 
The winners of both games square off at 2 p.m. Sunday for the championship. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

rr.n hats
11oves 
largest selection 
onlyat 
Jk C 
Sminutes 
a 
from CU"Ti=»CS'T 
Campus·~
Cold Weather Experts 
Col1259·1ooo for more details 

World Series, and they see that every one of our players graduates, and then they get a chance to meet our players and they see what a wonderful group of kids they are, and they want to be a part of it." 
Also, the baseball facilities near Frank Eck Stadium, considered some of the best indoor facilities in the nation, and the fact that the Irish travel to the south for nearly the first quarter of the season make the wintry conditions of South Bend not as much of a fac­tor for the recruits in the deci­sion-making process. 
"It's amazing how over the last few years, the weather has not been as big of an issue with recruits as it once was," Mainieri said. "If you look at last year's class, [Irish freshman] Jeff Manship was the best player coming out of the state of Texas. So if you can take the best kid out of Texas, I think you can get just about anybody." 
The Irish recruited a pair of teammates for the fiTSt time dur­ing Mainieri's coaching regime in Korpi and Williamson, who were on the same pitching staff at Santaluces High School in Florida. In the 2003 season, Korpi posted a 1.06· ERA and 14.5 strikeouts per nine innings while Williamson notched a 1.35 ERA with 18 strikeouts per nine innings. 
The Fort Worth, Texas, native Langford will bring a great deal of versatility to the Irish, as the right bander not only logged a 6­2 record with a 2.25 ERA last year, but also hit .338 while see­ing time in the infield. 
The fourth pitcher, Gruener, posted a 1.75 ERA and near 9-to­1 strikeout-to-walks ratio as a junior at Life Christian High 


ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 17-24, 2003 
Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hare Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) 
What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. 
How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. 
Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 

BASEBALL CLASS OF 2008 SIGNINGS 
Player Position Ht./Wt. Bats Hometown Ross Brezovsky IF 5-10/160 l Naples. Fla. 

David Gruener  LHP  
 Gig Harbor. Wash.  
Wade Korpi  LHP  ~11/180  Lake Worth. Fla.  
Tony Langford  RHP/IF  6-Q/175  R  Fort Worth, Texas  
Brett Lilley  IF  ·s~9/165  L  North Cantont Ohio  
Joey Wtlliamson  AHP  6·2/185  .Lantana. Fla..  

School in Washington. 
The two infielders, Brezovsky and Lilley, will add depth to an Irish infield that could lose a pair of starters after the 2004 season in second baseman Steve Sollmann and shortstop Matt Macri, who may choose to enter professional baseball. Brezovsky batted .425 as a junior and is list­ed as the 65th best player in Florida by Perfect Game/Baseball America. Lilley was named the top second baseman in the state by The Buckeye Scout. 
Mainieri hopes that the recruits will come in ready to contribute in 2004-05, as the Irish stand to lose at least six players to gradua­tion and possibly more to the draft. 

"You always hope that they come ready, but the reality is that some freshmen come more ready than others," he said. "We recruit them because we need them. I have a lot of courage when it comes to playing freshmen. 
''I'm always going to play the guys that deserve to play thf' most whether they're freshmen or stm­iors. If these guys come in and do a good job and that's wherl' our needs are, they're going to be plugged right in there." 
Contact Chris Federico at 
~federic@nd.edu 
----~­
*~ ~
~'~:.;··~. 
'II£ ·~ 
""V'" 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
UNIVERSITY SEEKS COMMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION PROCESS 

The University of Notre Dame is seeking comments from students, faculty, staff, alumni and the public in preportion for its periodic evaluation by the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. 
The University will undergo a comprehen­sive evaluation visit March 22-24, 2004. The team will renew the institution's ongo­ing ability to meet the Commission's criteria for accreditation and General Institutional Requirements. 
Comments should address substitive mat­ters related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Comments must be in writing and signed; comments are not treated as confidential. 
Comments should be submitted by Feb. 20 to: Public Comment on the University of Notre Dame Accreditation, Commission on Institutions of Higher Education, North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, 30 N. LaSalle St., Suite 2400, Chicago, I L. 60602. 
The Commission does not accept confiden­tial or unsigned comments. 
,.. 
l· 
I 
L 
·-----­

.. 

Friday, November 21, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 
continue our week 

JUMBLE 
~IDJJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RAICH 
j
I I r [] 
Cl2003 Tribune Media ServicBII, Inc. 
TAMEL ±
All Righta Reeerved.  
tFREIHE) ()  []  
www.jumble.comIWEFURC±I I r  IJ  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
I hope it doesn't rain 

WHAT THE: TOWN ~ F()R VURING THE: ANNUAL-CAR­NIVAL-DAY5. 
-
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 
"[ I I I J" rI x x I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles:  VITAL  BANAL  UNLESS  AIRWAY  
Answer:  Why she sought new fabric tor the well-used  
easy chair-IT WAS "SAT-IN"  


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Monumental stone heap
1 Greater than great 30 Spy pic, maybe 
9 Rides 34 Traffic stopper 
35 Come into 

15 Dining option 36 Doesn't charge 
16 Best at putting for
things away 37 Botanical organ 
17 Not keep one's distance, in a 38 Fauna, fondly way 
39 Not just cool 18 Hound 
40 City near Mount Monadnock

19 Name derived from ancient 41 Surfer's entry, Greek for "I maybeburn" 
42 Acct. stat 20 Opening to an 
43 Essays

underground network 48 Hail 
22 Holder of 52 Tongue-tied private one? information? 
53 Fonda's "Stanley &Iris"24 It's in, for now 

co-star 25 Better 
54 Fast grower, 2t Filibuster population-wise 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Just get by 57 Comic bits 58 Signed over 59 Catch up 
DOWN 
1 Wanting no more 
2 Philosophy 101 subject 
3 "The Divided Self' author 
R. D. 

"4 Fanfare 5 Badger 6 Coerced to 
participate 7 Give 
(lambaste) 8 Stuff for frying 9 Go _ (turn in) 
10 Violinist Leopold 11 West Jordan locale 12 Get through successfully 13 Tough thing to fill 14 Cliff consideration 21 A pittance, slangily 23 Like a sweetheart 27 House holder 28 Run 29 Trapped like 
WILLSHORTZ 


30 Wrong  38 Cause  46 Rubdown  
31 Mediate 32 Call into question  40 Asian carrier 42 Dye-job option  cover-up 47 Nut's lack 49 Motley  
33 Do followers  44 "The Addams  50 Iroquois foe  
34 Highlights  Family" co-star  51 Goofy, e.g.  
36 "Still_" (1999 rap song)  45 uup in Smoke" co-star, 1978  55 Underground letters  

!=or answers, call 1 -900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-80Q-81 4-5550. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($.34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leam inglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Celebrities born on this day: Marlo Thomas, Goldie Hawn, Tina Brown, Ken Griffey Jr. 
) 
Happy Birthday: If you stay calm and refuse to lose control, you are certain to prosper this year. If you let your emotions stand in the way of your better judgment, you will find yourself facing many dilemmas along the way. You have some terrific ideas to develop, and this is the year to be taking your abstract thoughts and turning them into something more concrete. Your numbers: 18, 21, 30, 32, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel opportunities of a social nature will develop through groups. Attending parties or other affairs will be conducive to new romantic encounters. Your affections and desires will be very passionate. 

***** ' 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take care of the personal affairs of friends or relatives today. Your ability to make extra cash is evident. Lending or borrowing will be beneficial. You will be able to take risks today. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Love is on the rise, infatuations are confusing you, and more than one possible lover will be present in your life. You need to choose wisely, but most of all you should enjoy your good fortune. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romance will unfold thrQugh work-related matters. Opportunities to advance are evident; however, you must keep your emotions well hidden if you wish to accomplish your objectives. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportunities for love will present themselves through educational pursuits, sports events or pleasurable trips. You can spend money on self-improvement, cosmetic surgery, a new hairstyle, etc. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Luxury items bought for your domestic environment will add to its charm and comfort. You'll feel great if you direct your time and energy into rearranging or redecorating your home. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Romantic opportunities will heighten your day. Travel, lectures and social gatherings will enhance your popularity. New friendships made today will be lasting and personally advantageous. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Opportunities for romance will develop through work-relat~d social events. You will charm potential partners and gain popularity with your colleagues. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotions will soar due to your romantic life. Excitement is evident. You can capture the heart of someone you ­are infatuated w1th by using your wit and charm. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make financial changes pertaining to your investments. Take time to acknowledge a friend who has not been feeling well. Clear up the trivial duties that have been building up. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Social activity will promote passionate partnerships. You will easily capture the heart uf someone special. Your ability to communicate intelligently will enhance your popularity. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make extra cash through creative endeavors. Develop your skills and execute your intentions. Matters pertaining to your domestic scene will be uncertain due to unpredictable individuals. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are steadfast and determined in all that you do. You leave nothing to chance, although with your luck, you could if you wanted to. You are faithful to yourself as well as to others. You have no problem taking control of your life or any situation you face. The world is your playpen. 
Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www. eugenialast.com. 
• 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne . 
Make checks payable to·: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ ­
.. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

I I ' 

Friday, November 21, 2003 
WOMEN'S BOXING 

Dreams become a reality 

19 women's boxing bouts go on at JACC Thursday night 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 
Women's boxing brings a 
whole new meaning to th-e 
term "power hour." 
For one hour, each boxer does as many sit-ups, push-ups and jumping jacks as she can. But this time it was different. 

Each boxer took pledges from different individuals based on the number of sit­,, ups, push-ups and jumping ,,i jacks they could do within the I hour. These pledges were then
.·I 
donated to the Honduras 

'\ ( \ i Sports Camp for Girls, which helps encourage women athlet­ics in Honduras. Each boxer raised at least $50 from pledges. Thursday night it all came together for this hard-working group of boxers as they were ,, successful in 18 bouts in front of families, faculty and stu-ANDY KENNA!The Observer Lindsay Lutz (left) punches Laura Rimkus in last night's women's boxing charity bouts. The see BOXING/page 20 women's boxing club held 19 matches Thursday night. 



ND VOLLEYBALL 

No.2 Irish ready to defend title at home 
? 
',. .. By HEATHER VAN 
1 
!· HOEGARDEN 
I 
Spons Writer 

} j They lost the No. 1 seed in I this tournament, but the buck I stops there. 
I 
No. 2 seed Notre Dame (22-4, 
11-1) is determined to win the Big East Tournament this week­end, after losing to Pittsburgh (22-4, 11-1) last weekend to tie for the regular season title, and give Pittsburgh the No. 1 seed in this weekend's Big East Tournament. 
"[The Big East Tournament Championship) is not the ulti­mate goal, but it's really impor­tant to us and we want to defend the title," coach Debbie Brown said. 
The Irish have the firepower to do so, but they face a formi­

f. 
i. 
; 
dable opponent, in No. 3 seed Miami (22-8, 9-3). The last time these teams matched up, the Irish beat the Hurricanes 3-0 on College Sports Television at the Joyce Center. 

But it won't be as easy this time around. 
"The last match against Miami means nothing," Brown said. "It's another match and we have to prove ourselves again." 
That win was in front of a record 2,715 fans-the most for a volleyball match not played before a Notre Dame football pep rally. It was also a win in which Miami's star Valeria Tipiana only registered four kills after coming off an injury. 
On the other side of the net, the Irish have been led by sen­ior setter Kristen Kinder. She distributes the ball in a potent offense that includes junior Emily Loomis and sophomore middle blockers Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster. 
This sophomore duo helps the 
see BIG EAST/page 22 

BASEBALL 
Page 24 
ND WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 

Crusaders should provide good test 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Valparaiso is 0-2 on the sea­son, which probably means Notre Dame will have its hands full opening the home season tonight at the Joyce Center. 
For whatever reason, the Crusaders always play See Also the Irish 
"McGraw lands
tough. 

"They're top 20 class" always a 
page 21
tough team to play. For some reason we've always struggled with them," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They play great defense. It's the same kind of defense that Colorado played against us, so we at least have 
see BBALL/page 20 
Six sign letters of intent 
Mainieri gets four pitchers, two infielders as early signees 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Paul Mainieri announced Thursday the signing of six high school seniors to letters of intent with Notre Dame during the early signing period. 
The group includes four pitchers -right handers Tony Langford and Joey Williamson and lefthanders David Gruener and Wade Korpi -and a pair of infielders in Ross Brezovsky and Brett Lilley. 
This recruiting season marked Mainieri's first without former associate head coach and recruiting coordinator Brian O'Connor, who took a head coaching position at VIrginia in July. But Mainieri was pleased with the work of his assistants, David Grewe and Terry Rooney, who is in his first year with the Irish after serving as pitching coach and recruiting coordinator at Stetson University. 
"David Grewe did an unbelievable job, while basi­cally he was the only one doing the recruiting, at the time when Brian [O'Connor] was deciding whether or not he would go to Virginia," Mainieri said. "Then when Terry Rooney came aboard -people get a chance to meet him and realize he's a very high-energy guy. He loves to recruit and he works hard at it, so when he got here, he hit the ground 

en 
HOCKEY 
ND WOMEN'S SWIM 

SMC BASKETBAll 
NCAA FOOTBALL
FENCING 
NFL 
w

1-
(.) Lake Superior St. 
Notre Dame at 

Tip-Off Classic at 
Notre Dame 
Southern Miss 40 
z at Notre Dame 
Texas A & M 

Rose-Hulman 
Turkey Shoot 
TCU 28 

Deactived Tampa Bay 
I nvitationa I 

Today-Saturday 
Sunday, 8 a.m. 
receiver Keyshawn
cc :3 
Today-Sunday

Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
The hopes of a BCS 

Johnson will serve as an 
Hanover and Franklin 
With an early start to 
berth for TCU come to 

analyst for Fox while 
Irish return home and 
Top competition is in 

are the first two oppo­
the season, the Irish corn-
an end with its first loss 

not playing in the 
== 
face the Lakers 
store for Irish. 

nents for the Belles. 
pete in individual events. 
on the year. 

team's last six games. 
D..!:i 

en 
page 19
page 19

page 20 
page 19 
page 18 

page 16 
L ( 

.• 
Friday, November 21, 2003 .

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Recent success sets high expectations for Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
When Irish coach Mike Brey first arrived at Notre Dame three years ago, he pulled his players into a meeting room and told them he thought he could help them reach the NCAA Tournament -a feat the Irish hadn't accomplished in 11 years. 
Now, Brey looks back on those days and laughs at how the expectations have changed. 
Gone is the satisfaction with merely qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. Gone, too, is contentment with winning a tournament team before folding up against a more estab­lished power. 
team out. 
With each year, Notre Dame gains more experience, and its players appear less likely to pause in wonderment when they pass an old milepost. 
"What excites me is to hear our veter­ans talk about bigger things, playing deeper lin March]," Brey said. "That's not pipe dreams anymore. Those guys can really talk about this with the expe­rience that they've had." 
The centerpiece of Notre Dame's team is point guard Chris Thomas, who turned down the NBA for another year in college. His backcourt mate, sopho­more Chris Quinn, could, at best, help give the Iris.h one of the nation's top slate this year. The league re-aligned to form one massive 14-team division, and the Irish will play every team at least once. The three teams it plays twice are defending champion Syracuse, presea­son No. 1 Connecticut and perennial power Pittsburgh. 

There are other question marks too, like Notre Dame's relative lack of depth, that won't be answered until the season starts Monday. And the Irish won't find out who will replace graduates Matt Carroll and Dan Miller's remarkable point production until they tip off against Northern Illinois. 
But Brey and the Irish truly believe they will continue their improvement as a program. The Irish believe they are one of the nation's elite programs, and this season, they'll look to demonstrate it. 
''I'm really excited_about who we have back," Brey said. "When we think about this team all summer and watching them in ... practices, the six returning guys, that if we had to toss it up tonight in a Big East game, I would feel pretty good about it." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Even if the Irish, "Last year, we went to the 
who host Northern 
Sweet I 6. I think we should
Illinois in their sea­
son opener Monday, think nothing short ofthe duplicate their Sweet Final Four [this year]. We're 
16 appearance of last 
thinking big dreams. and we 
year this March, the 
feat might just war­want to go as far as possible. ,, rant a shrug of the shoulders in the 
Jordan Cornette 
Joyce Center basket­
Irish co-captain
ball offices. 
"Last year, we went to the Sweet 16. I think we should think nothing short of the Final Four [this year]," junior co­captain Jordan Cornette said. "We're thinking big dreams, and we want to go as far as possible." 
Each year, Notre Dame has steadily improved its postseason success. In Brey's first year, the Irish made the NCAA Tournament and won the opening round game. In his second year, the Irish pushed top-seeded Duke to the brink before falling in the second round. Last year, Notre Dame made the Sweet 16 before Arizona blew an awe-struck Irish backcourts at best and, at worst, a tandem that could wreak havoc on oppos­ing defenses. 
"It's hard for teams to guard two-point guards, especially Chris," Thomas said. "He can shoot, he can pass, he can han­dle the ball just as good as any point guard in 
the country." 
Notre Dame has typically beaten teams before by shooting them to death. Defense, on the other hand, is another question mark. And after Notre Dame's overtime win in a Nov. 14 exhibition, Brey seemed almost resigned toward the fact that the Irish would have to outscore teams to win. 
But Brey knows the Irish will need defense to face their tough schedule. It's no surprise that the Irish, who finished third in the Big East West Division last year, will face another tough conference 

-. --. ... . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ... .. .. . . . 
Friday, November 21, 2003 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Strivin 
or new hei 
Eleven factors will lend the Irish to their fourth straight year of measurable improvements under the watchful eye ofhead coach Mike Brey 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sporrs Writer 
Every year of the Mike Brey era, the Notre Dame basketball program has made small but measurable improvements. Here are 11 key factors if the Irish want to see a fourth straight year of improvement. 
Chris Thomas' maturity 
When Chris Thomas withdrew from the NBA Draft in June, scouts told Brey the Irish would be getting a much more pol­ished point guard. Now that Thomas is one of Notre Dame's veterans, the Irish will be looking to him for leadership both on and off the court. 
Last year, Notre Dame's success was often equated to Thomas' success. When Thomas was on, the Irish were on. When he was off, the Irish struggled. That can't happen this year. 
In the early-season exhibition games, Thomas has still demonstrated the flashy playmaking ability that made him so good to begin with, but he also showed that he can take care of the basketball better. No longer does Thomas appear as eager to force things on the offensive end. 
If Notre Dame's top weapon has matured as much as the scouts say he has, then the Irish will be a formidable force indeed. 

CHIP MARKS!The Observer 

Chris Thomas shoots in a preseason Irish win against Hoop Group. 
The Thomas-Quinn backcourt 
Just how good can this backcourt be? Very, very good. 
Both Thomas and Chris Quinn have the ability to launch 3-pointers at will and both have shown they are adept at running the point. Where the genius of this pairing comes into play is when Thomas and Quinn rotate primary ball-handling duties during a game. Not only will it confuse defenses, but it will take the pressure off both guards who will likely be playing over 35 minutes every game. 
The point guard job will still be Thomas', but the presence of the equally-adept ball­handling Quinn in the backcourt will only help make this duo one of the best in the nation. 
Torin Francis' improvement 
In a rookie campaign that saw Francis earn all-Big East Rookie team honors, the then-freshman could either dominate in the paint or struggle against mediocre competition. While he improved as the sea­son progressed and wao:; a fiercesome pres­ence in the postseason, Francis knew he had to bulk up to establish consistency. 
That's why Francis walks around this year saying that he can't make the same mistakes he made as a freshman. And for Notre Dame's sake, he can't. 
The lrio:;h need to establish Francis as a scoring option early in each game, for it will free up Notre Dame's deadly 3-point shooters. Francis himself has to demon­strate that he can be a solid defensive stop­per as well as a reliable scoring threat to help the Irish as the season wears on. 
Torrian Jones' emergence 
For three years, Jones has passively played the role of the perfect teammate, deferring to more experienced players and coming in games when the Irish needed a spark only his athleticism could provide. But at the same time, Jones was one of the most vocal players in the locker room. 
This year, Jones finally gets to play the extended minutes he always wanted, but never complained for. He'll be expected to somehow replace Dan Miller as a potent defensive stopper while relying on his ath­leticism to penetrate opposing defenses to score and rebound. 
Jones has tremendous potential, and the Irish need him to live up to that potential. He's still a role player who knows he's not the No. 1 scoring option, but he's also going to get plenty of playing time. 
Jordan Cornette's versatility 
It would have been easy to be shocked that Cornette made four 3-pointers in an exhibition game when he made just six all last season. But while Brey jokingly says that Cornette isn't as good a 3-point shoot­er as he thinks, the junior forward gives the Irish a weapon that can exploited in multiple ways. 
First, Cornette is one of the team's most fundamentally sound players, with good footwork that often enables him to shut down his assignment each night. Second, he is effective at scoring both inside and outside. Third, his size quickness makes him diflicult to guard, while at the same time, Cornette can match up well against a variety of opponents. 
Cornette typically starts out each season with a bang -he had 19 blocks in Notre Dame's first two games last year -and on an Irish squad that struggles to play defense, the junior will be perfect as a stop­per. 
Depth at guard 
The Irish have Thomas, Quinn and Jones. After that, they're hurting for reliable options. 
Highly-touted sharpshooter Colin Falls has looked shaky in exhibition games, but the veterans on the team say he earned their confidence over the summer. Russell Carter has the ability to put points on the board in a hurry, but his defensive inepti­tude will probably limit his minutes as the seas"n begins. 
Notre Dame's top guards can match up well against any other guard group in the nation. But if the Irish get into foul trouble or somebody goes down with an injury, Brey will probably have a tough time -at least early on -going to one of his fresh­men. That's why the early season-games are so vital toward helping Falls and Carter gain experience. 

CHIP MARKS!The Observer 
Jordan Cornette looks to play a large role for this year's Irish. 
The big-man rotation 
Who Brey plays in the middle will depend on who the Irish face. Francis and Cornette will undoubtably see significant playing time, as will the team's biggest player, Tom Timmermans. And if needed, Jones can guard another team's big man. 
But Brey has been pleasantly surprised by Rick Cornett's improvement in early­season practices, and wants to fmd a spot for Cornett in the rotation. While he lacks Timmerman's size, he gives the Irish a more reliable scoring threat down low and is a fierce rebounder. 
Brey typically uses an eight-man rota­tion, which means some of the big men are going to see cutbacks in playing time. But which ones? 

BUG DAVISSON/The Observer 

Torin Francis grabs a rebound. 
Early start 

Notre Dame started formal practices the frrst week of September, before the Irish had even played a football game. They practiced 1 0 times before a foreign tour to Barbados, and will have had a full month between their foreign tour and their first game. 
Is the early start, combined with a gruel­ing schedule, too much? Nobody will know until February rolls around if early-season workouts will lead to late-season fatigue. 
The non-conference gauntlet 
Brey is a firm believer in scheduling tough teams to boost Notre Dame's all­important RPI rating, which is partially based on strength of schedule and is one of the factors the NCAA Tournament selection committee uses to select the field of 64. But the Irish face one heck of a stretch that could hurt them if they don't win enough. 

In addition to the traditionally difiicult Big East conference schedule -where the Irish face all teams at least once -Notre Dame plays perennial powers Marquette, Indiana, Kentucky and UCLA. Plus, the Kentucky and UCLA games come right in the middle of Notre Dame's conference schedule. On the other hand, Notre Dame fac(~d a tough slate last December of three consecutive top 10 teams -and beat them all. 
Time will tell if the tough schedule will help or hurt Notre Dame. 
February blues 
Since Brey has been the head coach, the Irish have typically stumbled their way toward the finish line each season. In it.•;; last six games of the regular season, Notre Dame teams have gone 3-3 the last three years, and the Irish arc a combined 1 7-11 in February and early March (as compared to 48-20 the rest of the season). 
The schedule makes this February par­ticularly tough, too. The Irish have away games at Boston College, defending champ Syracuse, preseason No. 1 Connecticut and UCLA, plus home games against Providence, Pittsburgh and Connecticut. The "easy" game? Seton Hall, which was picked to finish sixth in a preseason poll. All the other Big East teams the Irish play in February were predicted to finish higher. 
The value of defense 
Notre Dame uses a 25-letter alphabet that begins with A. B, C and E. That's right, noD. 
Brey seemed almost resigned to having to out-shoot teams to win games, like the Irish have traditionally done in the past. And while the Irish have the offensive tal­ent to run away from other teams, they run into problems when their shots are falling. 
That's because Notre Dame is a lacklus­ter defensive unit. Ao:;ide from Cornette and Jones, easily the team's top defenders, the Irish are often more focused on scoring than stopping. 
The Irish must commit themselves toward establishing a dominating defensive presence, especially in close games. Then, and only then, will they advance deep into the NCAA Tournament. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2003 
MEN'S 01J'I.LOOK 


COLIN FALLS 

6'4" GUARD No. 15-FR 
High school senior statistics 
Points  25.0  
Rebounds  7.0  
Assists  4.0  



Falls committed to Notre Dame with the idea that he could eventually replace Matt Carroll as Notre Dame's premier sharpshooter. He has already earned the trust of the Irish veterans and will play often. 

DENNIS LATIMORE 
6'8" FORWARD No. 41-JR 
2002-03 Statistics Minutes 12.0 Points Rebounds Blocks 
Latimore transferred from Arizona in the spring, and NCAA rules require him to spend a year on the sidelines. He'll be most helpful in practice helping develop Notre Dame's big men. 
· THE SCHEDULE 

Nov. 24 Northern Illinois Nov. 29 Mount St. Mary's Dec. 1 at l\1arquettc Dec. 6 Central Michigan 
'~ " •. ri: ·,. 
..,: : .. . •.· . ~ ... 
Dec. 14 at DePaul Dec. 21 American Dec. 23 Quinnipiac Dec. 28 Morehead State Jan. 7 West Virginia Jan. 10 at Villanova Jan. 12 at Pittsburgh 
Jan. 20 at Virginia Tech Jan. 25 Kentucky Jan. 28 Miami Jan. 31 Rutgers Feb. 4 at Boston College feb. i Pittsburgh feb. 9 Connecticut Feb. 14 Seton Hall Feb. 16 at Syracuse Feb. 21 at Connecticut Feb. 24 Providence feb. 28 at UCLA f\..1ar. .t GcorgclO\'\'n Mar. 6 at St. John's Mar. 10-13 Big East Tourney Mar. 18 NCAA Tourney 
B........,......, 





RUSSELL CARTER 
6'4" GUARD No. 43-FR 
High school senior statistics 
Points  30.0  
Rebounds  11.2  
Assists  3.4  


A talented athlete who can only be described as a work in progress, Carter can score in a hurry. But he struggles so much on defense that he might not see significant minutes until his defense improves. 
TORIN FRANCIS 
6'11" FORWARD No. 34-SO 
2002-03 Statistics Minutes 28.6 Points 11.1 Rebounds 8.4 Blocks 1.8 .1\s... 1\lQtre J)am,e's prirpary~pfJ:ep.~Jye weapon down low. Francis knows he has to''·elitnirtat~ 1he''mistakt'is thal plagued him lastseason. But this all­Big East rookie team mmnbcr,bulked up and improved-in the off-season. 

CHRIS QUINN 
6'2" GUARD No.2-SO 
2002-03 Statistics Minutes 15.3 Points 3.9 Rebounds Assists 1.5 

'--'--------'--------' 

1\. ~olid. dependable guard who has tleadly range .from the perimeter, Quinn will·be~ able to take ballhan­dling duties away from Thomas. He's not flashy, but he takes ~are of the ball and gets the job done. 
Thi$-'preseason ~Q. f team 
The defending champs may

....__CONNECTICUT
i~l~aded anct Etnekapklifor 
have lost Carmelo Anthony, 

i~»asily one of the' besfbig 
but they're still among the 

pl~ef} in the nat.i4,.1n. , 
Big East's elite. 
SYRACUSE ----1 

There's not much you can do 
Sharps,hooWr Julius Page

NOTRE DAME
if the teams ranked ahead of 1-­
will lead the Panthers' 

you fmished last season and 
att~mpt to repeat as Big~East

started this one No. 1. Tournament champions.
PITTSBURGH ---I 


~----PROVIDENCE 
SETON HALL-----I 

Notre Dame· hasn't beaten 
t-----VILLANOVA 
Villanova sinCt'~ 1984, induct­ing eight straight losses to the Wildcats in the Big Rast. 
BoSTON COUEGE-
The Irish haven't lost to 
~WEST VIRGINIA
West Virginia, usually one of the Big East's cellar-dwellers 
at home since 1987. 
Big East tourney last March. 
ST. JOHN'S---I 
~--------------------~ 

Let's hear it for DariQffRiC(l, 
t----­
the nephew of the famOlls wide receiver. And that's all Miami has goi~~-fQ£ it. · 
MIAMI 

GEORGETOWN -----t 

CHRIS THOMAS 
6'1" GUARD 
No.1-JR 

2002-03 Statistics Minutes 36.7 Points 18.7 Rebounds 4.0 Assists 6.9 The lynchpin of Notre Dame's team, Thomas tlirted with the NRA before returning for his junior year.' Scouts say he's more mature but still has all the flash that made him a unanimous preseason all-Big East selection. 

BIG EAST PRESEASON RANKINGS 
'4~ :.-·~~ 
JORDAN CORNETTE 
6'9" FORWARD No. 21-JR 
2002-03 Statistics Minutes 19.4 Points 3.0 Rebounds 4.2 Blocks 2.2 
~. IUIJfh {L_s the r~ngy,f(;u;wanJ 1!15!:Y lik~ 'to)'hoist 3-pofn~~. Cor:Jlet{e-~s greab~~ a~set'to 'tht~ Jrish'is a dcjrhi­
natipg defensive presenco. He{~ quick enoqgh to defend guards and tall enough to swafbig men. ­

TORR IAN JONES 
6'4" GUARD No. 20-SR 
2002-03 Statistics 
Minutes  18.6  
Points  4.9  
Rebounds  3.3  
Assists  1.3  


The yg~al Jones·. h9s pati,{fntly bi~~-~ his time on the bench for thefcba.rice to emerge this ye:ar. The athletit guard sco.res;.by slashing to tbe;.,pas­ket, and hi~·ptmetJ.'ating~_abilitfwill generate shots on the perimeter. 
TOM 11MVERMANS 
6'11" CENTER No. 50-SR 
2002-03 Statistics 
Minutes  12.6  
Points  3.3  
Rebounds  2.8  
Blocks  0.1  

The biggest player on Notre Dame's team, Timmerman's isn't expected to do much more than bang around in the middle. But he's also developed more finesse around the basket to make him an offensive option. 
~--------------------~ 
~--------------------~ 

Rutgers' home court is one of t----RUTGERS the toughest places to play, but 
thn;Scarlet Knights won't give 
VIRGINIA TE"CH
fan5 much ttJ cheer about. 
_ 
, 
···<mosf'uriqert~~d,ptaye'rs: / 
·-.·· .. 
The Red Storm have fallen on hard times, but they did knock ofT Notre Dame in the 
Andre Barrett leads a resurgent Seton Hall squad bent on making the NCAA Tournament. 
Mthm~:tbeJrish l),ave··ltou _ . the lasftpur ni,ee~~.Craig .. Smith is Qne of th~ ;Jfation'~' 
The Hoyas lost a ton of talent, but two of their last three games against the Irish went at least to double overtime. 
Yikes. Wilen the Hokies roll into town, its usually a win for the other team. How soon do they go to the ACC'? 


Friday, November 21, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
WOMEN'S OIJ'I'LOOK ­
JACQUELINE TERESA 

CRYSTAL BATTEAST MEGAN 
BORTON 

ERWIN
DUFFY 

6'2" FORWARD 6'3" CENTER 5'7" GUARD 
6'2" FORWARD No. 21-JR No. 12-JR 
No. 13-SO 
No. 34-FR High school2002-03 Statistics 2002-0:{ Statistics 2002-03 Statistics 

senior statistics

Minutes 31 . 9 Minutes 24,3 
Minutes Points 13.9 
Points 8.0 
Points 3.0 

Points 21.2 Rebounds 8.3 
Rebounds 5.0 
Rebounds 1. 9 

Rebounds 10.2 Assists 2.5 
Assists .9 
Assists 2.28 
Blocks 3.1 

'----~------..--' 
Erwin will give the Irish a very physi­A second-team all-Big East selection 

Borton had offseason heel surgery, 
Duffy played well.as a freshman, but 
cal player that will bang around inlast sca.<>on.~ Batteast ,bas been (me of 

b~t should l)e full go soort~;She had a 
should brrak out into a star play~r 
the post. She plays aggressive, how­

~e team's best sOOJ'e~,"and n"bound­solid!snphomore eampaigmand start­
this st~as<ln. She~c; a ~aFfloor goo'" 
ever, which makes her prone to

ers dMri.ug hpr r1rst t.WQ ye;~~s. This 
ed eyqry ·.ii~ la:§lyeiij:JQr,th~Jrish. 
eral_and !)as alread.y ~!i~Qpshcd)ler­
major foul trouble at times. Yet she'llseas{)J}, the juniorlooks to improve Borton play~, good"defense and 'give self as a leader onlhe e9ttrt;in just be a solid role player off the bench.

her consiStency"fdr the l'rish: the f~Iim 11n''offcdsi\re S'parl(at"tifues. 
one year of playiiigcolfegehan. 
KATY BREON A 


JENEKA FLECKY 
MONIQUE 

GRAY HERNANDEZ JOYCE 
6'2" FORWARD 5'9" GUARD 5'9" GUARD 
5'9" GUARD No. 33-JR 
No. 32-FR No. 23-SR 
No.5-SR 

2002-03 Statistics · High school 2001-02 Statistics 
2001-02 Statistics senior statistics
Minutes 23.3 
Minutes 6.9 

Minutes 16.6 Points 7.0 
Points 0.2 

Points 3.4 Rebounds 4.1 
Rebounds Assists 1.5 
Points 17.0 
Rebounds 0.5 

Rebounds 6.8 
Assists 0.6 
Assists 

An aggressive player, Flecky was Hernandez is back with the Irish 
Joyce sat out last season with a vari­

Gray is a very good defender and will called "the X factor" this season by 
after not playing last season. She ety of injuries and has struggled to
be primarily used in that role duringcoach McGraw because she could be 
be healthy for any extended period ofshould be a key role player and secthe 2003 season. She's also a solid 

the biggest difference-maker. The 
significant minutes in '03. Her expe­
time during her career. She can

athlete who can play intense for long team will look to Flecky to become a 
become a very formidable 3-point

rience will be an asset for the
stretches after starring on the high
bigger outside presence in 2003. 
shooter if she can stay on the court.
younger players.

school track team. 
ANNE SEVERE 
LE'TANIA WEESE 
5'8" GUARD 

5'8" GUARD No.4-SR 
No. 44-SR 

2002-03 Statistics Minutes 30.6 
2002-03 Statistics 

Minutes 1.4 Points 7.3 
Points 0.1 Rebounds 3.7 
Rebounds 0.4 Assists 3.8 
Assists 

.______...-~----' 
Weese spent two years at a highly­of her 3-point attempts in high school 
Powers connected on over 42 percent 
Severe returns to become a two-time 
competitive community college and will become outside threat for the 
captain and will be the leader of the 
before walking onto Notre Dame's Irish. She could see some minutes at 
Irish~ She runs the offense well and 
team as a junior. She will be a beneh shooting guard, but is versatile 
can score if given the chanct~. Severe 
leader for the team, lending advice to enough to play three positions. 
brings leadership and will be the 
the young girls. 

glue for the 2003 team. 





LaVer~ is one of the best young for­wards in the Big East after claiming All-Hookih honoN; last season,-She emerged late last s~ason as a reli­able-scorer and rebounder who can dominate a game af anytime. 
THE SCHEDULE 

Nov. 21 Valparaiso Nov. 26 at Michigan St. 
Dec. 4 Wisconsin Dec. 7 at Washington Dec. 13 Dayton Dec. 22 USC Dec. 29 at Colorado St.· 
trgtnia Jan. 21 at Syracuse Jan. 24 Villanova Jan. 28 at Miami Jan. 31 Boston College Feb. 4 Georgetown Feb. 8 at Seton Hall Feb. 14 Providence Feb. 17 at St. John's Feb. 21 at Pittsburgh Feb. 25 Miami Feb. 28 at Rutgers Mar. 2 Syracuse 
Rutgers
Mar. 6-9 Big East Tourney 
The lri$h face the Sarlet Kni&hts on the road. in the lut
Mar. 21 NCAA Tourney weekend before the Big 
East Championship. The Irish
Begins Will be I~ to awnge bst !ll!ilSOO'II home lou 
Th(!Jiu'skies have tbei£isf.two nilflonal titles ahd went 37-1 l(lst season. They are tfle teapt ~(>beat ngaiu iu2Q(l3_. , .2 . .  
After going 21-10 last season, the Irish will look towards a conference title this season with more experience.  
The ~~gletfwent .?4.~9jlnd .-madsit,to Sweet/ 16., They should haye anoth~f( goo(j season h1 2003;;Q4. ·• ,-.-t  
• season and beat Connecticut. but they could struggle after l<Jsingthree starters.··  
The Hoyas have starplayer Shereka Wright back after going 15-14 last season. They should be better than past tnams.  
Syracuse returns all five starters from last season's 10­18 team. They will be more experienced, but will struggle.  
A more experienced Hed Storm team rNurus all five starters. but will 51ill be weak in the Hig East.  

BIG EAST PRESEASON RANKINGS 
~---CONNECTICUT 
RUTGERS----I The Scarlet Knights return four starters, including star player Cappie Pondexter after finishing 21-8last season. ~------~------------~  
The Hokies went 22-10 and made the second round of the NCAA tourney last season. They return three starters. ~--------------------~  
Miami went 18-13 arid made the NCAA tournantent;jn 2002-03 and look to improve after losing just on.~, starter. ~-------------------~  

~--NOTRE DAME VIRGINIA TECH-BoSTON COUEGE MlAM1----4 
The Mountaineers were 15-13

The Wildcats wenL28;.6 last ·~----VILLANOVA 
lasts season, but might 
improve with the return of 
four starters for the 2003-04

WEST VIRGINIA 

-
.__GEORGETOWN SETON HALL---4 
~-----SYRACUSE 
PITTSBURGH----4 t---ST. JOHN'S 
-
The Pirates went 14-15 last season and lose three players from that team. They will strug­gle again in a tough confcn'nce.  

The Pant.bers l()SC four ~iers from l~season's 12-16'\eam. ln~perience c-.ould m~ 1t a Jong yearfor tbe team. ~------~------------~  

 


PROVIDENCE---i 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2003 
Leading by example 
Two-time captain brings leadership, great floor skills to Irish team 
because of how young the IrishBy JOE HETTLER 
were during her sophomore
Sports Editor 
season. 
"Being a point guard you 
Muffet McGraw thinks take on a lot of the leadership Le'Tania Severe is more than role," Severe said. "Sophomore just a good basketball player. year was when I started to That label doesn't do the sen­become a leader on the team ior guard justice. because we had a lot of fresh­
"I just love her," McGraw men and I was kind of like an said, "because she comes in upperclassman. Since then on, every day with a big smile on everyone's been very helpful her face, no matter how much and they to me a lot of times stress she's under. Things can during games and practice for go wrong in your life, but she leadership." always sees the silver lining. Severe has been a mainstay She's somebody that is inspira­on the women's basketball tional to team for four me, and to years now, all the coming to 
players ..She just wants to win and Notre Dame 
that know she'll do whatever it takes. f r O· m. her." Pembroke
Ifthat means she doesn't 
Severe Pines, Fla. 
score, she doesn't score. She
attributes She was a her positive just defends and rebounds, standout attitude to point guard
whatever we have to do,
the way on her Fort
she's going to do it."
she was Lauderdale raised. She team and said her Muffet McGraw averaged 
family 12.7 points,
Irish coach 

always 5 1 believed rebounds, that it is 6.1 assists important to make the best of and 4.4 steals her senior year. any situation. After being recruited by 
"Throughout life not every­Florida State, Miami and thing goes as smoothly as you Tulane Severe chose the Irish expect," Severe said. "Within for several reasons. my family we've always tried to "When it came down to it, have a positive attitude so Notre Dame had the best ath­that's how I try and come into letic and academic reputation," practice. Everyone has their Severe said. other things going on that may Her career started with a make them a little upset before national championship in the practice so I try and bring a 2000-01 season. While she mile and cheer people up a lit­never started a game that year, tle bit. I understand we have Severe did play in 22 contests other issues besides basket­and that experience has con­ball." tinued to help her, even into 
Severe's personality and bas­her senior season. ketball skills set her up to "It was a great experience, become just the 15th two-year especially to just come in and captain in Irish women's bas­play behind a player like Niele ketball history this season. She Ivey," Severe said. "She taught is the lone captain on the team me how to be a leader and how after being a co-captain last to give 100 percent every day. season. She always came in ready to 
"It's a great honor to be cap­practice and that's something I tain two years in a row," took from that year. I've tried Severe said. to help the younger players 
McGraw said the senior every year to instill that [work deserves being a two-time cap­ethicI into them every day." tain because of her desire to In her sophomore season, win every time she steps on the Severe saw significantly more court. playing time, starting in 24 of 
"She just wants to win and the team's 30 games and aver­she'll do whatever it takes," aging 6.6 points and leading McGraw said. "If that means the team with 4.9 assists per she doesn't score, then she game. doesn't score. She just defends Her junior year was even and rebounds, whatever we better as Severe started in all have to do, she's going to do 32 games for Notre Dame and it." upped her points average to 
Teammate and fellow guard 7. 3 and led the team again Megan Duffy said Severe has with 3.8 assists. She also added been a modeI for the other 2.15 steals. players to follow during her Her best game that season career. helped send Notre Dame to the 
"Le probably brings the most Sweet 16. The Irish played intensity to out team," Duffy Kansas State in the second said. "She's always working round of the NCAA hard. She's more of a leader by Tournament on the Wildcats example and she comes to home court. Kansas State had practice every day ready to won 22 games in a row and work and she also a good was 29-4 entering their game example off the court as well." against Notre Dame. 
Severe had to step into a But the Wildcats hadn't leadership role earlier in her counted on Severe playing so career than other players exceptionally, as the then-jun-

ior scorched Kansas State for 17 points, eight rebounds and four assists, while playing all 40 minutes, in the Irish 59-53 victory. 
This season 
After winning the national title as a freshman, Severe has played on two other good, but not great, Irish teams. Notre Dame went 20-10 and lost in the second round of the NCAA Tournament in 2001-02 and followed that with a 21-10 record and a Sweet Sixteen appearance last season. 
But this season, in her final year, Severe said she believes the team can move even fur­ther into the tournament. 
"I think this team has a lot of potential," Severe said. "We're way ahead of where we were at this time the [lastJ two years. We're getting better every day and I'm happy with the way the team looks. I think we're going to do great things." end her career as a winner. 
The Irish opened their sea­"I think people generally like son with a victory over then-her because she such a great No. 22 person," Arizona McGraw 
77-64, before los­ ..Throughout life not  s a i "She's  d . an  
ing in overtime with then­No. 20  everything goes as smoothly as you expect ... I understand we have other issues besides  easy per­son for the team to follow and  
Colorado on the  basketball. ,.  she does things the  
road. But b 0 t h McGraw  Le'Tania Severe Irish guard  way you're supposed to do it.  
and Severe  She wants  
said  the  to go out a  

team has played well in both winner and the team would games. love to do that for her." 
Despite playing in the tough "She is the hardest worker Big East conference, the team every day," McGraw said. "She should challenge for a confer­gives a 110 percent in the ence title with a very talented games and she never takes a returning squad. McGraw said minute off." those returning players will be playing not only for them­Contact Joe Hettler at selves, but also to help Severe jhettler@nd.edu 

-. . . . . . . . . . ..... 

Friday, November 21, 2003 
The Observer• IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Junior trio will be deciding factor for '03~'04 Irish 
• 

F=u.lly :r;.quipp~l K h~hen I ncdud.in_g: Dis:h\-Vtubc.r and G~rrh~.Jge 
Disposal 
P:ri'vare Patio 

...·\.I)T Ahtml. S ystern (C)ptft"1n:a1 !\4onitodng) ( ~e:ntn:d ..<\it-C~onditioning ..~~s1g,~t:.~~:t Parking
• 

Encr·gy E.ffit:..~iAW"l.-at a~~ IJ~~a,ti.r;~g• PmtessionaHy Managed 24-llt:nn' Enl:·et·gency <->n-<·:au .!\>taintcnm'lc...,c~--7lfoosjll 


• 

Po~ l\>1·P~..JnJhr.Jnatiqa;: l:tcal .Estate J\.!amgcmcnt C,orp.cJ.:ruli(.-m. 
P.,()~ Rnx 540 South Bc:nd~ IN" 46624 Tt!:l-t:=phnHec~ 574-2.34-99.23 Facsimile: 574-234-~>925 Jhtad(@:phr~sh.cpn1 
·\_:.. .. ···.. Notre Dame Apat-tments 
• 
Ju."'t 4 Blocks South o.ft·hc: Notre D~unc C:~unpu~. 
• 
Spat:-it)us 2 -fled«:t(':lrt":'J .Aparunents on Notr:c Darnc .i\.venue 
• 
CurrLnl 1-ycar & IO_;month l.~.ases Avai:lahle 
• C.>n~Sit.c Laundry Facility• 2 <.:lo~ets and 1l)esk in Each Bed.roorn 
• Pri..._, ....4 ... p",..,.a:._.;_..,. " 'l.ss;.. ..~=~.-..,.. .tcU...A.J...&:.§.~. .,l._;t._ ;,_..... 
• ':14-hour On---CaU Em-ergency 1\-il'lliutcnan.c·c • lJp tu 4 Pen:wnns Pet' .A;pa.t"tnl:eflt 
l:.rgcr Mo-re lr1f"onnat:ion; l(.cal. Estate Man.:ag<:n1cnl Cor;pora:tion P.(.)_ Rt--,:X 540 · .m... ~ ·-··' .IN"1 <'f.h:.624
S ouLU. ~"ClU.U, . . ~ • . . 
·1~el.cphonc: 574..23-4---9923 ...... Facsirnile: 574-234-9925 Jblad(i:.bcbz-csb.. <.~Qnl. 

Irish must rely on Batteast, Borton and Flecla; to make the differencefor this year's squad 
During her team's champi­onship run in 2001, Irish coach MufTet McGraw recruited the future of Notre DamP women's basketball, knowing her team would need a cou­ple of years to rebuild before chal­lenging for another title. 
Two years later, McGraw knows the next two sea­sons present that championship opportunity. 
Jacqueline Batteast, Katy Flecky and Teresa Borton are the three remaining members of that recruit­ing class, and all three have 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Editor 

played well in The X factor will be the and Borton their first two have been
three juniors and their 
seasons for major contrib­
ability to move from good 
the Irish. utors, and But before, players to every-game both have Notre Dame been instru­
difference-makers. 

didn't have a true chance to win a title. The immediate post-Ruth Riley era was a time to rebuild for future championship chances. The team was inexperienced for the most part, and the pressure wasn't as high. 
Lafayette Square.Townhomes 
.. 

• 
()nly 9 Bloc.k.s frt.nn c~unp-us l ..aunti:t~· /\.rea. ¥Yith \\.tashcr .and Dryer 
Unlike 2001, when Notre Dame was expected to not just compete with but beat the Connecticuts and Purdue's of the basketball world, the expec­tations were lowered in the fol­lowing two years. as they should have been. Staying with­in striking distance until half­time was considered a pretty good game against tougher foes, and that's mainly what Notre Dame did against top teams. They would battle for a half before losing by 15 to 20 points. 
Batteast, Flecky and Borton played welJ during those times. They improved throughout their first two seasons and showed greatness at times. Batteast was named Big East Rookie of the Year during her freshman cam­paign and received numerous 
other acco­
lades since 
then. Flecky 
mental in the success Notre Dame had in 
the past two seasons. 
But McGraw isn't asking those three to be role players or even have solid seasons in 2003-04. She needs the trio to break out and dominant in the Big East 

-


ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

Juniors Katy Flecky (left), Jacqueline Batteast (center) and Teresa Borton have all played well In their first two years. This season, those three will be needed to make even bigger contributions. 
and NCAA Tournament. 
Batteast must find consistency after having an up-and-down sophomore year. Borton needs to stay injury-free and be an everyday scoring threat after averaging eight points a game last season. 
And Flecky must make the greatest improvements, because she will switch from playing more inside to becoming one of the team's most important out­side threats, with the loss of Alicia Ratay to graduation last season. Ratay ended her career with the highest career 3-point­ing shooting percentage of all-time. 
How those three improve will determine how far this Notre Dame team goes in the 2003-04 season. They have the other pieces in place -a solid senior leader in La'Tania Severe, two outstanding sophomores in Megan Duffy and Courtney LaVere and an impressive freshman class with three pos­sibly immediate contributors. 
The X factor will be the three juniors and their ability to move from good players to every­game difference-makers. McGraw saw that kind of talent in the trio over two years ago when she recruited them to be a part of Notre Dame's future. 
Two years later, the future is now and the hopes of another national championship run rests in the collective hands of three junior players who can make this team better than sim­ply a good women's basketball team. 
They can make them a great one. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu 










