
V . XXVII NO. 138 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Holy Cross to become 4-year institution 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Alsociare New, Ediror 
lloly Cross Colltign's bachelor ol' arts degree program is set to debut this fall. a change that will transform the school from a two-year junior college Lo a four-year academic insti­lutiou. 
"ltoly Cross will slill provide the associate of arts degree to serve stu­dents wlrn want to transfer to other institutions, but the baccalaureate program now furtlrnrs our founding as a liberal arts college." said William Mangan. the College's vice prlisident for academic affairs. "We are now working with prospective students who are thinking about coming to lloly Cross College cxprnssly !'or the baccalaureate pro­gram," he sai<l. 
Thn College. with a current enroll­ment of about 500 students, chose to initiate the new four-year pro­gram as part of its mission as a lib­eral arts college and hopes that the school can develop new ties with Notn1 Dame and Saint Mary's, said Mangan. 
The College was founded in 1%6 and previously offered students an associate degree with a focus on transferring to a four-year institu­tion. 
Mangan said the College would complete the admissions process for the new program over the sum­mer and final admission numbers would be calculated then. Accepted students. who have already received an associate degree, have until May 1 to accept the College's off'er. 
The degree program is fully 
see HOLY CROSS/page 4 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
New parietals proposal fails 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
N=,Wrir~, 
Members of the Campus Life Council met :\1onday for the final time this academic year to discuss a Senate resolution for the extension of parietal hours. 
Siegfried llall Senator Hick Harris presented the resolution, which called for the extension of parietals until 1 a.m. on weekdays to provide students with additional time for group study. After much debate, the resolution failed 9-7; resolutions require a 2/3 majority to pass as a recommendation to Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student AITairs. 
llarris said that most students worked on homework from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. and that the current parietal time of midnight hindered stu­dents' ability to work collaboratively on pro­jects and presentations. 
llarris also stressed the importance of the preservation of quiet hours, which would remain at midnight. in order to keep the noise in the dorms al a reasonable level. Harris said that quiet hours are currently not strictly observed in most dorms. 
"/\long with the discussion on the issue of parietal extension. we'll put the focus back on quiet hours," he said. 
Hectors expressed concern at the strain that an additional hour of parietals would put on residence hall staIT such as resident assistants and rectors. 
"We have to be aware of the staff," said Brother Jerome Meyer, Knott Hall rector. "They do a lot that people are not aware of ... they am dealing with emotional, psychological and family problems (faced by hull residents]. l see a value to parietals from a staff point of view." 
Studcnt.s commented that if parietals were to be extended, future RAs would realize the time commitment before applying for the job. 
"Thut is just something thut people go into the job knowing if it's on the job description,'' said Trip Folny, former student body vice presi­dent. 
Although students cited statistics from a 2001 survey in which 80 percent or over 3,000 stu­dents surveyed responded favorably to the extension of parietals, rectors questioned 
see PAR1ETALS/page 4 
Lay rectors more prevalent in hall staff 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
According to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, spiritual development is one of the keystones to life in Notre Dame's residence halls. Therefore, one would think that the Office would make a top pri­ority of placing clergy members in halls as rectors. 
But not every dorm on campus has rectors and other hall residents who are clerics. Sister Jean Lenz, assis­tant vice president of Student Affairs, said that does not mean that spiritual life in those halls suffers, or that fill­ing rector positions with clergy mem­bers is even a goal for the Office. 
"It is a goal to find people who have a good pastoral background," Lenz said. "We look at that very carefully." 
Out of the 27 rector positions on campus, Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters currently fill 19. Two of the lay rectors are in male dorms and six are in female dorms. Those two men's dorms have priests in res­idence, but four of the six women's dorms do not have any clergy mem­bers who live in the halls. 
This disparity between men's and women's dorms is partly due to the fact that there are more priests than sisters on campus. But Lenz also cites University tradition and a lack of available apartments in the dorms as other reasons. 
"There was never a custom from the time women came to Notre Dame for a chaplain to live in the women's halls," said Lenz. "That hasn't been a continual practice." 
Newer halls, such as McGlinn and Welsh Family, have the available apartments for chaplains, she said. Both of those halls have priests that live in the dorms. 
Lenz said the priests on campus are very attentive to and actively 
participate in the spiritual life of both men's and women's halls, even if they do not live there. She also point­ed out that no hall is a closed com­munity and that all dorms invite non­resident priests into the hall to say Mass and to help with other spiritual affairs. 
Lenz also noted the monumental contributions of laity on campus, both inside and outside the halls. 
"There are a lot more trained lay people to address the spiritual needs of people than ever before." said Lenz. She specifically mentioned the accomplishments of Campus Ministry, which is made up of clerics and laypersons and organizes retreats, the RCIA program, musical training and other services. 
"Campus Ministry offers so much support to the spiritual life of cam­pus," Lenz said. 
Contact Kevin Allen at allen.6 l@nd.edu 
Local hotels filling up fast for graduation 
By HIMANSHU KOTHARI 
News Writer 
With graduation only three weeks away, hotels in the South Bend and Mishawaka area are reporting full occupancy for that weekend. While this is not true for all hotels, most arc optimistic that the housing the University provides on-campus will not be enough. 
"We still have 20 rooms available, but we usually sell out and this time, too, we will probably sell out before graduation, but we are still taking reservations," said Kathy Hoban, manager at the Holiday Inn in South Bend. 
The Holiday Inn is offering a rate of $159.95 plus tax for its double rooms, with a mandatory minimum of two nights stay. 
Among the hotels that were already booked to capacity, the Inn at Saint Mary's and the Jamison Inn give priority to people who have already spent a night at the hotel. 
"If they stayed for [Junior Parents Weekend] of 2003, then they would be placed in a lottery for rooms the next year," said Jane Bella, manager of Jamison Inn, which is adjacent to the University campus. 
While giving priority to parents who stayed during JPW is something new for the Jamison, the Inn at Saint Mary's makes this a mandatory con­dition. 
"In order to get a room for gradua­tion, [the customer] must stay for JPW as well," said Ryan Holman, guest service representative. 
Another hotel that has reported full occupancy is the all-suite Comfort Suites. The hotel did not offer any discounts for graduation but honors A.A.R.P discounts, said Trish Stewart, manager of the Comfort Suite. 
The Morris Inn does not offer rooms to the public during Commencement as the University gives the hotel a guest list for the weekend of graduation. 
Other hotels still have vacancy for the weekend. 
The Boulevard Inn and Bistro is offering family packages and has rooms starting at $145 plus tax for a "city-wide" suite and $165 plus tax for a suite facing the harbor. 
A more expensive option is the Marriott in downtown South Bend. 
"Rooms are $299 plus taxes and are non-refundable, non-returnable and non cancelable and the rate must be fully prepaid with a credit card for the duration of stay," said Allison Merrick, manager at the Marriott. 
A cheaper option is also available at the Days Inn, which has close to 30 doubles available and is offering a flat rate of$140 plus taxes. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari at kothari. l@nd.edu 
----------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Freshmen 




lessons 

I slouch in my seat in Calculus, gazing absentmindedly at the abstract streaks of dry-erase that mean so much to the roomful of stu­dents around me and think about how badlv I want to get out of my Claire Heininger favorite place in the world. 
"The first year Wire Editor is the hardest," they all told me. My cousin Colleen, class of 1999. The Howard Hall Frosh-0 staff. My par­ents. My advisers. They all said the same thing -that once I made it through my freshman year at Notre Dame, the last three years would seem easy in comparison. I spent all of first semester waiting for the hard part. 
Orientation and the first few weeks were a blur of stir-fry and SYRs, late night bonding and early-morning lake runs. Classes were easy, football season was in full swing and college was fun. Even as the golden autumn turned into gray November, I still loved every minute. I wondered when the hard part would arrive. 
December was, looking back, the last month of innocence. We dressed up in miniskirts and neon for the Dillon '80s dance and frosted cookies that disappeared within 20 minutes of being set in the third-floor hall­way. We had wine and a "tailgate bagel" on study days, people­watched in CoMo while avoiding cramming for finals and felt invinci­ble when we did well anyway. My Texas and Tennessee roommates greeted the first snowy morning with awe. We exchanged teary hugs as they flew south and I drove north for vacation. 
Maybe I romanticized it too much over break. proudly showing my state-school friends pictures of the Howard Hoedown and rushing the field at the Michigan game. Maybe I raised my own expectations as I gushed to my relatives, sounding like a brochure without trying. I returned to campus on top of the world. 
Reality hit. At the end of January, I received a minor in a tavern ticket. Two months later, I owed my parents more money than I could be proud of, struggled to complete my commu­nity service hours, and wondered when I became a person who got into trouble. l realized that it took more than reading about life outside the Notre Dame bubble to understand it, and l realized, as I painted dilapidat­ed kitchens and cleaned dog kennels, that perspective is the hardest thing to gain. 
Each minute of math class drags on toward the end of the day, and each day drags on toward next Wednesday. We will finish packing and close the door of the quint that has hosted so many disastrous par­ties, emotional outbursts and deep conversations relieved with both hilarious and heartfelt advice. I'm ready to close the door on my fresh­man year. But next semester, I'll be excitedly -and realistically -ready to come back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and strive• for ,he highest •tandards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, plea.e contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC board discusses plan for new apartments 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance debat­ed the possible designs and regula­tions for newly approved student apartments on campus. 
page 6 
WORLD& BUSINESS NATION NEWS 
Tests cast Regulators doubt on announce possible record chemical settlement weapons 
Ten Wall Street found in northern 
A metal drum 
investment firms Iraq that initially 
will pay $1.4 billion tested positive for 
and adopt reforms nerve agents might 
in an unprecedent­instead contain 
ed industry-wide rocket fuel. 
settlement. 

page 7
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
"Ire in Ireland: Enraged and Engaged" Lecture 

12:30 to 1:30 p.m. at Flanner llall, Hoom 424 

. 
Premnplivc Peace Hally 5 to 7 p.m. al North Quad and Fiddhouse Mall 

. 
IlolocausL Hemcrnbrancc Day Ecumenical Prayer Service 


8:30 to 9:15 p.m. at the Farley llall Chapel 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Contemporary Drama Heading 

4:30 p.m. at Dining Jlall, President's Dining Hoom 

. 
ECDC Staff Meeting 6 p.m. at llavican, Boom 20 

. 
Minority Women in Business Development Council6::-m p.m. at Madeleva Ilall, Hoom 247-S 


VIEWPOINT SCENE 
Figuring out Radiohead's how to say new album goodbye 
leaked to Internet 
Rumors of a
Viewpoint 

secret version ofcolumnist Joanna 
the band's sixth
Mikulski reflects on 

album have beengraduation after 
circulating.
her prom themed 
party this week­
end. 

page 11
page 10 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
SPORTS 
Curtin comes clean 
Former Notre Dame offensive tackle Brennan Curtin admitted he was suspended from the Gator Bowl for asking a team­mate to take a drug test on his behalf. 
page 24 



WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, southern-fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, cherry crisp, baked Cajun pollock, Italian rice pilaf, sliced carrots, Italian-blend vegetables, Swiss oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, buttermilk pancakes, NY style home fries, sea nuggets, steakhouse fries, hushpuppies, vegetable lo-mein 
Today's Dinner: Cherry turnover, breadsticks, grilled pork chops, broccoli­rice casserole, corn, grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, California-blend veg­etables, baked sweet potatoes, sesame chicken breast, California rancho rice, portobello fajita, steakhouse fries 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff sauce, supreme pizza, toasted pretzel sticks, pasta pri­mavera, steamed spinach, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, teriyaki London broil, whipped potatoes, mashed red-skin garlic potatoes, roasted vegetables, Philly steak sandwich. steak­house fries, onion rings, sweet and sour chicken, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
Today's Dinner: Noodles Romanoff, baked beans, roast beef hash, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apple, hot chunky applesauce, cherry crisp, grilled vegetable plate, blaz'n hot and spicy sea nuggets, BBQ Cantonese chicken 

NDSP tows IO student, 2 employee cars 
Police towed 10 student cars Thursday and Friday from various campus locations including the stadium, bookstore parking lot, library parking lot. Stepan Center, McKenna Hall, Alumni Hall and Main Circle. Two employee cars were also towed for parking violations at Health Services and South Dining Hall. 

Vacuum damaged in act of vandalism 
A University employee reported vandalism to a vacuum cleaner in Alumni Hall Saturday. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 

NDSP issues multiple liquor violations 
NDSP issued University citations for liquor law violations including: minor in possession. consump­tion of alcohol, failure to produce identification upon request, urinating in public, public intoxica­tion and possession of a keg in campus parking lots Saturday. 
A student was arrested Sunday at the Joyce Center for consuming alcohol as a minor and pub­lic intoxication. 
NDSP also responded to the report of an intoxi­cated student in Dillon Hall Sunday morning. The student was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by ambulance for treatment. 
The cases have been referred for administrative 
review. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
I.Al 
::c 
~ 
I.Al 
~ 
,.J 
Cl 
(.) 



..I0 HIGH 67 HIGH 64 HIGH 75 LOW 47 LOW 54 LOW 52 
Atlanta 82 / 59 Boston 72 / 48 Chicago 64 / 48 Denver 70 / 43 Houston 82 / 64 Los Angeles 66 / 46 Minneapolis 58 / 42 New York 76 / 52 Philadelphia 78 / 52 Phoenix 80 / 58 Seattle 60 / 44 St. Louis 76 / 63 Tampa 86 / 70 Washington 78 / 58 
-compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Falafels, saffron rice, marinated cucumber salad, buttered noodles, light tomato sauce, chicken and beef fajitas, pork cutlet, garden veg­etable patty, onion rings, Monterey turkey flat bread sandwich, potato chip­pers, red pepper, pepperoni and pro­volone loafer, sliced roast beef, vegetari­an chili, cream of tomato soup 
Today's Dinner: Hot and sweet tofu, red beans and rice, cornbread, fried plantains, grilled Italian sausage with pasta and Italian vegetables, vegetable tempura, turkey breast, herb stuffing, green bean casserole, French bread pizza, bread sticks, chicken and penne casserole, apple cake, lemon mouse 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

60 45 

HIGH LOW 

'lu(;sday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Construction projects put on hold by funding shortage 
By WILL PUCKETT 
News Wri1cr 
Throughout this year, con­struction has been steadily progressing in various areas of campus. While work hail­ed on every project that was not already underway, according lo Jim Lyphout, vic,i president for business operations al Notre Dame, scvcrul construction projects worn romplcted and two will conlinun through the sum­mer. 
New Science and Learning Building 
Lyphout said tlu~ new $70 million science and learning building is the University's top co11struclio11 priority cur­rently. While the building do11s not as ol' yet have a name, it will be situated just north ol' the Joyce Center. 
A groundbreaking was scheduled for March 2003, but Lyphout said, "fundrais­ing has not been as success­ful as we might have hoped, especially with the economy the way it is." 
Lyphout estimated that ground might finally be bro­ken sometime within the next six months to a year. Lyphout cautioned against the economy's affect on fundraising and warned that all plans are subject to revi­sion depending on the suc­cess of fundraising efforts. 
Post Office and Security 
Bulldfng 

Ground has already been broken for a new building to house both the post office and security offices near the Stepan Center. The founda­tion has already been fin­ished, but construction was postponed until funding is more favorable, Lyphout said. Originally slated for comple­tion by the summer of 2003, there is no longer any firm timetable on when construc­tion may begin or be complet­ed. 
DeBartolo Center 
Construction on the Marie 
P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts is progress­ing on schedule, said Lyphout. While nothing has changed on the project, the building is now expected to be completed near the end of the 2004 spring semester, opening for classes the following fall. The project is one or the few on campus that has not been halted or endured other con­sequences as a result of slow fundraising efforts. 
Hesburgh Library 
Renovations in the Hesburgh Library are nearing completion, and final work should be completed this summer. The library is adding study space, addition­al storage for books and microfilms and other modern renovations. While more ren­ovations are planned for the 

The 
Standing 
Comittee 

•iiii•-' for Gay and 
Lesbian Student 

Needs invites Gay, Lesbian, 
and Bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends and supporters to an 
informal lunch and study' break at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality 


iiiiii~iiiiJ is assured. 

*Lunch will be served* 
L-~·-•-•-·-·-·-•-•-•-•~•-•J 

library, nothing is confirmed at the moment, due to funding issues, said Lyphout. 
Stepan Chemistry Hall 
An expansion to Stepan Chemistry Hall was completed over the 2002-03 school year, with finishing touches to be added early in 2003. The expansion provides more research and laboratory space for chemistry faculty and students. 
Some minor work on the exterior and surrounding area continues, but this is pri­marily landscaping and restoration of the site to its original condition. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Work was completed late in the fall semester on O'Shaughnessy Hall. There, an office suite was added for the College of Arts and Letters, and the enrollment office was given additional space as well. 
Loftus Improvements 
The Loftus Center is slated to receive some upgrades, 

I I I 
including a new weight-train­ing center and football department offices. However, the project was another casu­alty of tight economic times. Construction was to have begun late in the spring semester, but currently plans are on hold indefinitely. 
"That's certainly in our plans, but it depends on how fundraising goes, and we want to look at our higher priorities first," said Lyphout. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckctt@nd.edu 
Are you interested in joining the Junior Parents Weekend Executive Committee? 
Applications are available for JPW leadership positions including Chair, f) 
Vice-Chair, Secretary, Treasurer and Programming Commissioners WHY JOIN? 
here are many great reasons why you should become involved in JPW: 
* 
Help develop plans for this exciting weekend for juniors & parents. 

* 
Have the opportunity to develop your leadership & management skills. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. 

* 
Have practical experience you can take with you into the "real world." 

* 
JPW is fun! 


Applications are available outside the Student Activities Office, 315 La Fortune, and are due on Wednesday, April 30. Interviews will be May 2. 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
page4 The Observer . NEWS 


Parietals 
continued from page 1 
whether their approval was simply to increase personal freedom. 
"I wonder how much there is a need !for parietals extension] versus a desire to increase lib­erty," said Heather Rakoczy, Pangborn Hall rector. 
Rakoczy said that she did not see a great need for parietals extension simply to provide additional study time, as the 24-hour space allotted in Pangborn was frequently filled with the same couples not engaged in academic work. Students responded by com­menting that common spaces were not conducive to studying and that students often required the use of a dorm room with computer access to prepare presentations and projects. 
Rectors also said that they feared a parietals extension to allow greater time for group work could adversely impact the roommate not engaged in a study group, preventing him or her from an additional hour's use of their dorm room. 
"My concern is that, if I'm a roommate not in a study group, that means when I can get back into my room -as my room -is now one hour later. The ramification is that it keeps me out of my dorm room [longer] if you have a study group," said Father Peter Jarret, Keough Hall rec­tor. 
Students responded by say­ing that scheduling arrange­ments with roommates natu­rally involve a compromise that living together with other people. 
"The dynamics of any dorm room is that there is a lot of compromise, said Erin Cushing, off-campus senator. "The positives that this [pari­etals extension] would bring .. . would far outweigh the 1 to 2 nights before a project that a roommate might not have total quiet." 
Cushing also said that as an off-campus student, midnight parietals deter her from visit• ing friends on campus and that she prefers to invite friends over to her apartment off-cam­pus rather than visiting them on campus and being required to leave at a certain time. She also said that a parietals extension may help alleviate some of the perceived prob­lems in gender relations on campus. 

"Off-campus students don't want to come back on campus to socialize," she said. 
After the discussion, Harris proposed the postponement of the resolution to the first CLC meeting of the next academic year, a proposal that failed. The motion to extend parietals an additional hour also failed, but could be brought up again if the Student Senate wishes to conduct further research and draft another proposal. 
In other Campus Life Council news: 
Henry Scott briefed the CLC on the Student Union's Board report to the Board of Trustees that he and Libby Bishop, for• mer student body president. will be making Thursday. Scott then addressed the mixed feedback received from dance hall commissioners on the new alcohol policy and the banning of in-hall dances that students have faced this year. 
Cushing presented the Basis Taskforce report, a committee designed to conduct research and report to Poorman regard­ing the need and feasibility of a mentoring program through which seniors educate fresh­men about problems relating to alcohol use and sexual assault. Cushing said that the committee instead recom­mended the use of the Big Brother/Big Sister program used in some residence halls to connect freshmen with sopho­mores, juniors and seniors willing to take on a mentorship role. Cushing said that the Student Activities Office will provide funding for residence halls who have a program in place and that the program will allow for the continuation of a mentoring relationship that a senior-freshman struc­ture would not provide . 
Bishop noted that the Communication Taskforce's report mentioned that the Under The Dome Web site has received tens of thousands of hits and will become the offi­cial University calendar some­time next year. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

HolyCro~ 
continued from page I 
accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. the same group that oversees Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
degree  programs,  said  
Mangan.  
Justin  Watson,  who will  

serve as adviser to the bac­calaureate students, will also direct the baccalaureate pro­gram, Mangan added. 
Overall, the program will bring important changes for academic and student life at Holy Cross. 
"Baccalaureate students will serve as academic role models for students in the associate of arts program. It also means that student life will have new exemplars of leadership and service," said Mangan. 
The program itself will include a broad-range of com­ponents, focusing on a core group of liberal arts courses with some electives. Additionally, the program includes an international study component in conjunction with the overseas missions of Congregation or Brothers of the Holy Cross as well as an internship requirement. Those students interested in gradu­ate school will meet with a career mentor. 
The College initiated plan­ning for the program in the fall of 2001 and began screening applicants in February. 
Students intending to enroll in the baccalaureate program next fall said faculty and stu­dent relations and tho broad 

focus of the curriculum attracted them. 
"There's just a really good connection between the faculty and students," said Meghan Craney, who has been a Holy Cross student for the past two years. Craney also serves as a student ambassador for the College and said she is espe­cially excited about discussing the new program with poten­tial students 
Jennifer Nelson. a Holy Cross student for the past two years, said the program would bring a new level of permanence to the campus. "It's going to add a different level of maturity," she said. "I like the curriculum -it's challenging and it's widespread." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

U-WIRE 
Former shtdent files suit against officer 
By Wes Ferguson U nivcrsity ofT cxas-Austin 
AUSTIN 

A former University of Texas-Austin student who alleged she was sexually assaulted by a University police officer has filed a civil suit against him and the University. 
The criminal case against former UTPD officer Sellers Bailey has still not gone to trial, nearly two years after the alleged assault. The former UT student, whose name has not been released, filed the civil suit on Friday because the two-year statute of limitations expires this week. 
The plaintiff's attorney, Derek Howard, said his client has not decided how much financial compensation to seek. He said she would be willing to entertain a settle­ment offer. 
"Certainly we're always will­ing to discuss resolution of these cases prior to trial," Howard said. 
According to the court filing, Bailey responded to the scene of the plaintiffs one-car acci­dent in April 2001 and asked her to get into his patrol __c:_ar. 
She said she thought he was taking her to the police station, but instead he drove to a near­by parking garage. 
There, according to police reports, Bailey forced her to perform oral sex on him. He returned her to her car, and she immediately drove back to the parking garage, where she retrieved the paper towels that Bailey had used to clean him­self after the alleged assault. 
Subsequent DNA tests con­firmed that fluid on the paper towels was Bailey's, reports show. 
The court filing faults the University because it dismissed a previous complaint that Bailey had sexually harassed a female security guard. 
"It reflects very poorly on the University in terms of its level of protection of its employees as well as its students," Howard said. 
Patricia Ohlendorf, vice pres­ident for legal affairs, said the University had not been served with the court papers by Friday afternoon. 
She would not comment on the case, except to say, "When the incident occurred, the University took immediate cor­rective action." 
The former UT student also contends that she was "cut off' from therapy with the University Health Services Counseling and Mental Health Center after one semester because she had "reached her limit." 

"Our contention is that in a situation where the University itself actually caused the psy­chological injury, it would seem to me sound practice to assume they have an added responsibility to take care of the emotional problems caused from that harm," Howard said. 
Jane Bost, associate director for the counseling center, said the center does not counsel people for long periods of time. 
Bailey's criminal case was set to go to trial Monday, but his defense attorney, Charles Craig, said it has been rescheduled for May 27. Craig would not comment further. 
In April 2002, campus police reported that a UT teaching assistant assaulted a student in the student's dorm room. 
Despite an open records request from The Daily Texan, the University declined to pro­vide information about the incident. UTPD Police Chief Jeff Van Slyke would not com­ment on the case, saying that it is still under investigation. 


TWO MEN 







ANDA 
TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Pocking Supplies  
• Packing Service  • Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  


(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenondotruck.com 
Visit Out Box Store! 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
Now accepting applicatio[!S for summer help 
SUMMERJOBS ~!fA CONSUMER RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Indiana's most effective Citizens Organization is accepting applications 
Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to work on Consumer rizhts and environrnenlal campaigns. 
Improve our energy policy through increased reliance on cf~iciency and renewables (Wind power, .Solar power, Fuel Cells, and l:homass projects) Help create jobs, reduce pollution, and save Ihe taxpayers ...........hundreds of millions dollars in avoided energy costs. 
. Citizens Action Coalition is a lwenty-eight yeHr old citizens lobby orgnnizalion. 
With 4 offices, 300,000 members statewide, we routinely battle the largest utilities, polluters and speciatl interest groups in lndiaoa on behalf of" citi.zem1...and win! 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm.Earn $350-$425/wk-Q-Work outdoors. Sleep Late-¢-Casual atrnosph~rc ... Serious work. 
Call -574-232-7905 for more information. 
cviec~ us out oV\,L[V\,e www.c~tCfct.oYg South Bend: 574-2~~2-7905 Also: Indianapolis: ~~ 1 7-205-:.3535 Fort Wayne: Z60~42Z-G097 New Albany: 8 12-94 1 -I 1 70 TOLL FREE: I -800-ZO i -12 l 0 








WORLD & NATION 
Tue!>day, April 29, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Tests cast doubt on possible chemical weapons 
IRAQ 
Iraqi factions set nation-building transition titnetable 
HAI.JI 
i\ meta! drum found in northern Iraq that initially tested posiliVf\ for nerve and blister agents might instead contain rocket fuel, according to nnw tests, a U.S. chemical wnapons expert said Monday. 
Morn t1)sts w<'ro planned in the coming days on the 55­gallon clrum. said Ll. Col. Valentin Novikov, the chief chemical weapons officer of Lfw 4th lnfanlrv Division, the unit which found the site. 
Novikov's comments raised the prospect that the discov­cwy was th(i latest in a series ol' false alarms as U.S. troops try to !'ind the remains of Saddam Hussein's suspected 
programs  for  biological,  
chemical  and  nuclear  
WC\lLJ)OIIS.  

Thu suspicious barrel was among 14 barrels found in an op,rn field near the Tigris Hivcr town of Baiji, among mounds of earth that hid mis­siles and missile parts. U.S. troops performed an initial test and found indications the barrel may contain the nerve agPnt cyclosarin and a blister agPnt that could be a precur­sor of mustard gas. 
By design. initial test proce­dures favor positive readings, erring on the side of caution to protect soldiers. Two ttiams of experts were 
brought in this weekend for additional testing. 
One team conducted three tests, but the tests "were not totally conclusive," Novikov said. 
The second team, a special­ist Mobile Exploitation Team, "suspects that it might be rocket fuel," Novikov said. 
That team is expected to return to the site in the com­ing days for further tests. 
"There is a chance that it could be chemical weapons, but we don't know for sure," Novikov said, speaking outside of the 4th Infantry headquar­ters, a former palace in Saddam's hometown of Tikrit, near Baiji. 
Also found at the site were two unmarked vans that sol­diers first suspected to be mobile chemical laboratories. Inside the vans were three cylinders for mixing liquids and a dosage chart in English and Russian. Green camou­flage netting was draped across the front of one of the vans. 
Novikov, however, said the vans "could be" a rocket fuel mixing station. 
Near the site was a low, brown sandstone building that had 150 gas masks that are of a higher quality that those usually used by Iraqi soldiers. 
The initial tests on the bar­rel were conducted late Friday by Lt. Valerie Phipps and Pfc. 
y 

A rocket found at a site suspected of housing chemclal weapons lies on the ground Monday after being discovered by U.S. troops In the outskirts of Baljl In northern Iraq. 
Jeremy McCullough, chemical ed to nerve or blister agents. contaminated. warfare experts with the 1st Afterward, Phipps and There have been numerous Squadron of the 10th Cavalry McCullough left the area and false reports that coalition Regiment. burned their chemical warfare forces have turned up chemi­
All three of their tests point-suits for fear that they were cal or biological weapons. 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Delegates rrom inside and outside Iraq agreed Monday to hold a nation-building meeting next month and fashion a tem­porary. post-Saddam llussein govern­nwnt that the United States predicted could hc in place within days after that. 
Iraq's nnw Amnrican administrators, charti11g thn ruture of the land they invaded. secured the pledge to meet again in May from a multicthnic assort­nwnt of delegates. !t represents the first spnc:ific timetable for trying to assemble the foundations of democracy in postwar Iraq and a more secure tomorrow. 
"I think we have enough ... to come up with a road map," said U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad, adding that an administration could be in place within weeks. 
Monday's daylong conference coincid­ed with a date that had been a national holiday: It was Saddam Hussein's 66th birthday. 
"Today, on the birthday of Saddam llussein, let us start the democratic process for the children or Iraq," the 
U.S. civil administrator for Iraq, retired 
Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, told delegates. The conference brought together Shiite and Sunni Muslim clerics in robes, Kurds from the north, tribal chiefs in Arab headdresses and Westernized exiles in expensive suits. Still, some said Shiites, who make up 60 percent of Iraq's population, were underrepresent­ed. and delegates generally agreed on a need for wider representation in the future. 
For a nation riven by a generation of autocratic rule, the notion of a broad leadership council appeared to gain ground, with many delegates endorsing it as the best path. 
"We hope we can form a unified gov­ernment, one that reflects the entire spectrum of Iraq," said Ahmad Jaber al­Awadi, a representative of the newly formed Iraqi Independent Democrats Movement. 
Under Saddam, the all-powerful Baath Party barred dissent and effectively banned competing parties. Monday's meeting, like one in the ancient city of Ur earlier this month, pulled aside that monolithic facade to reveal a fractious land roiling with political agendas. 
Partly because of that, many delegates discussed the possibility of a presidential council rather than a single leader for Iraq, according to one prominent former exile, Saad al-Bazzaz. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Two men plead innocent in bombing 
Two Sikh 11wn accused or bombing an Air India rlight in 1985, killing all 329 pcopl<' on board, pleaded innocent Monday as their trial began under heavy security in a specially built court­room. Ajaib Singh Bagri, 5:1, and Hipudaman Singh Malik, 56. sat behind bullctprool' glass ror ttw trial almost 18 years after the Hoeing 747 1\xplod1\d off the coast of Ireland in the worst Lcr­rorist bombing of a commercial aircraft. Calling Bagri a "militant Sikh terrorist," prosecutor Hobert Wright said in his opening statement the bombing was rnvenge by Sikh separatists for the I ')84 raid by Indian forces on the Golden Temple at Amritsar. tho religion·s holiest site. "Their motive was so strongly foll that they were pre­parc~d lo murder hundreds of innocent people," Wright said. A third man who pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the case would testify, Wright said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Powell talks of disarmament proposal 
The United States is reviewing a North Korean proposal to give up the nation's missiles and nuclear facilities in exchange for substantial U.S. economic benefits, Secretary of State Colin Powell said Monday. The North Koreans set forth the proposal last week in talks in Beijing that were focused on U.S. concerns about North Korea's weapons programs. Powell called the meeting "quite useful" and said U.S. ofticials are compar­ing notes with South Korea, Japan, China, Russia, Australia and others. At the Beijing talks, China joined the United States and North Korea. The North Koreans "did put forward a plan that would ultimately deal with their nuclear capability and their missile activities. But they, of course, expect something considerable in return," Powell said. Powell's somewhat hopeful account of the meetings contrasted with initial accounts last week by other U.S. officials. 
Final missing U.S. soldier confirmed dead 
The body of a soldier found the day after a convoy was ambushed in southern Iraq was identified as Army Spc. Edward John Anguiano. the last missing soldier in Iraq, the Pentagon said Monday. OITicials used DNA tests to confirm that the remains were Anguiano, according to the soldier's grandfather, and military officials notified the family late Sunday. The grandfather said he believed Anguiano was killed during the initial attack on March 23, when he disappeared. "What we heard is that he was ambushed." said Vicente Anguiano Sr., 72. "They found his truck. the one he drove, and it had been stripped -tires and everything. They found a body near the truck." Anguiano's f'amily members gath­ered in this south Texas town over the Easter week­end and held out hope he would return soon. The soldier's mother, San Juanita Anguiano, "is very sad. She was not expecting him to be found dead," said the soldier's aunt. Maria Anguiano. 
-----~-----------------------------------­
page 6 Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
The Observer . NEWS 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE SMC board discusses plan for new aparhnents 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Board of Governance officers viewed architectural graphics and discussed design plans for future on-campus apartments at Monday's meeting. 
The plans for the apartments, which have been in the works for manv months, were approved.by The Board of Trustees Priday. 
Construction on the new com­plex will begin this summer. It is expected that phase one of the building plans will be completed by June 2004, which will make the apartments available to cur­rent sophomores when they enter their senior year. 
The three-story building will house 72 students, and will be composed of quad and double­room apartments. Each student will have their own bedroom and share a bathroom and kitchen. While the apartments will be assigned through the lot­tery room pick system, it is expected that they will be main­ly occupied by upperclassmen. 
"l assume for the most part this will go largely to seniors," said President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. 
Board members were particu­larly interested in whether the Residence Hall Association would govern the complex and if visitation hours would be main­tained. 
"The key thing here is that they are looking for self govern­ing," Jablonski-Diehl said. "The residence hall rules could be dif­ferent." 
A forum is planned for next year when students can learn about the new residence option and express their opinions on what the apartment rules should be. 
"These things are not set in stone," said board member Sarah Mahoney. "You need to get your comments and your friends' comments out there." 
In other BOG News: 
. 
A new link is under construc­tion on the Saint Mary's Web system wherein students can buy and sell books to one anoth­er. Named the Virtual Village, the site provides students with an easy method to sell iexis from the previous semester, as well as locate used books on sale. BOG hopes that this will relieve some of' the difficulties that arise with selling books back to the bookstore and decrease the amount of paper typically used. 

. 
Board members have taken steps to initiate change in the annual Keenan Review. The highly popular comedic variety show, which is held at Saint Mary's, and has come under criticism for its use of gender stereotypes in its skits. While student government wants to keep the show at Saint Mary's, they plan on enforcing stricter guidelines, and possibly asking the producers to sign a contract to ensure its appropriate con­tent. 


Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saint.marys.edu 

ROTC cadet wins national award 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
Ryan Kenny received the George C. Marshall Award as Notre Dame's outstanding Army ROTC cadet. It is a national award presented every year to the top Army cadet in each of the 270 ROTC programs at universities and colleges across the country. 
A senior psychology and Japanese major from Billings, Mont., Kenny was selected for the Marshall Award by his battalion because he ranked the highest out of all of its cadets. He was chosen based on his qualities of leadership, physical fitness, academics, service to the community and contributions to the battalion ROTC program, according to Lt. Col. David Mosinski. 

"Ryan's done a super job of leading, representing and planning activities for the ROTC battalion," Mosinski said. "He's truly an exception­al individual." 
As part of receiving the award, Kenny was presented with a saber and recognized at a national security seminar in Lexi.ngton, Va. from April 15 to 18. 
At tho seminar. chaired bv retired Lt. Con. Charles Dyk~ and the Honorable John Knapp, Kenuy attended roundtahle discussions that addressed current topics affecting tho Army. 
"It was an incredible experi­ence," Kenny said. "I was able to meet different academic scholars and leaders to dis­cuss world affairs." 
Kenny was enlisted in the Army under active duty for four years before transferring to Notre Uame as a sopho­more. Last year, he was selected for the position of Battalion Commander based on his exceptional perfor­mance. 
"Ryan's definitely a top­notch cadet here," Sgt_ Luis Magdangal said. "He commu­nicates well to the battalion and takes the part of Battalion Commander to heart." 
In the fall, Kenny will enroll at Boston College to pursue a doctoral degree in cognitive psychology. At tho end of four years, he will enter the Army Medical Service Corps. 
Contact Christina Cepero at cepero. l@nd.edu 


COLOMBIA 




Rebel surrenders to authorities 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
A commander from Colombia's largest rebel group surrendered and, flanked by the country's president and top generals Monday, urged his for­mer comrades-in-arms to do the same. 
Rafael Rojas, who said he was a 20-year veteran of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the commander of the group's 46th Front, was the highest-ranking member of the rebel army to turn himself in, authorities said. His surren­der Friday was reportedly mediated by a Roman Catholic priest. 

President Alvaro Uribe on Monday introduced Rojas at a nationally televised news con­ference at a military base in the coastal city of Cartagena. 
Rojas urged other members of the 16,000-strong FARC ­as the rebel group is known ­to also surrender, saying the 38-year war has brought only ruin to this South American country. 
"Positive things have not resulted," said Rojas, wearing a blue denim shirt and blue jeans. "On the contrary, the prolonged war has left only desolation and destruction." 
Rebels who desert the FARC and other guerrilla armies are put up in protected housing and given the opportunity to change their identities. They also have access to health care, education and work training under the government program. 
"Take advantage of this as an opportunity for dialogue and to create a new society for coming generations," Rojas said. 
Uribe, a hard-liner who has stepped up the war against the rebels in his seven months in office, said other rebels should also surrender or face defeat. 
'MSRP including destinatim and handling charges. Price excludes license, registration, taxes, and options. Actual price determined by flMW center "Lease financing ava,lablc o_n MY 2003 BM\N 325i only at participating BMW centers on leases assigned lo BMN Financial Services N!~, LLC/Finandal Services Vehicle Trust lhrough 4130103. Excludes acqui­
sition fee, lax, title, license, and registration fees_ Lease financing subject to credit appruval. Dealer contribution may affecl terms. Lessee must pr<Nidc insurance and maintenance, Al lease end, lessee will be liable for adisposition f.,'€, any excess wear and use as set forth in the lease agreement and excess mileage char~es of $.20 per mile for miles driven in excess of 30,000 miles per year. Purchase option at lease end for example shown is $17,667, excluding taxes_ 8s.sh!lw!L325LwitlwptionaLSparl Package. Xenon headlights and me@llic jlaiotbas..aM~:11,illll~lJOO..arldbandlill()LbargesWl/itbmonlbl,tlease payments of. $3~ 5.00 for 36.monttJS (1L1tal lease payments of $12,420). $3195 due 
$ 299 First mo. payment 
$2,500 Down payment atJease..sigoin{jiadudasJiisUllilll~1IDl6tll~nl). Lessee acquires no ownership illterest unless purchase option 1s exercised. See participating BMW centern lor detatls and vehicle ava1labd1ty. Specific \/0hicles are subject to availability and may have to be adet1ed. See pa,ticipaling center tor details. Full Maintenance covers all 

lactory-recommert<Jed maintenance, as determined by the Service ltNel lridicator, Im 4 years or 50,000 miles, IAl11chever comes first. See the Service and Warranty fnlunnauon

$ 300 Security deposit 
booklet for more details. Obey all traffic laws. For ma,-e infoonation, call 1-800-334-4BMW, or visit bmwusa.crnn 
College Grad Program: offer applk:able on all new and CPO cars (3 model years or newer), with a maxnnum advance of $35,000 plus acquisitKJn, registration, tax, title anJ license

$3,099 Cashdueatsigning
mo. l36months** 
fees or 80% of standard CPO advance (v.tiichever is lower). Applicants must have a COfJY of diploma or graduation certificate, proving graduation from an accredited ~-year under­graduate or a graduate program within the last 12 months. Also required: a letter from a current or prospective employer staling position, title and current or prospective salary. An applications should state "College Grad Program." All approvals conditioned on school and employer verification. ©2003 BMIN of North America. t-7Ll.C. The BMIN name and lo~ are registe-ed trademarks. 






BUSINESS 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch April 28 
Dow Jones 
8,471.61 +165.26
e 



NASDAQ 
1,462.24 +27.70
e 


S&P500 
914.84 +16.03
e 

AME¥e


850.74 +2.47 
NYSEe
5, I 08.24 +90.26 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.46 +0.6414.98 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +.2.10 +0is3z5;74 
INTEL CORP ( INTC) +2. 57 +0.47 18. 7 5 SUN MICROSYSTEM {SUNW)+2.l5+0..07 3<33 NEXTEL COMMS (NXTL) +5.96 +0.83 14.75 
IN BRIEF Stocks rise sharply on confidence 
Wall Strent got the economic and earnings news it's bt\!!ll so desperate to hear Monday, and stocks rnspondt'd by barreling higher, lift­ing the Dow .Jones industrials more than 160 point-;. 
l!ncouraging consumer spending and income tigurns and better-than-expected earnings !'rom McDonald's !'eel the market's rebounding conli­dcnct!. Analysts reported a. shift in investors' Lhinking, making many of them more con­cerned about missing out on a rally than they are about stocks' short-term vulnerability. 
"We have had a tough economic situation and earnings have been challenging, but companies have done a good job of cutting costs. And now it seems like the tide has turned," said Thomas !'. Lydon Jr., president of Global Trends Investments in Newport Beach, Calif. 
Crude oil futures at 5-month low 
OPEC's decision to hike its output ceiling com­bined with expectations of a big build in U.S. crude inventories sent oil futures on Monday to their lowest level in live and a half months. 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries bucked market expectations last week by agre,\ing to lilt its ollicial output ceiling hy 900,000 barrols a day, to 25.4 million daily barrnls, beginning June 1. 
Allhough the grnup also pledged to remove some 2 million barrels a day in excess produc­tion from the market, the difference between the new ceiling and Ol'EC's current output is s1,cn to be around 600,000 to 800,000 barrels a day -for less than traders had expected the group to cut. 
"We'll believe it when we see it," said Ed SillierP, an analyst at Energy Merchant, wfor­ring to the OPEC cut. "Lot's see if they can do it" 
At the New York Mercantile Exchang11, light, sweet crudn for .lune delivery dropped 77 cents, or 3 perCflnt, to settlo at $25.49 a barrnl, the lowust level for a front-month contract since Nov. 14. 




Regulators announce settlement 
. Ten firms to pay $1.4 billion in resolution 
Associated Press 
WASl!lNGTON 
Ten of' Wall Street's 
biggest firms will pay 
about $1.4 billion and 
adopt reforms to resolve 
allegations that they issued 
biased ratings 011 stocks to 
lure investment-banking 
business, federal and state 
regulators announced 
Monday in a bid tu shore 
up investors' confidence. 
The unprecedented industrywidc settlement, ono of the largest penalties ever levied bv securities regulators, ·l'ollows a lengthy investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and other state reg­ulators and market regula­tors. 
The settlement, based on a tentative agreement reached in December, will change the way major investment Jinns -includ­ing Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan Chase -do business. 

The brokerage firms will have to sever the trouble­some links between finan­cial analysts' research and investment banking, pay a Barney reached the level of they lost on false Hoper, the director of total 5432.5 million over securities fraud. research." investor protection for the five years for independent Salomon Smith Barney is SEC Chairman William Consumer Federation of stock research for their paying the heaviest fine Donaldson called the regu­America, cautioned customers and fund an $80 and restitution: $300 mil­lators' cases against Wall investors not to "rush to million investor education lion. Street's powerhouses "an bestow renewed trust on program. A fund of $387.5 The airing of the regula­important milestone in our Wall Street firms." million will be set up to tors' allegations could open ongoing effort both to "There arc too many compensate customers of the way for a flurry of pri­address serious abuses questions that only time the ten firms; $487 .5 mil­vate lawsuits against the that have taken place in will answer about the ... lion in fines will go to firms by investors who our markets and to restore effectiveness of the new states according to their believe they were defraud­investor confidence and requirements," Hoper said. population. ed -what investor advo­public trust by making sure Under the settlement, 
The firms neither admit­cate Barbara Roper called these abuses don't happen two former star analysts ­ted nor denied allegations "the real compensation." again." Internet expert Henry that they had misled And the SEC could still At a news conference at Blodgct of Merrill Lynch investors, although inter­take enforcement action SEC headquarters, and telecommunications nal e-mails showed their against top executives of Donaldson -a former analyst Jack Grubman of analysts privately had a firms for failing to properly chairman of the New York Salomon Smith Barney ­low opinion of stocks they supervise analysts and Stock Exchange and co­agreed to pay a combined were touting to the public. investment bankers. founder of a major Wall $19 million in fines and Allegations against Merrill Said Spitzer: "It will take Street investment firm -penalties and be banned Lynch -the nation's time, but because we put said he was "profoundly permanently from the biggest brokerage -Credit all this information in the saddened and angry" securities industry to settle Suisse First Boston and public record, investors about the conduct detailed fraud charges. Grubman Citigroup's brokerage busi­will be able in due course in the regulators' com­are neither admitting nor ness Salomon Smith to recover the funds that plaints. denying any wrongdoing. 


Apple launches online music service 
Apple lets customers keep songs ''You can't stop piracy, so you have to 

Associa,ed Press 
indefinitely, share them on as many as work with technology, and you have to 
three Macintosh computers and trans­get into the rhythm of it. That's what 

SAN FRANCISCO fer them to any number of iPod Apple has done here," said the musi­
Apple Computer Inc. launched a com­portable music players. No subscrip­cian Seal, who was at the announce­mercial music service Monday that will tions are necessary and buyers can ment. olTer more than 200,000 songs at 99 burn unlimited copies of the songs onto Even llillary Hosen, who as CEO of cents a download, winning over music CDs. the Recording Industry Association of industry leaders who have long Doug Morris, the chairman and CEO America (RIAAJ has led the fight against shunned online tile sharing. of Universal Music Group who attended Napster and its free online music-swap­
The iTunes Music Store announced Monday's launch, called it "a defining ping successors, called Apple's new ser­by Apple CEO Steve Jobs draws from all moment in the music business." vice "cool, cutting edge" in a statement. five major labels and includes some big­By allowing people to do pretty much "It's not stealing anymore. It's good name artists who previously denounced as they please with their digital copies, karma," said Jobs, asserting that other online di'ilribution. Apple and the music industry are industry-backed services' subscription­
Unlike its competitors. the service has acknowledging that, due to digital tech­based models treat music fans as virtually no copy-protection -a major nology. online file-swapping can't be "criminals" with extra fees and restric­concession to consumer demand. eradicated. tions. 

-

page 8 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
U-WIRE
SMC holds banquet to 
NYU officers question training 
honor student leaders 
up the training a little bit emergency responders.

and the outgoing student body 
By JON MUMMOLO 
more." "If someone lets loose some­
By LAUREN O'BRIEN 
president, reflected on the 
New York University 
Other officers said they are thing at Union Square station,
News Writer 
accomplishments of the 2002-03 
worried that they might. not be Jet's face it," Fischetti said.
student government. 
NEW YORK prepared for some emergen­"the city's emergency teams
Saint Mary's annual "I think there is one word to 
Some New York University cies. are going to be depleted serv­
"Celebrating a Leadership sum up our accomplishments 
Protection Services officers say "As far as what to do in the ing the city. They won't be
Community" honored student this year: teamwork," Jensen 
a lack of emergency response case of a chemical or biological worried about the university."
leaders Monday. said. "Together, we made a dif­
training has left them feeling attack or a mass casualty, we The city has made its own
A Community and Leadership forence.'' 
unprepared in the event of a are woefully unprepared to plans and provisions for deal­
Banner w,L'> available at Haggar Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, a 
catastrophic emergency, respond to that," said Mark ing with terrorist attacks.
College Center during the day for junior and the incoming student 
according to top officials in the Fischetti, an officer at 25 W. although it has not arranged a
students to recognize mentors or body president, addressed new 
Local 1 Security Officers 4th St. "To me, in New York specific plan with the universi­
people in leadership roles. This student leaders, including stu­
Union. City, at the largest private uni­ty, according to a spokesman
tradition has been a part of the dent government leaders, resi­
Union officials said they versity in the country, it would from the New York Police
Student Government Association dence hall and class officers. res­
wrote a letter to department seem germane to train us in Department's 6th Precinct.
since 1993. Banners from previ­ident advisors, presidents of 
superiors in early March these things." "All buildings get treated the
ous years were also displayed. clubs and organizations and spir­
requesting increased training Oilicials from NYU Protection same whether it's NYU or the
The Student Leadership itual life leaders. 
and a detailed contingency Services, which oversees more New School, or a large apart­
Appreciation Luncheon was held "Each of us must recognize our 
plan, in response to "minimal" than 270 officers at 79 posts, m ent building,'' NYPD
in the North Wedge Room of the personal strengths and weak­
training in anti-terrorism and said current training is suffi­Detective Mike Singer said. 
Noble Family Dining Hall for stu­nesses," Jablonski-Diehl said. "It 
emergency response since the cient and that officers should NYU Protection officers
dents, administrators and facul­is only together that we can 
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. wait for outside agencies. such undergo bi-weekly training for
ty. The luncheon featured senior achieve our goals." 
The complaints have shed as the Fire Department of New standard operations like ID
Mary Rrown as the keynote Each student leader was indi­
light on a difference of opinion York and bomb squads, to checking, sign-in procedures
speaker. Brown spoke about her vidually recognized by Linda 
between management and the directly handle emergencies. and diversity training, officers
experiences of leadership at Timm, vice president for Student 
officers union over the precise "We will never give up our said.
Saint Mary's. Affairs. and received a copy of 
function of Protection officers need to access governmental Issues specific to anti-terror­
The luncheon also honored the College mission statement 
during large-scale emergen­services," said Protection ism, however, are not
two faculty members with the from Sister RoseAnne Schultz, 
cies. While department offi­Services Director Jules Martin. addressed during these ses­
Student Leadership Appreciation vice president for Mission. 
cials said they view officers as "They are better trained than sions, according to Kciselim
Award, Deborah McCarthy, asso­"Leadership is not just tied to 
"indispensable first respon­we are, and they have the req­Montas, training manager for
ciate professor of chemistry, and positions and titles," said 
ders" who should be trained in uisite materials to respond to Protection Services. 
Linda Berdayes, assistant profes­Georgeanna Rosenbush, director 
crowd control and be able to the emergency." Officers have attended two
sor of communications. The of Student Activities, "It is 
efficiently report emergencies Some officers said further seminars with an NYPD officer
award honors faculty, adminis­defined more by action. whether 
to their supervisors, some offi­emergency training would and have received instruction
trators or staff who have made a that be through academics, stu­
cers are asking to serve a allow them to alleviate situa­on how to spot suspicious
meaningful contribution to stu­dent government, volunteer ser­
more direct role in emergency tions during the time spent characters and how to respond
dent leadership. vice or a job. It takes all kinds of 
assistance. waiting for help to arrive. to bomb threats, Montas said.
"Celebrating a Leadership leadership to make Saint Mary's 
"We're dealing with a differ­Fischetti said he fears that if This was the only training spe­
Community" concluded with the what itis." 
ent animal [after Sept. 11]." another terrorist attack occurs cific to anti-terrorism supplied
Student Leadership 
union president Mike Pidoto in New York City, NYU would by the department since Sept.
Commissioning in the Church of Contact Lauren O'Brien at 
said. "I think it's time to step become a low priority for 11, 2001, he said.
Loretto. Kim Jensen, a senior obril 648@saintmarys.edu 




S.~ttitt Centerfor Socia{ Concerns 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
00 fil ~ ~ ~ 00 Q 00 ~ ~ rtM 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
_Senior Service Send-Off ~ 
The CSC hosts a Send-Off Ceremony and reception during commencement weekend for all of the seniors who are planning to commit to one or more years of full-time service and for their families. This is a wonderful event and opportunity for students and families to meet each other and to be honored by the Center's staff, Fr. Monk Malloy and other representatives of the University. 
***In order to make sure that you and yourfamily are sent invitations and that your name is printed in the program, please sign up at the CSC or email shappell.l@nd.edu 

l",~.,~,~~"~·\~~.,~--------::--------------------"I
Current 

t:,·~,Q~f:.,g'~'~•~f[e'.~r tf11:o~Jr,h~t we ;te· inadeqf!p/e, but_ that_ we are powerful beyond Volunteers .. ·B~.~.G~ii~t'~;;g~!jr{lg~t,,/JQt ?.~~/l(Jtkne,ff,;; }'V~,tch frightens us. We ask ourselves, .,i· ~(} aii}tJ£"kel1ruliant, gorgeous~ handsome, talented andJabulous? "Actually, 
•~1'.Vho are"you':n~'tto be? You are a child ofGod; your playing small does not serve
A few volunteers are : the w_orld..There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't 
needed to help an elderly I feel znsect1re around you. We were born to make manifest the glory ofGod within
couple who live near campus 
I us.1t is notjust in some; it is in everyone. Moreover, as we let our light shine, we
with household tasks 

I ·consciously give otherpeoplepermission to do the same. As we are liberated from 
such as washing walls 

: ourfear, ourpresence automatically liberates others." 
and mowing the lawn. 
I .... . . -NelsonMandela's Inaugural Speech 
Please contact the 






~~--~~-----------------------------~ 
Thompsons at 234-0300. ~?;~ The Center for Social Concerns wishes 
~~:-Jtj; all ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and 
~"'' staff a wonderful summer! 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 




ENI 
EEK 


Thursday, May 1st Stepan Center, 10:00am -1:00pm 
Tickets will be available for the following events: 
-Saturday, May 10th, "Margaritaville" $5.00 -Sunday, May 11th, "Chicago Cubs Game" $35.00 -Monday, May 12th, "Golf Outing" $10.00/person -Monday, May 12th, "Volleyball Tournament" FREE -Tuesday, May 13th, "Senior Formal" $15.00/person -Wednesday, May 14th, "Senior Day at the Eck Stadium and Last Tailgate" FREE 
** Limited ticket qualities are available for certain events 
Cubs (575), Margaritaville (1000), Golf Outing (190). Seniors seeking to . attend these events are strongly encouraged to arrive promptly at l0am! 
Detailed event information can be found at http://www.nd.edu/~msmith15/srweek.htm 
** All Seniors wishing to participate in Senior Week 2003 must purchase tickets during the specified registration time. Although not encouraged, if a senior is unable to attend, a friend may sign up and pay for another's tickets. Absent seniors MUST give the friend their Notre Dame student ID, a signed waiver and their form of payment. Waivers were Emailed on Monday but can also be picked up at registration. 
** Seniors are encouraged to print out and sign a waiver prior to arriving to Stepan Center on Thursday, May 1st at 10:00am. 
** All sales are final. Cash or checks are accepted only. NO CREDIT CARDS OR STUDENT ACCOUNTS CAN BE USED. All checks must be made payable to the "University of Notre Dame." 
Any questions? Please email: class03@nd.edu 
----~----~---------------------~----~---~~------------. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Soui:h Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINES-~ MANAGER 
Scou Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EonoR: K,istin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hertler 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkin., 

SAINT MARV'S EDITOR, Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mal.Ira Cenedella 
Ao DE.SIGN MANAGER, Tom Haight 
WED ADMINISTRATOR: j.1Son Creek 

CoNTROLLERt Michael Flanagan 
StSrEMS MANAG.ER, Tcd Bangert 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO._._ .........631-7471 FAX.... _..... -..................... _.. __ ........................631-6927 ADVERTISING-..............-·--··--·........._...631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................... --............631-4542 MANAGING EDJTORIAsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS................. -..-.-................. -................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edL1 VIEWPOINT.............._... _._ ......._.. _.................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd-edu SPORTS.·-··--· ...........--·---·-........ ·-.. ·---· ............631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENL..·-· .............................. _................. --631-4 540 observer.scene_ l@nd.edu SA.INT MARYs.-... -.................. -............ _.._....631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO._.......... _.. ___ ................-......... ·--..-......631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS ... __ ............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:l!oburver_ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majorityofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,er po{icus shouU be direct­ed to Editor in ChefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oblcrvc£ {USPS 599 240) U publi,hcd Mo11day dirough Frid.1.ycxc.rp1 during cum and vacation ptriod.i. A subKription to The OMC'rvCT if f 100 for one academic year; S55 for one 1Cmata. 
The: Qt,scn,e, h puh.lilhc:d ac l'OS-fMAS1'£R 024 South Dmi111 Hall 5.cnd oa.-hir~ -mmcfioru lo; 
Not-re Pamc, 1N 465)6 The Obu:rvcr 
r.o. a.,Q 

Periodical pouagc:-paid ,-1 N,orrc: D...mc: Nouc:-Pai.me, IN 4(,556-0779 and a,ddirion:tf m2i.ling offil'.CI. 
Tiw: ObAc.nu U • tnrmiKT ufth.r /aloci ¦ trd Pft'U, Ali rqimduoioft dgfa, arc --i. 
Figuring out how to say goodbye 
I didn't know how to say "hello" to college on that first weekend of freshmen year -my 18th birthday weekend. Now I don't know how to say "good-bye" to it. I'm not going 
pretend that I do. 
It's silly to be reminiscing, as I have almost every­day this semester. After all, I'm only 21, and I'm pretty sure that as of yet, I know little about 


anything that 
Joanna

really matters. 
So I'm not going Mikulski to dwell on immi­nent farewells, attempt to impart Tuesday Voice wisdom on under­classmen or speak wistfully about life-changing late night discus­sions, football victories or adventures while inebriated. Instead, I'd prefer to enjoy my real life right now in all its unreality. 
On Friday evening, a white stretch limousine pulled up to our apart­ment. Fourteen of our friends, dressed in formal attire, poured out of the oversized vehicle, parked in the Solo cup-littered lot between the two rows of townhouses. They came to celebrate "prom"-our prom at our apartment-and were taking the event as seriously as we were. 
At that moment, my roommates and I knew that we had succeeded. 
Lesson learned after four years of college: We are all in this together ­theme parties included. 
Our prom party was complete with all of the trappings of an actual high school prom. We had purple and sil­ver decorations, a song, a picture corner and -like any event that seniors partake in these days -the feeling that the last moments have arrived. I suppose they have, but like I said, I'd rather not dwell on it. 
Crowned prom king and queen were perhaps my most regal of roommates and a guy in a brown tuxedo. I'd tell you where both of the honored individuals are headed next -like they do in high school -but I can't, even though both the king and queen have plans. 
Another lesson learned after four years of college: A job or a school or a service project cannot explain "where someone is going_" It's only a small part of the person that we are all becoming. 
I'm not sure whether celebrating prom again means that my friends and I are regressing or just coming full circle. I'd like to think that the weekend demonstrated that finally, we all have our priorities straight. Now in the last days of class with finals approaching, we weren't anx­iously studying, diligently finishing papers or visiting professors for last minute advice on assignments. 
None of the stuff that we are supposed to worry about -the exams, the resumes, the projects or the applications ­seems to matter any­more. We've sur­vived the end of the semester seven times before, and we will again. 
At this University amidst the 10,000 overachievers who experience college here every year, it's easy to lose perspective -to get what matters to you tangled in the idea of 
what matters to other students, pro­fessors, advisors or the campus com­munity in general. 
What matters to me right now are the people with whom I have spent the last four years. My roommates who stood beside me every day this year. My best friends from a year abroad who kept me sane as we explored the world together. Professors who gave me ideas, con­cepts and beliefs to latch onto and become passionate about. My family. 
Everyone who taught me to have faith. In a Higher Power. That I won't leave here lost. That I'll he ok_ 
So maybe I am in danger of remi­niscing, dwelling on approaching good-byes and speaking longingly about four years past. I know it's ridiculous, but maybe it's unavoid­able. 
Next fall I will be in Austria again, teaching grade school children English. I'll probably spend a lot of time looking back, remembering the rhythm of my life here. my year in Innsbruck, summers and beginnings and breaks and finals. I imagine that the pain, the arguments, and the annoyances will all fade away, allow­ing me to become hopelessly, honest­ly nostalgic. l might even think that I have some wisdom from the experi­ence to share, but I still won't. 
On Sunday I spent all day 
wondering what I should 
write for today_ When I went to Mass at 10 p.m., less than a 
paragraph of this 
column was com­posed. I wasn't worried; at the end 
of Mass, I still had 
13 hours before 
•·•·· \. deadline. So I did 
11illllj> ;.~~f;rji~~~i~~
JI/ Final lesson 
· learned after four years of college: When in doubt, go to the Boat Club. 

Joanna Mikulski would like to express her gratitude to her family, friends and everyone else, who put up with her column writing during the last three years. 
She'd also like to say "thanks" to her "prom date, " who is pretty sure that she and all of her friends are insane. Contact her at jmikulsk@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Act like an adult to be treated like one 
In response to April 25 Editorial, "University can't turn a blind eye to suits," I find it interesting that students want the University to do something about the Boat Club lawsuit. In reading The Observer over the past year, I thought the students wanted to be treated as adults. In his April 25 letter "Parietals disrupt social life," Ramin Saghafi states, "It's time the University stops treating us like we're still in junior high." 
Act like adults and take responsibility for your own actions. The minute something goes wrong, do not clamor for the University to step in as if it is mommy or daddy and should "make it better." 
Be an adult, take responsibility for your own premedi­tated actions, which were getting an illegal ID and/or per­juring yourself to gain access to a place where underage students should not be. In the adult world: do something wrong, get caught and face the consequences. All of you should be ecstatic since you are being treated like adults. Go before the judge, get sentenced and pay the fine. 
Jessica Monokroussos 
administrative assiscan r Ph.D. in Literature Program April 27 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Kate Nagengast Maureen Reynolds Claire Heininger 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yernrn 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 


Sports 
Matt Lozar Lauren Dasso Charee Holloway 

Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Sofia Ballon 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Should the University intercede on behalf of  "Liberty means responsibility.  
students facing a Boat Club lawsuit?  That is why most men dread it."  
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m.  George Bernard Shaw playwright, critic  


,-------------------------------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Re-examining Santorum's comments 
Look closer before charging
" .
extremism )) 
Amanda Hubio's remarks in her April 28 letter "Santorum's Words Disgraceful" demonstrate an admirable desire to encourage a more tolerant nation and inclusive Hcpublican Party. Neverlheless, Hubio fails to recognize the actual intent and substance of Senator Santorum's remarks. 
In his recent AP interview, Santorum discussed an upcoming Supreme Court case challenging a Texas anti-sodomy law. Sa.ntorum expressed concern that if the Court extends the so-ca.lied "right to pri­vacy" to strike down such laws, the Court would be unable to justify upholding laws which ban activity such as polygamy or incest. Santorum never directly compared or equated these activities. He simply sug­gested that if the "right to privacy" is extended to one logical conclusion, Congress and state legislatures would be forbidden from restricting other kinds of sexual activity. 
furthermore, Santorum did not "denounce" any person based on orienta­tion, nor does the Catholic Church. Santorum drew a distinction between per­sons and actions; he took issue wiih homosexual acts, not homosexual people. While Santorurn said "l am a firm believer that all are equal under the Constitution," acts and people are two very different things. Santorum's distinction closely mir­rors Catholic teaching and is held by many Americans; it deserves examination and discussion, not automatic denunciation. 
Laws banning homosexual activity between consenting adults should be repealed. But the Court should not strike down laws by creating and extending a "right" which does not appear in the Constitution and which was not intended by the founders. The "right to privacy" has already forbidden legislatures from regulating in any significant way the prac­tice of abortion on demand and may inhibit their ability to prohibit or restrict suicide, polygamy and incest. The founders did not believe that these activi­ties merited constitutional protection; those who disagree should attempt amendment. 
Americans hold many different views about homosexuality, and Santorum's per­spective is neither hateful nor extremist. Debate about which activity Congress or state legislatures should be able to regu­late constitutes a perfectly acceptable public policy discussion in which our elected representatives should participate. 
Greg Wright law student April 28 


Distinguish between persons and acts 
In her April 28 letter, Amanda Rubio made an excellent point about Senator Rick Santorum and the comments he made, except for the fact that she got them all wrong. Santorum never denounced gays. nor did he even denounce homosexuality. He simply made the argument that if the Supreme Court struck down existing state anti-sodomy laws and posited the idea that consenting adults have the right to do whatever they want sexually. then it would be impossible for states to continue to forbid acts like incest, adultery, bigamy and so on. This is not slander, but rather just common sense and plain legal reasoning. Think it through for yourself: If the Supreme Court states that the right to sodomy is guaranteed under the Constitution. then how can it say those other acts arc still open to regula­tion and prosecution? 
Whenever it comes to matters touching homosexuality, it seems a strange mental paralysis overcomes students at Notre Dame and people elsewhere, too. That paralysis is the inability to distinguish between persons, whom we must all respect. and acts, some of which deserve our scorn. I hate smoking, but I love smokers, including my parents. There is no complicated moral calculus involved in this stance. If you cannot reconcile the two posi­tions, you need help. Likewise, supporting and loving homosexuals does not mean denying that what they do is disgusting and repugnant. It does not make you a hater to express your belief that some parts were obviously not made for certain purposes. 
As for Amanda Rubio and her strained continued membership in the Republican party, it seems like she feels she is doing the party a tremen­dous favor by remaining in it, which makes me feel it would be much better off without her. She sure seems a lot less tolerant of those with whom she disagrees than Rick Santorum is. 
Andrea Arnoult 
class of '99 Nashville, TN April28 



Notre Dame Board must tackle tough questions to improve community life 
1 read this lead in The Observer yesterday morn­ing, "The Board of Trustees approved the building of on-campus apartments at their meeting this past Friday" and almost fell down. Mid-swoon, I asked myself the obvious questions, "Will they be co-ed? Hy floor? Or by room? Or single-sex buildings?" I smirked, thinking about the tough decision-making and thoughtful reflection the Board would necessari­ly have to face when considering parietals regula­tions for seniors in apartments designed to promote "independent housing." Would they be so bold as to tell their 21 and 22 year-olds not to associate in their own common rooms after 12 a.m. on a school night? 
l was almost proud to call myself a "Domer." I did not, however. ask "Is this article about Saint Mary's?" 
Of course, The Observer is "The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." I read with bias towards Notre Dame simply because I'm a student here. It was my mistake for not recog­nizing Melanie Engler as the spokesperson for Saint Mary's. My mistake for assuming that promoting ''interaction on campus between upperclassmen and underclassmen" was meant for the upper and under­classwomen of Saint Mary's and not Notre Dame. (I've goltfm used to gender-specific yet homogenizing language. After all, I am Catholic.) From now on, I'll just memorize the Saint Mary's University officials as well as understand that the word "men" is often intended to mean "human" and at times, women. 
But perhaps the real reason I misread the article was that [ am anxiously anticipating the day that the administrators and trustees decide to address the single-sex and parietals-burdened environment for their on-campus Notre Dame "family." It was thrilling to think that our University was brave enough to stop using that convenient word "tradi­tion" while ignoring real problems, stop sexualizing the word "community" and begin to want what is healthiest for its students -a coed living environ­ment free from dangerous sexual segregation. 
Let's just entertain the thought for a moment. Here's a new headline, "ND Board of Trustees approves new on-campus apartments." Assuming that this article is as unclear as the Saint Mary's one, we again will be left to ask those tough ques­tions about on-campus life and what constitutes a healthy community. What about parietals? When is a student capable of making responsible decisions about sex or even noise level? (I would argue that most of us learned how to respectfully control our voices in kindergarten.) What about sexual segrega­tion? Does it aid a community? Or does the separa­tion only heighten misunderstandings between women and men? 
Sadly, twice in the past three days I've read letters by concerned (and sarcastic) Notre Dame students in which they conclude with the phrase, "No where else but Notre Dame." In one, Brian Agganis criticizes Notre Dame for selecting students who seem dis­tinctly homogenous. Yesterday, Anna Nussbaum writes how Notre Dame's image is threatened by the policies designed more for "horny eight year old{s]" than adults -policies that may discourage bright students from choosing to come here. 
This may seem crazy, but wouldn't it be more appropriate for the proud declaration of "Nowhere else but Notre Dame" to come from something other than the tarnished experiences of disgruntled stu­dents? Current undergraduates like Anna, her friends and myself are the ones hurt by Notre Dame's regressive social policies. 
It is Saint Mary's Board of Trustees that has approved an on-campus apartment arrangement. Meanwhile. our traditionally minded and status-quo saturated Board can take a deep breath. They won't be forced to answer these hard questions for at least a few more years. 
Martha Patzer sophomore Howard Hall April 28 


. ----·----~-----------------------------------------------, 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
SNEAK PREVIEW 

Radiohead's unreleased secret 
By MIKE SCHMUHL and DANIEL MCSWAIN Scene Music Critics  listen before a loyal fan purchases the offi­cial album. For the two steps forward that OK Computer and Kid Amnesiac symbolized  genomes crumble, and the mutant sound emerges, as electronic whirrs and otherwise Galaga-esque noises take command. While other bands  
for the band, Hail To The Thief is their one  may fumble  a dramatic move like  
Humors of a secret version of Radiohead's sixth album, Hail to the Thief,  step back. On an artistic level. this album is on par with Radiohead's best work of the  this, Radiohead handles the dynamic shift with consummate skill and  
started to circulate in early April. It  past. But while previous efforts marked  grace.  
appeared that someone close to the band  unrestrained experimentation, Hail brings  The longest song from the album is  
or record company had leaked the much­ back more traditional. accessible song  the pulsating "Backdrit'ts." It starts  
anticipated album, slated to come out on  structures. Older influences like R.E.M. and  with a swaying reverberation of  
June 10. Sure enough, within a few days,  The Pixies are still in full effect, but the  sonar-like tones and a vibrating beat.  
the album had been transferred and  style of bands like Sigur Ros and Godspeed  A mixture of fuzzed drumbeats, rat­ 
copied on to hundreds of hard drives  You Black Emperor! weighs heavily on the  tling sound effects and lead singer  
across the globe.  music, keeping in the tradition of more  Thom Yorke's scheming voice, trans­ 
The  members  of  the  British  recent work.  form the track into an almost breath­ 
alternative/experimental group have pub­ One of Radiohead's strengths on this  ing, living thing. Yorke's mastery of  
licly stated that the leaked version is a copy  album is the facility with which the band  the vocal instrument has certainly  
of earlier production work, but the matter  melds the amalgam of musical influences  developed from previous efforts and  
is open to debate. Regardless, the 14-track collection floating from computer to com­puter is incredible and definitely worth a  while forging a unique substance. The band's stability as a unit and sense of cohe­sion, both on a personal and musical level,  he takes a more calculating, confi­dent role on this album. "Where I End and You Begin" pos­ Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com To the delight of fans, Radiohead's newest album has been secretly leaked out on the  

Hail to the Thief Radiohead 
RELEASE DATE: JUNE 10, 2003 

Internet before Its scheduled June release.
is what makes this album stand out from sesses a haunting, eerie quality. The the rest of their catalog. Radiohead has song seems to show a direct correla­achieved an incredible dynamic in their tion between a "traditional" sound and the amazing blend of their earlier and more music, the ability to shoot the sonic gamut, influence of electronics and experimenta­contemporary endeavors. At times, the often in one song, from painfully soft and tion. Shaky drums, a heavy bass line and album seems to get too extreme with loud, plodding to anesthetic moments of oblivion. an open resonance lay the backdrop for a aggressive songs being followed by the 
"Sit Down. Stand Up" is the perfect struggle between guitar and programmed simplicity and quietness of a slower song. example of this kind of range on the machine -a struggle that is symbolic of At any rate, Hail to the Thief is and will be album. The song starts unassumingly, the the recent directions the band has a remarkable album, just be sure to watch double helix of its DNA unraveling slowly explored and the synthesis it now enjoys. out for the oil slick on Track 10. but predictably. Gradually, a surreptitious Whether or not the unreleased version of gurgling begins to poke through, as cen­Hadiohead 's current effort is close to the Contact Mike Schmuhl at turies of evolution and replication give way final copy is entirely unknown. It can be schmuhl.5@nd.edu and Daniel McSwain to mutation and splicing. Time tested determined. however, that the album is an at dmcswain@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Ambiguity mystifies Evanescence fans 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Editor 
Things are not always what they appear, or maybe they are exactly as they appear. This seems to be the main theme of the new band Evanescence and their first album. Fallen. At first glance of the gothic appearance of the lead singer, Amy Lee, on the cover of the album, one would never think that the band would carry Christian overtones in their music. Even from just overhearing the album, the heavy "Llnkin Park with a chick" sound would not neces­sarily prompt one to assume that the album contains Christian themes. For those reasons, it is very surprising thal Fallen began to climb the Christian music charts. A deep analysis of the album, though, docs seem to show blatant Christian themes and messages in the lyrics. 
In a final twist, however, it turns out that the band actually is as it appears -not Christian at all. This information surprised not only the fans of the band and the Christian music industry, who very much promoted the band. It also surprised Evanescence's label, Wind-Up records ­home of the well known and Christian associated band Creed, as well as many other bands, both secular and Christian. 
Wind-Up recently recalled all of the Fallen albums from Christian chains after lead guitar for Evanescence, Ben Moody told Entertainment Weekly, "We're actually high on the Christian charts, and I'm like, 'What ... are we even doing there?"' 
Although the band L'> said to have come up through the Christian market after agreeing tu be sold in that market, "amass­ing a loyal following of fans," they arc now "backing away from their faith back­ground." 
So who and what are Evanescence? Their album dr,csn 't given any clear answer regarding the situation. 
The sound of 


Evanescence is undeniably unique and very strong. Lead singer Amy Lee has a very powerful voice that resounds throughout every song on the album. The music style is varied throughout the album, creating a very developed sound that is defi­nitely unique enough to define Evanescence. The credibility of the music alone is clear. A collection of mostly heavy rock songs, "My Immortal" and "Hello" shine as well as strong ballads crooned by the beau­tiful solo voice of Lee. The lyrics, however, are what create the mystery that current­

With their ambiguous lyrics and appearance,
ly surrounds 
Evanescence has topped the Christian music charts,
Evanescence. Pallen is very but, oddly, they claim not to be a Christian band. 

strong lyrically throughout the entirety of the album, but if the lyrics aren't supposed to apply to some sort of spiritual element. then perhaps the lyrics are severely miswritten. From lines in "Tourniquet" saying, "My God my tourniquet/ return to me salvation," to lines in "Ta.king Over Me" that proclaim, "I believe in you / I'll give up everything just to find you/ I have to be with you to live to breathe/ your taking over me," the mes­sage that Evanescence is trying to convey seems blatant. In fact, every song on Fallen. in at least some way, is relatable to Christian themes. 
FaUen is extremely well done musically, and while a bit conventional in music style, the female lead vocalist is a terrific twist that gives Evanescence a unique sound. But who do Evanescence belong too? Unwilling to bridge the secular and Christian music worlds, Evanescence may need to consider rewriting their songs. The new and different band that seemed to have a very clear purpose has now landed themselves in a very murky puddle of questioning fans. Who is Evanescence ­or better said who is it that they think they are? 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Tuesday, April 29, 2003 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Yorn passes his sophomore test 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene M u,ic Critic 
For y<mrs the music industry has been plagtwd by awful sophomore albums. Ol't1m. artists who have an nxtrnmely pop-

By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
Assiscanc Scene Editor 
Country fans looking for the next "It Girl" in Nashville may have to look no further than 19-ycar-old Tennessee native, Jessica Andrews. lier third ,tlbum, Now, shows off ular debut album seem to have trouble creating another great album, but this is not the case with Pete Yorn. His debut album, musicforthemorningafter, gar­nered critical acclaim and brief radio play. Yorn's debut was lilied with melan­choly folk rock gems and pop guitar riffs 

and hooks that ma.de the album great. His second effort, Day I Forgot, contin­ues in the exact same musical vein. Yorn himself savs in the bonus material included on the album that, " Day I Forgot is like an extension of musicforthe­morningafter." Day I Forgot is characterized by the same melancholy sound and catchy choruses and guitar riffs, but the songs are much more ener­getic than on Yorn's debut. While his debut album had many ballads and slower songs, Day I Forgot is filled with pop rock guitar riffs with the occasional rocker thrown in. Although there are more ener­getic songs, they still sound like they could have come from Yorn's debut album. In fact, Yorn could have released the two albums together and they would have sounded even better. He doesn't change his sound much at all on Day I Forgot, and that's a good thing. Many artists feel they have to recreate themselves on later releases. but Yorn does an excel­1ent job of expanding on his already established sound. 
her powerful, sultry voice that helped her reach gold status and fame with her last release. Who I Am. 
No track exhibits her amazing singing ability more than the stirring "God, Don't Give Up on Us." With the pleading lyrics and gorgeous piano, Andrews manages what Clint Black, Toby Keith and Darryl Worley could not do -she sings a song reflecting the turmoil of war that actu­
ally is sincere. 
While the three grown men, and a slew of other country stars, attempt political commentary with ignorant lyrics, ideologically irritating accusa­tions or bitter pride, "God, Don't Give Up on Us" takes the pain and hope of war and strings it across the beautiful background of her incredible voice ­without pointing fingers or taking sides. "Forgive our dark desires, and I.he pain we've caused / Please don't close Your eyes, to the part of us / That's beautiful ... still beautilul." 
Other highlight<; of the album include "When Gentry Plays Guitar," which should speak straight to the heart of anyone susceptible to falling for musi­cians. "The girls at the bar watch him roll away the stone I Pisces Apple Lady, Delta Queen / He lets down his long brown hair. I wish he belonged to me / But he don't, he belongs to the song and the melody." The sparkling acoustic and steel guitars are leisurely and cheerful. oblivious to the wistful 
Musically, Day I Forgot is excellent. Many of the songs have a country air to them, without actually being classi­fied as country. Yorn strad­dles the line 

Dav IForgot Pete Yorn 
Sony Records 


PETE YORN 
OAY I fOJ{GOl 


between rock and country perfectly, much like bands like Wilco and Son Volt have done in the past. But the songs are still very catchy, and almost every song gets stuck in your head. Any track off of this album could be a potential single on the radio. There are more rockers on Day 1 Forgot.than on musicforthemorningafter, such as the heavy, "Carlos (Don't Let it Go to Your Head)" or the goofy, "Burrito." 
The lyrics on Day I Forgot are for the most part very personal and capture a certain feeling, but on some tracks the lyrics get incredibly silly. "Burrito" for example, is about driving to 7-11 s in search of a burrito. Other songs, however, find Yorn longing to be in love, "Long Way Down," or reminiscing about his life away from music, "Come Back Home." All the songs, however, are very melodic and very catchy. 
The best track on Day I Forgot is by far "Crystal Village." The track begins with a lightly picked acoustic guitar riff, then Yorn's thick, raspy vocals enter with strings bellowing in the distance. Soon the song explodes into an emotionally charged chorus with a heavy guitar carry­ing the melody. Other standout tracks include the acoustically driven, "Come Back Home," and the country ballad. "All At Once." 
There aren't many negative things to be said about Yorn's excellent Day I Forgot. The only complaint a listener may have is that Yorn has not changed his sound at all on his sophomore album. He has simply recreated his debut album. which works very well. Overall, Yorn has created and emotionally charged pop rock album that is one of the best sophomore albums to date. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rafferty.3@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 




The next country 'It Girl' 
words of a girl who can't get 

Now the guitar­playing guy to tear his 
Jessica attention away from 
Andrews 
his music. Most of 

Dreamworks Records 
the other 
tracks are forgettable, ordinary love songs, with the best of Nashville, she shows her youth and inexperience when she tries her hand at songwriting. The two songs she helps write, "There's More to Me Than You" and "Good Time," are bouncy and bright in tempo but lacking in lyrical cre­ativity and fresh sound. However, patient listeners can hear the far superior version of the first song, which is a hidden track recorded as a ballad at the end of the album. 


Even though there are weak tracks with a distinctly recycled resonance, Andrews displays versatility and depth with many of the songs on Now. With her standout vocals and immediately likable melodies, Andrews will only get better with age. 
Contact Christie Boisen at Bolsen.l@nd.edu 

but even these are fun and easy listening. One of the best of these is the swaying, darker sound­ing "I Bring It to You." Andrews shows her range with glossy low notes that soar impressively with the chorus: "I bring it to you / There's magic in all that you do / I bring you the scraps that make up my soul." 
One of the most inspired love songs is the wonderful "Cowboy Guarantee." Even though Andrews has much less of a tradi­tional country sound than older artists, even with the ever-present fiddles and steel guitars, the lyrics of "Cowboy Guarantee" are classic country. The lonely fiddle inter­lude complements the sad, dreamy song: "Beneath the stars and Texas moonlight I gave my heart away/ But you can't tame a river and I wouldn't want to try." 
Unfortunately, while Andrews can sing 
page 14 Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 


Lightning hangs on for 4-3 win over Devils 
because they scored a couple of
Associated Press 

good goals. and they outplayed us, fine. But I just feel bad about TAMPA. Fla. losing the game like that." 
The Tampa Bay Lightning blew Nikolai Khabibulin rebounded a big lead, though not an oppor­from a shaky second period to tunity to climb back into their make two key saves in the final playoff series with the New Jersey two minutes with New Jersey Devils. desperately trying to take advan­
The Lightning squandered a tage of a power play. three-goal advantage, but Dave "It was a do-or-die game for Andreychuk snapped a third­them, and obviously we didn't period tie and lifted Tampa Bay have that approach," New to a victory over the Devils in Jersey's Jeff Friesen said. Game 3 of the second-round The Devils won the first two matchup. games of the series at home, but 
Playing with the same sense of the victory bolstered the urgency that helped them over­Lightning's confidence that they come a two-game deficit in the can again rally to prolong their first round, the Lightning now first playoff appearance in seven trail the Devils 2-1 as they try to years. rally in the Eastern Conference "We're still down 1-2. We've semifinals. got a game in our building," 
"lt's another lesson. something Andreychuk said. "The pressure we battled through.... To come is on to win." back in the third period, keep our New Jersey played most of the patience and find a way, it's gam without captain Scott something you can draw on when Stevens, who left early in the fi.rst you get in those situations again," period after a shot by Tampa he added. Bay's Pavel Kubina hit him in the 
Andreychuk scored the game­left ear, opening a cut that winner with 13:52 remaining, required stitches. taking advantage of the Devils "I think losing Scotty definitely being unable to complete a line hurt us," Burns said. "I think New Jersey Devils' Grant Marshall takes a shot against the Lightning's Nikolai Khablbulln In change that left New Jersey with morale-wise it hurt us a little bit Tampa Bay's 4-3 win Monday. four forwards and just one to see the gladiator that he is defenseman in front of goaltender come off the ice the way he did. I Lehtinen, who beat Jean­victory. the postseason. Martin Brodeur. think that really shook the bench Sebastien Giguere on a rebound In the first round, Anaheim Niko Kapanen began the 
Devils coach Pat Burns up a little bit." in the opening minutes of the won twice in overtime. sequence that led to the Stars' screamed at the officials and game, snapped a 1-1 tie when he After Lehtinen scored 2:24 in to first goal. taking a slap shot from pounded on the boards in front of Dallas 2, Anaheim 1 deflected a shot by Derian give Dallas a quick lead, Steve the top of the right circle. Giguere his bench when defenseman Colin Somebody finally slowed down Hatcher past the Mighty Ducks Rucchin tied it on a power play at moved to his left and blocked the White was ordered off the ice. the Mighty Ducks. goaltender on a power play at 16:09. shot with his left skate, but the 
"After all these years in the Jere Lehtinen scored both 3:41 of the second period. Rucchin, alone near the goal puck bounced out to Rob DiMaio. league, am I that stupid that I Dallas goals, and Marty Turco Giguere had 30 saves and had line on the right side, took a pass DiMaio wristed a shot right back, would put four forwards and one stopped 31 shots Monday night as no real chance to stop the two from Paul Kariya, skated in on but Giguere managed to extend defenseman in a 3-3 tie in the the Stars defeated Anaheim in shots that got past him. Turco and shot from five feet. The his right leg and stop it with his third period? I think everybody their Western Conference semifi­The first two games of the puck slid across the crease, skate. who knows me here knows I'm nal series. series went into overtime. struck Richard Matvichuk's skate Again, the puck bounced out in not that stupid," Burns said. The Ducks, who swept the Anaheim won the opener 4-3 and deflected into the net behind front of the crease and Lehtinen 
"I might be halfway stupid, but Stanley Cup champion Detroit early in the fifth overtime, the Turco. quickly knocked it into the net not that stupid. It was the wrong Red Wings in the first round, still fourth longest game in NHL histo­The goal, Rucchin's third, was before Giguere could get back call.... We played hard and hold a 2-1 edge over Dallas in the ry. The Ducks won Game 2 early only Anaheim's second power­into position. The goal was fought back. If we lose the game best-of-seven series. in the first overtime, taking a 3-2 play goal in 25 opportunities in Kapanen's second of the playoffs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER TUTOR Parents of a 7-For Sale: Futon-$60 Desk-$80 house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; GOING TO SUMMER SCHOOL? year-old first grader are in need ol a Book case-$40 Bed-$160 Dresser-800-966-8399 Rooms for rent. Cheap. Close to 
FOR RENT summer tutor. Concentration on $50 All in excellent condition. Call campus Call 634-0820 ask for PERSONAL reading, writing and spelling skills. 243-9988 Very nice 3bdrm home. Avail.June Jared We are very flexible with days and 1st for summer/fall. East Race dist. 
Study Abroad with CEA. England, hours. Prefer 1/2 hour tutoring ses-RANCH HOME: Architect-designed near Corbys Pub and St.Joe Chrch. Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it Italy, Spain, France, Australia. sions, 3x/week. Timeframe from California Contemporary Ranch Incl. Alarm syst,washer/dryer. Can alone. If you or someone you love Request a Free Catalog mid. une through August. Salary built in 1958, purchased from origi-email picts/floor plan.Call Joe SUITE AVAILABLE AT BELLE needs confidential support or assis­www.GoWittlCEA.com negotiable. Tutoring sessions nal owner; restored and original Crimmins@273-0002(H) or TERRE -TAKING RESERVA-lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise 
can take place on campus or in our features include sunken 514-0643(cell) or TIONS FOR GRADUATION WEEK-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING home. Our house is located within livingroom, beamed cathedral ceil-JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com END -TWO-ROOM SUITE WITHIN information, see our bi-weekly ad in TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL walking distance of the campus. ings, huge patio, garden toyer. $650/m negotiable. WALKING DISTANCE OF NOTRE The Observer. SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR Please Call Ronda Hetterson at Email mfitzgib@nd.edu for details. DAME -FULL KITCHEN WITH PAID)Discretion Assured.Call: 202-736-3408 before 5:30 Spring Semester 2004 onlyl 4 DISHWASHER -FULL BATH -ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are 277-1659 Thank you. p.m. or 703-913-5834 after 6:30 94 Saturn; teal; gd cond; reg main; Bedroom, 2 Bath.. GOOD Student MASTERBEDROOM AND LIVIN-you pregnant and dont know what 
p.m. 74,000 mi; 4-dr; $3,100 Call Meg: Area. Dave..243-53S3 GROOM WITH SLEEPER COUCH. to do? Loving, open-hearted, finan­
634-3293 FREE CABLE AND LOCAL cially stable woman would like to Retiring Notre Dame Professor sell-PHONE. MAID SERVICE AVAIL-consider adopting a baby. Free 
ing 1 Bedroom Condo in North 94 Ford Explorer Sport 4x4, 98K, Two bedroom cottage in good stu-ABLE. $100.00 NIGHT. 574-271-counseling, living expenses and Shore Complex. In good condition FOR SALE Black, Sunroof, Pioneer CD $3750 dent area. $350 per month. Dave 7205. medical expenses. This can be a and includes 1 Car Garage Call Call 514-8568. Must Sell! 243-5353 good thing tor you and your baby. 
Dons at 299-2000 for additional Discreet and legal. 
information SPECIAL Seeking college student for summer child care in our home lor 12 and 10yr old. GoOd pay and relaxed atmoshpere. Must be able to drive.Please call 631-9947 or 277-8564 and ask tor Lisa.  2 Cornputers•$150 & $225 (574) 229-3100 JUDA Y LAKE HOME ON LAKE.WALK TO ND.GILLIS REAL­TY 272-6306,329-0308 FOR SALE. Varsity Club of America time share apartment tor full week during the football season. Choose week of 2nd or 4th ND home game every year. Units accommodate up to 4. Purchase at great savings  1994 Chrysler T&C MiniVan 130K Summer Sub-lease, 1 bdrm, fully Leather, CD, $2500, 202-421·5347 furnished, good neighborhood, rent negotiable. 229-1691 FOR RENT CHICAGO ROOM available for summer lease and/or longterm lease. 3 ND grads as Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom roommates. Near Wrigley Field. homes 1/2 mile from campus. Available starting anytime in May. mmmrentals@aol.com Call 773-871-8893. 272-1525www.mmmrentals.com 2 bdrm apt. summer sublease at HOUSE AVAILABLE furn 4b2ba, Turtle Creek. Contact  
WANTED  from owner who must sell at least one uri1t. Great accommoda­lions for visiting ND. Can be e)(changed for resorts worldwide.  walk to campus.jo5225@aol.com macdonald.18@nd.edu or 273-4668 2 BDRM House, A/C, close to cam­pus. 269-699-5841  
Small school seeks part-lime mid• die-school math teacher now lhru summer. Experience with Saxon and Math-U-See a plus. 273-3010 or unitydayschool@aol.com  Call Bob (954) 349·1880 95 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport 78,000 Miles $4,500  3-6 BDRM Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per­HOMES.WASHER/DRYER.$175.P son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. P/MO. 272-6306,329-0308 New everything. Wired for comput­ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 1 bdrm apts for summer close to 235-3655 ND $450-283-0325  
_;. ~ ... ---·--­-.. -... -.. -........... ­ 

Call 904-824-7006. Chicago Room Available for sum­mer lease. Fully furnished. Lincoln Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each Park -2 blocks from El. Available way all taxes includedl If you can 6/1 Call 315-4658. beat these prices start your own 
damn airline! Book on line www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000. 

1 bedrm apt. for rent available 5/15 through Aug. May rent paid. 1/2 Faculty & Staff, update your estate month free! Chicago: plan this summer. Call Tim, ND 93 Wrigleyville/Lakeview area Close to at Timothy E. Kalamaras Law Office "L". Rent $795/mo. Call PC 574-232-4802 (773) 244-9157 teklaw@beanstalk.net 
Ya, that's right. I had the best Senior history thesis_ Suckers' 
TICKETS 
Buffett partyt!II! 

Thanks for being such a great date Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613 Saturdayl ;) David Belczyk 
We deny nothingl 

Tuesday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
LPGA 
Wie heads back to classroom 
Anociatcd Press 
STOCKBRIDGE, Ga. 

Time to put down the golf clubs and grab those schoolbooks. Michelle Wie has, like, a math tl~st to take. 
As the 1~ighth-gradcr is prone to say, that's cool. 
Wie is content to give women's golf a handful of tantalizing glimpses each year -al least until she's 18. even longer ii' she follows through on her plans to att£md collngc. 
She's still more thun six months away from her 14th birthday. holding the ruturc or tlrn sport in hPr grasp evnn as she pauses to watch "S Club 7" (Llw televised adventures of a British pop group) or listen to a rap Cl) by 50 Cent. 
Wic has played in two IYCA events this year, more than hold­ing her own against women two. three, <'Vf'll four times her age. She tied for ninth at the first major of the year, the Kraft Nabisco Championship. She l"ol­lowPd up this past weekend with a solid 3-under 213 at the Chick­Iii-A Charity Championship south of Atlanta, making the cut against a strong field. 
Wic could join the tour tomor­row and probably be one of the better players. Bul she has no d1isin• to speed up the learning curw, willingly settling for the I.J>(;A's allot1m~nt of six events Hach year. 
Next up: the ShopHite Classic in Nnw .lers1iy on the last weekend of June. 
"I think six times is OK for me now," Wic said. "I may get sick of it if I played every week out here." 
This way, she's having the time of her life. 
Already 6 feet tall, the young llawaiian's smooth, powerful swing has drawn comparisons to Ernie Els. Big Easy, meet the Big Wiesy. 
No one on the women's tour hits the ball as far or as high as Wie, who didn't hesitate trying to drive the green cm the 306-yard seventh hole at Eagles Landing Country Club. Everyone else laid up. 
"If you didn't see who was swinging, and you saw the ball take off, you'd think a man hit it," llall of Farner Nancy Lopez said. "The ball is so hot coming off lhe face, and the flight is so 
high.'' 
Wic is d(ifinitely intrigued by the idea of following Annika Sorenstam to the PGA Tour. Sorenstam will play in Lhe Colonial next month, a ground­breaking event that may be a precursor to Wie's own career plans. 
"Sure," she said. "Why not?" 
Even now, according to her father, Wie is more comfortable teeing up with men. She's signed to play a Canadian Tour event this summer and doesn't hide her desire to make a run at the Masters through one of the ama­teur qualifying events. 
"She watches how the men play," B.J. Wie said. "She listens to the sound of the club head, the way the ball sounds. Instinctively, she tries to keep up with them. It will help Michelle get better play­ing with men. She plays like they play. She likes to be more aggressive. She doesn't mind going into the rough if she's 100 yards ahead of everyone else." 
Wie's coach, Gary Gilchrist, said his star pupil already has a club speed that measures up to players on the PGA Tour. She's a good 15 percent quicker than those she competed with in the Chick-fil-i\. 
"She has those long arms, and she can really coil the body," Gilchrist said. "The other thing that helps is her technique is very good. She has great funda­mentals. When everything is in sync, she can really hit it far." 
There's still some things to work on. Wie doesn't have the time -and there's really no need at this point -to take up a strenuous training program like golfers who play for a living. Admittedly, the youngstr.r tired out on a bit Sunday in warm, humid temperatures. 
Also, Wie needs to toughen up mentally, another natural pro­gression as she goes through her teenage years. 
"Just playing at this level will help her mentally," Gilchrist said. "The big thing is learning to hate bogeys and love pars." 
After the ShopRite, Wie will play in the Jamie Parr Kroger Classic Aug. 14-17. the Safeway Classic Sept. 26-28 and the C.J. Nine Bridges Classic in her par­ents' native South Korea on Oct. 16-19. 
Somewhere in there, she'll find time to begin ninth grade. 
''I'd like to see Michelle have as normal a childhood as she possi­bly can," LPGA commissioner Ty Votaw said. "When she's ready to become a member of the LPGA tour, we'll welcome her with open arms." 
Wie comes from a family that values education and she wants to attend Stanford (where her hero, a guy named Tiger Woods, once played). Of course, those plans could change over the next 4 1/2 years. 


The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses
NOTaf DAME

ANNUAL 
, U N D 

which support our student caller incentive program 


Amish Acres Round Barn Theatre Barnaby's Family Inn Between the Buns Blackthorn GolfCourse Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Burger King/Quality Dining Cedar House Restaurant Chilli's Grill & Bar/Quality Dining Doc Pierce's/Emporium & Matterhorn Don Pablo's Drive and Shine Firefly Festival Funny Bone Comedy Club Golden Dragon Inspire Me! K's Grill & Pub LaSalle Grill Majerek's Hallmark 
McGann's Executive Limousine Service Michael & Co. Salon Millennium Steak House Osco Drug Store #532 l Patricia Ann Florist Phoenix Bar and Grill Potowatomi Zoological Society RecSports Ritter's Frozen Custard Rocco's Restaurant Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery Siam Thai Restaurant/Say Cheesecake South Bend Regional Museum ofArt South Bend Silver Hawks South Bend Symphony Orchestra Suzanne's Floral Ten Thousand Villages United Limo, Inc. Zolman Tire and Service Center 
NBA 



Balanced effort gives 76ers win 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
The Philadelphia 76ers didn't need a heroic effort from Allen Iverson to regain com­mand of their playoff series with the New Orleans Hornets. 
Iverson's 22 points were his lowest total in the series. But five other Sixers scored in dou­ble figures in a 96-87 victory that gave Philadelphia a 3-1 series lead, with Game 5 in Philadelphia on Wednesday night. 
The balanced scoring and rebounding effort by the Sixers spoiled a 34-point performance by Baron Davis, who received too little help from the rest of the team to pull the Hornets even in the series. 
Eric Snow had 17 points and 12 assists for Philadelphia, while Keith Van Horn scored 13 points. 
Kenny Thomas, Derrick Coleman and Aaron McKie each scored 11. 
McKie's final bucket, a 3­pointer with 2:45 left, sealed the game, giving Philadelphia a 94-82 lead. 
Iverson found McKie wide open in the corner for the bas­ket and started yelling. "Yeah, yeah," before the ball had even left McK.ie's hands. 
Although the Hornets were within striking distance well into the fourth quarter, Philadelphia always found a way to reverse the momentum. 
It never lost the lead after Iverson gave the Sixers a 19­18 lead with a one-handed floater off the glass. 
New Orleans had its deficit down to 81-80 after David Wesley followed P.J. Brown's jumper with a 3-pointer. 
But the Sixers came back with a 6-0 run on a jumper by Snow, a dunk by Coleman and a long jump shot by Iverson as he fell backward. 

Wesley finished with 12 
points for New Orleans, while 
Brown had 11 points and nine 
rebounds. 
Philadelphia redeemed itself on the boards. Although Thomas' eight rebounds were a team high, the Sixers outre­bounded the Hornets as a team . 43-38, two nights after being embarrassed 51-33 in that department in Game 3. 
The Sixers also improved their offensive rebounding total from six to 17. 
Philadelphia scored six quick points to start the game, but by midway through the quarter the Sixers were 2-for-15 from the field as the Hornets ran to a 13-6 lead. 
Iverson missed his first five shots while Davis hit his first three. 
When the 76ers settled down, however, they couldn't miss. Iverson hit his next two shots and the Sixers their next seven as part of a 13-2 run that put Philadelphia back ahead 23-18. 
The Sixers opened a 51-37 lead in the second period, thanks in part to the Hornets being over the limit in team fouls with 4:24 to go in the half. McKie hit a jumper, a 3­pointer and a free throw in succession to close out a 10-0 run. 
The lead was trimmed to 52­45 at halftime only because Davis closed the period with a pair of free throws and a two 3s, giving him 24 points for the half. 
New Orleans had cut a 59-50 third-quarter deficit to 65-64. But helped once again by New Orleans being over the limit in team fouls, Philadelphia went on a 9-2 run to close the quar­ter. 
Iverson finished the period with a scoop shot as he soared diagonally across the lane, giv­ing the Sixers a 74-66 lead to start the final period. 





r-:6 
======================================================================================================= 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
Eustachy pictures shown from campus party 
.. 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 

Iowa State University's men's basketball coach has told the school's athletic director he used "bad judgment" and made "bad decisions" at a party near the University of Missouri campus in late January. 
Athletic Director Bruce Van De Velde said coach Larry Eustachy came to him and President Gregory Geoffroy this month after finding out that a student at the party had given photographs of Eustachy to The Des Moines Register. 
According to The Register's copyright story, 12 photos show Eustachy during the early hours of Jan. 23 with beer. In several photos he's embracing and kissing women on the cheek or being kissed on the cheek. The Register printed a few photos in its Monday edition. 
Eustachy. 4 7, went to the party at a student apartment with Missouri men's basketball player Josh Kroenke hours after the Cyclones lost. 64-59, to the Tigers. A Missouri spokesman said Kroenke con­firmed attending the party with Eustachy. 
Neither Iowa State officials nor Eustachy. through his lawyer Jerry Crawford, disput­ed the photos' authenticity. Van De Velde has previously 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
QB meets to discuss 
race issue with coach 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

Miami Hurricanes quarter­back Derrick Crudup Jr., who claimed race played a role in the decision to give a team­mate the starting job, met with coach Larry Coker to dis­cuss the issue. 
Also attending the 75­minute meeting were Crudup's father, former NFL player Derrick Crudup Sr., and quar­terbacks coach Dan Werner. 
"It was an outstanding meet­ing." Crudup Sr. said. 
Asked if his son will remain at Miami for the 2003 season, Crudup Sr. said, "Absolutely." 
The family declined further comment, pending the release Tuesday of a joint statement by the Crudups and Coker. 
School spokesman Doug Walker said those attending the meeting "came to a satis­factory resolution." He declined to elaborate. 
Crudup Jr. lost out to Brock Berlin in their battle this spring to succeed Ken Dorsey as the starting quarterback. Crudup is black and Berlin is white. 
Crudup and his father said the competition was compro­mised by racially insensitive comments from Werner, who is white. The Crudups said Werner used terms such as "redneck" and "cracker" when referring to himself in front of Crudup Jr. during the team's quarterbacks meetings. 
Coker issued a statement 
Retail Sales Help Wanted Immediate full and part time openings in retail sporting goods store. Must be 18 and able to lift objects. Prior sales experience helpful. Apply in person at: Play It Again Sports 620 W. Edison, Suite 122 Mishawaka, In. 46545 No phone calls please. 

before meeting with the Crudups. 
"I am concerned about the allegations made regarding Derrick Crudup Jr. and our quarterbacks coach, Dan Werner," Coker said. "These are serious allegations that demand serious considera­tion." 
Coker didn't return phone calls seeking further com­ment. Werner declined to comment through a school spokesman. 
Several Miami players said they never heard Werner make the sort of comments that Crudup complained about. 
"He might have been just joking around, but I never heard anything like that," tight end Kellen Winslow said. "Coach Werner is a good guy. He's not racist at all." 
confirmed the authenticity of a photo of Eustachy and a group of young adults posted on a Missouri Tigers' fan Web site. That photo appeared days after the January game. 
Eustachy, paid more than $1 million a year, is the state's highest-paid public employee. 
Eustachy's contract with Iowa State runs through 2011. 
It stipulates that he must pro­vide "positive representation of the university and the universi­ty's athletic programs in pri­vate and public." 
In a statement issued by Eustachy. he confirmed meet­ing with Geoffroy and Van De Velde last week about "a vari­ety of issues." 
"In the past, I have made 

some poor decisions that I regret," Eustachy said. "It's important to represent ISU in a manner that sheds a positive light on the university and the Cyclone mens basketball team." 
Van De Velde wouldn't say if disciplinary action has been taken or was pending against Eustachy. 
~-···········································································································
: 

Did your summer plans fall through?? 
Summer Service Learning opportunities availablel 
Eight weeks helping an auency work with an underserved pupulatlon 
* 3elective credits 

*82000.00 tuition ICholarshlp 
*room and board provided ~, "'5soc.





S.~~ !'--~,::.
SOCIAL 
-0

* SINNISOred by UNO Alumnl Clubs < . = 
CONCERNS 
NOTRE DAME 

come to the Center for Soclal CoRCOrns to check out the sites available 
Ann Arbor, MI Hope Clinic and emergency services Aurora, IL Hesed House: shelter for families (Female) Syracuse,NY DePalmer House -programs for AIDS /HIV Chicago, IL Marillac House -family and childrens programs (F) 
Deborah's Place -shelter and services for women Delaware Sojouner's Place -shelter for µien (Male) Dubuque Camp for people with disabilities Greensburg, PA Camp for disabled and day care for Moms with jobs Kalamazoo, MI YMCA children's programs Traverse City, MI Father Fred Foundation (car) Quad Cities Day camp for kids -live with other college volunteers Madison, WI Soup kitchen and St. Vincent DePaul services Waterloo, IA Catholic Worker House 
Stop by the Center for Social Concerns for an application and placement interview.. 
···········································r·····················································r··········· 
Study Italian this summer Its like a double shot of espressolll 

ROIT101/102 -Beginning Italian 1 &2 Earn 6 credits in 6 weeks!!! Call #s: 0363/0364 
. 
. 

Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Millwood takes step to being an ace with no-hitter 
As.'»odatcd Press 
Pl IILt\DELPIIIA 
Kevin Millwood eschewed 

basohall superstition, sought 
out hitting coar.h Greg Gross, 
sal down and talked about his 
swing 
No big doal'? 
This convorsaliun took place 
while tho Philadelphia Phillins 
wnrn batiing in the bottom of 
ttw nighth inning and Millwood 
was just three outs away l'rom 
pitching his lirst earner no-hit­
tnr in a 1-0 victory ovnr the 
San l;rancisco Giants on 
Sunday. 
"I kept trying to talk to him. 
I'd sny stuff just lo get him to 
talk to me," Millwood snid. 
"/\bout the fifth inning, morn 
and morn guys don't want to 
talk lo you." 
Fearful of jinxing a pitcher who is !1irling wilh a no-hitter, players, coaches and clugout personnel traditionally ignore the starter between innings. None ol' the Phillies were about to break the unwritten rule. 
"It was rtlally weird, because nvcrybody knew but nobody was saying anything," catcher Miki: Licberthal said. "It was utterly, dead c1uiet." 
Millwood wanted no part of thtJ silence. 
Ile walked over to Gross and told him he thought he missed two hittable pitches in his last at-bat, before flying out to cen­tc'r fielder Marquis Grissom. 
Millwood then went out to the mound, retired pinch-hitters Ndfi Perez and Marvin Benard 011 grounders and gol Grissom tr, 11y out to center fielder Hicky Ledtie to finish his gem. The 28-year-old right-hander 
struck out 10, walked three 
and camti dose to allowing a 
hit only ihree times. 
Ledec made a leaping one­
handed catch on Grissom's 
hard liner to right-center to 
start the seventh. Barry Bonds 
hit a long drive to right that 
Bobby Abreu r.aught near the 
wall in the fourth . .Jose Cruz Jr. 
hit a long By that hooked out­
side the right-field foul pole in 
U1e second. 
"That was unbelievable," 
Phillies manager Larry Bowa 
said. "As a manager, that's the 
best I've seen." 
Millwood 's toughest test 
came in the snventh when 
Bonds came Lo the plate with 
two outs and the Phillies cling­
ing to a onn-run lead against 
the NL's top team. 
But Millwood struck oul 1.m.se!Jall's single-season home­run king on four pitches, freez­ing Bonds with a 91-mph I'asi­bull that olectrificd a Veterans Stadium crowd of 40,016 that had been standing and cheer­ing the entire inning. 
"The lead is on the line, the no-hitter is on the line, every­thing is on lhc line," Millwood said. "But when I got through Bonds, I know I had a shot." 
Millwood didn't have his best stuff against the Giants, so he relied on his fastball, throwing it 81 of his 108 pitches. lie threw 20 sliders, 15 of which were balls, Jive curves and two changeups. 
"lie was awesome. It couldn't happen to a better guy," said first baseman Jim Thome, the f"irst teammate to greet Millwood, embracing him after the linal out. 
Unassuming and not very excitable. Millwood put his 
right finger up the air when Grissom lofted the !1y ball and held it. there as Ledee made the catch. After celebrating with teammates, he tipped his hat to the crowd twice on his way to tho clubhouse, then came out for one more curtain call. 
"It was one of those special days," Millwood said. 
Earlier in the week. Millwood wasn't even scheduled to pitch Sunday. But to make sure his ace pitched on his normal four days' rest, Bowa pushed Brett Myers back from Tuesday to 
Wednesday  and  moved  
Millwood up one day.  
Millwood allowed  one  run  

and three hits in six innings of a 5-2 victory over Colorado on Tuesday and came back four days later with his finest per­formance. 
"l want my best pitcher out there evnry f'il'th day," Bowa said. 
That sits well with Millwood. 'Td love to stay on a five-day schedule," he said. 
Millwood was mentored by one of' the best pitching staffs in baseball, the Atlanta Braves. lie learned from Greg Maddux, Tom G!avine and John Smoltz, a trio with seven Cy Young awards among them and zero no-hitters. 
But the Braves needed to reduce payroll last offseason, so they traded Millwood to the Phillies for minor-league catch­er Johnny Estrada. Millwood signed a $9.9 million, one-year contract with the Phillies, and stepped in right away as the No. 1 starter on a team with playoff expectations. 
"I knew he was someone who not only could pitch. but some­one who could lead the way for 


KAT 

Kevin MIiiwood celebrates his no-hitter In Sunday's game against the San Francisco Giants. 
our younger guys," Phillies 3.72 ERA lifetime. 
general manager Ed Wade A game ball and the cap said. Millwood wore will be added to 
Millwood, a two-time 18-the collections of the Baseball 
game winner, is 79-47 with a Hall of Fame in Cooperstown. 
Certified mover 

Certified shaker 
Certified no more mac & cheese 
Certified acceleration 
Certified rush 

Certified freedom 
Certified bring it on 

Certified Pre..Qwned BMW 
BMW Certified Pre-Owned 


hmwni,w.t;l')WI: Th• UNlmllte 1,IJ(ll!-~3-1--11:!M'/V Orivl...MM!Nnr 

JtTllll?IJlflll Tl 11ilfllll 11111111ti111 iiti 111111111111!

Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 
=Certified Prc*Owncd = 
Get warranty prot<l!lctlon• up to 6 years or 100,000 mlles. Get flexible leaslng and flnencln9 options. Get pure BMW. ')"·• ·we-1 11 t:M hr IMYI ?ltrttf'h" T"kt)t")t( search up-to-data, extensive Inventory 111t bmwusa.com 
·not,~:llm1111111 provlc/os 1:01,<irtt,10 hr 11p f() :! yo;11s or W,(){)() miloH (wl1k:hovrn comos llrs!) rro111 tho dttlo ol lho \1x,~mllon of ll~i 4 yoHt/!i0,000 mlkl llMW Now\\illk;k11 lrnlhxl Wm11111,y. 8..1, pmllclpnllnU llMW p11ssonoor cm conIor lor d,1111II~. f"m moru lnforrunllon, <:nil 1-mXJ :1:M-illlMW, or vlsll lHIIW\ISH.com <D:!003 IIMWof North A111orlG11, LLC.lhn BMW 1111mn Hild lo1~i mo roulslonxl lrttdommks. 





AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, April 29, 2003 

.Nati&~1•.L.e~IH~§i11.:!::::~•• ...:,::::•. 
t~am.·...·.··..·..•· lrc½rd ...,P~tt\n4~P~,~ ;>· G¼ Philadelphia ...1ijHO> .!>QW tc:igr:Montreal llifHI • .~U "'.'/#&~4%
Aflaata •··· 1$1U :$tiff .·.· ·•·· ·Ct · 
Florida · n~ia .. .. :51l(t I •.:.•.•·•··•.i .... ..·.•···•i
ttv M~ 11;14 :Mo 

.. •.•.•.•···:•;·•.!····C······•·!.•.••.••.••.•.· .......•.•· 
!\\tit 
)l\{j; ··.·.· 
:.:.w tfj;illili 
.·\3 

i::1!illillll:i!llllli:iil::1:: if,\tlli1iilil!1:!!lliill111illi!lil1!i!lii 
•ill1!!1!i~jll!!lli1'll!i!;;l:::11!~l,1r.~111:ililllllllllii!lllllll!1!i!1:!lll!l!IIII I• ·••••:•:•:•••,'-•••::••••••••••1t'••••••·,•••···1exat•A&M•• •••••••••••••:•::c:•,'-•••·•••·•·•••••••::::·•··••••. . •••:::;::::.•i.1:::~iji~jiiii 
·.1 
iw.I!11•i1i::1I··:·:Mt~,,i:t~~::1;1:w;:::::t... 
around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Suns at Spurs 6 p.m., TNT Lakers at Timberwolves 8:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL HOCKEY 

Senators at Flyers 6 p.m., ESPJ\12 Canucks at Wild 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB BASEBALL Braves at Astros 7 p.m., WTBS Athletics at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH Cubs at Giants 9:05 p.m., WGN 
NBA 

Agence France Presse 

Sacramento Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich talks with Spurs' player Tony Parker during a game earlier this season. Popovich won the NBA Coach of the Year award on Monday, becoming the first Spurs coach to do so. 


Popovich w-ins Coach of the Year aw-ard 
and won their third straight Mavericks in the final week Phoenix last night."
Associated Press 
Midwest Division title of the season. When asked how he under Popovich, who Popovich has a regular­plans to celebrate the SAN ANTONIO became coach in December season record of 339-185, award, he said, "I'll be Gregg Popovich won the 1996. giving him the most wins of going to the film room to NBA Coach of the Year He gave credit for the any San Antonio coach, and try to figure out some ways award Monday for leading award to his staff and play­he has a .647 winning per­to do some things better 
the San Antonio Spurs to ers, particularly Tim centage over seven sea­against Phoenbc" 
the league's best record. Duncan. sons. Reserve guard Steve Kerr 
Popovich, the first Spurs "A few years ago, we won He is 35-26 in the play­said Popovich didn't even 
coach to win the award, the No. 1 pick in the lot­offs. The Spurs are tied mention the honor at a received 40 out of a possi­tery," he told reporters. with Phoenix in the open­team meeting Monday. 
ble 121 first-place votes "Everybody raise your ing-round series after "He's not the kind of guy 
from a panel of sports writ­hand if we hadn't gotten blowing an 11-point fourth­who's seeking the limelight, 
ers and broadcasters. Duncan, who thinks quarter lead in Game 4 to especially when we lost the 
Golden State Warriors Popovich would still be lose 86-84. Game 5 is game last night," Kerr said. 
coach Eric Musselman was standing here?" Tuesday night in San Guard Stephen Jackson 
second with 26 first-place San Antonio once trailed Antonio. said Popovich has done a 
votes, and Utah Jazz coach Dalias by 8 112 games in the "It's an honor, and a great job harnessing the 
Jerry Sloan was third with division this season, but humbling experience," he energy and talent of the 
18. beginning Jan. 1 the Spurs said of the award, "but I'd team's young players, him­The Spurs went 60-22 went 41-9 to pass the trade it for a win in self included. 
IN BRIEF 
NCAA to decide on new changes this week, the NCAA champi­the act of 3-pointer or a 2-pointer on rules for college basketball onship committee would still have to game-winners for review. College basketball may have wider approve them in June. 
lanes. longer 3-point attempts and If approved this week, the changes Schilling moved to DL more replays on game-winning shots could take effect as early as next sea­The Arizona Diamondbacks placed as early as next season. son. The implementation could be Curt Schilling on the 15-day disabled 
The NCAA men's basketball rules delayed, however, by costs or if list on Monday, retroactive to his last committee begins three days of meet­schools are unable to reconfigure start on April 18. ings Tuesday in Indianapolis. The their floors in time for next season. Schilling, who underwent an appen­most significant proposals would be "They could do anything," said dectomy in St. Louis on April 20, had those most visible changing the lines Marty Benson, the NCAA rules com­been scheduled to start Thursday on the court. mittee liaison. "They could vote on the against Florida. Monday's move 
The committee is considering two proposals together, or they could pushed that start back two days to expanding the college lane from 12 decide to do one or the other." Saturday, when Schilling is scheduled feet to either the NBA distance of 16 The committee also will consider an to face the Atlanta Braves. feet or the trapezoid that is used in expansion in the use of television The right-hander had hoped to international competition. replay at the end of games. come back sooner, but had experi­
It also will debate extending the 3-Current rules allow replay only to enced some discomfort during bullpen point line from 19 feet, 9 inches to the be used for determining whether a sessions. Rookie Andrew Good will international standard of 20 feet, 6 shot was off before the game clock start in Schilling's place on Thursday. inches. expired. The move allowed the 
"As far as the lane, I think the com­Following a controversial ending to Diamondbacks to activate catcher Rod mittee will make some kind of deci­an Oklahoma-Oklahoma State game Barajas, who had been on the dis­sion," said Edward Bilik, the commit­last season, the committee will con­abled list since straining his left ham­
tee's secretary rules editor. "I'm not sider adding shot clock violations, string April 6 against Colorado. sure about the 3-point line." goaltending or offensive interference, Barajas was in the starting lineup If the committee recommends and whether a player was fouled in against Florida on Monday night. 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND FIELD 


Irish prepare for Big East championships 
Bv HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spom W,ircr 
With many athletes taking the weekend off to prepare !"or the upcoming Big East Championships. some other Irish athletes had tho chance to shine al the Drake Helays and Boilermaker Open. 
Notre Dame's 4 x 1600 meter relay fell just short in their attempt to defend the crown from last year's Drake Helays where Kevin Somok, Vinny Ambrico. Eric Morrison and Luke Watson finished third in 16 minutes, 48.57 seconds, while first place finisher Stanford ran il in 16:31.19. 
Meanwhile. last year's Big East Champion in the 110-meter hur­dles Selim Nurudeen qualified for tho finals with his 14.01 sec­ond place finish in his heat Friday. That time is a season best, and Nurudeen was the sixth-fastest qualifier for the finals, Saturday, Nurudeen ran to fifth place with a time of 14,19 seconds. However, Nurudeen wasn't satisfied. despite making the finals for the first time. 
"It could have been a better race in the finals. but it was bet­ter than last year,'' Nurudeen said. "It is going to be hard Lto win the Big East Championship}. but this was a great momentum builder and l look to carry it into this weekend." 
Thomas Chamney joined Nurudeen at Drake, as he took fifth in the 800-meters with a time of 1:57.91 Saturday. Chamney will most likely be the mens top entry in the 800­meters next weekend. 
The women only sent two dis­tance runners, and both were in the 1,500 meters. Freshman Stephanie Madia took 11th (4:32.46), while Kerry Meagher took 16th with a time of 4:35.35. 
Meanwhile, while their team• mates were enjoying the presti­gious Drake Relays. other Irish athletes braved the cold in West Lafayette, Ind. where they com­peted in Purdue's Boilermaker Open. 
Freshmen Meghan Horn and Stacey Cowan led the way for the women, each winning their respective events. Horn won the womens shot put with a throw of 
13.60 meters, which Cowan ran her first 100-meter hurdles, win­ning in 14.67 seconds, also good for a Big East qualification. 
Jennifer Kearney also had a strong showing, as she took sec­ond place in the high jump, clearing 1.65 meters. Horn matched Kearney's second place finish with one of her own. in the discus with a season best effort of 43.13 meters. 
Another freshman seeing suc­cess \Vas Elizabeth Webster, who ran to third place in the 1,500 meters with a time of' 4:44.11. 
Joining the plethora of successful freshmen, Cowan also took fifth in the long jump (5.37 meters), and Tanya Cheatham was fifth in the 100-meter dash (12.30) as well. 
Finally, Melissa Schmidt took fifth place in the 5,000 meters (18:27.41). 
On the mens side, Mark Barber won the 400-meter hur­dles with a season best lime of 
53.22. This is the second week in a row Barber has posted a sea­son best. Barber also placed fourth in the 110-meter hurdles, with another season best, 14.66. 
Juan Alba made a name for himself as well, finishing second in the hammer throw (54,17 meters), a season best effort by over a meter. 
Meanwhile. Hyan Hurd sprint­ed to a third place finish in the 200-meter dash (21.38). However, his efforts did not end there, as Hurd also placed sixth in the 100-meter dash (1119). 

Barber was joined in the 400­meter hurdles by teammate and fourth place finisher Nupoleun Suarez, as he finished in 55,55. 
In the field, Chris Staron cleared 2.07 meters in the high jump, good enough for fourth place. He was joined by top javelin thrower. freshman Derck Goguen, who also earned fourth place with a season best throw of 58.95 meters. Tom Gilbert wrapped up the field events with his fifth place finish in the long jump (6.87 meters). 
The Irish look to build off the momentum the weekend's events into the upcoming Big East Championship. Notre Dame should be well-rested, as many athletes took the weekend off to prepare for the conference meet, which begins Friday with the decathlon and heptathlon. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Football 
continued from page 24 
both hair and urine samples in drug tests, Curtin apparently asked fellow offensive tackle Jordan Black to submit a hair sample in his place. The plan failed. and the pair was sus­pended for Notre Dame's 28-6 loss to North Carolina State in the Gator Bowl and not allowed to travel with the team to Jacksonville, Fla. 
Curtin then decided to waive his final year of eligibility and declare for the NFL Draft, where he was drafted in the sixth round by Green Bay. Black, who had used all four years of his college eligibility, was drafted in the fifth round by Kansas City. 
"Because he was being deceit­ful, he was suspended from the team," Packers offensive line coach Larry Beightol told the Journal-Sentinel. 
The 6-foot-9, 305-pound Curtin started 11 games for the Irish last year, missing only the USC game because of an injury and the Gator Bowl. The 6-foot­6, 305-pound Black didn't start his home finale against Rutgers because Irish coach Tyrone Willingham suspended the offensive tackle for reportedly having too many parking viola­tions. 
How much the suspensions hurt the pair's draft status is debatable. Packers general manager and head coach Mike Sherman called multiple Notre Dame officials to gauge Curtin 's character before concluding the offensive tackle merely made a bad choice, the Journal-Sentinel said, and Beightol called land­ing Curtin "a steal." 

Curtin and Black have ignored multiple request by The Observer for interviews since the suspension. University offi­cials have repeatedly declined to comment on the pair's sus­pension. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 




CONGRATULATIONS 
to the following outstanding University of Notre Dame students accepted into Teach For America. They've shown they have the leadership and commitment needed to tackle one of our nation's most challenging problems. 
Meghan Anderson Daly Barnes Kathleen Higgins Joseph Lordi Mark Avitabile Alexander Callan Tiffany Johnson Agatha Noble Elizabeth Ayala Patrick Dunnigan Luke Klopp Mark Roland Emila Badrov Danielle Finley Megan Kovac Saturnina Siggins Brendan Barker Raul Hernandez Alison Lanser Lauren Walsh 
TEACI FORAMERICA www. teac hfo ra meri ca. org 
..------------------­
page 20 Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 


Irish 
continued from page 24 
University, Ohio State, Miami of Ohio, Purdue, Virginia Tech. University of California Berkley and the defending 2002 nation­al champs University of Texas. 
The Irish pulled off an excit­ing victory over the Longhorns by only four tenths of a point, with impressive performances from senior Emily Smith. sopho­mores Mary Blazewicz. Susan Jennings and Caitlin O'Brien and freshmen Liz Maher and Anne St. Clair. 
St. Clair Jed the Irish with a first place win on vault. also winning fifth place on floor and seventh place on the uneven parallel bars. Her standout scores led St. Clair to capture the national championship in the all-around competition. 
Smith, co-president of the club, won the national champi­onship on bars with a score of 
9.35. She also had a seventh place finish in the all-around, seventh on vault and ninth on the balance beam. O'Brien earned sixth place on floor and ninth on bars, while Blazewicz walked away with a top 20 vault performance. All six gym­nasts contributed to the season high team score of 140.775. 
Blazewicz. who was at nation­aJs last year when the Irish took fifth place at Ohio State, said that the returning champions from Texas were in the same 
SMC SOFTBALL 


Belles lose 7 straight, 
close season at home 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team lost its third straight doubleheader and amounted only one hit in two games as Alma controlled both games in 9-0 and 8-0 respective victo­ries for the Scots Saturday. 
Alma (27-4, 12-2 MIAA) clinched its seventh consecu­tive MlAA regular season title with the wins and will host the conference tournament next Friday and Saturday at Scots Park. 
The Belles {15-17-1, 4-8 MIAA) have lost seven games in a row and nine of their last ten. They sit above only 4-9 Adrian and 1-13 Kalamazoo. 
Umpires stopped the first game of the doubleheader due to an eight-run rule after five innings, the second time that has happened to Saint Mary's in three games. Marian forced a similar situation in an 11-2 defeat of the Belles. 
In the first game, Alma's Leigh Anne LeFave dominat­ed, striking out four batters and walking none en route to a one-hit performance and her fourteenth win of the season. 
The Belles' only hit came on a third inning single to right field by second baseman Meghan Marenkowic. 
Junior Libby Wilhelmy went the distance for Saint Mary's and got the loss, surrendering nine runs (six earned) on seven hits. Three of Alma's runs came in the bottom of the first inning. Wilhelmy then held the Scots scoreless until a six-run onslaught in the fourth inning. 
The second game was worse than the first. In this game, neither Marenkowic nor any other Belles hitter was able to knock a base hit. 
Alma's Melissa Tavidian pitched her second no-hitter of the season versus a strug­gling Saint Mary's team that has been outscored by oppo­
nents,  55-14,  in  its  seven  
straight losses.  
Starting  pitcher  Kate  

Sajewich of the Belles struck out an impressive eight bat­ters, but she gave up eight runs on fourteen hits. All of the runs were earned. 
Saint Mary's closes out the season tomorrow at home against Olivet, who sits fourth in the MIAA with a 16-15 overall record and a 6-5 record in league play. 
The doubleheader is a make-up of a postponed, March 29 match-up. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
rotation as the Irish and had several talented upperclassmen. She said she did not think about taking the national title away from them as much as she just focused on hitting her own rou­tines and helping her team­mates hit theirs. 
"It was really special to take first place, especially with our graduating senior, Emily Smith, on the team,'' Blazcwicz said. "She has been an irreplaceable part of the team for the past two years, and our whole team was thrilled that she was able to help us win the team compe­tition and take the individual title on uneven bars. 
St. Clair has won the individ­ual all-around title at every meet the Irish have competed in this year, making her a huge factor for Notre Dame gymnas­tics in the next three years. 

"It was also very exciting for one of our freshmen, Anne St. Clair, who has only been here one season but whose consis­tent high performances and high level of difficulty were instrumental in our victory," Blazewicz said. 
O'Brien and Blazewicz both showed their ability to consis­tently perform clean, solid rou­tines with their second excellent showing at Nationals. With only six gymnasts, every competitor was important in the Irish win. 
"Caitlin O'Brien also had an awesome meet, qualifying for two event finals at nationals for the second year in a row," Blazewicz said. 
The mens gymnastics team took home an 11th place team finish, with senior Pete Blouin, junior Todd Moffat, sophomore Dana Collins and freshmen Mike Garter. Aaron Roberts and Andrew Roberts competing for the Irish. 

The team turned in season­high scores on still rings and t1oor, with co-president Blouin qualifying for the individual event finals on floor as the top Irish gymnast. 
Since only one senior from the women's team and one from the men's will be graduating, the fairly young teams can expect to see many more big wins for Irish gymnastics in the future. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
With so many so-called charities asking for cars and material goods these days, how can you be sure your donation is going to a non-profit organl~ation that benaflts the community? 
The Answer is sim le: 

Donate to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center! 
Why The Salvation Army? ... 
. The Salvation Army is a registered non-profit charitable organization 

. All donations are ta:x.~deduetlble 
. The Salvation Anny Adult Rahabllltation Center operates the #1 alcohol and dru9 rehabllltation program In the nation 
. The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Ce.iter is fully self-supporting through the sale of donated items In The Salvation Army Family and Thrift Stores 
How can I hel 7 

Donate your used clothing, furniture, household goods and, yes, even automobiles to The Salvation Army Adult Rehabllltatlon Center and know you're making a difference in your community 


A NAME YOU CAN TRUSTI Cal1 The Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center today! 
PHONE: 288•2539 
Famlly Storea at 506 S. Main Street and at 2009 South Band Aven1.1e 
HEY, NOTRE DAME, YOUR POT OF ·:_-~-·;···'•:-'/l,.~?:GOLD IS AT THE STATE LINE. 

Congratulations to the employees of the University of Noire Dame! Campbell Ford Lincoln Mercury has been authorized by Ford Motor Company to give you 
special savings on all new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury cars and trucks. It's called 
Ford X-Plan and to qualify all you need to be is an employee of The University of 
Notre Dame or a family member of one. It's a great opportunity to save even more 
on the largest selection of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles in Michiana, just 
minutes north of campus. Campbell Ford-Lincoln-Mercury. Always the right 
price right at the stale line. And now, right for the University of Notre Dame. 




0 F!!!IDl!!u!s~lN 
1/2 mi. N. of the State Line/ Old 31 N in Niles 269 684 8300 / Toll Free 888 FORD 999 • www.carsbycampbell.com 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
Non-conference doubleheader test awaits 
. Irish want to show No. 7 DePaul last time was a fluke 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Because of their numerous rainouts, the Irish missed out on a chance at a top-10 non­conference opponent to make up a 13ig East conference dou­blchflader. 
Today, the Irish get their chance. 
Notre Dame (32-11) travels to Chicago this afternoon to face No. 7 DePaul (39-5-1) with the hopes of starting a new winning stroak. On Sunday Connecticut snapped Notre name's 20-game winning streak, the second longest in school history. The Irish rebounded to beat the Huskies in game two of the doubleheader 6-3. 
"We learned we need lo make adjustments quickly and to keep winning, we need to con­tinue to make quick adjust­ments," pitcher Carrie Wisen said. 
Over spring break at the Kia Klassic, the Irish lost to the then No. 14 Blue Demons 11-2. In that game, the Notre Dame roster was depleted due to a strep throat virus affecting the team. Two players were rele­gated to the bench and a num­ber of other players fought through the symptoms. 
This time, the Irish are at full strength and want to earn some rPspect against one of the best teams in the country. 
"Anytime we get beat, we know we are better than any team out there," Wisen said. "We want to make sure it doesn't happen again." 
There is no weak spot in the Blue Demons' armor with the offense batting .325 and the pitching staff boasting a 0.71 ERA. Individually, Sarah Martz (.483) and Liz Bouck (.418) get on base for DePaul while Kathy Kukman (.370, 36 RBI) and Saskia Roberson (.342, 11 home runs, 37 RBI) provide the power. 
Lindsay Chouinard leads the DePaul pitching staff with a 25­4 mark, 0.43 ERA and 172 strikeouts in 195 2/3 innings pitched. Sarah Martz has been almost as good, earning a 14-1 record and 1.26 ERA. This combination of offense and pitching has led the Blue Demons to be one of the top teams in the country. 
"We don't really pay attention to rankings. We take each team individually," Wisen said. "It is a really important game as far as post-conference, as far as regionals, to show that we belong." 
During the end of the Irish winning streak, a number of players started to heat up in the batter's box. Third baseman Andrea Loman is on a 14-game winning streak, with 23 hits, 14 HBI, three home runs and five stolen bases during the span. Megan Ciolli is hitting .630 with 17 hits and two home runs, and first baseman Lisa Mattison has driven in 15, batting .531 over the past ten games. 
Also, Heather Booth contin­ues to pitch well, going 3-1 with two shutouts, 30 strikeouts and a 1.03 ERA over the last ten contests. 
Notre Dame and DePaul's 
THE DEPARTMENT OF MAmEMAncs 

PROUDLY PRESENTS 
The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics 
to 
Senior Honors in Mathematics Major 
Donovan McFeron 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Amy Marshall and Chr;s Nicke/e 
and 
Aumann Prize for First Year Honors Mathematics Students 
Andrew Craker 
and Haaser Scholarships to 
Timothy Callan and Kathryn Hy/den 
and 
J & C Sophomore Award ln Mathematics 
Angela Gamache 
and 
Tha Kolettis Award in Mathematics to 
Sarah Henry 
and 
R. Catesby Taliaferro Competition to 2nd Place: Melinda Moran 

doubleheader is set to begin at noon showers and a 30 percent 4 p.m. chance for rain. 
That is, if it doesn't rain. The Irish have lost eight games to bad weather this season and Contact Matt Lozar at todav's forecast calls for after-mlozar@nd.edu 

A\t~ 

~ Announces the followln,c introductory offers of...
•----•r---~r----•r----~r----,
I $l5 I I $l6 I I $69 11 11 $79 I
$79 

I I I I I Color, Cur & I I I I Highlights, I I Mens Cut I 1Cut & SryleI I Style I I P«m. Cur & Sryl, I I Cut & Style I One Process 
Please use this special savings Invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
·----~·---··----··----··---­
We hope to see you soon. 
. VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Pe,jonned 
Melissa-Sergi'-Kristin-Jc:nnifc:r 
ATRIA SALON 2 

ATRIA SALON ~~~:~~:~;~::,c;;~:n7,,~r~~~~;; Martin's Shopping Center 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. p;:scJ"Vgthcrighrmlffl."cscrvicriu.mydicn1who.tlC'l1:1ir 
Next ro Sprint

condinun is unm::itahlc.
Corner of Edison 

271-8804 289-5080 OFFER EXPIRES 5-10-03 Less than 1 mile from campus 

Now H1n1NG Servers Experience preferred. 
Come to Applebee's and see what's cookin'I If you are a high energy team player, stop by to find out about our over-the-top growth potential and outstanding benefils including: • Top-notch Wages 
• Flexible Schedules • Health lnsurunce • Fun Atmosphere 
Please apply in person: 
APPLEBEE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GRILL & BAR 3703 Portage Road, South Bend, IN 46628 EOE 

www.applesauceinc.com 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
"This season was different 
because there were four 
powerhouse teams instead 
of just one or two. We 
didn't really know what to 
expect, but we believed in 
each other." 
Cutler, the lone No. 1 
seed among Saint Mary's 
players, coasted to a 
championship at No.3 sin­
gles. She defeated Caitlin 
Kelly of Kalamazoo 6-2, 6­
4. 
"I was confident about 
getting to the finals since I 
had a really good draw," 
Cutler said. "I am proud of 
winning since I had some 
really tough matches." 
Other teams in the MlAA 
might have thought the 
Belles were less of a force 
due to their two losses, the 
first for Saint Mary's in 
two years. 
However, with their tournament win the Belles feel they proved their tal­ent. 
"We didn't count our­selves out at all," Palombo said. "When the Albion girls lost the first day and most of us were winning, we just thought that this was ours to get. We went out and proved to be the number one team." 
Cutler cited the play of freshmen Palombo and No. 3 doubles player Lindsay Cook as instrumental this season. In addition, No. 7 singles player Miranda Mikulyuk stepped in for No. 6 Angie Sandner, who missed the conference tournament due to an aca­demic conflict. 
"The freshmen this sea­son just fit in right away," Cutler said. "We're fortu­nate to have such a strong seventh player in Miranda to fill in and we were very confident in her." 
The MIAA tournament marks the end of the sea­son for the Belles. They finished second overall in the conference, which fac­tors in dual match records and the tournament results. The Belles were 5­2 in the MIAA and 14-5 overall. 
"l am proud to be a part of the Saint Mary's team because everyone is so well-respected, so polite and nice on the court," Cutler said. "We had our heads up the whole season and we gave each other the encouragement that we needed." 
"It feels amazing to end on such a good note, on top at number one." Palombo added. ''I'm sad that it's over, we spent day-in and day-out togeth­er to work to achieve this goal." 
The tourney win was the third in a row for the Belles, but this season's victory stands out due to the struggles the team faced over the course of their season. 
"This is even more spe­cial because it was unex­pected," said Cutler. "Even though we didn't win first overall, in our hearts we know we are the best team in the conference and that is better than any trophy." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 





Irish get ready to face Michigan on the road 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Fresh off a critical three­game sweep of Big East rival Connecticut, Notre Dame trav­els to Comstock Park, Mich. to face the Wolverines at 7:30 
p.m. tonight. 
The Irish have won 25 of their last 28 and sit atop the Big East standings with a 13-2 mark. Meanwhile Michigan is 21-18 with an even 9-9 record in Big Ten play. 
Notre Dame won 17 straight games before seeing that streak snapped at home against Eastern Michigan, 5-3, April 15. There have been numerous contributors to the team's success this season. 
Notre Dame's lineup, led by first baseman Matt Edwards and second baseman Steve Sollmann have teed off of late. The Irish lineup scorched Indiana University-Purdue University for 20 hits Thursday, a day after banging out 13 hits against Cleveland State. 
Sollmann leads the club with 
a .401 average and 29 RBIs. He missed two games last week with a slightly injured hand, but played in all three games against Connecticut. Edwards has had a breakout year after missing all but nine games during the 2002 Irish campaign. He enters tonight's game leading the Big East conference with 53 RBIs in only 42 games. Edwards also leads the Irish with seven home runs and is second behind Sollmann with a .370 average. 
Notre Dame has played sev­eral freshmen throughout the season, and each has made big contributions. Craig Cooper, Brennan Grogan, Greg Lopez and Steve Andres have all seen significant play­ing time, while classmates Matt Bransfield and Alex Nettey have played in nearly 20 games each. 
But the biggest difference for the Irish this season may be their solid pitching staff. Chris Ncisel, John Axford and Ryan Kalita have all made big contributions as a starting rotation. With the addition of injured Pete Ogilvie into that staff, Notre Dame becomes even deeper. Ogilvie is set to start against the Wolverines 

• 
Special discounted worldwide airfares. 

• 
International and domestic savings on acconvnodations, museums & culture, transportation, attractions, tours and more! 


• ISIConnect; more than a just a phone card! 
•
ISIC
Stay connected whereever you go. 
With great savings and benefits in over 100 
countries around the globe, it has something no 
other card can offer! 
Available at ALL STA Travel branches, www.lSICus.com or call toll free: (800) 474.8214 
tonight. He won his first deci­sion of the year against Cleveland State, going 4 1/3 innings and striking out a career-high eight Viking bat­ters. 
The Irish have pitched exceptionally well as a group, despite the loss of ace Grant Johnson to shoulder surgery in December. The right-han­der has missed the entire sea­son. 
Notre Dame's pitchers will need another solid outing tonight if they hope to down the Wolverines. Brock Loman leads the team with a .392 average. He's also drilled seven round trippers and knocked in 42 in 39 games. Teammate Jake Fox leads the club with 11 dingers and 46 RBIs. In all 'Michigan has six players batting above the .300 clip for the season. 
Michigan's concern will like­ly be how their pitching staff fares against the Irish lineup. The Wolverines staff ERA hov­ers above 5.50 runs per game. The Irish staff has an ERA of only 3.34 for the season. 
The Irish have a difficult stretch after the Michigan game. After playing Oakland 


Wednesday, Notre Dame has a The first pitch for tonight's crucial three-game series contest is set for 7:30 p.m. against West Virginia and Rutgers. two teams breathing down Notre Dame's neck in Contact Joe Hettler at the Big East standings. jhettler@nd.edu 


Bball 
continued from page 24 
senior. Although Notre Dame was one of the last schools to show interest in Carter -trailing schools like Penn, Rutgers and West Virginia -the Irish coach­es began attending his games and started heavily recruiting him soon after. 
Carter knew he would pick :\Jotre Dame over William and Mary, the other finalist in the chase for Carter, even before he set foot on campus last weekend. Playing pickup games with mem­bers of the Irish team -"It didn't feel awkward, and I felt like I was one of the guys," he said -and attending the Blue-Gold game only solidified his decision. 
"I knew where I was going, l just didn't want to tell. I wanted you guys to sweat," Carter said. "There had to be some suspense when I was coming up there this weekend." 
The Philadelphia Inquirer's South Jersey boys player of the year, Carter averaged 30 points, 
11.2 rebounds and 3.4 assists during his senior season. Neither Carter nor the Irish coaching staff said his knee would hamper his play. 
Another factor in Carter's deci­sion was the approach of the William and Mary coaching staff. He listened to appeals from head coach Rick Boyages who promised Carter William and Mary was the best fit, and no other college could offer what William and Mary could. 
"The next day, he left," Carter said of Boyages' decision to take an associate coaching position at Ohio State. "That put things in perspective there." 
Carter's addition to the Notre Dame roster this fall means the Irish will have 11 scholarship players on the roster in the fall, two below the NCAA maximum. The Irish could potentially add former Arizona forward Dennis Latimore, a transfer with two years of college eligibility remain­ing. 

Although the rest of the Irish ­including Falls and Israel -will arrive on campus in mid-June to begin practicing together, Carter isn't scheduled to graduate from high school until late in the sum­mer. However, he said he hopes to be practicing with the team by July 1. 
"The bottom line is that I want to play, but if I'm not starting, I'm going to come off the bench to be a spark," Carter said. 'Tm going to be in there, and when I'm on the floor. I'm going to make an impact." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Domus 
PROPERTIES 



OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FORRENT 
FOR 2003-2004 2004-2005 

SCHOOL YEAR 


VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT www.domuskramer.com 
OR CALL 

574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 
ASK FOR KRAMER 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 
HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
WHART 



I I I 
02003 Tribune Media SeNlces, Inc. All Righll Aeeerved 
IBARR 
± 


I I r J 


~T AN E:XCITAfU:
tCROAFT I 

CU?TOMER CAN DO 
WHEN rHE TAILOR
I 

WYNJ.jumble.oom MAKE:? A Ml<::>TAKE:. 
I VERABE j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
1 1 suggested by the above cartoon.

rJ r 
~r 

here: rI I I ) . "~ I I J' 
( nswers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles BURST LOUSY BEACON MISHAP Answer; How he prepared his reels for the big fishing trip -WITH "CASTER" OIL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Agent Mulder's show, with "The" 
7 Garment that may have advertising 
13Chef's collection 15 Pythagorean 
16 High-spirited hcrse 17 Get off at the terminal 18 Starchy tuber 19Hammer features 21 Mortise's 
partner 
2211 rides on runners 24 Hurler's stat 
25 •.-tha season 
26 Acting through the skin 29 Gun, as an engine 

32 "Saturday Night Fever" music 
35 Rat Pack cohort of Frank 
36 Tennessee team, for short 37 Queen mother, 
e.g. 
39 Pasta with pockets 41 On the road 42 Disarrange 44 The Dow, e.g. 45 Big fat mouth 46 Nixon bested him 48 Director Van Sant 49 Ginger_ 

50 • _ we forget" 54 Autocrats of old 57 One of David's 
compositions 59 Poke fun at 60 Event for 
scullers 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SA 0 
E L A 

62 Falls on the 
border 64 Winter cap feature 
65 War of 1812 hero Stephen 66 Like porn 67 Shutterbugs' settings 
DOWN 1 Dental pictures 2Wild 3 Start of a boas! 
from Caesar 4 PM. William Gladstone's party: Abbr. 
5 Heroic saga 6 Part of S.W.A.K. 7 Everyday article B Kind of tank 9 Bagel centers 
10 Farsi-speaking land 11 University of Nevada locale 
12 Some feds 
14 Percussion instrument in a combo 
~,,.+,;~+""4 15 OB's aims
E l M -x1;;;-111.,...,. 20 Suffix with soft or hard 23 What spots on ............,__-,_;..i.....,+;...j..,.j 1-Down show 
.;,;+;,.+-,:,... 25 Singer Turner 
27 Yule quatt 28 Everglades 
..,...,.llh-;-hi.,,-•itTl-i-f'!!'...;.-i-.;.i-..-.'+~ 29 Crucifix ~=-i-:+:-~~.:...:~ 30 Macpherson of 'Sirens" ..;,;+.:::.i.;..;~ 31 Auto engine type 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by WUll1m Sollau~ 
32 Make-or-break 46 Sell 54 Prehistoric time aggressively predator, for 33 Corn Bell state 47 Analgesic's short 34 Cashless deal promise 55 Burn a bit 36 Record albums, 48 Some 56 Taj Mahal site to collectors corruption 
57 Mushy food 

38 Down Under 51 Poetic Muse birds 
58 PC alternatives

52 Flap1ack topper: 40 Contend (for) Var. 61 Little bit 43 Relaxing spots 53 Skiers' lifts 63 Gangster's gun 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800,814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network. nytJmes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
I  I I  
FRIDAY  
FREE Famous Dave's BBQ FREE ADlDAS SHlRlS Free admission  
vs. Villanova ­ 4PM/6PM  

EUGENIA LAST 



HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIF.S BORN ON TIUS DAY: Rod McKuen. Andre Agassi, Uma Thunnan. 
Micht:lle Pfeiffer 

Happy Birthday: You will be able to tum any negative into a positive by using your creative mind to come up with unique solutio~, Pre(xirc to accqx and adap to whatever Wlfolds, Yrur life will be exciting. satisfying and full of suqrises !his year. Yrur number; are 8, 13. 29. 33, 42. 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Donl let your crnolior\'l get the better of you today. Dont 
take comments made by others to hean, but rather look frnward and focus on the 
imtive.tt 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you aren't happy with your swroundings, take the 
initiative to do something about it. Take control of your situation. *** 
GEMJNI (May 21-Jwie 20): You should consider what you can do for other.;~ not 
what they can do for yru, Yoo will be SUljrised al how much yru will get in rclllm. **** 
CANCER (JWIC 21-July 22): Uncel1ainties regarding your (X)Sition may be upscuing. 
Don't let your feelings be koovm. Be positive in your action~ and you won~ be as likely to 
receive anegative ll:S(XJ15C. ** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Yoo will be comix;Uerl to exi:ro,s yoorsclf today, and ihat.'s not a 
bad thing. If you can [XlltraY how strongly yoo feel, you will draw an audience and make 
aclifferenre *Htt 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-SqJL 22): Ifapositive invcstmcfi is on tl1e table, take ascrioos look al 
ii tooay. Beµitifflt yoo will be haW)' wi!h the en.I ml ofyour heme imrrovcments. *** 
LIBRA (Sept 2.i.oct. 22): Pannershiµ; will be exciting and can cenainly open your 
eyes 10 all sons of possibilities. If you compromise, an ag=mcnt can be made. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make headway if you contrioote to a group 
aimed at making worlt conditiorn better: Do something to ensure that yoo maintain good 
health.*** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Volunteer to help out at a school or any other i11'ltitution !hat. may rtXjllire assislancc. You will raise your profile if you do and you will i:rooobly meet someore who will be of furure intere.1. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): Don't take everything so seriously. You will be emotional, so don't say something you may regret. Treat othcis with dignity and you will ck> much octter. ** AQUARIDS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): Someone will make a huge imJRS5ion on you today. Shan.: your lhooghts and you will discover !hat. yoo arm\ able in the way you think. **H PISCES (Feb. 19-Marrh 20): If you want to make a career move or change your direction, today is a great day to Slart. You may have to spend a little in order to up your 
iocome.*H 

Birthday Baby: You will be into everything and always looking fo-something different You will be eager to try new things and y(}J will oot be intimicucd by the warnings ofothas. 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, wnetworlt.com. 
COPYRIGHf :ID3 UNJVFRSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
FREE fa__jicas tro1T1 Bee ween chc Buns SENlOR da4 cr21dincr c~1rd s 
-D 
Free admission 

vs. Rutgers -11 AM/1 PM 












PORTS 
Tuesday, April 29, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Carter knew he would come to ND 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
When Russell Carter was young, his father, a former foot­ball player, loved watching the Irish football team play on Saturdays. And as Carter grew up, he longed for the day when he could wear a Notre Dame jer­sey. 
But while his vision of running out of the Notre Dame Stadium tunnel disappeared long ago, his dream of wearing an Irish uni­form will become a reality when he jogs onto the Joyce Center court this fall for the basketball team. 
"It's kind of weird," Carter said. "When I was little. I always thought I was going to Notre Dame for football. Now, I'm going to be playing basketball." 
Following a weekend visit to Notre Dame, the 6-foot-4, 190­pound high school senior guard faxed his official letter of intent Monday to the Irish basketball office, becoming the third mem ­her of Notre Dame's incoming freshman class. 
Associate head coach Sean Kearney compared Carter to senior-to-be Torrian Jones, citing Carter's combination of athleti­cism and shooting range. Carter could easily step in as a fresh­man next season and contribute, Kearney said, by helping to fill the void vacated by graduating guard Matt Carroll. 

"lt's a great investment for us," Kearney said. "He's got a very good athletic body, yet can shoot the ball very well. He's a guy at that wing position who can add some depth for us." 
Offseason knee surgery largely kept Carter off the recruiting radar during evaluation periods in the summer and fall, when Colin Falls and Omari Israel signed with Notre Dame. Only a handful of colleges showed any interest in Carter, who has a 3.8 GPA and an 1130 SAT score and was determined to pick a school based on its academic reputa­tion. 
In Februarv. Carter's coach at Paulsboro High, Mike Ricci, con­tacted the Notre Dame coaching staff trying to find a high-caliber school interested in his star 
see BBALL/page 22 

FOOTBALL 
Curtin comes clean 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Now that former Notre Dame offensive tackle Brennan Curtin has been drafted by an NFL team, he figured he could come clean about why the University suspended him for the Gator Bowl. 
According to a report in Monday's Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel, Curtin said he was suspended when he asked a former teammate to submit a hair sample for a drug test. Curtin was afraid that brief exposure to mari­juana smoke at a party would show up on the drug test, which he was sched­uled to take a week later. 
Because Notre Dame uses 
see FOOTBALL/page 19 
GYMNASTICS 


Irish win national 
title inTex. 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame gymnas­tics club proved to the nation that it really isn't size that matters -it's how well you perform. 
With only six women com­prising one of the smallest of the thirty-three teams com­peting in Austin, Texas at the 2003 National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs (NAIGC) National Championships, the Irish gymnasts brought home a spectacular first place finish. The competition included some college gym­nastics powerhouse teams, including Texas A&M, Ohio 
see IRISH/page 20 
SMC TENNIS 



Belles end season on a high note 
. 3rd straight title is sweeter than others 
By LISA REIJULA Sports Writer 
After losing two dual matches in the regular sea­son, the Saint Mary's tennis team found itself in unfamil­iar territory. The Belles were seeded second along with Kalamazoo College going into the MIAA conference tourna­ment last weekend. However, revenge proved to be sweet for the Belles. as they domi­nated the field and took first in the tournament. 
"I think that going into it we felt like the underdog since we had lost two match­es," Saint Mary's co-captain Kaitlin Cutler said. "But those matches could have gone either way and we were confident that we could beat the individuals that we had lost to before." 
In the championship match­es. several Saint Mary's play­ers avenged earlier losses. 
Freshman Kristen Palombo won a conference title at No. 2 singles, beating Kara Hoorn of Kalamazoo 7-5, 6-2. Palombo had lost to Hoorn 2­6, 3-6 when the two teams met earlier this season in a 5-4 Kalamazoo victory April 2. 
"I hadn't expected to get that far," Palombo said of her title. "It was an amazing atmosphere; everyone on our team was winning and it gave me extra motivation. The great part was how most of us beat people that we had lost to in the regular season. That definitely got us pumped up." 
Saint Mary's Kris Spriggle defeated Karen Dumas of Albion to win the No. 4 sin­gles championship, 3-6, 7-6 (5). 6-3. The two players also went three sets April 8 when their teams faced off in a dual match. Dumas won that contest, edging Spriggle out 


Jeannie Knish celebrates with a teammate after her match against Calvin College on Aprll 23. 
6-3, 3-6, 6-2 in an 8-1 Albion it was really who was better win. on that day," Cutler said. "There were so many strong players this year and see TENNIS/page 21 
en 
BASEBALL 
ND SOFTS.AU. 
SMC SOFTBALL TRACK AND FIELD 
ti-IU u 

Notre Dame vs. Michigan Notre Dame at Depaul 
Alma 9·8z Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 
Saint Mary's 0-0 

The Irish got in some final prepa­rations for the upcoming Big East
s 

=c::, Building off a three-game sweep of After losing to the Blue Demons Stuck in a seven-game losing Championship at the Drake Relays Connecticut, the Irish travel to 
11-2 in March, the Irish have a full streak, the Belles managed only one and Boilermaker Open over the
c:C 

Comstock Park to face the squad and look to upset the No. 7 hit against the Scots in a doublehead­weekend. 
Wolverines. 
team. 
er.
A. ~ 
page 19page 20page 22 
page 21
Cl) 





