
. NO. 102 · 
Fonner Governor speaks on politics, religion 

By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
In his capacity as chairman of "The Charter for Protection of Children and Young People," former Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating spoke Monday to a packed house in the llesburgh Center Auditorium on the topic of politics and vocation. 
A Hepublican and lifelong Catholic, Keating served as gov­ernor of Oklahoma from 1995 to 2003. lie is widely known for his attempts to mitigate social ills such as drug abuse, child abuse, divorce and domestic violence through mobilization of the clergy. Keating has also been lauded for his strong lead­ership after the 1994 Oklahoma City bombing. 
Keating spoke at length about the obligation of Americans to participate in public life. 
"Every one of you has a voca­tion to politics. We all have an obligation to serve," said Keating. He added that the merging of the public and the private sectors is essential for the success of the United States. Keating, who could only serve a maximum of eight years as Oklahoma's governor, said he believes term limits support this healthy mix. 
"The role of a Catholic should be to present himself as a per­son of honor and integrity, a symbol of what a citizen should be like," said Keating of lhc role of Catholics in American public life. 
Helating numerous personal stories and anecdotes. Keating highlighted the importance of equality and the individual voice in /\merica. Keating pointed out that although only 3 percent of Oklahoma's popu­lation is Catholic, his basic right to be heard has enabled him to incorporate his faith into public policy. 
"They don't see it as preach­ing, The public in Oklahoma has embraced all of these agen­das as the right thing to do," said Keating of policies such as his initiative to promote mar­riage. 
Keating also addressed the recent sexual abuse scandals within the Catholic Church. 
"There isn't a greater calling anywhere to serve God than in ministry, but something hap­pened and people saw evil f'ace­to-face and they turned away," said Keating. 
The former governor is cur­rently involved in a study to root out the causes of behav­ioral problems in the clergy and the lack of vocations. Keating expressed disbelief at the number of scandals that 
see KEATING/page 6 


ND elects '03-'04 class councils 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
New,Wri1er 
Student government's Judicial Council announced the results of Monday's class council elections. Each four­person ticket represented can­didates for president, vice president, treasurer and sec­retary. 
Freshmen overwhelmingly elected current freshman class treasurer James Leito and his ticket to lead the class of 2006. The ticket also included Kate Distler, Mark Seiler and Anna Skoien. Freshman class presi­dent Dave Baron, who decided not to run for re-election, endorsed the ticket. 
According to Leito's cam­paign Web site, the group's priorities include improved Joyce Center seating for bas­ketball games, a sophomore tailgating section at football games and "weekend-long ser­vice events extending into the South Bend community." The Lcito ticket. one of four on the ballot, garnered 57 percent of the nearly 1,100 votes cast. The nearest challenge came. from Matt Goulet, who walked away with 16 percent of the votes. 
Sophomores found only one ticket running for junior class council. Katie Barrett narrow­ly won election in a race char­acterized by low turnout and large numbers of abstentions. Barrett, who ran with Jim Mooney, Beth Ward and Anne Raih, narrowly escaped with 53 percent of the vote. Only 490 members of the class of 2005 cast ballots. Barrett's campaign information was not available. 
Jazmin Garcia was elected in a landslide to lead the class of 2004. Garcia, who ran with Chip Marks, Katie Conklin and Carol McCarthy, secured 73 percent of the vote in the two­ticket field, handily defeating a ticket led by Megan Horner. Garcia, who ran under the slo­gan "Doin' it with class for 2004," aims to continue sever­al initiatives begun by the cur­rent senior class council, led by Matt Smith. 
According to Garcia's cam­paign Web site, the ticket plans to continue the popular Margaritavillc event, create a "class 21st birthday" and begin production of a senior yearbook. 
Contact Matt Brainanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
SMC candidates state platforms 
By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Writer 
Eight tickets presented their platforms at the Meet the Candidates night Monday at Saint Mary's during an enthu­siastic question and answer period before today's class boards election. 
Two freshman tickets run­ning for sophomore class board focused on how they propose to keep lines of com­munication open with their classmates. 
Andriana Bauer and Elizabeth Goers, as former freshman class president and vice president, respectively, emphasized ways to continue the good work of the current board and ways to further unify the class of 2006. Plans include a semi-formal dance at a bowling alley and inte­grating the sophomore class with the upper class through a "Big Sister Program." 
"We have a strong founda­tion from the year to build on," Bauer said. 
Freshmen Michelle Fitzgerald and Amelia Oliva, also running for sophomore class council. place class unity as their first priority. 
This ticket plans to present a resolution to Residence Hall Association for an ATM in each residence hall. Fitzgerald outlined the tick­et's plans to buy advertising space in The Observer once a month in order to publicize sophomore events. 
"Looking at past precedent and keeping lines of commu­nication open is key," Fitzgerald said. 
The two tickets running for junior class board emphasized the importance of technology in maintaining open lines of communication with the members of their class. 
Emily Pernotto and Barbara Kier) comprise a four-member team platform belonging to the Saint Mary's basketball team. They emphasized the skills learned as members of the basketball team and pro­moted themselves as hard working leaders. , 
Their primary goal is to uti­lize the Class of 2003 Instant Messenger username in order to communicate with the class on important events and updates. 
Catherine White and Mary Pauline Moran also empha­sized the importance of the Internet for communication purposes. The ticket wants to build an interactive junior class Web site where they could actively track polls and allow people to submit cre­ative work. 
"The Internet would be a tool fur bringing people together," said White. the presidential candidate. 
They wish to focus on plan­ning quality junior events rather than increase the quantity of them. They would eventually like to recognize the. accomplishments of the talented members of their class on their Web site and around campus. 
Both tickets for the senior class board are dedicated to making their upcoming senior year full of exciting and mem­orable experiences. They offered their ideas as to potential projects and activi­ties they would like to plan for next year. 
Linda Janke and Abagail Van Vlerah intend to explore ways the senior class can help with the concerns of the stu­dent body should they be elected. Part of this plan includes bringing back monthly service projects and volunteering opportunities at the Young Women's Christian Association. 
"We're trying to bring back the monthly service projects that we had our freshman and sophomore years here at Saint Mary's," Van Vie rah said. "We want to give back to the community we're living in." 
In addition to reviving com­munity service projects, the ticket plans to kick off a "Big Sis/Lil Sis" project in conjunc­
see PLATFORMS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Basketball to the rescue 
I had fears about my first spring semester at Nol.re Dame. The stories of blistering cold, fierce winds and depressing days without a trace of sunlight left me wondering how I would make it 
through my first Joe Trombello 
winter in South 
Bend. Coming News from Dallas, 
Production
Texas, a place 
Editor

where snow falls once a year and the entire city becomes as helpless as a student facing an early morning Organic Chemistry test, I wasn't sure what I would do to survive. There would be no thrills of football games to keep me occupied, no leisurely readings of textbooks while relaxing on a comfortable bench overlooking the Golden Dome -no aimless strolls around campus without a par­ticular destination in mind. I sincere­ly hoped that I would not confine myself to my dorm room, living off of Diet Cokes and the chocolate chip cookies my roommate's mother would send. 
Fortunately for me, I get out quite often, dressed in more layers of clothing than I ever thought humanly possible and a pair of huge hiking boots I only imagined Army ROTC cadets wear. I rush off to class and the dining hall as often as I did in the fall, although at a slightly faster pace and with more unmentionable mut­terings under my breath. Most importantly, however, I have found a relief from the piling up of snow and schoolwork that shattered all wor­ries of days spent under a warm comforter -Notre Dame basketball. 
Thanks to a few eager friends, I now relish the chance of arriving incredibly early to the JACC to gain a coveted seat from which to watch an energizing game of thrilling baskets, heartbreaking misses and raucous fans shouting insults prepared by legions of fans with too much time spent in front of a computer. I have learned the subtle art of tricks meant to rattle opposing free-throw shoot­ers and enrage opposing coaches, watched thrilling last-second victo­ries and shouted for men and women I once knew very little about. 
Although the men's games are inherently exciting with rowdy fans and stands packed with more people than available seats, I have found women's basketball to be enjoyable as well. I don't think I. or my father have ever been as excited as we were watching Ruth Riley sink last­second free-throws to ice a national championship. I enjoy watching crisp passes, aggressive drives to the hoop and an invigorating sense of youth and excitement that will only be honed with more experience. 
When my friends from warm places inquire how I'm doing in the South Bend, I respond that things are going better than l had expected: the cold no longer affects me as much as it once did. Maybe it's all the warm blood flowing through my veins as I watch a tip-off that keeps me going. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Bengal Bouts story Chip Marks was incorrect­ly named as the winner of the 140 pound quarterfi­nal match, when in actuality, Tony Hollowell won rhe fight. The discussion fur disability awareness week chat meets Wednesday ar the CSC is actually tided, "Experiences With Special Needs: Students, Parents, Children, Siblings Adults." 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
CCDC sponsors  U.S seeks  Corporation  Students  John Mayer's  Bengal Bouts  
eating  approval for  admits to  continue  live album  Senior captain  
disorders week  war resolution  inflating  debates on  receives rave  shines  
on Iraq  profits  affirmative  reviews  
action  
The Counseling and Career Development Center is sponsoring events in conjunction with a nationwide cam­ The United States announced the pur­suit to gain the approval of the U.N. Security Council amidst  European mar­kets encounter its own corporate accounting scandal as Ahold execu­tives announced  Students express anger at the views expressed on the developing issue and advocate more understanding.  Recorded in Birmingham, Ala., "Any Given Thursday" sets Mayer apart as a talented pop artist.  Sports spotlights senior captain Tom Pierce and uncov­ers a true leader and fierce competi­tor at heart.  

paign discussing the 

contestation from 
misrepresenting 
current problems of 

France, Germany 
profits. 
eating disorders. 

and Russia. 
page 7
pages
page3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Art Exhibit Display of photographs depicting the Gullah Culture by Doris Ulmann all clay at the Snite Museum of Art. 

. 
Mendoza Majors Night The fair will couple with departmental presentations that would provide students with additional opportunities to talk with faculty and current upper-class students about the opportunities available in the Mendoza College of Husiness, 5:30 p.m., Mendoza College of Business. 

. 
Students with Disabilities Discussion Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with disabilities are invited to share their experiences of having a disability on campus, LaFortune, Notre Dame Boom, 8 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lecture Talk about Community Leadership, 12:15 p.rn., North Wedge Hoom 

. 
Heading Contemporary Drama Heading & Dinner, 4:30 p.m., President's Dining Hoom 

. 
Lecture Eating Disorder Awareness Weck speaker, 7:30 p.m .. the 


Carroll Auditorium 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled mostaccioli, boiled spinach fettuccini, pastaria meat sauce, fried cheese ravioli, Swiss steak, russet herb garlic potatoes, whipped potatoes, haddock with herbs, sugar snap peas, Japan ginger chicken ten­ders 
Today's Dinner: Boiled fettuccine, alfredo sauce, cheese frenchbread, sherry chicken thighs, long grain and wild rice, whipped potatoes, broccoli spears, grilled redfish, baked sweet potatoes, beef tamale, corn and pepper flamerst 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce. french bread pizza, collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol­lock. shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, grilled turkey sandwich, fries 
Today's Dinner: Chicken cacciatore. fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza. roast top round, oven­fried chicken, grilled Polish sausage. rotini with vegetables, Polish-style kluski noodles 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..I 
ct 
(.) 


..J0 HIGH 20 HIGH 17 HIGH 26 HIGH 31 LOW 11 LOW 11 LOW 15 LOW 15 
page 8 
page 11 
page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP takes drunken student home 
NDSP transported an intoxicated student to his off-campus residence Sunday morning. The case is being referred for administrative review. 

Employee injured in fall 
After an employee sustained injuries during a fall Saturday, NDSP transported the employee to the University Health Center for treatment. 

Visitor reports missing jewelry 
A visitor reported losing her necklace Friday at the Grotto. The woman later notified NDSP she found her necklace in her purse. 

Student reports missing bike 
A student reported her unlocked bike was taken between Saturday and Sunday afternoon from the south side of Breen Phillips Hall. There are no sus­pects. 

Employee slips on ice 
A University employee reported he fell on the ice outside the southeast door of the Law School 
Sunday. 

-Compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Szechuan vegetables with jasmine rice. herbed pasta, mari­nara, harvest flat bread sandwich, turkey snow pea stir fry with rice, bat­ter fried pollock, macaroni and cheese. glazed carrots. meat lovers pizza, cheese pizza, sliced prosciutto. sliced smoked turkey, olive hummus 
Today's Dinner: Herb pasta, mari­nara sauce. spicy stir fried tofu, garden burger, grilled yellow squash, chicken and vegetable fajitas, grilled hamburg­er, chicken patties. grilled cheese sand­wich, french fries, twice cooked pork, wild rice, parsley buttered potato, country kitchen vegetables 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 33 HIGH 38 LOW 23 LOW 23 
Atlanta 47 / 36 Boston 27 / 8 Chicago 19 / 13 Denver 28 / 15 Houston 48 / 40 Los Angeles 59 / 49 Minneapolis 17 / 8 New York 31 / 11 Philadelphia 33 / 12 Phoenix 62 / 51 Seattle 49 / 33 St. Louis 23 / 16 Tampa 79 / 57 Washington 35 / 21 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Recycle The Obse er. 
Informational Meeting: Wednesday, February 26 
4:45 p.m. 
209 DeBartolo 
Course Offerings: Irish Fiction & Poetry Irish Drama Post Famine History Gaelic Culture Irish Visual Culture Critical Issues in Contemporary Ireland 
All undergraduates are encouraged to apply Please stop by 158 Hurley or 338 O'Shaughnessy for more information 
Call for Student Nominations 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for aKaneb Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms may be found on the College of Science webpage at: www.science.nd.edu or you may pick up anomination form in the Dean's Office, 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Thursday, March 6 
Return to : Sr. Kathleen Cannon, 0.P., Associate Dean Dean's Office, College of Science 174Hurley Hall 
CCDC raises eating disorder aw-areness 
By SARAH NESTOR Saine Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students will have a chance to learn more about eating disorders this week. The Counseling and Career Development Center is sponsoring National Eating Disorders Awareness Week on campus. 
The week is a nationwide campaign by the National Eating· Disorders Association to raise awareness about the growing problem of eating disorders. 
According to the National Eating Disorders Association, it is estimated that between 5 and 10 million girls and women and 1 million boys and men struggle with eating disorders, such as anorexia, bulimia and binge-eating dis­orders. The group also found in a recent college campus survey that 91 percent of col­lege women control their weight by dieting. 
Today students can attend the lecture and discussion 
"Body Image. Food and You" led by licensed clinician social worker Gwen Dellorn from the Eating Disorder Hecovery Center. The lecture will be held in Carroll Auditorium at 
7:30 p.m. 
On Wednesday the Nursing Department is sponsoring a health fair from 3 to 5 p.m. in LeMans Reignbeaux Lounge. At the fair, women can learn about the varying components that will affect their health now and in the future. 
On Thursday and Friday the CCDC will be offering eating and body image screenings. The screenings will be held from 9 to 11:30 a.m. Thursday and from 2 to 4 
p.m. Friday. The screenings are free and confidential and no appointments are neces­sary. 
The CCDC is located in 166 LeMans. For more informa­tion. contact the CCDC at 284­4565. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Mathcounts co~petition scheduled for Saturday 
Special to The Obeserver 
A regional competition of Mathcounts, a nationwide math coaching and competition pro­gram will take place Saturday (Feb. 22) in DeBartolo Hall at the University of Notre Dame. 
More than 200 middle and junior high students from the northern and central Indiana counties of St. Joseph. Elkhart, Fulton, La Grange and Marshall are expected to com­pete. 
Mathcounts promotes math achievement among sixth, sev­enth and eighth graders around the country through competitions similar to school athletic events. Student "math­letes" train individually and on teams, then compete in local and state competitions. Prizes are awarded at all levels, and winners at the state level receive a free trip to Washington, D.C., to compete in the national competition, where the prizes include schol­arships, trips and trophies. 
This year as many of 35,000 students are expected to com­pete nationwide in Mathcounts, which began in 1983. Michael 
M. Stanisic, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, is regional coordinator of the Mathcounts competition, which has been held at the University for the past eight years. 


Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students interested in majoring in education 
You are invited to attend an 
EVENING WITH THE EDUCATION DEPT. 
Thursday, February 27th 
at 6:00 P.M. Madeleva 31 5 (elementary education) Madeleva 328 (secondary education) 
Join the faculty from the Saint Mary's College Education 
Department for a short presentation followed by a question 
and answer session. Learn about Education course 
requirements. Meet Education students and enjoy 
refreshments. 

L--•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•~ 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003
page4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG votes to host Yale professor 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
As things continued to wind down for the Board of Governance administration. officers on Monday held their final meeting before spring break. The meeting primarily centered around several stu­dent organizations and their appeals for co-sponsorship funding for various events. 
Katie Harrison, Student Academic Council (SAC) secre­tary and treasurer, requested $300 from BOG to help sponsor a campus visit by Yale University professor Cynthia Russett planned for Wednesday. The professor recently pub­lished a book titled, "Catholic Women's Colleges in America." Thursday. administration and faculty will meet with Russett to discuss qualities of Saint Mary as an institution and the future of women's Catholic education. 
"The administration is really excited about this," Harrison said. "But it should be a student sponsored event. We want stu­dents to attend the lecture as well, not just the administra­tion." 
BOG members expressed their excitement to participate in the upcoming event. 
"Having BOG's name down is a show of student support," said Student Body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. 
The funding was approved 

Platforms 
continued from page l 
tion with the Oass of 2007. 
Desiree Paulin and Kristi Spriggle expressed excitement to find out what the seniors want for next year. If elected, they plan to organize surveys that would help determine preferences of the majority of Saint Mary's seniors regarding events such as Senior Dad's Weekend, the Senior Retreat and weekend trips. 
unanimously by BOG. 
Russett elaborates on the experience of women. and men­tions Saint Mary's 16 times in her book. It 1s currently on sale in the Saint Mary's bookstore. 
In other BOG news 
. 
BOG also granted $900 to the Biology Club to assist with the Ecology Fair. The fair will be held in conjunction with the annual Student Diversity Board (SOB) picnic on April 14. Three booths will be sent up on the library lawn and will provide students with information about world environmental issues. 

SOB will also sponsor a stu­dent collection that will also take place to help Saint Mary's recycling campaign. The fair will include a live band. 

. 
The Board voted to deny a $1,500 request from several Saint Mary's students traveling to Haiti over spring break. The students are going abroad as part of a justice class that examines poverty and develop­ment. 


The trip, the most expensive undertaking by Saint Mary's students, is largely being fund­ed by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. Board members said participating stu­dents should be responsible for raising the remaining money they need for the trip. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
"First we want to see what everybody in the class wants to do," Paulin said. 
They announced the plan to ini­tiate an "Independent Women Series" that would include subject matter ranging from business eti­quette to oil changes. 
"The point of senior year is to have a great and shining year, but we also want to prepare Saint Mary's women for an indepen­dent life," Paulin said. 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram350 l@saintmarys.edu 

Congregation ofHoly Cross 

Be part of the solution. 
l.'_~•_:_f°'' "'~,~~~ 
\ / _) 

www.nd.i/d7ii/::..vocation 
ANSWER:W 
THECALLW 

.···································---------

Domus 

.
.
PROPERTIES ... 
. 
. 
.
OFF CAMPUS . . . HOUSES FORRENT FOR 
2003-2004 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT domuskrametcom 
OR CALL 

574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER .
.•.
. 
··································································~·-······································· 
WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S., allies seek U.N. approval for war resolution 
U.S.-backed resolution will 
Associ~tcd Press 
be a daunting task. To pass, 
the resolution must have 
UNITED NATIONS nine "yes" votes and avoid a 
Seeking U.N. approval for veto by France, Russia or war. the United States and China. Only Bulgaria is con­key allies Brita.in and Spain sidered a strong bet to sup­submitted a resolution port the U.S.-British-Spanish Monday to the Security plan. Council dcclaring Saddam Eleven of the 15 council Hussein has missed "the final members have endorsed the opportunity" to disarm and idea of continuing weapons indicating he must now face inspections, but the United the consequences. States has dispatched some 
But France, Hussia and of its top negotiators to Germany, which oppose the Security Council capitals in military option, circulated an r:ecent days to push for the· alternative plan to pursue a resolution. peaceful disarmament of Iraq Por some of the countries. through strengthened inspec­such as Angola, Guinea and tions over at least the next Cameroon -poor African five months. Their memoran­nations whose concerns drew dum won immediate backing little attention before they from China. despite landed seats on the council Secretary of Staie Colin -there is the possibility that Powell's lobbying efforts with supporting the resolution top officials in Beijing on may reap financial benefits Monday. from the United States. But 
The rival positions set the members of the council who stage for a heated battle over support continued inspec­whether the council would tions are also lobbying hard. back the U.S. and British After the rival presenta­demand for war now or the tions. no council member French, Russian, and German indicated a change in its cal I for war to be "a last position. But several council resort." The council decided diplomats said there was But U.S. Ambassador John Washington has reserved a key step toward allowing to hold another closed meet­room for a compromise. Negroponte said the only way the right to wage war with a Washington to forge ahead ing to discuss the two pro­"The cards are on the Iraq can avoid serious conse­coalition of willing nations, with plans for a northern posals on Thursday. table," Angola's U.N. quences now is to demon­but U.N. backing would pro­front against Iraq. 
The showdown heightened Ambassador Ismael Gaspar strate "a major, drastic, dra­vide legitimacy and financial The draft resolution does fears of war, with Wall Street Martins told The Associated matic change in the attitude support for military action not set any deadlines. But posting its biggest decline in Press. "Now I think we need that that government has dis­and its aftermath. On U.S. and British officials a month Monday after a day to sit down jointly and come played towards the issue of Monday, Turkey's Cabinet made clear they want the of light trading. out with ... a common solu­disarming itself of weapons agreed to host tens of thou­Security Council to vote by 
Getting approval for the tion." of mass destruction." sands of U.S. combat troops, mid-March. 

IRAQ 
Saddan1 Hussein challenges Bush to televised debate 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Saddam Hussein indicated on Monday that he does not intend to follow U.N. orders to destroy his Al-Samoud 2 mis­siles, and challenged President Bush to an internationally televised debate via satellite linkup. 
In a three-hour interview with CBS anchor Dan Hather, the Iraqi leader said he envisioned a live debate with Bush along the lines of those in a U.S. presi­dential campaign, according to the net­work. 
Hather reported on the interview dur­ing the evening newscast. CBS said it planned to broadcast excerpts on Tuesday and the entire interview on Wednesday. 
Rather said that Saddam walked a lit­tle stiffly when he met with him but was calm and "unhurried" during the inter­view. 
Regarding chief U.N. weapons inspec­tor Hans Blix's order that Iraq destroy its Al-Samoud 2 missiles, Rather quoted Saddam as saying: "Iraq is allowed to prepare proper missiles and we are committed to that." 
Asked whether the Al-Samoud 2 mis­siles are "proper," Saddam was quoted as replying: "We do not have missiles that go beyond the prescribed range." 
The order was issued after interna­tional experts determined the missile flew farther than the 93-mile limit set down by the United Nations in 1991. Iraq maintains some of the missiles overshot the limit because they were tested without warheads and guidance systems. 
"This is not a serious issue," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said of the reported debate offer. "There is no debating his need to disarm." 
Fleischer said Saddam's comments about the Al Samouds represented "open defiance" of the United Nations. "lie refuses even to acknowledge that the weapons are prohibited," Fleischer said. 
Iraq has until the end of the week to begin destroying the missiles, compo­nents and other related systems. If it fails to do so, that could give impetus to a draft U.N. resolution submitted Monday by the United States. Britain and Spain that would pave the way for war. 
Iraq had suggested it was trying to persuade the United Nations to allow it to keep the missiles after technical modi­fications worked out in talks with U.N. technicians. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
North Korea test-fires missile into sea: 
North Korea test-fired an anti-ship missile that landed in the sea between the Korean Peninsula and Japan, a South Korean Defense Ministry official said Tuesday. U.S. and Korean officials said the mis­sile was likely a small, conventional one, not the ballistic rocket that U.S. officials fear can possibly hit parts of the western United States. 
Colombian rebels label captives POW,s: 
Colombian rebels declared Monday that three cap­tured Americans were "prisoners of war" and will be freed only as part of a broad prisoner exchange with Colombian government. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC, demanded a demilitarized zone from the Colombian government in order to exchange tho three Americans and dozens of Colombian soldiers and police for insurgents who are in Colombian prisons. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. charges 55 with selling drug gear: Federal authorities charged 55 people with trafficking in illegal drug paraphernalia in an investigation they said targeted the nation's biggest Internet distributors of marijuana bongs, crack pipes and other drug abuse gear. In coordinated raids on Monday, officials con­fiscated "thousands and thousands of tons" of paraphernalia from companies boasting up to $50 million in annual sales, said Mary Beth Buchanan, U.S.' attorney in Pittsburgh whose office is leading the "Operation Pipe Dreams" investigation along with the Drug Enforcement Administration. "No one would possibly use these items for smoking tobacco," Buchanan said at a Justice Department news conference. Attorney General John Ashcroft said the sale of drug paraphernalia has exploded on the Internet. making it easier for teenagers and young adults to buy it. 
Ashcroft says terrorism alert still high: 
The threat of a terrorist attack against Amcricu remains high and there are no plans to down­grade the nation's terror alert, Attorney General John Ashcroft said Monday. U.S. intelligence­gathering continues to show enough of a threat to warrant keeping the alert level at "high risk," the second-highest level on a five-color scale, Ashcroft said. The level was raised to orange on Feb. 7, prompting the government to impose extra security measures and causing jitters throughout country. "The constant and continu­ous evaluation of the factors that go into the development of threat level have not changed in a way significant enough for the threat level to be changed," Ashcroft said. Other Bush administra­tion officials. notably Homeland Security Secretary Tom Hidge, have indicated the level could soon be reduced to "elevated." the middle of the color scale. 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Convicted spy won't face death penalty 
Associatrd P rcss 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

The government's attempt to impose the death penalty on convicted spy Brian Patrick Regan was rejected Monday by the federal jury that convicted him of offering to sell U.S. intelligence to Ir·aq and China. 
Regan, a former' Air Force master sergeant. was found guilty last week on two attempted espionage counts and a single charge of gather­ing national defense informa­tion. He was acquitted of attempting to spy for Libya. 
The Iraq conviction required the jury to consider a second question: Did Regan offer doc­uments concerning nuclear weaponry. military satellites, war plans or other major U.S. weapons systems? 
Jurors deliberated nearly seven hours over two days before deciding he did not, a decision that spared him the possibility of the death penalty. 
Ethel and Julius Rosenberg were the last Americans put to death for spying. They were executed in 1953 for conspir­ing to ·steal U.S. atomic secrets for the Soviet Union. 
Regan still could receive life imprisonment when he's sen­tenced May 9, but his lawyers claimed victory with Monday's decision. 
Defense attorney Jonathan Shapiro said that with a possi­ble war with [raq looming, "it took a lot of gutsn for jurors to forgo the death penalty. 
U.S. Attorney Paul McNulty said he was satisfied with the outcome of the case. Justice has been served in this case," he said in a statement. "Mr. Regan is now a convicted spy. For this betrayal of country, he will pay a heavy price." 
Regan, a 40-year-old, mar­ried father of four from Bowie, Md., had worked at the National Reconnaissance Office, which operates the gov­ernment's spy satellites, first for the Air Force and then as a civilian employee for TRW. a defense contractor. 
Prosecutors never claimed Regan actually passed secrets. But they said he was desperate to get out from under $117,000 in credit card debts and draft­ed a letter to Saddam Hussein offering to sell U.S. intelligence for $13 million. He made simi­lar offers to Chinese and Libyan officials. prosecutors contended. 
Using his access to a classi­fied Internet network, Regan looked up dozens of top-secret documents. including satellite photos of Iraqi missile sites. He was arrested Aug. 23, 2001, at Dulles International Airport outside Washington while boarding a flight for Zurich, Switzerland. 
Regan was carrying informa­tion with the coded coordinates of Iraqi and Chinese missile sites, the missiles that were stored there, and the date the information was obtained, prosecutors said. He also had the addresses of the Chinese and Iraqi embassies in Switzerland and Austria in his wallet and tucked into his right shoe. 
Defense lawyers said Regan might have fantasized about spying, but never copied any­thing of value and had no real intention of selling secrets. In court, attorney Nina Ginsberg called his actions "childish," "unprofessional," "nonsense" and "harebrained." 
It was unusual for the case to even reach trial. The govern­ment, wary of disclosing classi­fied material in public, normal­ly agrees to plea bargains in espionage cases. 
It also surprised many that the government sought the death penalty in a case in which sensitive material never was passed. In cases much more damaging to the govern­ment, the CIA's Aldrich Ames and the FBI's Robert llanssen were sentenced to life in prison. 
Ginsberg said Monday that the verdict should send a strong message to Attorney General John Ashcroft "that he has way overreached on death penalty decisions.•· 
McNulty's statement did not address the government's rea­sons for seeking the death penalty, but prosecutors argued during the trial that the classified documents Regan looked at would have caused severe harm to U.S. national security had they been passed to a foreign government. 
Keating 
continued from page I 

are only now coming to light. 
"There are people who look the other way when lives are being shattered or destroyed. It is an inconceivable evil," he said. 
Keating, who is known to be tough on criminals. responded briefly to a question about cap­ital punishment. Admitting that capital punishment is one of the most challenging issues facing leaders today, Keating explained his reasons for sup­porting the policy. 
"I distinguish between guilty human life and innocent human life. I think that it would cheapen life to say that Timothy McVeigh will not pay for what he did," said Keating. 
He added that his is "basical­ly the Catholic Church's view," explaining that while the pope does not believe in capital pun­ishment, the official teachings of the Church do not yet con­demn it. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 

Robinson Center to celebrat~ anniversary 
Special to The Observer 

The Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) will celebrate its second anniver­sary Friday from 5:30 to 7:30 
p.m. Sponsored by Notre Dame. the center is located at 921 N. Eddy St.. South Bend. 
The celebratioJl will fea­ture guest speakers Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president; Rep. Chris Chocola, R-Ind.; and South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke. 
Entertainment will be pro­vided by Jacqueline Jefferson of the Gullah 
Community in South Carolina. The festivities also will include award presenta­tions to five outstanding cen· ter participants. 
Since its creation in 2001, the RCLC has registered more than 1,700 Northeast Neighborhood residents. who have benefited from center services such as youth tutor­ing, computer training, GED classes, and music and exer­cise instruction. Through its literacy corps, which oper­ates in five locations, the center has trained some 150 tutors who have developed one-on-one relationships with approximately 17 !1 young people. 

Chad S. Sharon Member ofthe Notre Dame Community Faithful Friend Devoted Son Class of2006 Eternal rest grant unto him, 0 Lord, And may perpetual light shine upon him. -­jt;-~ .~ _.Y.May he rest in peace. Amen. Visitation with the Sharon Family: Memorial Mass: Tuesday, February 25, 2003 Tuesday, February 25, 2003 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. 5:15 p.m. Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Basilica Sacred Heart Basilica ffyou wish ro contribute to rhe Chad S. Sharon Memorial Fund please contact the Development Department at (574) 631-7164.  


Tuesday, February 25, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch February 24 
Dow Jones 

7,848.24 
-159.87 
NASDAQ 

1,322.38 ., -26.64 
S&P500 

-15.59
832.58 ' 
AMEX 

829.24 ~ +3.65 
NYSE 

4,706.22 • -80.95 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -2 .19 -0. 54 24. 07 
gtijFR~§ll!l1lllllt~:1111l!!!ll!ll!lll:i:l!ll!!:!ll!ll:lll!III 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(~) -1. 71 -0.43 24. 74 
s,1§1:~il¦l!i:~1::=:=::.::.•·•••·:1111111 :1::111111e11111;111111~11 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -4. 61 -0. 07 1. 45 
IN BRIEF 
Weather cuts into February sales 
The snowstorm that hit the Eastern seaboard a week ago wiped away retailers' much­hoped for Presidents Day sales bonanza and made what already was expected to he a tough month even more difficult. 
J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. and Target Corp. lowered their forecasts for February sales, and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said it expected results at the low end of its estimates. Target Corp. said results were coming in below expectations. "February was weak to begin with, and on top of that we had the snowstorm and the rain­storm," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Hetail Trend Report, based in Montclair. N.J. "Even without the weather, February would not have been a barn-burn­er.'" 
Pilots' chief opposes new carrier 
United Airlines' pilots union reiterated strong opposition Monday to the company's proposal for a low-cost carrier even as United pushed ahead with the concept by naming an official in charge of il. 
In the latest sign of dissent within bankrupt United over starting a discount airline, pilots' union chief Paul Whiteford sent CEO Glenn Tilton a letter saying the sides are "miles apart" on the planned carrier "with no progress in sight." 
Meanwhile, a United executive told a bank­ruptcy court judge that the airline is looking Into the possible closure of its hubs in Los Angeles, Denver and Washington as part of its reorganization plan. Dow Jones Newswires reported. Senior vice president Gregory Taylor said the company was asked by its board of directors to consider the hub clo­sures as an alternative, along with the possi­ble sale of the airline's Pacific operations. 
Company spokesman Joe Hopkins insisted that United has no intention of closing any of its five hubs and is exploring various restruc­turing alternatives. 
THE NETHERLANDS 
Ahold execs admit to scandal 
• Food retailer  
joins Enron,  
WorldCom  
Associated Press  
AMSTERDAM  
With WorldCom and  
Enron still fresh in  
investors' minds, Europe  
was confronted with its  
own corporate accounting  
scandal Monday when the  
world's third biggest food  
retailer Ahold admitted  
vastly overstating earn­ 
ings over the past two  
years.  
Ahold's top two execu­ 
tives resigned and several  
senior U.S. managers  
were suspended while  
investigations focused on  
whether income was  
booked prematurely at  
the company's U.S.  
Foodservice arm. Ahold  
also owns Stop & Shop  
and other U.S. supermar­ 
ket chains.  
Its shares plunged 63  
percent in Amsterdam  
trading after the company  
said it had inflated earn­ 
ings in the last two years  
by at least $500 million. It  
will restate earnings for  
2001 and delay its 2002  
earnings report, pending  
GETTYresults of ongoing investi­ 
Ahold, one of the biggest supermarket companies In the world, reported Mondaygations at its operations  
in the United States, that It overstated Its profits by at least $500 mllllon.  
South America and  Shares of financial com- has 40 million customers  In a speech to the  
Europe.  panies ING Groep and  in 27 countries and gen­ European-American  
Merrill Lynch estimated  Aegon, who have direct  erated sales of 72.7 billion  Business Council in  
the restatement could  investments in Ahold, fell  euros ($79 billion) in  Washington,' the EU's  
wipe 10-30 percent off  7.1 percent and 6.9 per-.  2002. It owns about 9,000  internal market commis­ 
2002 per share earnings.  cent, respectively. The  supermarkets on four  sioner, Frits Bolkestein,  
The news dragged down  broader Dutch market fell  continents and employs  said tougher EU guide­ 
shares in the European  5.4 percent.  around 450,000 people.  lines were in the works.  
retail food sector, but  Standard & Poors low- Its shares came under  He insisted that the EU  
analysts said there didn't  ered its credit rating for  pressure just over a year  has not been slow to_ react  
seem to be an industry­ Ahold bonds as prices  ago when it became  to the string of scandals  
wide problem. Delhaize of  tumbled on international  known that the company's  that hit U.S. companies.  
Belgium sank 5.3 percent  markets.  profits were smaller when  The energy trader Enron  
and Carrefour and Casino  Ahold, which uses U.S.  stated under U.S. rather  and telecommunications  
of France fell 0.2 percent  and Dutch accounting  than Dutch accounting  company WorldCom  
and 3.6 percent respec­ standards, generates  rules, primarily due to its  sought bankruptcy protec­ 
tively.  more than half its sales in  treatment of goodwill  tion after massive  
However, analysts said  the United States, where  amortization.  accounting irregularities  
the disclosure hurt  it owns the regional  The problems at Ahold,  were exposed.  
investor confidence in the  chains Giant-Landover,  which trails only Wal­ "We are neither com­ 
Netherlands as it called  Giant-Carlisle, Tops, BI- Mart Stores Inc. and  placent nor arrogant  
into question the sound­ LO and Bruno's as well as  France's Carrefour SA in  enough to believe that  
ness of accounting prac­ Stop & Shop. .  size, appeared to be iso­ they could not have hap­ 
tices used by a well­ According to figures  lated, but analysts were  pened in the EU," he said,  
known and widely-held  released by Ahold in  reluctant to rule out that  according to a text  
company.  February, the company  they could spread.  released in Brussels.  

Coke extends its lead over Pepsi 
Coke Classic brand fell 0.6 percent­15.0 percent.
Asrociated Press 

age points in market share. "The only top ten brands that grew 
ATLANTA Atlanta-based Coca-Cola dominates were several of the diet brands," said 
Coca-Cola Co. slightly increased its 44.3 percent of the U.S. soft drink John Sicher. editor and publisher of lead over rival Pepsi-Cola Co. in market. but saw its market share Beverage Digest. "At least one rea­2002, thanks to the successful drop between 1999 and 2001. With son is because consumers arc inter­launch of Vanilla Coke and the the latest gains, it's only 0.2 percent­ested in low-or no-calorie bever­growth of Diet Coke, according to age points away from where it stood ages." 
U.S. soft drink industry rankings in 1998 at 44.5. Oiet Coke and Diet Pepsi gained 0.2 released Monday. Pepsi-Cola, based in Purchase, percentage points apiece. And Coke gained 0.6 percentage points N.Y., lost 0.2 percentage points in though Or. Pepper lost market share, in market share and increased its market share. The No. 2 company its diet version grew 3.9 percent in 
case volume by 2.1 percent, accord­commands 31.4 percent of the U.S. volume to knock Coca-Cola's Barq's ing to Beverage Digest/Maxwell, a soft drink market. Hoot Beer out of the top 10 brands. New York-based industry newsletter The Dr. Pepper/Seven Up unit of Sugary drinks aren't out of the pie· and data service. Cadbury Schweppes, the third­ture yet, but they are harder to mar­
The company captured a larger largest soft drink group, fell 0.6 per­ket after their initial launch, Sicher share of the market even though its centage points in market share to said. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Damr, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 1/1.EWl'OINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herrler, Marr Lo2ar ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smich 
PHoTo EunoR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie Md(enna SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. !@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverriseq,ents based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repcesent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. • 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free exp!ession ofall opinions through leaers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Que.tioru r~arding Obsnwr policies should be direct· ,dto Editar in Chief/awn McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obse,ver (USrs 5119 240} is publisbe:d MonJily through Friday exapr during cum a.nd vau.iion pcriow. A.1ubKription to ~Obsc~r i, SlOO for onc.udrmic ,-w: 155 for one ~ester. 
Tur Obirrvff i, pubfoM'd ar. POSTMASTER 014 5ou<l, Dining H:dl xnJ addrar un·ra:ti<m1 w: 
NtJtrr o~<'., tN 4(;55~ Ihc: OhHr.cr 

P.O.. llo,Q Perindic2l po1agc p:Lid :n NOU"P Ihm~ Norn Dame, IN 46556.0779' mJ additional mailing offic:a. 
Tht-Obtn-vcr i1o a mnn.bn-ofrhc A.oaatcd Pms, All tepto<iucciofl righu «­rumcd. 
The joys of being a girl 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kiflin Turner Joe Hettler Maureen Lauren Dasso Reynolds Charee 
Claire Heininger Holloway Viewpoint Scene Dolores Diaz Julie Bender Graphics Lab Tech Chris Naidus Melissa Flores 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Would you support a war in Iraq? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"lnequality is a fact. Equality is a value." 
Mason Cooley 
U.S. aphorist 

The Vagina Monologues. The Girl CuJture Exhibit at the Snite. You can't swing a tampon these days without hit­ting something having to do with the fem­inine experience. Though we've already celebrated 30 years of co-educa­
tion at Notre Amy Schlll 
Dame (Today ice cream, tomorrow equality!), I'd like Tuesday Voice 
to take a few moments to reflect on what it's like to be a girl and how this experience plays out under the Golden Donrn. So let's talk about 'ginas, and I'll try my best not to hurl elephant dung at the Virgin Mary. 
It's hard to discuss anything bordering on feminism here precisely because any attempt to do so is seen as a direct attack on the Mother of God, as a rejection of what a good Catholic woman "should" be. According to Notre Dame iconogra­phy, if I'm not Our Lady, I must be the Samaritan woman by the well. That is, I either need to figure out a way to have babies without having sex (ah, the perfect woman), or I have to have several hus­bands and maybe a few more men on the side. I can be a virgin or a whore. 
Indeed, this binary opposition is very much at play in our community, though in an odd way. When Notre Dame girls aren't being called ugly (but you're glad we're here, right?), we're being called prudes. In other words, if we actually try to live up to the example of Mary, we are judged negatively by men, and ifwe don't, we are judged as sluts by both men and women. Anyone else confused? 
That's right, men and my Church make it very difficult to be a girl, but women don't help much either. Why are shows like "Joe Millionaire," which are in the business of objectifying and ridiculing women (don't get me wrong. I was hooked), more successful at selling femi­nine products than Maxim subscriptions? Psst ... women like to judge women too. 
It's a sad fact that for whatever reason, many girls like belittling other girls as much as they like complaining about how guys belittle them. I don't remember the last time I was in the dining hall "ithout hearing such com­ments from women as, "What is that girl wear­ing? How slutty." 
"Look at her ­she's anorexic." 
"Too much makeup. Where does she think she is?" 
"I wonder if our hateful comments towards mem­bers of our own sex are really a reflection of our own insecurities stemming from internalized unreal­istic expectations imposed by a male­dominated society ... ooh, Yo-cream!" 
Okay, I only wish I had heard that last one. The point is, girls, with the help of some wack gender norms and a prevailing fear of what women could become when freed from these norms, have painted themselves (and their nails) into a tight corner. 
So here's my dilemma. It's freezing out­side, and I want to go to the dining hall. I could dress comfortably in sweat pants and be judged by male Domers (all in sweat pants) as a typical ugly, definitely­not-going-to-put-out-tonight Notre Dame prude (and !just wanted a taco stick). Or, I could perform the feminine, face the cold and wear a skirt, only to be judged by my sweat-pant clad sisters (and I just wanted to look nice). And, of course, if I decide to stay home and write a column about this wacky situation, I'll be labeled as femi-nazi (whatever that means) les­
bian who only spells women with a 
"y." What's a girl to do? So yeah, it's hard being a chick. My Church makes it 
dillicult. guys make it diffi­cult, girls make it difTicult and all that bleeding 

makes it difficult (Honestly, what is the deal with that?). I don't 
pretend to know how to solve this problem, but l 'm hoping in tli'e future we can all be open to dialogue, to 

expressions of woman­hood that are more attainable and desirable than the options currently available. I think it would be really cool if I could walk around campus without being the object of a. condescending gaze, male or female, if I could just 
be who I wanted to be, wear what I wanted to wear, write what I wanted to write. For now though, I gotta go. Who has time to write when there are legs to be shaven? 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Affirmative action needed to level the field 
We would first like to express our anger and disappointment females benefit the most from affirmative action. Why is it that of the ignorant opinions that are constantly expressed in the your article only targets blacks, when next to Native Viewpoint pages about affirmative action. First of all, we would Americans, we are the smallest minority on this campus? Is like to break down the reasons for and who benefits the most the fact that Notre Dame saves 25 percent of the freshmen from affirmative action. class for legacies "ridiculous" and "violates ... equality under 
1 ?"

For the 500-plus years that African Americans have been in aw. this country, over 300 of those years have been spent in slav­In his Feb. 21 letter, Paul Allegre said, "Blacks and Hispanics ery. Not until 1965 did we get the liberty to vote. And still to must learn to succeed in situations which are not rigged in this day, African Americans do not have a level playing field their favor." What do you call the Civil Rights Movement, racial with whites. The majority ofschools that blacks attend do not profiling, the constant stares and the ignorant, racist com­receive the same amount of funding as suburban schools. A lot ments that our peers on this campus say everyday? How much of inner city schools do not have AP courses and honor classes. more of a struggle do we have to go through before you and It's not that we are not as smart or intellectually capable; we others like you open your eyes and see that the playing field is just do not have the same opportunities or funds as many not level and is in favor of you? whites do. Our parents can't afford the Kaplan courses to help us get those 1600s on the SAT. Nina Whittaker 
Even if affirmative action does help us get in to Notre Dame, Danielle J. Barnes it is definitely not what keeps us here. We still have to maintain JUniors our grades so that we will not be dismissed, the same as any McGlinn Hall white person. There are many African Americans here on Cameesha Gordon campus that are on the Dean's list and make 4.0s each semes­scn10r ter. Farky Hall 
Second of all, it has been statistically proven that white Feb. 23 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 page 9 
Can a preventive war be just? 
The U.S. government reportedly may drop its federal court prosecution of Zacarias Moussaoui, "the 20th hijacker," and try him instead in a military tribunal lo avoid giving him access to al Qaeda prisoners. The tri­bunals, with limit­ed procedural rights for defen­dants, were estab­lished by President Bush to try non-cit­izens for terrorist violations of "the laws of war and other applicable laws." They are constitutional, and would be so even to try U.S. citizens. under Congress' power to punish offens­es against the "law of nations." 
If Moussaoui did what his indictment alleges, he was an enemy combatant vio­lating I.he laws of war. lie should have been tried in a military tribunal rather than in a civilian court as if Sept. 11 had involved only ordinary domestic homi­cides. I !is possible transfer to a military tribunal reminds us that, regardless of Iraq, we already have a major-andjust -war on our hands, against Islamic ter­rorists. If there is a significant connection between Iraq and terrorists an attack on 

Iraq could be justified as an aspect of that just war. 
The "just war" theory is a method of moral reasoning to prevent war and to minimize its effects if it does occur. The requirements for )us ad bellum, justice in going to war, are; proper authority, just cause and right intention. The Catechism lists further details; "ITlhe damage intlict­ed by the aggressor must be lasting. grave and certain;" war must be a last resort, with "all other means impractical or inef­fective;" "there must be serious prospects of success;" and "the use of arms must not produce evils graver than the evil to be eliminated." Jus in bello, justice in fighting a war, requires proportionality and dis­crimination (non-combatant immunity from intentional attack). 
Pope John Paul II ha:s emphasized, with reference to Iraq, that war "is always a defeat for humanity" and cannot be waged "except as the very last option and in accordance with very strict conditions." On Nov. 13, the U.S. Catholic bishops opposed the Iraq war in a major but guarded statement. They affirmed the fact-dependent nature of the just war cri­teria and the deference owed to the gov­ernment's evaluation. The bishops said "We offer not definitive conclusions, but our serious concerns and questions. People of good will may differ on how to apply just war norms especially when the facts are not altogether clear. Based on the facts that are known to us, we find it difficult to justify the war against Iraq, lacking clear and adequate evidence of an imminent attack of a grave nature." But then the bishops conceded: "There arc no easy answers. Ultimately, our elected leaders are responsible for decisions about national security." Similarly. the Catechism notes that the "evaluation" of the conditions for a just war "belongs to the prudential judgment ofthose who have responsibility for the common good." 
A preventive war is not intrinsically wrong, but it is more difficult to justify. It is debatable whether the administration has disclosed convincing evidence that Iraq aids, or is about to aid, the terror net­work or that Iraq is an imminent threat to the United States. But, as the bishops implicitly acknowledge, the public does not have a right to disclosure of facts where that would be contrary to national security. The governmental decisions here are entitled to the benefit of the doubt up to a point of incredibility that does not appear to have been reached in this case. One factor is that we no longer have an adjudicated liar in the White House. 
In any event. all of this shows the wis­dom of the framers of the Constitution in putting the decision on declaring war in the hands of Congress rather than in one man. The President has a war power, to enable him, as James Madison said, "to repel sudden attacks." Congress, unwisely but probably validly, has authorized the President to decide whether to make war on Iraq. So war or peace will be decided by one man. 
On a positive note, we at Notre Dame can do something real for the cause of peace. "[T]he surest ... way of establishing peace on the face of the earth," said John Paul II. "is through Perpetual Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament." Eucharistic Adoration is held in Fisher Hall chapel on Mondays and Tuesdays from noon to 10 
p.m. and on Fridays in Sacred Heart Basilica from noon to 5 p.m. Contact Monica Mata at 634-2938 or at smata@nd.edu "The time you spend with Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament," said Mother Teresa of Calcutta, "will help bring about an everlasting peace on earth." 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily thos,; ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support for minority recruitment endeavors 
Admission is about the person as well as the score 
I was dismayed to read the short-sided views of fellow Notre Dame students who were opposed to Father Malloy's position in support of the University of Michigan. The whole idea of the admissions process is to invite those who would enhance the community to come. The issue of ranking qualities of applicants seems completely logical because there are a variety of traits that University would like to draw. While it is clear every student needs to put forth significant effort, some factors that con­tribute to one's acceptance are truly beyond one's control. The high socioeco­nomic status of an individual's parents for example, is not within the control of a stu­dent, and yet, is an undeniable factor in acceptance because of the advantages awarded to that student throughout life. 
Supporting Michigan questions what value is placed on certain knowledge, experiences and potential. I do not think the clarity of a differential geometry class with or without minorities present is the issue. The college experience is about preparing individuals for life. In reality, the standardized tests that some praise create a homogeneous environment through tho culturally-biased questioning. To create a diverse environment, it is nec­essary to look at factors besides racially repressive testing that can measure cer­tain skills. We want an excellent educa­tion. but it must contain more than acade­mic knowledge, such as applying a learned mathematical formula. We must learn how to relate to fellow students and individuals who arc not exactly like us. 
If we are cultured in an environment that only praises certain features, we will be at a severe disadvantage after gradua­tion. The consideration of race with a plethora of factors is significant because it facilitates learning varied cultural quali­
ties; although ethnicity should not be the 
sole basis for admittance, one should be 
given value for a feature making one dis­
tinctive. Notre Dame's support for Michigan goes beyond racial barriers and is at the core of the University's traditions. While the legacy tradition could never be chal­lenged in court, it is clearly part of the admissions process and can seemingly admit "less quali­fied" students. However, legacy is simply another component that makes a student distinctive in admis­sions. I think individuals 
are unique because 
of their own accom­
plishments and 
because of God's bless­

ings; the admissions process seems to capital­
ize on both. Admission is not only about scores, but also about the person, his/her experience and what he/she rep­resents. While one's score or GPA might not be as good, that does not neces­
sarily make someone less qualified. One 
may be equally, or more so qualified 
depending on the measuring stick. 
Leah McGee 
freshman Farley Hall Feb. 24 

Entire community must work to create diversity 
The University of Michigan's affirmative action controversy and the cover story in last week's Scholastic have led me to ponder Notre Dame's recruit­ment of minority students. I applaud the Admissions Office and the Notre Dame Minority Alumni Network, whose recruitment endeavors have been 
instrumental in increasing minority enrollment. But if we really want to make strides in creating more ethnic diversity, it will require recruiting efforts from individual alumni clubs and current 
Notre Dame students at the local level. Admissions staff personally visit many minority students with interest in Notre Dame, says James Riley of the 
Admissions Office and make recruitment stops at "minority feeders," or schools with corps of gifted minority students. Notre Dame minority students, on 
behalf of the Admissions Oflice, and members of the Minority Alumni Network make phone calls to minority high school students to answer questions 
and encourage them to apply to Notre Dame. 
Despite the commendable efforts of these groups, many talented minority students will still have no contact with any representative of Notre Dame. Individual alumni clubs and current Notre Dame students -regardless of race -can help boost 
minority applications by searching their home com­munities for impressive minority students who have not been actively recruited by Notre Dame. Notre 
Dame students and local alumni can personally visit these minority students, and alumni clubs can attract minority applicants by creating minority scholarship funds. A minority high school student is more likely to consider Notre Dame if he receives encouragement from respected individuals in his home community. Notre Dame alumni and we students must recognize the importance of increasing ethic diversity at our University. 
A 1996 survey by the Noire Dame Office of Institutional Research found that 89 percent of minority alumni were either generally or very satis­fied with their Notre Dame education. Minority students do thrive at Our Lady's school. Let"s support current minority recruitment endeavors and put forth our own efforts to increase minority enrollment here. The task of creat­ing greater diversity on this campus falls upon the entire Notre Dame family. 
Kevin Hansen 
senior Alumni Hall Fcb.24 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Cat Power is purrrrty good 
By JOSE deWIT Scene Music Critic 
It has been five years since Cat Power's last release of original material and three years since their last release altogether ­a well-performed collection of covers -so, understandably. their new album, You are Free, arrives charged and burdened with long-standing and welf-settled expecta­tions. Whetl1er it lives up to its demanding expectations is a question that is unfairly severe for any artist, and its answer is unfairly impetuous when it is demanded of an album this fresh. 
This is especially the case when tbe artist in question is Cat Power and the album in question is a.s moving and mature as this one: alongside Cat Power's earlier albums, You are Free is a flower. and to appreciate it in a light so harsh as this. without allow­ing its delicate beauty and subtle profundi­ty to develop and emerge from its rosebud and shine in its own right, would be care­less and presumptuous. 
Cat Power is the vehicle for the singing and songwriting of Chan Marshall, the daughter of a traveling pianist from the South. She left high school to pursue her own musical talent and began to establish her own reputation after making a name for herself as an opening act for Uz Phair. Her fame grew steadi­ly, helped along by the support of several big names -such as the drummer from Sonic Youth, Steve Shelley. who became part of her backing band -but most­ly on account of her beautiful. melancholy voice and her unques­tionable song­writing talent. Her backing band has changed since those days. but You are Free remains faithfully strong but gentle, true to the powerful, effective. yet delicate style that has been representative of Cat Power as it has developed over the span of her past five albums. 
You are Free begins as gently as it ends, with a slow, soft piano-driven track along­side Marshall's deeply emotional, expres­sive and affecting voice. Slow, soft and gen­tle describe the first track accurately, but "I Don't Blame You" is everything but sooth­ing. Marshall's voice is coarse and hesitant, though it remains as clear and flawless a.c; in any of her other songs. It is accompa­nied by a simple piano progression that is as tremulous and uncertain as her singing throughout the piece that gives the song au eerily troubled, fragile mood which bestows on the listener a sense of a certain longing. 
This saddened mood, however, does not last long. The album's spirits are uplifted with the upbeat, energetic "Free." "Free" is easily the mosl spirited out of a handful of more dynamic. animated songs that are peppered throughout the album. It stands out, bursting with vigorous, anthemic lyrics and a simple, vibrant sequence of chords on distortion guitar. 
This louder, more raucous, more hard­rocking side of Cat Power -reminiscent of their style on earlier albums -reappears on the darker, slower fourth track "Speak for Me," whlch finds Marshall's singing in the most furiously passionate of its moods. This same style is present in the faster­moving, angrier seventh track "He War" and the slower, drum-driven bitterness of the eight track "Shaking Pape1:,.. in which 
the frantic, quivering tears of the lead guitar, which trem• bles in and out of hear­ing through the song, appearing less and less as until it dis­appears toward the end. betrays as much des­peration and pain as Marshall's voice in the song. 
The major• ity of the album is more akin to Cat Power's la.c;t collection of original material 
· Moon Pix, in 

w h i c h Marshall's lonesome, forlorn singing asserts itself as the vital and defining ele­ment in the band and is accompanied almost entirely by her own work on the piano or guitar. 
This style is at once the album's strongest element and its greatest short­coming. On one hand, the solitary voice along the simple piano and guitar work is what gives it its characteristic and singular sad, lonely, melancholy mood. Its stark, simple style gives You are Free its intimate, personal character, not only in its wistful, bittersweet sadness and its somber, brood­
ing tension 




and angst, but also in its cathartic, reflective earnestness and its frag­ile, delicate gentleness. Marshall sings a beau­tiful, cathar­tic song about frus­trated love in the third track, " G o o d Woman." "Nan1es," the 11th song on t h e album, is a slow. s a d . painful s o n g about c h i l d abuse that is agonizing a n d beautiful at once. It leaves a throbbing ache, felt in the very pit of the stom­ach, that lingers a r t e r e a c h excruci­ating lis­t e n . 0th er tracks shine in t h i s album, like the lonely, emotive, broken­hearted, yet hopeful, "Maybe Not," the resigned, frustrated hopefulness of "Fool," and "Werewolf," a despondent, miserable ballad about ic,olation, loneliness and alien­ation. 

There are some points where You are Free tends to falter, lacking direction and energy. While the album is mostly consis­tent in the rhythm and progression of its songs and it maintains itc; pace elegantly, there are places where it appears to stum­ble and lose the energy it has built up along its course. It is at these points where it seems drained and jaded and feels like it is barely stumbling along 
In some parts, particularly in the latter half of the songs, the album seems ram­bling, weak and sleepy, lacking direction and force and leaving the listener weary, unengaged and eventually uninterested. Barely lasting more than two minutes, "Baby Doll" seems to wind on indefinitely, making for a restless, tedious comedown after the rush of the euphoric fury of "He War" and the trembling bitterness of "Shaking Paper." "Half of You," a short, folksy, cute-sweet-love-ballad," could be bearable or maybe even pleasant if it weren't followed by the hypnotically repeti­tive "Keep on Runnin'." "Keep on Runnin"' is an endless, uninteresting, wailing piece that winds along tediously for an unneces­sary four minutes. This is a shame, because the combination of these two lack­luster songs leave the listener too disen­gaged from the album to enjoy "Evolution," a calm, dreamy. melancholy song that expresses the common mood of the album beautifully -a piece that would otherwise have shown to be a tender, placid and pow­erful culmination for the work. 
You are Free invites the listener to take its songs in with a calm mind, closed eyes, a silent, open heart, and careful. patient P.ars. It allows the listener to come and sit in its shade and appreciate its beauty along with its sorrow and its hope. And while it shows at times that shade is just as good for sleeping as it i,; for thinking, feeling and resting the heart, and while it seems like the shade of its more unexciting pieces tends to overshadow some of its more beautiful material, You are Free is definite­ly not an easy listen. 
It is diflicult to take in attentively at first. Its delicate nature contains much of its beauty more subtly than many audiences are used to hearing, and many of these treasures cannot be found without careful appreciation, and a subtle and contempla­tive mood. Marshall is an extraordinarily gifted songwriter with a strikingly versa­tile, expressive and beautiful voice. As an interpreter of emotional, heartfelt, heart­breaking, heart-mending songs about love, passion, pain, forgiveness, people, self and meaning, Marshall is almost unparalleled in talent. 
Next to her, most other women singer/songwriters seem shallow, melodra­matic, wailing, moaning. whining, cater­wauling, unauthentic, fabricated, plastic, superficial divas. She is at once profound and accessible, gentle and forceful, angry and forgiving, calm and passionate, soft and resounding, unassuming and over­whelming, and she's pretty cute -and if that doesn't make Cat Power's You are Free worth giving a listen or two, well sweetheart, nothing will. 
Contact Jose deWit at deWit.2@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, February 25, 2003 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Not just any given Mayer 
He has a hit album, a Grammy as of cohesive By EMILY TUMBRINK Sunday, a massive following of devoted unit, meant Scene Mw;ic Cri1ic fans, a sense of humor, smarts, chann and to be a new release that is sure to please. enjoyed in John Mayer, one of the few genuinely tal­Recorded in Birmingham, Ala., during full, not by ented pop stars of our generation. sure his last tour, Mayer's new two-disc live skipping docs seem to have a lol going for him. album. Any Given Thursday, gives a gener­around to Although he claims that "Something's ous helping of tunes for those who are just listen to indi­Missing," it sure is hard to figure out what. simply not satisfied with Mayer's limited vidual 
catalogue. Offering three tracks. 
previously unreleased Any Given 
songs, a cover of The Thursday 
Police's "Message in a has a dis­
Bottle" and a partial tinctly 
cover of Jimi Hendrix's acoustic 
Anv Given Thursdav John Mayer 
Sony Records 





"Lenny," as well as fan  sound. without all of the expendable pop  "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun." And "Your  
favorites from both Room  stylings that give Room for Squares some­ Body is a Wonderland" has a magnificent  
for Squares and Inside  what of an "easy-listening" feel. Mayer's  jam in the middle.  
Wants Out. this album is  jazz and blues influences are perhaps most  Listeners who have not yet been fortu­ 
a much more diverse and  evident on this album, especially during  nate enough to see Mayer live in concert,  
intimate offering than  the instrumental solos added to the songs  will understand why they need to after  
any of his others.  specifically for live performance. These  hearing Any Given Thursday. Each concert  
Unlike many artists  jams give Mayer an opportunity to show off  is an experience, and this album gives a  
who turn their perform­ his guitar skills that are sometimes neg­ glimpse of what that experience is like.  
ances into large produc­ lected in the polished studio tracks. His  Very rarely does an album come along of  
tions that do not vary  guitar ability most dearly registers during  such quality. in which every song is not just  
from city to city, Mayer  the long solo of "Covered in Rain." Clocking  good, but probably someone's personal  
focuses more on improvi­ in at 10 minutes, 25 seconds, it is the  favorite.  
sation, encouraging fans  longest song on the album.  Although "St. Patrick's Day," a favorite  
to tape shows and follow  After listening to Any Given Thursday, it  from Room for Squares, is regrettably  
him on the various stops  becomes obvious to listeners that Mayer  absent from Any Given Thursday, the  
of his tour. Each song on  thrives on live performance. He updates  album does a nice job of capturing the best  
Any Given Thursday is  his songs, fully invoking the flexibility that  that Mayer has to offer, and is a must-have  
slightly different from the  performing live has to offer. Both "3x5"  for any fans' collection.  
original, but these  and "Why Georgia" are greatly improved  
changes create the flow  due to the addition of long teasing instru­ 
that is so crucial for a live  mental intros. The song "83" benefits from  Contact Emily Tumbrink at  
show. The album is one  a partial cover of Cyndi Lauper's '80s hit  tumbrink. l@nd.edu  

ALBUM REVIEW 
Walkinen blend only the best 
By BJ STREW 
Scene Music Criric 
No desire is more natural than the desire f'or good new music. Some might say that these guys remind them of a more refmed Strokes, some might counter that they sound more like early U2. There's a shade of truth to both claims, but The Walkmen have a unique sound that builds on the two, and easily surpasses both. 
They're newer. 
They're better. 
This band is essentially a group of friends, who after a mediocre foray in major "labeldom," have come together to record their own album. Thank God the ex-Jonathan Fire*Eater crowd jettisoned their sound when they left Drcamworks, opting to follow the indie route: producing their own album out of their own Manhattan studio, Marcata Recording, with leftover funds from a Dreamworks advance. 
Everyone Who Pretended to Like Me is Gone is the result of that work. It is anoth­er example of the gorgeous order spiraling out of the din, the scenester maelstrom of New York City. Like their art-rock com­rades Interpol, The Walkmen furnish their album with a smooth consistency, simplici­ty, a distinct mood and feel, yearning vocals courtesy of erstwhile Recoys front­man Hamilton Leithauser and their trade­mark upright piano. The Walkmen gradu­ally build effectual melodic concoctions from very simple foundations in a way that often hits you just before it leaves you. 
Things start rolling with the pounding, droning, melancholy momentum of "They're Winning." The two-minute opener emerges with a gen­tle crescendo of a single piano note followed by quickly, steadily strummed guitar and plodding bass, each shifting chords infre­quently, while the drums and cymbals sound slightly louder with each beat. Leithauser enters halfway through the song with his idiosyncratic billowing and trembling voice. A few sec­onds after The Walkmen 
reach the harmonic 

Evervone Who Pretended To
climax, when the 
like Me Is Gone
s o n g seems to have cre­

TheWalkmen 
ated its o·wn three­

Star Time Records 
dime n ­
sional space in which the 


piano and guitar 

eerily reverberate against the vocal pinning, the song is over. Naturally, one is left wanting to hear more. 
From the beginning of "Wake Up," com­plimenting the punctuated, then rolling drum beats and abbreviated, strumming guitar, the piano dreamily plays a counter­melody. which Leithauser sings against. The combined effect feels like a break­through: The Walkmcn reach new musical ground through familiar and simple meth­ods. 
Leithauser's athletic delivery straddles the sonic fence between Casablanca,; and Bono: a vigorous. slurred wail that blends perfectly with the ringing guitar chords. And the songwriting is deft, but never overwrought. Their songs wrestle with the classic problems of anxiety and isolation, helping mold the tone of jaded nonconfor­mity -reactions to the current era' s bleak consumerism. 


Everyone Who Pretended to Like Me is Gone is a stunning album, brimming with stark splendor, sounding warmer, lusher and more natural than everything else out there right now. On this debut, The Walkmen deftly unite radio-friendly hooks and structure with less conventional. more atmospheric songs. as well as combine a sense of elegy and entropy throughout. 
They prove they arc more than guitar­heavy prep school art-rock. They are more than The Cure meets Joy Division meHL'i Hadiohead meets Pavement meets U2 meets the Strokes meets whatcver-the­hype-unfairly-says. They are what Notre Dame needs to listen to. They arc a good new band. 
Contact William Strew at strew.l@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
BASEBALL 

Irish split first 4 games, lose twice to No. 4 ASU 
said. "We had a lot of young
. No. 11 Notre 

guys swing the bat pretty well." Dame hits well in Senior right fielder Kris early games Billmaier provided much of 
that offensive muscle, going 8­
for-17 over the weekend withBy CHRIS FEDERICO 
nine RBIs and three home
SportS Writer 

runs. The talented Irish starting
It was an up-and-down week­pitching staff also had a pro­
end for the Irish in Tempe, 
ductive weekend. The startingAriz., as No. 11 Notre Dame rotation of sophomores Chrissplit a four-game weekend to Niese} and John Axford andopen its 2003 season by knock­seniors Pete Ogilvie and Ryaning off Dayton and Newman 
Kalita held opponents to 10
before dropping a pair to host earned runs over 20.2 inningsNo. 4 Arizona State. 
pitched.
"Overall I was happy," Irish "All four of
coach Paul 

our starting
Mainieri said 

..Overall, I was happy. pitchers
"We had a lot 

pitched
of hits and We had a lot ofhits and 
tremendouslyscored a lot 
scored a lot ofruns." for us,"
of runs. But 

Mainieri said. 
we went up "But we're

against an Paul Malnlerl 
early in the
Arizona State Irish coach 
season, and
team that's 

you have to
already 

control howplayed 20­many pitches
something games, and they're they throw. so you take them an excellent team. They're the 
out earlier than you wouldfourth-ranked team in the 
have to later on in the year. So
country, and you're playing 
your bullpen is really key." 
them in their ball park." 

Unfortunately, the Irish
The Irish bats, which have bullpen had its troubles. Thebeen historically cold at the corps of Irish relievers com­
beginning of the season, 
bined to allow 23 earned runsexploded in the four games this in 10 innings, including a five­weekend as Notre Dame bat­run seventh inning by Dayton 
ters smacked 54 hits and scored 36 runs over the four Friday to tie the game and a games. nine-run (five unearned) yield 
"This was as well as we've by the Sun Devils Sunday to ever hit the first weekend of overcome a four-run Irish lead. the season in the nine years In the first game against that I've been here," Mainieri Arizona State, Irish relievers Matt Laird and Martin Vergara were beat up for 11 earned runs by the Sun Devil hitters. 
"ln the two Arizona State games, our bullpen faltered," Mainieri said. "But they're going to be able to do the job for us as the 
the lineup -freshmen Steve Andres. Brennan Grogan and Craig Cooper and sophomore Matt Edwards -who were a collective 10-for-15 at the plate with five runs scored and five RBIs. 
In their 
year pro­gresses. I'm not worried at all about it." Things started off  "In the two Arizona State games, our bullpen faltered, but they're going to be able to do the  second game of the season against Newman, the Irish hitters remained  
shaky for the Irish as Notre Dame blew a  job for us as the year progresses."'  red hot as they drove home 15  
five-run, sev­ runs  on  17  
enth -inning  Paul Malnlerl  hits, led  by  
lead  in  its  Irish coach  Billmaier.  
season opener  who went 3­ 
against  for-4  with  
Dayton.  But  two  home  

with the score tied 9-9 in the runs and six RBIs. Junior sec­eighth inning, tri-captain ond baseman Steve Sollmann Billmaier sent a Kaleb also was 3-t'or-4 with one HBI Thompson pitch sailing over and two runs scored. the fence for the eventual The Irish starter in the game, game-winning home run. Axford, had a relatively easy 
Notre Dame starter Niesel time with Newman hitters, went six innings and allowed allowing two runs on eight hits only four runs, but freshman over six innings in earning his reliever Ryan Doherty had first victory of the season. 
some trouble in yielding five The game was called after earned runs in only two-thirds the seventh inning with the of an inning to spoil Niesel's Irish up 15-5. bid for victory. In their first game with the 
Reliever Brandon Viloria then Sun Devils, the Irish took a 1-0 came in and worked 1.1 score­lead into the fifth inning. Some less innings for the win and defensive miscues would hurt senior J.P. Gagne closed the the Irish in the inning as the game out in the ninth to earn Sun Devils took a 5-1 lead on his first save of the season. the strength of first baseman 
The Irish belted out 18 hits in Jeff Larish's grand slam. the contest, led by the efforts of Over the next three innings, their six through nine hitters in Arizona State would score J 1 more runs for an eventual 16-3 victory. 
In their last game of the weekend. the Irish foll behind 4-1 early to Arizona State until a seven-run sixth inning by Notre Dame, capped off by shortstop Matt Macri's two-run homerun. Six different Irish batters connected for hits in the inning that put Notre Dame ahead 8-4. 
After the sixth-inning explo­sion. things looked pretty good for the Irish as Notre Dame sent ace reliever Gagne to the mound to shut things down. But with two outs in the inning, Arizona State had its own explosion. The Sun Devils sent 15 batters to the plate in the sixth and scored 9 runs, all with two outs, to reclaim the lead 13-8. 
All in all the marathon sixth inning lasted 53 minutes and saw 26 hitters sent to the plate. 
The Sun Devils would add one more run and hang on to the lead for the 14-8 victory. 
"Losing to Arizona State a couple of times, there's no shame in that," Mainieri said. "We were disappointed, but we'd like to have another shot at those guys later in the year and in the post-season. We'll be a better team by then. I'm certain of that." 
The Irish are now 2-2 on the season after the four-game opening weekend. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
LACROSSE 

No. 17 Irish defeat No. 16 Nittany Lions 10-9 
. Team avenges State 10-9. Notre Dame up 4-3 at the State, and then Berger added Notre Dame was junior goal­
Junior Dan Berger led the half. yet another score, to put the keeper Stewart Crossland,last year's loss to way for the Irish, scoring four The Irish never looked back Irish ahead 9-5. who netted 18 saves, playingPenn State goals to help Notre Dame in the second half. They Penn State, despite the all 60 minutes in his first con­
avenge last year's 10-9 home opened the third quarter with deficit, would not fold, and test. His stellar play helped to loss to Penn State in overtime. two straight goals, one by scored two straight goals to ease preseason concernsBy HFATHER VAN 
On Sunday, once again, it Berger, and one by Travis get within 9-7. However, the about the goalkeeper position.
HOEGARDEN 

was the Nittany Lions who Wells. Karweck picked up the Irish responded with 8:58 to The Irish return home this
Sports Writer struck first, as Will Cutler assist on Berger's goal. Chris go, and took a 10-7 lead that weekend, when they face scored with 10: 58 left in the Richez capped the 3-1 scoring they would not relinquish, Pennsylvania Saturday at As soon as the final whistle first quarter of action. frenzy with another goal, despite a goal from Penn Loftus. blew, Irish eyes were once Irish freshman Matt making it 7-4 with only the State's Marshall Feldman The game is set to start at 1 again smiling. Karweck responded with his fourth quarter left to play. with 3:59 remaining in the p.m. After last year's season, first collegiate goal to tie it However, the Irish were not game.which included seven losses up. He started a flurry of done scoring quite yet. Howell finished with five by a combined 10 goals, the goals that saw three more Freshman Patrick Walsh got assists for the Irish, who Irish were able to pull out a Irish players score. Berger, into the action, scoring his improved to 6-4 lifetime Contact Heather Van close game to start the new Matt Howell and Owen first collegiate goal. Marc against Penn State. Hoegarden at season, defeating No. 16 Penn Mulford each scored to put Young answered for Penn Another bright spot for hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day da.ssifieJs is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, inch.tding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES LOST & FOUND 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! FOUND NEAR CLUB 23 -CAN-Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & NONDALE BIKE. IDENTIFY TO Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, CLAIM. CALL 574-607-0706. Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1­800·234-7007 'lfmi.,1md1esllli!.!rnrn1u!Qura.~rn 
WANTED
5 Bedroom house available June 1, 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964 

Officials Wanted. Apply STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 w/RecSports by Clinic Dates: OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 Lacrosse Feb. 25 @ 7p RSRC. BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW Floor Hockey Feb.25 @ 8p RSRC. EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM· Soccer Feb. 25 @ 9p RSAC. More PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER info email hadams@nd.edu OR FALL. 235-3655 NETWORK MARKETING MEETS BIOTECH Local Domer (BSBiology 77/MBA 84)seeks hard working ND/SMC students who want fin an• cial security by graduation. Take your business home on breaks • work from anywhere. Call Charlie 574-289-2803 tor into. 
FOR SALE 
4-bdrm, 2-balh home, close ta cam­pus. Clay Twp. 271-5144. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent. $250 month  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it  2 days until Florida! ;)  
includes utilities. 272-1525  alone. If you or someone you love  
mmmrentals@aol.com  needs confidential support or assis•  l'm gonna work this. I'm gonna  
tance. please call Sr. Mary Louise  make it mine...  
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
homes 1/2 mile from campus.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  I've seen a human pyramid before.  
mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  The Observer.  It was very unnecessary.  
www.mmmrentals.com  
O'Doyle rules!!!  Fins to the left!  

LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND FOR 3-5 PEOPLE 2773097 
Summer Roommate Wanted Castle Pt243•7553 
PERSONAL 
Mer, I hope the comp. went great! If your friend was a tightrope walker and I was walking down the street So screwed tor con law... with him and he tell... that would be very unexceptable. 
Around the world was a HUGE success! 1 more day until our EiC is legal! ;) 
Waitress I need 2 more boat Hey Rob, did you finally unwrap drinks... your books yet? ;) 
12 days until spring break! Fins to the right! 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish narrowly lose to Wildcats 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Spom Writer 
Once again, it was a close match for the Irish. 
With Notre Dame leading 3-2, and lhe final two matches near completion. No. 44 Notre Dame was on the verge of an upset victory over No. 40 Northwestern Saturday. With a victory by either freshman Patrick Buchanan or sopho­more Luis Haddock in those last matches, the Irish would have earned their first upset win of the season. . 
But the Wildcats hung on. Tommy Ilanus topped Haddock in a closely contested 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (3-7), 7-5 triumph, tying the score. Thon, seconds later, Buchanan fell, as did the hopes for an Irish victory, as Adam Schaechtorle won 6-7 (6-8), 6-3. 7-6 (7-3). Northwestern won 4­3. 
Against Michigan State Wednesday, Haddock had saved the day for the Irish with his victory in the linal match. After fighting for a long time Saturday though, he could not do the same against I!anus. 
"I had a pretty tough match," Haddock said. "I couldn't put it together at the end." 
Last season, the Irish were 10-0 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. This spring, they are 0-5. But the Irish, 3-6 overall, began the day with the hope of winning their first home victory of the season. 
"It's pretty surprising that we actually have a better record on the road right now," Haddock said. "The past few years here at home we were unbeatable." 
The Irish have seen some tough competition at home, though, and have suffered a few dose losses. Notre Dame start­ed to turn around a season that began 0-4. and the team secs signs of improvement. 
"We're definitely playing bet­ter than we did at the beginning of the year," Haddock said. "I thought we played a pretty good match !Saturday]. We put our­selves in the position to win." 
For example, for only the third time this spring season, Notre Dame claimed the dou• hies point, to go ahead 1-0. 
Junior Matt Scott and sopho­more Brent D'Amico upset Scaechterle and Josh Axler, ranked 31st nationally in dou­bles. Then, after a loss by juniors Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo and Ben Hatten, the_ Irish took the doubles point with the 8-6 victory by Haddock and senior tri-captain Brian Farrell. 
Although winning the doubles points. in Haddock's words, "makes a huge difference," the Wildcats came back. D'Amico was defeated for only the sec­ond time during the spring sea­son as Axler won, 6-1, 6-3. Farrell and Scott brought the score to 3-1 with their victories. Farrell defeated Chuck Perrin, 6-4, 6-2, and Scott, ranked 119th in the nation, triumphed over Jackie Jenkins, 6-2, 7-6 (7­4). 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sport• Writer 
In a weekend of play that included bouts with three top 25 teams, the 19th ranked Irish were jostled a little as they added three l_osses to their record. 
Notre Dame was edged 4-3 by both No. 25 Kentucky and No. 11 Tennessee, on Monday and Sunday. respectively. Before· their southern road trip, the Irish were defeated 5­2 by Duke, the nation's No. 1 team. 
"It was definitely a little dis­appointing," junior Alicia Salas said. "(Although] we knew we were playing top teams." 
The Irish began well against Kentucky as they claimed the doubles point_ There were some good moments in singles, too, with junior Caylan Leslie upsetting No. 48 Nathalie Roels, 6-3, 6-4, and freshman Kristina Statsny winning over Shannon Stafford. 6-4, 6-1. lt was Leslie's third singles victo­ry of the weekend. 
"We played a lot better in doubles . . . but we fell short in singles," Sa.las said. 
Salas was defeated by No. 34 Sarah Witten, 6-1, 6-2. Senior captain Katie Cunha, sopho­more Sarah Jane Connelly and freshman Lauren Connelly were all defeated in straight sets also. 
The doubles point was a high point for the Irish Monday. 

"The first day, what was disappointing against Tennessee was losing the dou­bles point," Salas said. "That could have made a difference in the match for sure." 
Against the Volunteers. the duo of Cunha and Statsny upset the 22nd-ranked pair in the nation, 8-6. The previous day Cunha and Statsny also defeated Duke's Hillary Adams and Kelly McCain, ranked 13th nationally. 


The Irish went into Friday's match with Duke with the atti­tude that they had nothing to lose, and the 5-2 loss was not entirely disappointing. 
According to Salas, the matches with Tennessee and Kentucky were "improved, but at the same time disappoint­ing." 
The Irish have more tough competition looming ahead, with No. 42 Wake Forest and No. 14 Texas coming to the Eck Pavilion Friday and Saturday, respectively. The team hopes to use their experi­ences from last weekend's tough slide to turn potentially close matches into Irish victo­ries. 
"These were two of our clos­est matches of the year," Salas said. "Being a young team we just learn a lot by getting in these close matches, realizing how important the doubles point is. If we win the doubles point. [we have to] realize that it's still very possible to lose the singles." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

WANT THE BRAGGING RIGHTS OF A BIG EAST CHAMPION? 

sponsored· b'," 
NAUTICA COMPETITION~ 
THE NEWEST PLAYER IN .MEN'S FRAGRANCE 
w,;;iable at l.S. AYRES 
G•t frae INSTANT CONFERENCE CHAMPJDNSHlF> TICl<ETS. Stup by L.S. Ayu11, Univ.rslt~ Park on Marett 8, 2003. With 
nnv NAUTICA COMPETITION ft'•~r~nca tiur-ehAll!i or $3"5 or­mor,. 9t1t .a FREE NAUTICA COMPETITION Baclt•tbali by 
Spaldmge, Free Ccnrsr11nc11 Chsmpionahip T1r:ltf!'t1 will b01 randi;m1ly includ11d with limited 
~ING a-ad•man -"·" by Sp.l'ldmt 90o'1U WaT'ldlll'lde. 11"11:!l Dl"-U... 9pot1; ¦. l1tc. 
•, • 8Ptlk!IJ111 Atf•O•t• 
I•,~; L' ..., ,. , . 
to.-: 

THE NAUTICA COMPETITION SHOOTOUT IS YOUR CHANCE TD PLAY FOR A BIG EAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP. 
2 person teams will haue : 60 to score as many points as possible from spots on the floor. Become Conference Champs and WIN. 
WIN THE CDNfERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP ANO GET: 
• 
$1000 in cash {$500 per playerl 

• 
$1000 in NAUTICA COMPETITION Clothing ($500 per player! 

• 
The license to telk trash... Anywhere. Anytime! 


BECOME CAMPUS CHAMPIONS ANO GET: 
• 
An ail expenses-paid trip to the BIG EAST Conference Championship where you·n get 

• 
The chance to destr' .Y your confArence rivals for the big prize 


• Free tickets ta watch the tournament live in per-son, and 
• Free bottles of NAUTICA COMPETITION • The Newest Player ,n Men·s Fragrance 
UL PLAVEIIS GU: 

• NAUTICA COMPETITION Shootout Jerseys · for the hr-st 75 
teams to register -sign up quickly! 
• Frae samples of NAUTICA COMPETl110N -The Newest Player in Men's Fr-egtance 
GET IN THE GAME 

WHlAf; Rockne Memorial 
WNlH· Wednesday, February 26th from 7:00-9:00pm 
HltW rll tlHHUEA; Go co Rockne Memorial dur,ng the 
hours listed for more information 
or to r'egister 
IIDWTII PUW: • 2 players per-tearn, so pick Your v.t1nning partner lVors1ty Players exctudecU 
• 
Score as manv points as you can 1n 60 seconds 

• 
Outshoot your opponents during preliminary i'!nd nnal rounds far your chuncc to play 1r1 the Conference Championship. 


WOMENS TENNIS 

Irish lose 3 to top 25 teams 
Basketball author signing at Hammes 
Special to The Observer 
The author of a newly released book about the rigors of coaching college basketball will be autographing books at the Hammes bookstore Tuesday. 
Brian Curtis wrote his book, "The Men of March: A season Inside the Lives of College Basketball Coaches," by fol­lowing four Division 1 mens basketball coaches during last year's season. Notre Dame coach Mike Brey was one of those coaches and his experi­ences are recorded through­out Curtis' book . 
The first chapter involving Brey explains the nerve­wracking week that led up to the hiring of Matt Dougherty as Notre Dame head coach in 1999. 
The book goes on to tell about Brey's eventual hiring at Notre Dame and the ups and downs of the 2001 -02 Irish season. 
The book also describes the experiences of Iowa's Steve Alford. UCLA's Steve Lavin and lllinios's Bill Self during last season. 
At points in the book, Curtis 
weaves different coaching examples from the four coach­es and compares and con­trasts them. 
He also shows how Brey and the other three handled slumping players and mistakes while coaching. 
Curtis has received praise from numerous sports figures and commentators across the country, including Bob Costas, Lee Fowler and Seth Davis of Sports Illustrated. 
"Brian Curtis has put togeth­er a rare, insightful and thor­oughly reported look at the highest levels of college bas­ketball. Anyone who watches and follows college hoops is going to love this book," Davis said. 
Curtis wrote this book by fol­lowing all four coaches around duriltg their preseason, regu­lar season, conference tourna­ments and finally into the NCAA tournament. 
He takes turns describing the series of triumphs and struggles each coach and his respective team go through as the season moves forward. 
He will be signing his book for most of the day Tuesday. 
Tuesday, February 25, 2005

page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
S,~ Mh Centerfor Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

00 m ~ ~ @ oo . oo ~ ~ 11M 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Prayers for Peace 
Campus Ministry would like to invite you to join other students, faculty, and staff to pray for peace. 
Each Friday, the 5:15 p.m. Mass in the Basilica will be a Votive Mass for Peace . As our country and the world face much conflict, we recognize the importance of gathering as a community of hope to pray for the perfect peace Christ gives. 
Please join us this Friday and in the weeks to come. 

Current Volunteer Opportunities Special Needs: 
A tutor is needed for a special needs child who is in kindergarten (6). He could be tutored on any afternoon or evening besides Wednesday at Hesburgh Library. 
Contact Cody Johnson at 258-0198. 
Special Projects: 

Volunteers are needed to staff a crisis hotline at the local YWCA, which helps women and their families who are victims of domestic abuse. 
Contact Ms. Stratton at 233-9491 ext. 323. 
Tutors/Mentors: 

A few tutors are needed to tutor at McKinley Elementary School with Professor Werge of the English department. Tutoring is on Wednesdays from 2:30-3:30. 
Contact Professor Werge at 631-7679. 
Que_stions on the above opportunities? 
Please email 
cscvols@nd.edu. 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES: 
New York Teacher Volunteer Program Wednesday/Thursday, February 26th, 27th 
Sr. Deanna Sabetta from the New York Teacher Volunteer Program will be at the Center for Social Concerns to meet with women who are interested in teaching positions at an all girls Catholic High School in New York City on Wednesday, February 26 (9-4 or later) and Thursday, February 27 (9-12 am). Sign up for an interview time at the CSC front desk. 
Third Annual Saint Mary's Post-Graduation Service Fair 
TONIGHT! February 25th, 2003 6:30 -8:30 p.m., Reignbeaux Lounge in LeMans Visit with representatives and get information about post graduation opportunities. Summer service opportunities will also be available! All students are invited! Contact Sr. Linda, 284-5368 if you have any questions. 
The Louverture Cleary School in Croix-des-Bouquets, Haiti Friday, February 28th, 2003 from noon -2 p.m. The Haitian Project runs the Louverture Cleary School, which is committed to restoring Haiti through education. The school is a five-day boarding school for under-privileged, academically gifted middle and high school students. As a volunteer, you will live at the school in community with other volunteers, teach classes according to your experience and talents, and learn how it feels to be part of a family of 200 students, faculty and staff. 
Returned volunteer, Kate Kowalski '99 will be at the CSC, to talk with interested students. To apply, or for more information, contact Reese Jarret '01 at (401)521-2255 ext. 54 or thp@ids.net 

Tuesday, February 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
first half, running up and down the court for easy layups, while coercing the Irish into playing their up-tempo style of play. 
"Certainly I take my hat off to Connect.icut, J thought they played fabulous basketball." Irish coach Mike Brey said. "They really had us back on our heels in the rrrst half. They hurt us early with layups, then we adjusted a little bit and then they're drilling threes. I don't think we can take both away with [their] kind ofspeed." 
Anderson provided much of the spark for Connecticut in the first half when he drilled 5 of 7 3-pointers and had 15 points at halftime. The Huskies also got significant contributions from Marcus White, who grabbed 14 rebounds in a reserve role. 
"We get contributions from different people at different times and that really makes it special," Calhoun said. "Of all the wins this year, clearly the kids were happiest with this win. This was on the road, in a tough environment against an awfully good basketball team that can do some very good things. We were able to impose our quickness on them tonight." 
Matt Carroll led the Irish with 28 points, while Chris Thomas added 19. 
"You tip your hat off to them. They played a hell of a game," Carroll said. 'Tm proud of our team, I think we made a nice run in the second half, but it's tough especially against a team like UConn when you get down that many to comeback and try and get a win." 
Notre Dame actually jumped out to an early 15-8 lead on 3­pointers from Carroll and Thomas. But the Huskies quick­ly turned that deficit into a big lead by ripping off a 38-16 run to end the half. Anderson led the charge. knocking down five 3­pointers, despite playing just 10 minutes in the half. His trey with 
11:12 left in the first half gave Connecticut a lead they would not relinquish. 
As the Connecticut run contin­ued throughout much of the first half, Notre Dame became increasingly frustrated with their opponent and the referees. Thomas became especially upset after no foul was called when he attempted a layup with just less than eight minutes left in the half. Thomas argued his case before a television timeout and then added a few more comments after the timeout. That extra jawing got him a technical foul 
The Huskies stretched their advantage to 17 in the early moments of the second half before the Irish started to crawl back into the game. Notre Dame cut the lead to 10 with 14:12 left in the game, before Anderson drained his sixth 3-pointer of the game. 
But Notre Dame wouldn't quit and got the lead down to 10 again at 63-53 when the Connecticut bench picked up a technical foul after Carroll had been fouled. The Irish got their best free-throw shooter on the line for four straight shots and Carroll hit them all. Suddenly Notre Dame was within six points. 
After Okafor missed a jumper on Connecticut's next posses­sion, Dan Miller drilled a 3­pointer to get Notre Dame with­in three at 63-60. Connecticut scored the next five points before Miller hit another 3­pointer to cut the Irish deficit to two. 
But Notre Dame would get no closer as Connecticut scored the next seven points and hung on to win by eight. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Coluilln 
continued from page 20 
poorly -or as well -as the 
Irish played Monday night, 
Connecticut was simply that 
much better. Yet Notre 
Dame still lost because it 
dug itself a hole two points 
too big. 
When the Huskies nearly doubled Notre Dame's offen­sive output after the first television timeout, the Irish couldn't respond. First, the Huskies sliced through the lane by scoring lay-up after lay-up. Then, when the Irish buckled down into the lane, Connecticut made them pay from behind the arc. 
When the Irish needed a defensive stop, they couldn't get it. When they needed a momentum-changing bas­ket, they couldn't get it. 
And it didn't help that the SWAT team lent Emeka Okafor to the Huskies for the season. 
"Every time we came down to hit a shot, it felt like they came down and hit two -and a lot of those were threes," said Matt Carroll. who watched his chances of going undefeated at home disappear faster than the Joyce Center crowd in the waning minutes of Monday's game. 
The wheels finally came off the bus when Thomas thought he got fouled on a lay up, but didn't get the call. He lazily jogged down the court, watched Ben Gordon drill a 3-pointer to give the Huskies a 30-23 lead, watched Mike Brey call a 30-second timeout, then came back on the court and watched an official serve him a technical foul. 
Thomas then spent the next five minutes watching from the bench. Big Monday appeared close to becoming Black Monday. 
"We weren't composed to make a run in the first half," Brey said. "It was going to come in the second." 
And come it did. The Irish came out of the locker room like a different team and whittled a lead that got as big as 17 points down to a two-point game. Thomas, who played a key part in Notre Dame's dismal first 
I I I I l 

I Monday, Feb. 24th
I ­
lwear your silver ribbon all Iweek. Ribbons available at the Center for Social 
I Concems front desk. 
lwww.nd.cdu/~bbuddics 
I 
Notre Dame 
DISABILITY AWARENESS WEEK 
February 24~27, 2003 
Tuesday, Feb. 25th 
Life After College 
Students with Special Needs Discussion 
8p.m. LaFortune Notre Dame Room All invited. 
Wednesday,Feb. 26th 
Panel Discussion 
Experiences with Special Needs: Students, Parents, Children, Siblings, Adults. 
7p.m. Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
half, scored 10 points as Notre Dame cut what was once a runaway game into a 68-66 nail biter. 
Yet Notre Dame, weary from trying to come back against a team with a signif­icant quickness advantage, never scored that final bas­ket. 
That's often the story of Notre Dame's season so far. They're brilliant most of the time. They're discombobu­lated some of the time. And when they get out of sync, that's when Notre Dame games quickly become excit­ing for opposing fans. 
Figuring out what makes Notre Dame tick is difficult, and figuring out what throws them off-balance is even tougher. But it's obvi­ous when the Irish are rolling and when they aren't. 
Throughout the season, the Irish have a tendency to get hot early, then tem­porarily wilt while the oppo­sition mounts a brief come­back before pulling away for the victory in the final min­utes of a game. To Notre Dame's credit, its six losses have come against high-cal­iber teams. 
But in the NCAA Tournament, every team is a high-caliber team. And if the Irish can't figure out a way to play "Notre Dame basket­ball" for 40 minutes, as every player described Notre Dame's second-half output, then they'll be watching the second week­end of the tournament from their dorm rooms. 
The Irish played like a first-round washout the first half. They transformed into a Final Four-caliber team for most of the second. 
If the Irish decipher the difference between the two teams, they'll be playing games through late March. 
The Irish valiantly tried to come back and win against the Huskies. But "it seemed like they always had an answer," Carroll said. 
Even as his team searched for its own. 
The opinions expressed in this column are that ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Thursday, Feb. 27th 
Keynote Speaker, 
Girard Sagmiller, Author of Dyslexia, My Life 
Discover how you can help someone with a Leaming Disability. 7p.m. DeBartolo Hall Room lOI Free Admission. 
FENCING 
Irish finish season 
ByMAITLOZAR 
Sports Editor 
With the competition at the Michigan State Duals being lower than what the Irish usually see, coach Janusz Bednarski made his lineups with the future in mind -both this year and next year. 
Bednarski used a combi­nation of the regular fencers along with the walk-ons as the mens and womens fenc­ing squads went 4-0 to com­plete their regular seasons. 
"We are usuaJiy relying on them [the walk-ons] heavi­ly," Bednarski said. "Even in some cases, we are giving the back-up fencers the ability to learn for next year which is crucial since we are losing seven seniors. l sacrificed some results to give them the opportuni­ties." 
Those seven seniors, Ozren Debic, Gabor Szelle, Matt Fabricant, Jan Viviani, Anna Carnick, Meagan Call and Liza Boutsikaris com­bined for a 32-1 record in their last regular season meet. 
Debic's 43-1 season gave him the fifth best single sea­son winning percentage (. 977) and he finished third (.952) on the career winning percentage list. Szelle ended his career with the sixth most regular-season wins 
(182) in Notre Dame history. Debic and Viviani finished with the best career win­ning percentages in their respective weapons. 
Carnick finished her career with 179 wins, which puts her 10th on the wom­ens overall wins list and third on the epee list. Call and Boutsikaris tied for 11th on the womens list with 168 wins. 

I 
The mens team completed its third consecutive unde­
feated season (23-0) and extended its dual-matchI unbeaten streak to 82. No.1 
I 
Notre Dame defeated Detroit and Purdue each 24­3 and both Michigan and 
I 
Michigan State 22-5. The third-ranked womens 
I 
team finished its season with a 21-2 record. The women defeated Purdue 26­
I 
1, both Michigan State and Detroit 23-4 and Michigan 17-10. 
I 
With the regular season completed, the Irish head into this weekend's Midwest 
Fencing ConferenceI Championships looking to
I 

repeat. "We are prepared. UsuallyI it is a harder competition, 
I 
I 
but it is better for us and we can show the physical strength we have," 
Bednarski said. "We work very hard on the physical 

1 side. The mental side -if you work hard, then you areI stronger mentally." 
Contact Matt Lozar at

j 
mlozar@nd.edu

t~------~------------~-------­
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE: OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
NHL 




but didn't record a shot. remaining, putting a shot power-play goal at 5:37
Associated Press 

He won nine of 15 face­past Jamie Storr after put the Kings on the 
DETROIT offs. making a move. That goal board. 
Steve Yzerman's season Brett Hull and Igor came just as Yzerman Maltby broke a 17-game debut was a success as Larionov each had a goal was stepping out of the goal drought when he the Detroit Red Wings and an assist, and Kirk penalty box after he poked the puck in off a beat the Los Angeles Maltby, Tomas slashed Laperriere. goal-mouth scramble with Kings 5-4 on Monday Holmstrom and Sergei But Armstrong brought 4:05 remaining. night. Fedorov also scored for the Kings back within one Holmstrom was credited 
The Red Wings captain Detroit. goal when he scored with with a power-play goal missed the first 61 games Mathieu Schneider, Ian 2:06 left. with 2:27 left when the this season because of Laperriere, Eric Belanger Laperriere's goal, off a rebound of Hull's shot surgery on his right knee and Derek Armstrong had rebound, with 16.4 sec­bounced in off on Aug. 2. He last played the Los Angeles goals. onds left in the second Holmstrom's skate. It in Game 5 of last June's Eric Belanger pulled the period brought Los gave Holmstrom a career­Stanley Cup Finals when Kings within 4-3 with Angeles within 4-2. The high 17 goals. the Red Wings won the 6:52 left when his slap Red Wings scored three Hull gave Detroit a 1-0 Stanley Cup. shot from the right faceoff goals in the period. lead with 4:22 left in the 
Yzerman did not figure dot beat Manny Legace Larionov made it 2-0 first period when his one­into any of the Detroit high to the long side. just 40 seconds in when time slap shot from deep goals. He played 18 shifts, Fedorov scored off a he tipped in Fedorov's in the right circle went totaling 13:17 of ice time, breakaway with 3:07 pass. But Schneider's through Storr's pads. 
IN BRIEF 

Game helps Orioles cope through it." underwent additional tests Monday at After one of the most tragic weeks in Bechler, a 23-year-old pitching Massachusetts General Hospital in franchise history, the Baltimore prospect, died less than 24 hours after Boston. Team spokesman Chris Orioles welcomed the opportunity to collapsing during a workout. He Wallace said the 76ers wouldn't imme­play a baseball game Monday. reported to camp overweight and out diately discuss the results. Exactly one week earlier, the players of shape, and the Broward County Medical experts said Monday it's 
were pulled from the field and told chief medical examiner has linked the unlikely Macculloch will be able to that teammate Steve Bechler died of death to a diet supplement containing continue playing with a genetic disor­heatstroke. The team then spent the ephedrine. der known as Charcot-Marie-Tooth 
rest of the week trying to come to Coping with the loss of a teammate disease. terms with the tragedy. was a new, unwanted experience for In most cases, doctors said, patients So even though Monday's four­the majority of the Orioles. lose normal use of their feet and legs 
inning intrasquad game had virtually "It's been an unusually tough start slowly as their nerves stop working no effect on the 2003 season, it served for a lot of us," outfielder Chris properly and their muscles deterio­as a welcome departure from the Richard said. "It's the first time for a rate. events of the previous seven days. number of us that someone close has "It's a progressive disease, and at 
"It's been a tough week for us, for passed away like this. You've just got this time there is no treatment," said the ballclub and the Bechler family," to get through it and take it day by Dr. Carlos Garcia, a professor of clini­second baseman Jerry Hairston said. day." cal neurology at Tulane. "Sometimes "We lost a member of our family; surgery can help, but I don't believe that's the way we look i.!,t it." Return is unlikely for 76ers' you can play basketball once you have 
"Obviously. he's going to be missed. MacCulloch these types of problems in your feet But at the same time, Beck would Diagnosed with a disease that weak­and your hands." want us to move on and really start ens his legs and disrupts his balance, At a news conference Sunday, 
the season well. It's a sad situation, Todd MacCulloch could be done play­MacCulloch tried to sound upbeat but but the guys are doing the best they ing basketball. choked back tears as he talked about can. Hopefully we can somehow get The Philadelphia 76ers' center making basketball "secondary." 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
freshman, Pierce was a phe­nom in the 155-pound weight division. But Pierce was stopped short of fighting his way out of the Joyce Fieldhouse when he lost in the semifinals. 
As a sophomore, Pierce again blazed his way through the 155-pound weight divi­sion. But this time there was no roadblock in his path to the second dome of the Joyce Centor. Pierce earned a spot in the finals and was victori­ous before a large crowd. In the two short years since he picked up a pair of boxing gloves, Pierce adroitly parried and pummeled his way to the top of his weight class. 
But Pierce disappeared from the campus's boxing elite as quickly as he had appeared on it. Neither an injury nor a precipitous decline in skills were to blame, as Pierce spent the boxing season abroad during his junior year. The decision lo bypass defending his title was not an easy one. 
"It was tough," Pierce said. "I wanted to stay and fight but it was a once in a lifetime opportunity to go abroad." 
Now a senior, he has faced a long road back in order to capture another title. The journey spanned two conti­nents. one ocean and a jump in weight class. Now boxing in the 160-pound weight divi­sion, he has had lo adjust his style. 
"There are taller guys ­I'm not tall," Pierce said. "I need to fight low, work the opponent's body .and wear him down." 
Pierce was successful so far, defeating Jesse Shallcross 1 minute, 28 seconds into the first round during his opening 

match Sunday. Pierce found it tough to gage how far away he was from peaking due to the abbreviated fight. He finds scouting other fighters to be of little use as well. 
"With all the training, you never know how you'll do until you get out there," Pierce said. "Seeing oppo­nents fight doesn't help much because they'll fight different­ly against me." 
With the semifinals on Wednesday, Pierce has been able to shed his teaching role and concentrate mainly on fighting. As a captain, he taught novices the basics of fighting in the fall and helped lead the other boxers in 
workouts during the spring. He has advice for any stu­dents considering boxing next year. 
"Definitely give it a shot," Pierce said. "My main goal this year was to pass on to the younger guys how much fun I've had with the cama­raderie and hard work ethic. There's also a higher purpose with the money that we donate to Bangladesh. Our chaplain reminds us before each fight that it doesn't mat­ter how we do, because we are already champions." 
Contact Lisa Reiju.la at lreijula@nd.edu 

NAUTICA COMPETITION~ 
SHOOTOUT IS YOUR CHANCE
THE NEWEST Pl.AYER IN MEN'S FRAGRANCE". 
av~ble at l.S. AYRES 
Gee. free INSTANT CON~EAE'NCE CHAMPIONSHIP TICKETS. Stop by L.S. Avre.-., Unlvar-sit.y 
P•r~ or, Marc~ B, 2 . 03. W'!t.h 
ony NAUTICA COMPETITION lragranca ~1.11•~/'la1u1 of $35 gr more, gttt a FR£C NAUrlt.:A 
COMPETITION B•sketbell b'/ 
Spei!ding•. Fre" Conftr11ne:e Champ1onahip r,ci..et& will b1:1 
rando-ml'f included. with l~mited 
ba&htbOlli-. So hurry. Whtie 
111uppHea !ar;t. 

$P"'-"u,G 1r_..m11fll -•cl by Sp•ld111g 2lporQ WCrld""1U•. In;. 
n1' l"°9 &pert«. 1"1:l-. 
.... • SO.ldlrlil .-1.....,. 
·,.:-.. r\,._, .• 

TD PLAY FDR A BIG EAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP. 
2 person teams will have : 60 to score as many points as possible from spots on the floor. Become Conference Champs and WIN. 
WIN THE CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP AND GET: 
• 
$1 ODO in cash ($500 per pl ayerl 

• 
$1000 in NAUTICA COMPETITION Clothing ($500 per pla;,erl 

• 
Ttie license to talk trash... Anywhere, Anytime! 


BECOME CIIMPUS CHAMPIONS AND &ET: 
• An all expenses-paid trip to the BIG EAST Conference 
Championship wttere you'll get: 
• The chance to dest.ro~ ~our conference rivals for the 
big prize 

• 
Frae tickets to watch the tournament live in person, and 

• 
Free bottles of NAUTICA COMPETITION · The Newest Player m Mcn·s Fragrance 


All PLAYERS Gfl: 

• 
NAUTICA COMP£T1110N Shootout Jerseys • lor the first 75 team!': co regiscer -sign up Quickly! 

• 
Free samples of NAUTICA COMPITITION -The NewPSt Playi!r 


in Men's Fregrance 
HT IN. THE GAME 

Rockne Memorial
WNtRE: 

WNlN: Wednesday, February 26th 
from 7 00-9:00pm 
HDW Tl lllDl5TIA; Go to Rockne Memorial during the hours listed for more 1ntormation or to register 
• 2 players per ceam. so pick your wmrnng
HOW ID PUIY, 

part.ner ,va1s1r.v Players e.itcluded} 
• 
Score as many po1nta .as you can rn 60 seconds 

• 
Outstioot your appnnents during prehm1nary 


and final rol.Jnds for your chance to play 1n 
the Conference Champ1onsh1p. 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish start season with tough games 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Spom Writer 

After a rain-drenched week­end at the NFCA Leadoff Classic, in which the No. 23 Irish played only three games instead of the scheduled five, it looked like the sun would shine on the Irish as they led No. 17 Alabama 4-0 going into the sev­enth inning on Sunday after­noon. 
Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein retired the first two batters before lightning struck as the Crimson Tide scored seven runs before the inning was over. 
"Against Alabama we played a great 6 2/3 innings," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We were one out away from keeping them scoreless and we let the gates open and from there they took over. We hit well, we pitched well. and we played defense real well for 6 2/3 innings. We just have to finish it." 
Alabama first basemen Jackie McClain started the scoring in the seventh with a three-run homer that brought the Crimson Tide within one. Coach Gumpf responded by making a pitching change as she brought in freshman Heather Booth to get the last out After a walk, Alabama out­fielder Jackie Wilkins hit a two­run home run to put the Tide in front 5-4. Alabama would score two more runs in the inning before the Irish recorded the third out. 

After rain postponed all of Friday's action, the Irish took the field Saturday to face No. 4 California, the defending national champions. Soon the Irish found them down 2-0, when Bearcat catcher Courtney Scott drilled a two-run homer over the left field wall in the first inning. 
In the bottom of second, the Bearcats would score four runs on only two hits, and took advantage oftwo Irish errors.. 
9-·BALL 
DOUBLES 

-rovr~·NAI\I\E 
Cl-PERSON T£AI\/\S) 
"Against Cal, we didn't get it done defensively," said Cumpf. "And when your pitching isn't consistent and you don't get it done defensively you are not going to win a ball game," 
Notre Dame's only scoring chance came in the top of the third when the Irish loaded the bases with one out. But California pitcher Kristina Thurson struck out pinch hitter Carrie Wisen and induced shortstop Andria Bledsoe to pop up to end the inning. 
After facing Cal the Irish squared off against Illinois State on Saturday afternoon. This game materialized into a pitcher's duel as Illinois State's Corey Harris and Notre Dame's Heather Booth both posted zeros on the scoreboard through seven innings. 
In the sixth inning rain came down for the second time, as the game was postponed until Sunday morning. 
In the bottom of the eighth inning the Irish would finally score when center fielder Megan Ciolli doubled into left field to plate Llz Hartmann. 
Booth finished the game with eight shutout innings, along with eight strikeouts, as she improved to 3-1 on the young season. 
Even though the Irish are 3-4 in the young season they have been playing some. of the top teams in country. 
Cumpf thinks that these early tough games will help the Irish down the road as they look to improve on last year's result, a loss to Nebraska in the Regional final. 
"We play this tough schedule for a reason," Gumpf said. "These are the teams we will face in the regional tournament to get to the College World Series and we need to find out what we need to do to beat them. Can we get there? Absolutely." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshe6 


Ff~·lDAY~ FEB, 28 B:30Pl'J\ A.T NDtXPJ?£ss 
Lower Level, LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 
l5t Place, 2-$100 gift certificates from BEST BUY 2nd Place: 2-$50 gift certificates from BEST BUY 3rd Place, 2-$2S gift c.,rtlflcate5 from BEST BUY 
Space limited to•first 16 teams to sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. {Open to ND STUDENTS ONLY-­Must present 1.0. when registering.) 
Spon,;ored by the Student Activiti"'5 Office. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to beat 
the Flying Dutch 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's has not had the season that it hoped for, howev­er, their first-round matchup tonight with nationally ranked Hope in the MIAA tournament gives them a perfect opportunity to turn a negative into a positive. 
The task at hand is great for the Belles (6-19. 2-12). as they face the Flying Dutch (25-0. 14­0), who have proved to be a force to be reckoned with nationally. as d3hoops.com ranks them sec­ond in the colliltry. They average 
78.7 points and 44.9 rebounds per game. 
Hope is led by a balanced attack that features Amanda Kerkstra. (16.3 points, 9.3 rebounds per game). who shoots 57 percent from the field. and Amy Balthmanis (9.6 points. 3.9 assists per game). 
Saint Mary's will counter with offensive firepower of their own, led by sophomore Emily Creachbaum, who averages 12.4 points and 5.8 rebounds per game, on 49 percent shooting. Next up in the scoring depart­ment are freshmen Bridget Boyce (7.2 points per game). and Anne Hogan (7 points, 4.6 rebounds per game). 
However, the last time these two teams met on Feb. 5, Saint Mary's had many troubles on offense, as the Belles shot only 21 percent from the field, opposed to the Flying Dutch's stellar 51 percent shooting. Regardless. Saint Mary's is excit­ed to play tonight. 
"The only way to go into this game is with the idea that we have nothing to lose," coach Suzanne Bellina said. "The last time we went up there, we left with a really good feeling." 
Bellina was referring to the last time these two teams met, when Saint Mary's was only down 33­25 at the half, despite losing 77 ­37. 
However, the Belles are ready to play, as seniors Kristen Matha and Shaun Russell look to finish out their careers on a high note. Russell, (6.2 points per game). who averaged 15 points in her last two outings, is playing extremely well for Saint Mary's. 
"Our team knows anything is possible," Bellina said. "That's why you play the game." 
The eighth-seeded Belles face the top-seeded Flying Dutch at 
7:30 p.m. at Hope College, in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Ramsey falls just short of qualifying 
By ERIK POWERS Sporrs W ricer 

After six months, 11 meets, three school records and one MIAA championship, Megan Ramsey's season is finally over. 
The SMC swimming star start­ed strong at this weekend's NCAA qualifying meet but was unable to muster a final burst of energy in order to earn a spot in next month's championships. 
Ramsey took third in the 100 butterfly Friday, but did not have a fast enough time for the national cutoff. Ramsey was quick from the beginning, reach­ing beyond her previous limits in order to eclipse her best previ­ous pace by .2 seconds at the 75­yard mark. Her body could not match her mind's determination for much longer, and Ramsey's pace slowed precipitously. 
"I felt strong and powerful at first, then I felt like I was lucky to get my arms out of the water the rest of the way." Ramsey said. 
Her coach, Greg Petcoff, offered a similar view of the race. 
"I think the first 75 was a lot of heart, and the last 25 was a lot of pain from the season," Petcoff said. "A season of training and meets just hit her right there." 
After Ramsey's record-setting race at the MICA championships the previous weekend. she advanced into uncharted waters for Saint Mary's. Petcoff designed his conditioning pro­gram to have his swimmers peak at conference and was unsure of how Ramsey would taper at the qualifying meet. Friday's race confirmed .that Petcoff had his swimmers peaking at just the right time, even if the summit lasted for only one weekend. 
In her other race, Saturday's 200 butterfly, Ramsey decided to start refining her stroke for next year. Ramsey experimented with counting her strokes and attempting to get more distance with each arm. While the changes weren't good enough for her to qualify, she nonethe­1ess finished in a promising eighth place. 
"The 200 was interesting," Ramsey said. "My times were down and we realized that I wasn't going to make the cut. so Petcoff had me try something new." 
Now that the season is over, Ramsey is experjencing mixed feelings. She will miss the cama­raderie and security of the past few months, but she appreciates the rest. 
"The end of the year is bitter­sweet," Ramsey said. "We're like a family with the time that we spend together everyday. It will be nice to have the break -we need it mentally and physically, but I'll miss the faces." 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 

-.f·· :-J'?'.'": -~-,. 
·. .'filhl'and France , -. Alltlltorlllm
li'OIITSIDERS:<''i 'f~i ' ·. ."' . 
, Wed, HEast Is East~~ritaift 1999) roducer ofthe film (Assassin FIims., London), e, will introduce the film-•A atterwara. 

, Ill , 
es of Felix" · niversi 
m wit 

IRllltai 
by The 
tonal.Study ..·.·..
reie:::-s:::r. 

·-~­

TLur.s "Drole .· t~Allx:/ ,. i •. 
l:-.. 
._, .·.... ~J .. . . 
fZOOO) . " 
i Lacrosse.~. 

. · ....~~"'~•-;,i~. •• '.f__,··• ,_!\·· ~Y.,;t,-' 
.··•···,\.·/. ·..·.. •j,..~·-n,:,.. ~

\¼\ ' r~\, ~ ' 
possible wttll t.llf·~.W~.­
. "Of the Frencll ~-·•,~;-.:;ft,./l~-~¼''.'
... · ofCultu.,,..,,..aA ..-,..,7'" ~t .· ... ·· · '.·..... ·.• · .4~'B,·t ;
•-·--,.,.,.Ji· .. ,.. ,· '::Y..,·~C t".~ l~J ~~-·~..:·•.. ~-:,t 
··········••'••······························································································ 
2002-2003 
STUD[NT L[t\D[RSNIP t\ Wt\RDS 
Request for Nominations 
We are requesting nominations for the Student Leadership Awards. These awards are given to the ten undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activities that promote the welfare ofthe University and extended communities. 
Selection ofthe recipients ofthese awards is based on outstanding service on 
or off campus through participation in voluntary and/or (s)elected co-curricular 
activities with an emphasis on quality ofparticipation. 
We ask your assistance in identifying students deserving of such recognition. A student may nominate another student, but no self-nominations will be accepted. If you wish to nominate a student, please provide the following information. 
I) The name of person doing the nominating and their relationship to the nominee. 
2) The name and year in school ofthe nominee. 
3) All major activities, number ofyears involved, and leadership positions held while at Notre Dame, both on and off campus, and the year ofparticipation. For example, Class Council hall representative 2, Red Cross volunteer 3, Biology Club lecture coordinator 1, tutor l, etc. Also include any awards and honors received. 
4) Expound not only on the leadership positions held, but more importantly, the student's quality ofthe involvement. Be explicit in explaining the student's contributions and not just describing and /or listing leadership position(s) held. 
PLEASE RETURN ALL NOMINATIONS BY WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 2003 TO: 
Awards Selection Committee 315 LaFortune Student Center University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 Ifyou prefer, you may email the nomination to sao@nd.edu. 
For more information on the nomination process, please contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-7308. 
············································································································ 

Tuesday, February 25, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 ... 
HENRI ARNOLD 

CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE
SCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

N€XT YliA/2, WITH THE-Jv-101<.E C,tJMPETITIVG S,V{)~NTS CDMtN(q IN1 SEIJIOR;,S Wlf..l. q€-T SDMETH/tJC::, /v,UC,H Be~ 1HiW A ''NtT£ 1ltlt-lf/C:( f:EfP.SONAL /VIDN l~E.y:r----­
1UANtS fo~ DOit-JC., MY NAH , WT ff %£MS f::lt;y H-olv\&;WD!2~... YOU 6/f?;.f­~OVC,H 1D /vfE;;. IG'./NPA TA\Cf;:N ~oc-HE;MIST£Y !A!CG: MY MA1H 3lPlP C-lfrSS... 

~f?fb~ ? ~,\\Ulll
. '---_; 
II Ffl£SIIM4t./ WHO Will {X) YoUfl "100 L"/3.V&L­W~/Zk.. rO R-You FIJR-F/ZEE 
JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
Hay dude! Come smell Sertousty dude, you my foot, It's totally nastJ gotta smell this! ...Your loss. Stop smelling 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Author 68 Declare ·good" connected to or 'excellent,"
1 Part of Q.E.D. 
this puzzle's say5 Contradict theme 69 Drops ott 10 "You can say 42 Sushi ottering 70 Grace wordthat again!" 
43 Verbal assault 71 Snick and _

14 Mascara site 45 Emporium
15 Am'I correct? 
event 

DOWN
16 What the fourth 46 Michaels of
little piggy got 1 Alabama county
"Saturday Night seat named for17 Take the bait Live" 

a European18 Construction 48 Literary lioness island playthings 
49 Shirelles hit of 2 Wet forecast 20 Like Mickey 1962 3 Italian wineMouse 51 Pathet _ town 

22 Coup_ 
53 First U.S. color 4 Teen's hangout,23 Metric measure 
TV maker perhaps 24 Solo of 
54 Taxpayer's 5 One who's up·star Wars" dread 6 Canal of song25 Like some suits 57 Part of LED 7 Do banke(s
31 Houston·based 62 Crow's·nest work org. 
instruments 8 Publ1c1ty

35 B1k1ni, e.g. 
65 Lionel train 9 When D1ion 36 Way off layout, maybe 

gets hot 37 Play starter 66 "Nana" star Puule by Adam G Perl
10 Pre-cable needAnna
38 Warmed the 32 Sharp·tongued 50 Pigmented eye 58 1969 miracle 
11 Like some 
bench 67 Fake Jewelry parts team
points 33 Pool person 52 Part of A&P 59 Terrible man?
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 New Age singer 34 Alvin of dance Abbr. 
-,-,,+-=+=-+-,-+,-.,-1 19 Nulnl1onaI fig club
55 Until 61 21 On _ (doing 41 Opt 
56 Turned blue, 63 Msg. sent towell) 
44 Bad-mouths maybe squad cars 24 Munchen mister 
47 Spellbinders 57 To be, to Brutus 64 Mineo of film 
-.-1--:-:-t'.~::1 25 Cafe holder 
26 Whatsoever For answers. cail 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, w1tl1 a 27 Tiny bits 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554 28 Port near Hong 
Annual subscnpt1ons are available tor the best of SundayKong crosswords lrorr: the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS ...,,.........,--1-,,-l 29 Headed for _ Online subscnot1ons Todays puzzle and more than 2,000 I N (In ImmInent past puzzIes, nyt1mes.com1dIversIons ($19 95 a year). T T A trouble) Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, D E S K 30 Wasn l afraid nyt1mes.comiIearn1ngtxwords 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
CAUTE 

I I I 

102003 Tribune MedlC'II SBNicea, Inc All Rights Reserved 
MAALL 

(IJ II 

HE Bl:C.AMI: A ~SFU.. CLOTl+­ING 5ALE:SMAN BE­CAUSE: HE: WAS--­

IDEWROP± 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I [I J I 
Ans, [ 

I I I J"( I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ELOPE UPPER HUMBLE TRUDGE Answer: Whal the spectator did when the racing sculls approached -"PULLED" FOR THEM 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TfUS DAY: George Hanison, Sally Jessy Raphael, 
Christopher George, Tommy Newsome 
Happy Birthday: You won't be afraid to take a risk this year. You will make the right choices and have the fortitude to finish what you start. It's time to do what you know in your heart is best for you. Your numbers are 5, 13, 27, 33, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be way ahead of the crowd today. Stop to 
help others. Physical activity will be rewarding. ***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take time to fix up around your home. Don't let 
your stubborn nature lead to irreconcilable differences with some of the people 
who are closest to you. Admit that you're not always right. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do what needs to be done so that you don't upset 
anyone who is counting on you. Someone you have become friends with 
probably has a greater interest in you than you think. Be careful how you treat 
this new friend. ** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the initiative and do as much as you can 
when it comes to work. Your job will be much easier if you empower people 
instead ofcomplaining. *** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a great day to have some fun. Make plans to do 
things with good friends, your lover or even family members. You'll find out 
something new. ***** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be too quick to address emotional issues. 
Busy yourself with programs that will enhance your looks, make you feel good 
about yourself and in general will keep you out of trouble. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Someone you meet at a group meeting will share some valuable information with you. Getting out and mingling with others will 
broaden your outlook and open up doors. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone talk you into slacking or taking 
time off on such a productive day. You will feel so much better if you can get 
things out of the way. *** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll want to be involved in .... 
everything and in a position of control. However, if you become difficult to deal with, you may end up being shut out of a leadership position. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your detennination coupled with your ability to observe others will help you get to the bottom of things as well as reach your set goals for the day. You may want to consider taking a different course of 
action.*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't bog yourself down doing too much for 
everyone else. Ask for help. Spend time in the company of people you enjoy 
being around. **** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Arguments will only lead to anxiety and 
frustration, and certainly won't fix the problem. Get involved in your own 
interests and you will feel better about yourself. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will be charming, engaging and entertaining. You will have the strength and courage of a crusader and will be admired by your peers. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
----------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Tuesday, February 25, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Failing hard 
• Quick UConn 
. Difference team wore down between 2 the Irish in 87-79 halves cost Notre loss Dame win 
By JOE HETTLER By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Editor Spores Writer 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun It was the best of times, it told his team Sunday night at was the worst of times. their hotel that no matter what How else to describe Notre Notre Dame did at practice that Dame's day, they couldn't improve in one perfor­area -their quickness. mance in a 
The Huskies used that speed 87-79 loss advantage to out-run the lrish in to building a 15-point halftime lead, Connecti• then held off a second-half cut charge en route to handing Notre Monday'! Dame their first home loss of the In the season, 87-79, Monday night at first half, the Joyce Center. Notre 
"The last thing I said to the Dame team last night ... was that we're struggled quicker than them. And if we to keep up don't take advantage of that, with an we'd be fools," Calhoun said. up-tempo "They could do other things, they style of could do a lot of other things, but play com­they're not going to get quicker pletely for-overnight. So you have to take eign to the Irish. They got rat­advantage of that quickness and I tled, they lost their composure thought we did a very good job of and they were down 15 at the that, both defensively and offen­half. sively." In the second half, Notre 
Guard Ben Gordon scored 25 Dame responded like a team points. center Emeka Okafor that had won 20 games for added 19 points and 10 rebounds three consecutive seasons by and reserve guard/forward cutting the deficit to a field Rashod Anderson tied a career­goal -a field goal the Irish high with 22 points off the bench never made. to lead the Huskies (18-6, 9-4) to "It was the tale of two their third straight win. halves," Chris Thomas simply 
Connecticut showed their said. quickness midway through the LISA VEL TEfThe Observer But keep in mind that as 
Sophomore guard Chris Thomas attempts a reverse layup during Monday night's game against see IRISH/page 15 Connecticut. Despite cutting the lead down to only two points, the Irish lost 87-79. see COLUMN/page 15 

BENGAL BOUTS 

Pierce seeks 2nd boxing title 
rough stuff' and started play­Notre Dame. he followed
By ERIK POWERS 

ing hockey in elementary another calling.
.-Sports Writer 
school. He was not known for "I first thought of boxing at deft skating or prolific goal Activities Night," Pierce said. An older brother can be a scoring. "I talked with one' of the cap­good start to one's boxing 'Tve played basically my tains, and he said. 'Come out career. entire life, since I was nine," for a week, and if you don't Being born with a male sib­Pierce said. "I was a like it you can go home.' I've ling a year older increases a 'grinder,' mostly just a check­kind of been boxing ever 
person's exposure to violence. ing line player." since," 
Jn the case of Bengal Bouts A gritty right wing and cen­"Ever since" has consisted 
senior captain Tom Pierce. it ter, Pierce played on both A of three seasons of intense 
can lead to an entire life of and M traveling teams while training, six-month bursts of 
"conditioning" for the sweet growing up. He also played weekday practices from 4 to 6 
science. for three years in high school, p.m. and Saturday practices 
Growing up outside of but instead of continuing his from 10 a.m. to noon. As a Detroit in Grosse Point, Mich., physical abuse of opposing Pierce was always "around wings and defensemen at see BOUTS/page 17 

en 
SMC SWIMMING 
tm SOFTBALL 
MENS TENNIS 

WOMENS THIN1S 
BASEBAll 
LACROSSE
LLI 
Alabama 7 

Notre Dame 15 
Notre Dame 10
~~ 

=s 
Despite leading 3-2
Senior Megan Ramsey 
Notre Dame 4 

Notre Dame faced 
Newman 5 
Penn State 
going into the last two

ends her record-making 
three top 25 teams this 
matches, the Wildcats

== 
season at the NCAA 
Notre Dame starts its 

weekend on the road. 
No. 11 Notre Dame 
The Irish defeated No. 
managed to escape the

qualifying meet. 
season 3-4 against tough 

The Irish face more 
split its first four games 
16 Penn State in a close
Irish Saturday.
opponents. 

ranked teams this week-
of the season losing two 
game this weekend. 
end. 

to Nu. 4 Arizona. 
en ti page 181 page 17 
page 13 
page 13 

page 12
page 12 
... 






