
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dykes acquitted of all charges 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Ediwr 
/\ jury acquitted former Notre Dame football player Donald Dykes of rape, con­spiracy to commit rape and 
sexual bat­tery early Tuesday morning. 
The jury of seven men and five w o m e n dnliberated for 12 hours 


a n d Dykes returned a verdict at 12:15 a.m .. follow­ing closing arguments that 
focused on the credibility of the alleged victim's testimony. 
Dykes, along with former Notre Dame football players Lorenzo Crawford, Justin Smith and Abram Elam. were accused of sexually assaulting and gang raping a former stu­dent. The four former players maintain the woman consent­ed to the sexual acts. 
Special prosecutor Maureen Devlin said Dykes participat­ed in the gang rape and sexu­al assault of th~ woman and he and the other former play­ers knew what they were doing. 
"[The victim] doesn't have a motive to lie ... [She] made some poor judgment choices and put herself in a position she couldn't get out of," Devlin said. 
On cross-examination earli­er in the week, defense attor­ney William Stanley asked the victim why she remained at the house and removed her jeans to sleep in the same bed with Justin Smith. 
Stanley continued to dis­credit the woman's story in his closing argument. He emphasized that the woman waited to report the incident and that a Memorial Hospital emergency room doctor. Michael Blakesley, did not find anything consistent with rape when he did examine the woman six days after the alleged incident. 
"This woman is no dummy," 

Ganteday crackdowns follo-w fans 
Turtle Creek bust raises questions 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
The Sept. 6 alcohol bust at the Turtle Creek apartment complex has raised concerns about the aggressive manner with which law enforcement officials apprehended student oll"cnders at the scene. 
/\ team of Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police Department and Notre Dame Security Police raided several tailgate parties prior to Notre Dame's first home foot­ball game of the 2003 season. Student witnesses at Turtle Creek alleged that officers tack­led several students and even 
stunned one with a  tazer as  
they attempted  to  flee  the  
scene.  

The crackdown resulted in live arrests, and 26 people were charged with offenses such as minor in consumption, inducing a minor to possess alcoholic beverages and resisting arrest. 
Captain Jim Hassig of the South Bend Police Department participated in the Sept. 6 oper­ation and said he is positive that it was not unnecessarily rough. 
"/\ couple people got tackled because they were fleeing," said !Iassig. "They were told to stay put by police as we entered an apartment, and they fled out the door. There were about 20 other people in that apartment, but they stayed in the apart­ment and there were no prob­lems. They would not have been tackled had they not fled." 
Zahm Hall junior Eric Tarnowski. who was in Turtle 
see BUST/page 4 


By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Writer 
At least eight students or individuals associated with Notre Dame were cited Saturday by the University of Michigan's Department of Public Safety. 
Public Safety Lt. Crystal James said most of the cita­tions were issued for public urination or were alcohol­related. She did not comment specifically on the offenses or their possible consequences. 
James said the Department of Public Safety processes and investigates all citations it issues. The department does not forward the cita­tions to other law enforce­ment agencies or universities if students are involved, she said. For serious offenses. the prosecutor's office is noti­fied. 
James said cited individu­als do have to appear in the 15th District Court. 
"[The citations] would be handled in court," James said. "It might just be a fine. It depends if [the individuals] want to fight it." 
In total. the Public Safety police officers issued 4 7 cita­tions Saturday and ejected four individuals from the sta­dium. 
James said to her knowl­edge there were no major incidents that occurred dur­ing, before or after the game. She was unaware of whether the four ejected individuals were Notre Dame or Michigan fans and did not know what prompted their ejections. 
"Forty-seven citations are probably high, but we do cite multiple people each game," James said. 
The citations include offenses that occurred both inside the stadium and on 
see MICHIGAN/page 4 

Stanley said. "She's extremely intelligent. She knew exactly what she was doing." 
Stanley said the woman, who originally consented to the sex acts, decided to tell Notre Dame and law enforce­ment authorities she was raped because she did not want to be held accountable for her actions under Notre Dame's disciplinary system. Notre Dame's policy states that if an individual makes a rape allegation, the victim will not be held accountable under its disciplinary process. Students can otherwise be expelled for engaging in sexu­al intercourse outside of mar­riage. 
The four former players 
were expelled from the University in spring 2002. 
University spokesman Matt Storin declined to comment on the verdict. 
"Notre Dame fulfilled its responsibilities on this case through its own disciplinary process, which is quite dis­tinct from a criminal case and rendered a judgment based on what we consider to be best for the welfare of our students based on our codes for proper sexual behavior." Storin said. 
The two remaining rape tri­als will begin later this fall. Last month, a jury convicted Elam of sexual battery and 
see DYKES/page 4 

Saint Mary's releases new.nUssion state1nent 
By ANGELA SAOUD News Writer 

Last week, Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff found the College's newly­revised mission statement posted on bulletin boards, Web sites and dorm doors around campus. 
The rewriting process began in 1996 after the College's accrediting body, The Higher Learning Commission, mandated that the statement be updated. The last mission statement was written in 1987. 
In the fall of 2002, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred reformed a mission statement writing committee to finalize the work on draft­ing a new statement. 
Mathematics professor Joanne Snow, religious stud­ies professor Phyllis Kaminski, financial aid director Mary Nucciarone. development director Kay Ball and First Year Studies director Susan Vanek made up the committee headed by Eldred. 
The committee began the process of revision by reviewing all of the drafts that had been written since 1996. Together they dis­cussed the drafts. brought together the philosophy behind them and presented 
the newly revised statement to the Board of Trustees. 
The long process used to arrive at the final version approved by the board was deliberate and inclusive of the entire campus communi­ty. 
"After the last accredita­tion, it was suggested that the mission be clearer with its statement of purpose," said Sister Rose Anne Schultz. vice president for the mission. "It needed to be a more succinct statement that everyone would know." 
The new mission state­ment is shorter, yet still manages to encompass all of the facets of the old state­ment, she said. The four core values of the College ­learning, community. faith/spirituality and justice -are included at the bot­tom. 
"The core values have never been outlined before, and that is an important facet to the new statement," Schultz said. "It is important for tJle Saint Mary's commu­nity to understand and embrace this as our Identity." 
The old statement has not been done away with. Instead, it has become the college's philosophy and 
see MISSION/page 4 

Saint Mary'I!!9.Jllegf~n Statement 
Saint Mary's College is \I.'Plth;,li¢;: ~sid~~tiaL ~6~en's college in the liberal arts tradition. A pioneeril\:\:heeducation of won\i!i:t, tht.1 College is an academic community wher(~enc,J.evelop the~ talents an/tprepare to make a difference in the wpdd.Fo4nd~dby the'Siiit&s of the t,lply Cross in 1844, Saint Mary's prw.Poti::S a llfE~Qfmtellecrua~v~gor, aes~tic appreciation, religious sensibility, lijtd sacial.resW>ns~ty. NJ members pf the College remair faithful to this mis#on and con~l.iii,llY~Iis~s their response to the complex need~ind challertg~oJtfi~(~temporary world. 
·i::::k,,:,,,,<• 

.c:!:~;i~: 
. Community 
·'t:: F~:j~~~~ality 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Holding onto Irish pride 
This past weekend, accompanied by nine of my closest friends, I went home. Conveniently, home happens to be in Novi, Mich.. a mere 30 miles from Ann Arbor and the "Big House." 
I have lived in this area my entire life and, therefore. have had to face the hounding of U of M fans for my devotion to the Irish since as far back as I can remember. While my peers in school decked themselves in blue and maize, I sported blue and gold -a much bet­ter color combina­tion, ifyou ask me. 
Up until last week, I had no intention of ever entering the Big House. But, when a friend man­aged to fmd a set of tickets at a reason­able price, I couldn't pass up the oppor­tunity to support the Irish as they con­tinued one of the most noted rivalries in college sports history. Hearing of the arrogant nature that exemplifies a majority of Michigan fans (at least those I've come across) failed to shock me into believing I would encounter behavior that I hadn't faced before. 
Boy, was I wrong. 
From the drive to Ann Arbor to the drive home, there was rarely a moment when I. my friends or anyone in green wasn't the target of derogatory com­ments and actions generated from opposing fans -and derogatory is put­ting it nicely. In fact, I can count two Michigan fans I met that at least showed some civility and class. Two. The univer­sity must be so proud. 
By the time we entered the stadium, I had had enough of getting flicked off. being told to "F-the Irish," getting pushed and other behavior I can't even mention in print. Luckily, our seats were in an area primarily occupied by Irish fans, aside from a 40-year-old Michigan man and his wife in front of us. Without a doubt, this man displayed the most obnoxious, haughty and immature behavior I have ever seen. 
Despite the requests of those in our section, representing both Notre Dame and Michigan, the man failed to com­pose himself. Instead, he and his wife shouted explicit comments directly into our faces and ignored the fact that a seven-year-old boy was sitting only a seat away. 
"I apologize," another Michigan fan said to me. "Some of us are true fans and some are just a-holes." 
Perhaps there were a few exceptions Saturday. but overall, Michigan fans treated us (their guests) in an extreme manner I have yet to see occur on Notre Dame's campus. So congratulations, Wolverines, I suppose you did surprise me, but despite the upset of a game, at least we left with someth~ to be proud of -dignity. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Anneliese 
Woolford 
Saint Mary's Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
In yesterday's "Entire band squeezes into Michigan" article, Sandy Barbour was identified as deputy athlet­ic director at the University of Michigan. Barbour is Notre Dame's Deputy Director ofAthletics. The Observer regrets the error. Due to a pre-press error at The Observer's printer, eight headlines in Monday's paper were ttuncated. The correct headlines appear at our Web sire, www.ndsmcobserver.com. The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH GRAB'N'GO IS BETTER, NORTH OR SOUTH? 

Kyree Blackwell Veronica Bradham Bridget Brennan Leah McKelvey Lynee Layne Andy Ramirez 
Freshman Freshman Junior Junior Freshman Junior Zahm Hall Cavanaugh Hall Walsh Hall Walsh Hall McGlinn Hall Morrissey Manor 
"South has bet-"South is ten "/like the "South, it's "SDH Grab'n 'Go "Neither." ter times better. " chocolate cream-closer." is magnificently variety." filled longiohns better than 



at Sout . " 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Ohio band "Red Wanting Blue" kicked off Saint Mary's annual Pride Week festiv­Ities yesterday with a performance at Its opening picnic. 
OFFBEAT 
seam of his pants parting smoothly to allow a stream of urine to pool onto the con­crete. 
"Good boy!" his 25-year-old mother. Wu, shouts encourag­ingly as he speeds back to play. 
The principle is clear: no­fuss waste disposal. Pants are split down the middle -in front and back-and provide what many parents say is maximum convenience with minimum coverage. 
But in recent years, with China's experiment in capital­ism creating a growing mid­dle class, rising incomes and more sophisticated lifestyles have pushed many parents. particularly those in big cities, toward disposable diapers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Hungry Blaine endures 
British humor 

LONDON-When magi­cian David Blaine organized his latest feat-six food-free weeks suspended in a plexi­glass box beside London's Tower Bridge -he prepared for loneliness. hunger and boredom. He may not have planned for Londoners. 
Since he entered the dan­gling box on Sept. 5, Blaine has been jeered, pelted with eggs and awakened by drum­mers. A tabloid newspaper grilled hamburgers under his~ box. A toy helicopter was sent up to dangle a cheeseburger in front of him. 
One newspaper dubbed Blaine-baiting "the new national sport." 
That may be changing, as Londoners come to admire the endurance -or at least the curiosity value -of the 
TODAY a:: 
New York showman. 

On a warm Monday after­noon, dozens of onlookers paused to squint up at Blaine as he sat unshaven and shirt­less in his transparent case. For a while, he sat resting his head in his hands, occasional­ly waving at the crowd. After a while. he opened his journal and contemplated its pages. 
China's diaper dilemma 
BEUING -With a look of intense concentration on his face, 21-month-old Zhang Xueyang explores the play­ground, ducking under swings and slides as fast as his legs can carry him. 
His head is shaved. His red­and-yellow T-shirt proclaims "Cute Girl!" His loose, white­cotton shorts are grimy with dirt. Suddenly, he stops in mid-stride and squats. the 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


North." 
IN BRIEF 
International Student Services and Activities will pres­ent two showings of the Irish film "Bloody Sunday" today in LaFortune Student Center's Montgomery Theater at both 
7:00 and 9:00 p.m. The films are free and open to the public. 
A screening of the Italian movie "Johnny Stecchino" will be sponsored by the Italian Club tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium at the Hesburgh Library. The film, which stars Roberto Benigni, will be shown free of charge, and is open to the public. 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will present a forum entitled "Americans are from Mars. Europeans are from Venus: Can we still talk?" today from 4:30 -6:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold an information session for students interested in post­graduate international service opportunities today from 5:00 ­
6:00 p.m. in the Siegfried Hall lounge. 

The annual Business Career Fair will be held Wednesday from 4:00 -8:00 p.m. in the JACC. Students from all colleges and all years of study are encouraged to attend. 
A new installation of the KeUogg/ILS film series "Looking Out, Looking In: Latino and Latin American Perspectives" will be shown in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The film. entitled "My Family," will be shown at 7:00p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 64 HIGH 65 LOW 47 LOW 49 
LIJ :X: 
~ 
LIJ 

~ 
.... 

~ 

~ ~ 
<C 
(.) 
0 

.... HIGH 77 HIGH 68 HIGH 82 HIGH 80 LOW 54 LOW 57 LOW 55 LOW 54 
Atlanta 82 I 59 Boston 73 I 60 Chicago 81 I 59 Denver 85 I 57 Houston 87 I 67 Los Angeles 79 I 61 Minneapolis 79 165 New York 80 I 62 Philadelphia 80 I 60 Phoenix 104 I 80 Seattle 59 I 47 St. Louis 84 I 58 Tampa 92 I 72 Washington 81 161 
Tuesday, September I 6, 2003 page 3 
The ()bserller + NEWS 

SMC kicks off Pride Week with picnic 
By ANNEUESE WOOLFORD 
S.1im M.~ry's Editor 
Suint Mary's kicked olT its annual pridn week Monday PVPlling with a picnic and free t·.oncnrt, as students gathcrnd on Lhn lawn out~ide of the Cushwa-Lnighton Library and t•njoynd tlH~ respite from hurnidily and rain. 
Tlw evnnt, featuring "Hed Wanting Blue," a rock band l'rorn Ohio. was the first in a sPrit~s of programs slated for t lw upc o m i ng we e k . I' r id e Week is sponsored by the Collegn·~ Student Activities Board. 
"This year, we are trying to put more emphasis on our SMC pridn," said Becca Doll, board president. "We especial­ly want to get first-year stu­dents excited about Saint Mary's." 
Activities planned for the rPmainder of the week include a showing of the movie "Animal llouse," featured tonight at 8 p.m. on ~he library gre<HJ. "Table Talk" will take place at ])alloway's Coffee llousP WednPsday at 8 p.m., allowing students an opportu­nity to familiarize themselves with faculty, staff and peers. 
"(;host Stories," an event based otT of last year's stu­dPnt-written book "Quiet llours," will be held on the l.akf' Marion island at 7:30 
p.m. "Ghost Stories" verbal­
izes a number of the lngcnds stud<:nt~ have t111ard al;out and strange experiences they have had un campus. Doll said it is anticipated to become a traditional event. 
To conclude its Pride Week Festivities, Saint Mary's will be a host ol' the Notre Dame/Michigan State pep rally Friday at 6 p.m. in the JACC. Those interested in attending will meet at the LcMans bus circle at 4:15 p.m. and walk over together. 
To gain maximum exposure, activities arc advertised by e­mail, stall news, the Saint Mary's website and table-top l'lyers. Although events typi­cally attract students, all members of the campus com­munity arc invited to attend, Doll said. 
"We alway~ like to sec the faculty and staff turn out at events. It really helps facilitate our community here at Saint Mary's," she said. "The events are open tu anyone from the three campuses." 
Helping students dress the part for pride week, SAB will sell Saint Mary's pride T-shirts through Friday. They are available outside of Ilaggar Student Center in the after­noon and during all dinners at the Noble Family Dining I I all for $5 each. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Engineers sponsor Industry Day 

By DUSTIN VONHANDORF News Writer 

'J'he College of Engineering will sponsor its annual Engineering Ind u'!>try Day today in the Joyce Center. 
The event, which is prima­rily directed toward seniors who are seeking full-time employment, will feature employers interested in hir­ing Notre Dame students upon graduation. 

"Over 60 companies will be here," said John Uhran, senior associate dean of the 
College of Engineering. "These companies keep coming back [to the Industry Day]." 
Uhran said that corpora­tions such as Boeing, DuPont, General Electric, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, IBM and Lockheed Martin are expect­ed to attend. 
The fair has been steadily growing over the past five or six years, Uhran said, out­growing its former home in Fitzpatrick Hall. Several hundred students are 
expected to attend this year, from all levels and majors within the College. 
Because the fair has been 

steadily growing, it was 
moved to its present Joyce 
Center location, where stu­
dents and employnrs. will 
have the opportunity to dis­
cuss potential job openings 
within the field of engineer­
ing. 
Students also have the option of submitting their resumes to participating employers via GoiHISII, an online resume bank main­tained by the Career Center. 
Many companies involved with today's event will return later in the semester and again during the spring semester for Career Center­sponsored internship and job fairs. 
Engineering Industry Day officially opened Monday night with a banquet and reception for students and business representatives. It will conclude Wednesday with an opportunity for potential employers to con­duet interviews with stu­dents they met at today's fair. 
Run primarily by students in the College of Engineering, the Engineering Industry Day is also sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers and the Joint Engineering Council. 
Contact Dustin VonHandorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 


Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
September 17, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law School Courtroom 
"When Republicans Were Feminists: Explaining Party Change" 
Presenter Christina Wolbrecht 
Packey J. Dee Associate Professor Department ofPolitical Science 


Commentator Anthony J. Bellia, Jr. 
Associate Professor Law School 
·-" .. ~ 

Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
page4 The Observer + NEWS 




Michigan 
continued from page 1 
campus property. The Ann Arbor Police Department also has jurisdiction over city property where football­related activities such as tail­gating occurred. Attempts to reach Ann Arbor police for 


Mission 
continued from page 1 
purpose, which explains how to carry out the mission. 
said Shultz. 
Although the statement was approved by the Board of Trustees this past June, it has only recently been widely spread 

Dykes 
continued from page 1 
acquitted him of conspiracy to commit rape and criminal deviate conduct. In contrast to Dykes' trial, all of the for­mer players testified at information regarding cita­tions and arrests were unsuccessful. Sgt. Andrew Zazula said police were called to many incidents involving Michigan and Notre Dame fans Friday and Saturday. 

Contact Meghanne Downes mdownesl@nd.edu 
around campus. 
The next meeting of The Higher Learning Commission will take place in 2005, when the mission statement will again be 
reviewed. 
"It has 

"It was important
Rewriting the always been mission state­to outline the intended that ment was the the mission
purpose ofthe
first and most statement
college before we will be
critical step in the College's tried to remodel reviewed Strategic Plan. anything else. , every five 
"It was impor­years," said tant to outline the Schultz. "The 
purpose of the Sister Rose Anne mission state­college before we Schultz ment's mes­tried to remodel VIce president sage will anything else," always
for mission 
remain. It is the expres­sion of it that will change." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Elam's trial and said the woman told Elam on multi­ple occasions, "No, you have a girlfriend." The former players did not state that the woman told anyone else"No." 
Contact Meghanne Downes mdownesl@nd.edu 

\fs~i"finl<((->::iJsf. S1~m1bi~ 17•...7~3C j:,lf.l J·hw.~:r, ~kpt~m1bm 1J.L.7 :30 p,m:. 

n~-,t~. il'l'llll~b~<>· »1 t~f-.ftlil'l>i St~4:mt C"fil,,t.;;.-W::*m (Jftiz:'e Mim111tCi:atd ~~~d Vl~i<! otth~t~;. r.:illl £S1·31' ;211 
Tile .~:;tm~ r~11q ~ il·t~•r·~~· =i'! wa.1~ l'>'f ~~):':) ~llbtil.lvdu~ &nw.:<. 


Bust 
continued from page 1 
Creek for the bust, said he saw tailgaters being tackled as they attempted to run away. 
"I saw at least one person get tackled, and more people who looked like they were about to be tackled," Tarnowski said. "But it was­n't like the cops came through and just started tackling people." 
Hassig said four individuals were tackled at the bust, all of them by Excise Police, and no injuries resulted from those tackles. 
According to Rex Rakow of the Notre Dame Security Police, a police officer has the right to tackle an individ­ual when he or she is fleeing or resisting arrest. 
Hassig also said that no one at the scene was tazed. He said only the South Bend police officers brought tazers to the scene and none of the officers removed those tazers from their holsters during the operation. 
Mike Russell, a Zahm Hall junior, said he saw the offi­cers using tazers at the bust. 
"I saw a [police officer] with a fOot-long rod; he was chasing a guy and holding out a stick towards him," Russell said. "I've seen a stun-stick before, and that's what it looked like to me." 
The crackdown, motivated by the Indiana State Excise Police and organized in con­junction with the South Bend city attorney's office and the South Bend Police Department, was an attempt to cut down on large parties 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 

Edwards marketed as a working man 
Associated Press 

John Edwards, the Southern moderate dogged by complaints that he's short on political experi­ence, is pitching himself as a champion of the working man as he formal­ly joins the crowded Democratic presidential race. 
The North Carolina sena­tor, who made millions as a trial attorney before entering politics five years ago, highlighted his blue collar roots by staging his announcement at the Robbins, N.C., textile mill where his father worked for 36 years. A young John Edwards once had a job there, mopping beneath looms in the weave room. 
"This is where I learned that the simple promise of America is the enduring greatness of America -a better life for all who work for it," Edwards said in the text of a speech pre­pared for delivery Tuesday. "And so this is where -today -to make opportunity the birthright of every American, I declare myself a candidate for president of the United States." 
The next stop on the offi­cial kickoff was Columbia, S.C., a must-win state in Edwards' strategy to reach the White House. Rather than try to take a win in Iowa and New Hampshire against more seasoned 
rivals, Edwards was look­ing for his candidacy to take off with a win in South Carolina. He was banking that voters in the state would be attracted to a fresh-faced moderate with Carolina roots. 
In some ways, Edwards is a presidential candidate in the mold of Bill Clinton -a youthful centrist with Southern charm. But hav­ing run for office just once before and served only a single term in the Senate, he doesn't have the resume or the experience of his leading rivals in the nine-way race for the Democratic nomination. 
In most state and nation­al polls, he draws single­digit support and ranks behind rivals with less funding and organization, such as AI Sharpton and Carol Moseley Braun, despite working for the nomination for more than a year. He was the leading fund-raiser in the Democratic field early this year, but has lost that advantage to insurgent candidate Howard Dean, the former Vermont gover­nor. 
Edwards joked about his second-tier standing in an appearance Monday night on Comedy Central's "The Daily Show." 
"I don't know if you've seen the polls, but l think it will be news to some people that I will be run­ning for president," he said. 

Afraid ofwhat others will think? 
Deacons Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. to be ordained in April 2004. 

Live your own life. 


www.nd.edu/ -vocation 
Be Not Afraid! 

------------------------------~­

ORLD & NATION 


Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Explosion in Chechnya kills two 
MA<;AS. Hussia -A truck bomb exploded Monday outside a government security build­ing near Chechnya, killing at least two peo­ple and underscoring Hussia 's vulnerability in tlw n~gion just weeks before an election Moscow hopes will lead to peace. • 
Officials said at least 25 people were wounded in the bombing in Magas, the capi­tal of the Hussian republic of lngushetia, which borders the rebellious Chechen repub­lic and slwlters tens of thousands of Chechen refugnes. 
Officials called the attack a terrorist act but did not say who might be behind it. There was no immediate claim of responsi­bility. 
Tourists kidnapped in Colombia 
SANTA MAHTA. Colombia -Camouflaged guerrillas broke into cabins where more than a dozen foreign backpackers slept, took their valuables, then marched eight of the fittest tourists into the jungles surrounding Colombia's tallest peak. 
Four Israelis. two Britons. a German and a Spaniard wt~ro kidnapped at dawn Friday in spectacular pre-Columbian archaeological ruins known as Ciudad Pcrdida, or Lost City, in the snowcappnd Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta range. 
1\rmy Gen. Leone! Gomez told the AP the Hevolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FAHC, was likely responsible, but that other illegal armed groups had not been ruled out as suspects. The FAHC and a smaller rebel group, the National Liberation Army, have ofttm carried out kidnappings during their 40-ynar-old war against the Colombian gov­ernnwnt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ritter remembered in service 
LOS ANCELES-Actor .John Hitter was r<Htwmbercd by his family and close friends at a private st~rvice Monday. four days after his suddtm death. 
Hiller's publicist, Lisa Kasteler, did not ndtmse details of the service. She said a pub­lic mPmorial was bdng planned and Hitter's friends and colleagues will pay tribute to him in an ABC News special. 
"A l.il'n of Laughter: Hemembering .John Hitter." an hour-long program anchored by Diarw Sawynr. will air at 8 p.m. EDT Tuesday. 
Hitter, 54, died last Thursday after suffer­ing a tear in his aorta. lie was stricken while on the set of "8 Simple Hules." 


Republicans draft new energy bill 
WASHINGTON -Republicans offered a tentative package of proposals for energy legislation Monday to help build a natural gas pipeline in Alaska, develop hydrogen as a fuel and expand research into how to cut pollution from burning coal. 
The draft language was agreed to by the Hnpublican heads of House and Senate dele­gations working on the energy legislation and will be discussed with Democratic staff members this week. 
The more contentious issues such as whether to drill for oil in an Arctic wildlife refuge and various measures to address prohlmns with the nation's electricity system have yet to be considered in any details. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Kernan begins work as J!overnor 
INDIANAPOLIS -A relaxed but upbeat Joe Kernan began his first working day as govornor Monday, meeting privately with top ol'licials and greeting rank-and-tile govern­nwnt workers at a Statehouse still in mourn­ing over the death of Gov. Frank O'Bannon. 
Kernan. a Democrat. must nominate some­orw to take his job as lieutenant governor and have the ehoice approved by the General Assembly. But he said a decision on that like­ly would wait until next week. 
U.S. and Indiana flags remained at half­staff and will through Sept. 27. 
Colv\PlUD FROM THE ()F.SERVLR WlRE SERVICES Page 5 
CA recall election postponed 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -A federal appeals court threw California's tumul­tuous recall campaign into complete turmoil Monday by postponing the Oct. 7 election. citing the U.S. Supreme (;;ourt's decision in Bush v. Gore in ruling that punch-card ballots could lead to some votes not being counted. 
The decision by the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is certain to be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. putting the justices in a position to influence yet another monumental election. 
The three-judge panel did not set a new date for the recall election, but backed a suggestion from the American Civil Liberties Union that the balloting be held during the March 2 presidential primary. 
"It is virtually undisput­ed that ... punch-card vot­ing systems are signifi­cantly more prone to errors that result in a voter's ballot not being counted than the other voting systems used in California," the judges wrote. 
The 9th Circuit is the nation's largest and most liberal federal appeals court. It was the 9th Circuit last year that declared the reciting of the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools unconstitu­tional because of the words "under God." 
Monday's ruling was the last of about a dozen legal challenges to the attempt to unseat Democratic Gov. Gray Davis. Several candi­dates are running to replace him, including Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, action star Arnold Schwarzenegger and conservative state Sen. Tom McClintock. 
Davis would probably benefit the most from the ruling if the election were held in March, be$:ause 

Reuters 

Former U.S. President Bill Clinton shakes hands with California governor Gray Davis during a church service after speaking against the recall election. 
tion. approximately 40,000 vot­
The panel repeatedly ers who travel to the polls referred to Bush v. Gore-and cast their ballot will the case that decided the not have their vote count­2000 presidential election ed at all," the judges -as its primary rationale. wrote. In that case, the Supreme The panel also said it is Court stopped Florida's better to resolve potential recount on the grounds ballot problems before the that all votes were not vote to avoid getting being treated equally. caught up in "litigation 
The appeals court said over the legitimacy of the the same Bush v. Gore the-election." ory applies to California, Ted Costa, head of the since voters using punch-People's Advocate, one of card machines would not the groups that put the be on equal footing with recall on the ballot, said voters using more modern an appeal is certain. election systems. Civil Schwarzenegger called rights groups said a study on the secretary of state to showed 40,000 poor and appeal to the Supreme minority California voters Court, which could rein­might have their ballots state Oct. 7 as the date. excluded if punch-card Both he and Davis said ballots are used. they would continue their 
"The inherent defects in campaigns in the mean-the system are such that time. 
the polls. It could also give Davis more time to address the state's budget cns1s and force Schwarzenegger, the GOP front-runner, into a longer campaign. 
The appeals court unan­imously ruled it is unac­ceptable that six California counties would be using outdated punch-card bal­lots. Those counties are already under court order to replace punch cards with more modern sys-terns such as touch-screen ballots by the March pri­mary. 
The six counties include the state's most populous, Los Angeles, as well as Sacramento and San Diego counties. Altogether they 
the presidential primary is . contained 44 percent of expected to bring a large California's registered vot­number of Democrats to ers during the 2000 elec-

Palestine warns against Arafat attack 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS -Any attempt by Israel to kill or expel Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat would be an "illegal and insane act," the Palestinian envoy to the United Nations said Monday before stalking out of the Security Council debate. 
Nasser ai-Kidwa said any such action against Arafat would mean "an end of the Palestinian Authority and would signal an end of the peace process." He then stormed out when the Israeli representative began speaking. 
The Palestinians arc urging the Security Council to demand that Israel ensures Arafat's safety and 
prevents his deportation. Key council members are pushing both parties to implement the "road map" peace plan backed by the United States, Russia, the United Nations and the European Union. 
Terje Roed-Larsen, chief U.N. envoy to the Middle East, opened a Security Council debate involving more than 40 nations by saying the Israeli-Palestinian peace process has stalled. He also said he fears even worse bloodletting lies ahead. 
A draft resolution circulating among Security Council members also calls for the end of violence ­including all acts of terror, provoca­tion, incitement and destruction ­and increased efforts by both sides to ensure implementation or the peace plan, which envisions a Palestinian state by 2005. 
After private talks Friday, the Security Council issued a statement expressing "the view that the removal of chairman Arafat would be unhelpful and should not be implemented." 
On Monday, dozens of nations told the council that harming or deport­ing Arafat would violate internation­al law and be a serious political mis­take. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said Sunday that Israel would ineite rage not only among Arabs but also Muslims everywhere by exiling or executing Arafat. 
-.• , • . .. -... , .....~ , I ' ..." ... -....,. * ......<I' ........~ ... fll •• -..~ #A ••••••.•.,. Jlj ...... , ... "' ....• I' .... II'..... • , ..............4 ... -~~I _I .. -.._.. ~ .r • • '.-.-, ..... •. -... ; • • • .. .... ... .. • • -•.. : : : .. • 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Appeals court strikes down ''blanket'' prim.ary 
Associated Press 
OLYMPIA -The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals struck down Washington state's "blanket" primary system Monday, saying it violates the right of political parties to have their own members choose candidates for office. 
The judges cited a 2000 

U.S. Supreme Court decision that found a similar system in California unconstitution­al. The state Democratic, Republican and Libertarian parties had challenged Washington's law. 
Democratic state Chairman Paul Berendt called it "a decisive victory -unanimous. They have ruled that we are protected under the Bill of Rights just like any individual would be, that we have rights of free association." 
State GOP Chairman Chris Vance added: "We have long contended that the blanket primary violates a political party's First Amendment right of free speech." 
Washington's system, adopted in 1935, allows vot­ers to pick nominees from any political party. Judge Andrew Kleinfeld, part of the three-judge appellate panel that issued the ruling Monday, wrote that that sys­tem violates the parties' right to choose their own nominees. 
"The Washington scheme denies party adherents the opportunity to nominate their party's candidate free of the risk of being swamped by voters whose preference is for the other party," Kleinfeld wrote. 
Monday's ruling leaves Washington without a pri­mary system for next year and beyond. Unless the state appeals -and prevails -it will be up to the Legislature to craft a new system, Secretary of State Sam Reed said. 
The state Grange, a grass­roots agricultural advocacy group that backed the origi­nal initiative creating the primary system, planned to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. The system has been in use since 1935. 
"Washington citizens want to vote for their choice, not just the choice of the politi­cal party bosses," Grange President Terry Hunt said. 
In defense of the system, the state's attorneys had argued that maintaining the blanket primary system was a compelling public interest because it encouraged greater participation in the nominating process. 
In the California case. the Supreme Court ruled that states cannot force political parties to allow outsiders to help select their nominees. 
IRAQ 


Iraqi police chief killed in an1bush 
Associated Press 

FALLUJAH Three assailants in red-and-white Arab headdresses gunned down the police chief of a city west o'f Baghdad Monday in an ambush that underscored the perils for Iraqis who join U.S.-backed security forces. 
The Americans hope those forces will gradually take over security from U.S. troops-part of the effort to transfer sover­eignty to Iraqis. The attack came three days after U.S. forces mistakenly killed eight Iraqi policemen in Fallujah in the worst friendly fire incident since major fighting ended. 
The motive for the slaying of Khaldiya's police chief, Col. Khedeir Mekhalef Ali, was not immediately clear. 
"The three attackers opened fire with machine guns, shot one of the tires of the chiefs car and then approached the vehi­cle and shot him at least 25 times," said his driver, 47-year­old Rabia'a Kamash. He spoke to The Associated Press at Fallujah General Hospital, where he was being treated for wounds to his head and shoul­der. 
Khaldiya and Fallujah, on the main highway to the Jordanian border, are the heart of the "Sunni Triangle," a broad swath of Iraq north and west of Baghdad where support for Saddam Hussein remains strong and guerrilla warfare against the American occupation is heaviest. 
The Sunni Triangle also includes Baghdad, where a 1st Armored Division soldier died of his wounds in a military field hospital Monday after a pre­dawn rocket-propelled attack on his patrol, the second U.S. casu­alty in as many days. He was the 156th American to die in Iraq since President Bush declared an end to major com­bat on May 1. During the period o(.heavy fighting before that date, 138 soldiers were killed. 
Ali, a former Iraqi army offi­cer who had been police chief for two months, was attacked on the outskirts of Fallujah as he was driving home. In addition to the driver, Ali's bodyguard, Fouad Issa, 40, was wounded in the shoulder and back. 
Ali had taken over the Khaldiya force as U.S. troops pulled out of the town in July in conjunction with a general pull­back from the region's popula­tion centers and the flanking cities of Fallujah and Ramadi. 
Two Khaldiya officers said a gang of car thieves was likely behind the killing of the police chief, but other policemen said officers are often attacked because of their perceived asso­ciation with the American occu­pation force. 
Officers in Khaldiya said many in the town shun policemen. In many cases, Iraqis who joined U.S.-backed security forces are seen as collaborators who sold out for an income at a time of 60 percent unemployment in Iraq. 
"We are not in the police to serve the Americans, but to pro­tect our community," said Abdel-Salam Elaiwah, a Khaldiya policeman. "Those who attack us are just thieves." 
He said theft, especially of cars, was rampant in Khaldiya, with as many as four reported daily. "I am sure the killing of the colonel was the work of thieves," he said outside the police headquarters at Khaldiya, about 18 miles west of Fallujah. 
"Lately the colonel had been actively pursuing a gang of car thieves who had repeatedly threatened to kill him," said Ahmed Joma'a, another Khaldiya police officer. 
Meanwhile, in Saddam's hometown of Tikrit, the U.S. military continued its raids, arresting five men suspected of helping to finance attacks against the American-led occu­pation force. 
"These individuals are involved in financing Fedayeen activity and organizing cells of resistance against U.S. forces," said Maj. Bryan Luke of the Army's 4th Infantry Division. No shots were fired in the early morning raid. 
Later Monday, delegates from the province of Sallahudin. where Tikrit is located, elected their first interim council. the first such election in more than 30 years. 
~~._ 

118-811'1:1111111 Ptog;ttlalNI 
. . .... 

LONDON SlrMMER PROGRAMME 
INFlORM.ATION SE-SSION FOR 2004 & 2005 
FOR THOSE WANTING INFORMATION AND FOR THOSE ALREADY ACCEPTED FOR 2004 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2003 DROP IN BETWEEN 7:00-8:00P.M. 136 DEBARTOLO HALlJ 

LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME RUNS FROM MID-MAY TO MID-JUNE 
THE OBSERVER_ 





USINESS
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 Page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
9,448.81 -22.74
jones 
~i Samr. ~1: CompositE Vohone: JaJ .• 1,134,756,()(}() 
AMEX 983.17 -4.83)······ NASDAQ I ,845.70 -9.33 NYSE 669.37 -1.87 S&P500 1,014.81 -3.82 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.80  -0.10  12.45  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  +0.07  +0 02  28.36  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.23  -0.35  27.99  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -1.31  -0.27  20.39  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.56 -0.061  3.859  

IN BRIEF 
New vehicle ratings released 
WASIIINGTON -The BMW Z4 convertible was the only one of 21 vehicles tested to win tlw government"s highost rating for its ability to resist rollovers. according to test results releas1~d Monday by the National Highway Trame Safety Administration. 
Th1~ Ford 1\xplorer Sport Trac sport utility vehicle and a rear-wheel drive version of the .Jeep Liberty p1~rformed worst, earning two­star rollover ratings on NIITSA's five-star scale. 
Both the four-wheel drive and rear-wheel drive versions of the Sport True were tested. Ford Motor Co. spokeswoman Carolyn Brown said NHTSA's test -.which measures rollover propensity through a mathematical formula. not a moving test -fails to reflect the vehi­cle's performance on the road. 
Nl ITSA insists the test as a good predictor of vehicle behavior. But the agency also plans to adopt a moving test this year that will measure the way a vehicle negotiates sharp turns. 
Hurricane sparks gas futures rise 
NEW YOHK-Gasoline futures prices jumped nearly 2 percent Monday on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid growing con­cern that Hurricane Isabel may strike the East Coast and affect refinery operations or imports. · 
Crude _oil futures fell 0.5 percent, however, continuing their down trend as supply con­cerns have eased with the passing of the sum­mer driving season and the winter heating season yet to get under way. 
"There's also a little bit of concern that the storm, if it takes a bit of a track north, could disrupt the New York harbor somewhat," said Phil Flynn, analyst with Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. "That's one of the reasons we're up so much. The storm track could disrupt gasoline imports, and activity in the New York harbor." 
Tourism spoils Tibetan temples 
LHASA, China -Nothing in the Jokhang Temple's rough history prepared its monks for what may be the biggest threat yet to their monastic existence-tourists. 
Already under tight supervision by commu­nist authorities, the monks now find them­selves playing tour guide, doorman and jani­tor to thousands of daily visitors attracted by the Chinese government's drive to exploit Tibet's rich and still active religious heritage. 
After decades of suppressing and then light­ly regulating Tibetan Buddhism. China's gov­ernment is heavily promoting the faith and its monuments as tourism lures to boost the Himalayan region's lagging economy. 
The flow of visitors has surged by double­digit rates the past three years, driven largely by huge increases in the numbers of travelers from other parts of China. 
Last year, the Tourism Bureau says, 856,000 tourists came to Tibet, only about 140,000 of them from overseas. 
Although the temples get some benefits from tourism revenues, monks have little or no say in how open they want to be to visitors. 
Bush to ease pollution rules 
Associated Press 

MONHOE, Mich. President Bush defended his proposal to ease indus­trial pollution rules Monday, saying the regula­tions would light dirty air while keeping electricity flowing and Americans working. 
The proposed rules would make it easier for thousands of older power plants, refineries, facto­ries, chemical plants and paper mills to make major upgrades without installing costly new anti­pollution controls. 
The old rules "created too many hurdles, and that hurts the working people," he said at a coal-fired elec­tric plant as he tried to strengthen his environ­mental image during a trip to Michigan and Pennsylvania, two states crucial to his re-election strategy. 
Bush said his new rules· would encourage plants like the Detroit Edison facility he toured to invest in new, environmentally­friendly equipment without fear of' costlier improve­ments ordered by the gov­ernment or years of litiga­tion. And, citing last month's enormous power blackout, Bush said encouraging power com­candidate. "Under Bush's Environmental Integrity ty generators, which allow panies to install new policies, this antiquated Project. more power to be generat­equipment would help coal-burning plant will get Michigan and ed with the same amount improve the nation's a free pass to keep pump­Pennsylvania are in the of coal without increasing power infrastructure. ing smoke and soot into heart of the nation's indus­emissions, said Gerry 
''I'm interested in job the air with impunity." trial belt, and Bush has Anderson, the plant's pres­creation and clean air, and The Detroit Edison plant been trying to persuade ident and chief operating I believe we can do both," is one of the dirtiest in the the nation that he can officer. he said. country, emitting nearly stem the hemorrhaging of But the company had to 
The president's remarks 150,000 tons of sulfur manufacturing jobs. wait a year for a response provoked a torrent of criti­dioxide and nitrogen During a tour of the from the EPA, and plant cism from environmental­oxides every year, said sprawling power plant, officials feared the agency ists and Democrats. Eric Schaeffer, the chief of Bush donned a hard hat would order a billion-dol­Protesters used an inflat­civil enforcement under and posed for photos with lar upgrade under new able power plant with the Clinton administra­blue-collar workers. source review. black smokestacks to tion's Environmental Bush brought along a The process set the deride Bush's environmen­Protection Agency. It is team of high-ranking envi­upgrade back by five tal policies, but they were also one of the biggest in ronmental officials to help years, Bush and Anderson kept a mile from his event. the country. spread his message on said. 
"The backdrop of The plant "is the perfect smokestack rules, part of a "Because Detroit President Bush's latest place for the White House Clean Air Act process Edison's project was not environment photo op -and the energy lobby to known as "new source expected to increase air the dirtiest power plant in ~elebrate their latest roll­review." pollution, EPA ruled that Michigan -says it all," back of the Clean Air Act," In 1999, plant officials that particular project did said Sen. Joe Lieberman, said Schaeffer, now the wanted to install new tur­not trigger NSH," Schaeffer D-Conn., a presidential director of the bine blades on its electrici-said. 

Ford, GM labor talks continue 
Ford Motor Co. spokeswoman Anne three-day extension so we continue 
Associated Press 

Marie Gattari. negotiating on a couple of very diffi­
DETHOIT -The auto workers The union said workers for both cult issues." union said it was close to new labor companies will report to work as Hoy did not specify the issues, and agreements with General Motors and usual during the talks. representatives of the automakers Ford, but that sticky issues remained At a time when U.S. sales of GM, and UAW have declined to discuss Monday as talks continued. Ford and DaimlerChrysler vehicles the talks substantively. 
The United Auto Workers also are at an all-time low, analysts and Details of the tentative agreement announced it reached a tentative, labor experts have said the probabil­with Chrysler weren't released, but four-year agreement Monday morn­ity of a strike is low. UAW Vice President Nate Gooden ing with DaimlerChrysler AG's The UAW had hoped to reach said in a recorded message that the Chrysler Group. simultaneous pacts with the Big deal protects pensions, wages and 
The union and the Big Three Three as well as two auto suppliers, health care benefits. while improving automakers began talks on new Visteon and Delphi. safety. labor pacts in mid-July, but GM and "We're very close to completing The contract must be ratified by Ford were unable to reach deals our work, but we're not done yet," Chrysler workers. before the current contracts expired Brock Hoy, a union negotiator, said in The pact covers wages and benefits at midnight Sunday. a telephone message recorded for 63,000 active workers and 
"Our contract's been extended, and Monday for workers. "The UAW, 66,000 retirees and surviving spous­we're continuing to negotiate," said Ford and Visteon have agreed to a es. 
page 8 Tuesday, September 16, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 
IRAQ 

Powell honors 5,000 slain Kurds 
Associated Press 

HALABJA -Standing near rows of white grave markers, Secretary of State Colin Powell on Monday honored 5,000 Iraqi Kurds who died in a chemical weapons attack and pledged such brutality was gone along with Saddam Hussein. 
With relatives of victims stand­ing before him, Powell said: "I can't tell you that Saddam Hussein was a murderous tyrant -you know that. What I can tell you is that what happened here in 1988 is never going to happen again." 
Powell added that Saddam is "running and hiding. He's going to be running until we catch him or he dies." 
After Powell dedicated a memorial and museum to com­memorate the victims, women wearing black thrust bouquets of flowers toward him. Many in the audience wept, holding pictures of family members killed in Halabja. 
The massacre on March 15, 1988, in this northeastern Iraqi city, seven miles from the Iranian border, has been cited repeatedly by President Bush as evidence of Saddam's brutality. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld visit­ed the site of another mass grave this month, in Mahaweel, where 3,100 Shiite Muslims were killed as Saddam's forces smashed a rebellion after the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
Despite the public high-level attention, human rights activists contend that for all the focus· on the atrocities. the American response to the mass graves has been slow, disorganized and inadequate. In particular, crucial evidence for any possible crimi­nal trials already has been destroyed. 
"It's rather shocking, in fact, the investment ... of very, very lit­tle into this area -not only of the mass graves but everything the mass graves represent," said Joe Stork of Human Hights Watch. 
Saddam's government killed an estimated 300,000 Iraqis, said Sandy Hodgkinson, the top human rights official in the U.S.­led civilian administration. As many as 500 mass graves are spread across Iraq, and coalition authorities have received formal reports of 151 sites, Hodgkinson said. 
Much of the evidence has been destroyed, in part because of the anguished digging of relatives looking for bodies of family members at Mahaweel and other sites, human rights groups and coalition officials agree. . 
Most of the known mass grave sites have not been secured by coalition forces, either because of a lack of guards or out of respect for relatives' wishes, Hodgkinson said. The coalition is working with Iraqi groups to train guards for some sites, to begin issuing guidelines for forensic examina­tions and to train Iraqis in cor­rect forensic work, she said. 
Critics say it's already far too late, nearly live months after the fall of Baghdad. 
"I haven't seen evidence of the level of resources and commit­ment and personnel that would be required to help the Iraqis do this properly," said Susannah Sirkin of Physicians for Human Hights. 
Forensic teams from human rights groups or coalition coun­tries have not been able to visit, either, Hodgkinson said, because security remains uncertain. 
International tribunals handle prosecutions for atrocities in the former Yugoslavia and Hwanda. 
But here, the United States has insisted any trials be conducted by a new Iraqi legal system still being developed. Many human rights groups agree that Iraqis should lead the legal process, but say international participation is crucial for it to be legitimate and impartial. 
'This is a judicial system that is just beginning to be built. It's not a judicial system that has had a lot of experience looking into this sort of crime," Sirkin said. 
Coalition forces, human rights groups and Iraqi representatives are pleading with relatives of the missing not to dig up graves. But patience is stretched to the breaking point when relatives see no progress. said Sam Zia­Zarifi of Human Rights Watch. His organization had persuaded relatives in the southern city of Basra to leave a mass grave site alone, but when news spread of the Mahaweel digging, the rela­tives rushed to the Basra site and unearthed three dozen bodies. 
The digging destroyed what could have been prime evidence of crimes against humanity, Zia­Zarifi said. Investigators had interviewed witnesses and found documents indicating the execu­tions were ordered by "Chemical Ali" Hassan al-Majid, a former top Iraqi official captured by the United States last month, who also is suspected in the sarin gas attacks on Kurds. 
In Halabja, Powell was joined at the memorial service by two Kurdish leaders who have fought in the past but now are rencon­ciled: Jalal Talabani and Massoud Barzani. Powell said the two Kurdish leaders, whose regions were largely outside Baghdad's control before the war, told him they now are com­mitted to a unified Iraq. 
MEXICO 


WTO looks to tnove forward after defeat 
Associated Press 

CANCUN -World Trade Organization leaders, crippled by two major defeats in four years. are searching for a way to win back the trust of poor nations and cobble together a global trade treaty that will shape the world's economy for years to come. 
Developing countries say they won't take any more bullying from the rich, and want a deal that will help even the poorest. 
The demands came amid the surprise collapse of crucial trade negotiations in this Mexican resort. Just as minis­ters were digging in for an extra day of talks, the meeting's chairman. Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez, called off negotiations. saying there wasn't enough agreement to move forward. 
Developing nations -some triumphantly -leaked the news to journalists in the hall­ways of Cancun 's convention center, even as U.S. trade ofli­cials gave a news conference explaining how negotiators were trying tQ move forward. 
"Unless they listen to coun­tries, unless they listen to the problems we have in meeting some of the demands of the developing countries, this is what will happen," said Hafidah Aziz, Malaysia's minister for international trade and invest­ment. 
The failure of talks will be felt around the world. Hice farmers in Asia and wheat farmers in Kansas were preparing for a decision in Cancun that would have led to the reduction of agricultural subsidies and tar­iffs. 
Some farmers could have been forced out of business, while others -from poor pro­ducers in Africa to large multi­nationals in the United States _ would have found new mar­kets. 
For consumers, the prices on many products would have fall­en, unhindered by import tar­iffs, while other basic food sup­plies may have become more expensive without the help of subsidies. 
Still, during five days of talks in Cancun, ministers spent little time on what was expected to be the main issue: agriculture. 
Instead, they argued over whether to launch formal nego­tiations on several new topics, including rules on foreign investment and competition. Several nations insisted on tak­ing up the talks, while other developing nations refused. 
The failure of the talks makes it nearly impossible for the WTO to reach its main goal: a new global trade treaty by the end of the next year. 
U.S. 
officials argued the treaty would have jump-started a sluggish world economy, and 

U.S. 
Trade Hepresentative Hobert Zoellick accused some countries of "tactics of inflexi­bility and inflammatory rheto­ric." 


"A number of countries just thought it -was a freebie -they could just make whatever points they suggested, argue, and not offer and give," he said. "And now they're going to facP the cold reality of that strategy, coming home with nothing." 

~t1~a ~a~~..............lortrodoclo~ 
...... oL. 

r-~--•• ~--•r~--~•r----•r----• 
$18  I I 1 1  $26  I B $69 I 1 Color, Cur oc  I I I 1  $_79  .  I I I I  $79 Highlighrs.  I  
Mens Cut  I  1cur & Srylel  I  Sryle  .  I  1  l'"m.Cur&Sryk I I  Cur & Style  1  
One Process  '  

~----~~---~~----~~----·~----~ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleasea with the quality ana service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Mus: be pre>ented to Receptionist Be/Ore Services Are Performed 
Jennifer -KJ -Kefly -Elena 
f'.;orva.lidfu,spii.Up·~nru. l.ong<Jrnlu~dhau:u.W$10. Noudl..:rllli­ATRIA SALON CJ)Uilts 1pply. Open sonw ~o:vcnmgs AilUA Salon ~IVC!. dlc nghr ru tt.+LSC service many di~nr whu:;c J,J.Jr =nilinon J..S l•nrn:aGlhlc. 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Corner of Edison 
OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 
ECDC, at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers to play and inreract with young children. If you enjoy reading to children, playing games, building with block~:, a1t activities and singing songs, please consider ;•olunteering for two hours once per week. It is both rewatding and fun' 

---~---~----~ 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
JAPAN 
Re-election likely for Prinle Minister 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Prime Minister .lunichiro Koizumi's rivals have panned his rnforms and blanwd his fiscal austerity for causing .Iapan's record­high crime and unemploy­ment. 
But with only a week left before the ruling party votes whnther to re-elect Koizumi as party president, his oppo­nents appear to have almost no chance of unseating him. 
The national Asahi news­paper said Monday its survey of Liberal Democratic Party lawmakers and members indicated Koizumi would likely win a majority of votes in the Sept. 20 party poll. As party president. Koizumi would be virtually guaran­teed of becoming the primn minister for another three­year term because the LDP's three-party bloc controls Parliament. 
Koizumi says he's the front-runner because he's popular among ordinary .Japanese. 
"They (critics within the party) said he's no good, change him. But I've man­aged to come this far because of your support," Koizumi told a crowd in Osaka while campaigning Monday. 
For weeks, Koizumi has been the strong favorite to retain the party's top post. !lis reforms have been slow in coming, but his approval rating of about 50 percent makes him the country's most popular leader in decades. 
With general elections for Parliament's powerful lower house expected later this 
year -media reports say Nov. 9. after the house is dis­solved in October -Liberal Democratic Party officials are counting on Koizumi 's stardom to attract votes and solidify the party's domi­nance in the legislature. 
"Koizumi is the appealing, public face of the party. Who better to have as its head?" said Yoshinobu Yamamoto, a professor of politics at Tokyo University. 
"lie hasn't necessarily lived up to his promises of an economic revival. But I think many people who back him don't expect him to do it right away. They like him because they lack faith in all other candidates," Yamamoto said. 
Inside the party, the poli­tics aren't so simple. To win, the president-elect needs a majority of the 657 ballots ­357 from LOP lawmakers and 300 divvied up among 
1.4 million party members. Mobilizing the LDP lawmak­ers is tricky because the party is divided into factions that form and break alliances to suit their politi­cal ends. 
The Asahi survey said Koizumi looked poised to take 60 percent of the law­makers' votes and more than half of the party members. It didn't offer a breakdown for his three opponents in the LDP race, Takao Fujii, Shizuka Kamei and Masahiko Komura. 
While anti-Koizumi senti­ment remains, some mem­bers decided to support the prime minister after party bigwig Mikio Aoki did so this month, the report said. Others pointed to veteran kingmaker and Koizumi crit­ic lliromu Nonaka's decision to retire from politics as evi­dence that nobody with stature would stand in Koizumi's way. 
Signs that Japan's economy is recovering have helped to quiet criticism. 
After struggling for more than a decade, Japan's gross domestic product grew 1 percent in the April-June quarter. Corporate profits and stock prices have been on the rise, with Tokyo's Nikkei stock index up 39 percent since sinking to a 20-year low in April. Banks remain buried in bad debts, but government regulators have threatened to national­ize lenders that don't improve their portfolios. 
In recent debates, Koizumi has said he wants to offer tax cuts to spark investment, and that pushing ahead with reforms like privatizing the postal and public highway corporations over the next few years would do more than boosting spending to reinvigorate the economy. 
Koizumi's three rivals sup­port a return to big public spending to spur growth. They have blamed his belt­tightening for the sharp rise in crime and near-record unemployment, and said his policies risk undermining the shaky economic rebound. 
During a speech to party officials Monday, Fujii, a for­mer transportation minister, said Koizumi's reform prom­ises would not end the eco­nomic pain. 
"Privatization, for exam­ple, has nothing to do with people's day-to-day lives," said Fujii. 


\Vith Prof. Paull\'lcDowell and returnees of the progran1 
! 
!......................... 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

Angers, .France 
''Should I stay., or should I go?" 
INFORI\'IATION MEETING 

.Application Deadline: Dec. I~ 2003 Academic Year 2004-2005 Fall 2004-Spring 2005 A pp1 icat:ions a vaiJa ble: \VWW.nd.cdu/-:~.in.t.L~.t~.J.~1 
"c.', 



Feds attempt to fight obesity, change habits 
Associated Press 
WASHINTON Some Indian tribes in Michigan are about to urge a return to tra­ditional menus like wild rice and fresh fish in hopes of fighting soaring obesity­caused diabetes. 
Boston-area schools will begin teaching students why 100-percent juice is better than soda and are urging par­ents to limit children's TV time to two hours a day. 
And a California-based managed-care company will soon let patients compete for prizes like a mountain bike or, for some, a discount on pre­miums if they lose weight and exercise. 
Years of dire warnings about obesity's dangers don't seem to be shrinking Americans' girth. Now federal health officials hope programs that target different commu­nities' special needs -plus financial incentives like Pacificare Health Systems is about to offer -will work better. 
"This is the most difficult thing anybody can ever try to do, to get people to change their habits," says Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. 
This week, the Michigan and Boston communities become the first of about a dozen recipients of $13.6 mil­lion in federal grants to target unhealthy habits locally. The other recipients haven't been anneunced. It's a program poised to become the govern­ment's centerpiece in the obe­sity fight, if Congress grants Thompson's request for $125 million more next year to fund dozens more so-called health­ier communities. 
lie envisions cities eventual­ly will compete to be called the healthiest. 
At the same time, Thompson wants health insurance com­panies to offer discount pro­grams similar to Pacificare's, reasoning that a price break from an industry patients love to hate might be the final push some need to shape up. 
Critics call those programs too soft and want the Bush administration to back some tougher solutions. 
Make it easier for con­sumers to learn how many calories are in restaurant meals, urges Margo Wootan of the Center for Science in the Public Interest. She says peo­ple might not super-size a cheeseburger meal if its 1,600 calories were posted right on the menu. 
Or, she says, put more real­istic calorie counts on snacks. such as deli-sold chips and 20-ounce soft drinks, which are labeled as containing two or more servings but that most people eat all at once. 
"We are looking at what we can do to help get information to people who eat out," responds Food and Drug Adminstration Commissioner Mark McClellan. He just ordered an agency task force to hunt new anti-obesity measures. from better food labels to speeding develop­ment of diet drugs. 
But federal officials argue that ultimately, city-by-city involvement may prove which programs really help resi­dents improve health habits. 
GUINEA-BISSAU 
Coup leaders Ineet with political groups 
wage civil war if Yala's Social
Associated Press 
Renewal Party lost scheduled 
BISSAU -Army officers October parliamentary elec­who led a bloodless coup in tions. Guinea-Bissau met with politi­Pires was quoted as saying cal parties and civic groups at a campaign rally earlier this Monday to discussss establish­month that an opposition vic­ing a transitional government tory in the Oct. 12 vote would in the West African country. mean violence. 
Guinea-Bissau's capital was Yala was reported still in calm Monday, one day after detention Monday, although the military arrested elected junta leaders said he was free President Kumba Yala, the to leave Guinea-Bissau -or increasingly erratic and stay-if he chose. unpopular leader of the for­Correia Seabre declared mer Portuguese colony. himself in charge until elec­
In a statement, the impover­tions could be held but prom­ished nation's new junta rulers ised to place responsibility for declared they acted because day-to-day running of the they were "determined to save country in the hands of a civil­democracy." ian interim government. 
Army Chief of Staff Verissimo Yala, a former opposition Correia Seabre, leader of a leader elected in 1999, had 1998-99 junta government dissolved parliament and that ruled for 11 months, gath­repeatedly resisted calling ered politicians, church lead­elections, despite warnings ers, union heads and other that only a fair vote would civilian leaders on Monday. trigger resumption of full for­
"Talks arc proceeding on eign aid and investment. setting up a transitional Initially welcomed as authority," said .Joao Queiroz, Guinea-Bissau's best hope for 
first secretary at the democracy, Yala had appoint­Portuguese Embassy in Bissau. ed and fired five prime minis­
Ofl1cers claimed their coup ters and 50 other members of was spurred by a threat by the government since his elec­Prime Minister Mario Pires to tion. 
.. .. ... ' 

'. "-•••••• •• . •• ·"· <, .• ·•• ·.., ............... }!. ........... & ........ .. 

.,, 

Tuesday, September 16, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 
UNITED NATIONS 


U.S. calls for peace keepers in Liberia 
Associated Press 
The United States called Monday for the United Nations to send as many as 15,000 peacekeepers and 900 police officers to Liberia to help restore peace and start rebuilding the battered West African nation. 

The U.S. draft resolution cir­culated to Security Council members asks Secretary­General Kofi Annan .to trans­fer authority to a new U.N. peacekeeping force in October. A Nigerian-led West African force has been in the country since early August, bringing calm to the capital after nearly three months of fighting that killed more than 1,000 civilians. 
The draft, obtained by The Associated Press, would give the U.N. force a broad man­date to help implement a June 17 cease-fire agreement, assist Liberia's new transition­al government, facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid, protect U.N. staff and disarm combatants and retrain them for civilian life. It also would send civilian staff. 

The council was scheduled to receive an open briefing Tuesday on Liberia. 
The Security Council author­ized a two-month deployment for a 3,250-strong West African force to help end fighting between forces loyal to warlord-turned-President Charles Taylor and rebels bat­tling since 1999 to oust him. 
Taylor went into exile in Nigeria on Aug. 11, and a power-sharing government will be installed Oct. 14, lead­ing to democratic elections in 2005. 
Despite promises from all combatants to avoid violence, however, armed gangs allied with the government and the rebels have been looting vil­lages. 
The U.N. Mission in Liberia, known as UNMIL, which would take over from the West Africans under the proposed 
U.S. resolution, would be authorized for a year and con­sist of "up to 15,000 United Nations military personnel, including up to 250 military observers, and up to 900 civil­ian police officers, and a civil­ian component." 
The draft · resolution declares "that the situation in Liberia continues to constitute a threat to international peace and security, to stability in the West Africa subregion, and to the peace process for Liberia." 
EX1'DUD' HOUXS fOIII Tilt 6»>E RDOfl' 

It condemns the continued fighting and calls on all par­ties "to immediately cease hostilities" and abide by the cease-fire and peace agree­ments. It demands that all countries prevent armed groups from further destabi­lizing Liberia and neighboring Guinea and Sierra Leone. 
It also expresses alarm "at the dire consequences of the prolonged conflict for the civilian population throughout the territory of Liberia." 
The resolution would wel­come the appointment of Jacques Klein as Annan's envoy for Liberia and put him in charge of the U.N. mission. Klein predicted Friday a long haul in helping the country back onto its feet and called for generous contributions to rebuild the devastated coun­try. 

Critics see drug plan as illegal 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD -Gov. Rod Blagoj evich 's plan to explore buying state employees' prescription drugs in Canada was met with opposition Monday as critics said such a move would be illegal and harm­ful to patients and business­es alike. 
"It's not a long-term solu­tion," said Michael Polzin, a spokesman for Illinois-based drugstore chain Walgreen Co. "I think the efforts would be better put toward finding a permanent solu­tion rather than a quick fix that is illegal." 
Americans seeking relief from high prescription drug prices have increasingly turned to pharmacies in Canada, where prescription drugs are much cheaper because of a favorable exchange rate and govern­ment controls. 
But federal law bars con­sumers from bringing for­eign drugs into the United States, and the Food and Drug Administration warns that buying Canadian drugs presents "significant, poten­tial health risks." 
Canadian health officials do not regulate drugs sold to Americans. including drugs manufactured else­where in the world and brought to Canada specifi­cally to be exported. The FDA hopes to convince Blagojevich his idea is flawed. "Our concern can be summed up in a word: safe­ty," said spokesman Lawrence Bachorik. 
Businesses say the prac­tice saps money from American companies, hurt­ing small business and leav­ing pharmaceutical giants less money for research and development. 
Blagojevich spokeswoman Abby Ottenhoff said the first-term Democrat is sim­ply exploring the idea and has not reached any conclu­sions about its safety or legality. If he concludes that buying from Canada makes 
sense but is illegal. he prob­ably would lobby Congress to approve pending legisla­tion allowing the practice, she said. 
Rob Karr, a vice president for the Illinois Retail Merchants Association, said if Illinois begins buying drugs in Canada. it could trigger an avalanche that sweeps business away from local pharmacies. 
"That would clearly be the snowball. If you do it for the state employees, then what about everybody else?" Karr said. 
No state has taken the step of using Canadian drugs in its prescription programs. although California officials have dis­cussed the issue. The city of Springfield, Mass.. recently began encouraging its employees to buy in Canada. 
The Justice Department filed a lawsuit last week to shut down two companies that help senior citizens purchase cheaper prescrip­tion medicines in Canada. 
Is it the wind that generates electricity? Or is it the idea that harnessed it? At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas that not only turn wind into electricity but make the world a better place than it was the day before. If you have those kinds of ideas, we hope you contact us. 
GECareers
The future relies on 
gecareers.com 
inventions from GE. GE's future relies on people like you. 
2003 Business Career Fair 
Joyce Center Field House September 17, 2003, 4:00-9:00PM 
Learn more about our leadership programs at the Business Career Fair! reps will also be at Industry Day today from 12:00-5:00PM! 
,8

imagination at work W 
.---­
Specialty Transportation Materials 
~> 



w:"'ge~ar~ersc~m .. 
........ ___ ·--... -· .... ·-------­
page 11

_-!l•esd t;'. September 16, 2oo~ __ _ __ ~?'!_Qb_w ~:e:__~ __v PALO ADVERTISEMENT -·-· -­
FOR FALL 2004Al\fD SPRING 2005 ' ' . ' '' -1 : • . .. .. . Tuesday,· September 16, 2003 . lOf DeBartolo . · 6:30pm . · ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME!~ . ' ( . • o I '  

~---­
THE ()BSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, September 16, 2003 

Assr. MANAGING EDilQ~ • i············· ..•.•...•••.• . ,...•..•.•...•.............••.

SAINT MARrs EDITOR:" Annelkse Woolford 

ADVER11SJNG MANAGER• Maura Cerieddla 
AD DmGN MANAGER: Tom Haight S\'STEMS ADMINISTRAT<i~= T<Xi Bangert WEB ADMINISfRATOR: Jaso~ Creek 

CoNTROllER: Mike Fl~agan . 
... . ·-:··::::::::-· 
CONTACT Us 

Turning peril into peace 

Since our founding, Americans have used historical events to draw inspiration or insight for current circumstances. We, like all socialized communities, transform our triumphs and disasters into symbols. 
The Revolutionary period exemplifies 
Kamaria Porter 
our traditions of independence and courage. When 
Breaking the 
thinking of World 
Habit
War II, American resilience and determination comes to mind. 

In our time, Sept. 11, 2001 has become one such occurrence. Although how it will be remembered is still being con­structed by Americans today, the mere mention ofthis tragedy has the power to incite as much emotion as other events of years past. I remember vividly where I was when the first airplane crashed into the first World Trade Center tower -on a bus headed for downtown Chicago ­and how I felt as the horrific events unfolded. America changed that day, and we all have a story. 
Now, two years later, as individuals and a country we are trying to decide how best to remember Sept. 11 and extract some lesson to add our definition to what it means to be American. 
Much of how Sept. 11 is and will be remembered depends on the words and deeds of George W. Bush. As President, we looked to him that day for guidance on how to feel and proceed. Looking at his actions since the terrorist attacks, I feel Bush has misused the memory of Sept. 11 to divide our nation, erode the constitution and justify an extensive pro­gram for war. 
In the aftermath of Sept. 11, the out­pour of patriotism and nationwide con­cern showed the best of our citizens. George W. Bush and company dismantled that solidarity and replaced it with an exclusionary form of nationalism while increasing nationwide anxiety. In a popu­lation already obsessed with violence, Bush created new fears of not only the ambiguous "evildoers," but also other Americans. Anyone could be a terrorist; of course, Arab-Americans living peace­fully became the easiest examples. Color­coordinated alerts informed us on how paranoid we should be each day. In Bush's America, everyone is either a potential victim or perpetrator of terror­ism. 
As part of the war on terror, Bush invoked the memory of Sept. 11 to launch an assault on the Constitution­the root of our freedom. With the U.S.A. Patriot Act, passed 45 days after the attacks, the Bush administration disman­tled the most basic liberties guaranteed to Americans for centuries. The act grants the FBI access to library, student and medical records without a warrant or probable cause, lessens oversight of the judicial branch in terrorist investiga­tions and broadly suppress such individuals is completely obtuse to our goal of preserving the United States as a beacon of freedom and opportunity. 
Perhaps the greatest license Bush has taken with Sept. 11 is his declaration of an unbounded and unspecific war on ter­ror. In order to prevent future attacks, the United States had to dismantle all of our possible enemies while producing mounting civilian and infrastructural casualties. Using a need for justice as vindication for violence is nothing new. Inflicting pain on another is the most primitive and illogical form of recon­struction after tragedy. Bush's combina­tion of secrecy, urgency and vengeance has entrenched our soldiers and tax dol­lars in an ambiguous conflict which has alienated America from other nations 
and many of its citizens . 
defines a terrorist group to be any body of people acting to influ­ence government poli­cies. Patriot II, an exten­sion being debated cur­rently, proposes the creation of a DNA data­base of deemed terror­ists, gives local police the go-ahead to spy on  "Bush's combination of secrecy, urgency and vengeance has entrenched our soldiers and tax dollars in an ambiguous conflict which has alienated America from other nations and many ofits  George W. Bush's rhetoric of tragedy has obviously proved can­cerous to American . democracy and interna­tional stability. We must reclaim the memory of Sept. 11 immediately with a new program of homeland stewardship. On Sept. 11, 2003, Archbishop Emeritus  
political and religious  citizens."  Desmond Tutu spoke  

organizations and threatens loss of citi­zenship to Americans considered dan­gers to homeland security. 
With such malleable definitions of domestic terrorism and invasive prac­tices, concerned citizens taking to the streets or organizing privately to ques­tion U.S. policy become enemies of the state. Patriot I and II violate Amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 14 and turn undue suspicion on people engaged in one of our nation's most valuable pas­times. 
Throughout history, protesters have brought about the greatest national advancements, including female suffrage, civil rights for African Americans and increased environmental awareness. To here of ways to turn 
calamity into genuine peace. Looking to South Africa as a model, we need to set aside Bush's lust for vengeance and concentrate on bol­stering education and health care, eradi­cating the U.S.A. Patriot Act, and reliev­ing unemployment. How we live today will be an example to future generations on how to emerge from great hardships. We owe it to them and ourselves to pre­serve an America that embodies its creeds and works for lasting peace. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore history major. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Diplomas shouldn't draw boundaries 
I have a question to ask the Notre Dame student body: guys, why are we here? Do we want an education, or do we want blue-and-gold holders for our license plates? 
Don't get me wrong. We are college kids, and as· such, we· goof around. I'm glad of this; I think we need it, and so I try to keep goof-off remarks in perspective. 
During the first half of the Washington State game, when the kids behind me started yelling that all Cougars were destined to pump gas and sit in cubicles -in other words, to work for Domers -I was angry, but I blew it off. These fans were igno­rant and their stereotypes hurtful, but in the broad scheme .of things, both were unremarkable. 
But Monday's "Fives" comic strip, featuring a Michigan grad pumping premium into a Domer's' Ferrari, was too much. Cat­calls at a football game are one thing, but publishing these prejudices as credible and, in this instance, humorous, is des­picable. 
We are part of a large and prestigious school, and as such, we have a nationwide presence. Let's remind ourselves of our place. 
Here, I could write pages on the difference between a diplo­ma and an education. I'll refrain, however, and say that Notre Dame does produce leaders -and excellent ones. So does Michigan. But any virtuous leader-to-be, no matter his or her provenance, is loathe to create boundaries at this point in the game. 
For one, I have some homework to do first. 
Mairead Case sophomore Pasquerilla West Sept. 15 
OBSERVER POLL Meghan Martin ;;,2j{,*iti~~~ril~,l-1}·i•,i••••l.
Michael , Chambliss 

Amanda 
Do you think that you will be able to obtain Michaels Hoegarden a job or an internship this summer? Viewpoint Dan Tapetillo Lauren Beck .scene 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
Illustrator Sarah Vabulas Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Permanent good can never be the outcome of untruth and violence." 
Mahatma Gandhi Hindu nationalist leader 

~rHE ()BSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 page 13 
An argument about 
•

argutng 
Welcome back. Last episode we discussed Oxford: its history as a university and as a town. Now, if you remember, I am not leaving for England until Oct. 4, which leaves me a little lee-way for the topic of this article. What I want to talk about is the logical structure of a Viewpoint article. Why am I picking such a boring topic? Who cares 
about "logical structures," and what are they, 
anyway? Is that a piece of lettuce stuck between my teeth? Head on, for all these questions shall soon be answered. 
Last year, the Observer published what I considered to be an inllammatory and ill-con­ceived Viewpoint column-I won't mention either the topic or the author. Two of my friends and I wrote a letter protesting its pub­
lication. We didn't dispute the facts; what we were cont:erned with 
was the tone and structure of the essay. Having read many of the 
columns and letters submitted over the past two years, I've decided 
to try my best to lay out the "do's" and "don't's" of editorial writing. 
The Notre Dame community deserves to read coherent, well-consid­
ered. constructive essays, not angry, pandering, illogical trash. 
Here are my guidelines, in order from first to last, that should be 
fulfilled in a well-constructed logical argument: 
Define your terms. If you are arguing against Papal infallibility, 
describe to the reader the doctrine of Papal infallibility. I have been 
guilty of arguing with someone for 10 or 20 minutes before we Or.al­
ly realized i.hat we were using the same word to mean two different 
things. 
State your assumptions. If you are arguing about abortion, first state whether you believe in God. If so, do you believe that human life is sacred? If so, do you believe that quickening occurs at the point of conception? When arguing, you must always respect the sensibilities of the reader. If the reader is an atheist, then you can­not begin your argument by quoting the Bible. 
Find a common ground. It is rare that any two IJeople share the exact same set of beliefs (with the exception of us Notre Dame stu­dents). Thus, you are oft<Jn going to have to argue for a fev,r assump­tions to help construct an argument. Let's say that you are arguing !'or capital punishment, and that your claim is that murderers have forfeited to the state their right to life by their heinous actions. This argument presupposes that people are able to forfeit their right to life. But as the Declarati.)n of Independence states, "They [the peo­pleI are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life." According to Webster, unalienable means, "incapable of being alienated, surrendered," thus I might not agree that the right to life is a right that can be forfeited to the state. 
Construct a valid argument and support with verifiable facts. Once you have built a base of common beliefs by the above method, you can begin to construct an argument. Hopefully you will have already agreed on the basic points under consideration; the argument should now be a simple matter of connecting the dots. If you need to introduce new claims, then do so with supporting facts; don't rely on vague references like, "It's obvious that," or, "Well, most people would say ... " 
Be friendly and open. This is the most important step. Arguments should be constructive; they should strive to affect some good. There is no reason to insult, to belittle or to ignore because these tactics serve only to separate people and divide them from others. Arguments should help unite and help build community. As Aristotle alluded to in his Ethics, friendship is the proper environment in which to debate and discuss, because friendship is necessary. in the search for truth. 
Some of you may still be wondering why I have stated the obvious, or why I didn't simply write an argumentative essay on a current issue. The truth is that many of our current social problems stem· from people who don't have well-considered opinions. I have a good friend who is a Catholic and also claims that abortion should be a choice made individually. The problem is that these two positions arc incompatible. There are basic propositions that Catholicism assumes and others that abortion assumes that conlljct with one another. 
But many people don't have a coherent world view, so they allow themselves to believe contradictory things, simply because they have never examined the assumptions on which their o-pinions rest. The question is not. "Is the war in Iraq wrong," the question should be, "Can I remain a Christian and support the war?" The question is· · not, "Is affirmative action good," but, "Is affirmative action consis­tent with Christian social justice?" 
We must stop considering problems in total isolation, without questioning the assumptions we bring to the table. As the year llies by, demand that the arguments you read are coherent and construc­tiv.e, rather than being vague, inconsistent and intolerant. If you do this (and I speak here from experience). then we will finally be able to solve the seemingly intractable issues of abortion, euthanasia, homosexuality, capital punishment and a just war criterion. 
Geoff Johnston welcomes replies to his address: gjohnsto@nd. edu. lie also likes mint chocolate chip ice cream and soccer; blame Mike 
S. for the personal reference. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Geoff Johnston 
A Domer at Oxford 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Third World leaders n1ust take responsibility for problems 
In his column in Monday's Observer, BJ Strew attempts to place the blame for the problems that Third World countries face on the richer countries of the world, such as the United States. 
Is. it possible that we are not the cause of every problem that the world faces? Could a country's own issues, whether economic or not, be their fault? 
The cause of many of the problems that these countries face is the fact that many of these Third World governments are run by fanatical despots who do not care about the welfare of their own citizens. These leaders only care about increasing their own power and going to any means necessary to protect that power. 
The United States has tried, in many cases, to provide aid to these countries; almost exr.lusively has this plan been thwarted by the government of that country. In Somalia, for example, the United States, along with the U.N., tried to aid the people of Somalia by delivering food and medical aid. The leader­ship of Somalia refused to allow the U.S. to do this and captured the shipments. 
How is this America's fault? We try to feed hungry people in many companies throughout the world, including Somalia. Many people would consider this to be the right thing to do, except for the despotical leaders of these countries and BJ Strew. 
S.trew bl~mes the United States for pushing down agricultural prices in these countries when we provide food shipments to them. What are we supposed to do? Should we sim­ply say, ."l'm sorry, you can't eat today because it will affect your agricultural 


Support football team unconditionally 
In yesterday's Irish Insider, the sport edi­tors b.ave done the most damage to the outcome of the Michigan game. They seem to have believed by degrading the foot­ball team through their reviews, 
it would make the Irish propel 
it will all end in vain. through the season, back to Those of you who attend­
top 10. Think again. 
A 0.4S overall on the report card, 3 out of 3 articles with negative tones and overly depressing statis­tics. Give me a break. I could have found all of these from those guys at ESPN and Sports Illustrated fresh on Sunday morn­ing. 

Worse vet,. the critiques· do not even hesitate to slam on the fresh­man quarterback. How will the rest of the freshman players interpret this? They are the future of the program. Students at Notre Dame have always talked about the "bubble"-how it affords them the opportunity to grow in a comfort­able environment with their own pace. What happened to the "bubble?" 
We, as fans and sports editors, have to play our role well. Yes, we each shed $15 to successfully assemble the "Sea of Green." We each paid $144 for a season ticket. We got sore throats from shouting 
at the pep rallies and the games. But when we quickly balk at failures, 
ed the Gator Bowl earlier this year: Do you remember how our team just quietly retreated into the 
locker room follow­ing the loss? They did come back out 
a minute or two later to salute the student section. · Did they forget the tradition? Or did they just know our "conditional" sup­
port all too well? I agree football is a physical sport, but those players are still humans. Let us not so aggressively 

project doubtfulness onto our team. Let us show our team a steady 
support, especially at a time like this. After all, we are still ND at the end of the day. 
Yanto Go Fischer Graduate Residence Sept. 15 

prices?" This is what Strew is proposing. I will propose a radical idea -that it is the leaders of those countries who are responsible for the problems facing their countries, not the United States. 
Instead of blaming Starbucks for problems facing coffee ·growers in South America, blame the drug cartels who force the farmers to supply the cocoa to them at lower prices than could be had if sold for coffee produc­tion. Once again, this is not the fault of some vast American conspiracy to rule the world. 
Also, Strew claims that pharmaceutical companies should give up monetary goals in order to supply state-of-the-art medicines to Third World countries. He makes it sound evil that the companies think that they should be compensated for the research funds that they poured into these drugs. He says that the annual cost for this is 14 million lives. The cost is also billions of dollars in research. If these companies are forced to lose that money, what ineentive do they have to pro­duce new and better drugs? If there is going to be no compensation for their expe.nse, the drug companies will simply stop developing those drugs. How exactly is that supposed to help anyone, whether they live in the Third World or the First World? 
Instead of crying exploitation of Third World countries by the "big bad bully," the United States, we should hold these countries accountable for their own problems. 
Ryan Brady 
S(:nior 
off-campus Sept. IS 
'T'_.Hr.; 0 BS ERVER_··
l . l.: ~-• ·­


CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Cabin Fever' proves to be transparent 
By JOHN LOWE Scene Movie Critic 
Cabin Fever is the mindless tale of five college students, who head to a cabin in the woods on a non-stop orgy of sex and alcohol. Any time a story begins with a bunch of rowdy teens heading into the woods on a bender, I immediately become disinterested because this is the biggest horror movie cliche ever. 
Unfortunately, a sickly drifter, who shows up on the group's front porch, interrupts their planned debauchery. Some rare, mysterious disease, which is never named, has nearly eaten all of this drifter's flesh. The door, of course, is quickly shut in his face but it is too late -one of the teenagers has already been infected and, one by one, they all begin to infect each other. 
The majority of the paper-thin plot is driven by their paranoia and irrational behavior. The dialogue between the characters is so awkward and ridicu­lous it is impossible to take the movie seriously. Cabin Fever is The Blair Witch Project meets 28 Days Later. 

Rider Strong, who played Shawn on the hit TGIF sitcom Boy Meets World, is Paul. Paul represents "Joe-every­body" and is the most likable guy in the bunch, which isn't saying much. 
The object of Paul's affection is The make-up artists create surprising­ly real flesh-eating bacteria fa~;ades for the actors, especially considering the movie was made with such a low budget. I defy anyone who saw the movie to tell me that he or she didn't get nauseous at least once. 
However, the make-up artists are the only ones who should receive any 
accolades for this 
train wreck of a 

the virginal Karen movie. It looks as
"Cabin Fever"
(Jordan Ladd) though the film who is the "All­
Gigli, starring American" girl. Ben Affleck and She is the first Jennifer Lopez, one to be infected, might have some
Director: Eli Roth

forcing Paul to competition for
Writers: Eli Roth and Randy Pearlstein
watch his child­worst movie of
Starring: Rider Strong, Jordan Ladd, Joey
hood love waste the year.
Kern, Cerina Vincent and James DeBello 
Roberts a chance to prove himself, but to Roberts' dismay, he fails to meet the acting ability needed. 
After this disappointment, Roberts makes this his mission and will go to any length in order to become the character Reiner desires to fill the role. 
Roberts never experienced the emo­tions of a normal child, particularly in reference to receiving Christmas gifts like that of a beautiful, shiny red bike. He resolves to prove Reiner's suspicions wrong by correcting his By STEPHANIE CHAMBERS 
Scene Movie Critic 
The movie E! True Hollywood Story of Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star is a satire which attempts to capture the life of a once-famous child star of the 70s, Dickie Roberts '(David Spade), as he tries to regain his for­mer television commercial glory days, throwing aside his adult life of park­ing cars. 
Dickie Roberts is an abandoned child who grows up to be no mo~e than a valet until he decides to audi­tion for a role in an upcoming movie produced by Rob Reiner (played by himself). However, Roberts enccun­ters dilemma, forcing him to step out­side himself and his usual methods of acting. 
He auditions for a r:1la that require:-; him to portray the elated sentiments of a child who has discovered a red bike on Christmas Day. Reiner gh es away before his very eyes. 
Marcv (Cerin& Vincent) is the sex kitten; her only purpose is to provide for some occa­sional gratuitous nudity. She has sev­eral upper body nude scenes that have absolutely nothing to do with the fur­thering of the story. but, strangely enough, do provide entertainment for the men in the audience. 
Marcy's boyfriend, Jeff (Joey Kern), is the egocentric jerk who eventually abandons the group ln order to save his own skin, pardon the pun. 
Bert (James DeBello) is the bumbling sidekick. who makes random crude jokes and comments. 
Even the director, Eli Roth, makes a cameo, which is also something of a cliche. 
Cabin Fever is unapologetically gory. 
interactions of a normal family, one in which he never encountered. 
The children, Sam and Sally, give Roberts pointers on how to speak and deal with parents. In return, Roberts o~fers tips to Sam on how to talk to girls and teaches Sally the moves nec­essary to gain a spot on the pompom· squad. The children's mother, Grace, is amazed with Roberts' helpfulness to the family and rewards him with the hike he never dreamt he would have. 
The question you may pose now is whether Roberts' efforts in learning to be a normal child helped aid him 
Cabin Fever will 
leave you feeling 

the same way you did after seeing The Blair Witch Project: disappointed, violated and annoyed. 
The plot is transparent, the dialogue is contrived and a majority of the characters are so unlikable, you don't really care who makes it out in the end. It is insulting for the creators of this movie to think that the youth of today would actually enjoy a movie like this. 
But more and more, this is the trend for Hollywood -the mass production of mediocre films that give little respect to the audience. Could this mean the end of Hollywood or is this just a slump? 
Contact John Lowe at jlowel@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Spade disappoints as a screenwriter in latest venture 
unsteady acting "Dickie Roberts: young middle capability. school-aged
Former Child Star"
The Tracy fami­
youths. ly 'is Roberts' cure As for the more to his acting mature crowd, woes. Roberts their faces lacked pays the Tracy any form of
Director: Sam Weisman

family more than expression. The
Writers: Fred Wolf and David Spade
$20,000 to move scant chuckles,
Starring: David Spade, Jon Lovitz, Alyssa
in and glean the including mine,
Milano and Rob Reiner 

in obtaining the role for his desired film. My answer is: Who cares? The ill-plotted movie is not worth the time or the money. The main focus of the movie -Roberts learning to be a normal child -is almost lost in him proving he's not a loser. 
The one hour and 39-minute, slow­moving film is rated PG-13 for a rea­son. Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star certainly caught the attention of the cackling 11-and 15-year-olds sit­ting by my side. As I recall, the the­ater was primari­ly filled with 

proved the fail­ure of the plot, written by David Spade. 
The only accomplishment in making of the film is David Spade's urge to produce something fun for himself. I would rather lend an ear to Michael Jackson's abnormal childhood stories than this theoretical life story. David Spade, former film writer, ought to think twice before again wasting hours in an effort to write scripts. 
Contact Stephanie Chambers at cham2749@saintmacys.edu 
~ri-tE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, September. 16, 2003 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Cage shines in fresh, quirky film 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Society has always been fascinated with the trade of con men. Perhaps it is their ability to gain a quick buck solely through the use of their wits, while the rest of us have to earn that same dollar through hard work. But while society may be more intrigued by the exac:t details of their scams. it is the minds and personalities behind these gifts that really give life to the crimes. 
Matchstick Men presents a fresh. live­
ly look at the humorous inner-workings of an unlikely con artist while creating a very memorable protagonist in the process. 
In the film, Nicolas Cage plays Roy, a neurotic, obsessive-compulsive con artist who is a wily veteran at the pre­cise art of confidence scams. Backed by his ambitious proteg~. Frank (Sam Hockwel!), Roy is on the verg~ of pulling off a lucrative.scam when the unexpect­ed arrival of Hoy's estranged teenage daughter, Angela (Alison Lohman). dis­rupts his ca.refully ordered life and jeopardizes his high-risk swindle. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Added humor of Depp drives sequel to success 
By MELANIE RATCHFORD 
Scene Movie Critic 
lie's a myth. lie's a legend. He's the guitar-carrying, gun-slinging El Mariachi in Hobert Hodriguez's Once Upon a Time in Mexico. 
The concluding tale in the trilogy of the legendary folk hero El Mariachi, which stars Antonio Banderas as El Mariachi, Salma Hayek as Carolin~ and Johnny Depp as Agent Sands, is more stylish than its predecessors and also 
features more humor. 
Once Upon a Time in Mexico fol­lows the story of Barillo, a major drug lord (Willcm Dafoe) who plans to kill the presi­dent and over­throw the govern­ment with the aid of the corrupt General Marquez. 
The town's resident CIA agent, Sands, enlists the help of El Mariachi to take out Marquez (on whom El Mariachi seeks to take revenge). only after he has assassinated the president. He then recruits a retired FBI agent to kill Barillo and his doctor. who, years before tortured and murdered his part­ncr. 
Sound confusing? Well. it is. Just when you think you know who is in comrol and working ioc whom, you find out you're wrong. The only char­acter you can easily keep track of is El Mariachi, who. in true hero form, works only for himself. 
Everyone betrays everyone else, and the !ilm turns out to be a !eng trail of blood leading us to the story's conclu­sion. 
There is a lot of violer.ce; the movie is probably not meant for those who tend to cringe at the sight of olood. But then again, if you've seen Desperado, you pretty much know what you're getting 
"Once Upon a Time in Mexico" 



Director: Robert Rodriguez Writer: Robert Rodriguez Starring: Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek, Johnny Depp and Willem Dafoe 
• 

yourself into. 
What makes this mcvie equally entertaining, if not more so than the original. i~ the added humor, driven mostly by Sands and his sly remarks. Depp, in his normal fash­ion. once again brings an eccen­tric character to 
life in a way that only he can. Slightly crude, and not exactly politically cor­rect, he feeds us a bevy of one-liners and insults you can't help but laugh at. 
There is also an interesting selection of co-stars. including Enrique Iglesias as a member of El Mariachi's "band" and Mickey Rourke as a United StatPs felon on the run, finding refuge in Mexico with the help of Barillo. 
If you're looking for an Oscar-worthy 
There is a scene in Matchstick Men where Hoy, the epitome of a neat freak, is explaining to his psychiatrist that he spent last Tuesday watching dust fibers settle on his carpet and worrying that he might vomit because of this. That got Hoy to thinking that he should just blow his brains out and end it all. But. think­ing more about the matter, he started worr:.ying about what that would do to his "damn carpet." And according to 
Hoy, that was a "Matchstick Men" personality. good day. 
Lohman, who is Watching Nicolus almost 25 years Cage bring life to old in real life, Hay in scenes like does a wonderful these is delightful. Director: Ridley Scott job in conveying He carefully bal­Writers: Eric Garcia, Nicholas Griffin and the wide-eyed fas­ances the neuroses Ted Griffin cination of a 14­that plague Hoy Starring: Nicolas Cage, Sam Rockwell, year-old with her 
vinces the audience how frustrating even the simplest tasks are for Roy, while also showing the humor behind the character's awkward behavior. 
While Cage's performance outshines those of his fellow actors at times, both Sam Rockwell and Alison Lohman also impress in their respective roles. Hockwell, who is an easy-going but very adept con man, provides a much-need­ed contrast to Roy's uber-type-A 
with the other side Alison Lohman of the man -the poised. cunning and experienced con man whose obses­sion with perfection translates to flaw­less executions of his scams. This bal­ance makes the performance that much more !:Jelievable and memorable. 
Every twitch of an eyelid and spasm of a muscle that Hoy exhibits is amus­ing. Cage has proven himself again to be one of Hollywood's most versatile actors, easily handling this complicated comedic role with the same success that has made him a big-budget action star with films like The Rock and Gone in Sixty Seconds, and an Academy Award winner and nominee with Leaving Las Vegas and Adaptation, respectively. 
With a different approach, the role of Roy could easily have become either over-the-top or mundane. But Cage adds a sincerity to the role that con­
father's question­
able trade. 

If Matchstick Men could be summed up in one word, it would probably be "quirky." Every aspect of the film gels impressively. from the outlandish directing style of Hidley Scott and the offbeat score com­posed by Hans Zimmer, down to the very plot and characters. which break the mold set by previous crime capers. 
The ending seems forced at first. until you consider that it !its perfectly with the type of film that it resolves -a quirky one. Ultimately, the lilm concen­trates on the characters rather than the scam, which is a pleasant change that, given the obvious talents of the cast, translates impressively to the silver screen. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

flick, you're unlikely to find it in Once Upon a Time in Mexico. However, if you're looking for two hours of good old light sequence action and entertain­ment. you might want to check it out. 
Bottom line: if you liked Desperado at all, you're likely to be a fan of Once Upon A Time in Mexico, enjoying it just as much, if not more. It has a similar feel only it is more consistently violent and much funnier. If you hated the first movie, don't bother with this one. If you've never seen Desperado but like the genre, give it a try. I wouldn't ask for my money back. You may want to see the original first, though -it makes this sequel a little easier to fol­low. 
Contact Melanie Ratchford at mratchfl@nd.edu 
... 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS · Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
MLB 

Lopez goes over 100 RBis, leads Braves past Expos 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL-Javy Lopez and the Atlanta Braves want to put a strong finish on another great regular season. 
Lopez reached 100 RBis for the second time in his career as Atlanta reduced its magic num­ber for clinching a record 12th straight division title to three with a 10-6 victory over the Montreal Expos on Monday night. 
Robert Fick hit his first homer in six weeks and Horacio Ramirez (11-4) won his third straight decision for Atlanta, which got its major league-lead­ing 94th win and moved 10 games ahead of Florida in the NL East. 
Ramirez allowed seven hits and two runs in seven innings. 
Hernandez allowed seven runs -six earned -and five hits in 3 1-3 innings. 
Montreal's Brian Schneider hit a pinch-hit grand slam off Trey Hodges in the ninth to make it 10-6. 
Atlanta added a run on Andruw Jones' sacrifice fly in the third to take a 4-1 lead. 
The Braves added three more runs on a strange play in the fourth. 
Hernandez hit Fick with a pitch to begin the inning and Vinny Castilla singled. Ramirez bunted and Fick slid safely into third ahead of Hernandez's throw to load the bases. 
Rafael Furcal hit a soft liner which second baseman Jose Vidro dropped, but second-base umpire Joe Brinkman and plate umpire Derry! Cousins signaled an out. Vidro then threw home as all three runners advanced. 
Catcher Michael Barrett caught the ball as he stepped on the plate and ignored Fick, who scored Atlanta's fifth run unim­peded, as he threw to third baseman Todd Zeile, who stretched to catch the ball as Castilla slid into third. 
Expos manager Frank Robinson came out to argue with Cousins as the three other umpires sorted out the play ­which was ruled an infield fly. 
When play resumed with Castilla on third, Ramirez on second and Atlanta up 5-1, Hernandez threw a wild pitch as Castilla scored the Braves' sixth run. 
Pittsburgh 6, Cincinnati 3 
Ryan Vogelsong was starting to wonder if he'd ever earn his first major league victory. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates right­hander scattered three hits over five innings for his first win in the bigs, a 6-3 victory over the Cincinnati Reds on Monday night. 
"It's been a long time coming, I'll tell you that," said Vogelsong, who struck out two, walked three and allowed just one hit over his final4 1-3 innings. 
Vogelsong (1-1) debuted as a reliever with San Francisco in 2000, and was 0-6 in 22 previ­ous major league appearances, including four starts. 
Vogelsong, out of minor league options after this season, had won five of his last eight starts at Triple-A Nashville. He spent most of last season on the dis­abled list recovering from right elbow surgery in September 2001. 
Matt Stairs hit a three-run homer in the first inning to back Vogelsong. 
After Abraham Nunez reached on a fielder's choice and Reggie Sanders was walked by Todd Van Poppe! (0-1}, Stairs' 18th homer cleared the right-field seats and rolled into the Allegheny River. 
The Reds had runners in scor­ing position in each of the first three innings, loading the bases in the second before Vogelsong got Eric Valent to fly out to cen­ter. 
"We definitely helped him out, chased some pitches out of the strike zone," Reds manager Dave Miley said. "If we get a big hit in the first couple of innings, it could have been a different game. We had opportunities there early in the game and just couldn't capitalize." 
Chicago 4, New York 1 

The thought of the playoffs is enough to make even the worst of the Chicago Cubs' aches and pains go away. 
Matt Clement was dazzling despite pitching with a strained groin, matching his career high with his 13th victory Monday night as the Cubs gained ground in the NL Central with a 4-1 vic­tory over the New York Mets. 
The victory pulled Chicago within 1 1/2 games of first-place Houston, which was idle. 
Clement (13-11) has been bothered by a strained groin since his Sept. 3 start, when he got hit in a calf and then had to run the bases. He had to leave his previous start in the sixth inning despite having a no-hit bid and a 4-0 lead. 
Though he's been improving with daily treatment, he still isn't 100 percent. But it sure didn't look that way against the Mets. 
New York managed just three infield singles against Clement in seven innings, and the only run he allowed was unearned. He struck out five and walked two. 
"He did what they hoped for," Mets manager Art Howe said. "He went out and shut us down." 
Joe Borowski pitched a perfect ninth for his 29th save in 33 chances. 
St. Louis 11, Milwaukee 2 

Brett Tomko was on the mound for Tony La Russa's 2,000th career victory-and for No. 2,001. That's how tough it's been for the St. Louis Cardinals lately. 
Tomko allowed six hits over eight innings and drove in three runs as the Cardinals snapped a four-game losing streak with an 11-2 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Monday night. 
Tomko went 2-for-4, including a two-run single in the second and an RBI single in the third, as the Cardinals moved within five games of idle Houston in the NL Central. 
"It's never over till it's over,"Tomko said. "We've just 

API Pholo 
Shortstop Rafael Furcal flips to turn a double play against the Expos. The Braves are ten games up on the Florida Marlins. 
got to keep winning games and first inning for his 42nd homer win as many as we can and see of the season. The slugger is five what happens." shy of tying his godfather, Willie 
Albert Pujols hit his 42nd Mays, for third on the career list home run, leaving him tied with at 660. Barry Bonds for the NL lead. Hank Aaron leads that list Jim Edmonds also homered for with 755, followed by Babe Ruth the Cardinals, who scored seven at 714. Bonds is tied with St. times in the first three innings Louis' Albert Pujols for most in offWes Obermueller. the NL, one behind major league 
Obermueller (0-5) is winless in leader Alex Rodriguez of Texas. 11 career starts over the last San Francisco's magic number two seasons. He lasted 2 1-3 to clinch the NL West was innings -his shortest outing of reduced to four. Any combina­the season -and allowed seven tion of Giants wins and Dodgers runs on seven hits. losses that equal four gives the 
The Cardinals took a 7-0 lead Giants the division title. Los after three innings, scoring one Angeles didn't play Monday. more run than they had while Joe Nathan (10-4) retired the getting swept over the weekend only batter he faced for the win. in Houston. Bonds was walked twice, 
including a free pass in the San Francisco 8 San Diego 7 eighth that resulted in the tying 
Watch out, Hammerin' Hank run. J.T. Snow had walked two -Barry Bonds is just 100 batters ahead of Bonds, and homers away. Edgardo Alfonzo hit an RBI sin­
Bonds hit his 655th career gle to pull the Giants within one. home run and also reached a Benito Santiago then hit a 3-2 milestone in walks as the San pitch into left to score Bonds. Francisco Giants rallied to beat Snow hit a solo homer to cen­the San Diego Padres 8-7 on ter in the first, two batters Monday night. before Bonds. But the Giants 
Bonds connected for a solo failed to hold their early advan­shot off Brian Lawrence in the tage. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
LOST: Yellow and black Northface  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  2003 Grad needs 1 or 2 MSU tick- 
NOTICES  backpack in North Dining Hall on Friday, 9/12.  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773­ ets. Call Matt at 516-220-9656.  
Please call 574-229-2889.  3911.  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  No questions asked.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX  PERSONAL  
PAY WWWWORKFORSTU­ FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE­ 
DENTS. COM  WANTED  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­1525  TION ASSURED. 654-8018.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  
STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base­ $94,500. Email:  you love needs  
appt Flex.pt hrs. Custsvc/sales. No  SEX IS NO BARRIER  Williamson.! @nd.edu  3·6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL NOW &  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  confidential support or assistance,  
D-T-D/No  Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches  04/05.FURN.272-6306  ·TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Telemkt Fun work schol.linterns.  is looking for a few good men and  LOFT, single, wooden. Will deliver  PM 288-2726  Gude,CSC, at 1­ 
cond. apply. work w/other students  women who wish to work in a FUN  and help set up. $165. Call574­ That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  7819. For more information, see our  
574-282-2357  and fast pace environment  243-0853.  has space available for football/par- NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
www.earnparttime.com  A new store will be opening up in  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­ 
early October.  IRISH CROSSINGS A NEW LUX- full hot breakfast, $80-$115,  2726  Spring Break 2004 with  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  We have aggressive pay.  URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  StudentCity.com and Maxim  
Hrs from 11 am to 3am.  your dream home next  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Magazine! Get hooked up with  
B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH  n-shoppers, drivers and mgmt avail- to Notre Dame. A limited number of  9487.  TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­ Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  
HOME GAMES  able.  home sites are available. For more  0964.  a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of  
CALL (574)288-5377  Call Andy at  info go to:  Furnished 2 bdrm apt tor ND home  the hottest  
57 4-277-0850  www.lrishCrossings.com  games. 1.4 miles to ND. $595 per  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  destinations.  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  for interview.  weekend. 269-684-6409.  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE  
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  Couch $150. 80"Lx38W. Excellent  DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price  
Music 4609 Grape Rd  Movie Extras/Models Needed.  condition. Light tan w/green&coral  2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Guarantee! To reserve online or  
Mish, IN 2775038  NO exper. required.  plaid lines.  FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- view our Photo Gallery, visit  
All looks & ages.  Call 272-0004 or email mvander- ANLAN PROPERTIES  BALL GAME. PLEASE  www.studentcity.com  
Earn $100-$300 a day.  griend@sbcsc.k12.in.us for photo.  532-1896  CALL 674-6593.  or Caii1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  
LOST & FOUND  1-888-820-0167, ext. U187.  Will deliver to ND campus.  Lodging available for aii.ND home  Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
NOW HIRING. Kaplan Test Prep is  games. Walk to ND. 574-289-3864  for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tickets.  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
Lost near ND: Small white, black  currently hiring test proctors and  Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to  Qr !:j74-22Q·7~F2­ 574-289-8048  campus reps.  
and brown spotted dog on 9/5/03.  student advisors.  ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage.  Call for discounts  
Reward. 232­2601.  Work from 2-16 hlwk. To apply, call272-4135.  $107,000. (574) 273-1666  TICKETS  Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 FSU. Call Jim Newell at 203-748-8926.  : 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  

... 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN lEAGUE 
Yankees pound Orioles after rain delay 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE -When the tarp was spread on the field amid a driving rain. the New York Yankees were locked in a tight duel with the Baltimore Orioles. 
When the rain stopped, the rout was on. 
Alfonso Soriano went 4-f'or-5 with two home runs, and Aaron Boone also connected twice to lead a six-homer attack that carried the Yankees to a 13-1 victory Monday night. 
Soriano set the tone by driv­ing the first pitch of the game into the left-field scats. and New York took control by scor­ing five runs in a span of five pitches against Rodrigo Lopez (7-10) during a six-run fourth. 
.Jason Giambi led off the fourth with his 39th homer, and 100th RBI, to put the Yankees up 2-1. After a walk and an out, rain caused a 49­minute delay. 
After play resumed, Ruben Sierra took a pitch and then singled. Boone hit the next offering far over the left-field wall. a three-run shot that made it 5-1. Karim Garcia sin­gled on the next pitch, and Soriano hit the following pitch into the left-field seats. 
"I don't think I ever remem­bnr a game with an hour rain delay -or 40-some minutes, whatever it was -and then in five minutes we score five more runs," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
"lie likes to throw strikes." Torre said of Lopez. "We cer­tainly don't want to get him in a position where he can use his other ammunition. We're a patient ballclub, but when we see a strike, we're going to swing at it." 
Lopez got the final two outs, but did not return for the fifth inning. 
"He was loose, he had plenty of time to get ready," Orioles manager Mike Hargrove said. "lie just made some bad pitch­es right off the bat." 
After the game, Lopez received a lecture from Orioles pitching coach Mark Wiley and catcher Brook Fordyce in the middle of the clubhouse. 
Texas 6, Seattle 4 
Seattle manager Bob Melvin did not want Texas slugger Hafael Palmeiro to beat him. Instead, Mark Teixeira did the job. 
Palmeiro and Teixeira home­red as the Texas Hangers ended a five-game losing streak and dropped Seattle farther back in the AL wild­card race, beating the Mariners 6-4 Monday night. 
The Mariners fell 1 1/2 games behind Boston, which beat Tampa Bay 8-2, for the wild card. Seattle started the day 3 1/2 games behind Oakland, which played Anaheim. in the AL West. 
"We know Seattle is trying to make the playoffs," Teixeira said. "We're trying to win games just like they are, so it makes it more interesting." 
Teixeira, who tied a career­high with four HBls, capped a four-run sixth inning with a three-run shot that gave the Hangers a 6-4 lead. His 23rd home run of the season came two batters after the Mariners intentionally walked Palmeiro. 
Palmeiro has hit nine home runs against Seattle this sea­son. Laynce Nix had an RBI single before Teixeira's shot. 
"I didn't want to mess with Palmeiro out there again," Melvin said. "If I had it do over, I'd do it the same way." 
Minnesota 13, Cleveland 6 
Torii Hunter and the Minnesota Twins headed home in first place. 
Hunter tied his career high with five HB!s as the Twins defeated the Cleveland Indians 13-6 Monday night and took sole possession of the AL Central lead for the first time since June 30. 
''I'm so pumped up for every series, every game right now," Hunter said. "We're playing good ball. It's the right time of year for that." 
Hunter, Michael Hyan and Cristian Guzman each drove in two runs during an eight-run sixth inning. Hunter added a three-run homer in the ninth off Terry Mulholland, giving him 99 HB!s, a career high. 
Minnesota won three straight after losing the series opener. 
"Mission accomplished. We're going home with the lead," Twins manager Hon Gardenhire said. "We'll see what happens now. This is where you want to be, in the pennant race at the end. We're excited." 
Minnesota (81.69) moved a half-game ahead of idle Chicago (80-69). The defend-
INFORMATION NIGHT 
The Investment Office of the University of Notre Dante is offering 
One investment analyst position open to graduating seniors 
Thursday, September 18, 2003 Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall, Room 112 
7:30 PM Refreshments and discussion with Investment Office Personnel 
8:00PM Special Presentation by Scott Malpass, Vice President &Chief Investment Officer 
The entire Investment Team will be available to answer questions about the opportunity. 
ing AL Central champions, 37­20 since the All-Star break, begin a three-game series Tuesday against the White Sox, the start of an eight-game homestand. 
"It's going to be tough because they are pumped up, just like us," Hunter said. "We can't think of sweeping them. That would be great, but we've got to take two of three." 
Johan Santana (11-3) improved to 7-0 in nine starts since July 29 as the Twins won for the 1Oth time in 13 games. He gave up four runs -three earned -and four hits in five­plus innings. 
Boston 8, Tampa Bay 2 
Boston's hitters are slugging the ball all over Fenway Park again -and onto the street beyond. 
The Hed Sox broke out of a rare slump with 14 hits, including homers by David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez, and Derek Lowe won his fifth straight decision in an 8-2 win over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays on Monday night. 
That followed a series against the Chicago White Sox in which Boston managed just 19 hits while losing two of three. 
"You look over long periods of time, not short periods of time," said catcher Jason Varitek, who knew Boston's offense would revive. "Everybody's contributed." 
Lowe did his part, improving to 5-0 over his last seven starts after going 1-3 in his previous six. He allowed two runs and four hits in eight innings. 
Through five innings, he gave up one hit, and Boston led 4-0 against the team he pitched a no-hitter against on April 27 last year in Fenway Park. 
"When you're a sinkerball guy, you get in a good rhythm and you like your chances," said Lowe, who got 17 of his 24 outs on grounders, six on strikeouts and one on a fly ball. Scott Sauerbeck finished the four-hitter. 

Boston stopped a two-game losing streak and increased its lead in the AL wild-card race 
to 1 1/2 games over Seattle, which lost at Texas. 
Every Red Sox starter had at least one hit. Ortiz and Hamirez each had a homer and a double, and Hamirez added a single. 
Kansas City 10, Detroit 4 
Trying to avoid setting the post-1900 record for losses, the Detroit Tigers keep coming up against teams fighting for playoff spots. 
Detroit became the first AL team to lose 111 games since the 1939 St. Louis Browns, dropping to Kansas City 10-4 Monday night as former-Tiger Joe Randa drove in five runs. 
The Tigers lost their third in a row after winning the series opener. 
"A win is a win, even against them," Kansas City manager Tony Pena said. "They beat us in the first game, but now we've started to get some momentum. We need to keep that and take it into the next series." 
Kansas City remained three games behind Minnesota, which took over sole posses­sion of the AL Central lead by winning at Cleveland, and closed within 2 1/2 games of idle Chicago. 
"That's a good team, and they are still competing for a playoff spot." Tigers manager Alan Trammell said. "They looked flat when we beat them on Friday. and I thought maybe they were done, but they've come back and played three very good games. Now we are the ones looking flat again." 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
·­
' I ­I 
I 

Experience Leadership 
Learn about the people who work here-, 
what they do and how we serve our 
clients around the world. 
FIRMWIDE PRESENTATION 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
7:30 p.m. 
Morris Inn Alumni Room 
Visit and apply online at: morganstanley.com/careers/recruiting 
~ 

Morgan Stanley 
Morgan Stanley is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer committed to workforce diversity. (M/F /D/Vl © 2003 Morgan Stanley 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER 
Women's soccer league decides to call it quits 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The cash-strapped WUSA called it quits Monday just five days before tfw Women's World Cup, bring­ing an abrupt end to a soccer leagu1~ built on the success of the 1999 tournament. 
Tlu~ decision was made by the leagw~·s board of governors at a nweling in New York. 
Tlw eight-team WUSA was filled with tlw world's best female players. including U.S. stars Mia llamm, Brandi Chastain and Julie Foudy. Chastain provided the signature moment in the '99 tournament when she ripped off her shirt after scoring the championship-winning goal against China. 
But the attention the Women's World Cup received faded over tlw ynars, leaving the WUSA foundering. TV ratings were almost nonexistent and the league had troublP finding fans who weren't under 18 and play on a soccer team. Average atllmdance slipped from more than 8,000 the first season to about 6.700 a game last season. 
"This is a sad day !'or wonwn's soccer and women's sports," Foudy said. 
The WUSA hoped another World Cup this fall would bring last-rninute corporate sponsor­ships to save the l!~ague, but that hasn't happened, said John llendricks, chairman of the WUS/\ board of governors. 
llnrHlricks blaril!~d weak cor­porate support for the league's failure. 
"I was intoxicated by what I witnessed in 1991J. and I mis­takenly believed that level of support would flow over into tlw league," Hendricks said. 
The WUSA's owners have invested more than $100 mil­lion to fund the league, and some of the top players took pay cuts this season to help 
kr.I~H~•p•i•t•a•fl•oa•t•.•E•v•en__a_fi_e_r_c_u_tt_in_g 
costs, the league was about $16 million in the red. 
Hendricks said the league needed eight sponsors to spend $2.5 million each per year. The WUSA recruited only two spon­sors willing to spend that much, Hyundai and Johnson & Johnson. 
"If we only had six or seven CEOs in America that had stepped forward in the past year," Hendricks said. "An inde­pendent women's professional league can survive-if it has corporate support." 
The league conceded the tim­ing of the announcement was awkward but said the WUSA had to consider all its employ­ees and players who aren't in the World Cup. 
"We couldn't keep the doors open even another 24 hours without jeopardizing a decent and fair severance package for our employees," Hendricks said. 
Foudy said the announcement will be a distraction to players on the U.S. national team. Every member of the 1999 World Cup champions was a WUSA found­ing player. 
"Yeah, I wish we had the opportunity to not have this dis­traction," she said !'rom Charlottesville, Va., where the 
U.S. team is training for its opener Sunday in Washington. "That's true for all the WUSA players in the World Cup. 
"But we are not just going to give up, even though the odds are stacked against us. We will still hold out the possibility of reviving this." 
The league employed 375 people, ineluding players, and had franchises in Boston. Atlanta, San Diego, Washington, New York, San Jose, North Carolina and Philadelphia. The Washington Freedom won the title last month. 
The Women's World Cup begins Saturday in Philadelphia, and the U.S. team Sweden in Washington. D.C. flifty-six WUSA players are to compete, representing 11 of 16 countries in the tournament. 
WUSA players took an active role in the league's manage­ment and were involved in the decision to close the league. 
"The impact of the WUSA on women's sports and millions of fans has been extraordinary," said Foudy, captain of the San Diego Spirit and U.S. team, and a member of the WUSA board of governors. 
"The players remain hopeful that more sponsors will recog­nize the value of associating their brands and products with the wholesomeness of the WUSA," added Hamm, the sport's biggest star and career scoring leader. "Major sponsors committed to bringing back world class women's soccer could enable a successor league to launch in 2005 or perhaps even earlier." 
The WUSA will not dissolve entirely until next spring, Hendricks said. 
"There is a glimmer of hope that a few months down the road the phone will ring from a deep-pockets sponsor," Hendrickssaid. 
The folding of the WUSA leaves Major League Soccer as the sport's only top-level profes­sional league in the United States. 
"Although we are disappoint­ed by today's action, we believe this decision has no impact on the future viability of the sport of soccer in the United States," MLS commissioner Don Garber said. "Major League Soccer con­tinues to be encouraged and excited about the explosion of youth participation in the sport, as well as the Hispanic and international opportunities which present themselves daily. API Photo We continue to focus on build-Courage teammates Hege Rllse, Danlelle Fotopoulos and Birgit ing stadiums, developing play-Prinz embrace at midfield after defeating the Freedom 3-2 In ers and expanding our footprint the WUSA title game last month. The WUSA called It quits 


For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at 631-5432 
o_p_e_n_s t._h_e_n td_a_y ns·t---a-c-ro_s_s_t_h_e_un_i-te_d_S_t_a-te_s_.·_· Mo_n_da_y a_ft_e_r_lo_s_l_n__
e_x__ a_g_a_i__ 

When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 7, 2003. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2004) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 

Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
PGA 
Singh holds on to vvin rain-delayed tourney 

Associated Press 
SILVIS, Ill. -Vijay Singh played a quick 13 holes and earned a hefty check that moved him closer to one of his career goals: winning the PGA Tour's season money title. 
Singh collected $630,000 for his four-shot win at the rain­delayed John Deere· Classic on key to Singh's game, especially with his short irons. 
"He's hitting it [within] 15, 20, 10 feet all day. You do that for enough holes, you're going to make something." Byrd said. 
Singh also is being men­tioned as player of the year. 
"I can control the money list. I cannot control the player of the year," he said. 
Singh started 

Monday, moving play Monday at
"My goal is to 
ahead of Davis 12 under, tied
really be able to 
Love III on this with Lewis, who year's tour earn­win the money list posted his lone ings list. career win at the
just once before I 
"My goal is to Deere Classic in
finish. This will 
really be able to 1999. win the money list probably be the The pair just once before I resumed their
best opportunity I 
finish. This will final round
get."
probably be the Monday on No. 6, best opportunity I and Singh began get," said Singh, Vljay Singh to pull away who now has col­golfer after he birdied 
lected $5.7 mil­lion and a career-high three wins this year. 
With three more PGA Tour events on his schedule this year, Singh likes his chances. 
"If I can win one more time, I think I've got it sealed," said Singh, who also moved past Phil Mickelson for third place on the career money list with nearly $24 million in 11 years on the tour. 
Singh closed with a 6-under­par 65 for a total of 16-under 
268. He had six birdies in a bogey-free final round that was held over a day after darkness suspended play Sunday night. 
Chris Riley (71). J.L. Lewis 

(71) and Jonathan Byrd (68) shared second at 12-under 272. 
Riley said Singh is tough to catch when he has the lead in the final round. 
"He's in the Tiger Woods, Davis Love, Mike Weir. their class. I'm trying to get there," said Riley, who now has six top-1 0 finishes this year. 
Byrd said consistency is the 

No. 8 and Lewis followed with a bogey on No. 9. 
Lewis. who used only 50 putts when he shot consecu­tive 6-under 65s in the first two rounds, struggled on the green over the weekend. 
"I didn't feel nervous but I played like I was so I must have been," said Lewis, who shot even par the last two rounds. 
Paul Stankowski, in his third PGA event since returning from wrist surgery, tied for fifth at 11 under with Hidemichi Tanaka and Kevin Sutherland. 
The Deere Classic drew its best field after being moved back from its usual tee off in July. However, the tournament was plagued by a Saturday downpour that postponed the third round and pushed play into Monday. 
It was the first PGA Tour event to extend into Monday since the FBR Capital Open in June. However, 22 of 39 tour­naments this year have had some kind of weather delay. 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
If you did not attend a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services last year, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th, and on Sunday, September 21st at 6:30pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 

EOPENINGS unge Monit 
Do you find yourself up late studying? Get paid for it!!! Work for the St~dent Activities Office as a 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor 
1-2 shifts per week. --DURING THE ACADEMIC YEAR NOT DURING BREAKS (HOURS AROUND 1:30AM-5AM) Applications outside StudentActvities, Room 315 LaFortune. 
Ifyou have any questions 011 the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Tran~portation Services at 631-6467. 
page 21

Tuesday, September 16, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Bulger named starter for Rams game Sunday 


l.Jniversity of Notre Dame International Study P•·ograms 152 Hurley Building T: 631~5882 


INNSBRUCK 
2004-05 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2004-05 
lnfortnation Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
VVednesday,Sept. 17,2003 214 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 pm 
Application Deadlines:  Questions'?'?'?  
lnnsbruck:  Dec. 1,2003  Weber.l5@nd.edu  
Berlin: Oct. 1, 2003 for Sp '04  Applications:  
Dec. l, 2003 for F '04  www.nd.edu/~intlstud  
and AY 04-05  

Decision is set for at least this week's contest 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Kurt Warner's two MVP awards were of no use to him Monday: Mare Bulger was named starting quarterback of the St. Louis Rams. 
Coach Mike Martz made his choice a day after Bulger's strong play in the second half of the Hams' 27-24 from there and see where it goes." 
Bulger, who finished 25-for­36 for 236 yards and two touchdowns, is 7-1 as the starter for the Hams the last two seasons. Warner is 0-7 in that same span and had six fumbles in the opener. 
Martz said he hadn't been 
able to talk to Warner about his decision. Players had the day ofT Monday. 
overtime victory  "Marc Bulger will  Martz said  he  
over the San Francisco 49ers. Martz empha­ be our quarterback this week."  felt a "tremen­dous sense of loy­alty" to Warner,  
sized his decision  who led the Hams  
wasn't necessari­ Mike Martz  to  two  Super  
ly  for  the  long  Rams coach  Bowls in a three­ 

term. 
"Marc Bulger will be our quar­terback this week," Martz said. "Where that goes, who knows? How long that is, let's not worry about it." 
Martz's decision apparently had nothing to do with Warner's health. 
Warner sustained a concus­sion in the first half of the opening 23-13 loss to the Giants, but has not missed any practice and ran the scout team last week. 
"What I based this decision on was a lot of things, and those are things I'll keep to myself," Martz said. "I think it's better left that way." 
Instead, Martz said he made the decision in the "best inter­ests" of the team. The overrid­ing factor: Bulger moved the team. 
"That's why he's in the sad­dle right now," Martz said. 
Bulger lost two 
year span from 
1999-2001 and 

helped them win a championship after the '99 season. lie expects Warner to be ready whenever the team called upon him. 
"Kurt is not a has-been," Martz said. 
On Sunday, Martz said Warner relayed in plays from the sideline without complaint. 
"You can't handle it better than the way Kurt handled it," Martz said. "lie handled it like a pro, and you know he's dying inside. lie has to be." 
The Hams paid Warner a $6 million roster bonus in February a f'te r the parties were unable to agree on a restructuring of his contract. But Martz said he has full sup­port of the Hams' front office. 
"This is a very important decision, and I can't imagine a better situation for a head coach," Martz said. "They'rn very supportive of 
fumbles in the "Had he not gotten the decision." first half Sunday, Hams players
better every 
but was 15-for-also are behind 
quarter, I'm not
17 for 155 yards Bulger. the rest of the sure I'm standing "We have all the way. confidence in the
and saying this is 
"I got into a lit­world in Marc tle bit of a our decision. " Bulger," offensive rhythm," Bulger tackle Kyle Turley said. "Once half­Mike Martz said. "lie definite­
time came, I was ly played an
Rams coach 
able to sit there and say 'I'm not playing that bad, don't do anything stupid, pro­tect the ball and regroup.' It worked this time." 
Martz said Bulger improved as the game went on. 
"Had he not gotten better every quarter, I'm not sure I'm standing here and saying this is our decision," Martz said. "But he did. The fourth quar­ter I thought was exceptional, so we're going to pick it up 

Presented by the Senior Class Thursday, September 18,6:00-8:30 PM Margaritas, beer cash bar, music & dancing On the beach and dock at the lake house 
$3 includes soft drinks, pig roast, leis MUST BE 21!!! 
Bring your Student ID &Driver's License 
www.nd.edu!-class04/ 
excellent game. 
I've got a lot of 

respect for that kid." 
Offensive guard Andy McCollum said Bulger aets likn a seasoned veteran instead of a sixth-round draft pick who was an unknown backup before getting his shot last year. 
"Marc's the man out there," McCollum said. "He's doing a great job out there running the show." 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 Coiv\PlUD FROM THE OBSERVER WI H.£ SERVICIS Page 22 

TENNIS 



around the dial 
WNBA 

WNBA Finals 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB Brewers at Cardinals 7 p.m., FOXCH Cincinnati at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., FOXCH Tampa Bay at Boston 6 p.m., FOXCH Milwaukee at St. Louis 6 p.m., FOXCH NY Mets at Chicago Cubs 7 p.m., WGN 
Associated Press 

COMPTON, Calif. -A man was arrested in the shooting death of a sister of tennis stars Venus and Serena Williams, and authorities Monday searched for four other pos­sible suspects in the slaying outside a house known to attract gang members. 
Aaron Michael Hammer, 24, was booked for investi­gation of murder late Sunday and jailed without bail. Sheriff's deputies said he had ties to a gang but was not a member. 
Yetunde Price, 31, was shot in the chest early Sunday about a mile from the tenrns courts where her younger sisters first rose to prominence in this gang­and violence-plagued city outside Los Angeles. 
The motive for the slaying remained under investiga­tion. 
Price was killed by a gun­man standing in front of a house that was known to attract gang members and where drugs have been sold in the past, authorities said. 
"At this point we just don't know if this is gang or nar­cotics," said sheriff's Lt. Daniel Rosenberg, a homi­cide detective. "I can tell you there are certain indications to suggest this location has involved either gangs or drugs. The house was trou­blesome to both the resi­dents in the community and the deputies in Compton sta­tion." 
Price, who no longer lived in Compton, was sitting with a man in a sport utility vehi­cle shortly after midnight when they got into a con­frontation with several neighborhood residents, Pena said. Authorities said it was not known whether Price knew her assailant. 
The man with Price was uninjured and drove her to a relative's house, where he called 911, authorities said. Price was then taken to a hospital, where she died. 
The man with Price, 
Rolland Wormley, 28, was jailed after authorities dis­covered he was on parole, which he allegedly violated by being at the scene of the 5hooting. Deputies did not disclose why he was on parole. 
Price, one of five sisters who spent their early years in Compton, was a regis­tered nurse who owned a beauty salon. She also served as a personal assis­tant to her famous half-sis­ters, who moved to Florida with their parents when they turned pro as teenagers. 
Price was divorced and had three children, ages 5, 9 and 11. 
IN BRIEF 

Jurevicius out after collision 
Tampa Bay receiver Joe 
Jurevicius tore a ligament in his 
right knee during a loss to the 
Carolina Panthers and will be side­
lined four-to-six weeks. 
The injury to the medial collater­
al ligament will not require sur­
gery. 

Jurevicius was hurt in a collision 
with Bucs fullback Mike Alstott 
during Tampa Bay's 12-9 overtime 
loss Sunday. 

Jurevicius had four receptions for 
31 yards against Carolina. He had 
four catches and scored two touch­
downs in Tampa Bay's 17-0 season­
opening victory over Philadelphia. 
Karl Williams replaced Jurevicius 
against the Panthers. The injury 
also could mean more playing time 
for Reggie Barlow. 
"It's unfortunate that Joe 
Jurevicius and Rickey Dudley, two 
guys who played a significant role 
in _o]lr of(ep.~e. are p.o longer with ·us," Gruden said. 
Mora suffers knee Injury 
Orioles outfielder Melvin Mora will miss the final two weeks of the sea­son because of a knee injury. 
Mora, who played in his first All­Star game this season, has a partial tear of the medial collateral liga­ment in his left knee. 
"I've just got to let it heal," said Mora, who struggled to adapt to a bulky brace and crutches as he maneuvered through the Baltimore clubhouse Monday. 
"There's a bone bruise on the knee, too," he added, before outlin­ing his recovery plans. "Rest, rest and rest." 
The injury occurred Saturday in Toronto, when Mora awkwardly landed against the right-field wall at SkyDome. He had to be taken from the field on a cart. 
The fact that he won't need sur­gery is of little consolation to Mora, whose career year was interrupted by injuries. 
With Mora out, the Orioles pur­chased the contract of outfielder Pedro Swann from Triple-A Ottawa. Designated hitter David Segui, recovering from wrist surgery, was transferred to the 60-day disabled list to open a spot on the 40-man roster. 
Swann, selected Ottawa's MVP after hitting .280 with 10 homers and 53 RBis, missed the Sunday phone call from Darrell "Doc" Rodgers, the Orioles' director of minor league operations. 
A resident of Newcastle, Del., an hour northeast of Baltimore, Swann routinely turns off his cell phone during NFL games. When he checked his voice mail after flipping between the first halves of two games, Swann found messages from his agent and Hogers. 
"I definitely want to make an impression," Swann said. 
Hargrove views Swann, who had brief stints with Toronto and Atlanta, as an extra outfielder and a left-handed bat off the bench. 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
INTERHALL fOOTBALL

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Lewis defense stops Badin
Belles sw-eep Chicago for fourth straight win 
in 8-6 season opening win 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
What a difference two weeks make. In the first match of the season back on Aug. 30, Saint Mary's faced the University of Chicago in a scrimmage game at the SMC Triangular, losing in straight sets to the visitors. 
Monday, the Belles returned the favor, knocking out the Maroons in straight sets by a score of 30-19, 32-30, 30-28. Saint Mary's currently has a four-game win­ning streak. 
eventually come back to win 32­30. 
"Michelle is really the one who turned game two around for us," Schroeder-Biek said. "She got her serves going and aced Chicago a few times, came up with some great digs and really provided a spark for us to get back in that game." 
Gary finished the match with seven digs and three service aces. 
Among other notable players, outside hitter Kristen Playko led the team with 15 kills and 19 digs and tied Gary for the 
By MIKE GILLOON AND 
DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writers 
If Sunday's game between Badin and Lewis was any indi­cation of the type of women's interhall football that is going to be played this year, fans are in for a treat. The Chicks defeated the Bullfrogs 8-6 in a defensive battle on a cool, cloudy afternoon. 
Lewis was led by senior quar­terback Erin Nasrallah. The scrambler with a rocket arm 

"The University team lead with 
connected on a 20-yard touch­

"Michelle is the one who
of Chicago is a three service 
down pass and the ensuing

really turned game two
good team," aces. 
two-point conversion midway

Belles coach around for us. She got her Middle hitter 
through the first half to put the 

Julie Schroeder­Elise Rupright 
Chicks up 8-0. Badin took over

serves going and aced 
Hick said. "Even had 10 kills 
and promptly went three and

Chicago a few times.,.
though they had and four 
out against a stingy Lewis 

some injuries blocks, and 
defensive secondary that kept

and only dressed outside attack­
the football away from the

Julie Schroeder-Biek 
eight, they still er Ann 
Badin receivers. 

head coach
had the strength of their team out on the court. 
"I was happy with how when our players lost the momentum they were able to bring it back." 
The Belles got off to an easy first game victory, but struggled in the second game, trailing by eight points at one time. Schroeder-Biek said many of these struggles could be pinned on a poor serving game. 
Saint Mary's had 12 missed serves in the three games. 
It was not until players like libnro Michelle Gray re-ignited the stalled Belles offense that Saint Mary's was able to hold thn Maroons at 28 points and 
"It was good to get back into the swing of things," Nasrallah said. "We have come a long way since our first practice and I was confident on our chances coming in." 
The four-year starter at quar­terback also gave credit to her team's defense. 
"They were the key to this game," Nasrallah said. 
It was a physical ballgame with a couple of personal foul penalties for excessive tackling and blocking. The excessive tackle was especially crucial. It came on a quarterback keeper by Nasrallah around right end and resulted in Lewis convert­ing a key third down. 
Badin captain Lindsay Wind was not pleased. 
"I was disappointed today about some of the calls," Wind said. 
However, she was also upbeat about her team's play. 
"This game was a litmus test for the season. We are a very fast team and our quarter­back's arms are fantastic," Wind said. 
The senior center said that she was looking forward to Badin's game against Lyons next Thursday. 
Both teams showed a lot of potential on the offensive and defensive side of the ball. The play of both quarterbacks was strong and the low scores speak to the strength of the defenses. 
Though her team came out on the losing end, Wind was optimistic about the future. 
"We will see them in the play­offs," she said. 
Cavanaugh 13, Welsh Family 8 
The game was a match between two of the top two team's from last season. 
Cavanaugh and Welsh Family both wanted to establish them­selves as "the team to beat." llowever, it was a close match that wasn't decided until the last two minutes of the game. with the Chaos hanging on for a 13-8 victory. 
Early in the first half Cavanaugh took advantage of their first possession and scored with a 10-yard comple­tion to captain Jennifer Nokes. 
However, all it took was two minutes for Welsh Family to come back with a 50-yard pass to Lauren Pease. Welsh Family scored the touchdown but missed the one-point conver­sion to make the score 7-6. 
But it was Cavanaugh who came back strong late in the first half with a game turning inte~ception by Kerri Bergen to position the team for another touchdown and make the score 13-6. 
To come out with the win. Cavanaugh needed to rely on their defense to stop a strong Welsh Family offense led by a couple of critical completions by Pease. Mter a couple contro­versial calls, Welsh Family was on the 5-yard line with two minutes left in the half. 
However, Welsh Family could not take advantage of the opportunity. 
The team did however sack Cavanaugh's quarterback Lisa Ruffer for the safety with 10 seconds left to make the final score 13-8. 
However, Ruffer was more than satisfied with the defen­sive team's overall perform­ance. 
"We would not have had the opportunities we had today if it was not for them," she said. 
Kerri Bergen, a defensive lineman who had an intercep­tion in both halves felt that the team was "energized and ready to play" after last year's title loss against Pasquerilla East. 
Although Welsh Family did not come up with the win, the team remains relentless. 
Sophomore quarterback Melissa Sands believes the team "ran and drove the ball "really well," and has "a lot or things to improve on ... but there is a whole season ahead of them." 
Sophomore Lauren Pease is sure they "can play with the best teams out there." Welsh Family is certain the team can rebound after this week. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu and Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.du 

Runners 
continued from page 28 
Senior Jackie Bauters was the only other Belles runner in the top 50, coming in just two sec­onds behind Otto. 
All three runners placed high­est for their team in Saint Mary's first meet, as well-a fifth-place finish at the Tiffin/Heidelberg College Invitational. 
White improved her previous time in the 5,000 meter by 10 seconds. Otto and Bauters were 20 and 30 seconds slower in this weekend's race. respnctively. 
The Belles had seven of 16 runners finish in under 22 min­utes. Freshmen Elizabeth Commers, Erin Nolan and Becky Feauto and senior Hisa Zander all broke the 22-minute barrier, with Feauto as the anchor with a 
21:54 time for 81st place. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Carpenter col­

lected 11 kills and nine digs. Setter Lauren Temple led the team with 36 assists and added 10 digs. 
"Because both teams have grown so much since that scrimmage at the start of the year, I thought it would be a bit more of a battle," Schroeder­Hick said. "I was happy with how we were able to beat them in three [sets]." 
Saint Mary's travels to Adrian Wednesday to face the MIAA­rival Bulldogs. 
· Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
The Lewis offense took the field and ran out the clock. 

Inspired to Acliieve. 
But the Bullfrogs were not about to croak. After a key fourth-down stand by their defense, Badin's offense took over on their own 25-yard-line. With time running down in the first half. they completed a cou­ple of big passes to move the football deep into Chick territo­ry. However, they couldn't punch the ball across the goal line and the score remained 8-0 at intermission. 
The beginning of the second half was marked by miscues as Badin threw an interception on their second play from scrim­mage. Lewis took over and immediately gave the ball right back to the Bullfrogs when Nasrallah threw her first inter­ception of the day. 
Both teams' offenses stalled on their ensuing drives as the defenses controlled the game. Lewis was forced to punt with about seven minutes remain­ing. After a long Bullfrog return, Badin only needed a couple of passes to score their first touchdown of the season. 
But Lewis' defense didn't relent on the two-point conver­sion attempt. The Chicks swat­ted away the Bullfrog pass and the score stayed 8-6. 

Blasting past limitations. Creating the future of health care. Charging into a stimulating career. 
That's what you can expect with a career at Abbott Laboratories. Advancing medical technologies from development to market 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
relies upon the contributions of mventive talent and people in diverse 
We are now taking applications for the 2004-2005 school year!
professions. 
Apply early to get the best prices locked in and the best 
We'll make you feel valued and driven to.' 
locations. 
excel. If you want to be inspired to \i 
achieve, visit www.abbott.com today. 
Why live at Turtle Creek Apartments? Internship opportunities are 
• 
So close to campus,.it is just like being on campus! 

• 
You can request to live next to friends; you can even request an ENTIRE BUILDING!


available: 
• We have a pool that we open before Memorial Day and KEEP open af\er Labor Day
• Information Technology 
+24 hour lock out services...trust me, it'll come in handy!
• Computer Science 
• Everyone that moved imo Turtle Creek this year got a FREE pizza!
• Management Information 
+On-site ...all the time ... management stalf. Systems 1could go on hut I'm sure }OU have your own reasons for wanting to live here with us. Stop by and sec us we'll answer any of your questions, or you can visit us on the web at:
a 
ABBOTT 
LABORATORIES 

JVJVJt: TURTLECREEKND.COM www.abbott.com 
before October .11'' to Jock in 0.1-04 rents. After November 1• rent' for04-05 will he established.• 
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
Schefter came to Notre Dame have been amazing," said very highly regarded after her Schefter. "I would say that Kim
Return 
continued from page 28 
goals and added an assist in Notre Dame's 5-0 thrashing of Western Kentucky. In starting all six games so far for the Irish, Schefter ranks second on the team in assists with four, while scoring three goals. 
"It was really hard for me," said Schefter of not being able to play last year. "I had never been hurt before in my life. Moving out to South Bend and watching my team struggle and not being to help out was really hard on me. It was definitely a leprning experience. I didn't realize how happy playing soccer made me before I was hurt." 
"She really has a composure and experience level above what we've had," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "She adds some goal scoring dimension out of the midfield -more than what we've had in the past. She's really part of the core of the team, even though she's a freshman with regard to experi­ence. She can lead and she has that competitive edge, too, which is something our whole team really has this year." 
Schefter did make the best of her time on the sidelines. Her 
3.67 GPA makes her a potential future Academic All-American. She also became better pre­pared for the demands of play­ing a full season of college soc­cer this season. 
"I have a year of college behind me and I know the aca­demic demands of Notre Dame and traveling," said Schefter. "I got to spend a year in the pro­gram and training schedule before ever playing a real game. I think this helped me, rather than trying to make a huge transition coming in my fresh­men year." 
work with the Under-19 National Team and a strong high school career at West Valley High School in Yakima, Wash. The Gatorade Player of the Year in Washington after scoring 4 7 goals and 25 assists as a senior, Schefter was also named to the NSCAA and Parade All­American Teams. 
"My junior and senior year I traveled a lot with the U-19 National Team, pretty much every month," said Schefter. "I got a lot of experience in a lot of places and am so thankful that I got that opportunity. It made the transition to college soccer easi­er, but college soccer is a transi­tion even from the national team, regional thing or really any team. College is so fast and physical that you really have to get used to it. You can't describe it until you step out on the field." 
"Her preparation and training with the U-19 Team really brought her game to a higher level," Waldrum said. "She should only get better as her experience grows. and once she gets fully back by adding more strength and quickness." 
Now, with the team off to a good start, things seem to be returning to the norm for Schefter and the Irish program, which made the Final Four into an annual occurrence over the past decade. 
"The team is completely dif­ferent this year," Schefter said. "The team just has a new atti­tude, the team chemistry is com­pletely different. Last year, moods were down and people were hurt. No one was real enthused about playing, but this year everyone is really excited and can't wait to work at getting better every day." 
Schefter credited some of the resurgence to strong leadership from the seniors. 
"All the seniors on the team 
BOOKMAKER'S PUB 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD -''YOU BET" LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: FRI: 
SAT: 

Monday night football on 15 screens 99~ specials Give away night, including game tickets 32 oz specials Pre:game warm l!P 
R&B' Music and Da:1cir:.g 
Game day on 15 screens with live waor remotes 
SUN: INFL Sunday ticket 
Chef Kip Peters (formerly of South Bend Country Club) 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVE Must be 21

7 -}766 
with valid I.D. 

Carpenter and Amy Warner are the ones I look up to the most. Kim is just an amazing person; I look up to her so much in every­thing. Warner works so hard and is so talented and makes the most out of what she has." 
Ironically. Schefter chose Notre Dame over two other perennial powers that the team 
will  face  this  weekend  in  
California ­ Stanford and Sa nta  
Clara.  

"I chose Notre Dame because of my visit during the summer before my senior year," said Schefter. "I loved the campus and the feeling I got on campus. I loved the team and it just felt right. I'm really excited to get to go play Stanford and Santa Clara, though." 
"I think we match up really well with both Stanford and Santa Clara," said Schefter. "We need to go out and have fun and play as good as we can." 
TIM KACMAA!The Observer Contact Andy Troeger at Annie Schetter kicks the ball In a recent game for the Irish. atroeger@nd.edu Since returning from an ACL Injury, she has been outstanding. 
.-----r-------·--A-.-C--.:..A-;.l-....-l..-T·o-/·N__-._ ______, 
R·JT'Y WI!TH 
LISTEN TO THE CONVERSE \IVIT HELP TO CREATE. 
Chances t:o win t:icket:s t:o t:his year's B::LOO 
Nc:> 
SEAS 
#2 7 



Tuesday, September 16, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
McGlinn, Breen-Phillips start off season with victories 
By MATT PUGLISI AND 
KEVIN O'NEILL 
Sports Writers 
Good things come to those who wait. Such was the case for McGlinn Sunday as they took a thrilling season opener 7-0 over Lyons on the strength of a late fourth quarter touch­down drive. 
While the Shamrocks were undoubtedly pleased with the game's results, the contest began on a rather ominous note for McGlinn. 
Lyons defensive back Juliet Hobbs picked off McGlinn quarterback Bridget Meacham on the game's first play, set­ting up a prime scor­
squandered red zone trip by Lyons to begin the second half, McGlinn used a crucial sack by senior Sarah Blake on a Lyons fourth down at midfield as the momentum -swinging cata­lyst that sparked the game­winning drive. 
After three consecutive com­pletions, a short run and a dropped pass, the Shamrocks faced third and goal from the 
18. Dropping back, Meacham found sophomore receiver Haque] Ferrer down the right sideline for a 14 yard gain with 2:40 left. Following a timeout, Meacham once again hit Ferrer on a curl just inside the goal line to break the scoreless tie. 
"We wanted to hit one of the g i r I s 
ing chance for the running
"We got some of the first 
Lions. However, they the out were unable to take game jitters out ofthe route," 
advantage of the way and we're ready to Ferrer 
turnover as senior said. "I
take it to PE. " 
quarterback Roxie was just Trevino's pass fell trying to incomplete on fourth Raquel Ferrer beat [the and goal from the defend­
McGlinn wide receiver
eight. er] to the 
"We've only been practicing for three days and a lot of the offensive linemen are inexperienced," Trevino said in explanation of McGlinn's relentless pass rush that recorded three sacks and forced several errant throws. 
The failed first-half opportu­nities continued to mount for Lyons as they were unable to capitalize on a pair of inter­ceptions by senior defensive back Becky Wynne. 
Following yet another 
s p 0 t ; 

when I saw Bridget looking at me, I knew it was coming." 
He-energized by the emo­tional victory, McGlinn anx­iously awaits its contest with Pasquerilla East on Thursday. 
"We have to work on our offense a little, but our defense was super strong," Ferrer said. "We got some of the first game jitters out of the way and we're ready to take it toPE." 
While the last second score sacking Kazmerski twice on terback draw to make the predictably demoralized the opening possession and score 18-0 in favor of BP at Lyons. Trevino is confident forcing a 3rd and 23 while the half. better results are in store shifting the momentum to the During halftime the threat­against Badin on Thursday. Phoxes' side. ening skies finally let loose 
"It's just a matter of getting It was on that play that with a hard, driving rain that our timing," Trevino said. Breen-Phillips seized control delighted the two teams, both "We should be 110 percent and never looked back. As the of which cheered as the rain better by next week." Breen-Phillips sideline said, got progressively harder. For a 
"We never punt!" Kazmerski time, it appeared as though Breen Phillips 24, faded back and found receiver the downpour had given new Pangborn 12 Tara Johnson running behind life to Pangborn as they quick­
Even through a torrential the Pangborn defense for a 45-ly got on the board with a 7­rainstorm on Sunday after­yard touchdown pass to make yard scoring strike to cut the noon at the West Quad athletic the score 6-0 in favor of the deficit to 18-6. Kazmerski and fields, it was easy to see that Babes after a failed conversion the Breen-Phillips offense Breen-Phillips would be a attempt. answered on the very next force to be reckoned with in "It was just a fly pattern and series, covering 50 yards, most the coming season as they I got behind the coverage and of it on the legs of the star raced past Pangborn 24-12. just ran it in," Johnson said quarterback. Although a 25­
The game got off to a roar­after the game. yard touchdown run on a ing start as Pangborn took the The Breen-Phillips defense Kazmerski naked bootleg was opening made an inadvertently blown dead, it possession intercep­proved to be only a temporary
"We are 75-90 percent freshmen, 
and ran a tion to postponement of the inevitable double pass but we have some great athletes thwart the as the BP quarterback ran it in as the first n e x t from seven yards two plays
in that class. We have a lot to
play of the Pangborn later on the same naked boot­
build on." 
season. As drive and leg to make the score an the Breen-t h e n insurmountable 24-6 late in Phillips Katie Murray Kazmerski the 2nd half. defense accounted Pangborn continued to fight,
Pangborn captain
reacted to for anoth-scoring one more touchdown the first er score, on a 68-yard' slant pattern to pass behind this time give the game a final score of the line of scrimmage, the ball running the ball in three yards 24-12 and give the Phoxes and sailed over their heads and on 4th and goal to make the captain Katie Murray some­into the waiting arms of a score 12-0 after another failed thing to build on for the rest of Pangborn receiver who made conversion attempt. the season. a terrific catch on the under­For the rest of the half, the "We just need to get in some thrown ball for a 30-yard gain. Breen-Phillips defense contin­more practices and gain some 
The Breen-Phillips defense ued to frustrate the Pangborn experience," Murray said. "We recovered and forced a attack, a fact that could have are 75-90 percent freshmen. Pangborn turnover on downs, been attributed to a lack of a but we have some great ath­to get the ball to their offense, game ball as Pangborn's fresh­letes in that class. We have a led by quarterback Traci man quarterback was forced lot to build on." Kazmerski. Pangborn's to throw a ball she wasn't Although Pangborn will defense came out strong by used to. undoubtedly improve as the 
With the Breen-Phillips year goes on, Sunday Breen­
defense in complete control, Phillips announced themselves 

Kazmerski and the Babes as a contender in the Blue offense got the ball back with League. 
2:00 left in the half and ran a two-minute drill to perfection, utilizing the combination of Kazmerski's short, accurate passing, and opportunistic scrambling to mount yet another scoring drive. Contact Matt Puglisi at 
Kazmerski capped the 41-mpuglisi@nd.edu and Kevin yard drive with a 1-yard quar-O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu 
BLUE

VON DUTCH * Sf.VEN JEANS ~'c 
~ n 
d 
~ 
r.....

~ InspireMe 1 
----.J~ ~ 

z V'J 
Q rJ'J 528 :£. Colfax ~Ave., Suite #2 * South r.Beni, 1rN46617
·~ 
~ 

312 W. C(evefana 1\d.
tl.l 

s §raneer, 1rN46530 
~ 
574/277~6693

~:c 
rJ'J 
~ 

V".l ACon~cmporartJ 
Tuesday, Sepcemeber 16, 2003
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Optimism runs high as Farley squares off with BP 
By STEVE COYER, RACHEL 
SCHIROSAND 
KATIE WAGNER 
Sports Writers 
All teams must face the inevitability of rebuilding at some point. This is routine but it's surprising to see two teams so energized by their newcom­ers. 
Tonight at 7 p.m.. the women of Farley and Breen-Phillips will put their young teams to the test. 
Breen-Phillips looks strong coming off a 24-12 victory last Sunday against Pangborn. Hoping to repeat last year's success that brought them to the semi-finals, Breen-Phillips will look to improve their defense and 
rally behind "Fi l , 17•
the play of ar ey s rznest are oo zng evoke the their quarter-to take teams by surprise on untamed and 
when Walsh

back and wide the road to the stadium. " 
receivers. and Welsh Team captain take the field K e l I y Angelina Zehrbach tonight other Deckelman Farley captain likenesses of 
to play a game at Notre Dame Stadium or the thrill of repre­senting your dorm, the new recruits for both teams have been very positive in their response this year. 
This Tuesday night is a piv­otal game for both teams. For Breen-Phillips, a win will mean a quick 2-0 start on their way to the playoffs. For Farley, this game is an opportunity to show off the rejuvenated strength of the team. Due to the optimistic outlook of both teams, this game should be closely contested. The game will be played at 7 p.m. at Riehle West. 
Walsh vs. Welsh Family 
Their names differ by only a letter, their mascots both
[ k' 

noted that while the team had lost key players from last year, they have been bolstered by the spirit of the incoming fresh­men. 
After a disappointing season last year, Farley is also opti­mistic about their chances this season. 
"Farley's Finest are looking to take teams by surprise on the road to the stadium," said captain Angelina Zehrbach. 
This will be Farley's first game of the year, but they hope to be led by a core group of returning players. Their strengths look to be a return­ing second-year quarterback and their wide receivers. A main factor motivating Farley's comeback this year should also be their incoming freshmen. 
While each team had differ­ent outcomes last year, both Farley and Breen-Phillips feel strengthened by the enthusi­asm and effort of their fresh­men. Whether it's the chance 
their particu­
lar 2003 

teams will likely become apparent as well. 
This game between two young teams with defensive strongholds, dedication to time on the practice field and an eye on the prize promises to be an interesting meeting. 
Despite being a member of Notre Dame's newest class of dorms, Welsh Family already has a reputation for athletic dominance. Nonetheless, they come to their second game of the season with a 0-1 record after an opening upset by Cavanaugh Sunday. This is perhaps in part due to a pre­dominantly freshman team, so much so that they are calling themselves "Welsh Family Reloaded". 
"We're still working on com­ing together and finding a team that flows," said captain Katie Sprinz. 
Multiple freshman are start­ing, a noticeable difference for a team used to an exceptional-
Ages 3-5 &Kindergarten 
Enrollment Open.in:gs are Now Available for the Following Age Groups: 
3's: afternoons 

4's and 415's: T,'l'H all day or afternoons 
Kindergarten: full time or mornings 
Accredited Program, Degreed Teachers, 25+ Years of Serving Children, Families and the Community, Innovative Curriculum 
Nurturing,. Stimulating Teachers 

ly deep lineup, but they've begun to step up to the chal­lenge. 
"They don't quite realize the intensity yet, so it's up to the older players to let them know what it is to ... want to taste the victory." said Sprinz. 
The Wild Women have yet to test the mettle of their '03 team, also comprised consider­ably of rookies, as this game will be their first of the season. 
Still, team captain Colleen Gannon is confident in the potential of their younger play­
ers. "We have a really strong freshman class this year, but we're still waiting to figure out who the standout players will 
b " 
e. 

The Whirlwinds look to a tough defensive line as the "TAT d ,-r; .
backbone of rre eJ.nzte yare oo zng to u r r a~. their .str~ngth. the stadium, and while ::;~~;:o~! Contnbutmg to knowing there is no guarantee t · 
a developing . . . , 'c~p a I~· offense is the zt zs definztely doable. said that I.n 
decision-mak-~er teams ing of sopho-Katie Sprinz first game, more quarter-the_y scored back Melissa Welsh Family captain twice as 
against the Whirlwinds. Gannon said. "It will be a com­petitive game. It'd be a really good win for us .to start the season to boost the team confi­dence." 
Equally positive, Sprinz said 
o.f "WF-Reloaded," "We defi­nitely are looking to the stadi­um, and while knowing there is no guarantee, it is definitely doable." 
Pangborn vs. PW 
Do not be misled by Pangborn and Pasquerilla West's less than stellar records 
last football season. 
Both have not only looked better in team practices than last season. but have each 
gained many valuable fresh­

man K ~ t i e l l k' M 
Sands, who takes over because last year's quarter­back is studying abroad. 
Gannon also highlighted her team's defense as its base strength, crediting it with keeping the team in the run­ning for a chance at playoff competition. 
Walsh hopes that the arrival of a new offensive coach this fall will improve the effective­ness of an offensive line that has suffered a seeming inabili­ty to score consistently. 
Coming off last year's loss 

m a n Y 
touch­downs as. all_ of last seas?n. The t~am s SI~-man coachmg staff IS certamly one of th.e sources of Pangborn s improvement, according to Murray. "Three [coaches] are dedicated to offense and two are dedicated to defense," said Murray. The sixth coach works with the defense. 
Pangborn's freshmen also are great contributors to the team's success so far. In fact, Pangborn's young team con­sists of only six sophomore upperclassmen: the rest are freshmen. 

"We have some really athlet­ic freshman and our coaches are really impressed with them," Murray said. 
Last week, Pangborn scored all of its touchdowns in the second half. and Murray described her squad as being "definitely a come back type of team." 
Today will be Pasquerilla West's season-opener and these women are starving to suit up. They've been scrim­maging for three weeks and "everyone is just looking for­ward to playing," said sopho­more player Heather Van Hoegarden. Pasquerilla West is also under great leadership, thanks to their captain Leslie Schmidt and the return of both of their old coaches. 
Van Iloegarden said that it's an "added bonus" to have the same coaches as last year, because "they know the play­ers". Other signs of future suc­cess for the women of Pasquerilla West include the addition of freshman to the squad. 
"We have a lot of experience, most of our starters are back, but we also have a lot of new freshmen, that should help out a lot," Van Hoegarden said. 
Neither teams faced each other last year but are eager to take the field tonight at Riehle West at 9 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu, Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu and Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Purdue 

AT 

Ticket Lottery 

Thursday, September18th legends 11 am-Spm One person can bring a maXimum of 6 ID's. 
Only open to Notre Dame students~
..·· ..•·· .·.•..·. 

~ 
brought to you by the notre dame student union board. 20 1 Iafortune. 



~----------------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------~----­
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Apparently, $32,000 can't 
No Wtl'f you'rt drivi~ on 
ur car on 

(:Arotpus withovf o. tvll body CAvity S&M· 
Bv+ I jV$+ W<~~~"~t .f-11 drop off '~"Y loft... 
Ytx~va it\ Wl"f / w.,tid n~w\ Na.nc.y, 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 36 Fill the 64 Dust Bowl chambers, say drifters
1 Was of the opinion 38 Arab League 65 What Dubliners member call home
5 "Shake_!" 66 Poverty
40 Put in storage 67 Jordan's Queen 
9 Expensive 
wraps 41 Company in 13 Woodwind 2002 headlines 68 Campus bigwig 
14 Less welcoming 43 Countrified 15 Straddling 45 Barely maintain, DOWNwith "out" 16 Novelist Ambler 1 Worked in rows46 Mimics' work 17 1970's-80's TV 2 Spain's second­
twosome 48 Frequent ferry 
longest river 19 Recommended 
rider 3 1990's TV 

amount 50 "Kidnapped" 
twosome 20 Overseas Mrs. author's inits. 
4 lago's specialty 21 Gerber offerings 51 Composer 
5 Hard nut toBoulanger
22 Log holder crack? 52 Black mark 
24 Syllables sung 6 Money replaced in place of 56 Signal at by the euro unknown words Sotheby's 
7 Rat alert? 25 Winner 57 Steel mill 
8 Dads of dads 271n the wrong by-product 9 Evenhanded 32 Pledge of 60 1990's-2000's 
10 Magazine of Allegiance ender TV twosome reprints 
62 Coveted prize

33 Actor Bean 11 Took a cab 31 Having a higher 47 Wine holder 54 Tennis great 36 Androcles, e.g. 63 Diva's delivery 12 1974 model number, Nastase 
49 Didn't speak 
Sutherland/ say 55 Delighted
clearlyANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Gould film 34 Feudal laborers 
56 Scott of "Happy 14 # 1 hit lor 51 More polite 
37 John Days" Brenda Lee 
39 Water nymphs 52 E. B. White's 58 A celebrity may 18 Imperatives have one
"The Trumpet of 42 Silent film star
23 Outback hopper the " 
Mabel 59 Feds 24 notes 
44 It was dropped 53 Goodyear 61 "King Kong" 25 Jacket holder 
in the 60's product studio 
26 Massey of old movies For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. of mockery 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 28 Oerter and crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Unser 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). twosome Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 30 Elicit nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
,_-. --.-------..----------~. ------··----. ----··-------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______ State ______ Zip________ 
--·-------------------------___., 

page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TURET 
± 
!0:2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Alghla Reserved 
LERED 
[XJ 



WHAT THE: TUXE:­
tFARITY 
00-CLAD E:X~TIVE 
DIC.TATE:D TO HIS 
SEC.I<.E:TARY.
IJ I 
www.jurri:>le.com 
MYSLOB 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I [ J 
Ans: 

A "( I I I I I ]" ( I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow} 

HOIST LUNGE PICNIC THRUSH
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: Why the headwaiter helped out in the busy kitchen 
-TO STIR THINGS UP 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: B.B. King, Lauren Bacall, Marc Anthony, David Copperfield, Susan Ruttan, Peter Falk 
Happy Birthday: This year, choose wisely in all aspects of your life. Changes can happen if you take the initiative to direct your future. Set goals and parameters; then follow through. Concentrate less on living for olhers and more on you. Your numbers: 7, 15, 18, 24, 26,40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You have the ability to take control and make decisions. Your competitive drive will help you gain ground and position yourself strategically. The greater the challenge, the more you'll thrive. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Love and romance are apparent if you get out and mingle. Don't expect family to be pleased with your decisions today. Listen to advice but do what is best for you.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your humorous outlook and quick wit will impress new acquaintances. An envious individual may challenge you to a debate. Remain calm and you'll outshine him or her. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Personal relationships may be your goal. Plan activities that are conducive to romance. If you are in a relationship, spend intimate time together--and if you are single, meet new people. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be entertaining at social functions and draw attention with your dramatic style. However, it may not be the kind of interest you had in mind. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Secret enemies will be eager to spread rumors. 
Be prepared to counterattack. Problems with authority figures will arise unless you play by the rules. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to a set budget today. You don't need to pay top dollar to have fun. Volunteer work will bring satisfaction instead of an empty wallet. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jealousy may cause problems in a usually good relationship. Be sure you have all the facts before deciding to accuse your 
partner of something that he or she didn't do. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You need some excitement in your life, and meeting new people in exotic destinations will certainly satisfy your needs and your desires. Travel in pursuit of pleasure and knowledge. *** 
-
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A secret love affair, though enticing, would bring bad along with the good. Listen to the advice given by those with experience and save yourself a lot of grief. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect opposition if you won't allow someone to have his or her own way. Your two choices arc to strike out on your own or bend to this person's whims. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You won't be able to hide the way you feel and will have to discuss pressing issues, which could result in personal changes. l(s time to make new friends who won't remind you of past mistakes.** 
Birthday Baby: You're a straight shooter with integrity, but will always consider others and approach them diplomatically. Your strong character will be admired and lead to many opportunities throughout life. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialasl.com 
........ 
THE 0BSERVIR 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 16, 2003 
Page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Searching for answers 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate SportS Editor 

It's gut-check time for the Irish. 
The season is only two games 
old and 10 games remain, but 
after the worst loss in 18 years, 
nothing appears to be going 
right. 

The offense was nonproductive 
against Michigan, passing for one . yard in the first half, never advancing past the Michigan 37­yard line and being outgained by 
Wolverine running back Chris 
Perry by 37 yards (177 to 140). 

The defense yielded 439 yards 
and the strength of the team, the 
ability to stop the run, turned 
into a major weakness Saturday 
allowing Michigan to run for 188 
yards. The special teams didn't 
help either, allowing a number of 
long punt returns and making 
poor decisions on whether to run 
out of the end zone or take a 
touchback. 
The Irish won't make excuses. 

"It's a poor game by us as a 
team," running back Julius Jones 
said. "We've just got to go back 
and look at it and get better for 
next week." 

"We didn't perform and guys 
didn't step up. Plain and simple, 
guys didn't get the job done," 
running back Ryan Grant said. 
"For the talent level we have, 
there is no excuse that guys don't 
step up." 

While the defense's only big 
play was linebacker Courtney 
Watson's first quarter forced 
fumble, the offense didn't con­
tribute anything significant to the 
game. In the fourth quarter 
against Washington State, the 
offense capitalized off opportuni­ties created by the defense by driving down the field to put 20 points on the board. 
Against Michigan, the Irish regressed. 
"Anytime that you don't score any points and you aren't very effective in anything, then I think it is always a step backwards because you aren't moving for­ward," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "You've got to regroup and we play the Spartans next week." 
Michigan State comes into Notre Dame Stadium this week­end not feeling too good about itself either. 
The Spartans gave up two touchdowns in the last 69 sec­onds of their game Saturday against Louisiana Tech to lose 20-19. Making the loss tougher to swallow, the Spartans had a touchdown called back because of a penalty, recovered a fumble inside the Louisiana Tech red zone, failed to get any points out of it and had a face-mask penalty on a sack during Louisiana Tech's final touchdown drive. 
One more thing the Spartans have to worry about is the health of their reinstated quarterback Jeff Smoker who is questionable for Saturday's game. Smoker left the team last season to treat a substance abuse problem. He returned to the team this sum­mer and earned his starting job. 
Maybe the Spartans are just what the Irish need. No matter who lines up on the opposite side of the field, the Irish know they have to play a whole lot better than they did Saturday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Julius Jones runs the ball against Michigan on Saturday. The Irish find themselves struggling for answers after their 38-0 loss to the Wolverines. They only gained 140 total yards In the loss. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Schefter returns to boost Irish 

By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 

Due to an ACL injury, a year ago Annie Schefter could only watch as her teammates strug­gled to a 13-8 record and she missed the Big East Tournament. With the· injury healed and a year of classes under her belt, Schefter, now a sophomore, has played a major role as the No. 2 Irish have returned to national promi­nence by starting the season 6­
0. 

In what may have been her best game thus far in an Irish uniform, Schefter scored two 
see RETURN/page 24 
SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Freshm_en lead Belles to sixth place finish 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's cross coun­try team finished in a tie for sixth place in the nine-team Aquinas College Invitational on Friday. 
"No one surprised me," Belles coach David Barstis said. "We ran similar to the first meet." 
The Belles tied fellow MIAA competitor Hope College in the 5,000 meter race with a score of 144. Grand Valley State University won with a score of 15, and host Aquinas College fmished second with 84. 
"I was pleased with the out­come," Barstis said. "One of the things we are working on is closing our 1-5 gap. We need to get the gap down to 30-45 sec­onds. Since I view these races as workouts, we train through them. That means they are rac­ing on tired legs. They'll get a break before the first confer­ence meet at the end ofthe month." 
The St. Mary's freshmen led the way for the Belles for the second straight race. Katie White placed highest at 30th with a time of 20:09, and Sara Otto finished close behind her in 35th (20:21). 
see RUNNERS/page 23 


INTERHAU. FOOTBALL 
INTERHAU.. FOOTBAll 

INTERHAU. FOOTBAll 
MLB 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
WUSA 
Lewis 8 

Saint Mary's 
Cavanaugh 13 
PW and Pangborn
Badin 6 

Wrapups from around 
30,32,30

Welsh Family 8 
The WUSA folds after 
the National League 
Umversity of 
look to improve on dis­
three years of action. 
Chicago

and American League. 
In a battle for brag­
The Chicks overcame 
appointing seasons. 
19, 3o-, 28
the Bullfrogs in this

ging rights, the Chaos 
emerged on top. 
defensive battle. 
page 17
page 26 

page 23 
page 19
page 23 
page 23 








