
VOL.XXXVII NO. 113 
U.S. forces attack Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. forces launched a strike against "targets of military opportunity" in Iraq, President Bush said Wednesday night. He described the action as the opening salvo in an operation to "disarm Iraq and to free its peo­ple." 
Bush spoke after the U.S. mil­itary struck with cruise missiles and precision-guided bombs against a site near Baghdad, where Iraqi leaders were thought to be, U.S. government officials said. There was no indication whether the attack was successful. 
The strikes used Tomahawk cruise missiles and precision­guided bombs dropped from F­117 Nighthawks, the Air Force's stealth fighter-bombers, mili­tary officials said. 
Bush addressed the nation about two hours after his 8 p.m. EST ultimatum for Saddam Hussein to give up power. 
"Now that conflict has come, the only way to limit its dura­tion is to apply decisive force," Bush said. "We will accept no outcome but victory." 
He spoke as a U.S.-led force of 300,000 troops ringed Iraq, ready to launch a ferocious assault to topple the Iraqi dicta­tor and capture any weapons of mass destruction. 
"On my order, coalition forces have begun targeting selected targets of military importance 
to undermine Saddam Hussein's 
ability to wage war," the presi­
dent said. "These are the open­
ing stages of what will be a 
broad and concerted cam­
paign." 

As he has many times in the run-up to war, Bush declared that the United States has "no ambition in Iraq except to remove a threat. Our forces will be coming home as soon as their work is done." 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer had announced Bush's plans to speak on short notice. 
Fleischer spoke as anti-air­craft fire and explosions were heard across Baghdad after air raid sirens went off at the capi­tal at dawn. 
A U . S. o ffi c i al declined to identify which leaders were tar­geted or to say whether the attack was successful. 
However, a second official said the plan for targeting Iraqi leadership included using F-117 stealth bombers and a handful of cruise missiles. 
Bush's speech came at the end of an anxious day of waiting at the White House. 
The president scrutinized final battle plans and told Congress why he was poised to launch the largest pre-emptive attack in U.S. history. 
After meeting yet again with Pentagon officials, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Bush had just fin­ished dinner Wednesday night and was in the living room of the White House residence with 
first lady Laura Bush when his 
chief of staff, Andrew Card, 
called. Card informed the presi­
dent that intelligence officials 
had no information that 
Saddam had left Iraq. 
Earlier, Fleischer spoke of somber realities of war. "Americans ought to be pre­pared for loss of life," he said. 
Extra security enveloped the executive mansion while aides inside whispered rumors of Iraqi defections and surrenders. 
The president began his day with the usual briefing from FBI Director Robert Mueller and CIA Director George Tenet. He also met throughout the day with his war council, including Rumsfeld, Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of State Colin Powell and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice. 
They reviewed the final details for war in 1-raq, aides said, poring over weather fore­casts and troop positions. 
Bush also discussed battle plans by telephone with Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has sent 40,000 British troops to the Persian Gulf. 
Bush sent Congress formal notice that he had determined "further diplomatic and other peaceful means alone" would not be enough to contain the "threat posed by Iraq." Bush has contended that Saddam possesses chemical and biologi­cal weapons that he could use 
see IRAQ/page 10 


Alcohol policy affects dorm life 
• Hall staff report less alcohol in the dorms, more stu­dents off campus 
Editor's Note: A year after Notre Dame announced the most signifi­cant alcohol policy changes in over a decade. The Observer examines what effect the changes have had. This is third in a four­part series. 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
Senior Staff Writer 
Hectors and resident assistants campus-wide agree that the alco­hol policy introduced last spring changed Notre Dame dorm life and reduced the presence of alco­hol on campus, but they still worry about students drinking off campus. 
There has been a drastic decline in the number of reported cases of alcohol poisoning since hard alcohol was banned from the residence halls -only 20 inci­dents occurred during the fall of 2002 versus 51 cases in the fall of 2001, according to the University Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
Father George Rozum, who has been rector of Alumni Hall for more than 20 years, said resi­dence hall life this year has been the best he has ever experienced. 
"Generally, [the alcohol policy changes] have made a positive difference," Rozum said. "There have been fewer incidents of excessive drink­ing. I'm not See Also claiming that 
"Dances harder

there's no drink­ing going on, but to plan post ... the only time policy changes" we had an 

page6

ambulance run it was for hard alcohol. That seems to be the big thing when [students] get sick, they seem to be able to handle much better wine and beer." 
McGlinn Hall's rector Elizabeth Bright also credited the University's hard alcohol ban with reducing the number of alcohol­related hospital visits the resi­dents of her hall have required. 
see ALCOHOL/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Lugar to give speech at Commencement 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Senior Staff Writer 
Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind. will address the Class of 2003 as the keynote speaker for the University of Notre Dame's 158th Commencement exercis­es on May 18. 
Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is in regu­lar com-Lugar munication with the White House regard­


ing the conflict with war, most recently meeting with President George W. Bush, the 
2001 commencement speaker, on Monday. 
"At a time when American foreign policy is going in dra­m a tic new directions, we believe his vast experience in the field will be of particular interest to our graduates and their families," Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy said in a statement released by the University. 
Lugar, the senior Indiana senator serving his fifth term, will be the first Indiana politi­cian to deliver the Commencement address since Lt. Gov. Joseph Kernan in 1998. 
Lugar joins the ranks of fel­low political leaders who have spoken at recent Notre Dame Commencement exercises. such as Bush, United Nations Security General Kofi Annan. National Security Adviser Condeleezza Rice and Sen. 
Elizabeth Dole. 

"[Lugar] was delighted to get 
the opportunity," said Lugar's 
deputy press secretary for the 
Washington, D.C. office, Nick 
Weber. "Notre Dame is obvi­
ously a first-class university 
and a premier education facili­
ty and so an opportunity to 
speak to its graduates is well 
received." 

Lugar, who is offered many invitations to speak at com­mencements each year, often talks to graduates about what they will face in the ''real world" once they leave college, \Veber said. Referring to his experiences in education, agri­culture, business and public service, Lugar often relays his view on the state ofthe world. 
Weber said it is probable that he will mention the situation in Iraq, depending on how it develops in the coming months. 
"The senator has a spectacu­lar grasp of international rela­tions.... I'm sure that will come up at some point," Weber said. 
Lugar is chairing the Senate 
see SPEAKER/page 6 
THE FIRST NIGHT OF WAR 


Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Clippings 
Children's parents collect a lot ofthings that show their children's succes.ses -tro­phies, medals, photographs, scholarship letters, acceptance letters. They keep scrapbooks with grade school diplomas and tickets from honors dinners. They wat.ch clips of winning passes in football games and solos in high school plays. 
But when I called home the other night, I realized my parents were collect­ing something that Katie McVoy wasn't quire as nor­mal for most par­

Senior Staff 
ents. As I was talking 
Writer
to my dad on the phone he reminded me that they were now up to their second or third book full ofnot only articles I had written over the last four years, but every mention ofmy name in the paper -that includes the little box in viewpoint that has Today's Staff. That's a lot ofcutting out. 
Don't think they do this just because my mom is a preschool reacher and wants some practice with her kid-proof scissors. Or that my dad, who works from home, needs a break from the basement. As he often reminds me, he has the dog for com­pany. 
But the truth is, they do it because they care enough to weed through all those pages of news about new alcohol JX)licies, unknown speakers and losing reams to find articles that mightjust have my name under them. That's pretty amazing. 
And I'm not even going into journalism. When I leave Saint Mary's I will hang up my journalist's norebook and my mini tape-recorder, I'll leave behind the football media guides and the SJX)rts information contact lists, and I will sign my name for the last time under an inside column for The Observer. That will be the end. 
But it won't be the end ofthe kind ofcare and dedication it takes to weed through all those pages. 
I learned one very big, very unexpec1:ed lesson this year. The lesson wasn't that people drift out ofour lives sometime. That was a lesson I learned, but it wasn't the important one. 
The lesson I truly learned was that there really are people in your life you can always count on. I learned that regardless ofthe entrance ofnew acquaintances and the exits ofvery old ftiends, there are peo­ple that will always, always be there. No matter what. 
Sometimes those people come into your life very unexpectedly. Sometimes they simply fall into your lap and even though you've only known them for a few months, you know they are those kinds ofpeople. And you're pretty sure that in five years time or 10 years time that will still be the case. 
Sometimes they are the people you live with. Sometimes they are the people you work with. 
But sometimes, m<:61 imJX)rtantly, they are the people who sit at home when you are nearly 300 miles away, probably with your mind on anything but home, who are always thinking about you. 
And cutting out your articles. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
• Due co a production error, a picture ofa Notre Dame student drinking a pitcher of beer on the front page of Wednesday's Observer that was originally submitted as a birthday advertisement was not labeled as such. • The picture "Prayer.; for Peace" on page 6 of Wednesday's Observer was incorrectly labeled as a statue ofthe Virgin Mary. The statue is ofSc. Bernadene. + In Wednesday's Observer article "Police bust College Park parrl Cape. William Thompson incorrectly said that the student who fell from a balcony was taken to the hospital. lbe student was never treated for the fall, 
but is in good health. The Observer regrecs the errors. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Senators propose later weekday parietals 
The Student Senate unanimous­ly passed a resolu~ tion to extend weekday parietals to 1 a.m. 
page 3 

BUSINESS NEWS 
ND focuses on business ethics 
Former CEO William George received the Hesburgh award for ethics in busi­ness. 
page 7 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m., 5 to 7 p.m. at LaFortune, cost $15 
. 
StudPnt bus to NCAA Tournament in Indianapolis 

4:30 p.m., bus lcavPs for the HCA Dome 

. 
Carpers for Political Science Majors Night 7 to 8:30 p.m. at Flanner Ilall, G-20 A panel 

. 
Blind Date Program 


7:30 p.m. at the Coleman-Morse Lounge 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Off-campus Student Luncheon noon at the Ilaggar College Center, Berezny Game Boom 

. 
Panel discussion with Dr. Cynthia Husset noon at the LeMans 11all, Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Hichard Yanez book signing and reception 4 p.m. at the LeMans Hall, Stapleton Lounge 


WORLD& NATION 
U.S., Britain embark on operation Iraqi freedom 
Dawn in Baghdad Thursday brought the first attacks from the 
U.S. and its allies. 
page 5 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Fettuccine with fennel, al prosciutto pizza, Betsy Flannigan chicken breast, boulangere potatoes, cherry crisp, orzo with portobello and cream, broccoli quiche, scrambled eggs with cheese, breakfast ham, raisin bread, French toast, BBQ beef sandwich, fried potato skins, onion rings, Szechuan beef and vegetables, lone-star rice, chicken and cheese chimichanga, basil-garlic lin­guine, Hawaiian pizza, chicken tempura, California Eldorado casserole 
Today's Dinner: Honey-glazed ham, baked beans, pork gravy, whipped pota­toes, couscous, Lyonnaise potatoes, Oriental shrimp with noodles 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
::LLI ...I 
cc 
(.) 



VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS 
An abusive 'Quiet Irish shave 
relationship American' heads to 
with speaks create team 
Hollywood volumes unity 
The men's bas-
Scene critic Chris
Columnist Peter ketball team is now
Wicks laments his Banister reviews addiction to bad the new movie bald and on its way Hollywood movies. with Michael to the NCAA tour-Caine. nament in Indianapolis today. 
page 12 page 14 page 28 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Employee injures eye 
NDSP transported a University employee from St. Michael's Laundry to Health Services Tuesday for treatment after the employee's eye was injured in an occupational accident. 

Abandoned bike found 
An abandoned bike was discovered outside O'Neill Hall Tuesday and brought to NDSP for safekeeping. 

Employee reports vandalism 
A University employee reported vandalism to her 
vehicle while it was parked near the Joyce Center 
Tuesday morning. 

2 students' vehicles towed 
Two students' vehicles were towed for parking violations Tuesday. One vehicle was removed from a lot near the stadium, the other was taken from nearby the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

Student treated for sports injury 
NDSP transported a student to Health Services Tuesday to treat a sports injury the student suf­fered at Loftus Sports Center. 

Suspicious activity reported 
A visitor reported suspicious activity near Fischer Graduate Housing Tuesday. The case has been referred to an outside agency. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Bookstore Basketball Hcgistration 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken fajita pizza, yoasted pretzel sticks, mushroom stroganoff, sauteed zucchini and yellow squash, meatloaf, Mississippi-fried cat­fish, baked glazed ham, mashed red­skin baked potatoes, cut corn, gyro, fried potato skins, onion rings, sweet and sour pork, chili crispito, flame-roasted fiesta corn & black beans 
Today's Dinner: Chicken breast Vesuvio, rice with black olives, veal parmigiana, steamed spinach, beef stew, roast pork loin, roasted poupon potatoes, hot chunky applesauce, whipped pota­toes, baking powder biscuits, chicken strips, beef Mongolian, chili frito 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



_9 HIGH 65 HIGH 58 HIGH 48 HIGH 40 LOW 43 LOW 41 LOW 27 LOW 32 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu avallable. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH-40 HIGH 52 LOW 27 LOW 37 

Atlanta 70 / 55 Bost.on 46 I ~O Chicago 57 / ~3 Denver 40 / 26 Houston 76 I 48 Los Angeles 66 / 52 Minneapolis 42 / 33 New York 47 / 44 Ph1ladelph1a 48 / 46 Phoenix 72 / 53 Seattle 56 / 42 St. Louis 62 / 45 Tampa 85 / 73 Washington 52 / 49 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



ROTC: War talks helpful 
said.

By MATT BRAMANTI 
The officers declined to
News Writer 
comment on their personal 
opinions regarding military 
While American forces action in Iraq, citing Defense prepared for an almost cer­Department policy. "My job tain bombardment and inva­is to do what the President sion of Iraq, Notre Dame tells me," Shelton said. ROTC officials applauded the With the possibility of a war debate and expressed long occupation and rebuild­confidence in the U.S. mili­ing of Iraq, there have been tary and its leadership. questions about whether Commanders of the Army, graduating seniors might Navy and Air Force units soon find themselves characterized the debate deployed in the Iraqi desert. over the impending war as The officers downplayed that generally fair and intelli­likelihood, explaining that gent. graduates continue on to 
Capt. Jim Shelton, com­further training before they mander of the Navy ROTC are ready for deployment. unit, says the debate under-Fresh Army graduates would scores the train for value of four months
"Our units are trained
informed free or longer 
speech. and ready to carry out before they 
"Listening whatever missions are would be to what sent over­
assigned . .,

knowl~rlge­s e a s , able people Mosinski think is Lt. Col. David Mosinski said. always good," "It could
Anny ROTC commander 
Shelton said. "We live in a free republic, and part of its greatness is that people can express their opinions." 
Col. Mark Gehri, who com­mands the Air Force ROTC detachment, agreed, noting the academic nature of the discussions at Notre Dame. 
"It's been a collegial, hon­est and academic debate," Gehri said. "My hat is off to the Kroc Institute [for International Peace Studies]." 
The Army ROTC battalion's commander, Lt. Col. David Mosinski. likewise praised the wide variety of opinions 11resent. "We've seen a large nu:iiber of forums across all kine.ls of media," Mosinski 
be possible 

that some would leave and go to a sur­face ship immediately," but that is very unlikely, Shelton said . "For the first two years, the risks of deploying are low," Gehri said. 
The commanders also dis• cussed the recent focus on non-conventional weapons, including chemical and bio• logical agents. Iraq is thought to have retained stores of VX, sarin and mus­tard gases, as well as anthrax spores and botu­linum toxin. Mosinski said his cadets receive basic instruction on the concepts surrounding nuclear, biolog­ical and chemical warfare, including reacting to threats 
and the use of protective gear such as gas masks. 
"We focus on the basic sol­dier skills," Mosinski said. "The more detailed training comes later." 
The officers said that the 
U.S. military is ready to meet the challenge of a war in Iraq, and praised the con· tributions of the students in their charge. 
"Historically, Notre Dame ROTC graduates have done well in comparison to their peers," Mosinski said. "We just have an excellent pro­gram here." 
The men were optimistic about the prospect of a quick victory against Saddam Hussein's regime. Gehri, who commanded a squadron of C-141 cargo planes immediately after the 1991 Gulf War noted the U.S.-led coalition's air supe­riority at that time, and he said it has improved since then. 
"We have had huge tech­nological advances," he said. 
Shelton, a former nuclear submarine commander, emphasized the Navy's resolve. " 
We all know we have a job to do," he said, adding that Navy personnel are "pretty bright people" with high morale. 
Mosinski, a military intelli­gence officer and airborne ranger, stressed the Army's readiness for battle. 
"Our units are trained and ready to carry out whatever missions are assigned," he said, citing previous military successes in the Gulf, Kosovo and Afghanistan. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 

IES 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators propose later weekday parietals 
• Resolution to move ROTC Review also passes 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
Senators introduced two reso­lutions at their meeting Wednesday regarding parietals and the ROTC Presidential Pass in Review. 
The first resolution, passed unanimously by the Senate, dealt with extending weekday parietals from midnight to 1 a.m. The res­olution stated that the reasons for extending weekday parietals are that students very often study with each other past parietals and 24-hour spaces in dorms are not conducive to studying because of the presence of televi­sions and other social activities. 
The resolution also noted that studies show that students great­ly benefit from and learn more when studying in groups rather than studying alone. 
Other reasons for a parietals extension stated in the resolution are that students "have many resources in their rooms such as computers and reference materi­als which can be conducive to such study groups," and that these resources are more easily accessed in dorm rooms than in social spaces. 
Finally, the resolution cited the fact that "approximately 80 per­cent of students surveyed in the 2001 'Student Survey On Parietals' favored extending pari­etals past midnight on week­nights." 
At the meeting, it was also made clear that the main differ­ence between this resolution and past attempts to extend parietals is that the resolution separates parietals from quiet hours. This resolution favors keeping quiet hours at their current times, combined with better enforce­ment. but pushing parietals back one hour to facilitate studying. 
When asked about weekend parietals. Sarah Bates, Pasquerilla West Hall senator, said, "[Extending weekend pari­etals] is not out of the picture right now ... however [the resolu­tion extending weekday parietals] is the most important one to get through right now." 
The second resolution, also passed unanimously, favors returning the ROTC Presidential Pass In Review to its original location on South Quad. The cer­emony was moved to Loftus sev• eral years ago. 
The resolution states that returning the ceremony to its original location would allow more of the student body to wit­ness it, and holding the ceremony on South Quad, under the U.S. flag, provides a more "aestheti· cally pleasing environment than in Loftus." 
Sean Williams, St. Edward's Hall senator and Army ROTC cadet, introduced the resolution and said he believes that ROTC cadets deserve a more public place to be honored. 
The ceremony includes speech­es by Father Edward Malloy. University president, as well as Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus. Williams described the part of the ceremony when the cadets march by the University president as being "in the tradition of when kings reviewed their troops." 
"It's more enjoyable on South Quad because we're under the big American Flag and the Fl6s fly over. This brings us out into a more public forum," Williams said. 
In other Senate news: 

. Tai Romero was approved unanimously by the Senate as 2003-04 director of operations for the Student Union Board. Romero was described by Stephen Christ, Student Union Board manager, as having "valu­able skills and programming experience that she will bring to the Student Union Board" in his letter of recommendation for Romero to the Senate. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
We l>o Mondays · Like No flace Else! 



:··, . Atajita
7\ I 
] 


0 rt:s 
Enjoy a double order of faji±as (enoueh for two) for just t11!

••, 

~s
I ls® 
1o•·G0 
GRILL &BAR MISHAWAKA •4810 Grape Road 574-271-1330 
*Offer valid ever Monda 11 a.m. unftI dose 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 20, 2003 
from off campus. We deal with been fewer parties held in the and a decrease in dorm pride for each other. They take good it either way, but I would much dorms this year and attribute as a result. care of each other off campus." 

Alcohol 
rather know what's going on the decline in dorm parties to "A lot of guys have spent a Rectors and RAs agreed that 

and be able to monitor it than both the alcohol policy and a little more time off campus and overall drinking on or off cam­
continued from page 1 
have someone return out of the new attitude among under­taken. chances with South Bend pus is a matter of individual 
"We've had four ambulance blue with alcohol poisoning and classmen. authorities ... but on the whole, responsibility. transports so far this year," not know what happened." "I think it's been a gradual freshmen don't place the same "I think people are making Bright said. "That was fairly Carroll Hall rector Father change since [seniors'] fresh­importance on alcohol," he choice and I don't think it's tied average for a month in the past James Lewis, who also works man year with admissions said. "This is sometimes to the policy," said Lewis. -and each of those four inci­as an assessment counselor in standards, too," Holte said. "I reflected in the amount of "High risk drinking is not a dents involved hard alcohol." the Office of think they're video games they play and the result of a University policy any 
Bright became rector of Alcohol and bringing in a amount of time they spend in more than it is the result of a McGlinn in August when the Drug Education, "There is a significant different their own dorm rooms." broken relationship, a bad alcohol policy changes first said he believes lowering in the amount of kind of stu­RAs in female dorms said, grade or even a 21st birthday. went into effect. Though she the policy dent, some-similar to past years, the It's the result of an individual
alcohol in my dorm and
had no prior experience in changes are a one more majority of alcohol-related choice." 
Notre Dame residence halls, "prudent and on campus, but an tame." problems they encounter she said her own college expe­practical unwelcome effect ofthe This year, revolve around hall dances. Contact Kate Nagengast at rience at Marquette University upgrade to hall however, as Angie Gubana. a Lewis Hall nagengast.3@nd.edu
policies has been an
and her time in the "real and campus life" in the past a RA, and Andrea Johnson, an
increase in movement off
world" gave her a broader per­and "necessary little more RA in Cavanaugh Hall, both spective on college drinking as responses to a campus for access to than one­said they have only confiscated a part of human nature. Bright lot of the prac­third of the hard alcohol from parties
hard alcohol ...
said the college years are typi­tices on cam­c a s e s before hall dances. Generally, ca1ly a time when people test pus," but he also referred to RAs agreed that under the new their feelings of invincibility worries about Father James Lewis the Office of alcohol policy they are not and also experience their own students' safety Carroll Hall rector Alcohol and required to search rooms for vulnerability. off campus. D r u g hard alcohol, but only to enter 
"Drinking on college campus­"There is a sig­Education parties that draw attention and es is not unique to Notre Dame, nificant lowering are fresh­confiscate obvious violations. but the positive thing is that in the amount of alcohol in my men, Lawrence said. "I have talked to the girls Notre Dame is taking a proac­dorm and on campus, but an An Alumni Hall RA said he one-on-one and the freshmen tive step," Bright said. "In this unwelcome effect of the poli­has noticed a definite change in who drink are pretty responsi­particular case, especially with cies has been an increase in the hall community where ble about it," said Johnson. "I hard alcohol it's really, really movement off campus for focus has shifted away from would say the majority of my needed -morally it's the right access to hard alcohol," Lewis alcohol this year. He said there freshmen are not drinkers. and thing to do for sure." said. have been considerably fewer if they are ... they're not only 
According to Kelly Lawrence, Most RAs said there have social gatherings in the dorm responsible for themselves, but assistant director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, the number of referrals his office has received from the Office of Residence Life has also dropped this year. During the 2001-02 school year, ResLife required roughly 400 students to visit the office for alcohol assessment, Lawrence said. So far this year the office has handled 209 cases and Lawrence expects to finish the year around 340 cases, he said. However, Lawrence added, this year's case number includes a majority of the 213 students who were issued minor in a tavern citations during the Jan. 24 bust of The Boat Club, a popular South Bend bar. Although not all of the students cited in the raid were sent to Alcohol and Drug Education by ResLife. Lawrence said many rectors made the decision to require alcohol assessment for their residents. 



Incidents such as The Boat Club bust, other off-campus crime and Chad Sharon's death still have some members of the campus community concerned that the alcohol policy has curbed the number of incidents 
AdglfA..>Berle Professor of Law
of abusive drinking that get reported, but not the activity 
· CQJ!Jmbia Universit)'
itself. 
Lawrence admitted that because of the policy changes on campus, more students are going off campus to drink where hard alcohol is avail­

friday.iMarch 21, 2003*
able. "I think some students, this is 
f:OOpm

probably true more with females, feel that they are too 
Law School Courtroom
intoxicated to return to the dorms and walk past security monitors, so they end up not going back, which is a safety 
AH are invited to attend.
risk as well," Lawrence said. "The policy might have changed, but the drinking cul­ture and the drinking habits haven't changed entirely yet. it may have just moved some­where else." 
Some RAs also worry that cracking down on drinking in the dorms may have pushed students to drink off campus where it is more difficult to find 
*Please note that Prof. Coffee's visit has been moved up one week from the originalry
help should problems arise. 
announced date of March 28.
"\Vhen I became an RA I con­sidered taking care of drunk people to be a part of my job," said Steve Holte, an RA in Siegfried Hall. "I would rather take care of people who are drinking in the dorms than those who come back drunk 

Thursday, March 20, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 




U.S., Britain embark on Operation Iraqi freedom 

British troops carry out exercises at their camp Eag1e 2 in the Kuwaiti desert. U.S. and British troops moved into forward positions on Wednesday, ready to unleash a massive assault on Iraq. 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

The United States launched the opening salvo Wednesday night of a war to topple Saddam Hussein, firing cruise missiles and precision-guided bombs against targets in Baghdad. 
"This will not be a campaign of half measures and we will accept no outcome but victory." President Bush said in an Oval Office address shortly after explosions ricocheted through the pre-dawn light of the Iraqi capital. 
Defiant to the end, Saddam's state-run television broadcast this message to the Americans after the bombs struck: "It's an inferno that awaits them. Let them try their faltering luck and they shall meet what awaits them." 
Anti-aircraft tracer fire made arcs across the Baghdad sky as the American munitions bore in on their targets. A ball of fire shot skyward after one explo­sion. 
Bush described the targets as being of "military importance." 
A U.S. military official, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said about three dozen cruise missiles were fired from a small number of ships -perhaps as few as two -in the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. The official said they were fired at "leadership targets," but he was not certain whether Saddam was a target. 
Another official said the strikes were not part of the opening of the main air campaign but rather an attempt to take advan­tage of "time-sensitive" targets, meaning fresh intelligence on the whereabouts of Iraqi leaders. 
Even so, it was clear from Bush's words that the war to topple the Iraqi dictator and eliminate his weapons of mass destruction had begun. 
An American-led invasion force of 300,000 troops awaited the broader order to strike. U.S. and British forces massed in the Kuwaiti desert close to the Iraqi border, giant B-52 warplanes were loaded with bombs and Tomahawk missile-carrying ships were in position, all await­ing an attack order from Bush. 
Bush had given Saddam 48 hours to leave the country or face war. 

Health officials disclose 11 U.S. cases of mystery illness 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Health officials said Wednesday that 11 suspected cases of a mysterious flu­like illness have emerged in the United States. while on the other side of the world, medical investigators continue to puzzle over how the illness spread in a Hong Kong hotel. 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention chief Dr. Julie Gerberding said the suspected U.S. cases are peo­ple who recently traveled to Asia and later developed fever and respiratory problems, matching definitions for the mystery illness, called "severe acute respiratory syndrome" or SARS. 
The illness, for which there is no treatment, has caused 14 deaths, including five who died months earlier in an outbreak in China. 
The worldwide number of cases. including the 11 suspect U.S. cases, now totals 264, according to the World Health Organization. Most of those cases are in Hong King, Vietnam and Singapore. The WHO said Wednesday that they continue to receive reports about some patients recovering from the illness. which causes high fever and severe breathing problems. 
"There's a lot we still don't know about this problem," said Gerberding, who added that the CDC is still exam­ining new samples that recently arrived from overseas. 
"It's very preliminary to say any individual is a case of SARS," she said. "It is going to take some days to know for sure." 
She declined to say where the U.S. cases are, but health officials in New Mexico and California said they each had one case on the list. 
In New Mexico, a patient from Albuquerque, who recently returned from Hong Kong, was in a hospital's respiratory isolation unit, state health officials said Wednesday. 
Los Angeles County's public health officer said a man with SARS symp­toms was recovering after being hospi­talized Saturday. He fell ill March 11 after returning from a visit to Vietnam, Hong Kong and part of China. 
Although more cases could be identi­fied in the United States, people who haven't recently traveled to affected areas in Asia shouldn't worry, Gerberding said. 
"We don't want people who haven't traveled to this region to be concerned about this problem, at least at this point in time," she said. 
Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson cited the mysterious bug in announcing the gov­ernment's plan to spend $100 million toward vaccines that would fight off new strains of flu. 
He said the new disease reminds everyone of "the potential danger posed by emerging infectious dis­eases." 
So far, the mystery bug has not been identified as a new flu strain. Instead, health investigators are focusing on a family of viruses called paramyx• ovirus. First German, then Hong Kong doctors reported finding it in case specimens there. WHO said its labs will study other samples to see if the same virus is present. 
"There is now a clue about what might be causing this," said Dr. David Heymann, WHO communicable dis­eases chief. "This clue will make it easier to diagnose patients." 
But Gerberding and other experts cautioned that it's still too soon to be sure this is the culprit behind the mys­tery illness. 
"The laboratories that have identi­fied this virus are very good iaborato­ries," Gerberding said. "But we don't at this point know what it means." 
The virus was found in patients' nasal passages, she said, and "it hasn't yet been identified from any tis­sues or lung material or other speci• mens that would directly implicate it as the cause of the infection." 
Paramyxovirus is from a virus group that includes common childhood ill­nesses, such as mumps and measles. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Seventeen Iraqi soldiers surrender: 
As many as 17 Iraqi soldiers surrendered at the Kuwaiti border Wednesday, hours before a U.S. deadline for Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein to leave the country or face war. U.S. military and Kuwaiti officials confirmed that the captives had surren• dered around nightfall and were in the custody of Kuwait authorities. However, there was confusion about how many gave themselves up. 

EU probes phone taps found in offices: 
The European Union revealed Wednesday that bugging devices were found on phone lines of several countries in the building used for EU consultations and summits, but denied a major security breach. The electronic lis­tening devices were used to tap into the phone lines of France, Germany, Spain, Britain and Austria at the EU's headquarters in Brussels. The taps were discovered Feb. 28 during regular security sweeps on phone lines but their exi,;;tence wasn't revealed until Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Senate rejects drilling in Alaska Refuge: 
The Senate narrowly rejected oil drilling in an Alaska wildlife refuge Wednesday as eight Republicans defied party leaders and the White House on an issue at the core of President Bush's energy agenda. Drilling advocates said the plan was probably dead for this Congress. Despite intense lobbying by pro-drilling senators and the Bush administration, Democrats mustered the support needed to strip an oil drilling provisio11 from a budget resolution expected to be approved later this week. 
Blizzard paralyzes Denver airport: 
Denver's worst blizzard in at least two decades shut down the city for a second day and closed one of the nation's busiest airports, stranding thousands of pas­sengers. The storm dumped up to 6 feet of wet, hea")' snow in the mountains and paralyzed a large swath of Colorado and Wyoming. 
Hundreds in U.S. protest war with Iraq: 
Anti-war protests drew noisy chants and quiet prayers across the country Wednesday as the United States moved closer to invading Iraq. Demonstrators were arrested after sitting down on the street in front of the White House and blocking entrances to government buildings in other cities. Several protesters, covered in fake blood and ban• dages and carrying dolls representing dead babies, visited the offices of congressional leaders. 
D.C. tractor standoff ends peacefully: 
The farmer who drove his tractor into a pond near the National Mall and threatened to set off explosives sur• rendered Wednesday after a 48-hour standoff that snarled rush-hour commutes and kept some monu­ments off limits to tourists. Dwight \Vatson, who was protesting farm policies he said were forcing him out of his family's tobacco-farming business, was taken into custody at about midday. 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Speaker 
continued from page 1 
Foreign Relations Committee for the second time. He was also the chair between 1984 and 1986. Weber said Lugar is dedicated to keeping the committee the most active in Congress. The full com­mittee currently meets between three and five times a week. During Lugar's 27 years, it has tackled the issues of the Korean peninsula, the war on terrorism, embassy security and the foreign operations bill. 
"The senator has been involved in a myriad of issues," Weber said. 
Lugar plans to speak at other commencement ceremonies this spring, including his alma mater, Denison University in Ohio, where he majored in economics. 
The Indiana senator graduated from Denison at the top of his class and attended Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar in the philosophy, politics and economics program. 
The senator will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University. It will be his 36th honorary degree. 
Lugar and his wife, Charlene Lugar, have four sons, John, Mark, Bob and David. Bob Lugar lives in Indiana and the others live in the Washington, D.C. met­ropolitan area. 
Lugar showed support to Notre Dame in 2000 by speaking on behalf of Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, when he received a 
U.S. Congressional Gold Medal, and in 2001 when he and other Indiana politicians honored the women's basketball team after winning the NCAA tournament. 
The 2003 Notre Dame Commencement will begin at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center May 18. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 



Dances harder to plan post policy change 
felt that the actual locations
By TERESA FRALISH 
where Badin's dances were 
Associate News Editor 
held worked fairly well. 
Majcina said that Badin just
After planning dances under completed a new social spacethe new policy that moved them that would have worked very out of the dorms, students and well for holding dances. staff disagreed on how the "It's really disappointing not 
change affected dorm spirit and to be able to have dances in enthusiasm. there," she said. 
"We've had a lot of failures. 
Others were concerned about 
We cancelled our first dance," the amount of funding that said Abhishek Goyal, co-presi­dorms had available for dances. 
dent of O'Neill Hall. "I think the "If the University decides to policies are a complete failure. keep this plan they're going to The dorm spirit have to givehas gone down." 
us a lot more 

Because of a "If the University decides 
money," said lack of enthusi­to keep this plan they're Matt Palmer­
asm, Goyal said 
Ball, presi­

going to have to give us a
the dorm had to 
dent of 

reschedule its lot more money. " 
Siegfried

first dance for 
Hall. "One of 

another date 
the recom­

Matt Palmer-Ball
and had difficul­
mendations

Siegfried Hall president
ty getting stu­that I've 
dents to attend. 
"We forced people to go. Freshmen were not interested," he said. "We generally have two dances by now." 
Goyal said he was also con­cerned about how the dorm would fund its dances even with the additional $1,000 provided by Student Affairs. 
"We used most of our funding for the first dance," he said. "Now I don't think we will break even for the second dance." 
Jen Majcina, resident assis­tant in Badin Hall, said her dorm experienced some prob­lems planning for their dances. One of their dances was sup­posed to be held in the South Dining Hall, but the same room had been double-booked. 
"We ended up having to can­cel the dance," she said. 
At both of the dances Badin had held so far, Majcina said attendance was down com­pared to last year; however, she 
made to Hall Presidents Council is that [the University] increase that $1,000." 
Katy Ryan, one Farley Hall's dance commissioners, also felt that having dances out of the dorms strained her hall's finances. 
"I don't think we could have had our dances without that $1,000. South Dining Hall was extremely expensive," she said. "They charged us $200 just to move five tables and they wouldn't let us move them our­selves." 
Ryan also said that atten­dance was down for Farley's dances, often with less than 50 percent participation. 
Palmer-Ball said he saw a lack of enthusiasm for the dances in Siegfried. "(The fresh­men) were really hard to moti­vate at the beginning of the year." 
Joe Reimer. assistant rector for Carroll Hall, felt that dances 
SIGN-UP YOUR TEAM FOR BOOKSTORE 2003 BE A PART OF A GREAT ND TRADITION AND WORLD'S LARGEST 5 ON 5 OUTDOOR BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Available Sign-up times: 

*Tuesday, March 18th (11-2 PM and 5-7 PM in LaFortune Lobby) 
*Wednesday, March 19th (11-2 PM Dooley Room in LaFortune and 5-7 PM in LaFun Lobby) 
*Thursday, March 20th (11-2 PM Dooley Room in LaFortune and 5-7 PM in Dooley) 
*Friday, March 21st (11-2 PM and 5-6 PM in LaFortune lobby) 
*Monday, March 24th (11-2 PM and 5:30-7 PM in LaFortune lobby) 
*Tuesday, March 25th (11-2 PM Dooley Room i11 LaFortune and 5-7 PM in LaFun lobby) 


Cost: $15 

($5 donation also can be made to ND Jumpball Programme) 
had gone fairly well for his The rector said her dorm held dorm. one dance at the LaFortune "It seemed like [the students] Ballroom and another at the had a good time," he said. Palais Royale, the newly reno­
Reimer said that the dorm vated ballroom connected to the rented buses to transport stu­Morris Performing Arts Center dents from the dorm to the in downtown South Bend. clubhouse at the Warren Golf Davidson noted that previous Course. problems with alcohol in past 
At Carroll's dances, Reimer years were significantly said there were not any major improved. problems with students drink­"We had about 500 people [at ing or becoming sick. the Palais Royale] and we only 
"For us drinking hasn't been had one alcohol incident." said an issue at the dances," said Davidson. "I think that's very Reimer. unprecedented." 
Cavanaugh Hall also had sim­However, the dorm did have ilar success with their dorm's problems with high costs of dances, catering at the which were Palais Royale,
..We had about 500
held at the which were 
La Fortune people [ at the Palais much higher Ballroom and Royale] and we only had than fees for t h e Catering by
one alcohol incident. I
Monogram Design, the 
Room at the think that ·s very company that 
Joyce Center. unprecedented . ., must be used 
"They were for on-campus definitely events. 
Becca Davidson 
well-attend­"Our con­ed," said Breen-Phillips Hall rector tention was 
Paula Garcia, Cavanaugh Hall resident assistance. 

Garcia also said that there were fewer problems with alco­hol at Cavanaugh's dances. "We had like one case of someone getting sick. I didn't have to worry at all," she said. 
Becca Davidson, the rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, said her dorm's dances had been fairly successful overall. 
"I got a very positive feedback from both the women and the men," said Davidson. 
that it was just 
too pricey," 
Davidson said. 
Jim Lewis, the rector of Carroll Hall, agreed with Davidson on the success of this year's dances. 
"I think we've had a pretty good experience with our two dorm dances," Lewis said. Lewis said that the new policy had put the focus back on enjoying the dances and not on excessive drinking. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

This Weekend in the Department ofMusic Thursday/Friday March 20-21: Notre Dame Glee Club Daniel Stowe, director 
8:00 pm, Washington Hall Thursday's concert free, Friday's concert $3 
Saturday, March 22, 2003 A Student Recital . Mary Catherine Levri,organ 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public 
Sunday, March 23, 2003 NEXUS Percussion Ensemble 2:00 pm, Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Tickets {$3-1 O) available, LaFortune Box Office, 1-8128 
Monday, March 24, 2003 A Graduate Degree Recital Ivana Sabanosova 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and Open to the Public 
Call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congoers for more info! 
.------------------------,
$1.00 Off $1.00 Off 
Shanghai Garden 
J: • ,j., ffi Tel. 574-271-0125 
We Deliver within 3 Miles 

BAI-JU'S 

Lunch & Dinner Special 
Lunch $4.29 (11 :00 am -2:00 pm> Dinner $6.99 (4:30 pm -10:00 pm) <All Served with fried Rice and Egg Rom 
Monday Pepper Steak Tuesday Chicken Mixed Vegetable 
Monday -Thursday 
11 :OOam -2:OOpm 4:30pm -10:00pm Friday -Saturday 
11 :OOam -1O:OOpm 
Sunday 
4:30pm -9:00pm 
Wednesday Cashew Shrimp Thursday Beef with Broccoli Friday Shrimp with Vegetable Saturday Beef with Vegetable 


$1.00 Off $1.00 Off 



L------------------------J 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, March 20, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch March 19 

DowJones  
8,265.45  ~  +71.22  
N4SDAQ  
1,397.07  •  -3.48  
S&P500  
874.02  ~  +7.57  
AMEX  
819.20  •  -0.12  
NYSE  
4,845.37  ~  +45.21  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -7.67 -0.94 11.31 
NkbAQL•100·•·•••1•No~<~>•••• .•:•21:#•is•••••t•l]••zi••:••21•i••r:e BOOTS &COOTS (WEL) +10.53 +0.20 2.10 

s1R1Hs••·••~r-st.u1m:•,t§1ru:1ji[zi•:·••*1•~!aa:••• •••~ir:•~~ 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.08 +0.28 26.32 
IN BRIEF 
CEO Diller steps down from Vivendi 
Barry Diller resigned as co-chief executive 
officer of Vivendi Universal Entertainment on 
Wednesday, saying it was appropriate for him 
to step down while cash-strapped Vivendi 
Universal considers bids for the entertain­
ment assets. 
Diller was appointed interim CEO of Vivendi Universal's U.S.-based entertainment assets. which include Universal Studios and Universal's theme parks, last year while the Paris-based conglomerate concentrated on repaying a massive debt racked up from an acquisition spree by previous management. 
Former oilman Marvin Davis has offered $20 billion for VUE, plus Universal Music Group. Vivendi also is holding talks with Viacom, MGM and other potential buyers of all or parts of its entertainment businesses. 
Enron proposes pipeline business 
Enron Corp. is going back to its roots with a proposal to emerge from bankruptcy as a new pipeline operating company, built on its exist­ing assets in North America. 
The Houston-based company has solicited bids on all or part of its interests in three North American pipelines as well as nine other major assets since last August with an option to sell everything off and liquidate if the prices were right. 
But interim chief executive and restructur­ing expert Stephen Cooper said Wednesday the company's four-member board decided not to sell its interests in three pipeline com­panies. choosing instead to form a new com­pany around them that will repay creditors over time with anticipated profits. Multiple bids were rejected for Transwestern Pipeline Co., Citrus Corp., and Northern Plains Natural Gas Co. 
Cooper said he continues to believe, as he has since he took over in January 2002, that a new viable company built around the pipeline interests would be most beneficial to Enron's many creditors. 







ND focuses on business ethics 
• Georgereceived an ethics award and Goodpaster spoke on corporate ethics 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

Notre Dame presented 
the Hesburgh Award for 
Ethics in Business 
Wednesday to William 
George, former president 
and CEO of Medtronic, the 
world's leading maker of 
high-tech medical devices. 
The award was given in 
conjunction with the latest 
installment of the Cahill 
Lecture Series, which 
highlights issues pertain­
ing to business ethics. 
Kenneth Goodpaster, a professor of business ethics at the University of St. Thomas in Minneapolis, delivered a lecture entitled "A New World for Ethical Business Leadership After the Fall of 2001." Goodpaster, a Notre Dame alumnus, centered his remarks around what he called the "two falls" of 2001: the terrorist attacks on September 11 and the collapse of Enron and Arthur Andersen. 
"Our confidence as a nation and as a community others. and serving as good world quality of life. was hammered twice in Goodpaster went on to citizens. He urged corporate lead­the fall of 2001," caution against knee-jerk "CEOs are going to have ers to use human terms in Goodpaster said. "hyper-regulation" reac­to be more engaged with defining business. 
He went on to quote a tions to ethical failures in the public," he said. George's award, named 2002 Gallup poll that business. Goodpaster then intro­after Notre Dame presi­found 90 percent of Goodpaster called on duced William George, dent emeritus Father Americans do not trust executives to "meet insani­who received the Theodore Hesburgh, was executives to seek their ty with integrity" in Hesburgh Award. given by the Center for employees' interests in responding to these issues. In introducing George, Ethics and Religious business decisions. "They should be archi­who led Medtronic for 12 Values in Business. In 
Goodpaster identified the tects of a conscience big­years, Goodpaster called addition to serving as a source of shock at these ger than their own," him "a man whose leader­director of investment crises as something called, Goodpaster said. ship in the business com­bank Goldman Sachs, "telepathy," or goal sick­He used the analogy of munity worldwide is leg­pharmaceutical maker ness. Janus, the two-faced end." Novartis and retailing 
"An unbalanced pursuit Roman god, to illustrate George spoke about giant Target, George is a of purpose... can lead to ethical decision making in what he called "the professor of leadership callousness to human suf­business. Just as images of Medtronic model," saying and governance at the fering," he said. Janus were placed on the that his company's reason International Institute for 
He drew parallels inside and outside of the for existence is to serve its Management Development between the top brass of gates to Roman cities, customers. Medtronic 's in Switzerland. Enron and the leadership executives should have mission, according to of Al-Qaida, saying they the dual role of maintain­George, is utilize biomed­shared excessive devotion ing an ethical climate ical engineering to combat Contact Matt Bramanti at to a goal at the expense of within their organizations illness and improve overall mbramanti@nd.edu. 

Toyota will stop TV ads during war 
tising depending on circumstances Domestic automakers and their 
Associated Press 

and the progress of the war," said dealers spent $7 .2 billion in total 
DETROIT Toyota spokesman Mike Michels. advertising last year, more than any 
Toyota Motor Corp., Japan's top At the start of war coverage there other industry, according to New automaker and a growing player in generally is not a lot of availability York-based CMR/TNS Media the U.S. market, said Wednesday it for television advertising as net­Intelligence. Foreign automakers will cease TV advertising on the works pull ads in favor of round­were a close second with a tally of major networks for an indefinite the-clock reporting. Many automak­$7.1 billion. period in the event of war with Iraq. ers want their ads and products to Toyota shelled out $937 million 
The other top automakers, who be associated with happier, family­advertising its products in the rank among the biggest advertising type activities. Automakers also United States last year, 16 percent spenders in the United States, say want to ensure if they do run adver­more than the year before. they'll make most decisions on tele­tising, it is appropriate to the events Michels said Toyota's decision to vision advertising if and when the at hand. pull ads from ABC, CBS, NBC and fighting starts. If other carmakers mirror Toyota others might be a moot point during 
"We'll probably put things on hold and hold their ads for a length of the first days of a potential conflict, for as long as a week, then re-evalu­time, media entities could lose a when live coverage will likely air ate and start to reinstate our adver-huge source of ad revenue. continuously. 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Tarrow: City dwellers loyal to their towns 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Modern cosmopolitans remain increasingly attached to the specific location they identify with, said Cornell University professor of gov­ernment and sociology Sidney Tarrow in a lecture entitled "Rooted Cosmopolitans: Transnational Activists in a World of States." 
Tarrow spoke to an audi­ence in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Wednesday after­noon. tracing the rise of root­ed cosmopolitans from early modern Europe to today's globalized and multinational world. 
"Cosmopolitans in the past were often seen as a kind of parasite," he said. "More recently, the figure has gained a certain attraction." 
Tarrow argued that modern cosmopolitans are not as "free-floating" as once thought, but instead identify themselves as people rooted and connected to their partic­ular place of residence. 
"[Rooted cosmopolitans] are people and groups rooted in a specific national context, but who engage in regular activity that requires [participation in transnational connections and contexts]." Tarrow said. "They have no particular positive or negative valence and can be deeply rooted in their own country." 
Tarrow explained how reli­gion, education and publish­ing engendered the formation of cosmopolitans in early modern Europe who broke out of a narrow and provincial identity to bring new modes of 


_ ___:,_ ____;:;;==~~===±=:::=---~===~
PHOXY PHACTS: 
A Brother-Sister Trivi4 Contest 
March 20 at 9:00 P.M. in 155 DBRT. 
Donations will benefit the A1nerican Cancer Society 
________________ ,_ ________________________ _
.............................................. 
PHOXY PHACTS questions: 
1) Jessie joins a singing trio with Kelly and Lisa. Zack confronts Jessie in the famous "I'm so excited" scene about her addiction to what? 
2) In 1993, what NBA star left the hardwood to pursue a career on the baseball diamond? 
3) George Bush doesn't want Bart to touch his photo album because he probably has what on his hands. 
4) Which dorm is the home of the PHOXY LADIES? 
-----------~--------------------------------------------------------------­
"Talk to yow· dorm ptesidents TODAY about joining yout donn's btothet-sistet team. & don't fot5_Jet to PRACTICE!J 
-----------------------------------------------~--------------------------­

answers: 
1) caffeine pills 
2) Michael Jordan 
3) Mud and cookies 
4) Pangborn Hall 
COME WATCH: Food, Fun & Competition!! (Prize For Winners & Team with highest c::1ttendc::1nce) 
thought back to their resi­dence. In addition, he described himself as a scholar "intrigued by the localism of the cosmopolitan." 
"What most of us think of as globalization exists in the capacity of quite ordinary peo­pIe ... to shift effortlessly between a variety of different identities," Tarrow said. "My approach insists on the impor­tance of ordinary cosmopoli­tanism." 
Tarrow moved from a defin­ition and a description of the rooted cosmopolitan to an explanation of how different kinds of rooted cosmopolitans currently promote political activism. He cited both Islamic radicals and proponents of the anti-war movement in the United States and Iraq conflict as examples of rooted cos­mopolitans who have become transnational activists. 
"Both have deep, local roots and both will no doubt merge back into their respective [localities after their activism is completed]," he said. 
Tarrow encouraged future scholarship to investigate fur­ther the connections between rooted cosmopolitans and transnational activism in order to better understand the relationship between the two. 
"We need to know more about the kind of people involved in transnational activism and the mechanisms that link them to one anoth­er," Tarrow said. 
Tarrow's lecture is part of the Kellogg Institute's 20th Anniversary Lecture Series. 
Contact Joe Trobello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


SMC appoints new library director 
By MEGHAN CASSIDY 
News Writer 
An extensive process comes to an end this week as Janet Fore, the new director of Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library, begins her position on campus. 
The library's previous direc­tor, Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, retired last summer after hold­ing the position for 27 years. 
"The search committee for a new director was looking for an individual who possessed many of the same leadership qualities as Sister Bernice and Janet fit the bill quite well," said Robert Hohl. library faculty member and former interim director. 
The search committee was led by reference librarian Julie Long and was composed of six members of Saint Mary's faculty and administration. 
The committee interviewed six candidates for the position before deciding on Fore. 
"Ms. Fore brings a strong commitment to undergraduate education and a recognition of the importance of information literacy skills in today's world," Long said. 
Fore comes to Saint Mary's from the University of Arizona where she was a team leader in undergraduate services for 10 years. Her experience includes developing an Information Commons center at the Arizona campus. The development received much attention within library communities for addressing the need to combine technology and tradition in the library setting and integrating them into undergraduate educa­tion. 
Long believes that Fore's wide range of previous experiences will prove an asset to Saint Mary's small environment. 
Hohl is also excited about Fore's creative and inventive skills and optimistic about what she will bring to Saint Mary's. 
"She is able to integrate many resources into learning and knows exactly what we are hop­ing to accomplish here," he said. 
Along with the rest of the library staff, Hohl expects to see Fore successfully build on the library's directorship heritage and support Hollenhorst's example of service to faculty and students. 
"It is important to maintain gradual and consistent improve­ments of library resources," said Hohl. "We can't just provide the materials, we also need to pro­vide good service and assistance to students using the library." 
Although this is Fore's first position as a library director, she plans to continue with many of her previous responsibilities by focusing on undergraduates and serving their education and information needs. 
"I am looking forward to working in this smaller setting where librarians can get to know students and their needs more personally," Fore said. 
Her other duties will include helping the library staff coordi­nate and provide library ser­vices for the campus. 
"I was attracted to Saint Mary's because of the great library on a campus that's inter­esting and vibrant and has sig­nificant challenges that we can all face together as a staff and campus," Fore said. 
Fore has already begun to look at what needs to be addressed and how to go about it. She said she is looking for­ward to creating positive changes within the library and working with the staff toward "a bright future." 
Long shares the same hopes for the library's future. 
"I look forward to working with her in identifying the strengths of our library and moving us forward to meet the new challenges in information delivery and service to the Saint Mary's community," she said. 
Contact Meghan Cassidy at cass0593@saintmarys.edu 


Un.planned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance ~4vailable at Notre Daine: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 
....  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819  
,  Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
....  John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
>  Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336  
j..  Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286  


South Bend Com,nunity Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 





JACCG~2 

$5perttdet (UmiteJammmt) 

• 
Gruner 


FriM1, ~etrclv21 
•
GamerB~at9.00 pn11
' 
Pr~
~ 






Gir~atWIG~ 
T(aet}~atLCll forDMte;BOYJo{f@ ~~-Th«r~ 
(ShatttrodtWROiL-karWrontet Th«r~ 6pm; Reder¥)
L-~•-·~·-·-•-·-·-·-·-·~·-·~ 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




Irish basketball fans travel to Indianapolis 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
Adding to the bracket buzz that the successful men's basketball team has generated this season was the announcement that the squad will be playing its early-round NCAA tournament action in nearby Indianapolis. This year's selection marks the first time since 1985 that Notre Dame students have the opportunity to give their team a home-state advantage, and many have responded enthusiastically. 
Hundreds of loyal students will be making the three-hour road trip to the RCA Dome to watch the fifth­seeded Irish face off against University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Thursday night. While the team's die-hard student cheering section, the Leprechaun Legion, hasn't arranged any specific activities for Indianapolis, leader Drew Updike praised the fervor of both his group and the Athletic Department in cre­ating sttrdent support for the team's chances in the tournament and throughout the season. 
"\Nith the team doing so well this year. the Legion added fue I to the fire, and now at tournament time the University and the Athletic Department are carrying the torch. They've given students a great opportunity by taking care of trans­portation to the game," Updike said. 
In addition to offering students a four-game, $70 ticket package that includes Notre Dame's first and sec­ond round games as well as two more games, the Athletic IlRpartment is providing bus trans­po rt.a tio n for those who need it. Many students have also opted to carpool and stay overnight with family and friends in the Indianapolis area. "The selection to have the game in Indy has really hyped people up," Updike said. "The unity that comes from making the trip is a just great bonus to having the team doing so well." 
Despite the team's recent strug­gles in losing four of its last five games at the close of the regular season and in the first round of the Big East tournament, students showed little reluctance to make the trip. 
"There was no question about it in my mind," said freshman Evan Walsh. "As soon as I saw we were playing in Indianapolis, I called my brother and right away he answered, 'Yes, we're going.'" 
Concerns over a demolished post­spring break budget also paled in comparison to students' excitement over the Irish's highest seed since 1987 and the third straight 20-win season under coach Mike Brey. "It's definitely worth it," said sophomore Brent Haydon. "With the NCAAs being so close, there's nothing that will stop me from driving down, not money, not war, not anything." 
The consensus among students attending the game seems to be one of mixed anticipation and nervous­ness. but mostly of appreciation and excitement that they will get the chance to be there as the team takes its next post-season step. 
"It is wonderful that the tourna­ment's proximity gives so many stu­dents an opportunity to go down and support the squad," Walsh said. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheininge@nd.edu 







Basketball Ga,ne Watches 

for every Notre Dame NCAA Baketball Tournament game in the 
Main Lounge on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center 
First Round Games Thursday, March 20 Men vs. Univ. of WI-Milwaukee at 9:30PM Sunday, March 23 Women vs. Arizona at 6:00PM 
Second Rounds Games 
Saturday, March 22 Men vs. victor of IL/Western KY at 1:10PM or 3:40PM . 

Tuesday, March 25 Women vs. victor of Kansas St/Harvard Time TBD 
Come cheer the Irish on! 


Free Subway and refreshments 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308. 
r ;. l page 10 Thursday, March 20, 2003 
l' (' The Observer . NEWS 
r
l··1• 
Yale prof. talks on survival of Catholic women's colleges 
\ 
white, all Catholic school was Conflicts between the religious oped its own unique curriculum. identity, as well as their liberal By MEGAN O'NEIL located in a heavily black com­communities that founded the Others, such as Mount Saint arts focus. 
News Writer 

munity. schools and lay board of trustees Mary's of Los Angeles and her "There are many alumni at "It was an enclave in its midst," members also placed a strain on own Trinity College, made the Trinity who are deeply unhappy 
Yale professor and author said Russet about Trinity in the the institutions. choice to reach out to minority with the direction Trinity has Cynthia Eagle Russet spoke city. Furthermore, ·with coeducation students, particularly blacks and taken," said Russet. "And it is Wednesday at Saint Mary's about Small Catholic women's col­spreading to most American col­Hispanics. very much class-based." the endurance of Catholic leges were common in the early leges and universities, Catholic "Every one of the Catholic She believes, however. that women's colleges in the United and mid 20th century. They could women's colleges could no longer women's colleges that remain although the Catholic women's States. The widely anticipated count on a consistent flow of mid­expect the attendance ofstudents has found their own particular colleges of today may not at all event was attended by nearly 100 dle and upper class white stu­previously guaranteed. niche," Russet said. "All have rec­resemble the one she attended in Saint Mary's students and faculty. dents through their liberal arts Financial crises and plunging ognized that adaptation was the the 1950's, they continue to be 
Russet, who received her mas­programs. However. this all enrollment forced many colleges key." dedicated to educating and ter's and doctorate degrees from changed and Russet cited the late to merge with other colleges, Trinity College has also intro­empowering women. Yale University, recently pub­1960's as the turning point for become coeducational, or simply duced a graduate program, with A panel discussion, made up of lished a book titled "Catholic such schools. close. MBAs offered in education and Russet and Saint Mary's faculty, Women's Colleges in America." As the number of religious fac­"Schools were forced to come professional studies. will be held at noon today in Saint Mary's is mentioned several ulty and staff dropped in the late up with creative plans to adapt," "These programs have Stapleton Lounge. Discussion will times in it. '60s, already under-funded Russet said. returned fiscal stability to continue on Catholic women's 
The product of a Catholic schools were forced to hire and Some of colleges that Russet Trinity," Russet said. education and its future. women's college herself, Russet pay lay people. identified, made changes that Not to say that it was easy. described her alma mater Trinity "College after college found were quite drastic. One such Fears have been raised that in College in Washington, D.C. as themselves running into the red example is Alverno College in their efforts to survive these insti­ContactMegan O'Neil at homogenous. The nearly all in the late '60s," said. Russet. Milwaukee, Wisc. which devel-tutions are loosing their Catholic onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
"United States government personnel operating in Iraq may

Iraq 

discover information through continued from page I Iraqi government documents 
and interviews with detained on his enemies or slip to terror­Iraqi officials that would identi­ists. fy individuals currently in the 
Bush closed the window to United States and abroad who diplomacy Monday when he are linked to terrorist organiza­tions," the report said.
addressed the nation, but the White House officials said the
congressional notification was 

assertion was mostly specula­
required under the terms of a tive.

resolution passed last year to 

The United States has initiat­authorize military action. 
ed attacks in such places as
The resolution also required Grenada and Panama, but war

Bush to verify that ousting 

in Iraq would set a new stan­
Saddam would not hurt the 

dard for pre-emptive militaryglobal war on terrorism. Bush 
action.
complied with a seven-page 

The president also met with 
report asserting that Iraq sup­

New York Mayor Michael 
ports terrorist networks, includ­Bloomberg, who emerged from ing Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida the White House to say the longorganization. 

national debate about whether 
Offering fresh justification for 

to go to war is over. war. the report said one of the Bloomberg made a pitch for 
spoils of victory may be infor­more money to help his city pre­mation about terror cells in the vent a terrorist attack and U nitPd States. respond to any that occurs.
• 
----------· 
H I 
I. 




I etl~ey Mlt.SUBS :
I 

11
I' I AUTHENTIC SUBS SINCE 1956 I II 
' I A FREE SUB !!! I 
PUIICBASE ANT BEG. oa GLUrr SUB 

WITB Au OZ.FOUNTAIN DRINlt A.HD GET ANOJB.i.R StJJI. OF
I I 
EQUAL OR I unR. VALUE.,-pq, 

J.!fi._~.@T ~AIJQ W,l]-l_QT_l:l;g ~•-Y~ 1_$~ ~lli_QffiJfi'ACULTY DISCOUNT OR 'MTH
I I
CWYfRY__~J;~P!RfiON APRIL_ 1!!,_20Q~ 

IN 111911AW.utA-ATS7U N. llADf ff. ACllc>ee no¦ Mll"S cum...a,,n.-.. IN 90U'l'B 111!:ND-TD COLLEGE l'OOTLU.L IIALL OFFAMZ _......,_.um
I I
AT TD INTDUIECTION oa••ftS.AlJTDf aoAD...rr,..... 


.. .----------.. 
·' 
,J 
. ~ 

Hijacked Cubanplane lands safely 
hijackers. Nor was their des­to airport police on the tar­
Associated Press 

tination clear. mac, said Peter Horton, man­
The plane departed from ager at Key \Vest 
KEY WEST, Fla. Cuba and air traffic con­International Airport. 
A Cuban airliner carrying trollers at Miami Passengers were brought into 29 passengers was hijacked International Airport spotted the airport within a half at knifepoint Wednesday it on radar about 7:45 p.m. hour. night and landed under U.S. They were unable to make The alleged hijackers were military escort in Key West, voice contact, said FAA in FBI custody and the pas­
U.S. authorities said. spokeswoman Kathleen sengers were being inter­
Six hijackers took over the Bergen. Air Force fighter jets viewed by U.S. Customs plane and surrendered to were sent from Homestead agents, said sheriffs spokes­authorities in Key West, said Air Force Base and escorted woman Becky Herrin. FBI spokeswoman Judy the Douglas DC-3 to Key "The hijackers were sepa­Orihuela in Miami. They will West, Bergen said. rated fairly quickly from the face federal hijacking An airport worker said he passengers and crew. charges, she said. saw the plane land about Everyone's OK," she said. 
There were no immediate 8:20 p.m. The plane took off from reports of injuries among the "It was followed by three or Nueva Gerona -the princi­hijackers, passengers or six four U.S. Navy jets. The plane pal city on the small Isle of crew members. Five of the sat on the runway for about Youth. about 185 miles passengers were minors, an 15 minutes before the doors southwest of Key \Vest -on airport spokesman said. finally opened," Robert a scheduled flight to Havana, 
It was not immediately Accerra said. according to Leonardo Pena, known what motivated the The hijackers surrendered a Cuban civil aviation official. 

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies 

Undergraduate Fellowship Program 
The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking qualified 
undergraduate applicants to participate in a year -long fellowship program, 
"Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism". 
The fellowship program will commence in early August 2003 with a intensive 
two week course in terrorism studies at Tel Aviv University in Israel. Using 
Israel as a case study, Fellows will learn about the threat terrorism poses to 
democratic societies around the world. Fellows will interact with academics, 
diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the 
United States. 
FOO Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel expenses. 
FOO is a non-profit and non-partisan think tank that promotes informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively abolish international terrorism. 
Interested Students should visit our website www.defenddemocracy.org and complete the on-line application. 
Please send questions to fellows@defenddemocracy.org 
-Applications Due April 1, 2003 ­
Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 11
The Observer . NEWS 
Microsoft warns users of critical Windows flaw 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Microsoft Corp. on Wednesday warned about a serious flaw in all versions of its popular Windows software that could allow hackers to seize control of a person's computer when victims read e-mails or visit Web sites. 
Microsoft assessed the problem's urgency as critical, its highest level, and urged customers to download a free repairing patch immediately from its Web site, www.microsoft.com/security. 
A top Microsoft security official, Steve Lipner, said the vulnerability was being discussed openly among experts on the Internet when Microsoft learned about the flaw early in January. 
An Internet security compa­ny, iDefense Inc. of Chantilly, Va., said Wednesday it learned about the flaw in December 2002 from Roland 

TURKEY 
Postle, a respected British computer security researcher widely known on the Internet as "Blazede," and passed the information to Microsoft on Jan. 9. 
But iDefense also immedi­ately and quietly warned its clients, which include large corporations and U.S. agen­cies, before Microsoft could fix the problem. 
"It was made public before we had our fix out," said Lipner, Microsoft's director of security assurance. "It was under fairly wide discussion in some forums that we heard about." 
Microsoft and iDefense said they were unaware of any reports that hackers already had used the technique to break into computers, even though months had passed between the disclosure of the flaw and Wednesday's announcement that it could be fixed. 
Russ Cooper, a security expert for TruSecure Corp., 
based in Herndon, Va .. pre­Lipner confirmed that the dicted that antivirus software faulty software code was cre­will be updated to protect ated years ago and included users who might receive in every successive genera­infected e-mails and that tion of Windows software Web sites with infected pages without programmers ever would be shut realizing it down quickly was so seri­once they are ..It was made public ously flawed detected. -even after
before we had our fix out, 
"I doubt we the intensive
It was under fairly wide
will see an scrutiny of attack based discussion in some Microsoft's on this," latest flag­
forums that we heard 
Cooper said. s h i p ,
about.,,

"It's pretty Windows XP. unlikely any which the such exploit Steve Lipner company has attempt will billed as its
Microsoft director of security
get legs." most secure 
The prob-ever. lem involves tricking "I would have hoped this Windows into processing would have been caught," unsafe code built into a Web Lipner said. "Clearly it's one page or e-mail message. It of those things we'll be look­was particularly unusual ing at." because it affected so many Lipner said Microsoft's different versions of automated software scanners Windows, from Windows 98 were being updated to detect to its latest Windows XP edi­similar problems. He said the tions. flaw announced Wednesday 
was "not obvious by any stretch of the imagination" even to experts studying soft­ware blueprints. 
There was some good news. Microsoft said cus tome rs using the newest versions of its e-mail software, Outlook Express 6 and Outlook 2002, were protected from hackers trying to exploit the problem using e-mails. 
Older versions of Outlook would also be safe if cus­tomers had manually applied another security patch, which Microsoft released in 2000 after the spread of the dam­aging ''ILOVEYOU" virus. 
Microsoft said customers could manually adjust set­tings hidden deep within its Internet Explorer browsing software to prevent Windows from processing the danger­ous code. Experts, however, said that was not easy to do for many users and that it would cripple convenient functions for many popular Web sites. 
US requests permission for use of air space 
Wednesday and a vote was tumbling Wednesday with concerning Turkey "will be alternative solutions. U.S. and
Associated Press 
expected Thursday. traders fearful the Cabinet handled in that manner." Kurdish officials said. The United States for months decision to only allow airspace U.S. warplanes based in Turkey says it could send its ANKARA has been pressing Turkey, rights marked the end of a $15 Europe or the United States forces across the border into 
The government asked par­NATO's only Muslim member, billion U.S. aid package linked would need to cross Turkey to Iraq to prevent a possible liament Wednesday to grant to allow in 62,000 soldiers to to the U.S. troop deployment. strike Iraq. The United States refugee flow or to stop Turkish the U.S. military permission to open a northern front against Istanbul's benchmark could also use Turkish air­Kurdish rebels who have bases use Turkish airspace in an Iraq. But as a possible date for IMKB100 index dropped about space to ferry troops into in northern Iraq from crossing Iraq war, a delayed decision an Iraq war draws closer, 6 percent in trading northern Iraq. into Turkey. that falls short of Washington has been pushing Wednesday. to close at 9,938 "What they have requested A senior U.S. official said Washington's initial hopes to for the urgent use of Turkish points. is for transit passage [of Wednesday any Turkish incur­station ground troops in airspace for overflights.An Economy Minister Ali planes] only," Cicek said. sion would have to be Turkey. Iraq war is extremely unpopu­Babacan said the original U.S. "Whatever the needs will be in approved by the committee 
The proposal would not lar in Turkey. As a result, the aid package was no longer the coming days -that is a and be coordinated with U.S. allow U.S. planes to use government of new Prime valid, but he left open the pos­different matter." forces. If not, Turkey would be Turkish air bases or refuel in Minister Recep Tayyip sibility of a new financial deal. The resolution sent to parlia­going in "unilaterally," the Turkey. Erdogan has been dragging its The "package does not exist ment does not address allow­official said. 
The United States also would feet in asking parliament to now but it is not possible to ing U.S. forces to use Turkish That could lead Turkish and not be able to use Incirlik air approve an agreement. A first say what will happen in a few air bases or refuel in Turkey. U.S. forces to be caught in base. a sprawling facility that agreement that would have days," Babacan said. Incirlik was a key hub dur­friendly fire, U.S. officials have houses 50 U.S. fighters used to allowed in U.S. troops failed In Washington. State ing U.S. operations in warned. Iraqi Kurdish forces patrol a no-fly zone over Iraq. by just four votes. Department spokesman Afghanistan, serving as a sup­are staunchly opposed to a In the event of a war, fighters Cabinet spokesman Cemil Richard Boucher said over­ply and refueling station for Turkish military intervention at Incirlik would apparently Cicek said a motion on allow­flights are routinely granted flights from the United States and say that that it could lead not be able to fly over Iraq. ing in U.S. troops could be without provisions of economic and Europe to Afghanistan. to clashes. 
The government sent the considered at a later date. assistance and that the United The resolution also would 
resolution to parliament late The decision sent markets States expects the overflights allow Turkish troops to enter Iraq if there is a war. Cicek said Washington had agreed in principle to allow Turkish troops in northern Iraq. 
U.S. officials have said Washington opposes a unilat­eral Turkish incursion in northern Iraq. White House special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad held two days of talks with Turkish and Iraqi opposition officials to try to convince Turks to stay out of northern Iraq. 
Turkey still reserves the right to enter northern Iraq, but all sides agreed to set up a "standing committee" gather­in~ Turks, Iraqi Kurdish and 
(J .~. f)fficials to try and find 




MEZZON/,5 

Ital/an Eaterr, LLC 
251-0007 Delivery or Carry Out, Open 7 Days 2720 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend, IN 46615 


M-Th 10:Joarn-11:00pm Fri & Sat 10:30-1am Sun Noon-9pm 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 12 


THE OBSERVER 
Tit, lnd,pmd,nt. D•ilyN,w,pllf',r S,n,ing Notn Dtnn, ,.,ulS.int M•ryi 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROllER: Michael Flanagan SYSTEMS MANAGER: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................... ..............631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPO!NT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.RYS ................................. ............631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obseroerpolicies shoul.d be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Andrew Soukup. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob...,r,,cr (USPS 599 240) i; publi,hcd Mond•y rhrough l'riday """"P' during n::.am .a;nd v11.::ation periods. A tubKrlption to The OhJ.Crvcr i, SI 00 for one .a,cad.cmK 
year: SS'5 for onr M.'11'1:n!cr,  
Tht' Ol»crv~ ii. publil-hc-d at:  l'O~TMASTER  
024 Sou1h Uining Hall  Send addrt:t-s rorm;:rio,u to:  
Notre Um1,. IN 46556  ThcOmcn,er  
r.o. 8oxQ  
[>c:rioJical pmt~e paid llf Norrc !)unit.·  No1r< Dam,. IN 46SS6-0n9  
anJ -iJditiona.l m.a.iling, uffiu-1,  

ThC' ObM:"tvCT j,, a mffllhcr of rh.c Assod.1t1..~ Prrn. All rcproduc(lon righu uc reserved. 




An abusive relationship with Hollywood 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Defending the reckless cowboy 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kate Nagengast Lauren Dasso Himanshu Kothari Katie McVoy Andrew Thagard Heather Van 
Viewpoint Hoegarden Kurt Bogaard Scene Graphics Christie Bolsen Andy Devoto Lab Tech Lauren Forbes 

I'm trapped in an abusive relationship with Hollywood. I'm in love, but for some time now Hollywood has been treating me very badly: abusing my trust. insulting my intelligence and taking my money. 
Some people are temperamentally inclined to see decline everywhere they look. It's important to remember that bad films are nothing 
Peter Wicks 

new -they have existed as long as the medium itself. Nevertheless it was not until the 1980s that we saw the birth of 
Englishman

"high concept" films which positively reveled in their vacuity. Abroad 
For a film to qualify as high concept it must be possible to describe it (and thus to pitch it to a studio executive) in a single sentence. "Top Gun" is like "Rocky," but with planes; "Days of Thunder" is like "Top Gun," but with cars; "Red Heat" is like every other Schwarzenegger flick not directed by James Cameron. You get the idea. 
The high concept phenomenon culminated in "Independence Day," a movie which is most famous for the scene in which aliens blow up the White House. After seeing the film I left the theater wishing that aliens would destroy 20th Century Fox Studios in a lethal but just act of intergalac­tic film criticism. 
In the '90s high concept films took second place to what I like to think of as no concept films, which can cost $80 mil­lion but give the impression of having been made entirely by accident. If you watch "Swordfish" with sufficient care (and I'm not suggesting for a moment that you should) you can actually see the point at which the film gives up even trying to make sense. In the past, films were sometimes badly writ­ten, but even in the worst cases you could tell that a writer had at least been involved in the process. 
Some recent films are so dumb, so sublimely devoid of the merest hint of an idea, that I can actually feel myself getting stupider as I watch them. It's a good thing I took the GRE before watching "Resident Evil," otherwise I'd probably be at Arkansas State right now, struggling to keep up. 
I don't mean for a moment to suggest that to be good a film must be a•profound meditation on the human condition. A well made piece of entertainment ("Ghostbusters," say, or "Back to the Future") is a wonderful thing. 
The problem seems to be that at some point in the late '80s Hollywood executives noticed that however execrably bad their films were, people came to see them anyway. Since then they've been behaving like a boy who, having recently discov­ered that his dog will eat paint, is frantically searching the house for ever more indigestible things to feed it. My guess is that the executives' epiphany happened in 1988, shortly after the release of "Police Academy 5: Assignment Miami Beach." 
Somehow, good films do still get made. The difficulty is finding them. The critics are no help at all. It's not that they are always wrong (which would actually make them quite useful, like a clock known to be exactly six hours slow), but they are in the habit of tossing out praise with a wanton abandon which ultimately devalues the currency. The Critic Who Cried "Masterpiece" could almost be a modern version of the boy who cried "wolf' were it not for the ending; the boy got eaten, but the critic made a tidy living and retired to Florida. 
There are a number of reasons why critics overrate films. One is good old-fashioned corruption. The distributors may offer exclusive information, images or interviews in exchange for a rave review. But a sizeable amount of reviewers seem to be genuinely enthusiastic about the awful films they praise. They give the impression of being so awed by the mir­acle of moving pictures that they feel that to demand any­thing further -witty dialogue, character development, even a minimally coherent plot -would be churlish in the extreme. 
In addition to these factors, the sheer number of critics out there makes it almost a statistical certainty that for any film -however awful -at least one of them will write the sen­tence "If you liked 'Star Wars,' you'll love this." 
So all I can do is to keep going to the movies in the blind hope that I will see something that reminds me why I keep coming back. Once in a while I get lucky and see a film so wonderful that it reminds me why I fell in love with Hollywood in the first place. But more often what I get is a film so awful that I can almost hear its mocking voice addressing me, "Go on, leave! I dare you! What are you going to do without me, read a book?" 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy depart­ment. Ifyou have not already done so, he suggests that you watch "This Is Spinal Tap" and "Brazil" at the first opportu­nity. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I have something to say to anyone else who accuses President Bush of being a reckless cowboy as Ed Cohen did in his March 19 letter: "See Men Shredded, Then Say You Don't Back War." That line, by the way. was the title of an arti­cle that appeared in the Times of London yesterday, an article written by a liberal member of Parliament no less. Here is the statement of one witness: 
"There was a machine designed for shredding plastic. Men were dropped into it, and we were again made to watch. Sometimes they went in head first and died quickly. Sometimes they went in feet first and died screaming. It was horrible. I saw 30 people die like this. Their remains would be placed in plastic bags and we were told they would be used as fish food ... on one occasion, I saw Qusay [President Saddam Hussein's youngest son] per­sonally supervise these murders." 
Stories like this, of course, are com­mon in Iraq. Witnesses and surviving refugees tell of women being raped in front of their husbands and sons, chil­dren being burned in front of their par­ents. Funny how human rights protest­ers seem to think Bush is the one violat­ing the human rights of the Iraqi people -kind of like the folks who crow about the plight of the inmates at Guantanamo Bay but do not care about Castro's political prisoners languishing in dungeons on the rest of the island. 
As for the charge that Bush is disre­garding world opinion, maybe Cohen has not heard of those 30 countries sup­porting us in this campaign? Or maybe he thinks countries like Albania (which is Muslim) and Estonia, both of which know repression first-hand, do not mat­ter? Should we listen to countries like Germany and France, both of which have close business ties to Saddam, instead? Or China, which overran Tibet. and Russia, which is pounding the hell out of Chechnya -neither of which would mind seeing America obliterat­ed? 
One more point -I found the little allusion to "starvation-grade sanctions" touching; as if sanctions are the reason why the Iraqi people are so poor, what with such a kind dictator who obviously cares for them so much. Somehow Saddam manages to scrape together enough cash to maintain a large per­sonal army, and every time I see him, he seems to be smoking a cigar ­maybe he buys them on discount? Then there is the odd little fact that Iraq is the world's second•largest importer of cognac. 
Maybe Cohen can explain all this. Wait, never mind, I already know -it's all Bush's fault. 
Andrea Arnoult class of '95 March 19 


NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What effect do you think the change in the alcohol policy has had on campus life? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Every decent man is ashamed ofthe government he lives under. .. 
H.L. Mencken journalist 


O
THE 

BSERVER 

Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A look at war from Washington D.C. 
Now that war is upon us, perspectives on how we could 

have avoided conflict or on how we should have come to it 
sooner abound. Nowhere is this truer (other than in The 
Observer) than here in the District of Columbia. Everyone has 
something to say about it, and God help you if you do not lis­
ten. 
However, since opinions on how we got here seem moot at 

this point. I thought I would give those back on campus a slice 
of life here in the district. 
Over the last five weeks, those in Notre Dame's Washington Program have experienced some rather disturbing sights. During the most recent elevation of the Terrorist Threat Advisory System from yellow (elevated) to orange (high}, many precautions were taken based on increased chatter from intelligence sources. On my daily drive to work, it was not uncommon to see a Blackhawk helicopter tracing a low profile across the skyline. HUM-V's were parked on the out­skirts of the city with anti-aircraft missile batteries mounted on top -all of this with a stunning view of the Capitol Building in the background. One might attribute this to any given day in Jerusalem. but not in the capital of the most powerful country in the world. 
I personally have received three different emergency sur­vival kits to aid in the event of a terrorist attack. The one from Boston University (where our program is housed) let its recipients know that. among other things, the upper tank of a toilet is a good source of emergency fresh water. The Washington Post sent out a similar guide, gently tucked in the Sunday edition, right next to the comics. My job also has an emergency plan for its building, located a half mile from the Capitol, but since I spend most of my time in my car, there was nothing much too applicable. 
Furthermore, the silence that blankets the district when President Bush speaks is both horrible and fascinating. But at the end of a seemingly patriotic and rousing oration, there is no cheer or reassurance. There is simply a wait-and-see vigi­lance that takes the place of personal security. 
With all of the fear and distraction that could overwhelm a resident of this area, what does remain constant is the drive to keep going. The prevailing attitude is not to hide in the basement until the dust settles, but rather to go to work, do your job and live life as normal. It is such a reassuring thing to see the traffic jams and the continuation ofthe processes that we call American. It signifies that, no matter what any­one says or does, we will continue on. 
In a land where (ideally) all voices are heard, it is a real shot in the arm to see that nothing will silence or stop that land's most important city and that which goes on inside it. I hope and pray that this war sees swift resolution. But for now, we will continue our work. You can be assured of that. 
Nicholas Gaeke 
junior 
Washington, D.C. March 19 


God isn't American 
I'm a pacifist. There aren't many occasions on which I'd support a war, and the current occasion is certainly not one. One of the things that annoys me most about the current situation are the people who accuse me, and others like me, of being unpatriotic. 
What I frequently hear is that while I have a right to express Marlayna my opinion, Ishould remember 
Soenneker 

that that right is currently being protected by the very men and 
Here We Go 

women whom I am undermin­
Again ...

ing with my pacifism. Certainly I have a right to my opinion, but my choice to dissent makes me unpatriotic and unsupportive of the men and women in the American military. 
I disagree. For one thing. I support those in our armed forces. One of my dearest friends is currently over there somewhere. My confirmation sponsor is also over there. So is the first boy I ever thought I loved, along with several other people who have mattered deeply in my life. 
I support our armed forces. I sleep better at night knowing that there are people out there to protect me. Nevertheless. I don't want them invading other countries and killing innocent peo­ple. That sort of protection I do not want. That doesn't mean I don't support the military. I sup­port the people in it very much, and I support the judicious use of it. I just don't support this use of it. 
Second, and more important­ly, I'm tired of people operating under the assumption that patriotism means agreeing with everything that our country does. 
I spent five months last year in Ireland, and what made the great­est difference in my life was the opportunity to see America from the outside, to see how we look from afar. The answer is that from afar, we don't look infallible. 
Despite the belief of many in the United States, God isn't American. 
We aren't divinely ordained by God to go forth and solve the world's problems unilaterally. Everything that God does is automatically right because God defines what right is. Everything the United States does is not automatically right because we aren't God. we aren't divinely blessed, and we aren't infal­lible. 
Outside ofAmerica. there isn't an assumption that that the United States is God's special country. If you live in Ireland, I think you sort ofsuspect that God may secretly favor Ireland, and I think most people from most countries feel that way. But here in America, we've taken our wealth to be a blessing 
from God and our power as a sign that He likes us better than everyone else. 
We claim in our pledge that we are ..one nation, under God," but I fear that far too often we place ourselves beside God, or even above Him. We claim ultimate authority for ourselves and our pride leads us down roads we should not walk. I sometimes wonder if a direct visitation from God telling those who support this war that God does not want it would sway them, or if they would write Him off as another unpatriotic pacifist. 
Criticizing this country does not make one unpatri­otic. If I didn't care about the country. why would I bother to criticize it? Why would I not simply live my little life and let the country go to hell if that's what George W. wants? Or, if I really disliked the country, why wouldn't I be out there flying planes into build­ings? 
I care about my country. Being outside of the United States also showed me some of the amazing promise that we have. I've been to Belfast, and I've seen what American intervention did for a place 
that was once torn apart by what seemed like an unstoppable war. I've seen what 5':t,,,,ti--we can do when we do the right . things, and I've seen the love that ·.. \ we can inspire when we work the -"..,."""'r.,,;.""'•'~ill..;~~::r···~ kind of miracles that we can. 
.. I love the ideals that this coun­try was founded on. I love the potential that I can see in our 
power and our wealth to do good things and to help those who cannot help themselves. I can visualize a country that I would be proud to declare my 

citizenship in. and I love that country very much. I love America, but I love what it could be more. I care about my country, and what I want, more than anything, is for it to be the amazing land of freedom that it can be and for it to truly stand for all the things that we claim we do. 
I've tired of hearing patriotic songs over the months of constant bombardment. but there is one line from America the Beautiful that I like very much. It says "God mend thy every flaw." I think, rather than turning on me and calling me unpatriot­ic, the time of patriots everywhere would be far bet­ter spent in working on helping to answer that prayer. 
Marlayna Soenneker graduated from Notre Dame in January but is continuing to live in the South Bend area until May graduation. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


'Twas almost parietals 
'Twas 'most two in the morning. and all through the hall The students were stirring, awake one and all; Anxious they waited, like wild beasts in their lairs, In hopes that the hour soon would be there; 
The coeds were nestled all snug in their beds, While visions of debauch'ry danced in their heads; The roommate is sexiled, the door remains locked, Not a soul allowed out, until nine o'clock, 
When out in the corridor I heard a door slam, To my great dismay I found 'twas Father Poorman. Away to the window I flew like a flash, Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash. 
The dome on the breast of the new-fallen snow Gave luster ofmid-day to objects below, Out, out I cried to my love, heart beating fast, I knew, oh I knew, that this time couldn't last, 
For at two in the morning, on Saturday eve 'Tis bed for all Darners, and so (s)he must leave. A clock striking t\\-ice brings hormones a' raging Lord knows what could come ofthese two a.m. cravings! 
'Now, Michael! now, David! now, Seamus and Johnny! Hey, Joseph! hey Matthew! hey Patrick and Tommy! Now open these doors gentlemen, what's all this fuss? You couldn't be, wouldn't be hiding from us!' 
Touchdown Jesus gazes on from Hesburgh bemused To think ofsuch shenanigans under his view. Malloy rattled doorknobs. awaiting success, Finding one open, he called out a great 'Yes!' 
But there all 'lone were three boys in a row; Malloy. disappointed, had just turned to go, When Poorman jumped forward, his eyes all a glitter, For what had he seen but shots of hard liquor! 
'Father Poorman!' Peter cried, his voice full offear, 'It's not what it seems ... and what're you doing here?' A chuckle escaped Father Poorman, what glee, To discover these pranks, and punish the three. 
'Why don't you tell it to Res Life,' chimed in Malloy, Maybe Kirk will listen to the whines of these boys. 'Unlikely,' said Poorman, his voice sinking low. 'They have no standard regulations you know.' 
'Ah, well they're doomed,· said Father Monk with some cheer. 'We won't be letting any like these in next year.' 'And they'll all graduate soon,' Poorman advances 'No more of this griping about in-hall dances!' 
But Malloy became puzzled, as the very next day, He saw Peter had gone to the grotto to pray. Monk spoke to the boy, in the gray South Bend morn, 'Why Peter,' he queried, 'Your faith's been reborn?' 
'Born again, sir?' Peter respectfully asked. 'No, rm quite Catholic, from first to the last.' 'And you repent, Peter, the sins oflast night? For truly your actions gave me quite a fright.' 
'Father,' Peter said, 'I'll tell you something that's true. 
Most of us really are good, sans reprimands too. We pray, volunteer, go to parties at night We are Notre Dame, and we're doing things right.' 
Katie Boyle 
sophomore uvanaugh hall March 19 

i 
I ! 
l: 
\ I 
1 l
, I 
l 
. i 
r ; 
! 
i .· 
i 
l ' 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


ies 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 14 
MOVIE REVIEW 






I 
uiet 
merican' s 
By CHRIS BANNISTER Scene Movie Critic 

You were never supposed to see "The Quiet American." In his infinite wisdom, following the tragedy of September 11th, Harvey Weinstein, the Miramax chairman, decided to shelve the film because he thought its criticism of U.S. policy in Vietnam and its gentle reminder that our nation has had its own flirtations with sponsoring terror­ism would not be well received. 
Weinstein was right. The film would have been run out of every theater in middle America if it had arrived after 9/11. 
Time passed. The nation has forged ahead in its battles, Arnold Schwarzenegger's "Collateral Damage" let us all go out and vicariously shoot up some terrorists, and we can even play a few special-ops video games that let us pretend to go out and extract some vengeance. Yet, "The Quiet American" remained unreleased. It was destined to die a slow, quiet death in 
the theaters after the Oscar season ended. 
Through some powerful maneuvering by the film's star, Michael Caine. and rave reviews at the Toronto Film Festival, the film has gotten released and brought an Academy Award nomi­nation for Caine. The film is finally get­ting the attention it deserves 

of a Saigon river. This moment sets the tone and characterizes the whole film. 
For the most part, the director, Philip Noyce, is able to maintain this contem­plative tone throughout the film. He is helped enormously by the cinematogra­phy, which paints Saigon and Vietnam with lush colors. 
There are a 
few points, how­

because it is a "The Quiet American" ever, where the 
thoroughly 
pacing and the worthwhile and ·editing of the timely film that film seem more outclasses some reminiscent of of the most criti­Noyce's less
Director: Phillip Noyce
cally lauded films thoughtful films
Writer: Graham Greene (novel), Christopher
of the year. like "Clear and
Hampton (screenplay)
Based on a Present Danger"
Starring: Michael Caine, Brendan Fraser, Do 

Graham Greene 
Thi Hai Yen 
novel of the same name, the film is set in Saigon two years before the French defeat that was the harbinger of 
U.S. intervention. Caine plays Thomas Fowler, a jaded British journalist who hides behind the fac;ade of journalistic objectivity but mainly spends his time with his Vietnamese mistress. Caine plays the role of the haggard, self­enveloped journalist to perfection. The weathered actor seems to intrinsically understand the role and settles into it almost organically. Caine's performance is the major part of what makes the film so enjoyable. 
It would seem that the addition of Brendan Fraser playing Alden Pyle, an American on a supposed humanitarian mission could only detract from Caine's authoritative performance. Yet Fraser reminds us of his acting ability that has hidden itself in his cartoonish roles such as "Dudley Do-Right" and "George of the Jungle." His performance of the brash, idealistic American plays well against Caine's persona. Even those larger than life tendencies that are conjured up when Fraser's character bounds around the streets of Vietnam wearing a baseball cap and trailing his dog name Duke seem to enhance the scope of the American character. 
The conflict of the film ensues when Alden Pyle falls in love with Fowler's mistress and aims to take her away with offers of a better, more respectable life. The two men's differ­ing ideologies begin to clash as they each try to win the Vietnamese beauty. As the violence in Vietnam escalates, and it begins to become clear that Pyle might not be just a naive humanitari­an. the lines between romance and pol­itics become muddied. The love trian­gle of the film becomes a prophetic allegory of the United States', specifi­cally the CIA's, involvement in the Vietnam conflict. 
The film relies heavily on Greene's original text to help create the subtle exploration of the politics of the con­flict. For example. the film opens with a voice-over by Caine meditating 
on the lure of Vietnam that is bor­rowed from the novel. We are entranced by Caine's subtle intona­tion as we watch military firefights explode over a nighttime panorama 
and "Patriot 
Games." In fact, 

although the film runs at two-hours already, the film could use a longer running time to IN things develop at a more suitable pace. A few jumpy transitions in the work probably hint that there were signifi­cant portions of the mm lost in the final edit. 
Perhaps extra time could have let till' film develop more fully some of ttw Vietnamese characters. It is a little problematic that the native characters fade to the background as the entangle­ment of Fowler and Pyle increases. However, the film gets away with it because it in many ways represents the way the nation as a whole was treated during the international imperialist jockeying. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, March 20, 2003 
page 15 

~s vo umes 

Whatever failings the film might have, it still retains the thoughtful criticism of the CIA involvement in Vietnam prior to the entrance of U.S. troops. Greene's book proved to be extremely prophetic in foretelling the consequences of the war. The film retains some of this forebod­ing tone at the onset of another conflict. 
Contact Chris Bannister at cbannist@nd.edu 


DIRECTOR PROFILE 
Christopher Guest: Master of the documentary 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

When it comes to deadpan humor, no one is quite the same as Christopher Guest. 
You may need a sense of humor drier than a desert to appreciate the humor of the docu­mentary. Guest has a keen eye for seeing where the everyday begins to border on the ridiculous, and exploits it to the fullest extent. 
Guest's early work in obscure films and made-for-TV movies did little to showcase his talent or bring him fame. His first appearance was in a 1970 revival of "Room Service" on Broadway, and he starred in "Moonchildren" two years later. He did­n't get a break into bigger show business until 1982, when he worked with Hob Reiner on the made-for­TV movie "Million Dollar Infield." 
The year after working with Reiner for the first time, Guest began work ent. 

Guest's 2000 production "Best in Show," another successful satire, features the prob­lems, quirks and extreme pride of the owners of five prize-winning dogs through the course of the prestigious Mayflower dog show. As always, Guest's characters are ridiculous pre­cisely because they take themselves so serious­ly. 
His next film, "A Mighty Wind," will be released on April 16 this year. This latest effort follows the reunion of three folk bands. 
Guest often works with the same actors, recruiting many of the stars from "Waiting for Cuffman" for "Best in Show." The movie also starred Eugene Levy, as well as Jennifer 
Coolidge, more famous­1 y known as Stifler's mom f r o m "American Pie." 
W h i I e Guest's films have a large following much in the tradition of M o n t y Python, none of the films w e r e extremely successful


Christopher Guest plays Harlan Pepper In °Best of 
on the mock­box office
Show," a satire of dog shows that follows award•wln­
documentary hits. The
nlng owners.
"This is Spinal Tap." Guest co-authored the script and starred in the movie as Spinal Tap founder and lead guitarist Nigel Tufnel. The script, written to imitate a documentary, followed the course of a former­ly popular sensationalist hair band into their later years when wearing spandex doesn't seem quite as cool and the Prince-of-Darkness image doesn't quite fly. The character of Nigel Tufnel, who doesn't seem to have quite recov­ered from the drug phase of his first tours, remains one of Guest's more famous perform­ances. 
Guest also met his future wife Jamie Lee Curtis through the film. The star first gave her number to Guest's agent after seeing a publici­ty photo of the cast in Holling Stone Magazine. 
During the next decade Guest took on a few high profile entertainment projects, appearing regularly on Saturday Night Live in 1984 and 1985 and acting in "The Princess Bride" in 1986. Guest made in directorial debut in 1989 with "The Big Picture," a Tinseltown satire. 
Satire proved to be Guest's genre of choice with his criti­cally acclaimed comedy "Waiting for Cuffman" in 1996. The movie portrayed the production of a musical honoring the history of Blaine, Mich., a small town proudly boasting to the distinction of "stool capital of the world." The movie featured Eugene Levy, later to appear in "American Pie" and "Serendipity," as a humor­impaired dentist. Guest once again appeared as Corky St. Claire, a self-important New York director of dubious ta!­
humor is arguably too oflbeat for everyone to enjoy. 
"Some recently asked me, 'Why is "Best in Show" funny?"' said Guest in an interview with Jessica Hudley of salon.com. "That's a strange question. First of all, is it funny? Is it funny to you?" 
Guest recognized that the origins of humor are always obscure. "Eugene Levy makes me laugh," said Guest. "Why? Here we are again: I don't know." 
Other examples of mockumentaries, such as the 1999 hit "The Blair Witch Project," have been more financially successful than Guest's work. However, Guests's particular style of humor remains unique in mockumentaries and in the film world in general. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 20, 2003 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Artest commits 8th flagrant foul of season 
... 
but he finished with 36 points peration hook shot. The shot over Michael Jordan and the in the first six minutes, to close 
Associated Press 
and nine assists as the Magic missed badly, but Carter made idle Washington Wizards in the to 82-72. Memphjs would even­rolled to a win over the Heat. his free throws. giving Toronto race for the eighth and final tually rebuild the lead to 95-81 
INDIANAPOLIS The Heat's plan against the a 87-86 lead. Shareef Abdur­playoff berth in the Eastern heading into the fourth. 
It took only five seconds for NBA's leading scorer was basic: Rahim couldn't get a shot off Conference. Ron Artest to get himself in double-team him every time he before the final buzzer sound­"Every game we play is criti­Hornets 101, Knlcks 96 trouble again. It'll likely be touched the ball and make ed. cal for us," said Toni Kukoc, Jamal Mashburn scored 25 much longer before he plays somebody else beat them. "I thought Carter got bailed who ignited the game-winning and Baron Davis added 23 in again. .. I saw something in Tracy out on that last call," Atlanta spurt with a jumper. "If we his first start in nearly two 
Artest committed his eighth McGrady that I haven't seen in coach Terry Stotts said. "It was were fighting for fourth or fifth, months as the New Orleans flagrant foul of the season just a player all year." Heat coach a tough call to make to decide a you can say: 'OK, we're in the Hornets defeated the New York seconds after tipoff, then Pat Riley said. "He made every­game." playoffs.' When you lose a Knicks 101-96 Wednesday scored 18 points as the Indiana body on his team better. Our Carter didn't expect to get the game you can go down to the night. Pacers cruised to a 102-72 vic­game plan was to take him out call. ninth or 10th spot. Every win is Mashburn finished off his tory over the Boston Celtics on of the offense and he still got "I was so surprised I had to a great win for us." scoring with crucial fadeaway 
Wednesday night. 36 points." calm down to make sure I hit Payton had 23 points and jumper with two minutes left Artest now faces a two-game ..I was just moving the ball the free throws," Carter said . Sam Cassell 22 for the Bucks, that gave New Orleans 96-89 suspension, though he again and trusting my teammates," Jason Terry had 23 points who were 11-for-19 from the lead. He also had eight insisted he wouldn't change the McGrady said. "Miami was dou­and Abdur-Rahim had 22 for field and 8-for-8 from the free rebounds and eight assists to aggressive way he plays. bling me and my guys were the Hawks, who have lost three throw line in the fourth quar­help overcome the absence of 
"As long as I don't hurt knocking straight. ter. David Wesley (bruised foot). nobody, I'm happy," Artest down shots. I A f t e r Davis' 3-pointer with 5:40 left said. was just mak­"We are playing for a lot. V o s h o n Grlzzlles 128, Cavaliers 101 started a 7-2 run after New 
The Pacers desperately need­ing the game We are playing for pride, Lenard's 3-Paul Gasol scored 28 points York pulled to 84-83 on a ed the win, only their third in easy." pointer tied it and Jason Williams added 16 jumper by Michael Doleac. 
we are playing for next 
the last 16 games. They fin­McGrady ,, at 81 with points and 16 assists The victory moved New ished the season series against was content year. 2: 37 left, Wednesday night as the Orleans ahead of Boston and Boston tied 2-2 and moved for a while to Carter made a Memphis Grizzlies defeated the into fifth in the East, while New within one game of second be the play­fadeaway Cleveland Cavaliers 128-101. York dropped three games
Vince Carter 
place in the Eastern maker for jumper, giving Six Grizzlies scored in double behind eighth-place

Raptors guard
Conference. teammates Pat Toronto its figures as Memphis won for the Milwaukee. 
Boston's Paul Pierce went up Garrity and first lead seventh time in eight games. Allan Houston, coming off 50­for a layup after the opening tip Gordan since early in Memphis shot 61 percent from and 36-poini performances in and was slapped hard on the Giricek, who each had 18 the third quarter. the field. New York's previous two head from behind by Artest. points. Garrity hit four 3-point­Terry followed with two free The game was delayed 15 games, scored 29 but had only 
"I don't think they're picking ers and Giricek two as the throws to tie it with 1:32 minutes with 2:49 remaining in four points in the fourth quar­on me, but I don't think it was Magic went 12-for-30 from remammg, and Glenn the fourth quarter for President ter on 2-of-7 shooting. a flagrant," Artest said. downtown. Robinson's wide-open 3-pointer Bush's speech regarding the Jamaal Magloire had 1 7 
Artest has been suspended "The points that Garrity and gave Atlanta a 86-83 lead with attack on Iraq. points and eight rebounds for 
twice already for exceeding the Giricek got, a lot of it was 1:00 left. Toronto's Alvin Memphis built a 10-point lead New Orleans, while P.J. Brown maximum number of flagrant attributed to McGrady hitting Williams followed with a in the first quarter behind a added 10 points and eight foul points. If the league guys with passes right on the jumper, cutting the lead to one. pair of three-point plays by rebounds as the Hornets outre­doesn't rescind the foul, he will numbers," Riley said. "He was After Abdur-Rahim missed a Gasol. The Grizzlies had an 23-bounded New York 45-33. New miss Friday's game against so patient. He never forced it. 16-foot jumper, Toronto called 2 run late in the quarter, Orleans also held a 42-24 Memphis and Saturday's He kept getting off the ball a timeout to set up Carter's including 15 straight for an 18-advantage on points from against Atlanta. He won't because he knew his shots hook shot, on which he was point advantage after 12 min­inside. return until next Wednesday would come. That. to me, is a double-teamed by Newbie and utes. Cleveland never recov­Davis struggled with his against Philadelphia. guy who really has a handle on Abdur-Rahim. ered, trailing by as many as 22 shooting early on but kept 
"I don't know how the league the game." Jerome Williams added 10 in the first half and 30 in the going_ to the basket and was 9­thinks," he said. The Heat, who lost their rebounds and eight points for fourth quarter. for-12 from the foul line. 
The Pacers are 4-7 without fourth straight and seventh in the Raptors. Mike Miller also scored 16 Howard Eisley scored 15 for Artest in the lineup. He's their last eight games, were led points while Wesley Person and New York but did not play in missed one game with an by Caron Butler's 20 points. Bucks 104, Nets 85 Shane Battier added 14 each. the fourth quarter. Othella injury. For one of the few times since Carlos Boozer, the league's Harrington had 15 points but 
Coach Isiah Thomas said Raptors 87, Hawks 86 acquiring Gary Payton, the leading field goal shooter did not score in the final peri­Artest's pattern of erratic Vince Carter said a win over Milwaukee Bucks combined among rookies (53 percent), od. Kurt Thomas added 12 behavior continues to be the Atlanta Hawks proves the scoring and defense. shot 12-of-15 from the field to points. Latrell Sprewell had noticed by the officials. Thomas Toronto Raptors have pride. The Bucks used a lightning lead the Cavaliers with 27 only eight points on 4-of-13 said Artest receives extra Carter made two free throws quick 15-2 run to open the points. Boozer also grabbed 12 shooting. scrutiny because of his past with 3.7 seconds left as Toronto fourth quarter and limited the rebounds. Darius Miles scored Guarded in the first quarter actions. ended its six-game losing New Jersey Nets to 12 points in 18 points, and Jumaine Jones by defensive specialist George 
Artest stayed in the game and streak with a victory over the the final 12 minutes. finished with 15. Lynch, Houston started slow, helped the Pacers roll to their Hawks. "It's about time we started Cleveland, which has the scoring four points on three second blowout win in a week. Carter finished with 27 points playing right," Payton said after league's wcirst record (12-55), shots. Reggie Miller scored 11 of his for the Raptors, who played the Bucks snapped a four-game has lost 15 bf 17. Eisley picked up the slack, 13 points in the first quarter their first home game after a 0-losing streak. "We played a lit­Memphis, as it had done dur­howeverJ hitting two early 3­and Artest added seven as the 5 road trip. tle bit of defensive zone that ing its six-game winning streak, pointers on his way to 11 points Pacers opened a 16-point lead. "You guys look at it as if we worked pretty good for us. We shot well from the field. The for the period. 
have no chance. We don't, but made good shots. We've got to Grizzlies hit 61 percent in the When Lynch came out in the Magic 109, Heat 93 at the same time that's not a keep this up. We've got to put first half, including 5-of-8 from second quarter, Houston start­
Miami's game plan against reason to quit," Carter said. three or four together like we 3-point range, while Cleveland ed firing away over Davis and Tracy McGrady worked -but "We are playing for a lot. We played tonight." shot 47 percent and was hin­Courtney Alexander, scoring 12 only for 19 minutes. are playing for pride, we are Rookie Marcus Haislip scored dered by 11 turnovers. for the period, including a long 
McGrady didn't have a field playing for next year." six of his 12 points in the game­The Cavaliers made a run jump shot with just over one goal and scored only three Atlanta's Ira Newbie fouled deciding run that gave early in the second half, led by second left to close New York's points in the first 19 minutes, Carter as he threw up a des-Milwaukee a half-game lead Zydrunas Ilgauskas's 11 points deficit to 55-53 at halftime. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
LEASE TO OWN 3 Bedroom, Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE Are This is going to be scary. $1,500 down, minor fixer, owner will apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.• you pregnant and dont know what NOTICES FOR RENT carry, easy 5 minutes from to do? :..oving, open-I hate that guy with the shovel qualifying. 574-876-0690 campus/good neighborhood. $350 hearted, financially stable woman 
a month. Call 229-1691 would like to consider adopting a Mom and Dad: there it is, just like STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 3.4 Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom 1-Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. baby. Free you asked for. OR 5 PERSON 2 STORY. 8 homes 1/2 mile from campus. $500/mo. 283-0325 counseling, living expenses and love, Katie BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW mmmrentals@aol.com 272-medical expenses. This can be a EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COM­1525 www.mmmrentals.com PERSONAL good thing tor 303· I love you all, but I love the PUTERS ECT. AVAIL. SUMMER Summer Sublease-Great House 4 you and your baby. Discreet and tropics more! =) OR FALL. 235-3655 B&B tor ND grad close ND 4 Bedroom 3 Bath NC Garage Call legal. Call 904-824•7006. 
Rooms Best area 287 -4545. 243-9753 Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it no really, that's hot. alone. If you or someone you love Hey Adrienne, that's hot. HOUSE AVAILABLE tum. 4b2ba. LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-needs Thanks for covering tor us, Kronk. FOR SALE walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH confidential support or assistance, Hey, wanna have some fun? OF ND 2773097 please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, I'm slowly dying here waiting for to 
I 
CSC, at 1-bucket drinks get a move on, Suzy... Laptop Computer $250, Dell 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR 7819. For more information, see our Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 2 Rms(1 tum), Large house, nice bi-weekly ad in The Observer. Hey Karen, how bout that green Amy, the ice cream was soooo Win98) $150. 229-3333 532-1896 area. Spa, tanning bed 229-3333. beer? good.;) 
j 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gag order placed on Rix 
Associated Press 
Florida State coach Bobby 
Bowden placed a gag order 
on quarterback Chris Rix on 
Tuesday, forbidding the 
Seminoles' starter to talk to 
the media for the entirety of 
spring practice. 
Bowden has said Rix let the 
team down when he was sus­
pended for January's Nokia 
Sugar Bowl after missing a 
final exam. Rix enters the 
spring as the Seminoles' lone 
healthy and experienced 
quarterback. 
"I want him to win the 
respect of the players back 
and not be a spokesman right 
now," Bowden said. "It is 
time to win the team back." 
Benched for four games last season following a 34-24 loss to Notre Dame, Rix returned to start a 31-14 vic­tory in the season finale against Florida before miss­ing the Sugar Bowl, a 26-13 loss to Georgia. 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Obseiver 

Rix was just one Florida 

Florida State quarterback Chris Rix gets tackled by Glenn
State quarterback to have 

Earl during Notre Dame's 34-24 victory this fall. 
discipline problems last sea­son. Adrian McPherson. who string of 14 straight 10-win with Florida State in 1999. took over at quarterback seasons snapped in 2000 and would not be the last playerwhen Rix was benched, was has gone just 17-9 over the invited to speak this spring.kicked off the team in last two seasons. ''We plan to bring in some November amid stealing and Former Seminole and cur­of the guys that went throughgambling charges. · rent Philadelphia Eagles the great years," Bowden 
Bowden has decided to defensive tackle Corey Simon said. "It means a little bit bring back players from past spoke to the team before more hearing it from a for­teams to talk to th is year's practice Tuesday. Bowden mer player than hearing it players. Florida State had a said Simon, an All-American from a coach all the time." 

Miami unsure who will replace Dorsey 
Coker has carefully made plans 

Associated Press 
for each practice. The coaching staff will chart every throw, then CORAL GABLES, Fla. break down every decision even 
Derrick Crudup took the first more while reviewing videotape snap of Miami's spring practice of the workouts. Tuesday, beginning the team's Coker also will try to control search to replace Ken Dorsey. the hype surrounding the compe­
But will Crudup take the first tition. Miami closed spring prac­snap next season? tice for the first time in hopes of 
Florida transfer Brock Rerlin, limiting the scrutiny on the four sophomore Marc Guillan and quarterbacks. The team also is freshman Kyle Wright figure to making just one quarterback push Crudup for the starting job available for daily interviews. at "Quarterback U," where "We're not going to let it take Dorsey broke just about every away from spring practice," he school and Big East passing said. record. Crudup, a 6-foot-1 junior from 
"I feel like it's my job," Crudup nearby Deerfield Beach, spent said. "I've been here long enough the last two seasons as Dorsey's and I've worked hard enough backup. In 15 games, he hasn't and I've progressed well from my thrown an interception. Of freshman year. I think it's my course, he hasn't thrown much, job. I feel real confident. I could either. feel it when we broke the huddle. Berlin, a 6-1 junior who left I feel like I am the man, and I Florida in January 2002, sat out know I am the man." last season under NCAA transfer 
Time will tell. Coach Larry rules and has two years of eligi­Coker doesn't plan to select a No. bility remaining. 1 quarterback anytime soon. He Many Miami fans believe hopes to narrow down the com­Berlin is the most talented of the petition by the spring game April quarterbacks and will become 5, and then pick a starter after the starter. fall practice begins. Guillon. a 6-4 Californian who 
"We'll try to narrow it down played at the same high school because we've got to get some­as Dorsey. threw a 39-yard body ready to play, somebody touchdown pass on his first these guys can rally around and attempt as a freshman last sea­know who their quarterback is," son. He is the least-hyped of the he said. four quarterbacks. 


BLESSING UNTO OTHERS WEEK 
,_ A week celebrating how the student body can serve others using the talents and skills with which they have been blessed ~ 
Sunday March 23  4pm  Tuesday March 25  4pm  Thursday March 27  4pm  
•Kickoff Lecture by Chris Godfrey­ •Experiences in Bangladesh  •A Life of Service  
former NFL player for the NY  Lecture by Fr. David  Lecture by Francie Schmuhl,  
Giants and founder of Life Athletes  Schlaver, C.S.C.  an ND alumna and Guest  
Coleman-Morse Center-Main Lounge,  DBTL 118  Services Coordinator for  
first floor  the South Bend Center  
for the Homeless  

DBTL 118 
Friday March 28 and Saturday March 29 Sunday March 30 9-ltpm •Benefit Concerts featuring local campus •all dorm and Basilica of the Sacred Heart groups Unchained Melodies, Joe Nava, Sean Dudley masses: Campus-wide collection to support and David Salmon, and Chris Trice a women's charity in Bangladesh and Main Lounge, first floor Coleman-Morse Center Greatness Grants for student service oppor­tunities 

SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
, 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Redskins outbid Jets for Coles 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The New York Jets say the Washington Redskins over­paid for Laveran ues Coles. The Redskins say they were just doing good busi­ness. 
The Jets reluctantly let their top receiver go Wednes­day, declin­ing to match the Redskins' seven-year, $35 million offer -including a $13 million bonus -for a restricted free agent coming off a breakout season. 
"It is extremely rare for a team to pay more than a player asks," Jets general manager Terry Bradway said. "In this case, it did happen. We did not expect that to happen." 
The Jets will receive Washington's first-round draft pick -No. 13 overall ­as compensation. 
"We feel this is the best decision for our football team, in the short term and the long term," Bradway said. 
Bradway needled the Redskins for overpaying for Coles and another Jets play­er, unrestricted free agent guard Handy Thomas, who received a seven-year, $28 million deal this month. 
Washington owner Dan Snyder has set new salary standards for coaches and players since he bought the 


Redskins in 1999, paying coach Steve Spurrier $5 mil­lion a year and assembling a $100 million roster for a team that went 8-8 three years ago. 
Spokesman Karl Swanson said Snyder was not available to comment Wednesday. Vice president of football opera­tions Joe Mendes defended the offer to Coles. 
"The one thing that is his­torically true is that you have to pay more for a player to leave," Mendes said. 
The Redskins this year have 
spent more than $27 million 
in signing bonuses on 11 

free agents, nine unrestrict­ed and two restricted, and traded for running back Trung Canidate. 
They've restructured the contracts of four players to get under this year's 
to get Jets kick returner Chad Morton, but New York matched Washington's five­year, $8 million offer for the restricted free agent last week. 
There are unresolved mat­ters concerning the Coles and Morton contracts. The NFL is investigating whether the Redskins violated rules by not informing the league prompt­1y after Coles agreed to an offer sheet, which could result in a fine or the loss of a draft pick. The Jets are awaiting a possible ruling on whether they have to resub­mit their matching offer to Morton because of the way the contract's structure. 
The Jets have to replace a receiver who caught 89 pass­es for 1,264 yards in his third NFL season. They have had extended talks with 
salary cap, unrestricted
"We feel this is the best 
shuffling free agent
decision for our football 
the num­Curtis bers in a team, in the short term Conway. way that For now,
and the long term . .,
could set the team's themselves starters will up for seri­Terry Bradway be Wayne ous cap Jets general manager Chrebet and 
trouble in future years. 
"It's always a constant jug­gling act, with the needs of today as it relates to borrow­ing against the future," Mendes said. "We feel like we have a good handle on it to make a nice run." 
Coles became the third Jets player to wind up in Washington this winter, join­ing Thomas and kicker John Hall. The Redskins also tried 
Santana 
Moss, a 
2001 first• round pick who has been slowed by injuries. 
Bradway said the Jets are interested in packaging their two first-round choices ­they also have the 22nd over­all -for better position in April 26 draft. The top receivers are Charles Rogers of Michigan State and Andre Johnson of Miami, and they are expected to go early. 


The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies 
Undergraduate Fellowship Program 
The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a year -long fellowship program, "Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism". 
The fellowship program will commence in early August 2003 with a intensive two week course in terrorism studies at Tel Aviv University in Israel. Using Israel as a case study, Fellows will learn about the threat terrorism poses to democratic societies around the world. Fellows will interact with academics, diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States. 
FOO Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel expenses. 
FOO is a non-profit and non-partisan think tank that promotes informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively abolish international terrorism. 
Interested Students should visit our website www.defenddemocracy.org and complete the on-line application. 
Please send questions to fellows@defenddemocracy.org 
• Applications Due April 1, 2003 • 
NFL considering playoff expansion 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The NFL is considering a proposal made by the New England Patriots and Kansas City Chiefs to expand the playoffs by two wild-card teams. 
However, like the dozens of proposals submitted annually by teams and individuals before the NFL meetings, it probably will not be enacted this year because it takes only nine of the 32 teams to defeat it. 
Under the proposal. the playoffs would increase next season from six teams to seven for each conference with only the team with the best record in each confer­ence getting a first-round bye. It is being considered by the league's competition com­mittee, which is split on the idea, an indication that get­ting it through is unlikely. 
The meetings are March 23-26 in Phoenix. 
When the league voted in June 2001 to go from six divi­sions to eight, it decided to continue with 12-team play­offs. At that time, commis­sioner Paul Tagliabue and other top officials said the NFL wanted to see how the system worked before chang­ing it. 
Under the new format, teams play only six of their 16 games within their divi­sions, leaving open the possi­bility that a weak division could be won by a team with a record of 8-8 or 7-9. Because there are now just two wild-card teams instead of three, that leaves open the possibility that a team with a winning record could miss the playoffs while a .500 team makes it. 
That happened in 1985, when Cleveland won the AFC Central at 8-8 while Denver (11-5) missed the postseason. In that year, only five teams made the playoffs from each conference. 
But the six teams that made the playoffs from each con­ference in the first season of the eight-division format were the six with the best records. 
Among other items to be discussed at the meetings is a proposal to change the over• time system to allow both teams a shot at the ball. That idea. which had considerable backing after a record num­ber of overtime games in the regular season, seems to have lost momentum in the two months since. 

FIRST YEAR STUDENTS 
I 

Bound For Arts & Letters Next Year? 
Consider A Major In English! 
For More Information, Visit Our Website http://www. nd.ed u/~eng Iish/ U nderg rad-Major.htm I Or Our Office 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
PGA 
Woods and Els face off at Bay Hill Invitational 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Tiger Woods and Ernie Els are rivals again, even if the world's two best golfers haven't made eye contact in nearly five months and have rarely been within 6,000 miles of each other. 
That will change this week in the Bay Hill Invitational, where both are playing for the first time this year in a 72-hole tour­nament. 
If they happen to meet Sunday in the final round, even better. 
Golf has been craving a high­powered rival for Woods ever since he left Els and everyone else in his wake five years ago. 
The Big Easy sees this not as a second chance, but perhaps his last chance. 
"My expectations have risen a little bit in the last year or two, and I just feel that if I don't step up now, I probably never will," Els said. 'Tm at a time in my career where I've got to really go for it, or I'm not going to do it at all." 
He is showing plenty of game. 
Els, who has finished second to Woods more than any other player (six times), stopped Woods' bid for a Grand Slam by winning the British Open at Muirfield, and he has been gain­ing momentum at every turn. 
He won the first two PGA Tour events in Hawaii. He won twice more against strong internation­al fields in Australia. In his other two stroke-play tourna­ments. Els finished second by one shot. 
"For me to get better, I've got to set new goals and loftier stan­
trying to do," Els said. "Let's see 
where we go." 
It has taken him on a collision 
course with the world's No. 1 
player. 
Woods appears up to the chal­1enge. Despite missing two months after knee surgery, he has won twice in three tourna­ments, including the Match Play Championship. 
"That wasn't too unexpected," Els said. "The guy is a true champion. He doesn't want to let go of the gap he's got on us." 
Next up is Bay Hill, where vVoods will try to become the first player since Walter Hagen in the PGA Championship (1924­
27) to win the same tournament four years in a row. No one has ever won the same stroke-play tournament four consecutive years. 
"I like my chances because I like to compete," Woods said. 
Bay Hill is where the Woods­Els rivalry first began to emerge five years ago. 
Woods won his first major at the 1997 Masters by a record 12 strokes. Els answered by win­ning his second U.S. Open. 
Woods made up 11 strokes over the final 36 holes -includ­ing an eight-stroke deficit in the final round -to beat Els in a playoff at the Johnnie Walker Classic in Thailand. Six weeks later, Els was 12 strokes better than Woods in a 36-hole Sunday to win Bay Hill. 
The 32-year-old Els began having problems with his back, and later questioned his desire. Woods, 27, surged on to create a gap that might be the widest ever in golf. 
He became the first player to win four straight professional which he won eight out of 11 of golr s biggest tournaments. He is No. 1 in the world for the 187th consecutive week, another record. 

During that time, Woods dis­patched David Duval and Phil Mickelson as potential threats, while claiming there were too many good players to have a single challenge. 
dards, and that's what I've been majors, an awesome stretch in  This week brought a rare con- 
SOCIAL CONCERNS  TI-IE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS IS SEEKING NO1vlINATIONS FOR:  

======================== 
The Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. 
Faculty Community-Based Research Award 
This is a monetary award of $5000 
Nominees should be Regular Faculty* who have completed one or more research projects that address a need or concern of a South Bend area community based organization. Greater consideration will be given to a Faculty member whose project is: 
* oriented around a challenge articulated by a local community group; 
* 
conducted in collaboration with a local organization; 

* 
inclusive of graduate and/or undergraduate students; and 

* 
published in a refereed journal or presented in other forms Guried exhibi­tions, distributed films, etc.) recognized as highly valued in the recipient's area of expertise. 


Nominations should be submitted by 5pm, Monday, March 31. Please visit the Center for Social Concerns website for additional information about nominating, or call or email Mary Beckman, Ph.D., at 631-4172, mbeckman@nd.edu. 
* Regular Faculty includes Teaching-and-Research Faculty, Research Faculty, Uhrary Faculty, and Special Professional Facultv, as described in the Famlf)· Flandbook. 
cession that Woods and Els rep­resent a rivalry. 
"I guess you might be able to say we 're at the beginning stages of it," Woods said. "If there's any player in the world that I've competed against more down the stretch, it's him. That's not just on our tour, it's around the world." 
Their showdowns have been riveting. 
About three months earlier at Disney, Woods beat Els by one stroke when the South African three-putted for bogey on the 71st hole. 
Last year at Doral. Els had an eight-stroke lead going into the final round and nervously watch Woods get within one stroke before Els closed him out. 
"It's pretty tough right now for anyone to rival Tiger," Arnold Palmer said. "But certainly, Ernie Els is a man who when I first saw him play golf, I thought he would be that man who could be a rival for anyone that ever played the game. I still give him that chance." 
There is no guarantee they will be in the final group late Sunday afternoon at Bay Hill, although the course is long and tough with firm greens, and it favors the power game that Woods and Els embrace. 
It's the first time they have played in a stroke-play tourna­ment together since the Tour Championship last year in Atlanta, and neither of them was a factor. 
"Until somebody beats Tiger, I'm not sure there's any rivalry," Scott Hoch said. "But I think (Els) is the best of anybody else right now. Both of them have very impressive records this year. They are by far the best two in the game." 

-----------------------------:0--~--------------,­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 2003 
MLB 
Indians replace Brown with Willis as pitching coach 
Associated Press 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. 

Rookie manager Eric Wedge made his first pitching move with the Cleveland Indians. 
\Vedge changed pitching coaches just 12 days before the club's season opener, fir­ing Mike Brown and replac­ing him with Carl Willis on Wednesday. 
Willis had been the pitching coach at Triple-A Buffalo the past two seasons under \\ledge, who has made it clear in his first spring train­ing camp that the Indians are his team. 
Wedge said he decided to make the move in the past couple of days and did it with general manager Mark Shapiro's approval. Wedge felt it was necessary to make the change before the regular season started. 
"You have to be comfort­able in your staff and believe in the fit," said Wedge, adding that the timing of the coaching change won't have any affect on his team. "That fit was something that was important to me. We're not going to miss a beat." 
Brown became Cleveland's pitching coach before last season after being the club's roving pitching instructor from 1995 to 2001. He helped develop some of the Indians' young pitchers, including C.C. 
Sabathia and Danys Baez. 

Brown, 44, has been offered an unspecified assignment in the organization. He has not yet decided if he wants to stay with the Indians. 
"I'm disappointed," said Brown, who was told Monday he had been fired. "I'm not Eric's guy. He's not comfort­able with me and he doesn't trust me." 
Brown drove back to his home in Stow, Ohio, after being dismissed and spoke during a conference call. 
"Eric's personality and mine just didn't mesh," he said. "We were in the same book, we just weren't on the same page." 
Wedge had made just one other addition to Cleveland's staff since last season, bring­ing in Buddy Bell as his bench coach. before switch­ing pitching coaches. 
"It's been something that I've been wrestling with and agonizing over," he said. ''It's something that I felt needed to happen. This comes back to me and it's the fit that I want for me and my ball­club." 
Willis is the Indians' third pitching coach in three years. Dick Pole was fired following the 2001 season and replaced by Brown. 
"I was shocked, to say the least," Willis said. The Indians will begin the season with two rookies ­
Jason Davis and Ricardo Rodriguez -in their starting rotation. Willis, 42, has worked with many of Cleveland's pitchers before. 
"Most of the guys I had in the minor leagues, and I think that makes this easier for them," he said. 
Willis pitched in 267 games as a major leaguer, going 22­16 while playing for Detroit, Cincinnati. the Chicago White Sox, California, Cleveland and Minnesota. 
He won eight games for the Twins in 1991 when the club won the World Series. 
Shapiro said Terry Clark has been promoted from Double-A Akron to take Willis' spot in Buffalo, and Steve Lyons will move up from Kinston as Akron's new pitching coach. 
Notes: 

. 
3 B Ricky Gutierrez played in the field for the first time this spring as he attempts to come back from neck surgery. Gutierrez didn't have to make any fielding plays during his four innings at third and said he's pleased with his progress. "If you'd told me in January that I'd be this far along, I might not have believed you," he said. Gutierrez said it's 50-50 that he'll be ready by opening day. 

. 
Wedge set his starting rota­tion: C.C. Sabathia, Ricardo 



Rodriguez, Brian Anderson, Jason Davis and Jason Bere. Wedge said the main reason for the order was to split up Anderson and Bere, the two veterans. 
. 1 B Ben Broussard swung a bat for the first time since injuring an oblique muscle on Friday. Broussard is compet­ing with Travis Hafner for the starting job.... The competi­tion for the backup catcher's spot between Tim Laker and 
A.J. Hinch is "too close to call." Wedge said. 

Dome Designs 
Business description: Web design Seeking candidates interested in: Web design, programming (database, web technology), graphic design Opportunities available: Programmers/designers Responsibilities: Programming, design work For more information, visit www.nd.edu/~ddesigns. Applications available at www.nd.edu/~ddesigns/application.htm. 
Interested in a business career? 
Adworks 

Business description: Advertising Seeking candidates interested in: Marketing, advertising Opportunity available: Assistant Manager Responsibilities: Marketing, financial oversight, office supervisior For more information, visit www.nd.edu/ ...adworks. 
Applications available at Adworks, 217 Lafortune. 
Get some hands-on experience at one of Student Business Board Notre Dame's student-run businesses! 
Business description: Administration Seeking candidates interested in: Finance, accounting Opportunities available: Assistant General Manager Responsibilities: Oversight of Irish Gardens'finances, processing deposits, 
creating financial statements 
Applications available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 Lafortune. 
These are all paid positions. Applicants should be current freshmen or sophomores. Those applying for management positions must be on campus for the entire academic year. Contact General Manager Stephanie Lee at Lee.106@nd.edu for more information.
Irish Gardens 
Business description: Florist Seeking candidates interested in: Management, marketing.accounting Opportunities available: Head Manager, Financial Assistant Manager Responsibilities: Coordinating employees, marketing, inventory management, sales Applications available at Irish Gardens in the basement of Lafortune. 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Bruins fire Ftorek after disappointing season end 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Robbie Ftorek was fired Wednesday as coach of the Boston Bruins, a team strug­gling to make the playoffs after a strong 
start. 
General manager M i k e O'Connell replaces Ftorek on an interim basis. 


The Bruins Ftorek had the NHL's best record at 19-4-3-1 on Dec. 8, but slipped to 33-28-8-4 and into seventh place in the Eastern Conference after Tuesday's 2°1 loss to Phoenix. 
Ftorek, in his second season as Boston's coach, was the Bruins' 10th coach in 18 years. The team also fired assistant coach Jim Hughes but kept assistant Wayne Cashman. Mike Sullivan, head coach of the Bruins' AHL affiliate in Providence, R.I., was promoted to assistant in Boston, and Scott Gordon was named Providence head coach. 
"This change is being made at this time because of this team's record over our past 46 games and the fact that, fairly or unfairly, the coach is judged on the record," O'Connell said. 
Ftorek became coach in May 2001 after a season in which Pat Burns was fired eight games into his fourth year. His replacement, Mike Keenan, coached the Bruins to their sec­ond straight non-playoff season. 
A Needham native and one of the best high school hockey players in Massachusetts histo­ry, Ftorek led the Bruins to first place in the Eastern Conference last season with a 43-24-6-9 record. But they were eliminat­ed in the first round of the play­offs by Montreal. 
The Bruins got off to a strong start this season despite the loss of three key players and before weaknesses in the defense and goaltending sur­faced. 
Bill Guerin, who scored 41 goals last season, signed as a free agent with Dallas, and defenseman Kyle McLaren held out rather than stay with the Bruins. They also chose not to re-sign goalie Byron Dafoe, who eventually joined Atlanta. 
The team has also played most of the season without injured forward Sergei Samsonov. Samsonov, coming off consecutive 70-point sea­sons, had surgery in December on an injured right wrist. 
The loss of Dafoe may have been the most damaging as Boston began the season with goalies Steve Shields and John Grahame, neither a regular starter in the NHL. They shared the job until Grahame was trad­ed to Tampa Bay and McLaren was traded in a deal that brought Jeff Hackett to Boston from Montreal. 
Ftorek did have plenty of offense with Joe Thornton, Glen Murray and Brian Rolston. And the defense was more aggres­sive than it was last season, leading to scoring opportuni­ties. 
But after their outstanding start, the Bruins had trouble stopping opponents. Once McLaren left, the team lacked a dominant defense-minded defenseman. 
The team tried to strengthen its defense by obtaining Dan McGillis from San Jose and Ian Moran from the Pittsburgh Penguins for draft picks at the trading deadline earlier this month, but that wasn't enough to save Ftorek's job. 
"We are looking now at the final nine games of the regular season, and my focus has to be on winning those games. clinching a playoff position and getting this team performing in a consistent enough manner to do some damage in the play­offs," O'Connell said. 
Ftorek's first NHL head coaching job was with the Los Angeles Kings for the last 52 games in 1987-88 and the entire 1988-89 season. 
He then spent five seasons coaching in the AHL and was an assistant with New Jersey for two seasons before taking over as head coach of the Devils in 1998-99. He lasted two sea­sons there before he was fired with eight games to go in the '99-'00 season. New Jersey went on to win the Stanley Cup under Larry Robinson. 
As a player, Ftorek spent five seasons in the WHA, where he was MVP in 1977 before joining the Quebec Nordiques of the NHL as a free agent in 1979. He also played for the New York Rangers in a six-year NHL career. 
He finished with 77 goals and 150 assists in the NHL and 216 goals and 307 assists in the WHA. 


page 22 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, March 20, 2003 

.:· ·..·· ·.·. . ---:··· .. ·.::--:-:· 
. . ..
··•11·.·.,,.N··,·.. L•·····••••.··· 
. . -. 

•··••••e~~i~rn••••Qonference,•..•Atlantm•··rl~IJIOQ·········· 
·...• tij~m. < r:~t~t:d P}S-ltijfJQ New•·Jersey··. ·•·.·•····•·•·41)20f6~5•••··•·•••••••••·••·••·•· 293.••·••·• ••.••·••••••·• ~;4flt1:•••··•·••< 
~P.!si... i,:.~.•~·r·!·•··...•.•······••·······.•·•·:·:··•·..•~3•...•.5•.•. .• :. '.\. f511!;,
:9:'._~i~_l.iE •·•·•··•···•~.~:

. ' .·, .:-:::_:,.... ,-.: . .-'. ··::.,--·,,· .. 
Easte1n•conferent:e••••··Northeast•o1v1s1on••·••••··
.. ·. ·• .. ·. • • .l..• .. ··• ·•• . ·.. ···•· •:: ·• ...• . 


f I' f 
~ 
I I 
I 
1, I,' I 
I 
I I 
i· 
I 
.
I 
I 
I, 
1) 
Ii I) 
I ! I 
I 
I: 
1·, 
1. 
I, 
I 
'I 
I\ I, 
1, i 
'i 
I 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Opening Round NCAA Tournament Marquette vs. Holy Cross 12:20 p.m., CBS Missouri vs. Southern Illinois 
2:40 p.m., CBS Stanford vs. San Diego 4:55 p.m., CBS 
Wisconsin vs. Weber State 7:25 p.m., CBS NOTRE DAME vs. Wisc. Milwaukee 
9:40 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

Philadelphia at Detroit 7:30 p.m., TNT LA Lakers at Sacramento 1 O p.m., TNT 
NHL Pittsburgh at Philadelphia 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Reuters 

New York Yankees' Rondell White follows through on his three-run homer In last year's game against the Orioles. White was sent to the Padres Wednesday for outfielder Bubba Trammell and minor leaguer Mark Phillips. 
White finds a new home in San Diego 
Associated Press 
PEORIA, Ariz. 

Outfielder Rondell White has a place to play follow­ing his trade from the New York Yankees to the San Diego Padres for outfielder Bubba Trammell and minor league left-hander Mark Phillips on Wednesday. 
More importantly, the Padres cleared approxi­mately $5 million from the books for 2004. 
The trade came less than two weeks after Padres left fielder Phil Nevin had surgery on his dislocated left shoulder, which likely will cause him to miss the season. 
White will play left field and bat fifth, providing pro­tection for Ryan Klesko. Trammell had been sched­uled to play right field, but rookie Xavier Nady is now the frontrunner to start there instead of in left. 
White, 31, was a disap­pointment in his first sea­son with the Yankees, get­ting hurt during spring training and failing to regain his swing until late in the season, when he was injured again. He batted .240 with 14 homers and 62 RBIs. 
New York had little room for him following the sign­ing of Japanese star Hideki Matsui, who figures to be 
IN BRIEF 
Burk says war will change
Masters protest 
Martha Burk thinks war with Iraq would "alter the tone and possibly the size" of her planned protest dur­ing the Masters. 
But Burk, chair of the National Council of Women's Organizations, said Wednesday she still intends to protest April 12 at Augusta National -unless the all-male club allows female members or postpones the tournament. 
"If the country is at war it will alter the tone and possibly the size of any action that we bring," Burk told The Associated Press. "I want to stress that whether or not we are there is 100 percent the club's call." 
Burk said the club should consider postponing the Masters if the nation is at war. 
"The tournament is more than a golf match -it is a large corporate party; liquor and entertainment flow freely throughout the week," she said. "These are things I don't think play left field. 
"It's good and bad. I'm going to miss the guys," White said in Tampa, Fla. 
White makes $5 million this year and is eligible for free agency after the sea­son. 
Trammell, a former New York Met, makes $2.5 mil­lion in 2003 and $4.75 mil­lion next year. He has a $4.7 5 million team option for 2005, with a $250,000 buyout. If the Yankees decline Trammell's option, the Padres will reimburse them for the buyout. 
While taking on $2.5 mil­lion in salary this year, the Padres dumped Trammell's 2004 salary. 
The Padres are interested in star Japanese shortstop Kazuo Matsui and Oakland's Miguel Tejada, the reigning AL MVP. Both are eligible for free agency after the season. 
The Padres could also save money if they don't exercise closer Trevor Hoffman's $10 million option and get him to come back for a lower base salary in an incentive-laden contract. Hoffman is out until after the All-Star break after undergoing a second shoulder surgery. 
Trammell, 31, had a breakout year in 2001, hit­ting .261 with 25 homers and 92 RBIs. 

the country is going to want to see happening during a time of national conflict." 
The Masters was canceled for three years (1943-45) because of World War II -the only time since 1934 the tournament was canceled. 
Augusta National plans to go for­ward with the year's first major tournament and will monitor politi­cal developments, spokesman Glenn Greenspan said. 
Baseball cancels season­
opening series in Japan 
lchiro Suzuki insists there would have been no trouble once the Seattle Mariners and Oakland Athletics actually arrived in Japan. Getting there might have been the risky part. 
Major league baseball took no chances, deciding Tuesday to cancel next week's season-opening series in Tokyo between Seattle and Oakland because of the threat of war in Iraq. 
"You can't just open the door and be in Japan," said Suzuki, Seattle's star leadoff hitter. "You have to take the logistics into account. Japan is probably the safer place but getting to Japan is what you have to worry about." 
The teams were scheduled to Jeave Wednesday for games March 25-26 at the Tokyo Dome. 
"Given the uncertainty that now exists throughout the world, we believe the safest course of action for the players involved and the many staff personnel who must work the games is to reschedule the opening series," commissioner Bud Selig said. "It would be unfair and terribly unsettling for them to be half a world away -away from their families at this critical junc­ture." 
The games were rescheduled for April 3 and June 30 in Oakland. 
Baseball opened its 2000 season in Tokyo, with the New York Mets .and Chicago Cubs playing two games. 
Thursday, March 20, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 

Willingham names 
(20 goals, 15 assists). 

The goaltenders will almost certainly come into play in this game, with Irish sophomore
new grad assistants 
Morgan Cey working on a two­game shutout streak. His Ohio State counterpart, Betz, only 
native of Youngstown, Ohio, 
allowed two goals in the
Special to The Observer 
Durkin comes to Notre 
Buckeyes' first round sweep of Dame after serving as the 
Nebraska Omaha. Notre Dame head coach defensive ends coach and a 
The Buckeyes have only one Tyrone Willingham graduate assistant coach at 
loss in the -last 10 meetingsannounced today the hiring Bowling Green State 
against the Irish, posting a of D.J. Durkin and Chad University the past two sea­
record of 6-1-3. They have not Klunder as graduate assis­sons. 
lost to Notre Dame since a 2-1 tants for the 2003 football While at Bowling Green, 
overtime Irish victory in season. Both Durkin and the Falcons were 9-3 in 
Columbus on February 5, 2000. Klunder will begin work 2002 and were ranked in 
If the Irish defeat the immediately. the top 20 of both major 
Buckeyes, they will face No. 1 Durkin will work on the polls. In 2001, the Bowling 
Ferris State in the semifinal defensive side of the ball, Green defense was first in 
round on Friday. assisting with all aspects of the conference in total the defense and working defense, as well as four 
Contact Justin Schuver at 

specifically with defensive other major defensive cate­
jschuver@nd.edu

line coach Greg Mattison. A gories. 

~y"J,'J

BEES WAX ~ANOLES" 

Make your ow-n bees w-ax candles and scent the.tn r,,vith essential oils~ all sup­plies provided/ 
Friday, March 21st, 2003 
•

9:00pm 11:00pm in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 

Be a Part of the Madness! 
Coca-Cola sponsored NCAA Viewing Party! 
Come watch the Irish Men's Basketball Team in the First Round of the NCAA Tournament! 
VVhen: March 20, 2003@ 9:40 pm (approx. tip-off) 
VVhere: Reckers 
Come cheer on the team, eat some food, and --best of all --get some free Coca-Cola giveaways! 
-free mini-basketball with the purchase of a soft drink -free long-sleeve t-shirt with the purchase of a pizza and a Coke! -Pick the Final Score of the game by Halftime and vvin a Coca-Cola/Final Four Bean Bag!!! 
So come to Reckers. Drink Coke. And Go Irish! 



. 
I l
, l 
; \ I ' 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Seed no indication 

. Irish see formidable opponent in Panthers 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS 
All week leading up to his team's game against \Visconsin-Milwaukee in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, Irish coach Mike Brey vvas confused when he read the sports section of a newspaper or turned on 
ESPN. 
"I had to do a double take a couple times in print and in TV," Brey said. "I thought we were the 12 seed." 
While Notre Dame (22-9) might still be the fifth seed in the \Vest Region, Brey under­stands that his Irish are facing a very fonni­dable opponent when they oppose the No. 12 Panthers (24-7) Thursday night at 9:40 p.m. EST. Despite the fact that the Panthers are making their first NCAA appearance, they ½'ill be anything but an easy win for the Irish. 
"We have an unbelievable challenge in \Visconsin-Milwaukee," Brey said. 'Tm so impressed with their basketball team. They're very good. So we have to be very ready." 
The Panthers, who won the Horizon League Tournament by beating Butler 69-62 in the final, relied on outside shooting, press­ing their opponent and their two best play­ers, Oay Tucker and Dylan Page, to ·wm a school record-tying 24 games. 
Tucker has been the cornerstone for Wisconsin-Milwaukee, winning almost every possible Horizon League accolade, including Tournament MVP, first team league selection 

,, and all-defensive league selection. He also 
•j 
averaged 18.3 points and five rebounds per') game for the Panthers. 
i 
ii 
Page had a breakout season, upping his scoring average from 6.1 points per game 
during his sophomore campaign to 17.7 this 
season. He also made the all-tournament 
team and was a first-team league selection. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee coach Bruce Pearl said his team is confident, but that they still have not seen what it's like to play in front of 

This is the first NCAA Tournament appeara.nc~ fot l>~arl. Bre)\ meafiwhilij. :b~s y~ars of ~xpij;fie:ri,te thanks to. hls tbne\at Duke, .Delitwitte..<a:nd now at·•Notre.Dalne thath~lp him @~nage a team in the bright lights. 

"They have not stepped on the court yet [or] seen the size of the arena and the size of Notre Dame," Pearl said. "I do think they're confident. We are not sure of the outcome, but we will make sure we seize the opportu­nity that we have been provided iil playing in the NCAA. Tournament." 
Meanwhile, the Irish are hoping to win their third straight first round NCAA tourna­ment game and then advance past the sec­ond round after losing the past two years there. The Irish beat Xaiver in 2001 and Charlotte in 2002. But the Irish failed to reach the Sweet Sixteen in both those sea­sons. This year's squad hopes that trend won't repeat itself and wants to focus on just Thursday's game for right now. 
"This group talked about [taking the next step] all summer. We want to play on the next weekend," Brey said. "We have to be ready, but we're looking at this as a four­team tournament in Indianapolis, instead of looking at the whole bracket." 
Captain Matt Carroll agreed with his coach and understands that every team Notre Dame plays will give them a tough game, no matter what the seed. 
"We feel that we are a great program and we take everybody's best shots," Carroll said. " ... To be a good team you must find a way to win games against teams that will give you their best shot." 
Wisconsm-Milwaukee expects to do just that to Notre Dame. Tucker believes his team can not only compete with the Irish, but pull off the upset. 
"It doesn't matter if they take us seriously or lightly," Tucker said. "Ifthey don't take us seriously, they'll a problem on their hands. If they do take us seriously, they'll still have a problem on their hands." 
Despite losing four of their last five games, Brey said his team is refreshed from a week off and ready for the challenges the tourna­ment will present. 
"It is a new season now. In the past two seasons, we've been on both ends of the spectrum headmg into the tournament. and both times we've played strong," Brey said. "When we get to this point, we know we're starting ¼ith a clean slate." 
the nation. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
POST 

COACHING STYLE OF PLAY 
PLAYERS 
Notre Dame's phi­Under Brey. the 
Francis is coming off 

L&J 
Irish have always losophy is simple ­

his best game of the
:!!: 
played well in the first 
beat teams with their 

year, but the fresh­
cs: 
round of the tourna­
offense and hope they man will have to step

Q 
ment. The challenge can get enough stops 

up his play in tourria­
L&J 
for the third-year Irish on defense. The veter­

ment time. Cornette
a: 
coach is to deal with 
an 3-point shooters and Timmermans

t­
the psyche of a team 
have been the 

have done little for the
o 
that has lost four of its 
strength of the Irish 

Irish lately. last five games. 
z 
all season long. 

==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

In just his second 
Only two players on season with the 
The Panthers rely 

the Panthers roster Panthers, Pearl has 
heavily on a full-court 

are taller than 6-foot­been named Coach of 
press to disrupt 

9, but 6-foot-8 Page the Year of the 
opposing offenses. In 

can be a powerful Horizon League twice. 
order to get that press 

force inside. He He also won a Division 
going; however, they 

earned first-team all­II national title at 
need to score baskets 

Horizon League hon­Southern Indiana in 
-and they average 77 

ors by averaging 17.7 1995. 
a game. 

points and 6.5 rebounds. 
The Irish really haven't faced a press all season long, so
i~:~rYJ1up{ i~1~tg:::,;1
]>Panthers. Biit,virfuatiy everyone on Notre Dame's team can han­dle the ball well. 

It might be one of the. first times<that 
, : riit •' •,.,...,. ·• II

NQtf~ v.ijm~ g.~t:µ& y
could Have a.ff advan­
tag~ \lhsiif 9'_fl :ih 
oppotjijrit th.is. ~¢:asjij. l!rancis is rttW. bbt coulq e&-!ifly b~Jtfdfce inside)for the lrish depending how he fares.against Page. 

PERIMETER 
BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS 
How  far the Irish  Although the Irish  Success in the NCAA  
advance depends on  lack the depth they  Tournament depends  
their  perimeter.  entered previous tour­ on leadership, and the  
Tonsilitis may keep  naments with, Notre  Irish have plenty of it.  
Carroll from compet­ Dame  still  has  a  Playing close to home  
ing at  100 percent,  decent  cast  off the  might give  them  a  
meaning the burden of  bench.  However,  slight advantage,  as  
carrying  the  team  they've had relatively  well. One key issue  
might rest  on  Notre  little impact in recent  will be how Thomas  
Dame's talented but  weeks.  handles playing in his  
erratic Thomas.  hometown.  

==================== ===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= 
In all but one year

The Panthers have a 
Pearl isn't shy about 
since 1985. at least

heck of a player in 
using bunches of play­
one No. 12 seed has

Tucker. Four other 
ers -and players that 
beaten a No. 5 seed.

players average dou­
can con tribute in 
The Panthers hope to

ble-digits in scoring 
many ways. Plus, the 
be a team that con­

for Wisconsin­
Panthers have a 
tribute to that trend.

Milwaukee, and the 
bunch of veteran play­
While they are veter­

Panther perimeter 
ers who have seen lots 
ans. they have yet to

shoots 35 percent 
of playing time. 
play in a Tournament

from 3-point range. 
game. 

Notre Dame's shod­dy defense could spell trouble against a hot­.,.,.§9.:9.PtJng t~<tffi,.,..Uk~,-th~" 
~!i~~!il~!!~ 
to score, the Panthers are good enough to keep pace with the Irish. 
\VithJ1ll th~ tallf of a N9, 4:ZJ:m1M:p.g< #-: No. 
S.. Br~f jtjfftij~ ltµ;h 
ih! tl~~,ak0sl~~•1t~ 
st¢adt:J~Jdijr~:WP and


however, have. 
TO ur.fl:~rrt entr¢iPCr i ­enetfsh-0uld give them an edge tonight. 


~==================== ===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;= 
---------------------------.... 
page 24 Thursday, March 20, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Thomas returns home to Indy for NCAA tourney 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

If history is at all indica­tive, Chris Thomas and Notre Dame should be just fine Thursday night when they face Wisconsin­Milwaukee in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at the RCA Dome. 
It will be a 
"When I walked onto the floor tonight, I remem­bered I was 1-1 O [shoot­ing] and scored two points as a freshman, but we 
won  the  state  champi­ 
onship,"  Thomas said.  
"{But]  I  am  3-0 in  the  

dome. I feel real confident playing here." 
Indianapolis is where Thomas first made a name for himself, leading Pike to two state championships 
a n d 
averag­

home -"/ don't feel like a 
ing 23.4 coming sophomore point guard. I points, f o r 3 9
feel like I have a lot of
Thomas, rebounds
experience . .,

a n and 5.7 Indianap­assists as o I i s a senior
Chris Thomas 

native in 2001.
Notre Dame guard
who was 
3-0 at the R C A Dome in his high school career. And the 6'1" guard isn't overlooking the fact that he's so close to home. 
"I was very excited when I saw we were going to Indianapolis," Thomas said. "The first time Indianapolis sjte got called I was real sad because I didn't realize there were two groups of teams com­ing in. When I heard we were in, I started jumping up-and-down at coach's house." 
But Thomas doesn't want to play the way he did at the RCA Dome his freshman at Pike high school, when the 16-year­old could scarcely make a shot. 
His high 
school 

finished that season 26-3 and were ranked 23rd in the USA Today national rankings. He also gained McDonald's All-American and Mr. Basketball from Indiana honors for his play at Pike. 
Thomas also finished 11th on Indiana's all-time scoring list and finished his career at Pike as the school's all-time leader in points, assists, steals, free throws made and 3-point field goals made. 
With the game so close to home, Thomas has had a chance to see local friends and family, although he said most people that know him have kept their distance this week. 

"It's been fun. Not too many people have called. They at least respect that I need some space," Thomas said. "It hasn't been too bad. People have called me to say they were going to watch the game." 
But those that called have usually made a small request -tickets. 
"There's been a lot of ticket requests," Thomas said. "The first day 20-30 people called me for tick­ets. But I probably only gave 15 tickets a way." 
vVhile he has relished the chance to play in his hometown, Thomas wants _ to keep his focus on Wisconsin-Milwaukee and breaking their press. The Panthers like to consis­tently pressure their oppo­nent and Thomas feels this gives him the opportu­nity to make plays. 
"I don't feel like a sophomore point guard. I feel like I have a lot of experience," Thomas said. "I just feel very confident that Wisconsin-Milwaukee might give me the best opportunities to play my game and that's the tran­sition game." 
All Thomas can do now is wait for game time, so he can showcase the skills he learned playing basket­ball in the surrounding neighborhoods of Indianapolis on a national stage. 
"It should be fun," he said. 
CHIP MARKS/The Obse,ver 

Chris Thomas looks to pass the ball during an earlier lrlsh game. Thomas 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
returns to his native lndlanapolls for the NCAA Tournament tonight.
asoukup@nd .. edu 
Success linked to leadership 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Success in the NCAA Tournament is often tied to the relative strength of leadership on a team. 
And two of Notre Dame's seniors have a wealth of experi­ence. 
Matt Carroll has been arguably Notre Dame's best player in the NCAA Tournament over the past two years, and his classmate Dan Miller went to a Final Four two years ago when he played at Maryland. 
Together, the two -who are one loss away from seeing their college careers end -are trying to rally the Irish and prepare them for an extended tourna­ment run by keeping them focused on Wisconsin­Milwaukee. 
"Our main goal right now is Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and who­ever comes next, we'll watch tape on them and come prepared to play," Miller said. "You can't look ahead and we're not gonna." 
Late start 
Tip-off for Notre Dame's first round game tonight isn't sched­uled until around 9:40 p.m., which leaves Brey and his staff finding creative ways to adjust the team's schedule. 
The players have stayed up late since they arrived in Indianapolis, and Brey said he wanted to keep his team up late again the night before the game and let them sleep in come morn­ing. 
The team doesn't even have its shootaround until 2:00, more than an hour after the first game tips off at the RCA Dome. 
"We need to keep them up late tonight and do some things to shorten the days up," Brey said. "Maybe my sense of humor can keep them loose during the pre­game meal." 
Success In the dome 
Maybe it comes from playing at a school known for a Golden Dome, but when the Irish play in domed arenas, they tend to shoot exceptionally well. 
In the Carrier Dome at Syracuse, the Irish lost 82-80 despite making 12 3-pointers. In fact, Notre Dame was nearly as accurate shooting from behind the arc (46.2 percent) as they were overall (46.3) 
"A dome's a dome," Carroll said. "We shot the ball very well at Syracuse, and hopefully we'll be able to carry that over to here." 
The RCA Dome also has some significance for Brey. who was an assistant at Duke in 1991, the Blue Devils won the national championship in the Indianapolis arena but hasn't been back since. 
"There's a lot of good memo­ries in this place," he said. 
Brotherty advice 
After Joel Cornette, the brother of Irish sophomore Jordan Cornette and a member of Butler's basketball team, lost to Wisconsin-Milwaukee in the Horizon League conference championship last week, the older brother had some friendly advice for his younger brother. 
What he said, though, is a mys­tery. 
"I'd love to tell you what he said on the phone, but there's way to many expletives to say that," Cornette said. "We're going to get them back. hopeful­1y." 
Even though Joel's team lost the conference tournament, they still secured an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament. Butler is a No. 12 seed in the East region and is slated to play No. 5 seed Mississippi State. 
Hurting Irish 
Cornette sat out Wednesday's practice with a bag of ice on his ankle to help heal turf toe on his left big toe. But by sitting out practice, Cornette said he expect­ed to be able to play tonight. 
Carroll is battling a case of ton­sillitis. but he said he didn't think it would affect his play. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
I . 

Bball 
continued from page 28 
were so sobering. 
The Irish have every reason to be concerned entering tonight's game. They've lost four of their last five games, surrendered an average of 87.4 points a game over that same span and now face an opponent who can shoot just as well from the perimeter as themselves. 
But if there was any sign the Irish were worried, it wasn't evident in the locker room ban­ter Wednesday that alternated between dissections of each player's new hairstyle and dis­cussions about how dangerous Wisconsin-Milwaukee could be. 
"We look at it as we're start­ing new. we're all in this togeth­er, and we're a team," said Matt Carroll. "We have went through a lot of adversity and a lot of tough losses and it's almost like this is a new season for us. We're wiping out what happened in the past and we're a new team coming into the tournament." 
The Irish had been talking about shaving their heads throughout the latter part of the season, but it wasn't until the team was collectively gathered together in Thomas and Torrian Jones' hotel room that the hair started to fall. 
"Our spirits are up a lot now," Thomas said. "It was hard to do that before, when coach said, 'Keep your heads up,' and we were going down by 20 points." 
Thomas said he did most of the shaving himself-including his own head -which prompt­ed Carroll to tell the sophomore point guard that if basketball doesn't work out, he could always open a barbershop. 
Nearly 24 hours before the Irish begin tournament play around 9:40 tonight, the players joked around in the locker room about the new hairstyles. The general consensus seemed to be that Francis and Jones looked the best, but smiling players revealed who looked the worst as they relaxed watching NIT games on television. 
"You can watch the game on one TV, and on another TV over here, you have Dr. Evil," Carroll said, pointing at Thomas. 
The focus in the locker room centered more on new haircuts than new opponents, closely paralleling Notre Dame's own approach to the Tournament. 
While the Irish have devoted extensive time in practice on breaking the Panthers' full­court press, the players say they're more focused on playing their own style of basketball rather than adj usting· to Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
"They're a great team, but at the same time, it's up to us playing our game," Thomas said. "We're not worried about how they're going to play, we're worried about how we're going to play." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
page 26 Thursday, March 20, 2003 
MENS LACROSSE 
Howell plays with a fire that ignites teammates 

By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Matt Howell did not plan his career this way two years ago. Still. if it took until his junior season to prove what he could do, then that was w h a t w o u I d happen. 
Holding the all­t i m e c a r e e r 

Howell

points record at his high school (232 points in three seasons) and viewed as an impact player from the beginning, Howell brought nothing but another quality option for Notre Dame on offense when he signed his letter of intent. 
Howell' played in eight games as a freshman on an NCAA national semifinal team and scored one goal in a 16-6 win over Denver. 
As a sophomore, he made a 
promising debut and scored 
three goals in his first career 
start in a 10-9 overtime loss 
to Penn State. 

An injury then sidelined 
Howell for almost the entire 
remainder of the season. He 
would play in only thre'e 
games in 2002. 

This year, however, the 
5'9, 150 pound junior attack­man is playing with a fire that has not only raised him . to the leading point man (22) on the Irish squad but has 
against then-No. 13 North Carolina and three goals and two assists against then­No.23 Penn, both in Notre Dame victories. 
In only five games, Howell has tallied six more goals and 10 more assists than he did in his first two seasons with the Irish. 
With 11 goals, Howell is tied with fellow junior attackman Dan Berger for the team lead. Howell also 
has 11 assists. 


ignited a score of Notre Dame players to follow suit. 
"Matt helps other people to raise their game," coach K e v i n Corrigan said. 
Howell has made his presence felt in all of the Irish's games thus far. 
In particu­

"He's not a guy that relies so much on great physical ability. He does have good skills, but more than anything else he has a great sense of the game.,, 
Kevin Corrigan Irish coach 
T h e 
assists cat­e g o r y proves the junior's ability to get others involved and his unique value to the squad. 
"He's not a guy that relies so much on great phys­
lar. the junior scored four goals and had two assists 
Facult_y Perf'ormance Night 
ical ability," Corrigan said. "He does have good skills, 
f'eat1.1rin.9: 

but more than anything else well. he has a great sense of the Berger has the ability to game. He makes the play dominate up front and has 
that has to be made. When a guy like him is out of the lineup, you miss what he con­tributes because [his style of play] is an infec­tious thing." 
Howell has set the stan­d a rd, and teammates, veteran and rookie, are 
"He makes people around him play better. Missing a guy like him is like missing a guy and a half. I couldn't be happier that he's back and I'm looking forward to having him with us this year. " 
Kevin Corrigan Irish coach 
stepping right up to join him. 
Freshman Patrick Walsh is the most noticeable, a quick attackman with seven goals and seven assists and a tremendous impact player on a potent offense. 
Freshman Matt Karweck has scored six gqals and notched one assist, and juniors Berger and Owen Mulford are key options, as eleven goals. Mulford has contributed 
five  goals  
and  one  
assist.  
T  h  e  

unselfish Irish attack­men and mid fielders are feeding off of Howell's inspirational and intelli­gent play in the early stages of the 
2003 season. 
"He makes people around him better players," Corrigan said. "Missing a guy like him is like missing a guy and a half. I couldn't be happier that he's back, and I'm look­ing forward to having him with us this year." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Your pulse quickens. Your heart races. And that's Just when you·re in line at the bursar's office. Fact is, picking up a full or partial scholarship is just one of many experiences you can have in Air Force ROTC. Get some hands-on training through one of our summer internship programs. Hone your competitive edge at a leadership seminar Then enjoy some serious downtime with up to $400 extra spending money in your pocket every month. Not to mention graduating with a guaranteed job and no student loans to pay back. Apply for a scholarship today by visiting the Air Force ROTC Web site or calling our toll-free number. 
AFR0TC.C0M 1-866-423-7682 

~. ' .. ~

_j ..·-:i.~:l,:~-f 
rrench Songs with 6uitar ~ Vocals 
~arch 20th at 9:00P~ In the Lar=ortune Ballroom 
Brought to you by the Student A.ctivities Office 
Want to impress your friends? Want to get a date? 
• 

That's OK, work for The Observer anyway! 
1-4543 


Thursday, March 20, 2003 page-z7
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROUCS 

(J 
02002 Tribune Media Se,vicea, Inc. Al Aighta Reae,ved. 
AKDEB 
I 
I I
tVIDDIE WHAT SHE: Ff:l-T LIKE: WHEN HE:!< HAI!< WAS CUT


IJ I 

www.jumble.com roo 5HOi<T. 
SINIST 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

I rJ 
An~r: 
"t I I J-t I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: ADMIT GAUZE CHISEL QUAVERSaturday's 
Answer: What he got when he ate lunch with a computer geek -A "SQUARE" MEAL 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 2S • To order, send your name, addten and $5.95 •nd makll check pay•ble to Tribune Media Servlcu, P.0. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680--4330. 
CROSSWORD 
IJJeJ~urlorklimu 
Crossword 
Edited by Will Shortz 
ACROSS 31 Sheikdom of 1 "All I Do" 
song (Sheryl Crow 32 Regarded song) guardedly 
6 Singer in Bob 33 Enlivens Dylan's Rolling 
35 Shrimp dish 
Thunder Revue 41 Bric-a-_
10 Clinches 45 Diamond
14 Afghan, e.g. 
situation after a 
15 Director single hit Wertmuller 46 Nonchalant 
16Clammy 
gait? 17 Number one 
51 Trapassistant, 52 Hubbubs
strictly 

speaking? 53 Without limit 20 Some degree 54 Doo-wop hits, 21 Posted 
e.g. 

22 Orwell's "Animal 56 Has markers Farm," e.g. out 23 Lbs. and ozs. 58 Cleveland _, 
0.

25 Pain 60 Where farm 
27 Instruction for workers take acasual dress dip?
28 Going around a 63 Indigo plant 
clock every minute? 64 Chip in 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I

. K T ...,....,.,+,,-+-,-+,=l 
C O C O 

A L E .........___ A L 

RA 
E M A s ______ --+--11....M+O.... 
D E V I ------S S A Y . S E A ---E A R . 
65 Place for a hawk 66 Burns and Allen: Abbr. 67 Doldrums, for one 68 "Texaco Star Theater" star 
DOWN 
1 Tip off 2 So to speak 3 Second half of 
a doubleheader 4 "No way" 5 Aardvark's prey 6 "A Streetcar 

Named Desire" role 71s of value, slangily 8 Eliminate 9 Eliminates by remote control 10 Words of agreement 11 Per 
12 Chef Lagasse 13 Wild lime 
18 Cattle rancher's unit 19 Called 
24 Sad sounds 26 Suffix with 
ethyl• 28 Weaken 29 School situated 
at Washington 
Sq. 

30 Person with a practice: Abbr. 
34 Alley org. 36 Bunko game character 

38 Hamburg honorific 
39 Barbie feature, at times 
40 Like Mahler's Symphony No. 4 
42 Carrier of genetic info 

WILLSHORTZ 
No.0206 
51 TV room features

44 Packed 55 Only make• 
46 Reading e-mail, 
believe
e.g. 57 Poke holes in 

47 Movie technique 
59 "Peter Pan" 48 Gimcrackery pirate 49 Take note of 61 Pitch _-hitter 
50 Exploits 62 Riddle-me•_ 
For answers, call 1·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Holly Hunter, Spike Lee, Carl Reiner. Jane March 
Happy Birthday: You will face some adversity this year if you have been lazy in the past. Pull your act together and work hard to accomplish the most. Be aggressive and detennined this year. The end results will be good if you refuse to let anything stand in your way or take over. Your numbers are 3, 7, 13, 22, 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Clear up any issues you have with a panner. Finish off cxid jobs so you can start a new creative project. You will be emotional when it comes to affairs ofthe heart. *tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Expect business deals to move along swiftly today. Your choice of partners will make a difference to the outcome of any ventwe. Mingle with experienced individuals. *tt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): As long as you are fun to be with, your popularity will dooble. You will learn something about yourself if you do things with younger people. Consider making a change that will bring you added confidence *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Brace yourself --changes a.re about to happen and you know how much you like things to remain the same. Don't let someone you care about talk you into doing something that you'd rather not do. ** LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Live, love and be happy today. You should make plans to do something special. Take a short trip or visit a friend. Conversations could easily lead to serious discussions. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): Put your money into something you believe in. Invest 
in yourself. You can make extra cash if you are quick to try something new. *** LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): You will be emotional today. Engaging in a relationship should be exciting and lead to all sorts of JX>SSibilities. *tt SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may not have the most sound judgment today, especially if you are confused about your personal life. Sort through your own feelings and rethink the past few days. Consider your options and make plans, but no changes 
yet.tt-tc SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll have some terrific ideas when it comes to raising money for a good cause. You will be a crusader tcxlay, fighting for what you believe in, and for those who may not be able to fight for themselves. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22--Jan. 19): You won't be likely to make the best choices for y~lf today. Losses will make you angry. Do not blame someone for something that he or she may not have done. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should be on the go today. Put yourself in a position where you can take advantage of travel and learning. Your contributions to 
any group will be appreciated. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should really pay some attention to your personal papers. If you don't have your documents up to date, you may be losing money that yoo could be rutting to good use. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will have the looks, the charm and the intelligence to get whatever you want. You will have to focus on how you can give back in order to have true fulfillment. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. wnetwon..com 
COPYRIGITT 2003 UNlVERSAL PRFSS SYNDlCATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ " City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
'! 
• I 


Thursday, March 20, 2003 


... MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish shave heads to create team unity 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

INDIANAPOLIS 
When Mike Brey saw the first two of his players walk into the meeting room Wednesday morning, he noticed a pair of newly-shaven heads. 
"Nah, they couldn't have all done it," the Irish coach remembered thinking to himself. 
But one by one. every Irish player 

. What: Notre 
walked into a room 

Dame vs.
bald -a sign of team unity at a time Wisconsin­when it is crucially 
Milwaukee
needed. "We talked about . Where: it before the Big East 
Indianapolis
Tournament," said 

. When: 9:40
Chris Thomas, the mastermind of the p.m. mass shaving. "It 
See Also
probably would have been a bad omen if "Seed no we had. 
indication" 
"But with every­thing that's going on pages 24, 25 around the world, we felt it would be a good sign of team unity and a way to support our-broth­ers and sisters at the front." 
The bald heads are just one sign of how relaxed the No. 5 seed Irish appear to be heading into tonight's first-round NCAA Tournament game against No. 12 seed Wisconsin­Milwaukee. 
"We can't play uptight, and if it helps them a bit, that's fine," Brey said. "They haven't come after me yet, and somebody said, 'What about you?' If they guard people, I'll do anything at this point." 
In spite of the jovial mood in the lock­er room Wednesday, few chuckled at Brey's comment because his words A VEL TE/The erver 
Senior Matt Carroll struggles to recover the ball during Notre Dame's loss to Connecticut this season. The lrlsh are a No. 5 seed In the NCAA Tournament. 
see BBALL/page 24 

HOCKEY 

Irish face Buckeyes in CCHA Super Six 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 

The Irish enter the CCHA Super Six as the lowest seed in the tournament. That might be just the way they like it. 
No. 6 Notre Dame was the only one of the Super Six teams to have to play all three games of the best-of-three series to win the first round; the other five all swept their first round oppo­nents in two games at home. 
The Irish face No.3 seed Ohio State Thursday at 4:05 p.m. at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. The Buckeyes are the highest-rated seed of the quarterfinal teams, as the top two seeds in the Super Six get a first-round bye. 
The Buckeyes are currently on a five-game winning streak and are ranked No. 13 national­ly. 
During the regular season, the Irish faced the Buckeyes twice, both times at the Joyce Center. The Irish amassed a 0-1-1 record against the Buckeyes, with the tie coming after the Buckeyes scored a heartbreak­ing goal with just 4.7 seconds remaining to erase a 3-2 Irish lead. 
In the other contest, Buckeye goaltender Mike Betz made 23 saves to backstop his team to a 2-0 shutout. 
This will be the first ever meeting between the Buckeyes and the Irish in CCHA postsea­son play. Last season, Ohio State advanced to the Super Six semifinals before losing a 2-1 overtime nail-biter to Michigan. Northern Michigan defeated Notre Dame in the quarterfinal round 3-1. 
The Buckeyes are a potent offensive team that features three first-round NHL draft picks in its center rotation and is ranked as the number one CCHA team offensively this sea­son. Junior R.J. Umberger is the keystone of the Ohio State offense, leading the team with 52 points (25 goals, 27 assists) during the CCHA season. 
By comparison, leading Irish scorer Rob Globke has 35 points 
see HOCKEY/page 23 
FENCING 
Severe weather postpones fencing matches 
Special to The Observer 
The NCAA Fencing Championships at the Air Force Academy's Cadet Field House have been postponed to Saturday and Sunday, March 22-23, due to severe weather conditions. 
The complete schedule of events follows below. 
The event originally had been slated for a four-day schedule, March 20-23, with the mens competition now moving to the weekend schedule that will be expanded to daylong bouting from 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
The Academy continues to be at heightened security status and the event will be opened only to participants, officials, media representa­tives and people with a Department of Defense iden­tification card. 
Family members and other team supporters will be per­mitted to attend but they must contact their respec­tive team to gain entrance to the Academy and the Championships. 
Results will be available on the NCAA Web site at www.ncaasports.org and the Air Force Web site at www .airforcesports.com while the Notre Dame Sports Hotline will provide several updates on both days of competition at 574-631­3000. 
The Irish are expecting their toughest competition to come from Ohio State, who sent 12 fencers, and Penn State, who sent 11 fencers. The Irish and the Buckeyes are the only two mens teams with 12 fencers represent­ing. 
Of the 12 fencers repre­senting the Irish, none of them are first-time fencers. Last season the Irish had six first-time fencers. 
The Irish womens fencing team will also be competing on Saturday and Sunday. The national champion will be crownded on Sunday. 


MENS BASKETBALL 
Playing in the NCAA Tournament will be a homecoming for Indianapolis native Chris Thomas. Thomas hopes to continue his winning streak in the RCA Dome as the Irish take on Wisconsin-Milwaukee tonight. 
page 24 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin­Milwaukee 
tonight, 9:40 p.m. 

The 5th seeded Irish look for a victory against a difficult Panther squad. 
page 25 
MENS LACROSSE 

Junior attackman Matt Howell has risen as Notre Dame's leading scorer and inspires his teammates to step up and play to his level. 
page 26 










