
VOL.XXXVII NO. 75 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Sharon's parents meet with investigators, students 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
After arriving at Notre Dame Wednesday evening, Steve and Jane Sharon, the parents of missing freshman Chad Sharon, met with investigators and talked with students Thursday about their only child's disap­pearance. 
Though the Sharons said they feel completely confident in Notre Dame Security Police's handling of the case, they want­ed to talk with investigators firsthand and offer students a chance to speak with them per­sonally. "We feel like we're really doing something," said Steve Sharon. "It's one of the biggest things we can do right now." 
After meeting with investiga­tors during the day, the Sharons talked with students before and after attending an evening mass celebrated by Father Edward Malloy at Chad Sharon's dorm, Fisher Hall. At the standing­room only mass, Chad's parents were presented with the same Notre Dame medal that is given to all incoming students. Steve and Jane Sharon said the 30 to 40 students that came forward to share their stories about Chad encouraged them. "The students are really great," said Steve Sharon. "They are behind us 100 percent." 
Though the Sharons say they learned nothing new of major significance during the evening, they were very pleased by the concern students showed for their son. "We talked to some­one who was at the [Corby Street] party," said Steve Sharon. "Every one of the kids cared very much." 
In an attempt to focus increased media attention on their son's case, the Sharons said they would take their story to the national networks. As part of this decision, Steve and Jane Sharon appeared early this morning on Good Morning America to talk about Chad's disappearance. 
The Sharons say they see no reason for their son's unex­plained absence and feel confi• dent that he will contact them when he is able. "We know that he would not do this to us and that there's something keeping him from us. He's never given us five minutes of trouble in his whole life," said Steve Sharon. 

friends and the Fisher Hall community. 
Chad's father said his son is a any discipline problems. "Chad very responsible person and was the kind of individual that experienced in outdoor activi-everyone looked up to," said ties. Steve and Jane Sharon said Steve Sharon. their son was an outstanding The Sharons say they kept in student and never experienced close contact with their son, 
NEWS ANALYSIS 


Campus reacts to Illinois clemency 
By LUKE BUSAM 
News Writer 
The current population of the Illinois death row is zero. 
In the days before he left office, Illinois Governor George Ryan, a former death penalty supporter, either pardoned or commuted the sentences of every member of the Illinois death row. 
On Jan. 10. in a speech at DePaul University Law School in Chicago, Ryan pardoned and granted freedom to Madison Hobley, Stanley Howard, Aaron Patterson and Leroy Orange. Those four pardons marked an unprecedented act of clemency for a governor, immediately followed by the even more astounding blanket commuta­tion of every person on the state's death row. Ryan's deci• sion a day later to issue a blan• ket commutation granted 164 death row inmates life in prison without the possibility of parole. 
The clemency made head­lines both in Illinois and across the nation and brought the issue of capital punishment to the foreground even as Illinois residents, politicians and experts alike seriously ques­tioned Ryan's motives. A feder­al probe that alleges the for­mer governor's political orga­nization, Citizens for Ryan, used state employees to per­form political acts on state time marred Ryan's tenure as gov­ernor. Critics see Ryan's clemency as a diversion from these allegations. Ryan drew criticism from victims' families and prosecuting attorneys across the state. 
While Illinois residents and politicians continue to debate Ryan's decisions and motives, the Notre Dame community and students from Illinois developed thoughts on the con­troversial announcements. 
Richard Dieter, a Notre Dame graduate and Executive Director of the Death Penalty Information Center. a Washington, D.C.-based 

research and awareness orga• nization on capital punishment, unequivocally praised Ryan's decision. 
"I don't see how a person with a conscious could do any­thing else than what he did. I would compare it to a factory that puts out a product that fails half the time," said Dieter. 
Ryan placed a moratorium on the death penalty in 2000 after DNA evidence exonerated 13 men in the same period of time in which 12 were execut­ed. 
Dieter said the legal process needed review and agreed with the blanket commutations. 
"You recall the whole system, not just pick out the mistakes. You pull back the whole batch," said Dieter. "He couldn't draw imaginary lines to say you were only a little tortured or your lawyer was only a little terrible, or the con• fession a little forced." 
Notre Dame law school pro­fessor Richard Garnett said Ryan's decision might not be entirely good news for oppo­nents of the death penalty. 
"He took a drastic step and you have to be concerned with backlash. On the one hand it will encourage a second look from other state legislatures, but it could also get a lot of backlash," said Garnett. 
Whatever Ryan's motive for commuting the inmate's sen­tences, his unprecedented move sparked debates across the nation and could lead to new policies and legislation. 
see CLEMENCY/page 3 

who was attending the University on a full scholarship, during the last semester through phone calls and e-mail. 
see SHARON/page 3 

IB topic of Senate request 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Associate News Editor 
Many Notre Dame students graduated from high school near the top of their class and took honors classes. Such classes as Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate courses allow students to earn credit for college, yet not all of these students received as many credits when they entered Notre Dame than they would had they gone to a compara• ble university. 
Notre Dame currently accepts scores from 27 AP exams and 16 1B higher level courses. 
According to a handout compiled by Sarah Blake, McGlinn Hall senator. the 1B program consists of six groups and students must take one subject from each group. Students take stan• dard and higher level cours• es within the 1B program and can take a maximum of four of these subjects at the high­er level. 
''I lost some 20 credits because I came to Notre Dame and I think that could be a deciding factor for oth­ers," Blake said. 
During the past three months the Academic Affairs 
see SENATE/page 3 
Friday, January 17, 2003 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
America's playground 
For the past three years I have opted out of my family's traditional Cape Cod vacation where the primary objective is to listen to the waves roll in, find the best lobster dinner and convince my father to stop Shannon Nelllgan into another lit­tle antique or craft shop. Instead, f Production decided to put these vacations on hold and grasp on to every college opportunity. Llke studying and working abroad, interning and traveling to see what else this Great Country has to offer. 
So, when it was announced that Notre Dame was playing in the Gator Bowl, my parents took this opportunity to get me on a family vacation. They booked the tickets for the game and as an added bonus included some time at Disney World. 
I cannot say that I was all too eager to spend too much time in a theme park, even a world-renowned one where one's dreams come true. But once I arrived and spent some time at the resort, I realized that this park is not just a theme park, but also a represen• tation of the ideals American society holds true. 
Walt Disney had the goal of creating a place where parents and children can have fun together. And ofcourse, spend some money. (Most people do, which isn't hard because every attraction exits into a gift shop.) 
Where else do people flock to and pay to be advertised to every hour of the day? Which other park has a huge innovations complex that introduces major corporation's products ofthe future? Amazingly, Disney does all this. while leaving most with a warm fuzzy feeling. 
There is no place like Disney World. Euro Disney does not even compete. A young British couple reported this senti­ment to my mother and I in Epcot as we shared a table at the Japanese Restaurant. 
Americans do things big with a large smile on their face and people love it. (This is probably why the Disney Corporation seems to own everything). 
Disney's dream was formed from an 

idea and some swamp land no one 
wanted in Central Florida. Now it has 
become one ofthe greatest business 
endeavors ofour time. This is the ulti­
mate in American ingenuity. One that is 
representing the ultimate American 
dream and can be seen in symbols like 
the Statue ofLiberty. 
Even though I have been able to see 

other parts of the world nothing com­
pares with the United States from its 
commercialized attractions to i1s quiet 
Cape Cod dunes. But I suppose there is 
no place like home whether you're 
attracted to the Zippity Do Da ofDisney 
or to the rolling waves ofthe Cape. 
I think this summer I might be able to 

at least spend a week on the beach. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In yesterday's issue, Trip Foley, Student Body Vice President, w:as misquoted in the artide 'Foley asks for respect.' Foley did not say"Although students are the sole reason that this University exists, all too often I find that other constituencies within the University exists for the students." The quote should have been, "Although students are the sole reason that this University exists, all too often other constituencies within the University overlook this simple uuth." 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
NEWS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NATION  NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  

Football team express doubt 
The legendary Americans AOL names 
2004
United 

prepares for about going to 
George Gipper Presidentialnew chairmanNation's 
new recruits War 
candidates
inspection team finds warheads 

Scene explores
Inspectors in Iraq Notre Dame foot­Even though the

AOL Time
A recent poll 
the history of
found empty war­ball recruiters have 
next presidential

Warner chief exec­
found that 
George Gipper and heads that had not already received 15election is not untilutive Dick Parsons Americans are not how he has become 
verbal commit­been previously 
2004 the Democrats 

was named the
ready to go to war 
a legendary Notre ments as they look 
new chairman in are already cam­
disclosed to U. N.

against Iraq. 
Dame figure. 
to build a strong

hopes to turn the 
paigning. Columnist officials. 
team.

conglomerate 
Gary Caruso consid­
ers the candidates. 

around. 
page4 
page 5 

page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. IMHT Training Courses, McKenna Hall, all day. 
. 
SUB Movie, "Creature from the Black Lagoon" 8 p.m. and 10::10 p.m.at Debartolo 101. 

. 
Notre Dame hockey vs. Yale 7 p.m. at Joyce Ccntor. 


I 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
AHT/ACT Student Exhibition 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Moreau Art Galleries 

. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs Movie 


"Lilo and Stitch" 8 p.m. in Carrol Auditorium 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, peas, carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risot­to. baked potato, spinach, seasoned fries, chicken macadamia, chili crispi­tos, penne with gorgonzola, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, cheese and pepper­oni French bread pizza, breadsticks 
Today's Dinner: Penne with gor­gonzola, pastaria pesto sauce, cheese and pepperoni French bread pizza, breadsticks, southern fried chicken, collard greens with ham hocks, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, apple crisp, baked herbed zucchini 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli, three-pepper linguine, three-pepper sauce, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, breadsticks, herbed noodles, sugar-snap peas with sesame, lemon-lime chicken breast, haddock with herbs, roast turkey breast, cur­ried vegetable rice pilaf, stuffed ched­dar potatoes, cranberry sauce 
Today's Dinner: Baked pasta Italiano, basil-pepper-tomato mostacci­oli, oil and garlic pasta sauce, 4-cheese pizza, cherry turnover. peas & pearl onions, vegetable rice casserole, grilled redfish, broccoli-rice casserole, Italian­blend vegetables, chicken-fried steak 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
UJ 
::c 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
..J 
c( 
(.) 



0 
HIGH 19 HIGH 17 HIGH 21 HIGH 26
..J 
LOW 16 LOW 12 LOW 17 LOW 17 
page 12 
page 24
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Two cars involved in incident 
On Thursday morning two cars were involved in an accident on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 
Wallet found on campus 
A University employee reported finding a wal­let by the main building on Thursday. NDSP is holding the wallet for safekeeping, until it is identified. 
Occupational accident reported 
On Thursday a University employee was trans­ported by NDSP to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration. 
Abandoned bike found 
On Thursday an abaonded bike was found out­side Keough Hall. NDSP took in the bike for safe­keeping. 
Cell phone lost 
On Thursday a student reported losing a cellu­lar phone on campus. The case is pending. 
Stolen bike returned 
A student who reported their bike as stolen Wednesday informed NDSP on Thursday that the bike had been returned to St. Edward's Hall. The bike had been misplaced by a friend. 
Compiled from NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetarian dagwood sandwich, stuffed pepper, pasta, basil sauce, sweet potatoes, grilled ham­burger. red potato salad, chicken nuggets, macaroni and cheese. steamed broccoli, pepperoni pizza. Chicago stuffed pizza, bread sticks., chicken salad, sliced turkey, deli bar, vegetable soup, chicken and rice soup 
Today's Dinner: Pepperoni pizza, Chicago stuffed pizza. bread sticks, chicken salad, sliced turkey, deli bar, vegetable soup, chicken and rice soup, carved meat loaf, mashed potatoes, pasta, marinara sauce, broccoli pasta casserole, green beans, corn 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 19 HIGH 23 LOW 16 LOW 8 

Atlanta 37 / 15 Boston 29 / 10 Chicago 21/ 9 Denver 44/ 23 Houston 48 / 30 Los Angeles 81 / 51 Minneapolis 20 / 13 New York 29 / 10 Philadelphia 29 / 11 Phoenix 76 / 50 Seattle 51 / 36 St. Louis 22 / 10 Tampa 57 / 34 Washington 31 / 17 
page 3

Friday, January 17, 2003 The Observer . NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
committee of the Student Senate researched the 1B program and unanimously voted \Vednesday to send a letter to Dean Angie Chamblee, from the First Year of Studies, asking that the policy for I 8 advanced placement credit be recon­sidered and expanded. 
Blake said administrators previously did not consider expanding the 18 advanced placement credit policy because they felt it did not affect many students. 
Blake said half the univer­sities that Notre Dame con­siders peer universities fol­low Notre Dame's policy of accepting only the 18 higher level courses, while the other half accepted a combination of higher and standard level courses. 
There are 1,365 1B schools in 112 countries and 434 within the United States. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu 

Clemency 
continued from page I 
Amanda Byers, a Notre Dame junior from Roseville, Ill. said she was not certain that Ryan's decision accurately addressed the problematic legal situation. 
"I am concerned with the way in which Governor Ryan dealt 
with it," said Byers. 
B y  e rs  
said  she  
does  not  

consider herself a supporter of Ryan, but felt that there was a need for statewide change. "There is obviously a because some guys in the past were found to be not guilty and the system needs to be looked 
t .. 
a. 

Tori Pambianco, a sopho­more from Springfield, Ill .. agreed with Brasse and said Ryan's actions are being mis­understood because many think he set the inmates free or that they are being rewarded. 
"There is always some gray 
..There is obviously a flaw in the Illinois judicial system, and the cases ofall ofthe death row inmates should certainly have been re-examined . ., 
Amanda Byers student 

flaw in the Illinois judicial sys­tem, and the cases of all of the death-row inmates should cer­tainly have been re-examined," she said. 
Other students from Illinois had more positive reactions. Andrew Brasse, a junior from Geneva, Ill. said, "It was good 
The December 25, 2002 Medjguorje message from our Mother, the Queen of Peace! 
"Dear children! This is a time of great graces, but 
also a time of great trials for all those who desire to follow the way of peace. Because of that, little children, again I call you to pray, pray, pray, not with words but with the heart. Live my messages and be converted. Be conscious of this gift that God has permitted me to be with you, especially today when in my arms I have little Jesus -the King of Peace. I desire to give you peace, and that you carry it in your hearts and give it to others until God's peace begins to rule the world. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
area. We ask jurors to dis­pense with that and decide black or white, live or die. That's more than humans have the ability to do," said Dieter. 
In his speech Jan. 11 Ryan said that it's not easy to decide when 
the inmates name and picture are on your desk and you are the one who has to decide whether he lives or dies. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

Sharon 
continued from page 1 
"I chatted with him the evening he disappeared," said Jane Sharon. 
In addition, the Sharons say Chad was enjoying Notre Dame and involved in several activities, such as Scholastic Magazine and the Irish Dance Club. "It was a privilege for him to be here," said Steve Sharon. 
Chad's parents say they are willing to talk with any­one and want individuals who believe their informa­tion may be insignificant to come forward. "Someone out there knows some­thing," said Steve Sharon. 
The .Sharons say they completely focused on find­ing their son and want stu­dents to talk with them if they feel uncomfortable speaking with police. "We just want information," said Jane Sharon. "We won't hold anything against them." 
Even after they depart 
campus today, the Sharons 
say students can contact 


SPRING BREAK PILGRIMAGE to Medjugorje! 
Students interested should TODAY call 574-234-7888 or email dnolan@childrenofmedjugorje.com. 
THE BEST KEPT SECRET... 

PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS 
I Bedroom starting at $466.00 2 Bedrooms starting at $544.00 
NOW RENTING FOR THE 2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
9MONTH 

SHORT TERM SUMMER AND MONTH TO MONTH LEASES 
LOCATED 2.1 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 
ON BUS LINE 

LAUNDRY FACILITIES, INDOOR HEATED POOL, 
FITNESS & EXERCISE ROOMS, BILLIARDS 
SPACIOUS 1 &2 BEDROOMS, SOME WITH DENS 
FREE MEMBERSHIP TO CASTLE POINT HEALTH CLUB 
VIEW OUR MODEL DAILY 
MON-FRI 9:00AM -6:00PM 
SATURDAY 10:00AM -6:00PM 
SUNDAY 10:00AM -4:00PM 
300 I EAST JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 574-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 
NDSP and officials will con­nect callers with them at their Wisconsin home. 
Students who knew Chad Sharon say they arc as equally perplexed as his parents and do not under­stand their friend's disap­pearance. Tom Gorman, a sophomore who lives in Chad Sharon's section in Fisher Hall, said he was very focused on his studies and well-liked by residents in the dorm. "You knew he was a smart kid." said Gorman. "He has a lot of good friends [and] he is liked by everyone. He was always one to do things for everyone else before him­self." 
Gorman said the timing of Chad Sharon's disappear­ance was particularly diffi­cult and he was very sur­prised when Sharon did not return for his final exams. "It was really tough when exams came," said Gorman. "I think everyone is kind of in disbelief." 
Peter Nebel, a junior who also lives on Sharon's floor, said it was perfectly normal for him to attend parties after he had finished his studies. "He'd go to parties [or] he'd party here with us,' said Nebel. 
Nebel said Sharon had just completed a 27-page paper and wanted to relax before beginning to study for his final exams. 
Both Nebel and Gorman also clarified the rumor that Sharon had left campus without telling anyone dur­ing a previous weekend. According to Nebel and Gorman, Sharon told his roommate he would be out of town for the weekend, but actually remained in Fisher Hall the entire time. 
"He was with us all that night," said Gorman. 
Sophomore Danita Altfillisch, who attended high school with Chad Sharon in Wisconsin and kept in touch with him at Notre Dame, said she spent many hours working on stu­dent council and National Honor Society projects with him. 
"He always went the extra mile," said Altfillisch. "He · was always kind and friend­
,.

I
v. 

Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu HOT SPRING BR~A~.::t 
Discount Coupons up to $250 Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica & Bahamas package! with air. 
Our staffs 18th Spring Break 
1-800-328-7513 www.hotspringbreaks.com 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, January 17, 2003 







Ill I 
I : 
I ­
f I
~------­
:

1--­
; t 
l I 
-·----­


I
ii
-


SUIU 197E 

-Q~A;-~ 

Carryout & FREE Delivery 
Poll: Bush still needs case for war 
war is strong, 76 percent. if
Associated Press 

United Nations inspectors 
WASHINGTON find nuclear. biological or 
President Bush has yet to chemical weapons. The sup­convince Americans that war port is evenly split if they find with Iraq is justified, accord­no weapons but determine ing to a poll that suggests the Iraq has the ability to make White House has much work these weapons. to do to win public support The public does not buy the for military force. administration's argument 
"I think a that Iraq little more must prove diplomacy "I think a little more it does not would be in have these
diplomacy would be in
order," said weapons.
order.,.
C r e i g Almost Crippen. an two-thirds, 84-year-old 63 per­
Crelg Crippen 
retired Air cent, said
retired Air Force veteran
Force veter­that would an from not be a Deland, Fla. sufficient 
There is reason for widespread support for a war. removing Iraqi President More than half, 53 percent, Saddam Hussein, but that say the president has not yet support is conditional on explained clearly what's at proof of a threat from Iraq stake to justify the United and on the support of allies, States using military force to said the poll by the Pew end Saddam's rule, according Research Center for the to the poll. Some 42 percent People & the Press. The poll say he has. was released Thursday as the The number who say Bush United Nations said it had has clearly explained what's discovered empty chemical at stake has eroded since his warheads south of Baghdad. September address to the 
Two-thirds or more in the United Nations, when it was Pew poll and other recent 52-37 saying he had given a polls say they favor military clear explanation. action against Iraq -but The Pew poll of 1,218 only under certain circum­adults was taken Jan. 8-12 stances. and has an error margin of 
For example, the Pew poll plus or minus 3 percentage suggested that support for points. 
FREE DELNERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery.
~ JIC !GI ACCEPTED HERE Must provide credit card information when ordering for delivery. 
Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Only. M-1 
52750 IN 933 326 N. Ironwood 





574-143-1111 574-143-1111 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 

Fresh baked and buttery-topped with .;';' cinnamon sugar. . ­Complete with . -· 
a side of ,4 ··"" 
vanilla ·"" · topping. · 
Mmmm... try some today! 

Friday, January 17, 2003 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. inspectors find chemical warheads in Iraq 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

An inspection team searching bunkers in southern Iraq on Thursday found 11 empty chemical warheads that Iraqi officials had not declared to the United Nations. a U.N. spokesman said. Iraq insisted that it had reported the rockets, which it said were old and never used for chemical weapons. 
A 12th warhead was also found that needed further eval­uation. and samples were taken for chemical testing. said Hiro Ueki, the inspectors' spokesman in Baghdad. 
It was not clear if the discov­ery constituted a "material breach" of the U.N. resolution requiring Iraq to itemize its weapons of mass destruction and their components. White House spokesman Scott McClellan said the Bush admin­istration was "aware of the reports and we look forward to receiving information from the inspectors." McClellan would not comment on the signifi­cance of the find. 
U.S. officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the discovery may not amount to a "smoking gun" unless some sort of chemical agent is also detect­ed. Key questions about the find are whether any chemical weapons were ever loaded into the ordnance, and, if so, when, officials said. Serial numbers on the rockets should tell inspec­tors where and when they were made. 
The United States, which has begun a heavy military buildup in the Persian Gulf, has threat­ened war on Iraq if it is found to be hiding banned weapons programs. The Iraqi govern­ment says it no longer has any chemical, biological or nuclear weapons and submitted a 12,000-page declaration to the United Nations last month that it said proved its case. 
The 122 mm warheads were found in bunkers built in the late 1990s at the Ukhaider Ammunition Storage Area, 75 miles south of Baghdad, Ueki said in a statement. The team examined one of the warheads with X-ray equipment and took away samples for chemical test­ing, the statement added. 
Ueki told The Associated Press the shells were not accounted for in Iraq's declara­tion. "It was a discovery. They were not declared," he said. 
But Lt. Gen. Hossam Mohammed Amin, the chief Iraqi liaison officer to the inspection teams. said they were short-range shells import­ed in 1988 and mentioned in Iraq's report. He expressed "astonishment" over what he and was covered by dust and called "no more than a storm in bird droppings. a teacup." "When these boxes were 


Amin said the inspectors opened, they found 122 mm found the munitions in a sealed rockets with empty warheads. box that had never been opened No chemical or biological war­heads. Just empty rockets which are expired and import­ed in 1988," Amin told reporters. adding similar ord­nance was found by U .N. inspectors in 1997. 
Bush calls for award limits on malpractice lawsuits 
Associated Press 
SCRANTON, Pa. 

President Bush said Thursday his pro­posed nationwide ceilings on medical malpractice awards would drive down health care costs, but critics said he was siding with mismanaged insurance com­panies that pass inflated costs to patients. 
Bush dusted off a proposal he made in July to cap the pain and suffering por­tions of malpractice awards at $250,000. 
Without the limit, Bush said, "excessive jury awards will continue to drive up insurance costs, will put good doctors out of business or run them out of your com­m unity and will hurt communities like Scranton, Pa. That's a fact." 
Legislation he backed last year was approved in the House but was never brought for a vote in the Democratic-led Senate. Now the Republican Party cun­trols both houses of Congress, and for the second time this week Bush revived a proposal that died last year. The other was welfare reform. 
"The problem of those unnecessary costs don't start in the waiting room or the operating room. They're in the court­room,'' Bush said. "Everybody's suing, it seems like. There are too many lawsuits in America, and there are too many law­suits filed against doctors and hospitals without merit." 
Pennsylvania, the state Bush chose for his speech, is important to his re-elec­tion, and he has visited it more than any other -18 times. It is one of 13 states that prohibit capping malpractice awards. 
Pennsylvania is also the state with the highest rate in the nation of doctors who repeatedly commit medical malpractice, according to a report this week by a con­sumer group. 
One out of every 10 doctors in the state has lost or settled at least two malprac­tice lawsuits, according to the study by Public Citizen, an advocacy group based in Washington. 
Moreover, the report showed, half of all the money awarded in Pennsylvania medical malpractice cases were paid on behalf of doctors settling three or more complaints. 
Public Citizen Counsel Jackson Williams said, "If you stop those doctors, you will have eliminated half of all the malpractice payoffs in the state-which presumably would reduce insurance" rates. 

In Pennsylvania. insurance costs for doctors more than doubled last year for thousands of the state's physicians. An estimated 900 doctors have left the state since 2001 to avoid paying malpractice premiums as high as $200,000 annually, said Dr. Edward Dench. a State College anesthesiologist who serves as president of the Pennsylvania Medical Society. 
There were dual political dimensions to Bush's latest trip to a state he lost to Al Gore in 2000. He wants to win Pennsylvania, the fifth-largest trove of electoral votes in presidential elections. And the proposal gave him a new oppor­tunity to strike at a Democrat some in the White House view as a potentially formi­dable 2004 opponent, Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
South Korea readies for nuclear crisis: 
South Korea said Thursday it was preparing for a "worst-case scenario" in North Korea's nuclear standoff with the United States, and a top U.S. envoy warned a resolution of the confrontation would be a "very slow process." The chief U.N. atomic weapons watchdog, meanwhile, attacked the isolated communist country for engaging in "nuclear blackmail." South Korean Defense Minister Lee Jun told a parliamentary hearing there was a "high" possibility North Korea would target South Korea if it builds a nuclear bomb. U.S. offi­cials believe the communist regime already has one or two nuclear bombs. 
Car blast in Colombia kills four people: 
A car bomb exploded outside the attorney general's offices in Medellin on Thursday, killing four people and recalling the dark days of a drug war that turned the city into one of the world's deadliest places. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Professor held in plague investigation: 
The government charged a Texas Tech University professor with lying to investigators Thursday, saying he accidentally destroyed 30 vials of plague bacteria then claimed they had vanished from his laboratory. Dr. Thomas C. Butler, 61, was ordered held without bond on the charge of giving a false statement to a federal agent. The charge carries a penalty of up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
Shuttle launch takes Israeli into space: In the most heavily guarded space shot in NASA history, shuttle Columbia thundered into orbit with Israel's first astronaut Thursday on a scien­tific research mission. Fighter jets patrolled over­head in the moments before the midmorning liftoff. Aboard the shuttle were six U.S. astronauts and Han Ramon, a colonel in Israel's air force and a combat pilot. 

Muslim immigrants get INS extension: 
Immigration authorities are giving male visitors age 16 and older from 18 mostly Muslim countries another chance to register without fear of penalties, officials said Thursday. The decision to provide a grace period, from Jan. 27 to Feb. 7, comes as the Immigration and Naturalization Service expanded the registration program to add men and boys from Indonesia, Egypt. Jordan, Kuwait and Bangladesh. 
Sniper victims' families sue gunmaker: 
Relatives of two Washington. D.C.-area sniper vic­tims on Thursday sued a gun manufacturer and store linked to the Bushmaster XM15 assault rifle used in the deadly attacks. The family members of James "Sonny" Buchanan and Conrad Johnson claim the gunmaker and store showed "gross negli­gence" that caused injuries and death, according to the complaint. The relatives are represented by the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence. 

Friday, January I7, 2003 
page 6 The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS 


Communication blamed in bombing 
Associated Press 
BARKSDALE AIR FORCE 
BASE, La. 
Two U.S. pilots whose bomb killed four Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan last spring didn't know allied troops were there because of a communication breakdown that also kept their airborne commanders in the dark, defense attorneys argued Thursday. 
The Air Force has charged Majs. Harry Schmidt and William Umbach with involun­tary manslaughter, saying the pilots should have known the Canadian troops were conduct­ing live-ammunition exercises that night. 
The military hearing will determine whether the Illinois National Guard pilots should be court-mar­
t i ale d. first shown by
"/ would assume every
Defense Air Force 
attorneys pilot who read [the lawyers have said the orders] knew that Tarnak Wednesday. 
pilots thought was taken
Farm was there. ·· 
they were f r o m 
under fire Schmidt's F-from the Col. Lawrence Stutzrlem 16 and Taliban or al­includes the
court-martial witness 
Qaida when they fired the guided bomb last April that also injured eight soldiers near Kandahar. 
Five minutes after the bomb­ing, Schmidt and his airborne controller, flying in another plane, agreed the military had placed no restrictions on the use of weapons in the area, accord­ing to a videotape of the acci­dent shown by defense lawyers Thursday. 
"There was no [restriction] in that area according to our brief­ing," Schmidt said.The air con­troller agreed, saying: "Bossman concurs." 
Charles Gittins, Schmidt's lawyer, said the exchange showed controllers "had no bet­ter information" about the Canadian exercise than the pilots. 
Earlier, an Air Force comman­
der testified there were orders 
warning allied troops would 
hold exercises in the area. 
Col. Lawrence Stutzriem also 
said the air combat orders U.S. 
C 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
To: 

ALL DRIVERS 
for Service ISocial Action Groups and Community
.-­
Volunteer Services -?:~~­
New whicle request forms must be submitted for the sprin& semester if you plan to schedule transportation through the Center for Social Concerns. Request forms are due the Friday prior to the week of first use. 
. Forms are available at the CSC reception office or can be printed from the CSC web page http://centeiforsocialconcems.nd.edu/. 
. Ifyou did not attend adriver training session given first semester, please contact Transportation Services at 631-0293 or 631-6467 to schedule an appointment for certification. 
pilots were required to read included information that coali­tion ground forces would inter­mittently use live ammunition. 
At the time of the bombing, Stutzriem was with the agency responsible for coalition air operations. He said it was "very clear" to pilots that allies could be performing live-fire maneu­vers on a firing range called Tarnak Farm. · 
"I would assume every pilot who read [the orders] knew that Tarnak Farm was there," he said. 
As for Schmidt's radioed exchanges with the air con• troller, Stutzriem said it did not sound like a pilot under enemy attack. 
"He was rolling in on a bomb run. I didn't consider that a defensive radio call," Stutzriem said. 
The tape, 
pilot's 
announcement 
that he was "rolling in," or dropping sharply to attack the ground troops. 
A military investigation found Schmidt and Umbach, the mis­sion's commander, should not have attacked until they were certain that no allied troops were in the area. Air Force lawyers say the tape showed Schmidt acting rashly. 
The defense has said the Air Force routinely pressures pilots to take amphetamines before missions to prevent fatigue, "go pills" they say can impair judg­ment. The Air Force said use of the pills is voluntary. 
Schmidt is a combat-decorat­ed Navy pilot who transferred to the National Guard in 2000. Umbach is a United Airlines pilot who had served in the Air Force. The pilots face a maxi-1 mum of 64 years in military prison if convicted of all I charges, which include aggra­vated assault and dereliction of I duty. 


.

ATTENTION BUSINESS MAJORS!! 
If you found the material presented during Sophomore Ethics Day interesting, and you'd like to continue discussing how to make a positive difference, you can! 
Three sections of BA 241: Introduction to Business Ethics are still open at 10:40 and 11:45 MWF and at 12:30 TH. Register through IrishLink or visit one of the undergraduate advisors in MCoB room 101. BA 241 is a 1-credit course lasting five weeks. Sections and Call Numbers: 
BA 241 (01) #1223 MWF 10:40-11 :30 Hemphill, D. 1/15-2/17 BA 241 (02) #1438 ~1\VF 11:45-12:35 Edwards, M. 1/15-2/17 BA 241 (03) #2869 TH 12:30-1:45 Klein, T. 1/14-2/13 
This course is designed to give the student an introduction to the central questions and fundamental character of ethics and morality. The course is focused on a discussion of ethical theories which can help guide the student's problem-solving in ethical situations they will encounter in business. Ethical dilemmas faced by business persons will be integrated into the class for purposes of discussion and analysis. 
BA 314 and BA 441 are also offered this semester. Both are 1-credit, five-week courses and have no prerequisites. You may register for one or both of these courses even if you carry a full course load. See an advisor in 101 MCoB to add. 
BA 341: Topics in Business Ethics 
BA 341 (01) #0394  MWF 10:40-11:30  
BA 341 (02) #3660  MWF 11:45-12:35  
BA 341 (03) #1747  TH 12:30-1:45  

BA 441: Business Ethics: Field Project 
BA 441 (01) #1609 H 3:30-4:45 BA 441 (02) #1405 ~13:00-4:15 BA 441 (03) #0949 W 3:00-4:15 


L L_o_cated_,_·n the LaFort_u_ne S_tu_dent Center 
L 
FOOD COURT 

Ralser, W. P. Piskadlo, K. Murphy, P.  2/20-3/27 2/20-3/27 2/19/3-26  
~c~fanus \Varnell, J. Mdvfanus \Varnell, J. Mdvfanus \X'arnell,J.  3/27-4/30 3/24-4/30 3/26-4/30  

DomerDo!lars I 
_J 
O
THE 

Friday, January 17, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch January 16 
DowJones  
8,697.87  •  -25.31  
N4SDAQ  
1,423.75  '  -15.05  
S&P500  
914.60  '  -3.62  
AA1£¥  
834.40  ~  +3.10  
NYSE  
5,165.34  •  -6.11  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
W\SDPQ-100 INDE (cm) -1.12 -0. 30 26. 44 
~j~~ii:r,s.~s~~~~:f:~J.~'~9~!:\(:!:![¥~~~:[!!.!:g~l:i~!::~:~~ 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-4.39 -0.17 3. 70 
i~aiii:iiiii:;i:!iii11:ii~i11i~:~i~~~i@~:i~i:::l:tl~:i::::~:ft~~i:":~i,~:~:gt 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.87 -0.3612.17 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft to declare dividend, split: 
Microsoft Corp. offered its first dividend to shareholders Thursday and reported a boost in quarterly earnings, but its stock value slumped anyway on its lower revenue esti­mates for 2003. The Redmond software giant also announced plans for a two-for-one stock split that will take effect Jan. 27. Microsoft long had opposed calls from some sharehold­ers to use some of its cash hoard -now $43.4 billion -to pay a dividend. But Microsoft's board unanimously decided Thursday to pay a dividend of 8 cents per share after the stock split, chief financial offi­cer John Connors said. 
Venezuela freezes dollar auctions: 
Venezuela's Central Bank suspended its daily dollars auctions Thursday, trying to stop a currency slide as international pressure increased on President Hugo Chavez and the opposition to negotiate an end to a 7-week-old strike. The Central Bank did not give a reason for its decision to suspend the weekly auc­tions, but traders said it would give the insti­tution more discretion to decide who gets to buy dollars. The opposition is demanding Chavez agree to a plebiscite in February on his presidency. Although the referendum would be nonbinding, strike leaders believe Chavez, who was elected in 1998 and re­elected in 2000, would be so embarrassed by its outcome he would step down. 
GM posts record $1B profit in Q4: 
Strong sales and cost-cutting efforts helped General Motors Corp. overcome falling vehicle prices and post fourth-quarter profits that handily beat year-earlier results as well as Wall Street forecasts. The world's largest automaker said Thursday it earned $1 billion, or $1.71 a share, for the October-December period compared with $255 million, or 60 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed to $48.7 billion, its highest total ever for the period, from $46 billion a year ago. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 7 

Parsons named· to head AOL 
• Exec aims to salvage failed 2001 merger 
Auociated Press 
NEW YORK AOL Time Warner Inc. chief executive Dick Parsons was tapped to be the media conglomerate's new chairman Thursday, giving him broadened authority as he tries to turn around a mega­merger gone sour. The board's unanimous decision to have Parsons replace Steve Case, the America Online co­founder who announced last week he was stepping down as chairman, com­pletes a shake-up begun a year ago. It caps a heady rise in power for the quiet-spoken Parsons, who formally took over as CEO just eight months ago, and for the victory of old media over new media in the company's reforma­tion. "This is the final acknowledgment that the AOL-Time Warner combi­nation was a poorly orchestrated merger and 

now the entire new man­agement team that's been give Parsons both jobs executive in May, Parson dinary people in this put in place over last 12 came despite speculation was AOL Time Warner's Company to focus on 
months can move ahead," that the two positions co-chief operating officer. increasing value for our said Mark May. media would be kept separate to He had been named presi­customers and our share­analyst at Kaufman Bros. ensure sufficient oversight dent of Time Warner in holders." "This has been a whole­of the company. But the 199 5, after joining the Investors had pushed for sale shift from AOL peoole company indicated board of directors in 1991. the changes, following a back to Time Warner peo­Thursday that it remains Previously, he was chair­sharp drop in the compa­ple." confident its corporate man and chief executive ny's stock price chiefly 
Parsons' appointment governance measures are officer of Dime Bancorp. caused by problems at the will take effect May 16 at adequate. Thursday's appointment America Online division. the annual shareholders "It's a company that makes him among the Those problems include meeting, the same date needs some healing and most prominent African­shrinking revenues and Case had indicated he they needed somebody American executives in accounting practices cur­would leave the company. who plays well with oth­the country. rently under investigation Case announced plans for ers, and Dick has shown "I am highly gratified by the Justice Department his departure on Sunday, that he does that. He's a that the board shares my and Securities and saying that he felt his con­peacemaker, he's the kind determination to maxi­Exchange Commission. tinuing presence would be of guy that brings people mize AOL Time Warner's AOL Time Warner's a distraction as the com­together and this is a com­tremendous potential," shares have tumbled pany tries to recover from pany that really needs a Parsons said. "As we roughly 80 percent since what has been a terrible group hug," said Jonathan address the challenges the merger was run since the merger. He Gaw, a research manager facing our Company and announced in 2000, and will remain on the compa­at IDC Inc., a technology the industries in which we more than 60 percent ny's board. market research firm. operate, I will work since the deal was com­
The board's· decision to Before becoming chief together with the extraor-pleted in 2001. 

Consumer prices hold, energy up 
wildly from year to year, rose by 10.7 amount, the Labor Department
Associated Press 

percent in 2002, a turnaround from reported. December's showing WASHINGTON the 13 percent drop registered in marked a better reading on inflation 
Consumer prices barely budged in 2001. than the 0.2 percent rise economists December and closed out a year in Still, Thursday's report on the were forecasting. which costs other than energy rose by Consumer Price Index, the govern­But on Wall Street. cautious the smallest amount since 1964. ment's most closely watched inflation investors pulled stocks lower. The 
The generally tame inflation climate gauge, merely confirmed what Dow Jones industrial average Jost 
in 2002 offered some shoppers -Federal Reserve Chairman Alan 25.31 points to close at 8,697.87. especially those buying cars, clothes, Greenspan was saying all last year: For all of 2002, consumer prices computers and airline tickets -some inflation isn't a problem for the econo­rose by 2.4 percent, up from the 1.6 
good deals because prices fell for my. Many companies have limited percent increase in 2001. those items. power to raise prices given the uneven But most of that pickup came from But people paying energy, medical economic recovery, economists said. rising energy costc;, including gasoline, and education expenses. including Consumer prices rose a mere 0.1 which moved higher on tensions in the tuition and books, took a hit in the percent in December from the previ­Middle East and worries about supply 
wallet as those prices rose sharply. ous month, marking the second month disruptions if the United States went Energy prices, which can fluctuate in a row that prices went up by that to war with Iraq. 
page 8 Friday, January 17, 2003
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SOUTH KOREA 

South Korea plans for 'worst-case' nuke scenario 
some young South Koreans port in getting North Korea to Ministry spokesman as saying blackmail," Mohammed 
Associated Press 

believe North Korea would not give up its nuclear weapons late Wednesday that the U.S. ElBaradei told a news confer­
attack South Korea even if it program, Assistant Secretary of offers were "loudmouthed" and ence in Moscow. But ElBaradei 
SEOUL goes to war with the United State James Kelly said in "pie in the sky." appeared optimistic about a 
South Korea said Thursday it States. Beijing on North Korea peaceful end. was preparing for a "worst­Tensions escalated between Thursday lashed out "There are elements of a case scenario" in North Korea's North Korea and the United there was no a g a i n solution to the problem out
"Wea re only awaiting 

nuclear standoff with the States after U.S. diplomats said quick-fix Thursday in a there," he said. United States, and a top U.S. North Korea admitted in solution. General Kim Jong Its broadcast by Elsewhere, diplomatic efforts envoy warned a resolution of October that it had a secret Kelly said order to wipe out the its state-run continued, with U.S., British the confrontation would be a nuclear program. The commu­the interna­Central Radio. and French officials meeting in
enemies.··

"very slow process." nist regime pulled out of the tional com­"Our mili­London. They decided on 
The chief U.N. atomic nuclear nonproliferation treaty munity tary and peo­Wednesday that the IAEA's 35­weapons watchdog, mean­last week after the United backs the Central Radio ple are deter­nation board of governors while, attacked the isolated States suspended oil aid ship­need for a mined to wage should convene as a next step,
North Korean state-run station

communist country for engag­ments. nuclear-free a life-or-death a U.S. official said. ing in "nuclear blackmail." Pyongyang insists its con­Korean fight against Two IAEA inspectors were 
South Korean Defense frontation is with the United Peninsula. U.S. imperial­expelled from North Korea last Minister Lee Jun told a parlia­States, but Lee said South but it might take a while to ists," South Korea's Yonhap month, leaving the world with­mentary hearing there was a Korea could not escape being achieve that. news agency quoted Central out an eye into the secretive "high" possibility North Korea swept into a conflict if the "And we're going to have to Radio as saying. nation's nuclear program. would target South Korea if it standoff spun out of control. talk and work together and "We are only awaiting On Thursday, North Korea's builds a nuclear bomb. U.S. "Our military is preparing for communicate with other people General Kim Jong Il's order to Foreign Minister Paek Nam officials believe the communist the worst-case scenario," he including with North Korea wipe out the enemies," it said. Sun met Maurice Strong, a spe­regime already said. very, very clearly," Kelly said Meanwhile, the head of the cial adviser to U.N. Secretary­has one or two S o u th before leaving Beijing for International Atomic Energy General Kofi Annan, KCNA nuclear bombs. "/ believe a war on the Korea's Singapore. "It's going to be a Agency criti-said. 
"I believe a defense very slow process to make sure cized North Strong trav­
Korean Peninsula would 

war on the chief tends that we achieve this in the right Korea for "North Korea should eled to
be inevitable ifthe

Korean to use way." leveraging Pyongyang on
understand that this is 
Peninsula North ·s nuclear issue hard-line Washington has taken a more atomic Tuesday to would be rhetoric to conciliatory stance toward the weapons in no way to proceed for a assess the
could not be resolved 

inevitable if the emphasize North in recent days, offering an attempt dialogue through nuclear need for for­
peacefully and the

North's his mili­to consider energy, agricultural to resolve its eign food aid.
brinkmanship and 
nuclear issue United States attacks tary' s and other aid to North Korea if security and Meanwhile,
nuclear blackmail." 
could not be readiness the country gives up its nuclear energy con­South Korea
North Korea." 

resolved and his ambitions. cerns. pushed for­peacefully and comments Those offers, however, have "North ward its own
Mohammed EIBaradel 
the United Lee Jun Thursday not satisfied Pyongyang, which K o r e a efforts to
head of the IAEA
States attacks South Korean defense minister did not is pushing for a nonaggression should defuse the North Korea," indicate pact with the United States and understand tension by Lee said. S e o u l appears to be after more iron­that this is setting up 
He made the comment while expects the standoff to lead to clad guarantees of aid. no way to proceed for a dia­Cabinet-level talks with North responding to a question by war. The state-run news agency logue through nuclear Korea in Seoul, beginning lawmakers over reports that Traveling in Asia to seek sup-KCNA quoted a Foreign brinkmanship and nuclear Tuesday. 

TURTLE CR.EEK APARTMENTS 
LIVE WITH US FOR THE BEST OFF CAMPVS LIVING EX~RIENCE EVEi<'! 
~PA~ES AvAIL;\Bfct IN 6LL n.OORPL,\NS 
FOR THE. 1003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR. 
CALL US .A.T 271-8124 OR VISIT US AT W~'W.TUS,)l,ECREEK.ND CON QfT~CE'uTURTLECffEi;KNQ.COM 

Sa.lnr(lay Jan1.u111ul8 
Just buy a hockey ticket for $10 at Lafortune Info Desk and we'll take care of the rest! 
Hit the shops on Michigan Ave. Visit the museums downtown. Chow on some Chicago pizza. Then cheer on the hockey team! 
Bus leaves ND at noon and returns at 1 a,n 

I 
Friday, January 17, 2003 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Israeli astronaut blasts off 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
In the most heavily guarded space shot in NASA history, shuttle Columbia thundered into orbit with Israel's first astronaut Thursday on a sci­entific research mission. 
Fighter jets patrolled over­head in the moments before the midmorning liftoff. Aboard the shuttle were six 
U.S. astronauts and Ilan Ramon, a colonel in Israel's air force and a combat pilot. 
"We had deep, beautiful, blue skies and then with this 
' 
smoke coming in huge bursts, it was very, very moving," said the Israeli ambassador to the United States, Danny Ayalon. "You know, these are our national colors." 
Ayalon noted that Ramon is the son of a Holocaust sur­vivor and has with him a drawing by a 14-year-old Jewish boy who perished at Auschwitz. 
"In two generations, we're moving from the lowest ebb, the darkest point of our histo­ry. to a very great moment of excellence and achievement," the ambassador said. 
It is the first time in three 
CARDINAL CHARTERS
. 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... eO#te ~ ~/ 

•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxur; Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible DIAL TOLL FREE 


1·80.0-348·7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 
'EAAflVlKQ 
SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
Fordetails and application forms1 go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/--sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies• (154 Hurley Building· Ph1-5203) 
application deadline: 3/7/03 
years that a space shuttle is not bound for the internation­al space station or the Hubble Space Telescope. 
Columbia's 16-day mission features more than 80 experi­ments from around the world. A pair of Israeli cameras will measure desert dust in the atmosphere. Also on board: spiders, ants, silkworms, mealworms. carpenter bees, fish embryos and rats. 
About 300 Israelis traveled to Cape Canaveral for the launch along with a number of American Jews, almost all of whom carried Israeli flags. 
The astronauts were sur­rounded by SWAT teams and helicopter patrols as they made their way to the pad. Air Force fighter jets patrolled the 35-mile no-fly zone. Boats were ordered to stay away. 
Many of the security mea­sures had been put in place after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, but were augmented because of fears Ramon would be an inviting target to terrorists. 
The 48-year-old Ramon was among the Israeli pilots who bombed the Iraqi nuclear reactor in 1981, according to a senior Israeli government official. speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The countdown proved uneventful. NASA spokesman Kyle Herring said he was unaware of any credible threats against the shuttle. 
Columbia's flight initially was targeted for 2001 but was repeatedly delayed, most recently by the grounding of the entire space shuttle fleet last summer. 
The shuttle will return to Earth on Feb. 1. NASA said security will be just as heavy for the landing. 


Protesters rail y against war on Iraq 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Demonstrators are mobiliz­ing in Washington and cities across the country for what they consider their last chance to speak as one great multitude against the gathering clouds of an Iraq war. 
The weekend demonstrations coincide with America's mili­tary buildup overseas and a time of remembrance for the nonviolent struggle embodied by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Even as sailors ship out, protesters are packing Washington-bound buses and organizing local marches and vigils from Tampa, Fla.. to San Francisco. 
"We are attacking a poor country that has enough prob­lems," said Al Svitesic, a retired pile driver and World War II veteran who will be rallying in Pittsburgh next week. "It is unjust." 
The largest crowds are expected in the nation's capital, where President Bush and many in Congress are united on the move toward war and protest leaders hope they can draw tens of thousands, at least, to march in dissent. 
"We've been working with protest groups; they've got per­mits for various locations, including marches, so we'll be ready for it," said Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey. "We don't anticipate any problems, although we do anticipate large crowds." 
The organization International Answer planned the national rally Saturday in Washington and one in San Francisco, exhorting war oppo­nents everywhere to "stop the Bush administration from threatening and killing the peo­ple of the world who are not our enemy." 
The focus was on America's 
weapons of mass destruction, 
not the ones inspectors are 
looking for in Iraq in a possible 
prelude to conflict. 
In a prelude to the weekend 
protests, Los Angeles police 
arrested 17 people Thursday 
when they refused police 
orders to stop blocking a side­
walk during a downtown 
demonstration. Scores of pro­
testers shouted "No blood for 
oil." 

The sense that war is close, 
perhaps only weeks away, 
spurred the determination of 
many activists to get to 
Washington. This, despite a 
possible winter storm fallowed 
by a weekend of subfreezing 
temperatures in the capital. 
Gerald Rudolph, director of a 
South Carolina group that sent one busload to the last large Washington rally, in October, said about twice as many peo­ple were going from his area. 
"It's starting to reach visibili­ty," he said of the anti-war movement. "Should we go to war, I think it'll just explode at 
that  point."  He  leads  the  
Carolina  Peace  Resource  
Center.  

Nearly 500 people from Wisconsin signed up for bus travel to Washington. So did several hundred from upstate New York. 
Ambitious weekend rallies are planned in Phoenix, in Portland, Ore., and in Tampa, where protesters plan to gather outside the headquarters of Central Command, the arm of the Pentagon that would direct the Iraq war. In Pittsburgh, activists are hoping to draw several thousand to Jan. 24-26 protests. 
In San Francisco, the Internet-based group MoveOn.org released a TV commercial Thursday that depicts a girl plucking petals from a daisy and shows a nuclear mushroom cloud. The ad, being shown in 12 cities. recreates the ominous "Daisy" campaign commercial of 1964 that President Johnson used against Republican opponent Barry Goldwater. 
In a lighter but perhaps equally eye-popping tactic, pro­testers in the organization Baring Witness said they might take their clothes off and march down San Francisco's Market Street. 
They specialize in naked resistance, having disrobed in various remote locations and forming to spell "peace" and "no war" and to depict the peace symbol. 
Organizers of the national rally invoked King, particularly his "Beyond Vietnam" speech of April 4, 1967, in the leadup to the long weekend marking the civil rights leader's birth­day. 
In that speech, King said the war convinced him he could not speak against the violence coming from the ghettos "with­out having first spoken clearly to the greatest purveyor of vio­lence in the world today -my own government." 
The national rally begins at 11 a.m. on the National Mall in view of Congress. Protesters will march to the Washington Naval Yard and demand the United States give up its most destructive weapons. Participants were invited to dress as weapons inspectors, although the question of what an inspector looks like was left to their imagination. 
Fi~~leu~s Heautb 
Your Local Public House Located in the Heart of Downtown South Bend 

Celebrating the food, drink, music, adance ofthe Seven CelticNation.s Traditional Irish Music Session Hon Nights Boa,d 6i1mes Tues Nights • Open Hit: Wed Nights 
At the Hearth this Weekead ..• 
Friday, Jan 17..•  6:00 pm ­ Jane live with Friends (Folk)  
9:00 pm ­ Talus (Irish Traditional)  
Saturday, Jan 18. ..  8:30 pm ­ Dyed in the Wool (Celtic & Folk)  

121 N. Main St /US Bus JI)• South Bend. IN 46601 • 1574) 232-2853 

Sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Friday, January 17, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Lori Lewalski  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VrnwrorNT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hertler and Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROll.ER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ............................... ......631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................... ...............631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS........ .........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As.sisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions ugarding Obsm.,er policus should be direct­ui to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlty. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obrcrvcr (USPS 599 240) is puhli,hcd Monday ,nrough friJ•y n«pt dudng exam and vacation period,. A ,ubscription ro Th, Ohtervcr is $100 for one acaJcmi<: y,,ar. S5Ho, one rcrnat<r. 
The Oboctv,r i, published at: POSTMASTER 02-4 South Dining Hall Send addras comx:tJOm. to: No1r< Dunc, IN 46556 Th<Ob<crv« 
r.o. BuxQ l'criodi<al posugc paid ., Nocr< Dame Nom: Dom<, IN -16556-077<} and addidonaJ mailing officn. 
Th, Ob,m,cr is• mnnlxr of the Aaocia«d Pros. All reproduction righu an: ,...,.,,,J, 

It's time to speak up about Sharon 
It's time to speak up. Pelican Lake, Wis. Two weeks ago, the University 
Notre Dame freshman Chad Sharon vanished more than announced a $25,000 reward and established an anony­five weeks ago, and the ensuing investigation has baffled mous tip line (574-631-8000). hoping that anyone with authorities, the University, the South Bend information would come forward. But those community and Sharon's own family. The sit­OJhe steps have failed to generate new clues. uation is made even more troubling by the userver This week, with Steve and Jan Sharon on clues that haven't surfaced in the past campus for the first time since their only son month. And that threatens to send to the disappeared, is the time to speak up. On
Editorial

backburner the case that had been the Thursday, the Sharons talked with investiga­
University's and the South Bend police's highest priority. 
It's time for anyone with information about Sharon's dis­appearance to speak up. Sharon was last seen early Dec. 12 at an off-campus party, and within days, campus and city police were cooperating in an investigation. A week into the missing-person case, police found a hospital secu­rity guard who said he talked with a man fitting Sharon's description about two hours after witnesses last placed Sharon at the party. 
But the trail, so far, has ended there. 
In the meantime, authorities continued interviewing Sharon's friends and fellow residents of Fisher Hall, yet uncovered nothing to lead them to the 18-year-old from 

tors and people who know Chad and then attended a special Mass. 
Five weeks ago, the Sharons were thrust into a scenario that every parent fears. Their concern for his safety is compounded by endless wondering about what happened to their son and why. 
Right now, the Sharons -and police -need answers. They need students to fully recount what they know about Sharon's behavior in the weeks before his disappearance. And they need others to come forward with information about what ultimately kept him from coming home all those weeks ago. · 
It's time to speak up. 

While Michael Derocher in his Jan. 15 letter made some valid arguments about racism being a part of the Democratic Party as well as the Republican Party, he was obviously just trying to turn the issue against the Democrats. I would like to point out that Senators Trent Lott and Strom Thurmond are not the only members of the Republican Party that can be called into question. 
Recently President George Bush made his latest round of judicial appointments, including Judge Charles Pickering. Pickering is not only a personal friend of Lott, his past seems to reveal many of the same sentiments to which Lott's comments alluded. When he was a law stu­dent, he wrote an article describing ways that states could modify their laws banning interracial marriages so that they would remain constitutional. 
Perhaps the most disturbing of his actions concerns Daniel Swan, a man convicted of burning a cross on the lawn of an interracial couple in Mississippi. The case went to Pickering for sentencing. According to federal law, Swan's minimum sentence was to be seven years. But Pickering attempted to convince the prosecutors to agree on a shorter sentence. When this failed, he made a call to a Justice Department official to further his case. 

Finally, he told the prosecutors that he would reverse the judgement in the case and grant Swan a new trial if they did not make an agreement. The prosecutors gave in, and Swan was sentenced to a mere 27 months. 
Understandably, any president will appoint judges who share values similar to his own. But there had to be other potential appointees who shared similar conserva­tive views but who were not blatant racists. I find it absolutely outrageous that Bush would support Pickering by appointing him to such an important judi­ciary position -he is essentially condoning the actions of Pickering and others like him. As the President of the United States and the main representative of the Republican Party, Bush has a responsibility to uphold the values of our constitution. By appointing Pickering he has failed in that responsibility. Maybe we are just seeing the real Bush now. 
Nick Shepard freshman St. Edward's Hall Jan. 15 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sarah Nestor Will Puckett Matt Bramanti 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Matt Lozar Chris Federico Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Michelle Otto 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Has Chad Sharon's disappearance made you rethink going off-campus? 

*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 97 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ have a dream. that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color oftheir skin but by the content oftheir character.,, 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights activist 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, January 17, 2003 
page 11 

Let the presidential debates begin 
In today's modern political age, the race for the presidency begins immediately after the last ballot is counted in the November midterm elections. This month, a half-dozen Democrats have announced that they are challenging the president in 2004. This 
week, the president has begun to stray from his war and tax cut themes to weigh in on issues that charge his political base of support. Both political parties know the importance of officially jumping into the fray at this early date. 
Despite the president's popularity ratings hovering at around 58 


percent, Democrats believe that the support is mostly a rallying Gary Caruso call to war and that they can wrestle the White House away from Bush.. In politics, two weeks Capitolis an eternity during which sup­
Comments 

port can be strong, wane and return by election day. With about two years remaining before the 2004 presiden­tial election, candidates have more than an eternity to convince the American public to elect them; they have the political equivalent of the age of God. 
The Democratic Party is not in the state of chaos portrayed by the so-called liberal media. In the last election, only 51 percent of votes were cast for Republican candidates, amounting to a GOP gain of just two Senate seats. 
By not controlling either house of Congress or the White House, Democrats are in a politically advanta­geous position similar to that of 1994 when Newt Gingrich and the Republican Party engineered rea­sons to vote against the status quo. 
At the end of the next 22 months, Republicans must have revived the economy, stabilized tensions throughout the world, prevented further attacks on 
U.S. soil and proven that they have greatly reduced terror organizations that threaten Americans throughout the world. Democrats have an advantage on these issues but cannot expect to be favored by default at the ballot box. 
A Democrat can win the White House if he employs two important strategies. First, he must break the solid Republican lock on 
the South, Mi?west and Mountain states. Secondly, the Democratic challenger must appear uniquely dif­ferent than the stereotypical politician. He must be as likable as Bush, appear better qualified than Bush and make voters question Bush's judgment and character. Anything less gives Bush 
the advantage. ~-~==~ 
Candidate Bush "stole" the 2000 election not in Florida during the counting process but politically in West Virginia, Arkansas and Tennessee. The Bush political advisors, in hopes of peeling away just enough electoral votes to capture the presidency, boldly attacked in states where the Clinton and Gore team had been successful. For a Democrat to win in 2004, half of his strategy must include being as bold in for­mer Bush strongholds. 
Of the currently announced Democrats, only Sen. John Edwards can immediately break one of the Republican electoral locks. The White House's unusually strong press release portraying Edwards as inexperienced is an indication that he is the candidate Bush advisors would least want to oppose next year. Edwards has the potential not only of stripping North Carolina away from the Bush column, but can easily, with a good campaign, win in former Bush states such as Florida, Arkansas, Tennessee and West Virginia. 
With a great campaign and a running mate like Hispanic governor of Nevada Bill Richardson, Edwards could win Nevada, Arizona and force a close contest in Texas, similar to Tennessee in 2000. 
The second half of a successful strategy is more dif­ficult. The Democrat must emerge as a regular guy but not appear to be a partisan. He must make sense to the American voter while captivating his audience with a unique strength and charm. He must be the John McCain of the Democratic Party by being a party loyalist but standing on principle against the party line on various issues. 

Wednesday's edition of the College Tour of Hardball displayed Sen. Joe Biden as one such Democrat. In 15 minutes of exposure on Hardball, before a college audience at the University of Delaware, Biden poked 
fun at himself and confessed that he made mistakes throughout his career, opposed certain 
Democratic Party issues and embraced certain Bush poli­

___, cies while differing on methods to achieve goals. Most importantly, Biden outlined the blueprint for a successful run against Bush. Democrats must connect the dots of the var­ious Bush actions to show a pattern and direction that can be questioned. Biden believes that Bush has tunnel vision when it comes to national security by narrowly defining security that excludes, for example, protecting nuclear power plants and subway sys­tems. He notes that this is the first time in American history during a war situation that a president is calling for tax cuts instead of using money to make Americans feel safer in their local communities. Biden says that too many times Bush demands that other nations support the United States on what matters to us while withholding support and ignoring issues of importance to those allies. For Bush to lose in 2004, the next Democratic nom­inee must do as well as Biden for the next 22 months. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of1973, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at hot­tline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Race is a deadly rhetorical weapon in politics, especially lately. 
In recent weeks, the subject of race and the apparent divide of the two main political parties have been harshly brought to the 
fore with Sen.  Wllllam  
Trent Lott's now  Goodwin  
infamous birthday  
tribute to Sen.  
Strom Thurmond.  Daily Trojan  
The reactions to  
Lott's statements  
revealed the  

depths to which the issue of race has been abused and continues to be abused for political gain in this country. Righteous indignation turned into active propagation of blatant falsehoods. 
Sen. Hillary Clinton went so far as to say all Lott did "was to state publicly what many have stated privately over many years in the back roads and back streets of the South." 
Such wholesale condemnation of the party and its historical record merits examination. Even a cursory check of the historical record and current racial­ly divisive issues reveals a gross mis­representation of cases of discrimina­tion. 
Trent Lott deservedly is politically through. Sen. Robert Byrd's track record, however, is at least equally ill­starred, yet he remains a Democratic leader despite being the only former Ku 
Playing the race card 
Klux Klan member in the Senate. 
Byrd voted against the Civil Rights Act in 1964 and took the floor for 14 hours in the filibuster attempting to derail the act. He is the only senator to have voted against both black Supreme Court nom­inees, Thurgood Marshall and Clarence Thomas. Yet he was the majority leader from 1977 until 1989. 
In another instance of race being used irresponsibly, opposing affirmative action has long been a barometer, in some camps, of racism. Failure to lower the college entrance standards for minorities has been cited as a symptom of pandering to a discriminatory con­stituency. 
The intellectual counterargument, however, states that educational equali­ty begins with elementary school, and topical solutions, such as allowing unprepared students into demanding academic environments, are superficial. 
The historical record would seem to confirm that at least some Republicans are willing to back up that idea with action. In 1970. seven Southern states still had segregated school systems. 
In March 1970, President Richard Nixon announced his resolution to enforce the landmark 1954 Brown v. Board of Education Topeka ruling after the delinquent states ignored a 1969 court order to immediately begin inte­gration. 
Although Nixon's announcement was greeted by Nostradamus-like prophesies of violence, he went ahead. The schools, amazingly, opened without violence. 
More recently, Senate Democrats have been fighting the renomination of Charles Pickering to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Sen. Chuck Schumer said that Pickering "has not built a dis­tinguished record and is probably best known for intervening on behalf of a convicted cross-burner." 
As it turns out, Schumer deliberately misrepresented the truth. blatantly waving the race card in front of a public he knew to be ignorant of the facts of the case. 
Judge Pickering, in United States v. Swan, lowered the sentence of one of three defendants who had burned a cross in the yard of a mixed-race cou­ple. The other two accepted a plea bar­gain, offered by the Clinton Justice Department, that let them off with no prison time, while Swan, the third defendant. refused the deal and was subsequently convicted and sentenced to prison for five to seven years. 
Pickering reduced the sentence on the grounds that it was disproportionate to that of the other defendants, adding that Swan lacked a history of racist crimes. 
This is not unusual for Pickering, who in the past has similarly lowered the sentence of a black man convicted of a first-time drug offense. But Pickering's 

record in the community is even more telling. 
As was noted in a recent Wall Street Journal editorial, "Pickering sent his children to the newly integrated Mississippi public schools ... [and] aided the FBI in prosecutions of KKK mem­bers." He lost re-election to the bench as a result but "was elected in 1971 to the state Senate with the support of two-thirds of the Africa11-American vot­ers in his district." 
Former Democratic Mississippi Govovernor William Winter has charac­terized Pickering as "one of this state's most dedicated and effective voices for breaking down racial barriers." 
Most would see Pickering's record as sympathetic to civil rights, if not out­standingly proactive for the causes of African-Americans. 
The divisive and false cries of all­encompassing racism in the last few months undermine the advances made in this country for all minorities and reveal the underlying avarice for politi­cal power that motivates all too many in the political realm. 
This column first appeared Jan. 15 in The Daily Trojan. the daily newspaper ofthe University ofSouthern California. It appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
---· 
THE OBSERVER 

I, 
I 
I 

page 12 Friday, January 17, 2003 
• 

in o 


George Gipp, one of the best players to grace the college fo 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"Win one for the Gipper." We've all heard it. Some of us have said it. But do we really know the story behind Notre Dame's one and only George Gipp? 
Gipp played for the Notre Dame Football team from 1917 until his death in 1920. He played under Knute Rockne and also played centerfield for the Notre Dame baseball team and later the Chicago Cubs. 
Gipp grew up in Laurium, Mich. Although he never played high school football hut was an avid participant in track, hockey, sandlot football and organized baseball. He initially went to Notre Dame to be a baseball player. 
Rockne discovered Gipp while he was goofing around with his friends, drop kicking footballs 70 yards. Rockne encouraged Gipp to play football as well as baseball and he grew to be one of Rockne's favorite players. 
Gipp had the physique of a star ath­lete. He was 6-foot-2 and weighed 185 pounds, which Rockne described as "all bone and muscle." 
Gipp could run the 100 in 10.2 sec­onds in full football pads. He ran for 2,341 yards and had 21 touchdowns in his career. He threw for 1,789 yards 

I 
and eight scores, punted 96 times for

I'
[' 
I 3,690 yards, returned 16 punts for 217 yards, returned 22 kickoffs for 454, 

Few people realize that in 1935, Gipp's hometown of Laurium, Mich., located in the Upper Peninsula dedicated an impressive 15 fo
picked off five passes and kicked 27 PATs, which finished his career with by a park in George's memory. 156 points. As a defensive back, he never allowed a completed pass. ever seen on a football field." rushing yards lasted as a Notre Dame one of the greatest all-around players to 
Legendary sportswriter Grantland Gipp was Notre Dame's first All­record until 1978 when Jerome Heavens ever play college football as a runner, Rice said, "His kicking and ball carrying American, named by Walter Camp, two surpassed it. passer, defensive back, punter, kicker was about as fine as anything I have weeks before his death and his 2,341 To this day, Gipp is considered to be and kick returner. 
"I felt the thrill that comes to every coach when he knows it is his fate and his responsibility to handle unusual greatness...the perfect performer who comes rarely more than once in a gen· eration," Rockne said. "Gipp was one of the greatest. His kind comes once in every college generation." 

Gipp was respected by not only his I coach, but his fellow teammates as well.i "George Gipp was the greatest athlete I have ever known. He will be forever be remembered as a friend, a student,l an athlete and a gentleman, for to know 
I him was to love him," said Frank Coughlin, captain of the 1920 Notre Dame football team. 
The Irish had a record of 27-2-3 in Gipp's four years and they were 23-2-2 when he played. They went 19-0-1 in his final 20 games. In Gipp's final two years, the Irish were undefeated and declared Champions of the West. 
Gipp's season appeared to end when he injured his shoulder in a game ver­sus Indiana in the 1920 season. Rockne planned to withhold him from the game the following weekend on Nov. 20, 1920, against Northwestern, but because he became such a central fig­ure of the Notre Dame team, the fans all cried "We want Gipp! We want Gipp!" throughout the entire game. 
Toward the end of the game Rockne 




THE OBSERVER 



page 13 

>otball field, still remains in the heart of Notre Dame fans. 

After the game Gipp was giving punt­ing lessons and he contracted strep throat that led to a throat infection and pneumonia. 
Gipp was confined to a hospital bed at the Saint Joseph Hospital in South Bend. Rockne visited him the night of Dec. 13, 
1920, just hours before he died at the 
age of 25. During that visit, Rockne 
made Gipp a promise for a future 
Notre Dame football team that would 
need his help. 
Then Gipp uttered the immortal 
words that now hang on a plaque in 
the Irish locker room. 
''I've got to go, Rock. It's all right. I'm not afraid. Some time, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Rock. But I'll know about it, and I'll be happy," Gipp told to Rockne. 
Rockne did not have use those words 
until eight years later, against Army. 
The 1928 team was plagued with injuries and already had two losses under its belt. They had four wins, but Army was undefeated with six straight wins. Rockne felt that if the Irish could prevail against Army, then they may avoid a losing record. 
Rockne felt confident that he could 
rile the boys' emotions with the story of 
Gipp, and he prayed that their eager­
ness and passion could prevail. 
After the pre game warm-ups, he brought the team into the locker room and began to tell the story of Gipp, the Notre Dame Player who had died dur­ing his senior season, eight years ago. 
He repeated Gipp's wish to the boys and said, "The day before he died, George Gipp asked me to wait until the situation seemed hopeless. then ask a Notre Dame team to go out and beat Army for him. This is the day and you are the team." 
Line coach Ed Healey recalled, "There was no one in the room that wasn't crying. There was a moment of silence, and then all of a sudden those players ran out of the dressing room and almost tore the hinges off the door. There were all ready to kill someone." 
Notre Dame fell behind 6-0 in the third period. When Jack Chevigny tied 


.......... 4 ·I-~. ,.. 
,-t: -:I<. 
,;· •.; 

Photo courtesy of www.corbis.com Ronald Reagan plays George Gipp In the movie "Knute Rockne-All Amerlcan,n where Rockne's admiration for Gipp can be seen throughout the movie. 
the score at 6-6 with a one yard plunge. he picked himself up in the end zone and shouted "That's one for the Gipper!" 
On Notre Dame's next scoring drive, left halfback Butch Niemiec took the ball, looked downfield and threw a wob­bly pass to Johnny O'Brien, a hurdler for the track team. O'Brien caught the pass and ran the ball from the 10-yard line past two tacklers and dove into the end zone for the winning touchdown. 
When O'Brien scored, Chevigny yelled "That's one for the Gipper too!" 
After scoring the two touchdowns the Irish then held off a last-chance drive by the Cadets. 
Quarteback Frank Carideo said of Rockne, "You could see a great. big smile on his face. He was happy when things created during the week were used to perfection in the ballgame." 
Notre Dame beat Army that day in Yankee Stadium 12-6. 
Gipp was not only an inspiration to his teammates, but he impacted the Notre Dame teams in years to follow. He was a vision that Rockne used to create in his players minds about the true meaning of an exceptional player. 

"He was a natural athlete. And he pos­sessed the three most important quali­ties needed to attain greatness: the qualities of the body, mind and spirit. He had what no coach or system can teach: football intuition," Rockne said of Gipp. 
Ronald Reagan portrayed Gipp in the 1940 movie "Knute Rockne-All American" which opened in South Bend. He was also inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1951. 
Although there are no recorded inter­views with Gipp directly, and very few photographs or films exist, he has left his mark on both Notre Dame and all those who have heard his story. 
The story is heartwarming and will last forever, and whenever people are in need of inspiration, they will always be told to "Go out and win one for the Gipper!" 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu 


page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 17, 2003 
NBA 

Jordan scores 20 in 1st period to lead Wizards victory 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Michael Jordan provided the spectacular start. A trio of young teammates did the rest. 
Jordan scored 28 of his 32 points in the first half, and the Washington Wizards pulled away in the fourth quarter to beat the Orlando Magic 108-93. 
The Wizards beat the Magic for the first time in three meet­ings this season in a game between two .500 teams expect­ed to battle for playoff position in April. Washington also recov­ered from its worst game of the season, an 84-75 home loss to undermanned Toronto on Tuesday. 
Tracy McGrady scored 31 points for the Magic, who over­came a 16-point first-half deficit but fell apart with just one field goal in the first 4:59 of the final period. 
Larry Hughes, Brendan Haywood and Kwame Brown keyed the Wizards' stretch run, scoring 23 of Washington's 34 fourth-quarter points. 
Hughes scored nine of his 22 points in the fourth. Haywood had five of his season-high 16 points, and Brown scored all of his nine points in the final peri­od. 
Jordan was 12-for-25 from the field, but just 2-for-7 in the sec­ond half. He is 5-for-19 in the second halves of his last two games. He did have five of his eight assists in the fourth quar­ter. 
The Wizards played their sec­ond game without leading scorer Jerry Stackhouse, who has a pulled left groin. 
The Magic have lost four of their last five. 
Jordan, seemingly to deter­mined to compensate for his lumbering second-half perfor­mance on Tuesday, came out of the blocks like a one-man show. He scored 20 points on 7-for-11 shooting in the first quarter, capping the period with a pair of free throws after stealing the ball from Darrell Armstrong. 
The Wizards committed only one turnover in the period and led 38-22 on 62 percent shoot­ing. 
The Magic started to come back while Jordan rested at the start of the second quarter, with McGrady leading an 11-2 run. McGrady later made one of two free throws to cut the lead to two. 
The halftime scores: Wizards over Magic 55-49, and Jordan over McGrady 28-16. Jordan also had two assists, but he would have had more if his post players could catch his deft pass­es out of double teams in the paint. 
The Magic opened the second half with a 9-3 run to tie the game and trailed 74-71 going into the fourth. But McGrady and Co. went cold, and Haywood's three-point play with 
9:45 to go gave the Wizards a double-digit lead they never relinquished. 



NHL 

Islanders avenge loss to Blues with 3-2 overtime win 
tage in the third period. Sacco played well enough in Ottawa 3, Anaheim 1 time in seven games in place of 
Associated Prcu 

Alexei Yashin and Kenny six games (four goals, three Martin Prusek came within Patrick Lalime. who currently
Jonsson also scored for the assists) with the Philadelphia 5:41 of recording Ottawa's has a 180-minute shutout 
ST. LOUIS Islanders against Brent Phantoms of the AHL, to be fourth straight shutout and streak after posting consecu­
Oleg Kvasha scored on a Johnson, who rebounded from signed for the rest of the NHL Marian Hossa scored his 29th tive shutouts in Edmonton and backhander with 3:01 to go in a 5-0 loss at New Jersey on season. and 30th goals to lead the Calgary, and against Tampaovertime, and the New York Wednesday night. Handzus flipped in a wrist Senators to a victory over the Bay.Islanders rebounding from a The Blues fell to 9-1-1-2 shot from the slot with 4:09 Anaheim Mighty Ducks. The 27-year-old Czech rookie shutout loss 24 hours earlier to against Eastern Conference left tomake it 3-1, and Chris Prusek stopped 23 of 24 improved to 8-0-0 in eightbeat the St. Louis Blues 3-2 opponents. Therien scored an empty-net shots, extending Ottawa's starts this season. Thursday night. goal with 13 seconds left. team-record shutout streak to 
The Islanders had lost twice Philadelphia 4, Montreal 1 Philadelphia's Jim 244 minutes, 47 seconds Minnesota 5, Vancouver 2 in overtime in their previous Joe Sacco wasted little time Vandermeer scored his first before allowing Stanislav Pascal Dupuis recorded the four games. Kvasha broke in in making an impact with the career goal late in the second Chistov's power-play goal with first two-goal game of his on Brent Johnson on the win­Philadelphia Flyers. period to tie the game at 1. less than six minutes remain­career and Marian Gaborik ner, converting New York's Sacco, playing in his first The Flyers, who had their ing. had a goal and three assists to only shot of the extra period game with Philadelphia, scored six-game winning streak Hossa, who was named to lead the Minnesota Wild to a for his fifth goal and second in the tiebreaker early in the snapped by a loss to Atlanta on the Eastern Conference All­victory over the Vancouver three games. third period to help the Flyers Tuesday, outshot Montreal 41-Star team during the game, Canucks. 
Pavol Demitra forced over­beat the Montreal Canadiens. 17 and only sharp goaltending scored his 12th power-play Dupuis' second goal came time when he scored with 3:51 Sacco threw the puck toward by Jeff Hackett kept the goal of the season in the first with 8:33 left in the game after to go in regulation off a goalie­the front of the net. Michal Canadiens close. period and added his second of Trent Klatt had pulled the freezing setup from Al Handzus spun around, shot Philadelphia captain Keith the game 4:27 into the third. Canucks to 3-2. Dupuis took a Macinnis as the Blues rallied between his legs and hit the Primeau said that the Flyers' Daniel Alfredsson scored into nice pass from Gaborik on a from a two-goal deficit to sal­post. Sacco then skated in and new-found depth with Sacco an empty net as Ottawa two-on-one break to beat Dan vage a point. hammered home the rebound and Vandermeer proved the increased its league-leading Cloutier and give Minnesota a 
Cory Stillman also scored for to give the Flyers a 2-1 lead at difference. points total to 64 in 45 games 4-2 lead. the Blues, who struggled most 3:04 of the final period. It was Richard Zednik scored the (29-10-5-1). The Senators, who Gaborik broke his seven­of the night after returning his first goal since March 30, only goal for the Canadiens. have won four straight, are 24-game goalless streak with an from a 3-1-0-1 road trip. St. 2001, when he was playing for who have won just twice in 4-4-1 since Nov. 12. empty-net goal with 1:58 to Louis had a 12-4 shots advan-the Washington Capitals. their last 12 games. Prusek started for the first play. 



The Observe~ accepts dassifie~s every business day_ from _8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ~t the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dinmg Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds 15 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righl to edit
·CLASSIFIEDS 

,, 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Ii Beautiful Condo in Premier area I'm glad to see the University 
i values academics over athletics in Extra Large 1 Bedroom, Jacuzzi scheduling the biggest womens

i FOR SALE FOR RENT LOST AND FOUND PERSONAL 
Tub, Large Deck and Pool bball game of the year at 2 p.m. 
1989 Toyota Corolla 4DR, 5 Speed Castle Point room for rent available Blue Columbia book bag lost in These small classifieds seem to Down with the woodwind and I am Own for Less than Rent, 1 O min for female roommate (Sp03 South Dining Hall Wednesday night take longer than the big classifieds totally cool and happy for the free 148 K, Runs good, $1,300 from Campus, 59K Semester), apt fully furnished. milk honesty If found, call Sheila at The first night of what is going to be ; Call 277-3189 574.299-4997 Please call 243-4537 if interested. 284-4179 many late nights has been normal -the girl that Soukup hangs out with 
l: 
l 
,1)
', I 
1/ ---~~ 

Friday, January I 7, 2003 

around the dial 
FRIDAY NBA BASKETBALL Bucks at Sixers 7 p.m., ESPN2 Bulls at Hornets 8:30 p.m., FOXCH Lakers at Rockets 9:30 p.m., ESPN 

SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL NOTRE DAME at Kentucky 2 p.m., CBS Illinois (Chicago) at Detroit 12 p.m., ESPN2 Syracuse at Pittsburgh 12 p.m., ESPN Michigan St. at Minnesota 2 p.m., ESPN2 Illinois at Indiana 4 p.m., CBS Connecticut at North Carolina 5 p.m., ESPN Xavier at Massachusetts 6 p.m., ESPN2 
SUNDAY 
NFL PLAYOFFS Bucs at Eagles 2 p.m., FOX Titans at Raiders 6:30 p.m., CBS 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


great ambassador to the Selig had planned to thing new. 
Associated Press 

game of baseball with meet with the members of "It's between the com­what he accomplished on the Hall on Friday but missioner and Pete," he
NEW YORK 

the field," Carter said postponed it last month. said. "I really don't have
Baseball's newest Hall of Thursday. "His 4,256 hits He would not give a an opinion on it. We don'tFamers are content to let will forever be in the Hall timetable for the resched­put people on the eligibleBud Selig make the call on of Fame. The issue of rein­uled meeting, and it list. We don't elect people.

Pete Rose's reinstatement. 

statement -I'm glad I appears increasingly We induct and enshrineThe commissioner is 
don't have to be a part of unlikely it will happen them."
waiting to schedule a 

it. To me, Pete is a Hall of before the start of spring Rose agreed to a perma­meeting with the 60 living Farner because of the training in mid-February. nent ban from baseball inHall of Famers to discuss great career he had. End "I asked them to put that August 1989 after an
whether Rose should be 

off for a little bit," he said investigation of his gam­allowed back into the of story." 
At a news conference from the owners' meetings bling. Because of the ban,game following his ban for 
gambling. introducing baseball's in Scottsdale, Ariz. •·we he cannot appear on the 
Both Eddie Murray and newest Hall of Famers, will have that meeting at Hall of Fame ballot. Gary Carter expressed Murray also tried to stay some appropriate point." After years of saying he admiration for baseball's away from the issue. Hall president Dale saw no reason to change career hits leader -but "His glove, bats and uni­Petroskey, who was the ban. Selig allowed 
they don't want to be the form are already there. briefed by Selig on the chief operating office Bob ones to make the decision. He's not forgotten," Rose negotiations last DuPuy to negotiate with "No question Pete is a Murray said. month, hasn't heard any-Rose's agent. 
IN BRIEF 

Six international players Caron Butler, Phoenix's Amare Saunders, who will act as managing voted to NBA rookie game Stoudemire and Memphis' Drew partner. Gooden. "Roger and I have discussed this
Yao Ming of the Houston Rockets The second-year team includes for a while, and all the pieces just

and Pau Gasol of the Memphis 

Gasol, last season's Rookie of the came together. We're not naiveGrizzlies head a list of 18 players Year, Kirilenko, and Parker, as well going into this thing. We recognize it selected to play in the NBA Rookie as Jason Richardson, Troy Murphy will be a real challenge," AikmanChallenge game. 
and Gilbert Arenas, all of Golden said in a telephone interview
Yao, the No. 1 pick in June's NBA State, Chicago's Tyson Chandler. Thursday with The Associated Press.

draft, might have to pass up the game. He is the leading vote-getter New Jersey's Richard Jefferson and So far, Aikman said, the team has 
Jamaal Tinsley of Indiana. no shop, no equipment, no employ­for the Western Conference centers Richardson was the MVP of last ees other than the three owners. noin the latest All-Star balloting, and 
year's game when the rookies driver and no sponsor. The latterany player selected for that game 
defeated the sophomores 103-97. will be a priority.
will not play in the Rookie Challenge. 

"For Roger and me, our involve­A record six international players Aikman and Staubach to ment will, hopefully, be in sponsor­were chosen for the rookie game to 
enter NASCAR as owners ship." he said.
be played Saturday, Feb. 8 at Atlanta Troy Aikman and Roger Staubach "Maybe we can bring some things

as part of the league's All-Star Weekend. The others are Memphis' quarterbacked the same NFL team. to a company that others can't. 
Now they're part owners of the same We're not in it for the sake of being Gordan Giricek (Croatia). Denver's team -planning to enter a car in in it," Aikman added. "We'll be upNene Hilario (Brazil), Utah's Andrei NASCAR's Winston Cup Series in and running in 2004 but we knowKirilenko (Russia) and San Antonio's 2004. we've got a lot of work ahead." 
Tony Parker (France). 

The former Dallas Cowboys quar­The team will be headquartered inGiricek, Hilario and Yao are on the terbacks are partners in Hall of Dallas while maintaining a race shoprookie team roster with Chicago's Fame Racing, which will be directed in Charlotte, N.C., where most of the
Jay Williams, Cleveland's Carlos 

by former Trans-Am driver Bill Winston Cup teams are based.
Boozer and DeJuan Wagner, Miami's 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 17, 2003 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Owners unanimously approve All-Star game change 
. Winner now gets World Series home -field advantage 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Baseball owners unanimously approved commissioner Bud Selig's proposal to have the league that wins the All-Star Game get home-field advantage in the World Series. 
Selig came up with the plan 
following last year's All-Star 
Game, which ended in a 7-7, 11-inning tie when both leagues ran out of pitchers. 
"This energizes it. This gives them something to really play for," Selig said. "People pay a lot of money to see that game. They deserve to see the same intensity they see all year long." 
Management lawyers will now ask the players' association to approve the change. Union head Donald Fehr said before Thursday's 30-0 vote that play­ers were not yet sure of their stance. 
In recent years, as the differ­ences between the American 
NFL 
Jags hire Del Rio as their new head coach 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
The Jacksonville Jaguars hired Carolina Panthers defensive coordinator Jack Del Rio as their head coach. 
Jaguars spokesman Dan Edwards confirmed the job had been offered and accepted. However, contract details haven't been fully worked out. 
Del Rio, 39, is a former NFL linebacker. He will be intro­duced at a news conference Friday. 
Sports Illustrated's Don Banks reports Phil Savage, Baltimore's college scouting director, is scheduled to fly to Jacksonville on Thursday afternoon for an evening interview with Weaver for the Jaguars' personnel exec­utive opening. He first inter­viewed with Weaver earlier this week. 
Del Rio and Savage worked together in Baltimore until last season. Del Rio was the Ravens linebackers coach from 1999­2001, during which time Baltimore's defense led the way to the team's Super Bowl season of 2000. 
In Del Rio's single season as coordinator for the Panthers, he helped them improve from 31st in the league to second in defense. 
His signature moment came on opening day, when he ran onto the field and got in the mid­dle of a celebratory pileup with the players during their 10-7 vic­tory against Baltimore. 
The ND Department of Music Presents A Graduate Recital 
Megan Walsh, piano 
Performing works by Beethoven, Chopin, Prokofiev, Moszkowski, and Nikolay Tcherepnin 

r: 
Saturday, January 18, 2003

if 
2:00 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum

ii 
I, 
Free and open to the public 

f 
I, 
)• 
Ii I, 
I 
II 
1, 
Ii 


I' 
Ii 
NOTRE DAME 

I 
STUDENT

.
-
I 
I 
!, 
FILM

I 
Ii 
FESTIVAL 

11 
I; 
'2 0 0 3 

~ 
I 
so.an ~ll please c•t t.ba !#@%! 
boom mic out ft! t11., fre.mef • 
HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM 
7:30 &. 9:45 P.M. S4.00 ADMISSION THUR.FRI.SAT&MON JANUARY 23, 24, 25 & 27 TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT or FILM. TELEVISION. AND THEATRE www.nd.edu/.ftt/studentfilms.shtml 
and National leagues lessened because of increased player mobility and interleague play, many players have treated the All-Star Game as a show rather than a game. 
Since the start of the World Series in 1903, home field has alternated between the leagues. 
The change is strongly backed by Fox, which holds baseball's national television rights. It also needs approval of the players' association. 
"We've been discussing it with players," Fehr said Wednesday. "We know thev're interested in it, and we'll get back to them." 

Some veteran players are against it, including New York Metspitcher Tom Glavine, the NL player representative. 
"It's not something I'm in favor of," he told The New York Times. "I would find it hard to believe that most players would want the outcome of the All­Star Game to determine home­field advantage for the World Series." 
A management official who had spoken with the union said that while the change was likely to become an issue between the sides, the union told manage­ment it was still unclear what position it would adopt. 
As the two-day meeting began Wednesday, the committee on the future of the Montreal Expos met. Baltimore Orioles owner Peter Angelos, who is not on the committee, said he remains opposed to a move to the Washington area. 
Downtown Washington and Northern Virginia are among the areas that have groups ready to bid for the Expos, who were bought last year by the other 29 major league teams. 



AslowAs 


It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 
\. ·­


______,....,,.. >,~~--­

i --.-· . ,.._ ....~~­
\....._~, 

'6J 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 

"Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 5.50%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to charige without notice. Certain reslncllons may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


Friday, January 17, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

MENS SWIMMING 
Busy weekend ahead for Irish 
By LISA REIJUIA Sports Writer 
While many students are struggling to readjust to the cold temperatures in South Bend, Notre Dame's mens swimming and diving team might be having a harder time than most. The Irish swimmers were in sunny Acapulco, Mexico, for a training camp in the beginning ofJanuary. 
The trip provided the Irish a chance to gain renewed enthu­siasm and focus while training in a different environment. 
"It was nice to get away for awhile," freshman Tyler Grenda said. "We had a lot of fun and had the chance to really work together as a team." 
The Irish (5-3) have not com­peted since their Dec. 7 victory in the Notre Dame Invitational. The team will be back in action and on the road this weekend. 
The first stop for Notre Dame will be the University of Pennsylvania (1-3) on Friday. The Irish face the Quakers in Philadelphia, where the home team won their first meet Jan.11 against Army. 
The Irish will stay in Philadelphia and compete against Big East rivals Villanova and Pittsburgh Saturday at Villanova. Like Notre Dame, Villanova is com­ing off its own 10-day training camp in Puerto Rico. 
The 19th-ranked Panthers. last year's conference champi­on, looks to be the toughest challenge for the Irish in the upcoming weekend. 
The Panthers are 3-3 on the season, with losses to No. 14 Purdue, No. 17 Harvard. and previously ranked Washington. They won their Big East open­er. easily defeating West Virginia 185-58. 
Pittsburgh finds its greatest strength in the relay events, particularly the 200 freestyle. Like their counterparts, the Irish relay teams have also been performing well all sea• son, which could result in some very competitive races. 
"Pitt is a strong team, and it will be a good taste of what we have to do to get ready [for the Big East championships]." Grenda said. "We're ready to race again and swim hard two days in a row." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
Mens 
continued from page 24 

recruiting. More importantly, he emerged as one of the most vocal players in the Irish locker room and garnered respect from teammates he earned years ago. 
"Our guys have the utmost respect for Matt because they've seen how consistent a personali­ty, a player and person he is," Brey said. "So when he says things, they really listen." 
Now, Carroll has evolved from a pure shooter into a multi­dimensional weapon, capable of driving through the lane or hit­ting 3•pointers at will. After his team lost to the Irish Tuesday, Rutgers coach Gary Waters was convinced that had Carroll shot more in Notre Dame's tourna­ment loss to Duke last season, the Irish would have won easily. 
The Irish may count on Carroll more than ever in Lexington. In Notre Dame's two losses this season to Creighton and Pittsburgh, Carroll averaged 
25.5 points and played a pivotal role. 
But Brey emphasized after Tuesday's win the Irish have to trust each other on offense. And Carroll, for his part, said Notre Dame's success is often directly related to how well Chris Thomas plays. 
Against the deep Wildcats, the Irish perimeter will have to play exceptionally well. As the Irish continue to search for an inside presence -Jordan Cornette has shown the most consistency among Notre Dame's true big men -Carroll and the rest of the Irish perimeter will have to contend with guard Keith Bogans, who averages over 17 points a game. 
The Irish in general have proven much so far this season. What they haven't shown is their ability to win in a tough road environment. 
But Carroll remains convinced the Irish have learned from every mistake this season. Saturday, they get a chance to win at Rupp Arena, where Notre Dame hasn't won in its last seven trips. 
"Creighton, we learned from that one and went on a winning streak. Pitt was tough, but we learned," Carroll said. "Now I think we're ready to go, it's going to be a tough game, it's going to be a hard place to play. 
"But if we play our game, we're going to win." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

(122-118) but lost to Alma (145­93). Coach Greg Petcoff remains cautious of the two squads while realizing the meet's importance. 
"This weekend, we may see some good teams," Petcoff said. "We would like to swim well. We are expecting to swim well. And we need to swim well." 
This will be the final home meet for Herrington and Smith. The two have been co-captains for two years. leading their teammates both in and out of the water. Herrington was cho­sen as co-captain despite being out of the country at the time of balloting. 

"When Lane was traveling abroad. the team still voted her captain," Petcoff said...I think that says what this team thinks about her." 
Smith is the only current swimmer to have competed for her entire four years at Saint Mary's. Having found the experi­ence enjoyable. she is ready to move on but will miss Herrington. 
"It's been a really long but fun four years. It's been a good experience overall, but I'm just ready to finish," Smith said. 'Tll miss [Lane] a lot. I love swim­ming with her. She's great. I couldn't ask for a better co•cap­
t . .. 
am. Petcoff is sad to see his cap­tains on the verge ofleaving. 
"They leave huge, huge holes to fill," Petcoff said. "It will be tough to set foot on the deck next year and not see them." 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 17, 2003 
HOCKEY 
Irish look to muzzle Bulldogs in Chicago 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
Even though Notre Dame only plays one game of this week­end's series against Yale at the Joyce Center, both games should have a home ice feel for the Irish. 
Following a matchup Friday night at home, the Irish travel to Chicago's Allstate Arena to play the second of a two-game series against the Bulldogs. 
Coach Dave Poulin believes that the atmosphere at that game will be an advantage for the Irish. 
"You're playing in a big build­ing. and it's a huge alumni cen­ter for us," he said. "[Chicago] has become a really good recruiting area for our team." 
This year's roster has five players who are from the Chicago area. Senior team cap­tain and defenseman Evan Nielsen, senior goaltender Tony Zasowski, senior forward Michael Chin. junior defenseman Brett Lebda and sophomore defenseman Joe Zurenko will all be playing in front of friends and family at Saturday's game. 
The Irish connection to Chicago doesn't stop there, how­ever. Junior defenseman T.J. Mathieson, sophomore forward Cory McLean and freshman defenseman Chris Trick all played junior hockey in Chicago before coming to Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame (9-9-4, 7-8-1 
CCHA) is coming off of an emo­
leader Ferris State last Saturday 
and will be looking to continue 
that effort against non-confer­ence foe Yale (8-8-0). 
The Irish last met the Bulldogs during the 2000-01 season, with Notre Dame visiting New Haven and coming away with a 4-3 win. That win was the first ever for the Irish against Yale, who hold a 3-1-0 record in the all­time series. 
This year's Bulldogs have an explosive offense that averages over four goals a game and are led by a trio of talented forwards in Evan Wax, Ryan Steeves and Christopher Higgins. 
Sophomore Peter Cohen usual­ly mans the net for the Bulldogs. Through 14 games, he owns a 
3.78 goals against average and a .865 save percentage. 
With an offense that scores about four goals a game and a goaltender that gives up about four, it's no surprise that Yale sports a .500 winning percent­age. Even so, Poulin believes the Bulldogs are better than their mediocre record. 
"We're looking to play a team with a lot of skill and looking for a win to be the engine that dri­ves us through the final stretch [of the season]," he said. "We want to play well because it sets a precedent." 
Following the Yale series, the Irish play out the remainder of their schedule with twelve straight conference games. 
Currently, the Irish are tied for sixth place in the CCHA with 15 points. The conference is so close, however, that Notre Dame is only four points out of second place. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
D1RECTFROH OFF-BROADWAY. THE ACCLAIMED HITCONEDY 

Washing1:on Hall 



ANDREW KENNA/The Observer 

lrlsh forward Yan Stastny maneuvers with the puck In a match against Bowling Green earlier this season. The Irish play Yale at home Friday and at Chicago's Allstate Arena Saturday. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles putting records aside 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
Numbers can be a definitive factor in predicting the out­come of some sporting events. A winning record is naturally favored over a losing one. 
However, for a trained and prepared Saint Mary's basket­ball team, the odds are less of a worry. 
The Belles (5-9, 1-2 in the MIAA) will travel to Michigan Saturday to face the Britons (9-5, 2-1) of Albion College. The matchup will be a game for some and a chance at revenge for others. 
Veteran members of Saint Mary's basketball still have 

the memory of a crushing 61­41 loss at Albion last season. The Belles were defeated in nearly every aspect of the game. They were out-rebound­ed 40-27 and that is also a weakness of this year's team as well. 
"We've worked a lot on rebounding in practice this week," guard Bridget Boyce said. "A trouble point for us has been getting to the shooter and applying the pressure and we're working to fix that." 
The Belles may have had trouble on the road last season but pulled out a 53-44 victory over the Britons at home that same year. Despite the ulti­mate victory, the Belles were outscored 32-26 in the first half. Having a strong start will be a key for the Belles on the road. 
Saint Mary's defense will have a fot on their plate with Albion guard Sarah Caskey, who averages 12.2 points per game. 
The Belles boast their own offensive weapon in sopho­more forward Emily Creachbaum who currently outshines Caskey with 13. 7 points per game. 
A conference win by the Belles is crucial as they are currently seventh in the eight­team MIAA conference. 
Contact Trey Williams at Wil1iams.3 l 7@nd.edu 

Want to give children who have a parent with cancer a week of fun & smiles? 
Volunteer to be a counselor at 

comP Keserr, 
Bringing magic to families coping INi th cancer. 
August 10-15, 2003 
Camp Kesem is a camp for children who have or have had a parent with cancer, located at Camp Lutherhaven in Goshen, IN. Camp Kesem is organized entirely by fellow Notre Dame students. 
Counselor applications are due January 24, 2003 
**Applications are available on the website.·** 
www.campkesem-nd.org 
Questions? Contact Erin Mulvaney.emulvane@nd.edu. 4-0850 

Friday, January 17, 2003 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish squads open season at Central Michigan 
King put together a stellar 

for a fifth year," Piane says. Gilbert is the team's long
. 3 All-American 
. Distance runners
rookie campaign for Notre Dame, 

"That's got to help. Todd jump specialist while junior ,...sprinters to pace capped by her sixth-place finish 
to be strength of Mobley was an NCAA qualifi­Godwin Mbagwu will com­and All-America selection in the 
er in the 10,000 meters, pete again in the triple jump.
2003 womens team 
solid mens squad
1,500 meters at the NCAA 

Vinnie Ambrico is coming in "We are looking for good Outdoor Championships. She also 
as a freshman running things from [Gilbert] as one
Special to The Observer 
set a school record in the 1,500 

By ANDY TROEGER roughly a 4:11 mile and his of our team captains," Irish at nationals, posting a time of 
Sports Writer classmate, Thomas jumps and throws coach
The 2003 track and field sea­
4:16.51 for the event. 

Chamney, is running 1:51.40 Scott Winsor said. "He needs 
son begins for the Notre Dame 
The most potential for Notre 

As in past years, the mens in the half mile. We are pret­to step up, perform well and Dame's distance unit lies in its 
womens team this weekend at 
the Central Michigan Opener. track and field team will be ty solid in the middle dis­show what he can do. He is 
tance area." going to have to become a
The Irish are ready to begin the freshman class. Four newcomers looking for its distance 
could provide a major spark this 
leader and end his career on

quest for the 2003 Big East group to lead the team as it The Irish will count on 
season and give the Irish some

indoor championship, set for opens the 2003 indoor sea­sophomore Selim Nurudeen a high note." 
additional point production dur­

March 14-15 at the Carrier Dome son tonight at the Central in hurdles, the 110-meter Winsor also needs Mbagwu 
hurdles champion at the to deal with tendonitis in his
ing the conference and NCAA

in Syracuse, NY. Michigan Opener. 
meets. 

Fifth-year senior Luke 2002 Big East outdoor meet. knees for the jumpers to be Molly Huddle comes to Notre 
One area of concern for the 
successful. He also expects

Irish this year will be replacing Watson returns to head the Nurudeen, who came in with 
former All-American Llz Grow on Dame after a storied prep career 
distance team, having fin­high expectations last year, sophomores Ryan Mineburg the highly-improved sprinting that included three All-America 
hopes to reach an even high­and Chris Staron to be solid
ished fourth at last year's
citations (two outdoor, one 

NCAA Championship in the er level this season under in the high jump.
team. 
Three sprinters who could fill indoor), as well as a national high 
indoor 3,000 meters and the instruction of sprints, Chip Roberts and Juan hurdles, and speed coach Alba look to replace all-Big
the void left by Grow's departure school record in the outdoor two­seventh in the outdoor 
East selection Derek Dyer in

are senior Kymia Love and mile run (10:01) and a state 
steeplechase. John Millar. 
record in the outdoor 3,000

juniors Kristen Dodd and Ayesha Watson is not the only run­"Selim won the Big East the throws. 
ner returning, however. last year, so he should be Winsor is also counting on
Boyd. All three runners were meters (9:21). 
Stephanie Madia was a four­

Junior David Alber will be formidable," Piane said. Mike Madigan and Derek
members of the Irish All­
The Irish also expect to Goguen in the javelin and
American 1600-meter relay team time all-state selection in 
expected to contribute in the 
Joe Yanoff in the pole vault. 

steeplechase while senior have a solid 1600-meter
which finished fifth at last year's Pennsylvania during her high 
The makeup of this year's

NCAA Outdoor Championships, school days, winning a pair of 
John Keane and sophomore relay team this season. 
"John Boots, Trevor Irish team is very similar to
Eric Morrison add more

completing the circuit in a school­state crowns in the 1,600 meters 
McClain-Duer, and a fresh­that of past years, although
and placing second in the 3,200 
depth to the distance corps. 

record time of 3 minutes, 32.12 
"We should be good at the man, Ryan Postel -they can NCAA Champion Ryan Shay
meters as a sophomore.

seconds. The trio also made up 
distance end," Irish head all help us in the 200 and will be hard to replace.
Notre Dame should be well

the core of Notre Dame's 4x100­
coach Joe Piane said. "We 400 area," said Millar. "My "We want to be deeper, as
stocked in the field events, thanks 

meter relay unit which has won 
have some good sprinters, focus is that I would like to deep as we could be," Piane
in large part to the contributions

the last two Big East indoor titles 
get a competitive 1600-said. "But our goals as
of team captains Tameisha King

and placed 10th at the 2002 and we've got Luke Watson 
in the long jump and Jamie meter relay out of that group always are to do well at the
NCAA outdoor meet. back too." 
Volkmer in the pole vault. The distance runners need that can run a good time. I Big East Championships and
The evolution of the Notre 
King is a two-time All­think we have a group of to get people qualified at the
Dame distance runners continued help for the Irish to succeed, 
in 2001-02, and it should contin­American in the long jump, hav­and Piane expects it to come guys that are capable of run­NCAA's." 
ing won her second national from a number of different ning fast." 

ue well into this season. The Irish 
honor with a seventh-place finish The Irish also have two
have their top nine distance run­sources, including the mid­Contact Andy Troeger at
at the 2002 NCAA Outdoor jumpers that they expect to
ners back in the fold, paced by dle distance events. 
atroeger@nd.edu

perform well. Senior Tom
sophomore Lauren King. Championships. "Marc Striowski returns 


presents the first concert in a new series highlighting up and coming music groups ... 

open the series with rising stars millimeters mercury 

date: friday jan 17 venue: lafortune ballroom time: 8 pm 

page 20 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 17, 2003 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu
C-M Campus Ministry 
•
s1gnup now 

.,, 
i: I friday z. 1z 
1· MBA Retreat
I'. 
Friday thru Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
saturday 1. 1s 
The Plunge -Phase 2: The Reunion 
1:00-5:00 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
sunday 1. 12 
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
Confirmation Rite of Welcome 
11:45 a.m. -12:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sankofa Academy Open Discussion Group 
2:00-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat #24 
Pre-Retreat Plunge 5:00-6:30 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 

Freshman Retreat #45  Senior Retreat #8 Retreat Date: Jan. 31-Feb. 1  
Retreat Date: Jan. 24-25  Sign-ups open thru Jan. 27  
Sign-ups open thru Jan. 20  



........ ~· ~---·-~-~-r----~-. --.... .. ...... ... .._.,, -,
~ ~ 

. Visit.:.the ovi~Wekome Cent-er in.4:l~CoM~ .Sun.dal -Thursday, 4pm to midnight
'.,.,,.,.-...........~-...........-...--...._____.... ~ ....., ...............~......... ___ .,,,._, t..,.,_ ..,..,_ ,.JL..,._,. __ • ...__ -~, .... ~,-,.,.. , ..... . 

Welcome Back 
You're not 8 years old anyfllore 
by Darrell Paulsen 
Assistant Director, Campus Ministry 
Welcome Back! On behalf of all of us here in Campus Ministry, we would like to extend a warm welcome to all of our students as you return from semester break. In a special way we would like to welcome back those students who were abroad last semester. 
Perhaps you have heard or even spoken these words yourself, "Oh, that is what they do, but it's really not my style," or "They already have all the students they need; to get involved, you have to be on the inside." I would like to challenge these assumptions. At Campus Ministry, we're here to serve the needs of all Notre Dame students to the best of our ability. We are always interested in discussing new ideas and challenging questions. How can we create the opportunities you are looking for if you do not present and work on those creative ideas with us? 
We offer retreats of all shapes and sizes. We offer opportunities through our Emmaus program to get together in small Christian communities and share your own experience of faith and spiritual­ity. Every Wednesday night we offer Interfaith Christian Night Prayer as a place to gather with students from all Christian denominations to encounter a fresh way to pray and express your faith. 
And because we are a  
community that has much to be thankful for, we are also a Eucharistic  Welcome Back Mass for Students Returning from Abroad  
community that gathers,  5:15  p.m.  
in hall chapels and in the  Basilica of the Sacred Heart  
Basilica throughout the  Dinner follows at CoMo  
week, around the table of  

the Lord as the source and summit of our faith tradition. 
College is a time of great transition. Four years of asking questions you never thought you would ask yourself. College is a time of trading in a child-like faith for a mature belief system that integrates faith, values, relationships, and vocation. Often students say, "I've always prayed these prayers before bed, but now they don't seem to "work" for me." The challenge here is to see that we are no longer eight and that maybe what worked during childhood needs to change as we have changed. When we recognize that our relationship with God h~s changed, so too must our expres­sion of that faith. God is there for us. We sometimes have to change the direction we are looking. What I realized in college was that I needed to speak with someone else about what God was doing in my life so I could find my bearings. 
For students abroad last semester, Campus life was not the same without you and we are glad you are back among us. Past students returning to campus from overseas have sometimes found it a hard re-entry. We would like to encourage you to share your experience with those you meet so that our community may share in your great cultural experience. Some of you who were abroad also had the opportunity to work with our campus minister in Europe, Michael Downs, and had the opportu­nity to partake in retreats, service and faith-sharing groups. We hope you will seek out similar opportunities while here on campus. 
If it appears as if we are only interested in the students who have gotten on board early in their college experience, that is a false perception. Each semester there are numerous opportunities for students to get involved in our programs on a one-time only or long-term basis. Campus Ministry is about reaching all students where they are and helping to build communities of faith that will help 
monday 1.20 
Welcome Back Mass for those Returning from Abroad 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Dinner follows at CoMo 
tuesday 1.21 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #8 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 1 22 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 


us become people of faith for a lifetime. 
Third Sunday of Ordinary Time 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Around Campus (every Sunday) Saturday Sunday 1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 

5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass Rev. Bill M. Lies, c.s.c. Rev. Bill M. Lies, c.s.c. Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Chapel 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
t~}.[1/'~e Reaclt:ogs.·-. ·~:: ··_ ..-&$,MISI
-~~~s;_:_t:_:._~_·.---· ·.' ·,~ ..,;•;,;.,14,,•nWtli 
www.nd.edu/~ministry . 
Retreat Applications can be picked up in Room 114 from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. or in the CM Wel­come Center, Room 111, Sunday 
.thru Thursday from 4 p.m. to midnight. 
' " 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
•J,4J,$liC&nfj.f -i-J 

,,. . 
Friday, January 17, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMENS SWIMMING 
Team hopes to avoid letdown after victory 

By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens swimming team will travel this weekend without a group of its key swimmers in the hopes of keeping them healthy for later competition. 
Coming off a 129·69 victory over Kansas in Acapulco, Mexico, the 4-1-1 Irish travel to Champaign, Ill., for a two-day meet against Illinois. 
Freshmen Christel Bouvron, Kara Santelli and Kalei Walker, sophomore Katie Eckholt and diver Kristina Kennedy will stay in South Bend for the weekend to rest. Cold weather and wear and tear are among the reasons for their absence. 
"We would like the entire team to be healthy for our next meet against Bowling Green," coach Bailey Weathers said. 
Illinois will compete with both Notre Dame and Michigan, but Notre Dame and Michigan will not score against each other at the meet. The Irish are sched­uled to swim against Michigan, who is ranked right behind Notre Dame, on Feb. 1. Neither team's coach sees it as neces­sary to score twice. 
So Notre Dame focuses on Illinois, an unranked opponent but nonetheless an obstacle in the way of the streaking Irish swim team. 
"Their best events are the backstroke and the breast-
Watch out... here comes JiII ! 
Happy 21st 
Birthday! 
Love, the Girls 
stroke, but we're real strong in those events," Weathers said. "They have a couple European kids who have helped them, but I think our girls will be real competitive against them." 
Although the Irish will be missing Bouvron, who swims freestyle and butterfly, and oth­ers, the team will still bring solid performers like Laurie Musgrave, who took the 100 breaststroke in 1 minute, 14.07 seconds against Kansas, and Danielle Hulick, winner of the 100-meter backstroke in 57:30 against Pittsburgh, to combat Illinois' strengths. 
In addition, Weathers points out, it is important for his girls to get used to the format of the upcoming meet. 
"The order of events [against Illinois] is done the same as it will be in the Big East and NCAA championships," he said. 
The Irish usually compete with Iowa in this meet, as well. Regardless, Weathers is pleased with his team's refusal to let down over the break between the Pittsburgh and Kansas meets. 
"We had a really good train­ing camp pretty much with everybody." Weathers said. "We could see where the kids were. Everybody did a great job after Christmas in practice [and against Kansas] as a team." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


I IB3illlllllrIDli(0) w llmif~ 
sbarro· 
1 Call 631-2924 to reserve your 1 Superbowl pick-up order!* 
HUDDLE 
20 Piece Buffalo Wings ............................... $9.99 FOOD COURT 
Located in the Lafortune Student Center
17" New York Style Cheese Pizza............... $9.99 17" New York Style Pepperoni Pizza ......... $10.99 17" Gourmet Pan Meat Delight Pizza ....... $11.99 
2 Liter Coca Cola products $0.99 \vith \Vhole pizza purchase. l jmit one 2 l..,iter bottle per pizza. Cash, Domer I)ollars, and Flex Points accepted. 
-= -,,,,, I 
DomerDollars
*Guaranteed availability for orders received by Friday, January 24th. 1 
Introducing 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
native amassed 87 tackles dur­ing his senior season. 
"Guilford is an undersized free safety, but he can really hit," Lemming said. 
Guilford could join the likes of Glenn Earl and Vontez Duff in the secondary and help, along with Zbikowski, replace gradu­ating seniors Shane Walton and Gerome Sapp. 
The Irish were looking to improve their linebacker core by landing Maryland linebacker Wesley Jefferson, named The Washington Post's defensive player of the year in the area. But Jefferson may decide to can­cel his visit to South Bend. according to Lemming, because he seems to be leaning toward Miami or Ohio State. 
Regardless of the talent they secure this coming weekend, the Irish have done a formidable job landing highly-rated athletes from around the nation. 
Notre Dame's gem is quarter­back Brady Quinn, who at 6­foot-4, 210 pounds, comes phys­ically prepared for a West Coast offense in which he should be comfortable. 
"He has the potential to be a difference maker," Lemming said. "He is a better fit for the West Coast offense than Holiday. If he plays to his full potential at the end of four years he could be a Heisman candidate. He's a Carson Palmer type." Lemming's comments flatter the Ohio quarterback. 
"Anytime someone says some­thing like that about you, I mean it's hard to respond to compli­ments like that. But I definitely have to say the West Coast offense is a good fit," Quinn said. "Hopefully I can reach up to the ranks of Carson Palmer. But Carlyle Holiday is a great athlete and quarterback, and none of that is to be seen until I get up there." 


Quinn was named to the Division I All·Ohio first team after finishing with 1,931 yards passing his senior season. Quinn could very well end up compet­ing for a starting job next sea­son if he learns the offense quickly. 
"Basically it's going to be something that will be answered by the coaches," Quinn said of his chances of starting at quar­terback next season. 'Tm going up early in the summer to get started, and hopefully every­thing will work out." 
If Quinn should eventually start for Notre Dame, he may line up under USA Today first­team All-America selection cen­ter/guard Ryan Harris, who committed to the Irish on Nov. 
24. Lemming rates Harris as the third best offensive lineman recruit in the country. The line­man from St. Paul, Minn., did not allow a sack in his final two seasons in high school. 
Lemming rates verbal commit­ment defensive tackle Trevor Laws as the second best at his position. Laws (6-foot-2, 280), who is a USA Today first-team All-America selection, made 87 total tackles during his senior season, including 17 tackles for loss and 11 sacks. 
Prior to the Olsen and Zbikowski announcements Thursday, the Irish recruiting process had practically come to a standstill. Another prize Irish recruit, speedster Reggie Bush, committed to USC following the 
U.S. Army All-American Bowl Game. Bush was rated as the best running back in the country by several recruiting publica· tions. 
"I think what deterred Bush [from signing with Notre Dame] was the USC game," Lemming said. "He was there, and the loss turned him away from Notre Dame." 
With Bush out of the picture, the Irish are left with Washington, Pa., running back Travis Thomas or Fort Lauderdale, Fla., athlete David Marrero in the backfield. Lemming does not see either as a future feature back in most scenarios. 
"Thomas could possibly play linebacker," said Lemming. "[Notre Dame] needed a difference maker and didn't get it yet at running back. Marrero has great speed but he needs to get bigger. If he got up to 210 [pounds], he could possibly be the guy." 
\Vhat the Irish did not secure at running back, however. they got at wide receiver. Valparaiso, Ind .. 6-foot-4 high school star Jeff Samardzija and Quinn's high school teammate 6-foot-3 Chinedum Ndukwe have already made verbal commitments to catch passes for the Irish. Lemming ranks Samardzija as the 23rd top wideout in the nation and Quinn has nothing but praise but his favorite target from Dublin, Ohio. 
"[Ndukwe] is a great athlete. He has very good size, great hands, and great speed. And the best thing about him is he's a great person," Quinn said. "He's my best friend, and I couldn't imagine going a.way without my best friend." 
The recruits remammg uncommitted are players such as Baltimore defensive -end Victor Abiamiri and offensive lineman Mike Jones, who want to make all of their visits to campuses before finalizing their decision. 
"Abiamiri is the top defensive end in the country," Lemming said. 
The ESPN expert said Notre Dame has been leading in recruiting Abiamiri most of the year, but now it comes down to the ability of Irish head coach Willingham and competing coach, Maryland's Ralph Friedgen, to convince Abiamiri. It seems the Irish have done an effective job convincing recruits so far. 
"I think they've done a great job recruiting,'' Quinn said. "And I think they will continue to do so in years to come." 
None of the verb3l commit­ments from the high school seniors are binding contracts. The official signing day is Feb. 5. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
-

page 22 The Observer . sPORTS Friday, January 17, 2003 

ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Full game necessary for Irish to be successful 
.. we've been doing." take any victories against their take care of things at home." beaten their opponents by mov­
By KATIE McVOY 

The Irish have had as much of Big East opponents. Taking care of the home court ing more quickly.
Associate Spores Editor 

a hand in their recent home loss­"We haven't been playing well on Saturday will mean taking "They' re very athletic and 
\i 
es as their opponents have. right now but we have a lot of care of Cappie Pondexter. we're not," McGraw said. "So 
ii' 
A basketball game is 40 min­Against Purdue and Miami, the opportunities in the next four McGraw has credited the Scarlet they have a huge advantage in 
··' 
utes. The Irish know that. Now Irish reached upwards of 25 games to play some quality Knight point guard with being team quickness and team ..l~), they have to play like they know turnovers and struggled on the opponents," Irish coach Muffet the springboard for Rutgers' speed." 
;£ 
'" )~ \ 
it. boards. But what has plagued McGraw said. "Hopefully we'll turnaround. The 8-4 Scarlet But when it comes to
·' 
J:' 
l~
l. 
1• 
;f, 
1' 
1 I \' 
I 
I 
' 
'~ 111 
1:: 
i:l(" 
p 
! 
I 
I• 
i, 

·l 
r 
r 
I,) 
I 


! 
' 
'' 
! 
,. 
--:I""'· 
In their last two home outings, the Irish have struggled and faced two very frustrating losses. On Saturday, as they take on Rutgers at home, it's time to stop the frustration and play 40 min­utes of basketball. 
"In those two home losses we played a good 15 minutes out of 40," forward Jackie Batteast said. "We can't do that against tough teams. We know we're going to have to compete for 40 minutes and that's not what Notre Dame most is lack of confi­dence. 
"I just have to not get frustrat­ed with myself if I miss a shot or if I go O-for-8," Batteast said. "I can't get down on myself and take myself out of the game." 
Notre Dame's game against Rutgers on Saturday starts off a long stretch of difficult games including NCAA Tournament teams Connecticut, Villanova and Boston College. They have to improve their play if they hope to start to get a little bit better by playing them." 
Notre Dame showed some of its capability against St. John's. McGraw is hoping that her team's Tuesday night victory against St. John's is enough to give the Irish the confidence to turn things around at home. 
"I think we really need to take care of the homecourt," McGraw said. "It's going to be tough to win on the road so you just made it harder on yourself if you can't Knights have relied on Pondexter to provide a majority of their scoring. 

"I think Cappie has really turned the program around," McGraw said. "She's scoring a lot points for them, she's leading the team. She's doing everything she needs to do." 
In addition to controlling Pondexter, the Irish are also going to have to watch out for Rutgers team speed and athleti­cism. The Scarlet Knights have Saturday's game, Notre Dame's real opponent will be itself. The Irish will have to control their own turnovers, work under the boards and play solid basketball for 40 minutes. 
"We know that only 50 percent isn't going to cut it in these games," guard Le'Tania Severe said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo569S@saintmarys.edu 


OPENING NIGHT BASEBALL DINNER 
FEATURING '131tSP-~1tLL c']-['l'A§O Cril'BS §'M 
j'l'M ']-{~'lf'D'RY 
TUESDAY, FEB. 4TH 

-RELIVE THE INCREDIBLE WORLD SERIES RUN 
DOORS OPEN AT 6:00 PM -OPPORTUNITIES TO WIN BASEBALL MEMORABILIA -2003 IRISH BASEBALL POSTER AND MEDIA GUIDE 
CALL JEFF SCHMAL ADULTS -$25 YOUTH/STUDENT -$15
AT 631-3264 TO REGISTER 

Notre Dame Circle K Would Like To Congratulate all of Our Members On An Outstanding Semester. 
Dia,mond Memhen • • Caroline Howard I00+ Hours of Service 
Please Attend the First Meeting of th.e Semester on Sunday !~1:n~:urmann Kelli MacKay 
January 19 at 5pm in the Library Auditorium. 
~~:~~!eernney
Molly Savage Peter Quaranto 
New Members Always Welcome!!! 
Sarah Kubinski

Eric Wooldridge Jordan Lachapelle 
Largest Service Club On Campus! 
Jackie Larcara 

Platinum Memhen Dana Lee 
50-99 Hours of Service 
WWW.nd.ed·u/-circlek 
Joe Lira

Ashley Luchese Angela Brewka 

Marie-Christine Luijckx Rory Di.ppold Patti Mackin 
Elaine Ellis Lori Madlinger 
Nick Green Meg Mahon 
Martin Lam Katy Marsh 
Danielle Ledesma John Martell 
Beth Pettersen Beth Martter 
Laura Ramirez Jamie Martin 
Bo Rottenbom Andrew McBride Mark Scozzafave Michelle McCarthy Aimee Shelide Megan McCormick 
Michael Subialka Laura McDonald Andrew Thagard Maria Monroe Anne Traynor BobMw-phy Brandon Wolf Zach Ortiz 
Christy Ostrowski Gold Members Amy Peckins 25-49 Hours of Service Eddie Morales Liz Beny Katherine Doyle Jamie Peters 
Katie Osterholz David Blakeman Greg Dunn Bob Polchow Valerie Aguilar Pat McNulty Kristen Boyce Mary Eilerman Elisa Pond Lauren Barbir Chris Naidus Kevin Boyle Kevin Engoian Christine Prisco Elizabeth Bell Kristen Nugent Abigail Braun Jessica Feeney Sandm Ramos Karen Clairmont Meredith Runke Carissa Buber Erin Fitzgerald Kaitlyn Redfield 
Leah Cogswell Robert Russo Sarah Budds Laura Fraczek Amy Rinner 
Davin Costa Matthew Skinner Jennifer Bums Rochelle Galecki Maureen Ritchey 
Matt DeN1colaLaura Flanagan Pete T alevich Elizabeth Carey Brian Gelpi Kara Roche 
Laura Gelderman Sara Urben Elizabeth Christian Kristin Graham Andy Sawyer 
Allison Glass Monica VanEyck Kerri Cleveland Brent Griffith Katie Scheck 
Bill Harding Maria Vuocolo Katie Coniglio Anne Goodenow Nina Siggins 
Jenny Keegan Jessica White Bryce Cooper Emily Gonnan Mike Smith 
Verinica Lawrence Chrissy Williford Erin Costanzo Katherine Groff Marc Steining 
Will Kurtz Stephanie Yahn Paul Critser Rehecca Grutsch Carlyn Sullivan 
Erica Marin Jocelyn Cubbon Mark Hahn Kim Thompson Kevin McCabe Sih·er Members Erin Cumberworth Lauren Hallemann Bridget Veihmeyer Brian McElroy 10-24 Houl'!I OfSenice Lindsay Davis Anne Marie Hart Corinne Viglietta Bridget McEvoy-Hein Chris DeStephano Brent Haydon Brian Viloria Will McGinn Danita Altfillisch Alison Devine Thomas Healy Ryan Walsh Anne McGrath John Amato Mike Dolson Tara Hickey Beth Wernet Tim McKenzie Jaclyn Ballotta Ben Dougherty Amelia Hoffman 
Friday, January I 7, 2003 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 



HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
± 
He's prompt and efficient 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REESA 
tNELPOY 
I 
..
I 

IMPORTANT FOi< A GARBAGE: MAN 
TO BE=. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


A: AT ( 

I I I ) "( I I I I I I I )" 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' Jumbles: GAILY PROBE MOBILE JUNKET s Answer: What the fireworks crew did at the celebration -A "BANG" UP JOB 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Mental 61 "Hungry Like 1 Played ducks problems the Wolr band and drakes with 35 Icky stuff 62 Some marching 11 Classic symbol 36 Weary groups of bad luck 63 You may get in
37 Choice in trunks 15 It may be with it
40 Close one
pushed at a 
44 Sitcom landlord 
party DOWN
45 Slap on
11 Mata 
1 Canadian 
46 "Wait_,.
17 He hid under province capital 
the alias 47 Grp. with the 
2 Get one behind 
Thomas Howard 1976 platinum 
the other 
album •A New 
18 Vision: Prefix 
3 Like Rome
Worfd Record..
19 Made known vis-a-vis New 
48 Colgate, e.g.:
20 Caz.y retreat York City
Abbr.
21 "Shampoo" 4 Side room 
so 1990 film star 
co-star s Scholarship
autobiography
22"Hath_ basis
subtitled MMy
sister?•: Shak. 6 Player whose
Story"
23 Originate (from) number 6 jersey 
51 It rolls in
25 Name for the is now retired 
53 Anthem opener 
nameless 7 Obi-Wan 2G Daft 55 "Incompleteness portrayer, 1999 theorem"
28 Stead 8 He was told to formulator •1et my peopte
30 Frankincense 
57 Tennis whiz go"
and myrrh, but not gold 58 Like the 91974 Godhead Mocedaaes hit
32 Some phones have them 60 Zola heroine 10 Villa 
-------------11 Anticipatory cry
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Haitian dictator, commonly 13 Text accompanier 
crowned 
27 First host of •America's Funniest Home 
Videos· 28 Successor to Allen 29 Get to 
it? 


Pumt by Btendan Emmett Qulgl9y 
WILLSHORTZ 
42 Morning time composer 
34 Not keep to  40 Where Basque  
oneself  is spoken  
36 Bordeaux blaze  41 First name in  
dance  
37 "Dalibor"  

55 "Travels in the 43 Unequal on all Congo• writer 38 A symbol of three sides Louisiana 56 Weight45 Serve
39 Likely to wear down 49 Abstain from 59 Pair of nines? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leamin~xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: David Caruso, Larry Fortensky, Betty White, Jtm Caney, I~Earl .Imes 
Happy Birthday: You will work toward stabilizing your life this year. lie up loose ends and start new beginnings. Your creative talent will be at an all-t:irre high. You will discover the inspiration you are looking for. Your nwnbers are 2, 7, 15, 21, 39, 44 
ARIES (Mardt 21-April 19): Keep your secrets to yow-self today. Your reputation may be ruined if you have been involved in something that you are not proud of. You11 havetocbalitdedarmgeoontrol. ~ TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll look good in the eyes of others today. Take a powerful stance when it comes to your beliefs. Social activities and romance soould be highlighted today. *••* GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everyone will be happy with the things you choose to do. Avoid discord by including others in your activities. You will pick up information tooay that will enable you to advance professionally. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love interests are present, however. the turmoil you are experiencing is all-consuming. Pull yOW'Self away from the stress and spend rim: enjoying yoor.df. ** 
LEO (July k\.Aug. 22): Travel and communication should be on your agenda. Take a break from your regular routine. You don't have to be the center of attention all the titre. -k** VIRGO (Aug. k~Sept. 22): Make your move and speak your mind. If someone interests you, tell THEM. You will get the response you are looking for. This is a 
day to celebrare.•••• LIBRA (Sept. k1-0ct. 22): Find your own little space, free from the disharmony that sUITOWlds you. You have the ability to look at all sides of a situation and, given the right setting, you will find a solution to whatever is bothering you. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 4\-Nov. 21): Be prepared to deal with people who are judgmental. Ifyoo are tyeJlll'OO tocrfend yoorself, oo en: 'Ml() CWCl'ifS you will stioo achan:e. ***'** SAGITIARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your help will be valued, so offer assistance 
to someone who is in dire need. Don't feel limited if you can't physically travel. 
Menial gains will be gratifying. *-k* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Deception is in the pictw-e, so don't believe everything that you're told. Read lx:tween the lines and ask pertinent questions. Doo.'t regkct tocb your share ofthe WOO( today. ~ 
AQUARRJS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): Your creative ideas will rise to rhe swface today. The new friends you make today will be important to your future direction and 
~-k** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The changes you make to yourself, your home or your life in general will lead to increased self-esteem. You'll have a better llOOefStmding ofwha1 yoo really want to ck:> with ~Iflife. • • * • • 
Birthday Baby: You will be perceptive, energetic and always willing to talce on m:ire than is required You will be enterprising, engaging and always gaining experienx . 
Clleck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastrom, wnetwork.com 
OJPYRIGI-IT2003 UNIVERSALPRF.SS SYNDICATE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer Make checks payable to: 
P.O. Box Q
and mail to: 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
j 
j 
·­

J 
i I 
l 
I 1 
l 
I 
l 
l 
I I 
1 
i 
l 
l I 
• j l I 
... 
... 




Friday, January 17, 2003 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


. )
'l Looking into the future 
With national signing day less than a month away, Notre Dame has 15 verbal commitments from high school recruits 
lent chance of landing Olsen, Notre Dame Thursday. Lemming passed for 1,382 yards and 11 nitely a playmaker, similar to
By PAT LEONARD 

partly because his older brother says verbal commitment tight touchdowns. Voted to the USA [graduating senior] Arnaz 
Sports Writer 

Chris is currently ·a quarterback end John Carlson could play Today first-team All-America, Battle." at Notre defensive the Woodland Hills, Ill., native With only one returning start­

Notre Dame coach Tyrone Dame. 

end if Olsen also made 41 tackles and two ing offensive lineman, the Irish Willingham and the Irish do not "I'd be gets the call interceptions as a safety. also place high priority on visit­have an opportunity to blink as shocked if at tight end. Now, with two high priorities ing center/guard John Sullivan. they transition from a disap­he doesn't Zbikowski, secured, Notre Dame can shift Lemming said the Greenwich, pointing bowl loss against North wind up at who would the focus to recruits such as Conn., native and USA Today Carolina State to a focus on a N o t r e likely play wide receiver Mark Bradford, second-team All-America selec­rigorous recruiting process. D am e , " defensive scheduled to visit campus this tion will likely choose Notre 
Since Thursday. when highly Lemming back for the weekend. Dame. touted recruits Greg Olsen and said. "I Irish, decid-Bradford has made Notre On the defensive side of the Tom Zbikowski verbally commit­think with Olsen Zblkowskl ed South Dame his final visit before he ball, safety Ira-Bell Guilford, ted to the Irish. Notre Dame has C h r i s Bend was decides between LSU, Oregon, who also played running back in 
F secured 15 verbal commitments. already at the place for Washington State, Washington high school and carried the ball 
) l i The 6-foot-6, 245-pound Olsen Notre Dame it would be easier him after an in-home visit from and Notre Dame. for 2,268 yards and 29 touch­
I the nation's top tight end recruit for his parents to see both of Notre Dame coaches Wednesday "Bradford is the most important downs, visits campus this week­
i 
according to several recruiting them play at one place." night. He passed on offers from one [of the players visiting this end and said he will decide 
,'.!It
II 
publications, took his official Olsen, one of three finalists for Iowa and Nebraska. weekend}," Lemming said. "The between Ohio State and Notre 
t:\, visit to Notre Dame Dec. 13. the Gatorade National Player of As a quarterback in high Irish need a receiver. Bradford Dame. The Hoboken. N. J., fl ESPN.com expert Tom Lemming the Year award, proved school. Zbikowski ran for 1,287 will need more work to become
I! 
;1iJ believed the Irish had an excel-Lemming accurate in choosing yards and 25 touchdowns and a great receiver, but he is defi-see RECRUITS/page 21 
;;,,, MENS BASKETBALL
I'
:'i 
),I 
Irish hope to make Wildcats blue
r. 
1· 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

1; Sports Writer 
1: Matt Carroll vividly remem­
bers the last time the Irish trav­! eled to Kentucky's Rupp Arena. 
I 
Fireworks exploded. Blue-clad fans galvanized the home team into a frenzy. The visitors got rattled -a lot. 
"It is probably one of the biggest spectacles in college basketball," Carroll said. 
But when No. 9 Notre Dame (14-2) travels to play No. 16 Kentucky (12-3) Saturday for the teams' third meeting in as many years, Carroll is confident the Irish won't repeat their dis­astrous performance of two years ago. 
Then, as a wide-eyed role­playing sophomore, Carroll played on a Notre Dame basket­ball team that had yet to appear in an NCAA Tournament and was quickly fading out of the top 
25. They lost 82-71. This year's team is completely different. 


"Notre Dame is on the map, I ... consider us one of the elite pro­
' 
grams in the country." said Carroll, averaging a team-high 
20.1 points per game. "We've been in the top 25 for a while, we've beat some of the best teams in the country this year which I don't think we've done in the past." 
Notre Dame's success has a great deal to do with Carroll's consistency. Since Big East play started, the senior guard has averaged 25 points per game and played virtually every minute. 
More importantly, Carroll gives the Irish a calming pres­ence on the court. Although it's hard to identify a go-to player in Notre Dame's team-oriented offense, Carroll best fits the mold. 
"I don't think it's an out-there statement to say that nobody is playing better in college basket­ball right now. A top 10 team, your most consistent guy," Brey said. "It's rewarding for me to see a senior playing well." 
To look for the point where Carroll's season truly took off, one should turn back the clock 10 months. That's when Carroll, in the Big East Tournament and the NCAA Tournament, lit up opposing defenses by scoring 20 points in each of Notre Dame's final four games. 
The spectacular end to his season propelled him into a summer leadership role, where he organized team workouts while Brey was off-campus 
see MENS/page 17 


SMC SWIMMING 
Belles host their final home meet 
By ERIK POWERS 
Spotts Writer 
Saturday marks the end of a season and an era for Saint Mary's. The Belles host Alma and Albion in their regular sea­son finale. marking the final home meet at Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquatic Center for senior co-captains Lane Herrington and Lauren Smith. 
With the conference tourna­ment only a month away, Saint Mary's (1-3) desperately desires a strong performance in order to build postseason momentum. Thanks to a few extra days of rest, the Belles will be fresher than their last meet against Kalamazoo. A split or pair of vic­tories versus Albion (2-2) and Alma (0-3) would be invigorat­ing. 
"This is pretty big," Smith said...We'll have a little more rest, and it's our last chance for a good seed at conference." 
Saint Mary's won a narrow victory versus Albion last year 
see BELLES/page 17 

MENS SWIMMING

HOCKEY
ND TRACK 
SMC BASKETBALL
WOMENS SWIMMING
W0MOOB~ALL 
Notre Dame at

Yale at Notre
Saint Mary's at
Notre Dame at
Notre Dame at
Rutgers at Notre 
Pennsylvania

Dame
Albion
Central Michigan
Illinois
Dame 
Friday, 6 p.m.

Friday, 7 p.m.
Friday, TBA 
Friday,
Friday, 6 p.m.
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
The Irish begin a busy

The Bulldogs travel to
The Belles hope to get
Both the mens and
The Irish hope to avoid 
The Irish will need to 
weekend with a meet

South Bend to renew their
an upset over the
womens squads open
a letdown after their
play well for 40 minutes 
against the Quakers. 

rivalry with the Irish. 
their 2003 campaign. 
Britons.
strong win over Kansas. 
to top Rutgers. 
page 17
page 18
page 18
page 19
page 21
page 22 

,J 




