Po riner student dies 
By TERESA FRALISH Assis1am News Edi1or 
;\ limner Notre Dame student was found dead in an apparent suicide in Bloomington, Ind. Saturday moming. 
Brian Berg, a former member of the class of 2004 from Wheaton, Ind., had a history of mental illness and had been 1mrolled in a resident treatment program for his illness in Bloomington at the time of his d1~ath, his mother Julie Berg said. 
Sgt. David Drake of the Bloomington Police Department said Berg's body was found Saturday moming and police had no reason to believe foul play was involV(.ld. 
Berg's mother said her son was on his way to a llalloween party Friday night in Bloomington and did not return to the treatment center for its nightly curfew. 
Berg, a eomputer engineering major, participated in Notre Dame's London Program during the fall of his junior year in 2002 1U1d began to show signs of what counselors initially thought was homesickness, his mother said. After returning to the United States in the spring, Berg was placed on medication and eventu­ally diagn~ed with schizophrenia, his mother said. 
'The electronic signals between his left-brain and right-brain short-circuit.t,-d," she said. 
Berg took a leave of absence from the University for the spring 2003 semffiter. and oflicially with­drew in Au~-,rust. 
At the treatment center. Julie Berg said counselors thought her son was progressing well and. as a result. was beginning to gain more independence. 
She said she was confident the treatment center -which she d1~cribcd as the lx~t in the region -would help her son. 
'"l11ey had actually enrolled him to start taking a class at Indiana University," she said. "lie had a job. lie was on the road to recov­ery." 
see DEATH/page 4 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Men's basketball tickets sell out 
THE 


Students integrate class, current events 
Priority placed on academics varies among students 
ticketing. "Obviously, as the team got better, demand increased considerably." 
Ofthe 11,418 seats available in the JACC, 3,200 were allocated for student use -a number "consistent with previous years," Fraleigh said. One hundred of those will be sectioned ofT for the band, and the rest will be distrib­uted to student athletes on game day, as per NCAA rules. 
In regards to Domers' com­plaints over the 150 ticket allot­ment to Saint Mary's students and the 30 to Holy Cross, Fraleigh said, "The numbers of tickets given to Saint Mary's and 
see TICKETS/page 4 


By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
Students arriving at the JACC Ticket Office after 1:45 p.m. yes­terday were turned away, frus­trated and fuming, after the 2,800 men's basketball tickets set aside for student purchase sold out in an unprecedented four and a half hours. In a school dominated by football, 10 sales per minute came as a pleasant and unexpected surprise for ath­letic officials. 
"Two years ago, we did not sell out the entire allocation of tick­ets, and it took a whole day to do so last year," said Jim Fraleigh, assistant athletic director for 
MEGAN DAVISSON!The Observer Students line up to purchase men's basketball tickets Monday. The tickets designated for student use were sold out In 4.5 hours. 
Editor's Note: This arti­cle is the first in a series of three articles focusing on academic engagement at Notre Dame. 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Wri1er 

Sophomore Elizabeth Webster would like to spend more time reading a newspa­per or a book. but she fmds she just doesn't have time; when she's not in class or practicing for cross-country. she must do her homework. 
"Some people seem to be able to do it all," she said. "I feel like I'm limited." 
like many Notre Dame stu­dents, Webster's involvement in both her schoolwork and her extra-curricular activities leave little time for much else. Students often said that. although they would like to keep up more with current events, politics and the news through reading outside sources, the academic and extra-curricular rigors of Notre Dame can prevent them from having the time to do so. 
"Nearly everyone is con­sumed with classes, clubs and jobs," junior theology major Eric Wooldridge said. 
As a result. students said they cannot really spend time focusing on material they know will not be necessary for a test, even if they are personally interested in the subject. 
"If I sit down to study for a test [and) the professor gives us something to concentrate on. I'm going to concentrate on that. I don't want to clutter my brain with information that is not going to be on the exam," said Zach Goodrich. a biology major. 
Satisfaction 
Despite this time crunch. however, Notre Dame stu­dents generally said they remain well-informed about politics and current events through conversations with peers, rather than outside media or reading. They also said the level of intellectual­ization on campus satisfies them, in contrast to faculty concerns about the lack of undergraduate academic engagement outside of the classroom. 
Some students said that conversation among their peers often focuses on sub­jects such as sports, alcohol and the opposite sex. 

"Partying. alcohol. girls and sports are much more com­mon topics of conversation than politics or philosophy. I'm more comfortable with that-I like it that way," Wooldridge said. 
Students. however, said they often connect material learned in class in conversa­tions with peers to make their discussions more academic, which contradicts faculty per­ceptions that most students do not often discuss academic issues in their dorms or the dining halls. 
"A lot of [my) conversations with friends are deeper than 'what are you doing this weekend,' " said Hobert Gibbs, a finance/psychology major. "My friends and I talk a lot about philosophy in gen­eral." 
Jessica Campbell, a senior biology major, said she likes how she and her friends from science classes can discuss the material outside of the classroom. 
"With [my] pre-med friends, we are always ana­lyzing what's going on with our bodies -!Uld it's so cool 
see ACADEMICS/page 4 


Student participation historically low in municipal elections 
municipal, or local, elections his­only recently devoted part of their polling places, dates and times By LAURA VILIM torically have the lowest voter daily news to election coverage, that voting is available and the News Wri1er turnout. There is also a particu­but even this information is typi­intricacies of absentee ballots. 
larly low percentage of young cally not enough for a voter to Several students interviewed on adults who vote in their local make an informed decision about campus were unaware that elec­Municipal elections for such elections, especially for those who a particular candidate. In addi­tions were being held today; oth­offices as mayor. city council and arc enrolled in college or working tion, even with access to informa­ers were unfamiliar with the city clerk will be held in counties in a job away from home. tion about the candidates, it is term "municipal elections." Many across the nation today, despite For students at Notre Dame, difficult to motivate students to s_tudents said they know that the fact that such races in non­several factors contribute to this vote in elections in a town they elections are held every first presidential election years tend to lack of participation in municipal now call home only three months Tuesday of November, but decid­receive low voter turnout. elections. According to assistant out of the year. ed not to vote in this particular 
Of the three levels of elections professor of political science Another factor that keeps stu­race. that are held in the United States Louis Ayala, coverage of the dents from the polls is the gener­-municipal, state and federal-politicians who arc running for al lack of information about see ELECTIONS/page 4 

------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------, 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


linpossible dreain? 
We can't get enough of it. We want it every day and once we get a taste, we just want more. We get it around the clock -in the morning, after­noon and our big dose at night. 
You'd better know darn well 
what I'm talking about, eh? 
Well, without further hemming and hawing over the matter, I might as well confess it's sleep. Have you ever 


met someone Will Puckett who said they needed to sleep LESS? I don't Production believe I have, and I doubt you have either. 
Unless, of course, you're a close personal friend of a giant panda. In which case I don't particularly want to know any more details, since I have a thing against being stabbed in the face with bamboo. 
In this day of 24-hour news chan­nels and tabloid magazines, CNN and the National Enquirer, madden­ing classes and ceaseless work, it's hard to take time out for things that really matter. 
I suppose right about now you're ready to put the paper down, expecting some polemic on the value of getting a good night's sleep. Well, you'd normally be correct, judging from this space's usual occupancy (or For Rent sign blowing in the breeze, whichever you prefer). 
Right now, though, I really don't care. I'm going on about four hours of sleep in the last forty-eight, and I've had so much Starbucks that I'm thinking of opening a Siegfried Hall franchise. Ah, the joys of PLS. 
No, really, I love PLS, and that wasn't supposed to be a snide joke aimed at business majors either-­another difference between me and the Energizer Bunny that is the cam­pus dead horse of all jokes. It's just that sometimes, I really question my sanity -especially at 3 a.m. when things still aren't done. Like this col­umn, for example. 
·I'm fully expecting the great news­paper god to fly down out of the sky and smite me dead with a charcoal­smeared F on my forehead, but that's the beauty of it. I can do this not out of some desire to see my own words in print, not out of some desire to see a certain configuration of letters on my report card, but out of, aw heck, let's be honest: adrena­line and caffeine. Probably in some proportion that would make my nor­mally quite genial family doctor turn the air blue. 
There's no moral to this story, there's no lesson to be learned; thing is, maybe that makes me happy. Maybe I need this or that or the other, but then again, maybe I just need to cover my television set with Crisco and heave it into one of the lakes. 
If you ask me, the probabilities are just about even ... 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
-. . .. 
• • • • " 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU BE VOTING IN TODAY'S ELECTION? 




Nikki Vllllfane  Rachel Manley  Erin Carney  
Junior  Sophomore  Sophomore  
Farley Hall  Farley Hall  Farley Hall  
"Eeeee?!"  "Wh-what  ··No_,,  
election?"  

the way.,, 

IN BRIEF 
Kati Koestner, a rape preven­tion activist, will talk to students today at 9 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. Koestner, who has been featured on MTV, will discuss the risks and prevention of date rape. 
The Kroc Institute will pres­ent a lecture entitled "Peacebuilding and Development in Guatemala and Ireland," delivered by Charles Reilly, the former director of the Peace Corps in Guatemala, today at 4:15 p.m. The lecture will be held in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The College Democrats will sponsor a group watch of the America Rocks the Vote debate among Democratic candidates for the presidency today at 7 
p.m. in Reekers. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a work­shop entitled "Unlocking Your Not-For-Profit Career" Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the Career Center. 
The Alliance for Catholic Education program will hold an information night Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune ball­room. 
The Italian Club will present a screening of the movie "Ciao, professore!" Wednesday at 8 
p.m. in 141 DeBartolo. The film is free and open to the public. 
Notre Dame's Breast Cancer Awareness 2003 program will be celebrated Wednesday night with speakers and a candle­light vigil from 7 to 9 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo. The event is free and sponsored by a group of women's dorms. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

44 30 

HIGH LOW 
OFFBEAT 

Prosecutor found 
with knife in luggage 
DETROIT -A Macomb 
County assistant prosecutor 
faces a misdemeanor 
weapons charge after 
authorities found a steak 
knife in his carryon luggage 
at Detroit Metropolitan 
Airport. 

Eric Smith, 37, of 
Chesterfield Township is 
charged with one count of 
attempting to possess a 
weapon in a sterile area of 
an airport, Wayne County 
Prosecutor Mike Duggan 
said Monday. If convicted, 
Smith could get up to a year 
in jail for the misdemeanor 
charge. 

Smith, who prosecutes sex 
offenses for Macomb County, 
was stopped Oct. 9 when air­
port screeners found a 5­
inch steak knife in a DVD 
TODAY a: 



Caroline Connor  Debbie Hornacek  Angelina Zehrbach  
Sophomore  Sophomore  Junior  
Farley Hall  Welsh Family Hall  Farley Hall  
"No, I did not  "Had I known  "Who's  
get my absentee  there was an  running?"  
ballot in time. ,,  election? Oh  
yeah, Gore all  

carrying case in his carryon luggage. 
Smith said he didn't know he was carrying a knife. He said he later learned his sis­ter had packed it in the DVD case in order to cut fruit dur­ing a summer road trip. 
Duggan said he believes Smith intended no harm, "but the fact of the matter is, you are responsible for what you carry onto a plane." 
Former police chief charS!ed: with il~egal
hanogun possession 
DETROIT-The city's for­mer police chief, who resigned late last week over his failure to declare a loaded pistol on a flight, was charged Monday with misde­meanor possession of an unlicensed handgun. 
Jerry Oliver stepped down on Friday, saying the contro­versy over the gun had become a distracting sideshow. 
The controversy began after Oliver, 56, failed to tell airport officials he had a loaded, .25-caliber pistol in his luggage before taking a flight Oct. 18 from Detroit Metropolitan Airport to Philadelphia. He already has been fined by federal authorities. 
Wayne County Prosecutor Michael Duggan said Monday in announcing the charge that Oliver should have registered the gun when he moved to Michigan, nearly two years ago. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IJJ 
::c 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 
...I 
<C 
(,) 0 
...I 


77 47 

HIGH LOW 

50 
34 

47 29 

Atlanta 77 I 61 Boston 49 I 44 Chicago 70 I 38 Denver 48 I 26 Houston 85 I 65 Los Angeles 65 I 50 Minneapolis 39 130 New York 64 I 56 Philadelphia 77 I 59 Phoenix 72 I 49 Seattle 45 I 33 St. Louis 83 I 43 Tampa 85 1 70 Washington 80 161 
. . . . ... .. .. .. .. . '" ...... . .. . .. ~ .
.................... .
.................................. .a ........... . 

Tuesday, November 4, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Metnbers adopt ne\V bylaws, name 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Executive Cabinet members met Monday evening to dis­cuss their new bylaws, which shake up the composition of the broad-based committee. Under its new bylaws, which were adopted unanimously, the body will now be called the Council of Heprcscntativcs, reflecting its composition of members from bodies across student govern­ment. 
A key change to the bylaws allows for four members of the Student Senate to receive voting scats on the new coun­
cil. Student Body President Pat Hallahan said the addi­tion of the senators allows the council to more directly rep­resent the concerns of stu­dents. 
"It increases representation across the board," Hallahan said. 
The new bylaws also elimi­nate several positions from the council. Chairs of the six Club Coordination Council divisions will no longer sit on the Council of Hepresentatives, though the CCC president will remain a voting member. In addition, the Student Union Board director of programming will no longer be a council mem­ber. 
Hallahan said the new arrangement is more fair to all student constituencies. 
"Their voices won't be lost -they'll be heard through the heads of their organiza­tions," he said. 
"There's no real loss and a lot of gain." he said. 
Several amendments were added to the new bylaws. Tai Romero, SUB director of pro­gramming, proposed an amendment making Council of Representatives meetings open to the public. 
The council approved the amendment without objec­tion, reversing an April deci­sion to close the Executive Cabinet meetings. Other amendments clarified the def­inition of a quorum and man­dated that members give three days' notice before bringing new business to the council. 
The council also voted to meet twice a week for the rest of the semester. in order to allow enough meeting time for a successful transition to the new constitution. 
"We don't want to lose this momentum," said Charlie Ebersol, SUB manager. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Undergrads often uninterested in academia 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
A combination of parental expec­tations, career choice and conver­sations with faculty members out­side of the classroom that do not focus on the world of academia may explain why Notre Dame stu­dents said that there is a general stigma about entering into higher education, some undergraduates said. 
Nthough many students said fac­ulty members arc often willing to meet with them during office hours, they also said that conversation top­ics are often about class-related matters and not about academia in general. 
As a result. and by choice, stu­dents kno~ little about entering into the field of academia. Many said that because of parental sacri­fices and a deeply-instilled work ethic, they think that students are uninterested in becoming profes­sors 
Zach Goodrich, a biology major, said that his experiences with Notre Dame faculty during office hours have been very positive. 
"Professors here are willing to try to help you out. They want to see you succeed," he said. 
like Goodrich, Elizabeth Webster, a sophomore psychology major. said her professors are usually very accessible and willing to meet with her. She said that she attends office hours "all the time." 
However, some students said they have felt uncomfortable attending office hours because they think fac­ulty are too busy to meet with them. 
"I feel intimidated," said senior biology major Jessica Campbell, "because [professors] are so busy. I 
KENNNThe Observer 

Professor Greg Downey lectures In Lewis Hall. Many students feel they do not often engage In extracurricular academic conversations. 
just feel they don't have time. Notre Dame is such a big research uni­versity, I've gotten the impression that teaching is not what they want to be there for. I would just rather not bother them," she said. 
Students also said they usually attend office hours for a specific purpose -with a question about a test or a lecture -rather than sim­ply to talk to professors about issues unrelated to class. 
"I am goal-oriented, and if I'm going to meet with a teacher, infor­mation that I expect to get is going to be on the test," Webster said. 
Students also said their parents instilled in them a strong work ethic, and they recognize that their parents often make financial sacri­fices for them to attend Notre Dame. Because of these factors. students said they do not often con­sider entering academia and becoming professors, as they feel obligated to graduate with a "firm" career path in mind. 
'We are heavily weighted toward the corporate world and the career world here," Eric Wooldridge said. 
Some also said that. perceptions of academia and a general lack of knowledge about what professors actually do might cause an unfair stigma towards becoming one. 
"Maybe a lot of students don't know what it [academia] entails and hear. 'You'll be in the lab all day' -which can maybe cause a stigma," Campbell said. 
Robert Gibbs, a financ('}psycholo­gy major, said that parental influ­ence may also lead students to choose a major that satisfies their parents and may lead to a finan­cially successful career. However, he said this perception probably extends to the general college pop­ulation as opposed simply to Notre Dame. 
"I think there might be pressure felt to choose a major based on what [would give) a comfortable liv­ing because ... your parents have sacrificed to put you through col­lege," he said. "I think a lot of peo­ple chose majors based on that ­they feel like they owe it to their parents." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
,­
I' 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

AcadeiDics 
continued from page 1 
to see that what we are learning in class has practical applications," she said. 
The Honors Perspective 
like other Notre Dame students, undergraduates in the University's Honors Program and those recom­mended for prestigious scholar­ships like the Rhodes said they tend to engage in intellectual dis­course outside of the classroom and see little difference between themselves and the rest of Notre Dame undergraduates. 
"It's not a division between Honors Program students and non­Honors program students," said senior Mary Mullen, an honors stu­dent and English/Political Science double major. "It's a division between people for whom academ­ics is their first priority [and those for whom it is not]. You can learn many things at college, and aca­demics are part of that." 
Josh Stuchlik, an Honors Program student and a Rhodes Scholarship candidate, said he remembers students having many conversations about politics in Sorin College and fervently watch-


Death 
continued from page 1 
Counselors had made arrange­ments for Berg to live independently in his own apartment within the upcoming month, she said. 
In light of these improvements, Berg's mother said the suicide was completely unexpected by the treat­ment center counselors. 
'They think something snapped in him," she said. "He was not suici­dal." 
Until his junior year, friends and family said Berg loved being a stu­dent at Notre Dame. 
"He was valedictorian of his high school class. He wanted to go to Notre Dame since he was a little kid," his mother said. "He was ecstatic [about getting into the London Program.]" 
"We used to play pool all the time," said Kristin Cordova, one of Berg's friends who kept in touch through e-mail. "One of the best 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
Municipal elections tend to draw less attention from the pub­lic sector because, often, none of the highly dramatized events that occur on the state or federal lev­els is present among local candi­dates. 
Ironically, local issues are not thought to be as important as some of the debates occurring on the federal level, even though attending to local issues would affect more citizens than would most federal issues, Ayala said. 
He said students and faculty might be motivated to vote more often if they keep in mind that beneficial changes in their every­day lives cannot occur if they do not let their politicians know there is a problem. 
"The next time [one] com­plain[s] that there are not enough fun things to do in town, or that the roads ... tear up your car, or that you wish downtown had more diverse entertainment options, remember that munici­pal elections play a large part in deciding these questions," Ayala said. "If you want the city to be more responsive to your needs and wishes, you frrst need to reg­ing presidential debates and elec­tions. 
"Students are very engaged in matters about news and politics," he said. 
like Stuchlik, Mullen said that the small classes and frequent required colloquia common to the Honors Program have allowed her a greater forum for the exchange of ideas outside of the classroom. However, she said her personal interest in academics has driven her to actively attend many lec­tures on campus. 
"I just think that because I'm really interested in academics and in making the most of my four years here ... I have gone to a lot of the lectures," she said. 
Mullen also said she has found the ability of Notre Dame students to integrate academic issues with their conversations to be an impressive quality. 
"The percentage of people who talk [about academics] outside of class is pretty high at Notre Dame. The way that people think. I'm pretty impressed with all the time . .. how people in normal conversa­tions can tie it [academics] in is really incredible," she said. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
memories [was] dining hall dinners. I always remember Brian's smile." 
Berg was also "extremely close" to his younger sister. currently a junior in high school, his mother said. 
"He was really fun-loving," said senior Annie Moranski, who dated Berg during their freshmen and sophomore years. "He always made us laugh." 
like his mother, Moranski said news of Berg's death was unexpect­ed. 
"It came as a huge shock. I've never lost someone close to me," she said. 
Ed Mack, rector of O'Neill Hall, Berg's former dorm, said a memori­al Mass is being planned for later this week. 
Funeral services for Berg will be held Wednesday at 10 a.m. at St. Cecilia Catholic Church in DeMotte, Ind. A visitation will be held from 4 to 8 p.m. today at Jackson Funeral Services in DeMotte, Ind. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
ister a response." 
Students and faculty are also working to make the process of voting easier on campus in the hopes of encouraging more stu­dents to take part in the elec­tions. 
Sarah Wheaton, a freshman student council officer, said the Progressive Student and Faculty Alliance soon will be holding a voter registration drive for stu­dents in the library during the day and at night. At the drive, registration forms and informa­tion on absentee voting will be provided. The College Democrats will also be holding a registration drive, tentatively planned for the start of the spring semester. Further details for both drives will be provided at a later date. 
In the South Bend area, one of the most important races is between mayoral incumbent Democrat Stephen Luecke and his Republican challenger Thomas Schmidt. If Luecke wins and serves the entire length of his term, he will become the longest-serving mayor of South Bend in history, surpassing the nine years of mayoralty by cur­rent Indiana Governor Joe Kernan. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Holy Cross are extremely limited. We have a long-standing relation­ship with these schools, and we want to share with them the enjoyment of our sporting events." 
The timing of the sale was also called into question. 
"It's discouraging. I had classes all morning, like a lot of people, and really had no other option but to come later," said Bridget Tuohy, a McGlinn freshman. "Hopefully, my schedule next year will let me get here earlier, because that seems to be the only solution." 
Stanford sophomore Mike 
Savino also expressed his discon­tent at being sent away without a ticket. 
"It's great to see all this excite­ment, but I wish there were more student tickets available so every­one could join in," Savino said. 
Those arriving earlier in the day were greeted with snaking lines and free Krispy Kreme donuts, handed out by men's bas­ketball head coach Mike Brey. 
Also involved in the morning's event was the Leprechaun Legion, arguably the loudest and most public source of student support for the men's basketball team. In conjunction with Sports Promotions and the athletic department, the Legion distrib­uted green shirts for students to wear to the games in a display of solidarity. 


ACE ''TEACH'' 
INFO NIGHT 
TOMORROW! 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5TH 
7:00 P.M., LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
"The goal of the Legion is to unify the student body, to bring all of the students together in support of the team and to intimi­date the opposing team," said junior Eric Tarnowski, vice presi­dent of marketing for the Legion. "That's what these shirts will do." 
Despite ticket shortages and short tempers, the sale proved the student body's anticipation of an impressive basketball season and continuation of athletic sup­port in the face of current disap­pointment. 
"Everyone's excited about the new season," Tarnowski said. "It'll be good to get something fresh in the way of sports." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 




~'12~~
only at --=-~ 

Sminutes~
from DU"T'PDST 

Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Spain closes border with Gibraltar 
GIBHAL;rAR -Spain briefly closed ofT its border with Gilbraltar on Monday while a cruise ship with some 2,000 passengers, including several dozen sickened by a highly contagious stomach virus, docked at the British colony. 
The 13-hour border closing -the first in nearly two decades -angered London, which called the move unnecessary, and temporarily kept several hundred people from entering the tiny territory from Spain. Spain and Britain regularly disagree over the sovereignty of the once-strategic military post. 
The British-owned Aurora, which was denied entry to a Greek port on Friday because of the illnesses, docked for 11 hours at Gibraltar. About 50 passengers stayed on board while the rest of the passengers, most­ly Britons, were allowed to go ashore. 
Sumatran park, town hit by flood 
BUKIT IAWANG, Indonesia-A torrent of water. mud and logs swept through a resort village ncar a reserve for endangered orang­utans on the island of Sumatra, killing at least 71 people, including five foreigners, and leaving more than 100 people missing, officials said Monday. 
Days of heavy rain triggered a surge Sunday night in the Bahorok River, which winds through the village of Bukit Lawang. Dozens of inns and restaurants that line its banks were destroyed. 
Most of the village's 2,500 people were asleep when the flood hit. Many had been observing the dawn-to-dusk fast of the Hamadan holy month and had gone to bed early in order to rise for a pre-dawn meal. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Calif. fires declared under control 
BIG BEAH, Calif. -Exhausted firefighters were sent home Monday as remaining crews doused hotspots and watched for new ones, with the vast wildfires that ravaged parts of Southern California all but extinguished. 
More than 27,000 people remained dis­placed from their homes, but that was well down from the 80,000 at the peak of the fires, said a spokesman for the state Oflice of Emergency Services. 
Sylvia Illman, forced to Jlee the community of Lake Arrowhead, said that after a week in a pop-up tent parked in a friend's driveway, she found herself arguing with her husband and snapping needlessly at her two boys, ages 5 and 3. 
"We can't help it. The stress level is unbe­lievable," she said. "I want to go home." 
LOCAL NEWS 

State applies for terrorism funds 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana will receive more than $44 million in grants from the 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security to train emergency responders who would be the first on the scene of a terrorist attack. 
Most of the money -nearly $34 million -will go toward helping state and local law enforcement and emergency personnel pay for planning, training and equipment for first responders. 
Another $10 million will help Jaw enforce­ment agencies detect and prevent acts of terrorism, particularly attacks involving weapons of mass destruction. 
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said that for the first time, agencies can now apply for the grants online. 
"No longer will our state and local part­ners have to go to different places within the departments to apply for terrorism­related funding," Ridge said in a statement. 
Since March, the Department of Homeland Security has awarded nearly $4 billion in grants to the nation's first respon­ders. 
.· ...·......·· ..-...-. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Draft constitution made public 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Two years after the fall of the Taliban, the Afghan gov­ernment unveiled a his­toric draft constitution Monday, aiming to cast aside a quarter-century of conflict with a unified Islamic state under a pow­erful presidency. 
The draft makes 
Afghanistan an Islamic 
republic but stops short of 
imposing the harsh brand 
of Islamic law favored by 
the Taliban, and for the 
first time enshrines a per­
manent role for women in 
governing the country. 
Still, turning the docu­ment's guarantees of equality, liberty, dignity and free speech into reali­ty in a country lacking all of them will be a singular challenge for President Hamid Karzai and future Afghan leaders. 
The draft, containing 160 articles in 12 ~hap­ters, is to be presented next month for approval at a constitutional loya jirga, or grand council, of some 500 delegates from across the country. Nationwide elections would then be scheduled in June. 
The document was the result of a year's work ­and months of delay ­reflecting deep divisions and fierce back-room struggles inside the 35­member Constitutional Review Commission. 
The most dramatic change from earlier drafts was the elimination of the post of prime minister and concentration of power in the president -who will be commander in chief of the military, have the power to appoint one-third of the parliament's upper house, and to name judges, military officers, police and national securi­ty officials. 
Extending that central­ized power to Afghanistan's provinces and patchwork of regional 


Reuters 

Nayamatullah Shahranl, head of the Afghan constitutional commission, presents a copy of the Afghan draft constitution to former King Mohammad Zahlr Shah as President Hamid Karzal looks on, during a ceremony In Kabul Monday. 
allegiances and ethnic groups -where warlords rule like feudal princes in areas that seem frozen in time -will be the consti­tution's true test. 
"The degree of centraliz­ing that you see here is for the time being simply wishful thinking, unless there's going to be a change of the balance of power between the center and the provinces," said Vikram Parekh, senior analyst on Afghanistan for the International Crisis Group think tank. "Frankly, I don't see in the near term how that's going to be implementable." 
The draft's first article declares "Afghanistan is an Islamic Republic," an indication of the govern­ment's desire to bring the 
country together under the banner of Islam, practiced by almost all Afghans. 
"The religion of Afghanistan is the sacred religion of Islam. Followers of other reli­gions are free to perform their religious ceremonies within the limits of the provisions of Ia w," the draft states, according to an English translation pro­vided by the government. 
At a ceremony at the Presidential Palace, red­bound copies of the draft constitution were handed to former King Mohammad Zaher Shah, President Karzai and Lakhdar Brahimi, special envoy of 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
"I hope this will be acceptable for the people and will direct people toward peace, security and democracy," said the 88­year-old Zaher Shah. 

The constitution accords for the former king the ceremonial title of "Father of the Nation." But it has no provisions for the monarchy to continue after his death -an issue that could be contentious in southern regions loyal to Zaher Shah. 
Many feared a strong prime minister could have emerged as a political and military rival to the presi­dent, a major concern in a country that has known lit­tle but war for the past generation. Much debate focused on limiting the powers of that position before the commission decided to drop it entirely. 
ISRAEL 

Foreign reporters to need 'accreditation' 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Israel will force journalists to undergo stringent checks by its Shin Bet security service as a requirement for accreditation, the head of the Government Press Office said Monday. 
Israeli and foreign journalists criti­cized the measure as an attempt to inhibit freedom of the press. 
The Foreign Press Association said that while it understands Israel's security problems, there is no evi­dence that journalists pose a risk. The new policy gives Israeli authorities "unreasonable veto power" over who can serve as a foreign correspondent, the association said in a statement. 
Citing security concerns, Government Press Office director Daniel Seaman said he decided to hand a list of more than 17,000 accredited journalists to the Shin Bet for security checks beginning Jan. 1. 
Until now, only Palestinian journal­ists were checked by the Shin Bet, Seaman said. Under the new policy, Israeli and foreign journalists will also have to go through a security check, although it will not be as thorough as that given to Palestinians, he said. 
"I am sure that [the Shin Bet] have the intelligence information regarding people who could present a danger ... and therefore they have to give their opinion," Seaman told Israel Radio. 
The press office stopped issuing ere­dentials to most Palestinian journal­ists in the West Bank and Gaza ­many of whom work for foreign press agencies -shortly after Israeli­Palestinian fighting erupted three years ago. 

The Government Press Office is responsible for overseeing the needs of all journalists in Israel, both domestic and foreign. The office issues credentials, helps arrange visas for foreign journalists and distributes information about news conferences and other events. 
Seaman said that after journalists are accredited under the new system. the Shin Bet will evaluate them and inform the press office if they pose a threat. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 4, 2003 
Prize winner speaks on classical architecture 
By DUSTIN VONHANDORF 
News Writer 

Leon Krier, renowned architect and first recipient of the University of Notre Dame School of Architecture's Richard Driehaus Prize for Classical Architecture spoke Monday at Washington Hall on the subject of classical architec­ture and the modernist movement. 
The lecture began with a brief introduction by architecture profes­sor Richard Economakis. 
"[Krier] challenged us to examine the disposable society we pro­


BUG DAVISSON!The Observer 
mote," Economakis said. 

Leon Krier speaks at 
The "disposable society" is one 

Washington Hall Monday.
riddled with the confusion of mod­ernism, he said. Krier advocates a return to the classical and tradi­movement first-hand while living in tional elements of architecture. Luxembourg. 
The dominant factor in architec­Krier's most prominent work is ture, Krier said, is a structure's sur­the town of Poundbury in Dorset, rounding geography. "[Architecture England. He has also written many is] the response of the human psy­books, including Architecture: che and human needs to the geog­Choice or Fate. raphy," he said. Known as the godfather of the 
As proof of this point, he included New Urbanist style of architecture, references to the similitude of all he was presented with the buildings in mountain ranges and Driehaus Prize for his works, both those in river valleys. written and architectural, as well 
During the course of the lecture, as the teaching positions he has he spoke of what he called the trag­held throughout his career. ic demise of classical architecture, The Driehaus Prize is presented saying that he believes that mod­to the person who makes a signifi­ernism is too contradictory and cant contribution to the field of confusing. Modernism, he said, dic­classical architecture. Krier is the tates that buildings should be built first person to receive the award, in "the spirit of the time." However, which was bestowed on March 22, Krier said that the spirit of the time 2003. is only known in the long run. 
He said that he witnessed the Contact Dustin VonHandorf at destructive effect of the modernist dvonhand@nd.edu 
·~----------------------------------~----------------------------------, 
Lafavette Square Townhomes 
NOW lathe time, they won't last long! 

+ 
Only 9 Blocks from Campus 


+ 
Law)dryAren with Washer lind Dryer 

+ 
Fully Eqqipped Kitchen fucluding Dishwasher and Garbage 


Disposal + 4/ 5 Privat~ Bedrooms .t • Priva,tii :Pa.tio 

t. Optional ADT Alann System {Optional Monitoring) 
+ Central Air Conditioning 
+ As~igned Parlting 
+ Energy Efficient Gas H~ting 
+ Pmfes~i;lmilly Managed 

+ 24 ~Hour Etnetgency On-Call Maintenance 
For More Information:. R.eal Estate Management Corporation 
.·· . .. . P.O:Box540 S<Jutb.Bertd, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9nJ Facsimile; ~!4-:.t~~~-~':l://J 


Notre Da1ne Apartments 
s:iartl~g atjllat $120.00 per month, per personf 
'"{be Best Value for your Dollar!" 

+ 
J~st 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus

+ 
Spacious 7~~~droom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue t CutrentJcvw& .HJ-moJith Leases Ayailal>le 


• On-Site L;llnd!y Facility · t 2Closetsand !Desk in E~ Bedroom + • .Private Parking Lots •+ · J4 · b®r011-Call Emet~ncy Maintenance •• Up to Hei.Wn5 Per Apartment 
,Fo~ h:l;Qre Informatjon: l{~al ~tate Management Corporation . ~!;();~ S4P . South li¢fui. flil 46624 Te1epM6!:!: 574-234-99~ Fa~i@]e:574-Z34-9925 
RludWi(!{<ilcbresb.com 


THE OBSERVER 









USINESS
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Mutual investigation continues 
Stocks Dow 9 858.46 +0.59 
Boston SEC chief, industry executives step down; upainful" fines to be assessed 
'
·*

Jones 
2,170 

NASDAQ 
NYSE AMEX S&PSOO 
Associated Press 162 ..... 1,348,315,008 WASHINGTON -Federal 1,967.70 +1.8,1 
Same: ~Composite Volume: 
and state law enforcers drew a portrait Monday of

5,995.98 +36.97 
widespread trading abuses

1,061.31 -2.02 <!l1 
within the mutual fund 1,059.02 +8.30 
industry and among bro­
kers that siphon money

NIKKEl (Tokyo) 10,559. 59 0.00 
from ordinary investors.

FTSE IOO(London)4,332.60 +45.00 
Senators expressed out­rage at the abuses and dis­

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
satisfaction with the 

SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +I I. I I CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.73 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.07 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.31 )DS UNIPHASE ODSU) + 1.93 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.74 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.56 5-YEARNOTE +2.40 3-MONTH BILl -I. 18 
response of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

+0.439 4.389 
+0.78 21.71 
The scandal has claimed 

+0.54 26.68 
its first .government victim: Juan Marcelino, the head

+ 1.09 34.04 
of the SEC's Boston office,

+0.068 3.598 
announced he was leaving "to minimize any further distractions for his staff."

+0.38 51.83 
According to recent news 

+0.67 43.68 
reports, an employee of 

+0.78 33. 25 
large mutual fund compa­
ny Putnam Investments

-0.11 9.21 
seeking to expose abuses
Commodities 
at the firm was brushed off 

UGHT CRUDE ($W.) -0.21 28.90 
by attorneys in the SEC GOlD ($/Trq-oz.) -7.50 377.10 
office and later got a more fQRK BEWES (certsAb.) +0. I 0 87.625 
receptive hearing from Massachusetts securities
Exchange Rates 
regulators.

YEN 110.9 
There were also industry 

EUPD 0.8723 
casualties. Putnam's chief 

POUND 0.5965 
executive, Lawrence J. Lasser. is stepping down

CANADIAN$ 1.334 
following the filing of civil fraud charges against the firm and a slate of new top officials is being appointed at the nation's fifth-largest mutual fund company, the firm's parent company 

IN BRIEF 
AT&T fined for intrusive calling 
announced Monday. WASIIINGTON -AT&T faces a $780,000 
Richard Strong, chair­fine for reaching out and touching consumers 
man of Strong Mutual who had asked to be left alone, federal regula­
Funds, also resigned amid tors said Monday. 
multiple inquiries into his personal trading of theThe Federal Communications Commission 

company's funds. But

said it was the first major penalty for violating 
Strong stays as a board

do-not-call rules for telemarketers. 
member and as chairmanThe FCC said AT&T made 78 phone calls to and CEO of Strong Capital 29 consumers who had asked the company to 

Management, the invest­leave them alone. The proposed fine is 
ment adviser to Strong $10,000 per call. 
Mutual Funds. "This puts telemarketers on notice that we 
Regulators told a Senate will take all measures necessary to protect 
hearing that fundamental consumers who chose to be left alone in their 
changes are needed in the way the $7 trillion mutualhomes," FCC Chairman Michael Powell said. 

fund industry operates andThe fine is based on alleged violations of 

governs itself. That's in

FCC rules that require companies to maintain 
addition to stiff punish­

lists of people who have said they do not want ment of wrongdoers, theyto be called with sales pitches. It is separate 
said. from the do-not-call list maintained by the 
The SEC found, for Federal Trade Commission, which allows con­
sumers to put their numbers off limits to a variety of companies. 
Thomson workers to move to startup 


Supreme Court to hear HMO case 
CARMEL, Ind.-About 200 of the dwindling number of Thomson Consumer Electronics employees in suburban Indianapolis would 
Associated Press work for the company's new joint venture with 
WASHINGTON -The Supremea Chinese television giant. 
Court said Monday it will use the
Thomson's French parent company, 
case of a Texas woman whose Health 
Thomson SA. and TCL International Holdings 
Management Organization (HMO) Ltd. announced plans Monday to create a joint 
gave her only one day in the hospital venture that they hope will eventually become 
to recover from a hysterectomy to the world's largest manufacturer of television 
clarify when patients can sue health sets. 
insurers for denying treatment that a The deal is not expected to affect Thomson's 
doctor recommends. The facts of Ruby Calad's case go to other remaining operation in Indiana, a pic­the heart of many patients' frustra­ture tube plant in Marion with 860 workers. 
tion with managed care health plans, 
company spokesman Dave Arland said 
which save money by limiting cover­Monday. 
age and treatment options.

"We're looking to find ways to grow a prof­
"That is the quintessential HMO itable consumer electronics business. The new 
horror story," said George Parker company will have the scale it needs to be 
Young, Calad's lawyer. "They gave profitable, we believe," Arland said. 
her one day after major female sur-

GeHy New York State Attorney Eliot Spitzer, left, speaks to Mary Schapiro, VIce Chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, prior to a Senate com­
mittee hearing. 
example, that a quarter of the nation's largest broker­age houses helped favored clients illegally trade mutual funds after hours. That finding moved Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, R-111., to ask: "We're talking about serious, wholesale criminal violations coming to light, aren't we?" 
Fitzgerald is chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs subcommittee examining the burgeoning mutual fund scandal and the regulators' response. A House panel is also holding hearings this week on the debacle, which has tar­nished the reputation of mutual funds, traditionally viewed as a safe. conserva­tive investment. Some 90 million people have money in U.S. stock mutual funds; half of all American house­holds invest in them. 
Stephen Cutler, the SEC's enforcement director, told the subcommittee he want­ed to "emphasize that we will aggressively pursue those who have violated the law and injured investors as a result of ille­gal late trading, market timing, self-dealing or any other illegal activity we uncover." 
The agency's investiga­tion is "continuing on mul­tiple fronts," said Cutler. 
Companies must be forced to pay back to investors the hefty fees received for managing mutual funds while they allowed fund trading abus­es to occur, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer testified. 
"This number will be big. It will impose pain, and it should," he said. 
Repayment of manage­ment fees would be in addition to restitution to shareholders of profits made from alleged improp­er trading, said Spitzer, who charged in September that preferential trading deals for big-money cus­tomers at mutual fund companies were taking bil­lions of dollars from ordi­nary investors. 

Since then, dozens of firms have been subpoe­naed, including Fidelity Investments, Janus Capital Group, Morgan Stanley and Vanguard Group. 
Sen. Susan Collins, H­Maine, head of the full Senate committee, said she found it shocking that the trading practices, "which benefit a select group of individuals at the expense of the vast majority of mutual fund investors, continue." 
gery," even though her doctor object­ed. "It kind of sums up (patients') worst fears about HMOs." 
The court also agreed to hear a companion case from Texas involving a post-polio patient required to use a cheaper pain pill than his doctor had recommended. Juan Davila claims he suffered bleeding ulcers and nearly had a heart attack. 
Calad, of Sugar Land, and Davila of Denton, ended up in the emergency room, and both later sued over allegedly shoddy treatment. 
Patients' rights advocates and trial lawyers say HMOs need the threat of lawsuits to ensure they don't short­change patients. liMOs say lawsuits drive up costs for everyone and they must draw the line somewhere. 

Employer-sponsored health insur­ance covers nearly 160 million employees and their families, as well as 16 million retirees, according to court filings in a related lawsuit. As of 2001, 93 percent of employees with employer-sponsored health plans were enrolled in some kind of managed care. 
Some in Congress have pushed for national patients' right legislation that would allow patients to sue over alleged injuries, and HMOs lobbied hard against it. The broadest recent effort faltered two years ago. 
So there remains only a web of unwieldy laws and lower court rul­ings governing where patients can bring their lawsuits and what they can ask for. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 4, 2003 
An endangered culture 

I have always felt like a person with­out a past. Unlike people who can trace their families back to some far away time and place, I am unjustly ignorant of my cultural identity. Due to two of history's greatest crimes Kamarla Porter -Middle Passage and the enslavement of Breaking the Africans -black Habit Americans such as myself are lacking the most basic personal right -knowledge of their ancestors and history. 
Because of this void, I decided to venture on a CSC Seminar to the South Carolina Sea Islands and learn about the Gullah people-a rare group of African-Americans. The Gullah people are ancestors of West Africans, stolen in the slave trade and brought to the United States. In an early headhunting exercise, slave traders noticed these people from countries along the coast­line including Sierra Leone, Senegal, Gambia and Liberia practiced efficient methods of cultivating rice. 
Thus, traders tore countless Africans from their homes. languages, cultures and families to both harness these effective growing techniques and exploit the people for slave labor. The Africans who survived the high con­centration of disease and cargo (peo­ple) dumps of the Middle Passage had a greater evil waiting for them-slav­ery. 
The story of the Gullah people in the Sea Islands is quite uncharacteristic compared to other plantation experi­ences in the south. Due to the tropical climate conditions and malaria, whites could not settle on the islands and impose the typical violence-based plantation dynamic. Therefore, Africans lived and worked in rice fields with little influence from whites. In these conditions, cultural attributes of West Africa such as the craft of sweet-grass basket-making survived, while other aspects were blended among the community with the new environment. The Gullah language consists of a mix­ture of words from various African tongues, European languages of slave captors and English, with its own unique syntax and structure. 
After the Civil War, the newly freed peoples of the Sea Islands bought and maintained the land of their captivity since the property was isolated and of no value to whites -yet. 
Unfortunately, within the last 50 years, the Sea Islands have trans­formed from an intolerable living area to prime real estate for vacation and luxury development. Now the culture­crushing tactic already dished out to African-Americans during slavery times is being served up big time to the Gullah People. Every aspect of their culture stands at risk of annihilation. 
Building companies working to con­struct unnatural paradises like Hilton Head, Kaiwah and Seabrook Islands Resorts tracked down Gullah people who had moved away or directly approached land holders and basically bamboozled them out of their land. Either by flashing a suitcase full of dol­lar bills or presenting perplexing con­tracts of sale, developers snatched up land to erect golf courses, vacation homes and gated communities. 
Now sweet-grass basket makers have to buy the needed grass from Florida because chemicals used in the upkeep of resorts and golf courses kill the crop, or "No Trespassing" signs prohibit people from collecting the grass within gated areas. Gullah peo­ple need special passes to pay homage to their ancestors buried on former plantations -now resorts for the rich. 
America's suppression of every speaking pattern outside the King's English forces the Gullah language into hiding. People only use it in their own homes or with other Gullah people. Viewed as uneducated and low, the Gullah language has become a source of undue shame for blacks. 

Resorts and gated communities not only disrupt the equilibrium the Gullah people established with the land, but also raise the property taxes of natives. When they are unable to keep up with the modern, unforgiving econ­omy, the property their ancestors culti­vated for centuries is stolen from them in tax auctions. Lacking the isolation that facilitated cultural survival, the Gullah people are going through the same assimilate-or-perish, cultural imperialist tactics suffered by all non­white peoples of this country. 
The white-capitalist-patriarchal social structure in all its forms and applications spells the end of contem­porary articulations of Gullah culture on a mass scale. Certain aspects may survive in individual families or insu­lated communities, but the "white man" is showing the Gullah people, as other blacks have already experienced, difference is not welcome and resist­ance is futile. 
I, for one, am not ready to give up on the Gullah culture. The people of the Sea Islands stand as ambassadors to a home blacks today will never know; their language, music, crafts, and tra­ditions are more valuable than any­thing I can imagine. 
I urge everyone to learn about this nuanced community, as the partici­pants of the Gullah Seminar did this semester. And if you find yourself on the seventh tee on some golf course at Hilton Head or any of the other Sea Islands, remember that that land once belonged to a people stolen for slavery and oppressed in freedom. 
Kamaria Porter. a sophomore histo­ry major. would like send some love out to the 2003 participants of the Gullah Seminar: you are all awesome. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Homophobic remarks disturbing 
I am writing this letter out of pure disgust with respect to how I saw many of the students at the FSU-ND game act this past Saturday when the FSU band took the field before the game and during half time. When the FSU band came onto the field to play before the game started, I noticed that they had a male baton twirler as part of their group. I couldn't help but think how cool it was to see someone break a gen­der barrier and participate in something that he looked to be really enjoying. 
However, I was astounded when I heard the Notre Dame student section's response to his entry onto the field. Many students, mainly men, immediately began to laugh and call him insulting names like "fairy," "flamer" and one person, after he started twirling the fire batons. even stated, quite loudly, "He doesn't need the fire batons! He's flaming enough as it is!" 
First of all, just because he is a baton twirler does not mean that he is gay. Second of all, even if he is gay, it is com­pletely inappropriate for the student section to be shouting such insults at him. Are these students so insecure about their heterosexuality that they feel the need to shout these insulting names onto the field and act in such a juvenile manner? Is this the way Notre Dame students want visitors to the campus to see us? Do we want to be seen as a campus that has such an intolerance towards people that don't follow the norm of society that we feel the need to make fun of them for it? 
I, for one, do not want to be counted as part of this campus if this is the way that students here are going to act. I think it is time that these students go back to kindergarten so they can relearn the basic grade school teachings of decency of behavior and respect for others. 
Joanna Basile 
sophomore 
Pangborn Hall 
Nov. 3 
OBSERVER POLL 

How often do you meet with a professor outside of class? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 man is not finished when he's defeated: he's finished when he quits." 
Richard Nixon Former U.S. President 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 page 9 
Oxford achieves synthesis of old and new 
Walking the streets, I have come to notice more often the contrast, the anachronisms: cranes flexing beside old stone monuments, bulldozers belch­ing diesel smoke past green, manicured lawns, yelling workmen and scur-
Geoff Johnston

rying dons. Oxford 
is not so important 
for what it was, but 
A Domer at

for what it still is; 
Oxford

but I'm getting 
ahead of myself. 
First, let's look at 
student life and then I'll meander into 
a more meditative look at Oxford. 
Allow me to correct a misimpression that I reported in the last column. From what I have seen of student drinking here at Oxford, there is not the culture of binge drinking that is so prevalent at Notre Dame. While the Oxford students on average probably drink the same amount of alcohol as their counterparts under the Dome, the atmosphere here is more open, tolerant and embracing of the drinking culture, and so students seem to drink not to get drunk, but for the pleasure and enjoyment of alcohol. The Notre Dame community can learn much from the healthy way that alcohol is embraced at Oxford. 
Second, there are so many more opportunities to relax and talk at Oxford than there are at Notre Dame. For example, there are dozens of small, ethnic restaurants throughout the city, serving food in casual environments perfect for chatting and lamenting the weather (which, to be honest, really isn't that bad). One of the other Domers here succinctly summed up the differ­ences between South Bend and Oxford while we were dining at a fancy Italian Notre Dame as night from day. First off, restaurant: "Did you guys know that I have no classes. None. I have two the Olive Garden was voted the best academic obligations over the course of restaurant in South Bend?" the week: one hour-long tutorial on 
Also, New College has its own beer Tuesday and one on Wednesday. Oxford cellar adjoined to the dining is unique, in all of higher edu­hall; how many dorms at cation, in its emphasis on Notre Dame have their individual interaction own bars? (Actually, I between mentor and shouldn't ask that student, and in the question, since maturity that it I'm from Zahm; assumes from how many every student. dorms have My teachers their own assign me a list legal ~ars?) of problems; Life here is, some are for better mandatory, and worse, others option-much more al, and I am laid back, sent off into much more the blue yon-relaxed, off-der in search the-cuff. of solutions. Oxford stu-When I do dents reflect finally return this European with answers is ethos; they when the fun don't seem to begins. For have the driving example, when my zeal of so many mathematics tutor 
Americans (and m:.·.;}',j:~:~:::JJ,.':·~:.:JJ:~~ and I sit down to dis-Notre Dame students ··········'''''''·'·'·'· .,,,,),.' cuss, he begins by fold-in particular). ~t~~~~ij ing his hands, staring out 
Relations between gen-· the window for what could ders are not the forced, awk-be three or four minutes, says a ward affair that they are at Notre sentence, deliberating over every word, Dame; as much as I appreciate the sin-weighing every syllable, and then fur­gle sex atmosphere of the dorms for rows his brow when I respond. This building camaraderie and community, continues for an hour. At which point, talking to the girls who live and eat and having exhausted what knowledge I study with us is refreshing. had gained over the week, I am sent 
The academic system here, as I have out once again in search of answers to written previously, is as different from finely crafted questions. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Dorm rivalries taken too far 
<I 

On the night before Halloween, stu­dents from Keenan Hall participate in a traditional community service event known as the Keenan Great Pumpkin. As a symbol of our pride and commit­ment to the event, the men of Keenan hang a huge wooden sign in the shape and color of a pumpkin that reads: "Coming soon, the Keenan Great Pumpkin." During the Great Pumpkin, students from Keenan and other dorms take young children from the local Boys and Girls Club trick-or-treating at all of the participating dorms on campus. As an event where students volunteer their time to help local kids, this is surely an activity that I believe all stu­dents should support and embrace. 
When I woke up for breakfast last Wednesday morning, I saw something that made me ashamed of some of my fellow Domers; when I looked up at the big, orange sign, I saw something that turned my pride in Keenan Hall into disappointment in Notre Dame: during the night, someone from a rival dorm of Keenan Hall defaced the Great Pumpkin sign. I have only one question for the perpetrators of this act: Why? 
Why did you feel the need to mar a sign that supports a community service event to help eight-year-old kids? Even if you have a rivalry with the dorm hosting the service event, why would you ruin it for the children who wanted to have a fun night of trick-or-treating? 
Even for those people who have the 
attitude of "I would never have done it, 
but I think it's hilarious that someone else did"-perhaps you are more a 
part of the problem than you realize, and you need to rethink your attitude. 
In any event, it is not my place to spec­
ulate or point a finger. 
I was dismayed tonight when I heard the rector of Keenan Hall, Father Mark Thesing, announce a new rule regard­ing Christmas light decorations to help prevent vandalism. Christmas lights hanging on Zahm and Keenan Hall can­not hang less than eight feet from the ground, so that the lights cannot be cut by someone on the ground. The rule was created because both dorms' lights displays were cut last year. This rule, based on the failure of Notre Dame stu­dents to respect each other, makes me disappointed in and ashamed of my fel­low Notre Dame students. Even though one of Keenan's signs has already been vandalized, I call on students from both dorms to respect each other's Christmas light displays this year, show respect and class to all other dorms, and to overcome 011r rivalries and take pride as a single Notre Dame communi­ty. 
Patrick Corrigan freshman Keenan Hall Nov. 3 

No 300-student lecture halls, with homework and tests; nope, just simple face-to-face interrogation, the crucible of the mentor's knowledge squeezing out every last drop of the unformed, vague and hazy from my thoughts. 
But, as at Notre Dame, most of my time is spent in my hall (or College, at Oxford). New College is universally regarded as one of the most beautiful colleges, with good reason. When New College was built in the middle of Oxford's late-14th century red-light district, part of the agreement was that the College would maintain the walls. And so it has preserved, these many years, its medieval wall: the stairs that lead to the archer posts, the turrets and crenellations, the gargoyles strug­gling to emerge from the rock face. 
What characterizes Oxford as an institution is the balance, the tension between the old and the new. As Susan Sontag professed in her acceptance speech of the Friedenspreis, "old and new are the perennial poles of all feel­ing and sense of orientation in the world," and Oxford is constantly trying to synthesize the two, to reconcile tuto­rials with higher expenses, decaying buildings with diesel, liberal education with science. Oxford is a place where the past meets the future, and this is the bond between Oxford and Notre Dame: the attempt to preserve while innovating. 
GeoffJohnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University. 1/e can be reached at geoffrey.johnston@new.ox.ac. uk. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSER\'ER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Third time not quite the charm 

MOVIE REVIEW 

Hackman headlines stellar cast in engaging film 
other people? (Gene Hackman) to sway the verdict ject that provides urgency where a 
By SARAH VABULAS 

Runaway Jury features an all-star their way by manipulating the jury. trial about tobacco could not provide. Scene Editor 
cast to round off a great plot line. When Nicholas Easter (John Cusack) is This urgency pushes the movie along When a promising businessman (Dylan selected to serve on the jury, Fitch and and adds much to the plot, keeping 
Imagine yourself sitting on a jury, McDermott) is murdered during an Rohr soon learn that Easter is audiences on the ,.edge of their seats evaluating and deciding the fate for office rampage, his widow hires engaged in his own jury tampering, for what might happen next. another human -or, in the case of Louisiana lawyer Wendell Rohr with the help of a mysterious outside Hackman beautifully stars as the the film based on John Grisham's best­(Dustin Hoffman, with little to do) to source (Rachel Weisz). manipulative man of the movie, cou­selling novel. The Runaway Jury, you take on the gun manufacturer who Runaway Jury takes moviegoers pled with the high levels of enthusi­must decide whether a gun production supplied the weapon in the first place. back into John Grisham's thrilling ups asm for the role. Hackman dominates company is at fault for an office shoot­Looking to buy its way out of a huge and downs of the lives inside a conser­the screen during his scenes and con­ing. settlement, the gun corporation hires vative southern courtroom. All the vinces the audience of not only the 
What would you do to influence a shady character named Rankin Fitch favorites from Grisham's novels can be reality of the situation, but also the found in this intriguing and engaging urgency involved in this controversial film: the car-court case. toony villains, At the conclu­the easily "Runaway Jury" sion of the movie, swayed hand of 
as I surveyed the justice, chases, audience, all intrigue and the could see was the nicest, most nervousness in 
Director: Gary Fleder

honest lawyers their faces as the 
Writers: Brian Koppelman, David Levien,
that seem to verdict was about 
Rick Cleveland, Matthew Chapman and John
only exist in to be delivered. print or in the Grisham After all the Starring: John Cusack, Gene Hackman,
movies. blackmail and 
Dustin Hoffman and Rachel Weisz

The film is one bribery through-of the better out the entirety of Grisham adaptations from novel to the the plot, the verdict was unpredictable big screen. It is light and keeps audi­and a sigh of relief was felt after it ences on their toes, much like The came out. Rainmaker and The Pelican Brief. The This movie was full of thrills, twists film arms itself with a terrific cast and and turns. It provided two hours of a willingness to keep the momentum thought-provoking entertainment. If going. you are at all into court cases or John 
In adapting this book for the screen, Grisham, be sure to see Runaway the biggest change is the reason for Jury. the trial. In Grisham's book, it was a 
courtesy www. i suit against a big tobacco corporation. The film hinges on the issue of gun Contact Sarah Vabulas at control, taking on a very topical sub-vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
Wendell Rohr (Dustin Hoffman) confronts Rankin Fitch (Gene Hackman) and tries to stop Fitch from manipulating the outcome of the trial In 'Runaway Jury.' 
By MATT FREY Scene Movie Critic 

Jenny McCarthy and Pamela Anderson: together for the first time on the big screen. Could my life get any better? 
Yes. The movie could have been rated 
R. You may have heard of Scary Movie or even Scary Movie 2, those infamous scary movies with no plots and too many laughs to count. The commercials promised much of the same in Scary Movie 3; it's a shame those commer­cials had every actual joke in them. All I got from this movie was a headache from the 50-year-old man sitting one row over. 
I must admit the raunchy and albeit satirical humor did 
make even this cyni­acting as cal boy crack a "Scary Movie 3" mairi character smile, ever so slight 

of this story as it may have been, a news but the movie alto­reporter known
~!ll~i:r gether was just okay. for her left field Only 85 minutes Director: David Zucker personality and long, this movie was Writers: Craig Mazin, Pat Proft, Brian blonde ways. run-of-the-mill at L,ynch, David Zucker and the Wayan bros. Cindy has a best. Although the Starring: Charlie Sheen, Jenny McCarthy, story on the Wayans brothers are Pamela Anderson, Simon Rex and Anna Faris late news about 
credited with creat­ing several of the main characters in the film (see the Coors Twins). the movie lacked the usual hilarious comedy star power provided by the two brothers and their usual drug/sex antics. 
This time, the writers tried too hard and wound up with joke followed by poor humor into another joke in a film that had absolutely no story line what­soever. Frankly, my 16-year-old cousin 
a new cornfield phenomenon which she promises to get to the bottom of. Her adventures take us through farm and city, surprisingly close together, and the creature of the black lagoon finding her way from the bottom of a well to say "can you hear me now". Who would have realized that someone confined to living in a ghost world would know the ever-popular cellular phone commercials? 
loved it and, well, if I were still a young boy inside, I would have died laughing, too. Correction on the last point -col­lege males all still act 16 and, therefore, I did die laughing. 
I never knew Charlie Sheen (Tom) could be so hilarious or well, bland, but hey his dad's commercial for ND is stel­lar. Anyway, Scary Movie 3 was prima­rily based on The Ring, which, if you haven't seen is ... well, I am not sure, because I haven't seen it, either. Simon Rex (George), yes MTV's very own, did a superb job as a rapping, country farmer. George has a dream to have a dream and becomes a rap battler inspired by 8 Mile. He plays the all-too­typical klutz, the dumb guy that the film takes advantage of for his cliched dim­witted remarks. Anna Faris (Cindy) does an excellent job the 
Your ever-popular "teen movie" has struck again in this sequel to the sequel that failed to remember that number two left us_ a bit, well, unsatisfied. I admit that I waited and waited for Jenny and Pamela to reappear or maybe a rampant display of debaucheries from the twins. but noth­ing happened. (Tear drop). In fact, this is a movie that can wait until it comes out on video. In fact, it can wait until it is on the five for five for five list. You know -five movies for five days for five dollars ... what a deal for all your dull classics. In the Wayans' defense, I know they tried, but the not-so-original Priest, Michael Jackson and violent humor has run its course. So, save your money. buy a stick of gum at the Huddle and -contin­ue on your merry way. We all know that SUB will have it cheap inthe spring. 

Contact Matt Frey at mfreyl@nd.edu 
THE OBSER\'ER 
CENE
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
'Reloaded' DVD does not fire on all cylinders 
By TIM MASTERTON Scene Movie Critic 
One billion dollars. 
The first two installments of The Matrix have already grossed over a bil­lion dollars. and with The Matrix Revolutions due out this Wednesday, Matrix fever is starting to spread again. The movie's creators, brothers Larry and Andy Wachowski, have established an empire of merchandise, from video games to comic books, and arc poised to make even more with the release of The Matrix Reloaded on 
ovo. 
Reloaded picks up where the first 111m left off and is only half of the final chapter to this story. Hather unconven­tionally, Reloaded was released in May, leaving fans hanging for months with its huge cliffhanger ending -but that will soon be resolved with Revolutions. 
The complex story of Reloaded makes that of the first film look relatively sim­ple by comparison. Keanu Heeves is back as Neo, prophesizcd to be "The One" to save humans from destruction by the machines that have taken over both the world and the majority of humans' bodies and minds. Reeves still retains his stone-cold delivery of lines, but who cares? It somehow works in this fascinating trilogy of movies. Back, too. are multiple philosophical and reli­gious references, making this film appealing on many levels. 
Like most other sequels, there are the typical bigger-and-better fights and action scenes. But very little about any of these films can be called typical. The revolutionary bullet-time camera tech­niques are used again in Reloaded to good effect when Neo flies, or, as one character notes, does "his su·perman thing." (Yes, now he can fly.) 
The highlight of Reloaded is the one­of-a-kind car chase staged on a one­mile stretch of highway built especially for the movie. The mix of.real stunts and computer-generated imagery pro­vides a seamless end result that will keep anyone on the edge of his seat. Only so much can be said or written about it. You just need to see this scene for yourself. 
Some Matrix fans have complained about a few seemingly unnecessary scenes, including those depicting the developing love between Neo and . Trinity's (Carrie-Anne Moss and one showing some sort of techno dance orgy that is too long and wholly excessive. Another fight scene between Nco and hun­dreds of agents drags on and ends when Neo flies away. Why didn't he just do that in the first place? However, the film 

has very few major, glaring flaws. 
The quality of the movie itself on DVD is outstanding. Although released as a two-disc set, don't get the wrong idea. There isn't much here beyond the film itself. Disc One features the film in its original widescreen format. The images are crisp, and the sound is phe­nomenal. Even though most students don't have flat-screen TVs and sur­round sound in their dorm rooms, Reloaded is still worth a view. You will probably want to go back and watch that highway chase again and again. 
Disc Two includes "an explosion of mind-freeing features," or so the DVO case promises. Even though Reloaded will help you put off your homework, don't waste your time on Disc Two. The only things worth watching are a "How They Did It" explaining the aforemen­tioned chase and a parody entitled The MTV Movie Awards Reloaded. featuring a hilarious performance by Will Farrell as the film's character, the architect. Unless French subtitles and Matrix­inspired advertising excite you, skip the rest of this disc. 
Although some, myself included, may find some elements of Reloaded to complain about, it is overall a thrilling movie and a great showcase for cut­ting-edge film technology. It picks up where the first movie left off and sets the stage for the all-out war between man and machine to be concluded in theaters this Wednesday. Like any good entertainment should do, Reloaded succeeds in leaving the viewer wanting more. 
Contact Tim Masterton at tmastert@nd.edu 

Hollywood injects Christmas cheer into holiday season 
A..ociated Press 
At last, a holiday-movie season with real tinsel. 
Amid the blockbuster big guns of The Matrix Revolutions and The Lord of the flings: The Return of the King, 
Hollywood serves up a wealth of warmhearted fare to put audiences in the holiday spirit, including three very different Christmas-themed comedies. 
Elf is a merry boy-raised-by­Santa's-helpers tale starring Will Ferrell as a towering human who leaves his adopted home at the North Pole to find his real dad (James Caan) in New York City. Ed Asner plays the world-weary Santa Claus. 
Love Actually is a big, fat ensemble romance set in the weeks before Christmas, with whipsmart dialogue and a cast of lovelorn Londoners including Emma Thompson, Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman. Colin Firth, Laura Linney and Hugh Grant as Britain's bachelor prime minister. 
Bad Santa stars Billy Bob Thornton (who pops up briefly in Love Actually as the imperious U.S. president) in a black comedy about a thief who learns the meaning of the season while posing as a mall Santa to pull a robbery. 
Directed by Terry Zwigoff. who made the art-house hit Ghost World, Bad Santa co-stars the late John Hitter as the mall manager. With Joel and Ethan Coen as executive produc­
ers, the movie promises a blend of sentiment and Coen brothers weird­ness, Thornton said. 
"It's like an episode of South Park that turns into It's a Wonderful Life," Thornton said. "It's definitely the alternative Christmas movie.... We'll hit you with a right cross, then the other holiday movies will come along to bandage you up." 
Elf is a crowd-pleasing mix of slap­stick, fish-out-of-water silliness and childlike heart as Ferrell takes Manhattan with nothing more than his bottomless Christmas cheer and a dorky elf suit. 
Ferrell said he could relate to the character's naive innocence and holi­day spirit. 
"One of the things that struck me about playing this character is that it was so appealing to play someone who's very earnest, is completely nonjudgmental and accepting of any­one and everyone," Ferrell said. 
Love Actually could have taken place any old time, but writer-direc­tor Richard Curtis, who wrote Four Weddings and a Funeral and Nolting Ifill, said "Christmas is the time when you sort of have a go at things romantic.... It's the time when love is most likely to burst out both in its happy and sad forms, and people are most likely to say the unsayable." 
Among Hollywood's other comfort­food movies for the holidays: Dr. Seuss' The Cat in the Hat, with Mike Myers; Mona Lisa Smile, starring Julia Hoberts as a progressive art-
history teacher who inspires students at a close-minded women's college in the 1950s; Eddie Murphy's The Haunted Mansion, a family comedy based on Disney's theme-park attrac­tion; the romantic comedy Something's Cotta Give, featuring Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton in the story of a womanizer who loses his taste for sweet young things when he falls for someone in his own age bracket. 
Also: a remake of Cheaper by the Dozen, with Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt as a couple that missed a few Planned Parenthood sessions on their way to having 12 kids; Martin again as the villain in Looney Tunes: Back in Action, a live-action and cartoon combo that pairs Brendan Fraser with Bugs, Daffy and other Warner Bros. favorites; the huge-screen IMAX exclusive The Young Black Stallion, a prequel to the 1979 horse tale; and Peter Pan, a live-action adaptation of J.M. Barrie's story of young girl Wendy and her pal Peter, the boy who won't grow up, directed by P.J. Hogan (My Best Friend's Wedding). 
Jason Isaacs, who plays the villain­ous Capt. Hook and Wendy's father, said people who know the story only from Disney's spry animated version will be surprised at the movie's dark depths. 
The film also casts a boy, Jeremy Sumpter, as Peter, breaking with the old stage tradition of putting older women in the role. 
"I remember having seen one of these horrible stage versions with slightly menopausal women dressed in green tights, slapping their thighs," Isaacs said. "As a young boy, I couldn't understand why this little girl Wendy fancied this 50-year-old woman." 
The season's serious fare includes four heavy-duty 19th century tales: 
Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World, with Russell Crowe as a Napoleonic-era British ship's ··­captain in a deadly high-seas duel; The Missing, Hon Howard's savage Western about redemption between a pioneer woman (Cate Blanchett) and her estranged father (Tommy Lee Jones); Nicole Kidman, Jude Law and Renee Zellweger in Cold Mountain, adapted from Charles Frazier's Civil War best seller; and Tom Cruise in The Last Samurai, about a disen­chanted American soldier who finds renewal amid culture-clash strife in Japan. 
Also coming are 21 Grams, starring Sean Penn, Naomi Watts and Benicio Del Toro in a sober drama of grief and mortality; Tim Burton's Big Fish, with Albert Finney and Ewan McGregor in a father-son reunion fantasy; /louse of Sand and Fog, the story of an ex-Iranian bigwig (Ben Kingsley) fighting for possession of a home with its former owner'(Jennifer Connelly); and Michael Caine in The Statement, Norman Jewison's thriller about an aging Nazi collaborator run­ning from assassins. 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIED$ 
Equestrian club places third in first competition 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Equestrian club com­pleted its first semester com­petition placing third in a pair of IHSA Horse Shows this weekend at Taylor University. On Saturday, the Irish earned 25 points to trail first place Earlham University's 36 points and IUPUI, with 32 points. 
Irish co-captain Liz Bell was high point rider, while Indiana's Julie Goodman took reserve high point rider hon­ors. Each rider had won her respective jump and flat class­es, and the winner was deter­mined with a ride-.off. 
Others earning points for the Irish were Katie Baron, fourth, and Claire Freeman, sixth in open jump A. Kelsey Ostberg, second in open flat C and fourth in open jump B, Liz Bell, first in both intermediate jump A and open flat B, with Freeman second, Andrea Oliverio, second in novice jump B and fourth in novice flat B, Baron third in open flat A, Catherine Linn third in novice jump A and fifth in novice flat A, Kristin LaSota third in advanced walk trot canter and Kendall Anderson second in walk trot. 
On Sunday, the club finished with 22 points behind Purdue and runner-up IUPUI with 31 and 28 points respectively. Ostberg earned high point rider honors, edging Lucy Withers of IUPUI, who finished reserve high point rider. Osteberg, teammate Lauren Ball and Withers all participat­ed in a ride-off as they finished in a three-way tie for the show. 
Ostberg took first in open flat B and second in open jump B, while Ball took first in novice flat B and second in novice jump C. Oliverio also garnered a first in novice jump B and sixth in novice flat A, while Freeman took first in open flat C and fourth in open jump B. Baron finished third in both 
Guillen nam.ed White Sox m.anager 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Ozzie Guillen was certain he was the right person to be the new manager of the Chicago White Sox, regardless of what his resume did or didn't say. 
1\vo hours into his first inter­view, White Sox general manag­er Kenny Williams agreed. 
"The passion, the commit­ment, the energy, the game knowledge, the aggressive atti­tude," Williams said Monday in introducing Guillen as manager of the team where he spent 13 years of his 16-year career. 
"He bleeds White Sox base­ball. There is no doubt in my mind that he is going to provide something here we desperately need. Ajolt, ifyou will." 
When Williams fired Jerry Manuel on Sept. 29 in the wake of the White Sox's colossal melt­down, he was certain he want­ed a manager with experience. Someone who'd been to the postseason, maybe even the World Series. 
Former Toronto manager Cito Gaston was believed to be an early favorite, and Williams said he talked to Tom Kelly and Jim Leyland to see if either had interest in getting back into baseball. 
But then came Guillen. He just retired in 2000, and his only experience was as a coach, the last two years as third base open jump A, and open flat B, Linn placed fifth in novice jump A and Julia Burke took sixth in open flat A. Katy Ryan captured second in novice flat A and Marta Ascadi was sixth in advanced walk trot canter 
A. Lauren Croall brought home another first for the Irish in advanced walk trot canter C, with teammate Kristin LaSota finishing sixth. Kendall Anderson again contributed to the team total, with a fifth in walk trot. 
The club will return to action in the spring. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
The Irish suffered another tough loss this weekend as 

they dropped a 6-1 contest Friday evening at Western Michigan. 
The Broncos' Rhonda Sheahan proved again to be one of the best goalies in the conference as she shut down the Irish attack, which almost doubled Western Michigan in shots on goal. Saint Mary's Megan Mattia scored the only goal for the Irish late in the second period, assisted by Jaky Kehler and Lizzy Coghill. 
The Irish will travel to Michigan State on Nov. 21 to face off with the Spartans, before returning home for a rematch with the Broncos at the Joyce Center the next day. 
Raiders continue to struggle with losses 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Rod Woodson jokingly offered up the idea of hanging a sugges­tion box outside Oakland's practice facility for anybody who thinks they can solve the mess the Raiders are in. 
The team's other Woodson, four-time Pro Bowl cornerback Charles Woodson, is at the cen­ter of the turmoil -the off­field stuff anyway. Twice in five days he publicly criticized sec­ond-year coach Bill Callahan, saying Callahan is stubborn and has lost control of his team, and that the Raiders are falling apart. 
On Monday, Callahan called the comments "inappropriate and inaccurate." 
"As long as he comes here to 1220 Harbor Bay, he'll find the team," Rod Woodson said in a nearly empty Raiders locker room. ''I'm pretty sure you can't lose 53 guys. We're not playing hide-and-seek here. You never quit playing, because you play for each other." 
He claims "there is no inter­nal grumbling," but apparently changed his stance upon learn­ing Callahan and Charles Woodson haven't spoken in a month. 

If Oakland hasn't imploded already, the team seems on the brink of major disaster only eight games removed from its Super Bowl loss to Tampa Bay. Callahan insists he isn't wor­ried about his job security and that he still has all faith in his coaching philosophy and the strength of his staff. 
Things became significantly worse Sunday when the Raiders lost 2 3-13 at Detroit, losing their backup-turned­starting quarterback in the process. Marques Tuiasosopo partially tore a ligament his left knee while filling in for injured 2002 MVP Rich Gannon, and the Raiders will likely turn to third-stringer Rick Mirer this week to face the New York Jets. They were beat up enough already. 
"I mean, we lost one game now to the Detroit Lions, who coach says was an outstanding football team," Rod Woodson said. "So, I guess the Jets are going to be -whoooo -they might be going to the Super Bowl." 
The Raiders have reached record lows. They are all but out of the playoff race after a 2­6 start, their worst start since beginning 1-6-1 in 1964. They appear to be losing faith in each other and their coaches. 

coach for the World Series 
champion Florida Marlins. 
Williams set aside four hours 
for their interview, never think­
ing he would need more. 
"By the time that second hour 
hit," Williams said, "I was con­
vinced he was the guy." 
Though Williams' mind was 
already made up, he brought 
Guillen back for a second inter­
view. He offered him the job 
Sunday night, and Guillen 
signed a two-year contract with 
an option for a third year ·Monday. 
"It's an honor for me," Guillen 
said. "It took me a little while to 
get back and wear this uniform. 
Hopefully it'll be the last uni­form I ever wear." 
Guillen's passion for the White Sox is undeniable. The former All-Star shortstop never stopped smiling Monday. And when he walked out the door to catch a plane back to Florida, he was still wearing his new White Sox cap. 
But his honesty impressed Williams, too. Thirty seconds after he walked in the door, Guillen told Williams he wasn't going to try to impress him or tell Williams what he thought the GM wanted to hear. 
He was going to be Guillen, take it or leave it. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMODELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON LAKEWALK TO CAMPUS. 272-6306 
HONDA 93 Accord LX, 5speed, great condition, $2,850,232-2597. 
NOTICES 
'"ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
Vector/Cutco workforstudents.com/ 574-282-2357 
VECTOR MKT. has many cust sales/service openings. Flex. sched. Excellent Pay. No. Exp. Nece. workforstudents.com. 574-282-2357 
Doglegleftnews.com 'Putting the Pathetic in Apathetic' Brought to you by ND Students and Alumni 
TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-0964. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574) 251-1570. 
Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 
Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tickets 574-289-8048 
WANTED 

Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-0167, ext. U187 
FOR RENT 

ND FOOTBALL HOUSING: Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neigh­borhood available for remaining ND football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6 cars. $1,200 per weekend. No pets. (574) 231-8823 (evenings). 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMM­RENTALS@AOLCOM 272-1525 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDITION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 
Game/Weekend Getaway. Waterfront home on Stone Lake­148 acre full rec lake. 20 min from ND. Furnished, 3BD, 2BA, sleeps 11, fireplace, full kitchen. microwave & dlw, wid/ TVNCR. gas grill. 312-399-5741 rjhalloran@yahoo.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUSES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. STJOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS­214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS­718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED­ROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 
3-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS. LOW $$.272-6306,329-0308 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 with StudentCily.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with _ Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottestdestinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, vistt www.studentcity.com or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK! 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s Hottest prices Book now. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426-771 0 
ADOPTION:Irish. affectionate, childless, stay-at-home mom and environmentalist dad. dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic newborn through adoption. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484-6754, PIN: 8642 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! 110% Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com 
.... IRISH CROSSINGS. A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY'"' Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Willi SfRV!CtS Page 13 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
tr-am 

1 USt(65) 
2 lfawall 
3 Florida 4 Pepperdh'le 5 Kansas State 6 UCLA 7 Georgia Ter;h 8 Stanford 9 Callfltrnla 1C Nebraska 11 wa~lllngton 
12 NOTRE DAME 13 Nortlu)rn Iowa 14 Santa Clara 15 Colorado Stale 16 Pen11 Slate 
16 san Diego
17 
Loyola Marym~u;otllilllil
19 UC Santa 
20 Mlnne,ota 
21 Texas A& M Z2 Wisconsin 23 loulsvUle 24 Cincinnati 
25 Minourl 

around the dial 
SOCCER 

Manchester United vs. Rangers 2:30p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL NOTRE DAME Football Show 4:30p.m., Fox Sports Bowling Green at Miami (Ohio) 8 p.m., ESPN2 

PHILADELPIIIA -Billy Wagner questioned Houston ownership's com­mitment to winning. He won't have those problems with the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The All-Star closer was traded Monday from the cost-cutting Astros to the Phillies for right-hander Brandon Duckworth and minor league right-ban­ders Taylor Buchholz and Ezequiel Astacio. 
Wagner, a three-time All­Star, goes from one of baseball's best bullpens to among its worst. The Phillies converted just 33 saves in 51 opportunities as Jose Mesa and Mike Williams both faltered. 

''I'm excited about com­ing to Philadelphia because they obviously have made a commitment to winning a champi­onship," Wagner said. 
Wagner had criticized Astros owner Drayton McLane for not making a move to get another quali­ty starting pitcher for the 2003 season and expected more of the same for next season. 
"It's going to be a tape job," Wagner said after the season finale. "It's not like we're going out there and getting any marquee pitch­ers." 
Wagner didn't back off 
IN BRIEF 

Mattingly to become Yankees hitting coach NEW YOHK -Don Mattingly is returning to the New York Yankees. A six-time All-Star who was the team's captain from 1991 until his retirement in 1995, Mattingly was persuaded by owner George Steinbrenner to become the team's hitting coach. While no announcement was made Monday, his hiring was dis­closed by a baseball official with knowledge of the team's decision. A news conference was expected Tuesday. When Mattingly was at Yankee Stadium on Oct. 15 to throw out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 6 of the AL championship series, he wasn't sure whether he wanted to return to a full-time role with the team. He replaces Hick Down, who was fired last week after New York hit just .140 with runners in scoring 
his comments after the trade. 
"My comments to Drayton were truthful. They were about winning, not about him being a bad owner," Wagner said. 
Whatever the case, the Phillies are thrilled to have him. General manager Ed Wade said getting a closer was the team's top priority in the offseason. 
"Billy Wagner was at the top of our list," Wade said. 
Phillies manager Larry Bowa compared Wagner to Atlanta's John Smoltz and Los Angeles' Eric Gagne. 
"He's a dominant closer," Bowa said. "There's a big void we filled real quick." 
Wagner was 1-4 with a 

1.78 ERA last season and had 44 saves in 4 7 chances, making a career­high 78 appearances. Mesa converted 24 of 28 saves for the Phillies and had seven losses and a 
6.52 ERA. Williams, an All-Star with Pittsburgh, was 0-4 with a 6.38 EHA and three saves in five chances after being acquired by the Phillies in July. 
The Phillies are moving into a new ballpark in April, and the trade for Wagner has generated a lot of excitement among fans that can translate into increased ticket sales. 
position during its six-game loss to Florida in the World Series. 
Dislocated shoulder injury to keep Bashir out a couple of weeks 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis safety Idrees Bashir is expected to miss Sunday's game at Jacksonville and is likely to be out longer with a dislocated right shoulder. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said Bashir will miss "a couple weeks at least" with the injury. He hurt the shoulder while trying to tackle Miami running back Ricky Williams during Sunday's 23-17 victory. 
Bashir has started 37 of 40 games throughout his career. He was replaced Sunday by Jason Doering and Dungy said the Colts would use one of their cornerbacks at safety in practice this week. Dungy gave the Colts an extra off day Monday after their seventh win in eight games. 

Dungy was uncertain whether kick returner Brad Pyatt would play against the Jaguars. Pyatt was injured on a punt return early in the first quarter Sunday when Miami's Tommy Hendricks made a helmet-to-helmet tackle. 
Pyatt laid on the ground for sev­eral minutes as doctors immobi· lized him and he left the field on a stretcher. Dungy said it was a chest injury and Pyatt believed he could play this week. 
"That was a very scary situation," Dungy said. "You feel like he got a concussion or some type of neck injury, but when we went out there, he was saying 'My chest, my chest."' 
The Colts also lost wide receiver Brandon Stokley during the game on Sunday with a concussion. Dungy said the team would conduct neurological tests before clearing him to practice this week and did not rule him out of the Jacksonville game. 
r---­
page 14 Tuesday, November 4, 2003
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Morrissey able to overcome Zahm 20-7 in quarterfinal 
By KEVIN O'NEILL 
Sports Writer 
If the true indicator of the heart of a team is how they respond to adversity, third seeded Morrissey certainly showed themselves to be in possession of heart as mounting an impressive comeback to defeat a valiant Zahm team 20-7 and move one step closer to the Stadium. 
Tailback Nick Klein ran 13 times for 7 5 yards and a touchdown and quarterback Marty Mooney threw for one touchdown and ran for another to lead the comeback. 
Zahm took advantage of a few strategic wrinkles to build the early lead. Defensively, the Rabid Bats came out in a 4-3 scheme instead of their customary 5-2 to "switch it up" according to captain Mike Maimone. The early results were favorable as the Rabid Bat defense stopped the Manorites on their first possession. 
From there, the Rabid Bats used some misdirection in both the run­ning and passing game to spring back-to-hack plays of over 25 yards. That set up a great individ­ual effort from wide receiver Mike Russell who defeated double cover­age to come down with quarter­back Mitch Knapke's pass to make the score 7-0 in favor ofZahm after the extra point. 
The 76-yard drive represented the first time all season the Manorite defense had been scored upon as the result of a long drive, but the Morrissey offense was right there to pick its defense up with a 65-yard scoring drive that was all achieved in the running game. Nick Klein completed the drive on which he had five carries for 55 yards with a 25-yard jaunt around and through the left side of the Zahm defense. 
Following the two-point conver­sion the Manorites suddenly led 8-7 and had forced Zahm to switch back to their customary defense. 

"We had to switch back to the 5­2 to try and stop the run," Maimone said. 
When the Morrissey defense came back on the field, they made it clear that they had settled down, forcing an immediate three and out by allowing just one first down while forcing two turnovers over the remainder of the game. 
"We got our assignments down and played like we had played all 
year  and  tried  to  get  some  
turnovers,"  linebac ker  Brian  
Dinsmore said.  .  

With the defense back to its dom­inating ways, the Morrissey offense was able to mount another scoring drive before the half. With Zahm in the 5-2 to stop Klein, Mooney dropped back, and recognizing that Zahm was in tight man coverage, took off up the left sideline. Mooney had one man to beat as he crossed the Zahm 25, and beat him with an impressive juke to make his run a 60-yard, momentum changing touchdown. 
"I thought the turning point was Mooney's run," Morrissey captain Aaron Ronsheim said. "It was huge to get that score right before the half." 
Following a Dinsmore intercep­tion that positioned the ball at the Zahm 24, the Manorites scored the game-icing 11-yard touchdown on a tipped pass that fell into the arms of Ronsheim. 
Despite the loss, Zahm had a lot to be proud of after starting the season 0-2. 
''I'm satisfied overall." Maimone said. ''I'm proud of our team. We started the year 0-2 and could have folded, but we came back strong and made the playoffs. I think we played them pretty even overall today." The Manorites advance to take 
on Siegfried, the team that ended  the Manorites will need to come out  
their season in the first round of the  ready to play to beat the Ramblers.  Contact Kevin O'Neill at  
playoffs last year. Dismore knows  ''That's a big motivator," he said.  koneill4@nd.edu  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS  
152 Hurley Building  
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  
T:  631-5882  
Fax: 631-5711  


BERLIN 
INFORMATIONMEETING 
With Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2003 118 DeBartolo 
4:30PM 

Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 

... 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
Men's 
continued from page 20 
rushing plays behind Kevin McCarthy and Ben Butwin, was one dimensional and admitted­ly so. 
"We're going to run the ball every play, and there's nothing !Sorinl can do about it," a Dillon coach said to Sarin's defense during the fourth quar­ter. 
The persistence of Dillon's running game proved the dif­ference as they used brute force to wear down Sorin and eventually find holes in its defense. 
Dan Block anchored Dillon's defensive line with linebacker Hobert McBride putting pres­sure on the quarterback. The extremely vocal Dillon sideline also was a 12th man on defense that caused false starts on Sorin's offense. 
Dillon realizes that teams will be gunning for them through­out the playoiTs. but they feel ready to face Keenan next Sunday. 
"Being a number one seed is like having a bull's-eye on your back, but we'll be more pre­pared against Keenan next week." Arseniadis said. 
Keenan 10, Knott 7 
Skill, composure and a last minute field goal proved to be the right ingredients for a Keenan victory. 
After a sluggish first half, the Keenan Knights were able to maintain their poise and upset the Knott J uggerknotts 10-7. 
Knott began the first half energetically, as it seized con­trol of the game by maintaining possession of the ball and by stopping Keenan's offense by only allowing one first down. 
Knott's dominance eventually turned fruitful during the sec­ond quarter, as Knott scored the first touchdown of the game. Running back Joe McCarthy ran for 18 yards and dove into the end zone to make the score 7-0. 
Despite Keenan giving up the touchdown, its offense remained stagnant as Knight quarterback and team captain Patrick Downey immediately threw an interception to Alex Fergus and allowed Knott to run the clock to end the first half. 
"We had no life in us during the first half," Downey said. 
Fortunately for Keenan, the offense made a complete turn­around to begin the second half. After dictating play for most of the third quarter, Keenan found the end zone as Downey handed the ball to Reed Langton to tie the score 7­7. 
After allowing the touchdown and struggling defensively dur­ing the third quarter, Knott's defense managed to recover an early fourth quarter fumble. But Knott could not capitalize and was forced punt and allow Keenan to decide the final out­come. 
With 28 seconds remaining in the game, Keenan kicker Andrew Warner kicked a 25­yard field goal to end the game and make the score 10-7. 
Warner was a surprise. as Keenan struggled all year in punting. He was a late replace­ment on the Keenan roster and proved to be a critical asset as Keenan moves on to the second round of the playoffs. 
After leading by a touchdown for most of the game, the loss was a true disappointment for Knott. 
"Everything went our way in the first half," Knott captain Drew Donovan said. "The loss was heartbreaking ... we left everything out on the field." 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu and Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Ramblers defeat Dawgs on late TD 
By ANNIE BRUSKY 
Sports Writer 

The game went down to the wire, but, in the end, it was Siegfried's well-rounded attack that pulled through with a 10-6 victory over Alumni. 
After taking the lead midway through the first half, Siegfried gave up a touchdown and had to overcome not only a strong defen­sive effort by Alumni but also frus­trating calls in order to score again late in the game. 
"We did really well. It was just as we planned," Siegfried quarter­back Bill Bingle said. "Mental mis­takes hurt us a bit but we came through." 
John Nowak put Siegfried on the board with an 18-yard field goal and the Ramblers went into half­time ahead 3-0. Early in the sec­ond half. Siegfried looked to punt from their own 15-yard line. 
After the snap, punter Eric Cherney saw Alumni's defensive line fast approaching and, know­ing his punt would be blocked, unsuccessfully attempted to throw the ball for a first down. Alumni gained possession deep in Ramblers territory and was able to capitalize on the opportunity by giving the ball to running back Alex Roodhouse. 
Roodhouse made several good runs, ultimately breaking into the end zone for a touchdown. Alumni's first extra point attempt was wide, but it was called back after Siegfried was penalized for roughing the kicker. On the secmid try. a botched snap forced Alumni to look for the two-point conver­sian, but Siegfried's good coverage kept the score 6-3. Siegfried worked its way down the field thanks to clutch plays by Bingle and several of his receivers. 
"We know we have a potent offense. We really used all of our weapons today," Bingle said after six different receivers made recep­tions in the game. 
Bingle connected with receiver Jon Kaup on fourth-and-four to keep the Ramblers' hopes alive. 
A clipping penalty pushed them back, but Kaup and sophomore Marques Bolden made some big receptions to overcome the deficit and move the Ramblers to just within the 10-yard line. On first­and-goal Bingle scrambled to the right until Mike Wahl got open and the two connected for the winning touchdown. 
"It was awesome. Bill made a great play," Wahl said. "He's the best quarterback in the league." 
Alumni, unfortunately, goes home empty-handed and disap­pointed. 
"I think it took us too long to get things going. When we finally did get our offense going we ran out of time," Alumni senior Chris Seponski said. "Siegfried is a good team; their quarterback and receivers do a good job." 
With a number of seniors on the team, Alumni was not ready for their season to end. 
"We went to the championship last year so we wanted to put in more of a fight this year," Seponski said. "We have the talent; things just didn't go our way." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
CUTPCST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles try to end slump 
By DAN TAPETILLO Spotts Writer 
Saint Mary's continued its slump with a 1-0 loss to Albion College Saturday. 
"We are in a bit of a slump right now, and the stats do not necessarily prove how well we have done this sea­son," said Saint Mary mid­fielder Katie Nobel. 
Saint Mary's now stands at a 9-5-3. The Belles now arc in fifth place in the MIAA stand­ings after being ranked sec­ond earlier this season. The Belles have only one won of their last four games, against Hope College. 
Despite the Belles solid defense that consists of Shannon Culbertson, Stephanie Artnak, Carrie Orr and goalie Laura llcline, Albion still managed to score early in the first half. 
"It was a highly physical game," Saint Mary's forward Carolyn Logan said. 
Orr continued to play stellar defense and Heline played a fabulous game added Logan. 
llowever, Saint Mary's does not intend for this loss to affect them during its next game against Olivet this after­noon. 
"We are hoping to get another win," Katie Noble said. "We already beat this team 4-0 earlier this season.. " 
The team is more focused upon Calvin that is Saint Mary's fmal game of the regu­lar season. Calvin gave Saint Mary's difficulties earlier in the season with a 2-2 over­time tie. Noble is depending upon the team to its compo­sure and to end the season on a high note after the two­week slump. 

... 


page 16 
8-ball 
continued from page 20 
more points than most of last 
year. I think we're headed in 
the right direction." 
Notre Dame came out slow 
and fell behind for most of the 
first ten minutes of the game. 
The Irish made only 1-of-9 of 
its first nine shots during the 
five initial minutes of the half. 
But after getting into the flow 
of the game, Notre Dame found 
its shooting touch, making 11 
of the next 14 shots to take its 
first lead of the game, on a pair 
of Le'Tania Severe free throws, 
18-17 with 11:59 left in the 
first half. 

The Irish continued to shoot well for the remainder of the half and led 45-35 at intermis­sion. The team shot 51.6 per­cent in the half. 
Notre Dame shot even better in the second half (53.6 per­cent) and slowly added to its lead. Northwest Sports cut the lead to 11 with six minutes to play, but the Irish quickly pushed it back up to 20 by the end of the game. 
Monday's game was the first chance for Notre Dame's three freshmen to see their first col­legiate action. Crystal Irwin played 12 minutes, had six points, three rebounds and fouled out. Susie Powers missed all three of her 
by the first week

"I think we're 
shots and 
of December. 

grabbed three 
headed in the + Senior Jeneka 
rebounds in 14 
right direction .. " Joyce also did 
minutes, while 
not play and will 

Breona Gray 
not practice for 

made her only Muffet McGraw 
another 10 days

shot in nine min­Irish coach 
due to an injury.

utes of play. 
"I thought Crystal did a good job out there," McGraw said. "She scored, she defended pretty well and I was pleased with how she played tonight. Susie did some good things and Breona is going to be very good defender for us." 
The key for the Irish was the play of Duffy and LaVere and McGraw was impressed with the duo's play. 
"I was really pleased with Courtney's play in the post," McGraw said. "I thought she played extremely well. I thought Megan played a very good floor game." 
The Irish play a second and final exhibition game Sunday at 1 p.m. against Team Concept at the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
+ Junior Teresa Borton did not 
cd 
& 
CHIP Observer 

Notre Dame forward Courtney LaVere attempts to get a shot off Monday night. 
play Monday because of off­season heel surgery. She is expected to miss the month of November, but should be back 
+With 11:44 left in the game, sen­ior Monique 

Hernandez went down in a col­lision and injured her foot. McGraw said Hernandez will have x-rays tomorrow. +The Irish improved to 19-1 in exhibitions games since the 1993-94 season. 
Contact Joe Hettler jhettler@nd.edu 
Tuesday, November, 4, 2003

The Observer+ SPORTS 
Wtee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian,. Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 4th, 2003 
7:00 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing 
Cornittee for Gay 
and Lesbian 
Student Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, 
and Bisexual 
members ofthe 
Notre Dame family, their friends and 
supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo_ 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Open House and Information Session Wednesday, November 5th. 
5-6 ptn in 316 Coleman-Morse. Come by to pick up an application, talk to this year's Interns, and get some pizza. 

--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Football 
continued from page 20 
haven't lost faith in the man Alumni Association Executive Director Chuck Lennon calls the captain that sails the ship on the "Sea of Green." 
"I low could you not believe in a man like that? He's been driv­ing us the whole time, and I put this loss completely on myself," Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said. 
With the Irish at 2-6, even winning four straight games would not put them in a bowl game since Notre Dame doesn't accept bowl bids from the lower-tier bowls. 
Therefore. all this team has left is to play for something that has become very common on the mouths of coaches and play­ers once this season went south -pride. That's the message the fifth-year seniors, who only have four games left in an Irish uniform, are trying to pass on to the younger team members with hopes of turning this sink­ing ship around quickly. 
"For me, and this being my fifth year and my last year, it's pride," Notre Dame cornerback Jason Beckstrom said. "The way I try and go about it, and the things I try and tell the younger guys, is that this is a metaphor for life -that's what football is. Despite the fact that we're now 2-6, you can't give up. 
"In life, you're going to get curveballs, you're going to be down, the odds are going to stack against you, but you've got to keep going." 
While the players try to help the coaching staff and Willingham keep the morale up the locker room, ultimately, it comes down to the head man himself. 
"That is always one of the most difficult jobs of any coach, when things aren't going well to keep a team moving forward, to keep them positive," Willingham said. "We will find ways to do that. I can't tell you exactly what they are today. There are still things this football team can accomplish." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
DATE RAPE  came right back and gave the Irish a little of their own medi­cine. Florida State quarterback Chris Rix ran a play-action fake on the· first play of the game, and wide receiver Craphonso in a  
WATCH your drink WATCH your friends Don't just WATCH it happen... Come listen to KATIE KOESTNER as seen on MTVand~IMEabouther experience with DATE RAPE. Hesburgh Library Auditorium, Nov. 4 9:00 p.m.  Thorpe beat Vontez Duff one-on-one situation for a 38­yard completion. That pass set the tone for a long day for the secondary. "We had seen them do that before, and I don't know if we thought they were going to do it so much, but that's no excuse for the plays that they were able to make," Notre Dame cor­nerback Jason Beckstrom said. Rix finished the game with 327 yards on only 17 comple­tions, and Thorpe had seven catches for 217 yards and two touchdowns. The Irish came into this game knowing the Seminoles would test them downfield, but the Seminoles' speed became too much for the Notre Dame sec­ondary. "They're a very talented receiving corps, just as any other team has that we play all  
BRING YOUR FRIENDS, BOYFRIEND, GIRLFRIEND.••• SPREAD THE WORD. Special Thanks to the Following Organizations: Cavanaugh, Gender Studies, Lewis, Lyons, Morrissey, Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, O'Neill, Pangborn, Pasquerilla East, Pro­gressive Student Alliance, Walsh, Women's Resource Center  year," Beckstrom said. "Today we didn't get the job done; we didn't make the plays that we needed to make early on. thought we got better as game went on, but it helps to have that passion and that intensity early on. in the game." Unusual start Notre Dame offensive coordi­nator Bill Diedrick's play calling has been the subject of many conversations of Irish fans this season.  
Preside~t 2004 Applications are available at the Student Activities Office in the 3rd Floor of LaFortune. Applications are due Friday::o November 7th_  

FOOTBALL 

Seminoles quick 
start sets the tone 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
On their first offensive play of the 2002 Notre Dame-Florida State contest, the Irish went over the top of the Seminole defense and scored a touch­down on a 65-yard bomb from then quarterback Carlyle Holiday to graduated wide receiver Arnaz Battle. 
This year, the Seminoles 


ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Notre Dame cornerback Vontez Duff covers a Seminole receiver Saturday. 
Diedrick scripts the first 10­15 plays of the game prior to kickoff. He bases those play selections on the opponents' defensive tendencies and how the opposition reacts to certain plays. 
Against Florida State. Notre Dame came out and ran three straight pass plays to open up the game. Playing an extremely fast team like the Seminoles, one would think the Irish would want to establish a physical presence by running ball. 
I But that wasn't the case. 
the "I don't know [about the first three plays being passes]," Notre Dame running back Julius Jones said. "You might have to ask the coaches on that. I just go out and run the plays they give us." Quarterback Brady Quinn felt the coaches were just trying to "change things up." 
Irish still favored 
Despite the 2-6 start to the season and being outscored by a combined 68 over the past two home games, the Irish come out as favorites for Saturday's contest. While the actual betting line varies at dif­ferent casinos, Notre Dame is about an eight point favorite to 
·­

beat Navy. 
The Midshipmen are 6-3 this season and boast the top­ranked rushing offense in the NCAA. 
However, Notre Dame has defeated Navy 39 consecutive times, which is an NCAA record. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
enorJ110[.fS
FLEECE 
Selecti:'• 
~ 

{!om DUTPDST Campus ·1•1•1ii: 
Cold Wsathsr Experts 


Call259·1ooo for more details 
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
WolDen's 
continued from page 20 
first half after a 5-yard pass from Heath to put Badin ahead 20-0 at halftime. 
The Shamrocks lacked sub­stantial offensive drives for much of the first half. mostly due to several interceptions by Badin cornerback Laura Feeny and safety Laura Huarte. 
McGlinn captain On-Kay Wong noted that much of continued to pick apart the Breen-Phillips secondary with touchdown passes of 60 and 25 yards to McEldowney and Lauren Pierce. 
Sands completed three sec­ond half passes for 90 yards, including the two touchdowns that proved to be too much for Breen-Phillips to overcome. 
"Our receivers were awe­some today," Sands said. "The conditions were bad, but we managed to put it together." 
Welsh Family seemed to 
ignore the 
wet, slip­

the team "Our offense was really pery field, 
seemed to have amassing
working. We ran our 
an off day. over 130 
"No one real­routes like [Sands] y a r d s 
ly had it all wanted. It was a against a day," Wong very solid
team effort. " 
said. "We need­Breen­ed one big play Phi.llips to spark a Jamie McEldowney defense. comeback. and Welsh Family Breen­we just didn't Phillips had
wide receiver 
have that." 
T h e Shamrocks started the second half with renewed intensity and two 10-yard runs by run­ning back Raquel Ferrer. However, the Bullfrogs responded to their efforts with Betsy Schroeder blocking a pass intended for Ferrer. 
"Their defense really stepped up and we couldn't really get a long drive together," Wong said of the second half. 
With 10 minutes remaining in the second half. Carter caught another touchdown pass from Heath to guarantee the victory. 
The Bullfrogs were also suc­cessful in their attempt for the 
extra  two  points,  with  
Charlebois catching a  pass  
from Heath.  

Badin's defense maintained the 28-0 lead with a number of interceptions by Huarte and Feeny. 
The Bullfrogs are set to meet Cavanaugh, who had a first round bye, this Sunday and anticipate a hard-fought bat­tle. 
"Everyone has to step up 100 percent for the Cavanaugh game," Carter said. "It's going to come down to individuals. It's definitely going to be the hardest game we've played all season." 
Welsh Family 19, Breen Phillips 0 
Welsh Family emerged with a convincing first round victo­ry, dominating both sides of the ball on route to a 19-0 shutout of fourth-seeded Breen-Phillips. 
A first half touchdown from Melissa Sands to Jamie McEldowney, the first of two connections on the afternoon, set the tempo for what would be a one-sided game con­trolled by Welsh Family who had a 6-0 lead at the half. 
Welsh Family came out fired up in the second half, as Sands only lost one 
game this year before Sunday's encounter with Welsh. 
"Our offense was really working. We ran our routes like [Sands) wanted," McEldowney said. "It was a team effort." 
The Welsh Family defense was impressive itself, looking overpowering as it shut out the Breen-Phillips offense. A Katie Powers second half intercep­tion virtually erased all hope of Breen-Phillips coming back from what was then a 13-0 Welsh lead. 
Breen-Phillips looked anemic on offense, moving the ball inconsistently in the second half. The passing game could­n't get going, and they were forced into quarterback scrambles and draws to move the ball. 
On its final drive, Breen­Phillips failed to complete a pass. 
The win advanced Welsh to the semi-finals against Lewis, the top team in women's inter­hall in the regular season. 
"We played really well," coach Brian Adams said. "Lewis is a great team, too. We'll have to figure them out this week at practice." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu and Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Pataf!onia 
excltJSively 
at-~~ 
Sminute~
from DUTPDST 
Campus J•z.Jif" 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles want to build on win 
Hope is first-round opponent for Belles in MIAA Tourney 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles wanted to come into the MIM tournament on a good note, and they accom­plished that goal with a four set victory over Albion Friday. 
Saint Mary's (16-12, 5-9 in the MIAA), who wrapped up the s~xth seed in the tournament, defeated Albion (10-21, 3-11) by the score of 30-28, 30-20, 24­30, 30-28. The Belles will visit third seed Hope (20-12, 11-3) in the first round of the tourna­ment today. 
"It was real important for us to get a win against Albion," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We really wanted to play Hope, and we were able to solidify our sixth seed with that win." 



ward to Hope, a team that defeated the Belles both times they met during the regular sea­son. Despite her team's lack of success so far against the Flying Dutch, Schroeder-Biek has high hopes for her team's first round match. 
"We've always had a real rivalry with Hope," she said. "We've played them real tough so far this year, even though we lost. They have weaknesses that I know we can take advantage of. 
"This is a team we have a strong desire to beat." 
The Belles are relishing their role as an underdog and spoiler in the postseason. 
"We just want to keep tallying away the wins," Schroeder-Biek said. "We'd really like to go in there and mess up some higher seeds." 
The match is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
She added that setter Lauren Temple played an excellent game against Albion, running a potent offense that was able to keep the Britons' defense off­guard. 
"As a team we just played really well," Schroeder-Biek said. "Lauren ran a great offense and really mixed it up. We need to work on getting our middles more involved in the flow, though, going into the tournament." 
The Belles' defense also did a good job of handling Albion's talented outside hitter Krystle Weeks, holding her to only nine kills in the four-game match. Weeks came into the match averaging almost three kills a game. 
For the Belles offensively, out­side hitter Kristen Playko led the team with 19 kills. Libero Alison Shevik was the team­leader in digs with 19; five other players collected more than 10 digs in the match. 
Saint Mary's now looks for-
University ofNotre Dame 

International Study Program in 
PARIS, FRANCE 
Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart ofParis at Science Po, one ofEurope's most Prestigious Institutions 
::. 

Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director, and Returnees of the Program 
INFORMATION MEETING November 6, 2003 5:00PM 116 DeBartolo 



Tuesday, November 4, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
l1A5~D TD HATE-ITAT. 
ND~t-~M£... 
FIVES 
I'll bet! So youSo how'd the student 
I love my job... gov. meeting go;> 
Yup! Here you go!

brought the student 
Thanks! I'll begin 
(

proposals in the new 
Great! Very \ processing themformat, right?

productive! } 
immediately
I \
) 

\ 
JUMBLE 
~[31I!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROAHB 
I I I 
tr1
C2003 Tribune Media Service&, Inc. 
r~i~fb 
tCYNAGEj 
wwwTuffi6ie.com 
tVODUREj
J I [ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
-
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHY THE: SHIP­WRE:CKED SAIL-OR TURNED PURPL-E: WITH RAGE:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
Pillswer: 

::s "( I I I I ~ I I J' 
nswers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PARKA ALIVE ABACUS EXPEND Answer: The janitor's favorite spot in the batting order -CLEANUP 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Loretta Swit, Pauline Trigere, Pder Boynton, Markic Post, Walter Cronkite 
Happy Birthday: Don't hesitate to ask for help. You can get ahead this year if you rev up your motor and plunge into your pursuits carnestlt Precision is one quality that will help bring you the success that you're lookmg for. This is a year of action. You've planned your strategies; now take action. Your numbers: I, 16, 22, 31. 37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Extra energy means you will be even more outgoing than usual. You should be pursuing potential partners or pleasing the one you already have. You need to get involved in physical activities. **"' TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get down to business. You can make a difference if you are willing to focus on reaching your goals. Invest your money in safe long-term investments. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Investments will not be as they appear. I! is evident that there is someone around you who is trying to take advantage of you. You may want to consider changing some of your friends. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotional state will leave you vulnerable and confused. Think before you act. Lovers mar not be truthful. Minor accidents will occur if you don't take precautions. ** * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your generosity will lead to financial setbacks or difficulties with children. Someone close to your heart may try to curtail your 
freedom. Don't let anyone push you into things you're not sure about. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is not the day to make decisions or changes to your personal life. You will be feeling a little rejected. Take some time to look at your options and consider the possibilities available to you. "** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Trips will be enlightening, but before you leave, make sure that you have attended to all your responsibilities. Arguments with relatives may lead to a split in the family. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't leave your personal papers unfinished. The end of the year is fast approaching, and you need to make the necessary adjustments now. Problems with elders must be taken care of as well. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll have to concentrate on the one you love if you want to keep things moving along smoothly. Avoid being mdulgent or extravagant, regardless of the occasion. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be asked to work overtime to get a little extra time off during the festive season. Your attitude will make a difference to your future employment. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to do a little shopping, but don't go overboard. Stick to the budget you set, and you won't have any problems with your mate later on. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It won't be easy to deal with relatives today. Do not let them overreact to situations that are pending. II is best to refuse to argue or let them put you in an awkward position. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are so easygoing that it will be important not to let yourself get taken for gral)ted throughout your life. You know how to enjoy life, and because of thts some people you meet will be Jealous. You will teach those who are rigid to loosen up. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugeniulast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Sacrifices may be made with these 6 Social stratum 11 Supremely 
softly, in music 14 Run-of-the-mill 15 Gunning for 16 Hindu honorific 17 Celebrated legal 

event of 1925 19 Hither's partner 20 Tempting 
garden 21 Boot camp 
barbering job 23 Gusto 26 "_Cadillac" 
(1988 hit) 28 "I see." 
facetiously 29 Lucy's lanc:;ady 31 Spots on 
dresses 34 Makes up (for) 36 Rouen's river 37 Perry Mason's 
field 381nitially 40 Sugar Ray slats 43 Close, of yore 44 "That's that" 46 Baggie binders 50 Mrs. Doubtfire, 
for one 51 Final Four game 52 Onion's kin 54 Coupler 55 Patio grill 58 Certain plastic 60 Choler 61 It delivered in 
the Old West 66 Nutritional abbr. 67 "Ragged Dick" 
author 68 Uncanny 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

69 Young 'un 
70 Methods: Abbr. 
71 Hint to the start of 17-, 31-, 46­and 61-Across 
DOWN 1 No-goodnik 2 G.l. morale 
booster 3 Mother Teresa, 
for one 4 "It's break time!" 5 Coaster 6 Feline fancy 7 Congo's 
continent: Abbr. 8 Perfectionist 9 Spree 
10 _Stanley Gardner 11 Hitchcock classic 12 French novelist Marcel 13 Painted ponies 18 "You betcha!" 22 Walk in water 23 Gusto 24 Blues singer James 25 Air 27 "Over my dead body!" 30 Tilted, once 32 Part of S.W.A.K. 33 Playwright Chekhov 35 Galley notation 
WILLSHORTZ 


39 Personal faults  47 Oddball  57"0_Nighr  
40 Gambling game 41 Sow's squeal 42 Eyelid infection  48 Pooped person's plaint 49 Cuts off  so Hightailed it 62 .·Are we there _·;t· .•  
43 Laos's locale 45 San Francisco, Oakland, etc. 46 Casual top  53 General Mills cereal 56 Number ~crunchers, for short  63 Suffix with west 64 [as printed] 65 Get the picture ·  

For answers, calll-900"285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-9554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer.on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________ __ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER
-
Tuesday, November 4, 2003 

PORTS 
Page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Staying the course 
Willingham still confident in direction of program 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Ediror 
How appropriate that Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham made a reference to watercraft in his post-game conference against Florida State with Navy coming to South Bend Saturday. 
"The first thing we have to do is get a win this next See Also weekend," 
"Seminoles 
Willingham 
quick start sets
said. "We have to get the tone" our ship right­
page 17
ed and point­ed in the right direction." 
Everything seems to be head­ing downhill rapidly for the Irish, and suddenly fans don't think Willingham seems like the man to turn around this program like he did last year. But that's not weakening his confidence in the master plan. 
"I don't think it's any question this is one of the toughest spots I've ever been in," Willingham said. "But at the same time, I know what our goal is; our goal is to clearly build this program to be a great team. I still believe that can happen. Sometimes, it's difficult to see. I think we are pointed in the right direction, and we will stay in that direc­tion." 

While at Stanford, Willingham's teams were very inconsistent from year to year. He started his head coaching career with the Cardinal in 1995 with back-to-hack seven win seasons but followed those years with five and three win years. 
However, Willingham led Stanford to the Rose Bowl in 1999 after that 3-8 season for the school's first trip to Pasadena, Calif. in 28 years. Then Stanford followed that year with a disappointing 5-6 cam­paign before Willingham's last year where the team went 9-3. 
At Notre Dame, Willingham started last year with the most wins by a first year coach in Irish history but followed the pattern of his past head coaching career as the.Irish are 2-6 this season. 
But ask the players, and they 
see FOOTBALL/page 17 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
LaVere and Duffy lead Irish in win 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Ediror 
Only until she saw the final stats did sophomore point guard Megan Duffy realize just how many assists she had in Notre Dame's first exhibition game of the season -13 to be exact. Duffy will take those and 14 points any game this sea­son.
"''ll take those numbers any night, no matter who we're playing," Duffy said. "I didn't think I had that many assists but I'll take it. It's a good start, something to build on." 
Fellow sophomore Courtney LaVere had 21 points on 10-of­14 shooting and grabbed seven rebounds, while junior forward Jacqueline Batteast added 18 points and 10 boards to lead the Irish to an 85-65 victory over Northwest Sports in an exhibition game Monday night. 
"I thought we did a lot of good things offensively," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. ''I'm really encouraged by the things we did. I thought we ran the ball better and scored a lot 
see B-BALL/page 16 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
WelshFam beats B-P 
By ANN LOUGHERY and 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writers 
"Clockwork" was the word Badin captain Jenn Carter felt best described the Bullfrogs convincing 28-0 win over the McGlinn Shamrocks Sunday afternoon. 
Beginning with the first offensive drive of the game, the Bullfrogs proved they deserve a life in the postsea­son. After a long sustained offensive drive from their own 15-yard line, the Bullfrogs scored their first touchdown of the game, courtesy of quarter­back Steph Heath. 
Before the end of the first quarter, the Bullfrogs scored another touchdo,vn, this time via a 10-yard pass to receiver Megan Charlebois. 
"Everything just clicked," Carter said of the early offen­sive drives. 
Carter contributed a touch­down towards the end of the 
see WOMEN'S/page 18 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon uses run game to advance 
By STEVE COYER and DAN 
TAPETILLO 
Sports Writers 
The outcome between Sorin and Dillon was a question mark throughout the entire game until a thumbs up marked the end of the uncertainty. 
After a fourth quarter touch­down by Dilltm gave them a 7-0 lead and the victory, the referee gave a thumbs up to signal the made extra point and perhaps also relief for an anxious Dillon sideline. 
Both teams played grind-it­out football all day with aggres­sive defense and mostly rushing plays. The game remained scoreless until the fourth quar­ter, when Dillon quarterback 
A.J. Cedeno rushed for a touch­down on second-and-goal. 
Dillon had a costly penalty in the first quarter that brought back a 30-yard touchdown run. Another penalty canceled a fourth quarter touchdown that would've sealed their victory. 
"We need to address a few things on offense, and we can't keep making mistakes like we did today," Dillon captain J.T. Arseniadis said. 
Sorin played with a 16-man squad but stayed in the game down to its last possession. Overall, they were pleased with the season, notwithstanding the small roster. 
"We had a small team this year but managed to play hard, have fun and take the top seed into the last quarter," Sorin captain Collin O'Keefe said. 
Sarin's ground attack initially was shut down by Dillon's phys­ical defense its passing attack proved more effective. O'Keefe connected with his receivers on two separate 40-yard plays and was 6-of-9 passing for the game. 
Dillon's offense which had 23 
see MEN'S/page I 5 

en 
MEN'S INTERHAU..
SMC SOCCER

SMC VOI.LEYBAI.L 
MEN~S INTERHAU. 
BASEBAll 
RECSPORTS 

Ll.l Saint Mary's at 
Saint Mary's at 
Morrissey 20
Ia-(.) Hope 

sieWried 10,
Kno t6
Olivet 
Zahm 7 
A number of Notre

The Phillies try to 
Dame and Saint Mary's

shore up the back end of
rz:s 

Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Today, 3 p.m. 

The Ramblers use a late 
athletes competed over

their bullpen by acquir­
The Manorites contin-

The Belles look to upset 
Having won one of their 

touchdown to upset the 
the weekend in eques­

ing former Houston
ue their dominate play

the Flying Dutch in the 
last four, the Belles try to 
trian events. 

Juggerknotts in the first 
closer Billy Wagner. 
by defeating the Rabid 

== MIAA Tournament. 
end their slwnp today. 

round of the playoffs. 
Bats.
A.!i 

en 
page 15 
page 15
page 18 
page 13 
page 12
page 14 









