
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY, AUGUST 29,2003 
Legends comes to life 

Appropriately, the band The Samples will perform at 9:30 
p.m. A moonwalk and bungi run will be set up in the park­ing lot for outside entertain­ment, raffles will be held for various prizes and sno-cones will bP provided. The dorm with the highest attendance rate at the opening will win a free party at Legends and a $200 credit toward food. 
"We want to be as versatile as possible as a facility,·· said pro­gram coordinator Jonathan Jorissen, who also said Legends will "be giving away as much 
see LEGENDS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Players testify in Elam trial 
Former football players say sexual activity occurred but was consensual 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES and SCOTT BRODFUEHRER News Writers 
The three former Notre Dame football players charged with raping a Notre Dame student in March 2002 testified Thursday at the trial of former teammate Abram Elam. 
Lorenzo Crawford, Donald Dykes and Justin Smith testi­fied they had sexual inter­course with and watched each other engage in other sexual acts with the woman on sev­eral occasions the morning of March 28, 2002. 
Elam is charged with con­spiracy to commit rape, sexu­al deviate conduct and sexual battery. The other three for­mer football players, whose trials are scheduled to begin over the next three months, face the same charges in addition to a felony rape charge. 
The three former players 
see RAPE/page 4 
Hallahan plans for December graduation 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Wrirer 
Student body president Pat Hallahan announced Thursday that he will be graduating this December, one semester earlier than the senior class's scheduled grad­uation date and four months 
before his term was sched­ 
uled to end.  
During  the  summer,  

Hallahan worked· for the Democratic National Committee and was offered the position of executive assistant to the DNC's Finance Director. The job is scheduled to begin in January. 
"Initially, I didn't think much of the offer, but toward the end of the summer, I gave it a lot of thought," Hallahan said. 
A number of reasons con­tributed to his decision to take the job, but Hallahan said he hesitated because of everything he would give up by missing the second semes­ter of his senior year, such as 
his position as president of the student body. 
"It was a really tough deci­sion, but I thought [taking the job] was best," Hallahan said. 
Hallahan said he felt he could not pass up the oppor­tunity after considering the amount of money an early graduation would save his family, combined with the fact that the job was "such a great opportunity that would­n't have been there in May." 
"It just made sense," Hallahan said. 
After Hallahan's departure in December, Student Body vice president Jeremy Lao will become president. Lao will then appoint a new vice president, who the Senate must then interview and approve. 
Unless Lao, a junior, choos­es to run for president in the spring and is elected, his term as president will end April 1. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Guster headlines 'The Show' 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
The annual concert, "The Show," takes place tonight. However, while interest in the concert has grown this year because of the bands playing, its See Also 
funding has "Return of the been signifi­
'Gus"
cantly low­ered. ·scene 
T a i Romero, the chairperson of the 10-person committee organizing "The Show," said the decrease in"funding from the Office of Student Affairs was due to budget cuts across the board and had nothing to do with their opin­ions of the event. However, Romero added that "The Show" was not suffering because of [the budget cuts] 
"Funding comes from a variety of pla c e s .. . 0 n e of our major sponsors this year has been the Board of Governance at Saint Mary's and the Office of the President at Saint Marv's, as well as some smaller·clubs and several dQrms here on 

By SHELIA FlYNN News Writer 
The former Alumni-Senior Club will reopen Saturday to students of all ages, boasting a new name only fitting for a University replete with legacies and footballlor'e: Legends. 
Located south of the Stadium, the revamped building can accommodate 804 people and features a restaurant, pub and nightclub. 
The grand opening begins Saturday at 2 p.m. with a brief ceremony, after which students will be invited inside to sample 

campus ... I think it's awe­some that we've had all of them contributing," Romero said. 
Romero wouldn't reveal how much money had been cut from The Show's budget. But ticket prices have been raised to $10 for students, an increase of $5 from last year. Romero said the better band talent and the larger venue of this year's show con­tributed to the increase in ticket prices. This year's show features Guster and Black Eyed Peas and will be held in the Joyce Center arena. Last year's concert took place in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. 
Romero also addressed the issue of student respo_nse to higher prices. "Student feed­back as to the $5 ticket prices last year was not neg-
see SHOW/page 4 
Friday, August 29, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE ·2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Things I didn't miss 
Unpacked, moved in, and (mostly) textbook-purchased, I'm pretty well set for my sophomore year, and I've recently been reflecting that there was J 
much l had oe missed about Trombello this place during the summer, such as friends, Production faculty, classes and football (although not necessarily in that order). 
Despite my happiness at getting back to these, I've found several unpleasantries that I had forgotten about but definitely haven't missed: 
1. 
Is it raining? No, wait, that's just the sprinklers pelting me with blasts of water, although I'm clear­ly walking on the sidewalk. I'm convinced that the entire system is controlled by some sadist with a television monitor who enjoys booby-trapping the campus so that it's impossible to avoid the blasts of water at all hours of the day. Small countries get less water than the Notre Dame campus. 

2. 
Why does it take me 10 min­utes to walk from O'Shag to DeBartolo? It's because the thou­sands of other people heading in that direction seem determined to walk as slowly as possible. Fortunately, I'm fairly confident that will change come December. 

3. 
What's more frustrating than an organic chemistry test? Navigating the aisles of the book­store, only to determine that the books you need are "not in yet" and you will need to "check back soon." Repeating the process multi­ple times yields the same result. 

4. 
Waiting in line at North Dining Hall for pasta, only to discover that it had been moved and replaced with a make-your-own-pizza stand at which seemingly the entire cam­pus was located. The pizza was good, but I suppose I'm totally naive for thinking that things would have been in the same place as last year. That would be too easy. 

5. 
Midwestern lingo. Say it with me, "soda." "Pop" is a genre of music, not a drink. 

6. 
The pervasive smell of ethanol wafting from Mod and North Quads (and I'm not talking about bever­ages). It does give a certain distinc­tive flair to that part of campus, though. 

7. 
Awful, blaring music that's more obnoxious than Tom Daschle and can be heard at all hours of the day. Please don't subject the entire residence hall section to your misplaced definition of good taste. 

8. 
And, finally, Inside Columns written in the vain attempt to be remotely comical. 


Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. lfwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL YOU BE DOING THIS FRIDAY NIGHT? 






Andrew VI Kevin O'Sullivan· Patricia Vernon Patrick Ross Rita Rozewlcz Rob Tennlswood 
Freshman Sophomore Senzor Junior Grab 'n' Go Junior St. Edward's Fisher Hall Welsh Family Off-Campus O'Neill Hall Hall 
"Sitting back "Avoiding TC. .. "Oh. 'The "It involves one "Working here. •• "I will not be 
with a buddha Show.··· unluckysack ... 
freshman, a laundry bag and that dead skunk on Douglas ... 

TIM KACMAR!The Observer Notre Dame coaches and athletic department staff grab rags and hoses as they host the annual Coaches' Car Wash. The car wash helps the University's fundralsing for United Way. 
OFFBEAT 
Man fakes death to avoid court appearance 
STILLWATER, Minn. ­A St. Paul man who missed a court hearing appeared to have a good excuse -he was dead. But authorities soon real­ized his obituary was a fake and Robert Michael Mathison was later arrest­ed. 
A paper trail indicates the obituary may have been used to excuse him for not appearing in Washington County District Court on charges stemming from a June case in which he faked a heart attack upon arrest. 
Segway climbs New England's tallest peak 
MOUNT WASHINGTON, N.H.-It took six sets of batteries and three dri­vers, but a Segway scoot­er finally made it to the top of New England's tallest peak. 
The scooter climbed Mount Washington's auto road in about two and a half hours Wednesday. 
The standup scooter, invented by Manchester's Dean Kamen and manu­factured in Bedford, was the first Segway to make it to the top of the 6,288­foot mountain in 7.6 miles. 
Homeless man vying for governmental seat 
PAINESVILLE, Ohio -· Of all the challenges the homeless face, Michael Padula may be in for his biggest to 'date. The 50­year-old homeless man, 
living out of a  van  in  a  
city park, wants to  run  
for city council.  

"I am not showboating. I am not doing this for the publicity," stated Padula, a self-employed c.arpen­ter. "I would not wish my circumstances on any­one." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(.) 




..... 0 HIGH 76 HIGH 63 HIGH 72 HIGH 75 
LOW 55 LOW 53 LOW 54 LOW 55 
drinking, . messing with freshmen or tapping a keg ... 
IN BRIEF 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services will be liosting a welcome back picnic with ethnic dishes and cultural dances Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. They hope to provide a time for stu­dents to get to know one anoth­er and embrace the cultural 
traditions  unique  to  Notre  
Dame's campus.  
"The  Show"  takes  place  

Friday night at 7:30 in the Joyce Center arena, featuring Guster and Black Eyed Peas. Tickets are $10 and are avail­able in the LaFortune Box Office. 
·Legends, the new Notre Dame club, opens for the first time Saturday. They are hold­ing a dance Saturday night from midnight until 4 a.m. The dance will feature a concert with Ryan Adcock and The Samples. 
There will be a complimenta­ry showing of Ocean's Eleven at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theater on Sunday. 
A Concession Stand Training Class will be held Monday from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theater. All those requiring certification to work a concession stand are wel­come to attend. 
All hall dance commissioners are welcome to attend a helpful training session from 6 to 7 
p.m. in the South Dining Hall Oak Room on. 
To submit informtion to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 75 HIGH 75 LOW 57 LOW 58 

Atlanta 89 /72 Boston 80 /71 Chicago 78 /61 Denver 78/ 55 Houston 91 I 74 Los Angeles 86 /65 Minneapolis 73/ 49 New York 84/72 Philadelphia 89/ 72 Phoenix 102/80 Seattle 83/ 57 St. Louis 82/60 Tampa 90/74 Washington 90 /72 

. ' ­
t ~ ' •
Friday, August 29, 2003 page 3
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
Holy Cross starts 4-year degree 
no student dining fac!lity, no
By TERESA FRALISH 
Vincent Atrium and no four· 
Assistant News Editor 
year students. Now there are 
While new Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's freshmen have 
been settling into college life, a~ 
new group of students prepares 
to make its mark at lloly Cross 
College. 
For the first time in the 
school's history, four-year stu­
dents have enrolled at Holy 
Cross, marking a transition 
from a junior college to a full­
flrdgcd academic institution. 
"This is the realization of almost three years of work by our faculty and students," said \Villiam Mangan, vice president for academic affairs at the College. "We're thrilled to begin our journey with our stu­dents." 
The baccalaureate program debuted this August with an inaugural class of 15 students, according to Justin Watson, the program's director. Watson said he believes the program will eventually expand to include several hundred stu­dents. 
The new program has also created a new spirit of enthusi­asm among faculty, administra­tors, alumni and students, said Mangan. "We notice a wide­spread awareness in the stu­dent body about ouf baccalau­reate program," he said. 
The creation of the baccalau­reate program represents only one aspect of recent expan­sions in the College. "Just nine y('ars ago there \H:re no dorms, several hundred resident stu­dents, a series of beautiful new buildings and the start of a four-year program," Watson said. 
Hather than .::hoosing a spe­cific major, the new program's emphasis will 
"This is the real­
be on a broad Michael Mancini, liberal arts ization ofalmost the College's direc­education that tor of development,
three years ofwork
will allow stu­students can also dents to enter a by our faculty and complete fellowship variety of fields students., projects in an area after gradua­of personal interest tion. Students as part of the bac­
William Mangan
will take class­calaureate program. es in a broad vice president for "One student, range of disci­academic affairs Megan Craney, is 
.. ... . . . . .. . .... . . . . 
Ihur~~.~~ seetem~~r. 4~ 200~ 
~.~1endoz.a College of BusJness ~Jordan A.uditorium 
5:00..,t3-:00 Financial Servi;ces Panel 6: 15... 7:45 lnvestn1ent Banking P'.anel 7:45-8:45 Roundtable D:is.cuss.ions & 
Hors D'oeuvres 1Njll b13 served 

Financial Service~
....... . . .. . ,.,..-""""'··· ..... -='~ 
Bank One lrncoln Financial Group Strong Financial vvens Fargo 
Colli~ge worKed with the Congregation and Brothers of the Holy Cross to establish opportunities for the four-year students. 
"This past summer, seven of our baccalaureate students traveled to Ghana to live and learn from the Brothers of [the) 
Holy Cross there." 
Ma:1gan said. 
According to 
plines. 
"The most immediate need thaL the College has for the support [of) our program is to expand our career development efforts. We believe that the long-term suc­cess of our program will depend on the success of our students at getting jobs or going to graduate school," Mangan said. 
Specifically, Holy Cross has worked to develop a wide range of internship opportuni­ties for its baccalaureate stu­dents and requires that each student compicte an internship. 
Along with the mandatory internship, students must also complete a study-abroad requirement. During the pro­gram's development. the 
working on projects 
that would bring together students, faculty, staff and alumni to further enhance this personal experience," said Mancini. who is working with Craney on the fellowship. 
"There's just a really good relationship between students and faculty," said Craney in a previous interview. 
Holy Cross began deveiop­ment of the program dter stu­dents and alum:Ii expressed an interest in spending their entire four years of college at Holy Cross. Additionally, the College wanted to bring increased leadership to campus with jun­ior and seniGr st!.ldents. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
:FJ.. ... .. ..N·.c.· ··1c··E:·s··.··
:.:.N···A· ·· 1.1.A··.··L-S·.·.·.-E···. ·R··v· 
Professor attends humanities summit 
Context," was like return­
National 
ing "to an old friend". The seminar on the
Endowment for the 
medieval Spanish classicHumanities gathered 15 educators from a national application pool sponsors discussion at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville where they attended classes per­
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
taining to the book. Rico
News Writer 
said that even the five weeks were not adequate
Jose Rico, a Saint Mary's 
time to thoroughly analyze
College assistant professor all aspects of the complex
of modern languages, 
and challenging work.
recently participated in a 
"I was sur­
five-week sum-
prised at how 
mer study pro­
much there 
gram spon­
"I was surprised at was to be
sored by the 
how much there
National Endowment for was to be known t h e 
about one book. ,,
Humanities. 
Rico applied to the program Jose Rico after receiving assistant professor 
encouragement from fe II ow associate professor of mod­ern languages Gerald Gingras. Gingras had par­ticipated in past NEH pro­grams and knew Rico was passionate and familiar with this year's program topic. 
After earning his Ph.D. in Spanish literature at Emory University in 2001, Rico said the seminar, entitled "The Poetics of the CELibro de Buen Amor, in Cultural 
-----·-·--·----------------------------------­
The WALL STREET and 
curriculum. Participants at the seminar developed future plans of writing a book on how to teach the classics, but plans have been postponed, Rico said. 
Rico said he had "a great time" during his· five weeks in Virginia and would rec­ommend future NEH pro­grams to his colleagues. 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmarys.edu 
-. --·----11-1 
~. :.J. . . . : .. ; :,.; . . 

Fi.······o··.·.-R·····u··,··M··..
:: · 
. . ... . . .. . . 
lnve~U!le.nt .. Banking 
Bayview· Capilal ~1anagement. Credit Suisse First Boston fvleUon Financial Corporation Shamrock. Capital Advisors US Banco-rp Piper Jaffray Wifliam Blair ,&, Company 
known about one book," he said. 
The program generated feed­back on how to further inte­grate medieval Spanish clas­sics into the 
NUMEROUS ADDITION.AL EMPLOYER.S w·ILL JOIN US FOR THE ROUNDTABLES Please bring Student lD 
SJ.iOnsored by Tl1e Caro.or Center and h-1BA Career D'evelopn1ent Center 

Friday, August 29, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Rape 
continued from page 1 
maintained the acts that occurred nearly a year and a half ago were consensual and said the woman never resisted them. They admitted to participating in multiple simultaneous sexual acts involving the woman and the former football players. 
Crawford said at one point the woman gestured for him to come to her and invited Dykes to enter the room as well. And Dykes testified 
that after he "We only give the about it until it 
and broiled ahi steak. Domer had sex with was revealed in 
Dollars can be used to pay for
statement to law 
meals, and genrral manager
the woman, she court.
enforcement ifa 
Belinda Deeds said she expectssaid, "You guys Metcalfe also wore me out subpoena is testified that a 
the clientele to include students, and gave me a issued.,, search warrant 
faculty, staff and members of the workout." uncovered a 
community. Dykes also copy of the 
"We've received a very enthusi­
Matt Storin 
astic response from local busi­
said that after woman's state­
University spokesman 
ness people," Deeds said, whosethe woman told ment to Notre 
Elam to back away, saying, "No, you have a girlfriend," Dykes checked to make sure the woman was "cool with this." When she responded affirmatively, Dykes testified he had sex with her. 
The woman testified earli­er in the trial the sexual acts were not consensual. 
However, two of the former 
players who tes­tified each offered slightly conflicting accounts of what happened. 
Both Smith and Crawford said Elam approached the woman at least once. But Smith said Elam approached the woman naked and tried to have sex before 
leaving the room, while Crawford said he did not remember Elam being naked or attempting to have sex. 
Earlier Thursday morning, the lead police investigator said Smith's roommate, who had a room adjacent to the bedroom where the incident 
Show 
continued from page 1 
ative, and feedback on the $10 prices this year was also good. Students don't seem to think that these prices are too much to pay for 'The Show'," she said. "We're in a bigger venue and we have bigger names, and we want to be able to continue 'The Show' in the future." 
In fact, it does not seem that the higher ticket price has discouraged students from attending this year's concert. While u·nsure of the total number of tickets sold as· of Thursday night, Romero said that approximately 1 ,000 tickets were sold during the first five hours of sales. She says the committee expects about 3,500 to 4,000 people to attend this year's show. Last year, attendance for "The Show" was 2,500. 
Romero also said "The Show" is not set up as a direct opposition to Rally in the Alley, a party annually held in Turtle Creek the first weekend of school, but is instead a way to welcome stu­dents back to campus. 
..Our process is our process. Ifthere had been indictments made during that time, the process would have been halted. ,, 
Matt Storin University spokesman 
Starin said. "Our process is 
our process. If there had been indictments made dur­
~------------------------~...·~~--·-···-··-·-···-···-·-··~··· 


TIM KACMAR!fhe Observer 
Legends includes a variety of activities, including an arcade 
and pool tables. 
legal drinking age, Legends staff will inspect identification at the door and issue bracelets to those individuals over the age of 21. Deeds said Legends will further enforce its "zero tolerance poli­cy," by serving alcoholic drinks in colored cups and monitoring the floor to ensure that only bracelet­clad patrons are drinking from these cups. 
The nightclub features a stage for performances, complete with $200,000 worth of sound and lighting equipment. Legends is equipped to accommodate basi­cally any nationally-touring band, and live entertainment will be presented every Thursday, Fr1day and Saturday night from 9 
p.m. to 11 p.m. Campus bands will normally play on Thursdays, Jorissen said, and the last Thursday of every month will present the Best of Acousticafe. On Fridays and Saturdays, he said, nationally touring bands will perform. 
"The idea is that, on any given night, you come here to see live entertainment, and a month later, they might be all over the radio," Jorissen said. 
After bands finish performing, DJs will play until 4 a.m.. he said. 
Faith & Transformation 
Til:~~;}, 340K. t t::::redit S/U R.&v. 0a¥id Hurmll. C.S..C.. 
Me-nd-arts­
·~· ,.,1"1~·-· "Y<·h.""'r iS.· 1·.r·. •)•"t '''P·
..J·t::'"?-"'<~:6'·J =·· ~.-::p!:§;. W-;; :J J)-L.i;.:~ ..if. ::J~ and Ocrooor >S, t 3 
rimf!:: l:O{J p.. ni .: 9.0.'5-p .iri: {.(i·t~::~!(C>t\ .Qt}J3i.V"t:f.Jkt .204 
Prayer, 
Theo,__ 340Ai0-~. 1credit. sl~u Dr, Lawr>enee Cmlf'dnghatn 
~·., ·.\!"·>1"" >~><>·
'""u;·,-.....,...i·'.. 
>.:'··-·."'(*<O:<·.r'ft._<.; _.,,. ., .-t: N)1. ';<B.
,.;1 ~r-4""' <u~...<tti I "-'·:· _ ,_ , ~ {J 
(.)(;;MJ~r 5? r1. n.rt~'tft.: 6:·oor) r.r:.~... • a.·so p ..rr.t t.l~(:~<tJ#btt' Cc.n't~·totrn-:f,fc.rsc .'J'JfJ 
F'ttr fut.dt~:r iufarnuu';:J..~'n, ~~Htt~u:.t 
1
··1,, · ·L ,:!"; f · • .l:. "l':L >
..<~I!r~tnt' ·"'·na~:.r:a;;~r i~SJ frlt:' · · nP.f;;Jf,•.Jfl' 
~· 
. = 
J'Jqt~:rtm.r.,#, 63 I ~-78.1 I, S?~i\·~.h· j~3r t.f.u !'-<~'!4:-r><tr am ;;,_. -i~~)::tf!hul.:t:t t•h fh*~'~x:~o~· J..A.~vr., .I :10 Alrr.l!r.w .!.hd'J. 
.. -... .....7' 
The nightclub also features a fog machine. and a concessions area will sell snack foods and non­alcoholic beverages. 
The club will not only present music, though. One side of the 
· room includes video games, a dart board and pool table, and Jorissen said he is looking into comedy acts as another enter­tainment option. Legends will host game watch­es on Sundays and Mondays, lowering a 144-inch television screen over the stage. On home game weekends, Legends will offer a buffet because no tailgat­ing will be permitted outside. Individuals without tickets can stay for a game watch, during which the concessions area will sell snack foods. The restaurant and pub will remain open until the normal times on football weekends, as well. The club will be available to rent out for pa-rties and other occasions, as will a private dining area within Legends. "I hope to see it become the place that students hang out­that we do get that all-students feel," Deeds said. 
Contact Shelia Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
Dame officials 
at  Smith's  
house.  
Special  prosecutor  

Maureen Devlin said advance knowledge of the victim's claims could have allowed Smith to destroy physical evidence mentioned in the account. 
But University spokesman Matt Starin said giving the clients are often eager to see the Notre Dame campus while in. the area. 
The Ale House Pub also offers a wide range of drinks, including four "Legends Own" beers pro­duced by Indiana craft brewers specifically for Legends. With 64 bottled beers and 22 on tap, the bar also features a wine preser­vation system -a "wine keeper" -that will allow Legends "to sell allegedly occurred, told him he did not hear any scream­ing the night of the incident. 
"He told me he heard noth­ing at all, other than the floor creaking," St. Joseph County Police Detective Steve Metcalfe said. 
Metcalfe pointed out a dis­crepancy in the woman's tes­timony. The woman testified she went to a bathroom to remove a tampon after she was initially locked in a bed­room but before most of the sexual activity allegedly 
occurred,  a  fact that made  
Metcalfe  "angered  and  
upset" because  
he didn't know  

Legends 
continued from page 1 
free stuff as possible the first day." 
Legends will not charge a cover for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. each of whom will be allowed to sign in two guests on any ghen night. The performances will be free. 
The various set-ups within the building offer a diverse array of entertainment options. The restaurant, serving lunch and dinner dai·ly from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., offers unusual and afford­able items, such as bison burgers 
ing that time, the process would have been halted." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at 
mdownesl@nd.edu and Scott 
Brodfuehrer at 
sbrodfue@nd.edu 
"The purpose for 'The Show' is to serve as the wel­come concert of the new school year. For the freshmen. it is a continuation of all the· activities they have had, but it also brings in the upperclass­men ... It really is the only weekend we can hold [the concert]. because after this first weekend, we get into football season and there isn't time." Romero said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

()nt:-C:I~etlit CiJt-trSt!S 
FtJll2lJll1 
cfft're.tlt~}r tht.~· Dt:ptut:mrnt t~l ThtNJ.l!~'J? in f~u~p:i~:!''~iti~Jt-t H'ftj~ (he ·· O#i-n! -f'~l c~~~~P#l$ ~vutd.~tn;·
... ,. .... r. . \·· 
Mary 
r..::leff'JN~t~~r~ ~.1tW': ~ 
Thoo .. :MONiOf. '1 c:rsdrt.. S/U 
Dr. Thnottt:r Mato·vina 
l-.-~•.,,r~·,-.4>"'' ·~· ....9"1~( (...-..;;:~:J"#t  
Oc•}ober 2?  
~~ "(,_,... ' ~ oWl~ . ' •. 'ilu·~~~ ••.s:t;)~f  ·~ ,)~  ....J"j! Vr.  1'·:r '' •  
!Jt!~:~t#ribtw 1, fJ:  

7Imrr f.J:CfJ' p.m. -1.1·{}5 p.m. 1 tl'"'·'"'t-.Y..,,.~· -. >::::n,.,,.,,."f,..,ne.."'"'"':;,' -tt\~
•--~~~W.->>.-. 0.-~.. -.~h<_~rr-... ,.,.~--....( ) ..;...:-""" 
alleged victim's statement to school officials is a normal part of the campus disci­plinary process. 
"We only give the statement to law enforce­ment if a sub­poena is issued, although the victim could give the state­ment to law enforcement," amazing bottles of wine by the glass" instead of the bottle, Jorissen said . 
Another bar is located in a small room adjacent to the night­club area. Because of the room's small size, however, Legends management said customers will be discouraged from loitering in the area and will instead be asked to purchase drinks and return to another section of the building. Only patrons over the age of 21 will be permitted in this area and in the Ale House Pub. 
To distinguish between under­age students and customers of 


Friday, August 29, 2003 COtv\PllED FROM .THE ()HSERVER \VtR.E SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinians freeze charity funds 
WEST BANK -Palestinian authorities said Thursday they froze the bank accounts of nine Islamic charities to investigate whether the organizations funnel money to· militants -the Palestinians' most striking action yet in a U.S.-sought clampdown on armed groups. 
Israel welcomed the decision. But it pressed on with its hunt for militants, killing another Hamas fighter in a missile raid in the Gaza Strip. The army also moved briefly into northern Gaza to destroy brush providing cover for cross-border rocket attacks. 
The airstrike in the southern Gaza town of Khan Younis killed Hamdi Kalakh, 23, as he was driving a donkey cart along a resi­dential street, Palestinian officials and wit­nesses said. At least three other people were reported injured. 
Barnas supporters said Kalakh was a member of Barnas' military wing. 
Blackout affects London subway 
LONDON·-Power went out in parts of the capital and southeast England on Thursday, bringing much of the London Underground and many regional trains to a halt and strand­
. ing hundreds of thousands of rush hour com­muters. 
Electricity was cut for about 40 minutes before it came back on at about 7 p.m., said EDF Energy, which handles power transmis­sion for the affected areas of London. The out­ages appeared to be confined to south London and Kent, a county southeast of the city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Democrat Texas senators fear arrest 
LAREDO -Attorneys for 11 boycotting senators requested a temporary restraining order Thursday to allow them to return to Texas without fear of arrest. 
The Democratic senators left Austin for Albuquerque, N .M., on July 28 to block a Senate quorum and avoid a vote on congres­sional redistricting. The second special ses­sion Of1 redistricting ended Tuesday, but a third one could be called by the governor. 
The Democrats have filed a lawsuit alleg­ing the GOP violated their constitutional rights and the Voting Bights Act in pursuing redistricting. 
Escaped child molester sentenced 
LOUISA. Ky.-Truman Evans, 57, walked outside the courthouse July 1 as a jury delib­erated his fate, saying he needed fresh air. He fled and was found two weeks later in Ohio. 
On Thursday, Evans sat silently beside his attorney as Judge David .Hagerman berated him for the sex crimes and sentenced him to life in prison plus 20 years. 
Prosecutors said Evans forced a child to perform oral sex on him and attempted to force another to do the same. 
"It's· enough to make you vomit," Hagerman told Evans. 
LOCAL NEWS 
West Nile found in Muncie area 
MUNCIE -Indiana's fifth probable human case of West Nile virus this summer has been identified in Delaware County, state health officials said Thursday. 
Announcement of the newest case comes with the arrival of the time o( year when infections of the mosquito-borne virus could be most likely. 
No further information was released about the person believed infected in Delaware County, which includes the city of Muncie. 
North Korea plans to test nukes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Rejecting 
U.S. disarmament demands, North Korea said Thursday it will prove ta the world that it possesses nuclear weapons by carrying out a nuclear test, a U.S. govern­ment official said. 
At a six-nation meeting in China that included the United States, North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Kim Yong Il also said, according to the U.S. offi~ cial, that his country has the means to deliver nuclear weapons, an appar­ent reference to its highly­developed missile program. 
The State Department declined comment on the deliberations in Beijing except to reiterate that the 
U.S. goal at the conference is to focus on "the complete, verifiable and irreversible elimination" of North Korea's nuclear weapons program. 
Wie Sung-rak, director­general of the South Korean Foreign Ministry's North American Affairs Bureau, injected a positive note, say­ing in Beijing that another round of talks probably will be held after the current round ends on Friday. Efforts to confirm Wie 's statement, with U.S. officials were unsuccessful. 
North Korea had con­firmed privately to U.S. offi­cials last April during talks in China that it possessed nuclear weapons but Kim's statement Thursday is believed to have been its such acknowledgment in a formal setting. 
Present for Kim's presen­tation at a guest house in western Beijing were Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly and repre-sentatives from China, South Korea, Japan and Russia, in addition to North Korea. 

U.S. intelligence has not detected overt signs that 
·North Korea is preparing to conduct a nuclear weapons test, said one U.S. defense official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. But such a test would presumably be underground, so preparato­ry work would be difficult . to detect, the official said. 
There was speculation here that North Korea could carry out a nuclear test on Sept. 9, the anniver­sary of the formation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as the country is known officially. 
With the exception of North Korea. all govern­ments represented in Beijing had expressed vary­ing degrees of opposition to the communist country's nuclear programs. 
The administration believed that a broad inter­national front -including North Korea's neighbors ­in support of a denu­clearized Korean peninsula would induce Pyongyang to retreat from its nuclear ambitions. 
Officials also hoped that North Korea might show flexibility given U.S. promis­.es to offer security guaran­tees to Pyongyang as well as measures to assist the country's stricken economy. 
In addition, the adminis­tration found encourage­ment in signs that China was increasingly opposed to North Korea's program. As a major donor of food and energy aid to North Korea, China has been thought by 
U.S. officials to be in posi­tion to play a decisive role in restraining Pyongyang. 
But the North Korean 
Latino group criticizes Schwarzenegger 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The nation's oldest Hispanic civil rights group called on Arnold Schwarzenegger to step down from the advisory board of U.S. English. a group that seeks to make English the official language of the United States. 
The League of United Latin American Citizens said the Austrian-born actor's position brings into question his commit­ment to Hispanics. 
"It just seems like all the issues that we support he doesn't," Gabriela Lemus, the league's director of policy and legislation, said Thursday. The league said it is not taking a position on whether Gov. Gray Davis should be recalled and will not endorse a replace­ment candidate. 
Schwarze negg e r sp-okesman Sean Walsh said the actor agrees with U.S. English's attempts to make English the official lan­guage. 
"Arnold Schwarzenegger came to this country with a few dollars in his pocket and not speaking the English language, and he realized the importance of learning to speak English as quickly as possi­ble to achieve your American dreams," Walsh said. 
The demand that Schwarzenegger leave U.S. English came as the Republican 
rejection of the U.S. nuclear 
disarmament proposal 
appeared to be complete. 
According to the official, 
Kim said there was no evi­
dence of any U.S. intention 
to abandon its policy of hos­
tility toward North Korea. 
He also rejected U.S. sug­
gestions that North Korea 
open up its nuclear facilities · to international inspection. 
The administration offi­
cial, asking not to be identi­
fied, said China's delegate 
appeared visibly angry over 
Kim's statement but 
responded in a moderate 
tone. 
The official said that 
when Russia and Japan 
attempted to point out some 
positive elements of the U.S. 
presentation. the North 
Korean delegate attacked 
them by name and said 
they were lying at the 
instruction of the United 
States. 

Arnold Schwarzenegger campaigns with supporters l.n Fresno. Schwarzenegger's policies have been criticized by Latino !nterest groups. 
was embarking on a campaign swing through California's Central Valley, including a stop in Fresno, former hometown of Democrat Bustamante who, according to a recent Los Angeles Times poll, is the front-running candidate while Schwarzenegger was second. 
page 6 7he ob~·erver + NAT'IONAL NEWS 

Bush plans return to White House 
AssociateJ P1,..s:: 
CH.\\\.H)J{D, Tt>xas -lie's spPnt the month clearing brush on his sPcludPd ranrh, j og g ing i n 1 0 0 -d I' g n• P h " a t and watching lightning strPak across the Texas skv. But comp Saturdav. PrPsidt>nt Bush trades · wide-opPn, grassy pastures for the con­fitws of the \Yhitc llouse. 
Bush's monthlong stay at what he calls the \\'estern White llousp was interrupted by the bombing of the U.N. hcadquartPrs in Baghdad, \'iolt>ncc in the 1\liddlr East, continuing battles in Iraq and trips to sevpn states. 
liP also raised $(>.() million for his campaign and talked about national parks, wild­fires, saving Pacific salmon and thL' war in Iraq. 
.. While at the ranch, the president is able to conduct all the official business that he would conduct in \\'ashington," \\'hite llouse spokes\\'oman Claire Buchan said Thursdav. "But he's nlso able to spend time with Mrs. B u s h . ot IH• r fa m i l y a n d friPnds and work on the land at his ranch." 
\1embers of the press corps '' ho followed Bush to Tex.as for tlw month were invited to the ranch on \Vednesday evening. They piled into trucks and Bush. leading the way at the wheel of his white pickup, led a tour of his beloved 1.583-acre spread, 
pointing  out  trees.  cliffs.  
creek  beds.  flowers  and  
wildlife.  
The  event  was  off  the  

record. but reporters were overheard talking with Bush about foreign trips, sports, f'ishing and the Bushes twin daughters. One TV crew member asked thP president for advice about training for an upcoming marathon. 
Anotl1cr ~:orn'spondent plrad­
ccl  ,.,.ith  him  to  makt~  more  
visits  to  tht•  press  cabi11  
i!bo:~rd  Air ForcP One.  

Ba r n <' y m a d e t h<' r· o u n ds . g(•tting pats on tlw hPad. ThP p r <'~ide n t· s otlw r dog. Spot. a p p a n• ntI y o v P r h«'a t «> d fro m anoth«>r humid day in Crawford. walked int.o the s h a ll lJ \\' l' n d o f t h e p o o l to cool off' and sip water. 
The dinner menu: Fried c h i cke n . c o ll· s la w . po t a t o salad. jalapeno biscuits, baked beans and assorted bevrragcs Dt>ssPrt was peach co bblPr -a Ia mode for th osP who wanted it. 
Heporters joked with Laura Bush about whose idea it was to havf' tbe dinner -hers or tbe pre'>ider:l.'s. !le said last week that it was her idea. 
Bush returns Saturdav to a White !louse under re-nova­tion. 
Hoof tile:; on the \Vest Wing wer~ replaced in his absrnce. And on the North Lawn. workers are laboring to spruce up an cyesor·e known as Pebble Beach, where tele­vision correspondents film stand-ups with the White House as a backdrop. The result is that an entire sec­tion of the president's front lawn. off the driveway lead­ing to the West Wing entrance, is now a construc­tion zone with piles of dirt; crisscrossed beams and equipment. 
The work was to be finished before BLish returned, but has been delc:.yed by violent thunderstorms and other problems. 
After about two days at the White House, Bush will hit thP road again to spend Labor Day with union work­ers in Hichfield, Ohio. On Tuesday, he is to be present­ed with the first game ball of this year's NFL season. 
NAACP complains 
about Florida schools 
A~sociated Press 
TALLAIIASSEE -The NAACP tiled a federal complaint against Florida's education department Thursday. seeking to stop use of' statevvide assessment tests until the achievement gap between minoritv and white students is eliminated. 
The complaint to the federal Office for Civil Bights, released by the group Thursday, also seeks to achieve racial balance in schools among students and teachers and alleges that Florida has intentionally dis­criminated against black stu­dents. 
The lawsuit asks to havP fed­eral education moncv withheld from Florida until.the state implements a plan to close racial disparities. 
"The svstem must ensure that African:r\rnPrican and other minority children have Pqual education opportunities regard­less of \\hPre they go to 3Choo!," said Adora Obi 1\\\CZe, !\'AACP statn pn~sidt)IIt. 
The U . S . D e p art nw n t o f 
Education did not return ralls Thurselay afternoun for com­ment. 
Florida's minority students have scored well below white students in standardized tests, including the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test, which is used to determine whether students are held back a grade and whether seniors graduate. 
This year 73 percent of white fourth-graders taking the FCAT scored at or above their grade level in reading, compared to 41 p-:;rcent of black students and 51 percent of Hispanics. 
But Education Commissioner Jim Horne said that the gap between white and minority achievement is closing. At the same grade level thP year before, 65 percent of white stu­dents scored at or above grade level in reading, compared to 23 percent of blacks and 38 per­cent of Hispanics. 
Because of the new state poli­cy basing promotion largely or. the FCJ\T, 33,000 Florida young­sters must repe;~t third gradP this ) car, live times more than last year. 
Rally remembers King speech 
A.wcl;!tcd Pre:.i 
:\'!I ·\\JT/\ ---A!"!1ts linkt>d, a 
,·ro,,·d or :~uo marched 
Thursday thn~..1~h downtown 
i\tlanta and the neighbor­
11 o o ds \\ lw r e .\i artin l.u t lw r 
King Jr. gn'\\ up to mMk the 
40th anniversary or tlw slain 
civil rights h•adt:r's .. , !lave a 
DrPam" spPrrh. 
Political and communitv iPaders. including presidl'n·­tial candidatP AI Sh.trpton, IPd thr march through the ·city's historic SwPet Auburn distrirt to a rally that l'ventu­ally drP\\' about 400 peoplP at the I\lLK National Historic 
Site. 
Hep. John Le\\ is. who 
helped organize til'' odginal 
!\larch on \\'as:·tington in 196:~ 
,.,·here King dt>livered his ora­
tion. reflected on tlw progress 
made since thrn. · 
"In 1963. I was un the out­side protesting, looking in," Lnwis said. "But because of' ! hr Civi I 1\ ;ght:i Act. of 1<; 6 4 and because of tht~ Voting Bights Act of 1965, I am 110\\' on the inside making lah·s. 
"I wish Medgp.r E·;ers. 
President Kennedy, Martin 
Luther King Jr., Hobert 
Kennedy ... and many others 
wore here today to see how 
far we've cornt~.'· 
Corella. Scott King focused 
on the legacy of her late hus­
band's words. 
"Martin'5 call to mterracial 
brotherhood and sisterhood 
has enduring resonance 
because it speaks so elo­
quently to the longing for 
unity thc:.t resides in the 
hearts of all people of good 
will," she said. "'He painted a 
dazzling word pic:ture of a 
multicultural democracy of 
the America that could be. 

the Americct thaL should be." 
In Washington, Martin 
Luther King III addressed the 
National Press Club a·nd 
updated his late father's 40­
year-old dream for racial 
equality with a call for uni­
versal health care, economic 
parity for minorities and the 
elimination of the "state­
spr,nsored terrorism" of capi­
tal punishment. 
He also lashed out at oppo­IJents of affirmative action for trying to "twist" the meaning ·of the wcrds of his father, who once said he hoped someday children "will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of 
their character." 
King said his faLher often 
advocated the "preferential 
hiring of the disadvantaged. 
... To abandon affirmative 
action is to say there is noth­
ing more to be done about 
disc rim ination." 
King IPf"t Washington and boarded a planP ti> Ohio, where he urgPd a crowd or sPveral hundred Thursdav night to continue tlwir eco·­nomir boycott. of Cincinnati. lie said the boycott is in the tradition of his fatlH)r's civil rights Yvork. 
Black.activists began the boycott in 2001 aru~r a whitt• policeman fatallv shot an unarnwd black nuin running from officers trying to arrest him. The shooting led to three nights of riots. 
The Hev. Jesse Jackson. speaking at a rally in New Haven, Conn., for striking Yale University vvorkers, reminded the crowd that King's speech also was about broken promises the govern­ment made after slavery. jobs for Americans and civil rights legislation. 

~----------------------------~~~--­

Friday, August 29, 2003 
Page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,374.21 +40.42
jones 
..&.,,, 
·''?i.,l> Smne: Down: Composite Vohone: 4245 /86 1,150.234,968
-· 
AMEX 974.40 +3.12 NASDAQ 1,800.18 +18.05 NYSE 662.16 +4.22 S&P500 
1,002.84 +6.05 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.00  +0 28  28.30  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.34  +009  26 51  
CORVIS CORP (CORV)  -3.97  -0.05  1. 21  
ORACLE SYSTEMS (ORCL)  +2.57  +0 32  12 n  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.95  +0 18  19.19  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. GDP grows in 2nd quarter 
WASHINGTON -Idling for months. the 
economy finally shifted into a higher gear in 
the second quarter as consumers and busi­
nesses bought more and the federal govern­
ment ramped up military spending on the 
Iraq war. Th.e improvement reinforced the 
belief that the economy will pick up speed 
through the rest of the year. 
The broadest measure of the economy's 
performance, gross domestic product, grew at 
an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the April to 
June quarter, according to revised figures 
released Thursday by the Commerce 
Department. 
That was faster than the 2.4 percent growth rate first estimated a month ago and came after two straight quarters of lackluster eco­nomic growth. GOP, which measures the value of all goods and services produced with­in the United States. increased at just a 1.4 percent pace in the final quarter of 2002 and the first three months of this year. 
World Com CEO to appear in court 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Former WorldCom Inc. 
chief executive Bernard Ebbers is scheduled 
to appear in court next Wednesday on crimi­
nal charges filed by the Oklahoma attorney 
general. 
Attorney General Drew Edmondson has 
charged Ebbers, five other former executives 
of World Com-now known as MCI-and the 
company itself with defrauding Oklahoma 
investors before the company's $11 billion 
accounting scandal broke last year. plunging 
it into bankruptcy. 
The charges carry up to 10 years in prison. 
Goodyear to cut 500 salaried jobs 
AKHON, Ohio-Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. said on Thursday that it will eliminate about 500 salaried and nonunion jobs at its North American tire operations. 
The reductions at the nation's biggest tire maker will involve management and staff posi­tions at most of its manufacturing plants throughout North America in a bid to cut costs. 
Each location is developing its own plan for how the reductions \Viii be achieved by the end of September. 
"When we announced our turnaround plan at the end of last year, we said that difficult decisions would be required," said Jon Rich, president of Goodyear's North American Tire business unit. "This is one of those very diffi­cult actions. but it is absolutely necessary to achieve our cost reduction objectives." 
Earlier this year. Goodyear eliminated approximately 700 salaried positions. the majority of which were at its Akron headquar­ters. 
Goodyear has been struggling financially. and its turnaround plan includes reducing costs by $1 billion to $1.5 billion by the end of 2005. 
Ford focuses on 2004 F-150 
Associated Press 
DEAHBOHN, Mich. ­
Ford on Thursday kicked 
off its largest ever media 
campaign, nearly deify­
ing its 2004 F-150 in an 
advertising and market­
ing show that builds up 
from a tantalizing tease 
campaign to a blitz com­
pany executives say is 
deserving only of the 
new truck. 
The tease campaign starts Friday with 15­second television spots, an Internet banner cam­paign and full-page ads in several key truck markets. 
Its full campaign begins on what the com­pany is calling N a tiona! F-150 Kickoff Weekend. starting Sept. 4 in con­junction with the regular NFL season. 
Each commercial fea­tures the theme, "Only 
Ford Motor Company Chairman and CEO Bill Ford Jr. sits next to a 2004 F-150 red
this truck earned the right to be the next F-pickup truck. The truck will be the focus of the company's new advertising blitz. 
150." lucrative truck market in The company expects The F-Series pickup is "For us in the compa­the face of competition to spend more than $100 the best-selling vehicle ny, it's kind of been a lot from Toyota Motor Co. million on advertising in the United States and like Christmas. You and Nissan Motor Co.. for the first six months. accounts for 25 percent know ... it's coming and. which have made sub-Lyons said. Ford execu-of Ford's sales. The new 
f'inally, now Christmas stantial inroads into the tives believe it's neces-F-150 has five models morning is here and we market. sary given the transfor-instead of the three pre­could not be more excit­Some television and mation they say the viously offered. ed about it," said Steve· print commercials will truck has made. Suggested retail price Lyons, Ford division cater to Hispanic, blacks The world's second-for the new pickup will president. and Asian-Americans largest automaker has range from $19,125 to 
The success of the through a multicultural said its suggested retail $35,570, excluding des­truck's launch is particu­campaign Ford officials price for the 2004 F-150 tination and delivery larly important to Ford hope will continue to lineup will remain the charges. as it, and other U.S. win over a key market same as the starting The model debuted in automakers, works to segment they say other price of the previous 1997. retain dominance of the truck makers overlook. year's model. 

Philip Morris ends discount smokes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Philip Morris USA is 
snuffing out its Wholesale Leaders 
program. a cigarette-discounting 
tactic which a group of tobacco 
wholesalers believe is in violation of 
antitrust laws. 
The program's demise follows a 
federal court decision earlier this ·month to grant a request for prelimi­nary injunction made by the whole­
salers group. 
Under the terms of the program 
that went into effect at the end of 
June, wholesalers were able to 
receive discounts based on their per­
formance. 
To qualify for the highest discounts 
in the three-tiered plan. wholesalers 
had to maintain nearly a 50 percent 
market share of Philip Morris 
brands. 
Philip Morris USA, the Altria 
Group Inc. unit that makes Marlboro discount cigarette brands because change could hurt Philip Morris' 
and Parliament cigarettes, will ter­manufacturers of the cheaper wholesalers, who rely on these 
minate the program effective Dec. brands would have higher costs as a attractive cash incentives. 
27. according to company result of constrictions to their whole­"We believe the catalyst for this spokesman Brendan McCormick. sale distribution network brought on decision was the preliminary injunc­However, other elements of the plan by the Philip Morris program. tion that was granted against Philip will be phased out sooner. he said. Philip Morris told its wholesalers Morris recently as a result of thr 
The 16 wholesalers who sued in a letter Wednesday that the "cents Smith Wholesale lawsuit," Herzog Philip Morris in the U.S. District off" portion of the Wholesale said. "We believe that instead of the Court for the Eastern District of Leaders program will end on Sept. company viewing the injunction as Tennessee at Greeneville argued the 28. bad news. it is making lemonade out plan put them at a disadvantage According to Smith Barney analyst of lemons by using this as an oppor­against those wholesalers who quali­Bonnie Herzog, eliminating this por­tunity." fy for the highest level of rebates. tion of the program will provide Herzog expects the decision will 
The group also claims the pro­Philip Morris with a "significant" save Philip Morris millions of dollars, gram would push up prices for deep--amount of savings. However. the but could disrupt business. 

Friday, August 29, 2003
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Telephone transcripts from 9/11 released 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In the frenzy of phone calls that followed the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, trapped workers begged in vain for an escape route and anguished wives desperately sought lost hus­bands. Screams and sirens echoed in the background as bodies dropped out of the sky. 
The haunting images emerged Thursday as the Port Authority released 2,000 pages of transcripts from emergency calls and radio transmissions that provide a fierce first glimpse behind the scenes in the around the 80th floor shortly after 9 a.m. 
The evacuation of 2 World Trade Center, the second tower hit, became a source of anguish to the victims' fami­lies. Some survivors have already said they were advised to remain in the Port Authority-owned building. 
The transcripts illustrate the contradictory information within the Port Authority itself in the initial moments, with one conversation reflecting an early discussion of evacuating people from the two buildings after the first plane hit. In all, an estimated 
moments after the "In general, [the 25,000 people deadliest terrorist did successfully
transcripts] show 
attack in U.S. his-evacuate the
people performing 
tory. . towers. 
From 1 World ·their duties very "In general, Trade Center, the heroically ... " [the transcripts] assistant manager show people per­of the Windows forming their
Greg Trevor 
on the World duties very hero­restaurant made Port Authority ically and very four calls plead­spokesman professionally on 
ing for help as 100 people remained trapped with her near the top of the 110-story tower. "We're trying to get up to you, dear," a police officer offered reassuringly. 
At least two wives, unaware they were to be widows, tried in vain to learn their husband's whereabouts. Neither Port Authority Officer Donald Mcintyre nor his boss, Executive Director Neil Levin. ever made it home. 
There were references to howling sirens in the back­ground and static buzz on the phone lines, and callers repeatedly spoke over each other after the plane crashed into the first tower at 8:46a.m. 
Many callers were inaudible, yet the horror and hysteria of the morning when 2,792 peo­ple died jumps off the typed pages. 
"Yo, I've got dozens of bod­ies, people just jumping from the top of the building onto ... in front of One World Trade," says a male caller. "People. Bodies are just coming from out of the sky.... up top of the building." 
"Bodies?" replied a female operator. 
Callers reported missiles fired downtown from the top of the Chrysler Building, and a bomb scare came in from the George Washington Bridge. There were decisions that proved disastrous, like setting up a command center in the doomed north tower. 
For some, there was the sweet relief of breathing in the temporarily fresh air. 
''I'm alive, Dennis," said one anonymous male. ''I'm outside the building and I'm healthy." 
Others were less fortunate. People were stranded through­out the buildings, with calls for help pouring in from the 78th floor, the 88th, the 103rd, the 107th. 
One male caller from the 92nd floor of the second tower asked a Port Authority police officer, "Should we stay or should we not?" 
"I would wait 'til further notice," the officer replied. A second, similar call -with the same police response -came in a shortly after. No one in the top floors of the tower survived a ft e r t h e sec on d p l an e hit 
a day of horror," Port Authority spokesman Greg Trevor said. 
Gene Raggio, 55, an opera­tions supervisor at the trade center, responded to a call for help from a woman trapped on the 22nd floor. "How are you doing up there?" he asked. 
A woman responded they had used wet tissues to keep the smoke out, but they could­n't escape. 
"OK," said Raggio, one of 4 7 civilian Port Authority employ­ees killed in the attack. "We are working our way up to 22." 
One unidentified caller reached the roof high above the Hudson River, but made it no further. Windows on the World assistant manager Christine Oiender called to report people stranded on the 106th floor. "We need direction as to where we need to direct our guests and our employees, as soon as possible," she says, citing increasing smoke. 
"We're doing our best ... we're trying to get up to you, dear," replied a Port Authority officer. 
Jeannine Mcintyre, whose police officer husband died in the attack, saw the first tower fall and immediately called one of his co-workers. 
"Is my husband in that build­ing that just collapsed?" she asked. "He was going up." 
She repeated her sad mantra four times: "He was going up." 
Christy Ferer made a similar call to check on her husband, Port Authority head Neil Levin. She wound up speaking to trade center director Alan Reiss, who had not heard from him. 
"God forbid. I went through this in '93," he said, a refer­ence to the first ter-rorist attack in lower Manhattan. 
Some surviving family mem­bers were angered or upset by the transcripts' release, which followed a court battle between the Port Authority and the New York Times. Others said the transcripts could provide valuable insight into the tragedy; still others declined to even view the tran­scripts before their release to the media. 
"It's not that I don't have an interest," said Theresa Riccardelli, whose husband, Francis, was killed. "I can't." 
Survey of cadets released 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nearly one in five female Air Force Academy cadets said they had been sexually assaulted during their time at the academy, according to a sur­vey underscoring the extent of the problem at the scan­dal-plagued school. 
Although the results of the Defense Department survey are preliminary, Air Force and academy officials acknowledged the severity of the issues of culture and cli­mate that led to the sex assault scandal. 
"I've seen the numbers, and we have a problem," Brig. Gen. Johnny Weida, commandant of cadets, told a reporter after a stern address to 4,000 cadets at the academy near Colorado Springs. 
In his speech, Weida acknowledged that miscon­duct had tarnished the acad­emy's reputation and said: "If you think this problem has been blown out of pro­portion by the media, you are wrong." 
The survey is part of an inquiry by Pentagon Inspector General Joseph E. Schmitz into how academy leadership handled allega­tions from female cadets who said they were reprimanded after they reported being sexually assaulted. 
A department official who had read the report, speak­ing on condition of anonymi­ty, said the survey done this year showed that 109 of the 579 female cadets surveyed, or 18.8 percent, said they had been sexually assaulted ically conducted but said in their time at the academy. they should have raised red Sexual assault was defined flags for academy leaders. as anything from unwanted He has demanded regular touching to rape. reports and the use of sur­
In 89 percent of the cases, veys to monitor the effective­the alleged assailant was ness of the changes. identified as another cadet. "We will chart a fundamen­
The survey also said that tally different course for the 11 percent of senior female academy," the Air Force said cadets and 3 percent of in a statement Thursday. freshman female cadets "And most importantly, we reported having been the vic­are going to closely monitor tim of rape or attempted our progress as we move for-rape since ward." enrolling at the During his 20­academy. minute speech to 
"In terms of "We will chart a cadets Thursday, that rape num­fundamentally Weida bran­
ber, if that is dished a sword.
dijjerentcoursefor
true, that's a saying the very disturbing the academy." actions of some number," said cadets had tar­Sean Conway, nished_ the long­
Air Force Academy
chief of staff time symbol of
statement
for Sen. Wayne the noble war-Allard, R-Colo .. rior. who has "Some among pressed the Air Force to us have rusted this sword." address the issue. he said. ·'If we don't reverse 
In a statement, Air Force this trend, the very existence officials said the survey was of this institution is threat­consistent with the data ened." he said. compiled through an internal The survey results were review and supports the first reported by The Rocky sweeping changes imple­Mountain News in Denver. mented by Air Force A second survey was Secretary James Roche this administered to cadets on year. Wednesday and. a third is 
Annual academy surveys expected this fall. The conducted from 1996 to 2002 upcoming survey will also be -with the exception of 1999 given to cadets at the U.S. -indicated between 11 per-Naval Academy and the U.S. cent and 19 percent of Military Academy at West female cadets reported hav­Point to compare the climate ing been sexually assaulted at the three academies. since enrolling at the acade­Weida said. my. The inspector general's 
Roche played down the report containing the survey validity of those results since results is expected to be the surveys were not scientif-released in December. 


ir''''\'~ 
'' 
a 

Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake frorn The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic ofTea Joseph 5chmidtjs Chocolate from San Francisco 
~\<itm~fh 7dm-·wpml~-dt -;udm-'!opm (Spe·d?d Hoors tn AcfC:t11mo-tj;)tt Event's <J!: Nto:rds Pt~rtonrdng Arts (~~ntt:r) 

2.33-("' ..a e f'' NOW Hiring 
---~ 
Friday, August 29, 2003 page 9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
NASA employee advised clearing Web site 
Site contained information on safety practices and procedures to follow 
• 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Just days after the shuttle Columbia dis­aster. a NASA employee at headquarters proposed scrub­bing the agency's safety office Web site to remove outdated or wrong information that could become "chum in the water to reporters and congressmen." 
"We wouldn't want to be sucker punched by someone based on something we have posted." employee Wilson Harkins wrote in an e-mail released this week by NASA. 
NASA said Thursday that 18 routine documents were added to the Web site since the acci­dent and none was removed. Spokeswoman Melissa Motichek said Harkins was try­ing to make sure the site was accurate and up-to-date. 
"The e-mail speaks for itself," Motichek said. 
A former NASA investigator. Joseph Richard Gutheinz, said that in the aftermath of the shuttle accident it was inappro­priate for NASA to suggest removing any documents until they were reviewed by investi­gators. 
"Whenev~r you have an investigation, ·everything should freeze," said Gutheinz, who worked in NASA's inspec­tor general office for 10 years. "You don't get rid of anything. You have a duty to your coun­try, to the NASA program and the investigation to allow them to see everything you have before you sta.rt tossing this stuff." 
Harkins' e-mail and other newly disclosed documents describe how NASA was braced for the investigation into the Columbia tragedy. 
Virginia. 
The e-mail emerges as NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe promises that his agency will radically change its culture in response to a stinging inves­tigative report that partly blames the agency's bureau­cracy for the shuttle's demise. 
Columbia investi­
gators have publicly 
Harkins urged praised NASA for that the agency "We wouldn't want its cooperation, and should review to be sucker one outside public NASA mishap relations executive
punched by 
files to answer said it is common 
someone based on
inevitable ques­for large organiza­tions from something we have tions in the midst of "some enter­crisis to make every
posted.,
prising new­effort to provide shound or con­consistent and gressional Wilson Harkins accurate informa­staffer." NASA employee tion. 
"Has anyone done a com­plete scrub of the Code Q [safe­ty division] Web pages to make sure they are current?" Harkins wrote in a Feb. 6 e­mail, five days after Columbia's breakup killed its crew. "Out­of-date or erroneous informa­tion is like chum in the water to reporters and congressmen." 
Harkins was on vacation Thursday and did not return messages left at his home and office. 
The recipient of the e-mail, manager John Lemke. has retired and did not return a message left at his home in 
"That particular 
communique is fair­ly raw, there's nothing sugar­coated there," said Steve O'Keeffe, president of the O'Keeffe & Co. public relations firm in McLean, Va. "It's every communications department's objective to manage the per­ception of the organization as best as possible. Exactly these kinds of documents exist in corporate America every­where." 
Another expert, a manage­ment professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. said it was important for organizations during a crisis to preserve all "so that we will have a com­documents -even incorrect or plete record of what goes out." outdated ones -to help deter-• Motichek said Rutledge's mine events that might have instructions were "an effort to led to the crisis. But he said keep track of what the office Harkins' e-mail didn't seem was producing and to make inappropriate. sure there was no contradicto­
"It does not communicate to ry information." She said me there is something inappro­Rutledge and another senior priate or illicit being argued safety executive did not deny 
here,"  said  any request to send  
Michael Use em, Wharton's  "Whenever you have an  materials to shuttle investigators. O'Keefe said earlier  
director at the Center for Leadership and Change  investigation, everything should freeze.,,  this week there was "nary a hint" that the agency had sought to influence the out­ 
Management.  come of the shuttle  
NASA dis­closed Harkins' e­mail under  Joseph Gutheinz former NASA investigator  inquiry. "What we wanted was an unvarnished, straightforward  
the Freedom  assessment  from  
of Information  them,  and  we  got  

Act among 667 pages of docu­that," O'Keefe said. ments on the eve of the release Other documents include sug­of the final report by the gested responses for managers. Columbia Accident including O'Keefe, to questions Investigation Board. NASA dis­that NASA anticipated from closed other e-mails involving investigators and congressional the safety office two weeks ear­oversight committees, as well lier. as copies of forwarded news 
Other newly released docu­articles about the accident ments included e-mail from investigation. Peter J. Rutledge, the director One e-mail, marked "HOT for NASA's"enterprise safety HOT HOT," cautioned NASA and mission assurance division, employees that O'Keefe "will be instructing all employees to playing Double Jeopardy" with seek approval from managers lawmakers in an upcoming before sending any new mate­joint congressional hearing rials to shuttle investigators, days later. 
Congregatio.n of Holy Cross 
Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual profession of vows and consecrate themselves to Christ forever: 

Final vows class franz left to right, bottonz row: Chuck Witschorik, C.S. C., Dan Parrish, C.S. C., Ralph Haag, C.S. C.; top row: Neil Wack, C.S.C., Lou De!Fra, C.S.C., Andy Sebesta, C.S.C., Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Saturday, August 30, 2003 Sacred Heart Basilica 
1:30 p.m. 
www.nd.eduf,_vocation 
J 
J 
Friday, August 29,2003

ac -GuctaJ InfOnmdon 211t Cc:nulty Srholm AIDS A.:a%Cl1C•/8WAT AIDS Mlntmia/AIDS AA1n .AtrJr::t:Jc.n C"M~cxt Sodcty 
Anmaly lntu. hl1iona1 AtnoH Air Sodcty BJg Btud:u:n/B.ig S!au:n BJg Btud:u:n/B.ig Sisu:n &yJ atd G11L Oub Df St. Joseph CA.R.E. -~Alli•tnx: fut bpc F Htrtitwtion 
~Ghi&couta 
Cmttt fut &lielatnitlg SJdll. Cc:nttt fut Hatnclc• CbDdtm'• Group Cc:nttt fut 1he Hcmdcu CxutrvnhyAllir--rr w Set vc J-Barrtab. (CASH) Orikhui•Dhpcmary ~C l'tdnnnby laming Center ~laming Caund1 ac -Sw:h1 Cona::tn. Sctniruttw ac -lhbutPlqc a<: -Sutntnct Sc:nicc Ptcpttn 
(X -Setdor~ Prugxwm 
ac: -I.o.1 'IUtutl Ptvgtwtn 
CX -lbtLJ'tlatfoogl SSP 
CX -A]?p'J.chla Bttd: Sctnfnat 
Otc:kK 
Q dtdX ···tdty ltauutcc Cc:::tntt 
CoUbdJ. for Fun Mild Inn> 
DiiiDU of Mlcf,fsna 
BUN@ND 
Food.b.n: Glo'btl Hctith InitJidK 
Habitst fut lfutrwclty 
Hnhb Wmb1 Kl.ds' Mnvntn 
Ha.hby Cornrrwnitkw Iuidatm 
!Ugh CYBthrn Yowh Fuwctwl.don }&lutntJI Aaoc 
Jlvro•tJr Soc:kty of St.)oKph County 
Ttvlimg Legal Srnica..IiE. 
~ta of Cootnbca 
Law. de ~Inc. 
No~~ r..itta.ttt 
BatBndc\b Lagan Ccmct 
Super sn,. 
Lagan Rr.u:• stion Cub 
IJfc Ttattnmt Cctwtc::m 
Lunch P.A.C.K. MI. Wbald Day NdgbbothDDd StudyHelp PuChrlr.d Ptqpa.M: Sw.ckut .AJl\trt.cr Jd'uga: -.1 Itntnipu inn Suvk:a JkitJ I of rJ£i: ND Rlgbt 'Ib Ilk St. Joseph"• CUtdr O.pin Stttct Citric Cntuturrtiliy Outtrscb St. Vhx:an: De Paul Sockty S-o-S SuuJh BctHi Comsauntty Scboob SuuJh Bcbd Dmlm Center Spa:W Frictxl• SEA -Studdlti fat Btwiruntncntlll Acdon 'Ibdn'Wlk fot 1\mxPuuw Trident Nl'ftl Scdcty Utritrd BdJgiDu. <Amdmmity U.tdv. Yom.g IJ£c Woau::tf& Baauta: Cmttt 
.for..,iii}PiwtlliMt sc 
htlpd/~11111/-1116/ 
Friday, August 29, 2003 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 
Fierce fighting after U.S. bombing 
could not immediately be
Associated Press 
reached for comment. 
"The fighting was intense QALAT, Afghanistan and we have inflicted heavyAfghan soldiers were waging damage on the Taliban," a fierce battle with Hotak said. "Our forces 
entrenched Taliban fighters counted 35 Taliban bodies." in southern Afghanistan after As he spoke, Hotak received a night of heavy U.S. bombing calls from commanders at the that left many Taliban dead, scene and barked back an Afghan intelligence chief orders for the ongoing fight-
said Friday. U.S. war­planes began  "The fighting was intense  ing. "We get information  
bombing  two  and we have inflicted  when  the  
suspected Taliban posi­tions in the  heavy damage on the Taliban bodies. "  Taliban c h a n g e their posi- 
Chinaran and  tions. Then  
Larzab moun­tains of Dai Chupan dis­ Khalil Hotak provincial intelligence chief  we give this information to our com­ 

trict in south­ern Zabul province late Thursday, provincial intelligence chief 
Khalil  Hotak  told  The  
Associated Press.  
The  bombing  ended at  

about 4 a.m., and some 500 local Afghan soldiers moved in on the Taliban fighters. The Taliban had taken up fortified positions in a deep mountain gorge and along a stream that runs through the area, Hotak said in a com­mand center set up in Qalat, about 45 miles south of the fighting. 
It was impossible to know the exact number of Taliban killed in the bombing and subsequent fighting, but Hotak said the number of fighters killed could be as high as 35. The U.S. military 
manders," 
he said. Hotak said the largest sus­pected Taliban base was near a part of the mountain range called Hazar Buz, about four miles from the latest ground fighting. 
The fighting was still going on by midmorning Friday, Hotak said. He said his forces believe hundreds of Taliban have taken up positions in the area, with at least 15 hideouts. Hotak said he had no word yet on fresh casual­ties among the Afghan sol­diers. Four Afghan soldiers were wounded in fighting Thursday. 
Zabul has seen heavy fight­ing this week. The province's governor, Hafizullah Hashami, said even before the most recent fighting that 
about 40 Taliban had been killed in an ongoing opera­tion to clear. out guerrillas hiding in the mountainous area. 
Afghan officials say they believe at least two promi­nent Taliban commanders, Mullah Dadullah and Mullah Shafiq, were leading the fighting in the area. 
tak also named Mullah Abdul Qahar as one of the commanders leading the Taliban fighters: A native of Zabul, Qahar was a senior Taliban commander in the province before the militia was ousted in late 2001 by a U.S.-led coalition, according to Hotak. 
Haji Granai, an Afghan mil­itary commander, told AP that at least two U.S. bombers and two helicopters helped in the operation, and Hotak said 20 American troops and 12 military vehi­cles were on the ground to 
· aid the Afghan forces. Two fighters arrested in the area two days ago told inves­tigators they were recruited by the Taliban and fighters loyal to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. They said they received 38,000 Pakistani 
. rupees -about $650 -from the two groups, Hotak said. A former prime minister who has since· fallen into dis­favor, Hekmatyar has so far eluded U.S. efforts to arrest 
·or kill him. The renegade warlord has issued calls for a jihad, or holy war, against foreign troops in Afghanistan. 
Key Security Council members speak out 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -After a week of quiet negotiations, key Security Council members still say the United States must agree to give up more power if it is going to per­suade them· to contribute troops for a peacekeeping force in Iraq. 
The Bush administration is sounding out nations on a possible new U.N. resolution that would transform the U.S.-led force in Iraq into a multinational force authorized by the United Nations with an American commander. 
The United States is trying to assess whether the propos­al -which was floated last week by U.N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan -would induce more countries to send peacekeeping troops to Iraq, thereby enabling some of the 138,000 U.S. troops in the country to return home. 
But France, Russia, Germany, Mexico and Syria ­all Security Council members that opposed the war -made clear that the United States will have to act on a much broader front than just securi­ty if it wants approval for a new resolution. 
France, which led opposi­tion to the American-orches­trated invasion of Iraq, took the toughest position, with 
Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin arguing Thursday that "a real change in approach" is needed. 
"It does not suffice to deploy more troops, more technical and financial means," he said, calling for the establishment of a provisional government in Baghdad backed up by the United Nations. 
Russia's U.N. Ambassador Sergey Lavrov also called for "a truly comprehensve approach" in postwar Iraq including "further significant enhancement of the U.N. role" with the aim of restoring independence to Iraq "within a specific time frame as soon as possible." 
Germany's deputy U.N. ambassador Wolfgang Trautwein said the idea of a multinational force in Iraq under U.N. leadership, which was raised Tuesday by U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage, "goes in the direction that I think we have been advocating for some time." 
"But so far it just restricts itself to the security side, and we have always said that security, politics, economics ­they are all interlinked," he said. 
Trautwein repeated Annan's view that there must be "more burden-sharing and more sharing of responsibilities" in Iraq. 


You do the math. 
How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to ~0% off retail prices. And all you have to do is go to half.com and type in the booktitlesi or ISBN numbers. Gotta love that new math. 

. . { 
~~·' 
by • 
Same textbooks. Smarter prices. 
·•-•...,._ .. ••-........... D:l,.....a ............ ••.~ ..... •-. 'B'Ia '-....................... ~·--• •••....._ .--,~-..,......:~.., ....., ... • ......._ _. tw _..... ~ ... _..... -................., ........................,....._.... ~ ... 


THE··OBSERVER 

.· RO. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46)56 024 South D.ining Halt. Notre [)aroe,lN 46556 
EDITOR INCHIEf Andrew Soukup MANAGING EotTOR 80SJNl\SS MANAGEk Sew B(odfuehtcr Lori~ki 

AsST. MANAG!N~ EDITQR Sheila flynn 

NEWS EDITOJb Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Teresa FraJi~h 
. SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Heidel" · 
.·". Sc:tiN£ ~Pttolt: SatahV~bill~s 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: 'fiml<actfur GRAPHICS EJ)ITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight SYSn:Ms ADMINIS'I'~):OR: .Ted 6al1gert W.EBADMLNlsTRAroR: Jas.on ereek.·.····· ComRol.LEJb Mike Flanagan 

•CONTACT Us . 
-.; ...· ..-. --.. :-.-.· .. -.-.-· ... 
OFACE MAHAGER & GENERAlbiFQ < .............·. 
•. ···• {>74Y~atq47t. >. ··· 

> . / fAX.•······ ..•.....··.•· ...•. 
•>.·.· ... {:5@)()3}~~927> ... ·.:AtiiJERSTISING.••·· 
{574} 63:hS9fX) {)bsef"'lld~n"t¢<lu .EDITQR IN CHIEF ) • .· . .••. ·. ............·..{?74J.63J-4$-:i2.:.......................<:····· ·MANAGING··etntoA·•&. ASslsfAt#MAitAiitNG EDIJOR 
(n~) ~.3H4541 !)ijsm~~4.t:<!U< .···•··•· •··· ·· .
···•• .··. < BuSINESS OFFicE < >> .·.. · 
··•····· {51,t~6~~r3. H .. ·· <?74) t;~l~~iiPbl~~~-~~nd.~~u ·· •·•··••· 

·::;::;!~£i~;·r51~!W\a( ·· 
.. : .· .. · •• ··>•<StENE DESK·=:::·.......••. ··• ...... 
· (574) 631.:4.;40 •· scene;1@h&edu··· · " SAIIff MARY'S DE$K .. ··.·.· •• •···.·.. (574)§31"43~4 ..•.•smc.J@ri.a,e4\l .... 
.. JU\ ( . . .PllOro Om . .. 
j:Jltl:ll ilj,l!.!!.: :: 'l ~~7:~$1:~{:f.64&.)·····~3··.··'1·.·;o.8M.8~D.=;~ti········~;.· ...::::,.:. •·~•:•::•'••·•• 
.-::::: -<:\:::·;;::;-:-:·;·:.·-: II. Q -+/] 
. . ... 

0Ns~RVERONIINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POUCIES 
The Observer is thdndependent, tiaily newspaper . 
· published in print and'onlinebythe itu<lents of die ·· Universityof Notre D;in)e du La(! and SainrM:iry'~ · College. Editorial content~ indu.dingadV~ri$cments,is nQt governed by poliCies 1>fthe•administration ofeither inscitutiom The' Ob$ei'Ver r~tv~ t~l'ight to (efu~e · adverriseme.nl:S based ()n conterJ.t, .. ' . < ... .. •...•.••. 
The news i5 ieporteJ as accut~telf~d 6b}ecdvely as possible. Unsigned editorials representthe opinion of the majJrity ofthe Ediwdh <;rue£.Managing Ediror; ~isram Managinglhlit:or and d.epai~t edirors, 
. Commentaries; letters ind columns piesentthe views 
.ofthe authors and notnecessarily tho,se ofThe: ··· 
Observer. .. · •. ·. · : · .. ·· . 
Viewpoint spacds awllable ro all readers. The free expreS$.ioO ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editt>.t llill$t be signed and rousdnclud~ conracr informatiOn. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Qlu«"« (t!S!>$5~ l,~);. """'i>W Mo»<Ur <!>"'"~ ~ri:<jay """"~'' ~¥'~ ._..m.._RO!ip<'i<><l>, ~~·ii><"'" ... n..O\OOoc:ii• $Hlltf<>i'qn<~o:mi< 
y~;UHQ>411<.t.iA~r-:. ·· . . .·. .. . . . 
'l'MQ!i·~~~P"bu.~~· · ros:rM!i5Tsa .·• .:. ··..·· 
11.2-1> S..~tll D~iRI tl,ill : : •• ~4 :Mt<lmi~~tli>lii W. 
. .. .ilio~ Ji<lit!olo>cal rt>iol~~ ~. ·.• ~ ~ """"' ..,....,...,...
....•.. t;~;;;.!~.t~~~D,_ ..;o.l~:;.~f.El.···.~······'"········"···••·•·•·••· ..•.
Noi.e~ll'f@~5il:-017'1
: ' -.. -.·::--·-··-._ ··.-. . ' -' . '' -, .·_:: __ ..:_.--_: 
n~~...;..• .,,.,;..,.4!1j<i:~..ml ..~~~;.;;,~iiA~~··•····•·•• .··•···
~.·.·.·...··.·.·.·.·····. ······ ... ·.······· ...... ·.. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics 
MaureenReynolds Mike Harkins Will Puckett Sports Andrew Thagard Matt Lozar· Viewpoint Heather Teresa Fralish VanHoegarden Illustrator Mark Zavodynik Pat Quill Scene Sarah Vabulas 
A step in the right direction 
Students love to criticize the administration for a student life Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students alike permit­environment that is about as exciting as snail races. ted in the establishment at night. Legends could quickly become 
But when Legends of Notre Dame opens Saturday, the admin­a popular destination for on-campus students. istration deserves plenty of praise for working to create a popu­There are obvious drawbacks. If Legends becomes a popular lar on-campus nightspot for students. late-night hangout for students. it might not be able to accommo­
One of the chief complaints students traditionally have about date the interest (the building only holds 800 people). And South on-campus life is that there is relatively little to do after hours. Bend cab companies might want to make the establishment a LaFortune and Reekers are open late and are flag drop because it is located so far from most great for casually spending time with friends, but dorms.
OJhe 
movies at DeBartolo aren't exactly considered a userver For now, however, Legends is the first step in a wild nighttime activity. And when the administra­master administrative plan to improve campus life. tion unveiled a stricter alcohol policy two springs Other plans for the future include a strip of small
Editorial
ago, students migrated to off-campus parties as restaurants south of campus. but no date has been they criticized what they called a disappearing set for the start of that project. And after being criti­campus social life. cized for drastically altering the on-campus drinking policy with­
Legends might change that perception. The building, formerly out providing a viable alternative. the administration should be known as the Alumni-Senior Bar, underwent a $2.7 million reno­commended for trying to keep students on campus. vation. Workers added a restaurant. a pub and a dance floor. Legends is a step in the right direction. and it's a step that des­Student government leaders have promised special nighttime perately needed to be taken for students seeking a vibrant on­activities. comedians and DJs. And with underage and legal campus social life. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you to Andrew DeBerry for his honest and important reflection on Egypt and Islam on Aug. 28. This semester the Theology Department is offering a course on Jesus in Islam and Christianity. Being the instructor for this course, and having just returned from the Islamic world, I ven­tlire to add my thoughts to those of his. 
As he states, there are "notable differ­ences between Christianity and Islam." Perhaps the greatest of these relates to the question of relevance. While all three syn­optic gospels report Jesus giving authority to Caeser. the Quran gives Muhammad political and military authority in addition to religious authority. The state that he established in seventh century Medina, fur­thermore. is seen as the model for all Muslim societies. Thus Islam has a rele­vance beyond what we associate with the term "religion." As a Muslim imam (reli­gious leader) with whom I studied in Lebanon was fond of saying, Islam is the complete religion (at-din al-kamil). Christianity, he argued. will teach you how to pray and how to be nice. Yet Islam will teach you everything. from politics and economics to food and clothing. Thus many Muslim groups -such as the Muslim Brotherhood and al-Jama'at al­islamiyya in Egypt -believe that Islam must determine every aspect of human society. The Muslim Brotherhood's first principle is. "the Quran is our constitution." 
We turn then to the Quran, a text that is certainly no more militaristic than the Old Testament. Yet whereas the Old Testament is interpreted by most . Christians as the story of God's action in history, the Quran is seen by most Muslims as God's direct declarations to Muslims past, present and future. More important­ly, through those declarations a strongly bipartite view of the world can emerge. Tune and again throughout its 114 chap­ters the Quran emphasizes the blessings awaiting Muslims and the punishments awaiting non-Muslims, just as it narrates the tales of those societies whom God has destroyed for opposing the Muslim prophets. 
Meanwhile, the position of Christians in the Quran is ambiguous. One verse (2.62) comments that Christians need have no fear. Another (5.82) describes the Christians as the Muslims' greatest friends (and Jews and polytheists as their worst enemies). A third verse (9.29) commands Muslims to fight Christians (and other "People ofthe Book") until they are sub­missive. As always. the meaning of a scrip­ture depends on the one reading it. Many Muslims read verses such as this as time­specific or metaphorical. Others fmd in them a command for Muslim solidarity against non-Muslims. in places as diverse as the .Phillipines. Thailand. India. Sudan. Hussia and the United States. 
The flindamental issue, then, is not the meaning of the term "jihad" (since the lit­eral word for fighting, "qiUil," also appears repr..atedly in the Quran). but rather whether the world is seen as divided between Muslims and non-Muslims. The bipartite vision of fundamentalist. or Islamist, Muslims contributes to the belief that Islam is threatened by all things non­Islamic. a belief that acted so powerfully in the cases ofNasr Abl!i Zayd in Egypt and Ayyub Masih in Pakistan (about whom you will find much the Internet), and in the case of a classmate of mine from Jordan, who was killed in Tripoli, Lebanon this past spring after converting to Christianity. 
The Quran is not responsible for cases such as these. and arguments over the cor­rect interpretation of the Quranic terms "islam" or 'jihad" will ultimately be of little use. These cases will only become things of the past when enough Muslims rise up to assert that non-Muslims are their broth­ers and sisters no less than Muslims. 
Gabriel Reynolds Notre Dame professor of rheology Aug, 27 
OBSERVER POLL 
How often will you visit Legends, the new 18-and-over nightclub? 
Poll appears on ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 158 responses. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Live as ifyou were to die tomorrow. Learn as ifyou were to live forever. .. 
Mahatma Gandhi Hindu nationalist leader 

GUEST COLUMN 
College choice 
is crucial 
The worst is almost over. There is a light at the end of 
LhP tunnel. Of course, I am talking about the first week of 
classes .. a ~.ime of year traditionally marked with that lazy,. 
lethargic, do I actually have to start using my brain cells 
again?" feeling. 
Freshmen, you arc most likely still in 
a state of' shock. By now, you have 
Ashley Pierson
soaked up all the free advice you can (do wear flip-flops in the shower, do not wear your high school T-shirts on campus and so on), but are nonethe­The Iowa less overwhelmed by the newness of State Daily everything. 
Sophomores and juniors, you are 
probably feeling slightly more comfortable with your col­
lege experience and hopefully have learned what it takes 
to succeed at a major university. 
Seniors. you have hopefully figured out the keys to suc­
cess. but are probably starting to discover that, hard as it 
might be to believe right now, there is life after the four­
(or five-, or six-) year fiesta we like to call college. 
No matter your age, year, gender, or sentiment, it should 
be evident to you that college means more than how many 
packages of Ramen you can eat and how many cans of 
Keystone Light you can consume. Being successful can 
and someday will be measured by more than breaking 
your old keg stand record. 
I could sit here and give you mountains of free advice (a ~ock on the doorknob means don't come in!), but my point Is that your most important insights about college, and eventual changes in yourself. will be personal strides you h~ve taken and .ar~ not faun? in any written form. They will be found withm yourself. but with the help of three simple questions. 
The most significant question you should first ask your­self is, "Why am I here?" The answer should be more sub­stantial than to avoid the wrath of parental cohabitation, 
or an excuse to drink five nights a week with no major 
consequences. 
So when it came time to consider colleges my junior year of high school. I only filled out one application and left my college visitation days unused. Fortunately, 
my choice was a no­"College is unigue in the brainer. I'm not trying to way it allows us to have say your choice to come 
opportunities that we
here should have been that easy, but finding a may never experiece fitting college shouldn't agazn. . ,, be such a trying decision. 
Next. you should ask yourself, "\\'hat now?" This means now that you have made the right college decision, what are you going to do to make the most of it? Why look back on the experience only to say you wish you would have done more? 
College is unique in the way that it allows us to have opportunities we may never experience again. 
I have had the chance to write for a popular college newspaper, be an executive member of a sports club and form lasting friendships. Could I do that in high school? No. Am I going to be able to do this after college in the real world? Not a chance. 
Lastly, you should ask yourself. "What do I want out of college?" The conclusion of college is more than a framed piece of paper: it's a testament to what vou have learned and how you have grown. • 
Maybe it's the satisfying feeling you get when you real­ize you will never again lifeguard at the public swimming pool for another summer. Maybe it's the appreciation you have for a spacious apartment after Jiving in a 10 x 14 foot cell with another person. Or maybe it's becoming aware that you aren't the same person you were in high school. 
Whatever it is. everyone has their own personal victo­ries on the way to self-discovery. 
This column first appeared Aug. 28 in the Iowa State Daily and appeacs here courtesy of U-Wire. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

I try not to place too much faith in polls. Mere products of public opinion, they can rarely be expected to reveal any profound truths. Yet, like the issues of People Magazine in my doctor's waiting room, when they are sitting right in front of me I often cannot help but look. And so fascination took the bet­ter of me one day as I 
John lnfranca 
was online and I soon 
found myself following a 
link to the Princeton 
Viewpoint
Review's rankings of the 
Columnist
best colleges in America. 
In just two days I would be driving to Indiana to begin graduate studies at Notre Dame. So I did a quick check to find where Notre Dame found itself amidst a bevy of esteemed universities. It turns out, after count­less building projects, development campaigns and similar endeavors Notre Dame had finally become No. 1 in something. That something was being ranked first among schools where 
"Alternative (Homosexual) Lifestyles are Not an Alternative." While disturbing, this ranking did not com­pletely surprise me. I had been an undergradu­ate when the University refused to add sexual orientation to its nondiscrimination clause; choosing instead to substitute the vague half-measure that is 

"The Church has the
the "Spirit of Inclusion." And and responsible for a logical­yet I knew that serious and opportunity to be a voice ly flawed and profoundly well-meaning people were confusing creation. 
oftrue inclusion, opening 
making efforts to make Notre Or, perhaps the system
wide the doors to pro­
Dame a more accepting place upon which this teaching is for non-heterosexuals. Surely foundly new understand­based is inconsistent and in there must be other schools need of a revision that will
ings ofhuman love and 
where this was not the case give greater glory and
sexuality.
and open, rather than veiled, respect to the diversity of understanding of the diversity and splendor of 
God's creation. 
The Church can instead become a truly prophetic voice on behalf of the rights of homo­sexual individuals, but doing so will require a revision of its current system of thought. Such revision is not without precedent. As late as 1866 the Vatican declared, "It is not contrary to the natural or divine law for a slave to be sold, bought, exchanged or given, provided in the sale, purchase, exchange or gift, the due condi­tions are strictly observed which the approved authors describe and explain." For those keep­ing score, the position on this has since changed. Perhaps the Church's position on homosexual unions. a position that also claims roots in natural law, should also change. 
This position, which accepts homosexual ori­entation as something that is not chosen (there­fore natural) also chooses to denounce homo­sexual acts as contrary to the natural law or "objectively disordered." And so homosexuals are compelled into a life of chastity not freely
chosen. Instead, it was thrust upon them by a Creator who chose to endow them by nature with a certain sexual orientation, while at the 
same time crafting a natural law that renders any decision to act upon the inclinations of that "objectively disordered" orientation. Such a 
Creator appears Himself to 
be objectively inconsistent 
discrimination was tolerated if 
not condoned. Could Notre 
Dame, as this survey claimed, really be the school with the most discrimination against 
homosexuals? 
Probably not. As I said, earlier polls rarely reveal the fullness of truth. Yet they can offer a somewhat accurate gauge of general percep­tions. In this case, just weeks after the front page of nearly every major newspaper announced the Vatican's staunch opposition to proposals aiming to extend legal recognition to same-sex unions. it should not be surprising that America's most famous Catholic university would be seen as a discriminatory place. 
Notre Dame finds itself in a unique situation. It has attempted to become more welcoming to sexual minorities while existing within the structure of a Church whose teachings on homosexuality are. despite words to the con­trary. inherently discriminatory. Thus, while nations like Canada, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Norway and Argentina are extending basic civil rights to same-sex couples, the Vatican is losing an opportunity to champi­on equality and human rights. Another Copernican Revolution is making its way through our world and the Church has again chosen to safeguard its own antiquated system as the world around it embraces a maturing Creation. Instead of decrying 
politicians who seek to give equal rights to homosexual couples through civil marriages or similar unions. the Church should either allow homosexual marriages, or craft some similar sacramental ceremony. 
Such an action would affirm and strengthen the monogamy. commitment and fidelity already found in many homosexual relation­ships instead of reinforcing the myth that homo­sexual relationships are always lustful, casual and promiscuous. 
The Church has the opportunity to be a voice of true inclusion, opening wide the doors to pro­foundly new understandings of human love and sexuality, and sanctifying and ennobling these relationships. Or it can continue to try and ride the fence, demanding respect for homosexuals while refusing to truly respect their place in God's creation. Only by choosing the former can Notre Dame become a place where the Spirit of Inclusion gains real substance. 
John Infranca is a graduate student in Theology. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at infranca.1 @nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 14 Friday, August 29, 2003 
Return of 
The famed Boston band Guster teams with The B 
concert tonight at the joyce Center Arena for Notr 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 
As the first weekend of the new school year arrives, students grapple with how they should spend their first Friday night. Many will choose to listen and engage in the ballads of famous rock bands -The Black Eyed Peas and Guster -at the annual concert, The Show. 
The Boston trio Guster met on a camping trip for Freshman Orientation at Tufts University in 1992. When Ryan Miller, Adam Gardner and Brian 
-Rosenworcel enrolled at the school, ori­entation consisted of a six-day wilder­ness excursion. The three met on the bus, each talking about how awesome their high school bands were, and so Gus was born. Yes, they began their band using the name "Gus" before they realized that a band with that name had already signed a contract with a record compa­ny. They changed their name to Guster, and the success of their albums and live tours helped the band overcome its ini­tial anxiety at changing its name. By their junior year, the guys were recording an album, and after gradua­tion in 1995. they bought a van and hit the road. Three liberal arts majors began to tour the country, visiting col­lege campuses and pushing their musi­cal sounds. They've kept on the road ever since. Miller, who is a vocalist and guitarist, married his college sweetheart two months ago. The other guys give him a hard time about it and joke about how he wears his wedding band proudly as he plays during the shows. All three band members reside in New York City but still love to be considered a Boston 
band since they can trace their roots to Tufts. 
Despite all turning 30 recently, which Rosenworcel said "sucked," the guys consider themselves young as ever and full of energy, ready for whatever wild and crazy whims arise during a show. Guster usually plays one show a week at college -their favorite venues to play. College students understand them better and try hard to please even their smallest, odd requests. 
"We show up at a club and don't get what we want, but college students don't do that. It's nice," Rosenworcel said. He claimed that Guster asks for some weird things on their request list. 
"We used to ask for live goldfish in a bowl, but by the time the show was over, they were dead. We decided it was cruel, so we stopped doing that," he said. "We also usually ask for movies on 
DVD,  but only good  ones."  But  most  
importantly,  Guster  requests  tube  
socks.  
"I  can  never  have  enough  tube  
socks," Hosenworcel said.  

Ten years after they met, the band released a fourth album, taking. a new step by including some new sounds unlike the typical sounds of the band so familiar to fans. Keep it Together was released June 24 and quickly made its way to the top of Apple's iTunes music store Most Downloaded rock album list. It also has been the second most down­loaded album overall in the same time period, topped by Annie Lenox. 
Along with the release of an album, the band began a summer tour of sorts with a series of shows in the Northeast, culminating with a final show at Radio City Music Hall in New York City on Aug. 16. Rosenworcel admitted that playing at Radio City was always a dream for him and is an amazing expe­rience for any artist. 

Guster travels, for the most part, on their tour bus, which they bought after finding success and ditehing their orig­inal van. They travel through the night and wake up wherever they are to play. But if they want some entertainment, they pop in a movie. The only movie currently in Guster's old van is Tommy Boy. Rosenworcel said that when they still use that, if someone wants to watch a movie, it is their only choice. "It is the only worthwhile Chris Farley movie," he said. 
But in the bus, the guys have a much larger selection. Topping the list of favorites for all three members are Good Fellas, The Graduate, PeeWee's Big Adventure, Fargo and The Big Lebow ski. 
While on tour, Guster eats at places that are within walking distance from the venue, unless a record company takes them out. But if they can help it, they eat sushi especially Rosenworcel. 
"Now that we are rock stars, we have to eat it," he said. "I started when I was 24 and once you're in, there's no turn­ing back. All I want is a big, raw hunk of fish." 
But they must eat at home, too. Rosenworcel admits that his fridge and pantry are pretty empty most of the time since he is rarely at home. But he said he did have "two hard-boiled eggs and some applesauce" in his house yes­terday afternoon. He thought he might eat it for dinner and put the applesauce on top of the eggs, but he wasn't sure quite yet. 
Living life as a musu~Ian for Rosenworcel is living a normal life. 

"Nobody really recognizes me, so I feel like I live a normal life," he said. "It is cool to play drums for a living. I did­n't expect to make a career out of it when I brought my bongos to college to sit on the floor and play." 
Keep it Together features some new instruments for Guster. Rosenworcel learned to play a drum set for the album, branching off from his eclectic percussion instruments from the past albums. He said "the drum set is new and exciting for me, so it's my favorite right now. But my overall favorite is an African instrument called a Djembe. It is a hippie's drum that plays a variety of tunes. It is circle shaped and almost looks like a mushroom." 
Miller and Rosenworcel wrote the songs from Keep it Together. Miller wrote nine of them and Rosenworcel wrote four, but it was still a group effort. Musically, Guster's albums "come out of being a room together. We sweat out a song and it evolves over time. We all over think and change con­stantly," Hosenworcel said. 
The guys tend to like the more mellow songs on the album the most, but they still love how the album feels overall. For Hosenworccl, Keep it Together "feels different and good," leaving the other albums feeling "less mature." 
"Most people like the Lost and Gone Forever album the best," he said, which came out in 1999 when Adam, Ryan and Briim were living in an apartment together in New York. 

Guster kicks off the official tour for Keep it Together at the Joyce Center· Arena tonight. Paired with The Black Eyed Peas, The Show promises to be an energetic and exciting one. 

Friday, August 29, 2003 Page 15 

1ack Eyed Peas to play at the annual The Show ·e Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Guster unveils a new sound 
By EMILY TUMBRINK Scene Assistant Editor 
Guster, a band renowned for its spon­taneity and energy during live perform­ances, recently released a new studio album, Keep it Together. While previous albums attempted to convey the elements· that made their live shows so enjoyable: the unpredictable jams, frenetic bongo drumming, et cetera, Keep it Together reveals a much more polished and mature side to this ever-evolving band. 

Though some purists may cringe at the sound of a traditional drum kit being played on a Guster album, Keep it Together possesses many well-crafted songs that merit numerous listens. 
Moving away from the style of their previous albums, a style that earned the band a spot under the "jam-band" head­ing, Guster has managed to create a com­pletely new sound, one possessing com­plex instrumentation, but in a much subtler manner than on previous releases. While Lost and Gone Forever contained a sound that could be described as "in your face," nearly every­thing about· Guster's music has been slightly toned down for Keep it Together. The album contains many slow dreamy ballads, and the percussion and vocals are less overwhelm­ing and seem less spontaneous than on previous releases, pro­viding a more relaxing list.en­ing experience. However, because of these changes Guster's new brand of music sounds much more main­stream. The infectious lyrics and catchy hooks make Keep it Together more easily catego­rized as a pop album, one that 
is perhaps more radio-friendly than some fans would like, but luckily one that is not over-produced or annoying. The entire album is enjoyable, and listening to the band experiment with new instru­ments including a banjo, piano, harmon­ica and bass guitar keeps things interest­ing. The album as a whole improves with every listen, as the depth and complexi­ties of each song are revealed in a way that is impossible to comprehend when listening for the first time. 
By shifting to a more traditional sound, Guster will undoubtedly gain fans and also unfortunately lose ~orne. Those who value Guster for its energetic and uplift­ing percussive melodies may be let down by this more mellow release. 
However, the signs of experimentation present on many of the tracks show the band's openness to trying new things, making Keep it Together perhaps their most ambitious and creative release yet. Though Guster may face criticism for abandoning their old formula, Keep it Together may be a necessary step on their road to creating the perfect album. Hopefully their next release will combine what works from Keep it Together with elements from their energetic previous albums. Those who are not familiar with Guster's music might be better off buying Lost and Gone Forever or Parachute as an introduction to the band, but Keep it Together is definitely a quality album that 
Keep it Together 

Guster 
Palm I Reprise Records ' ) \ ) \.. ;·) ' •. ) .•... ) 
.J . J{--..J)
' iJ"J iJ"'J iJ".. J(-..,.))..., 
deserves to be heard. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd.edu 
Eyed Peas, The Show promises to be an energetic and exciting one. Rosenworcel said the two bands had played once before in New Orleans. Also at the concert was Eminem, but this was before his spurt of fame. Rosenworcel claimed that, at the time, "Eminem was this just with tons of potential." 
Guster is excited to be playing with The Black Eyed Peas again, despite the difference in the two bands' music gen­res. The Black Eyed Peas song, "Where is the Love?" is currently a top ten sin­gle on the Billboard charts and can be found echoing on radio waves across the country. 
For some, the band Guster is an unfa­miliar one, but for many East Coasters, Guster is an old favorite, and an excit­ing one at that. Since Guster tends to tour most of the year, it is easy for fans to catch the band live. Rosenworcel stated that he loved being on the road all the time, and even developed a love for some venues after playing there a few times. At the top of his list is the Backyard in Austin, Texas and The Tabernacle, an intimate concert venue in Atlanta. 
Sometimes being on the road all the time can begin to take a toll, and the realization that they have been on the bus for two months gets to them, but the guys enjoy every minute of it. The Show is the first of the longest tour in Guster history; they will tour straight until Christmas with a little bit of time off in November. Rosenworcel called the upcoming tour "pretty hardcore" but remained extremely enthused about where it will lead them. 
Guster played at Notre Dame in the fall of 2000, and they said they were surprised at the 2,000-person strong crowd that showed up then. They hope to have more tonight but are just excit­ed that they were invited back since they loved playing here. 
The Show begins at 7:30, with doors opening at 7 p.m. The cost is $10 and tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune box office or at the door. The Show is at the Joyce Center Arena, and Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students can enter through gate 
10. They must also present their stu­dent IDs at the door to be eligible to enter. 
This year's The Show expects to be a great experience and an event that should not be missed. Both Guster and The Black Eyed Peas will serve up a fun, energetic show for students of all musical tastes. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

. I • ~ 'I 
Friday, August 29. 2003 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Bucs face mountains of obstacles to succeed 
1997 and 1998 seasons. Three
Associated Press 
other teams returned to the 
TAMPA, Fla. -At the NFL Super Bowl the year after 
owners' meetings in Phoenix winning, but didn't repeat as 
last March, Jon Gruden played champions. 
a round of golf with Charles "It's hard for a number of 
Brewer. a personal injury reasons, and it's hard to get 
attorney from Arizona who's there anyway," safety John 
never lost a case. Lynch said. 
He was just doing his home­The last three Super Bowl work, talking to successful winners St. Louis, people who might provide him Baltimore and New England ­with motivational tools for the failed to advance beyond the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to first round of the playoffs the repeat as champions. following season.-The Patriots 
"He's in his 70s. I would didn't even make the playoffs have talked to him even if I last season. was still coaching at Southeast "You can't be complacent. Missouri. He's just a guy who's You can't worry about any­found his passion, is a stickler thing except improving," for details, and enjoys getting r~ceiver Keyshawn Johnson up early and staying up late said. working to try to wfn," Gruden "You better tackle, you bet­said. ter block, you better protect 
"I try to be around people the passer, you better score that have juice, that have had more than the other team or success, guys who have domi­you're not going to get to the nated." playoffs, let alone repeat," 
Brewer was just one of the Gruden said. "Everybody's got many people whose brain the a lottery ticket to the Super NFL's youngest coach picked Bowl." as prepared to try to win his The Bucs cashed in last sea­second straight title. son, riding their No. 1-ranked 
He also talked to Denver's defense to a franchise-best 12 Mike Shanahan, the last coach regular-season victories to lead an NFL team to back­before dominating San to-hack championships, and Francisco, Philadelphia and 
Tampa Bay's Michael Pittman runs against the Miami Dolphins last season. Pittman, who has
\ baseball managers Tony La AFC champion Oakland by a 
had legal problems in the offseason, must play well If the Bucs are to have a successful season.
Russa and Lou Piniella. He combined score of 106-37 in brought in other winners to the playoffs. speak to his players: former On paper, the defense looks will be a focal point as the unship," Sapp said. a car that goes 120, I want to NFL players Reggie White and as if it could be even better season progresses. The same "The one thing about this go 140. And we like that Joe Morris and boxer Roy than a year ago when .Tampa goes for running back Michael team that's unique for me and because we know we're driv­Jones Jr. Bay allowed just 196 points. Pittman's legal problems, everybody else involved is the ing in the proper direction. If 
For Gruden, who turned 40 the fifth-fewest in league his­stemming from his offseason Super Bowl didn't make this thing comes out in two or during training camp, there's tory since the NFL adopted a arrest on charges he used his Warren Sapp Warren Sapp. It three years and we haven't no substitute for hard work. 16-game schedule. Hummer to ram a car carrying didn't make Derrick Brooks won two or three more. it ain't He rises at about 3:15 a.m. The offense figures to his wife. 2-year-old son and a Derrick Brooks or John Lynch. because we're not trying to every day during the season improve, too, in its second baby sitter. Keyshawn, Brad Johnson. work it," Sapp said. and is a master motivator year in Gruden's system. Still, Sapp thinks the Bucs Simeon Rice, none of our core "The whole thing was not who's convinced his players Still, there~s the question of are equipped to handle the guys." letting our window of opportu­they'll get what they want if whether Gruden can help a pressure. What Gruden has instilled in nity close. Once you win a they put in an honest effort. roster full of stars avoid the "Joe Morris sat in front of us the players is that they're championship, you got some­
Teams have successfully distractions that typically and talked about how every­defending their title every thing to wedge in that window. defended Super Bowl titles undermine a team's chance to thing changes, guys getting time they step on the field, We've got a nice trophy to just seven times, with repeat. book deals, commercials, all whether it's practice or a wedge in this window, and Shanahan's Broncos the last to All-Pro defensive tackle the distractions in the world game. . we're going to see what we accomplish the feat in the Warren Sapp's contract status that come with a champi-"His whole thing is if I've got can do with it." 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every busmess day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right· to edit all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Child care for two lovely daughters Walk to ND, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO TRADE (2) Wash. St. OR (2) Florida (ages 5 and 9 months). Mom works HUGE Garage, New: Roof, AJC, CAMPUS MMMRENTALS COM St for (2) USC USC Tix must be 
NOTICES Wed and Thurs evenings; FoR SALE Furnace, Carpet &Kitchen. MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM together Face-value trade Dad (ND Theo prof) needs help with 1719 Dorwood Dr 272-1525 Call Rachael 634·0830 kids and dinner prep. $119,900. (5.74)233·9947 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT Preferred hours: 3-8 pm, but nego-FURNITURE FOR SALE: FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY WILL PAY WWWWORKFORSTU-liable Open to teams of friends to Couch,loveseat.2 end tables,2 OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2 mile from ND TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU. DENTS.COM cover different times. lamps,beige-western-style,$400 BEDROOMS. 2 FLOORS WON T Garage, alarm system. A/C. OR~ TOGETHER MS 
Pay: $8/hr plus dinner. 282-1979, LAST LONG! 574.243.3911 OR Available lmmed. $650/mo TIX. 289·1993 STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base-Close to campus. 5:30p.m.-10:30p..m. 574 532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE Call 220-0499 or appt. Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svc/sales. Contact: 288·6732 or 614-353-5889. WANTED NO FOOTBALL TIX 
No D-T·D/No Telemkt Fun work Whitmore 1 @nd.edu 1997 MERCURY GRAN MARQUIS LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO TOP DOLLAR PAID. schol./interns. cond. apply. work EXCELLENT CONDITION, FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. 2-bdrm house close to NO. (574)232·0964 w/other students 574-282-2357 Wanted: Exceptionally dependable LOADED GREAT CONDITION ONE NON-RENTAL. NEWLY 269-699-5841. www.earnparttime.com babysitter with own car for 2 girls OWNER $5,500 REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. FOR SALE NO FOOTBALL TIX 
ages 7 and 5 on Tues. and Wed. (WHOLESALE PRICE) $94,500. Email. 3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. LOWEST PRICES. from 2pm til 7:30pm. 282-2228 Williamson.1 @nd.edu NOW & 04/05 FURN (574)251-1570 
Sitter will pick girls up from school 272-6306
WANTED 
and transport to our home, both Octagon multi-use poker table with JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, located by U P. Mall. hard top, $25. Antiqued green din-NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT-
FoR RENT
Black Jab I belgian shepherd pup-$6.00/hour. ing set, includes dropleaf table with BALL GAME
TICKETS
pies. Ten weeks old. Call Laurie at 574 271-0389. three extra leaves, 4 chairs. china PLEASE CALL674-6593. Four females left www.petscon-cabinet and buffet. $200. One bedroom apt. in home on a nect.org or call 233·3190 Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd 2 reclining chairs, 1 gold & 1 tan, lake. 10 min. drive from ND. NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL Please sell me your extra ND foot-grade boy after school & evenings. $25 each. Yamaha organ with pull Furnished, parking.Postgrad stu-CHECK MY PRICES 273·3911 OR ball tix. 574-289-8048. Thank you I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 Reliable car needed down top & bench, $150. dents only. No cigarettes, no alco· TOLL FREE (will need to take child to activities). 42" round oak coffee table, $100. hoi, no party. no pet. $400/mo. 877-773·3911 89 Buick Regal V-8, automatic -1 Call 574-210-3142 Sleeper sofa, $30. Winged chair (574)277·0189. 
PERSONALS
owner-61,000 Mileage lve name & no. (floral). $25. Desk with 7 drawers. Deposit & References required TOP $$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX 
Sharplooking, sun root. Interviews done ASAP. $10. Green lamp table. $5. OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE-
New: Brakes, calipers, battery, igni· Microwave oven, $10. Furnished apt.close to NO. 1 bdrm, TION ASSURED. 654-8018 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
lion. tires. Wanted:D.J. For Saturday Nights 9· Toaster oven, $15. no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili· not go it alone. If you or someone 
Runs like :1ew. $2,900. 3 For Local Nite Club. Call272-1784. ties 1nc1uded. 255-1738. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED you love needs 
272-8151 Call 287-7379. -TOP DOLLAR PAID confidential support or assistance, 
Mazda 90 Miata MXS. 48.500 miles. 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. AM·232·2378PM 288·2726 please call Sr. Mary Louise Do you miss your family pet? PET Babysitter/playmate wanted for tad-5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Gude.CSC, at 1-7819. REFUGE, a no-kill shel1er just 10 dler.(8.30·1.30), flexible days if Tonnoue Cover.CustomRed. Avail. immediately. 273-4555. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR For more 1nformallon. see our bi-minutes from campus, urgently needed, in NO profs home. very $9,900. SALE AM -232·2378 weekly ad 10 The Observer needs VOLUNTEERS and FOS· close to campus 258-0520. Bed&Breakfast within walking dis-PM· 288·2726 TERS for its CATS and DOGS. $7 an hour; tance ot NO Former Moose Krause Spring Break 2004 w/STS. America Please call 256-oa86, own car needed. For sale: 8ft couch almost new. House Rooms available for HeJpl I need 2 t1x to f!!Very NO home s W1 Student Tour Operator Hiring email webmaster@petretuge.com, Phone 287 8843. Floral print Can deliver to campus. Washington State, FSU, football ~me campus reps. Call for discounts. or visit www.petrefuge.com. or631 0456 $300 cash. Call 1·5766 BVU S1~night. 232-9750 Pteaset call288·28n 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel com 
Friday, August 29, 2003 page ! 7
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 
Hoffman set to return to San Diego on Tuesday 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Well, Hells Bells, look who's coming back to the San Diego Padres. 
Trevor Hoffman is scheduled to rejoin the Padres' bullpen Tuesday, salvaging at least a sliver of the season after miss­ing the first five months follow­ing two offseason surgeries on his right shoulder. 
Yes, that means "Hells Bells," an ominous. screeching song by AC/DC will once again toll to announce that Hoffman, who ranks fifth all-time with 352 saves, is corning in to try to pro­tect a lead. 
How many times, though, is anybody's guess, because the Padres and Hoffman know there's no need to overdo it. After all, the Padres are buried in last place in the NL West, and at one point they didn't think they'd get Hoffman-and his intense stare and nasty changeup -back at all this year. 
Plus, Rod Beck has been per­fect in 19 save opportunities since the Padres signed him in early June to stabilize a bullpen that was floundering without Hoffman. 
"Hodney's done a great job arid I don't want to disrupt the stability he's brought to the pen," said Hoffman, who's got­ten all but two of his saves with the Padres. 'Tm not necessarily saying that I'm not completely ready to go into that role, but we've talked about not going back-to-back yet. 
"I think the bottom line for me this year is to get some 
J'lllJi 11 ,!norq '''nrf.r ·H) o·f.!, rt""ll 
innings in, and no matter where they are when they come, be comfortable with it. They'll fit me in and I'll try to get some outs," he said with a laugh. 
So Hofl'man could be pitching in non-save situations as well as closing, and Beck. known to his teammates as "Shooter," will continue to get chances to push toward his goal of 300 saves. He needs 15 to reach the milestone. 
''I'm just assuming that it's his job," Beck said. "I was brought in to keep the seat warm and help out. I don't know that they're throwing him right in the fire or not. To me, it really doesn't make any difference." 
September could be a preview of 2004, when it's possible that Hoffman and Beck will be working out of the same pen for the Padres, who move into a new downtown ballpark. 
While Beck prefers to close, he was used as a setup man in three seasons with Boston, and he'd be willing to work in advance of Hofl'man. 
General manager Kevin Towers envisions Hoffman and Beck in the same pen, in more ways than one. 
Beck jogs out to the mound wh lle Metallica 's "Enter Sandman" blasts from the sound system. 
The Padres would also hope that having Hoffman and Beck anchoring their bullpen might help end five straight losing seasons since they were swept by the New York Yankees in the 1998 World Series. Hoffman is the only Pad res' player left 
. . 
:..: A') 0 ..\ ~ j )f . i ; i •• ~-l \ i. . ; .-f. ~ . : I I . ~ .. • ~ l ~ 
from that team. 
"They're similar pitchers. 
They both throw strikes and 
have a funny pitch to keep bat­
ters off-balance," Towers said, 
referring to Hoffman's change­
up and Beck's split-finger fast­
ball. 
First, though, the Padres and Hofl'man will have to agree to a new deal. Hoffman's in the last year of a $32 million, four-year deal, and the Padres hold a $10 million option for next year, with a $2 million buyout. 
"They're not going to pick that up," said Hoffman, who turns 36 in October. "I know they would like me back and I obviously would like to be back here." 
Said Towers: "The best-case scenario is working some deal to keep him around without the option or buyout. It's pretty cer­tain that we won't pick up the option. But we've assured him we want to keep him here." 
Hoffman had never been on the disabled list during his 10­year career until after undergo­ing a double round of surgery on his throwing shoulder in the offseason. 
Hoffman missed the final four games of last season with inflammation in his right shoul­der, then had a surgery to fix a partial tear in his rotator cuff in October. 
He continued to have pain in the shoulder, which was traced to arthritic degeneration in the end of his collarbone. Doctors shaved off about a half-inch of the bone on Feb. 28. 
"It just came to the point-. (~ 
where it was tired and needed a break to get fixed up," said Hoffman, who needs 15 saves to tie for fourth all-time at 367. 
While this season brought "a lot of unseen challenges," it also gave Hoffman a chance to see the game from a different 
• •: ~ ~ ,·~ • r• . ~ ".-' ~ •. , C? •' • '~ ~ 

perspective. 
He watched games from the bullpen, from the bench or on TV in the clubhouse. 
Hoffman threw a scoreless inning in each of the first two of three scheduled minor league rehab appearan.::es. · 
. ,, 




ROBlNSON COMMlJNlTY LEARNING CENTER 

ND Freshnten Wo111en o Thtt'1:i: ~"(f$ftio.ns wn:~:il:abh2 • Fan :Semester onty. 0 Cheer Eli:penenoo R:equired l T~:mb'Hng: Helpfu~ o J0100 centet. Gym 2:, :Sept.. 3 at 6:00p.m. 0 Tryo:ut ful:ms. need: to be c;~te.d by Se.pt, 2,. P~~ these up at rer-AptitH1: desk a~e Gate .3 of the Jov.··re Center Comi»ete & reave vri'lh rec~r.4Kln•· !l!!listll.... -~·111881 ·~ ~ 11 Shanghai arde·n: Special S:·tudent Offer· . Shrimp .Fried Ric-e for On.~y 9~ oran Egg Rutt ro-, Free witf~ .An=y· ().r~teS"' of C.t~=$~r:m?'B'!t~',s Cf:><')~~~~1' or D·i';"ln~yz:r C:l:J'<¥Ytt:J:{{t~~t;:o,.;'~> £:rdTjl' TeL (574) 271-0125 . /.·.* -· . GWL.. •. . r:' .....Jf/1.De ICIOUS . .,,tnese r00<-J-~~ t,;~:.,~:{'ift:.:.y -~:..:~:.~;;..,=i·x='~~ X-"J;:.~-..~· ~~'.:-""  
GRAND INDIAN BUFFET m SR 933 in l\brth v~ Mill across frcnM:)tel 6 DELICIOUS INDIAN AND PAKISTANI FOOD LW1Ch Buffet Dinner Buffet llam-2:30pm 4 -9pm $5.49 $6.99 OPEN TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 273-9992  

• 
• Jvf:ondar & \~'(·x.·h:e~dily 3:3:0-:5:.30 
{)R '1\1'''":'{,,I' ~,'" ·""1·•'l.,, ,.,.,~;J' .;<·'):•
"' :C.....o•..C....:M} S.,::.., 5.(.1o,..).L_.,.. -".:· 
3:3:{)·5~)0 
Y{;'.'t> .L <;·t: ··Jy: , . , .. ' 
• '"'·.A:~•..,.~· U!;,) ,H,<.1 
\'<}·h:..nr.~:~~~:r p4·t:;';~ ti:<;> r~::. ~VI<ll.b.bl(' 
+ Tblininr•ir:< S.LH:tJ s .•..,;.. ··mh :•·r ~r-h
>..·'1.-~>·>·t,: . }L . u· ·« ­
Sign up no=ws 
• ·rim~.pottatioa c~:n. be 
fHr,g:·idt·:d by-Tr.~n;:;-pn s~.~~ r.~t hr f:<~.q.t<)f.~t 
RO~lN~oN· COMMUNrrY LE:\RNH'~G Ct.N"J"E~~ 
921 North Eooy St--:w~ :5>-:wtn Se-.'1d, §1\1: 466 t ·r 
CX'I~~~e-t Kl'i$tY ~~~, \<bll.;!n:WM Coorcli~tor at 
Celebra.ting Lear·ning... 
PM~? 531--'!}42"'! 
One Retalimuhip at a Time!
Ern<t'ii: ),;mi!:!e 18@rs~-~·;1u 

page 18 
The Observer • ADVERSTISEMENT Friday, August 29,2003 
NfJTBEDilliE 

Tuesday, seote11ber 2 
7:00 PI-9:00 PI 
Jovce center Fieldhouse 
(ENTER THROUGH GATE 3) 

A::adsm!c Compemion C~u~ Fili:pino .Amer. Stud.. Org.of ND N<3i-ghborha<:~d Study Httlp Program Watar Polo G!ub. Men·~ Al.:t;'.IIJnlin~~ .A.":i~uc.:i~~tk:m, ND Fir~tA~d Sr~rvit.:.c;~1 Tr.~mrr, ND N<.ll.rr; rtmnt.~ Oi-~mJ~ 1/,'&~.!·r Pt.jlu C.Jub., Wt.lrm~n·~; Adw·orlca Fli:p Side Not~So-Roys=~ Sha!r.e:epeare Co. "~1/o·r:oen's Reacrurce Center Alpha E:p:s.Hon ·os!ta Fl)t=-Ffsh:~ng Club: Op'iration Smile. Stud:ent Org. World Hunger Coalition Ani(;~!. Cmtr..:r..:r Sr.~.:idy C~ub-c,1f ND F'-.!Qd-~;$1:;..1 r:t~ ?~tki.-s=tan At':s-.:Jt:..:i~lil.lH t~r N>:J~lrc.~ Omn:.~ VWJ·dd Tar.~k\J~>:.:lnd'.l f~::d. Cl:ub 
Arf1ef. GMn:·M~'l'l S61-:'~~ty, MlGI'I. 1-orum on H!l:·,m~dlr:-:;1! 1 1r11c~. Nil P;1'squerl!l;1 1 ;l=M Musi(-'..;1! Cotrsp..:my WSNIJ I M A.mer. lns.t. of.A.ero. & Astron:sutbs C<i!rrr!Sn Clu:b,. Notre Dame Philoaophy Club .. Notre D.ame 't"-l\<fl A.rnar. lnstfu.iaof Aroh. S~J:dents Guam Club Po'lish: Club-. Noks Dams Arr~.~r. ~n!SUlul!-:: c;;f Chc;m. En!.].. Gymn.:-~Js!ti~~ Ck.d,), N.DlS.MG Pum Pun Sqt;J~ld, U. <Jf Nolrr.: Dmnr.: AIDS M:ini::::lrir.:~J.AJDS A::;.:~i~5.t Arr1~r. Br~(:ii!ty -crt CM! I l'l~liMer~ Hi1hlli1f ts1:r HUIIYK1nll)'~ r~i'l-tr~ Di1me Pri! I~Mnl Sn·;·:i~ty t.\~rh~:;'m C;1n<:er SfJi':li!ty Arn~r. Society of M~dh. Eng.. Ha;fldbe41 Chok, Th-e-Notn; D.am6 Pr~Professicna& Society Arr:~ric.an Rad Cro&s Arrmc~tv !:nlcrmttlr.~mtl Notrr.~ Dmw·.~ llmmr.mi.;.~ Pw-Vel Glut~ of th(,;' U. r.)f ND [JiQ D:rrJ{tr(,~J~/Oi~~ Si~;V;:;~ Anime Club frt Nr~tr~ 1};vn~ Hi1V4'>lll Glub N::1 Pua Krsl ·1 wnfu Prngr~~elve Stud~n~ 1\lllanc:e Hoy!! & {;lf'l's' C:!ub fJt ~;1_ .Joe Cfl·, Arts & Letter! Student Mv.. Council Health C<~X-.. S.bdents o1 America P~~·-chology Club, NOtre Game Broadway :Christ~an r ariih A~i~n Am~r!can As5ociatkin of NO He.!pful Und&rgr.adu:.ate :Stud;;nts Rang03r Cha!:liinge T>$Bm (AROTGJ: Catholic Charrti=ss A).:.i-<m lrrlc..'i rt<tUr.)Hit~ Soci.~~lv llun:h O'Driim Youth F(;tund~il~m R~;M l;.) Uk,. No.l.ru D-.unc Cr.mk~1 f•.}l SQt.~i~ll ·Gr..mr.:r.n n~ 
H • .-~gr~~~ Ho.'m•.1, u. t':lt :t>~c"ltre D;'!trt~ Hi:'iWI:ng C:IUh, Notre. I };1ft~ Ca:!'l''d~f:' f•:'lf:' th~ HnT~Ie-~.~ Bs:Uet Folldorioo A~.d Y Oro. Huroor Arti!ts of NO R.unning Club, Womerl":s College Foctba!:l Hall of Fame 0.;Jl1Hx.lrn O~t1~;c Ctuby NDJSMC t ktrlf.n~~ Hnd Gam:Jn~G Club Ru::;~i.m~ Cl:ub Di~7mc.~:S ~ lr.pu~•c: uf Mi~..:hi~m~J 
H:-eptl~:t C~one!:f!>'rte Ministry ~~t~ tit)f.::~Y :1 e•1m~ Women'~; Nl l S;11tlng Cl:utJ, Nl JJSMG 1 t C:'lmpltc"' th1y Gare Cent~r B:;tst Bu-dd'la$ ~ndia As$oc'iatia:n of Nckic OamEi Sai~nt Er.twardt'i Hall Play't;~ Girl Soo~Jts of Singi:~ Sand& D.:..~l~1 Alph~l P~i ~rrw.~tmc;f~L Club r.1;.f NO du Lu(: S';nui«-~•lk M~~;a~uhw I :1urmm·1_:! Su(_:ic.~'ty of St J<Jc C:.t:• .. 
H:V.Jiogy· Glu~. t"<Jtrtl!-1):lm~ ~!U-:V'J: ll:l:"'=f.~ (:ltlh, t h=t!! Sc.:l~nr.!f!' H:U~h'H~S'i> C:lub, Nl ) l~mJ!:;ln;l: I ~:-~I .Si:m.!~-:":1!:~. In•:':.. SH
• B~ck Cu!lural ArtE Council ~Irish F~h~ir.g for St. Jude Kide: Shirt Projed. The La Cas.a -=le A.rnjst.id Bowl~ng Clu:b, Notre De.m:ijo ~nosh G.ardsn; SihrarWing:.s (Bem:jamin D. Fou!oi~ La Sail::; Goundl Soy Scouts Ooxinn= Club. Noln; Dmnq Wum£:-n'!;;l .Juinl Enl1!nrx~ring O)un~;iiL ND Ch,;wkf~ U'fr: Trr.:~~tr~·~t~nl Ccnl,;:J.~'. In~;. 
H:f>l711 Ch~b .Juggle:r, 1h~ Ski {>!uhf f ~;Wl'!=,, N~·Jtre 1J:'lrnl?! 1 ~,~;;1n ( ~ent~r Campus f'iUowsh!:p cf tht; Ho!y Spirrt .Jugn!inQ:;-J .... Ch;b, rna N.:o~r.;. Darrl'i Ne!.t Ski-p CcU~=ge.
.... Society cf Auto. Engine<&fi., ND C~m!P.Ut' Ghl $l,:x;~ut!i-. ND/SMC. ..hm:!Qt· Munt~11 I'luaJlh A-;so-J...~-r;if ND Sur;idy cJf Phy!.,ir.:!.~ S-tw:kmt~. ND Nudh-cm lnrJim1u Ct:nk~r fc>; I 'li~lurv crmt~b~;~ll hlucJ~r.r or~<-1ni7:'Hif}n K=l'?!IC)tl~'f> ('.If Ct'~lumbu~.• Nl i Ct'>IJ~=f::ll ~f1d~ty c·Jt Ilion~" I "fllnt=!~r~.;. Nl) I~I N S~Mc~. ~~~..:. Celeb=rs~ion Chc~:r. U. of Notre· D.ame­Knight&: -of fn=e Immaculata:. ND Sodol~g)' Cl:ub, Notre Dame ReksR .of Uf.e. !:nc. Ce=ntar for th>& HomGJass. Koro.an Student A~ocia~ion Sorin Rffte Tsam-Army ROTC Robinson Communit)' Lsami~:ng Ctr. 
Chik1nm··~ Gro:up, ND/SMC l~~ Ali~mLn Sp~nhh Club·, U'. uf NcJlrc.~ DmrK~ S-0-S uf M~H.ti!S",Jn C.:.mlcr 
Ch-~~~ G~U:tl, NtJtre t l<1ITI~ I ~;1gue. fll HI;1L'K HH~In~::..~ Student::>. Spf!C:h}~l i r:lert::tJs C:!uh ·o-t N<.Jtrl?! 1)i'l~ SH .!uvlnme CcJrr~:tl(~<f'l,')l 1~lt~!llty Children of Ma:r/ lrre Uncommc.n .Squaa.h C~ub Southern Care, Inc. Ct~t:.>rHit:. Nolrt.:: Dmrm Un~x lJ~Cf.'!; G{~Jv.p, Nritn~ D;,um.:· Slud~mtAiumni Rc.t'lr.i!:i~.:·m; Gru(l:p Tw(.mlv.-Fh•l Cf..:~nlurv Sr.:h1;K~w.• Clrd~ K< Nt'~tre ~ J:.1mt=! J ng.an H~r.~r~1tlcm <:rub St=mJe=nt· Hrt}-i1(Jr:~~.;'l:ll'l:!] !:''t Nl i (NI) l V) Urt~~n I ~>lfi~J~ r)t SH 81 Joe Gt'J. 
Clase: of 2i)Ot· Manageme-nt Club Student CO'•l€omrr.fCnt Urban Youth Ser~~ice-s of YMCA Cl:imb:ing C!:ub, Nob·~ D=ame Mana~\i=mont !:nfo. :~y~t. Ch.ilb... NO Stud'ani lnfl Bu:s.an%s Council Worr!Ein'~ Cars Cent~r Clu=b Corxdim~lir.~n CoLJn•.::il Mmk.din!t Club, NO Un~t!rwnd. Slud~.mt PI~Jym~. T4w N~.llrrJ Dmnr.J YWCAiSl Juc Cly. C(}:ll~~ l{~puhllJ.:;~n~! NfJtr:~ !l.;'!!mt=! Mi1rf~.;'!!l J\rt~ ln~1!=ttl1~, N('Jtre 1: l>='t~ stud~nr Un:k'JrJ Ht~.'lird 
-~ Comm:. Alli:Snce to ~rv& Hispanics Me-.l(f-<::an Am€!ncan Engine-era and' Students fur Environrnental.A.ct~n AGE Computsr A.pps Honor Sooiety Sd~ntist Soci~tlt Super Sibs Admi:-s:>il>n:-s Ofnt:t! (~umpu~~ r G~ub, Nn!tr=e ll.t~m~ Mll'll}:flly Pre Med~lJ ~l'X:i!f!'~Y ~wing G~un Nhi~T:It~ Coro Primav-era d.e Nue&:tra .Ser~,or:a Mode Trial As.ereistkln Te.smwn:rk tor Tomcrrow of ND 
Campus M in:i~hy Crk:~kJ::l CIIJ~b •. Nutr~:: D=mne Mo(h:!l: lJnHc..'1.i Ntllitm~ Club, ND To~l~;trrm~;tr.;rl$ ~nl-r~tmtliQm~~. ND c~:'lr~~r ( :::.t?.r!=1~:r cy,::nng c:tub, r"<ltre 1Ji'lme M!i>. wt:r~lrd ~ l;l:y Pmg:r.ilm 1e-.1:m l r:lfJ en:t N;:r>t.<ll S(r.:lety CCC 
Dome Desf:gne; Myet. Science Theater 3000 Clt!b Troop Notra Darr~ Cong. cf tha Si:ste=rs nf th~ H. Cross Doma Yesrbook. 1\!AACP,. ND Uttimat~ ChJb.• Notr~ Da.~ E(~ur;~'!Ur>:1~~11: T.o:1h:.~nl Sf..~i:1r,;h 
t EQu(;~I.Ji~m Team.. NDlSMC N~tUr)rl<l~ S!.:~.; .. or m;.l~;k. Er:~Hin<..>er~ • U~!fY'OlJifty Yrxm~1 Lik~ f:nMJ!H~e tnr t fJUt'::lr:ltm;)l ln:!U~lt!Ve~. I :tr~~rl~l'lfl.:'lll ~;1ml~'l:'<) Cr:<UI'I<:H Ni1UV~ J\m~rU::;ll'l Sim1!f!'=l'?lt Vh~f:.. ~r.ur:Jt'!'nt i\:S~':Ir.:. ot N=l} R:ecSports Fart~y H=.!ll Play~re Associsti.an of Notre Dame Vak~.eE of Fa:ith C.o!pe'l Choir., NO Stand:ing Ccmmittas on 
Fi'-'ld ~ lr.lc;kf~~.,. C~=ub. Nr.)LW D;,:trne ND for: A.nirm1!~ \t'.JI~-~~all C~Ull, r~kn't' 
Gay ;,m~ l.:..~~bi(m Sludr.~nl n~)r.:d~ I lgure S~mlng (;I!Jb< Nt1<1f.~ :I Jam~ 
Nl lef•lgn V!h\bn.ltii1, I h~ Student Aclivffie.a 
•/ Check out the Activities Night website at http:.~\l:fvvvl.nd.edul-·saolan!index.fltm for updated information, table assignmems and more. 
NOTRE DAME ACTIVITIES NICI IT IS COOR.DINI\TED GY TilE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OfFiCE l\ND COSPONSORED '#ITI I RECSPORTS !N COLLAGORATION WII H 1: HI Cl NII' ~~ I OH SOClAJ' CGNf) 1-{NS ANI l Cl UH C(X)R~ MNA liON GGUNC41 
Friday, August 29, '103 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Struggling Wells attempts to avoid bullpen stint 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -David Wells' poor pitching has jeopardized his place in the New York Yankees' starting rotation. 
A day after pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre criticized Wells for not throwing enough between starts, Yankees manager Joe Torre repeatedly refused to say whether the 40-year-old left­hander would take his next turn on Monday at Toronto. 
"We're going to do some more talking tomorrow." Torre said after Thursday's 7-5 win over the Chicago White Sox. 
After the game, the Yankees recalled right-hander Jeff Weaver. sent to the minor leagues just three days ·earlier. Weaver's stay had been sched­uled to last until Monday, but a roster spot opened when out­fielder David Dellucci sprained his left ankle. 
Wells (12-5) allowed a season­high 10 runs in Wednesday night's 11-2 loss to the White Sox, giving up two homers, three doubles and a triple in a seven-run fourth inning. He went 0-2 in four August starts, allowing 22 runs and 35 hits in 22 1-3 innings, and is winless in six starts since July 19. 
"He hasn't been throwing in between starts, and it's show­ing," Stottlemyre said. "I think he needs some mound work, that's my opinion." 
Wells said before Thursday's game that he's thrown more bullpen sessions than in previ­ous years. and wouldn't publicly respond to Stottlemyre, whose comments made back-page headlines. 
"When I was here in 1998, I didn't throw very many bullpens," Wells said. "I haven't thrown bullpens for a long time. I'm not going to elaborate on it any more." 
Wells is willing to throw more between starts "if it's going to make everybody happy around here." Torre said before the game that he wanted to talk with W~lls. 
"During his career with us, he hasn't been a regular bullpen guy," Torre said. "When a guy has pitched this long, you leave it to him to know his body. But after the last couple of outings, we have to talk about it." 
Wells missed an Aug. 16 start at Baltimore because of a bad back. and had an injection. 
Since then, he's allowed 21 hits in 12 1-3 innings. 
"He feels he can do things bet­ter the way he thinks he should do them," Torre said. "We went along with it because it was his body; but after two starts like that, we've got to look at some­thing different." 
TRACK AND FIELD 
White emerges a winner at World Championships 
Associated Press else," White said. "I made a White held up two fingers on unprovoked knife attack in sprinter Torri Edwards, who mark for myself and I hope I'll each hand. 1994 while in high school in was the silver medalist in the
SAINT-DENIS, France ­be appreciated for who I am. A But there was no victory lap California, and still has a long 100, added a bronze in theKelli White has spent the 
lot of the women here feel for White, who felt sick after facial scar that's a constant 200.
World Championships down­
underappreciated, and I think the race. Having dealt with a reminder of the more than 300 The success of White and
playing comparisons to Marion 
Jones. She can't avoid them we've all proven that we can migraine headache in the stitches she needed. Edwards -who gave the U.S. now. run very fast." semifinals, White was totally She never won a state high team four of the six medals in White captured the gold White's emergence as a drained after her victory in the school title, nor an NCAA title the women's sprints -is in world-class sprinter could set final. while at Tennessee. Instead,
medal in the 200 meters stark contrast to the squad's 
up a scintillating three-way "With as much effort as I put the daughter of 1972
Thursday night -four days male sprinters, who were shut 
after winning the 100 title -American showdown in the into that race and my stomach Jamaican Olympian Debra out of the medals in the 100. 
to become the first American 200 at the Olympics next sum­was pretty empty today, I just Byfield came to France and But U.S. men hope to do con­woman to win both sprints at mer. White and Jones could be emptied the tank," she said. won two sprint titles. 
siderably better in the 200. 
one world meet. Jones has joined there by Allyson Felix, "It was fatigue, body fatigue. I ''I'm not disappointed with 
All three Americans quali­
never done that. the 17-year-old from Los had no more energy left. Even that," she said with a straight 
fied for Friday night's final,
Jones, who had been the Angeles who turned pro this holding the flag was hard face. "This is where it counts. 
with U.S. champion Darvis
Jdl'-:lrling champion in the week. work." I'd rather have it now than Patton running the fastest time
200. b taking time off after White took a big lead coming White had to run four heats when I was 16 or 17." 
of 20.03 -a personal best ­
giving birth to a son in late off the turn and was. way in the 100 on Saturday and The only other women to win in. Thursday's semifinals. Also.June. The winner.;,.·,-of an . ·ahead of the field throughout. Sunday, and four more heats both sprints at a World 
qualifying for the final were
unprPcedented five track the race. She finished in 22.05 of the 200 -two on Tuesday, Championships are Germans mcdt~ Is at the 2000 Sydney seconds, the fastest time in the one Wednesday and the final Silke Gladisch in 198 7 and John Capel and Joshua Olympics, she plans to return world this year in the 200 -Thursday. She also plans to Katrin Krabbe in 1991. Johnson. for the 2004 Athens Games.. Felix had been fastest with a run on the U.S. 400-meter Anastasiya Kapachinskaya of American Sandra Clover 
"I can only be Kelli White. I 22.11 this spring. relay this weekend. Russia was second in a per­won a silver medal in the hur­don't think I can be anybody After crossing the finish line, White was the victim of an sonal-best time of 22. 38. U.S. dles. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You c;on bonk on u~ to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
The LaFortune Branch is the best place for: 
• 
Student account paymentsI 

• 
Free checking' 

• 
Free Internet banking! 



1-Iappy 21st Birtl1day lviik.e & 
I..u:.k·.,.-t:."t. 
·-~. -·· --~;· 
Love,.. the Got)lsbys 
r 
Frk!Bj' mrough Sunday are Stude~l !D di5cou:nt nig=hts st tr:~ Cc-v€!' Stu~nt:. wtto shrWI ul (;;c~n pu:rr:h~!";~ rJtrlt' 
!ii~i.!.ll:il;kd~ ro~ }w.#. $l 00. 
.­
Frdat-Von HayB'.i Bcbb!Etheud nf~=ht j:fi38l:Trtid by Sprint PCS {Fr~e to tt:e-first tOOO fans.). First r~itch 7:00 S~turd~·\1' Cnrr:<>rnll-'~u:! De-~;ur::h night ! 1rst Prtf:h f'!JO 
SiJnday·-~il·~·erhi!dk~.<.:um S~<en·,~;ay. Fi!:sl Pil~:h 1 JOpm 
Dollar Monday -Sept l, 1:OJpm Don't Forget tt~at frlis Monday is tn~ f:nsl ABC f:.,7 snd B-1:00 UO!!:-tr Mf>Dl'111'f tf'Jttunng $1 11d::f!~. l'lf.rt d'o.!]!t, Snr:l-* ;1:M b~f 

• ----~-------~-----------------------------------------­
\\ 
~ ) 
11 
\\ 
n 
I~ page 20 Friday, August 29, 2003 
_The Observer + SPORTS 
\ 
l ) .~ AMERICAN LEAGUE ~ 
I 
Tigers continue infamous march to all-time loss record 
Associated Press 
2-3 innings, tying teammate with a homer. Mark Ellis later Mike Maroth for the major added an RBI triple as the A'sCLEVELAND -Jody Gerut league lead in losses. The last cruised to their 1Oth win in 12doesn't consider himself a home pitcher to lose 20 in a season games.
run hitter. Opposing pitchers was Oakland's Brian Kingman, The A's former fifth startermight think differently. 
who went 8-20 in 1980. was banished to the bullpen
Gerut homered twice and 
three months ago, but he wasdrove in a career-high five runs, Angles 6, Twins 1 solid in his second spot start inpowering the Cleveland Indians Kyle Lohse made a big pitch to place of 15-game winner Markto an 8-3 victory over the Detroit Scott Spiezio and Matthew Mulder, who's probably out forTigers on Thursday night. LeCroy got a clutch hit with the 
the season with a broken leg
Detroit lost for the 99th time bases loaded, keeping the 
_bone near his hip. 
and must sweep a three-game Minnesota Twins close in the AL Ricardo Rincon pitched out ofweekend series at home against Central race. 
a jam in the seventh, and Keith
the Chicago White Sox to avoid Jacque Jones added a two-run Foulke pitched the ninth for hislosing 100 games before homer and Luis Rivas doubled 
AL-leading 35th save in 40
September. home two runs as the Twins chances.
"We're in uncharted waters," beat the Anaheim Angels to Tigers manager Alan Trammell move within 1 1/2 games of the Yankees 7, White Sox 5 said. "It hasn't gone the way I division lead. After another slow start by the scripted it." Lohse (11-1 0) won for the fifth Yankees, Mike Mussina made 
Josh Bard drove in two runs time in six starts, allowing a sure New York didn't get blown for Cleveland with three hits, run, five hits and five walks in 6 out by the Chicago White Sox including his fourth homer. 2-3 innings. He struck out three again. 
Gerut hit the first pitch he saw and stranded four runners in Mussina gave up two quickfrom Jeremy Bonderman (6-18) scoring position. Anaheim got its runs, then watched his team­for his 17th homer to put the only run in the third on Garret mates rally for five in the first Indians ahead 2-0 in the first Anderson's RBI single. off rookie Neal Cotts. The inning. Lohse finished 5-1 with a 3.83 Yankees went on to beat 

He hit a three-run shot off ERA in August after going 0-3 Chicago in the finale of a three­Bonderman in the fifth to make with an 11.51 ERA in five starts game series between division it 7-3 as Cleveland won the final during July. leaders. 
two of a three-game series. Ramon Ortiz (15-11) allowed But Cotts (1-1) allowed his Gerut went 4-for-8 with three five runs -three earned -and first five batters to score, givinghomers and nine RBis in the two six hits in seven-plus innings. He up three hits and four walks, wins. must win five of a projected six and lasted just eight batters, "The last time I hit 18 homers remaining starts to become the retiring only one. New York bat­was in college and I guess I'm Angels' first 20-game winner ters have hammered rookies all kind of surprised," he said. "I since 1974, when Nolan Ryan year -coming in, rookies were don't think homers are going to won 22 and matched Clyde 2-10 with a 7.08 ERA against
be a huge part of my game. I Wright's 1970 club record. the Yankees this season. 

don't want to be labeled a Athletics 6, Orioles 4 Mussina (15-7) won for the 
power hitter. I hit line drives. Adam Melhuse hit a three-run fifth time in six decisions, giving Those two just got up." homer and John Halama up three runs and eight hits in Rookie Cliff Lee (3-1) allowed pitched into the seventh inning six innings. Jeff Nelson relieved three runs and five hits over as the Oakland Athletics won with a 6-3 lead in the seventh 
seven innings in his fourth start. their sixth. straight, sweeping 
and allowed a pair of eighth­He walked two and struck out the Baltimore Orioles with a vic­inning runs on an RBI double by seven. tory. 
Everett, who tied a career high Anaheim Angels All-Star outfielder Garret Anderson drivesBonderman allowed five Scott Hatteberg led off with four hits, and a run-scoring home a run with a single In the fourth inning of Anaheim's 4-1
earned runs and nine hits over 4 Oakland's four-run first inning single to Konerko. win over Minnesota Thursday. 



HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY KATIE! 
Love MomI Dad1
I 
Jamie, and Dan 
-.­
I 
i 
I
) 

ewtdging.the Ga, 

~1SPS lllh:Jtrr~~~c• 1-*'t)t'l..tm 

I 
Friday, August 29, :21 1! '·~ page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs pen blows it again 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Kerry Robinson hit his first home run of the year, connecting for a leadoff shot in the bottom of the ninth inning that lifted the St. Louis Cardinals over the Chicago Cubs 3-2 Thursday night. 
Robinson hit a 3-2 pitch from Mike Remlinger (5-5) over the right-center field wall. The ball landed in the St. Louis bullpen. where Cardinals pitcher Jason Simontacchi caught it with his cap. 
Reliever Mike DeJean (5-7) pitched 1 2-3 hitless innings to earn his first win since Milwaukee traded him to St. Louis last week. 
The Cardinals won five of seven games against the Cubs at Busch Stadium this year and 13 of 16 over the past two sea­sons. St. Louis hasn't lost a home series to the Cubs since the final series of the 1999 sea­son. 
Sammy Sosa homered for the Cubs. Robinson also had an RBI double and Scott Rolen home­red for the Cardinals. 
The game featured strong showings by both starting pitch­ers, Chicago's Carlos Zambrano and the Cardinals' Matt Morris. 
Zambrano, who has lost once in his past eight starts, allowed just two runs, one earned, in seven innings, striking out six and walking three. 
Chicago's starting pitchers ­Mark Prior, Kerry Wood and Zambrano -allowed two earned runs in 22 innings dur­ing the series. The two teams meet again for a five-game series starting Monday at Wrigley Field. 
Dodgers 6, Astros 3 
Eric Gagne earned his 44th straight save of the season, set­ting a major league record as he closed out the Los Angeles Dodgers' win over the Houston Astros. 
Jeromy Burnitz homered and drove in three runs as the Dodgers ended a four-game los­ing streak. 
Gagne beat Tom Gordon's 1998 record of 43 in a row to begin a season. Gordon still holds the record for consecutive saves overall, with 54. It was Gagne's 52nd straight save, dat­ing to last season. 
Paul Shuey (5-4) entered in the fifth and pitched 1 1-3 hit­less innings for the win. He struck out two. 
Wilson Alvarez lasted only 4 2-3 inning in his sixth start of the season for the Dodgers. He allowed three runs on six hits and two walks, striking out seven. 
Tim Redding (8-13) allowed four runs on six hits and a pair of walks in only three innings. Pirates 5, Marlins 0 
The Florida Marlins are going so badly, they're even making the Pittsburgh Pirates' depleted pitching staff look good. 
Josh Fogg pitched shutout ball for 7 2-3 innings and Jack Wilson drove in four runs as the Pirates held· the slumping Marlins scoreless for the second straight game, winning 5-0 Thursday night. 
The Marlins were limited to three runs and 12 hits during three straight losses to the Pirates to finish 1-8 on a three-city road trip to Colorado, San Francisco and Pittsburgh. 
Florida had four hits in losing 4-3 Tuesday to Pat Mahomes and two relievers, three hits in a 4-0 loss to Kip Wells and two relievers Wednesday and five hits Thursday against Fogg and relievers Mike Lincoln and Julian Tavarez, who pitched the ninth. 
Despite the loss, Florida (70­
63) is in a virtual four-way tie for the NL wild-card lead as Philadelphia (70-63) lost its third in a row at Montreal (71­64), which has gained three games on the Marlins and Phillies in three days. St. Louis (70-63} tied the Marlins and Phillies by beating the Cubs 3-2. 
Mets 3, Braves 1 
Jose Reyes became the youngest player in modern major league history to homer from both sides of the plate, leading the New York Mets over the Atlanta Braves. 
AI Leiter allowed two hits in seven shutout innings for the Mets. He outpitched Mike Hampton, who had won nine straight decisions. 
Reyes connected right-handed against Hampton leading off the fifth and added a two-run shot from the left side off Trey Hodges in the ninth. At 20 years. 79 days, Reyes became the youngest player since 1900 to homer from each side of the plate, according to the Elias Sports Bureau, baseball's statis­tician. 
The youngest player to do it previously was Texas' Ruben Sierra at 20 years, 342 days on Sept. 13, 1986, at Minnesota. 

VV.~{~{illJ~~, lkw;.;k. Stuxldnl:~J TI:J>-l.:·· ~luiliL"Uftiunu S.tud.t~Jit J''rt;;.~gr~JJI~ a:ml &a·!la·L::i.:~ maff vt=l.~• u I d 11 k,c· lL1 i1 rv ~ik· ~,~--~..\r\'\JH\:.. to . 1·. . =~1i1 a: ~:~ ~d (Jut· ~21 t:l m I \\\..:J­
. ... Ct;:Jt:.W.:;· !Ja~.::l Pi~lhWo":. tvlue:~ic· w·:~iu 'bl.:.~ r:rNY~i~tbd ~i ...,~ (:~~.!i~J;:W.IItH'­
•· .4, 
c:~-lb-t: iMRi }i'1St•s rtuKk:r.IL ·!.tf~Mi.Ip::!;.. f:LliJit: :ClJJ.U\' Utt_-:: .lf:.IU~tt.-::...
·-· ... ..·
. . 
Florida catcher Castro 
jailed on rape charge ... 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Florida Marlins backup catcher Ramon Castro was arrested and jailed on a charge of rape Thursday after a woman accused him of sexually assaulting her in his hotel room, officials said. 
Castro, 27, was taken to the Allegheny County Jail late Thursday. He also was being held on charges of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, sex­ual assault and unlawful restraint. 
Pittsburgh police Lt. Kevin Kraus said a 28-year-old woman, who was not identified by authorities, went to a hospi­tal early Thursday morning and reported she had been raped a couple of hours earlier. A hospi­tal worker called police at 5:42 a.m. 
The woman was treated and released for what Kraus described as minor injuries. 
Kraus said Castro met the woman at a bar in Pittsburgh's Strip District and went with him to the nearby Westin Convention Center Hotel down­town, where Castro was staying during the Marlins' three-game series against the Pirates. 
Another couple went with the woman and Castro back to the hotel, police said. 
According to Kraus, the woman alleged the assault took place in Castro's room after the other couple left. 
Kraus said police intend to conduct additional interviews but declined to say with whom. 
J. Alan Johnson, a former 
U.S. Attorney representing Castro, said the ballplayer was innocent. 
"It is difficult today to be a professional athlete. It's difficult when you're charged with this for anyone. but especially diffi­cult if you are a professional athlete," Johnson said. 
Pittsburgh police Cmdr. Maurita Bryant defended the investigation, saying police treated it no differently than other rape cases. 
The Marlins' series against the Pirates concluded Thursday night at PNC Park, but Castro was not in the lineup. He did not play in the Pirates' 4-0 win Wednesday night. 
The Marlins left Pittsburgh Thursday night to begin a four­game home series against Montreal. 
Marlins All-Star pitcher Dontrelle Willis said he doubted the charges against Castro were true. 
"He is a good guy. I'm not believing it," Willis said. 
The Marlins' player represen­tative, reliever Braden Looper, said he hadn't heard about the allegations until he arrivPd at the ballpark. 
"I don't think anybody in here really knows what is going on, so I don't want to speculate. We hope the best for him and hope everything is OK," Looper said. 
Castro is batting .289 in 45 at-bats in 33 games. He made his major league debut with Houston in 1999. 

THAI RESTAURANT 
""We invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, that will excite your five senses, sweet, sour, salty, spicy and natural." 
.­
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am -2pm 
Dinner: Mon-Sat 5prn-9pm 
211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 
NOWHIH.ING 
\ 
h id:1y, August 29, 2003
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS ' I NCAA fOOTBALL 
No. 15 Maryland upset in overtime by Northern Illinois 
Associated Press

I . 
D EKALB, Ill. -The ball bounced off the leg of a defend­er, fluttered into the air and landed softly in the hands of a surprised Randee Dre\v -a fit­ting ending to a wild upset. 
Northern Illinois stunned No. 15 Maryland 20-13 in overtime on Thursday night, a victory capped when Drew intercepted Scott McBrien's long pass near the end zone. 
The pass, intended for Latrez Harrison, hit defensive back Rob Lee in the leg as he fell back­ward and shot into the air. 
Waiting underneath to grab it was Drew. 
"Everything was in slow motion," Drew said. "One of them fell and kicked the ball and it came right to me. I guess [they] just put me in the right spot at the right time." 
It took the Huskies a moment to realize what had happened. When they did, the entire team rushed the field to celebrate only their third win ever over a ranked team. 
Even after the game, coach Joe Novak was still confused .. 
"Could somebody tell me what happened?" Novak said. "All I know is everyone said we won, so I was going to go along with it." 
Northern Illinois got the ball first in overtime and scored three plays later when Josh Baldi threw a 20-yard touch­down to Dan Sheldon. Sheldon caught Haldi's pass at the 15, spun around a defender and raced into the end zone for the
;.: game-winning score. Haldi was 21-for-35 for 266
i~ 
yards and two touchdowns. 
1
I·, Northern Illinois had a chance 'I I 
to win the game in regulation but Steve Azar's 43-yard field goal attempt was partially blocked by Madieu Williams with 1.3 seconds left. 
The attempt was set up by a roughing the passer call on D'Qwcll Jackson, one of several costly penalties against the Terrapins. 
Maryland is the highest­ranked opponent Northern Illinois has ever beaten. The Huskies defeated No. 20 Bowling Green last year, and knocked off No. 24 Fresno State in 1990. 
"I told the kids before we played, win, lose or draw, let's enjoy the moment. We're on national TV, we're playing a ranked team," Novak said. "I think they did, and they're enjoying the moment even more now." 
No. 3 Miami 48, Louisiana Tech 9 
A decent debut for Miami's new big three was enough for the Hurricanes to win their opener going away. 
Antrel Rolle returned an inter­ception and a punt for touch­downs and Frank Gore ran for 118 yards as No. 3 Miami beat Louisiana Tech. 
The game marked the starting debut for Gore, quarterback Brock Berlin and wide receiver Ryan Moore. 
The trio has a long way to go to keep Hurricanes fans from missing Ken Dorsey, Willis McGahee and Andre Johnson. 
"I wouldn't say it was great," Berlin said. ''I'm glad to get it out of the way and now justready to get on with next week." 
The Hurricanes host rival 
Florida on Sept. 6. 
Making his Miami debut in his 

" ,.Jges 
Miami's Devin Hester is tackled by Michael Johnson of Louisiana Tech Thursday nlg: : the 
Hurricanes' 48-9 victory. 
hometown, Berlin was OK in a little less than three quarters of work. The Florida transfer was 14-for-28 for 203 yards with two touchdowns and an interception. 
"I love Shreveport and the people here. And the fans. That was an excellent environment to 
play in tonight," Berlin said. 
Gore, who missed all last sea­son after major knee surgery, showed good burst and power 

Macro's
l 
WallBed Designs 
--:._............ 
I 
I 
' ;~ 
-·e:::=:2 

I 
uu-~ 
~ 
-

r±:--::­
£._][[l 
-.........:~ 
S§ 
_'---.; 
--.;
-
...­

~"f 
Come 
in ... see what 
I033 West Edison Road • Mishawaka, IN 46545 
on 21 carries and caught two to take on linebacker :on· passes for 33 yards. said. "As the game goes I get Gore said he feels even better better and better. Next week it's than before the injury. going to be different so I've got 
"I feel like I got a lot stronger to pick it up even more." 




OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday. August 29, 2003 CCH..,\P!LED FROM 'fi--lL ()nSERV!:R \VIP...L StRV!CTS Page 23 
Men's Soccer Polls 
NBA 

Soccer America 
team 1 UCLA) 2 Maryland 3 NOTRE DAME 4 Wake Forest 5 StJohn's 6 Stanton! 7 Penn State 8 Connecticut g Cretgtllan 10 Indiana 11 California 12 SMU 13 Saint louis 14 Boston College 
15 16 16 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 16 18 19 20 
Z1 
22 23 24 25 
Wis. -Milwaukee North Caro1ina New Mexico Santa Clara Virgina 
UAB 
Clemson Portland VA commonwealtll Coastat Carolina South Horirla 
NSCAA/adidas 
team 
UCLA Maryland Stanford Wake fo:rest SMU St. Jnbn's !ndiana Creigbton Clemson Connecticut Stlouis NOTRE DAME Boston ·College. Virginia ·-· --·"'·· Furman Penn State California Wis.·MitwaLtkee · N(}rth Carnlina Coasta 1CaroUna UC·Santa. Barbara toyfrla Marymount NewMexito Syracuse VA CommonweafthV 
Women's Soccer Polls 
Soccer America 
team 
North car{)Una 
Stantnrtf 
UCLA Santa Clara 
. Texn 
NOTRE DAME 
Portlanrt ·:-=·'=----· 
Penn state 
Virginia 
Pepperdine 
•wast Virginia 
Tecnnessee ·· Florida State 
AriliJna State 
connecueut California Texas A&M Maryland Clemson Nebraska .. ­
usc 
VHJan.ova Auburn Duke Charlotte 
USA Today 
team 
santa ctara 
Nortfl CaroUna Portlalld Stanford 
UClA 
T~xasA&M 
·· • • • • •·-Penn State · connecfii:ut 
Texn 
NOTRE DAME Virginia Nebraska Peppardine Tennessee fhHida State CaUfomia 
·· Miclligan West Virginia 
usc 
ClemsGn 
florida 
SMU Maryland BYU Purdue California 
1 
z 
3 
4 
5 6 
1 
B 
9 
11l 
H 
12 13 14 15 16 
11 
18 19 20 21 22 
2Z 
22 
22 
. >1 2 
3 
4 
s 
6 
T 
8 g 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
11 
18 19 20 . 21·. 22 23 24 25 
Associated Press 
·INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers began their pursuit of Hick Carlisle for their new coach but did nnt expect to sign him at least until early next week. a team spokesman said Thursday. 
Carlisle, a former Pacers assistant and the head coach at Detroit the past two years, became avail­able when he was fired by the Pistons in May. 
He was the first choice for the Pacers after new team president Larry Bird, Carlisle's Bostor. Celtics teammate and his boss when Bird was the Pacers coach. fired lsiah Thomas on Wednesday. 
"'They've got to go through an interview process and work out a contract, and it's also a holiday weekend, which compounds it a little bit," Pacers spokesman David Benner said of the expect­ed delay in naming a new coach. 
Carlisle, who talked to Bird by tfdephone on Tuesday night, reportedly was in Indianapolis to meet with Bird and Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh, although Benner said he could not confirm that. 
"When I've been down to see Donnie, I haven't seen him (Carlisle)." Benner said. ''It's been about, 'If we're going to do some­thing. when would it be?' It'll probably be next week. They said they would talk to him either last night or today. They may have." 
Messages seeking com­ment were left at Carlisle's home in Detroit. 
On Wednesday, at a news conference announcing the firing of Thomas, Bird said, "I think a new coach coming in is going to bring some freshness, a new style and hopefully he can play the game the way I like it to be played." 
He made it clear the man he wanted for the job 
was Carlisle, a Pacers assistant all three seasons under Bird and before that an assistant in Portland for three years and New Jersey for five years. 
"I talked to Rick (Tuesday night) to see if he had any interest in this job, and obviously this would be a great opportu­nity for him," Bird said. "He'd like to sit down and talk to us about it." 
Carlisle also was a can­didate for the Pacers job three years ago, after Bird took the team to the 2000 NBA Finals and then resigned, making good on his intention to step down after three years as coach. 
IN BRIEF 
Hall to start for Clarett 
COLUMBUS. Ohio -Maurice Hall will start at tailbat:k fur Ohio State in place of the suspended Maurice Clarett when the defending national cham pi'o ns 'play \Vas hi n gtu n on Saturday night. 
Hall. a 5-foot-1 0. 200-pound jun­iur;·got the nod over classmate Lydell Hoss. · · 
Ohio State running backs coach Tim Spencer confirmed that Hall would take the first snap wher.. the No. 2-ranked Buckeyes host No. 17 Washington . 
"Maurice Hall has been the guy who's been there consistently," Spencer said. "He's LJeen there the whole time... lip's been the guy, to me, who deserves to be in there when \Ve crank it up on the first snap." 
Clardt, who set school freshmo.n records last year with I,237 yar;ds rushing and 18 touchdowns. is sus­pended whil~ Ohio State looks ir.to an exaggeratPd thcf~ report he filed with campus police last April. Clarett is practicing \Vith the team. but athletic director Andy Geiger said Thursday that he would not play in at least the first three games. 
Hall, who has battled a sore knee this month, scored the winning touchdowns for the Buckeyes in overtime against Illinois and in the final 4:55 against rival Michigan last year. 
Hoss missed most of preseason camp with a pulled muscle in his leg.Raptors trade Hunter 
DETROIT -The Pistons traded Michael Curry to the Toronto Haptors for Lindsey Hunter on Thursday in a move that will give Detroit more depth at point guard. 
Curry started at small forvvard last season for Detroit, which had the best regular-season record in the Eastern Conference. Hunter, a for­mer draft pick of the Pistons, joins point guards Chaunct'Y Billups and Chucky Atkins with Detroit. 
Hunter played in just 29 games 
> 
last season because of an assort­ment of injuries. averaging 9.7 points and 2.4 assists. He missed 11 games with a sore right knee. three with a strained hamstring and 39 with a sore back. 
The 32-year-old spent the first seven seasons of his 10-ycar· career in Detroit. 
"We're very comfortable with Lindsey after having him play here in the past." Octroi t president of basketball operations Joe Dumars said. "We know what type of energy and effort he brings to the game." 
Curry, a defensive specialist, start­ed 77 games last season, averaging 
3.0 points and 1.6 rebounds. The 35-year-old shared time at small forward with Tayshaun Prince and Corliss Williamson. 
Curry has one year and $2.8 mil· iion left on his contract. "hile Hunter has one season and $3.3 mil· lion -$2 million guaranteed -lPft on his. 
Eye on Irish Opponents 
Saturday, August 20 _ 
WASHtNGTON STATE at hhlho: central Michigan at Michigan ·Weitem Mi~lligan at Michigan State 
USC AT Auburn · Wake Forest at SOSTOtfCOLlEG£ FLORIDA STATE atNnrtb Caronna .. 



around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
. 
Braves at Pirates 7 p.m., TBS White Sox at Tigers 7 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Toledo at UNLV 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 9 p.m .. USA 
~ -.-----~ 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 29, 2003 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles look for fresh start with new coach 
t I 

Last week, Judge Frederick Gannett ruled the arrest war­rant and related documents could be released to the public. More detailed documents, including the arrest affidavit and search warrant, were to remain sealed. Gannett put his order on hold and gave attor­neys 10 days to appeal. Chris Beall, an attorney rep­

',, NBA 
Prosecu ters will not 
appeal in Bryant case 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Prosecutors in the sexual assault case against Kobe Bryant said Thursday they will not appeal a judge's order to release some of the sealed court records. 
The documents slated for release will not threaten Bryant's right to a fair trial or the privacy rights of the woman who has accused the NBA superstar of rape, District Attorney Mark Hurlbert said. 
' .. resenting media organizations
i seeking the release of all the 
records, said his clients will decide by the Tuesday deadline whether to appeal. 
Bryant's attorneys did not 
immediately return a call for 
I I comment. 
I The documents Gannett said 
! 
( could be released are likely to reveal little that is not publicly kr~~.~-;:r about the case, legal 
I 
experts say. 
~ 
Beall has said that without a look at the other documents, the public has no way of know­ing whether the sheriff's office acted properly in arresting Bryant. 
Among those documents the judge said will remain sealed are those containing "factual statements describing graphic details of the alleged sexual encounter," medical test results, evidence that can be challenged in court and the statements of potential wit­nesses. 
Bryant has said his 19-year­old accuser had consensual sex with him June 30 at the Lodge & Spa at Cordillera, where she worked and· he was a guest. Bryant, who is free on $25,000 bond, is scheduled to return to Eagle for an Oct. 9 preliminary hearing, when Gannett will determine whether there is enough evidence for a trial. 
The media organizations seeking the documents include NBC, CNN, The Denver Post, the Los Angeles Times and the Vail Daily newspaper. 
The judge on Thursday granted a request from news organizations to place cameras in a hallway outside the court­room during the hearing. He hasn't ruled on a request to allow cameras inside the 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Weekend tourney starts season 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
After a disappointing 2002-03 season, the Belles are anxious to get back on the court. 
Saint Mary's begins itS season at home Saturday by hosting the SMC Triangular, a round-robin tournament between Saint Mary's, the University of Chicago and Goshen College. 
Saint Mary's is scheduled to open the event with a scrim­mage against the University of Chicago at 11 a.m. and will then face Goshen in the first official game of the season at 3 p.m. 
''I'm very anxious to see this team in an actual game-like sit­uation," coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said of her team's scrim­mage against the University of Chicago. She said she is anxious to see her team play Goshen. 
"They should be a good chal­lenge for us," Schroeder-Biek said. "This is a good opening for us, to see what we have and where we need to go." 
The Belles went 7-21 last year, with a 1-13 record in MIAA play, Sophomore Michelle Turley transferred from Division-1 Marist College, and along with a group of talented freshmen and veterans, provides a pool of tal­ent that should pay instant divi­dends. 
''I've just seen great things out of these players," Schroeder­Biek said. "They're all talented. experienced players. I could put one player in for another and I don't think you could notice a difference [in our skill level]." 
but Schroeder-Biek is excited 
Contact Justin Schuver about the new additions. at jschuver@nd.edu 

Our Lowest Contact Lens Price Ever! 

G:et T:he, Obse-rve·r 
in your lnbox 
H':f';gi$t~r now on our W>ebsUe ;;and autom~tkal1~-~el:ve an EmaU :Editio~ o:f th(i P-il~ w.l1h t!.''lf!.fY f.!~· i5~ut;!. 
H~dlb'le New$ • CoiliiJ9~ Sports • Csmpu!!li C~l ~n¢1:f Loesl ·w~thet • Di!ily H.;w:t;scope 

www~ndsmcobserver.vcom 
~ 
I I I 
\ 
I 
)\)/\I 
..... 
)~
,, 
~~ 
'' 
f., .. 
k 
::~ ~I 
! 
.... 
(i 
l 
~:' 
' 
• {!' 
r '•) ~ I ' 
'· 
~~: 
.i. 
By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
Two things seem to happen to the Saint Mary's soccer team over the last three seasons. First, the team opens the sea­son ·with has a new coach. Second, the team improves its MIAA record. 
In the past three years, the Belles have had three coaches. After the team went 3-10-1 in 2000, Bobby Johnston coached the team to a 4-10 conference record in 2001. Chris Pfa u 's Belles went 5-7-2 in conference in 2002. This year Peter Haring mans the helm for Saint Mary's. Haring, who boasts a winning club and college pedi­gree, should build on the Belles' momentum and bring stability to the team. 
Haring makes his regular season debut as coach of the Belles this weekend when the team travels to Marietta College in Ohio to play Marietta and the State University of New York. 
On Wednesday, the Belles scrimmaged with Bethel College. Most of the starters played one half in the 2-1 loss. Coach Haring used the game to view his entire squad and make final cuts to his roster. First team all-MIAA member Jen Concannon was encouraged by the team's energy, yet found it needed to be more relaxed and cohesive over the weekend. 
"We definitely need to learn 
to play together [in the new 3­5-2 defense]," Concannon said. "We're all excited, nervous, and fresh for the season." 
Some Belles will be less than one hundred percent going into the weekend games. Some players have nagging injuries, yet Concannon does not consid­er playing back-to-hack games a problem. 
"We've had some pulled quads and shin splints," Concannon said. "It has mainly been defensive players getting hurt lately.... There will be a lot of wear and tear, but I think we'll be fine. We have a lot of depth." 
The Belles will rely on sopho­more sweeper Carrie Orr to make their new 3-5-2 defense a success. The team played in the 4-4-2 last year, forcing Orr to learn a new position. Orr had a strong freshman year, scoring four goals and ten points. 
Concannon believes opening the season with two non-con­ference games will be a posi­tive experience. She feels that the schedule gives the Belles more time to develop chemistry before the conference schedule starts. 
"It's a little less pressure, but as a team we don't take any game lightly," Concannon said. 
Saint Mary's will face the State University of New York at 11 a.m. Saturday and Marietta College at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
,. 
-.. 
Friday, August 29, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
which includes 11 of her 12 sea­
sons with 20-plus victories. 
This weekend will be a true 
continued from page 28 test for the Irish, as the Wildcats 
of Arizona return seven letter team all-Big East squad, Loomis winners and hold a preseason looks to dominate once again No. 10 ranking. Friday's meeting after leading the team in kills will be the first since 1993 and 
Season 
(3.7 per game) last year. the third overall. They have split 
Notre Dame also looks for the two games. good things from senior Katie After Arizona, the Irish get no Neff, who has done nothing but rest as they face Pepperdine. improve at opposite. Last year, (26-7 last season). Saturday. she recorded 17 double-digit kill When the two teams met last matches. · year at the Joyce Center, Notre 
To go along with the numerous Dame managed to come away returning starters, coach Debbie with a win in five games to cap· Brown returns for her 13th year ture the Golden Dome at the helm for the Irish. Brown, Invitational. the three-time Big East Coach of the Year, has a career record of Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 300-102 (.746) at Notre Dame. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
"I would think that we would out too. so it's made it a real have a pretty good idea," he good environment to coach."
Center 
said. "Unless after these next No matter who handles the continued from page 28 few scrimmages that we feel it's starting duties come the season 
too close to call, but I think opener against the Cougars, Morton has given him some going into game· week we have a both Giles and Morton can be solid competition as the pair good idea of where we want to pretty sure that he'll have some seem to be neck-and-neck near be [with a starter]." big shoes to fill with the depart­week's end. After Thursday's ed Faine. 
"We're still battling through intra-squad scrim­"When any it, but both guys are doing fine," mage, Morton felt "I know I can 't be starter leaves and offensive line coach John good about the someone has to
JeffFaine. ... I can
McDonell said. "We're making progress that Giles step in, you're progress every day. We'll proba­and he have made. only be Bob going to feel pres­bly solidify that spot after the "Today was a big Morton., sure," Morton weekend and get ready for the day for both of us," said. "Because game [with Washington State]." Morton said. "You Jeff [Faine] was a
Bob Morton
As of right now, there no can't really speak three-year starter
Irish center
starter has been named at cen­until you've seen and was as good ter, but it seems McDonell would the film. but it was as he was, that like to name one sometime near an exciting day. can add to it." the beginning of next week. The chemistry with the offensive But the young Morton main­
line has gotten better for both of tains that he can't try to become 
us, and whoever it is, we feel we Faine over the next few years, 
I . • can be successful next week." and that whoever takes on the 
·------------------------------------· 
I I So far, McDonell has been starting job has to grow into impressed with the progress of himself as a player.
: H.ave you thought about : 
both Giles and Morton and likes "I don't feel too much extra the way the two have pushed pressure because I know I can't each other in practice. be Jeff Faine," he said. "I can
:I teaching Religion a·nd :• 
"I think both of them have only be Bob Morton. As corny as
I ~, I 
great strengths. and I feel very it may sound, we'll see how I • good about how far they've good I can be over the next cou­come," McDonell said. "Zach ple of years as they develop. But
: becoming. a Catechist? : 
[Giles] brings great strength at I feel it really was a good thing
I I 
the point of attack, and he th~t I got the chance to stand 
• . . I works very hard. Bobby behind Faine, because if you
I . . I• [Morton] is a great technician, learn from the best, you can be and also works very hard, so the best." both are doing fine.
= 
1 Campus. Ministry = • "What's been impressive is Contact Chris Federico they're both helping each other at cfederic@nd.edu 
C:M 
I • I * DtJ .YOU enjl1)1 working with children oradolescents? I I *Can )'vt• gi•·e one-tW(i IJ.uurs ofJ•ourtiTtle eacll wehek? ,. 1I 
1 
1 * Doytnt. welco11te th,e c.ll.allenge t~J aTticnlate atu.l s ·ar~ yourjaitlt? 1 I * tl>vnldyor1 like to be tl valuable assetto a l.o~al parish? I SMC GoLFI * lfiluld'you like tn "~ork towards t~atechist certifkatioll? I 
I I 
I I I I With new leadership, 
: If you can answer YES to any or a11 ofthese questions~ = 1 come find o~.:rt more. about being a Religion Teacher or • Belles start anewI Retreat Team Leader : 
instructor. He taught at courses
I I By PAT LEONARD 
such as Medinah Country Club
I I 
News Writer 
(Ill.), Palm Beach Polo Club
I • 
(Fla.) and the US Golf Academy.
I I 
The Belles face a new chal­
• l11tportant Information Meeti1zg: 1 His team also has a good bit 
lenge this season -new lead­of experience. The Belles return ership. 
their top five golfers from a
:I Tlltlrsday, Septettzber 4 :• Making the tra·nsition from 
team that placed fourth at the 
coach to coach often can be Div. III NCAA Championships
1 S:OfJ-6:00 P.M. : slow and difficult, despite a 
last season, including individual team's past history; the creden­
national champion Stefanie
: Roo1n 330 Ct>leman-Morse C"enter I tials of Mark Hamilton and the 
Simmerman. Saint Mary's will 
I I track record of this roster, how­begin that campaign this week­
I I ever, should make things a little 
end when it travels to Green
I I easier. 
Lake, Wis at the Ferris State 
Hamilton joins Saint Mary's as Invitational at Katke Golf Club.
: CaU .Jolm or S,:Ivia Dillm\cilt 631~7163 : a qualified professional golf 
Last season, the Belles fin­
·---·----------·---------_&__________ ished in just eighth place at the same tournament; however, they set a record one-day low 
team scure of 342 on the sec­ond day of the Invitational. 
Posting five straight tourna­ment victories last year. the group received leadership from veterans and newcomers. 
Sophomore Megan Mattia, who had the low team score in
We have a.n exciting o:ppor-tunl1y 
three matches in the spring,fo:r YO•J "to help p:reve.nt youTh came in second on the team and 14th overall at the NCAA
violence in Sou't:h Bendl Learn championships with a 335. Julia Adams. Chrissy Dunham
ways to help reduce. violence while 
and Elizabeth Hanlon are all having fun irrterac1'ing with children back after closing the champi­
Talk. lt ()ut ~ 
A .. 
onships in 36th. 47th and 54thin: area schools __ place, respectively. \Valk lt Out •. ~ Simmerman had the most impressive run at the season
• Becon1e a rnen1hcr <Jf a ·rake Ten tcan1· ~uut 
¥ • finale. beating the entire field
\Vai:t lt Out A 
spend an hour a ~·eek in an area scho(Jl HELP MAKE OUR and leading the Belles roster by SCHOOLS 20 strokes. Her 76-82-77-80
• \larious schools~ age groups~ and rneeting scorecard bolstered the team
VIOLENCE FREE 
ti:tncs to fit vour schedtlle all the way to its fourth place
Z·ONE.S
~-finish and into the spotlight. 
• 1\tf.ultiple training opportunities to .learn It is that spotlight that attracted Hamilton, who hopes
tnore about violence and ho\v to \'V(Jrk "'='tth 
the team will continue to shine ch.ildrcn 
under his leadership this sea~ son.
Take advantage of this opportunity to leave an everlasting impact on the youth of S-outh Bend! Contact Pat Leonard at 
plenoard@nd.edu 

---~·-~·~-~----------------------------------------------------------­
I .,. -, • 
Friday, August 29, 200.)
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish attempt to live up to preseason rankings 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Bobby Clark was pleased with his team's 1-0-1 record in preseason play, but he stayed realistic. He knew the games did not matter. 
Beginning Friday, the games will matter. 
Notre Dame, ranked No. 3, opens its regular season schedule on the road this year with a pair of non-con­ference matches in Bloomington, Ind. this week­end. The Irish will play No. 20 Alabama-Birmingham on Friday and No. 11 California on Saturday in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic at Armstrong Stadium. Notre Dame has never played either team. 
Still, there is something familiar about the weekend's games. The Irish will open their season playing on the same field they ended on last season in a 1-0 loss to Indiana University in the sec­ond round of the NCAA tour­nament. 
No mind games should dis­tract the experienced Irish, who return nine starters from a 12-6-3 2002 team that fin­ished ranked 20th in Soccer America. Notre Dame's No. 3 ranking in the magazine and its No. 12 NSCAA ranking are both highs in program histo­ry. 
Third-year captain Greg 
Martin had 13 points (six goals, one assist) last season and is largely responsible for the team's chemistry. His belief in creating a winning -and maybe even dominat­ing -tradition in the Notre Dame soccer program has rubbed off on the entire team. 
During the preseason, the upperclassmen set the pace and got the Irish on the board. Forward Justin Detter (19 points last season) had a goal and an assist against St. Louis in a 2-0 victory. Devon Prescod scored a goal at St. Louis and one in a 1-1 tie with Michigan at Alumni Field Monday night. Martin and junior midfielder Jack Stewart assisted on the goal. 
Goalie Chris Sawyer made four saves against Michigan and two in the St. Louis shutout, suggesting defensive dominance for the Irish. 
None of the preseason stats translate directly to the regu­lar season, but Martin has the team functioning as one unit. 
That unit will not catch abreak in its schedule this year, which is evident in the Irish opening with two ranked opponents. According to Martin and the attitude of the rest of the team, however, they don't really need one. 
They don't want one. The games start at 5 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

liEII 

is made possible bV 
Office of Student Affairs Student Activities Board 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
so they'll be tough to score on. 
"It's our first time playing Wake Forest, however, so we don't know much about them. They're usually in the top 25, as well, and the ACC is one of the top confer­ences, so they won't be over­whelmed and are accustomed to playing top competition." 
The Irish will be able to rely on increased depth and leadership· this season as they look to improve on last year's campaign . 
• 
By adding a recruiting class ranked in the top five to a team that lost only one senior, Waldrum believes this team has a great chance to get off to a suc­cessful start. 
"We have a lot of freshmen that will play a lot early in the sea­son," Waldrum said. "Whether or not they start, they will· make us much deeper than we were. Many of them are ready physical­ly to come in and play." 
The Irish will lean heavily on the leadership of its seniors this season, as well. 
"This group has been great," Waldrum said. "Amy Warner, 
Walsh Hall Cavanaugh Hall 
Kim Carpenter and Vanessa Pruzinsky have done a great job in stepping up the leadership on and off the field. Some of our other players, like Annie Schefter and Melissa Tancredi, have really become. good leaders, too. I like where we are right now." 
After beginning the season in Connecticut, the Irish will return home to host the Notre Dame Classic next weekend at Alumni Field. The Irish host to Arizona State on Sept. 5 and Oklahoma on Sept. 7. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

St. Marv's Board of Governanc.e Office of Alcohol and Drug Notre Dame Student Government Education Office of the President, St. Marv's Notre Dame Athletic Department Multicultural Student Programs Notre Dame Alumni Association & Services Badin Hall Campus Ministrv Korean Students Association The Morris Inn PreVet Club 
I 
·) 

First Year of Studies Notre Dame Climbing Club Class of 2005 Notre Dame Women's BoxingClass of 2006 



Friday, August 29, 2003 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
Ok-1lH2.tf: PAPE~B.AC.~S AND Ai'E')(fBook.-\STHlS  YOL(R. TOTAL. COMSS TO THl2EE·HUNDR.E.D  PERHAPS YOU'D UKE 10 M'E.EI WlTH N'/, OU~ LOAN SP~IALIST, 10'  
.AL\.. FOR. 'IOU 'TODA'f?  FlRY·TWO DOLLAIZ.S  DISCUSS A PAVHENf PLAN AND  
YEAH.  ANt> EIC:.HTY C.ENTS.  CR.e.orr A.~P~VAL-?  

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION ­
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
~IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one·letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SEEBO ± 
~003 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All Righta Reserved 
TUDIA 
rJ []
1 
CLORLS 
1 
rJ 

www. "umble.com 
RENARB 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A rI I I J"r I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TRULY HONOR UNCOIL GENTRYYesterday's I 
Answer: Practiced by the dieting couple-"GIRTH" CONTROL 

WHAT TH~ D~M0­1.-ITION WORKE:RS HAD A.T THEIR ANNUAL-SHINDIG. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ ACROSS 30 Sound system 53 Ending with control form
1 1993 De Niro title role 31 Place to get a 54 Member of the buzz? legume family
7 Hedger's answer to ~Have 56 C.P.A.'s concern
34 Where Ashur 
you done your was the 
58 Arugulahomework?" supreme deity alternative 
15 Site of Syria's 35 Ties together 59 ~swan Lake" Great Mosque-heroine39 Wind down16 Flag-waver's 60 Intensified
41 Trtle role for Daly 61 Broke down in
event? 
17 Suez Canal school nationalizer 44 Unsubstantial stuff
18 Space program DOWN45 For this reason19 Enfant lerrible 1 Churchill is in it46 Nebraska20 Dance in the 2 Shady strollingcounty whose streets 
seat is spots 22 Old lady, 
Nebraska City 3 Is ready to givebackwoods-style up the ship47 Jerusalem 
23 Patch target 
artichoke, e.g. 4 They result in 25 Goose two outs: Abbr.
49 Those, to Munoz 26 Dreamcast 
5 Abbr. on some
50 Originally ..
maker dials 51 Divided
271gnominy 6 Bridge maven
differently, in a 28 Like the month 38 Wasn't steady 48 Put a new
7 Kind of temple 
29 "Scram!" way of May? surface on
40 Put out of8 For all to see 30 Take the wrong bounds, so to 51 Unusually
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Soul singer way? speak excellent Lattisaw 
32 Narrow inlet 41 Ached 52 Man Ray's
o::+ii-lri~t-:'i-f 1oSped movement
33 Suffix for a 42 Not taut 
-:+i-+=~+.z.t 11 Food scraping 
bibliophile 43 Drive 55 Like some12 Cultivated 
36 Refers to churches: Abbr.
47 Part of a13 Part of the 37 Intensify dovetail 57 Generation _
~~IP'fo!IL!"t Quaternary Period ~:+.:ot 14 William Shatner For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a novel credit card, 1·8()().814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
21 Fitting activity? 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. ~~=+.;~+:.+:-4 24 "A Raisin in the Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
Sun" actress 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~~~ 26 Pillsbury Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, competitor nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, Loretta Lynn, John Shea 
Happy Bir~hday: Your ideas will be cutting-edge, and as long as you don't second­guess yourself, you should be able to put them into motion. Don't become sidetracked by what those around you are doing. Focus on what you need in your life and how you can obtain it. Your numbers are 13, 17, 22, 35, 41. 46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): It's time to make a career change, so get out to all the interviews you can set up. Relationships will open up if you have a hean-to­heart talk. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make personal changes. Get involved in activities 
that will jump-start your body. You will see --and like --the results. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is not the day to start something new or confront a situation that has been bothering you. Instead, get caught up and finish projects that have been hanging over your head. Work by yourself today. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend some time with friends or relatives who offer you encouragement. Open up and let your thoughts be known. There will be a better connection to those you care about. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to turn your financial situation around. Talk to friends who may have similar interests and see if you can collaborate to benefit everyone involved. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will find it difficult to control your emotions today. Not everyone is on the same schedule as you these days. You will have to allow others space to do as they please. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may not be as loyal as you think. Do something that will improve your living quaners. The changes you make will help to raise your spirits. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money and love may get you into trouble if you think you have to impress someone by spending a lot. Get out and meet some interesting people who will take your mind off a non-productive pursuit. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should try to be inconspicuous today. Trouble is brewing on the home front and you don't want to be the brunt of anyone's discontent. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be well-prepared today. Business trips will pay off. Don't hesitate to pick up and move if it means a promotion. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-.Feb. 18): This is a great day to make some financial changes. Folio~ your innovative ideas. Keep a close tab on your health. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This could tum into a touch-and-go sort of day, especially whereany kind of partnership is concerned. You'll have trouble convincing others to go along with your plans. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will be practical, concerned about others and always willing to lend a helping hand. You will have an innate ability to reason and to use common sense. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com COPYRIGHT 2003 UNlVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 


'I 
·~
'ij' 
\ ', \ ',) 
lI ~~ )I 
I 
\ 
\ 
Friday, August 29, 2003 Page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Center of Attention 
Bob Morton and Zach Giles battle to replace All-American Jeff Faine 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
If there's one thing offensive lines are remembered for, it's consistency. Often, the five big guys up front don't 
~ 
receive credit for their team's· offensive
) 
\ 
I 
prowess or prolific scoring ability, but they're down in the trenches play-in and 
\ 
play-out, pushing forward on every down. 
For the Irish, center Jeff Faine was a model of consistency, starting nearly every game and playing almost every down for the 
\ 
.· 
Irish for three years. 
But this year, Faine is gone, after being drafted in the first round last April by the Cleveland Browns. 
(' 
So how does Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham plan on replacing the Irish~ ' anchor up front? With more consistency, of 
course. "lOur centersJ have done some very good 
{ things, but there's still some things they need 
' 
I 
) 
) I to improve on," Willingham said. "It's that 
\ 
constant going back and forth. Hopefully, we're closing in on being consistent, and that's the word we use with them all the time. We love the good things that they do; but we need consistency with them." 

The closest position battle of fall practice has been for that center spot along a mostly revamped Irish offensive line. Junior Zach Giles emerged from spring practice as the slight favorite, but redshirt freshman Bob 
CHIP MARKSfThe Observer Morton has given him some solid competition CHIP MARKS!The Observer 
Redshirt freshman Bob Morton ( 76) rests during practice. -------------,------Junior Zach Giles hustles during a drill. Giles had emerged Morton is competing fo.r the starting center position. see CENTER/page 25 as the favorite as the starting center after spring practice. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
High expectations for the 
\" 
(" •· By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

For a soccer program that has reached the Final Four almost every year for most of the 1990s, the last two years for the Irish have been fairly disappointing. 
'i An early exit in the 2001 tour­
J 
nament, followed by last year's injury-riddled campaign, has left this year's squad hungry to return to the Firial Four this sea­son. 
The No. 10 Irish start out the 2003 campaign this weekend competing in the University of Connecticut's tournament in Storrs, Conn. Although they do not play the Huskies this week­end, the Irish do face two formi­dable opponent<> in Hartford and Wake Forest. 
The two games present differ­ent challenges for the Irish. They have played Hartford the past two years, registering two wins . 
. 
en 
MEN'S SOCCER 
w 
Notre Dame vs.
1--u z Alabama-
I. Birmingham
a: ~ I I I == Today, 5 p.m.
I 
I I 
I a. ta: 
I I page 26 
I' 
en
~ 
I 
' 
~ 
I, I, 
I' 

But the Irish have not played the Demon Deacons recently. 
"Hartford is usually a top-25 team," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "They're not ranked this preseason, but they have a lot of foreign players and are very organized defensively, so they'll be tough to score on. 
"It's our first time playing 
see SOCCER/page 26 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish to face many early challenges 
Notre Dame will be led by a core By HEATHER of veterans this season. Co-cap­VAN HOEGARDEN tains and twins Jessica and
Sports Writer 
Kristen Kinder will lead the team. 
As the rei6rning Big East cham-, pions, the Irish have a lot to live up to this season. Coming ofi a 24-8 record last season to earn a NCAA bid for the 11th consecutive sea­son, the Irish have high expecta­tions for 2003. 
They kick off their 2003 cam­paign this weekend with a trip to Malibu, Calif., where the Irish will take part in the Four Points Sheraton Classic. This weekend will set the tone; Notre Dame fa:ces No. 10 Arizona today and No. 5 Pepperdine Saturday in i1s first games of the season. Following these games, the Irish are slated to face Eastern Washington Saturday night. 
Kristen Kinder will set; she has put up impressive numbers throughout her career, averaging 
11.16 assists per game, and was named the 2001 Big East Setter of the Year. Kelly Burrell filled in for Kristen Klnder at times last sea­son and will see significant play time this season. 
On the receiving end of these two setters, two-year starter and oul<>ide hitter Jessica Kinder will contribute with her all-around play. Another weapon for the Irish will be junior Emily Loomis. As the 2002 Big East Championship Most Outstanding Player and member 
, of the first-team all-Big East 
see TOURNEY/page 25 
SMC GOlF 
Saint Marl's at 
Ferris Sta e Invitational 
The Belles look to jump-start season with new coach. 
page 25 
SMC SOCCER 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NO VOllEYBAll 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Saint Mary's vs. 
SMC Triangular 
Notre Dame vs. 
Notre Dame vs. 
SUNY 
Hartford
Arizona 
Saturday, 11 a.m. 
Saturday, 11 a.m. 
Today, 3:30 p.m.
Saint Mary's hosts its 
Today, 5 p.m.. 
Saint Mary's looks to 
The highly-touted
first tournament of the 
The Irish look to upset 
build on last season's 
Irish women kick off
year 
Wildcats in season open-
losses. 
their season.
er 
page 24
page 24 
page 28
page 28 

