
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
President of Nigeria to. speak Sunday 
Church Life's "A Call to continent. 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
Solidarity with Africa" confer­"It is one of the most popu­Associate News Editor 
ence Sunday. lous countries in Africa, but is 
The conference, a collabora­also a country with a lot of 
Only ten days after fellow tive effort among a number of deep problems," theology pro­African Desmond Tutu, arch­University entities and an fessor and conference coordi­bishop emer-international collection of nator John Cavadini said. "In a itus of Cape See Also scholars, aid workers, clergy lot of ways, Nigeria is a bit of Town, South and students, was designed to an African microcosm."
"A Call to
Africa, be a collective response to a Nigerian-born Father addressed Solidarity with 2001 document issued by the Paulinus Odozor, a fellow the­the Notre United States Conference of ology professor who has
Africa to be
Dame com­Catholic Bishops of the same served as liaison between the munity at a delivered" name. African and American contin­University­President Oba'sanjo's visit gents of the conference, said
page 11 
sponsored comes five days before Nigeria the nation plays a more signifi­peace confer-will launch its first satellite cant role on the continent than ence, His into space, an event that many westerners may realize. Excellency Chief Olusegun marks the first of its kind in "Over one-fifth of all Africa Obasanjo, president of Nigeria, the history of Africa, and lives in Nigeria," he said. will present the keynote points to the significant role address at the Institute for his nation plays within the see NIGERIA/page 11 


Cameras shadow football team 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
The "magic in the sound of their name" echoed all the way to Bristol, Conn. last year, sending the Notre Dame mystique resonating through ESPN headquarters and enticing network executives to select the Fighting Irish football team as their final choice to shadow during this year's installment of the orig­inal reality series The Season. 
From Four Horsemen to seven Heismans to 11 nation­al titles, "every sports fan is aware of the storied transi­tion of Notre Dame football," said Michael Antinoro, senior coordinating producer for ESPN Original Entertainment. 
"The history is so rich with great players, coaches and games that the team truly has a national following unlike any other school," he 
see SEASON/page 9 

Scalping penalties 
•

Increase 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
As demand for Notre Dame football tickets rises, University officials find themselves in a dilemma: how can the University encourage ticket exchange while discouraging scalping? 
The present solution lies in more stringent anti-scalping reg­ulations and tougher enforce­ment, combined with a fan­friendly ticket exchange pro­gram, said Jim Fraleigh, assis­tant athletic director in charge of ticket operations. 
Fraleigh said the move came as alumni were becoming more and more frustrated with the lack ofavailable tickets. 
"There has been a very, very 
see SCALPING/page 10 

Departmental honors programs flourish 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Although the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Science offer a joint honors program that See Also attracts 60 
"Honors

first-year stu­dents annually, programs not many Arts and 
available in all

Letters depart­
colleges"

ments offer departmental 
page6

honors pro­grams that are open to seleeted upperclassmen. 
According to the 2003-04 orien­tation guide for Arts and Letters department chairs, eight depart­ments currently offer approved honors programs: American Studies, English, German and Russian Languages and Literatures, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology and Romance Languages and Literatures. 
Each honors program requires a thesis, but some departments additionally require students to take more advanced classes, even on the graduate school level. In addition, some programs remain open to as many students as meet the criteria, while others aim to cap the number of students that 
see HONORS/page 15 

Ticket lotto excludes Saint Mary's 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents have traditionally been included in numerous activities and events held at Notre Dame and, as a whole, are appreciative of that fact. When an announce­ment was made that Thursday's Purdue football ticket lottery was restricted solely to Notre Dame students, those at the other col­leges were left speculating why. 
While several Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students claim to have participated in past football lotter­ies, the tickets have always been reserved for students at Notre Dame, said Charlie Ebersol, 
see LOTTERY/page 10 



Friday, September 19, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Where's the ticket fairness? 
Notre Dame football tickets­everyone wants them, but not every­one can have them. This is a reality that a significant minority of the Notre Dame community discovered this past week. 
Saint Mary's students were unable to enter Thursday's Purdue football ticket lottery because although they belong to the Notre Dame com­munity, they are not specifically Notre Dame stu­dents. 
This seems rather unfair as Saint Mary's stu­dents are eligible to purchase student season tickets; however, this is at a higher cost than what Notre Dame students pay. 
Though they cheer for Notre Dame sports, ironically chant "We are ND!" and attend the pep rally in sanctioned Saint Mary's seating, they are still on the outside looking in when it comes to the away foot­ball ticket lottery. 
Charlie Ebersol, Student Union Board president, claims this is because SUB organizes the lottery and services only Notre Dame stu­dents and thus the tickets should only be available to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Ok that's fair enough to under­stand if Saint Mary's students were like Bethel College or Indiana University South Bend students, but they are not. 
Like it or not, Notre Dame has a sister school and it's called Saint Mary's. The two co-exist in a unique community and in many ways enrichen one another. Notre Dame thrives on its community and Saint Mary's is a part of this family. This is evidenced not only by the fact they can buy football tickets, but by the shared phone directory book, full access to libraries and other facili­ties on both campuses and the fact that Saint Mary's students can par­ticipate in Notre Dame clubs and events. 
It simply is not fair to say that Sain~ Mary's students can buy regu­lar season tickets but can't enter an away game lottery. 
If SUB maintains that their reason­ing for turning away Saint Mary's students is because Notre Dame stu­dents won't have as many tickets available to them, would SUB turn away a Saint Mary's students who wants to pay money to see a SUB sponsored movie or event? I'm just going to make an assumption here and guess that school origin would not make a difference. 
But in the world of Notre Dame football tickets -all bets are off, fairness is put on the back burner and an important member of its community is left out. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itsc:lf as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize: that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 








Juan Alba Joe Schuster Kat Roblez Donisha Lewis Kevin Haley 
Senior Junior Sophomore Sophomore Graduate Alumni Hall Keough Hall Breen-Phillips Pangborn Hall Student 
''I think we're "'We're going to "I think we'll "'I hope it looks "I think we will going to lose., come back pull it offin the nothing like the score points ... strong after our second half.. last game ... in all the right 
loss ... 

CHRIS VIERIG/The Observer 
The football teams practices Thursday for Saturday's game against Michigan State University. The game begins at 1:30 p.m at the Notre Dame Stadium. 
OFFBEAT 
Fossil shows rodent was size of buffalo 
WASHINGTON -A rodent the size of a buffalo? Researchers say they have found fossils for a 1,545­pound giant that thrived mil­lions of years ago in a swampy South American for­est. 
"Imagine a weird guinea pig, but huge, with a long tail for balancing on its hind legs and continuously growing teeth," said Marcelo Sanchez-Villagra of the University of Tubingen in Germany. 
The formal name of the rodent is Phoberomys patter­soni. The last term is in 
TODAY a: 

honor of Brian Patterson, a Harvard professor who led a fossil-collection expedition to Venezuela in the 1970s. Informally, the skeleton is called Goya. 
Woman gets $150,000 for bad hair job 
ATHENS, Ga. -It was far worse than just a bad hair day. 
A jury awarded $150,000 to a woman who was left mcstly bald after a visit to a salon. 
Mary Lynn Reddish, 43, went to a Regis Salon in October of 2000 to have a mild hair relaxer applied to her wavy blonde tresses, but after the treatment, clumps of her hair came out in the wash and even more were pulled out when combed. 
Reddish said she was left nearly bald as the result of a chemical reaction from the hair-relaxing product and the dye used to bleach her hair illonde. 
The damage to Reddish's hair follicles not only caused the temporary hair loss, but also will probably cause her to suffer from premature hair loss as she ages, said her attorney Danny Love. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
::r:: 
~ 

;:LLI ..... 
c:t 
CJ 


.9 HIGH 73 HIGH 60 LOW 55 LOW 43 

65 
37 

68 55 
, 
ways. 
IN BRIEF 

Cheer the Irish to victory as they take on Michigan State University this weekend at the Football Pep Ralley at 6 p.m. Friday at the Joyce Center. 
Support the fundraising efforts of Fisher Hall at their second annual Roof Sit. This year's event begins at 7:45 
p.m. Friday at Legends. 
Join the Phoxes of Pangborn Hall at their bonfire Friday at Holy Cross Hill from 8:30 to 10 p.m. Refreshments will be served. 
"The Guerilla Girls," a per­formance comprised of women artists, writers, per­formers and filmmakers, will be on stage at Saint Mary's Moreau Center Little Theatre Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Join in the Notre Dame spir­it and watch the band on the steps of Bond Hall perform before the game from noon to 
12:45 p.m. Saturday. 
This weekend the Student Union Board's movie is this summer's popular favorite "Finding Nemo" in DeBartolo 101 at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
"From Page to Stage" will be the second installment of the Saturday Scholar Series and it will be an interactive audience performance. The performance will begin at 
10:30 a.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

72 
52 

HIGH LOW 


r~~~------------------------------------~-­
1 
1 
Friday, September 19, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC makes video through eyes of Kelly Ripa 

By ANNIE BASINSKI News Writer 
Though she may not have graduated from Saint Mary's, television personality Kelly Ripa will portray a prospective student for the College in a public relations video. 
Saint Mary's Public Relations Department hopes the video spoof will be aired on ABC's daily talk show LIVE With Regis and Kelly. 
Last June, Saint Mary's Director of Development Kay Ball met talk show host Regis Philbin, a Notre Dame alum­nus and contributor to the University, during Reunion Weekend. Ball obtained Philbin's address and later sent two Saint Mary's T-shirts 
to the LIVE set -one for 
Philbin, another for Ripa. 
In mid-July, on a taping of LIVE, Philbin showed the shirts to the camera and audi­ence. Philbin's shirt read, "Where the heck is Notre Dame?" on the front and answered, "Across ths Street from Saint Mary's College" on the back. Ripa's shirt read, "Saint Mary's: Not a Girls' School Without Men, a Women's College Without Boys." The studio audience cheered and applauded as Philbin held up the shirts. 
Ball chose the shirts because of their entertaining sayings. "They're good conversation starters," she said. 
The shirts, consequently, started a dialogue between Philbin and Ripa that consti­
tuted of Philbin telling Ripa, 
who never attended college, 
that she should apply to Saint 
Mary's. The co-hosts chatted 
about the topic for several 
minutes and Philbin insisted 
that Ripa would love the 
College. During subsequent 
shows, Philbin referred to 
Saint Mary's again and started 
a vocabulary "Word of the 
Day" list for Ripa so that she 
could begin studying for the 
SATs. 

Following the airing of the 
show, Saint Mary's director of 
Public Relations Melanie 
McDonald said, "You can't find 
publicity like that. [The Public 
Relations Department staff] 
decided that we were going to 
find a way to ride this wave." 
The department· came up with the idea to produce a mock campus tour video from the perspective of Ripa. The taping of the video began yes­terday. Saint Mary's class of 2003 graduate, Erin Schultz, a Theatre and Communications major currently living in Chicago, acted as "campus tour guide" for the video. 
The tongue-in-cheek produc­tion begins with Schultz pre­tending to meet Ripa at the Admissions Office in LeMans Hall. The camera serves as "Ripa's" eyes as the tour ensues. The tour proceeds to a Regina residence hall room. 
"Around here, we like to call it Reege Hall," in honor of Philbin, Schultz said, winking. 
•1\venty Saint Mary's students gathered in Moreau's Little Theater to participate as extras in the film. The women, all wearing Saint Mary's T­shirts. sat in the audience as Mark Abram-Copenhaver, an assistant theatre professor. 
pretended to lecture on acting 
techniques. Pointing to a TV 
monitor with a clip of Ripa act­
ing on ABC sitcom Hope and 
Faith, Abram-Copenhaver 
said, "If you can master this 
same technique [used by Ripa], 
you can aspire to being a star," 
as the extras frantically took 
notes. 
The extras also participated in a scene inside a classroom in Madeleva Hall. The filming ended with Schultz telling Ripa not to be worried about being a celebrity on campus because the students and faculty will not treat her differently and she will get a "real" college experience. Ironically, the next scene cuts to a door opening, revealing a red carpet and a crowd of students flashing cameras and holding bouquets of flowers. 
Andrea Rogers, from Grass Roots Media, a local video pro­duction company, volunteered to tape the scenes after being contacted by McDonald. She said she hopes the video will be edited and put together by the end of next week. The video will then be sent to LIVE, where it may or may not be shown on air in a future tap­ing. 
The ultimate goal of the project is to get Philbin and Ripa to come to campus and conduct some sort of "academ­ic showdown." 
"Of course, there is always value in having a celebrity connection. We hope [getting Ripa involved with the College] gives Saint Mary's a little bit of a 'hipness' factor," McDonald said. 
Contact Annie Basinski at basi0223@saintmarys.edu 




Ticket lottery 
•

Improves 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Ediror 
Though the Michigan football ticket lottery was plagued with difficulties. these problems wen• rectified for Thursday's Purdue football ticket lottery, which was successful, said Charlie Ebersol, Student Union Board president. 
Ebersol said all Notre Dame students who waited in line were provided with lottery tickets and the average wait time \vas approximately 90 seconds. SUB distributed 775 tickets at the lot­tery for the 149 pairs of Purdue tickets that will be sold to winning ticket holders. Though more peo­ple received lottery tickets than at the Michigan lottery, fewer stu­dents turned out for the Purdue lottery. About 1 ,500 students tried to get lottery tickets for the Michigan game and approximate­ly 700 were accommodated. 
"Given the loss to Michigan and also that Purdue is not quite as exemplary of a team, we got the turnout that we expected," Ebersol said. 
Ebersol said the new distribu­tion system will be able to handle larger turnouts and expects no problems for the Boston College lottery. 
Several students thanked Ebersol for changing the system for the Purdue lottery. 
''The response was nothing but positive," Ebersol said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu 



, 
Friday, September 19, 2003 

page~ 
The Observe-r + CAMPU.S NEWS 
Job search proves difficult , Hesburgh Library for some in current economy I basement dedicated 
By MARY MIGLIOZZI 
News Writer 
With the economy in recession, ma:q.y students are concerned about the job market and its effects on their chances for employment after graduation. 
"I think there has been some. increased difficulty," said Ava Preacher, Associate Director of the College of Arts and Letters' Undergraduate Advising program. "We don't have the atmos­phere we had a few years ago when the job market was booming, but there are jobs out there." 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, said that, while the job market is still lagging, employment prospects for students are beginning to improve. 
"It's getting better this year," he said. "We see more companies at the career fairs." 
An estimated 163 companies visited campus this week for the Engineering Industry Day and Business Career Fair. 
Matt Novitsky and Bryan Kronk, both 2003 graduates, said they had difficul­ties searching for a job because of the downturn in the economy. 
"Nobody was hiring. You apply and companies ignore you," said Novitsky, an aerospace engineering major. 
Kronk, who majored in accounting, said the economy "played a huge role in my lack of success finding a job after graduation." He said his biggest prob­lem, however, was finding a job outside the Midwest in his hometown of Boston. 
Svete said this is the biggest problem graduates face. He said that students who want to live outside the Midwest often do not find job opportunities at career fairs. 
"They don't engage early enough with the career networking process," he said. 
The areas of study that have been most affected by the economy, Svete said, are consulting, certain areas <Jf technology and architecture. He said the biggest reason architecture students were affected this year is that they tradi­tionally look for jobs later in the spring and therefore were more affected by the economic repercussions of the war in Iraq. 
The University's Office of Institutional Research surveys graduating seniors each spring to determine what they plan to do after graduation. In 2003, 20 per­cent of graduates surveyed were still in the process of actively seeking employ­ment, up from 12 percent two years before. 
Twenty-four percent had accepted an employment position, which is down 11 percent since 2001. 
The majority of the remaining students ~ere either planning to attend graduate or professional school or participate in a service program. 
The percentage of students pianning to attend law, medical, dental or graduate school has not increased sinc3 last year. The s!ight increase in participation in service activities is not unusual and is not because of the economy, said profes­sor John Staud, director of the Alliance for Catholic Education program. 
"We've grown every year of our exis­tence," he said. There are 168 participants in the two-. year service program this year. Svete said the job market has been improving since the spring. 
"In June and July, we saw real growth, and the class of 2003 reported more job opportunities," he said. 
Kronk is among the graduates who found employment more recently, obtaining a job at an advertising agency in Boston. Preacher said the future for graduating seniors is not as bleak as the numbers may reveal. 
"Our students get jobs; it's a matter of finding jobs right for them," Preacher said. 
Con~ct Mary Migliou.i at mmiglioz@nd.edu 

University leaders officially dedicated the new renovations in the basement of 
the Hesburgh Library Thursday. 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
News Wri[er 
University leaders met Thursday after­noon in the basem.3nt of the Hesburgh Ubrary for the dedication of the renovat­ed lower level, named for University benefacto:.· William Carey. 
The lower level, which has been Gpen for student use since the beginning of the academic year, is the new home of the library's microfilm collection and houses sections of the Mathematics and General Works sections. In addition, there is a large study area with couches and chairs immediately next to the stairs and eleva­tcrs. 
The basement now houses more than 17 miles of movable shelves, which is a key element in the library's renovation plan. The expansive shelving will increase the capacity the library can hold and allow for greater ease when retrieving books. The current count at Hesburgh library stands at 3,000,000 volumes, ~ith additional volumes overflowing into department libraries such as the Mat~~matics Library in Hayes-Healy Center and the Engine.ering Library in Fitzpatrick Hall. 
When Hesburgh Ubrary was originally built between 1962 and 1964, then-presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh, intend­ed for it to be a key step in making Notre Dame a nationally renowned university and wanted to see the capacity increase tenfold. Though the library originally had 300,000 volumes, donations from I.A. O'Shaughnessy and the Ford Foundation, among others, helped the library increase its capacity. 
Though Hesburgh predicted he would live to see the library filled to its capacity and many doubted him, the recent reno­vations fulfilled his prediction. 
"This library has made enormous changes in the intellectual character of this University," Hesburgh said. "A library, a really first-rate library, is the heart of a University, and I don't know any university with a better heart center than ours." 
The library houses collections of medieval books and works on philosophy and theology that are not available any­where ebe in the world. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at .. msmedbber@nd.edu 





RlS 

ROSSin 


A new upscale villa development within walking distance (one block east) of the Notre Dame campus. 
single-detached and duplex luxury villas with attached garages priced from $189,900 • customizable floorplans • owner-occupied walk to campus, grocery store, retail stores, restaurants & bars very close to ND stadium, J.A.C.C., & the new performing arts ~building located one block east directly across from tennis courts and sports fields quiet residential area with quick access to major roads, mall, & toll road enjoy a low--maintenance lifestyle including lawn care & snow· removal city ·\vater and sewer • low county property taxes a semi-gated community a limited number of home sites are available on this 8.25 acre parcel the only development of its kind next to the University of Notre Dame 
Currently in the final development planning phase. Construction to begin late Fall 2003. First homes completed by Spring/Summer 2004. 
For more information go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
~ 
~ 

,------·-------------------------------------------­

Friday, September 19, 2003 CoMPiLED rRoA1 ·rHE ()BsERVER wtRE s~:RvtcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese deny troop movement 
BEIJING -China denied moving 150,000 soldiers to its border with North Korea because of nuclear tensions. insisting Thursday the frontier was calm and it was working with its reclusive neighbor to safe­guard "stability and tranquility" there. 
Hong Kong media reported recently that Beijing deployed the soldiers to stem crime by impoverished North Korean forces and to pressure Pyongyang to give up its nuclear program -the source of international ten­sions and the subject of multilateral diploma­cy. 
China Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan denied those reports, saying soldiers assumed border-patrol duties in a long­planned administrative change. He would not say how many troops were involved. 
"There's no such thing, according to what we know," Kong said in denying the report in Hong Kong's Sing Tao newspaper. 
Arafat to ·select new cabinet 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -His popularity soaring, Yasser Arafat and leaders of his Fatah movement met Thursday to discuss the makeup of a new Cabinet, while Israel's foreign minister ruled out any dealings with the Palestinian leader and called his latest truce proposal an empty gesture. 
Israel received a boost from President Bush, who gave strong backing to its position that Arafat should be replaced and that a crackdown against militant groups is a pre­requisite for any progress toward peace. 
In the Gaza Strip, Israeli forces pressed on with their own offensive, killing 34-year-old local Hamas leader Jihad Abu Shwairah in a shootout in the Nusseirat refugee camp. Hundreds of soldiers took part in the early morning raid, an apparent signal to Hamas that Israel would not limit itself to airstrikes in Gaza. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New phone rules cut the cord 
NEW YORK-The coming freedom to keep your cell phone number when changing wireless companies has overshadowed a pos­sibly more revolutionary change also due this fall: the power to move a number from a regular wired phone to a mobile handset. 
While traditional local phone companies see the government-mandated change as an unfair invitation for wireless rivals to steal their core customers, they say they'll be ready by a Nov. 24 deadline to fulfill certain requests by customers who want a horne or office number to become a cell phone num­ber. 
The new rules also require that cellular companies be prepared to transfer a mobile number to a landline phone. though such requests are expected to be somewhat scarce at a time when millions of people have gone all-wireless at home and at work. 


LOCAL NEWS 
IU receives record donation 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -A businessman has donated $3 million to Indiana University­Purdue University's Fort Wayne campus. the largest gift in the school's 40-year history. 
The gift from businessman Don Willis will be used for scholarships and the establish­ment of a new endowed chair in entrepre­neurship, IPFW officials said. 
Willis is founder and chairman of Fourth Wave and the former Command Systems Inc., which developed network technology for military, security and industrial purposes. Willis is also the first entrepreneur in resi­dence at IPfW's School of Business and Management Science. 
In appreciation of the gift, university Chancellor Michael Wartell on Tuesday dedi­cated the university's new 24 7 -foot walkway across Crescent Avenue as the Willis Family Rridge. 
The bridge will connect the academic and athletics section of the campus to student housing scheduled to open next fall. 
, 


Storm pounds North Carolina 
Millions lose power as 100 mph winds, heavy rains ravage Eastern seaboard 
Associated Press 
KILL DEVIL HILLS, N.C. 

-Hurricane Isabel plowed 
into North Carolina's Outer 
Banks with 100 mph winds 
and pushed its way 
Thursday up the Eastern 
Seaboard, weakening to a 
tropical storm by evening 
but not before swamping 
roads and knocking out 
power to more than 2. 5 
million people. 
Isabel was blamed for at 

least two traffic deaths and 
the electrocution of a utili­
ty employee. 
The storm that had once threatened 160 mph winds and a 12-foot storm surge rolled in around midday just south of isolated Ocracoke Island with a 5­foot surge and gusts that rattled plywood boards spray-painted ···Bring it on Izzy." 
"A lot of trees are down -there's one down across the garage," Rudy Austin said as he looked out on his yard in Ocracoke sur­rounded by a knee-deep soup of sea water and debris. "There's a lot of stuff floating around: boards and buoys and boxes and young'uns' plas-­tic toys." 
The storm downed trees, snarled air traffic and I~ knocked out electricity ­more than 2 million cus­National Hurricane a small community about foot Jennette's Pier in Nags tomers were without Center Director Max 25 miles inland from the Head and at least two power in North Carolina Mayfield said fast-moving Outer Banks, about 30 to beach houses, where and southeastern Virginia Isabel still posed a threat 40 homes were destroyed, st~rrn surge picked up a alone. More than 430,000 because of its dimensions either by winds, falling washer, dryer and refriger­customers in Maryland, -about the size of trees or flooding, said ator and carried them 78,000 in the District of Colorado -and its poten­Jeremy Brown, chief of about 500 feet down the Columbia and 10,000 in tial to bring 6 to 10 inches Harlowe's volunte.er fire street. New Jersey also lost of rain and flooding to an department. He estimated In York County, Va., power. East Coast already sodden about 200 homes were sheriff's deputies rescued a 
In North Carolina, a utili­from one of the wettest flooded. family of seven trapped on ty employee was electro­summers in years. Firefighters rescued a a street when trees fell and 

cuted while restoring power, and the storm was blamed for the deaths of two motorists in Virginia and Maryland. 
Isabel's top sustained wind eased to around 70 mph by late evening. It continued to weaken, though it was still expected to produce hurricane-force gusts of at least 7 4 mph in parts of northern Virginia and Maryland. 
"This is certainly not over for people experienc­ing Hurricane Isabel," he said. "This hurricane will not be remembered for how strong it is. It will be remembered for how large it is." 
The storm spread rain across North Carolina and Virginia and into Maryland, Delaware and parts of West Virginia and Pennsylvania. In Harlowe. 
mother and her two chil­dren who were stranded by the flood waters, Brown said. But the flooding receded quickly, said resi­dent Joe Fernandez, who watched the water rise over his street and yard. 
"It was like a toilet flush­ing. It just carne up and went down," Fernandez said. 
On the Outer Banks, the storm destroyed the 540­blocked the path to their car, county spokesman Greg Davy said. The family had driven to the York River and gotten out of their car to "experience the excitement," Davy said. 
At 9 p.m., Isabel was about 30 miles northwest of Emporia, Va.. moving northwest at around 20 mph, up from 14 mph Wednesday evening when it approached the coast. 

Bustamante opposes election delay 
ment of a gay advocacy group in West it may reconsider, but has not made a
Associated Press Hollywood. "The preference I have is decision. ' HOLLYWOOD, Calif. -Putting him­to resolve the legal issues and to get Six counties still use punch-card self at odds with the NAACP and on with the election on the date that ballots, but are under a separate 
other minority interest groups. it is." court order to replace them by the Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante Bustamante is the Democrats' fall­March presidential primary. The said Thursday that the Oct. 7 election back candidate for governor if voters American Civil Liberties Union said should not have been postponed. oust Gray Davis, who has been under the recall vote should be delayed until 
Bustamante has campaigned as a fire in recent months for his handling then, and the 9th Circuit panel champion of minority issues, but of California's ailing economy. agreed. minority groups, including the Republicans Arnold Schwarzenegger Analysts have said Davis would NAACP and the Mexican American and state Sen. Tom McClintock are benefit most from postponing the Legal Defense and Educational Fund. also running to replace Davis. election. because the presidential pri­have argued that the short timetable A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. mary would draw more Democrats to of the election could cause thousands Circuit Court of Appeals delayed the the polls. But it also would turn an of minority votes to go uncounted. election Monday on the grounds that exceptionally short campaign into an 
"I think people are starting to get a errors in punch-card ballots could especially long one, forcing candi­little bit of a recall fatigue." he told cause tens of thousands of votes to go dates to raise millions more dollars reporters after receivipg the endorse-uncounted. The court later indicated and make dramatic shifts in strategy. 

Friday, September 19, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Honors programs not available in all colleges 
April. Departments such as 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
The summer after the soph­Electrical Engineering or 
News Writer 
omore year is spent engaging Aerospace and Mechanical in readings relating to general Engineering offer course In comparison with the topics in mathematics to pre­credit in directed studies and College of Arts and Letters, pare them for the junior-year undergraduate research, the Colleges of Science, seminar, a full-year course while the department of Engineering, Business and that meets weekly for 135 Chemical and Biomolecular Architecture offer few depart­minutes. Senior students take Engineering offers specific mental honors programs. some graduate-level courses tracks and certificates for stu-However, students-especial­in mathemat-dents desiring more ly in Science and Engineering ics and also specialization in -are encouraged to partici­attend the ..The level ofthe medicine, the envi­pate in undergraduate seminar with thesis in recent ronment, materials research projects with faculty juniors. and biomolecular
years has been

members. "The pro-engineering. Science gram selects extremely As part of its 
• • JIJ

Only the Department of the top honors zmpresszve. accreditation Mathematics currently offers students and requirements, the a departmental honors pro­gives them a department of
Frank Connolly 

gram. The curriculum con­special semi­Computer Science
mathematics

sists of a sequence of specific nar on a very and Engineering honors levels of mathematics high-level professor requires seniors in courses that may begin in the topic ... these Computer freshman year, although students usu-Engineering to par­sophomores may switch into ally write theses and they ticipate in a Capstone Design the honors sequence with the tend to be accepted into the Experience that introduces permission of Frank Connolly, first-tier graduate schools in them to tools and techniques professor of mathematics and mathematics at an extremely used in the design of comput­the director of the Seminar of impressive rate," Connolly ing systems. Undergraduate Mathematical said. Chris Boehen, a first-year Research. Each SUMR student is graduate student in the 
Connolly said the depart­required to write an honors department of Computer ment decided to create an thesis; a thesis is recommend­Science and Engineering who honors program to provide ed for honors program stu­also completed his undergrad­more challenges for highly dents. uate degree at Notre Dame motivated and talented stu­"The level of the thesis in last year, said that his experi­dents. recent years has been ence in research and the "We felt that we were not extremely impressive," Capstone Design led to his doing the best possible job for Connolly said. decision to further his studies. our students, and we felt that Other departments within "My research experience at they deserved the opportunity the college of Science provide Notre Dame has certainly and would rise to the chal­opportunities for students to been instrumental in my deci-. lenge," he said. work closely on a research sion to go to graduate school. Started in 1989, SUMR is an project with faculty members. It has caused me to go to 
enhancement of the honors Engineering graduate school and helped program for the most talented Although departments with­me remember what got me mathematics students. in the College of Engineering interested in engineering in Sophomore Honors Track do not offer Specific honors the first place," he said. "The majors with grades of A or A­tracks, they provide opportu­capstone experience was very in mathematics courses are nities for close research and interesting as well; through it invited to join the seminar in further specialization. I was able to get a grasp for 


YOUR WORLD. 

YOUR CHANCE TO MAKE IT BETTER. 

WWW. AM E R l C 0 R P S • oR G 
1.800.942.2677 [1.800.833.3722 TTY] AMERICORPS. GIVE BACK FOR AYEAR. SERVE YOUR COMMUNITY. CHANGE YOUR LIFE. 
WE A R E l 0 0 K I N G F 0 R M 0 T I VAT ED, S E l F-D I S C I P llN E D AM E R I C 0 R P S AlUMN I I NT E R E S TE D IN PROMOTING AMERICORPS. EARN SOME EXTRAMONEVANO HELP PROMOTE NATIONAL SERVICE ON YOUR COLLEGE CAMPUS! FOR MORE INFORMATION. CONTACT: MICHAEL BOWEN. 312.353.1959, MBOWEN@CNS.GOV 
offered coursework. He said

what real research and devel­opment teams [look] like." that any potential honors pro­Business gram may include courses on Bill Nichols, associate dean research design and method­of the Mendoza College of ology and would help spark Business, said the college has an academic interest in stu­
included mention of an honors dents. program in its strategic plan "We're really hoping to for a number of years and is spark an interest in students 
behind its creation. However, getting PhDs in business," he the lack of faculty resources said. necessary to create such a Nichols said that faculty 

program has prevented would be behind an honors departmental honors pro­program. grams thus far. Currently, no Architecture 
department in the college Because of the fixed nature offers an honors program. of the five-year architecture 
"It boils down to resources," curriculum, students must he said. "We have 30 percent complete a prescribed series of the undergraduates in the of coursework that includes a college ... but we don't have year of study in Italy. 30 percent of the faculty. To An honors program is there­do a new iniiiative [for an fore not available, although honors program] we would students do complete a thesis need more faculty or less stu­in the final semester of their dents. [An honors program] is fifth year that requires them a faculty-intensive effort." to prepare and present an 
Nichols said students cur­individual architectural proj­rently may work closely with ect. professors in directed studies 
Contact Joe Trombello at 
to read and discuss topics 
jtrombel@nd.edu
that go beyond the scope of 
We llo Mondays Like No flace Else! 


MISIIAWAKA
. . 
4810 Gra~ Rd.. 574.271.1330 



Friday, September 19, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,659.13 +113.48

Jones 
Composite Vohone: 1,477,169,fXXJ 

.· ..·.·.·.·.··.·..·,·-.... -. .·.·..·.-...· ······,·.·. . ........
*7'

~H >< >::> 990;46< .• :±1@'9.·? NASDAQ 1,909.55 +26.45 NKSE.••·•· ··•·•·<·•.·.···••·•··... .: .· pj9.7Q.: . .. .. :±~~~$.: ....... S&P500 1,039.58 +13.61 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
XYBERNAUT CORP (XYBR) +14.58 +0.28 2.20 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +3.51 +1.00 29.50 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.73 +0.15 4.17 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.65 +0.08 12.36 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) 0.00 0.00 1.84 
IN BRIEF 
Smart Media wins $212M in suit 
AKRON, Ohio-An upstart technology com­
pany was awarded a $212 million judgment 
after a jury found in favor of the company's 
claims of fraud against Telxon Corp. 
The judgment for Smart Media of Delaware 
in Summit County Common Pleas Court 
Wednesday was the largest ever in the coun­
ty's history. 
In a 6-2 vote, jurors found in favor of Smart 
Media's claims of fraud, breach of contract 
and negligent and intentional misrepresenta­
tion. 
The jury also awarded an additional $6.2 
million to a former executive for his personal 
claim against Telxon, a technology company 
once based in Fairlawn. 
Telxon. which was bought by Symbol 
Technologies Inc. in 2000 for $456 million, 
initiated a lawsuit five years ago to stop 
Smart Media's threat of litigation for breach 
of contract and fraud. 
Gates again tops U.S. rich list 
NEW YORK -The economy is improving 
for the super rich. After two years of declines, 
the total net worth of America's richest people 
rose 10 percent to $955 billion this year from 
2002, according to Forbes magazine's annual 
ranking of the nation's 400 wealthiest individ­
uals. 
Microsoft Corp. founder Bill Gates. who remained in the top spot, personified the trend toward increasing wealth. His fortune increased by $3 billion to $46 billion this year. Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen held third place, with his net worth rising $1 billion to $22 billion. 
Investor Warren Buffett kept the No. 2 posi­tion although his wealth was unchanged at $36 billion. Forbes said the surge in collective net worth was largely due to gains in Internet stocks and tech fortunes. 
Report: Hoosiers need more juice 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana utilities may need to build new power plants within the next five years to meet the state's increasing demand for electricity. researchers said. 
The findings were included in the state Utility Forecasting Group's biennial report, which was presented to the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission on Wednesday. 
The forecasting group is a state-funded panel of researchers based at Purdue University. 
In its report. the panel projected Indiana will require an additional 2,400 megawatts of electricity by 2008. or 10 percent more than the current capacity. 
One megawatt of power can handle the electricity needs of about 1,000 homes for an hour. 
Though industry has reduced its use of elec­tricity because of the economic slowdown, demand for power has increased in recent years largely because of residential customers who operate their air conditioners during hot summer months, the report said. 
The group expects demand for electricity to increase by an average of 2.16 percent a year for 20 years. 
Dow reaches 15-month high 
Investors welcome positive economic numbers as sign of continued recovery 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Dow 
Jones industrials rolled 
toward their best finish in 
15 months Thursday as 
encouraging jobs data and 
a largely upbeat estimate 
of future economic activity 
gave investors more rea­
sons to believe that busi­
ness was turning around. 
Analysts said the 
progress was yet another 
indication of the market's 
improving mood, but they 
said the approach of earn­
ings reporting season could 
make it difficult for more 
significant advances. 
By midafternoon, the 
Dow was up 103.66, or 1.1 
percent, at 9,652.11. Ifthe 
average held its gains, it 
would be the highest close 
since June 18, when it 
stood at 9,706.12. 
The broader market also 
surged. The Nasdaq com­
posite index gained 20.76, 
or 1.1 percent, to 1,903.86. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 
index rose 12.79, or 1.3 
percent, to 1,038. 76. 

The Index of Leading Economic Indicators, a closely watched gauge of future economic activity, rose 0.4 percent in August to 113.3. The figure was in line with analysts' expecta­tions, and followed a revised 0. 7 percent increase in July, but the assessment by the right in line with expecta­potential for pullback." as part of its effort to Conference Board also tions. That's benign enough In trading Thursday, improve its performance. showed the current busi­for the market to move German pharmaceutical The market was unim­ness climate had stalled. higher." maker Bayer's shares pressed by news of tenta­
Wall Street also was Subodh Kumar, chief surged $1.34 to $23.64 on tive contract agreements cheered by a Labor investment strategist for news a federal judge had between autoworkers and Department report that CIBC World Markets, said denied class-action status General Motors Corp. and new claims for jobless ben­the market is becoming to several thousand law­Delphi Corp. GM fell 5 efits fell by a seasonally more resilient, but third­suits against the company cents to $41.64, while adjusted 29,000 to 399.000 quarter earnings reports. over its anti-cholesterol Delphi lost 9 cents to $9.57. for the work week ending which are due out next drug Baycol. News that New York Sept. 13. It was the lowest month. will be key in Shares of Citigroup Inc. Stock Exchange chairman level of claims since the whether the upward trend was up $1.57 at $46.51 fol­Dick Grasso had resigned week ending Aug. 23, and continues. lowing Merrill Lynch's deci­amid criticism of his marked the first time since "The market is expecting sion to reinstate coverage $139.5 million pay package then that claims dipped earnings to meet consen­of the stock with a "buy" had little, if any, effect below the 400,000 mark. sus," Kumar said. "If earn­rating. since the departure had 
"This is a nice rebound," ings exceed expectations. Sun Microsystems Inc. nothing to do with stocks said Tim Smalls. a trader at that could send prices also got a boost, gaining 12 that are traded on the SG Cowen Securities. higher. I think that if the cents to $4.14 following NYSE. Analysts did say. "We've got some decent S&P 500 during this earn­news that the troubled though. that Wall Street is economic data. The jobless ings season were to cross computer and software interested in who succeeds claims were a little better up to the 1.075 level, that maker would trim another Grasso and what regulato­than expected and the would be too much ahead. 3 percent of its work force, ry changes that might leading indicators were And there could be the or an estimated 1,080 jobs, bring. 

UnitedHealth announces merger 
traded UnitedHealth Group had not growing market for medical savings
Associated Press 

made a formal announcement accounts. 
Thursday. These low-cost accounts, available 
INDIANAPOLIS -UnitedHealth UnitedHealth Group spokesman to self-employed workers and small Group. the nation's largest health Mark Lindsay didn't return calls for employers with up to 50 workers. insurer, will acquire Golden Rule comment. On Wednesday, Lindsay feature high deductibles used for Financial Corp., a company that pio­told The Indianapolis Star he was major health problems. Additionally, neered medical savings accounts, a aware that Golden Rule was dis­individuals can put deposit money Golden Rule official said Thursday. cussing the deal. but he declined fur­into an account that is 100 percent 
Golden Rule and UnitedHealth have ther comment. tax deductible to cover smaller reached "a firm agreement" subject Indianapolis-based Golden Rule health bills. to review by several regulatory agen­offers financial services. life insur­Last year, the Internal Revenue cies, said Mike Corne, Golden Rule's ance, health insurance and medical Service allowed money in the vice president of health products. savings accounts through its Golden accounts to be rolled over from one 
Golden Rule executives told the Rule Insurance Co. year to the next tax-free. company's 1,100 employees about Tom Carroll of Legg Mason Wood J. Pat Rooney. then Golden Hule's the merger a day earlier, Corne said. W<dke r speculated United Health chairman. offered the accounts to his 
Corne declined to discuss the price Group paid around $780 million for employees in 1993 and three years or other terms of the deal. Family­Golden Hule. He said the deal gives later lobbied Congress to make con­owned Golden Hule and publicly UnitedHealth a chance to enter the tributions tax deductible. 
, 
I I 
1 
I 
l 
f 
page 8 Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observa +PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





ee vents 
', ... l !' -· 
l 
Tbe FoLLoUJing Eoen-ts Arl.e Happening At, Tbe Harnrnes Nd·trze Dame Bookstoue: 
·" 

' ' \ 
~·~ 

' 
i 
Author Events: 
'· 
\ 
I 
~ 
' 
Connie McNamara, will be signing copies of Mx· 1¥0rds; Go Irish, on Saturday, September.).Oth rr,....""" 
copies of The Meaning ofVictory, on s'; 9:00am to 11 :OOam. 
Monte Carpenter, ND '78 will ,he Saturday, Septembet 20th froni,:) 0 
_, -~ ~ _t -• '· 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. Assisi~1nt\r ,will b~ signing copies of Lqyal Sons, &.uau(Thters. :>teJmber 20th from 1O:OOam to Noon. 
. : . • ,·;.::·•. ·•1'. 
Alan Grant, will be signing copie~ of Jtel!Jim ·· 

·: ·::i.-~~.,:".:'<-: ).t ~ -_. -~--_:
< 

September 20th from 1O:OOam to; I2:00pm.~ ~,,. · . " ., {f'';:!r~~~ Jason Kelly, Sports Writer for The ~ot:(tf?.: ••.• copies of Mr. Notre Dame,~ on $a~rd.aJ' . 11 :30am. . . .,~r:.+.~~~\~-j:· 
stg~tng 
10: ~ 
Coach Gerry Faust, will be signin:g ·"· Golden Dream, Saturday, September 20th from 11 :OOam to I 2:00pm .. 
Musical Events: 
The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella 
in the Bookstore one hour .LVJ.J"" The Hammes Notre Dame Bv·'·'·,.._,~ ..'9'~*" Dame Alumni Showcase. be _......'-4'~1 
Dan McCabe ND'04, ba.z::..~· ... LI~ Join our balloon down HAM 
NOTRE. 



N THE 
phone: {574) 631-6316 • 
JOYCE C 


~~~OOTBALL WEEKEND 
Varsity Friday Saturday·· Sunday . 
(in"'the Joyce Center) 
~-5:00pm 
M,n-7:00 pm 
~
<Vn-4:00pm 
·. -:~-~ : _.., j 
, 

Friday, September 19, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Season 
continued from page i 
said. 
To capture this history in the making, camera crews traveled to campus, filming not only games and practice sessions, but also the human perspectives that go beyond each Saturday's final score. The passion and intensity synonymous with the University's reputation were visible when the Irish guard chanted proudly at rehearsal, Dillon Hall residents enter­tained students at its annual pep rally and even when 
freshman linebacker Dwight Stephenson's chemistry lab professor conducted experi­ments. 
"The bottom line is what will help tell the mcst com· pelling, interesting and accu­rate story," Antinoro said. "To do a behind-the-scenes series like this, it's important to capture as much on tape as you possibly can. There is probably a 50-1 ratio of footage shot that actually makes air." 
As these massive amounts of footage are accumulated, it falls to The Season's produc­ers to make daily and weekly decisions about which scenes will make the best story for 
that week's enisode. On-site producers als·o work closely with network producers to consider which elements shculJ be included to fore­shadow stories for upcoming 
epi~odes. 

Huwever, "it's difficult to predict [what material will be chosen] because things are happening live," An tinoro said. 
In the rankings-driven, media-consumed, fast-paced world of college football, a segment of footage that ini­tially seems like a breaking development or an intriguing storyline can quickly become old news. 
To account for this unpre­
r-----------·----------·-----­
WANT TO HELP FAMILIES 
COPING ;WITH CANCER? 
Becom.e involved in 
.

* * 
Cam * * 


esem 
Carnp Ke:sern is a weeklong surnmer can1p (August 2004) being 
planned for chUdren who have/had a parent with cancer~ YOUR 
he·lp is needed to create. this unique sununer carnp experi·ence. 
AU students are encouraged to becorne invoived. Students are 
needed for planning throughout the year. 
Interested?? 
CotTle to an inforrnational rneeUng on Tuesday 
September 23, 2003 , 
8:30 prn at the Cente:r 'for Social Concerns Audltorium 
if you have eny ques:ttons o:r seek further info please contact~ infb@c.arnpkesemNnd.org or http://ww·w.campkesem-nd.or·g 

Think you're creative? 
Are you a student interested in submitting poetry~ short. stories or artwork for this semester's issue ofthe ~Juggler? Or would you like to becon1e a member ofthe editoria! or 9-esign staffto choose pieces for publication? Come to the · 
Juggler lnforma·tlonal Meeting This Sunday, 9/21/03 at 7 PM Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
Meet the editor and lea.11 what is involved in subtnitting to and participating in the .Juggler. Important deadlines will be distributed at this meeting_, so p1ease attend even ifyou signed up at Activities Night. (For more info, e-mail Juggler@nd.edu ). 
Hope to see you there! 
dictability, The Season consis­tentlv directs between one and seven crews shooting simultaneously. 
Antinoro said that the per­sonnel required to film a scene also varies with the type of footage being record­ed. 
''It all depends on where the team is and if we're spending 
time with one or several players or coaches, or if we're shooting an actual game," he said. 
Crews followed a standard schedule Thursday, attending and recording two classes, a prac­tice, several interviews and the Celebrity Roast event at Center. Despite that a policy was put in place in case either side took issue with material presented on the show. 
"With every episode of The Season that we produce, we have a handshake agreement with the school -either side can pull out of the production if they are unhappy," he said. 
Past installments of The 
Season have fea­
tured college 
"The bottom line is what will help tell the most compelling. interesting and accurate story. •• 
Michael Antinoro senior coordinating producer 
teams, including Arizona and Florida State football and St. John's basketball, as well as profes­sional teams, including Major League Baseball's Arizona Diamondbacks and the National Hockey League's 
the Joyce some stu­

dents' concerns about The Season's second episode mov­ing to a different time slot on ESPN, the show's filming is still scheduled to proceed for 10 more weeks, with produc­tion wrapping up in late November. 
The University and the Athletic Department have been very accommodating to ESPN's needs, Antinoro said. 
"We discussed [from the beginning] what we wanted to do and the access we needed to get it done. The school was very forthright in what they were comfortable with and where we could work togeth­er," he said. 
Antinoro also emphasized 
21 Ds-m4 THE BEST Uf NOt:RE 
i\ ';;t· _.;· ·...·•.;"! ..,:~, •. .·. . •. ... . f"l"',l 
. . . . . ..J. . : / 

J .. J ... t>rs .. IXllll ... 11t J . .JJIJ.L tll.l L ..t..l.'""t.. 
~~~Ieasure for Measure ·.... 


1/lh,~~y, ~.-!tit~~ f:7,,:7::~0 p,m fh~,.Jr~y. s~~~mtb~lf 1.a.,.7:3-0 fMY\.. f~)', s~~pMm~"'! 19.~,.,.7 :30 p.rn, 

P18ying td VW1.sh~n>gtt~tn Hi.Oll! •~*fll&d ~ats $iS &aniors $14 *AA Sfudan=ts $t 2 
Ti~~ ;jtVQi!®~ ~1l~f>:;.fh;OO S~~~rrt C~Wf f.~k~ ~, M~1mCwN:I and 'ii~ ordflr~, ..::afr 631-a126. 
·n.~~ h;tm~ i~t;~· ~ ~..:::n~ ~It: #-'ai1 t1lh!:l ~~k:eb l'ftdU:'-l-&!~. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Detroit Red Wings. The show has also focused on individual ath­letes, following complete reg­ular seasons with both Allen Iverson and Cal Ripken, Jr. 
However, even after just two episodes, it is clear to ESPN that the Notre Dame version of The Season has drawn a unique fascination among viewers, Antinoro said. 
Based on the football pro­gram's exceptional tradition, love-it-or-hate-it notoriety and consistently loyal nation­al fan base, "we anticipated a very strong viewer appeal for this series -and we haven't been disappointed." 


Happy21sr Megan! 
Have a golden day! 
......... ~......................... . 
DAME THEATRE 
.l l ·st· ( . n~ :.• 
--------~-----------~---­
Friday, September 19, 2003

page 10 The Observer + CAMP~S NEWS 

Scalping 
continued from page 1 
t 
strong push from the aiumni board and the alumni senate for the University to take a strong stand [against scalping]," Fraleigh said. "We certainly agreed with that." 
Each summer, alumni who contribute at least $100 to Notre Dame may request tick­ets to any Irish football game. For each home game, the athletic department reserves 33,000 of the stadium's 80,795 seats for alumni, but that quota comes nowhere near meeting the demand. Alumni requested over 100,000 combined tickets for the games against Florida State and 
usc. 
Requests are filled by holding a lottery to determine who may purchase tickets. Fraleigh said that over $5 million in ticket requests were turned away for this season's games. "We cannot satisfy demand from our alumni population," he said. 
The scarcity gets even worse when ticket holders sell their tickets to opposing fans, either in person, via brokers or on Internet auction sites like eBay. 
The new rules allow for harsher punish­ments of people who sell their tickets at a profit. 
Under the new rules, Notre Dame alumni, faculty and staff who sell their tickets for more than face value can be subject to severe consequences. Selling tickets to a single game carries a two-year suspension of ticket privileges to all Notre Dame athlet­ic events. The sale of season tickets can leave the violator ticketless for at least five years. Repeat or egregious violators face the permanent revocation of their ticket 
t• privileges. Staff members in Fraleigh's office routine­
r ly search Web sites and ticket brokerages to 
t find violators, buy tickets, and mete out sanctions on offenders. "The ticket office is checking Internet sites every day," Fraleigh said. "We've caught 80 people on eBay alone," he said, adding that 
the stings netted "several hundred tickets." 
His office, in conjunction with Notre Dame Security Police, has also busted scalpers on game days. · 
"We have people going through parking lots on football Saturdays.". Fraleigh said. "We've bought tickets and we've confiscated tickets." 
Plainclothes undercover officers, posing as fans, have been buying tickets from scalpers, then reporting them to the athletic department. The ticket office maintains records of who holds each season ticket in the stadium, making enforcement relatively easy, Fraleigh said. 
"We know all the owners by section, row and seat number." 
The crackdown appears to be working, as fewer and fewer tickets are available from brokers, scalpers and auction websites. 
Alumni association executive director Chuck Lennon said that 'the policies are intended to keep tickets primarily in the hands of those affiliated with Notre Dame. He said that in conjunction with the new restrictions, the alumni association has instituted an exchange system where ticket holders may sell their tickets at face value. 
"If you're going to enforce this rule, you've got to have a mechanism to take care of [demand]," Lennon said. "We've had a good response so far." 
At Gate 2 of the Joyce Center on football Saturdays, ticket holders may sell their tick­ets for $48, while buyers pay $50. The $2 premium allows the association to recover its costs in administering the program, Lennon said. Alumni get first crack at the tickets from 8 to 10 a.m., and any remain­ing tickets go on sale to the general public from 10 a.m. until game time. 
Lennon characterized the ticket exchange as a way to help meet demand for seats while protecting the integrity of the Irish home field advantage. 
"Our goal to assist the Notre Dame family is paramount," Lennon said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti mbramant@nd.edu 
QUOTES&. FACTS 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 
Student Union Board president. 
"We've always advertised only to Notre Dame students," he said. "We never accepted Saint Mary's or Holy Cross students into the lottery. The machine is set up only to receive Notre Dame cards." 
However, Ebersol admits he did see at least one Saint Mary's stu­dent at the Michigan lot­

.. Euerything that irritates us about others 
The Nanovic Institute can lead us to an understanding of' for European Studies ourselues" www.nd.edu/-nanovic -Carl Gust~z.v Jung ( 1875-1961). Su.•iss psychiatrist 
Wt~'ve l:~ceen ready for o\l~er ,35 years.. 
·Ot:\t"i.)t~~ h~ud.:loo lS'tl'tt: tuk: mthi!t martd~ t~p1~n at Hdlj 0:-os& ColleW2· 011r da~~ are ,s:t~\all :and. :mHro~e:, .S(J stude~ rt:~~l:wtht-<: hi;;h~J~d·ot·t~"r;ron:al at~ent:lnnlmt1t ad.rdh':attd~, .·. ·C::J.rtngfacult)'. Si.udetrt$can-earn an A~latt. cifArts.ar. &.tdwlar afAtt~ ,&.ty>i~ at Holy Cr~. PI~, 1:es:ld~ltk lig~~ng.wlth tl~ 
~ditkm t.ioor fifth r~~dc.t)~ h.a!L 
ttr~::ni~ k~1kio.gJQJ-a~httnef. teJ begin(.)£ rorttinv,e ~. ~-~min ~rik~\ w!wr(' il. tittle on~ -on...one. ~$ ~n integri.l put (l( our mi.ss:k.'ln. ami phil~1phy,. givl!: Holy C~·c.clkge 11 aUl at{57"f}239-&KJO (Yf ''iml ua; ~t""W'·~~b."!i:-:nd ..el]'l.•,, . · 
role that the other two colleges play as members of the Notre Dame community. 
"While Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are part of the Notre Dame family, they're not the actual student body. Thus, the hard spent money of the Notre Dame student body for program­ming through SUB is not going to be spent on Saint Mary's and Holy Cross." 
Emily Spore, a senior at Saint Mary's, has participated in past ticket lotteries and was preparing to attend Thursday until she was notified of the exclusion. 
"My friends and I were 
definitely planning on 
going to the Purduetery held earlier this year. "We've always game, but the only way to

He speculates that the 
advertised only to get tickets here was

student somehow used a through the lottery." sheNotre Dame identification Notre Dame said. "We'll probably givecard to permit her eligibil­students.·· 
up hope. It won't be
ity. 
worth it for us to drive to

Unfortunately, there 
Charlie Ebersol Purdue without tickets." 

remains uncertainty as to who makes the final spec­SUB president Spore feels that the lot­
ification of those qualified for each of the lotteries. 
In a statement published Thursday, Ebersol said that the ticket office, which provides the tickets for the lottery, speci­fies who is eligible. 
"I can't comment on Charlie [Ebersol]'s statement," said Josh Berlo, diTector of ticketing. "We sell the tickets to [SUB] and they administer the lottery numbers." 
Ebersol now claims his understanding is that specifications are a mutual deci­sion made between SUB and the ticket office. He said that SUB is commissioned by the athletic department ticket office to facilitate the lotteries in a fair and equal manner. 
"When the lottery was originally put together. it was given to SUB and intend­ed strictly for Notre Dame students," he said. "My responsibility and the respon­sibility of SUB is to program events and provide tickets for our student body." 
While he stands by his position and that of SUB, Ebersol does recognize the tery should permit all stu­
dents an equal opportuni­ty to purchase tickets to away games. She fails to understand why she and other Saint Mary's students could be involved in the past, but not now. 
"There just doesn't seem to be a very good reason for it aside from the increased chance for more Notre Dame students to get tickets," she said. 
According to Ebersol, that is the exact reason why. 
"The demand clearly outweighs the supply," he said. "If we were to open this up to that many more students, the odds of Notre Dame students receiving tickets would be greatly reduced." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Beauti.fu.l Riverfront Bed & Breakfast 
*Locta:f:ed on fl:o wooded c:t.cres in Buct'hanc:t.n, .M'I 
*20 11'1inu'f:es fro-m cta-mp'US 
269-695-6043 



\ ...,_ ' 
Friday, September 19, 2003 page 11
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
A Call to Solidarity with Africa to be delivered 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Ediror 
Two years ago, the U.S. 
Conference of Catholic Bishops 
issued a document entitled "A 
Call to Solidarity with Africa" 
at its annual fall meeting. The 
document, which proposed 
that the rest of the world 
sharpen their focus on 
addressing Africa's promise 
and problems, was left largely 
untouched by the international 
community after its publica­
tion, said Notre Dame theology 
professor and Institute for 
Church Life director John 
Cavadini. 
Beginning Sunday, the work of Cavadini and a number of scholars, students and reli­gious from around the world to bring Africa into global con­versation will come to fruition in the "Call to Solidarity with Africa" conference, the group's response to the USCCB's 2001 document. 
"The intent was to uplift the document that they had put out," Cavadini said. "The idea was to lift this up to more visi­ble attention." 
The conference, which bears the subtitle "Americans and Africans in Dialogue About Africa's Promise, Needs and Image," is expected to build understanding between west­ern and African nations through panel discussions. paper presentations and infor­mal forums conducted on Notre Dame's campus from Sunday to Wednesday. 
"Exploring what the idea of solidarity is part of this confer­ence," Cavadini said. "You can't think about Africa as simply a people with problems and us as a people who can solve them -that doesn't seem to work." 
The first of a two-part pro­gram, the second of which will be held in Nigeria in January, the Notre Dame conference will open with a keynote address from Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
"It's a wonderful thing, hav­ing the president of Nigeria here," said student body presi­dent Pat Hallahan, who served on the steering committee for 
Nigeria 
continued from page 1 
"That means that at least one­fifth of all Africans are Nigerians. We thought it would be good to focus on this coun­try ... because Nigeria repre­sents all that is good but all that is problematic with Africa. You cannot ignore that country anymore. This country also supplies America with a lot of oil today, and Americans have to learn more about Nigeria at the moment." 
Obasanjo and Nigeria were thrown into the international spotlight recently with the abdication of former Liberian president Charles Taylor's post in August. Since leaving Liberia under intense interna­tional pressure, Taylor was granted amnesty in Nigeria in a move that sparked ongoing global debate. 
Obasanjo has gained interna­tional recognition for his work in the area of third-world debt the event. "Not a lot of univer­positive things going on in sities get this opportuni~y for Africa." students to get the opportunity Odozor, a native Nigerian to see this. It's a wonderful and Catholic priest who has thing, and I hope a lot of peo­been teaching at the University ple take advantage of it." since 1999. said the committee 
The conference will also host has invited people committed hundreds of scholars, stu­to improving Africa and west­dents, relief workers, clergy ern relations with the conti­and missionaries who have nent to serve as presenters dealt closely with the people and panelists at next week's and issues of Africa today. A conference in order to begin a 
large number of  dialogue  
conference partic­ between the two  
ipants  and  pre­ ..The intent was to  worlds.  
senters hail from across the conti­nent itself, repre­ uplift the document that they had put  "We are going to have people from all different  
senting  such  out.,,  areas ­ we have  
nations as Ghana, South Africa, Uganda and Nigeria.  John Cavadini theology professor  a panel that is going to look at foreign assis­tance to Africa  

"The intent here 
is not to replace 
the voice of Africa with ours, 
but to make theirs more visi­
ble," Cavadini said. "Because 
it's Africa, it's all invisible to 
the rest of the world ... 
There's a kind of total indiffer­
ence on the part of [the 
West]." 
Cavadini said that one of the problems westerners face when dealing with issues affecting Africa is the idea that most of us are not even able to see the African issues from the African perspective, a problem Cavadini said he and his col­leagues intend to address at the conference. 
"One of the ideas is that we don't know them -we just don't now them as a people," he said. "We have no links with them -there isn't any solidarity." 
Solidarity will be a particu­larly prominent theme throughout the conference, Cavadini said, but by no means the only issue organizers plan to address. 
"There are two sides to it," said Father Paulinus Odozor, a theology professor and confer­ence coordinator. "The first is focused on re-imaging Africa, and there's also the other side that stresses solidarity with Africa. 
We simply want to help peo­ple get beyond the prevalent pessimism about Africa by bringing scholars from around the world together to discuss the issues ... There are a lot of and U.S. foreign 
assistance to 

other countrie~; we have a 
panel that will look at trade 
and finance ... we have a 
panel that will look at the 
church and its role in solidari­
ty and its role in reinventing 
Africa," he said. 
Topics of discussion will range from public health care to economics to political con­flict, facilitated by experts and practitioners from Notre Dame and around the world. 
"You try to think of people who are significant in their fields, and you try to get them to come to this conference," Cavadini said. "We've also invited a number of people just to listen. Students and admin­istrators from African univer­sities, they are coming just to listen and· not necessarily to present." 
It is with undergraduates such as these that the confer­ence aims to ·create real waves, said Odozor. Two or three Nigerian students, depending on the status of their difficult-to-obtain visas, will be visiting NQtre Dame as a part of the conference, to watch, listen, learn and share their experiences with their American counterparts. 
"This is quite important," he said. "l don't know how many people among those from Nigeria will be able to make it because of visa problems ... but it almost doesn't matter if two or if three are able to come; the significance· is 
relief, urging wealthy nations be talking about Africa today, to rethink their loan policies to and he will be talking about the puorer countries of Africa us, what the situation is on the and elsewhere. continent and what efforts 
''He has been an advocate of have been made across Africa debt relief for Africa, and he for the rebirth of the conti­has spoken loudly and clearly nent," Odozor said, "but he 
on  the injus­ will also be inviting  
tice debt  of the struc­ ..He has spoken  the world community to join us in the build­ 
ture and what it has been doing to Africa and its people,"  loudly and clearly on the injustice of the debt structure. ,  ing of this new Africa ... to keep Africa··s prospects alive, espe­cially where people do not take Africa  
Odozor said. "He has been asking the world com- Paulinus Odozor theology professor  seriously." The world will indeed be watching, Odozor said; as cam­ 
munity  to  era  crews  from  an  

look at the terms of the loans African news station will be on ... and to reschedule the loans campus for the address, and ... so that these countries will will broadcast the speech live ha·;e the use of this money for not only to Nigeria, but also to their people first." the continent as a whole. 
Odozor said that, while he is "Given the fact that he's not aware of the topic of the going to be in North America president's address, his mes­for about three days, with all sage will undoubtedly indicate sorts of commitments in New his support for what confer­York and Washington, it was ence organiz~rs are attempt­quite significant that the man ing tu accomplish. found time to come to Notre 
"From what I've seen, he will Dame," Odozor said. "But I important. These are the way applied to be a part of the 
of the future; these are the Notre Dame contingent in 
people who will continue this January, and the steering com­
discussion on solidarity ... and mittee is slated to make its 
on friendships that they have final decisions by next week. 
made. They will interact with Selected participants will 
each other and make friend­serve as representatives of the 
ships -and decide what kind Notre Dame community to the 
of world it is they want to live western African nation. 
in." "I think it's important for a 
As a part of the second Catholic university to be con­
phase of the conference that cerned about these issues that 
will be held in Nigeria in Africa is now addressing," 
January, six to eight Notre Cavadini said. "To be con­
Dame students will travel to cerned about a continent 
the country to present papers where Catholicism is growing 
and facilitate a two-hour panel at such a rate as it is in Africa, : 
I 
discussion with Nigerian and to bring our own responsi­1 I 
undergraduates. bility to light, as well as the l 
"One of the coolest things benefits of what we can learn 
about this is that students from talking with Africans, I j 
have been involved in the think it's a benefit to the 
planning since May," Cavadini University, too." 
said. "This is a collaborative Part of the significance of 
venture between the academic the bishops' document and the 
community and the students." conference itself, Cavadini 
Notre Dame's Student said, was the fact that it point­Government worked closely ed to the crucial role Africa with Cavadini, Odozor and the has already begun and will rest of the conference's steer­continue to play in the spread ing committee to make this of Catholicism throughout the component of the program world. possible. The "It is the place group will host an w h e r e informal forum in "/ think it's Catholicism is LaFortune's ball­growing the
important for a
room Tuesday fastest in the evening to give Catholic university world," he said. the visiting "The shape of
to be concerned 
African students a Catholicism in 
.about these 
chance to talk to ,, the next one and learn from zssues. hundred years Notre Dame stu-will probably be dents, and vice formed by Africa
John Cavadini 
versa. -it's a very
theology professor 
Hallahan said vibrant growth." that he believes While the goals the conference has a particu­of the conference, whose pri­lar resonance among students mary sponsor is the that should not be ignored. University's Institute for 

"It's an issue that's bigger Church Life, are partially reli­than just our campus, and it's gious in nature, Odozor said an issue that students at Notre there are many facets of the Dame should pay attention to," issues which face Africa today he said. "It's really making a that will be addressed in great difference in the world if stu­detail. dents go to this conference "We don't know yet where and take from it what they this will lead, but our interest learn there." is simply to get people to start 
Early in the year, Hallahan , talking to each other," he said. and student body vice presi­"We are all going to keep our dent Jeremy Lao asked admin­eyes and our ears very open; istrators and faculty members and our hearts, as well, to see to recommend individual stu­what the Spirit is saying to us dents whom they believed in this context and what the would best benefit from partic­Spirit is inviting us to do." ipating in the Nigerian end of the conference. ·From· that Contact Meghan Martin at group, thirty students have mmartin@nd.edu 
think he's coming here gladly, said. "And it is true. I speak as and he's coming here with the an African, but I also speak as full understanding of the a Notre Dame faculty person. import of the moment. We Notre Dame has a lot to learn can't adequately express how from Africa ... and Notre Dame significant this is. This is the will become a better Catholic leader of the most populous university because of it. It is 
country  in  important that this  
Africa. That we  catholic university,  
were able to get him to come is just a blessing ... What he does is  "We must not let this be a wasted initiative. That's  in line with the teachings of the church, take a look at Africa at  
indicate that he is in line with  my hope.,  this time in the moment. Africa is  
what we are try­ing to do .. . and  Paulinus Odozor  not a fashionable thing to talk about  
also  to  bring  theology professor  at the moment in  
Notre Dame  to  universities, but it  
the African audi­ is important that  

ence. Notre Dame benefits this Catholic University, in line from this by the great expo­with the teachings of the sure it gets in Africa." Church, take a look at Africa 
Odozor said that he hopes at this time in the moment. I President Obasanjo's visit will think the time is now to join spark an interest among stu­with Africa, and to bring about dents and participants in this new future that will hap­building a greater understand­pen in Africa, to forge ahead ing with and about the situa­with the rest of the human tions that face Africa today. community." 
"After this, what next? We must not let this be a wasted Contact Meghan Martin at initiative. That's my hope," he mmartin@nd.edu 
,.., 
'I; 
~~ 
page 12 Friday, September 19, 2003 
.... \\. , The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~~ 
~~. 
t~
., 


~ 
.,. 
i 
•\ ''­
~~ 
~1, . 
i' I i$. 



u PRESENTS 

.~ 
,I,-The Winning Purdue Football Game Ticket Lottery Numbers 
~
ti 
1\ 
~ 0752 0950 1382 2112
t~ 
~' 0761 0956 1409 2114 
~ 
~­
-
\\ 
0762 0962 1410 2115
~~ 
~~ 
~ 0766 0974 1425 2116 
t~ 
t\ 0772 0976 1434 2123 
~ 0784 0983 1438 2124 
~\ 
i\
., ·~ 0785 0985 1449 2128 
~~ 
,1, 
0786 0987 1454 2130 
r· ;~ 0794 0989 1457 2131 
·~ 
~ 
,,, ,I, ~ 0796 0995 1460 2140 
,, .. 
0798 0997 1468 2149 
~ 
~ 
·I, 0808 1257 1471 2160 
~ 0810 1259
~ 1479 2161 
~­
0820 1262 1483 2162
,;)f 
,, 
~ 0825 1265 1487 2168 
~ 0827 1271 1495 2169
-0830 1274 2003 2171
0840 1275 2007 2177
0844 1281 2012 2179
0847 1289 2017 2185
0857 1290 2020 2188
0862 1294 2032 2189 
-~ ... 
'-I .o ­

0871 1296 2040 2196 .. 
~ t. ~0882 ·. 1306 2053 . 2209 .l ~ 
0886 1320 2056 2232
~ 
~ 0888 1323 2065 2233 
( 
~ 0896 1325 2069 2235 
f 

~· 
,. 0900 1330 2071 2236 
t' 
i 0906 1341 2075 2237
t' 0907 1347 2078 2243
! 
0910 1349 2081 2244 t' 0916 1350 2090 2249 
t' 
I' 0918 1357 2091 
i 
~ 0923 1361 2092 
! 
! ( 0924 1362 2094 
! ~ 0929 1363 2095
0931 1370 2098
~ 
0941 1378 2102 
t ~ 
? 0946
) 
( 
1379 2109 
( 
( 
The Student Union Board is hiring! We have spots open for -Chief Controller -Campus Entertainment Programmer -Services Programmer -Operators 
-and­-Controllers 
( 
I 
~ 
Applications available on the SUB website at http://www.nd.edu/"'sub 
~ 
For more information, contact us at sub@nd.edu or call 1-7757 
I 
~ 
~ brou ht to u b the student union board. 201 Iafortune. nd.edu rvsub 
( 
? 
' 
~ 
~ 
( 
' ' ., 
--I 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
r---------=====-.:=---------·-----------·----------------~--:---·----·-------, 

q1ie Career Center 
at the Umvmity ofNotre Damt dv Lac 
Career Fair Applications Are Due Online!! 
ImmediateApplication Deadlines for Top Notch Companies! 
*"'Apply vla Go/rish oy logging on lv http://careercenter.ndedu Ouestions? Call the Career t,enler 831-5200 
BOO Seidman 9iZ?: BUS General Mills 9/23: ASL 26 slots availabie. Onfy 7 ···:;,.,. · Bank Dna 9/25 ASL SCI. 
fO appliconts/26 slots BUS 65 slots total. total applicants. BUS.ENG 38 avaifable. 49 total applicants. Morgan Staniey:S/24 S applicants for 39 slots Univ of Notre Dame McGiadrey and Pullen 9/28 Mil. ,SCI. BUS. ENG COW 9/25 ASL BUS 9/22: Bus 9/22:8US 30 appHcants for 112" slots 9 applicants for 20 slots 26 interview slots. Only 7 2job~. 24 slots. 22 total factsat: 9/24 ASL SCI. HoneyweJI9/25ENG total ap.plicants. applicants. BUS 16 applicants 13 slots only 5 applicants Tucker Alan. Inc 9/22: Key Bank 9/23: BUS for 13 slots Northwestern Mutual ­BUS 8 slots availohle. 26 slots. 16 total Travelers Property Hnopls 9/25 ASL BUS 
IB total applicants. applicants. Casualty 9/24: ASL SCI. 11 appllcants for 13 slots Rohm 8 Haas 9/22: ENG Nerc:k & Company 9/23: BUS. ENG 26 slots. 2t Strang fmancial 9/25 11 slots to HIL 7 total ENG. BUS 48 applicants applicants BUS 26 open slots with applicants General Electric 9/23: Stryker Instruments 0 applicants KPNG S/22: BUS tl8 ENG, SCI. BUS 8 jobs. 88 9/24:BUS.ENG 13 PNC Financial 9/25 BUS applicants for 168 slots. slots available. slots for 52 applicants 13 slots. only 6 ap:plicants Wacbovia Securities 48 total applicants, Barclays Capital 9/24 Lincoln Partners 9/25 9/22: A 8 l. BUS. SCI . BP 9/24: SCI. ENG. ASL A&L BUS. SCI Only 10 BUS 18 applicants 26 slots. 28 total BUS 52 slots. applicants for 26 slots. for 13 slots applicants. mtotal applicants. Carrier Corporatio=n Ernst S Young 8/25 ~!!ea~rombie 9/22: ASL Houlihan. Lokey Howard 9/24: ENG 26 slots BUS. ASL SCI BUS and Zukin 9/23: BUS. ASl ONlY I applicant Walgreens 9/26: AIR. 39 slots dvallaLie. Only 26 slots available. 15 total PrutlvttiH/24 BUS. ENG SCI. BUS. ENG ?students have applied. applicants. 36 applicants fop 26 slots 2 jobs posted. share 13 Deloitte and Touche Oak Brook Bank: 9/24: slots. Only 2 applicants. 
9/22: BUS 12B ~lots ASL. SCI. BUS 
total. 114 total applicants. 
~.........__ ............... ---~ ---·--••o..oooa••••••·•" """''''"''"' oo• • ••• •oooooo• ..... .,.,_.,,,,..... """ ~~ -.......__._-....,.....,.............,....,. ....-.-...-..~~~-_.... ~ • .,,,.,.,,,,.,,,,, ""~'''"'''"""''''"'"''""''""'''"''"""' ,...,.,, ~ ~'" 
t.v/V\1 > t=OT< 2 RJ/<'1 ~ 7TcKeJY?
.,>. • 
./·····)<....... 
...,.,hen: Thursday Sept. 25th 6pm Where: Stage on North Quad (in 'front: o'f Farley) ¥/'hat: you need t:o do: Put t:oget:her a 30 sec-1 mi:n act: 
t.o prove to the judges/audie=nce that: you should win the tickets. Encourage your 'friends to che=er b/c winners will be determined by crowd approval 

..-~-~L-----F&:?L,~ 1~5.. 9/23 


v.then you sign up you must include the names of the people in your act• and a brief' description o'f what. you will be doing/saying/singing/eating/etc~ Approved acts will be emailed notification by ~e-dnesday 9/22 





page 14 Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



eamwor 
for 
omorrow Information Session Monday, September 22nd 8pni Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
\ ' \ 
-

Friday, September 19, 2003 
page 15

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
versities]," he said. "But once not invitation-or..ly; about two to department. cism during several presentations that curiosity is spa~Y.ed, our ~tu­three students participate each Robert Norton, department throughout the year that help
Honors 
dents can keep pace with students year. TI!e requirements involve chair, said he implemented a sim­them refme both their thesis con­
continued from page 1 at any universjt.y in the country. two additional cuurses, including ilar honors program while teach­tent and their communication [Honors Programs] give an a senior thesis. ing at Vassar College and had no skills. The final product is a jour­JvenlJe to help students strive for Freddoso said the program problem initiating the program at nal-length manuscript that is pre­
pa.1icipate. that kind of spark." allows motivated students with Notre Dame. sented at a formal colloquium in Rationale Roche stressed that no depart­flexible sched'..41es the chance to "When I first arrived, I was April. 
Ma.rk Roche, Dean cf the ment is required to L'ltroduce an galn further depth in philosophy shocked to discover that many of "Engagement in research from College of Arts and L6ttcrs, said honors program, and also that thruugh additional, higher-level my students had never written a beginning to end is a very impor­that colloquium discussions on departments with no current hon­coursework and may help a stu­paper in any class that was above tant learning process," Merluzzi the Boyer Report in 19()8 formally ors programs may stili provide dent's chance to attend graduate 10 pages; this put them at a com­said. began the process uf exploring numerous opportunities for school in the area. petitive disadvantage . . . for con­The Department of Economics how more departmental hGnors research and scholarship that The history honors program sidering graduate schools," he also offers 'a year-long senior hon­programs could be integrated into allow students to become more consists of a three-sP-mester said. ors thesis. the college. The Boyer Report, a intellectually curious. course sequence that begins in 
Social Sciences Student Experiences study of undergraduate education Humanities the spring of the junior year. To graduate with departmental Students from a wide variety of 
at research universities, proposed The English honors program Students take both a special hon­honors in political science, a stu­disciplines within the College of 
that education should involve ors seminar in methodology and a
requires students to show more dent must have a 3.55 cumulative Arts and Letters say their experi­
colloquium that involves intense
more student inquiry rather than focus with their electives, as well and major GPA, must replace a ences with thP-honors program 
a transmission of information reading and discussion, in addi­
as to write a senior honors thesis 300-level course with a 400 or have been both the most chal­from faculty to student. The ensu­and take a graduate-level course tion to writing a thesis during graduate-level course and earn a lenging and the most enjoyable
ing colloquium and college coun­their senior year. Every junior his­
related to the area of their thesis. B+ or higher on the thesis paper. academic pursuit so far. 
sel discussions centered on ways tory major is invited to apply to
Students were invited by letter the As many students as meet the cri­"It's a great way to get started 
the program, with about 20 stu­
to provide more capstone experi­summer after their sophomore teria are eligible, although Joshua in doing research because you are
dents accepted. 

ences for students, and the col­years and wrote a brief !etter of Kaplan, associate director of given a lot of freedom to pursue a
"We wanted to give bright,
lege counsel passed a resolution intent to confirm their decision; undergraduate studies, said the project that interests you but at
motivated.students the possibility
to introduce honors tracks in students qualify for the program if number of students enrolled usu­the same time are given enough 
departments. to do more advanced work and
they have taken three or more ally hovers around 40. Kaplan structured class time to help you
work closely with a faculty advi­
"The result has been a huge English (,OUrses and achieved a sees the honors program as a way through the process," said Lisa
sor," said associate director of
increase in the number of under­3.78 GPA or better in these cours­for students to maximize their Brintnall, a 2003 graduate and
undergraduate studies Daniel
graduates involved in research es. James Dougherty, a professor education. participant in the Psychology hon­
projects," Roche said. GrafT. ''They really liked having
who, as director of undergraduate "It is used as a way to help stu­ors program who is attending
more authority in designing their 
Roche said that three criteria studies last year launched the dents get the most out of their Mayo Medical School. 
own coursework and developing a
were set up for honors programs: program, said he believed the major," he said. Dan Munsch, a senior history
thesis."

a formal selection process, cours­honors program to be worth­The Department of Psychology major, said the rigors of the histo­
The department of Americ&n
es that engdge the student in while. offers a year-long senior honors ry honors program will help him 
more SO)Jhisticated ways and a "Having a program that recog­Studies also offers an honors pro­
essay intended to immerse the adequately prepare for other 
gram that consists of a research
capstone project or thesis. Roche nizes the intellectual motivation student in the research project challenges such as Law School
project and presentation, addi­
said that these programs allow and interests of students is a from start to finish. The program and a career.
tional tutorials or seminars and
students to have greater control worthwhile thing to do," he said. has been in existence for a num­History honors program partici­
the completion of an honors
over their intellectual lives as well Dougherty said that students ber of years. pant Jake Baska said the program 
assigned reading list.
as combine Notre Dame's self-selected into the process, "The goal is for [students] to get has required him to become more strengths in research and under­meaning he did not have to make Languages the complete experience in doing personally motivated in his stud­graduate tear:hing. cuts. He said he may need to do Iu addition to the departments research that helps them to ies. 
Roche aL:;o said that honors so in future years to keep the of Spanish, French and Italian, understand both the lofty and the "The concept of being the one in programs and capstone projects. n1nnber of students enrolled at a which require & graduate seminar mundane aspects of research," charge of research, creating encourage Notre Dame students manageable level. and/or thesis in their honors pro­said Tom Merluzzi, associate pro­[your] own deadlines ... has forced to become more intellectually "The faculty made it quite clear gram, the department of German fessor of psychology and supervi­me to take a level of personal curious and challenged, allowir.g they didn't want thio;; to be a junior and Russian Languages and sor of the honors program. responsibility that's hard to force them to break out of an apathetic graduate school; its objectives are Uteratures ·offers ar. honors irack About seven to 10 students par­upon yourself in a traditional approach to learning that has to be clearly distinguished fro_m to German students with a mini­ticipate in the invitation-only hon­class setting. You find out a lot concerned some faculcy. those of graduate school," he said. mum GPA of 3.5. The the5is must ors program each year. Students about who you are as a student 
"It's a fairly widespread percep­Alfred Freddoso, director of be at least 40 pages long and meet as a group to discuss read­when you're the main person you tion that Notre Dame students undergraduate studies in philoso­composed in German, and the ings in methodology, interact as need to answer to," he said. may not initially bring to the table phy, said that the honors program student must achieve a grade of colleagues and review each a level of intellectual maturity as in his department has been B+ or higher on the thesis to other's work. Participants receive Contact Joe Trombello at some of their peers [at other uni-around for at least 5 years and is graduate with t...o:wrs "in the mentoring and constructive criti-jtrombel@nd.edu . 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Buy -SELL -TRADE 
ALL GAMES -ALL LOCATIONS 
PREFERRED TICKETS 234-5650 
·Eiia's 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) 
We offer... Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and 1v1eat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hountmos, Tabouli, M·eat Pie, Spinach Pie 
and many delicious dishes ... How about some Baklawa dessert to complement your meal.. 
;. 
.,,_ ***************** 
Our address: 115 Dixie J·Vay North South Bend, IN 46637 (574) 177-7239 
\Ve are located within few n1inutes from ca.Inpus, in Roseland area. near Pendle Road on 31 
Low Interest Auto Loansl (new or used: same rate) 

•1he rates are competitive­but iCs the custon1er .service that \viU bring me back to
..... 
Notre [)ame Federal Credit Union.'? 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDll UNION 
You can bonk on us 
to be better 
~·~7·· -" ...~:·1-1·· ... " . ~................, ..':., • u···v-'w, •ndfcu oro
"'!h'l),. "" • e 




p 
THE OBSERVER 
Page 16 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 

1HI~ PlriiJ~rs-;y.""~ ~.-I$.;~# .•,.,~ 
·. . P.O. Boll: Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 . · .. 024 South. Dining Hall, Norte Oafue, IN 46556 
Eorroa IN Of.EF 
Andrew SOukup · 
MANAGING EDtt'OR ·.·. ·· BuSJNY.SS MANAGER .&-ott Brodfuduer . · Lo.ri L~ski•· 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR . Sheila Flynn 
Nrws EDITOR: Meglwme pownes VIEWPOJNT.EDITOII.:T¢re~ F1'3ii$h 
. SPO!m ~Dil:OR:. ]oeH~rk.r .•... • SaNE EDITOR: Sarah Vabul:JS SAINT MARrs EDtroa:. Anndie.se Woolford · PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Ka<::itw Gtw>mcs EDrroR: Mik~ Barkim ADVER11SING MANAGER:. Maura Ceneddla i< .•. An DmGN M.\N,\Gl!lC To[(l}#ight ·.·.·..·.· Sfsn~Ms ADMINrsrilAroR: ':f'ed Bangert 
· W.Es ADMmtSl'RAro& Jason Creek CoNTROW;ru MJke flanagan 
CoNTAct Us
. . . .. 
OFACE MANAGER & GENEAAl..IHF~ . {)7.4}6}1;.;7471
.--·:··fo ·· 

.::.. {574}631...()927 :.:. .A!wERSTISING . (574} 6~i~9()(} ~&eri-ad@ru:i:tdu ·• ···:·. ··•····· .·· ·. 
. EDITOR IN CHIEF . {574/: 6aiAS4t. ..· .·................ MAIIAGING EonOR &•lWISTANlMAitA.GIHGEon~R ()74) 6.31~4541. obsme@nd.edu . . · . BllSirtESS OFACE . . {574)631-5313 .. 
.--~:.:>::::_ ·---·--·--·-._ .. _N D .. ­
_.. 
·•::.:. · > EWS ml··.·. . 
··(57M63l-5323. ob$n.e\¥s,l@nd.edu i' •: •·•·•·•····•·•·• V!EwPotHT DesK ·· ··..
• ,.·, ()74)631-5303 .. y~point~ 1(@nd.edu
I I 
.•• < . ·. .. . · .·· • Sttinrs DESK ·••· ·..·.. · ··. ·.. ·•••..·.•• · 
{. . ::.:.: '· .· ·'· (574) 931·454;3 sports.l~nd,Cdu ··•··• 
. SCENE DESK . . . 
(574) 631~4540 ..scene..l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'$ DE$1{ . . 
. (574)631~4324 s!!Kl@nd.cd~ ,.,,,.,,,"" . .•... . • 04-"''"S ~lfOHI OESI(:: :: ): •· .; 
• .(574) 631~8767 · photO@nd~edu · . :· . :: : · •· .· SYSTEMS & WEB ADMIHISmKftlfts 
(574) 63V8839 
THE ·:·.··· 0BSERVERONL/Nf
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
. POLICIES 
The Observer is tbe independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's 
College. Ed.irorial content. including advertisements, is · not governed by policies l)ftbe administration ofeither institution, The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisement$ based on concept. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
. possible. Unsigned editorla.ls represent the opinion of the maj<>rity of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editor and depamnem ediwrs. Commentaries, lem:rs and columr.s present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availabk ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contacr inforrr.~tion. 
QJieJtions regarding Observerpolicies should b~ dimud to Editur in ChiefAruifrol Soukup. 
POST OFFtCE INFORMATION 
'r'bo Obscr.,.f CUSPS $~2·.WOOI <I )XIbt~ M<m<Ur "'"'"P friday <=i>' ®•"'g 
"""" :t~>d •awion ~/'. •~ip<io• 11> Tht ot.sc...,is SIW fOr oru; :o«dcmi< 
,..., ss~ for OliC ~''"''"'' 
'Tht Obwv« i> pob~ohc<l ''" rosrw...•n.a 
024 !ioo!l! Lli>KA~ tiall 
Send~ C'<I<1COtio"' w. 
No<"' lhmc:. IN 46~~9 Tu.oo....,.., l\ciodic>l. po><a~ p.iclat Notr< DIKII< ~O.Bo<Q .ruJ addlciao.ol nwlioc offom. OH Soudo flloil1y, Ha~ 
~« Dome, IN 46$$6-017~ 
The o~..,. io • member of cbe As«K:im:d l'r= M! "'P~<i()l> •iN>~ .,.,...rv«i. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Meghanne Downes Graham Ebetsch \\'ill Puckett Sports Megan O'Neill Joe Hettler Viewpoint Heather Van Teresa Fralish Hoegarden Illustrator Megan Hawley Pat Quill Scene Sarah Vabulas 
Show respect at all sporting events 
Respect. can boost the momentum of the game by showing support for All of us know what it is. All of us want to be treated with it. the athletes. Though teams spend long hours training and All of us, at times, like to say we embody it. conditioning, many athletes say that their performances can However, all too often, the momentum and highly-charged be buoyed by the enthusiasm of their fans. Fans who do not 
atmosphere of situations like sports games can expose the embrace their teams but embarrass them instead do not dark, ill-mannered side of people, where fans deserve the right to attend the games in the first become too caught up in the rivalry and the fun OJhe place.
userver
of the event is lost. Part of this is due to the fact Recently, many of the Olympic sports at Notre that, for many, attending a game is not just an Dame have seen an increased fan presence opportunity to see two teams compete; it is also because dorms will support their residents on



Editorial 
an event involving tradition, tailgates and good­the team, which then can turn into a bonding spirited rivalry . activity. However, their support and rallying together is lost But very often, respect is sacrificed to tne peripheral events when individuals find it necessary to excessively taunt the 
to the actual game. which then becomes ove!'Shadowed. opposing teams or fans. 
Anyone who went to last week's Michigan game experienced Fans must remember that the focus of a sporting event is this lack of respect; fans showed it to each other firsthand. the competition between the two teams, not the two sets of Staging mock lynchings, chanting expletive-filled cheers and fans or the fans and the opposing team. Singling out players engaging in banter that went far beyond friendliness does not fans of the opposition in a cruel manner is uncalled for, accurately embody the true meaning of the game or its spirit. unnecessary. tasteless and, above all, disrespectful. 
While expressing spirit and tradition is important and rival­Notre Dame a place of rich football tradition that is buoyed ry is to be expected, fans must realize where the proverbial by spirited and respectful fans. Remember the rivalry that line is that they should not cross. Attending sporting events is went bad in Ann Arbor this weekend and don't stoop to the supposed to be fun and entertaining. but unruly behavior same level this weekend or in the future. At all future sporting detracts from and spoils the entire event. events, do not let tastelessness or disrespectfulness tear down 
Fan8 are an important part of sporting events because they or overshadow this tradition. 
Polling prods Clark to enter presidential race 
George W. Bush brags that focus groups and polling data do not set his agenda, yet White House political guru Karl Rove uses polls to advise the presi­dent. 
Major candi­dates since "Dewey beat Truman" gauge public opinion. Many assess pub­lic opinion to assure election and avoid conse­

quences. Few are Gary Caruso 
so altruistic that 
they simply desire 
information. Most Capitol 
use polling with an 
Comments 
eye on both 
motives. 
On Wednesday, retired four-star Army General Wesley Clark officially announced his entry into the presidential contest. For months Clark had flirted with a presidential run while criticizing Bush's domestic and international policies. During a brief grassroots draft Clark movement, the fot­mer NATO supreme allied commander must have meticulously combed through polling data seeking a compelling reason to run. 
Prior to Clark's announcement, Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research released a pvll posted on the Democracycorps.com web site. While many organizations, including both polit­ical parties, conduct polls, some. organi­zations attempt to prove a point while ­others seek to pinpoint public opinion. 
The Greenberg poll consists of 1,000 respondents statistically divided among locality, education, gender. age, income, employment status, religious and political party affiliation. Only race seemed slight­ly off American societal averages wlth 80 percent white, 9 percent African­American and 7 percent Hispanic partici­pation. Ninety-seven percent voted in 
2000, Bush over Gore by 50-41, and all 
said they expected to vote next year. 
Buried deep in the data are opinions 
that favor a Democrat. but more specifi­
cally favor the strengths that a Clark can­
didacy brings to the race. The poll finds 
that the country is going in the wrong 
direction (53-37) with almost half blam­
ing Iraq, a third saying the economy and 
a. quarter citing Bush personally. The respondents do not trust Bush on Iraq's weapons (53-43), nor do they think he sufficiently prepared to bring troops home (54-42). 
Bush's overall approval ~tands at 53­44, but the respondents would only vote for Bush 47-45 percent. Of that support, 15 percent say they would consider abandoning Bush while only 7 percent say it is a fair chance that they would switch to Bush. 
While the Republican Party was favored over the Democratic Party 4:5-40, congressional Democrats outscored Republicans 4 7-42 percent with 10 per­cent undecided. 
The poll's mixed results on specific issues indicate that the survey was fairly administered without becoming a wish list endorsement for either party. The National Hille Association was favored 40-38 percent and the pro-life movement was opposed 40-39 percent. Health care costs led economic concerns followed by unemployment and deficit spending. 
Surprisingly, Bush was not considered toq conservative but still rated highly on leadership and personal character. However, the president is seen as more for big business than the average person (62"35), is too dependent on his advisors (50-43), does not care about people like you (50-49), is not for working and mid­dle class families (54-44) and does not have good plans for the economy (56-41) nor for Iraq (50-44). 
Clark must have zeroed in on the few areas where Bush and Republicans con­
sistently outpace Democrats: taxes (43­
38), keeping America strong (50-29). 
homeland security (52-20) and foreign 
policy (42-36). Clark's strategy is to co­
opt the president on the strength issue, 
thus dropping Bush in all categories, and 
making a Clark win more likely. 
This week the general needed to rhetorically translate that strategy. Clark asked why we Americans have lost our sense of security and why we lost respect around the world? He proclaimed that in a time of war we should ask questions with the highest sense of patriotism. He holds the Bush administration responsi­ble for policies and their consequences. Clark also said that those results are our results. 
Clark intends to bring America togeth­er with a vision for the days ahead. With a frank, honest and open debate the nation deserves, the general promised to "bring people together in the great tradi­tion of the Democratic party ... leaders who will put people first, bringing togeth­er not just Democrat'>, but Independents and Hepublicans too." lie especially men­tioned those who never before participat­ed in the political process. 
Prior to the loudspeaker blaring "this land is your land, this land is my land ... this land belongs to you and me." the general ended his speech with military bravado and lingo saying, "We are diverse, energetic, innovative and practi­cal ... get ready, we're moving out." 
Can the Clark hoopla overtake fron­trunner Howard Dean or knock other candidates out of the race? Study the polls in the coming months. 
Gary Caruso served as a director of congressional and public affairs in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you expect to have a job or internship this summer? 
"'Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 98 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Live as ifyou were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever. " 
Mahatma Gandhi Hindu nationalist leader 

\ '-\ 
-: 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Remember societal factors in abortion debate 
In his Sept. 17 column, Charles Rice calls Americans to return "to the conviction that the right to life is sacred." Rice asks us to pray for all those affected by abortion as well as for a conversion to a culture of life. He is right both to call for this reaffirmation of life and to want to effect moral change through prayer. 
Prayer, however. is only half the answer; abortions are not only the result of a corrupted morality but also the product of an unjust social order. 
A recent study shows that, from 1994 to 2000 the abortion rate increased more than 20 percent for women whose incomes fell below the federal poverty line, while the overall abortion rate actually declined. Restrictive social and economic circumstances, then, seem to bear heavily on many women's decision to abort. 
Supporting and raising a child with such limited means may seem an impossible task. 
Higher wages, free childcare for working mothers or other programs to aid low-income families will allow women to more realistically choose life. A woman may recognize the moral implications of hav­ing an abortion, but when she is confronted with the reality of raising a child in poverty, moral considera­tions will have little sway. 
A reasonable level of socioeconomic security must precede the moral reconversion Rice calls for; regard­less of what Catholic morality dictates, we demand too much of a woman when we ask her to choose life in the midst of poverty. 
Rice calls us to pray for a moral reconversion that will lead to the affirmation of all life. We can, and indeed we should, pray for the emergence of a more responsible morality, one in which all life is held sacred. But while we are praying. we also should be working to bring about social changes that will better enable this morality to emerge. 
Elizabeth lee 
seruor 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Sept. 18 



Welcome to the Notre Dame tyranny 
'-' Don't give up on the Irish 
1 
i I' 
' 
Florida Secretary of State, Katherine Harris. Bush's vic­tory was disputed by Gore and brought to the legal sys­tem. The legal system goes by the rule of law, and according to the rule of law, Bush was the victor. Yet liberals dispense with facts most of the time and say what they want to hear. 
My advice to Stanfiel and the rest of the radical left: If you do not like the system, work to change it. Do not demonize the ones working within it to enact the change. Do not attempt to change the rules mid-game in order to accommodate your agenda. 
California is in dire straits right now. and the people feel they need a change. If indeed they recall Gov. Gray Davis and elect a new governor, it is the will of the peo­ple. How anti-democratic is that? There are systems within our country that allow it to adapt and evolve. These systems are founded on the principles of democ­racy and freedom and should be used as such. Freedom of speech is a beautiful thing, though it does get annoy­ing when all the left can do is whine. 
Ricky Hallenback 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
Sept. 18 

In case the first year students have not 
yet figured it out, our beloved school's 
administration can best be described with 
one word: tyranny. 
Before you question my background and assume that I have bumped heads Bill Rlnner with the authorities, know that I have 
A Voiceof 
never had the pleas­
Reason 
ure of facing Res Life 
(though I hear it's a 
character building experience), I have 
never been caught with alcohol and 
received a fine for being underage (I'm 
smart enough to get away with it) and 
parietals have not yet caused me to curse 
the infernal powers that be for destroying 
my fun. 
So why rant? Well, despite the host of problems the paternalistic administration causes itS students for the most ridiculous reasons, the largest offense against the student body is less direct: Notre Dame's undergraduates grow increasingly indif­ferent and lose their interest in political activism due to the school completely and utterly ignoring the student's voice. 
Indifference may come from a large variety ofsources, but one of the strongest is the inability to effect any significant rule or policy that constricts student behavior. A university should be a microcosm of the broader democratic republic in which we reside, simply so we can, with some over­sight from the administration, determine which rules best suit our needs. 
What we have instead is a joke of a stu­dent government that gets laughed out of trustee meetings when the proposals even slightly veer away from what Father Malloy, Father Poorman and the other cronies consider necessary. I still shake my head in disbelief every year we have student body elections where the candi­dates are so delusional they 
believe they can make a dif­ference. Here's the truth: You can't, you won't, and the only changes come from far above. 
So what's the harm in allowing a private university to deter­mine its own policies as it sees fit? The harm does not come to the school's pocketbooks (obvi­ously), but to the students who are lucky enough to enter Notre Dame with a few remaining shreds of idealism and faith in the democratic process. 
Activism grows only when people feel that their voice can influence the higher powers whose decisions are most perti­nent to their lives. At this point, our University is the target because its policies set the strictest guidelines on our free­dom. If we write letters, voice our dissent and stand strong together, the administra­tion will shrug its shoulders and maybe pat us on the head. 
What's alarming is that many of the 
policies enacted by the University are potentially more harmful than we think. 
Malloy's crusade against the "alcohol culture" that dominates Notre Dame might as well be against a windmill. He cites the statistic that 1,400 college stu­dents die each year in alcohol-related 
incidents, though the number is inflat­
from counting the number of incidents among 18-to 24-year-olds and multi­
plying by the percent­age of college stu­dents that make up this age group. Anyone with an ele­

mentary knowledge of statistics, or pure com­mon sense, can see the blatant bias in such a self-
Armed with false numbers and hopes that he will carve his place into the great University presidents, Malloy justi­fies a push to remove alcohol from cam­pus, even when incidents of off-campus drinking prove to be much more deadly than on-campus drinking. But hey, at least Notre Dame isn't liable when students harm themselves off school grounds. So maybe it is a victory, right? 
Returning to the point, when students protested changes in the alcohol policy, many berated them for ignoring far more pressing issues in the world. In a sense, this accusation is true, but it ignores the 
This afternoon, I went over to Legends to get lottery numbers for the Purdue game. After the Michigan lot­tery debacle, I didn't know what to expect. Long lines? Poor planning? Charlie Ebersol being attacked by mobs of discontented students? Nope. not at all and no. (A Notre Dame riot would probably just be some really angry chants.) 
First of all, I was very impressed with the way SUB reorganized the lottery. There was a lane set up that could have kept 80 people or more in an organized line, there were free bags of Goldfish crackers everywhere and, most importantly, each student could only have 6 IDs. The time it took me to get my lottery tickets was less than 30 seconds from the front of the line, which brings me to my more important rant. 
I was the front of the line and I was the entire line. When I went at 4 p.m., there wasn't one person waiting for the chance to buy Purdue tickets. Such pathetic interest in a big road game just a few hours away from Notre Dame really worries me. Now, I understand that 
I cannot help feeling angered and rather amused at the left. Joseph Stanfiel's Sept. 18 letter makes me, at the same time, growl and chuckle. Under the guise of correcting mistakes another writer made, Stanfiel cre­ates even more lies. This is typical of the radical left, however, and no one should be surprised. 
First of all, the California recall election is being brought forward within the confines of the law. There is no coup -no blend of shady illegal actions taking place under the illusion of legality. California state law allows for recall efforts, and both sides have used them. The recall is simply a measure enacted by the citizens of California as a safety net when electing their leaders. If the politician is ineffective, he can lose his job. This bla­tantly differs from impeachment, yet Stanfiel fails to acknowledge as much. Also, this supposed right-wing agenda to steal back the election has not kept Democrats from throwing their hats in the ring. 
Stanfiel blindly accuses the right of a history of "steal­ing elections." His most notable point regarding election thievery by the right is a subject that the left just cannot live down: the 2000 presidential election. Claiming that Gore won the election and Bush brought it to the Supreme Court is factually inaccurate. Bush was certi­fied as the winner of Florida's 25 electoral votes by the basic human tendency to protest changes 
that are most pertinent to them. 
The protesters' actions were in vain, 
and they learned the valuable lesson not 
to question authority, particularly when 
you think you know what rules are best 
for your age demographic. 
Imagine what will happen to the few students at Notre Dame with hope for affecting their surroundings through activism when they graduate and their voice goes from one in 10,000 to one in 275 million. How can we decry low voting turnouts when we ourselves say, "Why bother? We can't make a difference," in our more immediate surroundings? 
The indifference that ails us today can only grow if the University continues to ignore and repress the student voice. Perhaps most frightening is our resigna­tion to policies that could harm the stu­dent body more than a loose agreement of permissiveness. 
Our school's mantra of "Nowhere else but Notre Dame," which once carried a tone of promise, now stresses the repug­nant condition on campus of complete and utter helplessness. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying this academic year at the London School ofEconomics. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
people are a little down after last week's loss. But this is Notre Dame, and as far as I'm concerned, the visiting team last week in The Big House wasn't. By some irreparable statistical error, Notre Dame picked up a tally mark in the loss column. 
But for us to abandon our team after one ugly game isn't what we're all about. Domers, stay strong. Whether this team wins out and goes to a BCS game or finishes 8-4, they're going to need our support all the way. So to anyone who's giving up on this season because of one loss, I want to say, just wait and see. Keep cheering for old Notre Dame, and watch the team respond this weekend. I, for one, am predicting a rever­sal of last week's fortune: The Irish pull off a home shutout, 20-0. 
Paul Joice junior Knorr Hall Sepr. 18 

Calif. recall should move forward 
J, 


THE OBSERVER 
page 18 

Friday, September 19, 2003 
.. 
1.' 





Shakespeare measur« 
Actors From The London Stage perform one of Shakespeare's lesser kno: 
having elaborate sets overshadow the (again, Matthew Radford)
By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
performances. There are no directors to death for impregnating
Scene Writer 
involved. The five actors collaborate a young maiden, Juliet as a group on the texts and their pres­(Elizabeth Hurran). Wednesday and Thursday nights fea­entation. The Company also provides Claudio's friend Lucio tured pimps, nuns and everything in an excellent means by which to intro­(Anna Northam) rushes to between as The Actors From The duce possible Theater majors to the Claudio's sister, Isabella London Stage opened William world of stage, offering crew and mar­(again, Elizabeth Shakespeare's "Measure for Measure" keting opportunities to the students. Hurran), who is about to at Washington Hall. The company is a Stuart Fox plays (among other roles} enter a nunnery, to seek residency program at Notre Dame fea­Duke Vincentio, the ruler of Vienna her aid in freeing her turing actors from all over Great who has finally woken up to the real­brother. Isabella goes to Britain. Supported by the Department ization that his dominion has become Angelo and begs for her of Film, Television and Theater, a corrupt society filled with brothels, brother's life. To the peo­"Measure for Measure" is the first of drug trafficking and excessive drink­ple of Vienna, Angelo is two Shakespeare plays performed by ing. He takes responsibility for the fact the most upright of men the company this year. that he let his city go to ruin and in the city, but he finally The company consists of five actors chooses to leave his seat of power and succumbs to temptation playing several roles each in the play. his top aide, Escalus (John Nettleton), when he meets Isabella. Very few props are used, and there relinquishing control to Angelo He agrees to free Claudio, are no sets, except for a few tables (Matthew Radford). A strict, law-abid­but only if Isabella will and chairs. The goal of the company in ing disciplinarian, Angelo wants to sleep with him. All the their productions is to focus on the overhaul the entire government sys­while, the Duke monitors words and to use their understanding tem to allow no room for mercy or rec­all that is happening of Shakespearean text in order to por­ompense under the law. To prove his while in disguise and tray the scenes in a way that illumi­point and set an example, he sen­hatches a plan to free nates what is on the page, rather than tences a young man named Claudio Claudio and keep Isabella 

from harm. Full of come­dy as well as drama, "Measure for Measure" is a Shakespearean play suitable for all tastes. 
In order to clarify dis­tinctions between the numerous characters played by one of the actors, subtle changes to the costumes occur con­stantly on stage. For instance, Matthew Radford, who plays Claudio, Claudio's con­demner Angelo and a pimp named Pompey, wears mostly As for the production itself, the act­black at all times on stage. When ing truly shines. "Measure for under the guise of Angelo, he is Measure" is one of Shakespeare's less­dressed in a grey robe. When switch­er-known plays, and many consider it ing to Claudio, he dons a white scarf. one of his weakest due to its weak Finally, when playing Pompey, he characters and somewhat cliched sto­wears a gold chain. The differences ryline. The acting reveals the true are not purely superficial, however. themes of the play -justice and The actors need to go to great lengths mercy. Therefore, it is up the actors to to create definitively bring out the best in unique characters for the characters, and each role to avoid The Actors From The 
..Measure for Measure" 

confusing the audi­London Stage do not ence. Again, using speaks to themes disappoint. Matthew Radford as Elizabeth Hurran
involving corrupt 

an example, he is truly offers a truly
government, harsh

strict and upright as remarkable perform­Angelo, boyish and dictators and just ance as Isabella. This innocent as Claudio punishment that being her first tour and loose and arro­with the Company,
contemporary audiences 

gant with a cockney she displays a poise accent as Pompey. will have no problem and control over her The Actors From appreciating. character that The London Stage are reflects the skill of by no means ama-Shakespearean veter­teurs when it comes to plays, especial­ans. The character of Isabella is per­
ly Shakespeare. They have studied at haps the most complex, needing to run Cambridge, the Royal Academy of the full gamut of emotions. Elizabeth Dramatic Art in London, the Central provides a stunning contrast between School of Speech and Drama in the innocent, chaste religious woman London and Exeter University. They at the onset of the play, and the fiery, have starred in such well known clas­commanding accuser of Angelo during sics as "Romeo and Juliet," "The the climax. When her character is Cherry Orchard," "King Lear," "Fear forced to be the one voice crying fowl and Loathing in Las Vegas," "A Doll's in a city full of people who swear by House," "Twelfth Night," "The Three the honesty of Angelo, she commands Musketeers," "Ham let," "The the stage and not only draws the Tempest," "A Man For All Seasons," attention of the characters involved, "Much Ado About Nothing," "The but also captivates the audience dur­Taming of the Shrew," "A Midsummer ing her monologues. Night's Dream," "The Importance of Matthew Radford proves to be the Being Earnest" and "Macbeth." most dynamie actor in the Company, 




t·.~·· 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
Page 19 




up to expectations 
wn plays, 'Measurefor Measure,' pleasing those who attend the show 

Composition class today-a 9:30 class that is a very early appointment after an opening night performance. She went over some basics about reading and understanding Shakespeare, gave some background in the plot of "Measure for Measure," and went over some excerpts from the play. Since the First Year Composition course focuses primarily on forming an argument and proving it, Hurran's character of Isabella was a perfect match to bring together the arguments of the students and Isabella's argument to free her brother. Hurran also took the students outside and split them into groups, giving each the assignment to put on a scene from the play and perform it in front of their peers. This kind of active participation in Notre Dame life is a trademark of the Company program and opens the students up to broad ranges of discussions and forums con­cerning Shakespearean texts. 
Overall, The Actors From The London Stage succeed in making "Measure for Measure" an enjoyable 
experience where the audience laughs and cries, but mostly is forced to ask questions. Is saving a criminal brother worth your own virginity? Is mercy due to one who has broken the law? Can hypocrisy be accepted in govern­ment? These and many other topics provide for a thought-provoking expe­rience that is worth checking out. 
The final performance of "Measure for Measure" is tonight in Washington Hall at 7:30p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Adults are $16, Senior Citizens are $14 and Students are $12. The theater season at Notre Dame contin­ues with Moliere's "Tartuffe" October 8-12 and Tennessee William's 'The Glass Menagerie" November 19-23. The Actors From The London Stage return with "Romeo and Juliet" February 11-14 and Shaw's "The Arms and the Man" plays April 21-25. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 

playing Angelo with the sternness and power of Lord Capulet and the intro­spection of Hamlet or Macbeth. His is a character torn apart by lust and desire. He knows of his hypocrisy and battles with his emotions in a way that speaks volumes even in his silence. 
Radford's other noteworthy role is that of Pompey, where he provides brashness and comic ego that you would 
Friar, and his heartfelt interactions with Isabella show a paternal-like rela­tionship that contrasts well with Angelo's strict dictatorship. Fox also provides dynamic comic relief in minor roles as a foolish prostitute-solicitor and a drunken Bohemian on death row. 
Anna Northam is bril­liant in the role of Lucio, a role originally written for a man. She has an attitude that just begs to get her in hot water (which it does). Many of her scenes involve switching characters in­scene. This is a tall order, and if done incorrectly could result in downright silliness and ridicule. Her skill aids her in this task, and she draws the atten­tion of the crowds as she jumps in and out oi char­acters. 
John N8ttleton adds a learned grace to his pri­mary role as the Duke's advisor, and he offers a grandfather-like motiva­tion that represents a level-headedness missing in Angelo. He enjoys his roles and pulls no punch­es in his deliveries, even in a small cameo as an 
old nun. The crowd on opening 
night seemed very engrossed by the performance from beginning to end. In what was an esti­mated 85 percent-full Washington Hall, laughter abounded and the power of the dramatic monologues resonated in the attendees. Because the actors know exactly what jokes people will understand, they milk them for everything they're worth, so even a novice can expect to be laughing 

. --' 


find in any stand-up throughout the play. 
comedy club. His role Matthew Radford proves "Measure for 
as Porn pey is truly to be the most dynamic Measure" is a play one of comic relief, that everyone will
actor in the Company. 
and he relishes in his enjoy. It speaks to
playing Angelo with the 
control of the audi­themes involving cor­ence and their laugh­sternness and power of rupt government, ter. harsh dictators and
Lord Capulet and the 
What makes the just punishment that
introspection ofHamlet
actors so good at contemporary audi­what they do is or Macbeth. ences will have no 
knowing exactly what lines will elicit what response from the audience, and their skill is never more obvious than in the comedic scenes. Many accuse Shakespeare's comedy as being too dated and hard to appreciate. In truth. however, he was as raunchy and bawdy as any writer on SNL or MADTV would be today. He had to be because that was the audience he wrote for in his time. He wrote for the masses, who, like contemporary audi­ences, take much enjoyment from bathroom humor and sex comedy. 
Stuart Fox provides the perfect blend of kindness and firmness in the character of the Duke. It is ironic that after all his transgressions as ruler he chooses to go under disguise as a 
problem appreciat­
ing, especially based off the society we live in today. While there are several sexual jokes mixed in, nothing is overtly rude or offensive, nor are there any obscene actions that would deter families from bringing children. While young children may find it a tad boring, especially without the colorful sets and costumes, pre­teens and teenagers should have no problem at all understanding the plot and the text. 
The actors also incorporate them­selves into the academic life at Notre Dame during their stay, visiting English and Theater classrooms pro­viding workshop opportunities for the students. For instance, Elizabeth Hurran visited a First Year 

I -I 

page 20 Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Wells' perfect game ruined in sixth inning 
Not anymore. four against the Brewers but ERA. Still, Ponson is slated to be in the sixth and a single by Mike
Associated Press 
Wade Miller and the Astros remained five games behind one of the Giants' postseason Piazza in the seventh. 
PITISBURGH-A pitcher tak­handed Colorado its first shutout Houston, the NL Central leader, starters in a four-man rotation. Cedeno reached third on a ing his first major league at-bat at home since 1999, increasing with eight games to go. The He allowed a season-high six groundout, but no other Mets got ended Kip Wells' bid for a per­their NL Central lead Thursday Cardinals host the Astros in a runs -five earned -in five beyond second against Vazquez. fect game. with a 6-0 victory. three-game series starting innings Thursday, striking out who beat the Mets for the second 
Wells retired his first 17 bat­Miller, Octavio Dotel and Mike Friday night. . five and walking none. Ponson, time this season. He also defeat­ters and combined with Brian Gallo combined on a three-hitter. Williams (16-9) set a career acquired from Baltimore on July ed New York on July 23 at Meadows on a three-hitter, lead­Jeff Bagwell homered and drove best for victories, topping his 15-31, hasn't won in three starts Montreal. ing the Pittsburgh Pirates over in three runs as the Astros win season in 2001 for the since Sept. 1 at Arizona. 
moved a game ahead of the idle Padres and Cardinals. He Khalil Greene doubled twice
the Cincinnati Reds 7-0 Philadelphia 5, Florida 4 
Thursday. Cubs. allowed three hits in seven among his three hits and drove 
Credit this big win to Jim 

Wells (9-8) didn't allow a hit "We're just trying to win innings. struck out six and in a run for the Padres. who Thome -and the winds of until two outs in the sixth, when games because we know what walked two. were outscored 20-12 in the first 
Hurricane Isabel. 

reliever Scott Randall (2-3) sin­position we're in," Houston man­Renteria was 4-for-4 with two three games of the series. It was In danger of blowing a must­gled to right on an 0-1 pitch. ager Jimy Williams said. "It's doubles, two singles and a walk. the first career multihit game for 
have game, the Philadelphia

Randall, who hit .263 (5-for-tough to throw a shutout any­He had an RBI single in the fifth, Greene, a rookie. Mark Kotsay Phillies rallied against Dontrelle 
19) with the Reds' Triple-A farm where." an RBI double in the seventh and and Brian Giles each added two Willis and later beat the Florida 
team in Louisville, said Wells Miller (14-12) gave up just a a three-run double in the eighth hits and an RBI as San Diego did 
Marlins 5-4 Thursday on

third-inning double to Todd to tie his career best. plenty to back up starter Jake
threw him a fastball. Thome's tiebreaking homer in 
"Getting my first hit, that was Helton and a fourth-inning single Eduardo Perez hit a three-run Peavy. the eighth inning. 
pretty cool, I guess," Randall to Jay Payton before departing homer in a five-run fifth off Peavy (12-11) pitched 6 1-3 The Phillies pulled within aafter walking two straight bat­Kinney (10-12) as the Cardinals solid innings, allowing six hits
said. "But the scoreless game half-game of the Marlins for the 
was my main concern." ters with one out in the seventh. made it 7-0. and three runs with two strike­NL wild-card lead. 
Wells, who had been 0-3 Miller walked five and struck Kinney lasted 4 2-3 innings, outs and one walk. 
Thome homered in each game. 

against the Reds, allowed two out seven, improving to 7-2 in giving up seven runs and 10 hits tying Barry Bonds for the NL hits in seven innings, struck out his last nine starts. The three with seven strikeouts and five Montreal1, New York 0 lead with 4 3.
hits were the fewest for Colorado walks. In his last three starts,
four and walked two. He threw Javier Vazquez struck out 12, Thome said he wasn't sure his 
at home since May 1 against Kinney has surrendered 17runs
only 93 pitches but was removed and Todd Zeile homered as the last ball was gone until the gusts 
Cincinnati. in 14 2-3 innings. 
from the game because of sore­Montreal Expos defeated the gave it a boost.
Bagwell hit a two-run homer
ness in the ball of his right foot. New York Mets 1-0 Thursday Said Florida manager Jack
off Jason Young in the ninth, his
Pittsburgh won three of four in San Diego 7, San Francisco 3 night. McKeon.; "The wind certainly
36th of the season. Bagwell and
the series and improved to 37-40 Giants manager Felipe Alou Vazquez (13-11) allowed three had an effect."
Craig Biggio each had three hits
at home. The Pirates have a figures it would be unfair to hits in seven innings, outpitching Philadelphia's victory clinched
for Houston. 
chance for their first winning evaluate Sidney Ponson based on Steve Trachsel to help the Expos the NL East for Atlanta, the
The Astros took two of three
record at PNC Park, which his latest outing -none of San retain their slim mathematical Braves' 12th straight division
from the Rockies. 
< opened in 2001. Four home Francisco's regulars were behind chance at the NL wild card. title.
"It was very critical for us to
games remain on the schedule, him. Vazquez walked none and With the hurricane approach­
win the series," Bagwell said. 
starting Friday with a double­Gary Matthews Jr. hit a two­struck out at least 10 for the ing, the start time was moved up
Jose Jimenez (2-9) couldn't
header against the Chicago run double and the San Diego ninth time this season. from 7:05 p.m. to 1:05. Signs
overcome a rough first inning.
Cubs. Padres avoided a four-game Scott Stewart and Chad outside Veterans Stadium offered 
He went six innings, allowing
Reds starter John Bale left sweep with a 7-3 win Thursday Cordero each pitched a perfect fans the opportunity to exchange
three runs -all in the first ­
after he ·strained his right ham­over a Giants lineup of all inning to finish it, with Cordero their tickets if they did not want
and eight hits. 
string running out a grounder in reserves. earning his first career save. to weather the advancing !?torm. the top of the third. Randall The Giants clinched the NL It was Montreal's 1Oth shutout A crowd of about 35,000 had 
'/I came in and pitched 3 1-3 St. Louis 13, Milwaukee 0 West title Wednesday night and of the season. New York has been expected, and 20,915 spir­innings, giving up four runs and Edgar Renteria had four hits Alou gave all his regulars a day been blanked nine times. ited fans actually showed. Winds five hits. and five RBis, and Woody of rest following a fun-filled Trachsel (15-10) retired his were gusting up to 32 mph at the 
Williams rebounded from his night of celebrating. first six batters on 23 pitches beginning and there were scat­Houston 6, Colorado 0 worst start of the year to com­Ponson (3-5) was tagged for a before Zeile's homer. He allowed tered sprinkles. The Houston Astros ended one bine on a three-hitter as the St. season-high 11 hits, and the seven hits in eight innings with "The wind just kept pickingof baseball's record runs. Louis Cardinals routed the burly right-hander has struggled seven strikeouts and two walks. up," Mike Lieberthal said. "The 
For more than four years, a Milwaukee Brewers 13-0 in his last three outings. In 17 Vazquez allowed a double by conditions were unbelievable. Rockies' run -at least one -Thursday night. innings, he has allowed 24 hits Roger Cedeno in the first inning, Pitches were kind of cutting and was a sure thing at Coors Field. The Cardinals won three of and 13 earned runs for a 6.88 an infield single. by Danny Garcia moving much more than usual." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT PAY WWWWORKFORSTU­DENTS.COM 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE todayl 
WANTED 
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at 574-277 0850 for interview. 
FoR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to NO. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. $107,000. (574) 273-1666 
3 Bdrm, 2.5 Bath, Twnhse Condo @ New London Lake. 2 car att garage, clubhouse,pool $139,000, 1 mile to NO email: marilyncur­ran@rtcol.com or 574-233-5881 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM 272-1525 
B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288·5377. 
Rooms for rent for NO football weekends in comfortable home. Includes breakfast. Call 574-234-0875. 
TICKETS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needsconfident1al support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring 

3·6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL NOW &  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  campus reps. Call for discounts:  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads Music 4609 Grape Rd Mish, IN 2775038  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $100-$300 a day. 1 -888-820-0167. ext. U187.  IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY Build your dream home nex1 to Notre Dame. A limited number of  04/05.FURN.272-6306 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available tor tootbaiVpar- NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED-TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726  800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Going to Law School? Kaplan Test Prep is offering a FREE on-campus  
home sites are available. For more  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  LSAT practice test on Sat 9/27 .  
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring  NOW HIRING. Kaplan Test Prep is  info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  full hot breakfast, $80-$115,  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Call 272-4135 to reserve a spot  
i(  bartenders and bar wait staff, as well ascashier positions. Must be 21 for the bar jobs. Very flexible schedules, good money, and a fun place to work. Apply in person at 123 W. Washington, downtown South Bend. LOST & FOUND  currently hiring test proctors and student advisors. Work from 2-16 hlwk. To apply, call 272-4135. BABYSITIER WANTED for family in Granger. Daysleve/wknds. Refs. & car rqrdl Call Laura: 243-4776. FEMALE ROOMATE to share 3br house 5mi from ND.Beautitul  GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR­1/2 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM RM. NEW AC/SIDING. MANY UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112 OPEN HOUSE -WOODBRIDGE CONDO 18188 Stoneridge, Apt.D. Sunday 2-4 Ironwood just north of Toll Road. 2 bdrm, remodeled,  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 2,3,4,5 and 8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2004/5: CALL ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 Lodging available tor all NO home games. Walk to NO. 574-289-3864 or 574-220·7979.  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (5"'4)232-0964. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- Seeking quiet/grad roommate. Quiet street, 20 min. to campus. Choice of 2 rooms; $220 or $300, 1/2 uti!. 269/325-2267. You can't stop this. Can't contain this. A Weasel victory? No way. Return to Glory is this year.  
Lost near NO: Small white, black  w/amenities $400/mo + 1/3 Utilities 255-1984  reduced to $75,900. See more at reedburrer.com 235-3659  FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished houses, prime locations, sec. sys- BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  Come to Good Time Charlie's this weekend. Hettler will be there.  

and brown spotted dog on 9/5/03. Reward. 232-2601. 
LOST: Yellow and black Northface backpack in North Dining Hall on Friday, 9/12. Please call574-229·2889. No questions asked. 
SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES-needed for south side elemen­tary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street $30.00 per soccer game; $25.00 per VB match. Call 291-4200. 
99 Honda Civic EX, Exc. cond., fully loaded, auto, 44K, dk grn. $9,900. Call574.251.1459. 
CLASSIC "65" STUDEBAKER CRUISER RUNS GREAT! 83,000 mi $3,900 call: 289-9351 terns, sand V-ball, wash/dry call Greg 233·9947 
2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two signle. Immediately East of the Campus tor Game Weekends Only. $80 per person/per night Call 272-0928 
674-6593. 
Will trade 2 MSU, 2 NAVY, or 2 BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC tick~ ets. 574-289-8048 
2003 Grad needs 1 or 2 MSU tick­ets. Call Matt at 516-220-9656. 
You should too. I'm not tawkin' ta anybody. Cradle robber. 
Happy 21st Dan, watch out for bulls and escalators. 

I, 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + SPORfS page 21 
NCAA fOOTBALL 
Fans come 

San Jose State amputee returns to field 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Neil Parry returned to San Jose State's football team on Thursday night with a spring in his step. 
Nearly three years after Parry's lower right leg was amputated, he returned to the field with a prosthetic right leg and a job on the Spartans' special teams in their game against Nevada. 
His historic comeback required 25 operations, 15 prosthetic legs and untold hours of physical therapy, but Parry's dream came true when he joined quarterback Scott Rislov and defensive end Philip Perry as team captains for the pregame coin toss. 
Parry is believed to be the first non-kicker ever to play NCAA football with a prosthet­ic limb. He received a stand­ing ovation from the Spartan 

Stadium crowd when his name small San Jose State crowd was announced. ·wure No. 32 shirts. Parry took the field with his Pa.rry severely broke his 
teammates for warmups an right leg while playing on hour before game time -and kickoff coverage during a except for the media horde of game at UTEP on Oct. 14, cameras and reporters who 2000. Serious inftctions devel­
followed his every move, he was com- oped in his leg, and it was  
pletely indistin­guishable from his  "He's put in so  amputated nine days later.  
teammates.  much hard work  But  in  his  
Dressed in his dark blue No. 32 jersey, Parry par­ticipated in stretching exercis­es with ease, smil­ing while twisting his prosthetic right  and received so much help from so many people ... Nick Parry father  hospital bed just hours after the amputation, Parry vowed to play football again. His fami­ly initially was frightened by 

leg in wide circles and sweeping motions. He hugged a few of his teammates and later slapped a few helmets before heading to the locker room with trainer Jeb Burns several minutes before his teammates. 
Several fans in the typically 
'' 
heese··ca 
·'~·'' 
.,.,.,.,.•.. .·.~=·=·· ...~w ~•.., . b.,~ e 

Domestic &Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic ofTea 
Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 

233-c~tre 
NOW Hiring 

GOLDEN DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 
54533 Terrace Lane South Bend, IN 46635 .(US 23 next to Subway) 
Tel: (574)271-8899 We Deliver 
Fax: 271-3399 for menus 
Parry's deter­
mination -but after seeing the array of pros­thetic technology to match it, Parry's parents and older brother firmly got behind the plan. 
"It just got to the point where we didn't think we had any business trying to talk him out of it." said Parry's father, Nick. "He's put in so much hard work and received so much help from so many peo­ple. It's a dream come true." 
Josh Parry was a team cap­tain and star linebacker when his walk-on younger brother was injured three years ago. Josh made the Philadelphia Eagles' practice squad this summer as a fullback -and the Eagles' bye week gave him a chance to see his brother's comeback. 
San Jose State was inundat­ed with media requests for the game, turning a minor Western Athletic Conference meeting into the school's biggest game since an upset victory over then-No. 9 TCU three years ago. In that game, Josh Parry played phenome­nally -and after each tackle, he pointed to his wheelchair­bound brother watching from the stands. 
DIRTY SOUTH­

outdepite weather conditions 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -With 
rain and wind from the out­
skirts of Hurricane Isabel 
soaking through parkas and 
bending back umbrellas, there 
seemed a thousand better 
places to be than outside with 
soggy fried chicken and cold 
barbecue. 
Then again, Virginia Tech 
was playing football. 
All 65,115 seats at Lane Stadium were sold out for Thursday night's game against Texas A&M as Hokies fans streamed into Blacksburg, maroon and orange flags wav­ing from their cars in firm defiance of the storm. 
Hours before kickoff, a few hundred fans held down tents in the parking lot outside the stadium and huddled under­neath, holding back the rain with sub sandwiches and beer. By kickoff, most seats in the stadium were filled. 
"I was here in 1995 when it was 20-below and the wind blowing 30 miles an hour," said Bradley McCall, 25, an insurance salesman from Roanoke who has missed only two games in 10 years. "When the Hokies are playing, I'll be 
here no matter what." 
How wUI you go from dreaming the possible to making it !1appen? 

All students, graduate students, MBA's atldfaculty are invited to: 
INFORMATION SESSION 
For: 

INTERNSHIPS ·VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES BUSINE'SS PLAN COMPETITIONS 
A.VAIL1BLE THROUGH THE GIGOT CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES In the Atftmdo:ut College of Business 
,\1onday, September 22, 2003 
5:30-6:30 pm 

In the Atrium of !vtendoza College of Business 
. Light refreshments served 
Information about pa;d and unpaid internships a~d vol~mteer opportunities in social ventures &non-profits, famtly busmesses, and /aunch/starl-upslfor-proftts. 
Also information about the family of business plan competitio~~· incl~di?~· McCloskey Business Plan Competition, Social Ve~ture Camp~ I ron, 0 P m Business Plan Competition, and /nventton Conventton. 

r------~ 9
I 

page 22 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 19, 2003 
NHL 



Turco ends holdout with $12 million, 3-year deal 
' . 
•. 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -While the Dallas Stars were going through their first week of training camp, holdout goaltender Marty Turco was home in Ontario working out on his own. He didn't bother hooking up with any local teams because he was hoping to join his team­mates soon. 
It was a smart move. 
Turco left Canada on Thursday, comforted by having signed a $12 million, three­year contract. 
"The process is never easy, but it's fun when it's over," said Turco, who already was at the airport when he dialed into a conference call with reporters. 
The bottom line of the con­tract is similar to what Turco rejected a week before, Stars general manager Doug Armstrong said. 
"The main thing is that both sides are comfortable." Armstrong said. "We probably both feel a little squeamish, but that's probably a good sign." 
Turco will get base salaries of $3.5 million, $4 million, then $4.5 million, plus per­formance-based bonuses. It's a huge raise from the $850,000 he made last season while set­ting a modern NHL record with a 1. 72 goals-against average. 
In his first season as a full­time starter, Turco was an All­Star, going 31-10-10 and lead­ing the Stars to the most points in the Western Conference. 
Dallas was ousted from the playoffs in the second round. postseason. on a week of camp. 

Turco had a 1.88 GAA and a Turco rejected a $12 million The Stars opened preseason .919 save percentage in the package Sept. 11, missing out olav Thursdav ni~tht. 

Visist LePeep in South Bend across from the Hall of Fame or next to Super Target in Mishawaka. 
M thru F  271-PEEP  
6:30 am -2:00 pm  Mishawaka  
Weekends  
7:ooam-2:oopm  288-PEEP  
-call ahead seating  South Bend  

-catering at your site -non-smoking -unique menu items such as fruit crepes, pampered eggs, skillet dishes, great "lite" way omellettes, and sand­wichesand salads -professional upscale atmosphere 
Bring this coupon from The Observer to LePeep and 
.
rec1eve: Buy One Entree, Get One FREE!* *Equal or lesser value 
Expires Oct 17, 2003 

Ento1Jmet1t ~nings. are·Now Avallable . > • : • ,, for the Following Age Groups: 
··. ,•----... ·. 
.· A&redited Progr.un, DegreedTeachers, 25+ Years (JfServing ',.,:;:; C1')ikfren1 Faq~~li~ and the u)rllm\JniW, Innovative .Gurriculum 
Ntu1uting,.Stimulating Teachers 
. . . . Early Childhood Developn1entCenter, Inc. at Saiflt Marv's
•
College 
528 !E. Colfax ?tve., Suite #2 South $end, fJIJ{ 46617 574/232-1822 
312 w. CleveGnu{ 'RJ. §ranaer, 1'1f46530 574/277-6693 

.' 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
page 23 

The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Randall leads No. 8 Hokies to 35-19 pounding of Aggies 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -Texas A&M put more of a scare into No. 8 Virginia Tech than the rain and wind of Hurricane Isabel. Two huge runs by Bryan Randall rescued the Hokies from all of it Thursday night. 
Randall scrambled for 13 yards down the right sideline on third-and-6 from the Aggies' 26 and then went 12 yards around the left side for an insurance touchdown with 8:20 left in the Hokies' 35-19 victory. 
"They both felt good," Randall said of the runs, the second of which capped an 11-play, SO­yard drive and gave the Hokies 
a 28-19lead.  ·  
"The first down  was  like  a  
touchdown to  me.  It kept the  

drive alive and gave us new life, four more plays to try to get into the end zone." 
The play capped a bizarre night at Lane Stadium, on the opposite side of the state from where Isabel knocked out power to nearly 1.5 million peo­ple. 
The Aggies (2-1) did a lot of their damage thanks to the arm and fast feet of quarterback Reggie McNeal, who repeatedly connected on key passes or left defenders grasping at air as he turned a corner and broke free, 
But Randall's version of catch me if you can saved the night for the Hokies (3-0) when the Aggies needed a stop to keep their hopes alive. "It's always disheartening 
when you have him and you let 
him out," said Aggies defensive 
back Jaxson Appel, whose 
interception stopped a Hokies' 
drive and helped Texas A&M 
get within 21-19 with 14:24left. 
Once Randall gave the Hokies 
breathing room, the Aggies 
helped, too, failing to field a 
pooch kickoff that Virginia Tech 
recovered and turned into 
Kevin Jones' third touchdown of 
the night, an 11-yard run. 
With 5:33 to play, the out­come was sealed and the Hokies' string of victories in games played before October reached 27, dating to September 1996. 
"They made the big plays when it was time for big plays to be made," said McNeal, who was 11-for-21 for 133 yards with a touchdown and an inter­ception. He also ran 12 times for 47 yards, including a 16­yarder. 
"He just flat out outran us a few times," Hokies coach Frank Beamer said. 
And the Hokies, too, helped out with a series of blunders. 
They twice swarmed Aggies punter Cody Scates, once allow­ing him to escape for a 15-yard run and a first down, the next time getting called for an off­sides penalty that negated a sack by James Anderson. 
Pressure also caused Scates to twice get off poor pl!nts, one setting up a short Virginia Tech TD drive, the other being mis­judged by DeAngelo Hall. recov­ered by the Aggies and turned into a 24-yard scoring drive. 
The touchdown, on a 15-yard 
pass frcr.1 McNeal to Tim Van 
Zant, helped quiet a crowd 
looking for a reason to cele­
brate in the wet weather. 
But the Hokies came right back, getting a 27-yard burst from Jones to start the drive and Randall's two runs to finish it. 
"He makes good decisions," Beamer said of his quarterback. "I've got a lot of faith that things are going to work out right with him." 
Jones finished with 188 yards on 30 carries, by far his best game of the season despite a steady rain. He scored from 1, 2 and 11 yards and said he was relieved to finally play up to his own high expectations. 
"I was definitely listening and hearing [criticism], but it didn't really matter to me because I knew I could get the~job done," he said. 
"I was just waiting for myself to do it." Randall was Y-for-13 for just 63 yards and one touchdown. 
McNeal directed three scoring drives of 12 plays or more before halftime, the last one the sweetest -and alarming for the Hokies. 
Virginia Tech seemed to have the Aggies right where it want­ed them with about seven min­utes left in the half. Leading 14­6, the Hokies looked for a big play after downing Vinnie Burns' punt at the Texas A&M 2. 


Fall 2003 Schedule ~ v lf\Experienc(' an intimate ilisctts~ion witll Notre Dame's most engaging ~ I(\fanllty speakers 1)n some of the rnost pres.~ing issues of om times. \CcU ·::t ~~~ri. 9/6-~·'ashington State ~ "7Gu~;tavo Gutit:rrez. Pmfe,~;,sor of1l1eologg f··· ~ !-<John Cartlitml O'lfara Chair tn n}t!riiogy . ci):'Liberation fh~.~ology for the 2t( Centurl · w9/20 -Michigan State ~ ~ ~·· Actors from the tondon Smge . . •: :Frorn Page to SGlge': An inttradiw audienet· < r..performance· e:xperience;'·. ...-j~ l""·~·~~ 10/18-usc ~ [.Q... ,...~,...john AkGrecvy~ lkpartment Chaitt)et~~on. ~ ]obtt ll. 01Jrien Associate Professor of11ist01J-' ~ "Catholicism and Anx~rican Frt.:·edont ~ 0 z...~ll/1-Flodda State C;.~mlyn Nordstrom, Associate PnH'e.,~~or iif.Jbithropology "Living on the Front bnes: An AnUH'Opologl.st .Looks at the Re~liLies of Wur'~ ~ ~;/.ll/8-Navy :./)Jim McAdam.sl Pnifes.mr ofPolitlwl Science, ~ ~ 11Jt~ D~: Wtlllarn M. Scbo/1 Chair In /nt(;,'t'tltttimwl Politics z"Hig Browser: Are we being watd1ed?" 11/1; -BYU Alasdair ;vbcimyre, Professor of Philosophy ''Truth Tdling and Lying'' f.!:3-l/2 honrs bdur~ kkkqff, at 1hc Hcsburgh Center Auditorium. ~ • for rnoni lnfom1ation, visit http://saturdayscbolar.nd.edu n ~...., ~-. U N I v· E R S IT Y 0 F NOTRE DAME  ~ ~ "1lrotn Page to Stage:'.-in interactive audietu:e petformance experience..' Actors from the I..ondon Stage lt'From Page to Stage': An Interactive Audience Performance Experience," with Actors from the London Stage. The actors will discuss their craft while addressing issues central to their perfonnance style such as how five actors with no director or scene designer create a fuJI text production of a Shakespeare p.lay in five weeks. how they interpret the text, and how Shakespeare directs them. lbe actors will also perform excerpt~ from their current production, "Measure for Measure," and will discuss the acting process. Actors fi·om the London Stage is an inten1ational touring theatre based at Notre Dame. The group tours North American campuses twice yearly, blending Shakespeare ~lroductions with classroom workshops. They will perform ''Measure for Measure'' from Sept. l 7-19 at Washington Hall on campus. For more infonnation, visit the website at h~://saturdayscholar.nd.edu , Event starts at 10:00 am at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium.  

----------------------··----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


~· 
~ 
( ) ! 
(' ( i 
' /
( 
> 
l ~ 
i 
t 
) 
I 
) ? 
1.--//,
-
Friday, September 19, 2003 

page 24 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

CALL TO 
SEPTEMBER 21-24

SOLIDARITY WITH 

AMERICANS AND AFRICANS IN DIALOGUE ABOUT AFRICA's PROMISE, NEEDS, AND IMAGE


CoNFEREN(E S(HEDULE FOR SuNDAY AND MoNDAY 
CoME WITH YOUR CLAss!... . ' 'if' ,I 
r . t =

SUNDAY, 21 SEPTEMBER 2003­
. . I ----' 

IJ:OO pm Opening remarks *McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, CSC (President, University of Notre Dame) 
The Bishops' Text and Call for Solidarity with Africa Auditorium
4:1s-s:oo pm >'-• 
• 

Most Reverend John Ricard (Bishop of Pensacola-Tallahassee) .;"' 
New Wine. New Wine Skins: The Role ofthe Church in Africa's Renewal 
P..-~· -~.# _........ :"--'f":-J • --­.. -.-. -----~ 
7:30pm Keynote Address -Joyce ACC 
• ' ~-• ' ''-,;..,,·.j' ,_;;; ~~-·~-.. :' .......J,· : ·:" _.-#

His Excellency Chief Olusegun Obasanjo "" ;.. -.,_ ' -' .· 
~ ':"' ~-­
,---,~--. _""}j" ~-· . ' ..,.,./.~'"' -.-:--~·. --.r ~.. -.J

President. Federal Republic of Nigeria 
,. '. . . . _... '----"f l _. 
___.. -I • '\ J t ~ f 
---..... I ..::--. J ··_·. 

"' --~ 
-=----~-~ ··~. ~~ 
·--..

MONDAY, 22 SEPTEMBER 2003 
l ·. ' _IT" . 

., 8:3o-1o:oo am Theology and the Project of Re-imagining Africa McKenna ~all Auditoriu·m 
-
-· -·-. 

.__ , . '':~ ~-::. -.\· ~ ~ 

Moderator: Prof. Maura Ryan (Vice President and Associate Provost. AssOCiate Professor of --. 
---.... _--.

Theology, University of Notre Dame) · ·_ -­
cl' --. ,J-,. -­



Sr. Teresa Okure, SHCJ (Professor of Scripture, Catholic Institute of West Africa) 
j~:.'.;_­
Solidarity among Christians: Lessons from the New Testament -­
Fr. E. Elochukwu Uzukwu, CSSp (Professor of Theology, KMI Dublin and Catholic Institute, Paris, France)·-. .. 
African Theology and the Project ofRe-imaging Africa '-~-­
. , ' ·----··-~ 
___, .'-~ 

Respondent: Prof. John Cavadini (University of Notre Dame)·· .. _
'l. ... .::. , . 1 "t . ... ·-:-......... ~ -~ .. ·... -,_ 
10:30 am-12:30 pm American and African Scholarship and ''the Call to Solidanty with Africa" 
,. ..--· ·· ... -r:~:..~ ..:-·~--:-:· ...~~ ... ,.--~ -­
_,;--,_

Moderator: Rev. Paul Kollman, CSC (Assistant Professor of Theology, Univ~~,,c)f t!k»1fe:· Dame) 


Rev. Cyprian Davis, OSB (St. Meinrad School of Theology) -~· ..:.:,~f:,~~';.~J .. . \ ~ .-·-· 
_..

American and African Scholarship and the Call to Solidarity with.Afric;p.::f!;/~ 
!"'"'".;r-..:.:~-~.. ~: ..· 

Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom (University of Notre Dame) · ~~""'""':~:<it · _; ~ 
-,-.'> 

The Church on the Front/ines ofWar and Peace i...-: • , . c· 
_;.a'w .;::.. ' ---:-~ • Rev. Michael Schultheis, SJ (Catholic University of Ghana) -. 1:;.,:~ -· 1-s. Catholic Higher Education in Africa: the Promise and the Projec~ --:,~:_:; ..=".,..: 
Respondent: Prof. Emily Osborn (University of Notre Dame) ~-· ~~~--~-·::"".~.~-$;:.
.:"'~-~--~· 
......... ... a...

--·-. -·~=· ~~ ~. ~ ! ' 
. •. '"'-;!i· ::;..! ~~~ 
Informal Breakout Sessions on Topics of Interest (optional} ·, ·~~;;~'t~;7 

...:k,,-­

U.S. Faith Based Organizations: Public Advocacy for Africa . ·xliditorium . -:· · . Facilitator: Mr. John Carr (Secretary, Department of Social Development and WorldPeace, United States Conference ofCatholic Bishops) ·-·h·~· .. 
Role of Civil Society in Africa Rooms 100-104 Facilitator: Mr. lan Gary (Strategic Policy Adviser, Catholic Relief Services) !" 
Food for Life: Confronting the Agricultural Crisis in Africa Room202 Facilitator: Mr. Ray Almeida (Policy Adviser, Bread for The World) 
3:oo-s:oo pm The Church at the Service of Africa Auditorium 
Moderator: Rev. Mark Poorman, CSC (Vice President. Student Affairs, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) 
Most Reverend Laurent Monsengwo-Pasinya (Archbishop of Kisangani, Democratic Republic of Congo/President of SECAM, Symposium of Episcopal Conferences of Africa and Madagascar) 
The Church at the Service ofHumanity 
Most Reverend John Onaiyekan (Archbishop of Abuja/President of the Nigerian Episcopal Conference/Vice President of SECAM/ President of the Episcopal Conferences of West Africa) 
Imaging and Re-lmagin¥ Africa: the Role ofthe Church 
Most Reverend Joseph N. Perry lAuxiliary Bishop of Chicago) 
The American Church in Solidarity with the African Churches 
Respondent: Mary Motte, FMM (Missiologist) 
5:15pm Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Presider and homilist: Most Reverend Wilton D. Gregory (Bishop, Diocese of Belleville/President, USCCB) 
6:15pm Dinner (limited seats available) Lower Level REGISTER ONLINE AT: Mr. Andrew Natsios (Administrator, US Agency for International Development) 
The Role ofFaith Based Organizations in Africa's Development 
WWW.ND.EDU/,..., ICL

8:00-9:30 pm Religion and Political Participation: Roots of Conflict in Africa Auditorium 
,.

Moderator: Prof. Mark Roche (Dean, College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre Dame) 
. "']
EMAIL: ICL@ND.EDU 

Most Reverend John Baptist Odama (Archbishop of Gulu, Uganda/President, Acholi 
"' 
:l

Religious Leaders Peace Initiative) 
REGISTRATION IS FREE FOR 

The Story ofthe Lord's Resistance Army in Northern Uganda 
Prof. Francis Deng (Brookings Institution, Washington, DC) 
ND STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF.

Religious Roots ofConflict: The Case ofSudan 
Rev. Mathew Hassan Kukah (Harvard University) 
Politics and Participation: An Overview ofthe Situation in Africa 
Respondent: Rev. Michael Perry, OFM (Office of International Justice and Peace, USCCB) 
9:30pm Reception Atrium 
.' 
Friday, September 19, 2003 page 25 
The ObJerver + SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 






Yankees-Orioles game cancelled in fifth 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Hurricane 
Isabel and the Baltimore Orioles 
teamed to deny Mike Mussina 
his 200th career victory -and 
leave the New York Yankees in a 
mood as foul as the weather. 
A steady rain and the immi­
nent arrival of winds up to 35 
mph caused Thursday's game 
between the Orioles and 
Yankees to be stopped after five 
innings in a 1-1 tie. 
The individual statistics will 
count, and Katy Feeney of the 
commissioner's office said the 
game will be made up as part of 
a doubleheader in New York on 
either Sept. 26 or 27. 
Umpires called the game after 
a 44-minute wait -immediate­
ly after the Orioles botched a 
chance to score the potential go­
ahead run. 
New York, closing in on its 
sixth straight AL East title, is 
five games ahead of Boston in 
the AL East with 10 games 
remaining. 
The circumstances surround­
ing the scheduling of the game, 
and the fashion in which it 
ended, infuriated the Yankees. · Yankees owner George 
Steinbrenner issued a statement 
that said the commissioner's 
office showed "terrible judg­
ment and overall stupidity" in 
proceeding with the game. 
"Schools, businesses, athletic 
events -virtually everything ­
was called off," Steinbrenner 
said "And for them to proceed was stupidity at its worst." 
The game was rescheduled from 7:05 p.m. to 12:35 p.m. to beat Isabel's arrival, but the rain began falling shortly before Mussina threw his first pitch in the bottom of the first inning. 
Minnesota 5, Chicago 3 
Jacque Jones hit a pair of two-run homers off Bartolo Colon, helping the Minnesota Twins complete a pivotal three­game sweep of the Chicago White Sox with a victory. 
The defending AL Central champions lead the White Sox by 3 1/2 games and Kansas City by 4 1/2 . Minnesota has nine games left -seven against the worst team in the majors, Detroit. 
Chicago plays the Royals seven times and the Yankees three. 
After losing two straight in Chicago last week and falling two games back in the division race, the Twins have won five in a row against the White Sox in a span of eight days. 
Boston 4, Tampa Bay 3 
Manny Ramirez hit his 35th homer and Tim Wakefield pitched into the ninth inning, leading the Boston Red Sox over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Boston increased its lead in the AL wild-card race to 2 1/2 games over Seattle, which lost 2-1 at Texas in 10 innings. The Red SoA are five games behind the New York Yankees in the AL East with 10 to play. 
Wakefield (11-7) allowed three runs -one earned -and seven hits in 8 1-3 innings. He left with a 4-2 lead and runners at first and second. 

Texas 2, Seattle 1 
The Seattle Mariners don't have time to figure out what's going wrong. They just need to win some games. 
Seattle's playoff hopes took another blow Thursday when Texas rookie Laynce Nix blooped an RBI single in the 1Oth inning to give t.he Rangers a 2-1 win. The Mariners lost three of four to the AL West's last-place team. 
"We needed to come in and have a good series and we did­n't," Bret Boone said. "We've been saying that for the last two weeks, that we need to play well. And we haven't played well consistently.... I'm out of good answers." 

Kansas City 3, Cleveland 2 
Jose Lima's return might have come too late for the Kansas City Royals. 
Lima pitched five solid innings in his return Thursday night as the Royals beat the Cleveland Indians 3-2 and won their sec­ond straight road series. 
Kansas City remained 4 1/2 games behind Minnesota, the AL Central leader. The Twins beat Chicago 5-3. ­
"We're still alive," Royals manager Tony Pena said. "We have to continue to play hard every single day and win some ball games." 
They might need some help, too. The Twins play seven of their final nine games against Detroit, which is on the verge of setting a post-1900 record for losses. 
Raul Ibanez was 2-for-4, drove in a key run and made a diving catch for the final out. 
Lima (8-1) allowed two runs, scattering six hits and a walk for his first win since July 27. He got key double plays in the sec­ond and fifth innings to get out of jams. 

"We asked him for five innings or between 70 and 80 pitches. He threw the ball well," Pena said. 
The Royals' bullpen shut down Cleveland the rest of the way. 
Jeremy Affeldt threw three hitless innings, striking out four and allowing a walk. 
"Affeldt was nasty," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. "He was throwing 95 with a big hook and he mixed in his change up against right-banders." 


-

,­
page 26
' 
\ 

'I 
\ \ 
,, 
,) 
,. 
·• 
:~ 
)• 
I 
,, 

around the dial 
WOMEN'S SOCCER NOTRE DAME at Stanford 8 p.m., WHME 
MAJOR LEAGUE 
Cubs at Pirates 5 p.m., FSN Astros at Cardinals 8 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Hawaii at UNLV 9 p.m., ESPN2 
I / 

ColvlPIL[O l·ROM THE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICtS Friday, September 19, 2003 
NBA 

Associated Press 
MONTEREY PARK, Calif. -Authorities on Thursday arrested a Swiss bodybuild­ing coach they said made a $3 million offer to kill the woman who has accused Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant of sexual assault. 
Patrick Graber was arrested for investigation of soliciting a murder after making the offer to Bryant's security director and then meeting with undercover detectives, Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca told a news conference at his headquarters. 
Baca said Graber, 31, of EJ Segundo, agreed to carry out the murder for $1 mil­lion up front and $2 million after the fact. 
"We believe it was a cred­ible threat," sheriff's Lt. Jim Taylor said. He added that just before the arrest, Graber was given a bag full of movie studio prop money. 
Graber was booked and held on $1 million bail, and an arraignment was set for Monday. Sheriff's officials said he had an expired visa and worked at a local gym. 
The investigation began Sept. 8 after security per­sonnel employed by Bryant said they had received a let­ter fr;:>m Graber saying he could solve Bryant's prob­lems, the Sheriff's Department said. 
A security official met with Graber and then con­tacted sheriff's investiga­tors. A meeting was arranged with Graber and undercover sheriff's detec­tives. 
The detectives concluded that Graber was offering to commit murder and they contacted the accuser's family in her home state of Colorado and authorities there to advise them of the alleged threat. 
Sheriff's undercover investigators had several more meetings with Graber in which a money exchange for the murder was arranged, officials said. 
Authorities said others may have been involved in the alleged plot. Taylor said Graber planned to hire someone to commit the crime and offered to provide evidence that it had been done. 
"He said he could make her not come to court, he could make her disappear, he could make her have a drug overdose," Taylor said. 
Graber allegedly told authorities he was involved in organized crime, possibly the Russian mafia. Sheriff's detectives said they do not have any evidence that Graber had those ties, but are investigating. 

IN BRIEF 
Missed practice leaves Holmes' status questionable 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Priest Holmes was held out of practice Wednesday, sore with what Kansas City coach Dick Vermeil called "running back's body." 
Vermeil said Holmes w.ould be "questionable to probable" for Sunday·~ game at l;Iouston, th.,e first road test for the unbeaten Chiefs and a much-awai<;.ed homecoming for Holmes, a native of Texas. 
"We held him out today and he did some running and weight training in the exercise room," Vermeil said. "He's got a running back's body today." 
Holmes, the NFL's offensive player of the year last season, underwent hip surgery in March. This season, he already has 53 touches, near tops in the league, even though team presi­dent Carl Peterson and others had indicated they planned to reduce his load. 
Asked if he would practice on Thursday, Vermeil said, "I hope so. I haven't talked to our trainers yet since practice." 
If Holmes sits out -which did not appear the most likely possibility ­rookie Larry Johnson, the first-round dr:aft pick -out of Penn State, may see his first action of the year. He and Derrick Blaylock worked with the first team offense at practice. 
"Hopefully, [Holmes] will feel better tomorrow and get ready to go the next day," Vermeil said. "I saw Priest had a smile on his face." 
The Chiefs released nose tackle Tank Reese, a rookie from Kansas State, and brought linebacker Quinton Caver back to the roster. 
"We're banged up at linebacker," Vermeil said. Shanahan cleared after false injury report 
DENVER-Mike Shanahan lied and got away with it. 
The Broncos coach was cleared of any wrongdoing Thursday after explaining to league officials why he lied about Jake Plummer's injury dur­ing a game last weekend. 
"The key is we're on the same page and moving forward, so the matter that occurred last Sunday is closed," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. "We're satisfied that it is resolved and that Mike understands the policy." 
The league started looking into Shanahan's actions after he gave a false injury report to CBS during half­time of Sunday's game against San Diego. 
Plummer was injured midway through the second quarter, but Shanahan told the network that the quarterback sustained a concussion instead of a separated shoulder. 
Shanahan came clean after the game, saying he didn't want the Chargers to have an advantage if backup Steve Beuerlein got hurt. The Broncos had just two quarterbacks at the time. 
Shanahan said he would protect his team if a similar situation came up again, but he would be a little more subtle about it. 
-


Friday, September 19, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
BOO R'S PUB 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD -''YOU BET" LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: 
FRI: 
SAT: 
SUN: 
Chef Kip Peters (formerly of South Bend Country Club) 2046 sourn BEND AVE Must be 21
272-1766 withv~~~~~~k 
AUTIIiENTIC I=RISN PUB 
FAMII..Y~PIIIEN'D:Lv· bec~~•e=eveavotli-.ts ..· 
welcome ina :f>ubUcHou'·,s.. =e····. 
. -·~-· 

LIVECELTIC ENTERTAINMENT FRJ &SATNIGHT 
FRIDAY, SEPl19 
6pm DAVID =~ES (AIMteland Champion) 9pm JOHN WILLIAMS & PATSROAOERS (Chiarga) 
. ..SATURDAY. . .. .. '·SEPT20·.. .. . ...
. . . . · 
9pm WHISKEY BEFORE. BREAKFAST (Kalamazoo} 
Ceh~brate the Irish Win=with tht·onty Guinness Golel Standard Award Pi=nt 
(The only Gold Standard pintin ihe}area) 



8 

8 
: : 

• 
StudJ' i11 one ofthe 
Spani~.,~h or Portugese International Study Programs: : 
.Diamonds 

Information Session about studying • 
Spain, Mexico, ~bile, and Brazil 
: 

--~-~--­
....-........ 
John M. Marshall's 
Incorporated 
1!)()5 
, .Jew~lers ( Get~of,Jgistsholdsuuths I P1ahnumsmiths

----···-·---~-~9=~~-(!~_p~ I • 
K~ Bank Building, Suite n101 

Monday night football on 15 screens 99¢ specials 
Give away night, including game tickets 32 oz specials 
Pre-game warm l.lP R&B Music and Dancing 
Game day on 15 screens with live 
waor remotes NFL Sunday ticket 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Walsh not concerned about PW 
definitely boosted our confidence 
By DAN TAPETILLO AND 
for Sunday's game." said 
ANNIE BRUSKY 

Schmidt. SportS Writers 
Despite last year's game, Walsh team captain Colleen Sunday's game between the Gannon admits that the team is Wild Women of Walsh and the looking beyond Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla for more challenging competi-West appears to have an intense tors. Schmidt believes key play-rivalry after the two teams met ers Karla Bell and Amanda last year. Borys will be difficult to play 
According to team captain against. 
Leslie Schmidt, the Purple In addition to several return-We as e Is ing veterans, the team missed the has been practicing Playoffs ..We won our game and it several times a week 
because of . and is "watching other last year's definztely boosted our teams to adjust to loss to the confidence for Sunday's [our] games," said W i l d .. Gannon. Women. It game. "Everyone is ready was a fiery to get back onto the game where Leslie Schmidt field and we are confi­the winner PW captain dent we can win," said would move Gannon. on to the The Wild Women are playoffs and the loser would stay confident despite Tuesday behind. night's loss to the Welsh Family 
"We are trying to redeem our-Whirlwinds. selves,'' said Schmidt. "We all played The team is looking forward to well on Tuesday and 
avenging the loss and proving to  it was a really close "We have some awesome  "It's  a  lot  
Walsh that they are going to be a tough opponent.  game,"Gannon.  said  . recewers.  O ur  d .1'.eJ ense  more pressurethan I thought  
The women have also been  The  team  is  and offensive line have  it would be. We  
practicing several times a.week  regammg  their  really been strong...  just  need  .to  
to be able to make the victory  focus and is certain  work at playmg  
possible.  Receivers  Alyssa  they will be difficult  as a team," she  
Howell, Heather Van Hoegarden  to play against.  Bridget Meacham  said.  "The  
and defensive lineman Lynne  Catch  the  two  McGlinn quarterback  receivers and I  

Francis are critical parts to the teams play on 
Pasquerilla West game. Sunday 2 p.m. at 
"Getting down the fundamen-the McGlinn Fields. tals is our goal because we want to move the ball really well," Lewis vs. McGlinn said Schmidt. The Lewis-McGlinn interhall 
Pasquerilla West is looking football match-up Sunday after-confident after a 12-6 win over noon is shaping up to be a close, the Pangborn Phoxes on competitive game between two Tuesday night. talented teams. 
"We won our game and it has Both teams have a couple of .• (J. games under their belt and were
• •-· · ,. ·-.· 1-0 going into Thursday's ··· • games. · ~=~·====~ "We just want to take it one ··. ·-game at a time, go out there and have fun," said Lewis quarter­
• back Erin Nasrallah. "McGlinn is always a strong team." 

• 
"It's not a long season so every game is important. At this point 

• 
we just want to improve on last / . year," teammate Sheila Dawes ·-· said.


• 


In their season-opener against Badin, the Lewis Chicks came out strong and won the game 8­6 despite what Nasrallah describes as "a sloppy second half." 
"There are some things we 
• Quality 
need to improve on for our next game, but we're coming along," Nasrallah said. 
"As we play each game, we get more and more comfortable playing with each other," Dawes added. 
In a similar fashion, the McGlinn Shamrocks defeated Lyons 7-0 in the first game of the season and are hoping to come out victorious again against the Chicks. 
"It'll be a good game. but 
we're pretty confident. We have a lot of experience," McGlinn cornerback Becka Saunders said. 
"Lewis has a lot of girls and we know they're a good team," said Bridget Meacham, the Shamrock quarterback. "We've been practicing hard every prac­tice and we prepare for them just like we prepare for any other opponent." t 
After playing defense last year, Meacham is still getting accus­tomed to the offense and her 
role of quarter­back. 
are still getting 
on the same 
page." 
In addition to their all-star quarterbacks, both teams are led by a solid defense and 
speedy wide receivers. 
"Our defense is amazing," Nasrallah said. "And on offense, we-have some key newcomers 
and some proven veterans who are coming together really well." 
"We have some awesome receivers. Our defense and offensive line have really been strong," Meacham said. 
Lewis and McGlinn may not be bitter rivals, but their history of playing each other leaves both teams hungry for a win. And as the season gets into full swing, they know full well that this is an importan~ gam.e on the road to the champiOnship. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu and Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.du 
South Bend, Ind1ana 46601

• Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud • 
2.87-1427

•••••••••••••••••: 
r--­
\ ,, page 28 Friday, September 19, 2003
The Observer+ SPORTS 
~ 
'I 
~ 
MEN'S SOCCER
& 
~ ., ~ 
~ Irish claim title of best team in Indiana 
~ 
~ 
...__ 
~ 
Sportswriters have a history after Kevin Goldthwaite Of course, the fun had to of exaggerating things. A sim­deflected a Chad Riley free kick come crashing to an end, and ple game of football can past Hoosier keeper Jay Nolly "The Boss"-as the team 
I 
become a battle or war. A with little less than three min­affectionately refers to head home run to win a ball game utes left in the second over­coach Bobby Clark -still 
can become time, that this was a special required the Irish to do their a shot game. customary cool-down stretches 
Justin Schuver 
heard In a scene reminiscent of a and calisthenics. 'round the Saturday afternoon in There was a crack in his world.' A American suburbia where quiet demeanor too, though. missed golf Associate eight and ten-year-olds clad in "I was very proud of our putt can be Sports Editor loose-fitting Umbro shirts and team," he said before cracking a collapse shorts celebrate a winning goal a smile. "This was a special of epic pro-over their league rival, the game. You know it's going to portions. fa~ade of Irish stoicism sud­be a long trip back for 
It wouldn't have been exag­denly came crashing down. [Indiana]. but we had to do geration, though, to say that The entire Notre Dame team, that coming back after the Notre Dame's 1-0 win over led by Goldthwaite himself, ran NCAA's last year. Indiana in double overtime was over to a corner of the field "That was our turn, and more than just another game. and made a dog-pile as though maybe now it's their turn." 
Sure, the stakes weren't that they had just won the national As the Irish will tell you, high. This wasn't a game for championship. their goal is to be the best the national championship, or When the ruckus finally set­team in the country. It's hard even the semifinals-as was tled back down, the team got to say what will happen the 
~ ', the case last year when the back to their feet and ran rest of the year. Notre Dame 
Hoosiers knocked out the Irish across the far sideline, waving could win the national champi­\ I with a 1-0 overtime win in the to a raucous Notre Dame onship, or could get knocked \ second round of the NCAA crowd, one of the largest and out in the first round. 
Tournament. most animated this year. No matter what happens the 
'J' 
,,, This wasn't a conference ''I'd say that celebration was rest of the year, for one ,l, game, or even one of those a testament to the struggle Thursday night and for one :~ "must-win" types of games. we've had to get things going special game, Notre Dame was 
l 
Both teams were ranked in the this year," said captain Greg the best soccer team in the top 20, both had winning Martin. "We've just been work­state of Indiana. records and both have ing hard on the little things, The views expressed in this 
.j '' "'­
,1) achieved national prominence and we knew that one day it column are those ofthe writer over the years. was going to turn. and not of The Observer. And yet, it was obvious by "I think that was the turning Contact Justin Schuver at watching the Irish celebration point." jschuver@nd. edu. 
'i 


:I 
I~ 
:~ 
~~ 
)\, 
I 
1 
I 
I' ) 
·~ 
... 

k_ ___ 
Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Optimism runs high for PE and Howard 
By RACHEL SCHIROS 
Sporrs Writer 
When a team has the enthusi­asm and optimistic outlook shared by Pasquerillla East and Howard, it is bound to be an exciting game. 
"We'd love to go back to the stadium, but most of all Pasquerilla East football has always been about having fun first, even when were winning and working hard," said Pasquerilla East player Laura Wolohan. 
While the Pyros charge into interhall bearing last year's tro­phy and a 5-1 record, Howard's record last season was 1-5. 
The Ducks enjoyed last season, disappointing stats or not, but look to have a more competitive presence this year. 
"We've got new coaches, a new attitude and a great group of girls willing to have fun and work hard," said Howard cap­tain Shannon Trevino. 
Returning upperclassmen include quarterback and co-cap­tain Sheena Ketchum and Courtney Schuster, though star safety Maureen Tate is out this season with an injury. 
Seeking to develop a base for Howard football in the years ahead, practices have focused on the details of working as a team to complete smooth plays. By better learning the skills needed for a particular position, they hope to increase playing field confidence as well. 
Pasquerilla East must prove itself anew, as it is another team carrying a high number of first year players and looking to replace important players lost since last year. The team is working to expand the consisten­cy of both parts of their game. 
"We've always been ... a defensive-minded team. But we've really been focusing on rebuilding our offense," Wolohan said. 
The freshman class is still learning but is highly athletic and has the makings for a solid team. Already starting at quar­terback for the Pyros is freshman Laura Adams. Backing her up is the experience of a number of veterans. Standing out are receivers Kathryn Lent and Leslie Follmer and defensive backs Rachel Brown and Stephanie Yahn. 
The teams play Sunday at 4:00 
p.m. on West Quad. 
Contact Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish to face top teams in 2003 
Special to the Observer 
A visit to fabled Pauley Pavilion in late February for a meeting with UCLA, a matchup at the Joyce Center against in­state rival Indiana in December and 12 national television appearances highlight the Notre Dame men's basketball schedule for the upcoming 2003-04 campaign. 
On the Notre Dame slate this season will be seven teams that earned a berth in the '03 NCAA tournament field. 
In addition to the matchup against the Hoosiers on Wed., Dec. 10, Notre Dame's 16-game regular-season home slate also will include visits by defending national champion Syracuse (Sat., Jan. 17), Kentucky (Sun., Jan. 25), Pittsburgh (Sat., Feb. 7). Connecticut (Mon., Feb. 9) and Geogetown (Wed., Mar. 3). 
CBS Sports will televise four of the Irish's contests. Notre Dame's first appearance on the network will be against Kentucky, while the remaining three games will be on the road -Connecticut (Sat., Feb. 21), UCLA (Sat., Feb. 28) and St. John's (Sat., Mar. 6) at Madison Square Garden. ESPN will tele­vise three home games ­Indiana. Connecticut and Seton Hall (Sat.. Feb. 14) -as well as two road games against Pittsburgh (Mon., Jan. 12) and Syracuse (Mon., Feb. 16). The Irish will appear on ESPN2 three times when they travel to Marquette (Mon., Dec. 1) and entertain Syracuse and Pittsburgh. 
Fourth-year head coach Mike Brey and the Irish will open up the season by playing eight of their first 10 games at the Joyce Center where they posted a glossy 14-2 mark a year ago. Notre Dame faces Northern Illinois in the season opener on Mon., Nov. 24, followed by a first-ever meeting with Mount St. Mary's (Sat., Nov. 29). The Irish will then travel to Milwaukee, Wis., to take on '03 Final Four participant Marquette. In addition to the matchup with Golden Eagles, six other contest are slated for the month of December. Notre Dame faces '03 NCAA tourna­ment participant Central Michigan on Sat., Dec. 6, fol­lowed by the Indiana game. 
Notre Dame travels to Chicago, Ill., for a Sun., Dec. 14 matchup against DePaul before closing out the month of December against American (Sun., Dec. 21), Quinnipiac (Tue., Dec. 23) and Morehead State (Sun., Dec. 28). 
The Irish open up the BIG EAST season at home on Wed., Jan. 7 against West Virginia and then play back-to-hack road games against Villanova (Sat., Jan. 10) and Pittsburgh. The matchup against the Wildcats on the road will be Notre Dame's first visit to the Philadelphia, Pa., area since February 8, 2000. Three of the remaining five games in January will be played at home -Syracuse, Kentucky and Miami (Wed., Jan. 28). The two road games will be against Virginia Tech (Tue., Jan. 20) and Rutgers (Sat., Jan. 31) .. 
Notre Dame starts off the month of February on the road at Boston College (Wed., Feb. 4) before its longest home confer­ence homestand of the season versus Pittsburgh, Connecticut and Seton Hall. Those three games will be followed by road games at Syracuse and Connecticut. Providence visits the Joyce Center on Tue., Feb. 24 for the final home game in February before the Irish head to Los Angeles, Calif., for a non­conference matchup with UCLA on Sat., Feb. 28. The Irish and the Bruins will be meeting for the first time since Dec., 20, 1995. Notre Dame has not visit­ed Pauley Pavilion since the 1994-95 season. 
The Irish play Georgetown in their final home game before facing St. John's in the '03-'04 
.•.
regular-season finale at Madison Square Garden. 



-~--------. 
Friday, September 19, 2003 

,_ 

\:­

:_:-~··:. 
r • 
; I 
'i :· 
I 
1. 
I' . 
I I 
J 
J ·, ,.,. 

'·. 

'. 
l ... 
'·) 
~­
top runners [at the annual National Catholic meet)." 
Race 
Nevertheless, the more impor­tant races of the season have not
continued from page 36 
yet arrived for the Irish. 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 
The Irish return home this weekend, as they host the National Catholic Invitational at Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish are not too concerned with this weekend's race. 
University.:-Facl~'-ff/Student :i'~:~~:,::··Ghlt cnrli·e\ 
,ti1onday,·''September 22:t:\ ,t'...rue~'=. se,utember2S , \ 
:;:-· .-:·:·. ·. . : '~ ../'· . . .,:,,,__ . :/''\. ~ 
5:15-6:15::::p:'my~ The warterr:=:,GolfCaurse Tb~:.-· ~-l::j"'~'i'tl'''WiJ l..,.,;ih-~-=1-d~ e 
\~~~1?lD~ 
-!'Wl=fta~~=· · S 
.·::::t~:::~;~:~:~;::~~i:~-,:. 
-shdl:t~1game -pd~~:Jing 

DIVINfi COUR~f ··· 
Interested Students should attend : first class session-
Free Delivery 
.~---------•
I LATE NIGHT I I SPECIAL I
I -.I 
I AFTER 10 pm I 
:2 Orders of Breadsticks : 1 and 2 Liter Coke· I Product
1' . 1 
I $ 7.97 I 
·----------· 
"It's pretty much for most guys
ward to seeing how well they 
just the opening race, pretty low 
do." 
key, just kind of a rust buster ­
Similarly, the women are 
nothing too major," Moore said.
expecting to do well, even with­
"And our real focus starts at the
out top run­ners like jun­ior Lauren King and 
..It's pretty much for most
sophomore 
Molly Huddle. guys just the opening Without those race. pretty low key. just 
runners, the 
kind ofa rust buster .....
Irish, led by meet champi­on Jean Tim Moore Marinangeli 
Irish sophomore 
were still able to take first place at the Valparaiso 

Offers expire 10-28-03 
•-----------~ 
:one Large One: 1 Topping for • 
I $8.99 I 
1 1
or
I I 
a 2 Large One • 1 Toppings • 
I.. ___________$14.99 ..I
I I 
Notre Dame Invitational in two weeks." 
For now. though, the sen­iors who have not had many opportunities to race and the freshmen who are still adjust­ing to collegiate cross country will have the opportunity to 
prove themselves today. 
Invitational. Notre Dame is look­"They'll get a chance to hop in
ing forward to a greater test 
and start racing," Marinangelitoday, at least among individual 
said.
runners. 
"There is going to be good competition," Marinangeli said. Contact Joe Lindsley at "There are usually at least a few jlindsle@nd.edu 


STMARY'S

NOTRE DAME
The coJlis $10.00 
» ... 
HOLY CROSS

Register 4~ RecSports 
271.. 1177 
before ifoon 9/22 
'• 271 .. 7272 

for information calll-6100 :-·' 

Wel~ome Ba~k Students 
. :: 
'dvanced CU-B­

Fa£ulty & Staff 

Mon-Thu 12-12 
Fr, Sat 11 am-3am 
Sun 12pm-1 am 
Visa, Mastercard 
r---------~-•
I I
tOne Large One. 
I ... . I
.opp1ng,
1 1 
• Breadsticks • 
• and a 2 Liter • 
: Coke Product : 
• $12.99 • 
I I 
·-----------· 

,;;_ ..·. -.··-;· 
,!if;:!i£~~ 
~.)~~~·""'....,,.>«fOo:f<>-fi.!l:li..~reC"' 


N #13 1'1\en"'s 
Soccer vs. -#19 tnd=iana !!tl~li
•:=•Thu rs, 9/18 at:; 7 P /"v'\ at Al u m n i F i e t<-:i ,,,,,,,,.,~;;:,=~,L'':ff1:~:{::t''' -. 
• 
Firs·t. S<~·.>c.:) 'fans r--~=-~<.'t.'.~ive fC')drT'l hat:.s! -Sf~<.:')rlS<~·>r('_,.d by Pdf':>d .Jc>hn-~s­

• 
ND ST.l.JDENTS: Win .2. a1rlirlf-.'.~ t:i-c:.ket:.s arlywhtcrf.'.~ ir-·1 ·t:ht:.=~ continental U.S.!!! 



Nat:i.::>r·laf Cat:hc">l ic. Championship 
f\.1'\en"s & Women's 
Cross-Country: Fri..,.. 9/"~9 on the NL-., Go!r Course (.9 H(.""">fe) 
4:·15 for WOfTlen"s Sf< 5 pn, for~ Finish of f\/\en"s 5 /'./\1 
All ND Studen.ts Admitted Free 


#"13 1\Aen"'s Soccer vs. \.Nest: Virginia Sun, 9/21 at 2.pm at:. AI'LJmni Field 
• First .250 fans re<:etv~~ a bott:.h~neck jersey ..~nd .a <::oke produ<:t:~,~ 
Irish Basketball Practice Sat.,.. 9/20 at· ·1.:~' arTl at: J c:> y <: t.=:~ Ct.=~ n t·. ('.~ r A.re:-r1 a 



Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
Women 
continued from page 36 
well with both Stanford and 
Santa Clara," said sophomore 
midfielder Annie Schefter. "We 
need to go out and have fun 
and play as good as we can." 
"Santa Clara really thrashed us last year, but we've had our fair share of success against both teams," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "We might have the overall edge in the series, but it's always any­body's game. Whoever makes the fewest mental mistakes will win." 
One challenge for the Irish this weekend will be the differ­ing styles of their opponents. Stanford is led by the defense, and goalkeeper Nicole Barnhart who led the nation in goals-against average last year by only allowing four goals all season. 
Meanwhile, Santa Clara will try to match the Irish offense as they are led by a group of talented forwards that look to provide a lot of goals. 
"Santa Clara is like us in that they have a lot of weapons," Waldrum said. "I think we might have a little edge defen­sively with Melissa Tancredi. She can be the best back in the country when she puts her 
mind to it. Stanford's defense 
and Barnhart are very strong. 
All three teams are very talent­
ed." 
For the Irish, having Stanford and Santa Clara come in off of rough starts could be more of a negative than a positive. 
"We'd prefer they'd have continued to win," said Waldrum. "Santa Clara's loss and tie last weekend makes this game even more important for them. At the end of the year all three teams will be there." 
"They are both huge games," said Schefter. "But I think our team is so talented that I think if everyone shows up to play and has a good game, we'll be fine." 
The Irish come in off a strong performance last Saturday against Western Kentucky, win­ning 5-0. This carne after what was arguably their worst game of the year in a 2-0 win over St. John's. 
"I think we needed to go back and send a message, not only to the rest of the country but to our kids again, that we just kind of had a letdown [against St. John's] and that we could come back strong. It was good going into Santa Clara to score some more goals and keep the 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Win 

continued from page 36 
the play into overtime. 
"This is a big game because it's in-state, but the biggest part that's important is they're in our region," Riley said. "That could come into play come tournament time. Maybe they'll have to travel here this time." 
Notre Dame players said that, if nothing else, they wanted to win this game for their coach. Clark had a 2-3 career record against 31-year Indiana coach Jerry Yeagley. Yeagley will retire after this season. 
"The Boss is .500 with Yeagley now, so we're. happy we could do this fot him," Goldthwaite said after scoring the game-winner. 
Norman and fellow freshman Ian Etherington both received significant playing time. 
Norman has· seen much action to date, and his role in this game may mean something more on a personal level for the frrst-year player. 
"I think Nate has been bur­dened with trying to do every­thing when he gets on the field," captain Greg Martin said. "This is great because with set­ting up this goal I think the tide really turned for him. I'm glad for him. Nate Norman is the epitome of a Notre Dame guy." 
Other Notes 
Senior Justin Detter struggled • on runs at forward, prompting Clark to insert sophomore Tony Megna at forward in overtime and move Detter to midfield. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

u·niversity ofNotre Dame ....o\.nnual Drinking Water Quality Report Consumer Confidence Report 2003 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water· Act requires each public watt..'T supply to produce 
a water quality report titled the HConsumer Confidence Report"~ (CC.R}.  ·FolloV\ring is the  
University~s annual report :for the 2002 calendar year.  
The University"s water system. is operated by the Utilities ·o<..."PartmenL  It is a privately owned  

public water supply. T'he lJn.iversity's system provides water to the University co1n.munity and the nearby C.S.C. properties. Questions regarding the system or sampling results can be directed to Paul ·Kempf, ·Director oflJtilities~> 102 Facilities Building, Notre .Datne., lN, 46556., phone 574-631­6594 or Mike McCauslin, Assistant ·oirec~or., Risk ·Managt.,"111.ent and Safety, 636 (}race Hall, Notre ·oamej< IN~ 46556, phone 574-631-5037. 
T'here are currently six wells serving the water system. All are located on the catnpus proper. The water is dra"vn fron'l det.."P aquifers that arc adequately protected by substantial clay barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contan1ination. ·we are also taking steps to ensure that our water source does not hecon1.e contan1inated and are in the tina] &tages ofwhat is known a..c;:; a ·wellhead Protection Progran1. This program assists in defining where the '\Vater supply com_cs from and n1.ethods to protect the aquifers from potential contamination. 
rrhe sources 0 f drinking water (both. tap water and bottled.) include rivers,. lakes,. streams, ponds,. reservoirs,. springs, and "vells. As water travels over the surface ofthe land or through the ground,. it dissolves naturally-occurring tninerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and can pick up substances resulting fro1n the presence of animals or fron1. hun1.an activity. 
Drinking water,. including bottled water, may reasonably b~ expected to contain at least sn1all amounts ofsome contaminants. The presence ofcontatninants does not necessarily indicate the water poses a health risk. .M.ore infonnation about contan1.inants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the .Environmental Protection Agency.. s Safe Drinking Water Ilotline (_l-800­426-4791 ). 
Contaminants that n1.ight be expected to be in source '~rater (untreated water) include: 
Microbial conta:Jninants'J such as viruses and bacteria, which may come fron'l se"vage Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and n1etals, which can be naturally-occurring or 




page 32 Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
i 
I 
" 
~ 
! ~ t 
" 
~ ~ 
t 
) 
! ) ~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
\. 
t 
) I 
t 
~ 
) 
~
• 
~ 
~ 
t 
t 
~.· ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 

• 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Crucial stretch awaits Belles 
By JUSTIN SCHVVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's (8-5, 1-3 MIAA) hopes to get back to their win­ning ways as they come home to face conference opponent Alma (8-3, 1-0) Sunday at 1 p.m. 
The Belles lost to Adrian on the road Wednesday in straight sets and are anxious to pick up their second confer­ence win of the year. Saint Mary's defeated MIAA oppo­nent Kalamazoo during the SMC Triangular tournament September 13. 
Alma defeated Saint Mary's in straight sets all three times they faced each other last year, including once in the 
SMC SoccER 
Belles face first test in conference play 
By ERIK POWERS Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary1's will face its 
toughest opponent of the season 
tomorrow when it travels to 
Hope College, where the Belles 
(4-0-1) and Flying Dutch (5-0-1) 
will clash in an early season 
struggle for MIAA supremacy. 
Hope is 3-0-0 in conference 
behind the strength of MIAA 
Defensive Player of the Week 
Holly Nestle. Nestle, a fresh­
man, recorded a pair of shutouts 
last week and has just allowed 
one goal in her five games this 
season. The Flying Dutch are 
tied with Alma for first place in 
conference and have scored 16 
goals while only giving up one. 
"We [had] a whole week to · prepare for Hope," coach Peter 
Haring said. "They're one of the 
top two teams in the conference. 
Unmistakably Italian .~, Unbelievably Good : ~b 
~~· Enjoy generous portions of contemporary ~ Italian entrees and pastas Hke Salmone alia Griglia & Papa's signature Sizzlelini.~ 
·.. 
·f Family·Style Take Out meals are petfect for ~ any large gathering. All portions serve 8~ 10 people. 
574-271-1692 

-;rlfutittt-Sty.tt 
Take Out 
From P<ie:'s Kitdsen to Yours 

Rc:>serw.tions Accepted · wvl\v.qdi.ronVp~j)avinos/papavino~.htm 
season-opening Alma College Tournament. 
If the Belles hope to end that losing streak to Alma, they will have to figure out how to stop a talented offensive attack. 
Outside hitter Kristin Judson is among the Scots' leaders in production, leading the team with 129 kills and 118 digs in 32 games so far this season. 
Defensively, the teain is well balanced, with three players with 20 or more blocks on the season. Middle hitter Erin Fralick leads the team with 25 blocks, and middle hitter Kelly O'Connor is right behind with 24 blocks. 
Setter Lindsay Baker leads the Scots with 27 service aces and has only committed nine service errors so far this sea-
This is a game that-if we take what we've done up to this point -we'll be in good shape to come home with some success." 
Freshman forward Carolyn Logan was considered for the Offensive Player of the Week and junior Carrie Orr the Defensive Player of the Week honors. Logan netted a hat trick versus Adrian while Orr scored a tie­salvaging goal against Calvin. 
Logan continues to emerge as an early-blooming impact player. Tri-captain Jen Concannon said she is impressed by Orr's combi­nation of offensive contributions with hustling defense. 
"Carrie Orr, our sweeper, has definitely stepped up," Concannon said. 
The Belles play at Hope at 1:00 
p.m. tomorrow. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
son. 

Alma is coming off a straight-set victory over MIAA opponent Olivet Tuesday, in which their opponent never broke 20 points for a game. 
The Belles are entering a crucial part of their schedule, in which they play five straight games at home, including three against conference oppo­nents. 
After Alma, Saint Mary's will host Hope on Tuesday and face Olivet at home next Saturday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
2003 Endowed ·Fall Le·ct-ure Series 
11More Than One Way to Be Catholic." 
~ltn:e Tha.n One \'\f~tv to Be Catholic:: C.atho lk h-J.entit\r Revisited 
~ ~ 
¥At:i't,k~r~ ['\;!>l.r,~d~t .. f'HF!~{ Ph.D. Ditl.·d~:)tr C~i1Ur-fi)t S~ritd:m'fhty S..tit.lt ld~tt_y '~< OlJt~~l· 

Tuesday, Sept. 16~' 12115 p.m. t-o 1:00 p.m.. 
Guada.lupe ~nd the Crud.fied One: llispanic \Vays of ~ing Cathulk H&io:.Jthv l.wtodm~. J.qtJ}., /L.;;.~4Jc:·&·de P"mk{o.:t:·'~ 'fhr\•\bgv. [)l'n;(.t.i;.,, Cui<b~tM CetiNr ,fl'<r Amn.il~41'ir CitthtlH.-.do,mr··' · Ur~h,~:.r•~ity ~~l l\\:ltn; .U~it..llt• 
\\'ednesdayt Sept. 24,. 12:15 p.m to 1:00 p.m. 
Breathing L~ssons! An Introduction to East£rn Catholic Clintn:h~s 
:;;:..~~'t~l.'.~•v (\.-:ri~i~=·~·. Ph. r> -'h~-~·iat'"' J:•,~:-,f~·-,.~,r: ·p1i:YJ.lr::q; 
" ;;.~ __:~ -)cow~ ·-~. :;~:.. :~.~·i· ~ ..:.·~· j':,~·~~-· .".~~.... 
, .,,).1 ~( ~. rn~· .• C :bus. '<:"'-, "" ·.·..t... ! 
~ :-.,. 

Tuesday~ Sept. 30.• .12~15 p.m. h) :l:OO p.m.. 
Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans I:Iall Free atld Opett to the Publtc 
·:·:·:·:-.·:·:·:·:·:·"·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·<:·:·:·:·:·z·•·•~·~......,_,__.... 
SaintM~~~t~qU~~ 
NOtkt O.~.~E :JNP.J~~::~ 

hn rlHH'~ inh1:1·mathm~ oct1nt<1d M;u-y Ann M.anu~:otk. .1t 5?<t...2S<t... 4:fiJ.:l) m· ~mt&i:l' ;d motnull(t>lki~l4i1i •~hn.l')'!4.edu 
Observer File Photo 
Saint Mary's looks to regain momentum this weekend. 

CfNn\R 1~. SP.fRlTUAilYY. 
.v.-••, ............e.i'1~~~~i:···M···..·},-~-i~··~:·iirii"" ..........., -~~~~~""f.~-; . . -S.-~-J.. ~""t ~~ 
.,.,r·>~;••}:J ; . ., •t #'"
• , :J.,-....... • -J,.,..• .., .Kl.
, 


Friday, September 19, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin defense prevails in shutout of Lyons, 7-0 
By BOB GRIFFIN, DAN 
TAPETILLO AND ANNE 
BRUSKY 
SportS Writers 
In a fierce battle between two intense defenses, it was the girls of Badin who came out with a 7-0 victory over Lyons on Thursday night at Riehle field. 
Badin came out with a relent­less passing attack on their opening drive, capped off by a Molly Donnelly 21-yard touch­down reception. Badin seemed flawless moving the ball down field, with quarterback Erin Zachry getting all of her receivers involved in the flow of the game. With completions of 16 yards,. 16 yards and 20 yards, Badin easily moved the ball leading to the only touch­down of the game. 
"We did a good job running our routes today," said Badin's Molly Donnelly. "But in their credit, they did a good job on defense. Their defense was tough all day." 
After Badin's opening touch­down, the game turned-into a defensive showdown where both teams did not allow anoth­er touchdown. Badin stopped Lyons twice inside the red zone, including a late interception to virtually end the game. Badin intercepted quarterback Roxi Travolta a total of three times, two of which came from defen­sive back, Jenn Carter. 
"The defensive really did all of the work today. Carter was amazing. We give them all the credit," said Donnelly. 
Zachry played well on offense and was able to complete sever­al passes for over 10 yards. The Badin offense completed 8 pass­es for 65 yards including Donnelly's first half touchdown. 
"Lyons' defense applied a lot of pressure today, but our offen­sive line did a good job protect­ing our quarterbacks and filling up the holes," said Zachry. 
Badin is now looking ahead to finish the season strong and make a legit run at a champi­onship. With the offense click­ing on the opening drive, and the ·strong defensive play throughout the game, these goals are not distant. 
"We're going to keep getting better. Everyone better watch out come playoff time," said Donnelly. 
Lewis 15, Howard 0 
Lewis was anything but chick­en as the Chicks defeated the Howard Ducks 15-0 in Thursday night's game. 
Although the Lewis offense struggled in the first half, the Chicks were able to convert with 40 seconds left on the clock before halftime. Quarterback Erin Nasrallah with her excellent pocket pres­ence and ability to keep compo­sure as she scrambled, threw a wide open pass to Lynne McChrystal in the deep left cor­ner of the end zone. McChrystal also completed the two-point conversion to make the score 8­0 at the end of the half. 
The Ducks were unable to answer, burdened by their own offensive struggles and a strong Chick defense. The Ducks tried several special options and despite the strong defense from Lewis, the Ducks remained per­sistent and continued to battle. 
"The defense was as awesome as usual,'' said McChrystal. 
Nasrallah  agreed  as  she  
believed  the  defense  was  
focused  

"Our offense was a little shaky at first but we were solid once we got rid of the pre-game jit­ters," said McChrystal. 
The solid offense continued into the second half as McChrystal came through for the team with her second touch­down of the night. McChrystal also completed the one-point conversion afterwards to make the final score 15-0. 
The Ducks did however put pressure on Nasrallah with sev­eral sacks by freshman Emmi Calland and team captain Brin Anderson. 
McChrystal attributed Thursday night's win to both the defense and offense. 
"The defense only allowed Howard to get a couple of first downs and the offense kept moving the ball and we could not be stopped," said McChrystal. 
Despite the loss, Howard cap­tain Anderson remained opti­mistic. 
"It was our first game of the year and we did not have much experience," said Anderson. 
"We have a young team and everyone stepped up ... the offense did great running options and the defense did an awesome job," said Anderson. 
From this young team, fresh­man Calland showed leadership and great potential for the future as she had, "a really good showing," said Anderson. 
Although the Chicks won the game with a shut-out, quarter­back Nasrallah said she believes the team will, "still improve with each coming game." 
McGlinn 21, PE 19 
After getting off to a shaky start, the McGlinn Shamrocks came back to defeat the defend­ing interhall football champi­ons, Pasquerilla East, 21-19 in an exciting, action-packed game Thursday night under the lights. 
"It was huge. We knew how good Pasquerilla East was. We just had to come out strong," said Raquel Ferrer, McGlinn's running back. 
"I think we'll be the defending champions now," said her jun­ior teammate Theresa Novotney. 
The Shamrocks were down 6­0 after Pasquerilla East's Tricia Davis made an interception early in the game and Leslie Follmer scored on the following series. The Pyro's increased their lead when Kristin Mc;~.rcuccilli scored off a 10-yard play midway through the first half, making the score 12-0. 
The Shamrocks were not easi­ly discouraged, however, and they came back with two quick touchdowns as the first half was winding down. 
Novotney ran the ball in from 10 yards out and Ferrer showed her explosive· burst as she scored from two yards out. Quarterback Bridget Meacham connected with Carolyn Gibbs in the endzone for the extra point after both touchdowns, making the halftime score 14-12 in favor of McGlinn. 
"It was awesome. We were just ready to come back,'' Novotney said. 
After their halftime break and several penalties in both direc­tions, the Pyros answered with a 20-yard touchdown pass to veteran receiver Kathryn Lent. The freshman quarterback Laura Adams found the end­zone again for the extra point, this time with Follmer making a diving catch. 
With the score 19-14 in the Pyro's favor, Shamrock receiver Liz Maher broke free from the defense after catching the ball near the 50-yard-line and ran it in for the final touchdown of the game. Again, Meacham con­nected with Gibbs for the extra point, making the final score 21-19. 
"Our defense held us in the game last game but we knew we had to come out there and score some points against PE," said Drew Pittman, a McGlinn coach. "It just clicked tonight." 
Backed by a mass of spirited fans, the Shamrocks are excited to extend their winning streak .. to 2-0. 
"To win a championship, you have to beat people who have won championships and Pasquerilla East won it all last year," Pittman said. "Both sides came out ready to play. It could've gone either way. We stopped them, they stopped us; they scored, we scored. I tip my hat to everyone, especially Pasquerilla East. They played a great game." 
Both teams are already look­ing ahead to their next game on Sunday. 
"It was a tough loss, but the Pyros gave it their all," said avid fan Caitlyn Doyle. "They'll come back next game." 
"I was really nervous for our first game, but the upperclass­men stepped it up," Adams said. "We made a lot of mistakes but we'll get better as we go along. I'm looking forward to getting a win on Sunday!" 
Likewise, the Shamrocks are confident and optimistic about the rest of the season. 
"We have a tough game Sunday against Lewis, but we're ready to just go out there and play," Novotney said._ 
Contact Bob Griffin at bgrif­fin@nd.edu, Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu and Anne Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 



fljb,,e ._9fl-chan, (j}LL;-r.;,,e/ 
508 W. McKinley Avenue. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
574-254-9070 
~ 1lt4it ~~ '?Utea 1~1/!:~1 

Traditional Non-Vegetarian,Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! Monday-Sunday 11:30 -2:30 pm 
Dinner Hours Sunday-Monday 5:00pm -9:30pm Friday & Saturday 5:00 pm -1O:OOpm 
------
............................~ ··"···· 
:o 
i 
''· 
1......,.,.~-·--··--..-· ..········:--'•""···:·--"·· 




page 34 Friday, September I 9, 2003
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
In their preparations this Alumni captain Larry Rooney "We're really going to lean on to regain some pride with its sea­
Knott and Siegfried will match 
week, both teams described anticipates a tough game. them to be both stalwarts on the son opener against Carroll. 
up this Sunday afternoon at 3. 
themselves as more focused on "Any game in our league can field as well as emotional leaders "As always, Zahm 's going to be 
p.m. on the Riehle North fields, 
the basics of their own games be considered a rivalry," Rooney off the field," Downey said. be a tough team," Carroll's sen­
as both teams look to not only 
than any special preparation for said. "We are just looking for­Stanford, on the other hand, ior captain Jim Butz said.
win the coveted Planner Cup but 
this week's opponent. However, ward to playing the game and will look to sophomore quarter­Carroll has been practicing
also to start off the 2003 season 
expect a hard-hitting, emotional beating O'Neill." back Rich Whitney, senior tail­three times a week, for between
with a victory over their archri­
rivalry game. Both teams profess back Mark McNamee and senior an hour and an hour and a half
val. 
to be fired up to play. safety Nick Befera as key con­each day, for the past three
Defending interhall champion Stanford vs. Keenan
"If we can beat Siegfried, we tributors this year. While the weeks, said Butz. He is "really
Siegfried enters the game return­Another chapter in the bitter
know we can beat anyone," upperclassmen will undoubtedly pleased" with his team and the 
ing an incredible 21 of 22 Stanford-Keenan rivalry will be
Donovan said. "We think we can play an integral role in determin­"good effort" they've been giving. 
starters. The team should get a penned on Sunday afternoon
make a run this year." ing whether Stanford is able to Even though Carroll was shut 
further boost from increased when the North Quad neighbors 
build upon last year's playoff out by Zahm last year 14-0, Butz 

participation within the hall fol­lock horns in the season opener 
appearance, the freshmen will believes his team can compete

lowing last year's championship O'Neill vs. Alumni at 1 p.m. on Stepan Field. 
also have a hand in the process. this season.

The beginning of each football "There's a little bit of a rivalry
run. 
"We just need the freshmen to "We've got a good chance [of

season is marked by the smell of there and our games are almost
"We had 50 guys try out this 
come out of their shells," winning]," Butz said. 

optimism in the air. 
year, up from 2 3 last year." said always decided by a touchdown Marques said. "There's defmite­Zahm's senior captain Mike
Each team looks forward to or less," said Stanford linebacker 
captain John Torgenson. "We 
ly potential there, and if they Maimone is also satisfied with his 

improving on the previous year and captain Dave Marques.
actually had to cut some guys 
have a good year, we should be team's work ethic during prac­

and O'Neill is no different than "We're defmitely bringing every­
that were on last year's team." 
in good shape." tices. Over the past week,

anyone else. The Mob come into thing into this game." 
Despite losing last season's 
Ultimately, while the expecta­Maimone has noticed something

their season opening game Although the two halls may be
middle linebacker to a study tions between the re-tooling different about his team's play.
against Alumni eager to put the located in the same building,
abroad program, Siegfried 
Knights and veteran Griffins are "People have been really ready 

past behind them. The Dawgs they found themselves on oppo­
returns what should be a domi­significantly different, the intense to go, a lot more intense."
defeated the Mob last season and site ends of the Gold League last
nant defense led by defensive emotion produced by the heated Maimone said. "We'll be good". 
O'Neill is looking to return the season, as Stanford finished 3-1
end Kevin Phipps and nine more rivalry ensures that Sunday's Zahm and Carroll both have a

favor when the two teams meet and qualified for the playoffs
returning starters from a unit results are anything but pre­lot of returning players. Butz
Sunday at 3 p.m. at Stepan Field while Keenan stumbled to a 1-3
that gave up just one touchdown dictable. believes some new faces on his
South. mark.
last season. Offensively, the "Keenan-Stanford has always roster will make the difference: 
O'Neill captain John Enterline While the Griffins will field a
Ramblers will once again feature been a game played on heart and "Carroll has some new fresh­
is confident in his team's -team composed primarily of
a strong passing attack led by emotion," Downey said. men talent," said Butz. 
chances. returning seniors the weekend,
quarterback Bill Bingle and wide "However, there's a fine line Zahm will battle Carroll at
"We are going to come. out only three seniors and nearly a
receiver Jon Kaup. Torgenson between taking advantage of that Riehle Field North on Sunday at
there and give Alumni a run for dozen freshmen will suit up for
described Bingle simply as "a buildup and still playing under 2p.m.
their money," Enterline said. the Knights. 
great athlete." control ... you never know what's 
"That was last year; this is a new "We'll be pretty dependent
Torgenson also holds high going to happen." 
season." upon our freshmen growing up Contact Kevin O'Neill at
hopes for the running game led 
The Mob boasts a speedy quickly," Keenan quarterback Zahm vs. Carroll koneill4@nd.edu, Mike Gilloon -' 
by running back Tim Breitbach. 
group of receivers that should and captain Patrick Downey said. Last fall, Zahm only allowed at mgilloon@nd.edu, Matt
"We're hoping our line can 
pose a threat to the Dawg sec­"The sooner they adjust to this two touchdowns against oppo­Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu and
push people around and open up 
ondary. Mike Mulligan and level of competition, the better nents during the regular season, Katie Wagner at 
some holes," Torgenson said. 
Enterline lead a sturdy lineback­off we'll be." finishing with an impressive 3-1 kwagner@nd.edu
The Knott Juggernauts come in 
ing corps. There are six fresh­
looking for revenge after last 
men on the squad this year, and
year's loss to their rival. They 
all of them are slated to see some
hope to gain it on the strength of 
action.
what captain Drew Donovan 
Alumni enjoyed last year's win, 
promises will be a stout defense 
and the Dawgs feel they're ready 
led by cornerback Brian 
to emerge victorious once again.
Schmutzler. 
Like O'Neill, the Dawgs are excit­
"Defense will be the strength of our team. like it is every year," ed to get the season underway 
and are confident in their
said Donovan. Offensively, Donovan describes chances. They are piloted by sLx the unit led by quarterback Ben seniors and have a talented Gilfillan and running back John freshman class, headlined by Bisanz as "a little bit untested" tight end Matt Augustyn. Their but says to look for a balanced offensive backfield consists of 
Planner Cup kicks off with Knott and Siegfried matchup 
offense with an emphasis on quarterback Chris Cottingham Keenan will be counting on the record.
By KEVIN O'NEILL, MIKE 
being able to run the football. and running back Alex senior triumvirate of Ryan Despite Zahm's defensive supe­
GILLOON, MATT PULGLISI 
"] think to win in this league, Roodhouse. Corey Harkin is a Crochet, Sean McCarthy and riority, they still lost in the first
AND KATIE WAGNER 
you have to be able to run the player to watch on the defensive Brian Long to provide examples round in the playoffs last year.
Sports Wrirers 
ball," Donovan said. side of the ball. for the inexperienced squad. This Sunday, Zahm has a chance 






THAI RESTAURANT 
"We invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, that will excite your five senses, sweet, sour, salty, spicy and natural." 
Lunch: Mon-Fri 1lam -2pm · Dinner: Mon-Sat Spm -9pm 
'. 211 Main St. Downtown South Bend 232-4455 NOW HIRING 
'~ I 
'·• 
~ 
~ 
' 
GET ON Die 


saturdayu.september 27 
BUS lEAVES FROM LIBRARY CIRCLE toW~. LAFAYETTE @ 9:00am & RETUR:NS 1/2 HOUR AFTER GAME. $10 per ticket/6 tix per ID/1 10 per student on sale while they last atthe LaFortune Info Desk beginning Friday1 September 19 
(bua tdtst a tar hn~ my fiF!d dee& not grant admllilllior: 1o the game} -
NO ALCOHOL .... SEATING IS LIMITED 



Friday, Seprember 19, 2003 
The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
-
HENRI ARNOLD

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

CROSSWORD  '~1LL SHORTZ  
ACROSS  32 Headstrong one  64 Gives freshman  
1 Acceptance as  34 Failed to  introduction, say  
cool, to some 11 Nuclear physics prefix 15 Pop choice 16 Examination room sounds 17 City on the Mahoning 18 Georgia and others, once:  37 By and by 38 They're not too sharp 40 Level 41 Memorable sidekick 43 1999 Ron Howard film 44 Saab model  65 1974 Peace Nobelist Eisaku 66 Lie DOWN 1 bean 2 Certain harness race 3 Outfielder  
Abbr.  45 Base of a  Mondesi  
19 None too soon  crocus stem  4 Sicilian resort  
20 Royal borough of Greater London 22 Nail-biting sports events, briefly 24 Knuckle-headed  47 Daubs 49 University of Cincinnati player 52 LAX abbr. 53 Irrationality  5 Pushes 6 Synthetic 7 Chi hrs. 8 Corner piece 9 Astronomer Hubble  
gestures of  55 "Gil Bias" writer  10 Yoplait  
affection?  60 Cartoonist  alternative  
25 Lost it  Walker  11 Fender, perhaps  
30 Subject, usually  61 Base for some  12 Java locale  
jellies31 "I'll speak a prophecy_ 63 Paranoiac's go": Shak. worry ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  13 Pang 14 Leagues: Abbr. 21 Yummy 23 Bonehead 25 Nathanael who wrote "Miss Lonelyhearts" 26 Suffix with smash 27 Crayola color  36 Suffix with 11-Across 39 Joseph Stalin's daughter 42 Quint's boat in "Jaws" 46 Animal on the field, perhaps  49 Some dermatological anomalies so Name on a famous B-29 51 1998 World Series winning manager 54 Hit hard  57 Kind of recorder 58 Will of WJeremiah Johnson" 59 Swedish actress Persson 62 and the Dragon (Apocryphal  
introduced in  48 Aces  56 Row  book)  
1990  
28 Painter whose  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a  
name means "little dyer"  credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888-7 -ACROSS.  
33 "I'd like to give it  Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  
a try"  past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  
35 Role in Racine's  Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,  
"Britannicus"  nytimes.com/leaming/xwords.  



Unscramble these four Jumbles, o.1e letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

NEVET 
i I l 
;:J;!OOJ Tribune Medta Servtees, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
I [I I I 

www.jurnble.com 
CIMTRE 
[ J I 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

?f WHAT THE CAR­PENTER DID WHEN HE ENTERED THE HAMMERING CON­TEST. 
~ 
1 
1 Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
l 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: HE j
"[I I I I I J" ITJ l 1 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: CYCLE SURLY LAVISH CHISELYesterday's 
~ 
Answer: A cold snap can do this to a beach vendor­"CHILL" SALES 
l
• 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Trisha Yearwood, Joan Lunden, Jeremy Irons, Twiggy, Sylvia Tyson, Paul Williams 
Happy Birthday: This is the year to reach your expectations. Your added discipline and shear determination will make it difficult for anyone to lead you astray or stand in your way. Don't fear making a mistake; instead, realize that trial and error will bring positive results. Your numbers: l, 15, 28, 36, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Relationships may be hard to handle. Do not make rash decisions about your personal life. You can make new connections throu~h friends or relatives.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Join forces with colleagues. and you will get twice as much accomplished. Your ability to work with others will be noticed by superiors. Advancement could easily be yours. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can meet individuals who will help you expand your knowledge and become more aware of your talents. Creative endeavors will bring you great satisfaction. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let those you live with cause you grief. You can offer solutions to their problems, but don't let them take you down with them. You need to distance yourself if they offend you. *** LEO .(July 23-Aug. 22): Your friends and family will enjoy your gregarious and ,colorful lifestyl_e. Your ability to enjoy what life has to offer will be a refreshing and uplifting experience for 'those you touch. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make professional changes if you actively search for the right position. You will do well if you go for interviews or send out your resume. Don't be afraid to ask for favors. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your aggressiveness will rake others by surprise. You will be fed up with the incompetence that surrounds you. Consider being your own boss. It's time you put your talent to work for yourself. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't believe everything you hear. You may be ied astray by co-workers who are jealous of your abilities. Keep your intentions to yol!rself. You will accomplish the most if you work alone. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too eager to do for others. Be careful you don't get taken advantage of. Use your energy to benefit those who honestly deserve your help.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Sit tight and don't take what others say to heart. You are likely to have a change in your position that could cause you some grief, but if you hang in and act professiona;.Jy, you will prosper. *** AQUARIUS tJan. 20-Feb. 18): You should experience whatever life has to offer. Your curious nature is leading you into unknown territory. Let your imagination flow and your inquisitive mind take over. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You mustn't let others take advantage of your giving nature. You have enough to do without taking care of things that others should be doing for themselves. It's time to learn to say no. **** Birthday Baby: You were born with good ideas and can make a difference if you take the time to develop your thoughts instead of just dream about them. Take the i_nitiative; your reluctance will be your downfall. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

----------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ______ Zip________ 
.. 



THE OBSERVER 
p

page 36 

Friday, September 19, 2003 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Taking Charge 
Irish avenge last year's NCAA elimination, beat Indiana 1-0 in double overtime 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Notre Dame avenged its post­season loss of a year ago with a 1-0 double overtime victory over No. 19 Indiana at Alumni field on Thursday. 
The No. 13 Irish scored with 
2:48 remaining in the second overtime on a deflection off of a direct kick from twenty yards out. It was just Notre Dame's second shot on goal in the extra period. 
Senior midfielder Chad Riley, who kicked the ball, swears the play was not designed. 
"It was not a set play," he said. "I just hit it and it happened to deflect." 
Kevin Goldthwaite, who redi­rected the ball into the net, gave the same account. 
"I just wanted to frame it and get a rebound if it came off the keeper," he said. "It just went off my side." 
Whatever Goldthwaite or Notre Dame meant to do, the play worked, and the Irish are now 3­1-2. 
The kick was set up by an Indiana foul on freshman Nate Norman. The Irish midfielder intercepted an ill-advised trail pass by a Hoosier forward and made the run deep into Indiana territory. Norman and the Irish, even with so mueh time elapsed, were still on the attack. 
"What I like is when we play overtime, we're the team trying 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 
to win," coach Bobby Clark said. "This team can play with any­one." 
The Hoosiers out-shot the Irish 6-3 in the first half, but shots were even the rest of the way. Neither team was shy in its dis­tribution of fouls [Indiana 17, Notre Dame 15] in what became a physical battle, with three yel­low cards being handed out by referees. 
Indiana controlled play to start the game; and Notre Dame seemingly kicked the ball with­out a purpose. When the Irish settled down, they were content to work the ball between defend­ers and midfielders and maintain possession. 
Chances in the first half came on sideline runs by Irish defend­ers Kevin Richards and Goldthwaite. Richards had more than a couple crosses sail over the box. His play, however, kept the Hoosier defense at bay and prevented them from pinching on offense. 
"We have two of the best over­lapping fullbacks in the country," Clark said. 
In the second half, Indiana got off to a similar start. Notre Dame caught a break with just under sixteen minutes to play in the half when Hoosier midfielder Pat Yates took a through ball in on Irish goalie Chris Sawyer and missed wide right on a perfect angle. The Irish rebounded simi­larly to the first half and carried 
see WIN/page 31 

Tough weekend awaits Irish 
Irish host Invite 

By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Looking at the records and rankings heading into the Santa Clara Tournament this weekend, the casual observer might think that the Irish are the prohibitive favorites, boast­ing an unblemished 6-0 record and the No. 2 ranking in the country. 
But the Irish know to expect two battles against tough foes. 
Santa Clara, ranked No. 2 last week, and Stanford, ranked No. 2 in the preseason, both pose tremendous threats to Notre Dame's chances of continuing their winning ways. Last year, the Irish failed to score a goal in either match­up, falling to eventu·al NCAA runner-up Santa Clara 4-0 at Alumni Field while ending their 
en 1.1.1
1-u 
•.. 
a: z 
::5 
i~. == 
'·l 
A.t;: 
en 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knott vs. Siegfried 
Sunday, 3 p.m. 
Mod Quad rivals square off in their sea­son opener. 
page 34 

season at top-ranked Stanford by falling 1-0 in the NCAA Tournament. 
However, this season Santa Clara has started only 2-1-2 and stands at No. 10 in the lat­est poll. Stanford is 3-2 and is 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
Both the men's and women's cross-country teams will par­take in their second race of the season today as they host the National Catholic Invitational at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
As in their previous race, the Valparaiso Invitational held two weeks ago, the Irish will be holding out their top runners to preserve them for more competitive events. 
"It's going to be a good way to gauge where we are and get more girls out there," sopho­

ranked No. 16. Despite last more Jean Marinangeli said.
year, the Irish have had past 
"It's going to be different,

success against both opponents 
because there will be a lot

and hope to return to those 
more people running [com­

winning ways this weekend. 
pared to the Valparaiso race)." 

"I think we match up really 
The Irish plan on using today's race to help prepare

see WOMEN/page 31 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMC SOCCER 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Saint Mary's vs. 
Saint Mary's vs. 
Alma 

Hope 
With their win 
their less experienced runners for the tougher competition that will confront them later in the season, as well as to afford future top runners race experi­ence. 
"It will be a good experienee for later on, when we have races with tons of people," Marinangeli said. "We will have more people in the mix. We'll work on working togeth­er, spotting out our team­mates." 
Sophomore Tim Moore, who will not be running today, is optimistic about what he thinks the Irish harriers will be able to accomplish. Notre Dame took second at its first race of the season. 
"There are some guys that have been out front, looking great in workouts," Moore said. "I am just looking for-
see RACE/page 30 
MLB 
Scores from across the 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lewis 15 Howard 0 
McGlinn 21 PE19 
page 33 
Thursday night, the National League, as 
Irish claim bragging 

Hurricane Isabel affects The Belles look to get 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
rights in Indiana. 

play. back on track. 
The Belles face the 
Flying Dutch in MIAA play. 
page 32 page 32 page 28 page 20 


'lJjrmiG~Jlb:gf®Ttu~mnx~/fmmml~n . · llibl®!llfffi~"d.fuifi ODGillt9 ~~tlD·dir9~Jful:Jb cgD},fug~dJmlG!nmmlllnfitro~ D .... · 
::·»"~·-~ -~ ~;' 
I f . ' 
.f ' ' 
I \ f I
. 
' t 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 19, 2003 
Holiday deserves to be the starter 
He's been caHed a square peg in a round hole, a quarterback with a noodle arm, a runner who has no business standing behind center. 
He's heard the muttering walking through the dining hall, answered tough questions after tougher losses and got­ten e­mails telling him in non-polit­ically cor­rect lan­guage that he stinks. 
He's seen a hotshot freshman anointed as Notre Dame's quar­terback of the future. He's been blasted for his lack of pocket presence. He's been torched because he gets knocked out of games too early. 
In fact, about the only thing . Carlyle Holiday hasn't heard from Irish fans is the one thing he should be hearing. 
Namely, that the third-year starter should be the undisput­ed starting quarterback at Notre Dame. 
But Holiday is too proud to admit that the criticism gets to him. He's too focused to let comment...;; distract him. And he's too disgusted at his own play against Michigan to care what others think. 
"Right now, I gotta do what I gotta do," he shrugged, "and let people say what they wanna say. 

"And I'm tine with it." 
He should be, because if Holiday isn't Notre Dame's starter, than who is? Brady Quinn? The true freshman, whose potential talent on the field is malcing Irish fans drool as much as his good looks make girls drool ofT the field, has thrown a whopping 10 passes in his college career. Three were completions-good pass­es, but not a touchdown yet­and one was an interception. 
But that hasn't stopped count­less fans from saying Quinn should start. Of course, these people were also calling for Quinn to start after he handed the ball off a handful of times during the go-ahead touchdswn drive against Washington State. How much poise does it take to say hut, spin around and hand the ball to Ryan Grant or Julius Jones-at home? 
Quinn will be Notre Dame's quarterback of the future. But he's not the quarterback of the present. 
Sure, put a raw quarterback in this season, behind one of the worst Notre Dame offensive lines in recent years. If he plays badly (and he hasn't exactly been impressive so far), his con­fidence could be irrevocably shaken and tomorrow's golden boy could just be a relic on the bench. 
What does Quinn think of him starting? "I think they're silly," he grinned. "I think they don't know what they're talking about. I'm in here doing my thing, and I know Carlyle is the man." 
Holiday knows exactly what the attention surrounding Quinn feels like. Two years ago, when Matt LoVecchio helped the Irish stumble their way through two losses in two games, fans tripped over them­selves wondering when Holiday would start. By the third game of the season, Holiday was the starter, where the spotlight shined much brighter-and less rosy -than it did when he was on the bench. The best quarterback in America, as Holiday discovered, is the Notre Dame backup. 
But, as Tyrone Willingham said earlier this week, the quar­terback gets too much credit and too much blame. 
It's not Holiday's fault he gets hit every play thanks to an offensive line that doubles as a sieve. It's not Holiday's fault the offensive play calling doesn't utilize his mobility to let him roll out of the pocket, run some draws or-gasp -run a handful of option plays. 
And it doesn't help that two of Holiday's worst games -USC in 2002 and Michigan in 2003 -came against arguably two of the best defenses in the nation. 
Holiday is far from Notre Dame's ideal quarterback. He is far from the most polished passer. He'II make progress in moving through his receivers even as he struggles to get the ball to them. He'll hold on to the ball too long in the pocket or try to rush it and force a bad play. In another year, Holiday may not even be the starter. 
But he's not the worst quar­terback, either. Coaches say he understands Bill Diedrick's complicated offense. Holiday openly and honestly discusses his shortcomings with reporters, but he also has had over a year of experience with the system. He's one of the toughest players on the team, and he has to be, for all the hits he absorbs on Saturday (both during the game and in the interview room}. Plus, he knows starting at quarterback for Notre Dame is a lot harder than backing up the quarterback for Notre Dame. 
Meanwhile, Quinn was get­ting ready for the Dublin Coffman High School prom when Holiday was playing in the spring Blue-Gold game. As much as teammates praise his poise, and as much as some want to anoint him the next great Irish quarterback, there is no way he has the experience necessary to handle all aspects the Notre Dame quarterback position. 
Quinn will get playing time this year. He'll get the experi­ence he needs. But, barring another meltdown like Holiday delivered Saturday, he shouldn't start this year. Let him watch and adjust to the college game from the sidelines, and save the quarterback battle for the spring. 
"You're always going to have someone looking over your shoulder, especially at a place like this," Holiday said. "You have to have snake skin." 
Don't give the starting job to the guy who might be better in the future. Give it to the guy who is the best right now. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"There are numerous things that we didn't do well, that we normally do well., 

Derek Curry Irish linebacker 
"There's a sense of . urgency for 
us to come out and play our brand of football. , ..You have to go forward. You can't dwell on losses.,, 

Courtney Watson Irish linebacker 
..Every week and every game is a different type of motivation. , 


Better Ingredients. Better Pizza. STMARY'SNOTRE DAME HOURS Mon-Thu 11 :OOAM-1 :00AM ·HOLY CROSSFri, Sat 11 :00AM-3:00AM Sun 12:00PM-1 :00AM Papa Predicts: NOTRE DAME 23 MSU 10 IRISH SPECIAL ·------------------· r------------------~I ·------------------~ I I I:One Large One Topping I I:LATE NIGHT SPECIAL: I I :coMPLETE MEAL DEAL: I 2 Breadsticks & I I I I IOne Lar~e One Topping, I $8.992 Liter of Coca-Cola product I I I I IBreadstic s &a 2 Liter ofI I I OR I I ICoca-Cola productI I I I$7.99I :Two Large One Topping I I I I I I I I I I $12.99 I I After 10:00 PM I I I I I$14.99I I I I I I ·------------------· ·------------------· ~------------------~FAST • HOT+ QUALITY+ GO ND!  

• I ' ' I ' 
. ' ' 
f I' ' 
-~­

Friday, September 19, 2003 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Feeling a sense of urgency 
After last weekend's embarrassment, the Irish know Saturday is a must-win 
determine how the tone for the against their past
By MATT LOZAR 
rest of the season. three ranked oppo­
Associate Sports Editor 
"After what happened on nents. After starting Saturday, as a player and a his initial season 8-0, The glory feels so far away. coach, the pressure and sense of fans began to believe Dating back to the end of the urgency is at a level it hasn't everything was back 2002 season, the Irish have lost been for awhile," linebacker to the way it's sup­three of their last four games, Courtney Watson said. posed to be under been outscored 136-48 and seen A long season the Golden Dome. the offense reach the end zone Notre Dame coach Tyrone The past seven only twice, both in the fourth Willingham loss to Michigan games has changed quarter against Washington brings back memories of a loss their way of think­State. from a four seasons ago. ing, but not 
All of the anticipation and In 1999. Willingham's Willingham's. buildup during the 2002 Return Stanford team lost its first game "I would prefer to to Glory season survived the of the season to Texas 69-17. look at it from the one-sided losses to USC and The Cardinal defense, in current total. I know there North Carolina State. Students, Notre Dame defensive coordina­are those who prefer fans and alumni -actual and tor Kent Baer's first game at to look at individual subway -talked about Notre Stanford, allowed 178 rushing parts of it," Dame football all summer and yards and 380 passing yards. Willingham said. felt this team realistically had a Texas was ahead 48-10 at the "There are some chance a,t another double-digit half. Last week, the Irish gave that will probably win season. The miraculous up 38 points, 188 yards rushing focus on, what is it, comeback against Washington and 251 yards·passing. four of the last State to open the season made it Willingham's coaching philos­seven? That's a pref­appear as if the magic carried ophy then, just as it is now -erence." over from last year. don't dwell on it too much It may be a prefer­
But then came the Michigan because it is only one game. ence, but Willingham game. In front of a national tele­"What we did is the same and the players VISIOn audi-thing we do know things at Notre ence, the Irish with any loss Dame are better
"You never forget about 
did what they -you're very than they should be 
did in 2002-how you were positive about when the team is get an early embarrassed on the things that winning and worse ANDY KENNA/The Observer opportunity, were than they actually
national television.·· good, Notre Dame linebacker Courtney Watson attempts to tackle Michigan run­courtesy of a and you really are when the team 
ing back Chris Perry last Saturday.
Courtney try to make is losing. Right now, 
Watson forced Courtney Watson quick and it feels pretty bad. of the Century and one year is going to strike fear in oppo­fumble, to take Irish linebacker decisive A difficult stretch after being embarrassed at nents the quality the Irish are the crowd out adjustments Only at Notre Dame is an home. playing.of it. But this about the opponent like Michigan State While the difficult schedule is "I think all of the pressure
time, the offense couldn't con­things that were bad," considered easy. The almost expected, even this year it should be put on the players, .vert and the Wolverines took Willingham said. "Then. you impossible beginning of Notre appt>:ars harder than usual. from the players, because at this r,-----'· over the game and rolled to an move forward because one Dame's schedule this year has Seven of the first eight games point, it's the players, not the easy 38-0 victory. game, if that's the only game we given Saturday's game must-win against bowl opponents -three scheme, not the coaches," 
Standing at 1-1, the Irish are lose, I think that will be an status. of them BCS teams -to open Watson said. "After the victoryalready at a crossroads in their excellent season. But what you The playerg know coming to the season means this weekend against Washington State every­season. After Saturday's game have to do is focus on the next Notre Dame brings the kind of is the only game against a non­thing was feeling good. We need against Michigan State, three of game. You can't stay in the past schedule where week-in and postseason team from 2002. to put the pressure on us. We the next five games are on the nor can you get ahead of your­week-out the team on the oppo­That's why it is so important. can't get back into the old forms road and three of the next five self to the future." site sideline is rarely a cupcake. "That's part of being a Notre of going out there and thinking opponents currently sit in the While his Stanford team did The Irish's recent up-and-down Dame player. At Notre Dame we can win games just because top 10 of the Associated Press lose four games during that play doesn't bode well for a every game is a big game," line­we are Notre Dame." poll. All five teams qualified for 1999 season, Willingham lead slate as ditficult as this one. backer Derek Curry said. "We Even Willingham: who from a bowl in 2002. the Cardinal to its first Rose "It's obviously a concern to come out every game like we the first day always has empha­Combining the disappointing Bowl appearance in 27 years. play inconsistent especially have to prove something, like sized not putting too much start to this season with the That line of thinking might when you play a schedule like we have our backs to the wall. importance on one game,
quality of the schools in the appease Notre Dame fans more ours when you have 'warm-up' Every game is like that for us." acknowledges the importance of upcoming weeks, the Irish know if the Michigan loss wasn't part games," Watson said. "Every winning this weekend. He Saturday's game most likely will of disappointing Irish showings game we play counts, and we A must-win game knows the team could find its are going to get everybody's best A loss like last Saturday's will spark this weekend, win 10 shot. That's definitely a prob­never leave a team. Not this straight games and qualify for a 
lem. We need to get it straight­week, not this year, it probably BCS bowl. He also knows his
will never be forgotten in the
ened out of why can't we play at team could drop its fourth of 
a high lfivel every time." Notre Dame-Michigan series. 
five games, stay dejected and be 

Notre Dame goes to West The difficulty comes in not 
in for a very long season. Lafayette, Ind. next weekend to dwelling on the loss but keep "There is a great sense ofthat memory inside to stay moti­
face a Purdue team returning urgency because that game left 18 starters. The Boilermakers vated. That's why not only 
a more bitter taste in the mouth.

Willingham, but leaders like .
will have If that's the only game we lose revenge on their Watson are and we finish the season strong,
trying to get

mind after losing "There is a great sense of it's a good year. But at the same to the Irish last this team to time no one likes to not have a
urgency because 
year while not never forget good performance, none of 
even giving up [Michigan] left a bitter what it felt 
these guys do," Willingham said. an offensive taste in the mouth. ,, like when it "Michigan State would love to
walked off

touchdown. have us thinking about the game
Two weeks the field. 
we just played.

later, the Irish Tyrone Willingham "I think 
"They would come in here and 

travel to what you do
Irish coach beat our brains out. We are not 
Pittsburgh and is you try to 
going to feel sorry about what 

face a Panthers move on 
happened." ..

team everybody is choosing to and learn from it and get ready · 
As he always does,

challenge for the Big East title for a next team," Watson said. 
\Villingham has his team 

with Miami and Virginia Tech. "You never forget about how focused on the task at hand. The Just like the Boilermakers, the poorly you played. · 
Irish know if they think too

Panthers have a vendetta "You never forget about how 
much about Michigan, the sea­against the Irish after they out­you were embarrassed on son is all but over.

gained Notre Dame 402-185 last national television." 
"I think great competitors and year but still lost. According to Watson. correct­great teams don't look back onThen the major rivalries ing what went wrong in the Big 

the past whether they win or

begin. USC comes to Notre House isn't up to the coaches. 
lose," Curry said. "You still have Dame Stadium one week later He said after the game the team to move forward. If you focus onand the Irish travel out to has to do some soul-searching the past, you will-never be ableBoston College seven days after and look inside to see what each to move forward."

that. To close out the grueling individual can do to prevent 
CHIP ~ARKS/The Observer stretch, a reinvigorated Florida something like last week from Notre Dame tailback Ryan Grant runs downfield against State team comes to South Bend happening again. Just strapping Contact Matt Lozar at Washington State Sept. 6. 10 years after the famous Game on the gold helmet every week mlozar@nd.edu 
--------'-·-~ -----------------~_L_________________:____:_·..:..·__;_·...:.·...:.·___:_____:____......:....____________.....;.______________
... 



r I I f I I • page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 19, 2003 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: No. 23 

Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
55-40-1 
at Notre Dame: 
11-4 
Tyrone Willingham against head coach Michigan State: 2-0 
Roster 
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  230  SR  
2  Freddie Parrish  DB  6-1  195  FR  
4  Ryan Grant  RB  6-1  211  JR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  207  so  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  194  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  214  SR  
8  Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  180  SR  
8  Quentin Burrell  FS  6-0  180  JR  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  186  SR  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  209  JR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  210  FR  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  199  JR  
13  Nicholas Setta  KIP  5-11  184  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  259  SR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  177  SR  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  FB  6-2  227  JR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  183  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  180  FR  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  WR  6-4  211  SR  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  205  SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  KIP  6-1  192  JR  
20  Travis Thomas  RB.  6-1  200  FR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  221  so  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-10  210  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  190  FR  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  177  JR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  RB  6-3  224  so  
26  Garron Bible  FS  5-10  197  SR  
26  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  220  JR  
27  Lionel Bolen  ss  6-0  206  JR  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  SR  
28  ColeLaux  FB  5-10  229  SR  
28  Tom Zbikowski  DB  6-0  185  FR  
29  LaBrose Hedgemon  DB  5-10  180  FR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  6-1  188  so  
31  Jake Carney  DB  6-0  180  so  
32  Jeff Jenkins  RB  6-0  211  so  
33  Courtney Watson  ILB  6-1  234  SR  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  194  SR  
35  Ashley McConnell  FB  6-0  240  FR  
36  Isaiah Gardner  DBIRB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Matt Mitchell  DB  5-9  184  so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  ILB  6-0  226  JR  
39  David Bemenderfer  55  5-11  195  SR  
40  Nate Schomas  WR  5-10  165  SR  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-3  243  SR  
42  Ambrose Wooden  WR  6-1  190  FR  
43  Anthony Salvador  LB  6-2  226  so  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  6-5  246  JR  
45  Carl Gioia  p  5·11  165  FR  
46  Corey Mays  ILB  6-1  238  JR  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  6-2  210  FR  
48  Jerome Collins  OLB  6-4  250  SR  
49  Derek Curry  ILB  6-3  228  SR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  NG  6-2  295  SR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OT  6-5  290  so  
52  Joe Brockington  l.B  6-1  215  FR  
54  David Fitzgerald  OL  6-4  271  so  
55  Zachary Giles  c  6-3  281  JR  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-1  205  FR  
57  Dwight Stephenson  l.B  6-3  237  FR  
58  Paul ]ancha  L5  6-1  245  so  
59  James Bent  OL  6-2  253  so  
60  Darrell Campbell  DT  6-4  288  SR  
62  Scott Raridon  OT  6-7  300  so  
64  Casey Dunn  OTIOG 6-4  255  JR  
65  Sean Milligan  OG  6-4  291  SR  
66  Derek Landri  NG  6-2  265  so  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  6-5  270  FR  
69  Darin Mitchell  OL  6-4  280  JR  
70  Jim Molinaro  OT  6-6  301  SR  
71  David Kowalski  OG  6-2  249  SR  
71  James Bonelli  OGIOT 6-6  282  so  
72  Jeff Thompson  ClOG  6-4  287  JR  
73  Mark LeVoir  TE  6-7  309  JR  
74  Dan Stevenson  OG  6-5  297  JR  
75  Chris Frome  DE  6-5  264  so  
76  Bob Morton  c  6-4  299  so  
77  Greg Pauly  DT  6-6  21H  SR  
78  John Sullivan  OL  6-4  280  FR  
79  Brian Mattes  OT  6-6  250  so.  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  204  SR  
81  Chinedum Ndukwe  WR  6-3  190  FR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-1  172  JR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  6-4  190  FR  
84  Mike O'Hara  WR  5-10  174  so  
84  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  so  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  251  SR  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-4  242  so  
88  Patrick Nally  TE  6-3  243  SR  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  6-4  253  so  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-6  230  FR  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-4  283  JR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-0  165  so  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  6-4  270  SR  
93  Dan Santucci  DE  6-5  270  50  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  6-5  245  FR  
97  Travis Leitko  DE  6-6  264  so  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-2  290  FR  
99  Jason Sapp  DE  6-3  256  SR  

Irish 
experts 



Notre Dame may have severely struggled last week, but Michigan State is no Michigan, and a weaker Spartan team is just what the Irish need. The defense will look to redeem them­selves after last week while the offense will have a chance to fix il'i problems against the Spartans. The Irish improve to 2-1 as they look forward to a meeting with Purdue. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 Michigan State 10 

NOTRE DAME 2003 Schedule  
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST. -W Sept. 13 at Michigan -L Sept. 20 MICHIGAN STATE Sept. 27 at Purdue Oct. 11 at PiHsburgh . . &"'.~.t~: .... uscOct. 18 at Boston College Nov. 1 FLORIDA STATE Nov. 8 NAVY Nov. 15 BYU Nov. 29 at Stanford Dec. 6 at Syracuse  

NOTRE DAME WIDE RECEIVER 
80·Jenkins 
5-McKnight
OFFENSE 
LEFT TACKLE CORNERBACK 
70-Motlnaro 
17-Maples79·Mattes 24-Mclaurin 
TAILBACK 
4·Grant 
22.Jones 

FULLBACK 
16-Powars·Neal niiA.DTt:t>g 
26-Schmidt 
MIDDLE \I LINEBACKER 
;i 42·Lablnjo \ 48·Mitchell 1 
FREE SAFETY 25-Harmon 29-Cooper 

MICHIGAN ST. 
DEFENSE 
s 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
The Irish were never in a  Holiday and Quinn  Grant and Jones have  If the Irish quarterbacks  
position to challenge the  looked awful against  the potential to become a  continue to throw the ball  
Wolverines last week and  Michigan in combining  dangerous pair of backs,  as poorly as they did  
squeaked out a victory at  to go 8-for-24 passing  but the tandem has seen  against Michigan, they  
home in week one. The  for 91 yards and two  little room to run in the  may duplicate their first  
offensive playcalling has  interception. It hasn't  first two weeks. Against  half yield of one yard. But  
been questionable for the  helped that a porous  Michigan, they saw  it's more than the quar­ 
Irish the first two weeks.  offensive line has  almost no daylight, while  terbacks. The offensive  
One has· to wonder if  allowed opponents to  their success against the  line needs to improve  
Willingham's magic is  break into the backfield  Cougars came largely  and the receivers need to  
wearing off.  at will.  through improvised runs.  get open.  
Smith's resume is very impressive, as his 112 victories rank 13th among active coaches. He has won six confer­ence championships at Louisville, Utah State and Idaho. He led the Cardinals to five straight bowl appearances.  Smoker is a dangerous passer, as the Irish have learned first-hand in pre­vious years. He is ques­tionable for the game, however, with turf toe. If he can't go, the Spartans will likely turn to the red shirt freshman Stanton, who had previously been third on the depth chart.  The Spartans have allowed just over 20 yards a game rushing this year, but that's largely due to the fact that they played Western Michigan, Rutgers and Louisiana Tech, who combined to throw the ball 144 times in three games.  In defending the pass, Michigan State's weakness has been exposed. The Spartans have al1owed 345 yards per game, but those numbers have come against two prolific pass­ing teams in Louisiana Tech and Western Michigan. They do have 13 sacks, however.  
Smith has proven he can  This one is extremely  The Spartans haven't  
win with several teams  tough to call. The  Michigan State has been  defended the pass par­ 
and turn around pro­ Spartans will start either  relatively untested on the  ticularly well, but they  
grams as he did with  a redshirt freshman  ground this season. If the  have gotten good pres­ 
~~,:~tt~~:~~r;: ~~ SP!Y;.ten ~;lr~O,,~,gpjn~r{off  (Stanton) or a guy who had a substance abuse "problem {Smoker). Yet it's  Notre Dame offensive line can come together, the Irish should be able to  r~e£EN~  
tough losses, and coach­ hard to give the edge to  provide that first test. The  get that kind of pressure  
ing could be a big factor  Holiday. If Smoker plays,  edge goes to the Irish  on Holiday, it could be  
in returning to the wins  this one goes to the  with Grant and Jones.  another long day for the  
column.  Spartans.  Irish offense.  

LLI 
::E 
<
c 
LLI 
c::: 
1­
0 
z 


Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief 
Michigan State lost a tough game at home to an embarrasing opponent, while Notre Dame lost an embarrsing game on the road to a tough opponent. After a week of getting asked about 38-0, Notre Dame will come out as one angry team. Behind a powerful running game, the Irish should have no problem winning. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Michigan State 10 


--------------------------------------------------------......................................-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 19, 2003 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan State 
Spartans 
I 
I
Record: 2-1 1 

MICHIGAN ST. 
s
OFFENSE 
TAILBACK 
31·Hayes 
34-Dortcll 
~ 
SPARTAN RUSHING 
The Spartans have three backs in Hayes, Dortch and Teague that average at least 4 yards a carry. Michigan State has rushed for 133 yards a game this season, but have yet to face a defen­sive line lack that of the Irish. 
Notre Dame's defensive front was embarassed by Michigan running back Chris Perry last week, who accumulated 133 yards and three touch­downs against the vaunt­ed Irish defense. Notre Dame will likely be look­ing to prove themselves again this week. 
If Michigan State can get the passing game working, the rushing offense could take off as well. 8ut look for the Irish defense to have a strong game in response to its poor performance last week against the Wolverines. 
AP: NR Coaches: NR j 
John Smith

WIDE RECEIVER 
MICHIGAN STATE
82·Kavanaght 
6·Trannon 
first season at Michigan State Aug. 30 W. MICHIGAN -W 

career record:
CORNERBACK 
15-Jackson 
112-61
9-Beckstrom 

Sept. 6 RUTGERS-W 
at Michigan State: 
2-1 

Sep. 13 LOUISIANA TECH -L 
against Notre 

Dame: 0-0 Sept. 20 at Notre Dame 

Roster

Sept. 27 IOWA 
fREE 
SAFETY 
19-Eart 

No_ Name Pos. Ht. INSIDE 
8-Burrell 

Oct.4 INDIANA 
2 Agim Shabaj WR 5-10 

LINEBACKER 
3 Kyle Brown WR 6-1

33-Watson 46-Mays 
4 Eric Knott TE 6-3 

OUTSIDE liNEBACKER 
49-turry 48-Collins 
CORNERBACK 
34·0dff 6-Campbell 
SPARTAN PASSING 
Nagging injuries and the injection of a few young, inexperienced players in the defensive backfield have left the Irish vulner­able in this area. Pressure from the front four could help and Watson may be counted on to drop into pass coverage to help the ailing secondary. 
Smoker is an effective, if not dangerous, quarter­back, but his health could be a factor against the Irish. If he can't go, Stanton, who has yet to throw a pass, should get the call. Shabaj is a threat for the Spartans with 19 catches and three touchdowns. 
The advantage here could come down to a toe -namely, Smoker's turf toe injury. If he's healthy, the Spartans will have the edge, but if Stanton is forced into the starting role, the Irish defense could eat him up. 
STRONG 
SAFETY 26-Bible ' 27·Bolen 

NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
The nation is still waiting for Duff and Jones to break out in the return game this year. Setta did­n't have any field goal opportunities last week, but struggled with his punting duties, often giv­ing his coverage team lit­tle time to get into posi­tion. 
Rayner is 9-for-13 in field goals this year, including a long of 51, and Fields has averaged nearly 45 yards a punt for the Spartans. Cobb is a threat to break a kick­off for a touchdown, as he already has one 94­yard touchdown return on the year. 
Setta needs to solve the problems that arose last week with his punts, and Duff and Jones are still waiting to break out. Rayner can make kicks from 50 yards and out and the Spartans are fast on returns and coverage. 


The Irish are ready to change the impression How do you make up for an embarrassing loss on the they gave the nation last weekend. The road to your arch-rival? You beat the tar out of an inferi­defense was embarrassed getting run up and or opponent in front of your own fans at home. Look for down the field and is ready to reassert its some new things on offense from the Irish who have not dominance. The Spartans give up a lot of been able to get anything going yet this season with the yards through the air and Holiday is ready to ball. Diedrick brings out the spread offense and the Irish silence the critics. Smoker will get knocked roll to their own one-sided victory. out and this one could get ugly. 
Matt Lozar 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34
S rts Edit FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31
Assoc1 ·at e po or Michigan State 6 Michigan State 0 
-----·--~·---------------------------------------~~---­
Wt. YR 194 so 205 so 267 JR 222 FR 199 SR 228 so 225 JR 219 FR 224 SR 205 so 187 FR 177 so 194 JR 180 so 170 so 194 FR 203 JR 190 JR 179 SR 165 FR 203 SR 189 so 186 JR 181 so 174 so 190 SR 
195. JR 
223 so 
180 FR 183 FR 172 FR 234 FR 184 so 185 so 197 so 
184 FR 
203 JR 228 SR 
1% so 
204 FR 185 FR 267 JR 258 so 251 FR 252 SR 222 FR 234 JR 199 SR 180 JR 249 so 225 PR 232 FR 291 so 279 FR 200 JR 221 JR 273 FR 220 ]R 250 FR 302 SR 264 JR 315 SR 273 FR 264 JR 323 FR 330 SR 295 SR 287 FR 278 FR 300 so 319 so 320 FR • ! 317 JR 306 SR 301 JR 233 FR 255 JR 180 SR 198 FR 208 FR 247 JR 165 FR 210 FR 286 SR 259 so 298 JR 259 SR 294 JR 269 JR 303 SR 227 JR 312 JR 
Oct. 11 Oct.18 Nov. 1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 
at Illinois at Minnesota MICHIGAN at Ohio State at Wisconsin PENN STATE 
5 Drew Stanton QB 6-3 6 Mark Bojovic K 5-11 6 Matt Trannon WR 6-6 7 Damon Dowdell QB 6-1 8 Brandon Fields P 6-5 9 Jeff Smoker QB 6-3 10 Aaron Alexander WR 6-5 11 Stephen Reaves QB 6-1 12 Ashton Watson CB 6-0 13 Chad Simon WR 5-8 14 Todd Acchione WR 6-0 15 Bobby Belmonte K 5-9 16 Anthony Belasco S 5-9 16 Dave Rayner K 6-2 17 Roderick Maples CB 5-10 18 Jason Daily P 6-2 19 Irving Campbell WR 5-11 

INTANGIBLES 
The Irish are hungry for a win after last week's 
z

embarrassment at Michigan. Notre Dame 
~ 

also has not beaten 
::a 
ITI

Michigan State in Notre Dame Stadium in the 
c 

last three attempts. This 
l> 

game could be a turning 
3: 
ITI

point of the season for the Irish. 
-

Does Michigan State 
(') 

need any more incentive 
::t
-

to beat Notre Dame than 
G') 

Arnaz Battle's 60-yard 
l> 
z

game-winning touch­down reception in East 
en 

Lansing last year? No. 
; 
~ 
ITI 

Both sides have ulterior motives for wanting to win this game. The Spartans want revenge 
l> 
z

for last year's last­
l>

minute loss. The Irish 
-~ 

want to redeem them­
en

selves after a one-sided 
en

loss on national televi­sion and need to keep their season on track. 
19 Amish Patel QB 6-1 20 Jason Teague RJ3 5-9 21 DeAndra Cobb CB 5-10 22 Darren Barnett CB 6-0 23 Carlos Alexander DB 5-11 24 Jeremiah McLaurin CB 5-11 25 Jason Harmon S 5-11 27 Derron Ware S 6-3 28 Griff Howan:l DB 6-1 29 Greg Cooper S 5-11 29 Robert Gallegos WR 5-9 30 Jehuu Caulcrick LB 6-0 31 Jaren Hayes RB 5-9 32 Jerramy Scott WR 5-10 33 Robert Flagg S 6-2 
33 Kris Bush RB 5-11 34 Tyrell Dortch RB 5-10 35 Mark Goebel LB 6-2 36 Eric Smith S 6-1 37 Bobo Brown RB 5-9 38 Cole Corey DB 5-10 39 Nick Thompson DE 6-3 40 Michael Bazemore DE 6-2 41 David Herron LB 6-1 42 Mike Labinjo LB 6-1 43 Kaleb Thornhill LB 6-1 44 Ronald Stanley LB 6-0 45 Monquiz Wodlow LB 5-11 47 Ray Hightower S 5-10 48 Seth Mitchell LB 6-2 49 Maurice Smith-Davis LB 6-1 50 Steve Kielp LB 6-6 51 Chris Morris C 6-4 52 Clifton Ryan DE 6-2 53 Andrew Petterson LS 6-0 53 Marshall Campbell LB 6-2 54 John Masters OL 6-4 55 Mitch Herrema LB 5-11 56 Brian Bury LS 6-0 57 Paul Harker OG 6-3 59 Clifford Dukes DE 6-3 60 Joe Brooks OG 6-4 62 Gary Elmore OT 6-1 64 Brian Davies DE 6-5 66 Mike Gyetvai OL 6-7 67 DeMarco Monroe C 6-4 68 Joe Tate OT 6-5 69 Kyle Cook C 6-4 70 Joe Toth DT 6-2 71 Gordon Niebylski OG 6-4 72 Stefon Wheeler OT 6-5 75 Pete Clifford 01 6-7 76 William Whitticker OG 6-6 77 Steve Stewart OT 6-5 79 Sean Poole OT 6-6 80 Sean Clayton TE 6-4 81 Jason Randall TE 6-5 82 Ziehl Kavanaght WR 5-11 83 Jamar Jones WR 6-3 84 Justin Rieger TE 6-1 85 Matt Walters TE 6-3 86 Terry Love WR 5-11 87 Samuel Champagne WR 6-3 88 Luc Mullinder DE 6-4 89 Ryan Woods TE 6-4 91 Kevin Vickerson DT 6-5 94 Greg Taplin DE 6-5 95 Matthias Askew DT 6-6 % Greg Yeaster DT 6-1 97 Kyle Rasmussen DT 6-4 98 Daryl Melvin DE 6-6 99 Brandon McKinney DT 6-3 

I :.=; R 4 I 
.£ I
I • 
-·­

~ 
., 
f'. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Spartans 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE'S OFFENSE 
vs
AVERAGE PER GAME MICHIGAN STATE'S DEFENSE NOTRE DA~~S DEFENSE 
total yards gained total yards allowed 

rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
21.7 


passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored 
points allowed 

Friday, September 19, 2003 
KEY MATCHUP 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE RUNNING BACKS RUN DEFENSE 

In three games this season, the Michigan State defense has allowed 21.7 rushing yards per game. Last week, the Irish only gained 49 yards on the ground. 
If the offensive line can open up enough holes, running backs Ryan Grant and Julius Jones will gain enough yards to open up the passing game. The Spartans pass defense has been as bad as their run defense has been good, yielding 345 yards per game through the air. 
by the numbers 
the last year the Irish beat Michigan 
199 3 
State at Notre Dame Stadium 
4 
number of consecutive games in the Notre Dame-Michigan State series that have been 
decided by pass plays of at least 45 yards 
number of seconds it took Louisiana Tech to 
6 9 
score two touchdowns against the Spartans last week and rally from 12 down to win 20-19 
•


lS 
er 
a 
00 
lt 
.. 

Fisher Hall residents and staffmembers will be sitting on the roof ~~ for 50 hours this weekend (25 hours at Fisher, 25 hours at Legends) MISSDf~ 8r to benefit the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. ~~~f~~ 
• 

I • o 

~---·........----------~---.;.;...________nio-_ ___.......___..._________~-~---~ 

Friday, September 19, 2003 page 7 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Irish defense looks to regain dominant form ­
ening loss early in the season is Sometimes it's better spent
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
not exactly virgin territory for working on the positive." 
Sports Writer 
the Irish coaching staff. In 1999, But even with all of the nega­Stanford -under then-head tives Saturday -even on the Against Michigan Saturday, coach Tyrone Willingham -was defensive side of the ball where the typically-dominant Irish dismantled in its opener against . Irish tacklers were consistently defense was pushed around by Texas 69-17. The Cardinal went blown off the line of scrimmage the Wolverines for 439 yards of on to win eight of their next 10 by a more powerful Michigan total offense and, most notably, games en route to the Hose offensive line -Willingham 188 on the ground. Bowl. maintains that there were 
For a team that prides itself on Parallels have been drawn aspects of the game his team defensive prowess, yielding between that loss and Notre performed well and would like those types of numbers can be Dame's 38-0 defeat at the hands to see continue against Michigan demoralizing and can ignite an of the Wolverines last week. State. avalanche of ineptitude as the "What we learned [after the "So I would probably agree ... season wears on. Texas loss) is that we relied on that all battles Saturday were 
That's why the Irish know it's our system and came back and probably won by Michigan ... " important to reverse that trend had a good practice that he said. "But we've shown great this week against the Spartans. Tuesday," Irish defensive coordi­intensity. We've shown great 
"It's very important -nator Kent Baer said at the tackling at times. We've got to extremely important -that we beginning of the week. "We had get back to those things. lbe successful]," defensive tackle a good practice today. I think "We like what we are doing. Darrell you just have We will stick with what we are Campbell said. to believe in doing and we think that we have "If we don't "We just have to go out what you do. the young men that can do it. come out this there and get it done Because it's But on occasions, you don't do it. week, some­never as bad We try to address those issues
this weekend. ,,
thing's wrong­as it looks, and go forward." something's and it's never During the week of practice, wrong in a Darrell Campbell as good as it the Irish focused mainly on major way. As a looks." returning to the basics that
Irish defensive tackle 
defense we're The Irish made them one of the nation's supposed to players and best defenses in 2002 and mov­dominate." coaches ing beyond the disappointing 
The fifth-year senior Campbell maintain that all was not lost in loss in Ann Arbor. wants to see his veteran defen­the Big House last weekend. "You don't over-react too sive line perform better in big While the Irish were outmanned much with it; but to me, it's fun­games than they did against the on both sides of the ball, there damentals and techniques," Wolverines. are lessons they can take from Baer said. "We didn't tackle very 
"Coming back as fifth-year the game. well, and in certain situations, seniors, we're supposed to step "There are lessons from we didn't respond very well. We in and be leaders for the Michigan that we can grow just need to go back and run the younger players," Campbell from," Willingham said. "There basics. I like how hard we've said. "We just have to go out are good things and bad things. worked, and we'll just wait and there and get it done this week­You have to find those things see what happens Saturday." end." that can help your team go for­
Luckily for Notre Dame, ward, and sometimes a negative Contact Chris Federico at bouncing back from a disheart-can help you go forward. cfederic@nd.edu 
Defense preparing for 'questionable' Smoker 
there and work on our keys and listen 

By JOE HETTLER 
to the coaches." 
Sports Editor 
Smoker completed 21-32 passes for 351 yards and three touchdowns in

• 
Notre Dame's defense has been plan­Michigan State's 44-28 opening game ning all week to face Michigan State win over Rutgers. He followed that per­quarterback Jeff Smoker. But Saturday formance by completing 21-34 passes those plans could change. for 324 yards and three more touch­
Smoker, who leads the Big Ten in downs versus Central Michigan. He was passing yards per game and total 12-19 for 138 yards before leaving the offense, is listed as questionable for the game against Louisiana Tech. game this weekend with a toe injury. He Smoker's numbers place him as one injured the toe in the second quarter of of the better quarterbacks Michigan Michigan State's 20-19 loss to Louisiana State has had in quite a while. He is the Tech last weekend. Spartan coach John career leader in total offense and pass­
L. Smith has not ruled Smoker out of ing yards and is in the top 10 in pass the Notre Dame game. If Smoker cannot attempts, pass completions and passing go, redshirt Drew Stanton is likely to percentage. start. Stanton has not played a down at Whoever th.e quarterback, the Irish the collegiate level. must make some adjustments from last 
Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer week's blowout 38-0 loss to Michigan. said he expects to see Smoker in the The unit struggled to pressure game Saturday, even with the toe injury. Wolverine quarterback John Navarre, 
''I'm really preparing for Smoker to couldn't contain running back Chris play," Baer said. "I think he's a pretty Perry and were picked apart in the sec­tough kid. Turf toe is turf toe, and a lot ondary. of guys play o·n turf toe." This week Baer knows that if Notre 
Smoker, who was suspended for the Dame wants to have defensive success, final five games of the Spartans' season the team must find ways to pressure in 2002 because of a substance abuse Smoker or whoever else is at quarter­problem, was reinstated this year and back for the Spartans. The amount of 
has played exceptionally in Michigan pressure applied to the quarterback will State's first three games. depend on how the game plays out. 
Notre Dame's players don't know "It's tough to get after [the quarter­whether they will face Smoker or back] unless you pressure him all the Dowdell come Saturday. time," Baer said. "I don't want to put 
"We don't really know anything that much pressure on the secondary (about the QB situation]." defensive all the time. lineman Darrell Campbell said. "We · "I think it's important in the second­expect [Smoker] to be there. So we're ary that we give a lot of disguise and expecting to bring our A game, just like different looks, but if you're talking I hope they bring theirs." about pressure, I don't think we're ­
Campbell also said that any quarter­going to change anything just because back can have a big day if the defense it's a different guy. As the game goes on doesn't play well. you look at a quarterback and judge 
"Any quarterback can have a big day how he's playing. If you think he can if you let them. So he can come out handle pressure, we'll see if not. we'll there and have a spectacular game do some other things." regardless of if he's Smoker or not." Campbeil said. "We just need to go out Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
. .. 
' I • . 
I I I , 



page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 19, 2003 
--~---........
-


--: ~,, FREE INCOMING CELlUlAR CALLS ' ~··"' ~~ ' ' ... ~... ,. '  
400  Cellular Minutes (outgoing)  
Unlimited  Direct Connect""' Minutes  
Free  .. -Nationwide Long Distance  
$5999  A Month 



I 
I 
I 
Taxes, fees and other charges apply.
I •
i 
I 
Minutes from Campus ASK ABOUT OUR Across from Nick's Patio SPECIAL j 1639 N. Ironwood Drive NOTRE DAME/South Bend, IN ·46635
.~ SAINT MARY'S
j ) ·· {574) 243-3818 phone
! , OFFERS!! 


Offers expire September 30, 2003. Nationwide Di'ed Couect caBs use !he Drect Cmct minutes in your p~n ond incur an a&litioooloccess charge of either. (i} 1OC/minute rooltiplied by the oomber of ~ts on the col; or {i) nroonthtf Hat fee ~ you sign up foJ Unlimited Notionwide Drect Connect occess. ~Direct Connect co~s ore charged lo the coD iniliotor. Chorges for Notionwkle Direct Connect occess wil o~ beginning August 1, 2003. AYOOObilily of service ~ect to rohrt sdledule. Free l~eaiag Calng Pia: Requires two-year s8fWe agreement ond aemt cpprovol. $200 eor~ termination fee oppfies. Set~ fee of $35 per phone, tiJl to $70 mo~mum per account appies. Free locoming calls ore calk rece~ wnile illlle U.S. on !he Next~ Notional Netwo~. free Notioowide tQ~JJ Oistonce indOOes domesti< loog distoo<e omy. Oire<t (Oflfled rrinutes ore ovouo!Je iA YOlK local c~ing oreo on~. Unlimited Dire<t Conned minutes do not il<klde Group Conned calls, w!tich are $0.15/mm. Direct Connect !llld Group Coooect charges ore calculated~ ndnplying the minutes of use, number of por!iciponts and ~e op~coble rote. Group Conned coo on~ WOii with memllers of the smne network whie in their home market. Nononwide seM<e ~not ()V(lHO~e for Group Connect cols. CelhJlor overoge is $0.40/min. (eiJklr coils round to the nert full milufe_ Unused rrinutes do not occumulote to !he next binng eye~. Nights ore 9:00pm to 7:00om. Weekends begin Fri. of 9:00pm ond end Mon. ot 7:00am. Additiollal charges rrt1f oP!Hy end moy vary by market, indOOing state ood federol taxes, aU~Wer)td Servke Assessment of either 1.20% or .75%, oTRS charge rJ opprox. .07%, osfotf:fequired [911 fee, o00 oFederal Progmms Cost Recovery fee of $1.55 or $2.83 fur one or more of the fobving: t911, m.mber ~ing ood wir~ess oomber !Xlrtobili~. Otker Tems: Nextel reseJVes the right to mod~ or terminofe these offers of ooy ~me. Offers moy not be ow~~e in oB mo~ets. Othef coOOtioos mov apply. Rend serte agreement for detoils. ©2003 Next~ CommuniroOOils,loc. JJl rights reserved. Nextel,lhe Nextellogo, Ooo Cooned and the Dnver Safe~ logo ore ~odemorks, service mcrh ond/or r~istered marks of Nextel Communications, Inc. MOTOROlA and the Stylized MLogo are registered in the US Patent &Trodema~ Office. All other product or servke names ore the property of their respe<tive owners. 

-~-------~ 







