
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 67 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,2003 
Council nixes CORE requirement 
Semester-long option will replace year-long sophomore Arts and Letters course 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
After over two decades of providing sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters with a broad base of knowl­edge in the form of a struc­tured. year-long program, Core has been dropped from the school's list of require­ments. 
In its place stands the 
College Seminar, a one­capstone class. Rather than 
semester course approved by a 30-18 vote among mem­bers of the College Council over the two­semester option of a half-year 
"It is fair to say that this solution met the needs of the majority of... the College Council. " 
George Howard CORE director 
relying on a series of req­uisite texts based on a program-wide theme -the approach Core current­ly follows ­the College Seminars will offer a variety 

sophomore class and a senior of interdisciplinary course 
options, based on proposals awarded development grants by the College. 
"We'll try as best we can to get a group of faculty working on a common topic, because we believe that is our greatest chance at achieving interdis­ciplinary collaboration," said George Howard, director of Core and professor of psy­chology. "But each faculty 
see COREIpage 6 


Campus plans study day stress relievers 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
Review sessions. All-nighters. Hungry Hungry Hippos? With finals looming just an extended weekend away, the Student Union Board and the University Counseling Center have planned their own creative additions to the standard study day schedule to remind students to relax, slow down and take some time to take care oftheir bodies. 
"When students get really busy, they tend to feel guilty about 'being productive."' said Helen Bowden, a counselor at the Center. "They start to ignore their bodies and not take care of themselves when they real­ly need it the most. But by taking little breaks, they're actually help­ing themselves more in the long run." 
see STRESS/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Trustees 
•


nearing choice for president 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees will meet Monday to begin selecting the next presi­dent for the College. 
The College's Presidential Search Committee and Board of Trustees began the process after Eldred announced March 5 that she intended to retire from her position. She agreed to stay on until a suc­cessor is named. 
In early July, the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees hired Korn/Ferry International to conduct a search for a qualified candi­date to fill the position. 
Following this search, the goal in August was to announce three presidential candidates to the Board of Trustees in October. 
The committee has since announced and hosted four candidates on campus. Students learned of the candi­dates and their credentials with their visits through vari­ous opportunities to meet with them and ask them questions. 
Students were then asked to evaluate each candidate's pros and cons. as part of what 
see CANDIDATE/page 6 



Saint Mary's reading day sparks rumors 
Officials deny that professors have planned mandatory classes on designated study day 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writrr 
Last year, Saint Mary's stu­dent government Academic Affairs Committee accepted a proposal for the first reading day to give students extra preparation time for final exams. However, as the desig­nated day -Friday -rapidly approaches, gossip about pro­fessors defying the new rule and attempting to hold mandatory classes is spreading throughout the student body. 
Despite confusion and indig­nation at the idea that some professors would disregard the reading day. according to stu­dent body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, these objec­tions are nothing more than rumors. To date, student gov­ernment has heard no reports of specific professors who are holding mandatory classes Friday. 
There were some investiga­tions made in the beginning due to students' concerns, but after further research, it was discov­ered that professors are simply holding optional review sessions, Jablonski-Diehl said, adding that the practice is endorsed by stu­dent government. 
"The ability to hold study ses­sions without the constraint of other classes makes these ses­sions more accessible to the stu­dent body -it is one of the many advantages of the reading 
see SMC/page 8 

GSU 

Members recommend care plan 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
In a culmination of the debate from last month's meeting, the Graduate Student Union voted unanimously to recommend to Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services, to place a bid on a $1,022 insurance plan from MegaLife. 
Kleva received five bid pack­ages for graduate student insur­ance, but the only two viable options were Chickering, the fronting company for Aetna. and Student Resources, the fronting company for MegaLife. The base premium for each was $989 and $966, respectively, but because Aetna did not offer as good of benefits as Mega, Mega was con­sidered to be the best choice. 
"The thought was, the cost is lower with Mega and we've dealt 
sec GSU/page 4 


Wednesday, December 10, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Pizza at 3 a.tn. 

"Pizza is just a great food." 
So says TJ Maruup, Dillon fresh­man, founder and Imperial Dictator of "Pizza at Three." 
What is Pizza at Three? Several weeks ago, I 
received a link  Kate Gales  
from my friend  
Kevin Braun.  Wire Editor  
directing me to  
the official Pizza  
at Three Web  

site, and began my initiation into the Pizza at Three phenomenon. 
Pizza at Three is a tradition start­ed by Maruup. Members of the Pizza at Three family join together at 3 am each Thursday morning to partake of Recker's delicious -you guessed it-pizza. Why three in the morn­ing? 
"Well," Maruup said, "no one has any excuses to miss it, unless you're sleeping ... and even that's no excuse." 
Maruup, a science pre-profession­al intent, started the group with his fellow Dillon freshmen Braun and John Leyhane. It has expanded con­siderably over the semester as they move toward their goal of 40 consis­tent attendees. 
The group has also expanded to California and Washington, D.C. It has overcome resistance by rival group Smoothies at Eleven, founded by David Duffey. It has been the sub­ject of a poll on NDToday.com, receiving 81 responses. Although 46 percent said they would not attend this week's Pizza at Three festivities, the idea had a strong response. 
The official Pizza at Three website has also received some 4,200 hits since its establishment. The phrase "pepperoni me in" has also spread over the Notre Dame campus, to California and Washington. 
I was curious enough about Pizza at Three to venture completely across campus at three in the morn­ing, approximately five hours before my chemistry exam, to take part in it for myself. Armed with FlexPoints, the friendship of Chief Executive Officer Braun, and an unhealthy amount of caffeine, two friends I set off on a mission -to experience Pizza at Three for ourselves. 
It's not too surprising to hear that Pizza at Three is, well, a bunch of people going to Recker's and eating at 3 a.m. Some of them are tired, some are studying, some are bounc­ing off the walls, and Charter Members Maruup and Braun are in costume. 
However. after viewing the website (and reading this column), I don't see how you can't be intrigued by Pizza at Three. So after the big IU game, in honor of finals approach­ing, stop by Recker's at 3 a.m. for some good pizza and good company. Just don't take a nap -one member warns, "you'll never come back." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CLARIFICATION 

An article in the Dec. 9 edition ofThe Observer about a donation to Health Services did not attrib­ute rhe following informacion: the existing material not meeting fire codes, no handicap accessibility, imperfect water pipes and a plan to keep Health Services centrally located as the University's borders expand. That informacion should have been attrib­uted to director of Health Services Ann Kleva. However, as a matter of clarificarion, University spokesman Matt Srorin said Tuesday char the afore­mentioned informacion provided to The Observer was incorrect. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT FOR CHRISTMAS? 







"/ can't say but it involves ice cubes and a nine-iron. 
'it carton of  "/want Joe  'it few days  "Jennifer Love  
cigarettes. "  Bochenek in my  dispensations  Hewitt­ 
stocking. "  from my RA."  wrapped up  
and under my  
tree."  


town near the equator. 
Santa Claus panicked when more than 100 chil­dren stormed the stage Saturday to scoop up the sweets in the bauxite min­ing town of Linden, 70 miles (113 kilometers) south of Georgetown, police said. 
Wearing a traditional winter Santa suit in this South American country, Santa buckled under the more than 80-degree Fahrenheit (27 -degree Celsius) heat and slumped to the ground. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Brit army dog awarded for Iraq arms find 
LONDON -Buster, a 6­year-old Springer spaniel, earned more than a pat on the head Tuesday when he was awarded Britain's highest animal bravery medal for his role in break­ing a resistance cell in Iraq. 
The British army canine received the Dickin Medal at a ceremony at London's Imperial Museum for dis­covering a cache of weapons and explosives in Safwan, southern Iraq, in March. 
Buster's handler, Sgt. Danny Morgan, said the building was thought to be the headquarters of extremists responsible for attacks on British forces, but that soldiers searching it had found nothing. 
He said Buster, however, persisted, eventually stop­ping and staring at a wardrobe. When the wardrobe was moved a piece of tin fell from the back, revealing a cavity. 
Caribbean Santa faints near the equator 
GEORGETOWN, Guyana­A Caribbean Santa fainted under a blazing sun while distributing candy to a swarm of children on a stage in a remote mining 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
..... 


~ 
==c:( 
(.) 

.9 HIGH 45 HIGH 44 HIGH 30 HIGH 35 LOW 43 LOW 38 LOW 17 LOW 22 IN BRIEF 
The senior class will sponsor a class dinner at K's Grill tonight at 6 p.m. 
The class of 2006 will sponsor a rosary at the ColP.man-Morse Chapel at 9:30 p.m. on Thursday. 
Enjoy a break from studying this Thursday from 9 p.m. to midnight. The event, sponsored by SUB, will include free food and massages. It will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Stop by Legends Thursday and dance the night away. The fun begins at midnight and con­tinues until 4 a.m. 
A Mass to celebrate the Virgin of Guadalupe will be held on Friday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15 p.m. The Mass is co-sponsored by Multicultural Students, Programs and Services (MSPS) and Campus Ministry. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present two Christmas con­certs at Stepan Center on Saturday at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Tickets are available for $3. 
Join students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College on Saturday for an open skate at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center ice rink. 
The Celebration Choir will deliver a Christmas concert on Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center Lounge. Donations to benefit Catholic Relief Services in liberia will be collected at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 
32 

LOW 25 LOW 
28 

Atlanta 51 I 34 Boston 42 I 38 Chicago 43 I 22 Denver 40 I 24 Houston 58 I 36 Los Angeles 65 I 51 Minneapolis 22 15 New York 47 I 45 Philadelphia 50 I 42 Phoenix 68 I 45 Seattle 46 I 36 St. Louis 40 I 22 Tampa 72 I 53 Washington 521 46 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Crossin to lead '04 'The Shirt' project 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Nrw.1 Writer 
Kati!) Crossin. a sophomore from Lewis llall. has been selected as president of the 2004 "The Shirt" project. 
Crossin succeeds junior Dave Brenner and will ofl'icially assume the post after being 
confirmed  by  the  Student  
Senate  during  its  meeting  
today.  

Crossin was chosen after an extensive selection process. Eleven other students submit­ted preliminary applications, and five were chosen to partic­ipate in the second round, which included interviews con­ducted by Brenner. Claire Fadel. assistant student body treasurer, and Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. 
"It was really difficult because all five people we interviewed were really good," Brenner said. "We were impressed with them all." 
In the end. Crossin and her enthusiasm won out, Brenner said. 
"Katie really exemplified the things we were looking for in a prcsidcnt-a lot of enthusi­asm and a lot of confidence in thc project," he said. 
Although she has not yet offi­cially been named to the post, Crossin has already begun work on the project, including collecting and reviewing designs submitted by students. 
"She's very much in the thick of things already," Brenner said. 
Crossin said that she hopes to continue to build on the suc­cess that "The Shirt" has enjoyed in the past and pro­mote the fact that profits from the project benefit charity. 
Each year. revenue from "The Shirt" is split between Student Activities to be spent toward club allocations and "The Shirt" fund, which pro­vides financial assistance for students facing unforeseen medical expenses and for rec­tors to use in aiding disadvan­taged students. 
Crossin would not reveal the content of designs submitted for the 2004 project or confirm that this upcoming season's shirt will be green. She is con­fident. however. that the out­come will reflect the rich tradi­tion of the project and com­memorate its 15-year anniver­sary. 
"We've got a good thing going," she said. "We're going to see where the design takes us." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
CHRISTMAS REVELRY 

ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

Residents of Fisher Hall gather for food and fun during a dorm holiday celebration on Monday night. 
'Notable' students honored 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Junior Teresa Hansen and fifth-year student Christopher Heim were named "Notable Irish" by the Notre Dame Student Government and Legends. 
Hansen and Heim are the first honorees with this designation, which will be awarded each month. 
"It's an effort by the Office of the President and leaders of the student body to get recognition for students who do things out­side of Notre Dame that aren't really well recognized," I Jansen said. 
Hansen, an economics and peace studies major, has done a great deal of community service, most notably her work with Jim McGinnis, director of the Institute of Peace and Justice in St. Louis. 
"He developed a pledge of non­violence -a seven component pledge that embodies what it means to be a non-violent per­son, what kind of character you need," Hansen said. "When I was a junior, [I] took that and made a curriculum for a Peace Camp based on the pledge. It's taking place all over the country." 
Hansen has personally been involved with programs in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Kentucky, as well as an Episcopal Church conference in Chicago. 
"Now the curriculum is pub­lished; it's an easy format so [the programs] don't always need us to come out and train them," said Hansen. 
Hansen ha.<> also participated in CSC-sponsored Summer Service Programs, both domestically with the YWCA and internationally in Bangkok with refugees. 
ChrL<>topher lleim, a fifth-year Architecture student. was recog­nized for his contribution to the Notre Dame community via graphic design. The watermark/shamrock logo used by Legends was his winning design. 
lleim's graphic skills have been used to enhance T-shirts and a window etching on his dorm, Morrissey. lie also serves as President of Notre Dame's chap­ter of the American Institute of Architectural Studenl<> (AlAS). 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 10,2003 
Council holds 111eeting for student govenunent candidates 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
Elliot Poindexter, president of the student government's Judicial Council, held a meeting Tuesday for students interested in running for student body president and vice president. At the meeting, Poindexter outlined some of the rules for the election process. 
Each pair of candidates -one presidential hopeful and his or her running mate-must gather 700 signatures on a petition before they are allowed to run. This number was changed from 

Stress 
continued from page 1 
To encourage students to take these healthy breaks, both the Counseling Center and SUB scheduled stress-relieving activi­ties for today and Friday. The SUB activities will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight from 9 p.m. to midnight, and will include a few new features, said SUB representative Ashley Sinnott. 
"Every semester we've offered pizza and free massage, and this year we've added games like Guess Who, Scrabble and Hungry Hungry Hippos," she said. "We think it's a cute way to relax and spend time with your friends, because study days can be really hectic." 
The Counseling Center will offer more formal stress relief, hosting relaxation-training class­es on Friday from 4 to 5 p.m. 
"It teaches several stress-relief techniques, such as breathing exercises, muscle relaxation and 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
with them in the past, eliminating the pain of having to adjust to a new company," said John Young, chair of the health care commit­tee. 
However, debate remained over which benefits to add and which 
to cut from the plan -the result of which would affect the cost as well as the health of the graduate students. It was suggested that the pharmacy benefit cap could decrease from unlimited to either $1,500 or $1,000 in coverage a year, that the deductible could increase from $50 to $100 and that coverage after the deductible could decrease from 100 percent to 90 percent. These cuts would save anywhere from $24 to approximately $150. 
Out of concern that cutting ben­efits would not actually save money in the long run, the GSU opted for the plan that included all requested benefits, and total­ing $1,022 in expense. 
"The more we pay into the plan, the less usage we accumu­late and the less the rate increas­es over time," said Young, advo­cating the most expensive plan. "Besides, we get a top of the line plan with all the benefits we want." 
In other GSU news: 
+Tim Dale, chair of the academ­ic affairs committee, announced that the graduate students will no longer be able to receive University funding for more than 

last year's requirement of 300 sig­dent body to become familiar with natures at Monday's meeting of the candidates' platforms, but 
the  Council  of  dates  for  these  
Representatives. Petitions will be  "It's good for our  have not been set. Other election  
available beginning  students that we  regulations include  
Jan. 13 to those wishing to run, and they will be due  have a lot of students running."  a campaign spend­ing limit of $200, approval of posters  
back to the Student  and  other  cam­ 
Government office  Pat Hallahan  paign materials by  
Jan. 23. Elections will be held Feb. 9, and a runoff elec­ former student body president  Poindexter's office and the Office of Student Activities,  

tion will be held, if necessary, on Feb. 12. Poindexter also said debates will be held in order for the stu­
scanning techniques," Bowden said. 
Brochures will also be handed out to provide details about the relationship between stress levels and students' bodies. 
"We just want to educate them a little more about the mind-body connection" that students often ignore during this time of year, she said. "We hope this will help them discover more self-care activities." 
The study day sessions are open to all students and will be a condensed version of the three­part relaxation courses that the Counseling Center offers twice a semester, Bowden said. 
The Center and SUB said their activities aim to offer some relief from academic pressures and to end the semester on a positive note. 
"[SUB does] this every year on study days," Sinnott said. "It's one of our last activities of the semester, and we think it's a good way to end the year." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
six years -a policy he said the GSU had no decision-making power. 
+ Ericka Olsen, graduate student in mathematics, requested female volunteers for a new tutoring program at St. Margaret's House, a day center for women and children, set to start in February. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
and restrictions as to where campaign materials can be placed around campus. 
Poindexter concluded by 
encouraging those interested in running to attend student govern­ment meetings. 
"If you are truly interested in running, I would encourage you to attend some of the meetings we have ... to get a feel for what's going on," Poindexter said. 
Also in attendance at the meet­ing was former student body president Pat Hallahan, who spoke briefly to the students on the importance of student govern­ment at this time. 
"This is a great turnout," Hallahan said, referring to the 18 students who came to the meet­ing. "I really think this is a big time to be getting involved in stu­dent government. There are a lot of issues ... we're making a lot of changes on the student govern­ment level." 
Hallahan also spoke about the position of student body presi­dent. 
"It's a lot of time, a lot of com­mitment ... you're going to a lot of meetings, and it's not always fun," he said. "But I think it's a good thing to do. and it's good for our students that we have a lot of stu­dents running." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Why should )'OU take Kaplan? 
the 1\ACAT. i$ htu:~ enough, Cho?sing a test prep program shouldn't be. At Kaplan. we ~i'l9PU(~ge yqu 1;0 ~nipare us wah the others. We're confidentthat our program can helpY49 ¢~); 1'! Qi~~r $(':pre p-Q the NICAT: In fact, we guarantee It-or your money back..... 
Find odt b«>w l(aplan~s MCAT program can.betp you reach your goals. 
. r < .··· ···.· ·•••······••• ···· ·. 
World Leader in Test Prep and Admissions 
KAPLAN.. 
1·800-KAP-TEST 
ka.ptest..comjmcat 
J~~~~~Lj~;~f~1~;;~:;:;:::;~:: ~~ seneduled tests, and d~ wur hon•cw~~~-~ ~·~r score docsp,'t. jfhp(~~ 00 tc~(tiavf:ram ~~· KilP!~!) ili~•g~>c or~ ~>rior official test soose, ~= ean cl"loo~ to rqmat our progrum for tree o< 
~yourrti,;Jrn!"ib~k To be eli~ f&(hi$ orr~. y~ tf\u>n be &tlrolled·itl KapiJ'!Il's fuil classroom, tutoring. c> online cotlfscs. 
ln ;,ddition; ytov rnu:St pr~it a ~ or .!IOV~' <>Hici&! s.oore re(X)rt and :yout oou~ matertals wlthln 00 d@I,;. 
Fiesta d.e Nuestra Sefiora de Guadalupe 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady ofGuadalupe 
Friday, December 12 
5:15pm 
Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 











ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Six die in Russian suicide bomb 
MOSCOW -A suicide bomber who may have intended to attack Bussia's parliament blew herself up outside a nearby upscale hotel across from Hed Square on Tuesday, killing live people and sparking fears of a new wave of terror attacks in the Hussian eapital. 
The bombing, which also wounded at least 12 people. came on the heels of Sunday's nationwide elections for parliament's lower house and only days after a woman blew herself up on a train in southern Bussia, killing 44 people. 
Poliee were searching for a second woman suspected of involvement in Tuesday's attack, warning that she might also be carrying explosives. No group claimed responsibility, but past attacks -including ones carried out by female suicide bombers -have been blamed on rebels from the breakaway republic of Chcchnya. 
N. Korea offers WMD compromise 
SEOUL. South Korea -North Korea announced Tuesday it would freeze its nuclear weapons projects in return for the United States providing energy aid and removing Pyongyang from a list of countries that sponsor terrorism. President Bush rejected the offer. 
The North's terms amounted to a response to a plan offered a day earlier by the United Staws. Japan and South Korea for ending the standoff over the communist state's nuclear weapons program. 
Bush's statement. and similar remarks by Whit1~ House and State Department spokes­men. appeared part of jockeying for position in advance of another round of talks with North Korea. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Owner, band charged in R.I. fire 
WAHWICK. IU.-The owners of the night­club where 100 people were killed in a fire last February were indicted on involuntary manslaughter charges Tuesday along with the tour manager· for the heavy metal band whose pyrotechnics sparked the blaze. 
Club ownl'rs Jefi'rey and Michael Derderian and Great White tour manager Dan Biechele were each charged with 200 counts of invol­untary manslaughter-two for each death. 
Attorney General Patrick Lynch said the IIHl n were charged with two types of manslaughter: one for "gross negligence," the other for committing a misdemeanor such as a fire code violation that led to a death. 
Flu vaccine may be ineffective 
WASHINGTON -As nu sweeps across the country, many health experts are worried that the shots taken by tens of millions of Americans will offer considerably weaker protection than any flu Vaccine in recent years. 
The flu shot available this year was formu­lated to protect against three strains of the virus. But the strain actually circulating this year is somewhat dill"erent from those three, and it is probably too late to develop a new formula. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Peanuts cause massive fire 
KINGSBUHY, Ind. -Boasting peanuts caught fire and caused a blaze that jumped to a building's rafters and destroyed the northern Indiana business, authorities said. 
No one was hurt in the fire Monday after­noon at Kingsbury Elevator the began as workers were roasting about 60,000 pounds of peanuts for usc in bird feed. 
.Jim Tuholski, who was operating the roast­er. told the LaPorte Co.unty Sheriff's Department that he saw peanut skins on top or the roaster catch lire. He went to get a lire extinguisher, but by the time he returned the fire had spread to the rafters and was out of control. 
Bush, Jiaba meet in Washington 
Friendly discussion with Chinese head of state regarding Taiwan, other issues 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With 
visiting Chinese Premier 
Wen Jiabao at his side, 
President Bush sent a 
strong warning to Taiwan 
on Tuesday not to take any 
action toward independ­
ence that could cause new 
tensions with Beijing. 
"We oppose any unilater­al decision by either China or Taiwan to change the status quo," Bush said when asked about a planned March 20 vote in Taiwan on China. "And the comments and actions made by the leader of Taiwan indicate that he may be willing to make decisions unilaterally to change the status quo, which we oppose." 
The planned March ref­erendum, coupled with a changing international sit­uation, has led Bush to speak in harsher tones to democratic Taiwan as he pursues a deeper relation­ship with authoritarian China, particularly on security issues. 
Bush apparently senses that an unstable situation in the Taiwan Strait could be dangerous, particularly with U.S. forces stretched thin because of Iraq and with a potentially explosive situation in North Korea. 
The planned referendum would ask the people of Taiwan if the government should demand China's withdrawal of hundreds of missiles pointed at the island. U.S. officials believe the vote could push Taiwan closer to independence. 
In Taipei, the capital, Foreign Minister Eugene Chien said: "The United States doesn't want our referendum to affect the stability in the Taiwan Strait. We fully understand this." He spoke Monday in response to news accounts quoting a U.S. administra­tion official as criticizing Taiwan's referendum plans. 
Wen stopped short of repeating the military threats that China has lev­eled at Taiwan in response to the referendum. 

He did accuse Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian of using democracy as an excuse to pursue inde­pendence, saying the pres­ident was using the refer­endum "to split Taiwan away from China. Such separatist activities are what the Chinese side can absolutely not accept and tolerate." 
Bush reaffirmed the long-standing U.S. view that there is only one China, and differences between the mainland and Taiwan, which Beijing con­siders a rebellious province, should be resolved peacefully. 
The United States, under the Taiwan Relations Act, has pledged to defend Taiwan if it is attacked by the mainland. No adminis­tration has ever spelled out 
precisely under what cir­cumstances it would use force. 
Bush took office almost three years ago intent on pursuing a more pro­Taiwan' policy than President Clinton. Just weeks after becoming president, Bush said he would do whatever it took to protect Taiwan against a Chinese attack. 
Bush and Wen met for about 40 minutes and later had lunch at the White House with aides. Outside, about 50 members of the Falun Gong protested China's ban on the spiritu­al movement several years ago. One demonstrator carried a banner saying, "Falun Gong: an ancient meditation practice based on truthfulness, compas­sion, tolerance." 
Earlier, during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn that featured a 19­gun salute, Bush gently chided China on human rights and Beijing's ceo­nomic policies. 
"The growth of economic freedom in China provides reason to hope that social, political and religious free­doms will grow there as well." Bush told Wen. "In the long run, these free­doms are indivisible and essential to national great­ness and national dignity." 
China joined the World Trade Organization two years ago. The administra­tion has been pushing Beijing to speed up mar­ket-opening measures and relax controls on its cur­rency, which it contends make Chinese exports unfairly cheap. 

Iraq agrees to war crimes tribunal 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq's interim government voted Tuesday to estab­lish a war crimes tribunal to prose­cute top members of Saddam Hussein's regime, two people who attended the meeting said. 
The tribunal will be formally estab­lished on Wednesday, when the U.S. administrator for Iraq, L. Paul Bremer, temporarily cedes legislative authority to the Iraqi Governing Council so that it can create the court. 
One council member, Younadem Kana, told The Associated Press that the court's proceedings would be open to the Iraqi public -and possi­bly broadcast on television. The vote to approve the tribunal was con­firmed by a second person at the meeting who refused to be identified. 
Kana said the first suspects brought to trial for crimes against humanity would be from among the former regime members on the U.S. military's list of 55 most-wanted Iraqis. 
That group would includ-e several former top officials in coalition cus­tody, such as former foreign minister Tariq Aziz; former vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan; and Ali Hassan al-Majid, known as "Chemical Ali" for his role in chemi­cal attacks on Kurds in the 1980s. 
In the unlikely event that Saddam is captured alive, he presumably would be tried by the special tribunal as well. 
The U.S.-Icd occupation force has pledged to cooperate with the tribu­nal and hand over detainees for trial, Kana said. 
In all, hundreds of Saddam aides could face judges on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, relating to mass killings of Iraqi Kurds and Shiite Muslims as well as Kuwaitis and Iranians, Kana said. Saddam invaded Kuwait in 1990 and fought a pro­tracted war with Iran in the 1980s. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
Saint Mary's residence halls celebrate Christmas season 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Wrirer 
At this time of year, Saint Mary's students have two things on their minds-fmals and Christmas­and residence halls are planning activities to help them prepare for both. 
Although residence halls encourage students to decorate for Christmas, students are not permitted to have any type of Christmas lights in their dorm rooms, Residence Life director Michelle Russell said. 
"Older buildings are not 
Candidate 
continued from page 1 
the Board will be reviewing for their final decision this Monday. 
"The comment I heard the most was that the students felt the candidates who came to campus were all very qualified and they were very impressed with the process," said Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl. stu­dent body president. "The stu­dent body seems very happy with it so far. I think that now we just have to wait and see." 
The search committee then met just before the 

Core 
continued from page 1 
member would probably approach the subject using texts from their own disci­plines. For example. if I were to offer a College Seminar on the environment. I would get other disciplines from the col­lege to get involved with me, like economics, philosophy and theology, to put together a broad course, but 1 would use texts psychological in nature, because I'm a psychology pro­fessor." 
Though the year-long Core is no longer a requirement, next year's sophomores will have the option of taking the College Seminar. a one-semes­ter Core course or the full Core program. There is no way of forcing students to take a year of Core, and because one semester will be equiva­lent to a College Seminar, it is doubtful that many students will choose to do so, Howard said. 
Also. as Core will no longer have a restricted curriculum, the faculty members will be free to address the topic using whichever materials they see fit. 
Debate has raged over Core for months, with many opposed to abbreviating it, fearing that it would no longer serve the original purpose of the program. 
"There were some students and faculty who argued that Core isn't broken, so we shouldn't change it at all. but it is fair to say that this solu­tion met the needs of the majority of voting members of College Council," Howard said. 
The existence of Core Congress, the body made up of student representatives for each Core class. is also in doubt, as they will no longer be able to use a common syl­equipped to deal-with the added amps of Christmas lights," she said. 
Residence Life continues to talk about terminating this rule as changes are being made in the manufacturing of Christmas lights. Russell is aware of stu­dents' fondness for lights, espe­cially during this time of year, but she encourages students to find alternate ways to decorate until potential changes in the rule occur. 
Until students have the freedom to decorate however they want, they can enjoy the Christmas dis­plays found in all of the residence 
Thanksgiving holiday to decide on and recommend candidates to the Board of Trustees for their December 15 meeting. 
The final four candidates to be reviewed include Carol Mooney, vice president and, associate provost at Notre! Dame, Josefina Baltodano, an executive vice president at Alliant International University, Susan Keys, an administrator at Johns Hopkins University, and Gail Baker, vice president of public relations at the University of Florida. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at Baill407@saintmarys.edu 
Iabus as grounds for discus­sion, but "other aspects of these College Seminars might make a Core Congress a good idea," Howard said. 
"Reducing the requirement to one-semester is certainly a move away from providing a broad intellectual experience, because Core really takes two full semesters to cover the domain it set out for itself." Howard said. "But there's a sense in which the college has just given the students back a free elective students didn't have, and students would not be losing anything if they con­tinued to take the year-long Core course." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Are you stressed, hungry and out of flex points? 
Come take a study break and enjoy· FREE BORRACHO BURRITO!! TOMORROW December 11th from 12:30 pm till food runs out Lafortune's Dooley Room (near the TV's) 
Sponsored by Junior Class Council. 
halls. These displays are permit­ted to contain Christmas lights because they are carefully moni­tored. 
"We are all away from home and away from the holiday tradi­tions we are used to. I think I would forget it is almost Christmas if the campus were not decorated for it," said Holy Cross Hall Vice-President Allison Roche. 
Hall director Natissa Kultan decorated the lobby of Holy Cross over Thanksgiving Break. The Christmas season officially began last Thursday when they had their Christmas Kick-off party, where residence decorated orna­
·•p;.>rose 
poetry 

. ··•···· I I





F1ct1on 
NQ literary Festival student reader auditions: 
6:30-7:30 by appt. 
7:30-B:OO open to anyone Wednesday, Dec. 1Oth 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
email mike 
subialka at 
msubialk@nd~ed u 

bring: 5minutes of original material and any written work you wish to submit 
Sponsored by SUB and NDLF (formerly the Sophomore Literary Festival] 
-··---··-····· 
Hey Juniors! 
au-di-tion n. 
ments for the hall tree. 
To spread cheer, many clubs and organizations planned holi­day-themed events. The Senior Class Board invited students to the LeMans Hall lobby to make Christmas Crafts Monday. On Tuesday night, Saint Mary's stu­dents were serenaded by the melodic voices of the Notre Dame Glee Club as they visited each res­idence hall. McCandless Hall and SGA will both be sponsoring free trips to Chicago this Saturday to give students a chance to Christmas shop and enjoy the hol­iday spirit of a large city. 
"The Glee Club was great, and there is a lot of Christmas spirit. But I think we need more decora­tions to make it feel more like home," said freshman Megan McFadden. 
"We just want people to feel like it is Christmas Day everyday. It is a way for us to spread holiday cheer throughout our hall and the rest of campus. Plus, Christmas brings out the best in people, and the decorations remind people what time of year it is," said Holy Cross Hall president Jessica Eaton. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, December I 0, 2003 

Dow 

9,923.42 -41.85

}ones A,, 
Up: Same: L)c)wp: Composite VoluiJ'If 1,285 170 • 1,421,698,048 

AMEX 1,124.57 -5.69 NASDAQ 1,908.32 -40.53 NYSE 6,137.17 -29.00 S&PSOO 1,060.18 -9.12 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 10,124.28 +0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,379.60 +19.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.53 +0.14 26.3E INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.39 -1.39 30.2~ CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.36 -1.06 23.2~ SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -4.35 -0.19 4.1 e ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.56 -0.20 12.61 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.52 +0.52 51.68 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.74 +0.74 43.52 
5-YEARNOTE +0.84 +0.84 33.41 
3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 8. 92 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 0.34 31.76 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.40 408.90 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.70 85.85 
Excha Rates 

YEN 107.1 
EURO 0.8159 
POUND 0.5726 
IN BRIEF 
Gap founder steps down for son 
SAN FHANCISCO -The founder of the Gap 
clothing store chain said Tuesday he is step­
ping down as chairman of the company he 
started 34 years ago as a frustrated shopper 
trying to lind better-fitting pair of jeans. 
Donald Fisher, 75, will relinquish the chair­
man's titln to his son Hobert, a former Gap 
executivn, after the San Francisco-based com­
pany's annual meeting in May. Ile intends to 
remain on the board as chairman emeritus 
and continue to advise Gap's chief executive 
officer. Paul Pressler, whom Fisher recruited 
in 2002 to lift the company out of a funk. 
The shakeup has paid off so far. The compa­
ny ended a 29-month-long sales slump shortly 
after Pressler's arrival and has now increased 
its same-store sales -a key measure of a 
merchant's health -for 14 consecutive 
months. 
''I'm more confident than ever about our 1 company's long-term prospects," Fisher said. 
"I believe now is an appropriate time to make 
this transition as chairman." 
Drug companies will pay fines 
JOIIANNESBUHG, South Africa-Nine lead­
ing pharmaceutical companies, including 
lndianapoolis-based Eli Lilly and Co., have 
agreed to pay a South African business regu­
lator a total of $2.8 million to settle a com­
plaint alleging anti-competitive trading prac­
tices. oflicials said Friday. 
The settlement announced Friday brings to 
an end three years of negotiations and court 
actions, said Karin Coode, a spokeswoman for 
South Africa's Competition Commission. 
In addition to Lilly. the companies involved 
are Novartis, Hoche Products, Ingelheim 
Pharmaceuticals, Abbot Laboratories, Bayer, 
Wyeth, Aventis Pharma, Sanofi-Synthelabo 
and lnternationalllealthcare Distributors. 
The companies could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
Under the settlement, the pharmaceutical 
companies agreed to sell their s:areholdings 
in International Healthcare Distributors, 
which should lead to more competitive prices 
for medicines, said Menzi Sim3lane, a lawyer 
who sits on the competition commission, an 
independent body that ensures dominant com­
panies don't abuse their market power. 

Associated Press 
HAMMOND, Ind. -Major steel producers in northwest Indiana<tare better positioned to compete with foreign companies than when President Bush placed tariffs on steel imports 21 months ago, experts and labor leaders say. 
After several years of consolida­tion, Indiana companies are now leaner, perhaps helping shield them from bankruptcies following Bush's decision last week to repeal the tar­iffs. 
"For a lot of different reasons, this is really the heart of the industry and those are llagship plants, and that is an advantage for steelworkers living 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Wall Street may be recovering 
Dow Jones average briefly tops 10,000; Fed announces rates will stay the same 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The Dow 
Jones industrials broke 
through the 10,000 barrier 
for all of one minute 
Tuesday. reaching a signifi­
cant milestone in Wall 
Street's remarkable recov­
ery from the bear market 
before retreating on profit­
taking. 
Stocks moved higher as investors picked up shares on anticipation the Federal Heserve will keep interest rates low for some time. But by the time the Fed issued its decision in the afternoon to leave rates unchanged, investors were looking to lock in some gains, analysts said. 
The index of 30 blue chip stocks moved past its mile­stone shortly after trading began. It was the first time since May 31, 2002, that the Dow had been above 10,000 and marked a solid comeback from the five­year low of 7,286.27 on Oct. 9, 2002. · 
A cheer went up on the lloor of the New York Stock Exchange to greet the Dow's achievement Tuesday, an expression of traders' relief that Wall Street has maintained its upward path. Last week, the Nasdaq composite index crossed 2,000 for the declined 9.12, or 0.9 per­ingfully higher ground -3 cents to $17.31 after the first time in nearly two cent, to 1,060.18. to 5 percent over the next supermarket giant report­years. As expected, the Fed several months," ed third-quarter earnings 
"This rally is coincident voted to keep short-term Battipaglia said. "If we that fell below expecta­with the fact the market interest rates at a 45-year indeed go there, Dow tions. had a stellar performance low. In its statement, the 10,000 will be a very Texas Instruments fell 75 this year, because it cor­Fed said it believes rates happy moment in time." cents to $27.49 after the rectly predicted the recov­could be maintained "for a Peter Cardillo, president tech company raised its ery in the economy," said considerable period," and chief strategist of fourth-quarter outlook. cit­Joseph Battipaglia, chief allaying investor concerns Global Partner Securities ing strong growth. investment oflicer at Hyan about a rate hike in the Inc., said the 10,000 level But General Motors Corp. Beck & Co. near future. might represent a mile­gained $1.27 to $48.41 
The Dow pushed up Stocks have pushed high­stone that investors remain after Goldman Sachs 
37.85 to hit 10,003.12 er in recent weeks on hesitant to push past on a raised the automaker's before pulling back and investor expectations for a longer-term basis. stock rating to "outper­closing at 9,923.42, down stronger economy. But "One reason why the form" from "in-line," citing 41.85, or 0.4 percent. In analysts wonder if the market is not reacting pos­improvements in the com­the·previous session, the market might be due for itively to the Fed decision. pany's pension plan. blue chip average climbed some pullbacks or side­is mostly technical," he Declining issues outnum­
102.59. ways trading, citing some­said. "We had a brief pass­bered advancers about 8 to 
The broader market also what high share valua­ing of the 10,000 level, but 5 on the NYSE. finished lower. The Nasdaq tions. the fact it didn't hold basi­Consolidated volume was fell 40.53, or 2.1 percent, "What would be more cally suggests there is still moderate at 1.86 billion at 1,908.32. The Standard significant is if we move psychological resistance." shares, compared with & Poor's 500 index from these levels to mean-Kroger Co. declined 58 1.52 billion traded Monday. 

Indiana steel will be competitive 
in northwest Indiana," said Jim Robinson, United Steelworkers of America District 7 director. 
Steel analyst Charles Bradford agreed, telling The Times that con­solidation is not over. He predicts more shuttered mills in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
Bradford said it was not tariffs that pushed steel prices high enough to create profitable margins. Instead, the main factor in the price spike in 2002 was the shutdown of LTV Steel, which operated a mill in East Chicago and others in Cleveland. Once LTV was bought up by International Steel Group and began producing again, steel prices again declined. 
He also issued a caution for north­west Indiana steelmakers, pointing out that even the most modern inte­grated steel facility is still almost 40 years old. 
"Those guys in northwest Indiana are not as good as people say they are," Bradford said. 
Bradford put Weirton Steel, WCI Steel and Rouge Industries at the top of the list for companies that will be particularly vulnerable to competi­tion from imports and any softening in prices. All three are operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy. 
"Yes, the U.S. steel industry has consolidated, but they have not con­solidated as the Japanese and the Europeans did," Bradford said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
day," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
The approval process for the reading day is one that has taken ten years and several meetings among professors, student government members and other school officials in order to ensure that it would be beneficial to all 
"Personally, I'm 

involved. dents m.ust "use Initially, many in favor ofa study it or lose it." 
professors day ifthe students Over Christmas 
objected to the break, students
truly use it

reading day for will be asked to a variety of rea­as such.,, • fill out a survey sons. on Prism evalu­
"My misgiv­ating the effec­
Renee Klngcald 

ings were large­tiveness of the
SMC professor

ly about taking day, with the 


away a day of class and what that represented in terms of using class time to get stu­dents ready for their final and sum up the semester's worth of material," said Joe Incandela, a professor in the religious studies department. 
Other professors said they had no misgivings about the day from its initial introduc­tion. 
"I seem to recall that, some 20 years ago, the last Friday of the semester was already designated as a study day, but that it eventually migrated to the Saturday and Sunday pre­ceding finals week," said pro­fessor Renee Kingcaid. "So, since most professors have come to count on holding class meetings all the way through the last semester week, 'los­ing' the Friday has created syllabus problems. Personally, I'm in favor of a study day if the students truly use it as such." 

Professors, however, who are opposed to the idea of a reading day, may yet have an opportunity to see the new rule removed from existence. 
As stated in the campaign motto created by the Student Academic Council in order to promote appro­priate use of the reading day, stu­
results evaluated 
by the Student Academic Committee and other committees to assess the day and determine its future. 
It is up to both the students and the staff to respect the day and facilitate the effective use of the opportunities it pro­vides, as it was created to help students by providing them with extra time to study in order to improve their grades. It is not a day students or pro­fessors would want to loose by abusing it during its first year of existence, Jablonski-Diehl said. 
"In the end we are all look­ing to make Saint Mary's a better place," she said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


..::.,.. .. 
···> lnfOr:fnation Session 
fot tbo.se interested in
·. . . ··.·· .·. ·.·.·....· . . . . . ·:·: 

tne position of 


Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
T~e~of{~rJa~uary 13, 7:30-8:30 p~m. Req~er's Flospitality Room 
. OR Wednesday, January 21, 7:30-8:30 p.tn. Recker's Hospitality Room 
Lightrefreslunents served 
For further information visit wwv,.(td;t:!d\l.l-stdntcdf/AsstRector.html 
s I B c 
Student International Business Council 

ThankYou 2003 Board ofDirectors 
President: Parker Davis COO: Daniela Urs CFO: Jason King SPC: Jim Krenn Finance: Jake Roffman Business Consulting: Bob Goedert Human Resources: Courtney Zeph Marketing: Melanie Lauck Accounting: Bill Coffey Global Development: John Boots Information Technology: Michael Flynn Internships: Daniel Silva and Pedro Bollmann 
Congratulations to the 2004 Board ofDirectors 
President: Jake Roffman COO: Daniel Silva CFO: John Boots SPC: Steve Wierema Finance: Tim Lavelle Business Consulting: Paula Bucher Human Resources: Erin Cook Marketing: Melanie Lauck Accounting: Jason Kingery Global Development: Daniel Degen Information Technology: Joseph Dubbs Internships: Pedro Bollmann and Mike Panzica 


www.nd.edu/~sibc 

Wednesday, December I 0, 2003 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 9 





Students cope with losses during holidays 
Saint Mary's Counseling Center offers advice, consolation to students dealing with a death in their families 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
For most people, the holidays are a time of happiness spent with family and friends. But for anyone who has recently lost a loved one, the holidays often become a 
time of sadness. 
"Losses arc harder to deal with at the holidays, because this is a time of gatherings and celebrations with loved ones," said Mary DePauw, Saint Mary's director of Career and Counseling Development Center. "The person becomes very missed at these times." 
Saint Mary's junior Genevieve Tauer lost her father on Oct. 4, 2003, at the age of62. 
"Everything is different with­out him," Tauer said. "We usu­ally go to my sisters' for 
Thanksgiving, but this year we decided to have it at home because we all feel closer to him there." 
Tauer says the strong faith in God her father instilled in her is helping her to grieve. 
"My dad always encouraged us to have a personal relationship with God," Tauer said. "lit· told us to turn to God with every­thing, to trust him, because he would get 
us through." Saint Mary's senior Laura Coristin lost her father Nov. 4 at the age of 50. 
"He was sick, and for the past two years it's been really hard to watch him suffer," Coristin said. "I tell myself that he's much better ofT now because he's at peace, but at the same time the thought that I'm never going to see or talk to my dad again 
"We wouldn't have been given tear ducts ifwe weren't meant to cry. Don't keep it inside. " 
Mary DePauw director 
SMC Counseling Center 
Christmas. 
really hurts." 
DePauw suggests that the holidays are a perfect time to honor a lost loved one. Working at a home­less shelter or offering a memorial at church, home or school are all good ways to honor the life of a person, DePauw said. 
This year, Tauer's moth­er has insisted that her 
five daughters do not buy her anything for 

"We can't give her what she really wants," Tauer said. "Instead I'm going to go to the Salvation Army and serve meals to people who can't afford them, and then I can give that to my mom in memory of my dad." 
Tauer and her four sisters are also con­structing a scrapbook of pictures and memories of their father to present to their 
mother for Christmas. Tauer offers helpful advice for helping others who are living with loss. 
"Pick people you know will support you and tell them exactly what you need," Tauer said. "If you need to be alone, tell them. If you need to talk about him, tell 
them. Just be patient with yourself, and don't expect anyone to fill the void of the loss. Ask God to do that." 
Coristin believes that in a world where things can change so quickly, it is impor­tant to let others know how she feels. ' 
"Burying a parent is an experience like no other," Coristin said. "Make sure you take the time to appreciate the people who love you because you never know what might happen to you or to them, and it would be hor­rible to live with regrets." 
DePauw, who is a licensed psychologist, emphasizes that it is important to offer 
encouragement and support to those who are living with the loss of a loved one. 
"The most important thing you can do for that person is to acknowledge it direct­ly," she said. "Ask the person how they're doing, offer to visit the grave of the loved 

QUOTES & FACTS 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies www. nd.edu/-nanovic 

II It more of us valued food and cheer and song aboue hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world. 11 -). R. R. '/Mkien ( 1892-1973). l\'nglish scholm and rmthm: 
one with the person and give support in anyway they need it." 
Reaching out and extending kindness to others and not judging are all important aspects of helping someone live with the loss of a loved one, said DePauw. 
She also recommends looking into other 
"/tell myselfthat he's much better off now because he's at peace, but at the same time the thought that I'm never going to see or talk to my dad again really hurts." 
Laura Corlstln Saint Mary's senior 
sources of support such as various books, journals and support groups geared towards lending support in times of need. The Career and Counseling Development center can help direct students to these sources. 
"We in our Center are here with an open heart to listen and support students living with the whole range of loss that becomes more apparent at the holidays," said DePauw. 
She reminds people living with a loss that it is normal and important to go through the grieving process. 
"We wouldn't have been given tear ducts if we weren't meant to cry," said DePauw. "Don't keep it inside." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu. 

rissy's 'Boutiq~ 
UPSTAIRS 
• 
925 Imported Silver 

• 
One of a Kind Fur Jackets 

• 
Hand Knitted Scarfs 

• 
Consigned Designer Clothes 





f< US.Cellular. 
We connect with you: 
For businesses of any size, please caii1-866-USC-4BIZ (1-866-827-4249). 
Elkhart 
Wai-Mart, 175 county Rd. #6, I Granger 215 E. university Dr., Ste. 150, IValparaiso Wai-Mart, 2400 Morthland Dr., 
(574) 264-449.4 
Elkhart Go Wireless-Kiosk, Concord Mall, 3701 s. Main St., (574) 875-4744 
Goshen Wai-Mart, 4024 Elkhart Rd., (574) 875-7753 
Merrillville Go Wireless-Kiosk, 2109 Southlake Mall, Ste. 748 
(574) 271-Q290 
Mishawaka Go Wireless-Kiosk, University Mall, 
6501 N. Grape Rd., Ste. 650, 
(574) 243-4855 
Mishawaka Wai·Mart. 3161ndian Ridge, (574) 243-1520 
Mishawaka Premier, 514 w. McKinley, (574) 252-5820 
(219) 465-4286 
Schererville Urban Media Group, 717B Main St., (219) 865-9608 
South Bend Premier. 117 N. Main St., (574) 288-9450 
South Bend Premier, 4615 Miami Rd., (574) 299-2860 
"NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. PURCHASE WILL NOT ENHANCE CHANCES OF WINNING. Only open lo legal residents of 10, IL, IN, lA, KS, MD, ME, MO, MN, NE, NH, NC, OH, OK, OR, PA, SC, TN, TX, VT, VA, WA, WI, &WV, 18 or older. Entry. (a) U.S. Cellular customers: Use your USC mobile phone ("Phone") during an Entry Period (Daily 7:00am to 9:00pm local time) lo make an eligible call. Eligible calls limited lo incoming calls to Phone (except forwarded calls) & outgoing calls from Phone while on USC wireless network to a mobile or landline phone or operator, where call is answered (except voicemail) & does not exceed 3 hrs Qfi (b) Print your name, address. daytime phone, 4·digit number (using digits 0·9) & exact date & time (hours, minutes, seconds) during Entry Period & mail to: U.S. Cellular Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 1443, Young America, MN 55594·1443 by postmark & entry-received dates. Enter as often as you wish, one entry per stamped envelope. Entry Periods: 1: 11/H117/03; postmark: 11/10/03; received: 11/14/03; drawing: 11/17/03. 2: 11/8·11/14/03; postmark: 11/17/03; received: 11/21/03; drawing: 1t/24/03. 3: 11/15·11/21/03; postmark: 11/24/03; received: 11/28/03; drawing: 1211/03.4: 11/22·11/28/03; postmark: 1211/03; received: 1215/03; drawing: 1218/03.5: 11/29·1215/03; postmark: 1218/03; received: 12112103; drawing: 12115103.6: 1216·12112103; postmark: 12115/03; received: 12/19/03; drawing: 12122/03.7: 12/13-12119/03; postmark: 12122103; received: 12126/03; drawing: 12129/03.8: 12120-12126/03; postmark: 12129/03: received: 1/2/04; drawing: 1/5/04. Odds of winning 1st Prize depends on number of eligible entries received that match the randomly selected date &time for that Entry Period. Odds of aspecific date &time being randomly selected:I :352,800. Odds of a 1st Prize winner winning the Grand Prize 1:10,000. Prizes. 1Grand Prize: $20,000,000 payable as a40-year annuity. 8 1st Prizes, 1per Entry Period: Choice of: Home Theater Package, ARV $4,798. Digital Entertainment Package, ARV $4,960. Mobile Madness Package, ARV $4,739. Cash: $2,500. Subject to Official Rules available at www.uscc.com or mail SASE to: Rules, P.O. Box 9443, Young America, MN 55558·9443 by 2120/04. Sponsor: U.S. Cellular, 8410 West Bryn Mawr, Chicago, IL 60631. 
'Offer not valid in combination with any other special offer or promotion. Airtime and phone offers valid on 2·year consumer service agreements of $40 and higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2·year con­tract on plans of $40 and up. Promotional phone subject to change. Phone pricing includes a $30 mail-in rebate. Customer is responsible for all sales taxes. Offers may expire ~you change your calling plan. Night and week·'l:lll::l!lml!ll. end minutes are valid M-F 9pm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available in local calling area only. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges and taxes may ' apply, including a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Activation fee is $30. "By using easyedge'" phone service, you agree ' 1•888•BUY•USCC to be bound by the terms and cond~ions, including the End User Ucense Agreement posted and viewable at www.uscellular.cornltermsandcond~ions. This information is provided for informational : uscellular.com purposes only and is subject to change without notice. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Um~ed time offer. Offer valid in Illinois and Indiana only. Not valid in Rock Island or Henry
Counties in llfinois. ©2003 U.S. Cellular Corporation 
Wednesday, December I 0, 2003 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page II 
TV violence instances increase 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Fights. gun battles and blood are increas­ingly making their way into homes each night through tel­evision, according to a study released Tuesday. 
The study by the Parents Television Council counted 534 separate episodes of prime-time violence on the six major broadcast networks during the first two weeks of the November ratings "sweeps" in 2002. That was up from 292 violent incidents during the same period four years earlier, the organization said. 
Although the study is slightly outdated, the PTC says prelim­inary data from last month shows the trend toward increased violence is continu­ing. 
The violence is getting more serious, too. The study found 156 incidents where guns or other weapons were used dur­ing the two-week period in prime-time in 2002, up from 67 four years earlier. 
"In both quantity and quality it is getting worse," said Brent Bozell, founder of the conser­vative media watchdog group. "I think it is a cause for con­cern." 
Fox narrowly beat CBS, 151 to 148, for having the most violent incidents. the PTC said, even though Fox broad­casts an hour less each night than ABC, CBS and NBC. Fox executives .say they never comment on PTC studies, although they privately note that some of their more vio­lent shows in 2002 have since been canceled. 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. 
If you have a relative or friend who would like to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross College -we're right next door to Notre Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in liberal Studies degree. 
Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and . 
transfer applicants are currently being accepted tor Spring and Fall admission. 
HOLY CROSS 
COLLEGE~ 
at Notre Dame, Indiana ~ 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 



Osbourne making steady progress 
Dazed heavy metal and reality TV star has slow recovery from ATV accident 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Ozzy Osbourne -once a wild man of heavy metal music, now a dazed d:11i in a reality TV show ­rPr"perated in intensive care 'I u·~~day from injuries includ­ing a broken neck vertebra af1•· ~ an all-terrain vehicle r, 1 ;dent. 
~huron 
Osbourne flew to 
Britain from Los Angeles to be with her 55-year­old husband after the lat­est dramatic incident in a colorful career that has included biting the head off a bat and urinating on the Alamo, among other antics. 
·~"Apparently he was on his quad bike and he hit some­r.hing and he fell and the bike landed on top of him," Sharon Osbourne told r!e p o r t e r s ily in Birmingham, central England. He served two months in prison for burgla­ry at age 17. 

He rose to fame with the 1970s metal band Black Sabbath. He left for a solo career, shocking many with lyrics focusing on the occult and startling performances. 
Osbourne bit the head off a live dove at a meeting with record company executives in 1981. The following year he did the same to a live bat at a concert in Des Moines, Iowa, ·although the bat reportedly bit back, and Osbourne reportedly had to undergo painful rabies shots. 
The singer also used to throw raw meat into the audience and once urinated on a wall at the Alamo in San Antonio, Texas. 
Some fans concluded that decades of alcohol and drug abuse had taken their toll when a rather confused­appearing Osbourne became an unlikely TV star with hit 
reality show 

Tuesday at "The Os­
"Apparently he 
London's bournes." 
Heathrow was on his quad The third 
Airport. bike and he hit season of the A quad bike, MTV series,
something and he
a.kin to a four­which follows
fell and the bike 
wheel-drive the lives of motorcycle, is landed on Ozzy, Sharon used for recre­and their chil­
top ofhim. " 
ation and by dren -Jack hunters and and Kelly ­farmers to Sharon Osbourne started produc­reach inaccessi­wife tion about a 

ble places. 
Sharon Osbourne visited her hus­band at Wexham Park Hospital in Slough, west of London. where he underwent emergency surgery Monday to restore the flow to a dam­aged blood vessel, said Dr. Dick Jack, hospital medical director. 
Osbourne fractured his left 
collarbone, eight ribs and a neck vertebra in the accident Monday on his Buckingham­shire estate in southern England. 
"It's satisfac­tory but it's going to be slow. I don't expect any major changes certainly for 24 hours," Jack 
"lt,s satisfactory Osbourne said 
he developed a

but it,s going to be 
42-pill-a-dayslow. I don ,t expect habit that accounted for
any major changes 
his odd behav­

certainly for 
ior on the 

24 hours." expletive-laden MTV show. in which he has
Dr. Dick Jack 
been seen

medical director 
mumbling.Wexham Park Hospital falling and 
said of Osbourne's recovery. 
He said he believed there was no risk of paralysis from the fractured neck vertebra, although doctors were await­ing a final report from radi­ologists before removing an immobilizing collar. 
The accident occurred while the singer was taking a day off from promoting "Changes," a duet with his daughter Kelly, his London publicity agency said in a statement. · 
The song, released Tuesday in Britain, is a likely contender for the Christmas No. 1 spot in singles charts. 
Ozzy Osbourne, whose real name is John Osbourne, grew up in a blue-collar fam­
month ago and was to begin airing Jan. 13. 
The Osbourne accident nearly coincided with a story last weekend on the Los Angeles Times Web site reporting a claim by Osbourne that he was pre­scribed excessive amounts of powerful anti-psychotic and tranquilizing drugs by a 
Beverly Hills 
physician. 
appearing dis­oriented. 
lie blamed Dr. David Kipper, who has been inves­tigated for the same prac­tices with other celebrity patients. 
On Monday. however, actor-director Danny DeVito issued a statement in sup­port of Kipper. DeVito said he and his wife, actress Hhea Perlman, and other family 
members  have  relied  on  
Kipper's care for  more  than  
20 years.  

Calls to Kipper's office Monday were not returned. 
Earlier this month, Osbourne told a British newspaper he'd been sexual­ly molested as a child and suffered emotional effects long into adulthood. 

THE OBSERVER 
page 12 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
Mooney best choice for SMC 


The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees is scheduled to choose the College's next president in the immediate future from a group of four candidates who visited the campus last month. 
During a series of separate two-day visits last month, the four-Josefina Baltodano, an executive vice presi­dent at Alliant International University; Gail Baker, vice 
president of public relations at the University of Florida; Susan Keys, an administrator at Johns Hopkins University; and Carol Mooney, vice president and associate provost at Notre Dame -had an opportunity to tour the campus and meet with admin­istrators, faculty and students. Based on the candidates' backgrounds and presentations at student-candidate luncheons, The Observer recommends 
OJhe 
userver 


Editorial 
the College select Mooney as as its next president. 
A 1972 Saint Mary's graduate and longtime member of the South Bend community, Mooney is intimately familiar with the College both in terms of experiencing its past and envisioning its future. As an alumna, she knows the College's traditions and can preserve its most important aspect, its strong liberal arts identity. 
But it is Mooney's experience as a leading administra­tor at a prestigious national university that sets her 
OBSERVER POLL 
Have you ever been in a final that has been interrupted by a prank? 
Vote at ndsmcobserver.com by 5 p.m. today. 
above the other three candidates. Baltadano, another strong candidate, lacks this experience. Baker has limit­ed experience outside of public relations and journalism and Keys was unimpressive in her college visit. 
In addition to serving as an administrator, Mooney also worked at Notre Dame to recruit female and minority professors, suggesting she might make fixing the 
Do you believe that one person can change the world? Here is the thing: 
Somewhere there is a kid who has not taken his first steps yet. He has not even begun to teethe and has not yet spoken a word. The bottle is still his 
Adam Cahill

best friend because he has not graduat­
ed to solid food. Perhaps he has not A Domer's even been born yet. Outlook 
But this kid does 
not know the things he is capable of or how special he is. He is more than special. He will be the answer to the questions. the doubts. He is going to change things. He is going to change everything that he touches as if a magic wand were in his hand. There are so many things that he's going to accomplish before retiring from life -more than most before him, more than any we have seen in our lifetime. 
Somewhere there is a kid who is going to save sport. He is going to have Michael Jordan's talent and Lance Armstrong's heart. He is going to defy the unions and salary caps and bring sport back to the way it was played when the glory boys took the field ­without endorsements and with only one thing in mind, winning. He will teach coaches more than they can teach him and they will thank him for letting them learn. He will defy gravity and the impossibility that sportsman­ship has become. He will cry when rounding the bases after hitting the World Series' winning home run. He will bypass the media's cameras and jump into the front row to be with his family. He will retire only once and not when he's about to apply for Social Security checks. 
The world will love him for it because he will make them forget the billionaire pre-Madonnas and the spoiled brats that we watch today. No more drugs, no more insults, no more sex scandals, no more ridiculous celebration dances. Just sport. And we will love him for it. 
Somewhere there is a kid who is going to save politics. With Franklin Roosevelt's determination and Jimmy Carter's compassion, he is going to bring this country together with the resiliency of Abraham Lincoln and the ideology of George Washington. He will write his own speeches and the persua­siveness of them is going to move more than the nation he holds like putty in the palm of his hand. He is going to bring an end to bi-partisanship and to scandal. No more Watergates. No more Iran-Contras. He is going to bring back the issues and the solutions to solve them instead of the quickest way to embarrass his opponent and the coun­try will be better for it. 
Somewhere there is going to be a kid who is going to grow up to change reli­gion. The animosity of the feuding faiths will cease once they hear the clarity of his words. He will speak with both logic and emotion -a combina­tion hardly ever used together success­fully. He will gain people's trust and encourage them to live together peace­fully in words they can understand and not hidden under the fancy veil of edu­cational tongue. His words will bridge the gaps between religions created by centuries and millenniums of war and misunderstanding. He will speak the many tongues of the Lord and convince the non-believers of his virtue and compassion. 
Somewhere there is a kid who is College's mediocre diversity record a priority at the College. Furthermore. the faculty and students who met with Mooney responded positively to the ideas she presented. 
Should Mooney be chosen for the position of Saint Mary's president, there is no doubt it would be a loss to the Notre Dame community. But the relationships Mooney built as an offi­cer at Notre Dame would allow her to 
best coordinate relations between the two schools and facilitate academic opportunities at each. Should the Board of Trustees select Mooney as Saint Mary's next president, the move might also have fringe benefits for Notre Dame. 
Mooney is the best candidate for the job. Saint Mary's, already one of the best female liberal arts colleges in the nation, has the ability to become an even better academ­ic institution. With Mooney at the helm, it will. 
One person can change the world 
going to change the future of business. With the honesty of ole' George and the cherry tree, he will be as rich as Bill Gates but live as modestly as one of his factory workers. He will create more jobs with his intuition and the stock market will react because of his stabili­ty in the business world by remaining on a steady incline. He will shock his competitors by asking them to picnics and barbeques with only two condi­tions: 1. No business talk and 2. Bring a casserole. 
And because he considers everyone who sets foot in his house to be a friend, he will do anything in his power to keep them from getting into trouble, even if it means endangering his name. And because of it, business competitors will refrain from using every nasty strategy to get the edge over him just because they know he would not do it to them. He will have respect without fear, working relationships without acrimony. No more Enrons, no more monopolies, no more scandal. 
Somewhere out there, there is a kid who is going to change the world. Will it be you? Or me? Maybe. Maybe not. Or will it be one of the children we pro­duce? Will he or she be a male or female? Will they have brown or blond hair? Will they have brown or blue eyes? We can only hope. But some­where, someone is going to do it; only time will tell who it is. 
Adam Cahill is a sophomore political science and international peace stud­ies major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Have you ever observed that we pay much more attention to a wise passage when it is quoted than when we read it in the original author?" 
Phillip Harnerton writer 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 1 0, 2003 
page 13 
'Twas the week before finals 
"1\vas the week before finals, when all through N.D., Not a creature was stirring, not even NDSP. The football players were nestled, all snug in their beds, While visions of missed Sugar Bowls danced in their 
htmds. 
With Monk in hL'> oflice doing what he could do, To improve our rank on the Prineeton Hcview. Poorman, as well, had several jobs at hand, Like choosing the next Domer tra­dition he'd ban. 
With Ty in depression he was tough to approach, Though we all knew he should fire his special teams 
coach. And not a crazier sight there was than Coach Brey, Preparing to destroy Indiana today. 
Chuck Lennon was running about like a goof, Because his cardigan had ripped from raising the roof. Even the Leprechaun was feeling the blues, Aller two Zahmbies stole his ugly green shoes. 
A girl in LaFortune was crying with scorn, When she witnessed two guys admiring porn. And Mendoza enrollment continued to rise, 'Cause Enginerds and Archies were dropping like llies. 
With Uw books set aside and class fmally done, The time had come for some Notre Dame fun. But what to our wondering eyes should appear? The fridges had been emptied of all of their beer! 
The students all cried, for their parties fell through, Without any drinking, what were they to do? They could study right now, but then grimaced in shame, Aller all, they were students at old Notre Dame! 
Whnn up on Uw Dome there arose such a clatter, We emerged from our dorms to see what was the matter. With a six-pack of beer and a merry little jingle, We knew in an instant that it was Irish Kris Kringle. 
lie came to us all and said with a roar, "Let's act like we've partied at N.D. before!" So he p<L'>sed out his beer, still jolly and quick, And the students perked up thanks to Irish St. Nick. 
"On Keystone! On Busch! And on Natty Light! On Bud and on Miller!" he said with delight. lie set up a table and opened a case, As a dastardly smile appeared on his face. 
The events that ensued most certainly rocked, Though they may not have been legal under duLac. lie shotgunned a beer, and we all followed suit, Then pressed onward with a game of Beirut. 
lie next took delight in watching our faces, A'i he inserted beer bongs in peculiar places. And to top it all off, he shouted, "Oh Lordy!" Then tilted his head and pounded a forty. 
lie looked on in content at the resulting pleasure, As the students learned why their school is a treasure. Kegs and Eggs, tailgating, and SYR dates, These arc the things that make Notre Dame great. 
lie spoke not a word as he finished his work, Merely turning away without even a smirk. But we heard him exclaim, as he drove out of sight, "llappy drinking to all, and to all a goodnight!" 
Joey Falco is a freshman marketing major. /lis column appears every othc!r Wednesday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those ofTiie Observer. 
Joey Falco 
Forty Ounces for Falco 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Questioning anti-media flyers 
As some may know, flyers of Kobe Bryant were scattered on tables in North Dining Hall this Monday. I was perhaps less disgusted by the underlying messages these flyers sent than by the fact that those who produced 
the flyers did not claim responsi­bility for them. These people are cowards for not taking responsibility for this image. Those who made this flyer appeared to be sending the message that we should be careful what we allow ourselves to believe concerning images sent to us by the media. I believe they were mak­ing a bolder statement and trying to send a dou­ble message. Why did they choose to use Kobe Bryant as their poster boy for their "beware the media" campaign? 


There are plenty of other images they could have chosen. If they are willing to use Kobe Bryant as the image of a sexual predator, why not use Michael Jackson? Why not use a priest? Whoever you are, why did you feel it necessary or appropriate to use the image of a prominent, black athlete with no previous criminal record? 
Furthermore, why use this image in the after­math of a similar situation the Notre Dame com-
Help addicts, don't criticize 
After reading Jim Lee's Dec. 9 letter, I do not think everyone understands the basic concept that addic­tions are not fun. Lee apparently believes that those addicted to drugs, narcotics and pornography are having a grand time reveling in these dangerous habits. I agree that addiction to pornography is high­ly underestimated not only on this campus, but also across the United States. However, I do not think the correct way to solve this problem is to point an accu­satory finger at people and tell them not to do it. This is like having your mom say, "You'll go blind." 
Addiction to pornography has deep seeded causes and is not just the result of looking at a Playboy magazine. Many who are now addicted to pornogra­phy are victims of an abusive childhood and a socie­ty that offers sex at the click of a button. Referring to it as a "dirty secret" does not encourage those who are affected by this horrible addiction to come out and try to receive help for it. Hather, addicts hide themselves in shame and beat up on themselves. They fall deeper into their addictions because it is impossible to break without any help. 
There is a strong double standard in our society, and those people who are addicted to sex and pornography are often the victims. Pornography is readily available at any corner store and within a 

Change ticket procedures 
I am a graduate of Notre Dame and currently have a junior attending the University. I attended the exhi­bition basketball game on Nov. 14, and I was shocked and surprised at the limited seating for students at the game. It appears that there have been two big changed since my graduation: 
1. 
The number of seats available has been signifi­cantly reduced despite an increase in enrollment. Thirty years ago the student section included all of the lower level and upper level seats from mid-court to behind the basket. Now the student section includes only two lower level sections (both behind the basket), and four upper level sections (all behind the basket). 

2. 
There is no seating priority based upon class. It used to be that seniors received first choice, juniors second choice and so on. 


The new policy has penalized the students. Many munity just experienced involving four prominent. black athletes with no previous criminal records? Are you trying to send a message? If so, stake 
your claims outright. If you really want to talk media image control. take a look 
at your own image. The use of the word "preda­
tor" is suggestive and inac­curate language in regard to the Kobe Bryant case. 

A predator is one who 
engages in the hunt of another weaker indi­vidual for sport or to satisfy an emotional need for control or a physical hunger. The 
hunt is basically 
defined as the aggres­sive and calculated pur­suit of another in order to 

capture or kill. To date, there is no evidence in the Kobe Bryant case that Bryant's pursuit of this young woman was 
calculated or aggressive or that he pur­sued her at all for that matter. Maybe you should check yourself, before you try to check somebody else. 
Tiffanne Mahomes junior Farley Hall Dec. 9 

few seconds of signing on to the Internet, yet those who seek out help to try and break their problem are labeled as perverts and disgusting by people like Lee. 
This is like walking into an Alcohelics Anonymous meeting and berating people for being alcoholics. This is not how we solve addiction problems for any group. We would like to think those addicted to pornography are different from us. We do not want to help them because we do not want to believe that we all have the potential to be in their place. This way, it is easier for us to point out and separate these people from society. I highly doubt that people who are addicted want to have a dysfunctional sex life and broken families, all which I admit arc conse­quences to this problem. 
Instead of judging and pointing out the problems of those who are addicted to pornography. we should take off our high and mighty morality gloves, stop judging those who face this inner struggle in their lives and offer help to those who need it. 
Eric Buell sophomore Keenan Hall Dec. 9 

students do not have access to basketball tickets, which instead are being sold to donors and to the general public. If a student does receive a ticket, the location is behind the basket. 
I understand the need to maximize the revenue in football and basketball to help subsidize the other sports. But the basketball team belongs to the stu­dents, and all of the students that want to attend the games should be accomodated. Considering the fact that families are paying in excess of $30,000 per year to attend school, the policy for student seating at bas­ketball games seems tremendously unfair. Donors do not make Notre Dame; local people do not make Notre Dame; the students make Notre Dame. 
Michael Milligan class of '77 Dec. I 


THE 0BSER\'ER 



CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 

The international Dylan songbook 
ByJULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Heralded as one of the greatest lyri­cists in the history of rock and roll, Bob Dylan is a mysterious and secretive man of immense talent and versatility. Throughout the years he has released over 40 albums, each one radically dif­ferent from the last, but all containing songs of equal meaning and poignancy. In the early 1960s, he touched the hearts of folk purists with albums such as The Free-Wheeling Bob Dylan and The Times They Are A-Changing. 1965 brought him "plugging in" and shock-



Photo courtesy of mtv.com The Masked and Anonymous soundtrack contains covers of Bob Dylan's songs performed by International bands. 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Ryan Adams embraces rock n roll 
not really experimental, but it is a new approach for Adams and adds a new dimension to the already diverse catalog that he has produced. 
Unfortunately. this album does not stack up with most of his earlier work. Although not really overshad­owed by Demolition. the beautifully murky swamp of influences on Gold that showed an interest in almost every form of popular music in the last 30 years is absent yet again. One of the curses of being such a prolific songwriter is that some sub' par music can sneak onto an album, and without the benefits of Gold's length, the weak songs cannot always be lost among the better tracks. 
This is not to say, however, that the album is a failure; indeed, the most mediocre Ryan Adams song is still usually a great piece of music. The By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Ryan Adams has left behind his acoustic guitar and the lonesome cowboy image developed with Whiskeytown and his early solo work on his latest release, appropriately titled Rock n Roll. In the context of last year's Demolition. this embrace of more straightforward rock and roll instead of an alt-country blend seems like a natural progression for Adams, someone always willing to dig deep into past sounds and come up with an inviting retro sound. Adams has come into full acceptance of his inner Paul Westerberg with more than just his voice, filling the album with jangling, distorted guitars and rough and tum­ble rock construction. The album is 

Rock nRoll 

Ryan Adams 
Capitol Records 


ing fans with the likes of Bringing it All Back Home and Highway 61 Revisited. He has dabbled in country, in American soul and even in Christian music. 
This past year Dylan surprised many by taking his talent to the big screen with the film Masked and Anonymous which is currently opening in small venues throughout the country. The film, featuring a cast of many A-list stars including Jeff Bridges, Penelope Cruz, John Goodman, Jessica Lange and, of course, Dylan himself. has a flavorful soundtrack of multi-cultural Dylan covers, and even four songs per­formed by the Man himself. 
Showing just how influential Dylan 
has been in the 

Track two changes radi­cally with "Gotta Serve Somebody" interpreted by Shirley Caesar as a gospel num­ber. The combination of Caesar's powerful vocals and a gospel choir 
gives the song a distinct "Bible Belt" feel. 
Also included is the traditional song "Diamond Joe," sung by Dylan and his excellent touring band of late. Performed as a bluegrass number live on the set of the film. the song has a light. dancing feel that places it in the context of a Tennessee line dance. 
Perhaps one of the most interesting and radical tracks on the album is the "Like a Rolling Stone" cover by Articolo 
31. A unique combination of old and new. the song effectively combines ele­ments from the 1965 original version with new rap overdubs. The famous organ opening of AI Kooper is pre­served, but a sudden "Ugh" and a heavy bassline pave the way to verses rapped in Italian. Shifting back to 1965. Dylan's original vocals pick up the refrain singing "How does it feel I To be on your own ... " with Italian translations sung in between each line. 
The album continues to diversify with covers by the Grateful Dead, the Latino band Los Lobos, and multiple other international bands. plus three other tracks performed excellently by Dylan himself. 
Regardless of the language the lyrics are sung in, or the musical genre the songs are performed in, this album proves once again the power of Dylan's words. With the ability to transgress generations and cultural boundaries, Dylan's lyrics contain beauty. wisdom, versatility and the essential capability of articulating universal human emo­tion. Dylan's songbook remains one of the best there is. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
international scene, the album's opener is a version of "My Back Pages," per­formed by the Magokoro Brothers. The opening guitar betrays a familiar melody. but almost immedi­ately a striking difference is heard as the lyrics take center­stage, not in English, but rather. in Japanese. 


intensity of "So Alive," the self­reflection of the somber "Rock N Roll" and the soaring melody of "Anybody Wanna Take Me Home" carry the album along and keep the pace alive. The upbeat pace of most songs allows the album to never become soggy and bogged down. even though Adams' usually brilliant and insightful lyrics are in some cases overshadowed by cliche and too much profanity. 
Overall. however, it is a strong effort by one of the most potent musi­cians around today. Occasionally it can seem that Adams is just putting up a front, an image, but the sinceri­ty that comes through in his musical craft never really allows someone to place him among fake hipsters. The irony of naming the first track "This Is It". seems like a joking answer to the Strokes' first album Is This It? and can be seen as a humorous assertion of Adams' ego, which can seem overwhelming in the ambition of many of his projects. Still, the rag­tag and almost underground feel and appearance of this album betray any notions of Adams' being a wannabe rock star; you can't help but like the guy and dig his music. Hopefully, he's got something even better up his sleeve for future releases. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 

THE ()BSERVER 
...





CENE
Wednesday, December 1 0, 2003 
Page 15 
CONCERT REVIEW 
A Perfect Circle, powerful yet artistic 
Scene reviews the band's Monday night show at the Morris Performing Arts Center 
a!, as well; its fans are predom­

By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
inantly, perhaps even over­

Scene Music Critic 
whelmingly, college students. 
Professors of English might 

Shrouded by the haze that filled the well find in the lyrics to their Morris Performing Arts Center, A songs hidden meanings in ways Perfect Circle thrilled the crowd that are reminiscent of how Monday night with a set of hard, over­they approach Keats or Joyce. whelming songs and spectacular This appeal, however, does not effects. The quintet, headed by vocalist in any way diminish the experi­Maynard James Keenan and guitarist ence of a concert like Monday's Billy llowerdel. moved through music as a line show. 
-
from both of their albums, 2000's Mer The concert's opening act De Noms and the just-released was Abandoned Pools, a trio in Thirteenth Step. In a performance the California tradition of which felt much shorter than it actually Smashing Pumpkins; Josh was, the band showcased its hard-hit­Freese, A Perfect Circle's per­ting and yet ethereal lyric poetry and a cussionist, also played on roek style much heavier than comes Abandoned Pools' album through on either record. 1/umanistic. 
On record. A Perfect Tommy Walters, Circle is understated and the band's lead
"This song is about 

intense in a way which singer and moving leaves room for a lot of Notre Dame going force, is a classi­
A Perfect Circle performed Monday night at the Morris Center. The band played
"negative space" in its cally trained musi­
to New York this 

songs from both of their albums, Including the just-released album Thirteenth Step.
sound. On stage, the cian who graduat­
weekend, playing 

musical space is all filled, ed from USC in down to the vibrations Syracuse, losing to music and did graduate on a platform deep upstage was the with jokes about Thanksgiving dinner, shaking the ground, mak­Syracuse ... and studies at University of the source of the word'S being sung. It Michael Jackson and other topics. ing you afraid that the Pacific. Walters gave the almost seemed that he was not quite These were, perhaps, to give the con­
keeping my USC

balcony of the hall will Notre Dame contingent of human. cert a personable side, as the music come crashing down Trojans out ofthe the audience a nod as he And indeed, for the entire show, it itself and the lighting artistry left little around you. National introduced "Monster:" was not any individual or even any room for the artists to make themselves 
Visually, the concert "This song is about Notre band which was on display; it was not felt.
Championship. " 

was defined by lighting Dame going to New York that the five sweating and swearing Perhaps in response to the feeling of which hides the band as this weekend, playing men on stage were so much giving "art for art's sake" which A Perfect much as shows it; the Tommy Walters Syracuse, losing to something to the hundreds of us in the Circle presents, many of the audience spotlights searching the Musician Syracuse ... and keeping audience, but rather allowing them to opted to remain in their seats for much smoke seldom came up my USC Trojans out of the experience their own selves. In that of the concert. There was no place to with a musician but were National Championship." music was a chance for all to ask what form a pit at the Morris Center, of no less beautiful to watch for that omis­The song runs, in part, "I wanna go it was that he or she really was living course, but even so it might be expect­sion. another round I I wanna blow the mon­and working and lighting for. ed that an audience as excited as this 
A Perfect Circle is like few bands in ster down I I wanna go another round I A Perfect Circle shies away from one -at softer points in the music, it the music world today. Because of their 'Cause I am coming up I I am coming politicizing their music, but, like most was sometimes impossible to hear the combination of experienced musicians back." rock, it carries distinct anti-establish­band -would be on their feet. But the and poetic talent, they speak to those A common theme of the music of Tool ment, think-for-yourself overtones. This chance to sit and experience a concert who would listen to rock music as an and A Perfect Circle is the understate­is most clearly borne out in "Pet," the on this scale, in a venue like the Morris art form. rather than merely as enter­ment of Maynard's vocals. The music is second song of the set and one of the Center, may have been a welcome one tainment or an escape. Howerdel's written as if his voice is merely another strongest tracks of Thirteenth Step. "Go for students of great art, who believe lyrics are not easy to digest, and the instrument in the symphony of the to sleep," sings Maynard, "just stay that A Perfect Circle does indeed lit the harmonies which Keenan sings them to song, leaving the melody to be carried with me, safe and ignorant." bill. arc nothing if not original. by the guitar. This was taken even fur­Not content with delivering an incred­
The band is demographically unusu-ther in the design of this tour. which ible concert experience, the band Contact Matthew Smedberg at ".c 
placed all four of entertained the crowd between songs msmedber@nd.edu 
the other mem­
bers of the band in 
prominent posi­
tions on the stage, 
splashing them 
with light and riv­
eting the audi­
ence's eyes on 
them. Maynard 
was not similarly 
visible. The best 
view of him that 
the crowd had up 
until the very end 
of the show was 
his silhouette cast 
on a sheet as 
"Vanishing," the 
concert's opening 
number, got 
underway. For the 
rest of the time, as 
spotlights knifed 
their way through 
the air all around, 
he was shrouded 
in mist, almost 
invisible. 
His body was 
usually bent; his 
hair covered his 
face. There was 
no way to tell that 
the shape standing 




---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIED$ 
NBA 

McKie scores 21 filling in for Iverson in 76ers win 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. Aaron McKie did a great job filling in for Allen Iverson, scor­ing a season-high 21 points and blocking a shot as time expired in the Philadelphia 76ers' 78-76 win over the Detroit Pistons. 
Iverson, the NBA's leading scorer at 29.4 points per game, stayed home to rest his right knee, which he banged Friday against Miami. The Sixers hope he will be able to play Friday against Denver. 
McKie took his place and looked a little like Iverson when he made a fadeaway jumper over Ben Wallace just before the shot clock expired to give the Sixers a 75-70 lead with 
1:37 left. 
Eric Snow, his backcourt mate, had 17 points and seven assists.
-
Raptors 100, Cavaliers 92 
Vince Carter scored 22 points, Donyell Marshall and Jalen Rose scored 20 apiece and the revamped Toronto Raptors won their fifth straight game, over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Rose scored 16 points in the second half -12 in the third quarter -as the Raptors improved to 5-0 since acquiring Rose, Marshall and Lonny Baxter in a trade with Chicago. Toronto's winning streak is its longest since winning nine in a row from March 22-April 9, 2002. 
Carter, who begged his team­mates for the ball early in the fourth quarter, added eight rebounds and seven assists. Rookie Chris Bosh chipped in 14 points and seven rebounds. 
Rookie LeBron James led the Cavs with 18 points and Zydrunas Ilgauskas added 17. Ira Newble had a season-high 16 points and 10 rebounds for Cleveland, which has dropped nine of 10. 
Nets 101, SuperSonics 88 
Richard Jefferson scored a season-high 31 points, Kenyon Martin had 25 and the reawak­ened New Jersey Nets shot a season-best 55.1 percent in beating the Seattle SuperSonics. 
Jason Kidd added 14 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds in just three quarters to help the two-time defending Eastern Conference champions post a season-high three-game win­ning streak. 
Ronald Murray had 27 points for Seattle, which has lost three in a row and seven of 10. The only thing that prevented a sea­son-worst loss was an 18-0 run to end the game. 
This was the Nets' second straight blowout against the SuperSonics. They posted a 93­70 win in Seattle on Nov. 25, a game in which New Jersey lim­ited the Sonics to a franchise­low 25 points in the second half. 
Martin also dominated that game with 27 points and 14 rebounds. 

Warriors 98, Tlmberwolves 95 
Jason Richardson made a wide-open 3-pointer with two­tenths of a second left, giving the Golden State Warriors a vic­tory over the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
Richardson had 30 points, nine rebounds and five assists for Golden State (10-9), which moved above .500 this late in the season for the first time since 1993-94. 
Kevin Garnett tied a season­high with 33 points and grabbed 14 rebounds for Minnesota, whose three-game winning streak ended. 
Latrell Sprewell had 27 points, and Sam Cassell added 17 points and 12 assists for the Wolves, who played their first home game in nearly two weeks after going 4-1 on a Western Conference road trip. They're just 4-5 at Target 
Center this season. 
Heat 92, Suns 72 

Lamar Odom scored 16 points with a career-high 17 rebounds, and the Miami Heat got Caron Butler back in the starting lineup in a victory over the Phoenix Suns. 
Dwyane Wade and Brian Grant each scored 18 points as Miami snapped a three-game losing streak. Butler, who sat out the previous seven games with a quadricep injury, scored seven points in 37 minutes. 

Reuters Seattle forward Vladimir Radmanovlc, left, defends New Jersey forward Kenyon Martin In the Nets 101-88 win. 
The Suns, whose loss at Orlando on Monday night ended the Magic's 19-game losing streak, have lost three straight. Shawn Marion led Phoenix with 27 points. Rockets 93, Trail Blazers 91 
Cuttino Mobley had 24 points and Steve Francis hit a 16-foot­er with 20 seconds left to lead the Houston Rockets to a victo­ry over Portland, keeping the Trail Blazers winless on the road. 
Yao Ming missed two free throws with nine seconds to play, giving the Blazers a last chance. But Damon Stoudamire missed a 3-pointer just before the final buzzer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE Drivers wanted Jimmy John swill HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS Two story house completely remod-•••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW OBSERVER FOR 2003. THE NEXT be holding open interviews for driv-PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS-eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• 
NOTICES REGULAR ISSUE WILL BE ers between ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-and 2004-05 school year. Off street Build your dream home JANUARY 14, 2004. HAPPY HOLI-3:00-5:00 p.m. on Thursday, 2005 SCHOOL YEAR. parking includes motion sensor light next to Notre Dame. A limited num-DAYS! December 11 and Friday, December 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-for security. ber of home sites are available. 
••*ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 12. JJs is looking 214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-Four individually locked bedrooms, 12th trip free. to add to its staff immediately and 718 E.WASHINGTON ST. 2 BED-six blocks from Notre Dame, bus Group discounts for 6+ for the beginning of the spring ROOMS. stop in front of house, surrounded For more i.nfo go to: www.springbreakdiscounts.com or WANTED semester. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR by other student housing, laundro-www.l rishCrossings.com 800-838-8202. Call Andy or Mike at 277-8500 with 315-5032 mat next door (drycleaning also), 
questions basement available tor storage of Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Part time/Full time opportunity for JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc, new s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! honest, motivated, success minded 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, furnace and central air, new kitchen campus reps. Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in individual. Exciting !-Commerce AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 including new stove and refrigerator, Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with internet based business. FOR SALE (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT large living room for TV or entertain-Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Contact: BOB 607-723-7373, ing, free trash removal. www.ststravel.com Organize a group and travel for waynew54@ pronetglobal.com EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net FREE. Book now before its too latel LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO Call 289·4071. The Early Childhood Development
J..-Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci-ROOMMATE WANTED-share spa-FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. 3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, Center at Notre Dame and Saint rossi.com. cious turn. 2bd house wllemale NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND MOVING TO CHICAGO? Live Mary s College is hiring college stu­
grad stud. ELED. AND MALL. $1000/MO. 277-2176. where your friends livel We ve got dents to work part time during Two story house completely remod-Master bdlbth avail. 2 mi from cam-FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: 3,000 apartments in Chicagos spring semester. If you are eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester pus on Ironwood. Rent $300 + util. Williamson.1 @nd.edu BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: hottest neighborhoods: LAKE-interested in more information, and 2004-05 school year. Off street 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 VIEW/GOLD COAST/ LINCOLN please contact Sue Mikalian parking includes motion sensor light 251-Hl02 COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! blocks from campus, 3 large bed-PARK Studios $695/mo. 1 BR from (ECDC-ND) at 631-3344 or Patti for security. Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! rooms, 2 full bath, washer and $895/mo. 2 BR from $1420/mo. Perri (ECDC-SMC) at 284-4693. Four individually locked bedrooms, AWESOME SUMMER CAMP S&H calculated. dryer, home totally remodeled, A great way to earn extra money six blocks from Notre Dame, bus JOBS!-Residential camp located in www.bookhq.com new appliances, two car garage, Planned Property Management: while working with young children in stop in front of house, surrounded Brown County, Indiana. furnished. 1-866-4GREAT PADS an accredited early childhood pro-by other student housing, laundro-Operated by the Catholic Youth JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON Need 3·5 students ($400 ea.) for www.plannedproperty.com Mention gram. mat next door (drycleaning also), Organization since 1946. Serving LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.GILLIS January. Need 5 students ($400 this ad, and your processing basement available for storage of campers aged 7 to 17 in various REALTY 272-6306 ea.) for fall. 231-8823 evenings. will be waived! THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE 
bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new programs. Inclusive of persons with furnace and central air, new kitchen disabilities. Positions available for including new stove and refrigerator, General, Specialty, and Health staff. large living room for TV or entertain· Extensive training provided ing, free trash removal. starting late May. Welcoming staff 
community. Call 289-4071. For application and more informa­
lion contact: Angi Sullivan, CYO FREE MONEY Between the Buns Camp Rancho Framasa, restaurant is offering clubs and CYOCamp@aol.com or organizations the toll free 888.988.2839, ext. 25. opportunity to earn free money. Online at Hold a *Kickback* at the 'Buns' and www.campranchoframasa.org 
receive a 15% donation from what is spent that evening. The Early Childhood Development 
center at Notre Dame and Saint Call Phil tor more details. Mary s College is hiring college stu· 247-9293 dents to work part time during 
spring semester. FREE MONEY Between the Buns If you are restaurant is offering clubs and interested in more informaton, organizations the opportunity to please contact Sue Mikalian earn free money. Hold a 'Kickback* (ECDC-ND) at 631-3344 or Patti at the *Buns' and receive a Perri (EDC-SMC) at 284-4693. 15% donation from what is spent that evening. A great way to earn extra money 
while working with young children in Call Phil tor more details. an accredited early childhood pro­247-9293 gram. 
Queen bed, desk, TV, DVD player, table, dresser, kitchen stuff, car, & more. 621 8818 or ddyer1 @nd.edu 
1996 Land Rover Discovery. Fun car. $3500, or best offer. 621 8818 or ddyer1 @nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 
272-1525 
JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES UTIL.), 
CONTACT BOB 607-723-7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net 

Large 5-6 bdrm home @ ND Ave & SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Walk to cam-pus.Off street parking. Recently updated. Washer/Dryer. Lots of liv­ing space to spread out. Call Joe Crimmins:cell-574-514­0643 or home-574-273-0002 
Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill St). Available June 2004.Basement w/washer-dryer.Convenient to downtown fun.Walk or ride to campus.On bus route. Contact Joe Crimmins@ cell-574­514-0643 or home-574-273-0002 
4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408·0744 if interested 
3·6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN.272-6306 
BULLA AD HOME.$650.MO. 272-6306 
OBSERVER FOR 2003. THE NEXT 3rd Roommate Needed, spring REGULAR ISSUE WILL BE sem. furnished house near ND ON JANUARY 14,2004. HAPPY $325/mo., HOLIDAYS AND GOOD LUCK 1/3 utilities, Ryan @ 386.1785 WITH FINALS. 
rock n' roll 
PERSONAL 
Kindagarden, congatulations, from us 

#1 Spring Break Vacations! 110% Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Feliz Navidad, Espana gente ... les Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book quiero y necesitan visitarme en Now & Receive Free Meals & NYC durante las vacaciones Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 
Scene and Graphics 4 life 1-800-234-7007 Taking back the JACC endlesssummertours.com 
SYS debauchery UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone Flush, full house, straight flush, you love needs confidential support greatest hand of the year or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise I'm getting the trophy Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. 
The over-under you are wondering For more information, see our bi-about is 12:30, but I'm not taking weekly ad in The Observer. any bets 
page 17 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
MLB 
Henry angry vvith No111ar's agent 
Associa1~d Press 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic ­Boston Hed Sox owner John Henry lashed out at Nomar Garciaparra's agent on Tuesday, saying it was the "the height of hypocrisy" to accuse the team of betrayal even though the star shortstop rejected the team's lucrative, long-term QfTer last spring. 
"lie says we're being disingenuous. I take great umbmge at that statement," Henry said at the opening of the team's academy in the Dominican Hepublic, according to two Boston newspapers that covered the event. "That is the height of hypocrisy." 
Garciaparra said in radio and newspaper inter­views this week that he would be hurt if the Hed Sox went through with plans to trade him and acquire Alex 
"Obviously, I strongly disagree with Henry's characterization of my comments in regards to Nomar's current situation with Red Sox," Tellem said. "All further communication regarding this matter will be conducted in a private and profes­sional manner among myself, Nomar and appro­priate representatives of the Red Sox organiza­tion. As Nomar has stated, it has always been and still remains his goal to stay with the Red Sox." 
The Red Sox have refused to discuss -or even confirm -their talks with Texas. 
"We don't comment on rumors," Boston general manager Theo Epstein said. "It would be disre­spectful for Nomar and Manny to talk about rumors surrounding them. I have great respect for Nomar and Manny." 
Also Tuesday, Epstein said he would begin nego­
tiating a contract extension with 
pitcher Pedro Martinez at the 
Hodriguez from Texas. Calling "He says we're being winter meetings in New Orleans the radio station and the Boston this weekend. 
disingenuous. I take 

Herald from his Hawaii honey­"We don't feel pressured with
great umbrage at that 

moon with soccer star Mia regard to Pedro's contract," llarnm, Garciaparra said he statement." Epstein said. "He's signed wants to finish his career in through 2004 and we'll try to Boston, and noted his commit­reach an agreement before
John Henry

ment to the community and the spring training." team. Martinez has one season and
Boston owner 

Garciaparra's agent, Arn Tellem, told The Boston Globe that the team's efforts to acquire Rodriguez ­which are less about Garciaparra than outfielder Manny Hamirez-are "a slap in the face." 
The Globe and Herald both quoted sources on Tuesday as saying that the Hed Sox offered Garciaparra a four-year deal last spring worth $60 million. Garciaparra rejected it, instead seek­ing a longer deal worth as much as $17 million a year. 
Since then, the market has declined, and the Hed Sox have reportedly decreased their offer. 
"I hope he's being more honest with his client than he is with the media because we have made credible offers," Henry said. "The reason we have continued in the manner in which we have, is that his agent has given us a very clear indication that there is no common ground. lie seems to believe it is still the winter of 2000." 
Tellcm, reached in New York, thought Henry was out of line. 
$17.5 million left on his deal. 
The right-handed ace refused comment, saying "Boston has the ball in their hands." 
Epstein and principal owner John Henry were in this Caribbean country to inaugurate a baseball academy near the outskirts of the Dominican cap­ital to develop young talent. 
The complex will cost $3 million to operate the first five years and can host up to 65 players at a time. There are two baseball diamonds, a dormi­tory building, gymnasium, kitchen and a study room. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers, Oakland Athletics and San Diego Padres have built similar facilities in the Dominican Republic. 
Also Tuesday, the Red Sox signed 18-year-old shortstop Luis Soto to a minor league contract. The switch-hitting Soto who played for the defending champion Baseball America team in the World Woodbat Tournament in Jupiter, Fla., this fall. 


Conversation 
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Thursday, December 11 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standjng Committee on Gay and L.esbian Student Needs invites gay, 
·lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. "'Lunch will be served* 

:o~ro~tWITYf.C. ON lAY .&ND L..cttalA" 
JTUOIIHT N•aaa 
NFL 

Couch making case to be starter 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Tim Couch fell just short in his bid to rally the Cleveland Browns to victory. 
However, he may have started his own comeback. 
Cleveland's quarterback saved the Browns from being humiliated Monday night on national TV, replacing starter Kelly Holcomb just before halftime and directing two touchdown drives in the second half. 
However, Couch's heroics -he played on a sprained knee -came up short when he was sacked on fourth down with 1:51 remaining and the St. Louis Rams held on for a 26-20 win. 
For Couch, though, Cleveland's sixth loss in seven games was a personal triumph. 
His performance was just the latest chapter in a strange season in which the former No. 1 overall pick lost his job, got it back, lost it again, got hurt and was then asked to bail out the Browns. 
Holcomb threw two inter­ceptions in 35 seconds of the second quarter, prompting Browns coach Butch Davis to bring in Couch, who responded by going 5-for-5 on his two scoring drives and throwing a 28-yard TD pass to Quincy Morgan. 
"We were looking for 
somebody to go in and play effectively, and Tim did," said Davis, whose decision to bench Couch before the sea­son may be the single biggest reason why the Browns are 4-9. 
Following the game, Davis refused to say who his quar­terback would be for Sunday's game in Denver. 
By not naming a starter, Davis may be setting the stage for Couch to start the Browns' remaining games against the Broncos, Baltimore and Cincinnati. 
Those games could serve as an audition for Couch returning to the Browns in 2004. 
It had been assumed that the five-year veteran, who is due to make $7.6 million next season and $8 million in 2005, would be released later this winter. Last week, Couch said he was sure he wouldn't be back if he was going to be a backup. 
Team president Carmen Policy has said the club will not bring back both Couch and Holcomb next year. So someone has got to go, and after the way Holcomb has struggled in his first crack at being a starter, Couch may get a chance to win hack his starting job. 
"Obviously, I want to play," Couch said. "Hight now, I have no idea [if he's start­ing]. I'm just coming into next week like I always did." 




Chrlat the King Lutheran Church 11195 Cleveland Road .• South Band (574) 272-4306 
Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM 11:00 AM 6:00 PM .. Free Light Supper Afterwards 
Free Transportation for NO/St Mary's s!ud<mts. 'Call Church 272-4306 or Call Cbecl.cr Cab 288-7777 Jm:fcrably by Sa!Urday and at least one hour before pick up. 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

FIRBT TUEBDAY BAGK TO GAMPUS 
··"· 13···t.h·· 7· oo··· M
.J,an. ,,, ... •· ':: ... :. .. ...• /= .......,·• ....·... .· •· 
~ 
~·· 
~~. 
.~···· 
'"'··.·."'~·.·
... ·.
v., 
., .... ~:···.· 
.'<' 






PRE--GAME·TAILGATE 
c.oorfesy.o~.''T~e Rib Sllack'' 2.77-31'13 ~ GeP.R._..t 
~REE RI-S · .tfsoff~ee'~15 
.. ·.. ··.·.. ··..· .· ... ·.. ,. .. ... .. t,_O . 
~REE DRIPJ~S 
~,_.. ALL PRIZES ~REE ~RfES COURTESY OF: 
~­

I 

MEIJER.
I I I -Tailgate in GYM #1 
I 
I (Joyce Center)
I 
' 
.. t J.D. to enter! 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
NOWLEASING... 
2-Bedrooms and townhomesfrom as low as $280 a month per person ! 
Studio and ]-bedroom apartments are also available. 
Ask about our special/eases : Spring 2004 ~..~ummer 2004 "Student 10" (Aug 2004May 2005) 
Current residents, Refer someone to live hereforthe 2004-2005 schoolyear and you can get $250! (Specific rules apply) 
Future residents, 

Applications are available at the ofice (the building by the tuttles), or on the web atwww.turtlecreeknd.com/apps.html 
Please be sure to read th11ugh ourapplication guidelines. You can read them atwww.turtlecreeknd.com/[aql.htmL 



APPLY TODAY!! 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
The students'first choice in off-caffJUS housing! 1710 Turtle Creek Drive (by the turtles!) South Bend, IN 46637 574-272-8124 office@turtlecreeknd.com www.turtlecreeknd.com 
I I I I I I 
-II I 
' 
Wednesday, December 1 0, 2003

• 

during this Christmas Season. 
FINALS SNACK SCHEDULE: 
Krispy Kremes, Hot Chocolate & Coffee ® the Library Concourse Monday-Thursday 9am to Midnight 

Popcorn, Fruit & other Goodies ®the CoMo throughout finals weelf 
Beginning next semester, Campus Ministry, in collaboration with the Center for Social Concerns will offer the Friday 5:15 p.m mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart for peace in Iraq. On the 1st Friday of each month, the mass will be followed by a reception at the esc which will include a discussion of a topic relating to seeking peace in the conflict in Iraq. Also on those Fridays, Campus Ministry will publish in the Observer the names of friends and family of the Notre Dame community serving in Iraq for whom we are praying. If you would like to have somone included on that list, email fsantoni@nd.edu. (subject: "peace"). 

Wednesday, December 10, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Providence upsets Illinois 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Providence has been playing zone defense for years under coach Tim Welsh. The Friars never played as well as they did Tuesday night. 
Hyan Gomes had 24 points and 12 rebounds, Donnie McGrath scored all 15 of his points in the second half and Providence used its 2-3 zone to beat No. 14 Illinois 70-51 in the 

UNIQUE GIFTS 
FROM THE 


NOTRE DAME BAND 
NEW! Christmas co 
2003 COs -DVOs APPAREL -HATS 
Available on our website: ndband.com Order by phone: 631-7136 Or Stop by the Band Building! 


DR. MARTIN LUTHER KlNG, JR. CELEBRATION 
2004 
WAKE UP THE ECHO 
A Voice for Change Then and Now Townhall Meeting Thursday, ,January 15 -7:30p.m. -Coleman Morse Student Lounge 
Affirmative Action 
Service vs. Social Action 
Gender Issues 
Intellectual Life at Notre Dame 
Diversity 

Environmental and Economic Justice 
Facilitated by faculty and MLK Student Committee Members 
ALL ARE WELCOJ\,\.E! 

For information, contact: Trinidad.Arredondo.s@nd.edu; Aislinn.M.Doyle.?o@nd.edu; Melissa.A. Hentges.1@nd.edu; or Kamaria.B.Porter.34@~d.edu 

opening game of the Jimmy V Classic. 
And the zone did what it's supposed to do: It made it very difficult for Illinois to score. 
"We held Illinois to 30 percent shooting and 21 points in the second half," said Welsh, in his sixth season at Providence. "That might be the best we've played the zone since I've been here." 
The Friars {4-1) overcame a terrible start and a 30-24 half­time deficit behind the offense of Gomes and McGrath and the effectiveness of their 2-3 zone that shut down the backcourt of the Illini (4-2). 

Providence, coming off a loss at Rhode Island, didn't score for the opening 7 1/2 minutes, falling behind 12-0. Despite get­ting within 12-11, the Friars were down six at halftime and it seemed like it could have been a lot worse. 
Gomes and McGrath scored all the points in an 11-0 run that gave Providence a 44-35 lead with 13:07 to play. Illinois couldn't get good perimeter shots against the zone and with McGrath starting to hit from the outside and Gomes leading the way inside, the Friars pulled away to the easy victory. 
McGrath finished 5-for-7 from the field, including 4-for-5 from 3-point range, and had five iiSSists. He hit three 3s in the opening 5 1/2 minutes of the second half. Rob Sanders added 15 points and eight rebounds for the Friars. . 
James Augustine had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Illini, while Roger Powell had 13 points. The starting back­court of Deron Williams and Dee Brown entered with a com­bined scoring average of 32.0. 
Brown had four points on 2­of-9 shooting, while Williams had three points on 1-for-8 shooting. 
The Illini finished 2-for-15 from 3-point range compared to Providence's 7-for-16. 
Illinois committed 22 turnovers, with Williams having nine. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Artny hires Ross to turn around program 
Associated Press 
WEST POINT, N.Y. -Army is counting on Bobby Ross and his record of success to turn around college football's worst team. 
Ross was hired to lead Army on Tuesday, returning to foot­ball after resigning as the Detroit Lions' coach three years ago. His football experi­ence is vast: Ross coached the San Diego Chargers to the Super Bowl in 1995 and won a national title at Georgia Tech in 1990. 
Army, meanwhile, is in dis­array. It became the first team in NCAA history to finish 0-13 after losing to Navy 34-6 on Saturday. The academy fired coach Todd Berry in October with the team 5-35 in his four seasons. John Mumford acted as interim coach, going 0-7 after replacing Berry. 
Ross said his past service in the Army and his sons' mili­tary background-one gradu­ated from the Naval Academy, another from the Air Force Academy -made him a good fit for the job. 
"I believe I understand the mission of West Point. I do. I believe in it strongly." Ross said at a news conference. 
Ross noted that his father had an appointment to West Point during the Depression but had to pass it up to work. 
"I believe I'm going to have the opportunity to fulfill my father's dream," he said. 
Army would not disclose 


Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574-272-7376 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
Only A Few 4 and 5 Private 
~ 

Bedroom Apartments Left For The 2004-2005 School Year! 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation PO Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 Jblad@cbresb.com 
The Finest in Student Housing! 
terms of the contract. 
Ross said he met with play­ers Tuesday, and is looking forward to seeing what they can do on the field. He also hopes to finalize a staff by January. 
"Our commitment begins now. Right now," Hoss said. 
Ross, who turns 67 this month, hasn't coached since 2000, when he quit the Lions .. after nine games. His Chargers lost their only Super Bowl appearance, 49-26 to the San Francisco 49ers. Ilis NFL record was 77-68. 
Hoss, a Virginia Military Institute graduate, spent 15 years as a college coach, including stints with The Citadel (1973-77). Maryland (1982-86) and Georgia Tech (1987 -91). His national cham­pion Georgia Tech team went 11-0-1, sharing the title with Colorado. His college record was 94-76-2. 
Army superintendent William Lennox Jr. said the academy is confident Hoss can restore its winning tradition. 
Ross was hired after former Nebraska coach Frank Solich turned down the job. The announcement came days after Ted Roof was hired over Ross for the top job at Duke. 
Hoss said he made the deci­sion to come out of retirement before Army called because coaching was still in his blood. 
"You get tired of walking the dog and things or that nature," he said. " ... I've got a lot of energy." 






OUNDTHE NATION 
page 22 Co,vtPllED FROlv\ THE OnsERVERS WiRE SERVlCES Wednesday, December 10, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Maryland at Florida 7 p.m., ESPN Indiana at NOTRE DAME 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Detroit at Buffalo 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The Anaheim Angels took one of the top pitchers off the free-agent market, agree­ing Tuesday to a four-year contract with Bartolo Colon. 
Anaheim had offered a deal worth about $48 mil­lion, one baseball official familiar with the negotia­tions had said Monday. 
''I'm happy to be with the new team and have the opportunity to be able to win with them," Colon said, speaking through an inter­preter. 
This might not be Anaheim's only blockbuster deal. If the Alex Rodriguez­Manny Ramirez deal goes through, five-time All-Star shortstop Nomar Garciaparra would be out of a job. It's believed the Red Sox might try to trade him to the Angels for a pitcher, possibly Jarrod Washburn, or second base­man Adam Kennedy. Third baseman Troy Glaus' name has also been mentioned. 

"We're trying to keep our options open, but we feel we are in position to maneuver now," said Arte Moreno, who purchased the Angels from The Walt Disney Co. last spring. 
The Chicago White Sox badly wanted Colon back, with general manager Ken Williams offering a three­year contract worth a reported $36 million -the largest ever for a White Sox pitcher. But Colon rejected the offer in October. 
Though the White Sox offered Colon salary arbi­tration Sunday night, Williams seemed resigned Monday to losing the 20­game winner. 
Colon was only 15-13 with a 3.87 ERA this year, but he's coveted for his durability" and consistency. He's a 20-game winner who has reached double­digit victories in six straight seasons. 
He pitched a career-high nine complete games this year, and was second in the AL with 242 innings. His 173 strikeouts also ranked in the top 10. In seven sea­sons with Cleveland, Montreal and Chicago, the 30-year-old Colon is 100­62 with a 3.86 ERA. 
"Not long ago, we intro­duced a new starting pitch­er in Kelvim Escobar and a lot of people assumed we would go after a vet," Bill Stoneman said. "I said, 'Not necessarily.' 
"We look forward to what should be a real strong starting rotation. This is going to be a fun year." 
IN BRIEF 
Guardado agrees to $13 mil­lion contract with Mariners 
SEATTLE -Eddie Guardado and the Seattle Mariners agreed Tuesday to a contract that guarantees the closer $13 million over three years. 
The sides agreed to a one-year contract that includes both player and team options for 2005 and 2006. If he earns performance bonuses included in the contract, he would make $17 million over three seasons. 
"It's a very exciting day and a very emotional day for me," Guardado said. ''I'm leaving a team I played with for 14 years. Hopefully, I'll enjoy myself here. Seattle has greeted me with open arms." 
Guardado, who had 41 saves in 45 chances for Minnesota last season, became the first player to agree to a deal among the 25 offered arbitra­tion Sunday by their former clubs. 
Guardado, 33, had been with the 1\vins since 1993, but said he want­ed to be closer to his wife and three children who live in Southern California. 

He joins a bullpen that includes Kazuhiro Sasaki, who started 2003 as Seattle's closer, and Shigetoshi Hasegawa, who finished the season as closer. 
Following the departure of Arthur Rhodes, Guardado becomes the top left-hander in the Seattle bullpen. 
Phillies sign Worrell 
PHILADELPHIA -Former San Francisco Giants closer Tim Worrell on Tuesday agreed to a $5.5 million, two-year contract with the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Worrell, 36, was 4-4 with a 2.87 ERA and 38 saves in 45 chances for the NL West champion Giants last' year. He took over as San Francisco's closer after three-time All-Star Robb Nen had season-ending shoulder sur­gery in May. 
Worrell will earn $2.75 million in each of the next two seasons and has the chance to make more in per­formance bonuses. 
The right-hander will return to a setup role in Philadelphia. The Phillies acquired closer Billy Wagner, a three-time All-Star, from Houston last month. 
It's been another busy offseason for the suddenly free-spending Phillies. Philadelphia got former All-Star left­bander Eric Milton in a trade with Minnesota last week, and is hoping to re-sign right-hander Kevin Millwood for the 2004 season. 
Thomson signs with Braves 
ATLANTA-John Thomson agreed Tuesday to a $7 million, two-year contract with Atlanta, two days after the Braves parted with longtime ace Greg Maddux. 
Thomson was 13-14 with a 4.85 ERA last season with the Texas Rangers, establishing career highs in wins, starts (35), innings pitched (217), strikeouts (136) and complete games (three). In his final 18 starts, he was 9-5 with a 3.89 ERA. 
=~=e=d=ne=s=da=y=,D==ec=e=m=b=er=1=0=,=2=00=3==========================T.=n=e=O=b=se=rv=er==+==S=P=O==R=T=S==========================================p=ag=e=2=~~ 
Torrian Jones said. "Anybody can say have been on edge a little bit," Brey they put losses behind them, but when said. "The natural thing is there is a lit­
Hoosiers 
you lose games like that, especially tle more attention to detail. We are games down to the wire and a game going to have to do that all season long,
continued from page 28 
you could have won, it sticks in your whether we've lost one or won a cou­our basketball program, and we've mind and makes you come out with ple. But that's still youth, learning how been pretty darn consistent. that much more fire the next game. to be businesslike on a daily basis." 
"Indiana basketball, the moniker, "It's a combination of that and trying Seven straight losses to the Hoosiers, means something, so it would be a good to get a big step forward for the pro­a two-game losing streak and the con­win." gram." ference schedule starting three weeks 
Since Digger Phelps became Notre With Jones and center Tom from tonight each impress upon Jones Dame's coach for the 1971-72 season, Timmermans not dressed due to and the Irish they need a win against the Hoosiers have won 23 of the 29 injuries Saturday night, Brey only used Indiana to get this season headed back meetings between these two schools. In seven players against the Chippewas, in the right direction. recent years, it's been worse. and the team struggled all night. Up 64-"It's definitely a big game for us. Not 
Indiana has won 12 of the past 13 59 with less than 30 seconds remain­only are we coming in on a two-game games, including the last seven ing, the Irish had a chance to close it losing streak, we want to snap that and straight. That seven-game winning out but missed two free throws down get momentum going for the rest of the streak is the longest in series history. the stretch. Central Michigan hit a 3-season," Jones said. "We had a good 
Combine those numbers with the dis­pointer at the buzzer and walked out of practice [Monday] and we are coming appointment still eating at the team the Joyce Center with a one-point win. out today to have another good one. We since its shocking loss to Central That game, and the 71-58 loss at met on Sunday, addressed a couple of Michigan Saturday, and tonight's game Marquette Dec. 1, has the Irish at 2-2 things, talked about some things. means a lot. and focused on turning things around "I think we are on the right path to 
"You can just tell the mood that tonight to avoid falling under the .500 get this one [tonight], be focused for 40 everybody's been in, how business-like mark since they were 4-5 on Dec. 11, minutes and play Notre Dame basket­we've been all week, I think everybody 1999. ball." is really focused and determined to get "Anytime you lose and you are disap­this win !tonight]," Notre Dame guard pointed, and for a week now, our guys Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Cornette, Jones, Timmermans game-time decisions 
barring any setbacks, he felt he almost like a game-time deci­the open shot. that's [been caused] a little bit of 
By MATT LOZAR would be ready for the Hoosiers. sion." "[The slump] was a couple of our shooting and a little bit of 
Associate Sports Editor Meanwhile, Tom Timmermans misses combined our shot selection. I 
wasn't in his practice jersey for Quinn keeps shooting with some tough don't think our
"{Brey] would have 
If it's up to Notre Dame guard Tuesday's practice and it doesn't Guard Chris Quinn had a shots I had to turnovers are a Torrian Jones, coach Mike Brey appear his chances of playing shooting week to forget. take, I'm not to hurt me himself huge problem right would have to do everything in tonight are very high. Jordan At Marquette, the sophomore worried about it. now."
to keep me out of
his power to keep the senior co­Cornette hasn't missed any game finished 1-of-7 from behind the I'm just going to So far this season,
this Indiana game." 
captain out of tonight's game. time, but is still battling a knee arc, and he was 2-of-5 on 3-keep playing like the Irish have 55 
"lie would have to hurt me injury. pointers against Central I am," Quinn turnovers compared himself to keep me out of this Brey says all decisions regard­Michigan. Overall, Quinn's field said. "Coach Torrlan Jones to 53 assists. Brey game," Jones said. "There's no ing players with injuries will be goal percentage last week was [Brey] and every­blames the lacks of
Irish guard 

way I'm sitting out of this made this afternoon. 25 percent. body else on assists to his team's Indiana game." "I think what you probably do Coming into this year, Brey was team is always impatience on the 
.Jones missed the Central is make a decision at the looking to Quinn to be a consis­telling me to keep shooting." offensive end . Michigan game due to a hip shootaround !today] at 4 p.m. tent scorer, and become the third "I still think we can be more injury. lie participated in half of That's what we've done in the scoring option for the Irish. Turnovers up, assists down efficient offensively and swing it practice Monday and was sched­past," Brey said. "You kind of That's why everybody on the Since only committing eight a little bit more," Brey said. uled to practice at full speed have to do it that way, just to see Irish continues to encourage turnovers against Northern "We've shot it a little quick in Tuesday. According to Jones, where everybody is physically, Quinn to be aggressive and take Illinois, the Irish have averaged here. We've gotten excited to 


Open Study Hout·s: 
Ucc 11  lOpm to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  
Uec 12  lOpm to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  
L>ec 13  Sam to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 14  Sam to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  

Finals Week Dec 15-18 Sam to 3:00am 
*l>cc 19 DeBartolo closes 30 minutes after last scheduled exam through the Registrar's Office. 36 Non-technology rooms~ first come/ first serve 
See Building Support Perso11 ifyou have specific needs: Room 103, 104. 
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dates as listed above. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:00pm.:3:00am. Rooms: 108,109,204,206,207,208,209. Same dates as listed above. 
Snacks duriltg Stzuly Days courtesy of: Busi11ess Operations Campus Ministry Student Unlo1t Botlrd 
***Good Luck with Finals*** Happy Holidays 

15.7 turnovers a game in the play. We play like there is a 15 three games since the season second clock instead of a 35 sec­opener. ond clock, so we have to be more 
But Brey isn't concerned. patient." 
"I don't really mind our turnover average," he said. "I Contact Matt Lozar at think our assists not being there, mlozar@nd.edu 

Wednesday December JOth 
Be sure to spend your New Year's Eve with Umphrey's McGee December 29·31 st at the Vic Theatre in Chicagol 
Visit www. om 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

J&JUK  . . '· . ' '-: • I . ~ Ci •. :,.. . .·. , . -· .. .RIEl£.  .-. ....,.._.  U·•··~· ...-­...  ~· L.l: N:-.-•.._. rw.. . ·..  u-·-:-T--'···a.:~--~ .•1!.­...... .. 0 ··.----­• , ~  
~  •  "­ '  ' ;  • ' ''' '  •  • '  ' '  •  ''  •  • .,  •'• ' ~  ;­ •I •  ..._  •  ..., "• • •  •"•"  • •'  "'"'  •  "-. ~,>  ,,.,-:  ,.­ ~,,-, -~,~  '  •  • '  
ALL  IN·ALB---·--­·=· :: • '··-·... '"' ·-: .. . ,. . ~. : .·. . . . . . :~  W··E·.,. cr .•,. ...·E··--,.·tc··. ••.. · .. . . . . . ~ . . ;. . _: .(':('.~-­·. :'· .,_..;._...:.  


,.-..•.. H:Eo ...... 
-~::a 1\D;A R:.·V
. :: ·., .. ·' . . _,_,,_ . . ·. ,-_· ..• ' _.·· . ... . .·· . . . i . .

1 Cl L 1-~. '. Iii ""' ~ .-. . __;· ..·: -~ 
SPONSORED BY 
NDVI AND CAMPUS MINISTRY 
IN CCLLABDA.ATIDN WITH 
I I I 
ACE
I ­
I STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
I esc
! . THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT
' 
f INSTITUTE rCR CHURCH LIFE 
t 
:J 
MENDOZA CCLLEGE CF BUSINESS . ' INSTITUTE FCR LATINO STUDIES 
( 
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Belles 
continued from page 28 
season. In a Nov. 25 contest against Hochester. Albion won 83-40, its largest victory mar­gin of the season. 
Albion is lead by Sarah Caskey. who averages 16.1 points per game. 4.0 rebounds a game and nearly 5 assists per game. She shoots 48.8 percent from 3-point range and .857 from the line. Caskey scored 25 points in an 85-69 win over Goshen on Dec. 2. Ruthie Sventickas is a solid second option, averaging 
10.7 points in 20.6 minutes per game. The play of these two players in particular could be important in determining the outcome of tonight's game. 
Winning this game would allow Saint Mary's to move to .500. 
The teams will meet tonight at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffin@nd.edu 

Slow Start 
continued from page 28 

But Irish coach MuiTet McGraw said she was pleased with her team's play after those first two games. 
Notre Dame came home for its third game and pounded Valparaiso 74-57 to improve to 
2-1. 

But since that win, the Irish have dropped three of four games and dropped out of the top 25 rankings. They got whipped by Michigan State on the road, 92-63, then fell victim to a very strong No. 3 Tennessee team in Knoxville Nov. 30. 
Notre Dame bounced back with a strong second half in the team's victory over Wisconsin in the Joyce Center a few days later, but they failed to carry their momentum into a road game against Washington last Sunday. The Huskies outplayed the Irish en route to an 85-74 win. 
The tough schedule doesn't seem to let up much over the next few weeks either, as Notre Dame faces formidable oppo­nents in Southern California. Colorado State and Purdue before entering Big East play on the road against Georgetown Jan. 7. 
Those games in the next few weeks leave Notre Dame little time to improve and even less room for error. 
But Duffy said the Irish are continuing to learn and improve through each game and are close to becoming more consistent. 
"I think we're real close to finding what it takes to be a good team," Duffy said. "It's just a matter of staying patient with ourselves and getting the job done and getting some wins against quality opponents." 
The difficult schedule should 


No Annual Fee Credit Cardsl (online convenience for your busy schedule) 
"I make online payments and view my credit card balance all the time! There's no an­nual fee and the interest rates are competitive." 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL' CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 

··.:··~·=r"·.-~.to be.better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

also help the team during Big East play and in the tourna­ment in March. 
"This [schedule] is definitely going to prepare us for confer­ence play and into the tourna­ment," Duffy said. "But at the same time, we still have to get the job done and not just take this as an experience. We want to compete as a top 25 team." 
Notre Dame's next opponent is Dayton Saturday at the Joyce Center. The Flyers are coming off a Tuesday win against Wright State. The win snapped Dayton's five-game losing streak and pushed their record to 2-5 for the season. 
Notre Dame will have nine days off after their contest 


I 
l I 
I 
I I I 
i 
I 
I 
' 
i 
I 
I 
against Dayton before facing USC Dec. 22. Note: 
Duffy was recently named co­Big East player of the week for her stellar performances against Wisconsin and Washington. She scorched the Badgers for 25 points, drilling 6-of-10 3-pointers in Notre Dame's win. She averaged 21 points and eight assists in the two games. Duffy shares the award with Boston College's Amber Jacobs and is the first Irish player to receive the honor since Alicia Hatay did so Feb. 17. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

The Morris Inn "On The Campus" Notre Dame, IN 
(574) 631-2000 

Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The Morris Inn will be offering a special rate for returning students on Saturday, January 10 $59.00 I single or double occupancy. Please call to reserve a room with us. 
~..,~.~----.---····--·········"·········-.............,;;;:-------, 
1i so:turdo:'f\3'ili oece~oer 


s:: 
l
0 
..
s:
-8 
~ 
--.:=:::.::::::::::=·-·-:::::--==-=--===::::::::::============:::::::::;, 
7:00-9:00 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 


Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Bring your ID! 
<-.___;.--------------~.........._.__________, 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
Football 
continued from page 28 
get healthy," Willingham said. "Injuries [to defensive end Justin Tuck and offensive guard Jamie Ryan] kind of set you back a little bit." 
The health of the football team is important. though this past season the Irish were unable to even stay in games regardless of injuries. 
In its three losses to Michigan, USC and Florida State, Notre Dame lost by a combined score of 120-14 -a stark contrast in points allowed to the stalwart 2002 defense that included the same person­
nel as this year 
"We [will] come back 

and seniors 
next year ready to be

Ryan Roberts, Gerome Sapp on top and be the best and Shane 
team in the country. 

Walton. 
We're going to hold

After an overtime win everyone accountable 
over No. 19 for the things they 
Washington 
have to do to become

State, Notre 
Dame dropped a better palyer and a three straight better person so this 
games to 
team can step to the

Michigan, 
Michigan State next level next year. ,, and Purdue. After a 
Dwight Elllck 

much-needed 
cornerback

bye week, Julius Jones carried for 262 yards and two touchdowns lifting the Irish to a 20-14 victory over Pittsburgh. It became a trend that success on the ground translated into a victory, as Jones carried for 221 yards in a 27-24 win over Navy, 161 yards in a 33-14 win over Brigham Young and 218 yards in a 57-7 win over Stanford. 
The loss of Jones could have severe consequences on the Notre Dame running game, the brightest spot of the team's season. 
"You lose a weapon like Julius and it hurts, but you hope to replace him," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "Losing Julius will give Travis Thomas and Ryan Grant an opportunity to step up, and whoever the young man is who comes in as a true freshman [will have an opportunity]." 
Coaches will look for players at all positions to step up, players who will not only give the Irish a shot not only at beating the top teams on its schedule next season [Michigan, Tennessee, USC]. but winning the games it has to in order to finish as a top program in the country. Notre Dame cannot afford losses like its 27-25 loss at Boston College or the season-ending debacle at Syracuse. 
"It will proba­bly be the hard­est off-season in Notre Dame his­tory," corner­back Dwight Ellick said. "We [will] come back next year ready to be on top and be the best team in the country. We're going to hold everyone accountable for the things they have to do to become a better player and a better person so this team can step to the next level next year." 
Notre Dame's off-season starts immediately, 


and the players welcome the challenge to improve. 
"We must improve in every­thing," freshman quarterback Brady Quinn said. "Obviously we have to get back to winning games, but we need to have a good off-season and make sure for the first game against Michigan that we're ready." 
"After the [Syrcause] game I could see in a lot of people's eyes that this motivated us," Ellick said. "We're tired of los­ing like this." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Hey Francis! 
Give Pee-Wee his bike back! 
Happy 22nd! 
a ou a p ace ere e eer flows like wine, where the women instinctively flock like the salmon 
of Capistrano. I'm talkin' about Rome! Good luck in Rome, John. EFTQ 
IIIIR~ri 


.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, December I 0, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD

CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE
SCHOOL DAZE MIKE ARGIRION 
-


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Sydney ___ House
1 Signs on for another term 37 Bed-and-break­fast
6 Shut (up) 38 Item with a lad­
10 Halloween pur­der
chase 39 Bouncy step
14 Spanish figure 40 Cause of aeights Conestoga15 It may spin its wagon beingwheels 
jolted? 16 Girl-watch 
42 -Ia-Ia 17 Genius at a 
43 Swan's alter 

bakery? 
ego, in myth 20 London district 44 Represents 21 Purge 45 To-do 22 Loved by 46 Cole Porter's "Well, Did You
23 Kind of appeal 
?"

25 Honeybunch 47 Well-spoken26 Jazz fan? 
50 "My man!" 29 Cheek 
51 Arm bone 30 Sound invest­
55 Water pipe inmen!? 

16th-century 33 Sunburn? Europe? 
35 Away from the 58 Sugar bowl wind marchers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-:-+-:-+.~~+:-+=-~ 
~:-:+.:::+:"+=-..._..~:':-! 
-=+=++.:-! 
-:+~::+.:rl 
-:+=+:-+=+:-:-+=! 
..,:,.r~=+::+::-~ ~.;....L;:...J.....,;.&....;;....&..;.;.J 

Congratulations, Clare! 
The Observer congrat­ulates School Daze artist Clare O'Brien, who is graduating this winter. 
Next semester, readers will be able to vote in an online poll to choose either Dilbert or Classic Peanuts to run on this page. 
FIVES 
During a good-will trip, the newly elected governor of California visits an orphanage for the traditional reading of ,.The Night Before Christmas.N 
-=---~---~ 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Tvas zee night befahre Chrizstmas BECAUSE I VENT BACK INT und all szhrough zee haouze, UND KILLED ZEM ALL IN not un creature vaz sztirring... ZEE WOMB!!! 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
rto~ ~u~o;i~~ WI""f. "< 
rJ . J
1 k 
«:2003 Tribune Media Service~, Inc. All Alghta Reaerved. 
CITOX 
1 
rJ 
STUJYL 
I rJ 

www.jumble.com 
J rJ J 
1 

M~r: "( I I I I )" rnrn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: AIDED TOXIN BELLOW FABLED Answer: What the banker did-FLOATED "ALONE" (a loan) 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: C.OUPL.E: 010 WHE:N THE:Y C.OUL.ON'T OE:C.IOE: ON A MATTI<E:SS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
59 Bygone science magazine 60 Long-term secu­rity, for short 61 Honk 62 Zap 63 Forty-niner's request 
DOWN 1 Noisy fights 2 Repeat perform­
ance? 3 "Start worrying" 4 Sporty pullover 5 Mont.-to-Tex. 
direction 6 Indian honorific 7 Deleted a Menu words 9 Disappointment 
1oWords to live by 11 Staph dining 
area? 12 Use a knife 13 Numbers game 18 Amiss 19 End-of-a-round 
sound 24 Zola courtesan 25 "Nothing _I" 26 Letter-shaped 
fastener 
27 Animal with a thick hide 28 Kipling's wolf 
pack leader 29 God for whom a 
month is named 30 Also called 31 Press 
32 Hammer parts 34 Devout 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Menny Nosowsky 
35 Clumsy 38 Labrador retriever, for 
short? 40 Uses as support 41 Disorder 43 New Mexico 
native 45 Gorge 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning!xwords. 
46 One of the 52 Mekong River Keebler elves nation 
47 Where boys will 53 It set sail in be boys 1492 
48 He follows the 54 Capp of comics news 
56 School that 49 "Render there-plays Texas fore Caesar A&M " 
57 Pilot's info, 50 Billiard cushion briefly 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________ Address __________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Susan Dey, Gloria Loring, Tim Considine. Kenneth Branagh 
Happy Birthday: Taking drastic measures to try to sort things out will n01 tum out as favorably as you hoped. Slow down and compromise so ihat everyone can live with whatever decisions you make this year. If you're careful in the way you handle others, you'll spare yourself a lot of grief. This can be a lucky year for you if you stick to the rules and do what's best for everyone. Your numbers: 5, 18, 25, 30, 38, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make lucrative investments today. If you get involved in seminars or self-improvement projects, you may run into someone from your past. It's time to reminisce. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do your own thing and you won't be sorry. You can make changes that will bring enthusiasm from those who may have opposed you in the past. • • • • • GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Stick to what and whom you already know. Your confidence will grow if you feel secure. It's time to stabilize your position by being responsible. You'll feel good about yourself if you help others. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make major accomplishments at work. Present your ideas and don't be afraid to disagree with opposition. Entertain potential clients. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be overly emotional. You should try to spend time with a good friend who always makes you feel better. You just aren't thinking clearly when it comes to your love life. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work at home if at all possible. You need peace and quiet in order to do the best job possible. If you work with others, you won't be able to help seeing flaws in their work. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can work well with others, but it's best to keep a low profile. If you take a position of leadership, you may get blamed for something that you didn't do. • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Criticism has never been easy for you to swallow. Be prepared to have someone oppose your objectives. Don't retaliate; be professional and you'll go much further. •••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can charm anyone into anything. Promote your ideas and enlist support and help from those you encounter. Arguments with past lovers may be disturbing. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've always been so responsible. Now it's time to put yourself first and have some fun. If you don't, you may get taken advantage of, which will lower your self-esteem. •••• • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20.-Feb. 18): Tum your stress into passion. You can please your mate by showing affection and letting little annoyances slip by. Pick up books pertaining to projects you're involved in. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Work quietly on your own, and the tables will turn in your favor. You may find that co-workers will twist your words around. Don't involve yourself in gossip. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You're not one to sit back and watch life pass you by. You'll be a great concern right from day one. You have a happy-go-lucky attitude, but you're always on the go. You will charm people with your good nature and your ability to be entertaining in all that you do. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia '.1· Web sire a/ www.eugeniala.H.com 
THE 0BSERVIR 
-
PORTS
Wednesday, December 10, 2003 
Page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Taking the next step 
A win tonight for the Irish over Hoosiers will mean a lot 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
First it was winning the Big East and getting back to the NCAA Tournament. Then coach Mike Brey had to keep his team winning double digit games in conference and staying a constant on Selection Sunday. 
Last year, the goal See Also was making it to the 
"Cornette,

second weekend of 
March Madness and Jones, advancing to the Sweet Timmermans 16. 
game-time

Now, on the heels of a blowout loss to decisions" Marquette and a stun­
page23

ning defeat against Central Michigan, the goal is simply to beat Indiana tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"I think it's a big game in that their program has really dominated us," Brey said. "If you look at the series, and I would compare it a little bit to the Illinois game last year in the NCAA Tournament, in that, it was a great win for our program. Not ·only was that. a nice day for us, but you are trying to establish back some credibility with 
see HOOSIERS/page 23 


fOOTBALL 
5-7 year brings m.otivation 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Nobody in the locker room wanted a third losing season in five years, but when the Irish failed to take care of a 5­6 Syracuse squad, it became a reality. 
Coaches and players hope the team can rebound in the offseason and in the future from a 5-7 campaign in 2003. 
After an 8-0 start with the Irish last fall, Tyrone Willingham is just 7-10 as head coach. His total winning percentage at Notre Dame is .625, and his winning percent­age since last season's 14-7 loss to Boston College is .412. 
Below .500 is not where the Irish want to be, and a 38-12 loss to Syracuse Saturday only made matters worse. 
Notre Dame realizes a lot must happen this off-season, starting with the basics. 
"The first thing is we must 
see FOOTBALL/page 26 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles prepare to face an unstoppable Albion 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's has defined mediocrity through the first seven games of this season, while Albion College has defined dominance. In a MIAA conference match-up tonight, the Belles of Saint Mary's will be visited by an eager Albion College, who, up to this point in the season, have looked unstoppable. 
Coming off a weekend tour­nament at home, the Belles (3­
4) look to carry their 82-67 win over Illinois College rather than their tough 68-45 loss to Washington University into tonight's game in order to knock off the 7-0 Albion. 
Saint Mary's has looked very inconsistent this year. At times they have been overpowering, blowing out Andrews 72-26. In this game, the Belles were able to rest their starters and rely heavily on bench players in this lopsided win. On other occasions, the Belles have looked weak, as shown in their 23-point loss to Washington following an impressive victory the night before. This inconsis­tency is something that needs to be addressed before heading into tonight's game. 
Saint Mary's will need to play its finest brand of basketball in order to knock off the hot opponents. Leading scorer, Emily Creachbaum, averaging 
11.3 points per game and 4.4 rebounds per contest will espe­cially need to step up. In last weekend's win over Illinois College, Creachbaum had 10 points in 18 minutes. Maureen Bush will also need to continue to contribute on the glass, as she leads the team in rebounds with 5.3 a game. 
Albion has proved to be tough to beat this year, already beating opponents by 20 or more points three times this 
see BELLES/page 25 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish search for cause of slow start 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sporrs Editor 

Tough opponents, five out of seven road games and inconsistent play have led Notre Dame to a lackluster 3­4 start in the 2003-04 sea­son. 
But the Irish aren't panick­ing -at least not yet -and feel they will turn their slow start around sooner than later. 
"Obviously, we're disap­pointed about the losses," Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy said. "Anytime you lose, it's obviously not what you intend to do when you go into a game, but at the same time we're still confident we'll come back from this." 
"We're just going to go back to the drawing board at practice, break down some things and try and find what the problem is." 
After opening the season by beating No. 22 Auburn, the Irish lost in overtime to No. 20 Colorado the next day. 
see SLOW START/page 25 

en 
MlB 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA FOOTBAll 
NFL 
NBA
MlB 
ILLI 
(.) 
Providence 70 
Philadel~hia 78

1--z 
Former White Sox 
Illinois 51 
After experiencing the 
Detroit 6

Boston Red Sox owner 
Cleveland quarterback 
starter Bartolo Colon 
first 0-13 season in col-

John Henry vents his 
Tun Couch replaces Kelly
D: :3 
signs a contract with 
The Friars upset the 
lege football history, 

frustrations with Nomar 
Holcomb on Monday 
With Allen Iverson out 
c.:s 
Anaheim. 
No. 14 Illini in the first 
Army hires Bobby Ross 

Garciaparra's agent. 
Night Football and 
due to a knee injury, the

c cs: 
game of the Jimmy V 
to turn around the pro-

makes a case for reclaim­
76ers use 21 points from 
classic. 
gram. 

ing the starting job. 
Aaron McKie to get the win.
= page 22 
page 21 
page 17
page 21 

page 17 
page 16

en ~ 



