
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND screens controversial Chinese film 


SMC appoints security director 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 

Former South Bend police offi­cer and criminal justice educator David Chapman was announced as the new security director last week. 
"The more I heard about the position, the more interested I became in it," said Chapman. "I missed working with safety and security." 
Chapman replaces Rosemarie Harris, who worked at Saint Mary's as the interim director for the past year. Harris replaced 
see SECURITY/page 4 By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame's Department of East Asian Languages and IJteratures will host a screening of filmmaker IJ Yang's "Blind Shaft" at 8 p.m. tonight in DeBartolo Hall. The film, which showcases the lives of workers in China's mining industry, was denounced by the communist nation. 
"I think [the screening] is a unique opportunity and a good way for students at Notre Dame to have a glimpse of what certain people's lives are like in China," said Jonathan Noble, a visiting 
· professor in the Department of East Asian Languages and IJteratures. 
Johnson, who is a personal friend of Yang, is partly responsi­ble for today's screening of the film. He worked with Yang to translate the film and write English subtitles, and he assisted in bringing the work to the atten­tion of foreign diplomats and jour­nalists in Beijing. 
The film, according to Noble, utilizes a documentary style to tell the story of two con-artists who concoct a scam to collect money from a coal mining company in rural China. The duo meets a child whose kiridness causes one of the members to think twice about their actions. 
"It's very realistic in terms of the depiction of the lives of coal min­ers in rural China," Noble said. 
Parts of the film were, in fact, 
REMEMBERING 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

Members debate health insurance subsidies 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
In the midst of a vicious flu season, the Graduate Student Union debate focw;ed on insurance issues, specifically increasing rates and University subsidies. 
John Young, chairman of tho health care committee, said that it was "not good news" on the insurance front, as Ann Kleva, director of health services, is ready to begin the process on bidding on insurance rates for next year. 
This process entails speci­fying desired benefits to the small group of companies still in the business of pro­viding student insurance, and accepting "the lowest bid witp the highest bene­fits," said Young. 
Currently, the rate of insurance for graduate stu­dents on MegaLife, the University's health insurance plan, is $767 per year­over $1 million when the 1,500 students on the plan are taken in total. In 2002­03, MegaLife paid almost $800,000 in medical costs, creating an 82 percent loss rate. Numbers for spousal insurance were similar, while the loss rate for dependent insurance was over 1000 percent -an astounding number, consid­ering only 10 families with children are covered by MegaLife, members said. 
"(The insurance compa­nies] will look at these num­bers and say the rates will go up," said Young. "The cost of insurance is going to go up substantially next year, I can guarantee that." 
An added issue with the rate hike is the fact that Kleva is negotiating for four benefits not currently cov­
see GSU/page 4 shot underground in privately owned mines without the approval of the government and at great personal risk for the crew. Many of the characters are played by amateur actors who also work ip the mine or live in the village. Ying has not disclosed the identity of the village in order to protect the identity of these actors. 


While the film is not officially "banned" in China, Chinese gov­ernment officials have criticized the film's subject manner and Ymg's failure to seek approval for production and distribution. 
In China, individuals or compa­nies interested in making a film must seek the approval of a gov-
see FILM/page 6 

Students switch campuses for classes 
ND, SMC students co-exchange courses 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Saint Mary's Editor 
As both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses prepare for spring 2004 course registration, students are encouraged to pur­sue options that may not be avail­able at their respective college. What is not offered in one cur­riculum may instead be offered just across the street through the co-exchange program. 
Although the program has existed between the two schools since the 1960s, even before Notre Dame became a co-ed insti­tution, many students are unaware of the opportunities it presents. 
"The only way that [students] really know about it is if they read the schedule of classes book and see that they're able to take class­es there," said Laura Spaulding, associate registrar at Notre Dame. "If they can't find the kind of courses they want here, they tend to go to Saint Mary's." 
According to Saint Mary's Registrar Lorraine Kitchner, the first indication that Saint Mary's students receive of the co­exchange program is during the recruiting stage. In meeting with prospective students, admissions counselors at the College let them know what is available in terms of courses existing at both schools. 
Once students begin taking courses at Saint Mary's, aware­ness of the program is presented using other methods. 
see CLASSES/page 6 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Defending business 
• 

I think it is time for a rebuttal in response to the recent business major banter. As business majors comprise 32 percent of the under­grad population, one of us was 
bound to spea~ up at some pomt.  Katie Conklin  
As a business  
major myself, I am really start- Advertising  
ing to get irritat­ 
ed with the less  

than favorable not"riety that we have been encountering lately, and I am not just referring to the idea that college is a time for essays, not scantrons. Just because some of us are a bit career-focused does not mean that we put more emphasis on our wrinkle-free interview suits than we do on our educational experiences here at Notre Dame. 
The business program is well­known (nationally, thank you very much) for its broad-based curricu­lum that enables students to go beyond their particular majors and gain an understanding of a number of different disciplines. 
Business majors are in no way limited in their learning perspec­tives. They jump at the chance to go abroad, delve into second majors within other schools, and drive pro­grams like the Center for Ethics and Religious Values or the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. And I do not think that you will come across many scantrons in the Tax Assistance accounting program, management's Family Business course, the marketing Ad Campaigns class or those nine sec­tions of Intro to Business Ethics that are being offered next semester. 
Personally, I am a business major because I have held an interest in this area of study since I was in middle school. Business majors are not just engineering drop-outs ­some of us actually enjoy this stuff. And if you look around campus, it is easy to see that business majors are pretty amazing students. 
Whether it be in hall council, class council, Office of the President, ath­letics, club leadership or other posi­tions within student-driven organi­zations, we have pretty much infest­ed the place. You do not have to look far to come across a business major doing something good for Notre Dame. Why is this? Because we are bright, motivated kids, eager to make the most of these four years and create some kind of posi­tive impact on our school and with­in our communities, even if it means that those business suits get a little wrinkled. 
So to all those non-business majors out there, give us a break. Business majors are not just looking for the quick fix or the top salary. We have chosen this major because we are just as interested in it as you are in yours. 
And as for scantrons, we only see those things around TCE time. 
Contact Katie Conklin at kconklin@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO STAY WARM IN THE COLD WEATHER? 








"Snuggling, of "Keeping a "Hot chocolate "Fuzzy Wuzzy ... "Layering. " "Cuddling with 
course!"  warm buzz  and sitting by a  with hot sauce."  
going from  fire roasting  
Corby's."  marshmallows."  


Dictionary editors to keep 'McJob' definition 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. ­McDonald's may not be "Iovin' it," but the editors of the Merriam-Webster dictionary say "McJob" is a word that's here to stay. 
The 11th edition of Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, pub­lished in June, defines a "McJob" as "a low-paying job that requires little skill and provides little opportu­nity for advancement." 
The fast-food giant's chief executive, Jim Cantalupo, called the defi­nition a "slap in the face" to the 12 milHon people who work in the restaurant industry, and demanded that Merriam-Webster dish up something more flatter­ing. 
But the dictionary pub­lisher said Tuesday that it "stands by the accuracy and appropriateness" of its definition. 
Cannibal victim's relatives to visit FIJI 
BRISBANE, Australia. ­The Australian descen­dants of a Christian mis­sionary eaten by cannibals 136 years ago will travel to Fiji this week, hoping to help lift a curse on the vil­lage where he was killed. 
Rev. Thomas Baker was murdered in 1867 at Nubutautau, a remote community high in the hills of the South Pacific island of Viti Levu. 
Residents say their com­munity has had bad luck since Baker was consumed and they blame his aveng­ing spirit. 
The village has no elec­tricity and only a jungle logging trail links it to the outside world. They say they have been regularly overlooked for develop­mental aid. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI 
X 
~ 
LLI 
3: 

(f
..... 
<C 
(,) 
0 
..... HIGH 58 HIGH 58 HIGH 35 HIGH 44 LOW 44 LOW 38 LOW 18 LOW 33 
my friends." 
IN BRIEF 
Buy your tickets today for the annual Asian Allure Fashion Show to be held on November 22 at 7 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office for $7. 
Marco Souza, a writer and visiting professor of Brazilian cultural studies. will deliver a lecture entitled "Amazon and Modernity: Rewriting Gone with the Wind." The lecture will take place today at 12:30 
p.m. in room 104 in the Hesburgh Center. 
Learn more· about the history and interworkings of Teach for America. Wendy Kopp. the organization's founder and president. will discuss how she turned her ideal of giving all children an "excellent educa­tion" into reality. The presenta­tion will take place at 4 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. A reception and book signing will follow. The first 100 students who arrive will receive a free copy of Kopp's book. 
Joseph Buttigieg, an English professor. will share his thoughts during Student Government's Last Lecture Series. The talk begins at 7 
p.m. in Pangborn Hall. 
Come watch "Blind Shaft," a Chinese film that explores the conditions of miners at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. A question and answer session will follow with filmmaker Li Yang. The event is presented by the Department of Asian Languages and Literatures. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

• 

HIGH 50 HIGH 
53 

LOW 38 LOW 
32 

Atlanta 72 I 56 Boston 56 I 45 Chicago 50 I 28 Denver 52 I 26 Houston 84 I 60 Los Angeles 65 I 49 Minneapolis 36 I 22 New York 61 I 50 Philadelphia 60 I 46 Phoenix 63 I 54 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 61 I 30 Tampa 84 I 65 Washington 66 I 46 . 

----~----~~~~~~~~~-~~-~­

Wednesday, November 12, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Roseborough presents program, sells sweaters 
Micro industry program allows Bolivian mothers to work, support family and send children to school 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Nt·wsWriter 
Minka. a co-op program meaning "working together" in Quechua. has helped about 40 Bolivian women support their families through weaving sw1~aters. according to Elaine Hoseburuugh. the program's representative in the United States. 
Hoseborough presented slides of her recent visit to Bolivia and spoke about her experiences with the women and the benefits of the Minka program in the Stapleton 
Lounge  of LeMans  Hall  at  
Saint  Mary's  yesterday  
evening.  

"It has made a huge differ­ence in their lives," said Hoseborough. 
Members of the Save the Children-Canada organization brought together a group of expert knitters in Bolivia in 1989 to found the micro industry. The Save the Children program assists these Bolivian children by pro­viding work for their mothers. which allows them the ability to attend school rather than supporting the family. 
"If you can help parents earn a good living. you can help the children stay in school." Roseborough said. 
Hoseburough now volunteers 


"Acting as I~: 
her time to sell the knitted According to Mary Lou goods in America. The women Derwent, the chair of earn about $20 American per Roseborough's presentation, sweater -enough to support Roseborough sold about 17 a family of five for a month -sweaters during her visit to and knit about one sweater Saint Mary's yesterday after­per month. The employees noon and planned to sell more also earn bonuses and share after the presentation. profits at the year's end. "We have had so many peo­Roseborough said that the ple here [to buy] ... a steady 
benefits to the women have 
"Jfyou can help

been numerous. "Some of parents earn a 
them are saying good living, you
[they] can now 
can help children 

afford to have electricity," she stay in school. " said. "[They 
have made] big Elaine Roseboroughimprovements
in their quality Mlnka representative of life." 
stream," she said. "It was a good idea for us to do this." 
Derwent, a mem­ber of the Ladies of Notre Dame. a group that wei­comes women visi­tors to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, said that Roseborough's presentation 

Kathy Byrne, a teacher at St. appealed to her group because Joseph's High School in South of its emphasis on providing Bend, said that Roseborough women in a different culture will speak to her Catholic with employment that allows Social Justice class today. Her them to earn a decent living. students have been investigat­"Our reason for doing this is ing alternative economies that supporting women in other do not use sweatshop labor, cultures," she said. and Byrne said that the Minka Roseborough's talk was program is an excellent alter­jointly sponsored by the native. and one that provides Ladies of Notre Dame and its employees a good living. Saint Mary's College, as well 
"We [the class] have become as Saint Mary's Center for painfully aware of sweatshop Women's Intercultural labor," she said. "We want to Leadership. find a way to support new economies ... [and] are trying to find alternatives to sweat-Contact Joe Trombello at shop labor." jtrombel@nd.edu 


Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
November 12, 2003 

4:00 p.m., Law School Courtroom 

Suspicions of Semblance In Early Modern Critiques ofVirtue" 
Presenter Jconifer Herdt 
Associate Professor Department of Theology 
Commentator John Coughlin, OFM 
Professor Law School 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

GSU 
continued from page 1 
ered by MegaLife. These include an increase in outpatient lab cov­erage to $2,000 and national PPO coverage for those students trav­eling outside the primary PPO area. In a related subject, GSU president Martiqua Post reported from the Graduate Council thai the University is granting $200,000 to subsidize insurance costs this year, $250,000 for next year, and $300,000 for the year after that. However. who the sub­sidies will go to has not been decided. 
"The question is, should the money go to every graduate stu­dent, no matter the insurance plan, or just to those 65 percent on MegaLife?" Post asked. "If we narrowed it down to just those on MegaLife with a stipend by the graduate school -the subsidy would be written into outside grants -it would be $350 per student. If we include everyone else, it would be sigruficantly less." 
While those not covered by the University insurance called limit­ing the subsidy unfair, academic affairs committee chairman Tim Dale said, "The logistics of giving everyone a subsidy is, to say the least, difficult. We have to remember that the University does have a long-term goal of 100 percent coverage, but we just have. to take small steps to get there." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael@nd.edu 



Security 
continued from page 1 
Belinda Rathert who worked at the College for three years before she was fired because of missing college transcripts that were not present in her personnel me. 
Although Chapman will not start full time until mid­December, he will be on campus in an effort to become more familiar with his new position. 
"It is premature to say what my ideas are for the department," said Chapman. "But the more I'm on campus, and the more I get to know the program as it is, the better equipped I'll be to run it well." 
Chapman hopes to see more interaction with the officers on campus and students. He also hopes to bring more training to the college. 
"Everybody has been so friend­ly and nice up to this point," said Chapman. ''I'm really looking for­ward to being here, and seeing what I can offer to Saint Mary's." 
Chapman graduated from Bethel College in 1978 with a bachelor's degree in sociology. He received his master's in public affairs with a concentration in criminal justice from Indiana University South Bend. He worked in the Mishawaka and South Bend police departments for 22 years. In 2000, Chapman retired from the police force, and took a position as the Criminal Justice director at Bethel College. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

EXTRAORDINARY VISION¥ 

WENDY KOPP FOUNDED 
TEACH FOR AMERICA TO TACKLE 
SOME OF SOCIETY'S DEEPEST 

SOCIAl PROBLEMS. 
Hear from this social entrepreneur about how she started and grew Teach For America and what she learned along the way. 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 COMPILED FROM TliE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Israel defends security barriers 
JEHUSALEM -Israel's security barrier will eventually carve off 14 percent of the West Bank. trap 274,000 Palestinians in tiny enclaves and block 400,000 others from their fields, jobs, schools and hospitals, according to a U.N. report released Tuesday. 
The string of walls, razor wire, ditches and fences has ennamed already high tensions between Palestinians and Israelis. The United States has criticized the barrier's planned route deep into the West Bank, say­ing it could harm efforts to set up a Palestinian state. 
Israel has said the barrier is meant to keep out Palestinian militants responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Israelis in the past three years of violence. But Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Tuesday it will also prevent tens of thousands of Palestinians from moving into Israel -as ollicials say has occurred in recent years. 
U.S. administrator leaves Iraq 
BAGIIDAD, Iraq -America's top soldier in Iraq said Tuesday a "blanket of fear" that Saddam llussein will return prevents Iraqis from giving U.S. troops intelligence vital to curb the growing insurgency -stepped up attacks underlined by a late night barrage on the heart of Baghdad. 
The top U.S. administrator in Iraq abruptly departed for Washington, amid growing frus­tration over the inability to halt the attacks on U.S. soldiers and the slow process of turn­ing power over to the Iraqis. 
Lute Tuesday, insurgents fired mortars toward the U.S. headquarters compound, known as the "Green Zone," in Baghdad. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate debates Bush nominees WASIIINGTON -It's a grudge that's been building for two years. 
In a legislative version of "Survivor," Hepublicans and Democrats will square off Wednesday in an all-night Senate talkathon on who's to blame for some of President Bush's political nominees not making it to the federal appeals bench. 
While both parties hope the debate will mobilize their political bases, the contestants already know the winner: the status quo. 
For 30 straight hours -from Wednesday evening through midnight Thursday-sena­tors will condemn each other and Bush for the impasse over four U.S. Appeals Court nominees: Alabama Attorney General William Pryor, Texas judge Priscilla Owen. Mississippi judge Charles Pickering and Hispanic lawyer Miguel Estrada. 
Tigers transferred to Texas 
JACKSON, N.J.-Nearly five years after a tiger found wandering the suburbs triggered a crackdown on a private sanctuary for big cuts, animal welfare workers began remov­ing 24 Bengal tigers for shipment to a Texas sanctuary. 
The move ends a protracted battle between the cats'·owner, Joan Byron-Marasek, who has become known as the "Tiger Lady," and state wildlife officials, who say the animals were being kept in deplorable conditions at the Tigers Only Preservation Society. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hampton Sisters release CD 
INDIANAPOLIS -Huckeyes by birth, lloosiers by the grace of God, sojourners by necessity. 
The story of the llampton Sisters goes deep into the history of 20th-century popular entertainment, rooted in a dedicated musical family. 
Now a duo, the veteran purveyors of R&B and swing are preparing to celebrate the release of their first compact disc. 
The Indiana Historical Society is presenting a Sunday CO-release concert at the Indiana llistory Center for the benefit of Aletra and Virtue llampton. 
Texas millionaire found innocent 
Robert Durst found not guilty for the 2001 murder of neighbor Morris Black 
Associated Press 
GALVESTON, Texas­New York real estate heir Robert Durst, who said he accidentally killed a hot­headed neighbor in self­defense and then chopped up the body because he feared no one would believe him, was found innocent Tuesday of mur­der. 
The jury took five days to reach the verdict. bringing a startling end to a grisly case that began to unfold when trash bags containing pieces of 71-year-old Morris Black started wash­ing up along Galveston ·Bay in 2001. 
Durst appeared stunned when he heard the verdict, his mouth hanging slightly open and his eyes filling with tears. The 60-year-old millionaire hugged his attorneys, saying: "Thank you so much." 
Durst, who has been estranged from his family since the early 1990s, remains under suspicion in the 1982 disappearance of his first wife and the 2000 shooting death of her friend Susan Berman, a Los Angeles writer who was set to be questioned about the missing woman. He has not been charged in either case. 

Prosecutor Kurt Sistrunk got into fights. a cold-blooded killer who look at this case for what said he was dismayed and During nearly four days shot Black to steal his iden­the charge was." disappointed with the ver­on the stand, Durst testified tity. They said the proof Prosecutor Joel Bennett dict. that he found Black in his was how he meticulously said many jurors told him 
If he had been convicted, apartment on Sept. 28, covered up the crime by after the verdict that one of Durst could have gotten 2001, and that Black had cutting up the body, clean­the problems in the case five to 99 years in prison. Durst's gun. During a ing the crime scene, fleeing was that Black's head was 
Durst met Black after struggle, the gun went off, Galveston and then return­never recovered. Prose­moving from New York to hitting Black in the face, he ing to retrieve the head. cutors alleged that Durst Galveston, where the mil­said. "Is it well-planned and made sure the head was lionaire initially posed as a Durst testified that he calculated? You bet it is," never found because it mute woman to escape panicked and feared police Sistrunk said. could have proved Black's attention in the two other would not believe his story, In a risky, ali-or-nothing death was intentional. deaths. He later dropped so he used two saws and strategy by both the prose­Juror Chris Lovell said he the masquerade and an ax to cut up the body cution and the defense, the was influenced by a lack of became friends with Black, and threw the pieces into jury was allowed to consid­consistency in the prosecu­who lived across the hall Galveston Bay. The victim's er only murder, not lesser tion's case: "From the very from him in a low-rent head has never been found. charges such as beginning of this trial the apartment building. He said he could not manslaughter. For now defense told us a story and 
Durst's attorneys said the recall details about dis­Durst will remain in jail they stuck to their guns all friendship soured because membering the body, but facing a bail-jumping the way through. I did not of the elderly man's when pressed by a prose­count, which could bring believe everything they increasingly belligerent cutor, he said it was "a up to 10 years in prison. said, but every time they behavior. Durst and other nightmare with blood Defense attorney Dick told us a story they were witnesses testified Black everywhere." DeGuerin praised the consistent in what was often flew into rages and Prosecutors called Durst jurors for "their ability to said." 

Oil tycoon Khodorkovsky jailed 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A court rejected an appeal Tuesday by Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky to be released. from jail before his trial on tax eva­sion and fraud charges. 
Khodorkovsky, participating in the hearing via a video link from jail, hung his head but otherwise showed no reaction as the decision was read. 
The three-judge panel reached its decision after an approximately two­hour hearing that was held behind closed doors. Prosecutors had argued for a closed session, saying confidential information about the investigation of Khodorkovsky, who is Russia's richest man, might be revealed. 

His attorney, Anton Drel, told reporters the ruling likely would be appealed either to the Russian Supreme Court or to the European Court for Human Rights. 
Khodorkovsky was arrested Oct. 25 amid a four-month investigation of his oil company, Yukos, that critics said was a Kremlin-backed bid to curb his financial and political clout after his funding of opposition par­ties. Last week, he quit his job as chief executive of Yukos, Russia's largest oil producer. 
He has announced plans to act as chairman of Open Hussia, a charita­ble foundation' funded by Yukos. 
The organization's director, Elena Yasina, said after the hearing that "it is clear to all that this was a process whose result was known in advance. The decision was made beforehand." 
Before the hearing was closed, Khodorkovsky was asked via the video hookup to confirm his date and place of birth, his residence and to state where he worked. 
"Until recently I was a member of the board of directors of Yukos," said Khodorkovsky, who wore a sweater over what appeared to be a hooded sweat shirt while sitting in a barred room. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

Classes 
continued from page 1 
"Through advising ... students are prompted to take a course by an advisor or a department chair, depending on their interests," Kitchner said. "If there's some­thing of interest that we don't offer, advisors will encourage them to look at Notre Dame." 
While there remain exceptions in certain situations, registering for courses through the co­exchange program is relatively consistent at each school. ' At Saint Mary's, students fill an "Intent to Register for a Notre Dame Course" form at the Registrar's office. The registrar then obtains a PIN and ID number for the student, in addition to a date and time enabling them to register on Notre Dame's IrishLink program. 
Notre Dame utilizes a similar approach. Students wishing to register for a course at Saint Mary's must fill a "Saint Mary's Intent" form, located in the Notre Dame Registrar's office. However, instead of registering online as Saint Mary's students do, the form is simply forwarded to the Saint Mary's Registrar's office where it is manually entered into the sys­tem. 
The guideline established by both schools allows students to elect one course in the other's cur­riculum per semester, aside from seniors who are allowed two. 
"We have exceptions on some occasions though," Kitchner said. 
Difficulty arises for students when prerequisites are needed to enroll in a given course. They must then receive permission from the professor or department the course is offered in and have an exemption form approved. 
Although issues like this remain possible, both registrar's offices are attempting to make the co­exchange program run as smooth­ly as possible. "[Notre Dame] is going to be using the same soft­ware system at some point, and I think it'll be easier to exchange information," Kitchner said. 
Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame give registration priority to their students and schedules around class years. 
"Saint Mary's students are dis­persed throughout the whole reg­istration process, yet they would not be keeping a Notre Dame stu­dent from getting another time," Spaulding said. "We send Notre Dame students through the sched­uler first and then Saint Mary's students." 
The same applies across the street as Notre Dame students fol­low Saint Mary's in the registra­tion process for each class year. 
Unlike Notre Dame, where there is no set limit on how many Saint Mary's students are in classes, Saint Mary's varies its limit according to department. 
"We have the ability to control how many Notre Dame students get in each class, but others are just open," Kitchner said. "Each department has the discretion to limit the number of students that they want from Notre Dame." 
Some of the most popular cours­es offered at Saint Mary's include those in theatre, dance, religious studies and education. ''I've really enjoyed taking classes at Saint Mary's," said senior Amy McFarlane. "Though it's an incon­venience to travel back and forth, I don't regret it for a second." 
McFarlane is a double major in education and psychology at Notre Dame, yet must take the majority of her education courses at Saint Mary's since more are offered in the program there. 
"I know that the education pro­gram at Saint Mary's is great, and unless Notre Dame can offer a comparable program, I would choose to go to Saint Mary's," she said. "If for some reason Saint Mary's didn't allow it, then I think that it is a program Notre Dame would have to create, because it is an important field of study." 

Overall, most students on the two campuses don't mind sharing courses. With credit hours and grade points calculated equally into their transcripts, they choose to see the positive in the co­exchange program rather than look for the negative. 
"Taking advantage of courses offered by both colleges only expands our education, and the chance to experience certain courses should be available for everyone interested," said junior David Purcell. "Perhaps a prefer­ence could be granted for students of the college, but I don't feel that Saint Mary's presence takes away from anything. If anything, it only adds to the quality of the classes." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Filnt 
continued from page 1 
ernment organization prior to production and have it screened and validated prior to distribu­tion, Noble said. 
Ying chose to do neither. He supported international view­ings of the film, which the Chinese government also forbids without approval. For these rea­sons, Ymg's actions and the film were denounced by China. 
Outside China, "Blind Shaft" has received several awards. During a screening at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York City it was recognized as the best narrative film, and it won the Silver Bear Award at the Berlin International Film Festival. 
After the film, Yang will host a question and answer session with Noble translating. 
Born in Xian, China and edu­cated at home and abroad in Germany, Yang has been involved with acting for most of his life. This is his first feature­length film. The next screening of "Blind Shaft" will take place in Los Angeles for the American Film Institute on Nov. 14. 
The Notre Dame viewing of the film was co-sponsored by the Center for Asian Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

On our team, your brightest ideas get noticed. 
Here, it's merit we turn to. We're not interested in how old ~ou are or where you're from. If your idea is good, it's good. That's why we'll put you alongside teammates with the experience and knowledge to spot it. It's your time to shine. 

Call 259-1ooo for more details 
Quality In Everything We Do 

--------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------­
~ .'. ' ' . -' -" ,..., -."' ' 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 9 737.79 -18.74 
Jones ' 
~ Some: ~~ Composite Volume: I,JOB 185 T 1,151,826,944 
NASDAQ 1,930.75 -10.89 NYSf 5,941.20 -9.48 AMEX 1,062.08 -3.65 s&PSOO 1,046.57 -0.54 
. . . :1
NIKK£1 (Tokyo) 10,251.08 +44~04,~ FTSE IOO(London)4,345.10 +3.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.77  -0.20  25.80  
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -3.17  -0.07  2.14  
liNTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.06  +0.02  33.41  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.72  +0.16  22.35  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.24  -0.03  12.54  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  0.00  0.00  52.78  
10.YEAR NOTE  0.00  0.00  44.60  
5-YEARNOTE  0.00  0.00  34.61  
:u10NTH Bill  0.00  0.00  9.22  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE(~.)  +0.27  31.15  
GOlD ($/TI'Of oz.)  +I .40  388.20  
PORK B8JJES (Cl'IG1h)  -0.10  85.05  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  108.8  
EUPD  0.8678  
FOUND  0.5999  

CANADIAN$ -1.313 
IN BRIEF 
Kroger grocery workers strike 
INDIANAPOLIS -The union representing 
about 4,000 Kroger grocery workers in central 
Indiana had strike signs printed and ready for 
picket lines as last-minute contract talks con­
tinued Tuesday with no reports of progress. 
Kroger Inc. spokesman Jeff Golc said only 
that talks were ongoing. But Rian Wathen of 
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 
700 said there was "no reason" to believe the 
parties could reach a contract agreement in 
time to avert a strike. 
"We're not optimistic," Wathen said hours before a contract extension covering 58 Kroger stores was to expire at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. 
A federal mediator last week persuaded the sides to continue talking and extend a pact that had been set to expire. With a weeklong extension in hand, talks resumed Thursday · with a mediator in hopes of resolving sticking points including health care costs, pensions and pay for new hires. 
Career Web sites reevaluated 
NEW YOHK -Some career Web sites, recruitment services and automated job-appli­cation kiosks offer flimsy privacy protections and might even violate employment and credit laws, a report released Tuesday asserts. 
Many job sites still let too much information from resumes posted online get into the hands of third parties through online "cookies" that monitor Web surfing, according to the report issued by prominent Internet watchdogs. 
The report also faults self-service job appli­cation computers commonly used by chain stores. It says they almost always demand social security numbers and perform back­ground checks on applicants without clearly stating who will see the information. 
Pam Dixon, who led the investigation, urges job seekers to demand more privacy protec­tions. She also wants the federal Trade Commission and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to look more closely at how job sites and recruitment services han­dle information. 
"Technology is in such a place right now where it really is at odds with Title 7," the employment-discrimination section of the Civil Hights Act, Dixon said. 



Gateway is again major player 
Waitt's brainstorms take latest technology to consumers, profits to company 
Associated Press 
POWAY, Calif. -Ted 
Waitt had his eureka 
moment over a baccarat 
table two years ago at 
Comdex, the technology 
trade show in Las Vegas. 
His computer company, 
Gateway Inc., was hemor­
rhaging money and becom­
ing an also-ran against Dell 
Inc. and Hewlett-Packard 
Co. 
Waitt and a longtime sup­plier began talking about the flat-panel TVs that were turning up in high­end consumer electronics showrooms. They were sleek enough to hang on living-room walls 'like paintings and offered sharper images than stan­dard tube TVs. But with prices starting around $5,000, few people could afford them. 
"Wait a minute, this is a no-brainer," said Waitt, Gateway's chairman and chief executive officer. 
What if he could sell the TVs at more competitive prices and still make a profit? 
And so he did. 

In the last year alone, Gateway has become a serious player in flat-panel TVs and entered hot cate­gories like digital cameras, camcorders and music players. Its stores got a $20 chief financial officer. in the ballpark of no-name And Gateway may face a million facelift that relegat­Yet a turnaround is any­manufacturers found at new threat from old foes. ed PCs to the back to make thing but certain for a com­Wai-Mart and other dis­Last month, Dell intro­room for the new gizmos. pany that has lost money in count retailers. duced a 17-inch liquid­
Other big changes are 11 of its last 12 quarters. Steve Baker, an analyst at crystal display TV for $699 largely invisible to con­The holiday season will be NPDTechworld, gives -matching Gateway's sumers. Gateway stopped a pivotal test of whether Gateway high marks in price -and two digital manufacturing its products Gateway's gamble pays off. such higher-margin cate­music players in what it -save for some large, cus­On Tuesday, the company gories as flat-panel TVs described as an initial tom accounts -and it rounded out its lineup by and digital cameras. He assault on the consumer hired outsiders to handle expanding its offering of notes only one hiccup in electronics market. everything from shipping to TVs to 12 models and execution -the indefinite Dell can't match Gateway employee benefits. adding two digital cameras, delay of handheld comput­with a chain of retail stores 
As a result, Gateway will a DVD recorder and a digi­ers, originally scheduled to -a key advantage if cus­employ 6, 700 people by the tal music player. be launched in July. tomers want to see and middle of next year, down The holiday results may "My early impressions touch the pricey gadgets from 11,500 at the end of determine the company's are that most of what before digging for their last year and 25,000 in chances of competing they've done has been wallets. And Gateway 2000. against the likes of Sony, right," Baker said. "My ended the third quarter 
"It was just a gut­Panasonic and Samsung. biggest worry is how many with more than $1 billion wrenching level of change," Gateway's strategy has things they can actually in cash, giving it some said Rod Sherwood, execu­been to undercut well­pull off in such a short cushion as it tries to tive vice president and known brands with prices period of time." reverse its decline in sales. 

WTO rules U.S. steel tariffs illegal 
Associated Press 
GENEVA -The United States faces up to $2.2 billion in European Union trade sanctions after a World Trade Organization appeals panel ruled Monday that U.S. tariffs on imported steel are illegal. 
In a 170-page report, a three­member WTO panel rejected the bulk of the U.S. appeal of an earlier ruling that said duties of up to 30 percent introduced in March 2002 by the Bush administration breached trade rules. 
The appeals body is WTO's highest tribunal, and the decision is final. 
In a joint statement, the countries that brought the case said the United States had "no other choice" but to remove the import duties without delay. The EU said it will impose retaliatory sanctions of up to $2.2 billion by introducing 100 per­cent duties on some U.S. imports, effectively pricing those goods out of the EU market. 

The United States insisted it was right to impose the tariffs for three years. 
"We disagree with the overall WTO report and we are going to study it and look at its implications and go from there," said White House spokesman Scott McClellan, aboard Air Force One with President Bush. 
McClellan would not offer a timetable for a White House deci­sion on whether to rescind the tar­iffs or accept the sanctions. For sev­eral weeks, Bush has been studying a separate report from his interna­tional trade commission on the sub­ject. 
"The steel safeguards the presi­dent imposed were to provide our domestic steel industry an opportu­nity to adjust to import competition ... to give our domes~ic industry an opportunity to restructure and con­solidate and become stronger and more competitive," McClellan said. 
"We believe [the safeguards] are fully consistent with WTO rules and we will carefully review those deci­sions." 
U.S. Rep. Bob Ney, a Republican from the steel state of Ohio, said it was "absolutely unconscionable for the WTO to target needed American tariffs on foreign steel while nations such as China are manipulating its currency, paying its workers pen­nies per hour and flooding the mar­ketplace with their cheap goods." 
r-­
~ 
' 
' 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Watchdog panel expects ans-wers 
All dioceses anticipated to respond to study counting clergy abuse cases 
sorrow," and will "add some pain

Associated Press 
to an already painful moment in WASHINGTON -The leader of the history of the church," a watchdog panel appointed by Gregory said. 
U.S. Roman Catholic bishops said Burke's progress report was Tuesday she expects all dioceses made during the bishops' national to answer an unprecedented sur­meeting. vey on clergy sex abuse that top The 12-member panel is helping churc.h officials warn will produce oversee several studies meant to 
results that "add to  find the extent of  
our own sorrow." Anne Burke, an Illinois appellate  "In adopting this posture, we hope  abuse in the church and the roots of the crisis that erupted  
judge who is acting chairwoman of the National Review  we are not seen by you as hostile or  in January 2002. A report on the caus­es of the scandal is  
Board, said about  untrustworthy.  scheduled  to  be  
80 percent of U.S. dioceses had responded by mid­September, a  Nothing could be further from the truth."  released along with the statistical sur­vey, which is being conducted by the  
response rate she  John Jay College of  
called remarkable for such a complex report.  William Burleigh review board member  Criminal Justice in New York. The board also is  

The study will count the number of abuse cases since 1950 and cal­culate related costs for legal settle­ments with victims, therapy for victims and offenders and attor­neys fees. 
When the survey was announced, some bishops expressed concern that informa­tion might be used in civil lawsuits against the church and worried about confidentiality for priests included in the study. It was feared some bishops might not participate because of those con­cerns but Burke said she expects in the end all will participate. 
Bishop Wilton Gregory, presi­dent of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, warned that release of the report on Feb. 27, during the Lenten season, will be "unpleasant and painful." 
"It will certainly add to our own 
working with the 
bishops' newly cre­ated Office of Child and Youth Protection on audits of all195 U.S. dioce­hostile or untrustworthy. Nothing could be further from the truth," said Burleigh, board chairman and former chief executive officer of E.W. Scripps Co. "As a board we are united by our love for the church and a burning desire to see her wounds healed." 

The Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests questioned whether the audits will be truly independent, since investigators are relying on information provid­ed by dioceses. 
"In essence, the bishops have drawn up the rules of the game, hired the umpires, and are now declaring they're winning," said Terrie light, a SNAP leader from San Francisco. "Fundamentally, it's still voluntary self-reporting, so we urge caution in interpreting any results." 
Earlier Tuesday, a committee of bishops proposed church leaders issue a statement opposing same­sex unions and urging state gov­ernments to only recognize mar­riages between a man and a 
ses. Investigators are reviewing whether officials are comply­ing with the church's toughened discipline policy on guilty priests. The audit results are sched­ 'The bishops have drawn up the rules ofthe game, hired the umpires, and are now declaring they're winning. "  woman. The document reinforces church teaching that gay sex is a sin, at a time when homosexu­al couples have  
uled to be released  been  gaining  
Jan. 7. William "Burleigh, a member of the review board, told  Torrle Light leader Survivors Network-of  greater recogni­tion in society, according to the committee of  
the bishops that the  those Abused by Priests  bishops  who  
panel has worked to  drafted the docu­ 
maintain its inde­ ment.  

pendence from the bishops as it The bishops will discuss the oversaw the reviews. statement and vote on it later in "In adopting this posture, we their meeting, which ends hope we are not seen by you as Thursday. 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

Two more officials quit Kerry catnpaign 
Departures of press secretary, qeputy finance director add to Democratic turmoil 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry's press secretary and deputy finance director quit Tuesday, adding to the bitter turmoil on Kerry's team after the dismissal of his campaign manager. 
Robert Gibbs, chief spokesman for the Massachusetts lawmaker, and deputy finance director Carl Chidlow quit in reac­tion to the firing of Jim Jordan, abruptly let go by Kerry Sunday night. Both expressed dissatisfaction with the campaign, accord­ing to officials. 
Gibbs will be replaced by Stephanie Cutter, a former spokeswoman for Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and currently the spokes­woman for the Democratic National Convention, the officials said. 
Jordan was replaced Monday by Mary Beth Cahill, who was Kennedy's chief of staff. The switch, less than three months before voters in Iowa par­ticipate in the first-in-the­nation c·aucuses, was designed to jump-start Kerry's campaign by signal­ing to fund-raisers and activists that he was addressing problems that have caused his campaign to slump. 
Many Democratic strate­
gists, however, say the problems were caused by . the candidate himself, that he has campaigned as if the nomination was his entitle­ment while allowing former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean to catapult ahead. 
Dean sealed two key union endorsements last week, forcing Kerry to examine his presidential prospects. 
The staff shake-up consol­idates power around Kennedy's former staff after months of internal division. Kerry's team has consisted of roughly three factions ­his Washington team. paid consultants and friends and family from Boston. 
"We're sorry to see them go. They served the senator well," campaign spokes­woman Christine Anderson said of Gibbs and Chidlow. 
The departures threaten to further erode the morale of a campaign that had been viewed just months ago as a front-running team. Kerry, who has been trailing for­

·mer Vermont Gov. Howard Dean in key state polls, had been pressured by donors and supporters to shake up his campaign. Several campaign officials said the firing of Jordan was viewed as unfair by many Kerry aides, and there remained a possibility that others would follow Gibbs and Chidlow out the door. 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! Voted Michiana's Best Chinese Restaurant 
. Open 7 Days Lunch Special -$4.75 Mon-Fri 11 :30-3pm Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., $.8. 574-272~7376 




I!IIQ,,., 
.........· '...'N.>' ...·o·......... ,.... ···:.... :.....·.·.
· ,..........
·: ":: ·: ··:· . : 
. :..· .·: . ··:· .. ·..... ·:· ·. . 

TRUCK® 
• 
Residential • local & long Distance .. ••'Commercial .. • Boxes & Pocki09 Supplies 

• 
Potkin9 Service · • Loading &UhJobo!ng of 

• 
Insured & Bonded Rental Trucks Available 



(57ll) 675-9700 
www.twom•oondottuck.cotil 

Visit Our Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley, Suite[)• Osceola/IN .46561 



University ofNotre Dame International Study Program at 



Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 13, 2003 138 DeBartolo 5:00PM 
with Sarah Coyle, Trinity College Dublin and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Pro grant 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2003 
All Year 2004-2005 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Tupac bares soul 



in 'Resurrection' 
Associated Press 
Admirable and despicable, charismatic and chaotic, Tupac Shakur epitomizes hip­hop culture. I lis lil'c and dnath remain iL'> defining taln. 
Tupac's status was cernent­tld by his 1996 mur­der in, of course, a "drive-by," a term that rap intro­duced to America 10 years before " b I i n g • bling." Even though Tupac rapped and filmed videos about the here­after shortly before he got there, he stubbornly refused to avoid it, choosing to revel in and with the worst of hip-hop. 
If Tupac could talk to us now -and some do believe the black Elvis will rise again ­he'd surely explain, with the conviction that sold 35 million records, exactly how and why he ended up shot to death in Las Vegas in Suge Knight's BMW. 
Without that perspective, though, the picture is incom­plete like "Tupac: Hesurrection." 
In a culture built on creating something fresh from the debris of the past, "Hesurrection" is a remix masterpiece. Using snippets of Tupac's many, many inter­views, the entire film is nar­rated in his own passionate words. No talking heads, no 1­knew-him-whens. Just Tupac 

baring his soul, one more time. 
Produced and directed by MTV documentarian Lauren Lazin, the woman behind the music channel's "Sex in the 90s," "Rockumentary" and "Cribs" features, "Resurrection" is executive produced by Afeni Shakur, mother ofTupac and guardian of his legacy. Ms. Shakur's participation ensured there would be plenty of actual Tupac songs in the movie, as opposed to the seven previous Tupac documentaries by everyone from his bodyguard to his girlfriend's brother. 
The music hits hardest in the beginning of the film, as the Vegas streets unspool to the strains of Tupac's fatalistic "Starin' Through My Rear View," which appropriately samples Phil Collins' "In the Air Tonight." Tupac's voice then describes his impover­ished New York City childhood during a blizzard of never­seen-before baby pictures. Stock footage and more family photos accompany his recol­lections of being raised by Black Panthers and Afeni's move to Baltimore, where Tupac enrolled in an elite high school for the performing arts. 
Detaching Tupac's voice from his image allows Lazin to splice pieces of different inter­views into elongated conversa­tions. Tupac's many fans will remember many quotes, and perhaps even hear where one interview morphs into anoth­er. Newcomers will simply marvel at Tupac's insight and intelligence. 


Oscar alterations bruise egos 
Shorter season divides Hollywood unions, Academy Awards voters 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Maybe there should be an Academy Award for behind-the-scenes theatrics. That's where the real melodrama lies this Oscar sea­son. 
Changes in awards-campaign policy have divided Hollywood's trade unions, pitted art-house distributors against their big­studio owners and left organiz­ers of other movie honors feel-. ing like Oscar's poor relations. 
The big adjust­"/ cannot believe the ban. allow­ment: A studio ing screeners
these people think 
crackdown on for Oscar voters
we're pirating our
"academy screen­but not those ers" special own work." who hand out videotapes and other honors DVDs for awards such as the
Melissa Gilbert 
voters, a conven­Golden Globes,
SAG President
ience that has allowed Hollywood types to watch Oscar contenders in their own living rooms rather than a theater or private screening room. 
The move has infuriated many awards voters, generally working stiffs putting in long days. who gripe that they lack time to trudge out to see all the awards contenders on the big screen. 
Compounding matters, the upcoming awards season is shorter because Oscar organiz­ers moved their ceremony from late March to Feb. 29, with other awards shifting to earlier dates to follow suit. That leaves voters with three weeks less time to catch the films. 
"Some of these films don't last very long in theaters," said actor Alec Baldwin, an acade­my member who opposes any restrictions on awards screen­ers. "With some of these things, the only opportunity to see them is on a screener." 
Through their trade group, the Motion Picture Association of America, the top seven stu­dios implemented a complete ban on screeners Sept. 30, claiming the DVDs and video­tapes contributed to movie piracy. 
A fury of opposition from awards voters prompted MPAA 
and the studios 
to lift part of 
the Screen 
Actors Guild 
awards or crit­ics prizes. 
The deal -which permits only VHS tapes, not DVDs ­requires members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to sign an anti­piracy pledge. It also allows studios to encode the videos so they can be tracked back to the recipient if they are used to make bootleg copies. 
Hollywood professionals say the issue has been a slap in the face, a message that only the Academy Awards elite member­ship of 5,800 can be trusted to keep screeners out 'of bootleg­gers' hands. 
"That is the worst thing you can do to actors. We spend our lives being rejected. We don't need more of it, especially from our employers," said SAG President Melissa Gilbert. "I cannot believe these people think we're pirating our own work." 
Withholding home-video screeners will make it difficult for members of SAG's 2.100­member nominating committee to see all potential contenders for its awards, Gilbert said. 
SAG presents its awards Feb. 22, a week before the Oscars. Because of the Oscar date change, February is jam­packed with awards shows that previously had been spread over a two-month span. 
The academy moved up its ceremony hoping to rejuvenate a show whose TV ratings have slipped in recent years. The marathon awards season that starts in December has become crowded with movie honors, leaving some viewers burned out by the time the Oscars roll around. 
"There was a sense people might not be quite as tired about who was nominated for this award and who won that prize if our show came earlier, so our news is a little fresher," said Bruce Davis, academy executive director. 
Also new this season are tougher academy rules to cur­tail Oscar campaigning. Studios spend millions of dollars on advertising and events to boost a single film's awards pro~pects, tactics the academy finds distasteful. 
New academy standards for­bid Oscar-season parties intended to influence academy voters, awards ads that include endorsements from academy members, and smear cam­paigns against particular films. 
"Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has a lot of great products and services, I love their free checking!" 
•. 

NOTRE DAME 
FE[)ERAL CR~QIT UNIQN You can bank on us to be better 
: . . . .. . . . 
574/631-8222 •www.ndfcu.org 

Free Checkingl (It doesn't get better than free) 

..----------------­
---~-­
THE OBSER\'ER 









IEWPOINT
Page 10 Wednesday, November 12, 2003 

University shouldn't litnit business tnajors 
After performing extremely well in high school and being ness program. accepted out of a highly competitive applicant pool, students Instead, the University must consider other alternatives come to Notre Dame expecting to receive a top-notch educa­that could decrease the number of undergraduates who tion in any field they choose. major in business and create more interest in the liberal 
But for students interested in business. that freedom to arts. choose any major could soon be limited. Because 32 percent One alternative the business school could implement is an of Notre Dame students major in business-as compared to undergraduate minor in business -a proposal currently seven percent at other top 20 universities -the dean of the under consideration by University officials. A business minor College of Business said last week the College is would allow students interested in the liberal considering capping the number of undergradu­arts to choose a more academically-oriented
O
Jhe · 
ates allowed to major in business. field of study and still receive practical busi­
userver
Some University officials and professors worry Editorial ness training. Though some business profes­that such a high percentage of business majors sors are concerned that such an option would harms Notre Dame's traditional mission as a lib­lead to increased business enrollment and 
eral arts university. But the high percentage of business students also places a severe strain on the business faculty, which comprises only one-eighth of Notre Dame's faculty, while its majors constitute one-third of all under­graduates. Ultimately, such an imbalance may cause the excellence of Notre Dame's high-quality business education to suffer. 
In recent years, officials opted to limit acceptance for incoming freshmen signaling their intent to major in busi­ness to just 18 percent of the freshman class. Still, the num­ber of undergraduate business majors has increased by 20 percent over the last 10 years. 
Although the large number of business majors poses prob­lems for the University, students who survive Notre Dame's difficult admission process shouldn't be told they must choose another major if they are not accepted into the busi­
greater strain on the faculty, this would not be the case if the University generates more interest in liber­al arts majors among undergraduates. 
After all, if administrators are so concerned that most stu­dents are choosing to major in a business-related field, per­haps they should examine why students believe liberal arts degrees won't help them in the future. By better marketing a degree from the College of Arts and Letters to students who might otherwise choose business, officials could show career-minded students that a liberal arts degree can pre­pare them for the job market as well as a business degree. 
While Notre Dame should make Arts and Letters majors more attractive to undergraduates and increase interest in the liberal arts, it cannot do so at the expense of students' freedom to choose any major-even if a third of their peers choose similar courses of study. 

A refusal to bow to expectations 
It is early-around six o'clock in the you could mature. So here you are, hun­Or worse yet, the expectations weigh morning. It is still dark but that cannot dreds of thousands of hours of practice you down with the ferocity of an eight­stop you. It is cold as well but there is time later, living that myth. een wheeler, choking off the blood that no use in trying to use that as an excuse · There is no need to try and explain tells your brain to relax and have fun. to go home to bed. The weights that pull what you are doing; the outcome needs They consume your thoughts with guilt on your eyelids to be the same no matter what the and shame when you have a bad day. grow heavier every activity. Points, time, answers-it does And most of the time -if not always ­
Adam Cahill

minute and you not matter. Whether it is the three all­they hinder your performance, causing think of the warm nighters in a row that you have pulled you to tense up and freeze because of sheets you left for a test or the endless hours of physi­the mental weight placed upon yo·u. behind. The cold A Domer's cal training needed to succeed in a Expectations are baggage-especial­November wind cuts Outlook sport, the result needs to be the same -ly lofty ones -they are just something through you like a you need to succeed. It does not matter to overcome. It is okay to want some­warm knife through if you are sick or if you have not slept in thing and strive to get it, but the differ­butter and your head, covered by a a week. None of it matters-you can­ence between expectations and goals is hood and toboggan, droops to keep your not fail. infinite. To believe and face from the brutal wind. Your muscles You cannot fail to expect are two very ache and your head is spinning but you because you have the different things and 
Statistics and feats only 
cannot complain. potential to be some­the results from each 
Every morning you do this, the same body. Potential is just blind someone into is substantially the question is asked -why are you doing a made up word; a believing they deserve result of having one or this to yourself? You ask yourself this sportswriter's word the other. 
their prophecy without 
same question through the sweat and to describe the invisi­So judge us not too tears of every frustration and disap­ble, to make an ath­actually earning it. harshly, you next pointment, every bad mark and loss. lete or student feel Michael Jordan or you What on earth can drive you to the better for having next Bill Gates. When point of insanity for little more than a expectations put on them. we tab you the next coming of billion­pat on the back or a hug, a trophy or All this interest and hype and antici­aire superstar or greatest sports team, pride? Yes it is gratifying at the time, pation gets you nowhere. just remember that it is supposed to be but the achievement only lasts so long It is true that some dwell in the spot­a compliment. Be sure to do one thing and will be replaced by the next lofty light and do very well living up•to the when that happens though -do not goal. It has always been like this and it expectations that were placed upon expect a word of it. Believe it and strive always will be like this. There is nothing them at a very young age. They may for it, but do not expect it. The worst that can stop it. even say that they do better under the thing you can do is anticipate what 
Childhood seems like a big blur now, pressure of the media spotlight. The someone else says about you, especially especially at this hour in the morning -expectations placed on them can drive if they do not know you. none of your thoughts are comprehen­people to practice harder and longer. sive or plausible. However someone But more often than not, the media Adam Cahill is a senior history and long ago said that you had potential and . spotlight quells the most important American Studies major. His column it would be worth the million minutes of things needed for a blue chip prospect. appears every other Wednesday. He training to get you to achieve it. They -love of the game and relaxation. can be contacted at acahill@nd.edu. even convinced your parents to look for Statistics and feats only blind someone The views expressed in this column personal trainers, tutors and specialists into believing they deserve their are those ofthe author and not neces­to develop your talent at an age before prophecy without actually earning it. sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Do you support moving the Pass-in-Review, the annual procession by ROTC students, to an outside location? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I wish they would only take me as I am." 
Vincent Van Gogh artist 

THE 0 BSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, No~ember 12, 2003 page 11 

College: A pirate's life for me 

For almost 120 years, we had been the most feared and well­respected men in the world. Thanks to our traditionally brilliant lead­ers, no one could match us in what we did, and that showed in our astonishing 74.6 percent success rate. Our legendary achievements had even attracted an almost religious following, unsurpassed by any of our rivals, who always awaited our results with rowdy anticipation. Without a doubt, we­
Joey Falco

the men of the Golden Grogger -were the 
greatest pirates to ever sail the seven seas. 
Unfortunately that all came crumbling down when a riotous mutiny cast our former Captain Forty Ounces overboard, leaving him victim to the harsh, for /<alco green sea awaiting below our ship. In his absence, we proudly passed the eye-patch on to our new leader, Captain Crustache and his ignorant first mate Blacktooth Bill. At first, the crew rejoiced for our new Captain, and under the influence of several barrels of rum, we praised him as one of the greatest leaders to ever command this ruthless band of scally­wags. llowever, as time passed, the crew began to realize that our Captain was nothing more than a scurvy dog here to steal our booty and damage our good name, and the evidence against him spoke for il'ielf. 
The real trouble started after another ship, the Dirty Eagle, struck our mast with a cannonball just before escaping with the last of our plunder a little over a year ago, and after that, things continued to spi­ral downward like a sea dog cast overboard after drinking too much grog. We not only began losing to much weaker ships; we actually started being humiliated by them. In addition, the crew started to lose focus and looked more like a bunch of landlubbers trying to swab the poop deck with their arses than real buccaneers. It was not uncom­mon to find more than one pirate trying to shoot the same cannon at the same time, often backfiring and sending the ship in reverse. Even worse, Blacktooth Bill was constantly sending our top sailors below deck and replacing them with some of the most incompetent crewmen on the ship, always bringing certain disaster to the Golden Grogger. 
To make matters worse, an old sea dog who had long since worn out his welcome, ~nown to us as Shark Bait (since that's about all he was good for), was constantly scuttling about the ship encouraging support for our struggling Captain. Some nights, after cozying up with the rum barrels, Shark Bait could often be heard riling up the crew with shouts of"Raise the sails," or "Feel the plunder!" We tried mak­ing him walk the plank, but the old fool just kept on yelling. He even tried to replace our legendary skull and cross bones with a Spirit Sail, but it did not matter. We continued to be out-plundered, out-Captained and just plain out-pirated by most other ships, with the possible exception of her Majesty's Royal Navy, to whom no self-respecting pirate ship could ever lose. 
Finally, a secret coalition of us, loyal only to the true spirit of the Golden Grogger, decided the time had come to lead a pirate rebellion against Captain Crustache, Blacktooth Bill and Shark Bait. We first attempted to speak to our expressionless leader about our concerns, but he merely responded, without even raising his eye patch, "Arrg, mateys. Everything is going according to plan; We just have to keep on pumping and get our ship righted and pointed in the right direction." 
After that fruitless talk, we moved along to Blacktooth Bill, but since he had already gone ashore for a night of whoring, we instead brought our worries to Shark Bait. 
"Hebellion ·against Crustache? Never!" he shouted. "He's the Captain of the ship that sails the sea of green! He's the commander-in-chief of the Grogger brigade." 
But before he could finish his next ridiculous description, we lifted up the old salty dog and tossed him into his beloved sea ofgreen, where he was instantly torn apart by hammerhead sharks, still screaming, "But all of our pirates are going to graduate!" 
With Shark Bait fmally out of the way, we tore down his Spirit Sail and used it to tie up the ·captain and his First Mate. After three hours of flogging them with a cat o'nine tails, we marooned them back where they carne from, the miserable Cardinal Island, and we were finally free to roam the seven seas like the legendary swashbucklers of old. 
And just when we began to worry about who would emerge as the next Captain of our great ship, winter arrived, and as usual, brought with it the seasonal return of the brilliant Captain von Hottub. At last. some personality stood at our helm, and with his passion for pirating, the shiver finally returned to the timbers of the mighty Golden Grogger. Arrrrgg. 
Joey Falco is a freshman marketing major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjfalco@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't stereotype ND students 
Those of you who know me on campus, know I do not fit in to the mold that Emily Howald described in her Nov. 10 column "What we wear." I do not wear Abercrombie or J. Crew or even var­ious Notre Dame apparel. Howald has never seen my dinner table (first table on the left as you walk into North Dining Hall) because if she did she would find a table where no one wears Notre !)arne apparel on any day. My friends and I tend to wear vintage clothing, thrift store finds, band T­shirts or even homemade clothes. But all of these reasons are not why I was appalled by the column in The Observer. 
I recognize that I dress and have different inter­ests than most of the students at Notre Dame and I was dismayed about the fact that Howald said, "it is funny how people comment on about our lack of diversity in fashion." The column had nothing to do with fashion but everything to do with econom­ic diversity of Notre Dame. Have you ever consid­ered that "the odd man out" normally cannot afford to shop at Banana Republic and J. Crew? The homogenous community that Howald spoke so lovingly about is actually a united front with which you pit the people that can afford to dress that way against those that cannot. 
Howald formed a homogenous Notre Dame com­munity, and it leaves a lot of people out. I always thought that everyone who went to Notre Dame was a part ofthe larger community and it had no.thing to do with how they dressed. I always con­sidered myself a part of the community, but appar­ently I am not. 
Now I am not ignorant enough to believe that everyone at this school who does not wear a cer­tain brand cannot afford it; there are many people who can afford it and chose to express themselves in ways other than with the pages of the J. Crew catalog. But does she not think that her article will further detach the students at our University who do not have the economic resources to dress "preppy?" I mean, these students are only the ones who were so academically gifted that they were awarded enough financial aid to go here; surely they are not what Notre Dame is all about. 
Howald says "although the campus lacks fashion diversity, the mix appears to work for most stu­dents. No one appears extremely out of place, and it appears as though most students understood what they were getting into when arriving on Notre Dame's campus." Don't we need difference at our school? Don't we need dissenters from the mold? Are not nonconformists the ones who even­tually enact change or even just merely start con­versation? 
I am not attacking the students who dress this way, in fact, they have as much right to dress the way they want as I do. Clothing can be a very per­sonal expression of your personality or ideas. I would just argue that you should not choose the fact that a large majority of our student body has a lot of money and spend it similarly to be a defming factor with which we draw pride in our school. I love Notre Dame as much as the next student, but it is attitudes like Howald's that are prevalent on our campus, which in turn makes me question my place in this University. 
Anne Morrison sophomoro Cavanaugh Hall Nov. II 



Bevvare of Turtle Creek 

I am a 2003 graduate of Notre Dame, and lived in Thrtle Creek my senior year. At the time, Thrtle Creek seemed to be an excellent choice: close to campus and an active social life. At the end of the year, my roommate, my father and I cleaned the apartment top to bottom, filled all nail holes and shampooed the living room carpet to ensure that we would be returned our security deposit. The apartment looked as clean as the day we moved in August. 
Imagine my surprise when Thrtle Creek sent us a letter informing us that they had replaced the entire living room carpet for $480. They said that the carpet in a high traffic area was stained and could not be cleaned. I asked the Thrtle Creek management to show me a picture of the stain, a request I felt was reasonable for two reasons: (1) Thrtle Creek was making a judgment on the cleanliness of the carpet when they stood to ben­efit from the replaced carpet at our expense and 
(2) they were charging my roommate $480 for its 
replacement versus a dollar or two for a picture. Naturally, in its inspection, Thrtle Creek did not 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
take a picture, they just went ahead and replaced the carpet. After all, they were not going to pay for it. They stuck us with the bill. I feel like Thrtle Creek has taken advantage of us. The management has admitted to me twice that they should have taken a picture. 
I write this letter with the intent to warn the stud.ent population of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to be very careful in their dealings with Thrtle Creek. They cater to a highly mobile stu­dent population and know that many of their for­mer residents will not live in South Bend past graduation. I live in Boston now, and it is difficult to deal with these situations while not in the South Bend area. Also, be careful not to walk in high traffic areas of your Thrtle Creek apart­ment. Many of them need new carpet anyway, and you might end up giving Thrtle Creek a $480 gift. 
Jeff Baltru:zak class of '03 Nov. II 


THE 0BSERVIR 


CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
15 rn.inutes with Phantom. Planet 
This is the first of several interviews conducted with musicians in the scene known as rock n' roll. Jacques Brautbar plays guitar and sings background vocals for 
the band Phantom Planet. 
How'd you guys come up with the name Phantom Planet? 
We had this CD called Neil Norman's Greatest Hits and it was a 
Brian Foy
compila­tion of-----­s c i e n c e Scene Music 
fiction Critic done in the '70s disco version. Phantom Planet was one of the songs on there we really liked, so we ended up call­ing our band Phantom Planet. "California" is the theme to The OC on Fox. How'd that come about? 
The creator of The OC is a fan of the band. And he loved the song "California" and thought it would be perfect for The OC since it's in Orange County. How has your sound changed over time? 
I think our sound has become more true to our­selves rather than our influ­ences. What have been your musical influences? 
I'm a huge fan of classic rock: Pink Floyd, The Beatles, The Beach Boys. I like The Doors. I love U2, Radiohead, and The Cardigans. 
My favorite venue would have to be "The Hideout" in Chicago. It's a real kind of hole-in the-wall club. The sound system sucks. The stage is real small. But every time we've played there the crowd had been amazing and the energy that we get on stage is incredible. What's the best part about being on the road? 
The part about being on the road is getting to see the world, as cheesy as that sounds. Did you always want to be in a band that toured and made records? 
Ever since I was a kid and I listened to Zeppelin and I would pretend like I was Jimmy Page. I pretended like I was Slash from Guns N' Roses playing coliseums. It has always been some­thing I wanted to do. If you could have dinner with anyone you haven't met before who would it be? 
I would really like to have a sit down with Jesus. Anything you'd ask him? 
How do you do that water into wine trick? Can you describe the song writing process? Does 
someone 
But my real 
"/ think our sound come in with
passion in a riff or a music is clas­melody? Or is 
has become more sical music. true to ourselves it we're going What's your to meet
rather than our 
favorite song Tuesday at
influences." 
you guys two o'clock have written and we're all 
Jacque Brautbar 
so far? going to sit On the new down togeth­
Phantom Planet record my guitarist er and just 


favorite song is called "Know it All" and all-time my favorite song is "Wishing Well." What's the vibe on the new album and the first single "Big Brat?'' 
I think where it's similar to our old stuff is that "Big Brat" is very melodic and catchy. You can dance to it and it's really great and a lot of fun, but different because it's a bit more hon­est, a bit more raw. It's more rock and roll. You guys have toured with Elvis Costello and Incubus. Do you Jike arenas or the smaller venues better? 
Both have their pros and cons. It was amazing play­ing with Incubus in those huge arenas. But at the same time it was amazing when we did our headlining club dates where we were playing 500 seaters. What's been your favorite venue you have played at so far? 
jam? 
Usually Alex will come in with a skeletal version of the song. And then the rest of us will come in and add parts like the organ: the vital parts that make a human being. How do you feel about file sharing? 
I totally understand why artists are bummed about file sharing, but I think we should embrace it. it's going to happen. It's the wave of the future. We got to find a way to do it so people aren't 
screwed.  
Finally,  what  can  we  
expect  from  the  new  
album?  

It's not as slick as our last record and more on the rock and roll side. Alex is listening to different music which gives it a more rock and roll base as opposed to pop music. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu. 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Ja Rule attelllpts to be hard core 
ByJOHNLOWE 
Scene Music Critic 
Blood in My Eye, Ja Rule's long-awaited, highly anticipated fifth album, was released Nov. 4 amidst much hype and buzz, which was sparked mostly by the highly publicized feud between two of rap's most prominent heavyweights: Ja Rule and Fifty Cent. Ja Rule's label Murder Inc. and Fifty Cent's label Shady/Aftermath have been pro­pelled into this war of rhymes for the past couple of years, and both sides have exchanged many jeers and taunts. 
The exact cause of this great rift remains unclear even today. Ja Rule was last heard from after Fifty Cent and Eminem released their collaborative track "Hail Marry" featuring Busta Rhymes, where they unleash an arsenal of insults on Ja Rule and every aspect of his manhood. They even resorted to calling him a wannabe Tupac. They also criticized Ja Rule for having women sing his hooks, claiming that he is a mediocre rapper hid­ing behind the talent of women. With all this in mind, one would expect Ja Rule's new album to be chock full of original and cre­ative songs that would silence his critics, but alas it does not. 
Blood In My Eye is the most unfocused, generic, predictable, weak and lame excuse for a rap album ever recorded. It is basi­cally a tribute album to his hatred of Eminem and Fifty Cent. They must have really hit a nerve with Ja Rule for him to dedicate not one or two tracks to disparaging them. but the entire album. From beginning to end, each song and skit are insults aimed at Fifty Cent and even his son. 

On track six, "Things Gon' Change," Ja Rule says, "Put a vest on yourself and your chil­dren" which is immediately fol­lowed by a gun shot sound­effect. The gunshots are so fre­quent in that song, and every song, that it adds to its pre­dictability and boringness. The album is a complete and utter disappointment. Also, Ja Rule took the liberty of imitating 
courtesy mtv.com 

Tupac on several of his tracks by 
going as far as recruiting a rap­
per from Tupac's former group 
the Outlawz. The only decent 
track on the entire album is 
"Clap Back," which is a very 
danceable song, but after repeat­
ed listening it seems a bit too 
much like a rip off of a Neptune's 
beat. 
Ja Rule was in such a hurry to 
produce an album that would 
give him more "street erect" and 
distance him from the sweet 
teenybopper pop R&B songs that 
he just got sloppy. The tunes that 
he created with Jennifer Lopez 
like "Ain't It Funny" and ''I'm 
Real" have caused him to take a 
lot of flack from rap critics who 
believe rappers should be dan­
gerous and unapproachable. 
Also, who can forget the classic 
anthems Ja Rule· pro'duced with 
Ashanti such as "Always On 
Time," "Put It On Me" and 
"Mesmerized." 
But in rap, unfortunately, sen­sitivity is seen as a weakness and has tarnished his reputation into that of a womanizing play­boy. Ja Rule's popularity was already on decline before the release of this album. as evi­denced by the jeers he received at the recent Source Awards. Even his hard core fans are going to be disillusioned by this -mediocre album. Ja Rule no longer rules the world of rap. Today, Fifty Cent is worth two quarters and J a Rule is worth 
about two pennies. 
Contact John Lowe at jlowel @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 







CENE

Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Strokes fail to display musical growth 
This It. While they may have avoided the tar, along with Albert Hammond's delight­ny of Room On Fire is impossible to ignore.
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
sophomore slump by simply recreating the fully simply-played chorus riffs. "Under Many critics argue that this was the best 
Scene Music Critic 
masterpiece that was their debut album, it Control," "Reptilia" and "I Can't Win" are route for The Strokes to go, to create a 
Holling Stone hailed them as "the best young band in the world." Mojo labeled them. "the hottest rock 'n' roll band on the planet," and these two magazines are not alone. Countless music critics, musicians and passionate music listeners have called The Strokes the saviors of rock music and praised them for the bold and daring sound of their music. The world has been waiting to see if they can, in fact, live up to their namesake with the follow-up to their impressive debut, Is This It, and they do in the most predictable manner: creating a near clone of their debut album. 
The Strokes latest album, Room On Fire, is a carbon copy of Is This It. From the slick bass lines, to the simple repetitive droning guitars, right down to the abstract art theme on the cover, this is not a new album, but in essence a continuation of Is 

By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Aside from those who closely follow underground hip-hop, most people have probably never heard of Aesop Hock before. A part of the young, upstart hip-hop label, Def Jux, Aesop Hock is one of a newer breed of MC that wants nothing to do with the hip-hop mainstream. As a result, there is noth­ing conventional about the rapper's lat­est album, Bazooka Tooth, but if one is willing to give it a chance to sink in, there is much to be appreciated. 
A casual listening of Aesop Rock's confu&ing, lyrical barrage will probably leaves the listener wondering if they can create anything outside of their signature fuzzy garage sound. While the songs on Room on Fire are extremely catchy and fun, they just seem to lose their flair after a few minutes. It seems the band simply yawned out this album. 
Famed producer Nigel Godrich was origi­nally slated to produce Room on Fire, and one can only wonder how he would have changed The Strokes' sound. Instead, the band recruited the very same producer that worked with them on Is This It, and shockingly did not advance their sound at all. That may not necessarily be a bad thing because the songs are amazing. The first single "12:51" is an extremely catchy ditty with a driving bass and drum line accentuated by a simple strummed guitar riff. The song has hints of maturation with an early '80s Cars-sounding synthesizer guitar riff, but it never seems to move beyond a simple backing riff. "You Talk Way Too Much" is another wonder­ful song played in the same lazily rushed repetitive style. Guitarist 
some other fantastic catchy songs, but they become boring after several listens. These songs are wonderfully con­structed and played, but they do not seem original. 
This is a consistent theme on Room On Fire. Singer Julian Casablancas contin­ues his biting, hazy singing style with lyrics that could have easily been pulled from The Strokes' debut. His voice has­n't grown at all and he hasn't expanded his lyrical theme. Overall the lyrics are very bland and unin­teresting. 
There are hints of maturation and musical growth throughout the album, but The Strokes never seem to bite on these 

Siamese twin of Is This It, and it may 

well have been. Room On Fire will be a suc­cessful album for the
Room on Fire 
band. It does have some magnificently catchy songs and gui­
-
tar riffs, but it will be easily forgotten because of its glaring similarity to their debut album. 
This formula will work for The Strokes for now, but at some point their sound must mature and change or they run the risk of becoming a boring, unchanging, predictable pop band. Overall Room On Fire is a decent album and is worth a few
RCA Records 
listens. In all actuality The Strokes do live up to their title, "best young rock band on the planet," but they cannot keep the same sound forever. The 

Nick Valensi adds hooks they've created and expand their Strokes may have sparkled on their debut a wonderful sound. As a result the listener feels trapped album. but they begin to lose their luster on atmosphere to the in a room with one speaker blaring the Room On Fire. song with his same song over and over again. There are muddy treble gui-great songs on this album, but the monoto-Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraftert@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Aesop Rock possesses unconventional talent 
leave one feeling bewildered and unsure of whether Bazooka Tooth is sheer genius or just plain weird. He is a superb rapper, able to drop fifty-cent words and pop culture references left a!]d right in the most imaginative com­binations with rhymes like "They bur­row deep under the carnivore's flesh, without a trace I Carnival games, like try to shoot the star out of his space." However, it is sometimes frustrating to decipher his rhymes due to his creative wordplay, odd nasal voice and tendency to spurt a flat delivery with few changes in tone, speed, emphasis or emotion. It takes maybe five or six good listens before his words really begin to make any sense, and even 
then some of it may remain nonsensical. 
However, once Aesop Rock's lyrics are grasped, his exceptional talent begins to show through. In the excellent "11:35," Aesop Rock teams up with fellow Def Jux rapper Mr. Lif, and the two trade tragic tales of a flawed American system with lines like "Now, 
J .J. punch drunk, acts like a dumb [expletive] I Bum touched girls looking young enough to thumb suck." He takes a more typical underground rap topic with Def Jux head El-P on "We're 
Bazooka Tooth 
Aesop Rock 

Definitive Jux Records 



Famous," where the two take shots at lesser rappers and those that are criti­cal of Def Jux's style of hip-hop. He also exhibits a sense of bitterness on many of his tracks, lashing out at the media on "Easy" by opening with "Cameras or guns I One of y'all's gonna shoot me to death," and denouncing the existence of a higher being on "Kill the Messenger:" "I will not bow to a God that I can't look in the face." 1 
Much like the lyrics, Bazooka Tooth 1 s production is also eclectic and off the wall, and it may take a number of lis­tens to get used to it. Unlike his under­ground success, Labor Days, where Blockhead and EI-P did most of the pro­duction, Aesop Rock produces most of Bazooka Tooth himself. He clearly takes several pages out of El-P's book, creat­ing disjointed, often bizarre electronic sound collages that are very reminis­lights like on "The Greatest Pac-Man Victory in History" and "Easy," some­times they are too unusual to be thor­oughly enjoyed. Ironically, the small number of songs Blockhead and El-P produce actually provide the best beats, and "11:35" in particular stands out. 


Overall, Bazooka Tooth is like any good piece of poetry. At a glance it may not seem like much, but if studied long enough, it has much to offer. Despite this, not everyone has that kind of patience, and those looking for an easy listen will not find anything remotely like that from Aesop Hock. But for those that are willing to take the time to open up to something a little differ­ent, Bazooka Tooth provides a change of pace from the norm, and is a strong piece of work by one of underground hip-hop's most talented MCs. 
cent of El-P's production style. This works with mixed results, for while Contact Kenyatta Storin at some of these creative beats are high-kstorin@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Jeff bests Stan as Van Gundy coaches meet 
O'Neal blasted the officials for every important possession, 

Associated Press 
calling three offensive fouls that Murray hit a jumper over 

They'd already competed long kept him on the bench much of Latrell Sprewell at the buzzer, and hard at pingpong. Chutes the second half. capping his career-high 29­and Ladders and checkers. "Do I need to make five or six point performance and lifting After all those years, Jeff and more All Star games, win an the Seattle SuperSonics over Stan Van Gundy fmally faced off Olympic gold, continue to make Minnesota 89-87 Tuesday night. as basketball coaches Tuesday All-NBA teams for me to get "I feel like I can get around night. some respect in the paint?" he anybody in the league," Murray 
In just the second time in NBA asked. "It's frustrating to me.'' said after scoring at least 20 
history that brothers coached O'Neal had a dominating first points for the fifth straight against each other, Jeff's half, scoring 21 points and game in place ofthe injured Houston Rockets sent Stan's grabbing nine rebounds to help Ray Allen. Miami Heat to their seventh the Pacers take a 48-34 lead. "It doesn't matter that no one straight loss 90-70. But O'Neal went to the bench in the arena knows who I am.
-Houston won its fourth in a with 7:2 2 to play in the third They'll know who I am in time." row and kept Miami as the only quarter after picking up his Sprewell made a 3-pointer winless team in the league. fourth foul. with 14.5 seconds left, tying it 
The game was a mere subplot He managed just four points at 87. for the main show between the and two rebounds in the second • After a timeout, Murray held Van Gundys, who joined Herb half to finish with 25 points and the ball at the top of the key and Larr.y Brown as the only 11 rebounds. until about five seconds brothers to coach against each "These refs are taking away remained and then drove at 
other in the NBA. my aggressiveness in the post," Minnesota's top defender. 
The family reunion started O'Neal said. "There are guys "I looked at his feet a little bit Monday night when the Heat that are afraid to guard me. I and they opened up and made arrived in Houston and Stan can't be effective if I'm not on me go left," Murray said. "So I went to Jeff's home for dinner. the court. Any other player went that way and got a shot 
"His wife, Kim, told me to would probably get that off." make sure I use the words [respect], but for some reason, Murray's fadeaway shot from 'homemade' and 'gourmet' and it's not for me." the left side bounced around it was," Stan said. "It was unbe­When asked if he had any the rim a couple of times and lievable -steak, potato, salad theories about why he wasn't nearly rolled out before drop­-it was wonderful. She said to getting the calls, (}'Neal said, "I ping in. say she cooks like that every don't know. Maybe this market "I don't know how it went," night." isn't big enough. Maybe they said Sprewell, who had a hand 
The brothers continued their don't like me.'' in Murray's face. "It caught the banter in pregame exchangers front of the rim and trickled in." in the hallway outside the Philadelphia 112, Washington teams' locker rooms Tuesday 1.05 Dallas 1.25, New Orleans 97 night. Among the best things to hap­The Dallas Mavericks finally 
"I wish it was me going pen to the NBA in the offseason: got their lineup of All-Stars against Jeff, I'm sure I'd come Allen Iverson and Gilbert pulling in the same direction. out on top," Stan said. "It's Arenas ended up in the same Steve Nash hit all five of his 3­more serious when we have to division. point shots and sparked a deci­face [Steve] Francis, [Cuttino] Two of the quickest guards in sive third-quarter run in the dunk. weapons, we don't have to force Mobley and Yao [Ming]." the NBA get to face each other Mavericks' 125-97 victory over Walker had 21 points, Michael shots. When we have 40 assists, 
Jeff said he enjoyed the rare four times this season, and the the New Orleans Hornets on Finley 20 and Dirk Nowitzki 18 that pretty much says it all." chance to visit family. next three will be red-letter Tuesday night. for the Mavericks. Nash finished 
"It's never a distraction when days if they go anything like the The Mavericks, struggling to with 17 points and 11 assists, Portland 83, Toronto 80 you can see your brother," Jeff first. Iverson scored 40 points, assimilate newcomers Antoine and Fortson had nine points Zach Randolph had 18 points said. "We sat around saying while Arenas had 36 in the Walker, Antawn Jamison, and 11 rebounds in Dallas' and 11 rebounds and Portland things like 'your team is better,' Philadelphia 76ers' 112-105 Danny Fortson and Tony Delk most-lopsided victory of the overcame a big game from and the other saying, 'no, your victory over the Washington into the lineup, had their most season. Vince Carter in the Trail team is better.' We wasted a lot Wizards on Tuesday. complete effort of the season, "The most important thing Blazers' 83-80 victory over of time doing that." "That's what it's all about. shooting 58. finishing with 40 was our defense," said Jamison, Toronto on Tuesday night. 
That's the realness of this assists and holding a 45-30 who had 12 points. "We con­Carter scored 19 of his 33 Celtlcs 78, Pacers 76 league," Iverson said. "That's rebounding edge. trolled the boards and got the points in the first half for the 
Jermaine O'Neal blamed the what makes this league so spe­"Coming together with the opportunity to run. This is what Raptors. who shot just 41.4 per­officials for the Indiana Pacers' cial because you have guys on group we have, we're bound to we're capable of doing.'' cent from the field. loss to the Boston Celtics. every team that's capable of have some explosions," Nash Nowitzki said the key was Dale Davis added 10 points 
"The fouls they called on me making big things happen on said. "Hopefully this was a Nash's unselfish play in the first and 10 rebounds for Portland. are unbelievable," the Indiana any given night. glimpse." quarter. Rasheed Wallace had 11 points star said after Boston's 78-76 The Hornets cut a 19-point "He was controlling the game, and eight rebounds, and Damon victory Tuesday night. Seattle 89, Minnesota 87 deficit in the second period to getting everybody involved," Stoudamire scored 12 of his 14 
The Celtics won on Vin Ronald "Flip" Murray can no 66-60 early in the third. Then Nowitzki said. "He was our MVP points in the first half. Baker's fallaway jumper in the longer sneak up on people. Not Nash hit a 3 that started a 23-2 last season and that hasn't Portland has won four lane with 20 seconds left. with the ball in his hands on burst capped by Jamison's changed. We have so many straight at home. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO Retro 5-piece bedroom suite, HOTEL ROOM-BYU game; SAT ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED 
exper. required. All looks and ages. blonde mahogany/oak; $550. Oak Nov. 15; Red Roof Mishawaka $190 ·TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 
Earn $100-$500 a day. 1-888-820-entertainment center; $800. All no markup. Steve 518-330-3818.. PM 288-2726

NOTICES PERSONALS 
0167, ext. U187 items exc. cond. ''"ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get 269-687-8924 4 bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 12th trip free. Group discounts tor Part time/Full time opportunity for Close to campus, ample parking, SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288-not go it alone. If you or someone 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com honest, motivated, success minded AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 2726 you love needs confidential support or 800-838-8202. individual. Exciting !-Commerce 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if or assistance, please call Sr. Mary
FoR RENT

internet based business. Contact: interested WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Louise Gude,CSC, at1-7819. For 
Vector/Cutco waynew54@ pronetglobal.com TOP DOLLAR PAID. more information, see our bi-weekly workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO Condo-footbaii/JPW/Grad-sleeps (574)232-0964. ad in The Observer. 
Event Staffing $8 hr./pm & week-CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM 8+, 1/2 mile to campus. Doglegleftnews.com "Putting the ends Call for details 245-6101 MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-Domercondo @yahoo.com FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TIX. A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s Pathetic in Apathetic" Brought to Ampco System Parking 1525 LOWEST PRICES. Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, you.Oy ND Students and Alumni 2 bdrm home, walk to ND 315-8730 (574)251-1570. Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED-or 1800-426-7710 #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI· Apartment for rent. Close to bars Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$
FOR SALE

Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. and campus. 711 E Washington Ave Pay Top Dollar$$ "*' IRISH CROSSINGS· A NEW Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in ANLAN PROPERTIES 532-1896 South Bend 46617. $650 per 1-866-808-0990 LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY "" Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with 99 Chevy Lumina LTZ. month. Ready to move inl No smok-Build your dream home next to BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. 4dr,leather,power,cruise,CD,3.8-Iitre HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS ing, pets possible. Full private deck "LOOKING FOR FOOTBALL TIX" Notre Dame. A limited number of Organize a group and travel for V6 w/115k. 20/26mpg. $5500. PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS-in rear. A/C, 2 bd. 1.5 bath, full ND@Cuse Need at least 2. Will pay home sites are available. FREE Book now before its too late! 283-0708. ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004· basement. 289-0262. BIG $$$$ to get these. Call For more info go to: Call 800-875-4525 or www.bianci-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. 212.723.6585 or 917.846.8865 if U www.lrishCrossings.com rossi.com. LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS~ 214 S. have tix to sell. 
FOR SALE ONE MILE TO ND. ST PETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. TICKETS Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. Stanford tix 4 together + another s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR Buy/Sell Notre Dame Football tick-pair for sale.FACE VALUE obo.l will campus reps. Call for discounts:
WANTED email: Williamson.1@ nd.edu 315-5032 ets 574-289-8048 pay shipping.607-336-7218 800·648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
........ I I I I I I I I e e I I I I • I • ' I ••• I tl ~ I • I I I • . . ..~ . 
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


... 

??? Contact Erin Byrne at Jx7308 or ebyme2@Jid. edu 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Buckeyes control own BCS destiny 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Though 
Ohio State has inched closer to 
a chance at defending its 
national championship, the 
Buckeyes still have a lot of work 
to do. 

First they must get past 
Purdue and Michigan, then 
hope for some help to get past 
No. 2 Southern California in the 
computer ratings and polls that 
make up the BCS rankings. 

The Buckeyes got a break 
when Virginia Tech, Miami and 
Florida State -all ahead of 
them a week ago in the BCS 
rankings -lost over the week­
end and fell out of the race to 
play for the national champi­
onship in the Sugar Bowl. 

"We're third," coach Jim Tressel declared Tuesday with a wide grin. "I did my home­work.'' 
It was an unusual declaration 
for a coach who claims he 
never pays attention to the 
Bowl Championship Series 
standings. 

Throughout last season, Tressel said he had no idea where his team was ranked by the BCS, even as the Buckeyes climbed the charts and eventu­ally earned a spot in the title game. The No. 2 Buckeyes beat No. 1 Miami 31-24 in the Fiesta Bowl to capture their first top ranking in 34 years. 
Until this week, Tressel swore he remained oblivious to where his Buckeyes are ranked in the polls or by the BCS. 
Ohio State was the only one­loss contender to win Saturday, beating Michigan State 33-23. The Buckeyes moved up from No. 5 to No. 3 in the BCS stand~ ings. 
"[The BCS] is in the back of your mind," tight end Ben Hartsock said. "But you can only concern yourself with so many things before the law of diminishing returns starts com­ing into play. We've got a lot on our plate right now. It's totally cliche, but we can't let our­
selves become overly engulfed 
in that. We need a couple of 
things to go our way." 
The Buckeyes, No. 4 in The 
Associated Press' poll, host No. 
11 Purdue on Saturday then 
travel to No. 5 Michigan in the 
annual rivalry on Nov. 22. 
"My take is this: There's no 
way we can go up if we don't 
win," Tressel said. 
The Buckeyes could pass the Trojans for the No. 2 spot even if neither team loses because of their tougher schedule down the stretch. 
USC plays at Arizona, then home against UClA and Oregon State, which have a combined record of 14-15. Top-ranked Oklahoma has games remaining against Baylor and Texas Tech before playing in the Big 12 championship game. 
Offensive lineman Shane 
Olivea said if the Buckeyes win 
their final two games, they 
deserve to be in the title game 
ahead of Southern Cal. 
"Purdue right now is No. 10 and Michigan is No. 5. Those are better than a UClA and an Oregon State win," he said. "If we win out and they win out, I don't understand how you can keep the defending national champion out. How could we not defend our title?" 
The Buckeyes are tied for the Big Ten lead heading into the final two weeks and must win both games to be assured their first outright conference title in almost two decades. 
"Someone asked me have I heard the players talking about" the BCS, Tressel said. "And I said, 'You know, I have to be honest with you, the thing I've heard the players talk about is the fact that we have not been the outright Big Ten champions since 1984.' 
"I haven't heard any of them talk about where we are in the BCS. But I don't mind the fact that people are talking about it outside of our locker room, because that means we still 
have a chance.'' 


. ARABIC 
I. MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 
~ ~ 

COURSE OFFERINGS SPRING 2004  
• Beginning Arabic I, Mear 101 • Intro to Islamic Civilization, Melc 244/Hist 244 • ChrlsllaJtlt)' In the Middle East, Melc 3SO!I1teo 345/Hist 462  
t ~  Information on these courses and the Program in Arabic/Middle East Studies contact: Amar.l @nd.edu or calll-6276.  
Department of Classics http://classics.nd.edu  

'·I 


Directed by Siiri Scott  
Playing ~+"'1lllll!at Washington Hall  
Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20 Friday, November 21 Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23  7:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 2:30pm  Reserved Seats Senior Citizens All Students  

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
NFL 
Browns release receiver Johnson 
Coach says wide receiver did not meet expectations in Cleveland offense 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Wide receiver Kevin Johnson was released Tuesday by the Cleveland Browns, one week· after he was benched by coach Butch Davis. 
Johnson, the club's leading receiver since 1999, had his starting job taken away by Davis, who was displeased with the five-year veteran's perform­ance. 
"This is not a knee-jerk reac­tion," Davis said in a statement. "We have been trying for almost three seasons to help Kevin per­
Sports
form to the level of expectations 
Kevin Johnson Is tackled In a 26-20 loss to San Diego earlier 
we have had for him. I am dis­
this season. Johnson was cut by Cleveland Tuesday.
appointed our staff has not been able to get him to accept the expectations we have of how the "We have a number of young, Johnson said last week he dis­wide receiver position should be talented receivers in Quincy agreed with Davis' decision to played." Morgan, Andre' Davis, Dennis bench him, but respected it. 
Johnson has had a strained Northcutt, Andre King, Frisman "I know I'm a starter in this relationship with Davis, who Jackson and C.J. Jones. As a league, whether it's here or tried to trade the receiver as result, we did not foresee Kevin's somewhere else,"Johnson said. early 2001, his first year as role expanding in the future. "I know I can start in this Cleveland's coach. "This will enable him to get a league. I think my numbers 
The 27 -year-old Johnson got fresh start, and it will allow our speak for themselves." on the field for a handful of young receivers to continue to Johnson leads the Browns this plays in Sunday's 41-20 loss at develop and improve. We wish season with 381 yards on 41 Kansas City. He had one catch, Kevin all the best." catches. His best season was giving him 73 straight games A message seeking comment 2001, when he set career highs with a reception. from Johnson's agent, Tom with 84 receptions, 1,097 yards 
Andre' Davis had three catch­Condon, was not immediately and nine touchdowns. es for 35 yards starting in returned. Before the 2002 season, he Johnson's place. Two weeks before he was agreed to terms on a four-year, 
"Kevin had a diminished role benched, Johnson dropped a $13.35 million contract exten­in our offense, and he was not crucial pass on fourth down in a sion with a $3.5 million signing happy with it," Butch Davis said. loss to San Diego. bonus. 
NOTRE DAME ClUB OF ClEVElAND HOliDAY BUS 
The NO Club of Cleveland is again sponsoring a holidav bus to run fromthe NO Circle and also SMC on the Wednesdav before Thanksgiving, returning the following Sundav. 
Riders welcome from all NE Ohio and NW Pa. 
Dropons are in Westlake, Independence and Beachwood. Round trip is $75: one wav is $40 
For more information contact: 
Rov Seitz rov@seitzhome.com James Argabright iim_argabright@vahoo.com 

Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCardNisa orders call 574-631-8128. 
THe 

(!!Jnceton
Review 
Hyperlear11ing MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. $core improvement-better than any competitor. 

• 
Over4,000pages of materials& 30 MCAT's worth of practice ..: aU yo.urs to keep. · 


Classes start in January. Space I~:i.limited. 
800-2Review 

www.PrincetonReview.<~om 
GreyhouncL has Indiana covered for the holidays. 
Greyhound makes It easy to travel throughout Indiana or 
across the country during the holidays with everyday low fares and convenient departures. Save even more when you ship your holiday packages anywhere in the U.S. 
with Greyhound Package Express. 
South Bend: 4671 Terminal Drive 574-287-6542 

-~~-2>
"""" . 

' 
GREYHOUND 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Miami's Coker benches Winslow, two others 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. -Miami coach Larry Coker benched tight end Kellen Winslow on Tuesday, punishing the team's top receiver for his behavior on the field. 
Coker also benched center Joel Rodriguez and quarterback Brock Berlin, meaning the 14th­ranked Hurricanes (7 -2) will . have a total of six offensive play­ers in new positions Saturday against Syracuse. 
Winslow was benched for com­mitting two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties in losses to Virginia Tech and Tennessee. Rodriguez was benched for com­mitting a critical holding peQ.alty in the fourth quarter against the Volunteers. And Berlin was benched after throwing 14 inter­ceptions and fumbling three times in nine games. 
"We're doing everything we can to address any problems we have on our football team," offensive line coach Art Kehoe said. "If it means somebody's got to get benched or we've got to start somebody else, we're going to do whatever it takes to get this ship right. 
"The bench has always been the coach's best vehicle through­out sports history. Has it not? It's the best thing I know of." 
Winslow and Rodriguez will not start against Syracuse (5-3), but Coker said they will play in the game. Berlin could play, too, but Coker said it will depend on how backup Derrick Crudup per­forms. 
Winslow was penalized 15 yards in the fourth quarter of Saturday's 10-6 loss to Tennessee for taking off his hel­met. After the game, Winslow said his helmet was ripped off. He then lashed out at the offi­cials in a profanity-laced _tirade that ended with him referring to football as war and himself as a soldier. 
Winslow apologized a day later. 
He also nearly got flagged for celebrating a hard-hitting block on safety Corey Campbell in the third quarter. 
In a 31-7 loss to Virginia Tech, he was flagged 15 yards for punching linebacker Brandon Manning. 
"We've got to understand we can't have that," Coker said. "It hurts our football team. The most pain you can inflict on a player is playing time, so I am going to take away some playing time." 
Kevin Everett will start in place of Winslow, who leads the team with 51 catches for 527 yards. 
Rodriguez was flagged for his fifth holding penalty of the sea­son against the Vols. It came on first-and-10 at the Tennessee 30 with Miami trailing 10-6 early in the fourth quarter. 
The 10-yard penalty took the Hurricanes out of field-goal range, and the drive ended three plays later when Berlin fumbled. 
"It is embarrassing," Rodriguez said. "It would be worse if it was just me, but the fact that it's me and Kellen eases the tension a little bit because Kellen is such a marquee player. It's unsettling, but that comes with the territory of starting at a big-time program like this and not doing things that coaches have addressed." 
Without Rodriguez, the Hurricanes will move right guard Chris Myers to center, shift left tackle Eric Winston to left guard and insert Rashad Butler at left tackle and Joe McGrath at right guard. The moves are also nec­essary because left guard Vernon Carey is likely out with a sprained right ankle. 
The only linemen who remains unchanged is right tackle Carlos Joseph. 
"We're just trying to make a statement that if you're going to make a lot of penalties, you're going to sit," Kehoe said. 
Pataf!onia 
excltiSively 
at---~
Sminute~ 
{rom CUTPCST 
Campus i•z.Jil: 
Cold Wflllther Exp11rts 

Call259·1ooo for more details 
fill ! illl r· The Ct•ntt•rj~r Ethics tlml Rdigi;,;~~:·v~/~;~;-·j;;··/i;~:~:j;~;~;~···
• 01•: ami 
i:®l• 1lTI i Tltt• Institute}or l:.lhictti Du.xint:~'>s WtJr/41f..•i</e 
··--················---······················-·-­
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Ll>cture S!."des 
Steve ()dland CEO o:f AutoZone 

-
The F'oundation of Corporate Governance 
Tuesday, Novemberl8, 2003 7:00p.m. .Jordan Auditorium 1\tlendoza CoiJege of Business 




Wednesday, November12 1:00pm 
102 DeBartolo Hall 
Sponsored bV the Foundation tor the Defense of Democracies 
-·-----­

.... _._,___~... 
Wednesday. Novemeber 12, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Drug survey results could prompt unannounced testing 

' 

Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Results are expected in a few days from this year's drug-testing survey of players, baseball commis­sioner Bud Selig said. 
If more than 5 percent of those tests are positive for a banned performance-enhanc­ing substance, then all players will be subject to possible ran­dom. unannounced testing, with penalties for those who fail. 
Otherwise. another survey will be conducted. 
"We'll have them in the next few days and they'll be announced shortly thereafter," Rob Manfred, major league baseball's executive vice presi­dent for labor relations, said at the general managers' meeting Monday. 
Baseball has already added the steroid THG to the list of banned substances for next season. 
The performance-enhancing drug automatically was includ­ed, under terms of the game's collective bargaining agree­ment, when the Food and Drug Administration declared it an illegal substance. 
There will be no retesting of this year's urine samples for THG. Manfred said the samples weren't preserved, and that the bargaining agreement doesn't allow retroactive test­

. ing for newly banned sub­stances. Selig said he had "no idea" whether the drug testing affected this year's perform­ances in baseball. THG was unknown by sports authorities until an unidenti­fied coach sent a syringe con­taining the drug to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency. which handles drug testing for track and field. Meanwhile, sluggers Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi are among dozens of athletes sub­poenaed to testify before a grand jury that. according to sources close to the probe, is investigating the Bay Area 
0 
~ ~ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
I COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
~ 

u 
< You are invited to a ~ presentation Q.) on teaching by Q.) Professor Valerie Sayers 
~ 
Department of English

C/') 
Director oT the 
• Creative Writing Program 

~ 



for Excellence in Teaching 

~ 
u 
Friday, November 14, 2003 

0 ~ 
4:00 P~M. McKenna Hall Auditorium Reception to follow

0 
N 
Laboratory Co-Operative for possible involvement in distri­bution of illegal performance­enhancing drugs. 
"Look. these people have not been convicted of anything," 

, Selig said. "They have merely been called there as witnesses. It is unfair to read any more into it than that right now." He said the issue of perform­. ance-enhancing drugs in base­ball remains an important one. "Of course, I have a great sensitivity about all of this." Selig said. "I worry a lot about it. I worry about anything that affects not only the image of the game but the performance of it on the field, too. The San Francisco thing, we're just going to have to wait, and that's the only fair and decent thing to do." Under the drug testing provi­sions agreed to in bargaining talks last year, all 1,200 major league players on the 40-man rosters were tested. Another 240 were selected at random for second tests. "The theory was that every­body had to do it once," Manfred said. "But even after you went, we wanted you to have it in the back of your mind that we might be back to visit a second time. The idea being that you'd like to control behavior even during the sur­vey part of the test." In other matters, Selig said he hoped to have two teams open their seasons in Japan next year. Last season. Oakland and Seattle were sup­posed to begin their seasons in Japan, but the trip was called off for security reasons. Selig also said he was disap­pointed and saddened by the United States' upset loss to Mexico in Olympic baseball qualifying. The loss means the defending gold medalist U.S. baseball team won't compete ­in the Athens Olympics. 

DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus Call259·1ooo for more details 




OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WiRE SERVICES Wednesday, November 12, 2003 



-around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Marshall at Miami (Ohio) 7:30p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
San Antonio at New Jersey 7 p.m., ESPN Chicago at Boston 7 p.m., FOX Sports Detroit at Golden State 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS Masters Cup 10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press Esteban Loaiza. Queen for curing his Young winner Greg 
NEW YORK -Roy "When I went down that mechanics and sports psy­Maddux, got Halladay to Halladay bounced back far, and really had no idea chologist Harvey Dorfman· focus, to "block every­from A-ball to the AL Cy what I was going to ·do to for str-aightening out his thing out, be positive and Young Award in little get it back until I found head. go one pitch at a time," more than two years. that help, (it) was a little "I think both of those go the pitcher said. 
His pitching was so scary for me," he said hand in hand as what This year he finished messed up during spring from Hawaii during a tele­made the difference for 22-7 with a 3.25 ERA, training in 2001 that the phone conference call. me," said Halladay, who going unbeaten from May Toronto Blue Jays left him After winning a major has the most wins in the 1 to July 27 and tying for 
in Dunedin to work out his league-high 22 games, major leagues over the the AL lead with nine 
troubles, causing Halladay Halladay received 26 first­past two seasons. complete games. to wonder if his baseball place votes and two sec­Queen had Halladay Halladay's wins came in career was at an end. onds for 136 points in bal­change his delivery. his last 30 starts. He was 
Now, he's left the rest of loting by the Baseball "I went from pretty 0-2 in his first six. the league's pitchers Writers' Association of much straight over the top "When I started pitching behind. America. to three-quarters. which better, we started playing 
Halladay was an over­Halladay's big year basically gave me more better all together," whelming winner of the included a 15-game win­movement to both sides of Halladay said. "They American League Cy ning streak. the plate," Halladay said. started scoring runs and Young Award on Tuesday, He credited former Blue Dorfman. who has helping me get comfort­easily beating Chicago's Jays pitching coach Mel worked with four-time Cy able." 
IN BRIEF 

Beard, Taurasi head pre State's Kelly Mazzante (28) and way Tuesday. season All-Americans Stanford's Nicole Powell (25). In a match riddled with miscues, Beard, a 5-foot-11 guard, made Schuettler beat an inconsistent and
Geno Auriemma has a very simple the preseason team for the third hobbled Coria 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 at the

way of explaining the difference time, Taurasi, a 6-foot guard, for Tennis Masters Cup. 
between Connecticut and its chal­

lengers in women's basketball: the second. Beard also was unani­With the temperature about 80 "We have Diana and they don't," mous a year ago, and both were and wind blowing this way and the coach says. unanimous postseason All­that, they combined for 84 unforced At Duke, coach Gail Goestenkors Americans last spring. errors, 28 break points and 13 dou­says without hesitation: "I think Taurasi was the AP's player of the ble-faults. But the sixth-ranked Alana raises the level of play of our year last season and led a Schuettler, runner-up to Andre entire team every single day." Connecticut team that relied heavily Agassi at the Australian Open, did 
Of course, they are talking about on freshmen to its second consecu­just enough to win. Diana Taurasi and Alana Beard, for tive national championship. Schuettler made 18 fewer errors whom being designated an All­Beard joined Tennessee's and had 31 winners to Coria's 24. American is becoming as common­Chamique Holdsclaw and Tamika Coria often clutched his left thigh place as high-top sneakers. Catchings as the only three-time when there were breaks in play, 
The two seniors were unanimous selections on the preseason team, although he looked just fine during selections Tuesday for The which began in 1994. points, using his exceptional quick­Associated Press' preseason All­ness to track down shots. After the America team. Schnettler ousts Coria second set, the Argentine took a 
Their names appeared on all 47 despite sloppy play medical timeout and had both legs ballots from the national media HOUSTON -Rainer Schuettler massaged by a trainer. 
panel voting in the weekly AP poll. and Guillermo Coria are two of the The fourth-ranked Coria fell to 4­Also chosen were Kansas State's year's most improved players on 14 this season when losing the first Nicole Ohlde (34 votes), Penn the ATP Tour. Neither looked that set (he's 55-1 when winning it). 

Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Did you ever want to be In a music video? 
Did you ever want to be someone famous? 

-··---------·111.........-· 
Well now you CAN! 
SUB Special Events is hosting MEGA FLICKS and FREAKY FOTOS 
November the 13th II 6pm -Midnight Lafortune Ballroom The event is FREE! 
brought to you by the student union board. nd.edu/-sub 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

-
Kristen Kinder earns 
Big East weekly honor 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame senior co-cap­tain Kristen Kinder was named the Big East Player of the Week Monday after leading the Irish to a pair of victories last weekend over the only tw6 teams to have "defeated Notre Dame in conference play in the 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selecti;?• 

~ 
{!om OUTPOST 
Campus s or s 

Cold Weather Experts 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 

last five years. Kinder set the Irish to a .305 attack percent­age, while averaging 14.00 assists per game: 
Kinder had a career-high 68 assists on Friday in a 3-2 vic­tory over Virginia Tech. It was the most for an Irish player since Denise Boylan had 86 on Oct. 12, 2000. Kinder added seven kills and helped Notre Dame to a .291 hitting per­centage. 
On Sunday, the Irish setter had 44 assists, orchestrating an attack that hit .326 in defeating Miami in three games. Kinder also registered six assists on .455 hitting and helped Notre Dame to 58 kills 
(19.33 per game). 
Over the weekend, the Irish averaged 17.63 kills and 16.25 assists per game. 
It was the second such honor of Kinder's career. She also copped the distinction on Nov. 12, 2001. 
In 11 weeks this season, Irish players have earned at least ~ share of the honor seven times, while being idle once. 
Miami setter Jill Robinson 

was  named  the  Big  East  
Rookie  of  the  Week  on  
Monday, as well.  

THEOLOGY 
ON

TAP RETURNS
.. ,, '·.::r;:·.· 

9:30-1 1:30PM FREE DRINKS LEGENDS CASH BAR 
-
FREE FOOD GOOD TIMES 
.... 
...... . 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY CAMPUS MINISTRY 
.. 

! 
f 
=p=ag=e=2=2===========================================T,=n=e=O=b=se=rv=e=r=+==S=P~()=R~T~S===========================~=e~d~n~e~sd~a~~~N=o~v~e~m~b~er~l2~,~2~0~0~3 
I 
I 
-
Frosh 
continued from page 24 
upcoming NCAA Tournament. 
Buczkowski, Krivacek, and Lorenzen all have played major minutes this season for the Irish, with Buczkowski and Lorenzen drawing starting assignments in most of the team's games. All three players credit some of their transition to have known each other before coming to Notre Dame. 
"The fact that you have other people that you are so close with, it just helps going in," said Buczkowski. "At Notre Dame you don't go in and know a lot so to experience it with people that you are already close with makes a big differ­ence." 
"Plus on the field, generally I pretty much know where Jen and Jill are going to play," Lorenzen added. "So that defi­nitely helps me." 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum agreed that the three players mesh well together and have assisted each other's progres­sion this season. 
"I think they feed off of each other," said Waldrum. "Their confid~;Jnce coming in and their fitness level were good so they were physically prepared to play. I think it's a lot easier to come in and play when you've got a couple around you that you have a comfort level with as opposed to being completely new to a team. With Jen and Jill playing in the middle and then Kimmy in the back they're very familiar with the team and that's been a big plus." 
Buczkowski made an immedi­ate impact for the Irish, scoring two goals and three assists in the Notre Dame Classic against Arizona State and Oklahoma.
-
Her performance was good enough to earn. her the Offensive MVP award, and she also was named to the Big East All-).lookie Team along with teammate Christie Shaner. Lorenzen has played a huge role in the Irish defense, having started 18 of the team's 22 games. She often has been teamed with Shaner and veter­ans Vanessa Pruzinsky and Melissa Tancredi in a defense that has been ranked among the nation's leaders in goals­

vide a major spark in the mid­field off the bench for the Irish. In just her second game with the Irish, Krivacek scored the game-winning goal against · Wake Forest, in addition to adding three more assists over the course of the season. One of those assists sparked Amy Warner for the eventual game­winner against Seton Hall. 
One of the transitions the three freshmen had to get used was their new roles with the Irish. As with all of the fresh­men that come in, they starred on their teams in high school and have had to get used to system at Notre Dame. 
"Our roles on this team are definitely different from the roles we played on our club team," said Lorenzen. 
"It's a different team. but it's still soccer," said Buczkowski. 
The three freshmen also credit their classmates and the team veterans for helping them become adjusted to Notre Dame soccer. 
"We have a lot of different personalities as a group," said Buczkowski. "That makes it a lot easier to bond together." 
"We're two of the quieter ones," said Lorenzen of herself and Buczkowski. "But every­thing I keep hearing from the upperclassmen is how the per­sonalities of the freshmen have made such a big impact." 
"There are lots of different personalities in the freshman class," said Krivacek. "But it's nice because you get a little bit of everything." 
While many different factors have played a role in this year's Irish resurgence, but Waldrum believes the freshmen have played a vital role in this year's improvement on a 13-8 record last year, especially considering the injuries that have been sus­tained by the team's veteran players. 
"I think it would have been almost just like last year [with­out the freshmen]." said Waldrum. "When you look at our team, to lose Candace Chapman for the year, and Randi Scheller, we'd have been in the same boat if those play­ers had not been ready to step in and play. It was a huge loss, and we certainly miss those players, but we've been able to get through in huge part because of the freshman class." 

Despite BYU's tendency to and Daniel Coats both have rely on the pass, Willingham over 30 catches as well.
BYU 

said his defense needs to stop The Cougars offense has continued from page 24 the run first in struggled to 
order to con­break out in two quarterbacks this season, tain the "We've got to do an games this sea­with Matt Berry and John Courgars' son. Besides
almost complete 
beck both seeing significant passing game. scoring 44 points playing time this season. In "Defensively, turnaround." against San its last game a 50-12 loss to even though Diego State Oct. Boise State on Oct. 30, the this team is a 4, they haven't
Tyrone Willingham 
Cougars used a third quarter­passing team. had more than
Irish coach 
back Jackson Brown as well. 
BYU hasn't been shut out in 360 straight games and aver­age 18.2 points per game this season. The Cougars do not use the run nearly as much as the pass and are gaining only 

and we antici­pate a great deal of pass. we have got to limit their abil­ity to run the football, force them to be one-dimensional, and then hope that with the 
102 rushing yards a game. In contrast to 
Navy, the "We have got to limit 
Midshipmen their ability to run ran for over 
the football." 
300 yards a game heading into last Tyrone Willingham 
week. Irish coach The Irish defense did a 

normal law of averages that they will throw enough incom­pletions that we'll contest enough that they have incomple­tions and pick a couple also in between," Willingham said. 
nice job against Navy last w Receiver Toby Christian eek, holding the Midshipmen leads the Cougars with 48 to 238 yards rushing, which catches for 497 yards and was 70 less than its average. four touchdowns. Chris Hale 28 points in any 
other game. 

Willingham believes the pass-oriented Cougar offense gives Notre Dame's defense opportunities to try different formations ­something the unit couldn't do against Navy last weekend. 
"We've got to do an almost complete turnaround," Willingham said. "That's good in a sense because there are things in pass coverage that you can cheat with, but with the option you can't cheat. You have to have everything covered because if you don't you're in big trouble." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

against average throughout the season. Contact Andy Troeger at Krivacek has come on to pro-atroeger@nd.edu 
-------~~--­
Wednesday, November 12, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
DH qOSH! WHAT'S I'M SICIC..C5"iffl~) .. &UT:I Flqt12E If 1 csr~iff) PO WI'TH YOU? VOl/ PAPEfS, READ0!-1tld)AI"I&\D,q0 1U1t>~, HA"'E IT 1D UlOIC AwfUL.! llfE (SI'JEEtet)'iYH, LDSE ~ lb$., Po HY CHAISTHAS 
SHOf'PJNGf, PO ~NDE.Y (w~eeze.),ANV cu:AIJ H'( 
~OOH :t'U. 13& A&I.E TO (c~u9h) SL.E.EP IN ON THE 
S~TURPI\'f (sno~tr) OF 'OiANkSqi\IIN(f 5Rel\tt.··· 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI

fiVES 
f'IM1 Se>Vth ~nd we~u-,ge-ts wors~ ~ve.ry ye.(l!'. Ye.a~. 


page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 

to form four ordinary words. 
In six months I'll be In the big time 

ORPYX 
r-I ., 
riJ I I 
C2003 Ttibune Medle Services, Inc. All Righla Reserved. 
OMBOL 
1 

rJ t J
tJORNAG 
DeVELOPED BY THE 
GIFTED MINOR. 
LEAGUe PLAYER.
IJ I 
www.jurrble.com 

SUMOFA j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

rJ r rJ 
P=: 

"[ I I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

FILMY MANGY PROFIT QUAVER
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: What she kept in her makeup case-"VANITY" FARE 

CROSSWORD 
66 New Mexico skiing locale 
67 Book after Joel 
DOWN 1 "'Tis a pity" 2 S.A.T. part 3 Sandwich bread 4 Tote, slangily 5 "Dear old" guy 6 How to see 
"L.A. Law" 7 Livestock feeds 8 Knockoffs 9_mater 
(brain cover) 10 O.K. 11 "Viva Zapata!" 
star, 1952 12 Becomes 
established 15 ·-bad!" 18 Start of a 
counting-out rhyme 19 G-rated 24 Rich cakes, in Germany 

ACROSS 1 Intensifies, with 
"up" 5 Record 9 Sots' spots 
13 Of the flock 14 Composer _ 
von Webern 16 About 17 Without delay 20 Oil source 21 ·on This Night 
of a Thousand Stars" musical 22 Young_ 
23 It follows a starter 25 Tuesday, in Tours 21 "Be patient!" 31 Riviera season 32 Caregivers, for short 33 Resembling 
34 Agrees to 
37 'Who has an 
answer?" 41 Digital feature 42 Put on 43 Misery 44ln charge 50 Colonial John 51 They may be 
red 52 Runny nose cause 53 Relating to tissue 56 Trip planner's aid 59 Stepped in for 
another 62 Mother of Apollo 63_ voce 
(softly) 
64 Gas station adjunct 65 Old station 
name 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Stallion, for one 27 Mauna_ 28 List abbr. 29 Common 
Market letters 30 Lett-_ (southpaw) 
36 Grosse _, Mich. 37 Follow 
WILLSHORTZ 

57 Prefix with
39 "i" lid 47 Dumb ox 
gramme 40 Approval 
48 Fund-raising 
58 Fast ones, for 
grps.
42 Turner city 
short 44 Aren't decisive 49 Bronchodilator's target 
60 Card game with 45 Prestigious forfeits magazine 54 Wynn and awards others 61 "Help!" 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Booker T. Jones, Nadia Comaneci, Tonya Harding, Brian Hyland, Neil Young 
Happy Birthday: Stop living in the past and move into the fast lane. lhere is no time to waste if you want to reach your goals. Timing will be crucial this year, so don't ponder over what could have been. It's imponant to do your thing and ignore any negative criticism that comes your way. You must believe in yourself and your abilities. Your numbers: 8, 13, 18, 20, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Expect to have problems with your mate if you've been too busy doing your own thing. Financial frustrations will result if you haven't budgeted suitably. You may be wise to get a part-time job. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may want to get some rest. This is a busy time of the year, and you're ove!Worked, overstressed and completely ready for 
' 
a break. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't go crazy when it comes to entertainment, or you'll be in the poorhouse after all is said and done. Get involved in worthwhile endeavors that demand your time, not your money. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone you live wilh will be impossible to get along with. Don't force your opinions on him or her if you wish to avoid d(scord and estrangement. Go out with friends if it will help the situation. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Creative endeavors or doing things with children will relax you. Get together with friends, but try not to overspend. You are already over budget for the festive season. • •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't count your chickens before they hatch. You will be offered tempting but dubious money schemes. Don't take chances just because someone you like is involved. ••**• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look to close friends or relatives to give-you the support you need. Your home environment and emotional relationships appear to be deceptive, causing difficulties for you. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful not to lead someone on and don't be evasive in your communications. You're likely to have your words twisted if you aren't careful. ••• • SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec, 21): The work you do at fund-raising events will make you popular. Don't let it go to your head, but do use the connections you make in orderto get ahead.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Minor accidents will occur if you are preoccupied. Do not take unnecessary chances when using equipment or driving. You might say something you'll regret later. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should be looking at travel options. If you can get away, do so. You need a break in order to rejuvenate and son out your thoughts about your future goals. A change will spark some ideas. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can help others by taking care of their personal papers and offering advice regarding money-making investments. Your kindness will be appreciated and rewarded. **• • . 
Birthday Baby: You are intuitive, intellectual and independent. You will look, see and do right from day one. Your inquisitive mind will lead you into all sorts of interesting adventures throughout your life. You will be confident, caring and well-liked. 
Need advice? Try Euge11ia '.1· Web site at www.euge11ia/ast.rom 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS

Wednesday, November 12, 2003 
Page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Blocked and snapped 
No. 14 Panthers end 14-game Irish winning streak 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Familiar frosh spark, Irish 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Throughout their high school careers, Jen Buczkowski, Jill Krivacek and Kim Lorenzen played together on the Illinois Olympic Development Program team and for the FC Chicago Sockers club team, winning both the ODP National Championship in 2003 with the ODP team and the 2001 Presidents Cup with the Sackers. 
Now that the three Chicago area players have come to Notre Dame, they are still excelling by helping the women's soccer team roll up a 19-2-1 record heading into the 
see FROSH/page 22 



FOOTBALL 

Defense must shift gears for Cougars 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
They were beaten at their own game. 
The Irish, who lead the NCAA in blocking, were outdueled at the net Tuesday night as No. 14 Northern Iowa registered 15 blocks to the Irish's 12.5 -most of which came in the last two games. 
As a result, the No. 12 Irish found themselves leaving Cedar Falls, Iowa with a 3-1 (30-23, 30-28, 26­30, 30-26) loss, which snapped one streak and extended another. 
For the Irish (21-3). they saw a 14-game winning streak snapped. Meanwhile the Pan-thers (22-4) added to their consecutive home wins, with their 69th straight victo­ry at home. This streak is the sec­ond longest in NCAA history. 
From the beginning, it was a good match up, as both teams excelled in blocking -the Irish leading the nation and the Panthers third. However, Northern Iowa was able to put the ball away when it counted, and that made the difference in a match of similar teams. 
Notre Dame managed to hit .185 on the match, well below their sea­son average. But the Irish got off to a good start in each of the four games, leading by at least five points to start each game. They could not sustain the effort, as the Panthers managed to crawl back in each game except the third, which the Irish won 30-26. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lauren Brewster led the Irish, as she just missed a double-double. Brewster finished with 14 kills on .385 hitting, taking charge at the net. She also had nine blocks. Junior Emily Loomis and sopho­more Lauren Kelbley added 13 and 11 kills apiece, respectively. 
Senior setter Kristen Kinder had 49 assists on the match. Kinder was named Big East Player of the Week last week. 
Defensively, libero Meg Henican had 17 kills to lead the way once again for Notre Dame. 
However, Northern Iowa played very well according to senior setter Jill Arganbright. 
"We played some of our best vol­leyball this season tonight," Arganbright said. 
The loss leaves the Irish in a tough spot going into the NCAA Tournament, which starts Dec. 4. Because the Irish only play one more ranked team (Stanford, Nov. 29), they must win the rest of their regular season matches to better their chances of getting a top seed. 
Two more matches remain besides Stanford, and both are this weekend. Saturday, the Irish face West Virginia, and Sunday they will see Pittsburgh to wrap up the Big East regular season. 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
If Navy was the apples, then BYU is the oranges. 
A week after facing the Midshipmen's triple option attack that led the country in rushing, Notre Dame's defense must change gears -and quickly -to prepare for the high flying passing game of the Cougars. 
"For this week, we have to make a 180-degree turn," Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We go from facing the option to facing a team that is going to throw the football proba­bly more than we might have seen it thrown this year. They are going to give us a variety of formations, of personnel groupings, and it going to be a difficult task just to identify most of that and then play it in the prop­er manner." 
BYU likes the to throw the ball -a lot. The Cougars average 40.5 pass attempts per game and are ranked in the top 30 in the nation for passing yards. BYU has used 
see BYU/page 22 
en 
MtB 
COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
NFL 

COI.I.EGE FOOTBALL 
NBA 
Ll.l 
u Drug testing survey 
Three Miami players 
Browns release 

Ohio State wants a 
Rockets 90
z 
suspended 
Kevin Johnson 

chance to defend 
Heat 70 
Depending on the results 
its title 

t: ::5 
of the most recent drug 
Hurricanes tight end 
Cleveland let go its 

Jeff Van Gundy defeated his 
tests, commissioner Bud 
Kellen Winslow and two 
former No. 1 receiver 

The Buckeyes control 
brother Stan Tuesday night. 
Selig could institute random 
other players are suspended 
Tuesday. 

their own destiny as the 
== drug testing. 
for the Syracuse game. 

season winds down. 
12-t::c 
en 
page 19 
page 16 

page 14
page 18 

page 15 
-


