
VOL XXXVII NO. 118 
Marine to undergo surgery 
• ND alum injured in Humvee accident in Iraq 
By HELENA PAYNE Senior StaffWrit~r 
The wifo of Marine gradu­ate, Dustin Ferrell, said he will undr.rgo further surgery today al'Lcr he was injured Saturday in a llumvce accident involv­
ing three others on  duty for  
the war in Iraq.  
Hachacl  Ferrell,  a  1998  

Saint Mary's graduate, said she has only been able to com­municate with her husband on the phone by having him respond to "yes" or "no" ques­tions by tapping on the phone. 
Ferrell, a 2000 graduate of Notre Dame. was flown Monday night to Germany's Landstuhl Hcgional Medical Center. approximately a 10 hour flight from the Kuwaiti armed forces hospital where he was brought shortly after the accident, Hachael Ferrell said. 
see MARINE/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 

Students support in-hall dances 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS News Writer 
At their last meeting of the 2003-04 term, Senate passed a letter and resolu­tion regarding the ban on in-hall dances that was implemented this fall. 
The letter, addressed to the Campus Life Cuundl, asks that the ban on in­hall dances be reexamined for a probationary period. 
The letter states that the Senate "applauds. the administration's concern behind the !ban on hard alcohol)." and believes the policy "will help to improve unhealthy con­sumption habits," but that "banning of in-hall dances ... should not have been necessary until all options had been explored." 
Senators believe officials should have observed the effects of the hard-alcohol ban before taking away the in-hall dances, the Jet­ter said. 
Senators were con­cerned about the effects of the ban on campus tradi­
see SENATE/page 6 

Nader discusses corporate ethics 
ByJULIA MILLER-LEMON 
N<"WsWriter 
Americans must question cor­porate practices and take action when they believe corporations arc behaving unethically, Ralph Nader, consumer advocate and former 2000 Green Party presi­dc n ti al candidate, said at Wednesday's lecture titled "I.egislating Corporate Ethics." 
"If you want to make sure that these companies behave, you have to empower the owners and the victims," Nader said. "It's the lack of power of the people who pay the final price that is the root of the fraudu­lence that occurred." 
Nader said Lhal corporate ethics can be synonymous with corporate crime, and that major corporations arc responsible for more deaths and disease each year than strnct crimes. 
Since 2001, Nader said there have been 58,000 deaths due to work-related accidents, 65,000 deaths due to air pollution caused by major industrial cor­porations, 85,000 fatalities as a result of' medical malpractice and 42,000 deaths of highway workers according to the Department of Transportation. 
On the other hand, street crimes punishable by law are only responsible for an estimat­ed 14.000 deaths each year. Nader said he believes that cor-

Ralph Nader spoke at the JACC on Wednesday about business 
ethics and corporate culture. 
porate crime is re.ally a source of violence not recognized by the law. 
Nader argued that corporate ethics must encompass a vast spectrum of values, including honest internal auditing and a fair treatment of employees. 
The heightened levels ofgreed and corruption in the business world today make the need for a new type of corporate ethics all the more necessary, Nader explained. 
"No one thought this kind of corruption would happen," Nader said, specifically referring to the corruption evident in the 


see NADER/page 4 

Review unlikely to return to SouthQuad 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
News Writer 
After Student Senate passed a resolution March 19 calling for the return of the ROTC Presidential Pass in Review to South Quad, a University spokesman said the school is unlikely to take action on the Senate resolution. 
Matt Storin, a spokesperson for the University, said the Campus Life Council must approve a Senate resolution before the administration can act on it. Because Student Body Vice President Trip Foley submitted the resolu­tion directly to University President Father Edward Malloy and bypassed CLC, the resolution will probably not be acted upon. 
The ceremony honoring cadets, which includes speeches from University President Father Edward Malloy and University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, was moved to Loftus from South Quad several years ago as a result of inclement weather. 
Foley sent the ROTC resolu­tion to University President Father Edward Malloy along with a letter explaining the Senate's actions on the reso­lution as well as their opinion on the matter. 
"I sent it to him because I think in this situation, he's the person to go to," said Foley, who chairs Senate. "He's the one who decides about the Pass in Review." 
Foley said once the Senate passes a resolution, it is sent to the appropriate part of the administration for review and debate. 
The University does not take any action or react to resolutions passed solely by the Senate, said Storin, but may review those resolutions as it receives them. 
However, Storin also said that the ROTC department has already begun planning this year's ceremony, which could possibly make a loca­tion change for this year diffi­cult. 
"It is our understanding that the ROTC command has already made its plans to have the ceremony indoors and they're not contemplating any change in those plans," Storin said. 
Colonel David Mosinski, chair of the Department of Military Science. said the Review would benefit from a more public outdoor setting. 
Thursday, March 27, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Think before you protest 
Aft.er hours ofcoverage ofthe war in Iraq. South Bend's CBS affiliate cut away to show a conflict ofa different sort ­the one at home. created by those who oppose the war. In Chicago, anti-war prote,5tcrs clashed 
with those who  Kristin Yemm  
support of U.S.  
involvement in the war. In Oregon, a raucous group  Viewpoint Hditor  
burned an  

American flag. In San Francisco, protest­ers staged a "vomit-in," regurgitating 
red-dyed milk on the steps ofCity Hall to show their disgust with the war. 
Americans who choose to protest the war in these and other ways undeniably have the right to do so. Our First Amendment right to assemble and express an opinion represents the bedrock ofour liberty and sets us apart from people in countries like Iraq ­where every move and word are watched and grounds for exile, torture or execu­tion. 
So when I saw the television coverage and read the newspaper reports ofthe thousands of protesters with slogans like "No Blood For Oil," ''The Inspections Were Working" and "Regime Change in America" and professions ofconcern for the Iraqi people, I didn't question their right to protest. I do, however, question their judgment in doing so. 
By breaking the law-over 1,500 were arrested in San Francisco -they divert police attention and cities' anti-terrorism resources. They fail to support the thou­sands ofAmericans overseas who are prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect America and secure freedom for the Iraqi people. 
But most of all, they are opposing the removal of a vicious dictator whose crimes against his people should make any civilized person recoil in horror. One institutionalized method of torture involves placing human beings feet first into an industrial machine meant to shred plastic. Another method of torture that particularly delights Saddam is putting people in swimming pools filled with acid and watching them melt. 
Saddam, not the U.S. campaign to remove him, deserves a "vomit-in." Saddam, not President Bush, poses the greatest threat to the Iraqi people. Many of the protesters claim to oppose the war out ofconcern for them, but they should first consider the testimony of people like Ajarni Saadoun Khis ofSafwan, who had this message for the soliliers who came to his city in southern Iraq: "You just arrived. You're late. What took you so long? God help you become victorious." 
Iraqi dissident Kanan Makiya writes that despite worry for friends and family in Iraq, "IThe bombs] are like bells tolling for liberation in a country that has been turned into a gigantic concentration camp ... For Iraqis, the absence of this new American-led war is not the pres­ence of peace." 
The war underway in Iraq will bring freedom and human rights to the Iraqi people, neither of which they have a hope of possessing while Saddam remains in power. Opposing this war to remove him condemns the Iraqi people to continued misery under his tyranny and is a wasted exercise of a cherished American right. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those Of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Kristin Yemm at kyemm@nd.edu 
_CORRECTIONS 
/ 
In Mark Leen's len:er co the editor published Wednesday a quote attributed to Meghan O'Donnell should have been attributed ro Seth O'Donnell. In Wednesday's story "Mar.ine graduate injured in Iraq war," the name ofDusrin Ferrell's wife was mis­spelled, The correct spelling is Rachael Ferrell. The Observer regrets this error.. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Lecturers speak about stereotypes 
Amy Richards and Jennifer Baumgardner dis­cuss conventional stereotypes at Saint Mary's Wednesday. 
page 4 
WORLD& NATION 
Iraqi citizens welcome relief convoy 
Iraqis cheered the arrival of a food convoy that had been delayed for days by a sand­storm, mines and fighting in south­ern Irag. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Student opens new online business 
A new website, RiddleMeirish.com, allows students to compete online for prizes and a book­
store  shopping  
spree.  
page 7  

SCENE 
Movies score well with reviewers 
Scene gives a thumbs up to "Tears of the Sun" and "Piglet's Big Movie.". 


page 14 

. 
A Life of Scrvicn: Lecture wilh Francie Schmuhl 4 p.m. at D<'Bartolo 118 

. 
Movie: Bread and Tulips 7 p.m. at JI,•sburgh Library, Carey !\uditorium 

. 
"I Exist:Voiccs from the Gay Lesbian and Gay Middle Eastern Community in the United States" 7 p.m. at Montgomery Theatre. LaFortune llall 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Play of the Mind Meeting 
3:30 p.m. at Haggar College Center Hoom 303 
. 
Sophomore 80's Night 7 p.m. at Haggar Parlor 

. 
Student Academic Awards Night 7 p.m. at Stapleton Lounge 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Breaded cheese sticks, marinara sauce, meatball stroganoff sauce, supreme pizza, breadsticks, smoked creole flank steak roasted poupon potatoes brown sauce chicken gravy whipped potatoes corn, apple cobbler, pasta primavera, swiss spinach bake, oriental vegetables, baked potatoes, cream of wheat 
Today's Dinner: Pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, brown sauce, pork gravy, whipped potatoes, peas, apple cobbler, baked haddock jar­diniere, corn, steamed carrots, steamed broccoli, mixed vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, steakhouse fries 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
LI.I 
s :x ~ 
..., 
ct 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 55 HIGH 53
...I LOW 50 LOW 50 
South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Promote pacifism not confrontation 
ROTC senior and Viewpoint colum­nist Andrew DeBerrv discusses the potential of pacifism for American culture. 




page 12 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Today's Lunch: pasta shells primav­era, gorgonzola sauce, cheese and pep­peroni french bread pizza, London broil with wine marinade, turkey turnover, cheddar-crumbed scrod, col­lard greens with ham hocks, shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, whipped 
potatoes, cut corn, sliced carrots, broc­coli cuts 
Today's Dinner: Roast top sirloin of beef, fresh grilled Polish sausage, southern-fried chicken, Polish-style kluski noodles, boiled cabbage, rotini with spring vegetables, whipped pota­toes, cut corn, baked potatoes, broccoli cuts, collard greens with ham hocks 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
.~.<>./.$4
, 

HIGH 58 HIGH 38 LOW 35 LOW 25 
SPORTS 
ND softball loses to Northwestern 
The Notre Dam softball team lost both games of a doubleheader to the Wildcats Wednesday. 


page 28 

Car towed for illegal parking 
A visitor's vehicle was towed for a parking violation Tuesday afternoon from Moose Krause Circle. 
Car hit near Stepan Center 
A university employee reported Tuesday that her car was struck March 20 or 21 in lot B16 by an unknown vehicle. 

Student taken to Health Center 
NDSP transported a student to the University Health Center Tuesday for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall near the Information Technology Center. 
Juveniles removed from bus 
NDSP assisted a Transpo bus driver in removing unruly juveniles from the bus Tuesday afternoon. They were identified and released to a parent. 
Student sustains injury near Rock 
A student was transported to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury sustained near the Rockne Memorial Tuesday night. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu avallable 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
{) 


HIGH 38 HIGH 43 LOW 28 LOW 30 
Atlanta 67 / 55 Boston 53 / 38 Chicago 56 / 46 Denver 40 / 22 Houston 80 / 59 Los Angeles 72 / 54 Minneapolis 44 I 32 New York 55 / 41 Philadelphia 57 / 39 Phoenix 81 / 51 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 72 / 53 Tampa 82 / 67 Washington 60 I 44 


-.---------------------~­
Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Developtnent office to undergo transition period 
awaits the formal announce­transition period as positions
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
ment of the University's next are reshuffled and created.
News Editor 
strategic plan and the subse­Lou Nanni, vice president for quent development of a capital University relations, said pro­As the development office campaign, it will undergo a motions were made and a new 





NDe~Corner 


Bead JeweI 
Frida~ 
March C8, C003 
9 pm -11pm 
in the 
Doole8 Room 
ponsored bt1 Student Activities Office 


TELL IT 
LIKE IT IS!! 
Saturday March 29, 2003 Stepan Ce11ter Doors open at 7:30 pm Show Starts at 8:00 pm $6Jor ND students $7for non students 
**Food will be served** 
position was created in order to increase development funding and the number of contribu­tions. 
"(These changes] would make 
the University even better," 
Nanni said. 
Dan Reagan, assistant vice president for University rela­
l

tions and executive director of development for Notre Dame, received a promotion earlier this year to the newly ci·eated position of associate vice presi­
dent for University relations and executive director for principal gifts and campaign administra­tion. 
Nanni said the position was created ,because many of N o t r e Dame's peer ,institutions
lh . 
, ave eqmva­
/!ent positions. He added that the move was not connected to the downturn in the economy or the decreased University endowment. 
Nanni said the University needed to be more strategic in looking for major gifts, which are considered those that are above $5 million. Reagan will focus on and cultivate a group of prospective major gifts donors for the University's next capital campaign. 
Reagan, who has been part of the development staff since 1984, worked extensively on the Generations capital cam­paign, which raised approxi­mately $1 billion dollars. Nanni said he expects the next cam­1paign will be established fol­fowing University President Father Edward Malloy's May report to the Board of Trustees . tiiti.cd "Notre Dame 2010: A rQ\JP.6~ for Leadership," which ·:"','<l1iflrns campus wide strategic 
1

"Dan has been a senior Nanni said. "He embraces the
administrator in 
ideals of Notre

developemental 
Dame and is operations and an respected by his peers inside and
instrumental leader in 
outside of the

the largest campaign 
University. He ever in Catholic garnered great respect from
education. " 
alumni.'' Two assistant 

Lou Nanni 
vice presidents vice president for University will fill the posi­relations 
tion that 

planning. 
Nanni said some of this plan­ning would have to be assessed for feasibility given the war and the current economic situation. Reagan would play a critical role in the interpretation of this assessment and the develop­ment, operation and execution of this plan, said Nanni. 
"Dan has been a senior administrator in developmental operations and an instrumental leader in the largest campaign "" ever in Catholic education," 
Reagan will 

vacate this sum­mer. Timothy Rippinger, direc­tor of development operations, will be in charge of leadership or six-figure gifts, regional development, estate gifts, the research office and steward­ship. 
"Tim is the consummate pro­fession al and represents, so very well. the values of Notre Dame," Nanni said in a press release. "We fell fortunate to have someone of Tim's caliber with the specific fund-raising experience he possesses. From regional development to the management and orchestration of a large staff, Tim is a perfect fit to lead this critically impor­tant area of the University." 
The development office is searching for someone to fill the other assistant vice president position, which would be in charge of national programs. 
Cdntact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@ndedu 


Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, 0.S,F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 
.~  3r. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819  
.  Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, I -7163  
,>  John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336  
;,.,  Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286  

South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


page4 The Obseroer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 27, 2003 
Students concerned about study abroad 
By MARY BETH BROVIAK 
News Writer 
With the out break of war in the Iraq and the occur­rence of sometimes-violent protests in European coun­tries, Saint Mary's students currently overseas and those 

University in Maynooth, Ireland, said program direc­tor Peggy McCarthy went 
over Saint Mary's guidelines issued by the security office and advised students to con­tact her immediately should a conflict arise. 
Samuelson said she and other Americans were 
considering studying abroad.,, warned by the American 
face concerns about their safety. 
Along with individual American embassies in for­eign countries, the State Department issued guidelines for Americans abroad, and Saint Mary's abroad pro­grams follow these guidelines depending on the danger in each particular country. 
"The policy at Saint Mary's is the policy of the State Department," said Renee King, a French professor and director of the College's Dijon, France program. 
King said she believes Saint Mary's students abroad in France are safe. Should con­cerns arise, Cultural Experiences Abroad -the organization that facilitates the College's Dijon program -has its own policies for dealing with dangers to stu­dents and evacuations if they become necessary. 
Sophomore Haley Samuelson, currently study­ing abroad at the National 




Review 
continued from page 1 
"[The ceremony] is a show of our organization, its discipline and its members. It's for the whole community and an out­door setting would always be better, I believe, for the wh~le community," he said. "When the military conducts Pass in Reviews, they are traditionally outdoors." 
ROTC officials and cadets praise the ceremony as a way for the program to be publicly recognized and for the cadets to be honored. During the cer­emony, senior ROTC members 

embassy not to attend last month's anti-war protests because of concerns a~out the events turning agarnst Americans, but she decided to attend anyway. 
"We went and people seemed really happy that we were there," Samuelson said. 
Additionally, studen ts scheduled to study abroa_d next semester face the dec1­sion of whether to travel overseas because of concerns over safety. 
Freshman Carrie Brisson, who is considering studying in Rome next year, said her decision would not be affect­ed by the situation in Iraq. 
"War doesn't affect my thoughts on going abroad. although it may affect my mother's," she said. "You just have to go on with your life [and) not let those things affect you." 
Contact Mary Beth Broviak at brov9962@saintmarys.edu 
receive awards and the cadets march past Malloy in a cere­monial inspection. 
However, campus peace organizations have protested the ceremony in the past cou­ple of years because they oppose a public military pres­ence on a Catholic campus. 
"I do not think that ROTC should be on Notre Dame's campus," said Tom Feeney, a representative of Pax Christi, a Catholic student group. 
However, Feeney added that ROTC should be acknowledged as long as it is on campus. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynld@nd.edu 

Cfhe <unwerail~ ()f J\Clre <Dame Cli.orale ~ Ow.m~er (),.dtEaha 
jl{exnn.ler ~JJ~. diNdtt 
Wednesday, April 2, 2003 
8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public Call (574) 631-6201 for information 

Lecturers discuss w-on1en' s issues 
By EMILY BRAMMER 
News Writer 

Women today should question traditional stereotypes about women's issues when taking positions on such topics as the abortion issue, said lecturers Amy Richards and Jennifer Baumgardner Wednesday. 
Richards and Jennifer. co­authors of "Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism, and the Future," discussed the Third Wave, a new generation of femi­nism, in their talk titled "Can I Be a Feminist and ... Shave, Love My Boyfriend, Make Money, Get Married, Be Pro-Life?" 
Richards and Baumgardner explained the context in which their ideas of feminism were formed. Both women grew up witnessing their mothers prac­tice the ideas of the Second Wave feminism in the frame­work of their everyday life. 
"We've had the privilege of growing up with our mother's ideas of feminism in the '70s, but we're trying to define what it means for us now," said Richards. _ Their talk concentrated on the 

Nader 
continued from pagel 
Enron scandal. 

Nader also discussed the cur­rent economic state of our country. Though the economy was growing at an unprece­dented rate, Nader was con­cerned about the high numbers of lower class citizens. 
"Why are there poor peo­ple?," said Na.der. "Why are 25 percent of children raised in poverty? Why are public ser­vices crumbling before our predominant uncertainties that many contemporary women have in justifying feminism with their personal beliefs. 
"I constantly hear women ask, 'Can I be pro-life and be a femi­nist?' or 'Can I support a certain piece of legislation and still be a feminist?"' said Baumgardner. "Basically what these women were asking is 'Can I be myself and be a feminist?'" 
Richards and Baumgardner explained that personal deci­sion-making in life should not be dependent on the predominant feminist ideas concerning men, the pro-life issue and religion. They also said that many stereo­types do not reflect the true fem­inist movement. 
"We needed men to help advance the feminist movement in the '70s, but the current incarnation of the 'man ques­tion' is that we need men to be feminists for their own sake," said Richards. 
The speakers also emphasized the importance of diverse per­sonal opinions among feminists. 
"We find that some people are agreeing on certain issues, while 
some people have wildly differ­ent opinions and that's great," 
eyes?" 

According to Nader, Americans do not ask for the answers to such important questions because they are con­ditioned by the corporate busi­ness culture 
Nader challenged college stu­dents to respond differently to that corporate culture. 
"You are not here just to learn a trade. You're hear for the liberal arts... to develop crit­ical minds [and] to develop minds that reach the heights of human possibility," Nader said. 
said Baumgardner. 

Saint Mary's senior Anne DeCleene decided to try bringing Richards and Baumgardner to campus after reading the authors' book. 
"Education on women's issues is Jacking in every realm: in grade school, high school. col­lege and in the Michiana com• munity as a whole," said DeCleene. "I wanted to take the empowerment of Manifesta ­the enthusiasm and the enlight­enment and share it with other men and women." 
Both men and women from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and the South Bend area attended the lecture, which was part of Saint Mary's Third Wave Feminism Symposium. 
"I like the idea of the Third Wave of feminism because it specifically gives the people who are maturing and coming into influential roles, the people who are having a voice to be heard, hope and a new spark of energy, rather than just a continuance of previous movements," said Saint Mary's junior Zoe Zelazny. 
Contact Emily Brammer at bram350l@saintmarys.edu 
Nader discussed was pre­ventability. 
"Being effective citizens is fundamental for a just democ­racy," Nader said. 
Citizen impact on the accountability and integrity of corporations needs to be rede­fined, said Nader. 
"[There is]a moral imperative for students like you who are in the top 2 percent of students nation-wide to do something. You are the peak of your ideal­ism," said Nader. 
A key component of the policy Contact Julia Miller Lemon at of social accountability that jmiller l@nd.edu 
¦ ¦-•• -¦¦ -··-·¦-. ¦ -•• -··-.·-··-• ¦ -:
,-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-! 
: . 
I
.
. 
I 
.
. 

I Out and Back: Hovv Notre Dame Prepared Me for the '' Rea I ,, World 
Mark Massoud 
Notre Dame BA '99 MA '00 
Founding member of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs: 1996-1999 
Welsh Family Hall Lounge 
4:45 p.m. 

h 27th
Thursday, Marc 

Tttt" ~"T-Afrlllr'llN<'=o
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
C.:.nll"'41TT~IC" n" 
GAY AND Lll!SBIAN STUIJl!!!tNIT Nll!l!DS 
...... --•• -¦• -·.-•• -• ¦ -•• -¦ ¦ -··-•• 
-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·· 






WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Needy Iraqis cheer arrival of delayed relief convoy 
Associated Pres, 
UMM QA.'·lll 

The first sizable relief convoy rolled into Iraq on Wednesday bringing water, Luna. crackers and other food to Iraqis, some of whom cheorcd as they swarmed allied troops handing out sup­plies. "Eat. cat'" shouted an Iraqi boy of about 10. pointing to his mouth as the trucks lumbered past. 
Thu relief effort had been dclayNJ 1hr days by a sandstorm, mined waterways and fierce righting across southern Iraq. Thrnc days aftnr !'resident Bush promised "massive amounts" of humanitarian aid, seven battered Lnu:tor-Lrailcrs entered Umm (11L~r. escorted by U.S. soldiers. 
They carried hundreds of cases of watnr stacked on three of the semis. as well as boxes of tuna. crackers, sweets and other food. 
"We planned for 30 trucks but we only got seven loaded because of the severe sandstorm," said ILi. Bussdl of the Humanitarian Op,~rations Center, a joint U.S.­Kuwaiti agency. The storm cut visibility to 100 yards. 
Iraqi youths cheered and swarmed Hritish troops as they handed out yellow meal packets and bottled water. The troops, already in the city, were not part of the aid convoy. 
Two tanker trucks filled with fresh water were mobbed bv crowds of lraqi civilians lugging bottles, jars and other containers. 
"Very good, but it's not enough," one man shouted. "It's not enough, only two tankers. Not enough, two vehicles. Not enough, please. We need a good water supply." 
British Capt. Brad Percival said allied forces were eager to win the trust of Iraqi civilians. 
"This is the first time the water has been brought to this loca­tion," said Percival of the 23rd Pioneer Regiment. "At the moment they're afraid we're jusl going to drive off and leave them dry." 
"We come to these places for set periods of time. We vary where we go so that hopefully they get to trust us and they know we're going to be there ... They don't have to rush. Today is the first time here. Tomorrow, when we come back, hopefully it'll be less hectic." 
An American soldier, speaking in Arabic, announced the arrival of water through a public address system fitted to the roof of a Humvee, the Daily Telegraph of London reported. "Fresh water, fresh water," the crackling voice said. "Please take as much as you can in 20 minutes before we move to another location." 
In the nearby town ofSafwan, a smaller aid convoy brought by Kuwait's Red Crescent Society was greeted by hundreds of opened. Aid workers tossed out Iraqis. the boxes, which disappeared into 

Many were young men, some a forest of grasping hands. shoeless and dirty, who began British soldiers tried to keep fighting over the white boxes of order, but the crowd dissolved aid as soon as the truck doors into a chaotic mass of pushing and shoving. 
An official in Kuwait said five trucks were sent to Iraq on Wednesday, loaded with 45,000 boxes of food, and more would be heading out Thursday. 
Mich. teen found -with murderer, reunited -with family 
Before her departure, the teen told state line where the pair spent much Evansville, Ind., area, in 1977. He and
As,ociatcd Prcss 
the California Highway Patrol officers of their time. They also found three Lindsey met at church and, without 
who located her Monday others in Drake's her parents' knowledge, corresponded 
SUSANVILLE. Calf. she wants to follow in pickup truck. over the Internet.
"She's shaken and not
A teenager found safe after spending their footsteps, and Guns. ammunition Drake was flown in handcuffs and 23 days with a convicted murderer is hopes to return to sure what this all means and $4,000 were shackles Wednesday from Susanville back with her family in Michigan. California in a year to for her. but she's glad to discovered missing to Sacramento on a federal writ charg­
Lindsey Diane Ryan, 14, returned to meet them again. from Lindsey's ing him with interstate transport of a
be home and she's 

.Jones, Mich .. after she was reunited Convicted killer Terry home March 1, minor with intent to engage in crimi­with her mother. Carol Ryan, at the Drake, 56, was stopped cooperating and talking." when she slipped nal sexual activity. The charge was Susanville airport late Tuesday. with the girl by two CHP out her bedroom handed up by a federal grand jury in "She's shaken and not sure what this officers near Standish, window to meet up Michigan on Tuesday. More federal
Carol Ryan

all means for her, but she's glad to be 90 miles northwest of with Drake, police charges are pending, authorities said. 
mother

home and she's cooperating and talk­Reno, Nev. said. Drake could also face state charges ing." 41-year-old Carol Ryan said of Police found two stolen Drake, who is in Michigan of receiving and conceal­her daughter. The mother added that guns hidden at the married, spent 16 ing stolen firearms. and criminal sexu­"she got more and more relaxed on remote mountain campsite north of years in prison after being convicted of al conduct with a minor. lie already the way home." Susanville along the California-Nevada murdering a woman from the faces charges in California. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. paratroopers land in northern Iraq: 
Army airborne forces parachuted into northern Iraq on Wednesday, seizing an airfield for a new front against Saddam Hussein. U.S. and British warplanes bombed an enemy convoy fleeing the besieged city of' Basra in the south. 
Pakistan, India trade missile tests: 
Pakistan and India conducted tit-for-tat nuclear­capable missile tests Wednesday, pushing their decades-old conl1ict to the fore with a whoosh of steel and a. payload of charged invective. The United States may be focused on the war in Iraq, but the dual missile tests served as a reminder that the world's other conflicts continue. India on Wednesday also accused Pakistan of having a hand in this week's murder of 24 IIindus in disputed Kashmir. and the two countries exchanged heavy artillery across the cease-fire line dividing the 1limalayan provi.nce between them. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Nobel peace winners arrested: Two Nobel Peace Prize winners, two bishops and Vietnam War activist Daniel Ellsberg were among those arrested near the White House in anti-war protests Wednesday. More than 100 demonstra­tors in Florida denounced President Bush during his trip to the state. Police said 65 people were taken into custody. 
Bush warns hardest battles lie ahead: 
President Bush said Wednesday the war in Iraq is far from over and the toughest battles lie ahead as coalition forces near Baghdad. After rallying troops, Bush flew to Camp David for a war council with British Prime Minister Tony Blair. "I can assure you there will be a day of reckoning for Iraq, and that day is drawing near," Bush told hundreds of cheering American troops and their family members in a packed hangar in Florida. 
Court rules on Elian excess force lawsuit: 
Former Attorney General Janet Reno and other fed­eral officials have immunity from an excessive force lawsuit filed by the Miami relatives of young Cuban refugee Elian Gonzalez. an appellate court ruled. Reno, former Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner and former Deputy Attorney General Eric Ilolder cannot be sued for their official actions unless it can be shown that they knew the agents would violate the Gonzalez family's rights when they seized the boy, the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said in a rul­ing made public Wednesday. 
Shuttle probe finds clues in melted metal: 
The way metal melted in debris from the space shut­tle Columbia indicates the leading edge of the shut­tle's left wing experienced the hottest temperatures, perhaps offering clues as to where fiery gases pene­trated the spacecraft, experts said Wednesday. 
page 6 Thursday, March 27,2003 
The Observer . NEWS 

Marine 
continued from page 1 
The Washington Post report­ed Wednesday that Landstuhl is the largest U.S. military medical center outside of the United States. 
After receiving two delivcr­ies of wounded personnel Monday. the Post said the hos­pital has been preparing to increase its beds and staff. According to the report, the second group of wounded per­sonnel arrived to Landstuhl with four people on ventila­tors, which is what Dustin Ferrell used initially to breathe. 
"The first day was pretty miserable because all they said was he had a very serious accident," she said. 
A major from the Camp Lejeune, North Carolina mili­tary base, where Dustin Ferrell worked, called Rachael Ferrell's cell phone and noti­fied her of her husband's situ­ation. After more calls were made by Ferrell's father, Richard, the family soon found out that Dustin Ferrell had to have a field operation in Iraq on his trachea because he was unable to breathe. 
Although the family is still piecing information together, Rachael Ferrell said it has been a difficult process. 
"We don't have any knowl­edge as to what happened," she said. "I know it was at night. That's all I really know." 
Since Dustin Ferrell is not supposed to talk, Rachael Ferrell said it was hard to dis• cern how and where the Humvee accident had occurred, although she sus­pects that his unit might have been in southern Iraq. He responded "no" to the ques­tions of whether his group had hit someone. if the vehicle had rolled over and if someone had hit them said Rachael Ferrell. 

Of the four people who were in the Humvee at the time of the accident, Rachael Ferrell said her husband and two oth­ers were injured. Another per­son in the group died and the two who were injured are also staying at Landstuhl. 
In Germany, Dustin Ferrell has been under the care of two doctors for his pulmonary contusions and broken bones. The surgery today will be for his mid-facial fractures, Rachael Ferrell said. 
The Wednesday Post article referred to a Marine who fit some of the descriptions of Dustin Ferrell. The Marine was at Landstuhl on a ventila­tor and unable to speak with "extensive facial injuries." though the article said the injuries came from a grenade. Although it is unclear of the Marine's identity, the article said the Marine communicated to Army chaplain Col. David McLean that he wanted to pray. 
Currently, Rachael Ferrell is staying with her parents in Porter, Ind. She said she plans to travel to Washington, D.C. soon because she has been told that the military will send her husband to Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. as early as Saturday. 
Dustin Ferrell, 25, is serving his third year in the U.S. Marines Corps. He has been overseas since Jan. 9 when he received orders to "float cast," Rachael Ferrell said. 
"He wasn't sure where he was going," she said. "As it got closer, obviously he figured it out." 
The Post reported today that most Marines from Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, where Dustin Ferrell was sta­tioncd, died in an Iraqi ambush in Nasiriya. 
Rachael Ferrell. 26, said members of the Notre Dame community have been very supportive during this time. 
"It's really scary for anybody who has a loved one in the military," she said. 
Members from the Notre Dame Navy ROTC office have contacted her, as well as cur­rent and former staff from Zahm Hall where Dustin Ferrell resided as an under­graduate. 
Father Jim Lies, former Zahm Hall rector until 2000, said his prayers were with the family of Dustin Ferrell. 
"It's difficult to imagine that Dustin, a model of all that we hope our graduates will be, is now lying in a hospital bed somewhere," Lies said, recall­ing that he was an earnest, thoughtful and dedicated stu­dent. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


Former NY Sen. Moynihan dies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a former Democratic senator, ambassador and presidential adviser known for his scholarly intellect, has died. He was 76. 
"In many respects, Pat Moynihan was larger than life," said Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle, leading tributes on the Senate floor to the man who from 1977 to 2001 was one of the body's most beloved and respected members. 
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, who two years ago succeeded Moynihan in the New York Senate seat, announced his death on the Senate floor. "We have lost a great American, an extraordinary senator. an intel­lectual and a man of passion and understanding for what really makes the country work," she said. 
Moynihan died Wednesday at the Washington Hospital Center from complications stemming from a ruptured appendix. In declining health recently, he had undergone surgery to have his appendix removed on March 11. 
During his 24 years in the Senate, lawmakers from both parties turned to the gangly, professorial Moynihan for his expertise on welfare issues, transportation, Social Security and foreign policy. 
"Rising from the depths of Hell's Kitchen in New York," said Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., "he became one of America's true leading intel­lectuals, whose foresight and whose ability brought to public attention a mass of critical issues long before others even realized these issues existed." 
"I just hope God gives us a few more Pat Moynihans in this Senate, and in this country," fel­low New York Democrat, Sen. 
Charles Schumer, said. 
In 2000, Moynihan received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor. 
Born March 16, 1927, in Tulsa. Okla., he became a shoe shine boy in New York City to help make ends meet after his father deserted the family when Moynihan was 10. He graduated from Benjamin Franklin High School in East Harlem and attended the City College of New York for one year before enlist­ing in the Navy, serving on active duty from 1944 to 1947. 
Senate 
continued from page I 

tion and community as well as the high increases in the cost of dorm dances. 
"While we applaud the University for providing lem­porary funds to partially compensate for these added costs, we fear that the abili­ty of hall councils to provide attractive and feasible dances has nevertheless been compromised," the let­ter stated. 
The letter concluded by stating that 
senator, spoke on the proce­dure of buying student foot­ball tickets. She said that there have been complaints regarding the lottery system. and she introduced new ways the tickets could be distributed. Anderson said that these new procr,dures will be further reviewed in the coming weeks. and hope­fully one will be implement­ed next season to increase student satisfaction. 
. Senators unanimously approved new managers for the 2003-04 Student Business Board. The new board includes Stephanie 
Lee, general 
because stu­manager;
"We really think [the
dents are Krista Seidl,
in-hall dance] is 
now aware head manager of the alco­something the Campus of Adworks; hol prob­and William
Life Council should be 
lems associ­Ryan, head
reviewing again,
ated with in­manager of hall dances. especially in addition D o m e they should Designs.
to the letter."
be given a· . Senate chance to unanimously "demon­Katie Boyle passed a reso­s tr.ate Cavanaugh senator 1 u tion calling 
informed accountabil­ity," and asked that "the administra­tion ... work with the student leaders to establish an appropriate format for the in-hall dance to safely and responsibly be reinstated for a probationary period." 
The resolution senators passed regarding the in-hall dances also called for a pro­bationary period allowing for the reinstatement of in­hall dances. 
"The resolution addresses the concerns we've had over the past year. We felt the letter was more informative, while this resolution asks for something," Katie Boyle, Cavanaugh senator, said. 
The resolution also calls for the administration and student leaders to work together to establish guide­lines for in-hall dances to be reinstated. 
Boyle said, "We really think [the in-hall dance] is something the Campus Life Council should be reviewing again, especially in addition to the letter." 
In other Senate news: 

. Brin Anderson, Howard for the estab­
lishment of a 
N a v a I Sciences minor. Kevin Conley. Stanford senator, said Navy ROTC students are required to take a series of either six or eight courses, while University minors are only five courses. Conley noted that many other schools offered a similar option for ROTC students. 
"{ROTC students} do all the work without the recognition that a minor would offer," Conley said. 
. Senate agreed to send a letter to University President Father Edward Malloy regarding graduation proce­dures. The letter asks that the administration consider holding the ceremony out­doors because the current ceremony "is not a very per­sonal experience," said Jeremy Staley, Storin sena­tor. 
"We looked at 22 other schools, and every one had its graduation outside. The college deans are very much in support of this," Staley said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

BuyorSellyourHome with aGrad from the Dome Call ~!aria Cardle 360-3334 CRESSY and EVEREif/GMAC Realty Office 233-6141 


Thursday, March 27, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch lVIarch 26 
Dow Jones 

8,229.88 • -50.35 

NASDAQ 

1,387.45 • -3.56 

S&P500 

869.95 
-4.79 
AMFX 

820.88 ~ +0.10 
NYSE 

-17.38
4,844.63 ' TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLIT (SIRI)+6.35 +0.04 0.67 



NAsoA0·~••100: 1rrto~~-~::111:111~11::1~11111:ll::ll1 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.94 -0.2425.25 

ClSCO."?.X,~,Tii:;:itili~1!!i!!i!!ili.li!!illiflii11;~!11 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -0.50 -0.4487 .08 
IN BRIEF 
Senate OKs budget reducing tax cuts 
The Senate delivered a wartime rebuff to President Bush's domestic plans on Wednesday, approving a $2.2 trillion budget thaL provides less than half the $726 billion in tax cuts he wants to rally the listless econo­my. 
The Republican-controlled chamber used a mostly party-line 56-44 roll call to approve the fiscal blueprint, which endorses just $350 billion of the president's planned tax cuts through 2013. That vote came after moderate GOP senators joined Democrats to fend off, by 52-48, a last-ditch Republican attempt to add $67 billion back to the tax reduction package. 
The final say on the budget's tax-cutting fig­ure will come when f-louse-Senate bargainers work out a compromise tax-and-spending framework. The Hepublican-led House approved its own budget last week embracing Bush's entire $726 billion tax-cutting econom­ic plan, and GOP leaders are sure to drive the tax figure in their compromise as high' as they can. 
U.S. regulators may demand refunds 
Federal energy regulators, cataloging wide­spread manipulation of Western markets, said Wednesday they probably will require about $3. 3 billion in refunds, a third of what California says it's owed. 
The Federal Energy Hcgulatory Commission also signaled that it probably will not force energy companies to renegotiate more than $20 billion in long-lerm power contracts California agreed to when natural gas and electricity prices soared to record levels in 2000 and 2001. 
Two of the three commissioners -both Hepublicans -oppose renegotiating the con­tracts that California officials say were inflat­ed because of the corrupt market activities prevalent at the time. The issue will be decid­ed next month. 
'RiddleMelrish.com' debuts 

. Game tests ND community's wit and skill 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Notre Dame community can now test their wits and compete for campus prizes in a new online riddle contest. 
The game, called RiddleMelrish.com, is the business venture of sopho­more Judah Wilson and a product of the Entrepreneurs Club's Student Business Incubator. 
University policy prohibits students from using campus facilities or resources it out," Wilson said. 
The game involves e­mailing riddles relating to all participants, who com­pete to reply first with the correct answer. 
"We have a teaser riddle going around: Parents love me, students hate me, and the administration will never change me. What am I? Parietals," Wilson said. "Everyone feels like they know Notre Dame pretty well and there are countless questions you can ask about Notre Dame." 
The only requirement, Wilson said, is that players have a valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's e-mail address, which they can use to register online in teams 
of two. 
A t 
to operate "I love to think up stuff noon on for-profit every
like that, so when I saw
businesses. Sunday 
However, the Entrepreneurs Club's of the 
the Student project, I know I wanted contest's Business f o u r
to try it out. ..

Incubator, weeks, created Wilson this year by Judah WIison will e­
t h e Notre Dame entrepreneur mail a 
Entrepreneurs Club, allows students to begin their own for-profit or non-profit ven­tures under the guidance of the Student Activities Office and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
Wilson, who receiwid an e-mail from the Entrepreneurs Club regard­ing the incubator earlier this year, said he has always been interested in starting his own business and felt particularly fortu­nate to receive the support his project garnered. 
"I love to think up stuff like that, so when I saw the Entrepreneurs Club's pro­ject, I knew I wanted to try riddle to 
all par­ticipants who must then respond as quickly as possi­ble with the correct answer. Timing is key, he said, as the quickest teams each week receive both a prize given by one of the game's campus sponsors and earn points toward winning the grand prize. which is a $1,000 shopping spree at the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore. 
"There's a twist," Wilson said. "You get a ranking and point value based on how quickly you send the answer back. If you win one of the five weekly prizes, you can exchange it for more points toward the grand prize if you want to." 
Weekly prizes, which will be distributed to each of the first five teams that respond correctly to the riddle of the week, were donated by a number of campus busi­nesses to support Wilson's project. 
"RiddleMelrish is fully sponsored," he said. "The big thing is that each week is spon­sored by a particularly following O'Connor's suggestion that he include alumni as well. 
"We would like to take it to alumni as a national game," Wilson said. "We want to make it an annual event and start it after St. Patrick's Day each year." 
Proceeds from the game, which has an entrance fee · of $10 per team, will be 
s p I i t 
between 
group on "It was different and I two pro­campus: jects that
thought it was kind of 
Burger Wilson
fun for students to have
K i n g , wants to Reckers, a trivia game about sponsor. the Copy The first is
campus"
Shop and Extended Sorin's." Hands, a 
Through Jim O'Connor non-profit the sup­bookstore director organiza­
port of these busi­nesses, Wilson said he was able to fund the entire ven­ture from the beginning. He credits bookstore director Jim O'Connor with provid­ing the final punch to his development plan. 
"Jim was instrumental, because we had all the weekly sponsors but we weren't going to do it with­out the bookstore," Wilson said. "And it was his idea to take it to alumni -that was encouraging too." 
O'Connor said that it was the uniqueness of the pro­ject that drew him to sup­port it. 
"It was different and I thought it was kind of fun for students to have a trivia game about campus," he said. "Judah also has an extraordinary amount of enthusiasm [and] I knew he was the right person to carry it out." 
That enthusiasm has led Wilson to add HiddleMelrish.com expan­sion to his future plans, 
tion that 
provides support to Guatemalan wid­ows and orphans. 
"My dad's a part of the organization and I've been a part of it for 13 years," Wilson said. 
The other beneficiary of RiddleMelrish.com will be a second venture that Wilson hopes to begin next year ­an online version of the "Dogbook," the photo direc­tory given to all incoming freshmen each year. 
"The University has talked about it, but I want to start it on my own," he said. "The proceeds [from RiddleMelrish] will be seed money." 
Registration for the con­test will end at midnight on April 5 after which partici­pants will test their riddle skills. 
"The response has been encouraging, after all the hard work that's gone into it," said Wilson. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 

page 8 Thursday, March 27, 2003 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Nobel peace prize 
•

winners arrested 
encourage someone in the fed­
Associated Press 
eral government to release 
more information about the war 
WASHINGTON with Iraq. 
Two Nobel Peace Prize win­"There arc people who could ners, two bishops and Vietnam prove the falsity of this Bush War activist Daniel Ellsberg was in Tampa, Fla., visiting the were among those arrested headquarters of the U.S. Central near the White House in anti­Command, housed at MacDill war protests Wednesday. More Air Force Base. About 150 than 100 demonstrators in demonstrators protested in the Florida denounced President city's downtown waterfront dis­Bush during his trip to the state. trict. 
Protesters in Washington "This war is so unjust. There climbed over police barricades is popular support against it," closing off Lafayette Park, said Audrey Colombe, 44, of across Pennsylvania Avenue Tampa, who carried a sign say­from the White House. and sang ing: 'War is not the answer.' "I and prayed until they were can't sit at home and do noth­arrested. Police said 65 people ing.'' were taken into custody. In New York, 16 antiwar pro­Protesters left behind some testers, linked by handcuffs, roses and pictures of Iraqi civil­were arrested for blocking a ians that they said represented busy midtovvn l\1anhattan inter­those who could die in the war. section near Rockefeller Center 
Those arrested included by lying down in the street. Nobel laureates Mairead In San Francisco, all 12 Corrigan Maguire of the demonstrators arrested on Northern Ireland Peace felony charges during last Movement and Jody Williams of week's protests there had their the International Campaign to charges dropped or reduced to Ban Landmines, as well as misdemeanors. Overall, more Roman Catholic Auxiliary than 1,500 people were arrest­Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of ed last week. the Detroit archdiocese; Bishop And 10 activists in Olympia, 
C. Joseph Sprague of the United Wash., who chained themselves Methodist Church in the together with bike locks around Chicago area; Dave Robinson, their necks and blocked the national coordinator of Pax main entrance to the state Christi USA, the Catholic peace Senate were arrested after movement, and Ellsberg. police cut the locks with an 
Ellsberg is best known for electric power saw. leaking the Pentagon Papers, a Supporters of the war demon­top secret Defense Department strated Wednesday as well. study on the Vietnam War that Around 200 Yale University stu­he considered proof that dents held a rally on campus. American officials were lying "Today we affirm that Saddam about chances for victory. He Hussein has lost," Yale junior said he hoped that his willing­Michael Anastasio told flag­ness to get arrested might waving supporters. 
Senate approves Bush's tax cuts 
"I don't think, war or no war, government often requires dur­
A,,ociated Press 

those differences would be any ing wartime. 
WASHINGTON differently reflected." Congress' budget does not 
The Senate delivered a In a written statement, Bush need Bush's signature and sets wartime rebuff to President said it was unfortunate that the overall ceilings on spending and Bush's domestic plans on Senate's tax number fell shy of taxes. Final decisions on the Wednesday, approving a $2.2 his ovvn. size and details of the tax cuts trillion budget that provides "We will work to ensure that -as well as any spending less than half' the $726 billion in the final House-Senate budget changes -will be made in tax cuts he wants to rally the provides the growth measures later bills. listless economv. . American workers deserve," he The budget is significant 
The Republican-controlled said. because it will shield whatever chamber used a mostly party­"The growth package is not tax-cutting figure lawmakers line 56-44 roll call to approve what I want," said Senate agree upon from Senate proce­the fiscal blueprint, which Budget Committee Chairman dural delays or filibusters, endorses just $350 billion of the Don Nickles, R-Okla. "I think which take 60 votes to halt. president's planned tax cuts it's about half a loaf. That's·bet­That means any tax-cutting bill through 2013. That vote came ter than none." protected by the budget would after moderate GOP senators The votes came as Congress need only a simple majority, or joined Democrats to fend off, by begins _considering Bush's 51 votes, to pass. 
52-48, a last-ditch Republican $74.7 billion proposal to pay for The Senate began debating attempt to add $67 billion back the war with Iraq and other the budget on March 17 and to the tax reduction package. costs of the U.S. drive against took a total of 51 roll call votes. The final say on the budget's terrorism at home and abroad. In another defeat for the presi­
tax-cutting figure will come Members of both parties have dent on the budget last week, when House-Senate bargainers said a concern about the war's the Senate voted to drop his work out a compromise tax­price tag -and the potentially plan to open the Arctic National and-spending framework. The expensive American role in a Wildlife Refuge in Alaska for oil Republican-led House approved postwar Iraq -has helped drilling. 
its own budget last week soften support for Bush's entire The budget envisions spend­embracing Bush's entire $726 tax plan. ing $400 billion over 10 years billion tax-cutting economic Bush· s economic package for Bush's plan to create plan, and GOP leaders are sure was dominated by his proposal Medicare prescription drug to drive the tax figure in their to eliminate the taxes stock­benefits. Many of its planned compromise as high as they holders pay on corporate divi­spending cuts were eased by can. dends, which lawmakers say is Democratic amendments dur­
Even so, the Senate budget now in trouble. It would also ing days of debate, but it was an unambiguous setback accelerate income tax reduc­retained enough -especially for Bush on one of the pillars of tions already scheduled to take for late this decade -to claim his domestic agenda. It also effect and enhance some write­the eliminate annual deficits by spotlights the limits on Bush's offs for businesses. 2012. abilities to persuade lawmakers The administration and its Bush suffered more bad news to support his policies at home. GOP supporters said the tax this week when the nonpartisan even though the war with Iraq cuts would recharge the econo­Congressional Budget Office has helped keep his popularity my by boosting stock values, said his budget would probably high. increasing corporate invest­have a negligible effect on the 
"There are just differences ment and putting more money economy. that on a bipartisan basis into consumers' pockets. In a report, the budget office Congress has had with the Democrats and some moderate for the first time measured the administration" over taxes, the Republicans say the cuts would president's budget with so­economy, environment and only worsen federal deficits that called dynamic scoring, a dis­other issues," Senate Minority seem likely to near a record puted technique for factoring in Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. $400 billion this year, and are the effect legislation may have told reporters before the vote. the opposite of the sacrifice the on the economy. 
Ends 
March 29th

3for s7!!Each Tournament of 
.·--·-~ .. s5 _~.~
-·-~-' ·. 

Savings
.,::,~ ,, .-· ,..,.... OR$3.99 
l. ,. ~,.•~m 
sgga4 
ELDON• $PACEMAKER'" FILE BOX 
After Rebates ·•
OFFICE DEPOT MULTIPURPOSE PAPER 

• For letter-or legal-size files 
• 20 lb, go bright, 500 sheets per ream • Built-in hanging file folder rails !OMEGA ·, • I 
8-½" x 11·, Ream 112-860 Granite 104-710 Clear w/Blue Lid 204-761 48x EXTERNALOffer valid in store only. Um11 one otter per customer. Black 155-382 Clear w/Green Lid 105-078, 
CO-RW DRIVE
Available while supplies last. 

Clear w/Purple Lid 204-671 
• 48x read, 24x rewrite, 48x write max speeds 
623-287 

159.84 -30.CO Iomega Mail-In Rebate -30.00 Ofiice
-;1~,g~~$8 94Each 
Depot Mail-In Rebate= 99.B4 
Mishawaka 
5901 North Grape Rd.
WIDE-RULED 1~SUBJECT NOTEBOOK 6-PK 

• 8" X 10-½' (574) 277-2009 
• 70 sheets each OFFICE DEPOT REPLACEMENT Open Daily; 8;00 a.m. • 9:oo p.m. 346-643/293-799 CD JEWEL CASES 25-PK Saturday: 9:00 a.m. • 9:00 p,m. While supplies last. Clear 441-661 Sunday: 10:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer. NEWS page 9 
Stnallpox vaccine leads to death 
Associar~J Pres• 
WASIIINCTON 

IIMlth officials are recom­mrnding that people with heart disnasc nut get vaccinated againsL smallpox as authorities investigate a possible link lwtwcen the var.cine and heart problems. 
Thn vaccination has never b,rnn associated with heart problems bnfore. but the warn­ing and the investigation came Tuesday, after 11 Maryland woman died of a heart attack and six others became ill after being inoculated. 
"I think we want to err on the side of safr.ty," Ur. Julie (;erbnrding. dirt!Ctor of the f'ed­nral (enters ol' Disease Control and Prev!\lltion, said Tuesday. 
Cerberding emphasized that ol'!icials do not know whether lht'f!! is a connection and said the national vaccination pro­gram. off to a slow start, must move forward to prepare fur the possibility of a biotcrror altack with smallpox. 
"The potential for terrorism ha~ proua?IY never been high­tir. she said. 
Three of the seven people under investigation suffered lll'art attacks, including the Maryland woman who died, another woman who is now on lifo support and a third woman who was hospitalized and released. All three were health care or public health workers in their 50s. 
Two other people developed angina. or chest pain. 
/\ll live of these patients had risk factors for heart disease before the vaccination, such as diabetes. obesity, hypertension or use of tobacco, Gerberding said. 
The other two patients under investigation suffered from 
heart inflammation. t\dditionally, 10 people vacci­nated through the military pro­gram had the same condition. 
Gerberding said she does not expect to find a link between the heart trouble and the vac­cine but wants further study before ruling it out. 
"It could be entirely coinci­dental." she said. "Coronary artory disease is a very common condition in our society." 
The vaccine carries well-doc­umen Led side effects, but they have never included heart prob­lems. Still, the data were gath­ered during a time when most people being vaccinated were young children not likely to have heart trouble, Gerberding noted. 
The CDC planned to gather cardiac experts on Wednesday to consider whether something in the vaccine might be trigger­ing heart problems in people who already have risk factors. 
Health officials also plan to compare the rate of heart prob­lems in the pool of smallpox vaccine rncipient5 with the rate expected in a similar population of people who have not been vaccinated. 
Under the new. temporary guidelines. people who have been diagnosed with serious heart disease such as coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, previous heart attack and angina are being told not to get the vaccine. 
Gerberding said she expects the new guidelines, which are being delivered to the states immediately, to eliminate fewer than 10 percent of potential vaccines. 
Existing guidelines already screen out people with condi­tions that are known to increase the chances of side effects, including people with HIV, preg­nant women, organ transplant recipients and people with a history of skin disorders. 
The woman who died. a hos­pital worker in Salisbury. Md., was vaccinated a week ago. She died five days later, on Sunday, in Arlington, Va., state officials said. An autopsy was performed Tuesday. 
Iler death is the first associat­ed with either the civilian vacci­nation program that began two months ago or the military pro­gram launched in December. 
/\s or March 14. states had vaccinated 21.698 civilians, mostly in public health depart­ments and hospitals. Concerns about the vaccine's risk have helped keep the numbers well below the 450,000 initially expected. 
Under the mandatory military program, several hundred thou­sand people have been vacci­naLed, the CDC said. Ten people have been reported with int1am­mation of the heart. none of which was clinically severe. All the people who became ill were being vaccinated for the first time. 
Based on studies in the late 1960s, experts estimate that one or two people out of every million being vaccinated for the first time will die. The death rate for those being revaccinat­ed was lower: Two people died out of 8.5 million who were revaccinated in a 1968 study. 
Additionally, 14 to 52 people out of every million being vacci­nated for the first time are expected to suffer life-threaten­ing side effects. 
That's because the smallpox vaccine is made with a live virus called vaccinia, a cousin to smallpox which can cause ill­ness if it escapes the inoculation site and infects another part of the body. Vaccinia can also infect those who touch someone else's vaccination site. 
BELGIUM 

Seven n1ore nations becollle part of NATO 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 
NATO officially signed up seven eastern European nations to become members on Wednesday, an expansion hailed as a historic reunifica­tion of the continent after decades of Cold War division. 
In an emotional ceremony at Nt\TO headquarters, foreign ministers from Romania. Bulgaria, Slovakia, Lithuania, Slovenia. Estonia and Latvia approved the formal protocols of adhesion. 
"This is a momentous day for NATO," said Nicholas Burns, the U.S. ambassador to NATO. "The United States congratu­lates these seven nations for their dedication to the Alliance and the broader trans-Atlantic relationship." 
NATO invited the seven to join at a November summit in the Czech capital. Prague. The countries will become mem­bers in May 2004 if their par­liaments ratify the treaties. They will be covered by the alliance's core security guar­antee that states an attack on one member is an attack on all. 
"Today we feel like winners," said Romania Foreign Minister Mircea Geoana. "A dream of generations of Romanians has come true." 
Ministers from the three Baltic states that broke free of Soviet rule in 1990 stressed in particular the importance of NATO's security umbrella. 
"Latvia will never again 
stand alone in the face of a threat," said Foreign Minister Sandra Kalniete, 
Estonia Foreign Minister Kristiina Ojuland called the accession of seven newcomers "a historic step for a Europe free, whole and at peace." 
Under NATO procedures, thti ministers did not themselves sign the protocols, but approved the signing by diplo­mats from the current 19 members. 
"Future historians will rec­ognize that this decision to open NATO's doors has been a turning poinL in the building ol' a Europe reunited and free," NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson said. 
The United States firmly sup­ported NATO's post-Cold War eastward expansion. In turn. it received strong backing from most newcomers in the run-up to the war against Iraq -in marked contrast to opposition from long-standing allies France, Germany and Belgium. 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld welcomed the pro­American sentiment from the easterners, saying it represent­ed the views of a "new Europe" while French President Jacques Chirac denounced their refusal to back his anti-war stance. 
Further underlining the demise of Cold War divisions. five of the new NATO members will join the European Union in May 2004 along with Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which became NATO members in 1999. 



·­

© 2003 PrrcewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PncewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the other member firms of PncewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 

VOTED '1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

>.,.~•:::~· 

-~# -~.,; 
.' --~·-·­
;~ ~-­
;1:·Jffr~:f~\i{ \f; i::r 
Investors need to be able to trust the information that companies supply to the public. Help us audit that information and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 


NORTH KOREA 
Officials call talks -with Ainericans 'tneaningless' 
Associated Press 
PYONGYANG North Koma on Wudnt~sday 
--•-­
• 
FORTUNE 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
ey.com/us/carecrs 

cut off the sole regular military was "meaningless" to sit with sion over its suspected nuclear contact with the U.S.-led U.N. the Americans. weapons programs. The North Command Lhat monitors the The move will further isolate has accused the United States Korean War armistice, saying it the North amid heightened ten-of using the nuclear issue as an 
At Ernst & Young everything revolves around our people. 
Here, you will be listened to, respected, trusted and 
recognized for your achievements. We not only 
value your individuality and what it can bring to our 
firm, we encourage it. And we give you challenging 
opportunities so you feel empowered to succeed. 
Welcome to our world. 

$]J f RNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
excuse to attack the communist 
state, and Pyongyang has said it 
would boost its defenses amid 
such fears. 
But South Korean President 
Roh Moo-hyun on Wednesday 
dismissed as "groundless" alle­
gations by the North that U.S. 
forces may attack and spark a 
"second Iraqi crisis" on the 
Korean Peninsula. 
"There will be no war on the 
Korean Peninsula as long as we 
do not want a war,'' Roh's office 
quoted him as saying, adding 
that Washington has repeatedly 
pledged to resolve the crisis 
peacefully. 
Meanwhile, U.N. envoy 
Maurice Strong said that North 
Korean officials told him in 
meetings in Pyongyang last 
week that they "reserved the 
right" to reprocess spent fuel 
rods that experts say could 
yield enough plutonium for sev­
eral atomic bombs within 
months. Such a move would 
spike tension even further. 
The North's Korea People's Army sent a telephone message to the U.N. Command saying it will no longer send its delegates to the liaison-officers' meeting at the inter-Korean border vil­lage of Panmunjom. 
"It is meaningless to sit together with the U.S. forces side to discuss any issue as long as it remains arrogant," the North's official news agency KCNA quoted the North Korean message as saying. 
The announcement came as 
lawmakers from across North 
Korea convened the country's 
rubber-stamp parliament amid 
heightened tension over the 
communist state's suspected 
nuclear weapons program. 
The U.N. Command, which has monitored the armistice since the end of the 1950-53 war, had no immediate com­ment. Without a peace treaty, the Korean Peninsula is still technically in a state of war. 
U.S. officials representing the 
U.N. Command have met North Korean officers at Panmunjom almost weekly since the end of the war. 
In Japan, space agency ofli­cials were preparing to launch their first spy satellites into orbit on Friday. North Korea has condemned the move, prompting fears it may retaliate and test-fire a long-range mis­sile. 
Japan's satellite launch "is for the purpose of information gathering," said Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hatsuhisa Takashima. "It is not offensive. or intended to inter­fere with any other nation's security whatsoever." 
Takashima said that the satellites will play a role in Japan's national security, how­ever. 
Meanwhile in the North's cap­ital, Pyongyang, North Korean Finance Minister Mun II bong said that the 2003 budget will increase 14.4 percent from last year, with 15.4 percent of the spending allocated to national defense, according to KCNA. 
rMEZZON/'5
/ta/Ian EaterY, LLC 
251-0007 
Delivery or Carry Out;Open 7 Days 2720 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend, IN 46615 
M-Th 10:30am-11:00l)m 
,d~.tf,.,
'f....­
·tdJ 
Fri & Sat 10:30-11m )~jlt\i__ Sun NO""·~!lm ,..:~.~ 
O
THI 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, March 27, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfoehrer Lori Lewalski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Herder 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Torn Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROUER: Michael Flanagan 
SYSITMS MANAGER: Ted Bangen 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGFJIIGENERAL INFO ............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING ErnroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................ 631-53I3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of che University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and deparnnenr editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwstiom .regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thi:-Olnervcr {USPS )99 240) 1-l publiihcd Mond;y ,lirough Friday c-xc.cpt during cum MiJ va::ation pcnoJ,. A•uh..crifuion lD The Obicrvcr ll $100 for orie academic fe'Ui J5-5 fur one scme11er. 
The Ohsemr is published u: POHMASTER 
024 Sou,h Dining Hall -Xnd adJrcu corra::tiom m: 
Nou" Dame, JN 465)6 ThrOhsav-er 
P.O.Bol.Q 1'crioclil:alpo~t~t' Fid ar NfHrc Dunc N()rr" D~m~, IN ,4t,55<,.0779 .and a&dicional mallin~ offiot1 
Th1; Oli1>t!'"l~r i~ ;a mcmbc-r ufthc Auod:1tcd l'lrCl'\. All reproduction righu, :uc­r~<:d, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Re-examining domestic policy 
Paul Graham is right in his March 26 column. Despite the war, we certainly cannot ignore our economy or our domes­tic problems. I find it a humorous coincidence, though, that his article appears immediately above Mr. Zeilner's article defending Azteca Foods. Zeilner points out that the Progressive Student Alliance and Paul Graham advocate the union view in a manner unfair to Azteca. In this very same Observer issue, Graham again unfairly slants and skews the issues of domestic policy. 
Graham describes a "strain on the national budget." This includes deficit spending and a decline in the national sur­plus. He can hardly be faulted for criticizing this: Common understanding holds that elimi­nating debts and deficits is part of a fiscally responsible government. This common understanding, however, is wrong. 
So long as a country can service the interest on its debt, deficit spending actually expands the economy and stimulates growth. Furthermore, when a government runs a surplus, it takes in more money than it spends. This slows the economy by removing money. It should come as no surprise, then, that periods of large deficit reduction -and even of government-run surpluses -have immediately preceded most of our nation's recessions. 
Graham also unfairly treats tax cuts. Certainly, wealthier people receive more raw dollars back from these cuts than poorer people. This should he obvious, as wealthy people pay an enormous amount in taxes. Poorer people, in con­trast, pay relatively little. In fact, some poor people do not pay federal income taxes at all; these people will obviously not receive any money from tax cuts. 
An example should help. Imagine two people: one earns $20,000 a year and pays 10 percent in taxes, or $2,000. The other earns $1,000,000 a year and pays 30 percent, or $300,000, in taxes. If you cut the first person's taxes in half, so that he will only pay five percent of his income, then he saves $1,000. If you reduce second person's tax rate by a mere one percent, to 29 percent, she will gain 10 times as much as the first person, or $10,000. 
Even with miniscule cuts for the wealthy and huge per­centage cuts for the poor, the wealthy always gain many more dollars. Raw dollars are therefore an improper means to measure tax cuts unless we believe that rich people's tax burdens should never be reduced at all. Furthermore, if the poorest people desperately need the small amount of money being returned to them, then the tax cuts do "help those that really need the money," despite what Graham says. 
Graham asserts, without any justification. that "these tax cuts do not create jobs." Unless the rich stash their cash under a mattress, the money must ultimately create jobs. In 
fact, only business owners, entrepreneurs, investors, and the government -by fiat ­can create jobs. Finally, Graham describes a "War against Labor" as the administra­tion fights the right of workers to unionize. Striking is not an absolute right, however. 
Consider local police, fire­fighters, and district attor­neys. Would we tolerate a firefighters' strike, so that workers picket while hous­es burned? Should we tol­
erate a police strike, so that communities lost protection from criminal activity while workers negotiated? What about a strike in the DA's office? Prisoners would be denied their right to a speedy trial until the govern­ment settled with ... the government. 
Some might welcome such strikes. I do not, as I recognize that public safety may sometimes trump certain aspects of "workers' rights." This applies to baggage screen­ers, Homeland Security, and the Justice Department. These organizations are national equivalents of local organizations like the police or DAs, and their work is so important that public safety cannot tolerate a shutdown. 
We certainly must look to our economy and our domestic life. However, assuming the truth of one side's political rhetoric does not automatically make the other side's solu­tions questionable or faulty. 
Mike Romano 
junior Dillon Hall March 26 
Student Senate needs independence 
I am writing this letter in response to Mark Leen's letter in Wednesday's Viewpoint and the coverage of Monday's Executive Cabinet meeting. 
I am very vocally opposed the idea presented in previous articles about giving Executive Cabinet power over Senate. In addition to being a present member of the Executive Cabinet, I have also had the privilege last year of serving as the senator from Pasquerilla West. In that capacity, I served on the oversight committee, which specifically looked at and preserved the University's Constitution, and later I joined an unofficial task force that looked at once again reorganizing stu­dent government through Constitutional redrafting. As the end result, I have nothing but the utmost respect for the role that the Student Senate plays here at Notre Dame. 
I truly do believe that the Senate ade­quately reflects residential student opinion as best as it can be organized. I adamantly oppose the suggestion that the Student Senate should be checked by the Executive Cabinet. The Senate has enough checks on it already to make it difficult for University policies to be changed (the CLC, the Student Body President, the administration). Adding another check would not make a vast difference to policy ideas and goals that are presently being frustrat­ed. Although Ubby Bishop has attempt­ed to lead Executive Cabinet into a more policy-influencing role this past year, my perspective remains the same. Executive Cabinet exists primarily as a communication for programming effi­ciency across groups, and the Senate's main emphasis is on affecting policy. 
The Student Senate deserves its inde­pendent power with no restriction from the Executive Cabinet. I hope that future students looking to restrict its capacity to affect positive change at Notre Dame take this experienced opin­ion into consideration along with the consciousness of student government history that Mr. Leen is talking about. 
Meghan A. O'Donnell Junior Class presidenr Pasqucrilla Wm March 26 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Teresa fralish Chris Federico Himanshu Kothari Pat Leonard Andrew Thagard Joe Lindsley 
Viewpoint Scene 

Kurt Bogaard Christie Bolsen 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Andy Devoto Holly Shen 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you think people should protest the war in Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is easier to fight for one's principles than to live up to them." 
Alfred Adler Austrian psychologist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 page 13 
Unleash the power of pacifism 
I grew up in a military family. My broth­er graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academv and is currentlv in South Korea as an air tratnc controllc·r. Iwill also serve in the Air Force. And despite these strong military ties. 1 have much hope for Andrew advent in the power DeBerry of pacifism. My men­tality is one of con­
NIJ Changing 

tradiction. Or is it'.1 
The church pro­Times motes the just war theory and pacifism as two Christian responses to violence. While pacifism is a commendable person­al ethic. it would be dangerous if it were a public gov1\rnmMt's exclusive response to violence. Although steady, pacifist efforts by the government could result in a stronger peace on the long-term, the pub­lic authority is responsible for addressing rising conflicl,; with an imnwdiacy and l'll'cctivc1iess that pacilist efforts would struggle to provide. 
The Church consequently also endorses the just war theory (JWf). which has a peaceful spirit in its focus on limited war. The government can work to stop imme­diate problems. ideally through a JWT approach, but it is steadfast saints who endorse ethics such as pacilisrn who are needed to cool the deep fires of hatred with the power of agape. 
Imagine, for example, a tree dropping destructo-acorns of death onto innocent people. The military would cut off the branches causing the immediate problem, but people. especially those skilled at heart with the pacifist virtues of peace and love. would be essential for providing the cultural solution to uproot the core of the evil. 
Such pacifists are to be recognized for being the voice in the desert working to keep people in their right. moral sense. They provide strong viewpoints to be con­sidered in an era when military capabili­ties develop at an exponential pace. The more successful activists have shirked a "passive paci­fist" image to effect signifi­cant improvements in the world. 
Even my AFROTC textbook acknowl­edges the polential of pacifism with a picture of demon­strators that show how "Czech and Slovak national­ism led to the peaceful sepa­ration of Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia." 
These successes challenge the paci­fist advance to draw more from its great potential. The effort must have a presence in this world that is as tangible as mili­tary forces with an effective organization, coordinated leader­ship, skilled professionals and clearly articulated objectives. The numbers of those who are willing to die for peace must match the numbers of those who are willing to die within the military. The resurrecting power of pacifism won't be 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protest false patriotism 
My Washington Program peers, Ben Haney, Beth Monteleone and Jacque Wilson claim in their March 24 letter that once Congress has decided to go to war, not only is the debate over but speaking out against this decision is in fact unpatriotic even if it is protected under the Constitution. If going against my conscience. reasoning and religious and philosophical beliefs in support of a resolution made by a small group of people is patriotism, then I want none of it. 
I have been brought up to believe that the Constitution is not applicable only during peacetime. I also believe that it is my duty as an American to exercise my rights, including free­dom of speech. This is especially so during a war that, according to llaney, Monteleone and Wilson, is being waged to give a people these same rights. Shouldn't we show them the beauty of being able to speak out against one's govern­ment? Shouldn't we support the exercise of rights that we arc supposedly defending? 
The idea that patriotism requires a people to<Bupport a war and not speak out, even if their conscience is burning in opposition. is disturbingly similar to the propaganda spewed out by the Nazi regime in Germany. Patriotism was demand­ed of the people -and this translated into unwavering sup­port of the leader and his policies. Speaking out against Ilitler or the Nazis was seen as unpatriotic. Supporting the troops meant supporting the war. These same ideas are now being spewed out by people in America, and this makes me very nervous and very scared. Because of this and because I love my country. I will be joining the protesters and speaking out against Lhe war and this false "patriotism" at every opportunity. If you believe me to be un-American or unpatri­otic. fine. I do not wish to be a part of your patriotism or your America. 
Christine Carey 
scntor Washington, D.C. March 24 

realized until the peacemakers are willing to become peace martyrs. 
Pacifists have many avenues for realiz­ing their vision. After seeing a war protest in D.C. through a Center for Social 
Concerns seminar, I can see that protests are helpful for uniting concerned citizens in a common spirit. However, by intensely celebrating being the countercultural 
alternative voice, some protesters actually shoot 
themselves in the foot as they lose influential 
parts of their audience who may only offer them a deaf ear. 
There's a Lebanese proverb that 
says, "Lower your voice and strengthen your 

argument." I hope that the masses at the Washington Monument went home to continue delving into the issues with an open mind to better understand the 
various perspectives. Many are very knowledgeable. such as friends in Pax ·christi at Notre Dame who have imparted key facts and perspectives that are imper­ative for any military officer at least to be aware of. Such capable people are need­ed to apply their intelligence to form bril­liant arguments and solutions that knock people's socks off. 
There are advantages to working within the system also. Instead of protesting the war at mass rallies that many politicians disregard, what if those energies were focused on finding ways to promote peace within the government structure itself? What if there was a Presidential cabinet position focused on finding practical, non­violent solutions? In essence. what if a person became so well versed in the gov­ernment system that they could help pro­pose a Department of Peace in Congress? 
Someone already has. His name is Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio). A Google search on Department of Peace I IR2459 will bring up several links about his HR2459 bill proposing the Department of Peace. He demonstrates an innovative pacifism that utilizes often overlooked venues for promoting peace. 
While a military is necessary to main­tain public safety. given past non-violent successes. I can't help but wonder about the power of pacifism still to be unleashed. The peace effort must press forward. If it does, maybe the morning will come when Martin Luther King's words will be realized when "all around the world. we can hear the glad echo of heaven ring." 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior in Air Force ROTC and encourages peace-lovers and patriots to check out this weekend's stu­dent peace conference in the flesburgh Center for International Studies. he can be contacted at adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

I appreciate Fred Zeilner's March 26 response to the Progressive Student Alliance campaign in support of striking workers at Azteca Foods. Needless to say, there are two sides to any labor dispute. and Zeilner and others should be afford­ed every opportunity to present the company position. Many concerned students had in fact hoped that Mr. Velasquez himself would respond to Paul Graham's March 5 column. Such a response would allow interested individuals to further evaluate the issue. 
While I found Zeilner's analysis ofworking conditions at Azteca to be somewhat informa­tive, I am left with the feeling that he failed to directly address many of the concerns raised by the striking workers. In merely pointing to past wage levels and the existence of a health insur­ance plan, for instance, Zeilner does not respond to strikers' assertions that the company is cur­rently seeking to cut take-home pay by up to $0.32 an hour through increased healthcare costs. 
Indeed, in many cases the workers are striking precisely because they do not want to see a sig­nificant reduction in the benefits Zeilner men­tions at a time when Azteca is said to be doing quite well. Of further concern is the noticeable silence of Zeilner's response on other demands made by striking workers. As Graham noted, workers are also asking for seniority rights, grievance procedures and better retirement ben­efits. Readers may have found Zeilner's letter more useful had these topics been discussed. 
In closing, I would like to assure Zeilner that my support for Azteca workers should in no way be construed as an attack on the character of Arthur Velasquez. While I have not yet had the pleasure of meeting him, Mr. Velasquez's repu­tation as a philanthropist has preceded him. I have tremendous respect for the work he has done both in the city of Chicago and in making it financially possible for many at Notre Dame to attend this fine university. I look forward to hearing more about the Azteca position on the ongoing strike. 
Christian McNamara 
junior Morrissey March 26 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, March 27, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Tears of the Sun' predictable yet entertaining 

without the villagers she has cared for ment and dialogue. for Best Actor in a Leading Role for By JOE HEIECK and has grown to love. A soldier that Yet the movie moves at a good pace. his complicated depiction, only the Scene Movie Critic 
always does the "right" thing (follow­Plenty of twists, explosions, death and second black actor to do so (the first ing orders without thought of conse­sexual tension hold was Sidney' When J first saw the preview for quence based on U.S. policy). Waters your attention Poitier). "Tears of the Sun," I thought the decides to do the real right thing: save throughout the pic­Again, Fuqua
"Tears of the Sun"
movie looked stupid -so I went to Kendricks and the villagers. Now, ture, Moreover, 
delivers a movie see it. Expecting junk. it actually was Waters and his men must get every­"Tears of the Sun" of gritty reality. entertaining. one to Cameroon while fending off the spotlights the He creates ten­
Lt. A.K. Waters (Hruce Willis) and rebel army and defying orders. wretched wars in sion and conllict his SEAL team head deep into The movie follows standard script Africa that claimed through great
Director: Antoine Fuqua
Nigerian jungle to extract an format. Hence, its only noticeable the lives or millions shots, good
Writers: Alex Lasker and Patrick
American, Dr. Lena Kendricks (Monica drawback is you can anticipate what without much care direction and
Cirillo

Bellucci), from the war-ravaged will happen, for example who will live from the rest of the few words.
Starring: Bruce Willis, Monica
nation. Kendricks refuses to leave and die, from their charar.ter develop-world. Overall, "Tears
Bellucci, Cole Hauser, Fionnula
Director Antoine of the Sun" was
Flanagan

Fuqua is no an entertaining stranger of fictions action-adventure in forgotten realities. His last !'ilm, film. Reality mixed with classic "Training Day," is such a story. Denzel Hollywood conflicts makes it a good Washington starred as an LAPD veter­"popcorn movie." an narcotics officer who has corrupt ways of enforcing law and raises ethi­cal questions for rookie Ethan Hawke. Contact Joe Heieck at Washington won an Academy Award jheieckl@nd.edu 
Lt. A.K. Waters (Bruce WIiiis) and his SEAL team attempt to get villagers to Cameroon while fighting off the rebel army. 

Want to write for the Observer? 
Scene is looking for writers to review movies Contact Scene at scene@nd.edu if you are 
interested 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 27, 2003 
Under Brey, Irish now have national respect 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
They last met on a basketball court called Madison Square, when one program had three future NBA play­ers and the other team had a lot of star-struck looks on their facl's. 
In the Preseason NIT Classic three years ago, few doubted Arizona, Kentucky and Maryland belonged in one of the most prestigious early­season tournamenl'>. 
But Notn! Dame? The Irish hadn't been to the NCAA Tournament smce the early 1990s. 
Then, the Irish were out of iheir lnague, and they knew it. They lost to Arizona 76-60 in a game that was never close. 
"Back then, we were in kind of awe," senior Matt Carroll said, who was a freshman when Notre Dame last played Arizona. "It was the first time we had been in that territory. 
You went out there and gave it your best." 
Three years ago, few thought the Irish belonged on the same court as the Wildcats. Tonight. the two teams will meet in the West Regional semifi­nal with an Elite Eight berth on the line. 
The increased respect for fifth-seed­
"We are goin_q in there ... to beat Arizona, even though nobody is probably going to pick 
us. 
Matt Carroll Irish guard 
ed Notre Dame -playing in the Sweet Sixteen for the first time smce 1987 -shows how far the program has risen in three years of Mike Brey's leadership. 
After the Irish lost to Arizona in the Preseason NIT in former coach Matt Doherty's only year at the helm, the Irish went on to finish runners-up in the NIT after narrowly missing an NCAA berth. But under Brey, the Irish have advanced to the NCAA Tournament three consecutive years after an 11-year drought. The only Big East team to win 10 league games the last three years, the Irish are one of just nine teams to win first-round tourney games in three 
ill 
:E 
<
Q 
ill 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
<
z 
N 
a:: 
<[ 
COACHING 
Brey is a good moti­vator and he often has his teams well pre­pared, espcially for big games. This sea­son is the first time the Irish made the Sweet Sixteen since 1987. 
In 20 years as Arizona's head coach, Olsen has won nearly 700 games and one national title. He has taken fom teams to the Final Four and has the second highest winning percentage in Pac-10 history. 


consecutive years. 

Of course, Arizona, Duke and Kansas -the other teams in the West Regional -are also in that elite company. In the group of four, three are traditional college basket­ball powerhouses. Notre Dame is the relative newcomer. 
But that donsn't mean Brey thinks the Irish arc in over their heads. 
"l like thai we are in with those three programs because r think we do belong," he said. "I think we're thought of in that mix now with these throe years and that step we took m Indianapolis. Our guys certainly have a lot of pride in our program now." 
Back in 1999, the Irish were hop­ing just to stay competitive with the Wildcats and gleam a morsel of respect. Now they're looking to extend their tournament run. · 
For Notre Dame, who plays a No. 1 seed for the second straight year after losing to Duke in the second round last year, tonight's game rf'p­
son as possible. 

They'll try to do so at Arrowhead Pond, where Dan Miller advanced to the Final Four when he played for Maryland. 
"We believe that we are one of the top programs and one of 1.he best teams m the country, and we expect to win those games," said Carroll, who is one of two players on Notre Dame's team left from the squad that lost to the Wildcats three years ago. "We are going in there ... to go beat Arizona, even though nobody is probably going to pick us." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
STYLE OF PLAY 
The Irish rely on their perimeter players for most of their points, but Francis has provided offense at times in the tourney. Notre Dame needs to play at their tempo and not let Arizona dictate the pace of the game. 
~:::::::::::::::::::= ::==========:--_-_-,:_---.... 
The Wildcats have a solid inside game and very good perimeter players. They also have shown the ability to score in bunches. Arizona will try to push the ball and run-and­gun with the Irish. 
Both teams can 
score, but the differ­/efice rnay,be who can \control tite jmc~ of tbeii ig&,ne. Each"te.4,n,, ha'~: 
stellar perimeter play­
ers and big mf'n who 
can run the tloor. 
resents a turn­ing point of sorts. The team's goal since June has been lo qualify for the Sweet Sixteen. and with that goal met, 1.he Irish now turn toward making as much noise in the postsea-

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Irish coach Mike Brey pumps his fist during Notre Dame's 66-60 win against Illinois Saturday. The Notre Dame team that got blown out by Arizona three years ago is far different from the Brey-coached squad that takes on the Wildcats tonight. 
POST PLAYERS 
Francis played well for the Irish in their first two tourney games by scoring reboundmg and playing good defense. He, along with Cornette and Timmermans will need to shut down the Wildcats' big men like they did against Illmois. 
The experienced Walton is arguably the best passing big man in the nation. He hurts teams in difl'erent ways by either scoring, pass­ing or rebounding. Frye will also present problems for the Irish inside. 
PERIMETER PLAYERS 
Thomas played great in Notre Dame's first two tourney games. Carroll is healthier than last week and should be a more productive scorer. The Irish will need these two along with Miller and Quinn to shoot well from the outside to win.  
Gardner and Stoudamire arc a tough tandem in Arizona's backcourt. Gardner may be the best point guard in the country, and both can shoot well from the outside. The Wildcat bench also has several other solid perimeter players.  
The kev to this matchup, and probablyltt,~, ~ame) !~..,:Jhomas \versus Gardrrnr. 'Rom .Will want toldffltr<I the flow ot\.ltheti.game.waml both can score a lot points, espocially when their team needs a bas­ket.  

BENCH 
Notre Dame has relied on solid play from Quinn. Cornette and Jones off the bench and they will need all three to play well again Thursday. Jones is the Irish spark and he could­play a big factor against the Wildcats. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Arizona has one of the deepest benches in the country. Olsen plays his freshman a lot -except dovm the stretch when he turns to his veterans. Still, the freshmen have con­tributed all year. The Wildcats' depth is one of their biggest assets. 
INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's goal since summer was to make it to the Sweet Sixteen. Now that they're there, they may become passive. Miller. the only player with Sweet Sixteen experience, needs to keep the Irish focused and hungry. 
The best thing to hap­pen to Arizona was 1.o have a close game like they did against Gonzaga. That contest should wake the Wildcats up and have them more than ready to face the Irish. 

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Unwavering support 
... 
Torin Francis' teammates gave him the confidence to live up to his lofty expectations 
important Francis would be, By ANDREW SOUKUP senior Matt Carroll picked the !iport, Writer freshman as his weight lifting 
partner in the summer. That 
I hi wm, just a 6-lilot-lO, gangly started what teammates joking frnshman whnn he arrived on callnd a big brother-little brother campus lhis summer. lie hadn·t relationship between Notre earnml his t1\,UlHnates respPd yot Dame's veteran leader and Notre and hadn't shown he could Iii! the Dame's primary post threat. gap in Notre Dame's frnntcourt. "In the summer, I could ask 
lie hadn't nwn liftnd weights him questions, and he'd give me on a rf\gular husis. advice," Francis said. "If I have a 
Sum, he had a reputation for problem, I know I can talk to being one or the nation's top big Matty. We're really close, and it's mPn out of high school, and he beon going on throughout the was good enough to earn year." Mcl)onalcJ's All-American honors. But it wasn't just Carroll who But his acmmplishnrnnts in high spent time working with Francis. school amounted to diddlysquat By playing countless pickup in coll,1g1\, and h11 knew that. games in the summer, Francis 
So whPn Torin Francis joinnd got accustomed to how thn Irish lhe Irish for summer workouts, played together. The veterans, lw was eager to lnarn everything meanwhile, spent time teaching he could about the college game. Francis the finer points of the I!is tmunmates, he quickly dis­game. covered, were morn than eagor Point guard Chris Thomas, for to tmtch lhmn. example, made a concerted effort 
That started a confidence­to got Francis extra touches so he .... huilding process l'or Francis, a could go to the basket more. Dan promss that rnsultnd in solid play Miller usod his experience to help from the Irish freshman in Notre Francis get used to playing Dame's first two NCAA against inside-outside players. Tournanwnt games. And Jordan Cornette selnessly 
But for Francis, his work in the battled with the freshman who st1111111nr showed he could be the might take his minutes to help get answPr to a question that loom!~d him accustomed to physical col­over tlw Irish basketball pro­lege basketball. gram: how would Notre Dame Hy the time practice ollicially rnplai:n Harold Swanagan and started, Francis was a confident lirst-rmmd NBJ\ draft pick Hyan man. Ilumphrny'! "In the summer, I trind to instill 
"One thing that was qunstion­the mentality in myself that I abln about our tnam in Urn fall have to be ready to go out and was tlw typ,i of balance we'd play," he said. "I knew I could be have lmtwrnm the perimelnr and starting as a freshman, I knew front court guys," Francis said. "I lhat was a possibility. and I think k1ww there wern great nxpncta­being able to play early helped tions for me m, a frnshman." me gain confidence." 
lixpm:tations, Francis now says. 
Starting quickly 
that he thinks he livnd up to. 
The philosophy of Notre Bulldlng a big man Dame's early-season schedule A week ago, after Francis since Mike Brey arrived three 
just folt like I established my role because they said, 'If he's effec­a game and recording nine dou­scornd 23 points and grabbnd 14 years ago has been one where on the team," he said. "I felt like J tive, we'll give him the ball."' ble-doubles.
rebounds in Notre Dame's first­the Irish play a horde ofgames in was getting better from then on." In the NCAA Tournament,round victory over Wisconsin­order to give freshman tons of Stretch run Francis followed his offensiveMilwaukne, someone asked Irish game experience early. Big East big man As the Big East season wore on, 
outburst against Wisconsin­
coach Mike Brey when Francis The plan worked well for Slowly but surely, the Irish Francis developed a reputation as Milwaukee with a solid perfor­started playing like anything hancis, who saw significant play­began to trust their big man with an excellent rebounder -he mance against Illinois. Althoughother than a freshman. ing time and scored decent points the ball more. An athletic averages 8.3 boards a game ­he only scored five points on 1­Brey thought about the ques­in Notre Dame's first five games rebounder and a solid defender, and a solid defender. What's for-9 shooting, he was a key part
tion for a of the sea-Brey often complemented the more, he proved himself wise 
of a defensive alignment that lim­
minute before son. play of his big man even if he beyond his years when, if the 
ited Big Ten Player of the Yearlaying the But the didn't have the points to support shots didn't fall in the first half,
..Ifyou look at how many Brian Cook to just 6-for-23 shoot­
groundwork for sixth game, such generous praise. he refused to get taken out of his what Francis times I got the ball at the an 85-80 Francis knew he was improv­game. ing ­
Now that the Irish arc in the was expected beginning ofthe season Irish loss to ing. Instead of merely standing "I know they say that freshmen 
midst of an NCAA Tournament
to do when he Creighton, with the ball when he caught a hit a wall during the season,"
and how many times I run, Francis has also started
arrived at showed pass, Francis started making his Francis sajd_ "Some games, I just
get it now. it just shows establishing himself as a vocal
Notre Dame. how much move to the basket much quicker, didn't have a good game, and you 
leader in the locker room. He
Tlrn Irish had how much more ofan the big man which started generating more can't have a good game every knows the time will come whenIost three had to points. game. But there were games that
effect I can have." Carroll and Miller graduate, and
senior leaders. learn. Ile In a situation thal shows more I was effective." 
a new wave of leaders will havetwo of' whom never got about Francis' improvement than The Irish began making con­
to emerge in the Irish locknr 
wero major Torin Francis into the his skills, the freshman was in certed efforts to get the ball to room to lead thti frnshmen in the ­contributors in Irish forward flow of the danger of getting taken out ol' a Francis, who proved himself 
summer.
tlw post. Notrn game, got game against Pittsburgh bocause adept at either kicking the ball But for now, those leaders whoDamn had bPPn benched he was too reluctant to go to the out or scoring on demand. When groomed Francis in the summer a hiam in the early and basket with the ball. In fact, Brey earlier in the season Francis sel­
have startnd saying something
p,L-.t that looked down low bnlhre only played si..x minutes. had sent Cornette to the scorer's dom touched the ball on offensive entirely different to the playerlooking long-range. And with all Vnt. much like he would in Big table to check in when Francis possessions, Thomas would often who is only a freshman by gradetlw losses th(l Irish had endurnd, East games later in the season, suddenly grabbed a pass, spun dribble around the 3-point lino only.
llniy thought they wern an NIT­Francis bou need back to record toward the basket like a veteran waiting for Francis to establish "I wanted to establish mysnlf incalilm r team. lwo of his best perforrnanc:es of' big man and scored an easy himsfl!f. 
our systPm and gel rncog-nit.ion IL'l"Tlwn," Brey said. "I saw how the s1111son at the BB&T Classic, la.yup. After Francis repeated the "If you look at how many times a freshman, be elfoctive, and pluyTorin could play." where the Irish trounced move the next series, Brey wavnd I got the ball in the beginning of' on a winning team," Francis said.
Buoy!id by a summer spnnt Maryland and edgrd Texas. In Cornette back to the bench, and the season, and how many tirnns I "My teammates lwlpnd me a lotworking with Notrn Danrn's V(1t­tlrn two victories over top 10 tlm Irish went on to knock off the get it now," Francis said. "it just with that. 
nra11 1mrinwt11r playors. Francis teams, Francis averagP-d 20.5 then-No. 4 Panthers. shows how much moro or an "Now, they'rn just telling 11111 toslowly blossomed into a player poinL-. and nine rebounds, which "My teammates had conlidnnce effect I have on the game now." 
kenp going and kHep it up." 
who, if lw couldn't dominalP col­workPd wonders for the f'resh­in me, and that helped mo gain lie accomplished one of' his 

lcw• fons at lirst, at lnast he could  rnan's confidence.  conlidencc in myself," Francis  pre-soason  goals by getting  
hold his 11wn on thn court.  "That was definitPly a bnost for  said. "I think my teammates aro  named to the Big East All-Hookie  Contact Andrew Soukup at  
Showing that lw krrnw how  tlw tPam, but fi:lf mf1 personally, I  willing  to  pass  me  the  ball  toam after averaging 10.7 points  asoukup@nd.edu  

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 27, 2003 
Good 'D' might not stop hot-shooting Wildcats 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
At one point in the season, the word "defense" seemed to be just that to the Irish bas­ketball team -a word. 
However, in Notre Dame's first two NCAA Tournament victories, the Irish won in large part due to a stingy defense that had disappeared for most of the 2003 calendar year. 
But will a strong commit­ment to defense be enough to help the Irish knock off top­seeded Arizona tonight? 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey isn't sure. 
A year ago, when the Irish faced Duke in the second round, Brey told his players they would probably have to score 80-pius points to win, because he knew the Irish would have a tough time stop­ping the prolific Blue Devil offense. 
So how many points does Brey think the Irish need against Arizona, who enters tonight's game averaging a national-best 85.4 points a game? 
"I'm thinking about asking for a hundred," Brey said, only half-kidding. 
Although Brey thinks the Irish match up fairly well against the Wildcats, who play a style of basketball similar to Notre Dame's perimeter-ori­ented attack, every member of Arizona's starting five aver­ages double-digits in scoring. 
Jason Gardner leads the Wildcats in scoring with an average of 14.3 points per game, but he is closely fol­lowed by 3-point sharpshooter Salim Stoudamire, who aver­ages 13.4 points a game and shoots 44.1 percent from behind the arc. 
When the Wildcats want to look inside. they can pass to either Channing Frye or Rick Anderson, who average 12.8 and 10. 7 points a game, respectively. 
What helps make the Wildcats so dangerous, how­ever, is forward Luke Walton, the son of Hall-of-Farner Bill Walton. One of the best pass­ing big men in the nation, Walton averages 10.3 points and 4.9 assists a game -the same assist average as point guard Gardner. 
Couple those impressive offensive statistics with the fact that the Wildcats are a relatively experienced team, and the Irish have good rea­son to be worried. 
"To try and guard the best offensive team in the country right now, we're not going to shut them down," Brey said. "But if we can take a few things away every now and then, that certainly would help the effort." 
Throughout the season, the Irish have been a team whose defensive prowess is directly related to their offensive pro­duction. If the shots fall for the Irish, then the players appear to buckle down on defense more. 
But if the shooters start going cold, as they did in the latter stages of the season when Notre Dame often gave up over 80 points a game, the Irish give up big scoring runs that put them in a hole too big to climb out of. 
Against a team with as many offensive weapons as the Wildcats, Brey knows that if the Irish fall back into that trap, h.is squad will be in trou­ble. 
"We are a kind of team that needs our offense going a lit­tIe bit to get our defense going," Brey said. "That's kind of who we are." 
Against Illinois, however, the Irish played defense in a way exactly as Brey described. They hit 11 first half 3-pointers while limiting the Illini to just 60 points in the game. 
Brey believes the Irish have the offensive firepower to knock off the Wildcats. Because both teams rely on the 3-point shot, Brey thinks scores could easily spiral up into the triple-digits. 
The Wildcats are also com­ing off a second-round scare when they beat Gonzaga in double-overtime. And all their offensive talent isn't making the Irish back down. 
"To be the best, you've got to beat the best," Irish point guard Chris Thomas said, "and Arizona is on top right now." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


--
... 

THE 
OBSERVER 


Thursday, March 27, 2003 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Piglet's Big Movie' a postmodern haymaker 
By BJ STRFW Scene Movi~ Critic 
Laugh it up, sure, but most critics miss tlw boat on the Winnie the Pooh spin-offs. Anymw rcmcmbPr the Tigger l\lovic? Alas. after its celebrated run on the fnstival circuit. it was roundly ignon1d by both Amnrican critical and mainstn~am audiences. Most wrote it o!T as a run-of-the-mill children's musi­cal. appniciating neither its debt to the French New Wave nor its droll, nuancrd commentary on American pol­itics. So it is a small wonder that it bypassed the mcgaplex on its way to tlw living room VCH or DVD player. 
l'igl<it's Big Movie is inarguably one or lhP most ingenious spin-offs ever imag­inl'd -mon\ so even than Tang. (Thanks, N/\S/\.) At last, the much­maligrwd genre or animated musicals has subsumed the long-ignored genres of th1\ spaghetti western, the Chinese "wuxia pian," burlPsque, film noir and blaxploitation movies in this dazzling postmodern salmagundi. At last, the runt or the llundred Acre Wood family gPts his nf'tcPn minutes. 
Terror. in the f'orm of' marauding ro11in, again plagues the serene llundrPd /\ere Wood. It goes without the Pooh franchise, nor the clashing Hobin will be puzzled over for years by presidential election mechanism. saying that Christopher Hobin, the melange of genres. Fans of Dolemite undergrad lilm majors. Critics should agree -this time ­jadPd-yPt-prissy British leader of said will recognize Piglet's voice as belonging In the end, the sundry influences of B­that decades will pass before such a ronin. supplitis tlw to the relentlessly movie titan Roger Corman, singer-song­nonpareil triumph of creative and cor­pnirisP amount of' 
debonair Rudy writer Chris Yanek and New Wave trail­porate forces working in tandem could horll'd nwnacP lo Ray Moore. Fred blazer Francois Truffaut collide in a be matched, let alone outdone. One propel the action "The Hammer" graphic triple-trainwreck of a movie thing's for sure: in order to save the ani­ol' the story. In the Williamson, of that nevertheless draws the obligatory mated musicals genre, Piglet had to p<•nultimal<' danc­Black Caesar rubbernecking. Tigger's anterograde destroy it. And postrnodernisrn was his ing showdown fame, takes on amnesia, the Pulp Fiction-style frag­wrecking ball. 
brtwcc~n tlrn Producer: Michelle Pappalardo-Robinson 
the dual task of mented narrative and the off-kilter 
Animator: Alexander Williams
Pigl1\l-Hoo-Kanga furnishing the stripteases make for a consistently
Voices: John Fiedler, Jim Cummings, Ken
camp and Hobin's voices of both pleasurable experience, while preserv­Contact BJ Strew at 
Sansom, Peter Cullen

srt of' bandits, it's Eeyore and Pooh. ing its satirical take on the American wstrew@nd.edu Superf'ly meets Pooh, world­S1irgio Lnonn in weary, with a 
I 1H0's Manhattan. Then Philip Glass chip on his shoulder, and brandishing a chimes in. lustrous platinum wakizashi, is finally 
Truth bn told, however, Glass's stri­summoned to right Robin's wrongs d1int Tibetan score finally meshes nei­against the forest dwellers. His final tlwr with the sunny, easygoing tenor of mano-a-mano melee with the fiendish 
While Pooh wears his ever-present smile, Piglet's worried countenance reveals that all Is not as serene as It seems for their famlllar group of friends. 



Thursday, March 27, 2003 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
,,.. 
NBA 
Hot shooting Philadelphia knocks off Indiana 
Things kept getting worse for "It was nice to pull it out and 
Associa1cd Pres, 
the Celtics after that. The get one of those gut wins," said Warriors opened the fourth Kittles, who was 10-for-14 from 
INDIANAPOLIS 

quarter with a 20-5 run that the field. "We've been trying to Allen Iverson had 22 points made it 101-79, their biggest do that but we've been coming
and 10 assists and the 
lead, with 5:35 remaining. up short. We were more orga­Philadelphia 76ers missed only Murphy and Williams traded nized down the stretch and we four shots in the fourth quarter baskets at the start of the surge played really good defense." 
in defeating the Indiana Pacers before Murphy hit a jumper and In their last three close games91-85 Wednesday night. 
Arenas sank a 3-pointer. making at home, the Nets played poorly 
The Sixers received strong 
lt88-76. down the stretch in losses to
fourth quarters from Iverson, 
Pierce then made a free throw Utah, Philadelphia andKeith Van Horn and Eric Snow to 
before Golden State got the next Milwaukee. 
. come back from a five-point 
eight points on 3-pointers by "I would say 75 percent of the deficit at the end of the third. 
Arenas and Richardson and a season we would have thatPhiladelphia was only 23-for­layup by Jamison that gave the spurt," said Richard Jefferson,
64 from the floor through the 
Warriors a 96-77 lead with 7:29 who added 18 points. "Then 10first three quarters before mak­to play. games you don't have that spurt, ing 11 of its first 13 in the fourth. 
something goes wrong. All of a
The Sixers never led until 
sudden. you're struggling in the
Iverson swished a 19-footer from Raptors 89, Cavaliers 83 fourth quarter." 
the left wing to put them ahead Morris Peterson scored 14 of 
The Knicks were the ones who
68-67. his 21 points in the second half 
struggled down the stretch. They 
The Pacers regained a one­as the Toronto Raptors ended a 
made only two baskets after
point lead after two free throws three-game losing skid with a 
Kittles gave New Jersey an 87 -85 
by Al Harrington with four min­89-83 victory over the Cleveland 
lead, and they saw Latrell 
utes left. It would be their last Cavaliers on Wednesday night. 
Sprewell turn the ball over twice
lead of the game. Vince Carter added 18 points 
and Allan Houston once.
Van Horn. who scored six of for the lottery-bound Raptors, his 10 points in the fourth. gave losers of nine of their previous Philadelphia a 78-76 lead on a 10. Pistons 102, Hawks 99 
baseline dunk. He appeared to Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 25 Chauncey Billups hit the bighurt his right hand on the play. points and nine rebounds for the shot, but only because Mehmet shaking it as he returned down­Cavaliers, who recorded consec­Okur gave him the chance. 
utive wi.ns for the first ti.me this
court. Billups hit a 3-pointer with Iverson. Van Horn and Derrick season before coming to one-tenth of a second left to give
Coleman scored successive bas­Toronto. At 14-57. Cleveland has 
the Detroit Pistons a 102-99 vic­
kets to cap the 9-0 run and put the worst record in the NBA. tory over the Atlanta Hawks on the Sixers up 84-76. Coleman Ilgauskas' ninth point of the 
Wednesday night. 
finished with 13 points and 11 third quarter cut Toronto's lead Billups would have not gottento two. but Peterson made two 3­
rebounds. that chance without the play of 
Snow added 18 for the Sixers pointers and a layup during an 
the Turkish rookie. Okur scored 
and Kenny Thomas had 10 18-6 run as the Raptors entered 
all of his 16 points in the fourth 
points and 10 rebounds. the fourth with a 14-point lead. 
quarter, helping Detroit over­Jermaine O'Neal, playing with Peterson·s short jumper and come a 15-point deficit in the The game-winner was the sec­over the Memphis Grizzlies. 
a bruised right shoulder, led the Voshon Lenard's 18-foot jumper final 9:20. · ond in less than three weeks for Shawn Marion missed a 15­Pacers with 24 points and Ron gave Toronto an 18-point early "I think this may be the best Billups. He hit a 3-pointer at the footer with about five seconds Artest had 15. in the fourth. game of my life," Okur said. "I buzzer March 9 to give the left, but got his own rebound and Jermaine Jones· dunk capped think was able to give my team­Pistons a 107-105 win over found Marbury on the right wing an 8-2 run as the Cavaliers mates some energy. Everyone Golden State. for the winning three-point play. 
Warriors 107, Celtic 95 
Jason Richardson scored 31 closed within 11 with just over thought the game was over. and "Chauncey is a confident guy Marbury had seen limited points and the Golden State five minutes left, but Toronto's some of our fans left. but this is who is only thinking about a action in the second half after Warriors broke open a close Rafer Alston followed with a why we are the best team in the win," Carlisle said. "He has done catching a knee to his thigh with 
jumper. a steal and an assist on East." some great things at the end of 8:18 left in the third period. 
game early in the fourth quarter 
Peterson's two-handed dunk games." "I really had no burst,"
to hand the Boston Celtics their Pistons coach Rick Carlisle was
with 4:15 left. Terry, who played all but 13 Marbury said. "I tried to play the 
sixth straight loss, 107-95 thrilled with his rookie.
Milt Palacio's 3-pointer. Jones' seconds after playing 42 minutes 
Wednesday night. "Mehmet just plays the game," playmaker role. The [winning]
three-point play and Carlos Tuesday in a loss to the Lakers, shot was just there. It was ordi­
Three other Warriors had at Carlisle said. "He's not bashful
Boozer's jumper cut Toronto's said he was hurting more emo­nary. The same thing I always
least 18 points -Antawn or indecisive and he is getting a 
..

lead to five with 25 seconds left, tionally than physically. d
Jamison with 29. Gilbert Arenas better sense of when to be o. 
but Palacio missed a 3-pointer "It's hard to work that hard all Memphis couldn't get the ball
with 23 and Troy Murphy with aggressive and when to kick the
with 10 seconds left and Carter night and then lose because inbounds for a tying shot after
18 -as Golden State shot 52 ball out." 
ran out the clock. someone hits a deep bomb on Marbury's winner. 
percent from the field. Murphy After Shareef Abdur-Rahim's
Peterson. removed from the you at the buzzer," he said. "I
• added 11 rebounds. put back dunk tied the game at Phoenix snapped a three-game
starting lineup twice last week, feel fine -I was more tired last road losing streak, while
Paul Pierce had 25 points and 99 with 29 seconds left in over­Eric Williams 15 for the Celtics, went 9-for-18 from the field. He time, the shot clock was turned night -but this one is very Memphis lost for the first time at 
also had six rebounds and four demoralizing."
whose losing streak is their off when Jason Terry committed home in its last four. 
assists.

longest of the season. a foul. Billups took Jon Barry's "Give Marbury credit. he had a 
The Warriors. corning off a 21-inbounds pass and drained a Suns 101, Grizzlies 99 tough shot. got fouled and hit the point loss at Cleveland the previ­Nets 101, Knicks 95 jumper over Terry from the top Stephon Marbury capitalized free throw," said Memphis for­ous night, took an 81-7 4 lead on For a change, the New Jersey of the key. when the Phoenix Suns got a ward Shane Battier, who guard­a driving layup by Arenas -who Nets won a close home game in "I wasn't getting what I want­second chance at a game-win­ed Marion. "They made one 
.. then slammed the ball off the the fourth quarter. ed when I went to the basket ner. more big play than us." floor. Antoine Walker protested Kerry Kittles' 3-pointer with tonight. and when I did get Marbury scored 23 points, Amare Stoudemire added 22 that Arenas should get a techni-· 5:43 to go ignited a 14-2 spurt there, I was struggling to finish," including an 18-footer and a free points for Phoenix, while Marion cal foul, and referee Dan that carried the Nets to a 101-95 said Billups. "I did what I was throw with 1.2 seconds left had 21 point.5 and 18 rebounds, Crawford assessed one to both victory over the New York comfortable with -I just put it Wednesday night that gave the Penny Hardaway scored 18, and Arenas and Walker. Knicks on Wednesday night. up and it went down." Phoenix Suns a 101-99 victory Marbury added eight assists. 

The Observer acc:epts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for neyr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contc:ni withouc issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are  
~  NOTICES STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE 3-4 OR 5 PERSON 2STORY BBLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEW EVERYTHING. WIRED FOR COMPUTERS ECT AVAIL SUMMER OR FALL 235-3655  FOR SALE Laptop Computer $250, Dell Computer (with mon, kb, mouse, Win98) $150. 229·3333 Two speakers, 18 inch Bass Vins for P.A. $75. 631-5195. Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath, fire­place, full bsmt, 2 car att garage. fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 288-2001  FOR RENT Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272· 1525 www.mmmrentals.com HOUSE AVAILABLE tum. 4b2ba, walk to campus. jo5225@aol.com Summer Sub-lease 1 bedroom apartment-fully furnished-cable t.v.­5 minutes from campus/good neighborhood. $350 a month. Call 229·1691  3·4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT: CALL Anlan Properties, LLC 532-1896 1 ·Bdrm apts 1/2 mile from ND. $500/mo. 283-0325 LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND 2773097 2 Rms(1 furn),Lg house.nice area. Spa,tanning bed 229-3333. Unplanned pregnancy?  PERSONAL Don t go it alone: If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  you pregnant and don! know what to do? Loving, open­hearted, financially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal. Call 904-824-7006. Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class by March 31st and get $100°back. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST today for info.  

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FIGURE SKATING 
Kwan wins group at World Championships 
Associated Pre•• 
WAS! IINGTON Michelle Kwan could have done this in her sleep. 
Kwan practically tumbled out of bed to beat Hussia's Elena Sokolova and U.S. teammate Sasha Cohen, winning her quali­fying group at the World Figure Skating Championships. Olympic champion Sarah Hughes was sixth. 
"It's odd to skate so early, compete so early," said Kwan, whose Wednesday session began at 10:30 a.m. "But all the skaters are in the same boat." 
Well, they wish they were in the same boat as Kwan. 
Considered the "old !adv" of the sport -her first worlds were in 1994 -the 22-year-old Kwan remains a force. The lack of an Olympic title has had little or no effect on her. Kwan tends to perform steadily, and better than the competition. 
She skated in only two events this year. not having to leave this country for Skate America and the U.S. Championships. She won both. taking her seventh national title and sixth in a row. 
Now Kwan leads at worlds, where she has won four times. Only Carol 1-!eiss and Dick Button have won five among Americans. 
"Ah, it just felt like another competition," Kwan said with a sigh and a smile. "I feel pretty 
_'(ou .,are invited· i'~ hea~ Deirdre McQuade 
. . • , . ·' .. 'jr .· :_j;.,,aa f.'. . •· 
National Program Director, Feminists for Life of Americij; 
relaxed and comfortable. It's nice not having to travel so far. I guess that is the Americans' advantage. And having the crowd cheer for you." 
Japan's Fumie Suguri, the bronze medalist a year ago, won the other qualifier, followed by Canada's Jennifer Robinson and Russia's Viktoria Volchkova. 
The MCI Center was about one-third full for Kwan's group, which also included Hughes. who had a ragged performance that included a fall and two shortened jumps. 
Cohen hit seven triple jumps, three in combination, and had a strong conclusion to her routine to a piano concerto by Rachmaninov. She was mechan­ical early on, but her spins and spirals were superb at the end and she finished first with one of the seven judges. Her marks, however, ranged from 5.1 to 5.9, while Kwan's were 5.7 to 5.9. 
"It takes a lot of composure to do seven triples and skate well against the tough group that we had," Cohen said. 
As for the 5.1. she added: "I was kind of like, 'Whoa,' because I have got pretty high marks all season not skating as well as this." 
Of course, under the interim system in use at worlds, with only seven of 10 judges' marks counting, it is unknown if the 5.1 actually mattered. 
While Cohen didn't flow nearly 
·{~,;)'< 

as well as Kwan, her program was pretty much spotless. Kwan did mess up once late in hers, and she wore an,ironic smile after doing just a single toe loop as the second part of a combina­tion with a triple toe. 
"What was that'?" she said, laughing. "I was like. 'OK, got to go."' 
Hughes lacked spark and looked rusty from lack of compe­tition this season -an injured leg sidelined her until nationals, where she was second behind Kwan. She never got in the air for a planned triple salchow­triple loop combination, and then after a nice triple loop out of footwork, she fell on a triple flip. Later. Hughes managed only a single toe loop rather than a triple. 
"My body is a little tight right now." Hughes said. "I didn't have a year of competitions to rely on." 
It was a disappointing perfor­mance after Hughes lit up the arena in Dallas for her free skate at nationals. Her chances for a first world title disap­peared. Even a medal will be dif­ficult for the 17-year-old high school senior who has dealt well with the distractions that follow an Olympic champion. 
"This last year has been so 

many new things, things I'm not sure where they fit in my life," she said. "To come here is a lit­tle comforting." 
Sokolova's mouth was wide four in combination. Two judges open almost in disbelief after fin-had her first and her marks ishing a technically strong pro­ranged from 5.6 to 5.9, but her gram that included seven triples, artistry couldn't match Kwan's. 
I .. ,~: , ••• ,•· • ·;, • 
·--/L: 
present" Q,on't Women Deserve Better than Abortib 
. . ~· 1it•,; I:. :f' . ' K 
. ',hi,·~.,. ,i,r,:i,:11~;~J•rlt, ,, ' 
-1 Tuetlly, April 1at 7pill~ ~~~lor, Saint Mary's ;~: 
: • t!<'•··. . -) 
Q&A Peri9d and Refreshrrie.nts to follow 
IJJ c:J l'!1 Q N 
i 

,. 
:t 
0-B!ilE:AJiE 

\ \ff:'·':,:<::·
\ ,
. ........___~­


, I, 

Woman Ooserv• Boll« I• a1&rvlco mork ol Fl!fl1inl•l• lor Lil• of Amark• 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
League rejects OT changes 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

NFL owners changed nothing. 
The league closed its annual spring meeting Wednesday by voting down a proposal to give both teams a shot at the ball in overtime. And it tabled apropos­al to expand the playoffs from 12 teams to 14. 
The plan to change the over­time rule got 17 votes, seven short of the 24 required for pas­sage. 
"They made the decision because the current system pre­sents .a tremendous reward or risk. That's something that adds a lot of excitement to the game," said Indianapolis general man­ager Bill Polian, who helped con­vince the other teams by citing the Colts' 23-20 win overtime win over the Broncos in the Denver snow. 
The expansion of the playoffs got more support than either commissioner Paul Tagliabue or competition committee chairman Rich McKay expected. 
But it was tabled until the league's May meeting in Philadelphia because, Tagliabue said, the league had to study the ramifications for both competi­tion and television coverage involved in adding two wild-card teams. 
Some teams also are con­cerned that only one team would have a bye under the proposed system. And both Tagliabue and McKay noted it was a change in an agreement to wait two years with the new eight-division alignment before tinkering with the playoffs. 
"We had no problems last year with the alignment," said McKay, Tampa Bay's general manager. "The teams that made the play­offs were the teams with the best records." 
The change in overtime was proposed after a record 25 games went into an extra session last year. Ten of those were won by a team on its first possession and 58 percent were won by the team that won the coin toss at the start of the OT. 
One of those was the game in Denver, which seemed to sway many teams. 
In that contest, which was tele­vised nationally, the Colts' Mike Vanderjagt tied the game with a 54-yard field goal in regulation. Indianapolis then won the coin toss in overtime and moved the ball far enough for Vanderjagt to try a 51-yarder into the wi.nd, which he made. 
Polian said that if it wasn't sudden death, head coach Tony Dungy certainly would have cho­sen to punt; he sent the punting team on the field until Vanderjagt convinced him to try the field goal. 
"That game made our season," Polian said. "It's probably the main reason we made the play­offs. If there had been two pos­sessions, a defensive-minded coach like Tony certainly would have tried to pin them back. That would have been the right call. But the reward for kicking was much greater -we won the game on the spot." 
In another move, the league changed the rules involving onside kicks in the final five min­utes of games. 
In the past, if a ball did not go 10 yards, went out of bounds, or was touched illegally, the kicking team was penalized, but had a chance to kick again from five yards back. McKay said that while that was rewarding a team for an illegal play, coaches want­ed it retained; the coaches feared teams would stop trying surprise onside kicks. 
It finally passed when it was amended to cover only the final five minutes, when a trailing team often tries to get back in the game by getting another pos­session through an onside kick. 
The owners also spent consid­erable time discussing racial diversity in hiring practices. There was no agreement, how­ever, on what discipline to take against the Detroit Lions, who hired head coach Steve Mariucci without meeting the new guide­lines to interview at least one minority candidate. 
The Lions said that five prospective black candidates turned them down because it was clear that Mariucci was the first choice for the job. 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 
NBA 

Mourning plans on return if healthy 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Alonzo Mourning intends to play basketball next sea­son, as long as his body cooperates. 
"My intentions are to play. The only thing that can stop me is my body," Mourning said Wednesday in a tele­phone interview from Chicago. "Other than that, I know I can play." 
Mourning, who was forced to miss the 2002-2003 NBA season with a kidney ail­ment, was at the University of Chicago Hospitals to speak with patients as part of an educational campaign called Rebound from Anemia. Anemia is a fre~ quent byproduct of chronic illnesses like kidney disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. 
"Basketball has helped give me a great lifestyle," Mourning said. ''I've been doing it for 20 years, and it's difficult to turn off the switch. I want to leave on my own terms. I don't want to be forced out by any­thing." 
Sitting out the season was tough on Mourning, espe­cially having to watch from the sidelines as his Miami 
Heat teammates floundered in last place in thp, Atlantic Division. 
"It was difficult to sit around and watch your team suffer and leave it all out there, and know that you can still contribute to those games," Mourning said. 
Mourning was diagnosed with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in October 2000, and missed most of that season before making a surprising return. He was able to play the entire 2001-2002 season, and made his seventh All­Star team appearance. 
"I want to send out a mes­sage to people that this, too, can happen to you," Mourning said about his work in trying to raise awareness about anemia and kidney disease. "You, too, are a target if you don't take care of your body." 
Dr. Patrick Murray, a University of Chicago Medical Center kidney spe­cialist accompanying Mourning on his visit, said Mourning is a role model for patients. 
"He's pretty much a dream patient because he's very serious about his care, and was in wonderful shape going in," Murray said. 

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ace finishes spring strong 
Associat"d Pr.,ss 
FOHT MYFHS, Fla, 

Pedro Martinez capped his healthiest spring in years WPdnPsday with a dominant perl'urmance, marred only by a two-run homer by Cincinnati's Jason LaRue. 
The three-time Cy Young /\ward winner faced the mini­mum through four innings and looked untouchable before stumbling in the fifth and giv­ing up three runs. lie linished wilh nine strikeouts and no walks. 
Still. with the deadline he imposed for a contract exten­sion by thf' end or spring training fast approaching and Handy Johnson having signed a two-year, $33 million con­tract in Arizona this week, most of' the questions after­ward were aboul his future in Boston. 
Answers were harder to come by, 
Martinez said last month that unless Boston picked up his $17.5 million option for 2004 by the end of spring training and re-signed him to a new contract. he would fin­ish his career elsewhere. 
Then he sealed his lips, and said he wouldn't discuss the matter again until the dead­line passed. 
Though the deadline isn't until opening day, Wednesday was Martinez's final appear­ance of spring training, and rnportcrs pushed him for hints or progress. 
"It's been such a long time without doing anything, I should be pessimistic, but I'm not." he said. 
But at other points, he sounded lr1ss sure. While not precisely repeating his threat and insisting he wanted to fin­ish his career in Boston, he didn't appear to be softening. 
"If' they don't show that they have interest in signing me, what am they telling me?" he said. "Whal am I going to do -go in and beg them to <ixtPnd my contract''" 
Martinez said he has nc, rea­

Al Wire 

Boston's Pedro Martinez hurls a pitch from the mound In a spring training loss to Tampa Bay. The right-hander for the Red Sox has had one of his most dominating springs to date. 
son to believe a deal will be done before Monday -but acknowledged he might not be the best person to ask since he told his agent not to come to him until it's done. 
Martinez was also asked if he thought New York Yankees' owner George Steinbrenner was hoping the Red Sox would lose out on Martinez, and about the prospect of one day pitching for a team like the Yankees. He acknowledged it would be quite a spectacle. 
"Pedro Martinez pitching in New York," he said. "I don't even want to think about that." 

Would you like to be a math major and a future physician? How is mathematics useful in biology? Interested yet? 
If you'd like to know, Mu Alpha Theta will hold a meeting on Monday 3 I" of March, 6pm, in 117 Hayes-Healy. 
Dr. Mark Alber, Director of Center of Biocomplexity and a math professor here at Notre Dame will be giving a talk on the applications of math in biology. His team is currently doing research on chick embryo development with the aid of mathematical formulas. 
Come join! This is the LAST meeting of the year, and we will also be holding officers ellections. Don't miss it. Pizza and refreshmens will be served. 
PGA 
Burk takes another shot at CBS, Augusta 
Associated Press 
NRWYORK 

Martha Burk believes it is "appalling" that women who fight for the United States in Iraq face discrimination at home at private golf clubs like Augusta National. 
"Broadcasting the Masters now and showcasing a club that discriminates against women is an insult to the nearly quarter million women in the U.S. armed forces," she said at a news conference Wednesday, 
Burk, chairwoman or the National Council of Women's Organizations, was invited by a half dozen City Council members and representatives of civil rights groups denounc­ing CBS and the club for its all-male membership, 
Several council members planned to introduce a resolu­tion Wednesday condemning Augusta National and asking CBS not to broadcast the tour­nament. 
The Masters, the year's first major tournament, will be held April 10-13, and Burk has said she plans to protest in Augusta, Ga. The American Civil Liberties Union has filed a federal lawsuit on her behalf to hold a protest at the club's front gates. 
Burk said the club's all­male membership is an affront to women in the U.S. armed forces, particularly those in Iraq. 
"It's appalling that the women who are willing to lay down their lives for democrat­ic ideals should be shut out of this club, ,., Democratic ideals do not include discrimina­tion," she said. 
Club spokesman Glenn Greenspan characterized Burk's remarks as "grand­standing." 
"Ms. Burk will say anything to get publicity," Greenspan said. "But if she is invoking the troops to draw more attention to herself, only three words apply -shame on you." 
When asked before the news conference whether her message would be lost because of the attention on Iraq. Burk said her position would actually be strength­ened. 
"Women in the military know what it's like to fight for equal opportunity," she said. "While I know that more important things are on their minds, as more important things are on the mind of the nation, including us, it is just part of a continuum of dis­crimination." 
NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
summer session 2003 
advance 
your studies 
explore 
nevv interests 
¦
experience 
summer at NU 
REQUEST A CATALOG TODAY! 
REGilSTHA~r,oN HEGINS APR.IL 14 CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 23 


NORTI-IWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

847.49'1.5250 www.northwestern.edu/summernu 


page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 27, 2003 

il 
:f=" 
JI 

,#.:;:-­
,;:aiF 
Conference Schedule 
Friday, March 28 
9:00am-5:00pm 

• Conference Registration (Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center) 
6:00pm 

• Dinner at Greenfield's for those involved in the conference 
8:00pm 

• War Got You Down? Visions ofPeace in Troubled Times Panel by various professors (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 
10:00pm 

• Karaoke party (Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center) 
Saturday, March 29 
9:00-lO:00am 

• 
Presentation by Take Ten (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 

• 
Women in War and Peacemaking (Room 102) D9ns L. Bergin, moderator (Professor ofHistory, Peace Studies, and European Studies, University ofNotre Dame) 


-Johanna Hatch (College of St. Benedict), "On Stilts or Off: The Link Between Mothering Activities and Visions of Peace" Gwen Ross (Antioch College), "The Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA) in India as an Example ofGandhi's Vision of Empowerment for Peace through 
women's Education and Development" 
Teresa Hansen (University ofNotre Dame), "Resolution 1325: The Role of Women in Peace Building" Steven Malm (University ofNotre Dame), "The Legacy of the Mothers of the 
Disappeared in Argentina" 
• Regional Conflicts ofthe Middle East and Ce11tral Asia (Room 103) 
-Alisher Khamidov, moderator (University of Notre Dame) Omair Ahmad (Maxwell School, Syrcause University), "Pragmatic Hands, Poetic Souls: Creating Freedom While Rebuilding Kashmir Rob Newberry (McMaster University), "Gandhi, Israel, and the Problem of Hatred" Alexei Zakharov (University of Notre Dame), "Chechnya: An Inter-Ethnic Conflict?" Erica Jskakova (University of Bremen), "Parliami::ntary and Civil Control Over the Military Forces in Kyrgyzstan" 
10:15-11 :45am 

• Opport1111ities and Challenges ofNGO 'sand IGO's in Global Society (Room l02) Moderator TBA Chris DesBar,.es (University ofNotre Dame), "How NGOs Spoiled the Rome Statute" Staci Willits (Antioch College), ''Nonviolent Action and Peace Initiatives in the Middle East: Case Studies of Three Organizations and How They Might Work Together to be More Effective" Adam Leonard (St. John's University), "From India to Iraq: The Role ofNGOs in Creating Global Change" 
-Masako Yamana (Antioch College), "How to Improve UN Structures and Effectiveness for Global Peace and Security: A Perspective from Japan -Laura Kames (Antioch College), "Proposal to Reform and Upgrade UN Peacekeeping" 
• 
Promoting Peace Through Media (Room 103) George A. Lopez, moderator (Professor of Political C:cience and Peace Studies, University ofNotre Dame) Virginia Wilber (Drake University), "Writing to make a Difference: Journalism Promoting Peace and Human Rights" 

-Stephen Ladek (American University), "Information Technology as a Platform for Peaccbuilding: A Case Study of the Virtual Agriculture Wholesale Market" Simon C. DeAbreu (McMaster L'niversity), "CPNN: The News Network of Peaceful Dreams, Dreamt Into Peaceful Waking Action" 

• 
Religious Paths to Peace (Hcsburgh Center Auditorium) 


-Dan Philpott, moderator (Professor of Political Science and Peace Studies, University ofNotre Dame) Thomas Feeney (University of Notre Dame), "Prophesy and Peace: Rereading Isaiah 2: 2-4" 
Peter J. Quaranto (University of Notre Dame), "The Pacifism of Dorothy Day: Radical or not so Radical?" Leisa Shaun (Antioch College), '"Judaism and Peace" Nell Bolton (University of Notre Dame), "Living the Vision of Peace: Qur' anic Texts and Islamic Practices" 
-Patrick Mason (University of Notre Dame), '"Preparing for Peace: Exploring Pcacebuilding Capacities within Mormonism" 
• Prese11ta1i,111 by studems from Notre Dame's Washington DC Seminar (Room 1041105) 
11:45-12:15 
• Lunch 

12:15-1:45 
• lllnocence Lost: The Effects of War 011 Children (Room I02) -Kim Overdyck, moderator (coordinator of Take Ten, University ofNotre Dame) 
Christina Clusiau (College of St. Benedict and St. John), "Peace and War through a Child's Eyes" Alanna Lungren (University ofNotre Dame), "Columbia's Small Soldiers: The Forced Recruitment ofChildren into Columbian Military Forces" 
-Ahyoung Oh (Kyung Hee University), "Children in Armed Conflicts: What can 
Children do to Formulate Peaceful Solutions" Vandy Kanyako (University ofNotre Dame), "21st Century Youths: Visionaries of Peace Under the Shadows of Wars" 
• Justifying War i11 the 1"'1odem World (Room I03) 
-Fred Da/lmayr, moderator (Professor of Political Science, European Studies, and Peace Studies, University ofNotre Dame) John Viano (Marquette University), "War and Peace Revisited" 
-De-Yuan Kao (University of Chicago), "Why Intervene? A Comparison between the 
"Two" Gulf Wars" Claire Carter (Indiana University), "Is it Just? Three Perspectives on the Moral Status of the Bush Administrations Proposed War in Iraq" 
-Kristin Famu/a (Antioch College), "Patriotism and Peace" Ky Bertoli (University of Notre Dame), "What is Happening to Just War Theory" 
• 
Lysistrata presentation (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 

• 
Israel and Palestine: Open Q11estio11 and Answer Forum by Tori Fiori (Room 104/105) 1 


2:00-3:30 
• Workshop: Resolving Co11jlicts with Other Americans Over the Currelll War by George Lopez (Room 103) 
• Workshop: Stress-Relief by Lisa McKay (Room I041105) 
• Peace ofllfil1d: Educatio11 and Psychology in Peacebuildi11g (Room I02) 
-Ruthann Johansen, moderator (Professor ofAmerican Studies and Peace Studies, University ofNotre Dame) . Titus K. Oyeyemi (Associated Mennonite Biblical Seminary), "Equipping Afncan 
Tribal Peacemakers Through Structured Peace Education" Nathan Smith (Antioch College), "The Implications of Ken Wilber's Transpersonal and Epistemological Theories of Human Development for Peace and Conflict 
Resolution" Caroline Nappo (Antioch College), "Body, Image, and Peace" -Meredith Morelli (Antioch College), "A Teacher and an Agent for Peace" Jonah Liebert (Antioch College), "Educating for Participatory Citizenship in a Democratic Nation: A Case Study of a Model for Structural School Reform" 
3:45-5:15 

• U.S. Foreign Policy: Blessing or Burden (Room I03) 
Moderator TBA . Alisher Khamidov (University of Notre Dame), "The Dilemmas in the U.S. Policy Towards the Islamic World after 9111" 
Cara Shiel (l'niversity ofKotre Dame), "Plan Columbi_a: A Pl~n of War or ofI:cace" Mary De/aRosa (University ofNotre Dame), "Economic Sanctions m Iraq: A Call to 
Protect Civilians" . Yaqoob Bangash (University ofNotre Dame), "US State-Building: Afghamstan a 
Year Later" 

• Political Party Debate: Democrats vs. Republicans vs_ Greens (Room 102) 
• Children's Art Therapy by Meagan Sutton (Room I 04/105) 
5:15-6:15 
• Dinner 
6:15-until 

• Concert sponsored by Amnesty International (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 


Thursday, March 27, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles cruise past Valparaiso for 5-2 victory 
By LISA REIJUIA 
Sports Writer 
Thn spring weather allowed the Saint Mary's tennis team to travel to Valparaiso Wednesday to play a match that had been postponed a week. The Belles made th<' most of the rematch, notching a solid 5-2 victory over the Crusaders. 
Singles winners for the Belles were freshman Kristen Palombo at No..2, Kris Spriggle at No. 4, senior Elisa Hvan at No. 5 and Angela Sandner at the No. 6 spot. 
Jeannie Knish was defeated in No. 1 singles play by Mara Sonkin of Valpo, 6-4, 6-1. The Crusaders' other singles win came at the third spot as Jill Dierberg beat Kaitlin Cutler 6-2, 4-6, 6-2 in a close match. 
In doubles action. the Belles continued their winning ways. Valparaiso (2-5) managed to win just one match. Dierberg and Monika Danko defeated Cutler and Byan 8-2 at second doubles. The No. 1 team of Knish and Palombo won their match, as did the No. 3 team of Spriggle and freshman Lindsay Cook. 
The 8Htles improved their record to 6-1 on the season as Valparaiso lost their fifth straight dual match. The Crusaders were coming off a disappointing 7-0 Joss to Indiana State on Mar. 25. 
The upcoming weekend will be busy for the Belles as they host matches at home both Friday and Saturday. First up is Aquinas on March 28. The match will take place at Lakeland Health Club in Niles in the event of bad weather. 
Aquinas returns four of six starters from a squad that went 9-4 last season. Senior Kara Ferguson leads the way for the Saints as a strong first singles player. 
MIAA conference foe Olivet will travel to Saint Mary's for a morning match on March 29. St. Joseph's was also scheduled to compete but has cancelled out of the match. Tentatively taking their place is the women's team from Kalamazoo Valley Community College. 
The match against Olivet will be the first MIAA conference game for both teams. The Lady Comets have just three returning players from last year's squad. They recently suffered a 9-0 shutout loss against Tiffin University. 
On March 31. the Belles will be on the road again, this time against Bethel at 4 p.m. The Royals aren't off to a stellar start for the season, having lost four of their last five matches. 
Saint Mary's will face Aquinas Friday at 3:30 p.m. and Olivet at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at 
lreijula@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Womens Soccer Showcase brings 5 top teams 
continues Friday night, April 4, international soccer played at a high level of competition." world's young players. 
Special lO The Observer 
with facing Canada at 5:30 very high level," fourth-year The Mexican womens nation­Canada's under-18 national 
Michiana-area soccer fans p.m., followed by the renewal of Notre Dame coach Randy al team, which was founded in team stands with the United will be treated to a display of the Notre Dame-Mexico rivalry. Waldrum said. 1998, steadily has grown into a States as one of the world's pre­international womens soccer, The Irish posted hard-fought "Mexico has enjoyed its previ­contender on the international mier teams for that age group, during next week's Women's wins over Mexico in the springs ous experiences coming to soccer scene. Originally founded with the U.S. edging Canada at Soccer International Showcase. of 2001 and 2002. Notre Dame for training, and on a core of U.S. college players the 2003 under-18 World The games will take place on The event now will conclude this is something we hope to who held Mexican ancestry -Championship 1-0 in overtime. April 2, 4 and 5 at Alumni Field. on April 5 with a Michigan­make into an annual event, with including former Notre Dame Top players expected to par­
The showcase will feature five Mexico game at 5 p.m. and the the possible inclusion of mens players Monica Gonzalez and ticipate in the Showcase with games highlighted by a Notre Dame-Canada matchup to international teams as well. We Monica Gerardo -the team Canada include Kara Lang ­Wednesday night matchup follow at approximately 7 p.m. anticipate this being a great has begun to develop a home­one of the world's emerging for­between the Mexican womens "These games will provide a event for soccer fans in this grown base of players who are ward talents -and Brittany national team and the Canadian unique opportunity for community and look forward to considered some of the more Timko, who has signed to playundt\r-IR national team. Action Michiana soccer fans to see the challenge of facing such a dynamic competitors among the at Nebraska next season. 
1· 

I I I I I I I-I'I .1,1-1,1.-1-;11,.,-l#,#/l'l/l/l/l/.l/l/l'l/,l/l'/#/l/l':-',..il#l'l'·l·l·#·l--#~#/17#/l,W'/#IM/IJW'/I/JIIVl'/JWi/T41'411'1W/JIKll'&l'/l/l/141/¥1'/l/li'~I/M"#tfll/ll"l/l/,I/I/Af.l.~/l/l/l/l/l/l/l/l/l/l/,IIIVl/,il/V#/I/AVl/l/,1/IV,I/T/,IIIVl/l/l/l/#,I/Vl/,lr,#,#,l,l'Il'l.-141 
Summer Se,;pic~ Intgrnsl/,ips 
. ~ = 
Boston, Massachusetts: Laza 
:i''!'!!'P 

Cincinnati, Ohio: Local student n Frankfort, Kentucky: Liue and wor!< ,..-~.pe_gp e with ~JS,..~l;!Uities 
~.,.,. ..~:-:.l>J!.· _.7!ff'!:i,._.:.:.:c•?e>!ic:.,..-.'-~ -·-----·-~;-~y:.:._,:·:···:·:·::.~·-:-
FOrt Lauderdale, Florida: CouenanfHQD'D (stielterJor te · .······ 
Osh Kosh, Wisconsi11: father,.c~7r (shei.t'i~ t3Rmen).. ·· ·, ·.. · Jackson, Michigan:··uofne fof·!fil'disaifiPq . <·:~;; Kansas City, Misso~rt:,.-Shalom'~ffouse'(Cat:,i~ War Los Angeles, California: Mystery s!J:e !~ 
enders)

Albuquerque, N~~'!-'-~~co;,,,, ~ J~~ql);Sheph~~•'' .. h~I~ St. Joe Ualley, Ind~ana:~:~a(!P~ll!e.. Boys· andj 61rl Park City, Utah: Holy Cr~ss""~}~!~!!LeJJ ·.·· .... ; Waterloo, Iowa: Catholic Worker-ous .. 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
,-~ 
! 
I 
t .. 
ND WOMENS TENNIS
I 
I I 
page 22 The Obsen,er . SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 2003 
I 
I In last home Inatch of season, Irish pull aw-ay w-ith w-in 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spom Wrirer 
With Notre Dame up 3-0 in Wednesday's match against Purdue, all the remaining matches were in the third set and the Boilermakers, if they were to prevail in each remaining match, could have stolen the victory from the Irish. 
But in their last home match of the season. the Irish held on for the 6-1 victory over No. 59 Purdue. 
Like their match against Michigan Tuesday, the Irish began well against the Boilermakers by winning the doubles point and by continu­ing that success into the sin­gles portion. 
"Purdue always plays really hard, and that was a great match." Irish coach Jav Louderback said. · 
Despite the commanding score, the match was actually a close one with severa·l matches extending into three sets. 
"That might be the closest six-one match ever," Louderback said. 
With the Irish up 3-0, it was freshman Lauren Connelly who came through with the requisite win to give Notre Dame a fitting conclusion to its home season. 
Connelly, clinching victory for the third time this season, defeated Missy Wright. 6-0, 4­6. 6-4. 
A tweaked doubles lineup began the winning momentum for the Irish. 
Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly and freshman Kristina Stastny, who have neither played nor practiced together before, claimed an 8­4 victory at No. 3 doubles. Then senior captain Katie Cunha and freshman Jennifer Smith. playing in Stastny's usual role, won 8-3 at the top of the lineup to put the Irish ahead 1-0. 
Louderback was especially pleased with the performance of the doubles teams. He admitted that he and assistant coach Liz Balanis were "just shooting from the hip" when they formed the doubles line­up. 
"It's just a great effort from all of them, especially those in the doubles," Louderback said. "They played so well." 
The No. 2 doubles duo of Lauren Connelly and junior Alicia Salas lost for the first time this season. 
Junior Caylan Leslie, who was forced to drop out of her Tuesday match due to an ill­ness and who has been expe­riencing some shoulder prob­1ems, was the first singles player to leave the court with a win. 
Leslie topped Purdue's Gretchen Haynor 6-1, 6-3 playing at the No. 1 position. The Irish veteran, freshly ranked 33rd nationally, has now won 11 of her last 13 matches, and is the highest­ranked Irish singles player since Michelle Dasso finished fifth in 2001. 
After Leslie's win, No. 77 Salas put the Irish within a point of the win when she tri­umphed over Amy Walgenbach, 7-6 (7-1). 6-2, 
After the match was decid­ed, Stastny defeated Shawna Zuccarini, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. 

Then the elder Connelly, Sarah Jane, came back to win in the third set after losing the first for the fifth time this sea­son. Connelly rallied to defeat Lara Burgarello 6-7 (S-7), 6-2, 6-1 at the No. 5 flight. 
Despite the frequency of this occurrence, Connelly does not want to get accustomed to it. 
'Tm definitely not getting used to it, and I hate it more than anything, always playing from behind," she said. 
Louderback also would pre­fer that Connelly, 19-10 over­all, win her first set too. 
"It's good she wins the third, but we don't want to her to lose the first." he said, laugh­ing. "She's been battling. She's just played very, very hard. To.e thing she's done really well is that she hasn't mentally lost." 
With all their home matches behind them, Louderback is proud of an Irish squad that has done well against a tough schedule and in a season of so much parity. 
The Irish embark upon the final road trips of their season 

in the next few weeks, begin­match. Every match is big, ning with Ohio State Saturday. and winning the doubles like 
"[The Buckeyes] are going to we did today [will be] really be out to get us," Sarah Jane important." Connelly said. "I know that they're always a really strong team. We're going to 'lave to Contact Joe Lindsley at go out and fight in every jlindsle@nd.edu 
BLESSING lJN'l'U Url,HJ£KS WJ£1£K 
,_ A week celebrating how the student body can serve others using the talents and skills with which they have been blessed ,_ EVENTS LEFT THIS WEEK 
Thursday March 27 4pm 
•A Life of Service Lecture by Francie Schmuhl, an ND alumna and Guest Services Coordinator for the South Bend Center for the 
Homeless DBTL 118 Saturday March 29 9-llpm 
•Benefit Concert featuring local campus groups Joe Nava, Sean Dudley and David Salmon, and Chris Trice 
Coleman-Morse Center-Main Lounge, first floor 
Friday March 28 9-llpm 
•Benefit Concert featuring local campus groups Unchained Melo­dies, Joe Nava, Sean Dudley and David Salmon, and Chris Trice 
Coleman-Morse Center-Main Lounge, first floor 
Sunday March 30 
•an dorm and Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart masses: Campus-wide collection to support a women's charity in Bangladesh and Greatness Grants for student serv­ice opportunities 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Three top 32 finishes in four years for Moreau Bookstore team. 
www.nd.edu/f'Jvocation 
ANSWER ~ TIIECALL \t!:/ 

Complimentary shuttles: inquire wirhin 
Sponsored by: LaAlianza Institttte for Latino Studies Multicultural Student Programs &Services • Saint Mary's Student Ditersity Board 
Questions; Comments? Concacr mbm·J@nJ.cJu. mhogan4@nd.edu, 3garcia9@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS GOLF 
Irish finish in 8th after 'mediocre' tourney 
round of the tournament for theBy ANDY TROEGER Irish with a final round 75. She
Sports Writer 
tied for 26th at 238 (79-84-75) after also coming off her best After a strong week in Florida, 
tournament, which included 
the womens golf team was look­rounds of 75 and 74 in a top live ing to continue their momentum finish at the Snowbird 
at the Baylor Tapito Springs Invitational. Shootout. 
'Tm really proud of my senior,
The Irish did not play quite as 
Terri Taibl," King said. "She's well as they had hoped, howev­really peaking at the end of the 
er, finishing eighth with a team season." total of 963, 45 strokes behind Illinois won the event by three champion Illinois. The Irish fired over Missouri, overcoming the rounds of 318,326 and 319. Tigers on the final day. Baylor
"It was finished third, not a terri­
and Texas 

ble tourna­"ft was not a terrible 
Christian and ment," Irish tournament. But it wasn't Kent State c o a c h rounded out the
a great one either. We
Debby King top five. 
said. "But it just had a lot ofmediocre 
Dae Ward of wasn't a rounds." TCU won the great one individual crown, either. We firing a 221 (68­
Debby King
just had a 75-78) to win by Jot of Irish coach one over Illinois' mediocre Renata Young. rounds. The Randi Gauthier of second day North Texas and was really windy but other than Malinda Johnson of Wisconsin that the weather was quite tied for third at 224. good." For the Irish, junior Shannon ­
Once again the brightest spot Byrne tied for 41st at 244 (81­for the Irish was freshman Katie 82-81 ), while freshman Sarah Brophy, who tied for 17th at 235 Bassett was 45th with a 248 (78­(80-77-78). Brophy was coming 85-85). Sophomore Karen Lotta off her best week of the season tied for 54th at 253 (82-86-85) in Florida when she won the and freshman Lauren Gebauer Peggy Kirk Bell Invitational and finished 58th with 256 (87-83­also had a good showing at the 86). Northern Illinios Snowbird The Irish have next weekend Invitational. She backed up off before heading to those results with another strong Bloomington, Ind., for the finish. Indiana Invitational to be held at 
"Katie Brophy is really hang­the Indiana University Golf ing in there and staying very Course beginning April 5. consistent," King said. 
Following her was senior Terri Contact Andy Troeger at Taibl, who fired the lowest atroeger@nd.edu 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants LaFortune Building Managers ND Coke Service ND Express Attendants Program Assistants Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers Student Activities Office Assistants 
Applications available outside the Student Activiti~s Office, 315 Lafortune or on-line at www.nd.edu/-sao/off 1ce/jobs. 
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 28. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, March 27, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL THIRD ROUND NCAA TOURNAMENT NOTRE DAME vs. ARIZONA 7 p.m., CBS Kentucky vs. Wisconsin 7 p.m., CBS Texas vs. Connecticut 7 p.m., CBS Oklahoma vs. Butler 7 p.m., CBS Marquette vs. Pittsburgh 9:30 p.m., CBS Syracuse vs. Auburn 9:30 p.m., CBS Maryland vs. Michigan State 
9:30 p.m., CBS Duke vs. Kansas 9:30 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

Minnesota at Orlando 7 p.m., TNT Houston at San Antonio 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL 

Boston at Philadelphia 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

who led the Cardinals in three Super Bowl victo­100 yards in only two
Associated Press 
rushing last season in his ries in Dallas -may not games, including the one PHOENIX second year. be so easy. Arizona fin­with Seattle on Oct. 27 in The NFL's career rush­Smith will wear the ished 5-11 last season, which he broke Walter ing leader believes he still same No. 22 he wore with and it has one playoff vic­
Payton's career rushinghas some yards left in the Cowboys. tory since 1947. 
record of 16,726.

those 33-year-old legs. The Cardinals said Smith contributed to the 
"I've always been veryThe Arizona Cardinals Smith got a two-year con­Cardinals' woes over the 
confident in my abilities." 
sure hope so. tract, but did not disclose years. He scored 25 
Smith said right afterReleased by Dallas last terms. It was believed to career touchdowns 
being released by Dallas.
month, Emmitt Smith be worth about $4 million against them, his highest 
"I think I'm a 1,300-yardagreed to terms with the a year. total versus an opponent. 
back, and I will be out toCardinals on Wednesday, A starting job was one Overall, Smith ranks No. 
prove that."

moving from one of the of the things Smith had 1 in NFL history with 153 
"I am not a guy that is
league's most storied sought and one of the rushing TDs. 
afraid of competition," he
franchises to one of its things the Cowboys Smith, who will turn 34 most downtrodden. couldn't guarantee when on May 15, failed to reach said. "I walk up and face 
"Emmitt will start," they released him Feb. 27 1,000 yards this season it full throttle. I will help head coach Dave after 13 seasons and for the first time since his someone's organization McGinnis said, adding 17,162 yards. rookie year in 1990, gain­get to the Super Bowl, get that he will also help But Smith's other desire ing 975 yards. back to the Super Bowl or break in Marcel Shipp, -winning again after Smith rushed for over win the Super Bowl." 
IN BRIEF 
Pacers trying to sign veteran 
Hardaway 
The Indiana Pacers are trying to sign Tim Hardaway in hopes of get­ting an experienced point guard for the rest of the season. 
The 36-ycar-old Hardaway, a five­time All-Star, has not played this season. He averaged 17.9 points and 
8.3 assists in 12 seasons with Miami, Golden State, Denver and Dallas. 
"We've talked to him," P.acers president Donnie Walsh said Wednesday. "If it can be worked out, we'II do it." 
The earliest Hardaway could be in uniform most likely would be for Friday's game at Chicago. 
Walsh has said he did not expect to tinker with his roster, but Indiana has showed few signs of ending a 4­14 slump entering Wednesday's game against Philadelphia. 
Hardaway's agent, Henry Thomas, told ESPN he expected Hardaway to sign with the Pacers in the next few days. Hardaway has worked as an analyst for ESPN this season. 
He impressed team officials at a workout for the Pacers this month. Walsh said he did not know how effective Hardaway would be. 
"If he could be half the player he used to be, he'd be good enough here in Indianapolis," Walsh said. 
Holmes undergoes hip 
surgery 
Kansas City Chiefs star Priest Holmes had hip surgery and is expected to be running at full speed in June. 
Holmes, the NFL's offensive player of the year. underwent arthroscopic surgery in Miami on Tuesday. The 29-year-old running back missed the last two games of the season. 
Head coach Dick Vermeil, speaking Wednesday from the NFL meetings in Phoenix, said Holmes will be on crutches for about four weeks and miss minicamp. 
"But I am told he'll be able to run full speed by June, and that's what we're counting on," he said. 
Holmes was having one of the best seasons by a running back when he was injured after being caught from behind in a game at Denver in December. Still. he finished with 1,615 rushing yards and 24 touch­downs. 
While questions linger about Holmes· health, the Chiefs have decided to hold off on his demand to renegotiate his contract. General manager Carl Peterson has indicated he might be willing to discuss an extension. 
Expos' El Duque moved to disabled list 
The Montreal Expos placed Orlando Hernandez on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday with ten­dinitis in his right shoulder. 
The move is retroactive to March 
21. meaning Hernandez will be eligi­ble to return on April 5 when the Expos play the Mets. 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

Irish 
continued from page 28 

got to be able to take advan­tage of our scoring opportuni­ties,'' Mainieri said. 
The Irish were able to tack three more runs on the board in the bottom of the sixth inning. With shortstop Matt Macri and Sanchez already on first and second, respectively, Hizzo smacked a single up the middle that was bobbled by the Purdue centerfielder, allowing Sanchez to score and Macri and Rizzo to each advance a base. 
After a pitching change brought in a left-handed pitch­er, Mainieri replaced designat­ed hitter Steve Andres with freshman Craig Cooper, whose groundout with no outs not only scored a run, but also put the Irish in great position to score another run by advanc­ing Rizzo to third with one out. 
Mainieri deemed Cooper's at­bat as a turning point of the game. 
"The best at-bat that was a determiner of the game wasn't even a base hit," Mainieri said. "A ground ball to the second baseman scored a run and moved another runner to third base, which set up the squeeze by Thaman. That at-bat by Cooper really created two runs for us." 
Thaman's successfully-exe­cuted squeeze bunt on the very next pitch gave the Irish a 6-3 lead. 
Meanwhile, on the mound for the Irish, reliever Tyler Jones gave up two more runs in two innings of relief of Thornton, leaving the Irish with a 6-5 lead into the eighth inning. 
Cooper picked up another RBI in the bottom of the eighth on another groundout., and Sollmann closed out the scoring with an RBI single three batters later. 
Irish closer J.P. Gagne pitched a 1-2-3 ninth inning to earn his fourth save of the sea­son. 
Notre Dame will now take a day off before returning to practice in preparation for the Big East home opening series with Georgetown this weekend, beginning with a doubleheader slated for Saturday at noon. 
Notes: 

. 
With his fourth save of the season and his 10th of his career, Gagne became only the third pitcher in Notre Dame history with 20 wins and 10 saves, joining Aaron Heilman and Chris Michalak. 

. 
With his 0-for-5 perfor. mance Wednesday, freshman centerfielder Brennan Grogan's nine-game hitting streak was snapped. 


Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 

Wildcats 
continued from page 28 
tunity in the bottom of the inning and had runners at first and second with no outs when pinch runner Heather Booth was tagged out when she turned around on second base to effec­tivc ly killed the Notre Dame rally. 
Scoring only four runs in the two games came down to one basic thing, being too passive at the plate. 
"We were not aggressive at all, and that's why we couldn't get it done today," Gumpf said. "l think we didn't capitalize on good pitches. We need to hit good pitches, and we need to be aggressive." 
In order to right the ship heading into the opening of Big East action this weekend, Gumpf feels the Irish must raise 

Sha.11ghai G1rden 
their game in one area to get 
J: fl ,J, ffl
back in the win column. "We need to start playing 
BAI-JU'S r------,
great somewhere, that's the dif­
I $1.00 Off 

ference," Gumpf said. "I think if 
I Dinner Only 
Lunch Special 

we could have played great in 
L------.J

one area, that could have car­
Mondav

ried over to the other areas." 
Pepper Steak 
$ 4.50 induding tax 

Sweet &Sour Chicken Coi?tact Matt Lozar at 1i d General Tso's Chicken We Deliver Lunch Free For Notre 
mlozar@nd.edu 
ues av D d 5 . M ,
Chicken Mixed Vegetable ame an aint ary s Sweet & Sour Chicken Students/Faculty/Staff d General Tso's Chicken
W d

e nes ay Lunch Special Cashew Shrimp Still Includes Friend Rice, 2 Sweet &Sour Chicken Eggrolls 
d General Tso's Chicken 
Th
urs av 
You have to order 1 hour ahead Seef with Broccoli Sweet & Sour Chicken Min. Delivery $1 5 

F "d General Tso's Chicken 
n av 

Shrimp with Vegetable Sweet & Sour Chicken General Tso's Chicken 
Tel. 574-271-0125 
' 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 2003 
WATER POLO 
STUDENT OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 


Do You K.n.ow Where You're Living Next Year???? 
Former players return to Rolf's for Classic 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Asscociaie Sports Editor 
They obviously are friends out­side of the pool, but once they're in the water, it's another story. 
"It's a friendly game, a fun game, but once you get in the water, we want to take them," water polo captain and club president Jay Deimel said. 
The Notre Dame water polo club team is holding its Alumni Classic this weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center. While they will play other collegiate teams, the highlight match is between the current team and its alumni. 
And the younger guys always 
win. 
"Oh yeah, all the time. They usually come in, some are in shape, some aren't. It's a good time," Deimel said. "The tourna­ment is for the alumni, they come in from all around the country. We set it up for them." 
Besides setting up the tourna­
ment for the alumni, the club 
team uses the event to raise 
money for its expenses, which 
are mainly from traveling. 
From Jan. 31 to Feb. 2, the 
team went to the University of 
South Florida for a tournament. 
Out of 12 teams, the Irish fin­
ished fourth and dropped a 
tough match to a team of 28-to­
30-year olds from Austin, Texas, 
in the third place game. For 
their efforts in what was billed 
as the best game of the tourna­
ment, the team was recognized 
in one of the local papers. 
The main portion of the club 
team's season takes place in the 
fall when they participate in the 
Great Lakes Conference. There 
are two divisional tournaments 
and one conference tournament 
with the winner going to the 
national tournament. 
Last fall, the Irish lost in the 
championship match by three 
goals to rival Grand Valley State. 
"We were pretty intense on 
going to nationals, but it didn't 
work out for us," Deirnel said. "It 
was a good experience for us, so 
we will be set to go." 
The team practices four nights a week at Rolf's and now has optional one-hour morning prac­tices at the Rock with the hopes of finally qualifying for the national tournament. 
A unique feature of the team is its makeup with some team members having played water polo for years while others start when they come to Notre Dame. The unique mix provides ample opportunities for the experi­enced players to teach and the new guvs to learn. 
"We have a lot of guys from all around the country. Some of these guys played competitive water polo in high school and some started day one from Activities Night. They come in and ask to get on the team, sign up and show up," Deimel said. "The experienced guys for the past few years help the new guys serving as coaches. They catch on really quick." 
A game consists of four 7­
minutc quarters with seven play­
ers from each team in a deep 
30-meter pool. 
The goalies are the only play­
ers permitted to touch the ball 
with both hands. 
To say the least, it's a physical 
game that tests swimming 
endurance and "encourages" 
some rough play. 
"The refs can only see what 
happens on the top of the water 
and not what goes on under the 
water," Deimel said. 
The match between the cur­
rent Notre Dame mens team and 
its alumni is scheduled for 6 
p.m. Saturday. 
The womens club team and 
alumni game will take place at 5 
p.m. 

Other matches this weekend 
for the mens team includes 
Gannon (Friday, 7 p.m.) and 
James Madison {Saturday, 2 
p.m.) 
The final matches are sched­uled for Sunday starting at 10 a.m., with the championship scheduled for 1 p.m. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS HOUSING AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
APARTMENTS FRO:rv1 AS LOW AS $280/mo per person! 
Town homes, 2-Bedroon1., 1-Bedror. ms and Studios Available Stop by or call todc>y! 272-8124 www.turtlecreeknd.co1n 
"~ 
~ A.....,_ 11,efoU°""'1J ...-..Y"""'of... 
r .. -----.. ·------· r-------. ·------.. ·------· 
I I I I I
$69

$15 I I I I I I I $69 I
$26 $69
I I I Color, Cut & I I ( I I 
Mens Cut Highlights,
I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I ICut & Style
I I I One Process I I.. ______ ., I I
·------· L------.1 L------.1 L------.1 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa -Sergi' -Kristin-Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2
ATRIA SALON 

Notval;dfocspiralf"'TI". l..ongonin<edhruracld$10. Noothe,dooountsapply. CJ,x,nsome=;ngs. ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center
1357 N. lronwood Dr. 
Salon reseivestheright Lo refuse servicetoa.nydk.>n1 whcH> hairconditioo lstmlm1tabk. Next to SprintCorner of Edison 271-8804
289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-03 

Less than I mile from campus 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DEPARTMENT of COMMUNICATION STUDIES. DANCE &THEATRE· presents 

Euripides' classic tale of betrayal, revenge, and murder. 
March 27 -28 at 8:00 p.m. • March 29 at 2:30 & 8:00 p.m. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage ,,;.,..,.,,,c.,,.,,~ 
Limited to 120 seats per performance. 

~Mff!ff&/Advanced purchase of tickets is FoR THE ARTs suggested. NOTH 0,tllf.l!', ,,. 
For ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
574/284-4626 
-S.~fi,. THE CENIERFOR SOCIAL CONCERNS s o c I A L IS SEEKING NOA1INATIOZ\JS FOR: 
CONCERNS 

=================== 
The Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. 
Faculty Community-Based Research Award 
This is a monetary award of $5000 
Nominees should be Regular Faculty;j< who have completed one or more research projects that address a need or concern of a South Bend area community based organization. Greater consideration will be given to a Faculty member whose 
project is: 

* oriented around a challenge articulated by a local community group; 
* 
conducted in collaboration with a local organization; 

* 
inclusive of graduate and/or undergraduate students; and 

* 
published in a refereed journal or presented in other forms Guried exhibi­


tions, distributed films, etc.) recognized as highly valued in the recipient's area of expertise. 
Nominations should be submitted by . 
5pm, Monday, March 31. 
Please visit the Center for Social Concerns website .· 
for additional information about nominating, 
or call or email Mary Beckman, Ph.D., 
at 631-4172, mbeckman@nd.edu~ 
* Regular Faculty includes Teaching-and-Research Faculty, Research Faculty, Library Foculty, and Special Professional Facuky, as described in the Faculty Handbook. 

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . TO DAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 
ething, but Ican't concentrate for all the noise. construction workers, Imean. It's 1tlat dam Philbin erfonning Arts Center-when will that _ever be finished 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by ~nrl Arnold ,nd Mika Arglrlon
~ 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
The salt and pepper 
to form four ordinary words. 
SIGUE 
I I I 

02002 Tribune Media Servlc&a, Inc All Righta Reeervtid 
LOGAT j 
1 
rx 
INARMOT± 


WHAT 5HE= 5HoWEO 
\'VHE:N 5Hf: STOPPE=D 
www.1urnbJe,com 

DY!::ING HER HAIR
ICUROGH± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r J I 

suggested by the above cartoon 
MS: 

HER rr r xJrr r r x x J 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's j Jumbles: DAISY HOBBY FORKED WEAKEN Answer· Why the fisherman bought the new lure ­HE WAS HOOKED 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 30 Not straight 62 It has many CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Quentin Tarantino, Mariah Carey, Maria
hitches1 _ d'Ouessant 33 Ran into 

Schneider, Michael York

(westernmost 63 Many an old 
­
35 Pocket

point or France) Hapsburg 
Happy Birthday: You will be original, inventive and grab the attention of onlookers
36 Org. for subject

4 Greek director as you pull out all the stops and reach for the stars. Don't back down or worry about
arguers?

Angelopoulos 64 Nero's land what others have to say or think. Satisfy yourself and strive to succeed. Your nwnbers 
37 • Attention!" 
are 5, 12, 20, 31, 35, 48

8 60's TV boy 65 Horace volume 
40 Part ot a12 Piatigorsky metaphor 66 Deli order ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll have lots of opportunity to get ahead and do specialty your own thing. Don't try to fit too much into a short span of time and you will feel
67 Travel method 41 Rich boy in 
15 Place for goodaboutyourendeavors. **** 
"Nancy" 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be inclined to let your stubborn attitude take
portraits 
43 Heat source DOWN over and, if you do, you can expect to experience a loss. Don't be foolish; it may be
16 Thin haze 
time to give and take. ** 

44 Particular 1 Start of an old
17 Al full throttle GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can do no wrong if you are up early and raring to
boast

45 It may smooth go. Travel for business or pleasure will twn out well. Someone you 111L>et will provide
18 Put in for 
the way 2 Bar wedge you with valuable information. ***** 19 Friend of the 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Hard work will pay off, but only if you are true to
47 More than 3 Animal with a
powerless: yourself, your beliefs and your goals. You can invest in something lucrative today.
"Phooey!" black stripe Abbr. 
Do your research. *** 

down its back 
49 Strong LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): You and a partner may not see things in the same light.
20 Changed but 
not seriously 52 The house of 4 Spring event Work as one, using both your ideas to come up with something even better. *** Juan Carlos 5 1980's Mideast 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Making an asswnption today if it pertains to work or
22 Stops: Abbr. 
co-workers will end up leading you in the wrong direction. Nothing will be as it
envoy Philip 56 Region NW of
23 Win over appears. *** 
Genoa 6 Exclusive 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be charming, pas.sionate and in the mood to spend
24 Support 
57 Hurricane 7 Routine time with someone who makes your heart race. Make special plans and you won't 
26 Scientology 
Carter, for one 8 In some way be disappointed. ***** 
founder SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to watch what you say and do today.
59 End of a punch?

Hubbard-9 Tip to solving Puzzle by M. Francis Vuolo Your actions will be monitored and you could end up having to explain yourself. ** 60 Leg up this puzzle (with SAGITfARRJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have fun and impress others if you
28 Battlements in 32 This puzzle, e.g. 44 Egg on 54 Actress
the key parts to are outgoing and colorful. Travel or joining activities that involve foreign cultures
Spanish castles 61 Certain fur Belafonte
be said out loud) 34 Music, dance, 46 Tangle will stimulate your mind. **** painting, etc. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have some big financial ideas that couldANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Fidgety, maybe 48 Famous blonde 55 of roses pan out if you do your homework well. However. if you don't protect your interests,
37 Find (out)

11 Pests to bombshell 
losses are likely to occur. *** 
56 Prefix with 

T Y Australian 38 1963 title role AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you don't channel your emotional energy properly
so Move furtively phobia
A O ranchers for Paul you are likely to give the wrong impression. Focus your mind on love. romance and Newman
13 Apt 51 Hoover's pas.sionate encounters. *** 
58 Rock group

predecessor? PISCES (Feb. 19-Mareh 20): Your main concern should be about work and getting39 Together
ahead. You will get the attention of those in a position to help you. Your insight will 
42 Demographer's 53 Ancient was a 1980
21 _ One (indoor enable you to make good choices. *** 
grouping marketplace one-hit wonder
.-:::-t-:-t-::-r.:1":"t-::1 kart racing) 
Birthday Baby: You will set the standards rather than live by them. You will be in
~.,.+-.....,....,... 25 Founding editor 
the limelight and take great pleasure in defeating any competition that comes your way.
of The New For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a Yorker credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ­
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com. wnetwork.com. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 27 Just out 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. COPYRIGI-IT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE
~~~...J-;-i-;:...,;.;.i 29 Lambaste 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 D TO 30At_speed past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). T O N (quickly) 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
p R 
0 N E 31 Like poll taxes nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
---------~-----------------~----~-------------~---------~----------------­

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-
Name ____________________ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Thursday, March 27, 2003 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish lack fight in doubleheader loss 
other team gets momentum.
. No. 24 

and I don't think we hadNorthwestern momentum tonight at all,"ruins home opener Gumpf said. "Even when we 
were ahead in the first inning, I
at Ivy Field 

don't think we had any momen­tum." Northwestern took the lead
ByMATTLOZAR 

for good in the third, scoring
Associate Sports Editor 

three runs on just one hit. The first run came home on an RBI When it came right down to it, single while the other runs the Wildcats simply played bet­crossed the plate on a sacrifice ter. fly in foul territory and a wild 
No. 24 Northwestern ruined pitch. Notre Dame's home opener The Irish cut the lead in half sweeping the on a single up doubleheader the middle by
"Even when we were
4-2 and 3-2 centerfielder 
Wednesday at ahead in the first inning. Megan Ciolli 
lvv Field. I don't think we had any in the bottom ''We just of the fifth.
momentum."
didn't play well Second base­enough to win man Sara against a team Deanna Gumpf Schoonaert I i k e scored to
Irish coach 
Northwestern make the -who plays well score 3-2. in all parts of the game," Irish The Wildcats added an insur­coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We ance run in the top of the sixth, just didn't play well enough in and it could have been worse. any area. We didn't hit well Carrie Wisen relieved Steffany enough, we didn't pitch well Stenglein (3-4) and retired two 
CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
enough and we didn't have batters with the bases loaded to 
Irish first baseman Lisa Mattison attempts to tag out a Wildcat runner during Notre Dame's dou­
enough solid defense." keep the score 4-2. The Irish wanted to jump to The Irish got the tying run on bleheader with Northwestern Wednesday; The Irish lost both games In their home opener. an early lead against the base in the bottom of the sev­Wildcats, and they did just that enth with one out, but couldn't the third. Ciolli singled to short Loman came through with a The Wildcats went up 3-2 on a 
on a first inning solo home run muster anything after that and and Schoonaert reached on a two-RBI single past the second leadoff home run by first base­by third baseman Andrea the Wildcats took game one. bunt single. An error by the baseman and put the Irish up 2-man Jamie Dotson in the top of Loman in game one. Even with After the Wildcats scored a Northwestern pitcher on the 1. the sixth. 
that quick strike, the Irish run in the top of the second of throw moved Ciolli and Northwestern tied it in the The Irish had a golden oppor­couldn't get anything going. the second game, the Irish came Schoonaert into scoring posi­fifth on a two-out error by Notre "When you get down, the back with two in the bottom of tion. Dame shortstop Andria Bledsoe. see WILDCATS/page 25 
BASEBALL 

Clutch hitting subdues Boilermakers in 8-5 Irish win 
Each team opened with a sin­up against him. I thought he did 
By BRYAN KRONK 

gle run, with the Irish manufac­a pretty doggone good job for his 
Senior SraffWrirer 

turing a run in the second inning first start in Frank Eck Stadium and the Boilermakers responding with a nice crowd against a Big 
Some key hitting by the Notre with a run in the top of the third. Ten team. I thought he showed Dame offense helped the Irish For the second straight game, great poise." overcome three defensive errors the Irish sent a freshman starter Notre Dame responded in the on the way to an 8-5 victory for to the mound in Thornton, and bottom of the inning by manufac­the home team at Frank Eck once again, the defense gave the turing two more runs. After right Stadium Wednesday night. opposing offense some extra fielder Kris Billmaier led off the 
-
"We did a lot of little things opportunities due to errors. With inning with a single up the mid­tonight," Notre Dame coach Paul two outs, a groundout to Irish dle, catcher Javier SanchezI 
Mainieri said. "I thought [starting second baseman Steve Sollmann smacked a double to deep left­
I 
I pitcher Tom] Thornton and all was bobbled and ended up cost­center that brought Billmaier 
the guys we brought in did a ing the Irish two runs, as the home. After a Cody RizzoI good job on the mound. Our Boilermakers were able to groundout moved Sanchez to I defense was a little shaky at respond with a two-run single to third, a wild pitch brought him
I 
I times, but did enough to win. It give Purdue a 3-1 lead home to tie the game at 3-3. 
I was a good win against a good "I don't think Tom gets flus­"We're not going to be a team Big Ten team, so we'll take it." tered at all [when the defense that's going to knock the fences The game was characterized commits errors behind him], he's down all the time, so ... when we CHIP MAHKS/lhe Observer by sloppy defensive play as the got great poise for a freshman," get the runners on base, we've
r 
Irish pitcher Martin Vergara releases the ball during Notre two teams combined for seven Mainieri said. "They've got some errors in nine innings of play. guys who put some good at-bats
Dame's 8-3 victory over Toledo at Eck Stadium Wednesday. see IRISH/page 25 

en 
-
ND WOMENS TENNIS ND WOMENS GOLF 
SMC TENNIS 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
WATER POLO 
1--C,.) II.I 
Notre Dame 6 
Saint Mary's 5 

The Irish finish 8th at
Purdue 1 
Valparaiso 2 

Alumni Field will host the 
The Irish will host the 
the Baylor Tapito 
After poor weather post-
Women's Soccer International 
Alumni Classic this
a:s 

Springs Shootout, 45
Avenging last year's loss to 
poned the match for a week, the 
Showcase, featuring the national 
weekend. The tourna­
strokes behind tourna­
the Boilermakers, the Irish 
Belles improve to 6-1 on the sea-
teams of Mexico and Canada, on 
ment will feature a
" c: 
ment champion Illinois. 
end their home season with 
son as they defeat the 
April 2, 4 and 5. 

match between current 
their second consecutive win. 
Crusaders. 

players and alumni. 
a. ti 

page 23
en page 22 
page 21

page 21 
page 26 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 27, 2003 
Under Brey, Irish now have national respect 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
They last met on a basketball court called Madison Square, when one program had three future NBA play­ers and the other team had a lot of star-struck looks on their faces. 
In the Preseason NIT Classic three years ago, few doubted Arizona, Kentucky and Maryland belonged in one of the most prestigious early­season tournaments. 
But Notre Dame? The Irish hadn't been to the NCAA Tournament since the early 1990s. 
Then, the Irish were out of their kague, and they knew it. They lost to Arizona 76-60 in a game that was never close. 
"Back then, we were in kind of awe," senior Matt Carroll said, who was a freshman when Notre Dame last played Arizona. "It was the first time we had been in that tflrritory. You went out there and it consecutive years. 
Of course, Arizona, Duke and Kansas -the other teams in the West Regional -are also in that elite company. In the group of four, three are traditional college basket­ball powerhouses. Notre Dame is the relative newcomer. 
Rut that doesn't mMn Brey thinks the Irish are in over their heads. 
"l like that we are in with those three programs because I think we do belong." he said. "I think we're thought of in that mix now with these three years and that step we took in lndianapolis. Our guys certainly have a lot of pride in our program now." 
Back in 1999, the Irish were hop­ing just to stay competitive with the Wildcats and gleam a morsel of respect. Now they're looking to extend their tournament run. 
For Notre Dame, who plays a No. 1 seed for the second straight year after losing to Duke in the second round last year, tonight's game rep­resents a turn­ing point of 

gave your 

"We are going in there ...
best." sorts. The 
Three years ago, to beat Arizona, even team's goal few thought the Irish since June has
though nobody is 
bnlonged on the same been to qualify
probably going to pick
court as the Wildcats. for the Sweet Tonight, the two us. Sixteen, and teams will meet in the with that goal West Regional semifi­met, the Irish
Matt Carroll
nal with an Elite Eight now turn 
Irish guard 
berth on the line. toward making 
The increased respect for fifth-seed­ed Notre Dame -playing in the Sweet Sixteen for the first time since 1987 -shows how far the program has risen in three years of Mike Brey's leadership. 
After the Irish lost to Arizona in the Preseason NIT in former coach Matt Doherty's only year at the hehn, the Irish went on to finish runners-up in the NIT after narrowly missing an NCAA berth. But under Brey, the Irish have advanced to the NCAA Tournament three consecutive years after an 11-year drought. The only Big East team to win 10 league games the last three years, the Irish are one of just nine teams to win first-round tourney games in three 
as much noise in the postsea­son as possible. 
They'll try to do so at Arrowhead Pond, where Dan Miller advanced to the Final Four when he played for Maryland. 
"We believe that we are one of the top programs and one of the best teams in the country, and we expect to win those games," said Carroll, who is one of two players on Notre Dame's team left from the squad that lost to the Wildcats three years ago. "We are going in there ... to go beat Arizona, even though nobody is probably going to pick us." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
POST PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
The Irish rely on 
Thomas played great 
Notre Dame has Notre Dame's goalFrancis played well
Brey is a good moti­their perimeter players in Notre Dame's first 

relied on solid play 
since summer was to
LLI 
for the Irish in their first vator and he often has 
for most of their two tourney games. 
from Quinn, Cornette make it to the Sweet
:le 
two tourney games by
his teams well pre­

points, but Francis has Carroll is healthier than 
and Jones off the Sixteen. Now that
c:C 
scoring rebounding and 
pared, espcially for provided offense at 

last week and should 
bench and they will 
they're there, they
C 
playing good defense.
big games. This sea­times in the tourney. 

be a more productive need all three to play may become passive.
LLI 
He, along with Cornette 
son is the first time 

Notre Dame needs to scorer. The Irish will well again Thursday. 
Miller, the only player 
a:: 
and Timmermans will
l­
play at their tempothe Irish made the 
need these two along 
Jones is the Irish with Sweet Sixteen
need to shut down the
o 
Sweet Sixteen since and not let Arizona 

with Miller and Quinn 
spark and he could­
experience, needs to
Wildcats' big men like
z 
1987. 

dictate the pace of the to shoot well from the 
play a big factor 
keep the Irish focusedthey did against Illinois. 
game. 
against the Wildcats.
outside to win. 
and hungry. 

===:::::::::::::::::::: ===::::::::::::::::::: :===========::======:_-,:_-_-,:_-------.:-_--.....--_-_-:,.-_-_-_-_-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.::::: :::::::::::::::::::::: 
In 20 years as Arizona's head coach, Olsen has won nearly

c:C 
z 
700 games and one 

0 
national title. He has

N 
taken four teams to the 

ii 
Final Four and has the

cC 
second highest winning percentage in Pac-10 history. 

Arizona has one of the deepest benches in 
The best thing to hap­the country. Olsen 
pen to Arizona was to plays his freshman a 
have a close game like lot -except down the 
they did against stretch when he turns 
Gonzaga. That contest to his veterans. Still, 
should wake the the freshmen have con­
Wildcats up and have tributed all ypar. The 
them more than ready Wildcats' depth is one 
to face the Irish. of their biggest assets. 


Gardner and
The experienced
The Wildcats have a Stoudamire are a tough
Walton is arguably the
solid inside game and 
tandem in Arizona's
best passing big man in 
very good perimeter backcourt. Gardner
the nation. He hurts
players. They also have may be the best point
teams in different ways 
shown the ability to 
guard in the country,
by either scoring. pass­
score in bunches. 
and both can shoot well 
ing or rebounding.
Arizona will try to push from the outside. The
Frye will also present
the ball and run-and­Wildcat bench also has
problems for the Irish
gun with the Irish. 
several other solid
inside. 
perimeter players. 
The key to this 

Buth matchup, and probably 
score, but the differ­the e, is Thomas 
fffic~ mayl'bt 
:~\ ~.~· ''!¼i~':. }1~1!
~trdli.t1' · ..' e. ']3Jti,cWHe 'Siww o eigamtitanf
~.~ ··.····· 
stellar perimeter play­both can score a lot 
ers and big men who points, rsp<'cially wh@ 
can run the floor. their team needs a bas­
ket 

Thursday, March 27, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Unwavering support 
Torin Francis' teammates gave him the confidence to live up to his lofty expectations 
important Francis would be, By ANDREW SOUKUP sm1ior Malt Carroll picked the Spun, Writer 
freshman as his weight lif'ting 
partnnr in the summer. That 
Ifo w1L<; just a 6-thot-1 O. gangly startnd what tnammates joking l'roshman wlrnn he arrived on called a big brother-little brother campus this sumnwr. lie hadn't relationship between Notre carnml his tf',unrnatns rnspnct yet l1u,me's vct<'ran leader u,nd Notre and hadn't shown Im could fill the Dame's primary post throat. gap in Notrn Danw's frontcourt. ''In the summer, I could ask 
1111 hadn't !WPll lif'tml wPights him questions, and he'd give me 
on a mgular ba'iis. advice," Francis said. "If I have a 
Sum. hc1 had a reputation for problem, I know I can talk to b1\ing mw of the nation's top big Matty. We're really close, and it's nwn nut or high school, and he bnen going on throughout the was good cnou~h lo earn year." Mcl)onal,fs All-American honors. But it wasn't just Carroll who But his uccornplishment.s in high spent time ,vorking with Francis. school amounted to diddlysquat By playing countless pickup in collogn, and ho krww that. games in the summer. Francis 
So when Torin Francis joined got accustomed to how the Irish tlw Irish for summnr workouts. played together. The veterans, he was eager to lnarn everything meanwhile, spent time teaching lw could about thn college game. Francis the finer points of the llis toammatns. ho quickly dis­game. covnrcd, wern morn than eager Point guard Chris Thomas, for to teach thnm. example, made a concerted effort 
Thal startc\d a confidence­to get Francis extra touches so he huilding procnss l'or hanr.is, a could go to tlrn bac;ket morn. Dan pr<wPss lhat resulted in solid play Miller used his experience to help from tlw Irish f'rnshman in Notrn Francis get used to playing l>anw's first two ;\JCAA against inside-outside players. Tournanwnl l{ames. And Jordan Cornette self1essly 
Bul for Francis. his work in the battled with the freshman who 
stmmwr show<'d hn could bn the might take his minutes to help get 
answ<>r lo a qrn•stion that loomnd him accustomed to physical col­
ovnr tlw Irish haskntball pro­lege ba'iketball. 
gram: how would N<>trn l>amci By the time practice ollicially 
n·plar.P Harold Swanagan and started, Francis was a conlident 
lirst-round NBA draft pick Hyan man. 
llurnphrny'! "In the summer, I tried to instill 
"Orw thing that was question­the mentality in myself that I abln about our t1)am in thn fall have to be ready to go out and was tlw type of balance we'd play," he said. "I knew I could be hav11 lwtwP<m th1\ perimeter and starting as a freshman. I knew front court guys," Francis said. "I that was a possibility, and I think krww tlwrn worn grnat nxpecta­being able to play early helped t.ions for me a<; a f'rnshman." me gain confidence." 
Expnctations. Francis now says, 
Starting quickly 
that lw thinks he livnd up to. 
The philosophy of Notre Bulldlng a big man Damn's early-season schedule 
A week ago, ,tl'ter Francis since Mike Brey arrived three scornd 23 poinl'i and grabbed 14 years ago has been one where rnbounds in Notrn Dame's first­the Irish play a horde of games in round victory over Wisconsin­order to give freshman tons of Milwaukee, someone asknd Irish game experience early. coach Mike Brey when Francis The plan worked well for startnd playing like anything Francis, who saw significant play­other than a freshman. ing time and scornd decent points 
Brny thought about the ques­in Notre Dame's first five games tion for a of the sea-minute before son. laying the But the
"If you look at how many 
groundwork for sixth game,
times I got the ball at the
what Francis an 85-80 was expected beginning of the season Irish loss to to do when he Creighton,
and how many times I
arrived at showed 
Notre Damn. get it now, it just shows how much Thn Irish had how much more ofan the big man lost thren had to
effect I can have.,,
sonior lnaders, learn. He two of whom never got wcirn major Torin Francis into the 
contributors in Irish forward 11ow of the tlw post. Notre game, got I)anw had be,~n benched a team in the early and p1Lsl that looknd down low before only played six minutes. looking long-range. i\nd with all Yet. much Ukn he would in Big the loss(is the Irish had endured, East games later in the season, Brey thought they were an NIT­Francis bounced back lo record calib('r team. two of' his best performances of 
"Tlmn," Brey said. "I saw how the season at the BB&T Classic, Torin could play." where the Irish trounced 
Buoy11d by a summer sp<'nt Maryland and edged Texas. In working with Notw Danw's vnt­Urn two victories ovPr top 10 l'ran pPrimntPr play11rs, Francis teams, Francis avcragnd 20.5 slowly blossomed into a player poinLs and nine rebounds, which who. if h<' couldn't dominalP cnl­workNI wonders for the frosh­lPg«-f'o11s al first, at h•ast ho could man's confidence. hold his own on the court. "That was d!ifinit.dy a boost for 
Showing llrn! lw knew how tlrn tPam, but for mn pPrsonally, I just felt like I established my role on the team," he said. "I felt like J was getting better from then on." 
Big East big man 
Slowly but surely, the Irish began to trust their big man with the baJI more. An athletic rebounder and a solid defender, Brey often complemented the play of his big man even if he didn't have the points to support such generous praise. 
Francis knew he was improv­ing. Instead of merely standing with the ball when he caught a pass, Francis started making his move to the basket much quicker, which started generating more points. 
In a situation that shows more about Franris' improvement than his skills, the freshman was in danger of getting taken out of' a game against Pittsburgh because he wa5 too reluctant to go Lo the basket with the bail. In fact. Brey had sent Cornette to the scorer's table to chnck in when Francis suddenly grabbed a pass, spun toward the basket like a veteran big man and scored an easy layup. Af'tnr Francis repcakd the move the next series, Brey waved Conrnlt(! back to the bench, and the Irish went on to knock off the then-No. 4 Panthers. 
"My ll\ammatos had coniidcnce in mn, and that helped mo gain conlidnnco in myself," Francis said. "I think my teammalns are willing to pass me the ball because they said, 'If he's effec­tive, we'll give him the ball."' 

Stretch run 
As the Big East season wore on, Francis developed a reputation as an excellent rebounder -he averages 8.3 boards a game ­and a solid defender. What's more, he proved himself wise beyond his years when, if' the shots didn't fall in the first half, he refused to get taken out of his game. 
"I know they say that freshmen hit a wall during the season," Francis said. "Some games. 1just clidn't have a good game, and you can't have a good game every game. But there were games that I was effective." 
The Trish began making con­certed efforts to get the ball to Francis, who proved himself adept at eith<'r kicking the ball out or scoring on demand. When earlier in the season Francis sel­dom touched the ball on olfensivn possessions. Thomas would ollnn dribble around the 3-point line waiting for Francis to establish himself. 
"If you look at how many times 1 got the ball in the beginning of the season, and how many times I get it now," Francis said, "it just shows how much more of an effoct J have on the gamn now." 
Hr. accomplished onr. of' his pre-season goals by getting named to the Big East AU-Rookie team aller avf'raging 10.7 points a game and recording nine dou­ble-doubles. 
In the NCAA Tournament, Francis followed his offensive outburst against Wisconsin­Milwaukee with a solid perfor­mance against Illinois. Although he only scored live points on l ­for-9 shooting, he wm; a key part of a defensive alignment that lim­ited Big Ten Player of the Year Brian Cook to just 6-f'or-23 shoot­ing 
Now that the Irish are in the midst of' an NCM Tournament run, Francis has also started establishing himself as a vocal leader in the locker room. He knows the time will come when Carroll and Miller graduate, and a new wave of leaders will have lo emerge in the Irish locker room to lead lhe freshmen in the summer. 
But for now, those IPaders who groomed Francis in the summer have startnd saying something entirely diffnrcnt to the player who is only a frnshman by grade only. 
"I wanted to nstablish myself in our syslPm and ~wt recognition as a freshman, Im Plfoctiv<\ and play on a winning team," Francis said. "My teammatPs hclpPd me a lot with that. 
"Now, t.hny'rn just tnlling me to knep going and knnp it up." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 27, 2003 
Good 'D' might not stop hot-shooting Wildcats 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
At one point in the season, the word "defense" seemed to be just that to the Irish bas­ketball team -a word. 
However, in Notre Dame's first two NCAA Tournament victories, the Irish won in large part due to a stingy defense that had disappeared for most of the 2003 calendar year. 
But will a strong commit­ment to defense be enough to help the Irish knock off top­seeded Arizona tonight? 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey isn't sure. 
A year ago, when the Irish faced Duke in the second round, I3rey told his players they would probably have to score 80-plus points to win. because he knew the Irish would have a tough time stop­ping the prolific Blue Devil offense. 
So how many points does Brey think the Irish need against Arizona, who enters tonight's game averaging a national-best 85.4 points a game? 
'Tm thinking about asking for a hundred," Brey said, only half-kidding. 
Although Brey thinks the Irish match up fairly well against the Wildcats, who play a style of basketball similar to Notre Dame's perimeter-ori­ented attack, every member of Arizona's starting five aver­ages double-digits in scoring. 
...-· 
Jason Gardner leads the Wildcats in scoring with an average of 14.3 points per game, but he is closely fol­lowed by 3-point sharpshooter Salim Stoudamire. who aver­ages 13.4 points a game and shoots 44.1 percent from behind the arc. 
When the Wildcats want to look inside, they can pass to either Channing Frye or Rick Anderson, who average 12.8 and 10.7 points a game, respectively. 
What helps make the Wildcats so dangerous, how­ever, is forward Luke Walton, the son of Hall-of-Farner Bill Walton. One of the best pass­ing big men in the nation, Walton averages 10.3 points and 4.9 assists a game -the same assist average as point guard Gardner. 
Couple those impressive offensive statistics with the fact that the Wildcats arc a relatively experienced team, and the Irish have good rea­son to be worried. 
"To try and guard the best offensive team in the country right now, we're not going to shut them down," Brev said. "But if we can take·a few things away every now and then, that certainly would help the effort." 
Throughout the season, the Irish have been a team whose defensive prowess is directly related to their offensive pro­duction. If the shots fall for the Irish, then the players appear to buckle down on defense more. 
But if the shooters start going cold, as they did in the latter stages of the season when Notre Dame often gave up over 80 points a game, the Irish give up big scoring runs that put them in a hole too big to climb out of. 
Against a team with as many offensive weapons as the Wildcats, Brey knows that if the Irish fall back into that trap, his squad will be in trou­ble. 
"We are a kind of team that needs our offense going a lit­11 e bit to get our defense going," Brey said. "That's kind of who we arc." 
Against Illinois, however, the Irish played defense in a way exactly as Brey described. They hit 11 first half 3-pointers while limiting the Illini to just 60 points in the game. 
Brey believes the Irish have the offensive firepower to knock off the Wildcats. Because both teams rely on the 3-point shot, Brey thinks scores could easily spira~ up into the triple-digits. 
The Wildcats are also com­ing off a second-round scare when they beat Gonzaga in double-overtime. And all their offensive talent isn't making the Irish back down. 
"To be the best, you've got to beat the best," Irish point guard Chris Thomas said, "and Arizona is on top right now." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 














