
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Vice President Dennis Moore dies of prostate cancer 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Nows Writ« 
Dennis Moore, associate vice president for public affairs and communication at the University, 
d i e d Wednesday morning after a year-long battle with prostate can­ccr. 
Moore was 55 and died at St. 


vi n c 0 n t •s Dennis Moore llospital in New York. where he was receiv­
ing treatment. He had been on medical leave for most of this semester. 
"We had been dreading the worst for a few weeks. The way things developed in the last day or so was a little surprising," said Dennis Brown, associate director of public relations and information. 
Moore graduated from Notre Dame in 1970 and returned in 1988 to join the public relations staff, where he held the positions of assistant director, associate director and director of public relations. In 2002, he was pro­moted to his current position as associate vice president. While a student. Moore was on the founding staff of The Observer. 
"Denny was an incredibly good person with a strong faith and was impressively loyal to the University," said Kerry Temple, editor of Notre Dame Magazine, who worked with Moore for the last 15 years. 
From 1990 to 2002, Moore served as director of public rela­tions and was the University's principal spokesman and media relations otlicer. 
"One of the things that impressed me most was that, as a spokesman for the University, Denny was the front man for policies, decisions and situations that were controversial, provocative and unpopular," Temple said. "He always did his job articulately and very loyally, and he always did it with the University's interest at heart." 
Before returning to Notre Dame, Moore served on the edi­torial staff of The Kiwanis Magazine, was a senior staff writer for Consumers Power Company in Jackson, Mich., and worked as a freelance writer, editor and consultant in the United States and Ireland. 
Moore is survived by his wife, Doreen, and three grown chil­dren, Erin, Brendan and Colleen, who is an assistant rector in Pasquerilla East Hall. 
Brown said that University President Father Edward Malloy 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group holds final meeting of semester 
toward changes and that these changes will be of ultimate importance in the future. 
"The biggest thing we did this year ... was creating the Council of Representatives," he said. "The changes out of {the Council of Representatives] are going to be amazing. It's going to be looked at five years from now as a big step for the stu­dent government." 
Student body vice president Jeremy Lao and chief of staff Emily Chin both expressed their excitement at working in their new positions next semester. 
''I'm really looking forward to working with [the Senate] and the whole student government on a totally different level," Lao said. 
Lao will become president with Hallahan's graduation, and Chin has been appointed as the new vice president. 
Also during the meeting, Pangborn Senator Kaitlyn Redfield reported that the tampus Life Council unani­mously passed the Senate's res-
see SENATE/page 4 


SMC sponsors religious a-wareness -week 

By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 

The Student Senate held their last meeting of the semester yesterday, marking student body president Pat Hallahan's final Senate meeting before he graduates at the end of the semester. 
Hallahan offered final thoughts on the Senate's progress thus far and praised the body for its work. He cited issues such as the proposed women's resource center and the examination of RA training as examples of good responses from the Senate to the needs of the student body. 
"I think we have made a lot of progress on some issues ... We have done a lot, I think, to respond to what students need," he said. 
Hallahan also praised the Senate for the formation of the Council of Representatives, which is the first step in a large restructuring of the student government. He said that the new council is making progress 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Nows Writor 

The Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board is sponsoring its ltcligious Awareness Week in an effort to increase the religious awareness on campus. 
The events began Monday and will conclude Sunday with Mass at 9 p.m. in Hegina Chapel. 
"Heligion is an important issue that people are so passionate about," said SDB Heligious Awarnncss Week chairwoman NilaAhmad. 
Ahmad hopes that people will be exposed to religions about which they were previously uninformed when they walk through the Hall of Heligions, located in the main hallway of the services of different faiths. LeMans. The Hall of Religions Free rides will be provided to features posters that inform stu­the Mosque at 12:30 p.m. Friday dents on many different aspects and to the Synagogue at 9:45 
of various reli­gions. 
SOB said it is presenting the ideas of as many religions as it could, but it was unable to include information on all types of religions. The board is cov­ering religions on which they could 
"Religion is an important issue that people are so passionate about." 
Nlla Ahmad awareness week chair 
a.m. Saturday at LeMans Circle. 
On Tuesday night the SDB held a panel discussion about the separa­tion between reli­gion and state. This was a slight change from last 
year's religious belief information session. This year's 
showing the movie Keeping the Faith. 
Today Saint Mary's students will have the opportunity to win various prizes by being one of the first five to respond correctly to an e-mail trivia questionnaire. The questions will deal with the first three events of the week. 
The Religious Awareness Week's events will conclude with a reception after Sunday's 9 p.m. mass at Regina Chapel. 
"I hope that people gain an awareness about different reli­gions and begin to ask questions rather than have a misunder­standing on certain beliefs," Ahmad said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

celebrated a memorial Mass for Moore for close associates, friends and colleagues in the Main Building Wednesday morn­ing and that funeral arrange­ments arc pending. 
"He will be remembered equally for his integrity, compas­sion and genuine concern for others," Malloy said in a state­ment. "In his word and deed, he lived his life as a faithful servant of God -giving of his time to the poor in our community, lend­ing an encouraging word to the discouraged, inspiring all with whom he interacted." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 


NDstudy 
abroad ranks third 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant Nows Editor 
A national survey recently named Notre Dame third in the percentage of its undergraduates who study abroad. 
According to a report by the Institute for International Education, 50.6 percent of Notre Dame students participated in some type of foreign study pro­gram for 2001-2002, the most recent year for which statistics are complied. These numbers mark an 11 percent increase from the previous year. 
"In this time of political turmoil our Notre Dame students are not flinching from engagement on the international scene," said Julia Douthwaite, assistant provost for international studies. "We're particularly delighted in this continuing trend given [University President Father Edward Malloy]'s call for a bilin­gual student body." 
Douthwaite cited opportunities for internships and service pro­grams at foreign study locations as key reasons for the high inter­est in international programs among students. Such broad­ranging opportunities distinguish the Notre Dame's programs from other national universities, according to Douthwaite. 
The number of students study­ing abroad would likely continue to increase, although students majoring in technical subjects would always be limited by tight course sequencing. 
"We would like for every stu­dent to have the opportunity to study abroad if it is relevant to his or her field of study," Douthwaite said. 
Yeshiva University was ranked first, with 75 percent of its stu­dents studying abroad, and Georgetown University ranked second with 52 percent. Last year Notre Dame was ranked first. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
find adequate, inoffensive facts. 
This weekend SDB will be vis­iting Masjid-al-Noor Mosque, Sinai Synagogue and Regina Chapel in order to experience panel discussion was aimed at initiating discussion and expla­nation among students. 
Last night, SDB provided a humorous outlook on religion by 
Thursday, December 4, 2003 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Jesus played basketball 
Football season is done, and now we, the normal students, have no one to live vicariously through. Yet have no fear! Notre Dame has a hid­den gem of a sports team on campus that you can still live your life Andrew Borys through. 
And this isn't a make-believe Ad Design sport like hurling, this is college basketball ;,.__ the gift God gave to men when He realized the mistake He made when creating vegetarians. 
So what prompted me to travel to Marquette, drink heavily, and get harassed by Jesuits the night before psych test on Monday? Passion for a sport that provides drama, quick momentum changes and upsets on a daily basis. 
And the Irish are a team that should not be overlooked. They are strong on the inside, explosive up top, un"Dutchable" on the bench, and when the threes start hitting, they are hard to stop. 
Many people mistakenly believe that, just because basketball games are played on weeknights and dur­ing the winter, they cannot tailgate and celebrate the sport as they do for football. This is not true. All you need is a George Foreman grill and a 21 year-old and you too can be prepared to fully enjoy an Irish bas­ketball game. Since most games occur at night, you don't even have to wake up early. After some brats and/or sausages, a few Keystones to wake you up and throwing on 57 layers to keep warm, you are ready to march to the JACC. Now some people like to run under the assumption that you can arrive at the arena an hour before tip-off and still get good seats. In actuality, that is when the doors open. In order to get seats where the opposing team's coach can actually hear you tell him to start the bus early, you have to be outside so early that you beat Brey to the arena. · 
When the ushers finally unlock the doors, grab a seat and listen to the JACC PA system pump songs popular in the year 1999 such as Creed and Lifehouse -just the music needed to intimidate the other team. When the other team comes out to warm up, we, as Notre Dame representa­tives, are required to give them respect by requesting they shoot three pointers from NBA range or to "cut that mullet." 
And eventually the game starts. For the next hour and a half, be screaming, jumping, insulting and straddling the border of police escort. 
A week from yesterday is the last day of classes and marks the begin­ning of "study days." That night, we also play Indiana in the JACC. It is as if those who created this schedule understood what the definition of "home court advantage" really means. Celebrate the end of a semester, fire up that George Foreman and make sure that Mike Davis, the most unstable coach in the NCAA, has an angry post game press conference. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Boryes at aborysl@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHEN ARE YOU STARTING YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING? 



Andrew Austin  Caitlin Kennelly  Chris Broughton  
Junior Siegfried  Sophomore Welsh Family  Senior Off-Campus  
"/haven't even thought about it."  "Hopefully this weekend."  "Christmas Eve."  

Man Wins Election In Marbles Game 
CULVER CITY, Calif. ­All it took for Stewart Bubar to retain his seat on the Board of Education in this Los Angeles suburb was 1,141 votes and one white marble. 
After Bubar and chal­lenger Roger Maxwell wound up tied at 1,141 votes apiece in last month's election, school district officials decided to determine the winner by having the two reach into bags filled with red, white and blue marbles. The first one to pull out a white one would be the winner. 
"When I saw the white one, I didn't believe it," said Bubar, who is the board's chairman. "I want­ed to make sure it was really white." 
Before he came up with the winner Monday, Bubar had pulled out three col­ored marbles. Fortunately for him, Maxwell pulled out four. 
Thailand Opens First Hospital for Monkeys 
LOPBURI, Thailand -At least seven patients crowded the hospital room. Four with respirato­ry diseases were on the 

realized it and its been menacing me all week." 

same examination table, out cold from anesthesia. Another had survived a fall from a building, and one more -hit by a car ­had a broken leg. 
It was a busy day at Thailand's first monkey hospital, which opened Wednesday in Lopburi, 70 miles north of Bangkok. 
The 2,000 monkeys roaming free in central Lopburi are the city's main tourist attraction. A feast held for them each November brings thou­sands of visitors. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
w 
:c 
ti 

3: w 
.... 
c( (,) 

0 
HIGH 38 HIGH 28 HIGH 30 HIGH 35

..I LOW 25 LOW 19 LOW 27 LOW 13 



Deacon Bruno Kate Burmon Nairead Case 
Junior Junior Sophomore O'Neill Welsh Family Pasquerilla West 
"/barely "In about 15 ''I'm not 
minutes." because my friends are Jewish." 
IN BRIEF 
D.I.C.E. and the Class of 2006 are sponsoring Christmas Card Making today from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Send cards to those you love this holiday season. Card making is free and open to all students. 
The NO Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, directed by Alexander Blachly, present their annual performance of selections from Handel's Messiah today from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $6 for reserved seating, $3 for students. The final performance will take place Friday night. Call the LaFortune Box Office at (574) 631-8128 for tickets. 
Amy Gutmann, provost of Princeton University will pres­ent a lecture entitled "Why Diversity Matters" today from 
4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo. The lecture is cosponsored by the Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series and the Department of Philosophy. 
SUB is sponsoring a showing of the movie "S.W.A.T." tonight in 101 DeBartolo from 10 to 12 
p.m. Admission is $3. The movie will also be shown Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. 
Carroll Hall will hold their annual Carroll Christmas Tree Lighting tomorrow from 7 to 8 
p.m. on the Carroll Hall Front Lawn. The event features a tree-lighting ceremony, carols sung by the glee club, food and fun. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 


HIGH 37 HIGH 
42 

LOW 18 LOW 
28 

Atlanta 42 I 40 Boston 38 I 28 Chicago 38 I 29 Denver 46 I 20 Houston 68 I 45 Los Angeles 74 152 Minneapolis 32 123 New York 41 I 33 Philadelphia 42 I 34 Phoenix 77 I 50 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 42 I 29 Tampa 77 163 Washington 44 132 
Thursday, December 4, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


FCC approves application
Students triumph in 
Associated Press 
moot court regionals WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission voted Wednesday
Law students move to national competition 
By WILL PUCKETT 
News Writer 
Heccntly, two Notre Dame third-year law students emerged in a Moot Court tri­umph that was anything but moot. 
Carah Helwig and Julissa Hoblns will travel in February to New York City to the national moot court com­petition. following 
their victory at the Hegion VIII National Moot C o u r t Competition. The pair won each or the five matches in which they 
competed in the regional competi­tion, and also won the best brief competition, defeating a team from Indiana University, Indianapolis in the final round. 
There are fourteen regions nationwide in moot court com­petition, and approximately 26 to 28 advance to the national competition. Not all of the regional results have been finalized, so Helwig and Robles arc still waiting to learn the entire slate of competitors they will be facing in New York. They arc not particularly con­cerned about the competition, however, according to Helwig. 
"We went into the competi­tion wanting to do well for each other. and were only focused on supporting each other as teammates," said Helwig. 
Atlantic's New York applica­tion was approved. 
FCC Chairman Michael Powell said the Arizona appli­cation approval marks the "end of a long and difficult road." Regional Bells can now sell long-distance service in 48 states and the District of Columbia. 
"The barrier between local and long-distance service has finally been removed," Powell said. "Consumers throughout the country will continue to enjoy innovative new choices that make the concept of sepa­rate local and long distance markets a thing of the past." 
FCC Commissioner Kathleen Abernathy said the commis­sion's work is not done. The commission needs to ensure that the markets remain com­petitive, she said. 
In a joint statement, commis­sioners Michael Copps and Jonathan Adelstein, the two Democrats on the commission, said the FCC has failed to ade­quately ensure markets remain competitive beyond the first year that a carrier's appli­cation is approved. 
Qwest already provides local service to nearly 2.7 million customers in Arizona. The Denver-based company expects to begin taking orders for long-distance calling plans from Arizona customers later this month. 
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 allows companies to offer long-distance services once it has shown that local service in its area has been opened to competition. Qwest said it spent more than $3 bil­lion complying with the com­petition requirement. 
Qwest currently provides long-distance service to more than 1.7 million customer lines in 13 states in its local service territory. 
"Then ... we just kept on win­ning." 
Robles expressed confidence in the pair's preparation and brief-writing skills, but she, too, was surprised at the end of the competition. 
"I was confident we were prepared for the challenge," Robles said. "The shock didn't arrive until we were sitting ih the final round ... and the tour­
nament officials 

The application process to 
revealed we were 

offer long-distance services 
the top seed 

began in 1997, when 
throughout the 

Ameritech submitted the first 
tournament." 

application from a former Bell 
The Association 

company. The application was 
of the Bar of the 

later withdrawn. The FCC 
City of New York, 

approved its first application 
where the nation­

in December 1999, when Bell 
al competition 

"The shock didn't arrive until we were sitting in the final round ... " 
Julissa Robles law student 
American 
will most likely be 

Lawyers sponsored the compe­tition. 
Immigrants refused licenses 
held, and the College of Trial 

to allow Qwest Communications International Inc. to sell long-distance phone service in its entire region, approving the final such appli­cation for a regional Bell. 
Qwest's petition for Arizona was the last by a former Bell company to enter a long-dis­tance market after the FCC broke up AT&T in 1984 and barred the local regional Bells from providing long distance in their local markets. 
Moot Court competitions operate somewhat differently from mock trial competitions or 
Associated Press itics-as-usual in other legal simulations in sev­
Sacramento, eral ways. Each team writes a 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Schwarzenegger said in a forty-page brief based on one 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger statement after he signed the side of a case record they 
repealed a measure repeal without ceremony or 
taken effect in January, was a major cam­paign promise in the October recall election that swept the 
"The swift bipartisan passage of this legislation is a perfect example of how the people's will can change politics-as-usual in Sacramento." 
Arnold Schwarzenegger California Governor 
pictures. 
His action came 2 112 weeks after Schwar­
zenegger, a Republican, ful­filled his first campaign promise -to end nearly $4 billion in higher annual car taxes. 
The driver's license law was passed by the Legislature in September and signed by then­Gov. Gray 

movie star into office. Davis, triggering criticism 
"The swift bipartisan pas­that he was pandering to sage of this legislation is a Hispanic voters in the recall perfect example of how the balloting. peoples' will can change pol-California is deeply divided 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. 
If you have a relative or friend who would like 
to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy 
Cross College -we're right next door to Notre 
Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, 
over the illegal immigrants flowing into the state, mostly from Mexico and Central America. 
Supporters of the law, which would have allowed license applications using taxpayer identification num­bers instead of Social Security numbers, argued it would prompt undocumented immigrants to take the state driving test and become insured. 
Opponents labeled the law a reward for lawbreakers and said terrorists could take advantage of it. 
Schwarzenegger's action sets the stage for a fresh fight on the issue in January. Schwarzenegger has said he wants a "whole new pack­age" that includes more safe­guards and background checks on applicants. But many Republicans say they will fight any bill that allows residents living illegally in California to get a driver's license. 
receive some time in advance. 
Following submission of this brief, the team must compete in an oral argument compo­nent, where each side has thir­ty minutes to argue their side of the case, which is deter­mined just before the argu­ments by a coin toss. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
Wednesday that would have allowed an estimated 2 million undocument­ed immigrant drivers to apply for licenses in California. 
Overturning the law, which would have 

transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. 
Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission. 
0>


HOLY CROSS ., 
0 ~ 
"' 
"' 
e 
(.,)

~N2e~a~~~n~* (.,) 
.2:­
0 
:r 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 
8 
® N

574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, December 4, 2003 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
olution on a proposed women's resource center. The body now must await the response of Father Mark Poorman, vice pres­ident for student affairs. 
Finally, the Senate unanimous­ly passed a letter to the University Academic Council ask­ing the council to implement a Naval Science minor. 
According to the letter, "The study of Naval Science and mili­tary studies is a time-honored academic discipline and current Notre Dame students specializing in and successfully mastering this legitimate field of study deserve appropriate academic distinc­tion." 
The letter also requested that an investigation be launched into the "feasibility of minor offerings in the fields of Military Science and Aerospace Studies." In other Senate news: 
+ Keenan Senator Dan Zenker presented a proposal for more bike racks to be added to the D2 and D6 student parking lots. The main reason for this proposal, according to Zenker, is that stu­dents who ride their bikes to the parking lots have limited space to leave the bikes. He said members of the Senate's Committee on Residence Life have met with representatives of NDSP and University Maintenance, who are 

ENGLAND 
open to the idea. 
"NDSP and maintenance both expressed a need for more bike racks," Zenker said. "They both 

Briton charged in conspiracy case 
want it to happen. 
+ Kate Schlosser, a student representative on the University Academic Council, spoke to the Senate regarding issues on which the Council is currently working. Schlosser spoke mainly on the TCE issue and updated the Senate·as to its progress. 
"The re&olution [the Senate] passed last year is just coming to the forefront," Schlosser said. "We're going to look at the issue and. see if we can accommodate the concerns of the faculty and see if we can have some TCE publication that everyone agrees on." 
+ 
Lyons Senator Kristy Boisen informed the Senate that she will be leaving to study abroad next semester, and she introduced her replacement. Sophomore Natasha Mikha will serve out the end of Boisen's term as Lyons Senator next semester. 

+ 
Senators appointed Fisher Senator Sujal Pandya as Senate representative to the Judicial Council. Pandya will serve as liai­son between the two bodies as student government elections take place early next semester. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Christmas tree in Rockefeller Center came to life in a blaze of 30,000 lights Wednesday night before a crowd of thousands of New Yorkers and visitors from around the world. 
Before flipping the switch to usher in the holiday season, Mayor Michael Bloomberg dedi­cated the lighting ceremony to 
U.S. soldiers everywhere. 
As the temperature dipped below freezing, 6-foot-7 Anthony Jenkins found warmth and good wishes in the packed crowd after dressing up as a giant Santa. "What I get out of it is the love of the people," said Jenkins, 55. 
For Hy Safran, 19, and friend Melissa Opper, 18, both students at Columbia University, watching the tree lighting stirred their patriotism. 






TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Now leasing all floor plans for: Spring 2004 Summer2004 2004-2005 school year 
Apply by December 15, 2003 to lock in SPECIAL rates! 
www. turtlecreeknd. cont 574-272-8124 
Associated Press 
LONDON -A 24-year-old British man was charged Wednesday with conspiring in an explosives plot with Richard Reid, the al-Qaida "shoe bomber" who tried to blow up a U.S. airliner. 
Sajid Badat, one of more than 20 people arrested since last week in a series of anti­terrorism raids, was charged with two additional explo­sives offenses, London's Metropolitan Police said. 
Police gave no details of the charges, and it was unclear whether Badat was accused of involvement in Reid's attempt to set off explosives on a Paris-to-Miami flight. Badat is due to appear in court Thursday. 
London police commission­er Sir John Stevens said Wednesday the force is on a heightened state of terrorist alert. 
Details of the accusations against Badat were not released, but explosive mate­rial was found at his home in Gloucester, southwestern England, where he was arrested Nov. 27. 
Before his name was released, Home Secretary David Blunkett said the secu­rity services and police

Christmas tree lit in 
believed the suspect had al­Qaida connections. "It is the belief of the secu­rity and [police] Special

Rockefeller Center 
States. He admitted he tried to "He has traveled to ignite plas­
many countries to
tic explo­

study Islam, but
sives hid­den in his studying Islam is not shoes on 
the same as studying
American 

terrorism. " 
Airlines Flight 63. Ibrahim Mohammed Yosuf Master, 
friend of suspect 
chairman of t h e same as studying terrorism." 

Reid, a Muslim convert born in London, had attended Brixton mosque in the cap­ital. Mosque chair­man Abdul Haqq Baker has said Reid fell in with a loosely organized groups of the mili­tants and attended extreme scholar­
"I wanted to experience the season," Safran said, adding that he and Opper are both Jewish but that "the Christmas spirit has become the American spirit since 9-11." 
The 79-foot, 9-ton tree was Branch services that this man has connections with the net­work of al-Qaida groups," Blunkett told British Broadcasting Corp. radio. 

Authorities alleged that between Sept. 1, 2001, and 
planted 50 years ago in Manchester, Conn. It arrived in Manhattan last month on a Hudson River barge and was trucked to the midtown land­mark where it will remain lit until Jan. 6. 






DEADLINE!
The televised Christmas show featured performances by Harry Connick Jr., Ashanti, Enrique Iglesias, Gloria Estefan, Kelly Clarkson, Ruben Studdard and the Brian Setzer Orchestra. 
Some peoplejust need one in order to get
The tree tradition dates to 1931, when workers building 

things done. 
Rockefeller Center erected a small tree amid the Art Deco buildings rising between Fifth and Sixth avenues. 
Nov. 28, 2003, Badat "unlaw­fully and maliciously con­spired with Richard Reid and others unknown" to cause an explosion "likely to endanger life or cause serious injury." 
Reid, a British national, was sentenced to life in prison for a Dec. 22, 2001, bombing attempt aboard a Paris-to-Miami flight. 
He pleaded guilty and said he was a member of the al­Qaida terrorist network, pledged his support to Osama bin Laden, and declared him­self an enemy of the United a Muslim cleric in Pakistan, where members of his family live. 


The Guardian newspaper reported Saturday that Badat had gone to Anglican schools as a child, and it quoted friends who expressed sur­prise at the arrest. 
"He is popular and he has never mentioned anything about fundamentalism or ter­rorism, that is simply not him," said Mohammed Yosuf. "He has traveled to many countries to study Islam, but studying Islam is not the 
Lancashire Council of Mosques, said last week that the suspect -not then iden­tified by name -had been a student at the College of Islamic Knowledge and Guidance in Blackburn, northern England. Master said religious leaders assist­ed police in a search of the college and adjoining mosque. 
Badat was born in Gloucester into a strict Muslim family who moved to England from Malawi in the 1960s, The Daily Telegraph reported Saturday. The news­paper said he had trained as ship classes. 
Police gave no indication of how or where Badat and Reid allegedly had met. 
As Badat was charged, police continued to question 14 people arrested Tuesday in a series of dawn raids around the country. Those raids followed anti-terrorist operations last week in which seven people were arrested, including Badat. 
One other man arrested in the recent raids, Algerian national Noureddinne Mouleff, was charged earlier Wednesday with terrorism and fraud offenses. 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 4, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan rebels to enter peace talks 
CAIHO. Egypt-A delegation of Sudanese relH'ls will 11y to the capital Khartoum for talks with the government, insurgency leader .John Garang said Wndnesday. The negotia­tions would be a major step toward ending the country's 20-ycar civil war. 
Garang told The Associated Press in a phone call that the "high-level delegation," including a member of the leadership council of the Sudan People's Liberation Army, would head to Khartoum on Friday. 
The SPLA began its insurgency in 1983. Garang said the visit to Khartoum was sepa­rate from peace negotiations set to resume in Kenya on Dec. 5. 
Garang said the government had accepted the visit. 
China slams U.S. WMD strategies 
BEIJING-China revealed in unusual detail Wednesday its methods of preventing dangMous weapons from falling into the wrong hands, outlining its approach to non­proliferation just days before its premier vis­its Washington. 
At the same time, the Beijing government chided the United States' actions to root out such weapons, saying "unilateralism and double standards must be abandoned" -an allusion to pre-emptive U.S. military action in Iraq earlier this year, which China opposed. 
The comments. in a "white paper" on non­proliferation. dovetailed with a major theme of the Communist government's foreign policy in recent years, to establish China as a respectable, responsible country that will fol­low international rules. 
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, China said, benefit no one ­particularly China itself. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
CDC: U.S. not ready for SARS 
LOUISVILLE. Ky.-The United States is ill­equipped to handle a major outbreak of the deadly SAHS virus, according to a report commissioned by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The study, conducted by University of Louisville researchers and submitted Monday, cites a lack of specialists who study diseases, along with cuts in state and local health department budgets. 
"The current shortage of epidemiologists, public health nurses and other personnel in the U.S. will reach a crisis stage in the event of an epidemic," the report says. 
Study questions prostate tests 
WASHINGTON -Almost a third of men over 7 5 undergo laboratory blood tests each year to check their prostate health, but a new study questions the value of using the PSi\ test to screen men that old for prostate cancer. 
"There is no evidence that screening men of this age would be beneficial to them, so this may not be the best use of health care resources," said Dr. Siu-Long Yao, a genital­urinary oncologist at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey in New Brunswick, N.J. He is senior author of the study appearing this week in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IU Jews vie for dreidel record-
BLOOMINGTON -A Jewish community center at Indiana University will try to twirl its way into the Guinness Book of World Records Sunday by spinning at least 561 drei­dels at the same time. 
If all the dreidels spin simultaneously for more than 10 seconds, the Helene G. Simon llillcl Center at Indiana University will beat out the University of Maryland for the record. 
"We just thought it would be a lot of fun," program director Andy Gitelson said. "It's kind of a way to get back at Maryland for beating us in the NCAA tournament a few years back." 
Coroner: struggle caused death 
Official says 350-pound black man had health problems, was on PCP and cocaine 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI The 
death of a 350-pound black 
man who was clubbed by 
police in a videotaped beat­
ing was caused primarily 
by the struggle that ensued 
after the suspect lunged 
and swung at the officers, 
the coroner said 
Wednesday in a case that 
has heightened racial ten­
sions. 

Hamilton County Coroner Carl Parrott said Nathaniel Jones, 41, suffered from an enlarged heart, obesity and had intoxicating levels of cocaine, PCP and methanol in his blood. 
He said the death will be ruled a homicide, but added that such a decision does not mean police used "excessive force." The coroner said he had to rule was sparked after a white ground and fell on him, Relatives said Jones was the death a homicide police officer shot and and j{lbbed or clubbed him a loving person who never because it did not fall killed an unarmed fleeing with nightsticks at least a hurt anyone. under the other categories: black suspect.< dozen times over several "They talk about Skip accident, suicide or natu­But city officials have minutes until he was hand­like he was an animal," ral. said the officers in the cur­cuffed. They kept yelling, said his grandmother, 
"Since the struggle was rent case were properly "Put your hands behind Bessie Jones. "lie wasn't. the result of a purposeful defending themselves your back!" as they strug­Skipper was just a good act, in this case, the effort against a violent suspect. gled to handcuff him. old, fat jolly fella. He was­by the police to subdue The officers -five whites Jones' body had bruising n't violent." him, to do their jobs, that and one black -were on the lower half, but did "Everyone he met, that purposeful act was a pri­placed on administrative not show signs of blows to he touched, loved him," mary cause of death," leave, which is standard the head or organ damage, said his aunt, Diane Parrott said. procedure. the coroner said. Payton. "He was never 
The coroner said the The struggle occurred In Jones' car, police mean." death was a homicide early Sunday after an found cocaine and three Parrott said he has full because the struggle and employee at a White Castle hand-rolled cigarettes that confidence in his office's restraint caused Jones' called 911 to report that a had been dipped in findings. death, but noted that Jones man had passed out on the methanol, an ingredient in "We're doing things in would have been more lawn outside. Emergency embalming fluid that gets the way everyone else docs likely to survive had he not personnel arrived and people high, authorities it. We're doing it to nation­used drugs, been obese or reported that the man was said. al and international stan­suffered from the weak­awake and "becoming a The coroner's ruling dards," he said. ened heart. Jones had nuisance," according to came shortly after lawyers John Ester, spokesman ingested cocaine within police radio transmissions. for Jones' family called for for the prosecutor's office, three hours of the struggle The first two arriving an independent investiga­said the office was in the and the PCP within five officers were shown on a tion, claiming the coroner preliminary stages of inves­hours, Parrott said. police video striking Jones has mishandled past cases. tigating the scuffle and was 
Black activists say Jones' after he ignored orders to "It's hard for me to still awaiting the results of de·ath was another exam­"stay back," took a swing believe anything that a police investigation. ple of police brutality at an officer and put his comes out of the coroner's Police Capt. Vince against blacks in a city that arm around one's neck. office," attorney Kenneth Demasi said the ruling was was rocked by race riots The officers later Lawson said at a news con­in line with what police two years ago. That unrest knocked Jones to-the ference. expected. 

ISRAEL 

Powell meetirig frustrates many 
.... 

Israeli authors, but said the effort Palestinians have accepted in princi­
Associated Press 

would be counterproductive. ple as a basis for negotiations. The 
JERUSALEM -Israel reacted with "I think the decision that Secretary road map, which envisions an inde­disappointment Wednesday after U.S. Powell must make is ... what the pendent Palestinian state by 2005, Secretary of State Colin Powell con­American interests are," Shoval said leaves open to negotiation the specific firmed he will meet with organizers of in a phone interview from Italy. issues -such as borders -addressed an informal Israeli-Palestinian peace "America wants to promote the in the Geneva pact. treaty. 'road map' and those people in The White House on Wednesday 
The comments by Zalman Shoval, Geneva ... want to go in a different said Powell was free to meet with the an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel path," he added. "Therefore I think it Geneva authors but underlined its Sharon, was the latest expression of won't be very helpful." commitment to the road map. Israel's stiff opposition to the meeting, The Geneva Accord outlines conces­"The path forward toward peace in seen as a U.S. gesture toward the sions by Israel that Sharon's govern­the Middle East is the road map," "Geneva Accord" that Sharon has ment has opposed in the past -spokesman Scott McClellan said, denounced. including removing most settlements adding that "The secretary of state 
On Tuesday, Israel's vice premier from the West Bank and Gaza Strip will make determinations about who said it would be "mistake" if Powell and dividing sovereignty in Jerusalem, he meets with." goes forward with the meeting -an claimed by both sides as their capital. U.S. gestures toward the Geneva unusually strong rebuke from Israel to The accord also severely limits any plan have been seen as an implicit its closest and most important ally. return of Palestinian refugees to lands criticism of Sharon's hard-line stance 
Shoval. a former ambassador to in Israel, which has brought condem­toward the Palestinians. Powell on Washington, conceded that Israel can­nations from some Palestinian leaders. Tuesday confirmed he would meet not prevent Powell from meeting with The "road map" is aformal U.S.­with the Geneva accord's authors on Geneva Accord's Palestinian and backed peace plan that Israel and the Friday. 

page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 4, 2003 
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu

Campus Ministry C-M 
now takin 
lications 
Get involved, go on a retreat More info & applications in Room114 and online at campusministry.nd.edu 


wh t' h · 
friday 12.os 
las Posadas Welsh Family Hall, 24-hour lounge 7:oo-9:oo p.m. 
Freshman Retreat #so Sacred Heart Parish Center 

sunday 12.01 
1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Spanish Mass & Guadalupe Presentation Coleman-Morse Lounge 
1:30 p.m. Mass 3:oo p.m. presentation (in English) 

tuesday 12.09 
Campus Bible Study 7:oo p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
Confirmation Session 
7:00 p.m. -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
Feast ofSan Juan Diego 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall Reception to follow 
wednesday 12. 10 Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Coleman-Morse Lounge 10 p.m. 


friday 12. 12 
Feast of Our lady of Guadalupe 
5:15 p.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


saturday 12.13 

The Notre Dame CELEBRATION CHOIR 
presents the 
..Voices of Campus.. Christmas Concert for liberia 
8:oo -9:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge Optional donations accepted at the door for Catholic Relief Services for Liberia 


traditional celebration 
OuR LADY oF GuADALUPE CELEBRATION 
CELEBRACIONES DE -NU-ES-TRA siNORA-DE 


GUADALUPE 

Friday, December 5 • 7:00 -10:oopm • Welsh Family Hall 
Las Posadas 
Mexican Christmas Caroling and Fun 
Sunday, December 7 • 1:3opm 
Spanish Mass and Guadalupe Presentation 

Mass in Coleman-Morse lounge followed by a presentation on the story and symbolism of the Guadalupe event. 
Tuesday, December 9 • 10:00 p.m. • St. Edward's Hall 
Feast of San Juan Diego 
Spanish Mass and Reception to follow 
Friday, December 12 • 5:15pm • 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe 

weeekend mass schedule 
Notre Dame Encounter #79 
January 23-25 
Sign up deadline: December 12 
-··" "•---~·-.... --.....,, -,.~r-··---------~-.-~,.. 
·---·---·-··· 

Main Office (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to s p.m. CM Welcome Center (room m.) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations... 
Advent 

Tal~e a breath Tal~e a lool~ 
by john Glynn Intern, Campus Ministry 

It's after Thanksgiving and the fall semester draws ever nearer to completion. Books that have been put off all semester are finally being opened, term papers and la~ projects that we've known about since September are finally being started, and that creeping feeling on the back ofyour neck is starting to become more and more apparent as the end of the semester looms with its necessary and unwelcome companion: finals. For some, this is perhaps the seventh time that they anxiously prepare for their final exams, for others this may be the first; but for both parties and everyone in between it can be said that the next, and last, three weeks of the semester will be filled with late nights, long study sessions, frantic last-minute papers and projects, overdeveloped anxiety complexes, and a vision of the future that looks much, much brighter once we finish that last exam. 
It's after Thanksgiving and the fall semester draws ever nearer to completion. Jingle bells fill the radio waves, A Christmas Story is put on repeat on TBS, little lights pop up like flower buds on trees across campus, malls across the country become battlegrounds for bargain-hunters and sale-shoppers, the bookstore has one of its glorious twice­annual student sales, and that creeping feeling on the back of your neck starts to cause shockwaves up and down your spine as you remember you need to think up, go out, and buy presents for friends and family. Our minds are stuffed with cramming a semester's worth of information in a very short amount of time, while our bodies are exhausted from the pre-Christmas scurry to find gifts for loved ones, albeit bodies somewhat relieved that our wallets are now much lighter. 
It's after Thanksgiving and the fall semester draws ever nearer to a close. We're busy, cold, and tired, and yet it is in this time of exhaustion and anxiety that we celebrate the beginning of another Church year. The season ofAdvent began last Sunday and with it the New Year of the Church-a beautiful season that asks us to take a step back from the frantic bustle of our lives, to take stock of ourselves, and to gain perspective on the way we are living. It asks us to look inward at a time when everything in our environ­ment is pulling us outward-knowing that what it asks for is perhaps the hardest thing to do at the moment. And yet it may be exactly what we need. Often we can be caught up in the whirlwind ofactivity that makes up our college lives that we lose a grip on why this season is important-the coming of Christ at Christmas. Advent calls us to take time to reflect on how we are preparing ourselves for Christ-not just Christ at the end of time, but Christ in the Mass, Christ in the suffering, Christ in each other. It asks us to prepare our hearts to receive the love of God that comes in the encounter of Christ-a love and a presence that is encountered not once a year or once a week, but every day. There is no doubt that this time before finals and Christmas is one of stress and worry, but it is also one that asks us to gain hope and serenity from the knowledge that Christ has come, Christ is risen, and Christ will come again. 
It's after Thanksgiving and the fall semester draws ever nearer to a close. But take a breath, take a look. Our Savior is coming, and with Him peace. 
znd Sunday of Advent 
basilica of the sacred heart around campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
s:oo p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. John E. Conley, c.s.c.  Rev. Peter )arret, c.s.c.  
11:45 p.m.  
Rev. Thomas J. Eckert, c.s.c.  

1:30  p.m.  s:oo  p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  
Coleman Morse Lounge  Law School  
(NOTE: new location for this  Student Lounge  
week only)  

7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 


1st: Baruch 5:1-9 2nd: Phillipians 1:4-6, 8-11 Gospel: Luke 3:1-6 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, December 4, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
9,873.42 +19.78

jones 
"" Same:
Up: 
1,5, 8 193 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE 
s&PSOO 
Down: Composite Volume: • 1,418,349,952 
1,117.17 0.00 1,960.25 -19.82 
6,142.78 +3.16 1,064.73 -1.89 

NIKK£1(Tokyo) 10,326.39 0.00 fTSE IOO(london) 4,392.00 +13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ADCTELECOMM (ADCT) + 14.75 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.04 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +4.03 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.82 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.53 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.74 10-YEAR NOTE +0.68 5-YEARNOTE +0.82 3-MONTH BILL -0.55 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.36 2.80 +0.0 I 25.67 +0.50 12.90 +0.19 23.30 +0.02 4.37 
+0.38 51.85 
+0.30 44.10 
+0.28 34.39 
-0.05 9.12 
+0.32 31.10 
+0.20 404.80 
-3.00 85.625 
Exchan Rates 

YEN I 08.3 EURO 0.8263 POUND 0.579 CANADIAN$ 1.30 
IN BRIEF 
OPEC hints at production cuts 
VIENNA, Austria-Global demand for oil is sufficient to soak up current output, but Saudi Arabia, de facto leader of OPEC, warned that a cut in crude production was likely when sea­sonal demand falls next spring. 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Naimi hinted 
W0dne~day that he supported other members 
of the oil producer's group calling for no 
change in output at this week's meeting on 
production policy. However, he warned "there 
is a high possibility" that the Organization of 
P11troleum Exporting Countries will have to cut 
production early next year if it hopes to avert 
a springtime slump in prices. 
OI'EC members have been cashing in on high oil prices, and the group's Secretary­(;nnPral Alvaro Silva has already ruled out any incrnase in output that might help ease the pain for importing countries. 
Wal-Mart to ax debit MasterCard 
I.ITTLE HOCK, Ark. -Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will stop accepting signature debit cards issued by MasterCard starting in February, the lirst major retailer to take such action since a lawsuit settlement freed merchants to pick which credit and debit card services they use. 
Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, said Wednesday that MasterCard's fees for the sig­nalurP debit cards are too high. It will contin­UP to acc0pt Visa's signature debit cards. 
Merck predicts jump in earnings 
THENTON, N.J.-Merck & Co. expects 2004 earnings to rise about 7 percent from this year, th£1 pharmaceutical giant told analysts \Vl)dnesday. 
Merck said its $3.11 to $3.17 per share prof­it forecast includes expected restructuring charges next year, such us severance pay­ments and other costs related to its plan to cut 4,400 jobs. Merck said those charges will reduce 2004 net income by $75 million to $125 million, even though eliminating those jobs will reduce overhead somewhat. 
The job eliminations have begun and will continue into 2004, said Mark Stejbach, direc­tor of investor relations. 
Productivity takes off in Q3 
Economy registers largest jump in two decades; analysts expect hiring to follow 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
productivity of America's 
workers soared by the 
largest amount in 20 years 
last quarter, raising hopes 
that the economic recov­
ery is taking hold and 
businesses will soon be 
stepping up hiring. 
The Labor Department reported Wednesday that productivity -the amount an employee produces per hour of work -rocketed at an annual rate of 9.4 percent in the July-to­September quarter, the best showing since the second quarter of 1983. 
The figure, revised from a month ago based on more complete data, was even stronger than the government's first esti­mate of an impressive 8.1 percent productivity growth rate and repre­sented an acceleration from the brisk 7 percent pace in the second quar­ter. 
"The gains in productivi­ty are helping companies' bottom lines so they can be less focused on cutting costs and more focused on expanding business and ultimately hiring more employees," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America Capital Management. "This is very good news for the sustain­ability of the recovery." 
On Wall Street, the good news on productivity lifted stocks. The Dow Jones industrials gained 19.78 points to close at 9,873.42. 
For the economy's long­term health and for rising living standards, produc­tivity gains are vital. They allow the economy to grow faster without triggering innation. Companies can pay workers more without raising prices, which would eat up those wage gains. And productivity can bolster a company's profitability. 
That's particularly important in the current economic climate. As prof-

EPA 

Playboy Chairperson & CEO Christie Hefner closes trading on the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday as her father, Playboy founder Hugh Hefner, smiles and looks on. Stocks jumped on news of huge productivity gains In the U:S. economy. 
its improve, companies may be more willing to boost capital investment and hiring -two crucial ingredients for the recov­ery to be lasting. 
In terms of productivity, "businesses have probably stretched their current work forces about as far as they can stretch," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "If the growth in the econ­omy continues, businesses would be required to add to their staffs, rather than expect current employees to do it all on .a going-for­ward basis." 
The economy is estimat­ed to be growing at a solid 4 percent rate in the cur­rent quarter. Although that would be a slowdown from the blistering 8.~ percent pace of the third quarter -the fastest in nearly two decades ­analysts said such eco­nomic growth would be ample to spur hiring. 
The nation's payrolls are expected to grow in November by around 150,000, economists pre­diet. If that happens, it would mark the fourth month in a row that hiring increased. The govern­ment will release November's employment report on Friday. 
During .the economic slump, gains in productivi­ty came at the expense of workers: Companies pro­duced more with fewer employees. But in the third quarter, businesses pumped out more with a small increase in workers. The economy added a net 103,000 jobs during the quarter. 
Companies' output in the third quarter surged at a 
10.3 percent rate, the biggest increase since the third quarter of 1983, and more than two times the 
4.6 percent pace in the second quarter. 
Workers' hours in the third quarter increased at a 0.8 percent pace, the most since the first quar­ter of 2000, and a turn­around from the 2.2 per­cent rate of decline in the second quarter. 
Businesses may be run­ning out of ways to squeeze more out of exist­ing workers to meet cus­tomers' demands for goods and services, said Richard Yamarone, econo­mist with Argus Hesearch Corp. "Stronger job cre­ation may be just around the corner," he said. 
Companies' unit labor costs fell at a rate of 5.8 percent in the third quar­ter -good news for profit margins. That was better than the 3.2 percent rate of decline reported for the second quarter. 
Workers' hourly com­pensation adjusted for inOation rose at a 0.7 per­cent rate in the third quar­ter, down from a 3 percent rate in the previous quar­ter. 
With the job market improving and the econo­my gaining traction, econ­omists believe the Federal Heserve will hold a key short-term interest rate at a 45-year low of 1 percent at its next meeting Dec. 9. "The odds ... do increas­ingly favor a revival in job creation," a hopeful Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said last month. 

SEC moves against market timers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Federal regulators voted Wednesday to ban illegal after­hours trading in mutual funds, bid­ding to restore investor confidence staggered by a spreading industry scandal. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission agreed by a 5-0 margin on tentative approval of a rule that would set 4 p.m. Eastern as the cutoff for pricing of fund shares. It is the first step in regulators' planned over­haul of the $7 trillion fund industry. 
The SEC action comes as problems spread through mutual fund compa­nies and brokerage houses, more prominent companies are cited for allowing special trading deals that disadvantage ordinary investors, and a money stampede continues from implicated funds. 
Some 95 million Americans -half of all households -invest in mutual funds. 
By a similar vote, the commission­ers proposed requiring mutual fund companies to clearly disclose their market-timing policies and proce­dures in sales material. Market tim­ing, which capitalizes on short-term movements in stock prices with quick "in and out" trading of shares, is not illegal but violates the rules of most fund companies. 
Also adopted without dissent was a requirement that all mutual funds have a chief compliance officer reporting to the fund's board of direc­tors. 

Final approval for the proposals could come after the commission gathers public comment. 
Two weeks ago, the llouse passed legislation requiring mutual fund companies to disclose more informa­tion to investors about fees and opera­tions, and making directors on fund company boards more independent from fund managers. 
Treasury Secretary John Snow said the SEC's plan marked important progress in strengthening the govern­ing and openness of mutual funds. 
SEC Chairman William Donaldson said the 4 p.m. cutofl' and other pro­posals "will go a long way toward restoring investor confidence in these important investment vehicles." 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, December 4, 2003 
Ferry crash investigation expands 

Associated Press said. in that command who oversees 
The off-course ferry plowed command operations. we're 
NEW YORK -The criminal into a concrete pier on Oct. 15. going to look at all of that," investigation into a deadly killing 10 people and injuring one official said. Staten Island ferry crash has dozens. The case could go to a grand expanded to include officials in The ship's pilot, Richard jury within weeks, the sources the city's Transportation Smith, said he passed out at said. Department, sources familiar the controls before the crash. Ryan's office referred ques­with the investigation said Witnesses said the captain, tions to a spokesman, who said Wednesday. Michael Gansas, was not in the the department scrupulously 
In particular, investigators wheelhouse as the ship came promoted and enforced safety are looking at in to dock. rules. whether safety Transportation Spokesman Tom Cocola said rules were prop­officials have said the pilothouse staffing rule
"It makes perfectly

erly enforced by their policy was included in a booklet out­supervisors in good sense that requires the pilot lining standard-operating pro­the department. we're going to look and captain to be cedures. The booklet was which operates together in the revised to bolster security
at everybody

the ferry fleet. wheelhouse during after Sept. 11. distributed to
responsible for 

U.S. Attorney docking. But attor­crew members the following Roslynn ferry operations. " neys for Gansas month and practiced in a Mauskopf and say the rule was series of safety drills. Cocola the New York never properly said.
Transportation

P o I i c e communicated to But the captain's lawyer said 
Department official 

Department are ferry workers. Wednesday that responsibility examining the Some current and for the crash -placed largely actions of ferry former crew mem­on the crew so far-must be director Patrick Ryan and an bers have said publicly that shouldered by the transporta­unspecified number of others supervisors did not ensure tion department and its proce­in the Transportation safety rules were followed, dures. Department, according to two and it was not unusual for a "The U.S. attorney's focus on law enforcement officials who captain to be away from the Mr. Ryan dovetails with what spoke on condition of pilothouse during docking. has been said by a tremendous anonymity. The law enforcement number of captains, assistant 
"It makes perfectly good sources did not describe Ryan captains and crew members, sense that we're going to look or the other department in that they did not receive the at everybody responsible for employees as formal subjects rules," attorney William ferry operations," one official of the investigation. "Anybody Bennett said. 

c:;::~. The way to go. to the Coacl1 USA mlfJ)Ottsl 

Thursday, December 4, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Kidnapping suspect Bush signs ''Healthy Forests'' law 
agrees to extradition 
Associated Press 
CHOOKSTON, Minn -The man accused of kidnapping a college student from a mall parking lot agreed to be sent to North Dakota to face charges Wednesday, saying barely a word even after an outburst from a woman in the courtroom who pleaded, "Tell us what you did with the girl!" 
Alfonso Hodriguez Jr., a 50­year-old convicted rapist. spoke only to tell the judge he under­stood what was happening. He faces kidnapping charges in North Dakota and could appear in court there as early as Thursday. 
Meanwhile, about 1, 700 peo­ple answered a call to renew the search for 22-year-old Dru Sjodin, the University of North Dakota student who was last heard talking to her boyfriend on a cell phone on Nov. 22 after she left her job at a Victoria's Secret at a Grand Forks. N.D., mall. 
As darkness fell. however, the search again netted nothing and was called ofl" for the night. 
Rodriguez was arrested Monday at the home he shares with his mother. Authorities have not explained how they connect­ed him to Sjodin, but they said they believe he was in the park­ing lot the night she disap­peared. 
At the end of Wednesday's pro­ceeding. a woman rushed toward the front of the court­room and spoke in Spanish to Hodriguez: "For your mother's sake, tell us what you did with the girl!" 
Hodriguez, wearing a bullet­proof vest underneath a parka, turned and looked briefly at the woman, but said nothing before being led away. 
The woman rushed out after­ward and was not available to reporters. 
Sjodin's father, Allan, attended the hearing but did not speak. He bowed his head and seemed reluctant to look at Rodriguez. 
In Grand Forks and Crookston, searchers used all-terrain vehi­cles and ventured out on foot in 30-degree weather to search for Sjodin. 
"As a search party, I feel we're probably looking for a body," said Dan Williams of Grand Forks, who was joining the search for a third time. 
Sjodin's older brother. Sven, said the family wasn't giving up on finding her: "That is our mis­sion. We arc still on track to find her." 
Authorities said a search by law enforcement offlcers would resume Thursday. 
Mary Amundson searched fields and ditches near Grand Forks Wednesday with her daughter. They covered about five miles. 
"It's really hard," the woman said, crying. "I have a daughter who's 22 years old. And there's a mom out there who needs her baby back." 
Hodriguez was released from prison in May after serving a 23­year sentence for an attempted kidnapping. 
Authorities released a photo of Rodriguez's car, hoping someone might remember details that could lead them to Sjodin. Police said authorities were also check­ing surveillance video from vari­ous spots at the mall. 

Associated Press Rep. Scott Mcinnis. R-Colo., 
sponsor of the legislation. said 

WASHINGTON -More tim­those complaints are from ber and brush can be cut and groups out of touch with the cleared with less environmen­mainstream. tal scrutiny under a "Healthy "Of course when you thin out Forests" law President Bush forests you're going to have signed Wednesday. He said it logging. You're going to have will help protect communities to," he said. "But people want from devastating wildfires. these forests managed. People 
"This law will not prevent want the science used." every fire, but it is an impor­Legislation aimed at speeding tant step forward, a vital step decisions on where to allow to make sure we do our duty to timbering in national forests protect our w a s nation's forests," bogged
"We'll help save lives

Bush said while down in standing in front and property arid we'll Congress of rows of wild­for three
help protect our forests 

land firefighters. years
from sudden and

"We'll help save u n t i I lives and property needless destruction." California and we'll help blazes protect our forests whipped
George Bush

from sudden and by Santa
U.S. President

needless destruc­
tion," he said. 
The Healthy Forests Restoration Act signed by the president is the first major for­est management legislation in a quarter-century. It seeks to speed up the harvesting of trees in overgrown woodlands and insect-infested trees on 20 million acres of federal forest land most at risk to wildfires. 
It does that by scaling back required environmental stud­ies, limiting appeals and direct­ing judges to act quickly on legal challenges to logging plans. 
Critics said the bill would let timber companies cut down large, old-growth trees in the name of fire prevention. 
"There's a real danger that the president's pen might as well be a chain saw," said Amy Mall, a forestry specialist with the Natural Resources Defense Council. 

STUDENT APPRECIATION DAYS DECEMBER 4&5 8AM-10PM 
Stock up now on all ofyour ND gear! Receive an additional discount off any clothing or gift item. * 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

•expires 12/5/03. Excludes textbooks, computer hardware and software, and professional reference. In store only. 
Ana winds 
burned 750,000 acres, destroyed 3,640 homes and forced a compro­mise. 
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., said language added to Bush's ini­tial proposal will protect old­growth and large-diameter trees. 
"The signing of this forest bill into law shows what can be accomplished when all sides are willing to put aside parti­sanship and do what is best for communities threatened by deadly and destructive wild­fires," he said. "This new law protects old growth forests while providing substantial support for hazardous fuels reduction." 
Even after the California fires, 2003 was a below-aver­age fire year. So far, 3.8 million acres have burned. Twenty­eight firefighters died battling the blazes, according to the Wildland Firefighter Foundation. In 2002, nearly 7 million acres were charred. 

The Bush administration esti­mates that 190 million acres are at heightened risk for a severe wildfire -an area the size of Idaho, Montana and Wyoming combined. 
Mike Dombeck, Forest Service chief during President Clinton's second term. said Congress should have demand­ed stronger protections for old­growth trees and roadless areas. Nonetheless, he called the new law "a step in the right direction." 
"We need to completely rethink our approach to tire and our human interaction with fire and the wildland urban interface. It's obvious where we've been is not work­ing," said Dombeck, now a forestry professor at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. 
But Dombeck said nonr. of the changes in the bill would have prevented the !ires that tore through swaths of California. Arizona and Colorado over the past two years. 
The measure authorizes Congress to dedicate $760 mil­lion a year for thinning proj­ects. At least half of the money must be spent on projects near homes and communities. 
Jay Watson. wildfire expert with The Wilderness Society, said important changes were included in the bipartisan com­promise bill that added money for thinning and required half the funds be spent in forests near communities. How the law is implemented will detnr­mine if it is helpful to the forests or a payback to the tim­ber companies. he said. 

Recycle The Observer. 
Cal1259·tooo {or more details 

···············································~ 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
1Cll.No~l1:1'e:~ :a" Ciw ..HI!> 1.&1111...11 
-~'lll~t th:r.Go~ 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Omfidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 0>-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infollllation, check out our web site: http;//www.pd.edu/~ace-Jsp/ 
..•..••..••....•...•.••................•........~ 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Page 10 Thursday, December 4, 2003 

The tradition of the band 
Their music blares through the JACC for pep rallies. They play at the Friday Midnight Drum Circle for stu­dents only to march around at 7:30 
a.m. to wake them up. After the "Concert on the Steps," they Andrew march through 
DeBerry
the crowds then pour onto the stadium field ND Changing before 80,000 Times fans. The Band of the Fighting Irish is a phenomenon for all to see. But outside of the public eye, the band has an inside spirit and many traditions that few may know about. 
A distinctive enthusiasm surges through the various leaders of the band. At the band meeting on game day morning, the directors impart words of motivation, advice and appreciation. The president or drum major gives a final message, and the officers lead a pep rally specifically for the band members. Whether at home or away, the members are led by their chaplain in bowing their heads to God in prayer. 
Senior trumpeter Dave Cieslak thrived on the opportunity as President to work with the officers on the important tradition of writing pre-game skits, which make fun of everything from Beyonce to bloopers from practice. 
This spirit extends into the band through a deep loyalty to one's sec­tion. Senior trumpeter Francine Barley describes each section as "a family within the family." Before the pep rally, some order pizza together, dress a certain way or cheer about their section being the best. Tuba player and Holy Cross freshman Isaac Ruiz is committed to his section simply because "it's fun." There are traditions that are known only to those in a particular section. But with a deep loyalty comes a spirit of competition. 
I asked different band members which section was the best. Cieslak declares his trumpet section the best because when they play, "it sounds like a whole other band starts play­ing." 
But senior drummer and band Treasurer Lauren Fowler affirms that the drumline is obviously the best because "it helps bring the greatest student body alive with the spirit that can only be found at Notre Dame." 
However, senior Bonnie Leigh Cockerill will always remain commit­ted to the falto players -who won "Section of the Year" -because of their goofiness, close friendship and tradition of Total Falto Domination. 
Aside from the rivalry, there is a united spirit throughout the band as a whole. They define to the commu­nity what being a part of Notre Dame means. When Fowler first came to campus, she didn't know anyone. But after making the drumline the first weekend, she immediately found her­self surrounded with 30 new family members that have become dear to her. 
Cockerill notes that the band, cheerleaders, Irish Guard and foot­ball team all act as "one school, one team." She says that the band is very appreciative of the student body. Members get really excited when stu­dents cheer when they set down their instruments to dance or when stu­dents go wild singing "Livin' on a Prayer." 
The band comes together after practice every Friday to sing the Alma Mater. Some play for the foot­ball team to show their support. Members meet up for band picnics, sport competitions and dances. They become best friends, roommates, romantic couples and some even get married. To see how unified the band is, Barley encourages people to see how an obstacle or tragedy pulls the group together. She notes that "we care for each other and love each other because that's what being a family is all about." Cieslak also says that the band has grown together a lot in the last few years as a family. He thinks that members really take to heart the idea of "One band, one family." 

Only a group with this kind of spirit can remain· as dedicated as the Notre Dame band. Their 360-plus members practice over 12 hours a week. Only they can extend the tradition of America's oldest university band, which played at the first Notre Dame football match against Michigan in 1887 and at each of the 539 home games since. 
Only a group with their intense enthusiasm can produce the innova­tive half-time shows at each game. What other band has the inventive­ness to spread out the American flag together with the Michigan State band after Sept. 11, land a jet on an aircraft carrier or play video game tunes from yesteryear? Who else can get the students roaring so loudly that they distract the sports announcers on television? 
There is a special power at our University. Students leave with a pas­sion to make professional contribu­tions, raise strong families and help in their communities. But this com­munity would struggle to be unified if it weren't for its unparalleled spir­it. Many thanks to band members for their dedication to the Notre Dame family and for showing us how to find power in one unified spirit. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth year sen­ior majoring in aerospace engineer­ing and minoring in Middle Eastern studies. His column normally appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at adeberry@nd.edu and encourages students to see the University band in concert in Washington Hall Sunday at 3:00p.m. and Monday at 7:30p.m. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
News 

OBSERVER POLL
Maureen Reynolds . Joe Tromnellu 

Matt Branianti The University is considering changing the Viewpoint Core course. Which alternative do you prefer? ErinFo~ •· Illustrator 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
Katie KnOrr 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Music is well said to be the speech of angels." 
Thomas CarJy,, author 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, December 4, 2003 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Freedon1 to choose 
After reading Erin Griswold's Dec. 3 letter. I have to say I was shocked that it was even printed. Primarily her issue was simply two guys looking at porn. I'm not saying that they were right to have been doing it in LaFortune, but it's really not a huge deal. The fact that she then went to ResLife with the matter is sad, but as Notre Dame is the most sheltered environment on earth it makes sense. Hock bottom was relating pornography to slavery. 
Are you serious? I fail to see any similarities between the Civil War and the adult film industry. The women and men seen in pornographic material have all made the choice to be there, and many have built successful careers around being a porn star. I'm not supporting the industry or saying that porn is a great career choice, but that's what they want to do. 
My advice to Griswold is to lighten up. After you graduate thoro will be a lot of things that offend you, so stop whining about it. As for to the two gen­tlemen she caught in the basement of LaFortune, try to keep it in your room like the rest of us. 
Michael Duda senior off campus Dec. 3 

Arguing against 
• 
gay lllarr1age 

I could quote the Bible and Catechism, but I won't. Everyone already knows what they say. Since Anna Nussbaum and Ed Manier were under­standably unconvinced by arguments from religion or tradition in their Nov. 25 letters, let's take an approach to same-sex marriage that uses neither. 
Legally defining marriage as nothing but a "commitment" that "nurtures love and mutual support" with "legal, financial and social benefits" opens windows for other "alternative lifestyles." What's to stop someone from arguing that polyga­mists are "second-class citizens" created by the ban on polygamy? Granted, the court opinion specifies that marriage is between two individuals, but nevertheless polygamists have a serious argu­ment. 
If they truly feel attracted to multiple people of the opposite sex, and want to nurture love and mutual support, why not? What about incest? Why can't adults marry children? Some men are attracted to boys and feel they should be allowed to have a legal, sexual relationship with them. Think I'm kidding? Just talk to NAMBLA, the North American Man/Boy Love Association. Or ask Tom Green, a Utah man serving five years for four counts of bigamy, who's currently appealing his case. I might even want to marry a goat. You can in India. 
A second argument comes from democracy. The Massachusetts court went directly against the will of the people, which is exactly what this country is about. A poll done by Pew Research Center this October shows only 32 percent of Americans favor homosexual marriage. The will of the people must be taken into account, or so says lesbian Judge Martha Susman. That's why she dissented in this case. 
Finally, the decision fails to recognize an inherent difference between heterosexual and homosexual couples. Both can raise children, but only one can -not should or must, can-produce children, which puts heterosexual couples in a dif­ferent class. Things that are different by nature receive different treatment, which is why you can't lly a plane with a driver's license. If homosexual couples want "legal, financial and social benefits," any lawyer can draw up a contract. If that's not enough, allow civil unions like Vermont. But don't call a homosexual union something it's not and could never be. 
Becket Gremmels junior Alumni Hall Dec. 2 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Core pro111otes liberal education 
It's a shame to think that Core, as we know it today, could possibly be erased from the Arts and Letters cur­riculum. I, like many of my fellow sophomore classmates, dreaded the year-long University requirement deemed to be a "waste of time." As this semester has passed by, however, Core has become my favorite class. It is the epitome of a liberal arts education, and when taught properly, can transform a class of strangers into a forum of purposeful discussion. I love how our class has no dis­tinct path and how the books differ in their themes and ideas. It is a reflection of the type of education we were all drawn to when we came to Notre Dame. 
This will all be lost ifCore is refocused to center on a single major or genre of writing. The faculty should wel­come this broad teaching style and accept the frightening possibility that they might lack knowledge in a certain field. The Core discussion format allows the professor to learn along with the students, and places the professor in the unfamiliar position of listener and observer. 
All too often, I hear the moans of Core students and their loathing of required readings, but there is a com­mon acceptance underneath the pages and papers. We all know that our views and opinions on religion, poverty, love and, ultimately, life have somehow been influenced by something we've read or discussed in Core. The changes that the Core faculty council could make will not affect our present classes, but I would hate to see future students denied the same opportunity to grow in an atmosphere free of limits. 
Lauren Gebauer 
sophomore 
f-arley Hall 
Dec. 3 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

GUEST COLUMN 
Don't ban birth control 
The Roman Catholic Church is once again trying to affect public policy that doesn't follow the church's morality. Courts in New York and California are hear­ing cases that would exempt branches of the Catholic Church from state laws that include contraceptives in employee prescription-drug plans. Under church doctrine, 
Staff Editorial 

contraception is a sin. 
The case was sparked after the California law was passed in 2000. Catholic Charities of The Ohio State Sacramento unsuccessfully Lantern sought to bar contraceptives from the health care plan. A state appeals court also refused to hear the case, and the California Supreme Court heard the case Tuesday. 
Going by previous rulings by the U.S. Supreme Court, the state has every right to rule against the Catholic Charities of Sacramento. Religious organiza­tions should not be exempt from state laws just because they don't believe in them. The court ruled in favor of a ban on polygamy, despite objections from Mormons, and it ruled against a group of American Indians who were denied unemployment after they were fired for using peyote during cere­monies. 
The other problem facing the Catholic Charities of Sacramento is not all of its employees are Catholic. With a $76 million budget last year, the charities pro­vide social services to people of all religions, not just Catholics. Nor do they demand their workers be Catholic. If one of the non-Catholic employees needs to purchase contraceptives, it's wrong to exempt them from getting them paid for by their employee 
drug plan. 

While the most common use of oral contraceptives, such as ortho tri-cyclen, is birth control, a sin in the eyes of the church, that is not their sole use. Contraceptives can also be used to regulate the men­strual cycle and treat symptoms of menopause, like hot flashes, mood swings and osteoporosis. Doctors may also prescribe contraceptives to treat other con­ditions, like skin problems. 
Arguments have been made that say some religious groups have been exempt from laws in the past. The 
U.S. military recognizes the religious views of consci­entious objectors by keeping them ofT the front lines. Traffic markings on the back of Amish horse carts have also been removed because they do not fit the Amish lifestyle, but these are extreme conditions that apply to religious groups as a whole. Because not all Catholics agree on the subject of contraceptives, it doesn't make sense to exempt all organizations from the state law. 
While Ohio does not have a law on its books requir­ing contraceptives be part of prescription-drug plans, the state could easily join the growing number to adopt such laws. While the Catholic Church should be free to have its own beliefs, it should not be able to push those beliefs on the thousands of non­Catholic women who work for Catholic organizations. 
This editorial first appeared Dec. 3 in the Ohio State University Lantern and appears here courtesy ofU·Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, December 4, 2003 
Everyone remembers their ph-irst time 
ND students travel to take part in the two-city, 20th year reunion of Phish 

Phish ph-anatics were not disappointed this past weekend as Phish regrouped and performed an Incredible set with their usual flair and fun show presence. 

By STEVE LYNCH Scene Writer 
"The band is back for good." 
These words, proclaimed by Phish front man Trey Anastasio at the end of the band's summer tour, became abun­dantly clear this past weekend as Phish rocked the sold-out Nassau Coliseum on Long Island and the Wachovia Spectrum in Philadelphia. After taking a two-year hiatus, from October 2000 through New Year's 2002, Phish fans from all over the world have been questioning the future of the band. Those questions were finally put to rest following two amazing shows to start off their four-show 20th anniver­sary tour. 
Arriving at the parking lot at the Coliseum a few hours before the show, I instantly knew that I was in for a good show. Despite the cold weather and rain the energy in the lot was still unlike that of any other show in the world. Walking through Shakedown Street, I could not help but be overwhelmed by the good vibes that were running through every person in the lot. After a few hours of tailgating, if you can call it that, my friends and I made our way into the venue. Waiting in line at the ticket booth, the crowd was chanting and cheering in anticipation. Once inside, all we could do was wait for what was sure to be a rock­ing show. 
Around 7:45 p.m., the lights went out, and the craziness was about to begin. They opened with the popular "Bouncin Around the Room" to get the crowd into a good mood. This was followed by an awesome version of the oldie "Runaway Jim." This was the start of a great set, which continued with a spacey 13­minute "Story of the Ghost" and a dark "What's the Use" to get the crowd pre­pared for a personal favorite that I have been waiting to hear, "ACIDC Bag." This song did not disappoint. As I looked out around the crowd, it looked like a sea of movement. Every person in the Coliseum was on his or her feet, dancing and yelling out every word. A solid "First Tube" and "Frankie Says" ensued. Just as I began to feel that the set was over, the band came back in with another per­sana! favorite, "Bathtub Gin," which segued into a rocking ten-minute ver­sion of "Free." It was a great way to end an excellent set. 
At set break, my friends and I moved down to closer seats to get a better view of the stage and the light show, which is unmatched by any other light show I have ever seen. The second set started off a bit slow with "Waves" but picked up immediately with the crowd pleasers "Sample in a Jar" and "Down with Disease." This is where bassist Mike Gordon really shined. The bass riffs of "Disease" are what got me hooked on Phish years ago. Another newer song, "Walls of the Cave," was next, followed by "Two Versions of Me" and "Crowd Control," which was played for the first time ever. This gave the crowd a chance to cool off before "Mike's Groove," which ended the set in perfect fashion. For the encore, Phish brought out spe­cial guest The Dude of Life to sing "Crimes of the Mind," which was a good but not great encore. 
After the show, my friend Bryan Forero, who had just attended his first Phish show, told me that he was hooked. Having not listened to Phish much in the past, he was blown away by the musicianship and improvisation­al skills of the band. All four members of the band, Trey, Mike, keyboardist Page McConnell and drummer Jon Fishman were on top of their game. You cannot help but be drawn into the jams that Phish throws at you every time you see them. My friend Matt and I drove home exhausted after the show, but the fact that we were seeing the band the next night kept us awake. 
The second show in Philly blew the first night away. "Wilson" started things off as only it can, and a funky "Cars Trucks Buses" kept the crowd grooving. They got right back into it with "Limb by Limb." We could tell that we were in for another awesome first set. "Dirt" fol­lowed, along with a great "Seven Below," which was a highlight of the show. The fun continued with a 16-minute "Divided Sky," a melodic yet rocking favorite that completely absorbed the crowd. "Fast Enough for You" came next, and finally "Julius," which left everyone very pleased at the end of the set. 
The second set, to put it simply, was insane. A sick segue from a 17-minute "Twist," into "Simple," followed by a solid "Taste," had the Spectrum rocking hard. An incomplete version of Phish's first song ever, "Makisupa Policeman," led into a rare tune, "Buffalo Bill," which was sung by special guest, Phish lyricist Tom Marshall. After this came what was possibly the highlight of both nights, "David Bowie." This song had the crowd dancing harder than you can even imag­ine. When at a show, you find yourself dancing without even realizing it. There was not a single point during the three­hour show that I did not have a smile on my face. A short "Strange Design" fol­lowed Bowie, and the set ended with "Character Zero," which is always a great song. The encore was a bit of a let down with "Friday," although they played it well. 

All in all, both nights were amazing. Mike and Page are much improved since the hiatus, and every time I see them, they continue to blow me away. Trey's guitar still grabs ahold of you and won't let go, and Fishman's drums are right on every time. If you have never seen a show, it should be at the top of your list for future concerts. Every show is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, and after seeing one, you cannot help but want to see every single one. The lights, the energy and, more than anything else. the music just takes you over. After these two shows, I am only looking forward to my next, and I am relieved to know that the band is back for real, and for good. 
Contact Steve Lynch at slynch@nd.edu. 
of www.phish.com 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, December 4, 2003 
page 13 
Taking time to appreciate the important things in life 
SpikeTV recognizes the best of the gaming world in its first annual Video Game Awards 
fighting game, best first-person and roasts to the newly minted tion. music and performances Jim Burns is the executive in
By SARAH VABULAS 
game and best fantasy game. winners. that have made an impact on charge of production for 
Scene Editor 
Spike TV hosted online voting "The VGAs celebrate those the video game community SpikeTV. 
on their website to find the win­games that have blistered our throughout the past year." Spike TV, America's network 
Honoring one of the more ners of the Viewer's Choice fingers poised on the joystick Hecht will serve as the for men, is available in 86 mil­socially acceptable activities awards-"Most Addictive" and and kept us up all night," says "VGAs" executive producer. lion homes and is a division of you can perform in a darkened "Most Anticipated" -which are Albie Hecht, president of Spike Casey Patterson is co-executive MTV Networks. room by yourself, Spike TV will completely determined by TV. "We're throwing out all the Producer with Scott Fishman as present the first Video Game online voting. boring and stagnant elements of producer and Greg Sills as Awards Dec. 4 at 9 p.m., hosted Spike TV reports that the traditional awards shows and supervising producer. g-Net, a by comedian David Spade. The show will take place on a set focusing on what matters -the leader in video game content, Contact Sarah Vabulas at awards ceremony will be held that is "part 'next-century characters, game play, anima-serves as consulting producers. vabu4547@saintmarys.edu at the MGM Grand Garden Tokyo' and part 'Minority Arena in Las Vegas and taped Report."' In lieu of recorded Dec. 2. clips from the games, the show 
This unprecedented and non­will feature animation 
Sf,kt;;_ Video Game Award Nominees traditional awards show will sequences intercut with actual celebrate the many accomplish­game play by trained profes­ments of the past year in video sionals. Spike TV's "Video Game "gamcdom," while also looking Awards" will feature no podi­to the future of games in 2004 ums, no presenters and no and beyond. acceptance speeches. The 
Awards in 16 wide-ranging "VGAs" will replace drawn-out categories will be presented in "presenter-reading-prompter" the culmination of Spike TV's segments with "advocate" intro­first annual "Video Game ductions. These "advocates" are Awards." Nominees and win­fans of the nominated video ners of' Spike TV's "VGAs" are game, and that can mean a talliPd from gaming industry celebrity, musician or actual Pxpnrts, public opinion via character featured within the Spike TV's website and Spike game itself. TV's editorial board. As "advocates" they can bash 
The categories arc: game of and/or brag all they want in year. best sports game, best support of their game, immedi­action game. best animation, ately followed by an intimate best diving game, best game look at the nominated game based on a movie, best music, itself. When winners are best performance by a human. announced, the awards will most anticipated, most addic­come to the "Winner's Circle" of tive, best PC game, best online tables where Celebrity game, best handheld game. best Toastmasters will offer boasts 
Not your typical calendar men 
New charity project shows the many reasons Notre Dame men are so attractive 
select group of ND men, Harris' acknowledged. These girls also After reading over the nomi­tures of male Notre Dame stu­By KATIE WAGNER calendar was made. felt called to contribute to those nations, 25 guys were selected dents. Eighteen talented, good­
Scene Writer 
The Farley women had heard in need, so they decided to to be the best fits for the calen­looking and just all-around nice 
about other schools making cal­make this calendar a fundraiser dar; at this point, Harris and guys are featured, one month 
llaving trouble finding the endars featuring students and for women in need. They hope her committee possessed no containing two students, anoth­perfect guy at Notre Dame? decided that Notre Dame stu­that the production of this cal­pictures of the nominees. er containing three, and the Want to do a good deed to help dents certainly are worthy of endar will become an annual To learn more about these other months containing one. brighten up the holidays for being in their own calendar. event. men and to try to eliminate The calendar also contains sur­women who could usc some The "Men of Notre Dame" Harris and her Farley team some, all 25 of them were inter­veys created from these men's TLC Do you still need to buy a Calendar is unique to other began this project by putting up viewed in person by a small responses to questions. calendar for 2004? school's student-pictured calen­posters around campus that panel of Farley women. The "Men of ND" will go on 
If you've answered "yes" to at dars because of the uniqueness requested people to submit Most of these men were sur­sale Tuesday, Dec. 9 and will be least one of these questions, of Notre Dame students in their nominations for men to be in prised that they had been nomi­available in both dining halls perhaps the "Men of Notre ability to balance and excel in the calendar. These submissions nated and some wanted to and in Notre Dame's residence Dame" 13-month calendar so many different aspects of also had to include reasons as know who had suggested them. halls. Fliers will be posted might interest to you. student life. These aspects to why these particular men (Of course, Harris maintained around campus advertising the 
A group of Farley juniors include athletics, a rigorous would make good candidates confidentiality about the nomi­date, time and location of an came up with this idea to create academic life, community serv­for the calendar. Harris said she nators.) Some of these men opportunity to meet the men a calendar focusing on a few ice activities, working for the received approximately 60 resigned from being considered pictured in the calendar and the particularly talented, likeable varsity athletic programs, work­nominations, all from members because they felt that being women responsible for the cal­and photogenic male Notre ing for publications, a commit­of the Notre Dame student body, photographed for a calendar endar's production. Calendars Danw students. Farley junior ment to advertising events on except for one that was submit­was not for them. will also be sold at this event. Melissa llarris linally decided to campus, coaching, working to ted by Notre Dame's philosophy The men were evaluated "Men of Notre Dame" calen­make this idea a reality. With pay loans and portions of their department. based on their charisma, dars cost $10, and all proceeds the help of Maya Noronha, a tuition, and attending social "Some of the most common involvement at Notre Dame and will go to Hannah's House, a Farley junior who served as events such as football games. reasons for nomination includ­photogenic potential. shelter for pregnant women llarris' assistant in this project, The Farley women involved in ed all-around nice guy. cute, Eventually, the group of men located in Mishawaka. a committe.e of other Farley this project felt that the num­photogenic, and had worked was narrowed down to 18. women, a staff of volunteer bers of really awesome students really hard for a specific proj­All the months' pages on this Contact Katie Wagner at photographers and, of course, a on campus deserved to be ect," Harris said. calendar are paired with pic-kwagner@nd.edu. 

r-------=p=ag=e=1=4====================================-=T.=.~='-=O=~="=n='=·=-=C=-=LA==S=S=I=F=I=E=D=S=========================T=hu=r=sd=a=~=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=4,=2=0==03 
NBA 

Hornets hand Magic 17th straight loss 
the stretch by Jason Kidd to dropped four of five overall as
Associated Press 

beat the reeling New Jersey the pressure builds on coach Nets 96-93 Wednesday night. Frank Johnson after the team 
NEW ORLEANS The "What's happening is that made the playoffs last season. Orlando Magic's losing streak we're finally getting the right Stephon Marbury scored 32 reached 17 games Wednesday plays for the right guys to run points on 14-for-25 shooting. night, though they did manage the clock and make something Amare Stoudemire scored 14, to keep it close until the final happen," coach Hubie Brown only four in the second half. three minutes. said after the Grizzlies won Penny Hardaway made his first 
Baron Davis had 27 points their third straight and handed start of the season and scored and 12 assists as the New the Nets their fourth straight eight points. Orleans Hornets sent the Magic loss. The Suns shot 38 percent. to a franchise record-tying 17th With a record of 9-8, this is Shawn Marion, Scott Williams, straight loss, 106-91. the latest in a season the Joe Johnson and Tom Gugliotta 
Tracy McGrady scored 29 for Grizzlies have been over .500. were a combined 6-for-33. the Magic, who trailed 92-89 In a game that featured 54 Minnesota broke away from a before the Hornets finished personal fouls and 65 free 64-64 tie with a 16-2 run with a 14-2 run. throws, the Nets were stunned capped by Garnett's 15-foot 
Jamaal Magloire added 20 there wasn't one more foul and bank shot that made it 80-66 points and 14 rebounds, and two more free throws. with 4:58 to play. Marbury's 3­David Wesley had 13 points as Kidd, who missed a free pointer cut it to 80-72, but all five Hornets starters scored throw and turned the ball over Phoenix got no closer. in double figures. Ex-Magic twice in the final 1:56, didn't 
Lakers 90, Spurs 86
Darrell Armstrong came off the get the benefit of his star status 
Kobe Bryant scored 10 of his 
bench to score 14. when the officials declined to 
21 points in the final period
Tyronn Lue scored 20 for call a foul as he made contact 
when the Los Angeles Lakers
Orlando, hitting four of six 3-with Stromile Swift on an off­
erased a nine-point deficit to
pointers, and Andrew DeClercq balance layup attempt with less 
post their third win of the sea­
added 14. Drew Gooden had 16 than two seconds to play. The 
son over San Antonio, 90-86
points and 12 rebounds off the Nets trailed 95-93 at the time. Devean George added 18 for season-high in points. 
Wednesday night. 
bench. Los Angeles, which extended its The Raptors went 17 -for-24 
Tlmberwolves 92, Suns 79 The Lakers trailed 71-62
Davis, who shot 11-for-29, winning streak to seven, Gary from behind the arc, breaking
Sam Cassell scored 16 of his after three quarters but made
did ample damage on the drive Payton had 16 and O'Neal 15. their record of 15 3-pointers on
27 points in the fourth quarter eight of their final 16 shots.
and fast break, soaring for sev­O'Neal narrowly missed a Nov. 10, 2001 at Utah.
and the Minnesota Karl Malone, who finished with
eral dunks, finishing layups as triple-double, grabbing 16 Toronto, averaging a league­
Timberwolves outscored 16, shot 4-for-4 in the fourth,
he was fouled and putting in rebounds. low 79 points per game,
Phoenix 31-19 in the period to while Shaquille O'Neal record­
floaters and scoop shots. His A 3-pointer by Tony Parker, improved to 2-0 since acquiring
beat the struggling Suns 92-79 ed five of his nine blocked
assists included a behind-the­the Spurs' first basket of the Marshall, Jalen Rose and Lonny
on Wednesday night. shots.
back pass and a one-touch, no­fourth, gave San Antonio its Baxter from Chicago for
Cassell, with his fourth con­The Spurs shot just 3-for-17
look, bounce pass between his secutive 20-point game, also in the final 12 minutes and final lead -80-78 with 5:05 Antonio Davis, Jerome Williams legs on a fast break to set up a left. and Chris Jefferies. 
had eight assists and seven stumbled to their fourth
jumper by Armstrong. 

rebounds. He shot 5-for-5 in straight loss. The defending Raptors 105, Celtlcs 95 Rose, Toronto's new starting Grlzzllles 96, Nets 93 the fourth quarter, three of NBA champions are now 9-10. Donyell Marshall and Vince point guard, had nine points 
The Memphis Grizzlies are them 3-pointers. They have not been below .500 Carter each scored 21 points and five assists. playing so well, they're starting Latrell Sprewell scored 21 for this late in the season since and the new-look Toronto Paul Pierce had 23 points for to get the benefit of the doubt Minnesota. Kevin Garnett went 1996-97 -before the team Raptors set a franchise record the Celtics, who have lost three from the officials on the road. 3-for-11 through three quarters drafted Tim Duncan. with 17 3-pointers in a 105-95 straight and seven of nine. 
James Posey and Pau Gasol but was 4-for-7 in the fourth to Duncan, returning from a victory over the Boston Celtics Marshall made five of six 3­scored 19 points apiece and the finish with 16 points and 12 one-game suspension for push­on Wednesday night. point attempts and grabbed surprising Grizzlies took advan­rebounds. ing a referee in Saturday's loss Alvin Williams added 18 eight rebounds. Carter had 10 tage of a non-call by the refer­The Suns lost their third at Golden State, finished with points and Chris Bosh had 16 assists, one night after getting a ees and three mistakes down straight, all at home, and have 30 points and 15 rebounds. for the Raptors, who reached a career-high 12. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale nowl www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE todayl 
"""ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get 12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202. 
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get crazy in Cabo--with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group and travel for FREE. Book now before its too late! Call 800­875-4525 or www.bianci-rossi.com. 
READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2· bedroom townhouse 1 0 minutes from campus. Approx. 1100 sq. ft. For more information call katrina at 252-4663 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester and 2004­05 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundro­mat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove aod refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Two gift cards from local department store. Call1-7471 or stop in The Observer office in the basement of SDH. 
WANTED 
Part time/Full time opportunity for honest, motivated, success minded individual. Exciting !-Commerce internet based business. Contact: waynew54 @pronetglobal.com 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED. Grad pre!. Share great condo. Furnished, own bdlbth, huge closet. Study, fireplace, prkg, walk to NDI $525 inc. utili 238-2368 
ROOMMATE WANTED-share spa­cious turn. 2bd house w/female grad stud. Master bdlbth avail. 2 mi from campus on Ironwood. Rent $300 + util. 251-1802 
FOR SALE 
LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED.FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. email: Williamson.I @nd.edu 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICESI Search 24 bookstores with 1 clickl S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 

FOR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­
1525 

HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS­ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR 315-5032 
JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT BOB 607-723­7373, EMAIL: rjhdds@pronetisp.net 
3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO ND AND MALL. $1000/MO. 277-2176. 
BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: 1803 Corby, Wooded Estates, 5 blocks from campus, 3 large bed­rooms, 2 full bath, washer and dryer, home totally remodeled, new appliances, two car garage, fur­nished. Need 3-5 students ($400 ea.) for January. Need 5 students ($400 ea.) for fall. 231-8823 evenings. 
Large 5-6 bdrm home @ ND Ave & SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Walk to cam­pus. Off street parking. Recently updated. Washer/Dryer. Lots of living space to spread out. Call Joe Crimmins:cell-574-514-0643 or home-574-273-0002 
Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill St) .Available June2004. Basement w/washer­dryer. Convenient to downtown fun. Walk or ride to campus. On bus route. Contact Joe Crimmins@ cell-574-514-0643 or home-57 4-273-0002 
4 Bedroom house. 1136 E Madison. Close to campus, ample parking, AC, huge yard. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408-0744 if interested 
Two story house completely remodeled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester and 2004­05 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for stor­age of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
Room available for spring semester. Close to ND and rent is negotiable. Male roommate preferred. Call 312-848-1509 if interested. 
TICKETS 

Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 
PERSONALS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
•••• IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY •••• Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited num­ber of home sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
I love you like a fat kid loves cake 
cut down the amarylis ... or stroke it 
shout out to milch ... glycerine, won­derwall and hands down ... haven't written one of these in a while 
last irish insider of the year is always a good thing 
christmas charley's looks very fes­live at this time of year Paris Hilton isn't very smart is she? 
only 5 papers left and then nothing until next semester 
william green, thanks for nothing-
looks like the Brownies will be searching for a new running back 
soon 
Hey Eric, when you have the ball up 14 points on Greg in NCAA football 2004, make sure you don't throw a deep pass and get intercepted, but rather run the ball and set up a field goal that will give you a three score lead. Now you lost again and your recruiting class will not be any good. 
Does anyone else not let their roo­mate sleep in the room because they are playing video games until 330 a.m.? 
Me and Eric think that's cool 
The over-under is 3.5 for the observer sys dance 
lazar and federico will make a cute couple 
Sweet life, buddy 
Question: Would Julius Jones be a Heisman canidate if he had a better offensive line to start the year or played for a better team? 
No doubt he would because he's definitely better than Chris Perry 
Navy will score 77 points against Army this weekend 
thank goodness t"e space is finally full 

Thursday, December 4, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Defensive Duke destroys Michigan State 72-50 
No. 5 Michigan State on Wednesday night. 
Duke (4-1) took control of the game in the first half with a 20-2 run during which the Spartans committed 17 of their 20 turnovers. 
"Our kids played an unbeliev­able game defensively," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "And I think we were eflicient for the first time for a whole game on the oiTensive end." 
The Blue Devils handed Michigan State (3-2) its most-lop­sided loss at the Breslin Center eight. 
When Duke didn't 
harass the Spartans into a turnover, it made it tough for them to make shots. The same was not true when the Blue Devils had the ball. 
Duke shot 59.2 percent and limited Michigan State to 40 per­cent. 
"We didn't want to give them anything easy," Duhon said. "We wanted to contest every shot and every pass. Their possessions weren't over until we got the rebound." 
The Spartans have only begun 

Men's Swimming & Diving Gold Game Saturday December 6th @6:30PM Rolfs Aq~-.atic.s Center •.
.J!. ~...,~ .J!. 

., 
~ ~ ~ ,, -First 100 fans receive FREE Gold Games 
one of the toughest schedules in college basketball history. 
Michigan State. which lost to top-ranked Kansas last week, will play Oklahoma, Kentucky, Syracuse and UCLA before the Big Ten season starts. 
"I guess you've got to watch what you wish for," Izzo said. 
After losing 78-68 to Purdue in the championship game of the Great Alaska Shootout, Krzyzewski decided to replace Hedick and Daniel Ewing in the starting lineup with Handolph and Sean Dockery. 
"You have to give Mike credit for changing the lineup, shaking things up and getting guys to play hard," Izzo said. 
The Spartans, who lack a true point guard, had 24 turnovers against Kansas. 
Paul Davis and Alan Anderson, two of Michigan State's top play­ers, were benched for most of the second half. Davis had seven points and Anderson had four points and five turnovers. 
Pittsburgh 59, Duquense 45 
This is why Pittsburgh travels the one mile or so to Duquesne's home court only once every 15 years. 
Carl Krauser scored 17 points and keyed a dedsive 20-5 run that started early in the second half, carrying the 22nd-ranked Panthers past their stubborn city rival 59-45 Wednesday night. 
Playing before Duquesne's first home sellout in nine years. the Panthers the first half. The Panthers turned to their transition game to take control, with Krauser and Page hitting 3-pointers on fast breaks and Chris Taft scoring twice inside. 
Until then, it looked like Duquesne might pull off the upset, just as it did 15 years ago when Pitt last played on the Dukes' court. 
"It's the big game of the year for them and I wasn't feeling too good about playing the game here," Pitt coach Jamie Dixon said. "It's a whole different atmos­

Blue Devils cruise from start of game 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING. Mich. ­Duke's talent. grit and mystique made Michigan State crumble. 
With stifling defense and bal­ancnd scoring. the Blue Devils turned the marquee matchup of the ACC-Big Ten Challenge into a classic rout. 
Shelden Williams scored since a 25-point setback against Minnesota in 1997, and just its fifth Joss at home since the start of the 1998-99 season. 
"We played scared," Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. "I've never seen anything like it." 
Duke's J.J. Redick scored 13 points, Shavlik Randolph had 11 and Chris Duhon added 10 points and six assists. 
"This is one of the most hostile environments we'll ever play in," Handolph said. "And it showed a lot that we not only won, but won 
handily." 
Michigan State 
didn't have a player 


"We played scared. 

1 h points to lead score in double fig­four Blue Devils in I've never seen ures, after entering double figures the game with six
anything like it." 

and No. 6 Duke averaging at least forced a slew of 9.8 points. Chris turnovers in a 72-Tom lzzo Hill and Kelvin 50 victory over Michigan State coach Torbert each scored didn't begin pulling "They're a team phere than it was away until Krauser four or five years
·unplanned Pregnancy? I>on"t go it alone~ I(you or somt•<uw J'(}U lovt:> net•ds help or iuJon.Jwtion. please coli.. Coujidelltial Support & Assistlutcc A l'ailable at 1Votrc Da111e: ,. :k Jtan LC':nz, O.&f., SHHknt Affii\k$, !.'7401. " Sr. \bry ltlUlS( Gudt. C.S.C. St1tdt~t1t Af.hin:, l·7t.m~ ~ Sylvia IhHon, C~mp~ Min4tt)', t-7163 lo-John D1l~m, Cuittpus Mi~ti~tty, J..JHa );. lk Suiian Stdbt~t\w~hch, Colilm~ebn,it (\ml~tr. 1.:1:}.:% ;.. Ami E. ltlmf.lJXA)t.t, Htahb St1Vitt:<~. H;2:S6 South /lend Commutu*tv Resoltrt:~t~s:.. :;.. Wom-en'$ Clrt Crottn 234·(}363 -,. Ca1h4')1l1: o~.-ri1i-c'$. 2:J4-llll  

that knows how to

and Jaron Brown ago," when the scored on consecu­win basketball game was played tive steals and games. at Mellon Arena, layups that made it a neutral site. 33-28 and started The decisive
EliJah Palmer

the run. run turned a 28­"We just needed Duquense coach all tie into a 48-33 
to settle down and play our game," said Julius Page, who had seven of his 13 points early in the sec­ond half. "We came out in the first half and didn't make any shots." 
Pittsburgh -5-0 for the fourth straight season-loosened up its offense and tightened up its defense after shooting just 33 percent while trailing much of 
en0111JOLlS 
FLEECE 
~~~~eli:. 
from OUTPOST 
Campus --1•z.Jil: 
Cold We•ther Experts 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
Pitt lead with 8 
1/2 minutes left, and the Dukes (1-2) -getting only three baskets during a nine­minute stretch -never got any closer than nine points after that. 
Georgia Tech 73, Ohio State 53 
Georgia Tech coach Paul Hewitt calls guard B.J. Elder "college basketball's biggest secret." 
He certainly can't describe his own team that way anymore. 
Elder and Marvin Lewis com­bined for nine points in a 13-0 first-half run and Isma'il Muhammad's high-wire dunk shifted the momentum in the second half to lead No. 13 Georgia Tech over Ohio State 73­53 Wednesday night in the ACC/Big Ten Challenge. 
The Yellow Jackets' defense forced 20 turnovers and held Ohio State to 32.7 percent shoot­ing from the field. 

"We feel like we're a team that can really smother teams defen­sively," Hewitt said. "We've got a number of guys who can guard multiple positions. We've been causing people to turn the ball over pretty well in these first six games." 
It was Ohio State's worst loss in its six years in Value City Arena, where the Buckeyes came in with a 69-13 record, including 13-3 against ranked opponents. 
"We couldn't guard them on the perimeter," Ohio State coach Jim O'Brien said. "When we wanted a stop, we couldn't do it." Syracuse 87, St. Bonaventure 78 
Hakim Warrick scored 27 points and Billy Edelin added 20 to lead No. 16 Syracuse to an 87­78 victory over St. Bonaventure on Wednesday night. 
Syracuse (2-1). which dropped nine spots in the AP poll after losing its season-opener to Charlotte and only defeating Rhode Island by four points, beat St. Bonaventure (2-2) for the 11th straight time. The game was played at Blue Cross Arena, the third time the upstate New 
York  rivals  have  met  in  
Rochester.  
Gerry  McNamara  had  19  

points, Josh Pace 11 and Craig Forth finished with eight points and a career-high 12 rebounds for the Orange. 
Marques Green led St. Bonaventure with 24 points, while Ahmad Smith had 17. Patrick Lottin 13 and Yankuba Camara 10. 
Syracuse shot 51.6 percent while the Bonnies hit 44.3 per­cent and were only 7 -for-29 on 3-pointers. The Orangemen were not outrebounded for the first time this season. 
Spend Saturday With ND Athletics 
Men's Basketball vs. Central M1ch1gan Saturday December 6th @ 9:00 PM Gate 1 0 of Joyce Center 
-Students don't forget to wear your Leprechaun Legion T-shirts! -High-flying action frotn Extreme Team 

PR~JECT

T-shirts sponsored by Aeropostale . performing at halftime ·:: S ... · .·.. .1*Projee.t Warmth: Bring your old UJinter coat & WARMTH
FREE ADMISSION FOR ALL ND TUJ)ENTS•recelue a coupon for 25% off a .oew coat at the bookstore. Receive up-to-date promotional e-mails. Visit promos and giveaways link at www.und.com. Follow the instructions on the"BE THERE" Link 
I 
.... I

L 
~-~­
Thursday, December 4, 2003 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
' page 16 
I I 
I I I .­
' 
STUDENT APPRECIATION 
DAYS 
DECEMBER 4&5 SAM-IOPM 



IN THE EC:K CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Store Hours 8am-10pm 
STUDENT ID REQUIRED-NOTRE DAME, HOLY CROSS AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 

page 17 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 2003 

MLB 
Lowell needs new stadium to re-sign 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -All-Star third baseman Mike Lowell re­signed Wednesday with the Florida Marlins. who said they'll be able to keep him only if they win approval next · year for a new stadium. 
That's why Lowell's four­year. $32 million contract includes an escape clause after the 2004 season tied to the ballpark issue. 
"We could not have Mike Lowell on our team if there's no 
new stadium," Marlins president David Samson said. "That's the  "We could not have Mike Lowell on our team if there's no  bought the Marlins in February 2002, the organization  
bottom line. There would not  new stadium."  has tried to fol­low the example  
be the revenue."  of the  Seattle  
If  the  World  David Samson  Mariners.  
Series champions  Marlins' president  Samson said.  

fail to win financ­ing for a new ballpark by next Nov. 1, Lowell's contract reverts to a one-year deal with a player option for 2005. The final two years of the agreement would be voided. Lowell would be guaranteed $14 million if he remains with the Marlins through 2005. 
The Marlins proposed the stadium clause. and Lowell said it benefits him as well. "I have options with this con­tract," he said. "I don't need a stadium to be a Marlin. I need a good team because I'm a competitor. and I don't want to be in a situation where we're not winning. But I don't 
see that happening here. That's why I signed the con­tract." 
The Marlins say it will be difficult to remain competitive if they fail to land a stadium deal that would increase rev­enue. 
Team and Miami-Dade County officials last month announced a plan to commit $210 million toward a new ballpark. The Marlins are also seeking city and state money, and they've set a March 15 deadline for an agreement. 
Since owner 
Jeffrey Loria 
"Get a com­
petitive team, start winning some games, get crowd support, get politi­cal support, and all of a sud­den you have Safeco Field and you're a top-revenue team," Samson said. "That's what we were hoping for. We took it a step further -we won the World Series." 
Unlike six years ago, when the Marlins dismantled after winning the championship, management has tried to keep the roster intact. This week second baseman Luis Castillo agreed to a three-year, $16 million deal. and the team made a multiyear offer to catcher Ivan Rodriguez. 

NFL 
Kitna surprising league with play 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Jon Kitna just won't go away. 
The journeyman dubbed as Carson Palmer's warmup act has turned into the NFL's hottest quarterback. Kitna has led the reborn Bengals into playoff contention and kept a Heisman Trophy passer on the bench. 
Astonishing. 
"Think of all the doubts that people had about Kitna," receiver Chad Johnson said Wednesday. "Just to see him playing the way he's playing, I'm loving every last minute of 
it. .. Kitna was honored Wednesday as the AFC Offensive Player of the Month 
for November. when the Bengals moved into playoff contention in large part 
because of their quarterback's solid play. 
"He's the one doing it right," offensive tackle Willie Anderson said. "He's inspiring everyone around him. That's the trait of an MVP. 
"When you pick an MVP of a league, you say, 'Can that team win without that guy?' And definitely we can't win without Jon. He's one of the biggest reasons this team has gotten to where we are." 
No one expected him or the Bengals to get this far. 
When Cincinnati took Palmer with the No. 1 pick in the draft, it looked like Kitna was about to Ipse his job, just as he did in Seattle after lead­ing the Seahawks to a playoff appearance in 1999. 
Coach Marvin Lewis assured Kitna that wasn't the case. 
"We're not just going to bring in somebody and say. 'OK, you're the quarterback,' and kick him to the curb," Lewis said. "Our football team couldn't stand that. They couldn't withstand going up on that roller coaster again." 
Kitna believed him, but knew most fans and reporters did not. 
"None of them thought I'd be playing now anyway," Kitna said. "And probably not a lot of you -if any of you ­thought I'd be playing. They thought that Carson Palmer would be here." 
There were 14 million rea­sons to think so. Palmer had the better arm and the much bigger contract, with $14 mil­lion in bonuses alone. After Kitna's horrid performance in a season-opening drubbing by Denver, the succession seemed clear. 
That's when Lewis started driving home a point that has made all the difference. Lewis was defensive coordinator on the 2000 Baltimore team that won a Super Bowl with Trent Dilfer at quarterback. 

Lewis' message: You don't have to win the game by your­self, just don't lose it by forc­ing a throw. Kitna's main shortcoming throughout his six-year career· was his propensity to throw as many interceptions as touchdowns. 
"That's the one thing that Marvin and coach lKen 1 Zampese hammered home to me after the first game: Just because something goes wrong somewhere else doesn't mean you have to make a huge play," Kitna said. "Don't turn the ball over. That's the thing I've been concentrating on all year." 
He also began to deal with some of the bitterness left over from his demotion in 
-

Seattle after Mike Holmgren became the coach."I know the ability I've been given. and I know the type of player I was before I went through the hurts and the personality changes in my two years with coach Holmgren," Kitna said. ''I'm not blaming him. but it's a reality." 
After a 1-4 start, Palmer was promoted from third­string quarterback to backup, leaving him only a few more losses from taking over. Instead. Kitna began to blos­som. 
The Bengals have won six of their last seven games, with Kitna completing 60 percent of his passes for 1,647 yards with 16 touchdowns and only three interceptions. 
Kitna has played so well that Lewis is willing to open the job to competition between him and ·Palmer next training camp, rather than handing it to the newcomer. 
At his cousin's basketball game on Tuesday night, Kitna tried to hide in the corner, but wound up swarmed for auto­graphs -a huge change from only a couple of months ago. 
His teammates also are starting to lobby for u Pro Bowl berth and MVP consider­ation, something that doesn't interest Kitna at the moment. 
Pataf!onia: 
exclttSively 
at_..,~ Sminute~
from DUT'PDST 
Campus :!•z.Ji i: 
Cold Weather Expert• 


Call 259-1ooo for more details 
Christ the King Lutheran Church 17195 Cleveland Road .. South Bend (574) 272-4306 Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM I 1:00AM 6:00 PM .. Free Light Supper Afterwards F-Tnlllllportatlan lor NDISt Mary's otudcnto. ·'Call Church 27t:4J06 or Call Checker Cab 238·7777 preferably by Saturday and at Ioast one hoUT l>efure pick up.  
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES Only AFew 4and 5Private Bedroom Apartments Left For The 2004-2005 School Year! For More lnformarion: Real Estate Management Corporation POBox 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234·9923 Jblad@cbresb.com the Finest in Student Housing!  

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 2003 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Jones declares for NFL draft, will skip senior year 
Hokie running back has 3,322 career rushing yards 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -Virginia Tech tailback Kevin Jones never made a secret of where he was headed. 
After the Hokies' practices, Jones would go home and would start working out again. He'd spend hours watching more film, pumping more iron, running more wind sprints on a machine his father brought from the fami­ly home in Chester, Pa. 
All this to prepare for the NFL. The preparation is over after Jones announced Wednesday that he was skipping his senior season to go pro. 
"It is time for me to take the next step in my life, and that step is the NFL," he said. 
Jones, a 6-foot, 221-pound jun­ior, leaves Virginia Tech with 3,322 rusHing yards and 34 touchdowns while starting for the Hokies only one of his three seasons. 
He was the only reliable option for Tech this year, breaking the school record with 1,494 yards on 5.6 yards per carry while the Hokies fell out of the national rankings after climbing to No. 3. 
"I personally feel he's the best back ever to play for Virginia Tech," running backs coach Billy Hite said. "It's amazing the things he's accomplished in such a short time." 
Dressed in a checkered sport coat instead of the maroon polo shirt the Hokies usually wear to for at least 100 yards a school­record eight times in a nine­game span for the Hokies (8-4) this season, including a record 241 yards and four touchdowns in a 31-28 loss at Pittsburgh. 
Jones always 

had speed and 
news conferences, Jones said he  "It is time for me to  strength, Thomas Jones said, but he  
decided a few days ago that he couldn't risk getting hurt playing another  take the next step in my life, and that step is the NFL. "  still needed to learn how to be patient behind the line and pick up  
year in college.  the  blitz.  After  
"You never know  Kevin Jones  Kevin Jones ran  
what's going to happen," Jones  Hokle running back  for 124 yards and a score as Tech  
said.  "I  want  to  beat  then-No.2  
make sure if I do  Miami,  Thomas  

get hurt, I'm getting paid at the Jones said he knew his son was same time." ready to go pro. 
Few expected he would stay. "It's a proud day for us," the Jones came into the college tout­elder Jones said. "This is a jour­ed as the best high school tail­ney we started together. We've back. He's now expected to be had long talks about this. I was one of the first running backs telling him even at a young age picked in the draft. 'You can make it."' 
"When you're projected as a Jones' departure leaves a wide first-round pick, I don't see any open spot at tailback for the reason to stay," quarterback Hokies. Sophomores Cedric Bryan Randall said. Humes, who ran for 377 yards 
Jones ran for 1,828 yards and and averaged 5.9 yards per 14 TDs as a backup his fresh­carry, and Mike Imoh, who has man and sophomore seasons. 86 yards this season, are both This year, his first as a starter, expected to compete for the Jones' father moved in to his starting role. apartment to help him train. "I'm excited," said Imoh, who 
"I told Kevin, 'You have a shares an apartment with the chance to leave this year if you Joneses. "It's sad to see him go, put some extra work in,"' but I'm going to look a lot of the Thomas Jones said. stuff he did and learn from him. 
Jones responded by rushing His work ethic rubs off on other people." 

While he's sad to see his start­ing tailback leave a year early, Hokies coach Frank Beamer said he understands why. 
"The money is so great. If you're at that level, you've got to do what's right for you at that time," Beamer said. "Kevin won't be the last one." 
In 2001, Beamer tried to per­suade quarterback Michael Vick to remain for his junior year, presenting him with a $10 mil­lion insurance policy to ease his fears of getting injured. 
Nevertheless, Vick turned pro, playing for the Atlanta Falcons. 
Jones said he will play his last college game in the Insight Bowl on Dec. 26 in Phoenix against California. He said he made the decision early so that the Hokies could focus on the game. 
Jones said he probably won't attend classes in the spring; instead he plans to spend most of his time working out. 


Thursday, December 4, 2003 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Doctor says Raiders need help 


New York Stvle 17" Cheese Super Pizza 
$6.99 
Additional toppings 
$.75 each 

Toppings: Sausage, Pepperoni, Ham, Bacon, Chicken, Onions, Mushrooms, Tomatoes, Spinach, Broccoli, Olives, Peppers, Pineapple 
Umlled time offer. see store for details. 
Delivery available 
~­

&nm to 1am, 7davs aweek DomerDcdk~rs 
call 631.2924 


At the Huddle Universitv of Notre Dame 574.631.2924 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA. Calif. -A sports psychologist believes he can help mend the Oakland Haiders' fragile psyche and is ready to step in. 
Dr. Hichard Crowley, of Burbank, Calif., is offering his services, and even wants to meet with controversial owner AI Davis to sec about incorpo­rating his "Mental Mechanics" program into the 3-9 Haiders' regimen to improve their per­formance. 
The Haiders say thanks, but no thanks. 
"Tell him don't even worry about it. It's a hopeless cause right now," Pro Bowl right tackle Lincoln Kennedy said Wednesday. "We've got to work through our own stuff. We don't need outside help. It's too late for that." 
Crowley took notice of Oakland's problems after coach Bill Callahan erupted Sunday night following his team's ugly 22-8 Joss to the Denver Broncos. 
"We've got to be the dumbest team in America in terms of playing the game," Callahan shouted to reporters after the home loss. 
''I'm highly critical because 
~~f~ts 
"'······· \!Ilargest selection only at__.:;._~ 
Sn1inute~ 
{!om CUTPCST Campus :f.J.Jii: 
CDU :zsg·sooo for more details 
'· 
REUTERS 

Oakland's Jerry Rice catches a pass earlier against the Chiefs. A doctor says the Raiders need psychological help. 
of the way we give games away -we give 'em away! Period. It's embarrassing, and I repre­sent that. And I apologize for that. If that's the best we can do, it's a sad product." 
Crowley believes Callahan's words could have lasting effects, even if the players now say their coach was criticizing their play and not them per­sonally. 
"This team needs help. Serious help," Crowley said. "They could be in this dark hole forever. They need some damage control: One, over the issues underlying their losses that their current staff doesn't know how to resolve, and two, whatever negative attitude the players had about themselves and their playing abilities with so many losses is now com­pounded by being called 'stu­pid' and 'dumb' -words a number of them may have been called growing up by a parent or teacher." 

Callahan laughed in disbelief when told about Crowley's ideas. 
"No! You're not serious about 
The Raiders held a team meeting Monday, and the play­ers seem to be supporting Callahan and the coach's mes­sage that he was criticizing their mistake-prone play and not their intelligence. 
Rookie tight end Teyo Johnson has received calls from friends around the coun­try interested in what's going on with the team. 
MLB 

Reliable Hawkins signs with Cubs 

REUTERS Relief pitcher LaTroy Hawkins fires a pitch for Minnesota last season. Hawkins signed with the Chicago Cubs Wednesday and should shore up the backend of the team's bullpen. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Scratch that right-handed setup man off the Chicago Cubs' wish list. 
The Cubs confirmed Wednesday they'd agreed to terms with free agent LaTroy Hawkins. The deal. which includes a player option for 2006, guarantees the pitcher $11 million over three years. 
Hawkins, who turns 31 later this month, was 9-3 with a 
1.86 ERA in 77 1-3 innings for the Minnesota 1\vins. He had 75 strikeouts, and didn't allow a run over 20 games from July 31 to Sep1. 14. 
Hawkins was especially impressive in the opener of the playoffs against the New York Yankees, striking out four over two innings and getting the victory. 
Hawkins was converted to a reliever in 2000, when the Twins made him their closer. He was moved to the setup role before the 2002 season, and is 15-3 with a 2.00 ERA in 139 games since then. 
"We were certainly hoping to bring him back," 1\vins gener­


Saturd.iy Dc:eembe.r 6 Sun~y Dc(.ember 7 

a! manager Terry Hyan said Tuesday night after being told Hawkins had signed with the Cubs. 
"Obviously, he got security. It sounds like he got dollars. I could never fault a player for taking a deal that sets him up. I feel horrible about losing him. But I'm satisfied he's going to a place he wants to be. Unfortunately, it's not here." 
The deal also puts Hawkins, a native of Gary, Ind., closer to home and gives him a chance to play for Dusty Baker. 
Bolstering the bullpen was high on the list of priorities for Cubs general managnr Jim Hendry this offseason. Cubs relievers were 20-19 with a 
4.16 ERA, 16th in the majors. 
Joe Borowski was a pleasant surprise, calmly filling the closer's role when Antonio Alfonseca got hurt in spring training and finishing with 33 saves. Left-bander Mike Hemlinger is solid, and Kyle Farnsworth is one of the hard­est-throwing pitchers in the NL. 
10 am-Spm 11 am-5 pm 
... 




OUND THE NATION 
Page 20 Thursday, December 4, 2003 

around the dial 
CoLLEGE fOOTBALL Miami (OH) at Bowling Green 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Chicago at Philadelphia 7 p.m., TNT LA Lakers at Dallas 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL 
Nashville at Columbus 7 p.m., FSN 
Detroit at St. Louis 7:30p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -Terry Francona will be hired as Boston's new manager, a source told The Associated Press, reuniting pitcher Curt Schilling with his for­mer boss in a push to bring the Red Sox their first World Series title since 1918. 
The Red Sox scheduled a Thursday news conference at which they will announce Francona's hir­ing, a baseball source said Wednesday on the condi­tion of anonymity. 
Francona, 44, managed Philadelphia through four losing seasons from 1997­2000 when the Phillies were a young team trying to rebuild. 
Francona will be under pressure to win immediate­ly in Boston, where Grady Little averaged 94 wins over two seasons but was let go after the team col­lapsed in the seventh game of the AL championship series. 
The Red Sox also inter­viewed Los Angeles third­base coach Glenn Hoffman, Anaheim bench coach Joe Maddon and Texas first­base coach DeMario Hale. But Francona was estab­lished as an early front­runner, and his hiring was delayed only by the team's pursuit of Schilling. acquired last week in a trade with Arizona. 

The Red Sox traded four players for Schilling last week, but the deal was held up while they negoti­ated a contract extension with the 37-year-old pitch­er to get him to waive his no-trade clause. They agreed Friday to a deal that will pay him $37.5 million over the next three years, with an option for a fourth. 
Schilling said one incen­tive for him to sign in Boston was word that Francona was "a slam dunk" to be the new man­ager. 'Even so, he made it clear that he did not make Francona's hiring a condi­tion of the deal, nor did the Red Sox promise it. 
Under Little, the Red Sox made the playoffs last sea­son for the first time since 1999. They came back from a 2-0 deficit against Oakland, winning three in a row to take the best-of­five, first-round series and play the New York Yankees for the right to go to the World Series. 
Boston led New York 5-2 in the seventh inning of the decisive seventh game, but Little opted to go with tir­ing ace Pedro Martinez instead of a recently reha­bilitated bullpen. 

IN BRIEF 
NFL ref fined for bad call just as soon give them the money overtime. back and get that call." Wells traded to Memphis 
NEW YORK -Referee Tom White The play in question occurred with was fined $2,600 for failing to 58 seconds left and Seattle ahead MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Volatile forward restart the clock at the end of the 41-38. The Seahawks' Shaun Bonzi Wells was traded by the Portland Seattle-Baltimore game, a mistake Alexander gained 3 yards to the Trail Blazers to the Memphis Grizzlies 
that contributed to the Seahawks' Baltimore 33, but head linesman Ed on Wednesday for guard Wesley 44-41 overtime loss. Camp threw a penalty flag because Person and a 2004 first-round draft 
The fine represented half of he thought offensive tackle Floyd pick. White's game check, supervisor of Womack lined up as an ineligible Wells is averaging 12.2 points, 4.7 officials Mike Pereira said receiver. rebounds and 2.7 assists this season, Wednesday. The Ravens called their final time­but he also was stripped of his captain­
The entire crew was reprimanded out but the clock was stopped any­cy and suspended for lwo games for 
for its performance during the Nov. way for the officials to discuss the cursing at coach Maurice Cheeks. 23 game, presumably hurting its penalty. They determined Womack Wells was fined last month for mak­chances to officiate in the playoffs. was eligible, let the play stand and ing an obscene gesture at a fan after a Crews are assigned to the postsea­gave Baltimore back its final time­loss to Philadelphia. Last March, Wells son based on their regular-season out. was suspended for one game by­
ratings. The Ravens were ready to call Cheeks for "conduct considered detri­"It tells me everyone is account­timeout again, but White did not mental to the team." able," Seahawks coach Mike restart the clock. As a result, "We are very hopeful that this oppor­
Holmgren said Wednesday. "Players Baltimore saved its timeout until tunity provides a fresh start for Bonzi are accountable, coaches are after the plays, saving 40 seconds in Memphis, and that he enjoys joining accountable and officials are that it used when it got the ball back a rising young team in the Grizzlies," accountable. Having said that, I'd to tie a game it eventually won in Memphis president Jerry West said. 


Thursday, December 4, 2003 
page 21 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer Justin Tuck looks around during the Michigan game this season. Tuck has 13.5 sacks for Notre Dame In 2003. 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer A Notre Dame swimmer competes against Michigan last spring. Notre Dame will be hosting a 500 athlete fteld this weekend. 
CIIEESECAKE CHEESECAKE CHEESECAKE 

Sacks 
continued from page 24 
pushed him to improve, knowing that the young defensive end stills has areas of his game in which he can get better. 
Willingham is "I think I'm my
"/think I'm my

confident that hardest critic," Tuck can be hardest critic. " Tuck said. "I look more than at the games and just a domi­people will say,
Justin Tuck 

nating pass 'You made a good
Irish defensive end 

rusher, and that he can develop into one of the better all-around defensive ends in the country. 
"We love a lot of things that Justin Tuck brings, and that's not just in the passing game," Willingham said. "He's con­tinued to develop in all phas­
_ 
...... 
es of the game, and we need him to continue to develop in those phases, and he's responded well to those chal­lenges." 
Still, Tuck may be his own biggest critic, as he is hesi­tant to accept accolades for his play in the past, and he 
only wants to 
make himself bet­
ter. 
play there,' but I look at it like I could have done a little more than I 
did. But I should be like that. If you get content with things you've done. you'll never reach your full potential." 
Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


~ 
?:' 
n
:; r' 
::J 
(J)
c:: 
IJ:l 
(J) 

0~ 
o~ fo'Q~ 1'3-~ ,c.:,'l>-' (574) 282-3233 ~ 

(J) 
c: 
'\:1 
I XITE. Ci\l'l'l :(:<:I NO 

Fax(574)282-3234 415 North Hickory Road South Bend, IN 46615 


ND SWIMMING 
Invitational -will be key for Irish 
Welsh says meet will be crucial test for team 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Over 500 athletes from 16 different schools will compete as both the men's and women's swimming and div­ing teams host the Notre Dame Invitational at the Rolfs Aquatic Center today through Saturday. 
Excluding the Irish, the men's invitational field will feature 11 other schools, including West Virginia, Denison, Louisville, St. Louis, Indianapolis. Harvard, Shippensburg, Denver, North Dakota and both Wisconsin Milwaukee and Green Bay. 
The men's squad hopes to build upon its first dual-meet victory of the season when the Irish (1-5) hit the pool for the crucial midseason meet. 
"This is the focal meet of the fall semester for us," head coach Tim Welsh said. "This is our midway report, like the final exam for the first semester ... like how we're doing at halftime with the second half of the game still to play." 
On Nov. 14, while Notre Dame picked up a pair of losses against strong squads from No. 20 Brigham Young and No. 22 Iowa, it also tal­lied its first victory of the sea­son in a 223-62 thrashing of Louisville in a quadrangular meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

Should Notre Dame achieve its goal of turning in some of the year's best times come meet's end, Welsh is confi­dent the Irish will sit in a favorable position. 
"We're looking for the fastest times of the year and advancing into the Big East qualifying rounds," Welsh said. "We think if we all go individual best times, the score will take care of itself, and we'll be happy with it." 
The women's team, on the other hand, looks to rebound from \1. seventh-place finish at the Texas A&M Invitational two weeks ago. 
In addition to the same schools the men face, the women will also challenge Bowling Green, Hillsdale, New Mexico and Northern Michigan. 
"Since we've been so sick, we only have a couple of girls swimming the first two days," head coach Bailey Weathers said. "The girls missed a lot of school [due to the illness), and we've kind of forgone the first couple of days to get back on track academically." 

Despite a pair of victories by undefeated senior Meghan Perry-Eaton (one-and three­meter diving) and a fifth­place finish by freshman , Katie Carroll (1 00-meter but­terfly). the No. 19 Irish (4-1) recorded a meet-low 599 points at Texas A&M, finish­ing 456 points behind sixth­place Virginia (955) and nearly 1,500 points behind meet-winner UCLA. 
"The illness made it hard [to do well),'' Weathers said. ­"Most of the teams were rest­ed and shaved, and we knew that going into the meet so we really didn't expect to win. We were disappointed that we weren't healthy more than anything." 
The Irish will be without a pair of swimmers this week­end, as senior Marie Labosky and freshman Rebecca Grove will be competing at the U.S. Open Championships in Federal VVay, VVash. 
Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Francis gains Big East honor 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore forward Torin Francis has been named the Big East Co-Player of the Week after averaging 18.5 points and 12.5 rebounds and shooting 66.7 per­cent from the field in Notre Dame's first two victories of the season versus Northern Illinois and Mount St. Mary's. 
He shares the honor with sophomore guard Carl Krauser of Pittsburgh. 
Francis registered his 11th double double of his collegiate career when he scored 24 points and grabbed 19 rebounds in a 74-65 victory over Northern Illinois. Both of those totals were one shy of his personal bests. 
Thursday, December 4, 2003


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
Courtney LaVere rebounds the ball as she tries to head down court. LaVere contributed 11 
points In the 74-57 victory against Valpralso. 
Height 
continued from page 24 
percent of her 3-point attempts and dropping 12.5 points per game. She also tallies 6. 5 assists and three steals and surprisingly leads
-
the team with eight boards per contest. 
After losing their season­opener to Northern Illinois 
f 
Conesto/Coconut 
t  68-65,  the  
~  Badgers  won  
•  t  h  e  

• G r o v e 
1 
.. Thanksgiving Classic in Miami last weekend. They knocked out Hampton 
"We're playing at a dv.Terentlevelthan at the beginning of the year. A lot ofgood has come from [the two losses]." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 

and Butler to win the tour­l nament title. Wisconsin lostf their second straight home 
· game Monday, this time by a :t 64-58 score to Western Illinois. First-year coach Lisa Stone leads the Badgers. She came 
to Wisconsin from Drake, where she was 64-27 in three years. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame looks to rebound after a tough weekend that saw the Irish fall to Michigan State 92-63 and No. 3 Tennessee 83-59. Notre Dame.struggled in both games, and the loss­es knocked the team from 
the top 25 rankings. 
Despite struggling through two defeats, McGraw said the team has practiced well since their last two games. 
''I'm really encouraged. You can tell a lot about a team after a 
loss," McGraw said. "We've all worked hard to change things, and it's fun at prac­tice." 
Notre Dame won their home opener Nov. 21 against Valparaiso but have faced four other difficult teams on 


Thank· you'····· 
Michelle McCarthy, Jackie Clark and Steve Miller 
and the Sophomore Class 

fur our Parents~ Night···Dub We are .grateful •for you! 
"fuur favoffte kids tm ·campus and their parents at University Village · 

the road, including three ranked opponents in Auburn, Colorado and Tennessee. 
Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast leads the team with 
16.6 points per game and adds 7.4 rebounds and 1. 8 blocks. She scored a career­high 27 points against Auburn earlier in the year and needs a mere 114 points to reach the 1,000 point mark in her career. She would become just the 20th Irish player to accomplish such a feat. 
The two teams will face each other for just the sec­ond time at the Joyce Center, with Wisconsin winning the only other meeting 81-69 in 1996. Notre Dame leads the series 3-2. 
McGraw hopes her team will rebound Thursday after dropping two straight games. 
"We're playing at a differ­ent level than at the begin­ning of the year," McGraw said. "A lot of good has come from [the two losses]." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

EMILY GRAMMENS/The Observer 

Julie Malone shoots a free throw In Wednesday night's vic­
tory against St. Andrews. 
Blowout 
continued from page 24 

percent from the floor over the entire game and 55.9 percent in the first half. This improved shooting was a key in bounc­ing back from Tuesday night's loss. 
"Shooting was a big [improvement]. Jess Binhack stepped up big finishing her shots," Bellina said. 
Binhack fmished the game 4­7 from the floor, with nine points and four rebounds. Her solid inside presence was key to developing a half court offense that left Andrews look­ing lost for much of the game. 
There were not too many 
bright spots for Andrews, as 
they shot the ball extremely 
poorly, played weak defense 
and committed numerous 
turnovers. 

Their inconsistency scoring 
points put them in an early 
first half hole that they never 
recovered from. 

Andrews turned the ball 
over 36 times, 11 of which 
came from point forward 
Daniela Santos. Santos, like 
most of the Andrews squad, 
could not find a solution for 
Bellina's defensive schemes 
and were over-matched for 
much of the game. 

Although she accounted for many turnovers, Santos was the top scorer for Andrews, scoring 11 points on 5-20 shooting and playing the entire 40 minutes. 
The Belles will need to take their momentum from this blowout into the weekend, where they will host Calvin College, Washington University and Illinois College in the Saint Mary's College Roundball Tournament. 
Not only will they need to maintain the level of play exhibited in Wednesday night's game but they will need to improve several aspects of their play in order to defeat these arguably higher-level opponents. 
"We need to work on post defense and defending pene­tration," Bellina said. 
The Belles will play at home on Friday and Saturday in the Roundball Tournament. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL **SPRING BREAK** Book early and save $$! Live band & DJ, Hard body & Venus Swimwear contest, Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 800-488-8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com 

Spring Break in Panama City Beach, Florida! 
800 feet of Gulf Beach Frontage • 2large Outdoor Swimming Pools Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasail Rentals • lazy River Ride & Water Slide Huge Beachfront Hot Tub • Volleyball • Suites up to 12 people Airport limo Service • live Band & DJ • World's longest Keg Party 
WoRLD fAMous 
T1KI BAR! 

Thursday, December 4, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
FIVES 
Science Jargon: 
Just because honesty is the best policy doesn't mean you have to suffer its consequences 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Pr~$$Df', :r: Wll.sl'i't "ble r hA'I/f.Q, bl.etl~~·'4\ Oh mv! Well... 
1fif11 nrsvlt-,1'19 i" -. y~v h~"~ lilt'l
-tb~r~t#~ rwy En~lish 

bvtldvp of 1/ASc.vlaf' Wd~~n. •· ·
~.:\fer l~ri' "'~\-!f.•• CAn 1et·t\~~"n c. cM.::ewW-~~
:r ll4we "" e_.c~lm{ 

1'2..·'2.11 ~n .......,.,..,.,,... J!U o(1tlk -+c +hd>f1 
Wh"+ \s 'I"vr 
eu.v~~ Y~"~"~ ~""~1 
} 

rr>c. ir\c.~yMl(. <l'f-\ .fvt~,+it~h '~· \ 
"-· 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WYDON 
± 
C2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rlghlo R..ONed. 
YOOST 

I [ J 
DAGOIA 



ROQUE 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
[ I J [ J 

Ms: r r I I I JIT "[ I ~ I ~ J' 
Answersomorrow) 

WEIGH MESSY PITIED TANKER
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: After eating all that chocolate, Junior fell asleep and had-"SWEET" DREAMS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Maker of 1 Some are hard 
important to break 
decisions 

7 Classic card 41 Count (on) game 42 Kind of change 14 Kind of army or 43 Not at all loose show 
44 Refinement 15 "No problem" targets 16 Food that may 45 Connecticut be served senator lyonnaise Christopher 17 Citrus source 47 Suggestion box 18 How dogs fill chase their tails 48 Literary 20 Top military unit monogram 21 Job for Triple A 50 Drivel 22 Part of 52 Oldsmobile N.C.A.A.: Abbr. model 23 Sources of 55 Place for slow inspiration drivers 28 Ace 61 Congratulatory cry
30 Thompson with an Oscar 63 Heretofore 34 Worldly 64 Leisure possessions 
65 Doctor 36 Fast no more 
66 First name in 37 Some leather women's tennis 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

23 Trains underground 24 See (in) 25 Stone 

Weizman 60 Wool sourcesmonument 49 Chicago 
26 Financial Symphony 55 II pontefice's 62 Composition of freedom director, 1969-91 home some cups 
27 RV contents? 

29 Self For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a expression? credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
31 One that Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday squeaks by? crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 32 One of the Von Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Trapp girls past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
33 Before, in Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Bogota nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
67 National personae non gratae 
DOWN 1 Western Indian 2 Before long 3 Not-quite-final 
software 4 Apple production 5 Jacques of "Mon Oncle" 6 Sign of 
contempt 7 "That's_!" 8 Einstein's 
birthplace 9 46-Down's reward 
10 Take off 
11 No friendly fellow 
12 Saturn satellite 
13 Kind of cell 
15 Auto traction improver 19 It's sacred to some 22 Montezuma II, for one 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Jeff Bridges, Marisa Tomei, Pamela Stephenson, Tyra 
Banks, Dennis Wilson 

Happy Birthday: This is a year of change. It is important to accept the inevitable and move on. Although plenty of opportunities will be present, you may find it difficult to take advantage of promising ventures if you are caught up in dead issues. Think progressively and you will find you~elf moving in a positive direction. Your numbers: 9, 13, 24, 28, 31,37 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will be able to work well with colleague~. You can finish all those undone projects and begin some new ones if you work quickly and efficiently. Relationships may develop through work. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Today will be hectic. Keep moving, and you will fit everything in and feel satisfied at the end of the day. Passionate encounte~ 
can be you~ if you are willing to act on your instincts. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Problems with roommates can be expected. Don't let yourself be taken for granted. Real estate investments will be profitable. You 
can buy products for your home, but don't go over your budget. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romance will come looking for you. Be 
receptive to the advances made by othe~. Friends or relatives may want to set 
you up with someone. The time is right to get on with your life. ••••• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to cut back a little on your pe~onal 
overhead. Try to negotiate your financial position and consolidate your debts. You may want to pick up an extra job.*** 
VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are usually logical, but not today. You will be 
quite flippant and should force yourself to get physical and use up some of that 
excess energy you've got. *** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's time to question your pe~onal situation. Things 
have not been too favorable lately, and it is time for you to make some major 
decisions. Examine your legal rights before going any further. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone you befriend at a meeting will be 
romantically interested in you. You can make a difference if you fight for your 
rights and are willing to speak out for those less apt to. ***** 
SAGITIARUJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can get ahead when it comes to your 
career objectives, but your personal affai~ are another story. Don't let your 
emotions stand in the way of your work performance. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be in contact with people who will ­
spark some good ideas. You can invest in joint ventures, but make sure that you 
aren't the only one putting in cash. **** 

AQUARUJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Changes with regard to co-worke~ are likely. 
Don't be too quick to judge the attributes and downfalls of othe~. You may be 
surprised when you take a second look at someone's talents. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional fluctuation can be expected. Make 
love not war. You can get closer to the one you love or pu~ue new 
companionship in group endeavo~. Don't make promises you can't keep.*** 
Birthday Baby: No one will ever be sure what you are going to do next. You 
have the wherewithal to make things happen. If you want to accomplish 
something, you will do whatever is required. You are strong, engaging and 
slightly ahead of your time. 

Need advice? Try Eugenia'J Web site at www.eugeniala.w.com 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, December 4 2003 
Page 24 
FooTBALL 
Tuck hungry for more after breaking record 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles pound Andrews 72-26 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
-
To say that Wednesday night's contest between Saint Mary's College and Andrews University was one sided would be a complete understatement. 
The Belles played fiery offense and tough defense, after a disappointing loss Tuesday night to Manchester, en route to a 72-26 lopsided victory, clearly showing that one team simply did not come ready to play. 
The Belles controlled the game from the first minutes, going on a 21-2 run to start the game. With the starters resting much of the game, the Saint Mary's bench players had little trouble running the offense, namely freshman Bridget Lipke who shot 4-6 from the field and finished with nine points, four assists and three steals. Upke's statistics do not tell the whole story, as she took control as the floor general and created much of the offense throughout the game. 
"People were hungry tonight," Coach Suzanne Bellina said. "Players [who are used to] little playing time real­ly picked us up." 
Coming off a disappointing loss Tuesday night, the Belles made solid adjustments in order to blow the doors off Andrews. They pushed the ball well, exploiting Andrews' weak transition defense and fmishing easy lay-ups and pull-up jumpers. 
The Belles shot the ball very well compared to Tuesday night's game, shooting 4 7. 7 
see BLOWOUT/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ready for 'tall' challenge 
Notre Dame faces Wisconsin tonight at Joyce Center 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw wanted her players to do one thing at practice Wednesday -grow a few inches. 
"We were trying to get taller," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame (2-3) faces a Wisconsin team (2-2) Thursday night at the Joyce Center that has five players over six feet in height, including a pair of centers that are 6-foot-5 and 6-foot­7, respectively. 
"They're the tallest team we've played," McGraw said. "We're going to just see how it goes." 
Wisconsin's two centers, Emily Ashbaugh and Lello 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

By Justin Tuck's self-imposed standards, he hasn't had a good game yet. 
The Irish defensive end sets a goal each game to record six quarterback sacks, and while Tuck has not reached that feat yet, he has had some very impressive performances for the Irish this season. 
"I go into every game think­ing, 'I'm going to get six sacks,' and I'm disappointed if I don't," Tuck said. 
But it's hard to believe the 6­foot-5, 246-pound junior was disappointed with his perform­ance Saturday, as he recorded 
3. 5 sacks against Stanford to clinch the Notre Dame single· season record for sacks -he now has 13.5 on the year. 
Tuck said that, during the game, it didn't register that he had clinched the record. But he took an opportunity after the game to think about where his record and accomplishment places him in Notre Dame foot­ball history. 
"They told me at halftime that I had [the record]. It really didn't sink in until after the game," he said. "But then I started thinking about the defensive linemen that have played here. And after the game I talked to my dad, and he said that the announcers had said something about it during the game. It became a bigger thing as it went on." 
Right now, Tuck ranks third in the country with 1.23 sacks per game. With one contest left to play against Syracuse, the overall national sack lead is not out of his sights, as he stands only three sacks behind the leader, David Ball of UCLA. 
''I'm shooting for [the lead}," Tuck said. "I think every game I'm shooting for at least six. and I'm shooting for six Saturday." 
In addition to the sacks, Tuck led the team in tackling against the Cardinal with seven stops Saturday. He is second on the Irish with 7 2 tackles on the year and ranks eighth in the country in tackles for loss with 
1.73 per game. 
Tuck's high standards may be a product of the teachings of his head coach, Tyrone Willingham, who teaches his players always to strive for perfection. And Willingham has remained on top of Tuck and 
see SACKS/page 21 
BENITEZ!The Observer 

Sophomore guard Megan Duffy drives the ball during the women's win over Valparaiso earlier this season. 
Gebisa, along with 6-foot-3 sister Ebba Gebisa, give the Badgers a distinct advantage in the paint. Notre Dame's tallest players, Teresa Borton 
and Courtney LaVere, are a  
mere 6-foot-3.  
Ashbaugh  leads  the  

Badgers in many offensive 
and defensive categories, averaging 13.8 points, 7.8 rebounds and 1.3 blocks per game. 
Guard Ashley Josephson gives Wisconsin an outside threat, knocking down 53.8 
see HEIGHT/page 22 

en 
MlB 
NFL 

NFL 
COLLEGE FOOTBAll 
ND SWIMMING
MlB 
LLI 
Hawkins signs 

Raiders need help 
Kitna's become 
Lowell demands 

Jones declares for 
Notre Dame

1--u z with Cubs 
A sports psychologist 
year's surprise 
new stadium 
Invitational
NFL Draft 
LaTroy Hawkins 

declared that he can 
Cincinnati quarter-
If the Florida Marlins 

Virginia Tech's run-
The men's and

a: :::5 
signed a contract with 

help the psyche of the 
back Jon Kitna has 
women's swimming
expect all-star Mike 

ning back Kevin Jones 
Q = c:c the Cubs that would 
team. 

become one of the 
Lowell to return, a new 

has decided to skip his 
teams will be compet­
guarantee $11 million 

hottest quarterbacks in 
stadium must be built. 
ing against of sixteen 

senior ear to go pro.
D. =dollars in 3 years. 
the NFL. 
schools .this weekend. 

en 
page 15 
page 21

page 15 
page 17 
page 17 

page 18 





