
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Nigerian president speaks on cooperation 
Obasanjo discusses current political and economic conditions in Africa 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Editor 
African television stations broadcast live Sunday evening from the Joyce Center for Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo keynote speech for the Institute for Church Life's "A Call to Solidarity with Africa" conference. 
The president, who entered the Joyce Center on a red carpet fol­lowed by an entourage of body­guards and U. S. Secret Service agents, discussed current econom­ic and political conditions in Africa and called upon the United States and its western allies to keep the issues of his continent at the fore­front of international conversa­
see NIGERIA/page 6 
Students 
ejected for 


tradition 
At least 10 students removedfrom gamefor having marshmallows 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
When coordinator of stadium personnel Cappy Gagnon was a Notre Dame student in the early 60s, students streamed toilet paper from the stands following the first touchdown. But when students bring marshmallows into the stands now, they can expect to be ejected from the game, as between 12 and 15 students found out when they were forced to leave the Stadium Saturday. 
Gagnon said that a crackdown on possession of bags of marsh­mallows was instituted last year and has continued. this year because students are not just throwing marshmallows; they are throwing marshmallows with rocks and coins inside of them and throwing marshmallows cov­ered in ice during the winter months, in addition to throwing other objects. 
"This has gone from a silly prank we winked at to a major problem," Gagnon said. 
Gagnon said that one student was treated for a laceration Saturday after he was hit by a water bottle and that others have been treated for injuries in the past as a result of being hit by fly­ing objects. 
Gagnon said that allowing stu­
see GAME/page 6 


Two-part conference focuses on relationship 
between United States and Africa 
By MEGHAN MARTIN Associate News Editor 
In November 2001, the United States Conference of Catholic BishopE _ approved at its general meeting a document entitled "A Call to Solidarity with Africa," which addressed the bishops' concerns over the appropriate relationship between Africa and the United States. 
This week, the University's Institute for Church Life will sponsor the American leg of its two-part confer­ence, the second of which will be held in Nigeria this January. 
The conferences on both sides of the Atlantic will focus on the state­ment issued by the bishops, which called attention to the violence, med-
see AFRICAlpage 6 

Fisher residents lead campus-wide fundraiser 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
News Writer 
Remnants of James· Ramos's hair still lingered on the steps of Fisher Hall Sunday morning. 
The freshman sacrificed his locks and pride to bene­fit the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the focus of the 2nd Annual Fisher Hall Hoof Sit. Hamos garnered $40 from crowds passing by Fisher Hall last night for receiying a mullet haircut. 
"It was an easy way to raise money, and I needed a haircut," Ramos said. "I was at LaFortune Saturday night and everyone was staring at me disapproving­ly. One girl from another table stared at me for 10 
see FISHER/page 4 


Only 9 Guardsmen march at Saturday's game 
Some Guard members claim they were attacked last week 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Wrriter 
Some members of the Irish Guard late last week in front of Vesuvio's Pizza in downtown South Bend, said Guard captain Brian Chap, and one was injured so severely that he could not march with the band Saturday. 
At least four guardsmen were involved in the incident, inelud­ing John Haih and Drew DeWalt, and at least three were injured as a result of the con­frontation. The names of the other Irish Guard members were not known. 
South Bend police could not be reached for comment. It was not immediately clear if a police report was filed. 
Raih, an off-campus senior, did not participate as a member of the Guard during Saturday's football game against Michigan State, leaving only nine guards­men. Friends of Raih said he sustained multiple bruises and injuries to his face and body. 
Attempts to reach Raih and DeWalt were unsuccessful. 
see GUARD/page 4 



Monday, September 22, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Going for a drive? 
Ah senior, yes -it's finally here. Bring on the raucous off-campus parties and celebratory outings to Heartland. Bring on the late nights living it up and the even later 
Nicole Clery 
mornings that result from skip­ping class. I'm Viewpoint ready and waiting Copy Editor so bring it on. I'll even drive. 
But wait ... maybe I should tell you that I'm not 21. Or perhaps that I'm an RA so I don't have a fake. Maybe l should share with you the fact that I don't even have a car on-campus. But that's okay -I'll just drive your car, if that's all right with you. Don't worry, I've had my driver's license for a whole two months so you're safe with me. 
_... Before you avert your eyes from this little "Inside Column," thinking you're in for another rant about underage drinking or drunk driving, stop for a second. While the afore­mentioned topics deserve to be dis­cussed and rediscussed, I feel it is more important today to note that I, Nicole Lauren Clery, a 20-year-old third-year RA, will not be turning 21 until the Friday of finals week and will have only been in possession of a driver's license for four and a half months by that time. Laugh, my friends, but I speak the truth. Laugh even harder, if you must, after I tell you that both of my younger sisters were driving before me. Oh, and get ready to laugh again when I share with you that it took me not one visit, or even two, but three visits to the DMV to pass the stupid driving test. So I forgot to look over both shoulders during every point of the three-point turn. So I ran a few stop signs and slammed on the breaks mid-intersection once I · realized what I had done. So I drove directly off of the road during the backing up portion of the test! I tell you, if they had asked me to parallel park at all I would probably be behind bars or something right now. Still interested in asking me to drive you to the bar on Thursday night? If so, I urge you to consult with my dear friend and fellow RA, Amanda Garno. She's sure to regale you with the tale of her near-death experience coming out of the Martin's parking lot a few weeks ago. All I can say is that novice drivers should never attempt to clear multiple lanes of traffic in one go ... lesson learned there/ Thanks to this driving debacle I've learned to appreciate the simple pleasures that come from walking or taking the shuttle, everywhere. What do I hope you've gained from this "Inside Column?" Aside from the obvious lesson that I'm probably not the best candidate to chauffeur you and your drunken friends around town, I hope that I've inspired you to share your time (and your car!) with me so that I can be taught how to drive like a civilized human being! Give me a ring sometime if you're up to the challenge. 
Contact Nicole Clery at cler0612@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Ob~erver regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE GAME? 


Pat Undenmeyer Alex Sayers Caroline Meehan Chris Scarperlanda Rob Keller Mike Dybicz 
Holy Cross Jrmior Sophomore Junior Sophomore Senior Junior Off-Campus Fisher Lewis Keough Siegfried Carroll 
"A little "Fans should "It was "I wanted to "It was no "Go Brady. •• 







good.·· 
IN BRIEF 
Head out to Legends tonight from 9 p.m. to 12 
a.m. for food, drinks and the Monday Night Football Game Watch. 
Grab some friends and play Floor Hockey tonight from 
8:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. at Rolf's Recreation and Sports Center. 
Attend the "A Call to Solidarity with Africa" Conference, taking place all day today in McKenna Hall. 
View the British Drawings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Allen Riley today at the Snite Museum. 
Learn about opportunities for service at the Post­Graduate Service Fair, occuring Wednesday from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Stephan Center. 
Cheer on the Irish Thursday at 7 p.m. when men's soccer takes on Bradley University at Alumni Field. 
Come party with the Sophomore Clas.s for Late Night Grill on the Fieldhouse Mall Thursday from 10 to 
11:30 p.m. 
Hear Dr. Betty Balanoff speak about ''Environmental Justice in Northwest Indiana" at 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Wednesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an el'ent to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 58 HIGH 
62 

LOW 41 LOW 
44 
,,
disappointing support the disappointing.·· cry. but hopefully team no matter 
they·u make what." 
some 
adjustments 
for Purdue. •· 


ANDY KENNA!The Observer Students from Dillon Hall, dresssed as English gentlemen, gather for a game of cro­quet In the afternoon sunshine on South Quad Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
Buddhist Monk Completes Seven-Year Run 
TOKYO -A Buddhist priest dubbed the "marathon monk" has com­pleted an ancient running ritual in the remote Japanese mountains that took seven years and cov­ered a distance equivalent to a trip round the globe, wear­ing only a flowing white robe and flimsy straw sandals. 
The 44-year-old monk, Genshin Fujinami, returned Thursday from his 24,800­mile spiritual journey in the Hiei mountains, a range of five peaks that rise above the ancient capital of Kyoto. 
Dressed in his handmade sandals and robe, with a straw raincoat draped over his head, Fujinami was greeted at the end of his journey by a crowd of wor­shippers, who knelt to receive his blessings, said an official at Enryakuji Hoshuin, the temple that is guardian of the grueling tra­dition. 
Since 1885, only 46 other so-called "marathon monks" of the Tendai sect have sur­vived the ritual, which dates to the 8th century and is believed to be a path to enlightenment, according to temple officials. The last monk to complete it returned in 1994. 
School makes girls wear trash bags skirts 
NEW YOHK -Two Bronx girls reportedly had to wear skirts made of trash bags to class as a punishment for coming to school in jeans rather than their uniforms. 
The sixth-graders at the Bronx Preparatory Charter School were made to wear the bags by principal Marina Bernard Damiba, the Daily News reported Friday. 
Damiba called the garbage­bag skirt., "Damiba fa.,hions" and said they weren't meant to be humiliating. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:: 
LLI ::1: 
=: 
LLI 

3: 
... 
c( (,) 


..... 0 HIGH 69 HIGH 55 HIGH 68 HIGH 67 LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 52 LOW 45 
Atlanta 76 I 62 Boston 70 I 60 Chicago 70 I 53 Denver 74 I 52 Houston 90 I 69 Los Angeles 85 I 61 Minneapolis 61 I 42 New York 76 I 65 Philadelphia 79 I 66 Phoenix 107 I 75 Seattle 72 I 51 St. Louis 75 I 49 Tampa 92 I 73 Washington 80 I 66 

---~---­

Monday, September 22, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 
Trident Naval Society backs 24 hour fundraiser 
By DUSTIN VON HANDORF News Writer 
The recently completed 24-Hour Trident Naval Society Run brought in donations of over $5,500 dollars for the South Bend Special Olympics by solicit­ing donations from those on campus. 
The run consisted of two tables, one set up on the Fieldhouse Mall and the other set up by the Hammes Bookstore, as well as several "runners" who walked around campus soliciting donations. One runner, according to Trident Naval Society secretary Bryan KreHer, ran from midnight until 9 a.m., setting a record. 
Kreller said that the initial count of the donations received was over $5,500, all of which will be presented to the Special Olympics. 
In past years, the amount of money raised was usually around $3,500. Kreller said he attributed the increase to the second table, a new addition this year. 
"Change is great," KreHer said. "If everybody gives a quarter, the total would be in the thousands." 
According to Kreller, many of its mem­bers are involved with Navy ROTC and the ·club is not affiliated with the United States Navy or the military in any way, but it does have a working relationship with the Naval ROTC program. 
Contact Dustin Von Handorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 



Group discusses, enacts gender issues 
By ASHLEY DYER News Writer 
The Guerrilla Girls, an action­oriented group of art activists, swept Saint Mary's campus last Friday, dressed in gorilla masks and black clothing for a lunch­eon at the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
The group answered ques­tions about sexist and racist attitudes in the art world dur­ing the event, also attended by faculty and students from Saint Mary's art and women's studies departments, Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership representatives and members of the South Bend art community. 
Formed in 1985, the group of all women activists began in response to an exhibition at the Museum of Modem Art in New York entitled "International Survey of Painting and Sculptures." Only eight percent of the artists represented in the exhibit were women, and all were white, whether American or European. 
At first, the group decided to remain anonymous and eventu­ally took the names of deceased female artists and writers as pseudonyms. According to the group, which calls itself the "Conscience of the Art World," they feel that anonymity allows them to focus on the issues at hand. 
Frida Kahlo and Kathe Kollwitz, two of the group's founding members, performed Friday evening in Little Theatre. Playing to a packed audience, the girls began debunking attitudes in the art and film industries through popular education techniques: Their presentation used stick­ers, posters and billboards to enlighten the general public on inequities found throughout the art world. 

Later in the program, Kahlo and Kollwitz presented excerpts from their latest book, "Bitches, Bimbos and Ballbreakers," which highlights the deconstruction of cultural stereotypes by reclaiming derogatory words and phrases as well as poking fun at and reinventing these stereotypes. 
"[Activists] need to use humor as the great equalizer," Kahlo said. 
Attendees at the event said they enjoyed hearing the group's views on gender issues in the art world. 
"The Guerrilla Girls ener­gized the campus and brought a lot of attention to the issue of feminism based on sex and race," said Astrid Henry, coor­dinator of Women's Studies. 
Others credited the group for discussing cultural and gender stereotypes. 
"The [Guerrilla Girls] did a great job of not only expressing their views, but also addressing some of the [unspoken] issues on our campus alone," said Art Club president Candie Waterloo. 

Contact Ashley Dyer at adyer@nd.edu 
ND theologian publishes book on Jesus 
Special to The Observer are one and the same. The served for many years as pas­the Mexican-American 
very best theology seamlessly tor of San Fernando Cultural Center at Assumption 
"A God of Incredible provides the reader with intel­Cathedral. The Sunday Seminary. Surprises: Jesus of Galilee," by lectual and spiritual profit and Spanish Mass at which he The well-traveled Father University of Notre Dame the­Father Elizondo's book deliv­presided became famous Elizondo speaks seven lan­ologian Rev. Virgilio Elizondo ers admirably on both." throughout Latin America guages and has written 12 has been published by · Father Elizondo, who when more than 1 million books, including "The Future Rowman & Littlefield received Notre Dame's highest households. is Mestizo," "Galilean Publishers, Inc. honor, the Laetare Medal, in Father Elizondo became Journey," and "The Human 
Father Elizondo's book com­1997, has served as a visiting prominent as an advocate for Quest." bines personal stories, theo­professor in the Department of underpaid and exploited His last book, "San logical observations and an Theology and the Institute for Mexican-American laborers in Fernando Cathedral: Soul of analysis of the Gospel narra­Latino Studies since 2000. his archdiocese during the the City," was written with tives. John Cavadini, chair of A native of San Antonio, early 1970s, and as an Timothy Matovina, associate Notre Dame's theology depart­Texas, where his Mexican increasingly self-conscious professor of theology and ment, praises it as "a book immigrant parents owned a Mexican-American community director of Notre Dame's where scholarly and pastoral grocery store, he has spent began to assert itself politically Cushwa Center for the Study insight into the biblical text most of his life 'there and and culturally, he established ofAmerican Catholicism. 
5th annual 
If God is calling you . 
CORBY NIGHT 
Join us. 

Think you nzight have a vocation? Join the Holy Cross 
conununity at Notre Dante for an hour ofprayer, pizza, 
ami infonnal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 23, 8:45pm at Corby Hall. 
...... • v •••• .••• 

·•·.... Holy Cross prk>sts and brothers at Notre Dame. ./ ;::.:;:;:s=~~'.. --.. ~ ..:....,. L=::~->.~-~-:~f ·'··,,, 




www.nd!\~lfJl~~acation
·. -·· ..·.··.·. ·--·''" .··' ' .· __ ...-: ,', ·.·.···. 
· 
··.•.. 
-.. , ~J. ~A._ , ····-···· ....... 
-~......• 
....,,._. -~ .....··· ...· 


Monday,Seprember 22, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Fisher 
continued from page 1 
minutes." 
"Now when other guys stand next to me, they look better. I'm doing them a service. Getting a mullet was kind of like my initiation into the dorm -taking one for the team," said Ramos. 
A number of other Fisher residents made similar sacri­fices for the charity during a feature entitled "Fisher Feats of Strength." 
Fisher sophomore S uj al Pandya, clad in football pads and a helmet, charged passers­by $1 to fling eggs at him. One freshman allowed others to whip him with a wet towel for $1 each. Another resident downed a bottle of syrup to draw attention to the fundrais­ing event. 
"These guys are more or less punishing their bodies just to get people to donate. It's awe­some that they're making that kind of sacrifice for a cause," said Fisher Hall co-president junior Brian Cullen. 
Meanwhile, hall presidents, RAs, rectors and assistant rec­tors also sat on the roof of Legends and collected dona­tions. 
This year, the fundraiser was open to the entire campus and 22 of Notre Dame's 27 dorms shared shifts on the roof. 
At least five people remained on the roof at any given time from Friday at 7:50 p.m. until 9:50p.m. Sunday for a total of 50 hours. 
By Sunday morning, approxi­mately $2,600 had been raised, according to Fisher Hall assistant rector Dominic Angiollo. 
Those on the roof lowered a bucket for donations from stu­dents, parents and Notre Dame and Michigap State fans alike. 

Shooting suspect 
kills himself 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A man 
suspected of shooting and 
wounding a doctor at a hospi­
tal in a Los Angeles suburb 
killed himself Sunday outside 
a fast food restaurant. police 
said. 
Investigators had been look­ing for Eugene Guevara, 73, in connection with Friday's shooting of a doctor at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, police said. Guevara was once a patient there. 
Guevara shot himself in the 
stomach and, after authorities 
arrived, shot himself in the 
head, Officer Don Cox said. He 
was taken to Los Angeles 
County-USC Medical Center, 
where he died. No one else 
was injured. 
The gun recovered outside the restaurant near down­town Los Angeles was the same caliber as the weapon used in the Baldwin Park hos­pital shooting. Police searched Guevara's home Saturday, but did not say if they found evi­dence. 
Police locked down the hos­
pital after Friday's shooting 
and spent hours searching for 
Guevara, who was identified 
by hospital employees from a 
surveillance tape. 

·For every 25 students that 
signed the guestbook, the 
University will donate an addi­
tional $25 to the charity. 
Collected funds will be donat­
ed to the charity in name of 
Chad Sharon, a former Fisher 
Hall resident who died last 
February in a drowning acci­
dent. 
"The guys wanted to do 
something to memorialize 
Chad. The assistant rector 
from last year told me that a 
lot of people didn't have an 
outlet to channel whatever 
feelings they had about Chad's death," said Angiollo. "This was a chance for them to user those feelings they had for something positive. Chad has been kind of a rally cry for the dorm." 
Fisher Hall initiated the fundraiser last year and intends to make the roof sit a signature event, choosing a dif­ferent charity each year, Angiollo said. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


Rescue plane arrives from research station 
Associated Press the United States will not be disclosed to protect his identi-
DENVER-An airplane car-fy, said Peter West of the rying an ailing worker from National Science Foundation. the U.S. research station in The pilot flew the 16-hour the South Pole landed in Chile round trip to the polar station on Sunday on an emergency and back to Rothera. The rescue flight. patient boarded a second 
The twin turboprop Twin Twin Otter for the flight to Otter landed in Punta Arenas Punta Arenas. The plane also in the southern tip of Chile at carried two pilots, an engi­
10:30 p.m. EDT after stopping neer and a physician's assis­at a British base on the coast tant. of Antarctica, said Elaine The 900-mile, five-hour Hood of Raytheon Polar flight across open ocean to Services. Punta Arenas, at the southern 
The plane took off from the tip of Chile, can be anything Amundsen-Scott South Pole but a milk run. Station about 5 a.m. EDT for "The Drake. Passage the British Rothera Air between Chile and Antarctica Station, some 1,350 miles has probably the worst away, said Valerie Carroll of weather in the world," said Raytheon Polar Services. Steve Penikett, manager of 
The Denver-based company Alberta, Canada-based Kenn manages the polar station for Borek Air, which operates the the National Science planes used in the rescue. Foundation. "It's a long ways, and kind of 
The ill employee was to be cold." flown to the United States The rescue flight had been from Chile on a charter. The delayed for days because of employee, whose name is wind and snow during the being withheld at his request, southern hemisphere's spring can walk but may need sur-season. gery. Raytheon has declined to "Definitely the weather at confirm reports he is suffering the bottom of the world is from a bladder infection. very fickle· in the spring," said 
The patient's destination in Carroll. ...,.........,...._,__..:.._,__.......,-----.......,.......------~~==z=:::::::::z:::l 


Monday, September 22, 2003 COJ\1P1LED FROiV\ ~fHE OBSERVER \VlRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Martin leads in Canadian election 
TORONTO -Former Finance Minister Paul Martin took a huge lead Sunday in vot­ing to choose a new leader of the governing Liberal Party, making him almost certain to succeed Jean Chretien as Canada's prime minister next year. 
In unofficial figures supplied by the Liberal Party, Martin had 2,420 delegate votes so far. That approached the more than 2,900 need­ed for a first-ballot victory at the November convention to select a replacement for Chretien, who has announced he will retire in February. 
Under Canada's political system, the head of the majority party in Parliament is prime minister. If Martin gets the Liberal leader­ship as expected, he would become the head of government when Chretien steps down. 
If he gains office, Martin is expected to focus on improving Canadian-U.S. relations strained by personal differences between Chretien and Bush. Canada refused to take part in the Iraq war, and Bush later canceled a May visiL 
Colombian plane crash kills pilot 
BOGOTA, Colombia-A U.S. plane crashed while fumigating cocaine-producing crops in volatile northern Colombia on Sunday, killing the American pilot, the army said. 
The crash in Catatumbo, an area filled with coca crops, appeared to be an accident and not a rebel attack, as officials had believed earlier. 
"Initially, there was talk of the plane being hit, but then those who went to the site said there were no [bullet holes]," Defense Minister Martha Lucia Ramirez told reporters. "We are not sure what caused the accident." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Power loss plagues Isabel victims 
HAMPTON, Va. -Utility crews had restored power Sunday to more than two­thirds of the people who had been without since Hurricane Isabel struck, but isolated price gouging and a general lack of informa­tion were starting to wear down residents in the hardest-hit areas. 
The storm severed electrical service for more than 6 million customers from the Carolinas to New york. By Sunday morning, that figure had been whittled to about 1.8 million. 
President Bush plans to travel to Virginia, on Monday to get a briefing on storm dam­age and recovery efforts. 
At least 31 deaths are blamed on the storm, 17 of them in Virginia. North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland and Delaware were declared federal disaster areas. 
Miss Florida takes pageant crown 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.-Ericka Dunlap, 21, of Orlando, Fla., who has been competing in beauty pageants since she was a child, saw the preparation pay off Saturday when she was crowned Miss America 2004. 
The victory, which won her $50,000 in scholarship aid to go with the $16,000 she won as Miss Florida, will help pay for her to finish college. 
She plans to promote cultural diversity and awareness as she travels the nation as Miss America. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Principal's past worries parents 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Some residents are questioning South Bend Community Schools' decision to hire an interim principal who recently resigned from another district due to alleged sexual misconduct. 
According to an independent investigator, Sweeney admitted to making three "inappro­priate advances" toward a Brandywine dis­trict employee in July 2002. 
Sweeney was hired on Thursday, 38 days after he resigned as superintendent of Brandywine Public Schools in Niles, Mich. 
Leaders gather for Peres' 80th 
Associated Press 

TEL AVIV, Israel -· A 
parade of global figures ­
from Bill Clinton and 
Mikhail Gorbachev to 
actress Kathleen Turner 
-filed into Tel Aviv 
Sunday to celebrate the 
80th birthday of former 
prime minister Shimon 
Peres, the Nobel laureate, 
visionary of peace and oft­
failed political candidate. 
The extraordinary guest 
list reflected global appre­
ciation for Peres' efforts 
toward a "New Middle 
East" -the title of his 
1993 book dismissed by 
many here as utopian ­
and a longing for the days 
before the Israeli­
Palestinian peace process 
collapsed in violence that 
has killed thousands in 
the last three years. 

But Israeli critics saw 
an extravaganza whose 
security costs and general 
disruption suggested an 
oversized ego and some­
what poor form at a time 
when fighting continues 
and the ranks of poor 
Israelis and Palestinians 
are swelling. 

Peres, whose birthday was actually last month, says he only went along with the party idea to bring some cheer to the region. It was organized by both supporters and Nonetheless, he has as acting premier, he ran Netanyahu. In 2000, he the right-wing Likud gov­walked the corridors of for the job five times and lost to a Likud back­ernment whose policies he Israeli power since his never won outright. He bencher, Moshe Katsav, in opposes. 20s, when as a top aide to served two years from a parliamentary vote for 
The tight schedule its founder David Ben­1984 to 1986 after a tied the largely ceremonial included a reception at Gurion he helped build election, using the period post of Israeli president. the "Peres Center for the young nation's defens­to bring down hyperinfla­"Peres turns 80 in the Peace" in Jaffa, a meeting es; in the 1960s, he was tion and withdraw troops feeling that he has not with Prime Minister Ariel instrumental in creating from much of Lebanon -enjoyed the credit he Sharon in Jerusalem and the Dimona nuclear facili­popular moves that still deserves," columnist Dan a gala at a Tel Aviv con­ty where Israel reportedly failed to win him the Margalit wrote in the cert hall -followed by a has amassed a stockpile of hearts of the masses. Maariv newspaper. "The symposium Monday. nuclear weapons. In 1993, as foreign min­thanks of the nation 
"I feel strange," Peres Although in the 1970s ister, he helped push [today] are but a brief said Sunday. "But it hap­Peres was briefly consid­Prime Minister Yitzhak respite." pens once in 80 years, so ered a supporter of the Rabin into interim peace Peres implored Sharon, you can survive." Jewish settler movement, accords on Palestinian seated in the first row at 
Peres emigrated from he soon concluded Israel's autonomy with Yasser Sunday's gala, to make Poland at age 11, but he occupation since 1967 of Ararat's PLO, and the peace, saying "it is closer retains a European accent the West Bank and Gaza three shared the Nobel than you think, and per­and genteel manner that, was not just unfair to the Peace Prize a year later. haps closer than I along with a penchant for millions of Palestinians Peres served another believe." parliamentary maneuver­who live in the areas but a eight months as premier But internationally, few ing, lofty pronouncements disaster for the Jewish after Rabin's 1995 assas­Israelis -or former and electoral defeat, state. He now supports a sination before losing nar­prime ministers of any brought him occasional Palestinian state. rowly and unexpectedly to kind -seem to muster ridicule. After a brief 1977 stint Likud's Benjamin more respect. 


Galileo crash ends 14-year flight 
spacecraft ended its 2.8 billion-mile Europa, the most likely place in the
Associated Press 

journey from Earth. solar system to harbor extraterres­
PASADENA, Calif.-NASA's aging "We haven't lost a spacecraft, trial life. Galileo spacecraft deliberately we've gained a new stepping stone in Among the most stunning of the plunged into Jupiter's turbulent exploration," said Torrence Johnson, 14,000 images returned by Galileo atmosphere Sunday, bringing a fiery the mission's project scientist. were those of the moon Io. Galileo conclusion to a 14-year, $1.5 billion Despite the glitches that plagued caught some of the moon's more exploration of the solar system's Galileo since its 1989 launch aboard than 150 volcanoes actively spewing largest planet and its moons. the space shuttle Atlantis, it was one lava and plumes of dust and gas. 
The unmanned spacecraft, travel­of the National Aeronautics and The last of Galileo's science meas­ing at nearly 108,000 mph, was torn Space Administration's most fruitful urements arrived on Earth after the apart and vaporized by the heat and missions. spacecraft was destroyed Sunday, friction of its fall through the clouds During its thrice-extended mission, taking 43 minutes to cross half a bil­after it dove into the atmosphere at Galileo discovered the first moon of lion miles of space at the speed of 
2:57 p.m. EDT as planned. an asteroid, witnessed the impact of light. 
At NASA's Jet Propulsion a comet into Jupiter and provided "I just can't believe the spacecraft Laboratory, hundreds of scientists, firm evidence of salty oceans on collected data all the way in," said a engineers and their families counted three of the planet's moons. tearful Claudia Alexander, Galileo's down the last seconds before the Scientists consider one of the three, seventh and last project manager. 
Monday,September 22, 2003
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Game 
continued from page 1 

dents to bring marshmallows into the game, when personnel know of the potential for dan­ger, poses a liability issue. In addition to the injuries caused by flying objects, he said he has received a complaint from Paul Borowski, coor­dinator of sideline personnel for NBC, that pro­jectiles have hit an NBC camera on the sideline and could potentially damage the expensive equipment.· 
As a result of the complaints and injuries, Gagnon said that students found carrying marshmallows into the game or in possession of a large quantity of marshmallows in the stands will be ejected and reported to the Office of Residence llie. 
Senior Steve Carroll said an usher reached into his pants without speaking to him or other­wise identifying himself and removed a bag of marshmallows as he waited to enter Notre Dame Stadium before the game Saturday. 
"An usher reached into my shorts, grabbed the marshmallows and grabbed my ticket book ... I just felt his hand in my pocket," Carroll said. 
Gagnon said that ushers are trained to ask stu­dents to see the contents of their pockets, not to reach into students' pockets. 
Carroll, who acknowledged he had conswned alcohol before the game but said he was not intoxicated, said another usher told him there is a standing policy of confiscating the ticket books of students who have marshmallows. Carroll said he had never previously heard of this policy. 
Gagnon dismissed the idea that students are unaware of the rules. 
"Show me a student who think it's OK to carry marshmallows into the Stadium and I will ask them why they strapped the bag of marshmal­lows onto their thighs," Gagnon said. 
Gagnon said, however, that he believed the students might not have realized they would be ejected if found with a large quantity of marsh­mallows. 
During halftime Saturday, a group of three Notre Dame Security Police officers stood at the entrance of Section 29, looking for seniors throwing marshmallows. When they ejected sev­eral students from Section 30, the student crowd booed and threw marshmallows at the officers. 
Gagnon said that stadium personnel are only targeting the "ring leaders" -students who have a large quantity of marshmallows -and that no student has been ejected just for throw­ing one marshmallow. He said that confiscated ticket books would be returned to students after they met with officials in ResUfe, but Gagnon said those officials have not told him "squat about punishment for ejected students." 
Gagnon said that throwing objects during half time is also offensive to the band. 
"It is a major insult to the band. They turn to salute the sidelines and the seniors, the leaders of the student body, aren't listening to the band. They are insulting the band," Gagnon said. 
Gagnon said he might support a different prank if it did not have the potential to injure others. He said a marshmallow fight would be more appropriate outside of the Stadium. 
"If students want to have a marshmallow fight on the quad, I'll sign a petition to endorse it, but what a lot of people see as a tradition now, it causes harm," Gagnon said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Guard 

continued from page 1 
This isn't the first time the Irish Guard has run into trouble in recent years. Last year, they were suspended after television cam­eras caught them sleeping during the Notre Dame-Stanford game. The images were subsequently dis­played on SportsCenter. 
Anneliese Woolford contributed to this report. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
said. "For instance, the majority equally as important for the spectrum, .Obasanjo said, is to of African countries have cho­global community to see and involve it economically in the sen the democratic institution. accept the work that he and global market. He spoke of pro­... In the last three months, we other African leaders have set grams implemented by his gov­have firmly said no to military out to do. ernment "to bring our economy institutions ... in Liberia and "So far, we have been heart­out of the woods," and asked Guinea-Bissau. ... Various ened by the response of the rest that his audience, the University African countries have of the world," he said. and the United States invest in embarked on ... policies that Nigeria, which gained inde­the Nigerian economy and will generally raise the standard pendence from Great Britain in encourage other international of life." 1960, but endured years of interests to do so. 
The union of leaders from short-lived democracies, politi­All of Africa pays attention to across Africa has been key to cal coups d'etat and military his country's actions, and medi­the continent's success thus far, rule, instituted its most recent ating the continent's conflicts he said. regime with the democratic has become a major part of 
"We plan to turn the continent election of Obasanjo in May of Nigeria's role as the most popu­around by positioning Africa ... 1999 and then again four years lous nation in Africa, Obasanjo in the global world," he said. later. said. "We believe that rather than "When we look back at what "Firstly, try to keep Africa on spending too much time on the we have been through as a peo­the discussion table," he said. Book of Lamentations, we ple ... we can say, in the words "Do not write us off or put our would do well to rather move on of St. Paul, 'We have proved to success stories in the back­to the Book of Revelation. We be more than conquerors,"' he ground. Try to take us seriously. conceded that it was imperative said. "Despite our pain and suf­... Join us in advocating for debt for Africa to strive in a shared fering, the continent has been relief in African countries." vision ... to rescue our continent known as a continent of joy and from the edge of oblivion." life." 
While its leaders work from The best way to pull Nigeria Contact Meghan Martin at the inside, Obasanjo said, it is firmly into the international mmartin@nd.edu 
• Why spend the winter months in South • • Bend when you could be studying in... • 
• Berlin Athens Puebla • 
• Brazil Santiago • 
• Cairo Shanghai •
•8 Monterrey Tokyo ••
• ~~ •
,.·· :·:-·... 
• ~pplication deadline for Spring '().4 is 8 • Oct. 1, 2003 8 
· *Tokyo application deadline September 26th '· 
• No foreign language requirements for Athens, • 
• Cairo or Tokyo • 
·······-···-·-­
Visit International studdy Programs •.:.:. 152 Hur1ey 8ui1 ing • A lications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud • 
·t*
•••••••••••••••••• )' 

Nigeria 
continued from page 1 
tion. 

This week's conference, which has brought together scholars, relief workers, students and religious groups from all over the world, is a step toward achieving that goal, he said. 
"These are difficult days for Africa," he said. "Thus, whenev­er an opportunity like this pres­ents itself ... we try not to let it slip through our fingers. We wholeheartedly support the efforts of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the University of Notre Dame ... and all the people who have made this conference happen. ... It marks the historic moment of the Catholic Church in the United States working together with its counterparts in Nigeria." 
The document of the same 
name issued in 1999 by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops sparked the idea for this week's conference, Obasanjo said, and referred directly to the issue of slavery and its role in building the United States. He quoted the document's claim that "the United States has a clear moral duty" on the matter and took the bishops' claim a step fur­ther. 
"While the evil institution of slavery ... played a significant role in the development of the United States, it played a signifi­cant role in the undevelopment of the continent of Africa -thus making the United States' obli­gation a double one," he said. 
While he held the United States partially responsible for the current situation in Africa, Obasanjo said that the conti­nent's leaders have become par­ticularly invested in reshaping Africa from the inside out. 
"We are determined to be the actors of our own fortune," he 
Africa 
continued from page 1 

ical and educational crises that afflict Africa today. 
"Our fear is that Africa's hopes could be destroyed by indifference and inaction in African and around the world," the document said. 
In a response to the bishops' request that the needs of Africa not be ignored, this week's confer­ence, which began Sunday with a keynote address by Nigerian presi­dent Olusegun Obasanjo, and will continue through Wednesday, will focus on creating a greater under­standing between Americans and Africans, which coordinators say they hope will foster a tangible response to the call for solidarity. 
''The idea came to us when we got knowledge of the bishop's con­ference on Africa," said Father Paulinus Odozor, a Notre Dame theology professor and one of the event's coordinators. "We thought we should not let this document die ... We then decided to give life to this document, as a way of keeping the concerns of Africa alive on the table." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 

528 !E. Colfax 9lve., Suite #l Soutli '.Bend, •J'l'f46617 574/23.7.-182.2 
~12 W. C(eveland1tcf. -§ranger, fJrN46530 574/277-·6693 
AContempomrg \Vomf'll's RouHquc~ SJJCCIJizmg in Designer Oothes anJ Gifts 

-. --........ 
THE OBSERVER 
Monday, September 22, 2003 
Page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 9 644 82 
-14.31
Jones ' • 
Composite Vohone:



t;,. 

1,452,174,976 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.56 +0.46 29.96 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +7.61 +0.14 1.98 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.94 -0.24 12.12 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.03 +0.01 29.17 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.68 -0.07 4.10 
IN BRIEF 
Steel tariffs benign to business 
WASHINGTON -A federal trade panel 
released findings Friday showing steep tariffs 
on imported steel have not drastically hurt 
small steel-consuming businesses, easing a 
potential political problem for President 
Bush's re-election strategy. 
While "overall employment of steel-consum­
ing industries generally fell or remained flat" 
in the year after the tariffs were enacted, "in 
many cases, employment fell by a greater 
amount [and percentage] in the year before 
the safeguard measures were implemented 
than in the first year after they were imple­
mented," stated the U.S. International Trade 
Commission review released Friday night. 
Bush imposed the tariffs, from 8 percent to 30 percent, on certain kinds of foreign-made steel in March 2002 to give the domestic industry a three-year respite from foreign competition to regroup and consolidate. At least 35 steel producers have declared bank­ruptcy since 1998, eliminating more than 50,000 jobs. 
Gates gives largest malaria grant 
MANHICA, Mozambique -Touring a malaria clinic where they sat on reed mats while coddling babies, Bill and Melinda Gates announced a $168 million grant Sunday to accelerate research into malaria, a disease that kills over a million people each year, most of them young African children. 
The grant, by the world's richest man and his wife, is the largest ever single donation towards fighting the mosquito-borne disease. Malaria is making a deadly comeback in Africa, the world's poorest continent, as strains of the disease become increasingly resistant to treatment. 
Funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is for three research grants, with $100 million to go towards finding a vaccine, $28 million to use existing drugs to cut down the number of infections in babies and $40 million for the development of new medicines to combat drug-resistant strains. 
New impotency drug leads market 
NEW YORK -A new market entrant, Levitra, has captured half the new prescrip­tions written for impotency since its launch earlier this month, thanks in part to a mar­keting blitz with a more "racy" take on sexual performance. 
Analysts said Levitra's early success doesn't necessarily portend a major threat to Viagra's market dominance. But it signals a shift in some of the marketing of both drugs as capa­ble of improving people's lifestyle, and not just correcting a sobering medical condition. 
"The ads have much more of a consumer approach," said Winton Gibbons, an analyst for William Blair & Co. "The drugs are being treated like other consumer products in ads." 
Pfizer Inc. , which makes Viagra, and GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer Corp., which are co-marketing Levitra, insist the ads are designed to encourage men with erectile dys­function to see a doctor, and not to promote recreational use. Experts say about 30 million men over 40 have erectile dysfunction. 
Reed named NYSE chairman· 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The New 
York Stock Exchange 
chose former Citigroup 
chairman and CEO JohnS. 
Reed as its interim leader 
Sunday for a salary of $1, 
less than a week after its 
previous chairman was 
forced to step down amid 
outrage about his compen­
sation. 

Reed, 64, who left Citi in 2000 after losing a power struggle with then co­chairman Sanford I. Weill, will temporarily replace Dick Grasso, exchange offi­cials announced at a hasti­ly called news conference. 
In a phone conference from France, where he was vacationing, Reed said there had been some fail­ures in corporate gover­nance at the exchange and he would make the issue a priority. 
"I have seen crises quite comparable to what the· NYSE has gone through ... and clearly it did not help anyone," Reed said. 
He declined to comment on Grasso or the circum­stances of Grasso's depar­ture but said he realized the gravity of the situation. Grasso's pay package of $187.5 million was consid­ered excessive by many on and off Wall Street. 
Reed, who said he will NYSE Board to ensure the there could be big changes retiring in April 2000. He be paid $1 for his work, highest standards of gov­ahead. had been named CEO of will start at the exchange ernance." The exchange is expect-Citicorp in 1984, and has as interim chairman on Reed's appointment is ed to release a corporate been credited with build­Sept. 30, but he said he the latest effort by the governance plan on Oct. 2 ing Citicorp into a corpo­plans to start talking to NYSE to restore its image that will, among other rate powerhouse through other NYSE executives following the debacle with things, address compensa-· the 1990s, developing its Monday morning. Grasso, which many said tion for future CEOs and technology infrastructure, 
He said that he hopes to represented a failure of potential changes in the slashing staff and selling have a permanent NYSF corporate governance at board's structure and the off unprofitable assets. head in "months, and not the institution. ownership of the Reed has only been years," and that he is not a The board has come exchange. inside the NYSE once, and candidate for the perma­under fire for approving Reed said improving the has never sat on an NYSE nent job. A search commit­Grasso's pay package and exchange's governance committee a fact tee led by Laurence Fink, under pressure from fed­was a priority, but offered observers said was key CEO of investment group eral regulators to revamp few specifics. He said because of the pressure on Black Rock Inc., will look its practices. Half its seats smaller boards of directors the exchange to clean for a permanent replace­are held by top executives of 10 to 12 people were house. ment for Grasso. of investment banks and generally easier to work Since his retirement, 
Securities and Exchange brokerage firms -the with, but did not indicate Reed said he has been Commission Chairman very businesses the NYSE whether he would seek to teaching and writing. He William Donaldson is supposed to monitor and trim the 27 -seat NYSE ·said he is stepping down released a statement in regulate for fraud. The board. as lead director of the which he praised Reed for Securities and Exchange Reed worked at Citi, one board of Altria Group, the his "impeccable creden­Commission, which over­of the world's largest parent company of tobacco tials ... which will be cru­sees the NYSE's regulatory investment banks, for giant Philip Morris, cial as he works with the functions, has suggested more than 35 years before because of his new job. 
Crucial IN auto plant might close 
Franklin. near automobile companies that buy
Associated Press 

"It's going to be devastating to the the parts and systems. 
FRANKLIN, Ind. -The possible community and all the businesses in Several weeks ago, company rep­closure of an ArvinMeritor automo­town," he said Saturday. resentatives met with the union to bile parts plant is sending shock News of the possible closing say they would eliminate several waves through this central Indiana emerged Thursday when company parts of the plant and only 20 to 50 city, where the company is the representatives met with the United jobs, said Harry Alfrey, the union's largest employer. Brotherhood of Carpenters and business representative. 
ArvinMeritor, which employs 800 Joiners of America Local 2993 to tell Alfrey hopes some employees people in Franklin, will decide by them of the preliminary decision. would get transfers to other Wednesday whether to close the The news came as a surprise to ArvinMeritor plants. 
plant, which makes automobile air local officials because the plant "We're all basically in the dark," and emissions products, said compa­recently had undergone extensive he said. "We're waiting on the phone ny spokeswoman Colleen Hanley. renovations. call at this point." 
Losing the 68-year-old Franklin A union representative said he The possible closing points to plant would be a tremendous blow to thought the company wanted to cut Johnson County's need for a more the city, said Tom Thompson, vice costs. diverse job base, said Chris Kinnett, president and general manager of Hanley said the company wanted executive director of the Johnson Fletcher Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep in to keep its manufacturing plants County Development Corp. 

page 8 Monday, September 22, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

CALL TO 
SEPTEMBER 21 -24


SOLIDARITY WITH
.. AMERICANS AND .AFRICANS IN DIALOGUE ABOUT AFRicA's PROMISE, NEEDS, AND IMAGE 
MONDAY,SEPTEMBER 22 
FOR A COMPLETE SCHEDULE: WWW.ND.EDU/ ..... ICL 
8:3o-1o:oo am Theology and the Project of Re-imagining Africa McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Moderator: Prof. Maura Ryan (Vice President and Associate Provost, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) _ 
Sr. Teresa Okure, SHCJ (Professor of Scripture, Catholic Institute of West Africa) 
Solidarity among Christians: Lessons from the New Testament · 
Fr. E. Elochukwu Uzukwu, CSSp (Professor of Theology, KMI Dublin and Catholic Institute, Paris, France) 
African Theology and the Project ofRe-imaging Africa 
Respondent: Prof. John Cavadini (University of Notre Dame) 
10:30 am-12:30 pm American and African Scholarship and "the Call to Solidarity with Africa" Auditorium 
Moderator: Rev. Paul Kollman, esc (Assistant Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) 
Rev. Cyprian Davis, OSB (St. Meinrad School of Theology) 
American and African Scholarship and the Call to Solidarity with Africa. 
Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom (University of Notre Dame) 
The Church on the Frontlines ofWar and Peace 
Rev. Michael Schultheis, SJ (Catholic University of Ghana) 
Catholic Higher Education in Africa: the Promise and the Project 
Respondent: Prof. Emily Osborn (University of Notre Dame) 

Informal Breakout Sessions on Topics of Interest (optional) 
U.S. Faith Based Organizations: Public Advocacy for Africa Auditorium Facilitator: Mr. John Carr (Secretary, Department of Social D~velopment and World Peace, USCCB) 
Role of Civil Society in Africa Rooms 100-104 Facilitator: Mr. lan Gary (Strategic Policy Adviser, Catholic Relief Services) 
Food for Life: Confronting the Agricultural Crisis in Africa Room 202 Facilitator: Mr. Ray Almeida (Policy Adviser, Bread for The World) 
3:oo-s:oo pm The Church at the Service of Africa Auditorium 
Moderator: Rev. Mark Poorman, esc (Vice President, Student Affairs, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame) 
Most Reverend Laurent Monsengwo-Pasinya (Archbishop of Kisangani, Democratic Republic of Congo/President of SECAM) 
Church at the Service ofHumanity 
Most Reverend John Onaiyekan (Archbishop of Abuja/President of the Nigerian Episcopal Conference) 
Imaging and Re-lmaging Africa: the Role ofthe Church 
Most Reverend Joseph N. Perry (Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago) 
The American Church in Solidarity with the African Churches 
Respondent: Mary Motte, FMM (Missiologist) 
s:ts pm ·Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Presider and homilist: Most Reverend Wilton D. Gregory (Bishop, Diocese of Belleville/President, USCCB) 
6:15pm Dinner (limited seats available) Lower Level Mr. Andrew Natsios (Administrator, US Agency for International Development) The Role ofFaith Based Organizations in Africa's Development 
8:00-9:30 pm Religion and Political Participation: Roots of Conflict in Africa Auditorium 
Moderator: Prof. Mark Roche (Dean, College of Arts and letters, University of Notre Dame) 
Most Reverend John Baptist Odama (Archbishop of Gulu, Uganda/President, Acholi Religious Leaders Peace Initiative) 
The Story ofthe Lord's Resistance Army in Northern Uganda 
Prof. Francis Deng (Brookings Institution, Washington, DC) 
Religious Roots ofConflict: The Case ofSudan 
Rev. Mathew Hassan Kukah (Harvard University) 
Politics and Participation: An Overview ofthe Situation in Africa 
Respondent: Rev. Michael Perry, OFM (Office of International justice and Peace, USCCB) 
9:30pm Reception Atrium 
HIGHLIGHTS oF TOMORROW'S SCHEDULE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 8:30 a.m.-1o:oo a.m. 
Agenda for a New Africa 
10:30 a.m.-12:15 p.m.
REGISTER ONLINE AT: 
Solidarity with Africa: The Question of Health Care 
12:15 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
WWW.ND.EDU/ ~ ICL lunch with Prof. Lamin Sanneh, Yale University 
1:30 p.m.-3:00 p.m. 
EMAIL: ICL@ND.EDU International Business and the Renewal of Africa 
3:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. 
International Finance/Economics and International Trade 
5:15p.m.
REGISTRATION IS FREE FOR 
Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Presider: Most Reverend john M. D'Arcy, Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend
ND STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF. 
Homilist: His Eminence Theodore Cardinal McCarrick, Archbishop, Diocese of Wash. DC 8:oo p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
The Future of U.S. Foreign Policy Assistance and Africa's New Agenda 
.., 
Monday,September 22, 2003 page 9
The Observer + NEWS 
Bishop resignations sought in N.H. 
Helicopter crashes 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.H. -More than 100 protesters outside St. Joseph's Cathedral on Sunday called on fellow Roman Catholics to oust two New Hampshire bish­ops for their roles in the priest sex scandal. 
Victims of pedophile priests and groups seeking change with­in the church rallied outside Bishop John McCormack's parish church for two hours before and during a morning Mass. 
Jim Sacco, 48, of Amherst, who received a cash settlement from the church for his abuse claims against convicted former priest John Geoghan, called clergy sex­ual abuse "domestic terrorism against children." Geoghan was killed by another inmate in a Massachusetts prison last month. 
"I am a victim of John Geoghan. I am also a victim of his supervisors, the bishops and car­dinals, the Vatican, and every man and woman who conspired to cover up sexual abuse against children," Sacco said. 
McCormack has been accused in civil lawsuits of helping move abusive priests from parish to Both bishops have said they have parish while serving as a top aide no intention of resigning. to Cardinal Bernard Law in the McCormack was out of the 
near Grand Canyon
Archdiocese of Boston. Law state Sunday, but a spokesman stepped down last December, for the Diocese of Manchester 
Associated Press amid similar accusations. watched the protest from the 
Auxiliary Bishop Francis 
"! am a victim ofJohn
Christian has 
Geoghan. I am also a
been accused of lying about victim ofhis supervisors, previous sex­
the bishops and cardinals,
ual miscon­
the Vatican, and every man
duct by the Rev. Roger and woman who conspired Fortier to cor­
to cover up sexual abuse 
rections offi­
against children. " 
cials conduct­ing a presen­tencing inves­Jim Sacco tigation after 
victim 

Fortier was convicted. While the 
nearby 
PHOENIX-Recovery crews 
church gar­
hiked into the Grand Canyon on 
den. 

Sunday to reach the remains of 
"Bishop 
a tour helicopter that crashed 
McCormack 
with seven people aboard,
has worked 
including at least four interna­
personally 
tional tourists. Authorities said 
with victims 
there were no survivors. · 

and we have 
The helicopter went down 
resolved 
Saturday afternoon in the west­
over 200 
ern reaches of the Grand 
requests for 
Canyon. It was flying tourists to 
settlements 
a helipad along the Colorado 
with vic­
River, where they were to board 
tims," 
a pontoon boat, said Jim 
Patrick 
Granquist, CEO of Las Vegas­
McGee said. 
based Sundance Helicopters
At least 
Inc., which operated the air­
one parish­
craft. 

groups have held protests outside St. Joseph's before, this was the largest to date, drawing victims from as far away as Kentucky  ioner said there is a better way to deal with McCormack. · "The first thing they have to do is forgive him. Then they have to  The helicopter burst into flames upon impact, according to the Mohave County Sheriff's Office.  
and Colorado. The protesters have said they will continue their efforts until McCormack and Christian resign.  start praying the rosary," said Jim McGowan, 60. "He's a con­stant reminder that even the high and mighty can fall."  The French-made Aerospa­tiale helicopter had taken off from the Grand Canyon West Airport, near Peach Springs,  
Ariz., with the pilot and six pas­ 


sengers aboard, FAA officials said. Passengers flew by plane from Las Vegas to board the helicopter. 
Two of the passengers were Japanese citizens and at least two others were German tourists, said Carlos Rooks, a spokesman for the sheriff's office. He said the pilot was also Japanese. According to the Japanese consulate in Los Angeles, the pilot was a Japanese citizen who was a
RECOMMENDS 
permanent legal resident of the United States. Neither authorities nor"Some olthe best literature you haven't been Granquist would release identi­
ties of the victims pending fami­
reading ... And it's fantastic. All of it.II 
ly notification. 

Rooks said recovery crews 
had to hike to the crash site 
Sunday because the terrain was 
only accessible by foot. The 
National Transportation Safety 
Board and FAA were among the 
agencies investigating. 

Three NTSB investigators were to fly over the crash site Sunday and begin hiking to the scene Monday morning, said Terry Williams, an NTSB spokesman. 
Williams had no information 
on Sunday as to the cause of 
the crash or any information 
about any previous incidents 
involving the helicopter. 

Granquist said that to his knowledge the helicopter had no record of mechanical prob­lems. He said it was the first fatal accident involving a Sundance helicopter. 
"It takes a chunk out of your heart," Granquist said. 
The tour is offered in a sec­tion of the Grand Canyon where the Hualapai Indian Reser­vation is located. 
The accident was the second deadliest canyon tour crash since 1995, when a plane went down while trying to return to Grand Canyon Airport, killing eight people. 
It followed by two years an August 2001 crash in the same general area of a sightseeing helicopter owned by Papillon Airways and Papillon Grand Canyon Helicopters. Six people aboard that helicopter were killed. A federal report said it didn't appear the helicopter suffered mechanical failure before it slammed into steep cliffs. 
-SI. Pelersburg Times 
HBO leads Emmy Awards nominations 
'The Sopranos' looks to win best drama 
II••• the sights, sounds, and smells of 
Associated Press 

our latest war with unparalleled LOS ANGELES "The Sopranos" took aim at its firstvividness and immediacy.II best drama trophy at Sunday's 
Emmy Awards, competing with other top nominees "Six Feet Under" and "The West Wing." HBO's mob drama, which received 13 nominations for the 
55th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards, 

had the chance "J woke up at I I :Jo. PBS earned 16 II••.this is adeeply entertaining to become the went and got some black nominations. only cable The awards are
socks -it only takes me
masterwork that will hold readers series ever given by the 
named best 20 minutes to get Academy of
captive until the final page." drama. Stars walked
-Publisher's Weekly down the red carpet outside the Shrine Auditorium in sweltering heat as fans fanned themselves. 
Among the celebrities were two of the 135 candidates in California's recall race for gover­nor, actor Gary Coleman and adult film star Mary Carey, who wore a powder blue satin halter dress. 
"I woke up at 11:30, went and got some black socks -it only takes me 20 minutes to get ready," said Coleman. 
The funeral home drama "Six Feet Under," another HBO series, was the top nominee with 16 bids, followed by NBC's "The West Wing" with 15 nomina­tions. 

The top comedy nominees, with 13 bids each, were CBS' "Everybody Loves Raymond"and HBO's "Sex and the City." 
HRO led the nominations with its highest-ever total, 109. NBC was second with 77, followed by CBS with 59, Fox with 37 and ABC with 33. 
ready." Television Arts & Sciences. , The second
Gary Coleman 
Bob Hope 
actor 
Humanitarian 
Award was to 
be presented to 
Bill Cosby. Oprah Winfrey was the inaugu­ral recipient last year. 
Winners in creative arts cate­gories were announced at a Sept. 13 ceremony, including one award for "Six Feet Under" and one each for "Everybody Loves Raymond" and "Sex and the City." 
Among networks, NBC received a leading 11 creative arts awards, followed by HBO with 10, CBS with nine, ABC with eight and Fox and PBS with seven each. 
Monday, September 22, 2003 
page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Monday,September22, 2003 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 

We"ve added over 250.,000 l>.l""and new scholarships·· and revamped our entire site to give you more•·accurat;e. search·results! 

Chec;:k·· ·Out· Observer•s Scholarship Channel at: 
www.ndsmcob$erver.comJ$cholarships 



.,•.:.... .... · ·..·:.: .. ·•······.· . ...b=...
......•. ·g·· . ..·
·-:' _.-._·:-·-:--:_.·.·' -:-:.::-: .. :-·-.. :-·: :-:.-:.: : ·-:-.._.:: :-. ·. .. -. ', . ,• .::=.·.. ·..·. < _.· ·-.·-:_ .·..-:--.·· -_ ·.. '·:.. . 
..

.-: <··········••·.' __ :e· ... < ..•., ··········e..·rv.·.··..··e·.· 1=::.. . 
··......-v~.<.t<.. _--.).. ··•··· ..··.······..· · •• •S· ...· .. ·· .........
= _-_ . __ ---___ -----­

in your lnbox 
Register now on our website and automatically receive an Email Edition oUhe paper with every new Issue. 
Headline News • College Sports .. Campus Calendar Local Weather ·.Daily Horoscope 
It's the bestway.to·stayinformed... and it's.free. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Recall candidates see sprint to the finish 
New poll shows Gov. Davis gaining 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -With a federal judicial panel likely to reinstate the Oct. 7 date for the California recall election, Gov. Gray Davis and the candidates vying to succeed him are preparing for a final two-week campaign push. 
A new poll showed the race tightening in Davis' favor. An 11-judge panel of the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals will hear arguments Monday on whether to uphold a ruling by a smaller panel last week that the election must be postponed until six counties still using punch card ballots can upgrade 
. to more reliable voting machines. 
The judges chosen for the new panel are said to be more conservative than the three who made the original ruling. Observers say the new panel will likely reverse the earlier ruling. 
"As they say at the racetrack, we're going into the clubhouse turn," said Jack Pitney, profes­sor of government at Claremont-McKenna College. 
The best known Republican in the race, Arnold Schwarzenegger, was preparing to step into the spotlight for his first.and -chances are -his only debate of the campaign Wednesday. 
Schwarzenegger, who has called Wednesday's forum "the Super Bowl of debates," is preparing extensively for it, aides said. 
"He meets regularly with his team of policy advisers and experts, and now the focus is on the debate," campaign spokesman Todd Harris said. 
Davis enters the week buoyed by new poll numbers showing he is gaining momentum. A statewide poll by the Public Policy Institute of California released Sunday showed just 53 percent of likely voters want to oust Davis, down from 58 per­cent last month. Forty-two per­cent said they would vote to keep him in office. 
The poll mirrored two other 
statewide polls released this 
month which showed that, 
while a majority of voters want­
ed to recall Davis, the margin 
has tightened. 

The same poll also showed 
Schwarzenegger virtually tied 
with Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, 
the only Democrat in the race 
among candidates vying to 
replace Davis if he is recalled. 
The poll found 28 percent sup­
port for Bustamante and 26 
percent for Schwarzenegger, 
with 14 percent saying they 
support Republican state Sen. 
Tom McClintock. 

The findings fueled new spec­
ulation about whether 
McClintock will get out of the 
race in order not to split the 
Republican vote and hand the 
election to Bustamante. 
McClintock has said repeatedly 
he does not plan to leave the 
race. 

Pitney said the debate will give Schwarzenegger his best chance to win over conservative voters, who are the core of McClintock's support. 
"The debate is an opportunity for Schwarzenegger to close the sale with a lot of Republicans and conservatives, or an oppor­tunity for other candidates to stop him cold," Pitney said. 
Davis, who will not partici­pate in the debate, planned to campaign this week with Washington Gov. Gary Locke and Sen, Joe Lieberman, a Democratic presidential candi­date. Lieberman will also cam­paign with Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, who is his California campaign chairman. 
"We are going to stay focused on the strategy that gotten us through this entire surreal process," said Davis campaign spokesman Peter Ragone. "The governor is going to talk can­didly with voters at town hall meetings, and will be joined by Democratic party leaders to point out that this is a power grab by Republicans and is fun­damentally unfair." 
Hometown residents honor Ind. governor 
CORYDON, Ind.-The late Gov. Frank O'Bannon was honored Sunday in the town square where he first announced he was running for governor in a tribute with hand-clapping gospel music, bells ringing from the state's first capitol and the sharing of childhood sto­ries. 
"Frank O'Bannon has finally returned to his boyhood home," said Tom New, O'Bannon's chief of staff, speaking to residents in the late governor's hometown of Corydon who had gathered for an event billed as a celebration of O'Bannon's life. 
O'Bannon was stolen "from you 15 years ago for our own selfish purposes, for this is the place Frank O'Bannon truly loved, the place from which he drew strength," New said. 
The late governor died at age 73 on Sept. 13, five days after suffer­ing a stroke in Oticago. O'Bannon's body has been cremated and his ashes will be buried at a later date in a private ceremony at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Corydon. 
About 1,000 people sat in white chairs in the middle of the town square in Corydon, and hundreds others stood or sat on lawn chairs to watch the service. The office of The Corydon Democrat, owned by O'Bannon's family, is on the square along with the Corydon United Methodist Church where he sang in the choir. 
O'Bannon owned a large log cabin on the outskirts of town, and frequently returned to southern Indiana as governor to attend church and visit friends. He and his wife, Judy, planned to retire there. 
There were tears and the crowd was solemn as bells were rung from the first state capitol -built in 1816 -and churches in the square. 
There also was laughter and joy­ous singing, during gospel hymns sung by the Wesley United Methodist Chancel Choir from Jeffersonville, the playing of the Indiana University fight song and John Mellencamp's 


THE OBSERVER 
l'h~t~N~~~~<cwl~~~ 
P.O. BoxQ. Noae Dall'l(, IN 46556 024 Soulh Dining Hall. Nott~ 
Dame, IN 46556 
EDIToR fN CHIEF Andrew Soukup MANAGING EDITOR Scott Brodfuehrer LOri Lewa!Ski 
AssT. MANAGING .EDITOR 
She1la Flynn NEWS ED1IDR: Meghanne Downes VIEWPOIN'I' Eorrott: Teresa Fralish SPO!tl'S Emroa: Joe Hettler 







General disarray 
For the last several weeks, there has been a buzz surrounding the nine par­ticipants in the Democratic presiden­tial primary. Unfortunately, it had nothing to do with any of them, but rather with a 
new entrant: Mike Marchand retired Army 
General Wesley Clark, who offi-Undistinguishedcially announced his candidacy Alumnus 
last week. 

You can't blame people for not paying too much attention to the other presidential hopefuls. Comedian Dennis Miller quipped that he hasn't seen a group of nine so awful since the 1962 New York Mets. (For those of you who aren't baseball fans, the 1962 Mets are con­sidered the worst team in modern baseball history, but they'll only hold that designation for about another week or so until this year's Detroit Tigers unseat them. So take heart, Democrats; it could be worse.) 
So when someone -anyone ­comes along who looks good, he's immediately exalted to hero status. And what better entrance for a former general? Indeed, Clark's resume is impressive: top of his class at West Point, Rhodes scholar, decorated Vietnam veteran, NATO general and commander of the military operation in Kosovo. 
However, surprisingly few people have stopped to consider whether or not any of that will translate into suc­cess as president. Military command­ers, of course, have had a long history of entering politics, but none since Dwight Eisenhower a half-century ago. And Ike was a popular hero who was in charge of the largest interna­tional force in history as European Supreme Allied Commander; General Clark held essentially the same title, but can only claim a fraction of that fame and glory. It's also worth noting that he picked the wrong party: since 1848, successful generals who won the Presidency have always been Republicans (or Whigs); whereas mili­tary candidates who've run under the Democratic flag have been losers like deposed Civil War General George McClellan. 
Which is about where we come in with General Clark. Earlier this year, he was a military pundit for CNN who frequently commented on how disas­trously the war plan in Iraq was unfolding. Granted, he's entitled to his opinion, but his own strategies in the Kosovo campaign were just as flawed, if not more. Clark was convinced that aerial attacks alone would do the trick. After several months of error­prone bombing, he requested ground­troop reinforcements, but his miscal­culation and his confrontational bully­ing attitude led to a forced early retirement. 
Kosovo is a microcosm for the Clinton Administration's foreign policy, the last of all the humanitarian mis­sions the U.S. armed services engaged in while the threat posed by al-Qaida was flying in underneath everyone's radar. For what it's worth, General Clark would not have fought the war in Afghanistan, preferring to "[help] the United Nations create an International Criminal Tribunal on International Terrorism." Again, he's entitled to his opinion, but taking up arms against Slobodan Milosevic but not Osama bin Laden is, at best, a ter­rible case of misplaced priorities. 
And speaking of misplaced priori­ties, what exactly benefits Democrats by Clark's entry is somewhat befud­dling. With a sour economy, one would think the Democrats' game plan would be like that of the last Arkansas native and Rhodes scholar to defeat a Bush, when Bill Clinton played the what­have-you-done-for-us-lately card to neutralize George H.W. Bush's Gulf War victory and topple him in 1992. However, the whole purpose of nomi­nating someone like Clark, the inter­nationalist general, is to be a foreign policy foil for George W. Bush, who Democrats see as a unilateralist "chicken hawk." 
But if the Democrats intend to defeat Dubya. by criticizing the war in Iraq, it would be nice if their military candi­date had a coherent position. Clark told the New York Times last Thursday that he would have voted for the Congressional resolution that author­ized invasion, then immediately took it back the next day before delivering a speech at the University of Iowa: "Let's make one thing real clear, I would never have voted for this war." 
So, in the end, there's really only one discernible reason why Clark is gaining support: he's a general and looks the part. Left-wing internet blogger Scoobie Davis thinks Clark can "kick George W. Bush's illegitimate a--." But despite the buzz, he doesn't make a whole lot of sense as the Democratic nominee. He has one clear advantage over President Bush and can't really capitalize on anything else. In fact, many cynical conserva­tives think Clark's mission is simply to weaken Howard Dean's candidacy enough so that Hillary Clinton can jump in and steal the nomination. Thankfully, I'm not burdened by such paranoia. 
It is telling, though, how lukewarm the "1962 Mets" Democratic roster is when a pinch-hitter like General Clark suits up and grabs a bat. He's not quite ready to swing yet, though; my prediction is that he'll wind up being the vice presidential nominee for who­ever does win the nomination. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, would like to give props to eagle-eyed readers who spotted an error. in his last column (and rightly hammered him for it), and also to everyone at The Observer who got face time on ESPN. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at Marchand.3@alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Graphics Teresa Fralish Mike Harkins 
Meghanne Sports Downes Joe Hettler Amanda Justin Schuver 
Michaels 
Mark Zavodnyick 
Viewpoint Dolores Diaz Illustrator Pat Quill 


OBSERVER POLL 

Are you in favor of a smoke-free campus, including outside buildings and on the quads? Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Human rights is the soul of our foreign policy, because human rights is the very soul ofour sense ofnationhood. ,, 
Jimmy Carter 
U.S. President 
-:.;..._;--~ 
--~----~ 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Criticism undermines Notre Dame community 
Students exercise poor judgment in ridicule ofquarterback 
I attended the game on Saturday against Michigan State and am writing to express my disappointment in certain members of the Notre Dame student body. Before the game, I noticed some students walking around wearing T-shirts denigrating Carlyle Holiday. 
I find the actions of those students to be simply deplorable and completely devoid of common decency. At best, it is an action of extremely poor judgment. At worst, it is a sad reflection on the Notre Dame student body and community as a whole. 
I grew up a Notre Dame fan and was fortunate enough to graduate from the University. My freshman year was the last year of Gerry Faust and my senior year was the National Championship season. So I have seen both good and bad. I've never seen, how­ever, members of the student body single out one of their own for ridicule. 
To those students who think these shirts are cute or funny, I ask them how they would feel if they sat behind someone wearing a T-shirt insulting their brother, sister or other family member. The student-athletes on the football team are not pro­fessionals. They aren't being paid to show up on Saturday. On Monday morning, they go to class with the rest of the students. They eat in the same dining halls and live in the same dorms. Do students wear these T-shirts Monday through Friday? I highly doubt it. 
This is not about who should start or not. This is about being a member of the Notre Dame community-a commu­nity made up of individuals of character, not a select group of smug, self-centered students. To those certain students, I say that you should be ashamed of yourselves. 
Bill Dunn class of 1989 Sept. 21 
Presidential visit raises human rights concerns 
Spite for Holiday makes University look bad 
I have been a Notre Dame fan all my life and am blessed to have had a son attend and graduate in 2002. I have watched hundreds of football games with pride. In the past few years, however, I have witnessed a disturb­ing trend where Irish pride, dignity and respect have given way to embarrassing, mean-spirited attacks in the form of boos 
and cat-calls aimed at Notre Dame players. On behalf of true Notre Dame fans who love the game, and more importantly, what Notre Dame stands for, I 
apologize to Carlyle Holiday and his family. How sad and disgusting it is to hear Notre Dame fans boo a player. Where is the loyalty, the support for a struggling athlete, the sensitivity to understand 
that he and others on the team are doing the best they can? I want to win like everyone else but not at the expense of emotionally attacking 
a student-a 20-something-year-old young 
man. 

Notre Dame lost more than just a game against Michigan State. Nationally televised, the game and its fans illustrated how com­
monplace and ordinary Notre Dame is becom­ing. Once an icon for teamwork, moral conduct and spiritual values, the University and its foot­ball fans are quickly gaining a new image for themselves -one certainly familiar to gladiators 
of old. Or, for a more contemporary comparison, they are reminiscent of a Jerry Springer audience. If you love Notre Dame, then you love its students 
and all it stands for. In so doing, you respect and appre­ciate the efforts and talents of those students regardless of outcome. "Winning" is being part of Notre Dame. The University and its fans should be proud of Carlyle Holiday. He is what Notre Dame stands for. 
Marc Novotney Indianapolis Sept. 20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Notre Dame was visited this weekend by Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo. Father Paulinus Odozer believes we should join with Africa, and help the country forge into the future, "with the rest of the human community." I would also like to believe this goal is possible of Nigeria. 
However, I have serious reser­vations about the country's leader, His Excellency, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, and his appeal for solidarity. President Obasanjo has it within his power to spare the life of Amina Lawai, a Nigerian woman sen­tenced to die by an Islamic court. 
Lawai's crime is having a child outside of wedlock, which is considered adultery under Islamic Shariah law. She is con­demned to be executed by being buried up to her neck in sand and stoned to death. 
Although the Nigerian Supreme Court will have the final say with appeals, President Obasanjo has allowed this travesty of human rights to go on far too long. 
How can Nigeria forge into the future if President Obasanjo 

continues to allow the unjust 
persecution of this woman? As 
Catholics and Christians it is 
our belief that every person is equal under God. Two thousand years ago, Mary Magdalene was to have suffered the same fate as Lawai is to face, but Jesus 
halted her accusers as he said to them, "He that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone at her." (John 8:7). 
If solidarity is to have sympa­thy for all humanity, then President Obasanjo should have sympathy forAmina Lawai and tell his people-that the discrimi­nation of women will no longer be tolerated under his presiden­cy. 
I implore the students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross to raise their voices in support of human rights and tell President Obasanjo that in order to join the rest of us in the future, he must first demon­strate equality toward humanity . in his own country. 
Anthony Chacon SMC Information Technology Staff Sept. 19 




Monday, September 22, 2003 
page 14 




Shame songs: We all have them, we all love them 
There comes a time in every man's life when he must swal­low his pride, cowboy up and admit to something that he has been hiding from the rest of the world. Today, that Tom Raaf thing hap­pens to be those irre­
Scene 

sistible yet 
Columnist

emb.arrass­ing melodies that come on the radio for your listening pleasure. 
Yes folks, I am talking about the modern marvel that is the shame song. Loosely defined, shame songs are those which you love to listen to but would never admit to liking in front of your friends. 
The prime example comes when you are driving in the car and an addictive yet humiliat­ing song pops on the radio. If you're lucky enough to be alone, you say, "Yes! I just love 'What's Goin' On' by the 4 Non Blondes! Crank this up." If you happen to be in a car full of friends, however, the song mer­its a much different response; "Turn this trash off and throw on the new Cannibal Corpse album" is probably more likely to come from your lips in this context. All of your friends will agree, although odds are that they would've just loved to belt out the lyrics to "Sk8er Boi" along with you. Most of the time, this common reaction can be attributed to the clear threat of weakening one's mas­culinity or to other such social stigmas. Either way, in denying the song, one is truly denying who they really are. 
Well, I say that this has gone on too long. No longer should we keep these songs in hiding, but rather we should admit to their intoxicating allure. I'll get the ball rolling by stating my current guilty pleasure; "Breathless" by the Corrs. Can you honestly tell me that you can hear that high-pitched "Ohhhh whoa, Ohh whoa, won't you leave me breathless" without singing along? I just can't get enough of it. I strug­gled with this notion for many sleepless nights, repeatedly asking myself, "Am I really this much of a sissy?" After days upon days of pondering this, I decided that, yes, I am indeed that much of a sissy. And so are all of you, whether you can admit it now or not. 
Before I go on, I must take a quick second to clarify one thing. Songs from the 80s can­not be considered shame songs because they reside in a realm of their own. For one beautiful decade, all musical bounds were broken and listening inhi­bitions lost. Bands like Wham and Culture Club only come along once in a lifetime. That being said, I move on. 
Now just in case you're not completely clear on this whole concept, I have compiled a brief list of songs that I believe might be on the shame lists of others. "Stay" by Lisa Loeb, "Can't Get You Out of My Head" by Kylie Minogue, "I'll Be" by Edwin McCain, and almost anything by Smashmouth top the list. Naturally, the Spice Girls ''Wannabe," "Linger" by the Cranberries and "Everybody" by the Backstreet Boys also make the cut. I know it's hard to confess, but they're just so undeniably catchy. 
I was actually lucky enough to find a few strapping young lads who were able to face their fears and chat with me on the subject. 
"When '1,000 Miles' by Vanessa Carlton comes on, I go to another place. It's the closest thing to heaven on Earth that I can imagine. I mean, come on. That piano is simply breathtak­ing," junior Matt Schulte said. 
I received a similar response from Junior Kevin McCarthy. 
"When I hear 'Murder on the Dance Floor' it sends shivers down my spine. No one knows, but that song has helped me through many long, sleepless nights," McCarthy said. 
Junior Mike Roaldi also added, "LFO's 'Summer Girls' is my song ... and I hate girls that wear Abercrombie and Fitch. Ironic, huh?" 
Junior Dan Watson's song of choice was "Torn" by Natalie Imbruglia. 
"Anytime that song comes on, there's a pretty decent chance of me ending up lying naked on the floor ... just like Natalie says." 
That's a little disturbing, Dan, but I guess it takes all kinds. 
Noticing a pretty clear trend, I decided to get a female per­spective on this development. Sophomore Kara Whalen remarked "My boyfriend just goes nuts when Len's 'Steal My Sunshine' starts playing. I hated it at first, but now I kind of see where he's coming from. It's so bad that it is actually kind of good." 
Finally, junior president of the Shirt, Dave Brenner, had this to say: "I hate to say it, but I just love 'MMM Bop!' I even thought the lead singer was pretty hot until I realized it was a guy ... man, what a let down." Well put, Dave, well put. 
It seems that everyone has some sort of shame song, so this I say to you: Be proud of who you are, even if that might involve a little more Annie Lennox than you'd like. 
Tom Raafis a junior who. can usually come up with a come­back in less than 10 days. More "Powers" to you, tiger. 
Contact him at traaj@nd.edu 


Curious as to what you should wear this U) 
By EMILY HOWALD Assistant Scene Editor 
The cold weather is approaching, the days are getting just a little bit short­er, our tank tops and flip flops are beginning to see their final days, and aside from the utter depression that we are beginning to feel because we realize that the South Bend winter is approaching us, we all begin to wonder: What should we expect for the upcoming fall fashion? 
Well, here's a little pre­view. 
Female Fashion 
Girls, get ready for a blast from the past; not only are the 80s returning to haunt us, but the mod squad look is back as well. 
That's right: Styles from both the 60s and the 80s will be hitting the racks again this fall. This means that the retro look is back, complete with the crocheted sweater vests, A-line or high-waisted dresses and the short school-girl minis that our moms wore years back. Cargo pants and parachute pants with a pump shoe are popular this fall, as well, creating a comfortable, yet funky style that can be manipulaterl with numerous different bright colors from our past. 
Classic animal prints are popular this fall, but keep in mind the term "classic" 
when putting together an outfit that involves our furry friends. Over-doing leopard prints can only lead to gaudy, so be careful when considering these styles. 
The idea· is to enhance the look of luxury this season by dressing up with either leather, suede or fur. All three can be viewed as fun and unique, yet at the same time create an aura of lav­ishness by merely dressing them up. 
Another new gutsy trend being introduced this fall is modern metallic. Sequined skirts and beaded dresses add some flair to the com­monly classic look, and with the incorporation of silvers and metallic, the outfit can transform into a bold and daring look. 
Black and white, although classic, are making a comeback in a huge way this fall. When in doubt, go to this combina­tion because it never fails. Purple is the new color for the season, though, so if you are search­ing for a hint of color to add to your outfit, purple is the way to go. 
Corduroy jackets are finding their way back into our closets, as well. These styles can range from the classic waist­coat to the new, brighter­colored jackets. 
These fun new styles can be worn with jeans to create a casual yet hip look, and they allow for much more incorpo­ration of color with a once very classic look. Add a pair of colored heels and con­trasting jewel­ry, and you have an outfit 



Monday, September 22, 2003 Page 15 

pcoming season? Read on to find out the hottest fashions for Fa/12003! 
to wear out on the town, as tile, while pointy-toed flats The 80s are well. are highlighted this season coming back for 
Keep in mind that shrunken with a straighter leg. Pointy you, too, boys, but coats are very popular this pumps are popular, with a try not to take it to season, also. They help in higher, skinny heel and fun an extreme. keeping everything fitted. colors. Oxford pumps accom·­Combat pants and They can be worn with a pany the school girl look, but army prints are mini-dress to make the outfit they have been updated with returning, as well look at bit more flirtatious, or stitching, tassels, buckles and as zippers galore you can add a pair of skinny stacked heels. Finally, high and brighter col­trousers to achieve a more boots will be big this fall with ors. professional appearance. a skinnier heel and a decora­If the bright 
The idea is to look like you tive zipper or buckle. color thing isn't have stepped out of a man's As for accessories, wrist your scene, the closet, albeit with clothes that purses are also popular this traditional fall col­have substantially shrunk. season. They can be used for ors are popular Although menswear is huge nighttime and daytime activi­once again and are this season, try to keep every­ties, as they are small and dif­making their pres­thing slimcut and delicate. ficult to lose. ence known with 
Leather jackets and trench Gator print purses are also tweed, canvas or coats are popular again this popular. Although expensive, cord jackets. fall. Leather jackets can you can find knockoffs at rea­These jackets are range anywhere from the sonable prices nearly every­waist-length jack­waist length to the knee, but where that trendy purses are ets with plenty of keep them slim-fitting as well. sold. Finding the right purse pockets. Trench coats that hit just to accompany an outfit can Welder's coats below the knee are popular often add the final touch are also making once again, but keep them needed to complete the garb, their way into the light, as you don't want to so don't forget to accessorize, fashion world, but look overwhelmed by the accessorize, accessorize! not in their custom longer coat. bright green. Look 
As for the night life, well for these below­girls, ,get ready to show some Male Fashion the-waist length leg once again, because minis All right boys, listen up. coats in suede or are still Although the twill traditional filling the girls may be neutral colors. stores and stealing your Stripes and fun 
will be for thunder a bit by patterns will be q u i t e a d d i n g common on the
"In order to be
awhile. menswear to button-down 
Looks like irreplaceable, one must their array of shirts, and boys,clothing choices, some­
we are always be different. , unless you 
returning you still have how manage to to prep multiple differ­find a hideous pat­school once Coco Chanel ent styles to tern, you really again, with designer choose from this cannot go wrong
fall.
the short here. When in pleated Rid your clos­doubt, boys, go 
ets of your
s k i r t with the tradition­Sleek meets sexy for this Marc Jacobs model for MARC. She Is wearing paired with baggy pants, al button-down 
a sheer turtle neck and cargo pants with bright pumps.
either a boys, because with khakis or 
girls are getting a bit tired of
button-down or an argyle jeans.
seeing your boxers hang out flood the sidewalks with their ordinary jeans and focus
sweater. Simple oversize but­Corduroy blazers are a new, retro, casual wear shoes, so more on the uniqueness of the
tons are also popular and of the top. More fitted pants fun look for the fall, as well, enhance the school girl look are popular this fall, as well but you will have to be a bit stay on the lookout for any added accessory. 
by the strong presence of the as pants with a flat front. more fashion daring to pull that may catch your eye. The new fall season brings 
Keep in mind, however, that many new fashions, but at the
buttons. Even jeans are a hit more this off. They are slowly mak­
If you are aiming for a more fitted than they have been in ing their way into the indus­as long as it is warm enough same time, do not be afraid to romantic look, try higher the past, and the vintage dirty try, so until then, be cautious. to wear the conventional throw your own twist into the 
jean is a popular wash for brown leather flip flop; these advice listed above.
waists with ruffled tops. The Ditch the worn-out running are always a quick fix to any Individuality always com­
flowing look of a higher waist this season. shoe, guys, and try to go for 
enhances the level of ele­Argyle is a popular print for the trendier bowling shoe shoe prcblems. pletes an outfit, along with 
the season, and matching the The next time you go belt confidence, so use the follow­
gance, and ruffles always style. 
shopping, because it is such a ing tips to find your own fash­increase the girlish factor of classic diamond shapes with a You do not need to go to 
V-neck, round-neck or open­common thing to do, consider ion sense.
the outfit. Beacon Bowl and actually 
Platform shoes are making collar polo sweater makes for steal a pair, but Steve more worn leather, along with In the words of Coco their comeback this fall, as a very traditional yet attrac­Madden, for example, has a larger metal buckle instead Chanel, "In order to be irre­of the more traditional style. placeable, one must always
are stiletto heels. So girls -tive look. some very casual yet stylish
V-neck's are the most popu­These not only help with the be different."
you can pretty much take tennis shoes that will give 
whole sagging problem dis­
your pick. lar styles this season, so if your outfits that needed little Round toe pumps are softer­you think you can pull it off. kick. cussed earlier, but they also Contact Emily Howald at knock yourself out. draw attention away from the Howald.2@nd.edu
looking and a bit more versa-Puma and Adidas shoes will 


i Monday, September 22, 2003 
i page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
; 
l 
NFL 



Holmes gains 156 yards, scores twice in Chiefs' win 
1 
Matt Hasselbeck threw a 3­
Associated Press 

i I\ yard touchdown pass to Koren I Robinson with 1 minute remain­
HOUSTON -Dante Hall fed off ing and Josh Brown made the\ { a trip to Mom's kitchen. 
PAT as the Seahawks erased aHall had a 73-yard punt return
l 
13-point deficit. 
for a score in his return to Texas "Unbelievable," Hasselbeckand Priest Holmes had 156 total 
I 
said. "It really is. We were talk­
yards and two touchdowns to ing at the start of the year thatlead Kansas City to a 42-14 victo­
\ we could be 3-0 going into our 
ry over Houston on Sunday, giv­bye week. To actually do it ising the Chiefs their first 3-0 start another thing." 
in seven years. 

"The guy that gave us the spark was Dante Hall. We are Giants 24, Redskins 21 going to give the game ball to his If the New York Giants had mother," Chiefs coach Dick blown this one, they might never Vermeil said, noting Hall is from have recovered. Houston. "She cooked for him There was no way they could last night and we are going to afford a rerun of Monday night's bringher home with us." heartbreaking loss to Dallas, yet 
The Texans trailed 14-7 late in that's exactly where they were
I 
the third quarter when Houston headed after losing an 18-point
I 
rookie Tony Hollings, getting his second-half lead Sunday to the
!l 
first playing time at running back Washington Redskins. 
I 
this season, fumbled after a jar­Instead, there were stories of
I 
ring hit by safety Jerome Woods. redemption for Jim Fassel,
I 
The Chiefs' Dexter McClean Jeremy Shockey. Matt Bryant ­
recovered at the Houston 32. everyone in a blue uniform, for Moments later, Trent Green hit that matter -in a 24-21 over­r' a wide-open Eddie Kennison for time victory that tied the Giants a 15-yard score. with the Redskins for first place 
The Texans went three-and­in the NFC East. out on their next series, and Hall "If we would've lost this game, made them pay. my wife better keep her hand on 
Hall took the punt at the 27-9-1-1," defensive end Michael yard line, escaped Jason Strahan said. "Because I don't Simmons and darted around the know what I was going to do "I just tried not to screw up," Minnesota's locker room. "I "That's like the days of old." right end where he juked punter with myself .... It was hard to get the 32-year-old veteran said. thought I looked cool, like Fred Tens of thousands of Pittsburgh Chad Stanley. Then he picked up over last week. The last thing we He didn't. Sanford." fans were in the crowd of 64,596 his blockers and cut back wanted to do was lose another Frerotte threw for 184 yards -the largest ever to see the untouched across the goal line game like that." and a touchdown in relief of Bengals play in Cincinnati -and
Steelers 17, Bengals 10 

for a 28-7 lead. Matt Bryant kicked a 29-yard Culpepper as the Vikings beat stayed on their feet as the
Jerome Bettis lowered his bat­
field goal 4:15 into the extra the Detroit Lions 23-13 on Steelers (2-1) went back to grind­
tering-ram shoulders and plowed 
period, atoning for a squib kick­Sunday. ing it out. 
Seahawks 24, Rams 23 into the end zone. Joey Porter 
Mike Holmgren shuffied to the off that went out of bounds and Culpepper left late in the sec­yanked down the quarterback as In their first two games, they
ond quarter with a bruised back
gave Dallas a chance in the 35-became dependent upon Tommy
podium in the interview room the Terrible Towels twirled. 
after his second rushing TD gave
32 overtime loss six days earlier.
and tried to keep a straight face. the Vikings the lead for good. He Different setting, very familiar Maddox's passing. Amos Zereoue 
Shockey made a 14-yard catch in scene. managed only 104 yards in the
"Never in doubt," he said, 
was scheduled to have his back
overtime, helping everyone for­
making everyone around him The Steelers got back to their two games. 
examined Sunday night in
get his two big drops against the Bettis, relegated to a backup
burst into laughter. black-and-gold basics Sunday,
Minneapolis.
Cowboys. · role in preseason, showed thatHolmgren is soaking up the Culpepper said he was in too running the ball when they 
good cheer surrounding the much pain to return to the game wanted and turning Porter loose The Bus still has a few miles left. Seattle Seahawks, who rallied to VIkings 23, Lions 13 Sunday, but expects to play in during a 17-10 victory over the When Zereoue needed a rest late beat St. Louis 24-23 on Sunday Gus Frerotte had one thought Week 4 at home against San Cincinnati Bengals. in the third quarter, Bettis took to start 3-0 for only the second when he replaced the injured Francisco. "It was good to see us kind of over and led the Steelers to a time since the Reagan adminis­Daunte Culpepper as Minnesota's "Do I look hurt?'' Culpepper re-establish a little bit of our tra­decisive touchdown through 
tration. quarterback. asked as he limped away from dition," coach Bill Cowher said. brute force. 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. AI dassifleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
3 Bdrm, 2.5 Bath, Twnhse Condo@  B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH  ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR  
New London Lake.  HOME GAMES. CALL (574)288·  PAID. (574)232-0964.  
NOTICES  WANTED  FoR SALE  2 car att garage, clubhouse, pool  5377.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
$139,000, 1 mile to ND email: mari- DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7  
SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  lyncurran@rtcol.com or 574-233­ HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251·1570.  
Gourmet Sandwiches is looking lor  5881  2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL  
r .  PART· TIME WORK EXCELLENT PAY  a lew good menand women who wish to work in a FUN and fast pace environment.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL  TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. NICELY DECORATED 2 BED· ROOM.  MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 1 0 BEDROOM HOUSES-STUDENT NEIGHBOR· HOODS· SECURITY SYSTEMS·  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674· 6593.  
WWW. WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M I NEED GATIXS. 2726306  A new store will be opening up in early October. We have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11 am to 3am.ln-shop· pers, drivers and mgmt available. Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for inter·  NEWLY REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. 10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 299·7078  MAINTENANCE STAFF 24 HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES ARE GOING FAST CONTACT KRAMER 57 4·315·5032 or 57 4-234·2434 ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR  PERSONAL  
view.  2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR  
..---·­ WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski &Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1·800-SUNCHASE today! GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, banjo & mandolin.  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks & ages. Earn $1 00·$300 a day. 1-888·820·0167, ext. U187. BABYSITIER WANTED for family in Granger. Daysleve/wknds. Refs.  Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. $107,000. (574) 273·1666 IRISH CROSSINGS· A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY.  FoR RENT 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@ AOL.COM  3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd floors. Very clean,quaint. Appl.incl. $965/mo.+util. Sec. Dep. + 1st & last mo. 10-mo.lease. 417 Napoleon. 1/2 mil. from ND. Call 299-9428.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
Hoosierdads Mosie 4609 Grape Ad Mish, IN 2775038  & car rqrd! Call Laura: 243-4776.  Build your dream home next to Notre Dame. A limited number of home sites are available.  272·1525  TICKETS  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring bartenders and bar wait staff, as  SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES-needed for south side elemen·  For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  3-6 BDRM HOMES.AW.IL. NOW & 04/0S.FURN.  ND FOOTBALL· BUY & SELL.  campus reps. Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
well as cashier positions.  tary school, located near Scottsdale  
 272·6306  CHECK MY PRICES. 273·3911 OR  Seeking quiet/grad roommate. Quiet  
Must be 21 for the bar jobs.  Mall on Miami Street.  99 Honda Civic EX, Exc. cond., fully loaded, auto, 44K, dk grn. $9,900.  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  TOLL FREE 877·773-3911.  street, 20 min. to campus. Choice of 2 rooms;$220 or $300, 1/2 util.  
Very flexible schedules, good money, and a fun place to work.  $30.00 per soccer game; $25.00 per VB match. Call 291-4200.  Call574.251.1459. CLASSIC "65" STUDEBAKER  has space available for footbaiVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, full hot breakfast,  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED • TOP DOLLAR PAl D AM-232·2378 PM 288-2726  269/325-2267. A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  
Apply in person at 123 W Washington, downtown South Bend.  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties 2 free trps high commission sun­splashtours.com 1800-426-7710  CRUISER RUNS GREAT! 83,000 mi $3,900 call: 289·9351  $80·$115, Middlebury, 30miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1· 800-418-9487.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM • 232·2378 PM • 288· 2726  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426·771 0  

Monday, September 22, 2003 
page 17

The Observer+ SPORTS 

·--.-::::~:{::(:_ .· -.-.·.·.. -·.· ...._. ·.·:.·.·. . 


~~ -~:~~ J.~i';~-~g§~l~}·: 
;G~ii'';:~··,iiR'IIl~r 

·.·.·.·::-::--···. 
:;:::;::::::·:--·:·-·· 

.UNIVERSITY O.F ST~ THOMAS ·SCHOOL OF LAW ~flNNEAPOLlS, MINN. 
··. The University>ofSt.· Thomas School of Law is a national~ 
faith-based lawschool, that shares a distinctive vision 
ofwhat the law and the legal profession can be. 
Located in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
our·stu.dents have access_ to a thriving legal and business community.. 
For more information: 
(651) 962..4895. or..e7rnail: lawschool@s-rthomas.edu ·Web: ·.. www~stthotrias.edu/lawschool 

...







,, ~ 

•UNIV'E.RSITY of Sr.THOMAS 

·MINNESOTA 

creating a sense of the possible and helping to make the possible become reality ... 
How will you go from dreaming the possible to making it happen? 
All students, graduate students, MBA's a11d faculty are invited -to: 
INFORMATION SESSIO.N For: 
··INTERNSHIPS 
VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES 
BUSINESS PLAN COMPETITIONS 
AVAILABLE THROUGH 'IHE GlGOT CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURlAL STUDIES In the Mendoza College ofBusiness 
lv1onday, September 22, 2003 5:30-6:30 pnz ln the Atrium ofMendoza College ofBusiness Lioht refreshments sen.,ed 
\') . 
Information about paid and unpaid internships and volunteer opportunities in social ventures & non-profits, family businesses, and launch/start-ups/for-profits. 
A/so information about the family ofbusiness plan competition~. including:. McCloskey Business Plan Competition, Social Ver_1ture Comp~tttton, Dolphm Business Plan Competition, and Jnventton Conventton. 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Royals continue to battle with 4--1 win 

to 204. It wasn't the first time
Associated Press 
he has shut down the Indians ­
CHICAGO -While the he improved to 10-1 with a 1.66 
Chicago White Sox fade, the ERA in 14 career starts against 
Kansas City Royals aren't ready Cleveland, and 5-0 in six starts 
to give up. at Jacobs Field. 
Rondell White hit a two-run "It seems like every time we 
homer and Aaron Guiel drove had him on the ropes, he took it 
in three runs as the Royals sent up another notch," Indians first 
the White Sox to another big baseman Ben Broussard said. 
loss, 10-4 Sunday. "He'd throw a fastball 88 mph, 
"Right from the get-go, this -the next one 92, and the next 
team's shown courage," Royals one 95. He's so polished." 
manager Tony Pena said. "This And for a change, Boston's 
team is going to play hard the unpredictable bullpen was 
whole year. That's the point. smooth, too. 
The season's not over. There's Mike Timlin worked a hitless 
still a week to go." eighth and Byung-Hyun Kim 
Chicago [81-74], which trailed pitched the ninth for his 15th 
4-0 before it came to the plate, save. 
has dropped eight of 11, falling 
5 1/2 games back of first-place 
Oakland 12, Seattle 0 
Minnesota (87-69). It is the 
Ted Lilly heard about Richlargest deficit in the AL Central 

Harden's hurt back, then
for the White Sox since July 22. 
walked into the manager's
"This was just another game 

office to tell Ken Macha he
where we came out not 
would pitch. 
intense," said Chicago second And oh what a gem Lillybaseman Tony Graffanino, who threw -when Oakland desper­made two of his team's three ately needed one. 
errors. 
Lilly won his sixth straight 

start and Mark Ellis hit his first 
Boston 2, Cleveland 0 career grand slam as the 
Pedro Martinez wasn't about Athletics avoided a three-game to let the AL wild-card race get sweep by second-place Seattle any wilder for the Boston Red with a 12-0 win Sunday. Sox. "I think this shows how bad 
Martinez struck out 11 in we want to win the West," Lilly 
seven shutout innings Sunday, said. keeping Boston on track to Billy McMillon had three hits make the playoffs as the Red and drove in two runs as the Sox beat Cleveland 2-0 in the defending AL West champions Indians' season finale at home. lowered their magic number to 
"Pedro was on top of his win the division to three. The game," Boston manager Grady A's lead the Mariners by four 
,.J.>
Little said. "It helps to have a games. Pedro to bring us back after a Seattle fell 2 112 gamestough loss." behind Boston in the AL wild­
Martinez (14-4) allowed four card race. The Red Sox won 2-0 hits in winning his fourth at Cleveland. straight start this month. The The Mariners have six games 
right-hander's strong outing left, including three against the came one day after starter .Ns in Seattle next weekend. Derek Lowe and Boston's "This is obviously a big game, bullpen blew a 4-1 lead in the a big opportunity," Mariners seventh inning and lost 13-4 to catcher Dan Wilson said. "It's a the Indians. completely different race if we 
Martinez wouldn't allow it to win today, completely different. happen again. Put. it this way, this loss takes it 
"He gives us so much confi­out of our hands if they win dence," first baseman Ke.vin three." Millar said. "When he's out Seattle had 31 hits in the first there, we know we can turn it two games of this series, but over to the offense and we managed only four hits against should be able to take over. He Ully and three relievers. just means so much." Harden was scratched 
Boston increased its AL wild­because of back spasms and card lead to 2 1/2 games over replaced by the left-handed Seattle, which lost 12-0 at Lilly, who beat Seattle for the Oakland. first time in eight career starts. 
Martinez walked two and He entered 0-4 with a 6.89 ERA raised his season strikeout total against the Mariners. 
i . 
page 18 Monday, September 22, 2003 
I~ :\ The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
'l 
~ 
I 
·-­



1 
~ ! 
' l 

page 19 
Monday, September 22, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 


Cubs' victory narrows Astros' division lead 

Are vou ready to be an active team 1nember " · from day one? 
Do you want to work with top management. ·· on decisions that matter? 
Ifthe answer is yes-Joi.n us tonight. 
Learn why Notre Dame grads chose careers in management consulting. 
Company Presentation Tonight 
6:00 p.lll. 
Morris Inn. Alumni Room All majors wt~korne! 
Attention: 



Junior C I ass 
Apply for one of the following positions on the JPW 2004 Student Committee: 
Chair Brunch Chair Vice-Chair Hall Luncheon Chair Secretary Hospitality Chair Treasurer 
College Open House Chairs 
Gala Chair Mass Chair Publicity Chair Dinner Chair Promotion Chair 
For more information and to pick up an application, 
stop by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune or call 631-7308 

Applications Due: September 26 

API 
Chicago's Mark Prior walks off the field after a recent win. Prior got another victory Sunday by beating the Pirates. 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -Cubs man­ager Dusty Baker all but guar­anteed a victory before Sunday's game. Of course, most managers would feel that way with Mark Prior pitching. 
Prior gave the Cubs the do~i­nating start ·they needed, strik­ing out 14 in 7 2-3 innings as Chicago shook off two straight damaging losses to beat the Pirates 4-1 Sunday and closed within a half-game of the NL Central lead. 
Aramis Ramirez, traded by the Pirates to the Cubs two months ago, hit two solo homers to help give Chicago a split in the four-game series. 
"That was how I felt. I say what I feel. I felt we were going to win," Baker said of his pregame comments. "We were due to win ... and with the guy we had going out there, it really wasn't that tough to make that prediction." 
The Cubs missed chances to 
gain ground on first-place 
Houston by losing 10-6 in the 
second game of a doubleheader 
Friday night and 8-2 Saturday 
night. They didn't Sunday, when 
the Astros lost 6-4 in St. Louis. 

The Cubs also cut their deficit 
in the NL wild-card race to 1 
112 games as both the Marlins 
and Phillies lost. Still, it wasn't 
as if they were hanging on 
every pitch of the out-of-town 
games -their clubhouse TVs 
were tuned to two NFL games. 

St. Louis 6, Houston 4 

The NL Central will be decid­
ed in the final week of the sea­
son and the St. Louis Cardinals 
hav~ an outside chance to win. 

Edgar Renteria had a key 
two-run double to back Sterling 
Hitchcock as the Cardinals beat 
Houston 6-4 Sunday, cutting the 
Astros' NL Central lead to a 
half-game over Chicago. 

So Taguchi hit a two-run 
homer for St. Louis, which took 
two of three from Houston and 
closed within four games of the 
lead. Last weekend, the Astros 
swept the Cardinals in a three­
game series in Houston. 

"It was neat after losing three 
down there to get two out of 
three here," Hitchcock said. 
"Nobody wants to get elimina~­
ed. This shows a lot about this 
club and its character." 

Houston (84-71), which failed 
to hold a 3-0 lead, had won six of eight. 
The Astros close the season at home with three games against NL West champion San Francisco and four against Milwaukee. The Cardinals (81­
76) finish with two games at the Brewers and three at Arizona. 
"The years we've won have usually gone down to the last week" Houston's Craig Biggio said. '"It's always a grind. We have the right mixture of veter­ans and young players to han­dle it." 
Los Angeles 7, San Francsico 5 
One down, eight to go. 

Manager Jim Tracy thinks the Los Angeles Dod~ers may. h?-ve to win all their remammg games to gain the NL wild card berth, and they took the a st~p forward Sunday with a 7-5 VIC­tory over the San Francisco Giants. 
The win moved them within 2 112 games of the wild-card lead. 
"We have a tall order ahead of us," Tracy said. "It looked like we had to win out to get there to win the final nine. To do that. you have to win the first one." 
Shawn Green started the Dodgers with the first of their four homers. Robin Ventura, Adrian Beltre and Jeromy Burnitz hit consecutive homers off rookie Kevin Correia in the fourth inning to tie the game at 5. 
"What we did today, we haven't done much-and that's to hit the home-run ball," Tracy said. "Those back-to-hack-to­hack home runs ignited· us, ignited the crowd." 
Milwaukee 6, Arizona 4 

Wes Obermueller got his first 
major league win, a year and a 
day after his big leag~e de~ut. 

Richie Sexson, Keith Gmter 
and Bill Hall homered Sunday 
to back Obermueller as the 
Milwaukee Brewers beat the 
Arizona Diamondbacks 6-4 
Sunday. 

The 26-year-old right-hander, 
making his 13th major league 
start, had lost his first seven 
major league decisions. He 
made his big league debut on 
Sept. 20 last year for Kansas 
City against Cleveland. 

"I'm still shaking a little bit," 
he said. "It feels good to get 
over this hump a little bit. I just 
had some bad breaks in a cou­
ple of them." 

rr~---­~ 
1·;
\~ 
;~ 
. I 
l 
\ 
, \ 

~­
' 
; 
)
I 
, 
I 
' 
I 
' I I 
: 
\ 
·, <_ 
i iI
. 

I) 
I 
~ l
r; 


=pa=ge=20======================T,='he=O=bs=erv=er=+=PA=I=D=A=D=VE==RT=I=SE=M=E=N=T=============M=o=nd=ay=,S=ep=tem=b=er=22=,2===003 
.. 
•f~. 

OHN T. NOONAN, R. 
The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the law and Christianity 
.. 



Deepening the Doctrine 
Eight Lectures on the Development of Catholic Moral Teaching 
September 23 Father Newn1an Startles September 25 The Unknown Sin 
. 
~
September 30 A Girl Named Zita and Other Commodities 
i.. 
' 
. .~: ~~;.~ 
October 2 The Obstinate Hill Climbed, with Eclat 
J 
'l 
s $i1
October 7 Folly, Championed 
~~ ;~: 
October 9 Out of Deeds Comes Law 
1t"·"':'~
October 14 Out of Difficulties Comes Development 
'7.'· 
October 16 The Test of the Teaching 
All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the Law School Courtroom and begin at 5:00p.m. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
N2003 
Monday, September 22, 2003 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL 
Last-minute touchdown pass saves Browns 
who had the type of timid, Michael Vick watched from
.A.ssociated Press 
inconsistent offensive game that the sideline, but it's highly supposedly wouldn't happen doubtful the injured Atlanta after former coach Steve quarterback would have made
SAN FRANCISCO -Kelly 
Holcomb waited until the last Mariucci was fired. much of a difference against a Tampa Bay defense that wasn't
possible minute to save the 
going to let this one get away. 
Cleveland Browns-and maybe Buccaneers 31, Falcons 10 
his job. On the other hand, he couldn't 
Warren Sapp needs to work 
have looked any worse. JohnsonAndre Davis caught an 11-on his dance moves. Beyonce, 
was~esitant and unsure of what
yard touchdown pass from he's not. 
the defense was doing, often
Holcomb with 29 seconds left as That's OK. The Tampa Bay the Browns rallied for two late Buccaneers are having fun double-and triple-pumping 
before releasing the ball. The
scores and a 13-12 victory again. 
result was three ugly intercep­Sunday over the San Francisco Sapp, the 303-pound defen­
tions -two thrown right to
49ers. sive tackle. scored the first 
Smith, the other to John Lynch.
The Browns had one touch­offensive touchdown of his down in their first 11 quarters career on a 6-yard pass and the this season before scoring two defending Super Bowl champi­Patriots 23, Jets 16 
in the fourth against San ons bounced back from an New England Patriots playersFrancisco's defense, which held embarrassing defeat, routing are going down as quickly as them to 113 yards in the first the Atlanta Falcons. the New York Jets' season. three quarters. After scoring, Sapp cradled For the third straight game, 
Holcomb knew his starting the ball in his arms as he the Patriots lost a key defender spot might have been in the bal­hopped and twirled in a giddy and the Jets lost a close contest ance after two lousy games, but circle. He claimed to have bor­as New England won. 
he finally l~ct the Browns on two rowed the move from Beyonce Tom Brady never missed a stirring drives for the victory. Knowles' "Crazy In Love" video, play after hurting his right Both ended in TD passes to though it was a bit difficult to elbow with 5:45 left in the sec­Davis -the second capping a pick up any resemblance. ond quarter. He ran for a 1-yard 91-yard drive comprised mostly "I didn't do it quite like she touchdown late in the third of short, expertly thrown pass­does," Sapp conceded. "She's quarter to break a 9-9 tie. es. got more assets than me." But in the first quarter, nose 
The turnaround thrilled a The Bucs were clearly per­tackle Ted Washington fractured miniature Dawg Pound at turbed by the way they lost to his leg and wide receiver David Candlestick Park, which at times Carolina a week earlier, getting Patten hurt his right leg. Neither was loud enough to drown out two field goals and an extra returned. the disappointed thousands in point blocked before falling 12-9 "We don't ask, 'Why us?"' line­San Francisco's sellout crowd. in overtime. Tampa Bay took out backer Tedy Bruschi said. "We 
Both offenses sputtered and its frustration on the hapless deal with what is happening, no stalled on a stifling day, but Falcons, who failed for the sec­matter who's in there." Cleveland made an uncanny ond week in a row to give Dan Washington is expected to rally to win the clubs' first meet-. Reeves his 200th coaching victo­miss "a couple of weeks," coach ing since 1993. Holcomb was ry. Bill Belichick said. It is not 25-of-38 for 222 .yards. "We felt like we let the team known how long Patten will be 
Cleveland's offense finally down last week, so we wanted out. helped out its defense, which to bounce back," said safety. The Patriots already were kept Terrell Owens and Jeff Dwight Smith, who had two. of without two starting linebackers Garcia out of the end zone. New the three interceptions thrown -Ted Johnson, who broke his kicker Owen Pochman made by Falcons quarterback Doug left foot in the first game, and four field goals for the 49ers, Johnson. Rosevelt Colvin, who broke his 
:,.
:::·
11 
1• . ., 
~~
.,. 
..,.,. 
. . . < 
·-~,-,,,,,,_ 
• -
' . . 
... . 
Stutly i11 one of·the 
«» 
Spa1·1i.sh or .Portugese International 
• 
. 

• 
. 


. Stud}' Progrants: 
. Information Session ab()Ut studying•• In 
Spain~ Mexico, Chile, and Brazil 
.----------------------..............................................................-­
~onday,Sept.22,2003 
Room 102 DeBartolo 
() 
L-______
6_:_30_-_8_:Q.9.... P.~.................................__________, 
. ~~~, 
Applications available on-line: w\vw.nd.edu/-intlstud
• cr,, 
.

• . ···············~£) 

API Photo 

Cleveland's Andre Davis grabs the game-winning touchdown pass in the Browns' 13-12 win over the 49ers. 
left hip in the second and is year receiver said. "So I can expected to miss the season. enjoy it for one day." And they released safety Lawyer The chants of "Reg-gie! Reg­Milloy before the first game. gie!" have typically been 
Cornerback Ty Law rolled his reserved in Indianapolis for ankle late in the first half but Miller, the Pacers' all-time lead­returned. ing scorer. On Sunday, for the 
"We're already down in num­first time, the chant reverberat­bers as it is," Law said. "As long ed inside the RCA Dome -and as I can run, even if I'm not full for good reason. speed, my presence is important Wayne did it all as the Colts 
out there." improved to 3-0 for the first 
The Jets lost to Washington time since 1996 and only the 16-13 on a field goal with 5 sec­second time since 197 8. onds left, then fell to Miami 21-He went across the middle, 10 before Sunday's seven-point won battles on deep routes, loss. made impressive runs after the 
"It's a sickening feeling," catch and terrific adjustments. quarterback Vinny Testaverde He finished with career highs in said: "Losing like this is worse receptions and yards and because you were in all three matched a career high in touch­games." _ downs. 
The Jets were without two key His numbers would have been players -quarterback. Chad even more impressive had he 
Pennington with a dislocated not dropped a possible touch­wrist and cornerback Donnie down catch on Manning's floater 
Abraham with a broken shoul­across the middle late. 
der. 
But it didn't matter. 
Abraham's replacement, Ray 
Wayne played the way the 
Mickens, was called for pass Colts expected him to when they interference in the end zone one made him their first-round pickplay before Brady scored. And 
in 2001, and everybodyPennington's replacement, 
responded.

Testaverde, threw an intercep­tion that Asante Samuel returned 55 yards for a touch­Ravens 24, Chargers 10 down 11 seconds into the fourth Jamal Lewis talked the most quarter. smack about his matchup with 
"I knew Vinny was going to LaDainian Tomlinson, and he [Wayne] Chrebet because that's also gained the most yards. his main guy," Samuel said. A week after setting the NFL 
The Jets came right back on single-game record with 295 Testaverde's 29-yard scoring yards on 30 carries, Lewis ran pass to Chrebet less than two for 132 yards and one touch­minutes later, but came no clos­down on 23 carries as the er as they converted just one of Baltimore Ravens beat the 13 third -down opportunities. punchless San Diego Chargers
"lt was a character drive," 24-10 on Sunday . Testaverde said. "We felt like we Lewis also fumbled at midfield had momentum but then we late in the first quarter, but the can't go out and repeat it." ball bounced a few yards ahead 
The Patriots broke a five­and fullback Alan Ricard picked game home losing streak it up and ran 50 yards for a against the Jets. touchdown . 
"We can put that little curse Lewis needed 182 yards to behind us," Law said. ''I'm sure break O.J. Simpson's two-game the Jets will bounce back like record of 476 yards set in 1976 . they did last-year." Lewis irked Tomlinson during 
the week by saying Baltimore linebacker Ray Lewis was going ·-" 
Colts 23, Jaguars 13 
When Reggie Wayne heard to dominate the Chargers' star Indianapolis Colts fans chanting running back. his name, some teammates Tomlinson, the NFL's second­
insisted he was in the wrong leading rusher last year with place. 1,683 yards, had a season-high Peyton Manning had him right 105 yards on 23 carries and 
where he wanted. scored his first TD in three Wayne produced the best games. He also had eight catch­game of his NFL career, catch­es for 51 yards. ing 10 passes for 141 yards and The Ravens won their second two touchdowns -nearly all in straight game. San Diego has the second half-as he carried 
been outscored 88-37 this sea­
the Colts to a victory over son. Including their second-half Jacksonville. 
collapse last year, the Chargers"It's not Reggie Miller today ­have lost seven straight and 10it's Reggie Wayne," the third-
of 12. 
r1 
' 
; I 
' 
i 
I i 
I I 
~ 
I 
page 22 

I' 



I around the dial 
!
I 
I 
I 
I NFL 
I ( 
Raiders at Broncos 9 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

) } Yankees at ~hite Sox 8 p.m., FOXCH 
BOWLING PWBA U.S. OPEN 8 p.n., ESPN2 








ATION 
CotvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICEs Monday, September 22, 2003 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

KRT 
Rashaun Woods of Oklahoma State broke the NCAA Division 1 record for touchdown catches in a game Saturday. Woods caught seven passes for touchdowns as the Cowboys defeated Southern Methodist University. 
Woods sets record for TD catches 
Associated Press was headed to the bench. didn't tell me or even set up his final two touch­Then coach Les Miles hint." downs. There was a 30­
DALlAS-As the touch­told him he could play two Woods actually got off to yarder on the Cowboys'
down receptions started 
more series. a slow start, missing four first play of the third quar­piling up, especially after That was all Woods deep balls on the opening ter, then a 49-yarderhe scored three on consec­needed. drive, with several drops. between two defenders to
utive snaps, Oklahoma 
Woods capped the Then he took some potas­set up the record-breaker. 
State's Rashaun Woods 
Cowboys' first drive of the sium pills and drank lots Woods finished with 13
wondered whether he 
third quarter with a 5-of water to help fight the catches for 232 yards,
might be headed for a 
yard reception in the left humidity. both career bests. Therecord. 
side of the end zone to He started loosening up yardage is a school record, 
Then he figured the 
mark must be pretty high. match the Division I mark by catching a 2-yard TD topping the 226 he had "I thought it was like 10 record set 34 years ago by pass in traffic. Then came against Oklahoma last or something," he said. Tim Delaney of San Diego a 10-yarder, followed 34-season. The seven TDs 
Actually, the Division I State. and 32-yarders on was two more than any record was six, and Woods Just over eight minutes Oklahoma State's next two Cowboy had ever scored had five by halftime later, he took sole posses­plays·. SMU fell for a fake -two more than Barry Saturday night against sion by hauling in an 11-handoff on the 32-yarder Sanders ever had -and Southern Methodist. yard fade along the right and again on his next one, the 42 points were anoth­Because he'd already bro­edge of the end zone. a 25-yarder on third-and-er first. ken the school record of "I didn't know until I did 1. ' Josh Fields threw all four, Woods figured he it," Woods said. "Coach Two of his best catches seven touchdown passes. 
IN BRIEF 

!?almeiro, Rangers at the rebuilding Rangers, who are in the day is we earned three points," last place for the fourth straight sea­Chastain said. "And we are one step
1mpasse 

son, will seek. closer to the quarterfinals.
ARLINGTON -Rafael Palmeiro 
"This is not an individual thing. Mywants to finish his career with the 
Chastain breaks ankle in main concern is the team moving on, Texas Rangers. Owner Tom Hicks 
World Cup and if that means I have to con­
says that's also what he wants. 
WASHINGTON -Brandi Chastain tribute by cheering from the side­Making it happen isn't that easy. 
broke a bone in her right foot on lines, I will cheer as loud as I can forPalmeiro played Sunday night not Sunday in a World Cup game and my teammates."
knowing if it would be his last home 
will miss the rest of the first round,
game with the Rangers. He is eligi­
at least. Smoltz makes return for
ble for free agency after this season. 
Chastain, the heroine of the United Braves"When you go into an offseason States' 1999 victory in the World ATLANTA -Braves closer Johnnot knowing what's going to happen, 
Cup with her penalty-kick goal Smoltz returned from the disabledit's a little uncomfortable," Palmeiro 
against China, was injured in the list Saturday night and retired the
said. "But I have to deal with it." 
first half as the Americans beat only Florida Marlins batter he faced While both sides want to stay Sweden 3-1. in the ninth inning. 
together, the Rangers have made it 
The defender was unsure when Smoltz had been on the disabledclear that if Palmeiro returns he will she was hurt, but she said a Swedish list since Aug. 27 with tendinitis inhave to take pay cut. Palmeiro made player kicked her in the foot ..and I his right elbow, and he hadn't$9 million this season while becom­landed on the ankle." She was pitched since Aug. 23. He got Juaning the 19th player to hit 500 career replaced by World Cup rookie Cat Pierre on a groundout and then lefthomers. 
Reddick. in favor of Ray King.
Palmeiro, who turns 39 on 
X-rays showed Chastain broke the Smaltz has 44 saves this season, aTuesday, has said he is willing to third metatarsal. year after setting the NL record with play for less money. What is uncer­"The most important thing about 55.
tain is just how much of a pay cut 
Monday, September 22, 2003 page 23 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to Alma in four 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mar}'s fell to 1-4 in MIAA play with a four-set loss to Alma at home Sunday by the score of 25-30, 21-30, 30-26, 28-30. 
Despite an impressive individ­ual standout by defensive spe­cialist Alison Shevik, the Belles were unable to pull out the victo­ry. 
Shevik had 30 digs in the match, leading all players. Outside hitter Kristen Playko again led the Belles in kills, amassing 21 kills in the four­game match. Playko has led the team in kills for nearly every game this year, despite being only a freshman. 
"Kristen's just another strong player," middle hitter Elise Rupright said. "She is an excel­lent player, but I think she also has a positive attitude. 
"This year we have a much more positive team and I think we all want to do what we can to help e~ch other out and help win." 
The Belles got off to a rough start, losing the first two games but coming back to win the next game. They made the fourth game close, but were unable to get it done and eventually fell by two points. 
"That's probably what we were happiest about," Rupright said. "We didn't quit and fought hard to the end." 
Outside attacker Ann Carpenter had an especially solid game for the Belles, totaling 15 kills while committing zero errors. 
Setter Lauren Temple led the Belles in assists with 43, which is that she was also the leading blocker on the team, totaling two blocks, both of which were assisted. 
Overall, the blocking game was not a strong point for the Belles, who totaled five blocks in the game while their opponent col­lected 13 blocks. Alma had more kills than Saint Mary's as well by a count of67 to 56. 
The Belles had more digs than the Scots however, with Saint Mary's collecting 91 digs to Alma's 89. By far, Shevik had the most individual digs; the closest to her 30 were two Alma players who tied with 21 digs. 
Saint Mary's remains at home to face conference opponent Hope Tuesday at 6 p.m. Alma lost to Hope in straight sets earli­er this year. 
not all that unusual for a setter. Contact Justin Schuver at What is somewhat unusual is jschuver@nd.edu 

MINN~APOLIS, MJNN. 
The University ofSt. Thomas School of Law is a national, faith-based law school, that shares a distinctive vision ofwhat the law and the legal profession can be.· Located in. downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota, our students have access to a thriving legal and business con1munity. 
For more information: 
(651) 962-4895 or e-mail: lawschool@stthonlas.edu Web: www.stthomas.edu/lawschool 
t:=l
••,, 

UNIVERSITY of ST.THOMAS 
M.INN.BSOTA 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Charter pilots could be suspended for mistake 
Plane carrying Irish team in January landed at wrong airport after game 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND -The Federal 
Aviation Administration is 

pressing to have the licenses of 
two pilots suspended for an 
error last winter involving a 
charter jet carrying the Notre 
Dame basketball team. 
The pilots landed the jet by mistake at Elkhart Municipal Airport on Jan. 22, then quick­ly took off again without receiving permission from flight controllers, an FAA report said. 
The aircraft landed safely minutes later at South Bend Regional Airport about 20 miles away, but the incident prompted an FAA review. 
After an investigation, the FAA this summer-recommend­ed suspension of the pilot's cer­tificates of Jose A. Dominguez and Christopher J. Homko, both of Indianapolis. 
An eight-month suspension is being sought for Dominguez, the plane's captain, and a three-month suspension for Homko, the first officer, for operating an aircraft in a reck­less or careless manner. 
The men are allowed to appeal the proposed suspen­sions, but have not yet done so, said Elizabeth Isham Cory, a spokeswoman for the FAA's Great Lakes office. 
"It's still in process. We're still talking back and forth," she said. 
Dominquez and Homko could not be located for comment Sunday. Neither man has a telephone listing in the Indianapolis area. 
The suspension recommen­dations came after a lengthy 
investigation of the January 
incident, according to an FAA 
report obtained by the South 
Bend Tribune through a 
Freedom of Information Act 
request for a story Sunday. 
Both men were fired by 
Indianapolis-based 
Chautauqua Airlines six days 
after the mistaken landing in 
Elkhart, the report documents 
said. 
Dominguez falsified the com­
pany logbook to try to cover up 
his actions, according to a let­
ter from the airline notifying 
the pilot he was terminated. 
In a report about the inci­dent, Dominguez attributed the mistaken landing to himself and Homko being tired from waking up early the previous day and having a long, uneventful flight late into the night, according to the letter. 
The Chautauqua Airlines flight carried the Fighting Irish men's team in a 50-seat plane from Providence, R.I., immedi­ately following its Jan. 21 victo­ry over Providence College. 

In its report, the FAA found that the pilots' actions were dangerous. "Your operation of that flight ... was at minimum careless and endangered the I 
I 
lives and property of others," I 
•I the report stated. I The report found that: ~ 
+ 
The pilots landed the jet at the Elkhart airport despite the fact they did not have clear­ance to land at that airport. 

+ 
Shortly after landing, the jet took off again, although the pilots did not have clearance to take off or any weather, charts, runway, airport or navigational information for the Elkhart air­port. 

+ 
The pilots failed to notify air traffic control that they had landed at Elkhart. 

+ 
The pilots did not have a flight plan or a load manifest, and they failed to note the landing in Elkhart in the flight log. 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish grab sixth­place in tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team ended its play at the Mary Fossum Invitational in a sixth-place tie with Michigan on Sunday. 
The Irish entered the final 18 holes in a tie for fifth, but shot a 316 in the final round for a 54-hole total of 941. Michigan State came into Sunday's action with a 21-shot lead and went on to win the tournament by 25 strokes over second­place Kent State with a 37­over par score of 901. 
The 16-team tournament, hosted by the Spartans, was played at the par-72, 6,053­yard Forest Akers West Golf Course in East Lansing, Mich. 
Following Kent State's 926 was Arkansas in third with a 
934. Kansas finished three 
strokes behind the Razorbacks 
with a final score of 937 and 
Wisconsin was fifth with its 
940. 
Freshman Noriko Nakazaki led the Irish as she shot a 76 in the final round to finish in a third-place tie with a nine-over par 225. 
Sophomore Katie Brophy was next for Notre Dame, shooting a 79 in the final round after firing a pair of 76's in the first two rounds. Brophy's 15-over par total of 231 earned her a tie for 12th place. 

Sophomore Suzie Hayes fol­lowed her classmate Brophy with a 243 to place her 48th in the tournament. Freshman Stacy Brown finished one stroke behind Hayes after shooting an 80 on Sunday for a 244 total, putting her in a tie for 49th. 

-~--~--­
page 24 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 22, 2003 
l 
~ 
) 
\ 
l 
i I 
~ 
\ 
~ 
( I 
~ 
l 
l
} 
' 
\ 
I ll ' 
) 
•'. 
I ~ 
I 
il J 
, I 
I I I . I 
I 
I .... 
' I 
I 
f 
i 
I 
J 
I I 
l ~ 
) 
~ 
I 
I 
I 


Monday, September 22, 2003 page 25 
The Ob;erver + SPORTS 


Domus 
PROPERTIES 
.~ 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2004-2005 SCHOOLY'EAR 

• Washers and Dryers Provided 
• Security Systems 
• 24-Hour Maintenance Staft" 
• Everyone gets their own bedroom 
• 2-, 4-, 6-, 8-& 10 Bedroom Houses Available 
Only 7 leftfor 2004-2005 school year Also leasingfor the 2005-2006 schoolyear 
Call today, houses are going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office 234-2436 or Cell 315-5032 Visit our Website at www.domuskramer..com 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Irish midfielder Kevin Goldwaite kicks the ball during Notre Dame's 1-0 win against West Virginia. 
Prescod 
continued from page 28 
with 3:36 remaining to push 
up and join the offense on cru­
cial plays inside the Irish box. 
"If you let them hang around, then in the last four or five minutes they become very direct," Clark said. "But it's important that our team did not give them any chances today." 
Clark was pleased with his· team's dominance. 
"I thought we controlled play from start to finish," he said. "We could have won by a lot more, but I guess you get the same amount of points for a 1­0 win as you do for a 5-0 win, and a win's a win." 
Midfielders Martin and jun­ior Luke Boughen made smart decisions distributing the ball. 
Senior outside midfielder Chad Riley won a significant number of tackles, and defenders Jack Stewart, Kevin Richards and Goldthwaite were too fast and too aggres­sive for the West Virginia attackers. 
"In the first 30 minutes, we just tried to overwhelm them with our work ethic," Martin said. "(West Virginia] is a team that has won its last four games and given up no goals. I think this is another step in our team play." 
Notre Dame is 1-1 in Big 
East conference play. The Irish lost to St. John's earlier in the season. 
Notes 
+ Forward Justin Detter and midfielder Greg Martin felt "under the weather" but still played the entire game. 
"There's a little bug going around and a couple of us weren't feeling too good, so we're glad we could come out and play the way we did," Martin said. 
Freshman forward Ian Etherington saw significant action for the second straight home game, at one point tak­ing a through pass and rocket­ing a shot past the right side of the net. 
NOTRE DAME 1, WEST VIRGINIA 0 at ALUMNI FIELD 

1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  0  1  
West Virginia  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary ND-Prescod, Devon (4). 39:14 (unassisted) 
Notre Dame-Saves 1 (Sawyer 1), Shots 16 (Detter 4), Fouls 10 West Virginia -Saves 8 (Noble 8), Shots 4 (Dennisone 2), Fouls 19 Offsides -ND 3, WV 0 Yellow card-West Vrrginia (84: 14) 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish 15th at tournament 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team shot a final-round 307 to finish in 15th place at the Inverness Intercollegiate Invitational Saturday after­noon at the famed Inverness Club in Toledo, Ohio. The Irish posted a three-round score of 934 and wound up 48 shots behind the tournament winner, UCLA. 
Sophomore Scott Gustafson was the top individual finisher for Notre Dame, tying for 46th place with a 54-hole score of 232. Freshman walk-on Adam Gifford completed a solid opening weekend with a 49th­place showing at 234, while fellow rookie Shane Sigsbee carded the low round for the Irish on Saturday with a 75 to place 58th overall at 236. 
Sophomore Dan Klauer rounded out the Notre Dame lineup, finishing 63rd overall with a 239 score. Freshman Cole Isban also made the trip for the Irish, but was disquali­fied after the second round for submitting an incorrect score­card. 
-.r-------------------------------------------------------------------~ ---------­

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 22, 2003 

I 
) 
I­
I 
\
, I I ' ' 
( 
; 
I 
I 
.
I I I I 
' 
I 
I 
! 
(• 
" 
rJI: 
~ 
,' 
f 
i 
I 
( 
., 
; 
Cross 
continued from page 28 

none of the Irish could keep up with race champion Ryan Sheehan, of St. Francis (Pa.). who was far ahead of the front pack for much of the race. 
"We were just going to run as a team today," Van Ort said. ..We were just going to stay as a team through three [miles], and see how it unfolded." 
Directly behind Van Ort was Irish junior Sean O'Donnell. who was followed by junior Ryan Johnson in sixth, senior Brian Kerwin in seventh and sophomore Austin Weaver in 18th. 
Given that the Irish were missing their top runners, both Irish squads were pleased with their performances in what amounted to a preparatory race. 
"I am very hopeful for the entire rest of the season," Meagher said. "We have a num­ber of people still on the injury 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 

the game against the Cardinal as well but could not find the net. The closest opportunity for the Irish came when senior Amanda Guertin's shot was saved by goalkeeper Nicole Barnhart and banged off the crossbar. The Irish also sent a few shots high just over the bar. Warner also played a strong game for the Irish, playing almost all 110 minutes while constantly harassing the Cardinal defenders. 
Freshman defender Christie Shaner was named the tour­nament's defensive MVP, while Boland and Warner also made the all-tournament team. 
The Irish now return home for an eight-game home-stand beginning with games against North Texas and Indiana State coming before an important weekend of Big East contests against West Virginia and Villanova starting October 3 . 
Notes 

+ The Irish are undefeated in their last 14 overtime games. 

roster. Our top runners ... did­n't even race today. We are looking really strong for the rest of the season." 
Additionally, two Notre Dame runners won their respective races in the JV division. Freshman Ann Mazur took first in the women's competition, and junior Terry Lennon came out on top in the men's race. 
In two weeks, both squads will·field their entire teams for the first time this season as the Irish host the competitive Notre Dame Invitational. 
National Catholic 
Invitational Meet 
Men finish 1st 
Women finish 1st 

ND Men's Top Finishers: Sean O'Donnell (24:52), Ryan Johnson (25:13), BrianKerwin (25:15), Austin Weaver (25:47). 
ND Women's Top· Finishers: Kerry Meagher (17:45), Maggie Nelson (18:07), Elizabeth Webster (18:15), Jean Marinangeli (18:17), Katie Wales (18.44). 

Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
+ 
The Irish have outscored their opponents this season 

+ 
Santa Clara's goal was the first scored against the Irish in 418 minutes of play. 


29-4. 
NOTRE DAME 0, STANFORD 0 
at SCU adidas Classic 

1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  0  0  0  
Santa Clara  0  0  0  

Summary Notre Dame -Saves 1 (Bohn 1), Shots 13, Comer kicks 4, Fouls 16 Stanford -Saves 5 (Barnhart 5), Shots 2, Corner kicks 2, Fouls 15 
NOTRE DAME 2, SANTA ClARA 1 
at SCU adidas Classic 

1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 1 1 2 Santa fJara 0 1 1 
Scoring Summary ND-Boland, Mary (7), 5:03 (Thorlakson, Katie) SC-Dabny, Marian (4), 62:47 (Zepeda, Veronica)) ND-Thorlakson (3), 75:14 (Boland) 
Notre Dame -Saves 0, Shots 14, Corner kicks 6, Fouls 11 Stanford -Saves 5 (Ryder 5), Shots 5. Corner kicks 1, Fouls 10 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 


Ar.~ YliD•• I.Olc:t.kiiag ·t.c:t ha.·,r~ ~r·c.Wir ~rOi:r·k p·ti·blish.edP 
~·rl·"(:,e ror t'l•~ n ...:..e a..:..d ~~ .. Do.•-.~:r· D·c:tl.l.a..rs ·if'" ~rc.-.._._.. ~ro·rk Is selected. 
:F~r •:~:a.~ra:re i•:.·ror·-aa-"t.iOt.-~ .~_. ...~ ...~t e:.J•.4e, n .....~ .-t:.: &SI.-7.52··4 
de»•:-.e@·rr•d.ed-.. 
' 
I 
' 
if 

Monday, September 22, 2003 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
M~rs~n\.:tHows ~re d~~f'OVS Pvttinj o.wo.y scvtrt like yov weo.por~~~ m~·cun .... 
he:lps tna sleep ecsy 4+ nislt+. 
NDSP: 
Battling Logic One 
Student at a Time. 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
NOMUT 
j

I I r [) 
Cl2003 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rlghla Reserved. 
LAROF 

± 
tCELLOA 
J [J 
www.jumble.com 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION .~ 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Arglrlon 
...and 10% discount 
brings the total to... 
COUNTS WHeN SHOPPING FOR 
A C.Ar<:. 


Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

EXERT PYTHON MARTIN 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Trot or canter 1 Gladiators' 40 Not for the first locale time 6 Eskimo's vehicle 41 Quick, easy motion
1oOffice message 44 Old silo missile 
14 Snouted animal 15 "_Get a 45 Pond duck 
Witness" 46 Countertenor's (Marvin Gaye counterparthit) 
47 Lackey16 Sandier of "Big 
49 Men-only affair 
Daddy" 51 Thesaurus
17 In reserve listing: Abbr. 
18 Dashiell 52 Whisper sweetHammett dog nothings19 Andes capital 54 Toy with a string20 Best available 
56 Where punches
23_-mo 
are hardest 24 Campaign (for) 
65 Opera set in 25 Philosopher ancient Egypt _-tzu 
66 Greek 28 Music, ballet, promenade sculpture, etc. 
67 Word before 31 Liquid part of circle or tube blood 
68 "Roger, _ and 36 Shade trees our 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+-,,...,.+-,~ 
-=+~~~ -r+-:-+~:-+-::-+::~ -::+~+:-~ 
69 Hosp. printouts 70 Gawk (at) 71 County center 72 Attention-getting 
sound 73 More than dislikes 
DOWN 1 Above 2 Punjabi princess 3 "Ben-Hur,• for 
one 4 Shaving 
mishaps 5 Space on a leaf 6 "Begone!" 7 Eyelid 
attachment 8 Computer key 9 Telephone 
10 Drink with a foamy head 11 Work for Hearst, e.g. 
12 Hit musical with the song "Bosom Buddies" 
13 Gen. Bradley 
21 Do without 22 Acquired relative 25 Southpaw 
30 Locations 
-:+:+.~+=~ 32 Home of the Taj Mahal 
-=+~~::+:-+:~+:-+=-~ 33 Explores the seven seas 
WILL SHORTZ 

1-:+::-r.-f 26 "Kate & " 

34 Like some eyes  48 Hangmen's  57 Busy place  
at a wedding  ropes  58 Brainstorm  
35 Playwright Chekhov 37 Pyramid scheme, e.g. 39 "_does it!" 42 Special skill  50 Cry in a kids' card game 53 A lot 55 Ship of Columbus 56 New Mexico town on the  59 Golfing vehicle 60 Robe for Caesar 61 Trunk fastener 62 Picnic pest 63 "From to EternitT  
43 Tickle pink  Santa Fe Trail  64 Uno y dos ·  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.nds1ncobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE • 
Sharing this birthday: Joan Jett, Catherine Oxenberg, David Coverdale, Scott Baio, Debby Boone 
Happy Birthday: You have a built-in need to discover what is just and truthful, and you will continue to do so until you reach your goals. Your courage and drive will help you complete what is necessary to find the success you desire. Your numbers: 3, 12, 28, 31, 34, 43 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved in activities that are going to require physical energy and stamina. Dancing or sports events will be invigorating. Talk to your peers about forming a participation group at work. 
**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't make rash decisions. Romance with a co-worker, although tempting, will make you lose grace in the eyes of your superiors. Colleagues may try to lead you astray or make you look bad. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can form partnerships, but don't move too quickly: Things may not be as they appear. Make sure that you get legal matters checked out thoroughly. Don't believe everything you're told. ***** 
. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Concentrate on your work and getting along with those you work with. If you can work with others, you will find things 
l
will turn in your favor. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be affectionate with the one you love. Chances are 1 good that if you neglect your mate, you won't have one any longer. Give of 
1 yourself. Trying to buy love won't work for very long. *** 
j
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): People from your past may try to wangle their 
~ 
way back into your life. Be cautious. They weren't good for you the last time, 
I
and you can bet that they will take advantage of you again. *** 
l
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will find it much easier to deal with relatives 
l
today. Invite them over for a visit and tell them what your intentions are. You 
I 
can make successful changes if you are focused and determined. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Unite with co-workers, and you'll be surprised at how much you can accomplish. Your suggestions will help improve your environment at work and put you in everyone's good books. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will overreact to everything at an emotional level. Don't be too hard on the ones you love. Let them know what you're going through so they don't think that they're to blame. You need to find a release for your tension. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Secret affairs may be enjoyable, but they will backfire, causing you more grief than you can imagine. You must finish one relationship before you begin another. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Your involvement in groups that are concerned with self-improvement and physical enhancement will be a positive turning point in your life.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have a problem relating to some of the people you work with. Try not to judge them, but be tolerant of the beliefs they adhere to. *** Birthday Baby: You were born to discover the inner meaning of life. Your innocent nature and openness will help you find the truth you are looking for. A strong need to help others will bring you unexpected rewards. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City------------State ____ Zip______ 
~...... 

THE OBSERVER 
p
Monday, September 22, 2003 

Page 28 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Continuing their winning ways 


MEN'S AND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
·' 
('\ 
i 
., Runners win home invitational 
Prescod's goal holds 
I . 
I ' up in 1-0 win over ol West Virginia
~· 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Devon Prescod notched his fourth goal of the season Sunday as Notre Dame knocked off Big East opponent West Virginia 1-0 at Alumni field. 
The win marks the second consecutive victory for the Irish after defeating in-state rival Indiana by a goal in dou­ble overtime Thursday night. 
Prescod scored with 5:46 remaining in the first half against a Mountaineer defense that had not given up a goal in its four previous games. Prescod won a free ball in the box and drilled a low shot past goalkeeper Nick Noble. 
"They play a 4-5-l, with just 
i 
I i I ;j 
ByJOE LINDSLEY ,' Sports Writer 
I 
I 
I ' ; Even without their top run­l 'I ners, the Irish were ahead of ~ )I }l the pack. And this came as no!" surprise to either the Irish or
< 
their opponents. l At the first of their two home \ ' meets for the season, both the l i , men and the women took first 
place Friday among the Division
Ii I ,
I . I and II teams at the Nationalf! j. Catholic Invitational. 
) I Individually, the women's con­test was won by junior Kerry
i:l,
' 
i 
: 
I 
! 
i ~ ' 
'I 
': 
Meagher, running varsity for 
fJ 
the first time in her Notre Dame 
~~ 
' career.
!i 
While the competition was somewhat more challenging ' than the first meet for the Irish, 
: 
the teams at the National 
I I Catholic Invitational are not 
l quite the caliber of those who 
) Notre Dame will face from this 
) point on in the season. Because of this, Friday's race was an opportunity for the Irish to work on running in packs and perfecting race strategy, as well as a chance for less-experi­enced runners, from freshmen to seniors, to represent Notre Dame on the varsity level. 

This was a long-awaited moment for Meagher, who won last year's junior varsity event at the National Catholic Invitational. 
I 
one forward," coach Bobby Clark said. "If you don't get the goals early, you'll keep them hanging around." 
The Irish out shot the Mountaineers 16-4 and had numerous chances to put the game away. Defender Kevin Goldthwaite hit the joint of the crossbar on a shot, and for­ward Justin Detter flicked a Nate Norman crossing pass off the crossbar. Other shots sailed just over the net. West Virginia's Noble made eight saves. 
"We're doing our best not to get frustrated on .offense," captain and center-midfielder Greg Martin said. "I thought Detter played very well. LTonyl Megna started and played well for us. The forwards are all doing a good job. The goals are going to come." 
West Virginia brought pres­sure late in the game, insert­ing goalkeeper Adam Shutler 
see PRESCOD/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Top competition doesn't faze Irish 
Women tie Stanford, defeat _Santa Clara 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

The No. 2 women's soccer team completed a solid weekend Sunday with a 2-1 victory over No. 10 Santa Clara at the SCU Adidas Classic. The Irish opened play in the tournament with a 0-0 tie against No. 16 Stanford. 
Although the Irish only scored two goals on the weekend, they dictated the majority of the play in both contests, taking a 14-5 advantage in shots against Santa Clara while having a 13-7 advantage against Stanford. 
With the win and tie, the Irish moved to 7-0-1 on the season. Santa Clara fell to 3­2-1 and Stanford exited the weekend with a 3-3-1 record. 
The Irish took the early lead against Santa Clara, with the tandem of junior Mary Boland and sophomore Katie Thorlakson combining on both goals against the Broncos. 
Thorlakson started the sequence five minutes in, with her cross going through the box to Boland, who placed the ball into the far right side of the net for her team-best seventh goal of the season, matching her com­bined total from her first two seasons at Notre Dame. 
Santa Clara notched the equalizer early in the second half, scoring on their only shot on a goal from freshman Marian Dalmy. It was only the fourth goal allowed by the Irish all season and the first goal allowed by Notre Dame in the second half of any game. 
The tie was short-lived however, with senior forward Amy Warner starting the eventual game-winning sequence. After gaining pos­session on the right side, she passed to Boland, who struck a low shot toward the goal. Santa Clara goalkeeper Julie Ryder saved the ball momen­tarily, but Thorlakson ham­mered home the rebound to provide the final margin. 
The Irish controlled most of 
see SOCCER/ page 26 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
A Notre Dame runner sprints by a fellow competitor during the National Catholic Invitational. The Irish won the meet. 
"J knew I was in really good shape, and I knew what I could do," she said. "I was where I wanted to be. The team, we stayed together as a group. It was exactly what we wanted to d0. " 
Meagher, whose 1,500-meter performance last spring took her to the regional track meet, was not alone at the top, though. Senior Maggie Nelson took second, and sophomores 
Elizabeth Webster and Jean Maringeli finished third and fourth. Senior Katie Wales arrived at the line in seventh place. 
The men also stuck together in a pack for much of the race. Led by sophomore Caleb Van Ort, who took second overall, the Irish occupied four spots in the top ten. Despite their efforts 
see CROSS/page 26 
en 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S BASKETBAll 
NFL 

FOOTBALl 
MLB

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
&1.1 
Two pilots may be 

Check out all of 
The Cubs win to pick
Alma3 

6th place finish 
Michi~n State 22 
Sunday's scores inside. 
suspended for landing 

up a game on the
1--u z Saint Mary's 1 
Notre ame 16 
an airplane at the wrong 

Astros, while the Royals
The Irish shoot 941 as
a: ::5 

The Belles fall to 1-4 
The Irish drop to 1-2
airport. The plane car-

stay alive by beating the 
a team and finish in
c::s 

on the season. 
after their home loss
ried the Irish basketball 
White Sox. 

sixh-place at the Mary
cc 
Saturday.

= team. 
Fossum Invitational. 
a. lei 

en 
page 23 
page 17, 19
page 23 

pages 16, 21 
page 23 

Irish Insider 
Monday, September 22, 2003 
----------------------------------------------~------~--------~-------------------------------------·--------------~--------------~----~ 
• 
i I 
I 
THE I 
~
0 BSERVER Michigan State 22, Notre Dame 1 6 
I 

at now? 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham stares at the grass during Notre Dame's 22-16 loss to Michigan State Saturday. Saturday's loss marked the fourth consecutive time the Spartans had beaten the Irish In Notre Dame Stadium, and it is only the 12th time in school history the Irish have started a season 1-2. 
Irish searching for answers after 22-16 loss drops their record to 1-2 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The United States flag at the north end of Notre Dame Stadium flew at half-mast Saturday in memory of late Indiana gov­ernor Frank O'Bannon. But after the Michigan State game, Irish fans might have thought it was for Notre Dame's season. 
Two Carlyle Holiday interceptions -­one of which was returned 40 yards for a touchdown -and a 71-yard touchdown run by Spartans running back Jaren Hayes buried Notre Dame. And as much as freshman quarterback Brady Quinn and sophomore wide receiver Hhema McKnight tried, a fourth quarter come­back was too late as Notre Dame fell to Michigan State, 22-16. 
"I think we played determined the entire game," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "[Wel fought all the way to the end. Losses hurt. They hurt players. They hurt the coaches. We'll bounce back." 
Quinn entered the game twice, the sec­ond time following a 40-yard interception return of a Holiday pass by Michigan State linebacker Greg Taplin to make the score 22-6. Quinn completed five passes on the team's final drive which was capped by a 29-yard touchdown pass to McKnight. 
The defense, however, could not hold 
player of the game 
Jaren Hayes 

The Spartan running back rushed for 109 yards. including a 71-yard touchdown dash that gave Michigan State the lead for good. 
Michigan State on a crucial third-and-8 play with 1:25 remaining. The Spartans gained seven yards, converted on fourth down (even after the Irish were penalized for having 12 men on the field after a timeout) and time ran out. 
Determined players, the Irish have found, isn't enough this season. 
"Football is a game. about individual battles," said middle linebacker Courtney Watson. "If every individual on your side of the ball wins that battle, then you have a very good chance of winning that game, and we haven't been able to do that the past couple of weeks." 
Michigan State began the scoring on its first drive -the first time this season that has happened for the Spartans. A 16-yard Jeff Smoker bootleg and an 11­yard pass to wide receiver Agim Shabaj set up a Dave Rayner 51-yard field goal that gave Michigan State a 3-0 lead. 
The Irish got the ball back, only to have Holiday throw a screen pass directly into the hands of Spartan linebacker Mike Labinjo. 
Quinn would play the next· two Irish series at quarterback, with Holiday start­ing the second half. 
Irish defensive lineman Cedric Hilliard forced a fumble on the ensuing Michigan State drive and defensive end Kyle Budinscak recovered at the Spartan 15. The offense settled for a 35-yard Nick Setta field goal. 
stat of the game 
4 

Current Michigan State winning streak at Notre Dame Stadium, the longest in the teams' 67-year rivalry. 
Setta kicked three field goals on the day fewer and fewer each week," Spartan and two in the first half as Notre Dame coach John Smith said. "They certainly went into the locker room tied 6-6, still contributed to our win." without an offensive touchdown since the On the other hand, the ineptitude of the Washington State victory two weeks ago. Notre Dame offense may have con­
"Usually when you're kicking a field tributed more. goal something bad happened on offense, Wide receiver Maurice Stovall dropped because you didn't get the first down or a potential first-down pass over the mid­you didn't get in the end zone," Setta dle in the second quarter that halted a said. "So you just try to help the team as Notre Dame drive, one of three he would much as you can." drop on the day. Tight end Jared Clark 
Notre Dame received the ball to start also dropped a key pass, as did running the second half, only to lose momentum back Julius Jones. on a Marcus Wilson fumble following an After the game, reporters suggested the 11-play, 45-yard drive. The defense held offense just was not clicking and that Michigan State to three-and-out the next some chemistry was missing between drive, but after poor decision-making by quarterbacks, linemen and receivers. But Holiday and an Irish punt, Spartan run­McKnight saw things a bit differently. ning back Jaren Hayes broke a 71-yard "We just got beat today," McKnight touchdown run off the left side of the said. "I don't think it's so much we're not line. clicking, we just tend to make mistakes in 
The run made the score 13-6 Michigan crucial situations. And we can't have that State. in order to be a good team." "We had one big letdown," Budinscak A solemn Hilliard, who finished the said, ''and that's all it takes." game with five tackles and a forced fum­
Despite another Setta field goal, Greg ble, simplified the matter. Taplin's 40-yard interception return for a "Right now we're not getting it done," touchdown off a Holiday miscue made he said. "It's nothing in particular. As a the score 22-9 and put the game out of team we're not getting it done. I'm kind reach. of out of it right now." 
On the one hand, the Spartan defense Why'? deserves a large amount of credit for "[We're] one-and-two, man," Hilliard containing the Irish. said. "Nobody wants to be 1-2." 
"Our defense came to play today and while we made mistakes, we are making Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
play of the game 
Greg Taplin's 40-yard Interception return for a touchdown 
NQtre Dame was trailing by a touchdown when Taplin essentially slammed the nail into the coffin. 
quote of the game 

..We're obviously not playing well enough. We haven't demonstrated anything the last two weeks .• , 
Courtney Watson Irish linebacker 



~----------~~----­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 22, 2003 
report card 
C­D 
D+ 
B­B A-
quarterbacks: Holiday struggled with hyo terrible interceptions. while Quinn helped the beleaguered offense score a touchdown. The coaches will name the starter this week. 
running backs: Grant, Jones and Wilson 
only gained a meager 62 yards on 27 
carries. And Jones couldn't catch a 
pass to save his life. 

receivers: McKnight's play -8 catches for 104 yards and a touchdown­keeps this from a failing grade. You won't win many games if your team can't catch the football. 
offensive line: Giles looked as if he'd never snapped in a shotgun forma­tion before, and the Irish running game never got going. 
defensive line: Keyed by Abiamiri, the 
line played relatively well, aside 
from the fact that it didn't sack Smoker and it gave up a huge 71­yard touchdown run. 
linebackers: As always, Watson had a solid game. Yet where were the line­backers when Spartan backs made it 
past the line of scrimmage'? 
defensive backs: Interceptions by Earl and 
Burrell were some of the highlightc; for 
Notre Dame's secondary, which only 
allowed Smoker to throw for 119 yards. 
8 
+
special teams: Setta may be emerging as Notre Dame's most reliable scoring 
threat even as his punting raises ques­tions. Duff unleashed a big return. 
D 
coaching: Defensively, the Irish seemed to have the Spartans' num­ber for most of the day. Offense is 
another question. And another life­
less performance didn't help. 
2.19 
overall: With two road games against unranked opponents and three games against ranked ones looming, the Irish have a tough road ahead. 
adding up the numbers 
combined votes Irish received in the Associated Press and coaches' polls 
0 

13 
times Notre Dame has lost at least two of its first three games in school history 
times the Irish managed a winning season 
3 

after losing two of its first three games (1896, 1978, 1983) 
national ranking of Notre Dame's offense, sorted by yards. The Irish are
113 
ahead of Arizona, Louisiana-Lafayette, UCLA and Southern Methodist 
points kicker Nicholas Setta has scored this 
2 4 
year, six more than the rest of the team com­bined 
10 
quarters this season in which the Irish offense has not scored a touchdown 
yards Spartans punter Brandon Fields booted 
7g
the ball on a second-quarter punt 
consecutive times the flag has been at half­2 mast for an lrish-Spartans game in South Bend -2001's flag was lowered for Sept. 11 and 2003's flag was lowered for Frank O'Bannon 

How bad was Notre Dame Saturday against Michigan State'? Let me count the ways: 
One, quarterback Carlyle Holiday possibly had the worst game of his Notre Dame career-which isn't saying much for the oft-maligned signal caller who may lose his starting job to freshman Brady Quinn next weekend. 
Holiday played so poorly that he ought to consider switching sports -say to basketball. After all, he attempted more 


bounce passes Chris Federico Saturday than Notre Dame point guard Chris Thomas. Sports Writer Holiday's 10­for-25 perform­ance with two interceptions -one of which was returned for a touchdown and served as the "nail in the coffin," as Spartans coach John Smith described it after the game -was just the beginning of Notre Dame's troubles. Two, even on the rare occasions that Holiday's throws were on the money -and in his defense, some of them were -the Irish receivers were likely to drop the balls. Notre Dame had at least eight dropped balls that should have been comple­tions, including such beauties as Maurice Stovall's third-down drop at the start of the second quarter to move the chains and Jared Clark's potential first-down reception from Quinn that could have put the Irish in scoring position near~the end of the first half. Three, one of the reasons that many of Holiday's passes were car­
oming off of the turf in Notre Dame Stadium was that, for the third straight game, he was attempting to deliver most of them while falling to his backside. While Michigan State only had three sacks -which is three more than the Irish defense had all day ­Spartan defenders had free range on Holiday and Quinn all afternoon. 
Four, while one way to cure the problem of pressure on the quar­terbacks would be to run the shot­gun, Notre Dame couldn't do that because center Zach Giles couldn't complete the simple task of snap­ping the ball to the quarterback without sending it above his head, throwing off any rhythm the quar­terback may have had with the play. 
Five, but even getting past all these problems, the Irish managed to put together a · few impressive drives that pleasure of hosting
The scary part is this 
should have USC, who blew 
resulted in game was an easy one Notre Dame up for 
touchdowns and for the Irish and 610 yards of a Notre Dame offense last year.
a must-win.
victory. But time and again, the Irish took them­selves right out of the game with costly penalties and turnovers at the most crucial time. 
All three Irish turnovers halted successful drives and swung the momentum right back into the hands of Michigan State. Holiday's interception on a swing pass attempted for fullback Rashon Powers-Neal stopped a seven-play, 33-yard drive that could have answered Michigan State's game­opening field goal. Marcus Wilson's fumble turned around a 12-play, 49-yard drive to start the second half, and Holiday's second intercep­tion all but sealed the victory for the Spartans. 
But unlike most Notre Dame games of the past year and a half, offensive anemia was not the only gripe. Even the once-mighty Irish defense bears some of the blame for Saturday's loss. 
Six, while the defense contained the Spartan running backs for the most part, they suffered a complete breakdown on a Jaren Hayes 71­yard touchdown run. Later, with the team in striking distance and only needing a third-and-8 stop to get the offense back on the field for a last-minute drive to win the game, the defense fell short, allow­ing Hayes a 7-yard run to set up the first down and the Spartan vic­tory. 
But the scary part is, this game was an easy one for the Irish and a must-win. They now have to travel to take on two potential top-25 teams in Purdue and Pittsburgh, 
then they get to 

come home for the 
After that, it's on 

the road to take on 
rival Boston College, followed by a home game with a Florida State squad bent on revenge. 
"It is really hard to point to any positives from today's game," run­ning back Julius Jones said. "I think everyone is feeling the pres­sure now." 
And they should, because without some major improvements after Saturday's performance, the Irish are staring a 1-7 start right in the eyes. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd. edu. 
------------------=-----------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ 
Monday, September 22, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Quinn shines; is the Holiday over? 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
If there wasn't a bona-fide quarter­back controversy before Notre Dame lost 22-16 to Michigan State, there is now. 
There is after Carlyle Holiday com­pleted just 10-of-25 passes for 99 
·yards, including two interceptions (one of which was returned 40 yards by Greg Taplin for a touchdown), and got yanked not once, but twice._ 
There is after his backup, true freshman Brady Quinn, completed 7­of-1 7 passes for 1 03 yards, including a 29-yard touchdown pass to Rhema McKnight. 
There is after Irish head coach issued his least definite defense of Holiday to date -"We'll make that decision later in the week" and "No, I don't" know who the starter is now­and offense coordinator Bill Diedrick said the pair would split reps equally in practic.e this week. 
So what did Holiday have to say about T-shirts on campus that read, "The Holiday is over -Quinn to 
.
Will"? . 
"That's the first time I heard that," he said, a smile tugging on the cor­ners of his mouth. "That's cool, though. I probably won't wear one." 
But Holiday and the Irish coaches know the current state of the Irish quarterback position is no laughing matter. Diedrick, normally one of the most quotable Irish coaches, was uncharacteristically reserved after Saturday's loss, saying he'd prefer not to comment on the nation's 116th­ranked offense until he'd seen game tape. 
"There's a lot of thoughts I have right now," the coach said, "and not a lot are pleasant." 
After all, Notre Dame's offense has­n't scored a touchdown in 10 of 12 quarters this season and struggled of the game and was benched. While the coaches remained rela­again to move the ball Saturday. Then Quinn came in and led the tively silent after the game, Diedrick 
But the quarterback situation is in Irish on a nine-play, 85-yard drive praised Quinn while only saying complete turmoil after the coaches that culminated in the freshman's first Holiday "struggled." Both Diedrick shuffled Holiday and Quinn in and out collegiate touchdown pass. and Willingham refused to speculate of the game for different series After the game, Quinn defended on who would start Saturday at Saturday. Holiday left the field in the Holiday and ripped the T-shirts tout­Purdue, insisting that a decision first half to a cascade of boos from the ing the freshman as the starter, say­would be made after analyzing game stands, a move the coaches said they ing, "I don't think a lot of people know film and seeing how the players per­made because wanted Holiday to what it feels like and how it all works. formed in practice. watch the game from the sidelines Only a quarterback knows what all "The quarterback situation, that's before he went back in the game. goes on, and I think [the criticism] is not a big concern to me," Holiday 
So Holiday marched back onto the really unfair." said. "I think the main thing is losing field at the start of the second half, But Quinn also said that while he the game. It hurt a lot. Just when you and the Irish began to move the ball didn't have Holiday's game experi­look over and see some of the players with some efficiency. But on Notre ence, he was confident he could start on the team and they're crying, that's Dame's first drive of the second half, a if the coaches wanted him to. And what really hurts. 12-play, 49-yard effort, ended in a teammates -including Holiday -"It was a really painful game." Marcus Wilson fumble. Three drives have been impressed with the fresh­later, with the Irish trailing 16-9, man's poise and early grasp of Contact Andrew Soukup at Holiday threw his second interception Diedrick's complicated offense. asoukup@nd.edu 
McKnight's play provides silver lining 
. 

drive. lineman had more than two. Dame's last two games, sat
Observer Staff Report · 
"He stepped up and made out Saturday with an injury 
One of the few bright plays, and everybody else Spartan success Diedrick said was suffered lights for the Notre Dame has to follow suit across the Michigan State's victory in practice last week. offense Saturday was the board," offensive coordina­Saturday came in part Diedrick did not elaborate play of sophomore receiver tor Bill Diedrick said. "He because of two players who Ot;I the injury. Rhema McKnight, who stepped up and made plays had recently fallen on hard Meanwhile, Ryan Grant caught eight passes for 104 today." times. left the field in the third yards, including a 29-yard Greg Taplin, who picked quarter with an undiselosed touchdown catch late in the Fresh impact off a Carlyle Holiday pass injury but said he expected fourth quarter. In just his third game of and returned it 40 yards for to play this weekend. 
But McKnight, like the rest his college career, freshman a touchdown, had a rocky Morton's replacement, of the Irish, didn't want to defensive end Victor relationship with coach John Zach Giles, struggled snap­talk about his positive play Abiamiri recorded seven Smith that has improved so ping the ball in the shotgun Saturday. tackles as he filled in for much recently that Smith formation. 
''I'm just worried about Justin Tuck. called the lineman "his son." "When you're concerned the negatives right now and But the freshman didn't And backup quarterback about makbg reads and you not thinking about the posi­take much pride in his Drew Staton, who dropped have to jump up to catch the tives,'' he said. "We have to strong play. an onside kick last week ball, it is a little distracting correct the negatives first "We wanted to win today that allowed Louisiana Tech and you lose fractions of before we worry about and we didn't do that, so any to rally to beat the Spartans, seconds," Diedrick said. that." individual play didn't mat­recovered Nicholas Setta's 
Still, the sophomore ter," he said. onside kick attempt to help Gameday captains receiver developed a rhythm Abiamiri was one of the seal the Spartan victory. Notre Dame's captains for with quarterback Brady few defensive linemen to Saturday's game were Quinn on the game·'s final record a significant amount Irish injuries Grant, Hilliard, linebacker drive, catching four of the of tackles. Cedric Hilliard Bob Morton, who had Courtney Watson and tight five complete passes on that tallied five, but no other started at center in Notre end Billy Pi!lmer. 

•
scoring summary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 3 3 3 7 16 ­Michigan State 3 3 7 9 22 
First quarter 
Michigan State 3, Notre Dame 0 
Dave Rayner 51-yard field goal with 11:18 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 22 yards, 2:48 elapsed 
Notre Dl}me 3, Michigan State 3 
Nicholas Setta 29-yard field goal with 2:59 remaining Drive: 4 plays, (-3) yards, 2:05 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Michigan State 3 
Setta 29-yard field goal with 14:11 remaining 
-
Drive: 7 plays, 17 yards, 2:37 elapsed 
Michigan State 6, Notre Dame 6 
Rayner 30-yard field goal with 7:43 remaining 
Drive: 9 plays, 35 yards, 3:49 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Michigan State 13, Notre Dame 6 
Jaren Hayes 71-yard run (Rayner kick) with 5:25 remaining Drive: 1 play, 71 yards, :13 elapsed 
Notre Dame 9, Michigan State 13 
Setta 30-yard field goal with :30 remaining 
Drive: 11 plays, 68 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Michigan State 16, Notre Dame 9. 
Rayner 30-yard field goal with 9:10 remaining 
Drive: 17 plays, 78 yards, 6:20 elapsed 
M~chigan State 22, Notre Dame 9 
Greg Taplin 40-yard interception return (Brandon Fields pass failed) with 6:55 remaining 
Notre Dame 16, Michigan State 22 Rhema McKnight 29-yard pass from Brady Quinn (Setta kick) with 2:29 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 85 yards, 1:41 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 
-

passing yards 2021
IND
IIIJIIIUJ return yards 
IND~
ISM! • time of possession 
~D 31:52!
KI¥J!-J=I•i:i 
s 

37·100 rushes-yards 39·198
•
17·42·2 comp-att-int 13-27-2 
7-270 punts-yards 3-27 
0-0 fumbles-lost 1·1 
8-55 penalties-yards 8-55 ­
20 first downs 15 
passing 

Holiday 10-25-2 Smoker 13-27-2 Quinn 7-17-0 
rushing 

Jones  14-32  Hayes  19-109  
Holiday  8-29  Dortch  12-64  - 
Grant  10-21  Smoker  3-21  
Wilson  3-11  Shabaj  1-(-8)  
Quinn  2·7  

receiving 

McKnight  8-104  Brown  3-26  
Jenkins  3-33  Randall  2-18  
Samardzija  1-19  Hayes  2-18  "''  
Fasano  1-15  Alexander  2-13  
Palmer  1-13  ScoH  1-19  
Schmidt  1-10  Shabaj  1-11  
Grant  1·7  Trannon  1·9  
Stevenson  1·1  Dortch  1-5  

tackling page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 22, 2003 

Watson  12  Smith  12  
Abiamiri  7  Labinjo  9  
Earl  6  Askew  8  
Beckstrom  6  BarneH  6  


Irish fans look on In disbelief as their team loses Its second game of the season, falling to an unranked Michigan State team at home. 

Despite outgaining the Michigan State offense by two yards, Notre Dame 
UITE 
didn't have enough to get it done against the Spartans and fell by a score of 22-16. 
Interceptions, fumbles, bad shotgun snaps, wobbly punts, dropped passes and poorly­


thrown passes added up to Notre Dame's second loss of the year. The home team could not get it done against a mediocre opponent, and the schedule isn't getting any easier. 
NOUGH 








