
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Cheney to visit campus amid protests 
VP to raise funds for Chocola 
Getty Images 
VIce president Dick Cheney speaks at a fundralser for Pennsylvania Congressman Jim Gerlach Oct. 3. Cheney will visit campus today to raise money for Indiana Congressman Chris Chocola. 
Arts and Letters to foster student discussion 
demic setting to the real-world 
By MATIHEW SMEDBERG problems which surround us. 
News Writer Under the program in Spring 
2002, students organized a dis­
The College of Arts and Letters cussion of the issues in the is looking to revive the "Residing Middle East, particularly the in a World of Ideas" initiative Israel-Palestine conflict. That that began two years ago to fos­event covered three evenings: ter discussion of important discussion panels in Keough and events and ideas in a non-class­Walsh halls and a Seder meal room setting. (the traditional Jewish Passover 
The initiative, started under supper) in the Hesburgh Center. the direction The panels consisted of then­of three or four profes­Associate "This program is sors each and two stu­Dean Greg dents, but the College
designed so that
Dowd and visualizes this as a stu­
now under we can have more 
dent-run and student­the direction meaningful driven undertaking. It of his succes­is the responsibility of
dialogue in our 
sor, Hugh students to submit the
community.,
Page, pro­applications to the vides support College and set the for students Hugh Page agenda for the discus­who wish to sions.
Associate Dean of
bring mem­"What are students
Arts and Letters 

bers of the passionate about at campus com-Notre Dame?" asked munity Page. "What is press­together in the residence halls to ing in their lives? This program discuss current issues. is designed so that we can have 
The program is part of the more meaningful dialogue in our College's commitment to foster­community." ing not only first-class scholar­The Office of Student Affairs is ship and undergraduate educa­assisting the initiative with tion, but also to promote a cul­financial support. ture of "learning outside the classroom," applying the infor­Contact Matthew Smedberg at mation gained in a formal aca-msmedberg.l @nd.edu 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS News Writer 
Vice President Dick Cheney is scheduled to speak at the Joyce Center today as the keynote speaker in a non-Notre Dame­sponsored fundraising event for Indiana Congressman Chris Chocola. 
The $250 per-plate fundraiser will be preceded by a $2,000 meet-and-greet session with Cheney. The combination of these events could potentially raise over $250,000 for Chocola's re-election campaign. 
The official purpose of Cheney's visit is unrelated to the University of Notre Dame. University officials said they are renting out the Joyce Center to Chocola's campaign as a busi­ness decision and are in no way endorsing Chocola as a political candidate. 
Various groups on cam pus oppose the polices of Cheney and Chocola, both Republicans. The Notre Dame Peace Coalition is sponsoring a protest today in alliance with other campus and community organizations, including the Notre Dame Progressive Alliance, the Notre Dame College Democrats, Notre Dame Amnesty International. 
Women's Action for New Directions, Notre Dame Faculty and Staff Progressive Alliance, and Michiana Peace and Justice Coalition, peace groups from IUSB and Bethel College. 
"We are using the protest as a forum to express our dissent. We arc protesting what Dick Cheney represents, including his ideology of pre-emptive war. We are also upset with his decision to support Congressman Chris Chocola, whose policies we dis­agree with," said Liz Fallon, co­founder of the Notre Dame Peace Coalition. Protesters will meet at 10 a.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, and the protest will take place at the Joyce Center from 10:30 a.m. to 
1:00 p.m. 
Thirty members of the Notre Dame College Republicans, however, will be volunteering at the event, according to Brandi Gill. vice president of the College Republicans. These stu­dents will help with check-in and escort people to their seats. 
"I think it's great that Cheney cares enough about Chocola to come and speak at his fundrais­er again," Gill said. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 

SENATE 

Group postpones vote until Sunday 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate began debate Wednesday on a reso­lution which will, if passed, begin a series of changes that could eventually change the face of Student Government. 

Student Body President Pat Hallahan presented the reso­lution to the senators. The resolution called for three changes -first that the power of budget approval be given to the Executive Cabinet, second that thFee senators be appointed to serve on the Executive Cabinet and the Student 
see SENATE/page 4 



Catholic journal moves to ND 
Catholic education, has recent­University, the University of

By LAURA VILIM 
ly moved its editorial offices to Dayton and the University of 
News Writer 
Notre Dame from the San Francisco-as well as a University of Dayton. substantial grant from the Lilly 

Catholic Education: A The quarterly journal was Foundation. Journal of Inquiry and established in 1997 as a result The decision to move the Practice, the only scholarly of the efforts of four American journal to Notre Dame was a journal devoted solely to universiti-es Fordham research and analysis of University, Saint Louis see JOURNAL/page 4 

Thursday, October 9, 2003

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

For the love of the game 
As the 2003 major-league season draws to a close, I find that people are wearing their hearts on their sleeves -literally. In the last week I've noticed an increase in the Cubs jerseys worn around campus Katherine Gales and the Red Sox hats on people's 
heads. For every Wire Editor 
person wearing 

a Yankees cap sideways. I've seen a "Yankees Suck" trucker hat, 
-T-shirt or sticker in someone's dorm room. I've personally been a disappoint­ed baseball fan this year. The Phillies, despite the acquisition of Jim Thome, lost a tough Wild Card race and also lost me a bet. I also grew up watching the Twins, thanks to my dad, an Iowa native -and yes, we've been to Dyersville, where "Field of Dreams" was filmed. Unfortunately, their fleeting moment of victory over the Yankees ended in bitter defeat. The sweet part of this, however, means I can sit back comfortably, albeit bitterly, and watch the post­season unfold. The Cubs fans are my personal favorites; they believe in their team in a way that I find endearing. Our interhall football coaches bring a portable radio when the Cubs are playing, and can barely contain their excitement between . Cavanaugh football and Cubbies baseball. Red Sox supporters are a close second -anyone from Boston who can butcher "Nomar Garciaparra" in the name of love deserves recog­nition, and the fact that every year can be a championship year­despite Babe Ruth's famous curse -leaves me admiring their opti­mism. And memo to all Yankees fans: it doesn't take talent to buy talent. But I think the real baseball game is never televised. Sure, it's cracker jack and $100 million pay­rolls, but it's also the kid on his or her field of dreams. Baseball gives every kid a chance to be a hero-Hollywood has capi­talized on this with countless movies. It's my dad in the backyard hit­ting countless balls to us in games, and the Little Leaguers who look like bobble-head dolls in their bat­ting helmets. Baseball is a game for all ages ­when fourteen to fifty-year olds can play pick up games on a summer afternoon in dying sunlight, with all talent levels and good-natured fun for everyone. As much as I enjoy watching the big leagues, to me, the beauty of baseball is in the people who play for love, not money. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards i rself as a professional publication and srrives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, rec­ognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
11

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TIME DO YOU THINK THE SEASON" WILL BE ON TONIGHT? 

Damlen Karas Matt Edwards Patrick Ross Robert Casarez Scott Soracoe Sean Smith 







Sophomore Senior Morrissey Stanford 
"Noon." "I hate Bob Davie. , 
IN BRIEF 

The Department of Music, as well as the Department of Film, Television and Theatre and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies are holding a vocal workshop featuring Rosemary Ashe today from 2:30 to 3:30 
p.m. in · the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. No tickets are required. 
The Circle K Club of Notre Dame is having its first social event of the semester. They will be having a barbecue on South Quad. Come out and meet fellow club members and get some food. The barbecue takes place today from 6:30 to 8 p.m. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre is spon­soring a performance of "Tartuffe" by Moliere. The show is tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center or by calling 1-8128. 
SUB is sponsoring the Class of 2005 Late Night Grill tonight on North Quad from 9 to 10 p.m., followed by a free showing of "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" in 101 DeBartolo at 10p.m. 
See fellow students show off their comedic talents tonight at Open Mic Night at Legends. Open mic takes place from 9 to 
11:30 p.m. 

Enjoy campus bands and great LaFun food at Acousticafe tonight from 9 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune basement. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH 
61 
LOW 
41 
Sophomore  Sophomore  Junior  Junior  
Morrissey  Sorin  Off-Campus  St. Edward's  
"I don't know. I  "What season?"  "I think it will  "It's still on?"  
haven't  be a five-second  

watched it.·· clip on "Sports Center. ... 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Officers from Notre Dame Security Pollee fold the American flag Wednesday after­noon on South Quad. 
OFFBEAT 
"I have been in firefight­ing for many years, but I have never seen anything like this happen," Culdesac Fire Chief Gary Gilliam said. 
It happened Saturday when a motorist who ran out of fuel put gas in the tank and then primed the carburetor. On restarting, the van backfired, throwing sparks into the cab and igniting the dog's fur. 
A passenger let the dog out, and it rolled in dry grass, putting out the flames on its coat but setting the grass afire. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Man Jogs Route 66 to Celebrate Birthday 
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. -Geores Buttner-Clevenger can't escape the fact that he turned 66 last year -the road signs won't let him. 
Buttner-Clevenger is jog­ging historic Route 66 from Chicago to Santa Monica in six months and six days as part of an extended birth­day celebration. 
He's been trying to cover six miles in the morning and six miles in the evening and is set to finish the 2,448­mile trek on Sunday at 6:06 p.m. 
The retired radiation technician from Berkeley, 
TODAY 
0:: 

now 67, says that along the way, he's been attacked by ticks and slowed by every­thing from arthritis to mug­gers. He had to dodge numerous cars and was robbed twice in Oklahoma. 
Backfire Ignites Dog, Dog Sets Grass Fire 
CULDESAC, Idaho -This dog was having a bad fur day. The dog, whose coat caught fire when the owner's vehicle backfired, ignited a grass fire just off U.S. Highway 95. 
Firefighters doused the grass fire and reported the dog was unhurt, only smelling of burnt hair. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
L&.l :::1: 
~ 
3: L&.l .... 
<
(,.) 






0 

HIGH 79 HIGH HIGH HIGH
.... 

LOW 52 LOW LOW LOW 
55 48 
77 56 
73 50 

Atlanta 77 I 60 Boston 74 I 55 Chicago 82 I 52 Denver 87 I 53 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 77 I 63 Minneapolis 83 1 62 New York 78 I 60 Philadelphia 78 I 60 Phoenix 96 I 74 Seattle 57 I 46 St. Louis 77 I 54 Tampa 88 I 71 Washington 76 1 61 
r 
Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

Cerneka discusses Brazilian prisons 
Slop Art hits Moreau Galleries
By ANNIE BASINSKI 
News Writer 

Heidi Cerneka, a Maryknoll lay volunteer, spoke yesterday about her experiences of working with women living under inhuman conditions in Brazilian prisons. 
The brown bag lunch discus­sion, titled, "A Life on the Margins: Faith and Solidarity with Brazil's Poor," was attended by approximately 30 students and faculty members and took place in Haggar Parlor Wednesday as part of Poverty and Hunger Awareness Week. 
Cerneka, a 1987 graduate of Saint Mary's, has worked in Brazil w i t h 
are accessible are 80 percent over capacity and poorly maintained. 
One of Cerneka's goals as a mis­sionary worker is to "bring that question of women in prison to the forefront. so that the more people that know, the more we 
have  a  chance  of  changing  
things," she said.  
Cerneka,  who  speaks  

Portuguese, Spanish and English, works and talks with female pris­oners who are not provided with adequate health care, who are tortured in prison, are living in overcrowded jails and are forced to wait years for their trials because of Brazil's slow judicial system. She communicates with these women five to six times per week about ways in 
Maryknoll for eight years and returned  ..Because [women prisoners] are fewer  which they can work together to fight for better conditions in  
to campus to speak about her work with women on the  and incite fewer rebellions, their cry for injustice ... is  prisons. "Because [women prisoners) are fewer and incite fewer  
streets and in prison to increase  heard by practically ,no one.  rebellions. their cry for injustice -or rather, a more  
awareness of  humane situation  - 
issues related  Heidi Cerneka  is heard by practical­ 
to social injus­tice in Brazil.  Maryknoll volunteer  ly no one." Cerneka has written.  
T  h  e  According  to  

Maryknoll Mission Association for Cerneka, most of these women Lay People is a Catholic organiza­have committed petty crimes, tion committed to volunteer work such as trafficking small amounts for social justice in Africa, Asia of drugs. Other women were indi­and Latin America rectly involved in crimes through 
Cerneka said her goals for mis­their relationships with men who sionary work change as new deal or traffic drugs. problems arise, but at this point Cerneka does not believe that in her life she hopes to spread the · incarceration is an effective cor­knowledge of the problems that rectional technique for women exist for women living in Brazilian accused of these crimes. Instead, prisons. She also hopes to build a she believes imprisonment only stronger network of missionary contributes to the problems these workers to help combat these women face; once released from problems. prison, she said, they are unem­
In Brazil, few facilities are avail­ployed. able to be used as women's pris­Former prisoners have difficulty ons. and the limited number that obtaining employment, especially 
because the unemployment rate 
in Brazil is 20 percent. Out of 
work. former prisoners often 
resort to crime so that they can 
survive, bringing them back to life 
in prison. 

Instead of imprisonment, 
Cerneka proposes treatment and 
alternative sentencing, but she 
admits that there is no clear solu­
tion to the problem of ending 
crime. 

Cerneka said people often 
asked her the question, "Why do 
you bother?" in regard to her 
efforts to fight poverty and other 
problems that seem to have no 
solutions. 

Her answer, she said, is that, 
"[Problems of injustice are) not 
about to stop, so we're not going 
to give up." 

Cerneka concluded her talk with a message of hope by read­ing an excerpt from a speech written by Czechoslovakian politi­cal hero Vaclav Havel: "Hope is not the same as joy that things are going well. or willingness to invest in enterprises that are obvi­ously headed for early success, but rather, an ability to work for something that is good, not just because it stands a chance to suc­ceed." 
Kristen Carrigan, Saint Mary's senior and member of Peacemakers, a club that aims to educate the College community about social injustices, described Cerneka's discussion as an inspi­ration to all those seeking social justice. 
Carrigan said that "even when an issue [about social injustice] is so overwhelming, when you step back and focus on the people involved -that's where you fmd hope-because they don't give up, so you can't either." 
Contact Annie Basinski at basi0223@saintmarys.edu 

The ND/SMC German Club proudly presents 

Saturday October 11th 9:oop.m. -1:30 a.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
FREE 

Join us for free food, beverage, and authentic German music 
Featuring a live German band with Polka dancing 9-11 and a DJ playing all the hits 11-1:30 
By ANNE MAHONEY 
News Writer 

"Slop Art," the latest exhibi­tion to hit Moreau Art Galleries. has received an enthusiastic reaction from the Saint Mary's community, possibly because of its unconventional artistic qual­ity. 
The exhibition began last Friday with a festive Grand Opening. The official "Slop Art" mission is to "elevate fine art to the level of consumer culture," and many fea­tured artistic only intellectual, 
"They are trying to 
items within the but educational gallery are remi­make the art world and monetary."niscent of popular Hoefle said.
more accessible to 
consumer stores. 

"The artists of
the average Joe.·· 
A series of four post-modernismshrink-wrapped recognize that G e o r g e Krista Hoefle art is about Washington por­
Moreau Galleries ambiguities."
traits hangs Accompanying
Director
above a bright yellow price tag with the consumer-grabbing phrase, "Perfect for Pro­American Art Lovers!" A Slop Art brand quilt boasts its price of $4,999.99, prominently sewed on the front. 
"They are trying to make the art world more accessible to the average Joe," said Moreau Galleries Director Krista Hoefle. "These young artists are more concerned with start­ing conversation and raising questions, not exactly giving answers." 
And they have raised ques­tions. Wary passers-by have been caught off-guard by the context of the gallery setting combined with their role as 
customers. 

Contrary to popular skepti­cism. Slop Art really is for sale. Curators/artists Adriene Herman and Brian Reeves appeared for the opening as salespeople -complete with price scanners -urging their potential customers to take home a vile of museum dust or a "George Dub-Ya" coaster. They were also available to provide information on the common misgivings of contem­porary art. 
"It's about celebrating art as 
a commodity, not 
the exhibition is 
a persuasive audio tour and a free grocery circulation-style catalog featur­ing art on sale from over 130 artists. Customers can also try out the TV Simulator CD-ROM from Slopware. where they can surf the Slop Art channels and create their own art. 
Slop Art has been appearing nation-wide at fine arts gal­leries, colleges and universities since its launch in Madison, Wise. in 1995. The exhibition in Moreau Art Galleries is free and open to the public until Nov. 1. 
Contact Anne Mahoney at maho9505@nd.edu 

At~ ~ Announces the folloorinc ;ntroductooy offers of••• 

·----··---··----··----··----· 
I I I I I $69 I I I I $79 I 
$79

1 $18 1 1 $26 I 1 Color, Cut & I I I I Highlights, I Mens Cut I ICut & Style I Style I I Perm. Cue 1lc Sryle I I Cut & Style 1
I 

One Process

·----··---··----··----··----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Musr be preunred ro Receprionisr BefOre Services Are Paformed 
Jennifer -KJ -Kefly -Elena 
Nor v.ilid fOr <pir.d pcmu. l.ong or onred hair addS 10. No od>cr W.. ATRIA SALON rouna apply. Opm some ""''"'"S'-A'TRIA Salon """"""" lh< righ< w 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr.
rdi.Jse JdVla m any dicn[ whose hair condition is unm:atablc. Corner of Edison 
OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 
page4 The Observer + NEWS 
and the Judicial Council would too important to debate and vote 
be independent of the other two on in one meeting, and some
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Body Vice President be given voting membership on the com­mittee and fmally that the power to amend the Student Union Constitution. 
Hallahan said that the reason­ing behind these changes came from the concerns expressed regarding the current inefficien­cies of Student Government. 
"A lot of the concerns we heard were that Student Government is inefficient in many ways . . . there is certainly room for improvement," Hallahan said. 

He said that tentative long­term plans to improve efficiency .include converting the Executive Cabinet into a new committee entitled the Council of Representatives, which would seat members from each com­mittee in Student Government. 
Student Government would then be grouped into four divi­sions: policy, which would include the Office of the President and the Student Senate; programming, which would include the Student Union Board, the Club Coordination Council and the Hall Presidents' Council; the Financial Management Board; and finally, the Judicial Council. The Financial Management Board divisions to ensure their impar­tiality. 

"The idea for this is to fmd a way to collaborate better and be more efficient," Hallahan said. "What we want to do is work out a situation in which all poli­cy groups come together and work more efficiently, and all the programming groups come together and work more effi­ciently." 
Currently, the Executive Cabinet represents all upper­level student government com­mittees, except for the Senate. 
"We need to fmd a group that brings all student groups togeth­er," Hallahan said. "We've gone too long on separate paths." 
Hallahan asked the Senate to pass the resolution Wednesday so he could report their progress on the issue to the Board of Trustees in his report to them next Thursday. His report will center on the administration's interaction, particularly the Campus Life Council, with the Student Government and the student body. 
Hallahan said he believes that if he can show the board that Student Government is making strides to become more efficient, then the board will be more inclined to make strides to improve. communication with Student Government. 
But senators felt this issue was were concerned that the Senate would give up too much power by passing all three sections of this resolution. They decided, therefore, to table the discussion until their next official meeting. 
Hallahan protested their deci­sion, saying that these changes are not about the power of one group relative to another. 
"This isn't about a single per­son, a single commission or a single group," he said. "This is about the Student Union as a whole." 
In order to reach a conclusion on this resolution before Hallahan's Board of Trustees report. senators decided to hold an additional official meeting on Sunday. They will then continue debate on the content of the res­olution before voting on it. 
Suggestions regarding content of the resolution included removing the clause that the Executive Cabinet be given the authority to approve the budget in order to debate that as a sep­arate issue. Also suggested was changing the second clause to state that four senators be appointed to the Executive Cabinet, ensuring equal repre­sentation of male and female dorms. 
Contact Maween Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Director named to national academy 
organization's history. since 1999 and"brings socialBy MATIHEW SMEDBERG Bredemeier received her doc­scientists and sports practition­
News Writer 

torate from Temple University ers together to build character and has taught at several high­and promote civic responsibility 
Brenda Light Bredemeier, profile universities. She co­through sports," according to its director of the Mendelson authored "Character mission statement. Center for Sports, Character Development and Physical 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at

and Community, has been Activity" with her co-director at 
msmedberg@nd.edu

named a fellow of the American the Mendelson Center, David Academy of Kinesiology and Shields. Her principal area of 
Physical Education (AAPKE). 

The AAPKE, founded in 1926, consists of the top 100 scholars in the field. To become a mem­ber. individuals must be nomi­nated by a current member of the academy, be currently engaged in professional and/or scientific work in kinesiology or physical education, and must have significantly influenced their profession or discipline. There have been approximately 450 active members in the study relates to how experience in athletics is related to moral reasoning and behavior. 
An MPKE spokesperson said membership is for life. though members must pay dues to the organization. Upon retirement from academia or professional activity, a member may request that he or she be made a "fel­low emeritus" of the academy. 
The Mendelson Center, an institute for research into sports and athletics, has operated 

Open House _ 
tit
Wednesday, 0ctQbet 15 



Journal 
continued from page 1 

multi-step process that began in the spring of 2001 when the five-year Lilly grant came to term. The end of the grant led to the establishment of a gov­erning board that consists of members from 15 universities across the country. 
In addition to providing the finances required to cover the costs of operating the journal, the universities are also dedi­cated to promoting advances in Catholic education. Twice a year, representatives of the board meet to discuss the over­all policies and direction of the journal to ensure that each uni­versity has the ability to con­tribute its ideas for the journal. 
After a six-year tenure at the University of Dayton, the gov­erning board chose to move the journal's facilities to Notre Dame in part because this University was willing to make the additional financial contri­bution to house the editorial offices. Furthermore, Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives has developed inno­vative approaches to Catholic education that are unique to this University alone. 
The most innovative programs for education at Notre Dame are made possible through the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), a two-year service pro­gram that offers college gradu­ates the opportunity to teach in under-funded Catholic schools in the United States. Catholic Education is also supported by the ACE Leadership Program. ACE Consulting, the Center for Research on Educational Opportunity and the Mendelson Center for Sport, Character and Culture. The editorial offices of the journal are housed within ACE. and the journal is co-edit­ed by Rev. Ronald Nuzzi, the director of the ACE Leadership Program. 
Each issue of Catholic Education, which has over 500 individual and institutional sub­scriptions in the United States and over 60 subscriptions inter­nationally, contains several arti­cles. a section that focuses on one particular aspect of Catholic education, several reviews of research that is currently being conducted and book reviews. Information in the journal is not confined to post-secondary insti­tutions but also covers educa­tional programs from kinder­garten through the grade 12. 
The next edition of the jour­nal. to be published in December, will include two arti­cles on Catholic schools in Australia, a focus section devot­ed to the experiences of Latino students at Notre Dame, and two articles detailing the differ­ences between private and pub­lic schools. 
Julie Wernick, the managing editor of the journal and a grad­uate of the ACE program, said that one of the aspects of Catholic Education that distin­guishes it from other Catholic magazines is the fact that it is entirely academic, and that each article is written by a pro­fessional in the field of educa­tion. 
"It is the only refereed schol­arly research journal on Catholic education," Wernick s~d. . 
Currently, Catholic Education will continue to be sponsored by Notre Dame for the next five years. At that time, there will be an opportunity for one of the other 15 universities to host it and support its purposes of fur­thering a new vision of Catholic education. 
Contact Laura Vilim at 
lvilim@nd.edu 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"The BC!it Value Per Student,. 
• 
4i5 Private Bedtootns 

• 
Fully EqUipped Kitchens 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Apanment 

• 
Cenn'al Air Conditioning 

• 
AD1' Security Systems 

• 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 




Professionally Managed By: Real Estate Management Corporation 

424 North Frances Street, Apt 17 P.O. Boll540, 130 South Mam Street. Ste 450 2-6p.m. South Bend, IN 46624 

Jblad@cbresb.com 
Reserve Yours Today! 574-134-9923 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
Some Reasons Why You Should Join Our Community 

• Over l,OOO SF of Living Spw: 
• 
2 Bedrooms 1 1 Bathroom-Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
On-Site Law1dry Facility 

• 
5 Blocks from Campus 

• 
On Route of·'Ttanspo .. Sus-Line 

• 
Professionally Managed 


• 
24-Hour Emergency ''On--Can" Maintenance 


Notre Dame Apartments Continue5 to Offer Quality Housing Opportunities and bas Clearly Become The Best Value m Off-Campus Living! 
Open House Thursday. October Ui'b 835 North Notte Dame Avenue. Apt lA 2·6p.m. 
October Spteial Next year leases signed by October 31, 2003 wiU lock in current year rates! 
Reserve Yours TaciAy! 574-234-9923 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 Cotv\PILED FROA-1 THE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rival Afghan factions battle 
KABUL, Afghanistan-Fighting erupted Wednesday between rival warlords who both claim allegiance to the government of President Hamid Karzai, and an official of one of the warring groups said as many as 60 people were killed and scores more wounded. 
A commander for the other side, however, said only three people had been killed in a battle outside the northern city of Mazar-e­Sharif. It was impossible to verify either account. 
The fighting came as a deal was signed in the capital of Kabul between the Afghan gov­ernment and the United Nations that paves the way for teams of U.N. and Afghan per­sonnel to deploy to cities across Afghanistan to start a much-delayed program to disarm militiamen loyal to warlords. 
U.S.-Vietnam air travel to resume 
HANOI, Vietnam-Vietnam and the United States tentatively agreed on Wednesday to allow the first commercial flights between the two countries since the end of the Vietnam War, an official said .. 
The two sides were still working out the final details, but were expected to initial an agreement Thursday, according to an official from Vietnam's Civil Aviation Administration who participated in the talks. The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Vietnam's relations with the United States have broadened since a bilateral trade agreement went into effect in December 2001. The pact has significantly increased two-way trade between the former foes, but negotiators have been unable to reach an agreement on air travel. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Cheap brush may help shuttle 
WASHINGTON -A simple foam paint brush that costs only pennies at hardware stores could be an essential tool in returning the space shuttle to orbit, NASA's administra­tor said Wednesday. 
Space agency engineers found that the brush may be just what astronauts need to spread a patching compound on a space shuttle's damaged heat shield while the craft is in orbit. 
"This thing turns out to be one of the most valuable tools we could have invented," said Sean O'Keefe, head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. "We're going to buy it at Wal-Mart." 
Heart stents recalled after failure 
INDIANAPOLIS -Guidant Corp. has begun a voluntary partial recall of a stent that just won federal approval less than three months ago, the company said Wednesday. 
The Indianapolis-based medical device maker said it was recalling certain lots of its 3mm-diameter Multi-Link Vision stent because some of the devices failed in quality tests. A stent is a metal-mesh tube inserted into a coronary artery to prop it open after a blockage has been cleared. · 
Patients who already have received the stents are not affected by the recall, but doc­tors have been notified, the company said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bayer sells plant to charity for $1 
ELKHART -A massive building formerly used to make tablets to relieve indigestion will now be used to store food to feed the poor. 
Feed the Children, a not-for-profit Christian charity based in Oklahoma City, announced Wednesday it has bought Bayer Corp.'s vacant 933,000-square-foot factory. The $1 cost of the building is less than the cost of a package of Alka-Seltzer, which was once made in the building. 
Bayer sold the building for $1 because it would have cost an estimated $20 million to demolish. 



Arnold begins transition moves 
Governor elect plans tax cuts, budget audits to reduce state's $8 billion deficit 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-On his 
first full day as governor 
elect, Arnold 
Schwarzenegger expressed 
confidence that he would 
make a seamless transition 
to the governor's office, but 
provided no new specifics 
on how he plans to cure 
California's ills. 
In a news conference at a 
Los Angeles hotel, 
Schwarzenegger repeated 
many themes from the 
campaign trail, including a 
pledge to repeal the recent 
tripling of the car tax and a 
call to "open up the books" 
in search of a solution to 
the state's gaping deficit. 
He also promised again not 
to raise taxes. 
"What we have to do is, open up the books ... do the audit and find what the waste is," the action hero­turned-politician said. 
Schwarzenegger said he was promised "a very smooth transition" by oust­ed Gov. Gray Davis, and he received similar assur­ances from other state leaders. He will be sworn into the office by mid­November, becoming California's 38th governor. 
The Republican actor also expressed confidence that California lawmakers would see the message vot­ers delivered in Tuesday night's election and follow his leadership as he takes over the reins of the state. 
"The legislators up there have gotten this message last night, that the people of California want change," he said. 
Schwarzenegger said he had spoken with an array of leaders including Nelson Mandela of South Africa and President Bush, who he said promised to do "whatever is possible to help California." 
''I'm looking forward to working with him and ask­ing him for a lot, a lot of 

favors," Schwarzenegger 
said, adding that he hoped 
to meet with the president 
when he is in the state next 
week for fund-raisers. 
Schwarzenegger said he 

would make sure the feder­
al government helps 
California with such prob­
lems as energy and water. 
The "Terminator" star also vowed that Hollywood will not interfere with his job as governor. 
"I will work as much as I 

can, even if it is around the 
clock," he said. "There will 
be no time for movies or 
anything else. I will pay full 
attention to this job." 
Schwarzenegger's transi­tion team is being headed by Rep. David Dreier, R­Calif., who was to give more details about the team Thursday. 
Schwarzenegger's pro­posals will have to go through a Legislature con­trolled by Democrats angry over what some of them consider a hostile takeover of the state's top political job. And he will have to quickly deliver a budget that can close the giant deficit. 
It is an unusually fast transition, particularly for a political neophyte who declared his candidacy just two months ago. . "The last 60 days has been pretty difficult as well, but I would say there's probably never been a governor elect who's stepped into a situa­tion with the challenges he'II be confronting here in California. But that's why he wanted the job," spokesman Rob Stutzman said. 
Schwarzenegger takes office as the Republican Party's lone statewide officeholder in a state where the congressional delegation and both houses of the Legislature are heav­ily Democratic. 
And while the voters 
gave Schwarzenegger a resounding victory, they lean Democratic, too -44 percent to 35 percent Republican. 
"I think he's in for a rude awakening to the fact that he won't be able to get done all the things he has said because politics just doesn't work that way," said Fresno resident Don Lesher, 71, a registered Democrat who voted yes on the recall and for Republican Tom McClintock. "Unfortunately, everybody is voting along party lines, rather than what's best for the state." 
Still, more voters sup-

I 
I 
i 
, I 
J 
ported Schwarzenegger, 
3.6 million, than ·voted against recalling Davis, 3.5 million -an outcome Schwarzenegger aides touted as a mandate after weeks of predictions from Democrats that the winner might triumph with a small percentage of the vote. 
"The fact that he got more votes than Gray Davis puts him in a position of strength," said Allan Hoffenblum, a GOP con­sultant. "There's going to be some Democrats up there who are going to want to play ball reason­ably with Arnold Schwarzenegger." 
IRAQ 

2,000 Shiites stage protest march 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -About 2,000 Shiite Muslims marched to the headquar­ters of the U.S.-run coalition Wednesday, demanding the release of a detained cleric and vowing daily protests until he is freed. 
Moayed al-Khazraji was arrested Monday as he led a 12-man delega­tion to negotiate with the Americans in the municipal council building. A large crowd of his supporters con­fronted American troops late Tuesday outside his mosque, but the confrontation ended peacefully after 
U.S. 
troops withdrew. 


U.S. 
officials held talks with a group of clerics at the mosque Wednesday but failed to resolve the standoff. Following the talks, pro­


testers began marching toward the c~nter of the city, chanting Islamic slogans, as U.S. helicopters hovered overhead. 
Brig. Gen. Martin Dempsey, com­mander of the 1st Armored Division, said al-Khazraji was being held "on charges of criminal and anti-coali­tion activities" but would not elabo­rate. Shiites at the mosque said he had been wrongly accused of keep­ing weapons in the mosque. 
By early afternoon, the marchers converged on the heavily guarded presidential palace that serves as coalition headquarters. A senior offi­cial came out and talked with a dele­gation of clerics but told them to raise the issue of the arrest with Iraqi police. 
That failed to satisfy the clerics or their followers, who .insisted the Americans were holding al-Khazraji and it was up to them to set him free. At one point, some protesters lay in the street, blocking two U.S. armored personnel carriers. 
After hours of fruitless negotia­tions, the crowd began to disperse in late afternoon, hurling stones and sandals -a sign of contempt -at 
U.S. troops guarding the compound. 
Al-Khazraji is said to be close to Muqtada al-Sadr, a young radical Shiite cleric who is strongly critical of the U.S. military occupation. However, al-Sadr's influence within Iraq's Shiite majority is believed to be less than that of older clerics who have spoken out against violence and have been generally more coop­erative with American authorities. 

page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 9, 2003 

~-. WiiJ,~tS, 

0030 0559 1132 1246 1619 1857 1965 4066 0065 0581 1133 1511 1762 1881 2000 4085 0079 0589 1138 1513 1770 1883 4007 4098 0085 0602 1139 1517 1780 1896 4010 4111 0108 0611 1144 1524 1789 1897 4023 4118 0119 0613 1154 1527 1792 1898 4037 4119 0120 0624 1158 1530 1797 1900 4046 4123 0124 0873 1162 1535 1798 1916 4050 4134 0126 1001 1173 1551 1806 1919 4052 4140 0140 1019 1175 1553 1809 1925 4059 4145 
1818

0167 1025 1197 1556 1930 4149 0172 1027 120·0 1558 1823 1938 4151
• 
1831

0180 1033 1210 1567 4152 0195 1034 1214 1575 1837 4166 0203 1043 1217 1578 1844 . 4197 0209 1092 1224 1589 4207 0218 1093 1233 1613 4208 0221 1110 1234 4219 0236 1118 1236 4225 0244 1123 4227 0518 1128 4233 0523 

4237 0527 
4241 


Tickets go on sale to the winners at the LaFortune Box Office Monday. October 13th. 
Winners can purchase tickets until 
Wednesday. October 15th at Noon 
All Notre Dame StudentS can purchase the remaining tickets after noon on October 15th. 

Brought to the University of Notre Dame by the Student Union Board. 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 630.90 -23.71
Jones ' 
-•='=•t· Same: ~ Composite V<Wme:
tt18 187 ,., 1,234,135,040 
NASDAQ./ ot:.:.• 1~89-3.)78 •••.····•·• ±l4.1P7 .J!i:. 
NYSE 5,855.34 -21.22 AMEX·•···•·• ······ ················=·· =:=:: •· o:..~·~q:~.~~~il.•::: ::·:... ;§~{:1::11:•."•:·:::::.·::·:: S&PSOO 1,033.78 -5.47 
Nlf<KEl·croi<YOJ[r:••::•:.:•···to~s~4)~p,·:··:·:· ····:·:··ezza~·1a:::_.:..::.. 
FTSE /00 (London) 4,268.60 -3.40 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3.52 +0.43 12.63 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.06 +0.07 3.46 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.10 -0.32 28.82 INTEL COR~ . ( INTC) -0.93 -0.28 29.67 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.00 -0.21 20.79 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.39 +0.20 51. 67 . 10-YEAR NOTE -0.05 -0.02 42.42 5-YEAR NJI'E -0.58 -0.18 30.95 3-MONI'H BILL -2.77 -0.25 8.77 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl . ) -0.60 29.81 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.80376.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.33 89.33 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 109.5 EURO 0.845 POUND 0.601 CANADIAN$ 1.332 
IN BRIEF 
Brit, Yank share economics Nobel 
NEW YORK -American Robert Engle and Briton Clive W.J. Granger won the 2003 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for developing statistical tools that have improved the forecasting of rates of economic growth, interest rates and stock prices. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said Wednesday in announcing the award that the academics devised new methods for meas­uring volatility, or the rate at which prices, interest and other economic variables move up and down. 
Engle and Granger, who were colleagues for decades at the University of California at San Diego, will share the prize worth 10 million kronor ($1.3 million). 
Napster to return, charge fees 
LOS ANGELES -The Napster name, once synonymous with the digital song-swapping bazaar that enraged the recording industry, revives Thursday as an Internet music store that will go head to head with such competi­tors as Apple's iTunes and MusicMatch. 
Santa Clara-based Roxio Inc., which bought the rights to the Napster name for about $5 million, has shelved its former online music service, pressplay, and plans to move sub­scribers to a beta, or working version, of Napster 2.0 beginning Thursday. 
Napster 2.0 will be available to the general public within a month, according to sources familiar with the plans. 
Simon drops bid for rival 
DETROIT-Simon Property Group Inc. on Wednesday withdrew its hostile $1.7 billion takeover bid for rival shopping mall developer Taubman Centers Inc. 
The announcement by Indianapolis-based Simon and its partner Westfield America Inc. came a day after Gov. Jennifer Granholm signed legislation aimed at helping Bloomfield Hills, Mich. -based Taubman fend off the takeover effort. 
The bill changes Michigan's takeover law to say that shareholders acting together do not violate the law, but it would be against the law for a group to act together with the purpose of acquiring additional shares. 
GE, Vivendi sign merger deal 
NBC Universal will become $43 billion media titan with television, film assets 
Associated Press 
PARIS Vivendi Universal and General Electric said Wednesday they signed an agreement to merge the French com­pany's U.S. entertainment assets with GE's television network NBC, creating a media giant with an esti­mated value of $43 billion. 
The terms of the deal were largely unchanged from a preliminary agree­ment reached a month ago, when the two companies entered exclusive talks about a merger and sketched out broad outlines for a combined company to be called NBC Universal. 

The new company will include the NBC television network and its cable channels CNBC, MSNBC and Bravo, plus the last year, and Walt Disney work not owned by a larger reporters in a conference Spanish-language broad­Co., which had revenues of media conglomerate. Walt call Wednesday that its U.S. caster Telemundo, which $25 billion. Disney Co. owns ABC and TV holdings "were too NBC acquired in 2001. NBC will own 80 percent News Corp. owns Fox. small to be really competi­
From the Vivendi side, of the new entity, with the For Vivendi, the deal tive on the American televi­the new company will get remaining 20 percent con­offers an opportunity to sion scene." He said the Universal movie and TV trolled by Vivendi. NBC trim back debts -which Vivendi Universal had been studios -which already Universal will be led by totaled $13 billion at the having trouble negotiating make NBC's hit show "Law Bob Wright, vice chairman end of July -run up dur­contracts for the channels. & Order" -plus the USA, of GE and chairman and ing a buying spree under Vivendi, an 86 percent Sci-Fi and Trio cable chan­chief executive of NBC, the former chief executive shareholder of the Vivendi nels and several theme companies said. Jean-Marie Messier. Universal Entertainment, is parks. Universal Music The combination requires The companies' decision to receive $3.3 billion ­Group, the largest music regulatory approvals in to enter exclusive talks last which will enhance company, is not part of the Washington and Brussels, month marked the end of a Fourtou's debt-reduction deal and will be retained but is expected to be final­long-running auction, with program. by Vivendi. ized in the first half of at least five other compa­In addition, NBC will take 
The newly created com­2004, Vivendi executives nies showing interest in the on $1.7 billion of Vivendi's pany will have about $13 said. U.S.-based entertainment debt, slightly above the billion in annual revenues, The deal will give NBC empire. $1.6 billion initially making it a sizable com­more weight in an industry The deal will allow announced in September. petitor in the media field dominated by companies Vivendi to pair up its limit­Fourtou said the merger but still much smaller than like AOL Time Warner and ed U.S. television assets would allow Vivendi to industry giants like AOL Viacom Inc., which owns with the NBC empire. reduce debt to $5 billion Time Warner Inc., which MTV and CBS. NBC has Vivendi's chairman Jean-and be a profitable compa­had $41 billion in revenues been the only major net-Rene Fourtou told ny by the end of 2004. 



Do-not-call list comes back online 
Associated Press  sands of dollars in fines for each vio­lation.  protections, the steps appear to have made a difference.  
WASHINGTON - The national do­ The list is intended to block about  "We have heard that for many who  
not-call list will resume accepting phone numbers Thursday from peo­ple who do not want to be bothered  80 percent of telemarketing calls, with exemptions for charities, poll­sters and calls on behalf of politi­ put phone numbers on the national registry, it's already working," FTC Chairman Timothy Muris said at a  
by telemarketers. The Federal Trade Commission  cians. A company also may call peo­ple on the list if it recently has done  news conference. "The phones are · ringing less often, the house is a little  
shut down new registration last week  business with them.  quieter and there are fewer interrup­ 
after a federal court ordered the  A legal saga has enveloped the pro­ tions during dinner and homework."  
agency to stop operating the list of  gram for  more  than two weeks,  The Direct Marketing Association,  
more than 52 million phone num­ involving the White House, Congress  the largest telemarketing association,  
bers. But the 10th U.S. Circuit Court  and several federal courts.  said the decline in calls shows that  
of Appeals in Denver temporarily  The list is moving ahead for now,  government enforcement is unneces­ 
blocked the lower court's decision  but the court fight continues. An  sary, and the industry can police  
Tuesday, allowing the registry to  appeals court will hear oral argu­ itself.  
restart.  ments in Tulsa, Okla., on Nov. 10 on  The  Federal  Communications  
The FTC said Wednesday that con­ lower court rulings that the FTC  ·  Commission, which stepped in to  
sumers can register home or cell  lacks authority to run the program  handle all do-not-call enforcement  
phone numbers with the free govern­ ·and the list violates telemarketers'  while the FTC was restrained, has  
ment service by visiting the Web site  free-speech rights by barring calls  received about 2,000 complaints  
www.donotcall.gov or calling 1-888­ from businesses but not charities.  since the list went into effect Oct. 1,  
382-1222, beginning Thursday at 8  The  1Oth  Circuit  Court  on  FCC Chairman Michael Powell said.  
a.m. EDT.  Wednesday granted a request by the  He said that while the volume of  
Consumers who registered before Aug. 31 can file complaints about  Justice Department to intervene in the case. The department said it  complaints appears to be declining, the agency has already begun inves­ 
telemarketers at the same Internet  wanted to file a brief arguing that the  tigating telemarketer violations of  
site and toll-free number, starting  do-not-call list is constitutional.  the do-not-call list.  
Saturday at 6 p.m. EDT.  Federal officials worked around a  The government requires telemar­ 
People who add new numbers have  court decision blocking the list to get  keters to pay to access the list so they  
to wait three months before filing a  it operating on schedule last week  can know who not to call. The annual  
complaint and it might take that long  and many telemarketers agreed to  fee costs $25 for each area code a  
for them to see a reduction in tele­ abide by it despite the legal confu­ company calls, with a maximum cost  
marketing calls. Telemarketers call­ sion. Even though improvised gov­ of $7,375 for access to all U.S. num­ 
ing listed numbers could face thou­ ernment fixes left holes in the list's  bers on the list.  

Thursday, October 9, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
FBI planted bugs in office of PA mayor 
Associated Press PHILADELPHIA -Federal law enforcement officials on Wednesday confirmed that lis­tening devices found in the offices of Mayor John Street were planted by the FBI -a discovery that touched off a political furor just weeks before Election Day. Three federal law enforce­ment officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, acknowledged that the FBI 
was responsible for the bugs but refused to comment on whether the Democratic mayor is a target of an investi­gation or to provide any details about the nature of the probe. 
Street issued a statement late Wednesday saying that one of his advisers had been told by the U.S. Attorney's office that the mayor was not the target of an investigation. 
"I never believed that I was the target of any investiga­tion," Street said. ''I'm happy to confirm that tonight." 
The devices were found Tuesday during a routine sweep of Street's office by police. Street is locked in a bitter rematch against Republican busin-essman Sam Katz, and the campaign has been marked by charges of threats and race-baiting. Election Day is Nov. 4. 
FBI spokeswoman Linda Vizi declined to comment on the devices, other than to say they were not connected to cam­paign espionage. 
The U.S. Attorney's office in Philadelphia also did not acknowledge responsibility for the bugs but said it had been in touch with Street. "We have stated very clearly to both Mayor Street and his attorney the mayor's status in this mat­ter," spokesman Richard Manieri said Wednesday night. 
He would not elaborate on what federal prosecutors told Street. 
Throughout the day Wednesday, Street said he did not believe he was under investigation. 
"I haven't done anything wrong, and I don't know that anybody in my cabinet or in my staff around me has done anything wrong," he said. 
Street's campaign suggested the bugging was instigated by the U.S. Justice Department for political reasons. 
"The timing of the discovery of these listening devices seems incredibly strange, see­ing that we are four weeks out of the election, and we have a Democratic mayor ahead in the polls, and we are on the eve of the first mayoral debate," Street campaign spokesman Frank Keel said. 
"Do we believe that the Republican Party, both at the federal level and state level, is pulling out every stop to get Pennsylvania in 2004? Absolutely," Keel said. "Is the Republican Party capable of dirty tricks? I think that is well-documented." 
U.S. Attorney Patrick Meehan, the top federal prose­cutor in Philadelphia, declined to say what federal agents might know about the bugs but denied politics plays any role in his office's decisions. 
"The U.S. Attorney's office in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has a long and proud history of doing its work without regard to partisan politics. That was the practice of my predecessors, and it is my practice as well," Meehan said in a statement. 
Philadelphia Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson said he turned the matter over to the FBI. He said the security sweeps of the mayor's office have been going on for decades. 
©2003 ERNST &YOUNG m 
Downey begins '03 lecture series 
By DUSTIN VONHANDORF News Writer 
Greg Downey, assistant pro­fessor in the Department of Anthropology, presented "The Pleasure of Dissent: Selfish Reasons for Activism," the first in the "Last Lecture Series" in the basement of Lewis Hall Wednesday night. 
The lecture blended personal examination with intellectual reflection and concentrated on his personal opinions on dis­sent. 
After talking of dissent, he touched briefly upon religion, and the role of faith in dissent. 
"Faith," Downey said, "is not certainty." He said that it takes faith to start anything. 
The series asks faculty to present a lecture as if it were their last. 
The Academic Division of the Office of the Student Body President and the dorm that hosts that lecture cohost the series, in its fourth year. The series is presented so that "students can meet popular professors outside the class­room," series coordinator Mary Mullen said. 
Professors are chosen by the hall presidents, and the list of nominations come from a ran­dom survey of students. 
Other lecturers in the series are Jill Godmillow, Joseph Buttigieg, _Peter Walshe, Matthew Bloom and Charles Rosenburg. Each will lecture on a topic of personal interest. 
"Hopefully, by sharing my self-motivations, it might help students to become more involved in political and socie­tal action," Downey said. 
Contact Dustin VonHandorfat dvonhand@nd.edu 
Quality In Everything We Do 


Thursday, October 9, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo 
min istry.l@nd.edu campusmi nistry.nd.edu 



Campus Ministry C-M 
si_q_n uo now  Freshman Retreat #so  Notre Dame Encounter #78 
More·info a applications in Room 114 and online at campusministry.nd.edu  

December s~6 November 21-23 Sign up deadline: November 28 Sign up deadline: October 17th 

friday 10. ·1o 
Freshman Retreat #49 Friday and Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
The Man's Weekend Friday through.Sunday 
sunday 10.12 
RCIA..Session 
1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
tuesday to. 14 
Comfirmation 7:oo p.m. -8:45p.m. Siegfried Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 
St. Edward's Hall 

wednesday 10. t5 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
1o:oo p.m.·. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Theology on Tap 1o:oo p.m. • tt;30 p.m. Legends 
thursday_ to.t6 

Mass to celebrate the 25th Anniversary of the election of Pope John Paul 11 
5:15p.m. 

·Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Prayer from Around the World Hindu Prayer
» 

7:00p.m. 330 C:oleman•Morse Center 
surf campus ministry 
Check out the 
new Campus Ministry website for 
up-to-date information, 
daily reflections, 
online retreat applications & more. 

campusministry.nd.edu 
mass schedule 
28th Sundayin Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart . 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 
s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m. Rev. Tom Eckert, c.s.c Rev. Tom Ec.kert, c.s.c 11.:45 p.m. Rev. Paul KoUman. c.s.c. 
around campus {every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. Spanish Mass St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
s:oo p.m. law School Mass Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. MBA Mass Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

considerations .•. 
Sex, Intimacy and the Warm., True God 
by.Chandra Johnson 
Assistant Olrector, Cross-Cultural Ministry 
There has been a lot oftalk lately about sex, intimacy and relationships. rm not sure if it,s last wedis cold weather and our natural inclination to cuddle, or that we're more comf<>rtahle with talking about it. Whatever the reason, it's great! From Theology on Tap to Fellowship ofChristian Athletes to the Sophomore Road Trip, students are sharing their thoughts OUSC!X and illt:Una9',aOO what it mears for single, educated, Christian adults. Personal relationships and the intimacy rortnected to its intensity are topics· ofdiscussion which students no longer consider taboo. Talking out loud about our bodies, its drives and irs relatiot1ship to the soul is ~ntamount to getting to know ourselves as God's most cherished creation. 
As ChristianS, where do we turn to understand ourselves as sexual beings in need of human relationships? Augustine ofHippo gave it a shot in the emerging 4th century Church, however, his own batde with sexual intir[la(.:y informs a theology which~ al­though foundational,. is a bit out dated. Unfortunately his view has· influenced much of how Western Christians think about sex today as sexual pleasure, even in marriage. is a consequence oforiginal sin and therefore tainted. Philosopher-theologian Pope John Paulii's The Theology of the Body, gives sex a more contemporary spin. However, as _brilliant and beautifully 
. . . .
--)

wrttten as tt ts, 1ts not 
Talking out loud about our bodies, its drives 
easy reading. So what are we left with? Where . and its relationship to the soul is do we go to learn how to 
build healthv rdation­tantamount to getting to know ourselves as ships? How' do we gauge· 
God's most cherished creation. 
an attraction to someone when being in their presence stirs the heart and hormones in a direction which contradicts everything wlve been taught about being good Christians? And what about peer pressure? How do our friends inform our choices when, in an intimate moment~ deciding how far is too far is the relationship's defining moment? For some, sex is a valid and acceptable way to respond to these impulses and connect to another human being in a very intimate and private way. For others, being faced with being human is a part ofthe college experi­ence, and waiting until we learn more about love and its many dimensions is worth 
. waiting for. 
The thing about sex is that Jesus never talked much about it (except in Matthew when he refers to adultery). As far as we know, Jesus was single, religious, outspoken, and hung around a mixed bag ofkindred rev-olutionaries. At age 30, however, he seems to have learned how to be comfortable with.his lifestyle, sexuality and capadty.to love. The Dr. Phil of his dan. he probably coined the expression, "the.more yoU: give,. the more you getrt From Mary and Martha to Doubting Thomas, there was something about the way Jesus love~ that they couldn*t resist. Even the Samaritan woman, with her angst against Jews, ~as instantly transformed because she "met a man" who took the time to talk to her one hot afternoon. What did they see? What did they fed? 
Jesus taught with his body and his soul. He touched people. He talked to people. He met them on their terms, without presuppositions or conditions. His understanding of himself as being mack in God's image and likeness defined his lifestyle and built his relationships. He changed the way the world loved by just being true to himself. By being true to God. As we enter a new season with cooler weather and a slower pace, let's keep talking about love and sex and what it means to be human. Within our conversa­tions are the answers to questions which, ifwe pay attention, always come to the surfuce when we find ourselves in com!Jromising situations. Ifand when this happens, think of your spirit and what it might be telling you. 
Be true to yourself. Your body and soul are made in God's image and likeness and ir doesn't get much better than that. After all, you1 like Jesus, are pure and living love. Live e-.u:h day like you know it and everyone around you will too. 


THE 0BSER\'ER 
p

Page 10 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
n.tu.;-r-, D.~ ~s.m..,NomD.n-'~MpY~ 
P.O. Bo:x: Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46$56 EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSJNJ!SS MANAGl:R Scott Bt~dfuchr¢t Lor"i L:walski 


PGUCtES 

The Obse~r IS the :independent, daily newspaper published in print and. ollline by the stu<lents of the .. . University ofNotte Dame du La~: and Saint Mary'S. College. Editorial conrent. including adverrlsements, is .· not governed by policies ofthe administrdtion ofeither imtirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based M CQntenr. 
The nevvs is report~d as accti.ratdy and o~jectively as· possible:. Unsigned editorials reprt8ent the opinionof ...·. the m.ajotity ofthe Edi® in Chief. Managing f.di~~t. ••• 
Assisram Managing &liror and depilirmenr editors~·.·.·· ·• Commentaries. letter& and columns present the viem;••• 
ofdK" author~ and ootn~ily ~-ofThe ·• : •• •• <•· Obsernr. · .• ... .··.•· •·. • .· ...... ~ . · .. · ·•··. •·. . < 
Y'KWJ>Oirit space.kaV.Uiahle to iilheader&~ The free < expression ofall opiniOru through letten is enroul:agcd ••··•·•· le«ets ~Q meF.dit~t mu.st ~ $ignedand. m~ indud~ ...... ·.. conracr inf~rmarion. •· · · 
····~=:iJ~w. 

.Tho~· 
00. II«Q . 624 ~Dil>in& H~. t-~ocn, O.....:,IN 46$$(..0)'79 
'fh< Ot-o<r 4 • ..._herJ <k "-<>-' ~ j\JI rqqo<lu<rion ,;p....,.. 
~-. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics 

MaureenRe)TIOlds Mike Harkins Joe Trombello Sports Matt Bramanti Justin·Scbuver Viewpoint.·••··.· · Heather Vah · Erin Fox Hoegarden••·· .· Illustrator Dan TapaUllo ·•· ·· Katie Knorr Scene· KCKenney 




A soldier's experience in war 
We'll call him Joe. As a part of a force protection -security forces ­unit in the United States Marine Corps, he helped protect a camp that had a medical unit and provided sup­plies to opera­tions elsewhere Andrew in Iraq. This DeBerry was his war experience in 
ND Changing
Iraq. 

Times
Joe arrived in February 2003. The troops wanted to get the job done and return quickly. but for the present wanted to contribute to something they felt was worthwhile. 
They endured the field conditions and could go weeks without shower­ing, living off of three Meals Ready to Eat (MREs) daily. For their work, the government gave them an extra 700 dollars per month. 
On the first day of war, the troops didn't know what to expect and kept gas masks on hand. The Navy doc­tors had shots that could keep chem­icals from spreading through the body. 
While his unit was still crossing the border, the Iraqi military shot four SCUD missiles at them. People ran everywhere, jumping into their trenches and thinking that they were going to die. 
"It was pandemonium," Joe said. 
A lot of non-religious people sud­denly got religious in different ways: They prayed to Allah, cast Wiccan spells and cried to Jesus: "We had to hit all of them." 
The Army was prepared a few miles away and sent Patriot missiles that destroyed the SCUDs overhead. 
Unity across the services kept the soldiers alive. "All you have is each other. You never know who you're going to die for. Everybody was one." 
Enemy Prisoners of War were kept at Joe's camp and the wounded Iraqis were treated. Some soldiers thought it would have been better to kill them to conserve their limited medical supplies. But the Navy doc­tors kept them in line, reminding them that they were there to help. 
Other Marines recognized that some of the soldiers were forced to fight. They didn't want anyone to die and hoped that they would surren­der. 
Some Iraqi soldiers even rebelled. Joe heard of one group who rounded up their officers and shot them before running off. 
Chaplains provided moral support to the troops. Some soldiers felt guilty about how badly they were defeating the Iraqi soldiers. Some were relieved when the chaplain 
· clarified the commandment as for­bidding murder and not killing. although Joe thought it was hard to explain the difference. 
He was with a group that entered a town that the Unit~d States military had won control over, and the.lraqis welcomed them on the streets with celebrations. He thinks that Iraq is better off: "The majority of the Iraqis are glad we're there." 
But he also thought the war was all about oil. When asked if he thought God would approve of what was done in Iraq, Joe deliberated and said, "You know, I don't know." But no matter what their thoughts, soldiers were more focused on just staying alive. 
When Joe's time in Iraq was done, he spent some time in Kuwait City and felt a little closer to home with its American fast food chains and cars. After 65 days in Iraq, he returned to the United States. 
Joe's group came home after the first wave of soldiers had returned. There were no parades, cheering crowds, or bands to welcome them. He had four days to adjust and then went back to his old job. 
The hardest part of Joe's home­coming has been the people who have no real idea about war and make no effort to understand. He appreciates those who ask him about his experiences and how he is doing. He's glad for those he's met who have supported the troops even if they didn't support the war. 
Joe doesn't watch the news. "I did­n't want to hear about stuff anymore. War changes you. War changes you forever." But his intent remains fixed: "I would go again for what they're trying to do-freedom." 
And so are the ironies of war. Soldiers try to get away from the experience but wouldn't hesitate if called upon to do it again. Once there, they may feel guilty about their actions but are too focused on survival to think about it. Prussian military philosopher, Carl von Clausewitz. rightly said, "War has its own grammar, but not its own logic." It's a part of a process where some are torn down and others are built up. For the soldier, it leaves him or her changed forever. 
No matter what your views are about the war, remember those who have given themselves in unparal­leled devotion toward causes they have pursued with hopeful hearts. If there's someone you know who went to Iraq, ask about his or her experi­ence, listen to his or story through­out, and return some of the devotion that soldiers have showed in their hope for freedom. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year sen­ior studying aerospace engineering and minoring in Middle Eastern studies. His column normally appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at adeberry@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the writer and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
The Vatican is considering curtailing female altar service. Have you ever been an altar server? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
·:4.sk not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country." 
John Kennedy president 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Discussing abortion protest 
Last week was National Respect life week and to make a statement regard­ing abortion, a Pro-Life group displayed a number of crosses near the Law School. This display did not represent the opinions of many students on cam­pus -both Catholic and non-Catholic -who favor legalized abortion and, under the Constitution and the natural law, these students have a right to their opinion. The student who deliberately trampled the crosses, however, indicat­ed either one of two things to the Pro-Life group: That the opinion they were expressing was intolerable and they had no right to it; or, deeming that the stu­dents had at least the right to their opinion, they still had no right to express it. 
The first possibility is a simple issue oftolerance. The Cross is a universal symbol used to represent Christianity and also to mark tombstones. The Pro­Life group used the Cross to convey their faith and their belief that abortion kills unborn people. It was a clear yet non-graphic and peaceful demonstra­tion. On the other hand, the vandal did not peacefully or thoughtfully promote his views. His actions only said that he did not like and in fact would not toler­ate the opinions of the Pro-Lifers. 
The second possibility is that the student did not want the group to express their beliefs on campus. Abortion is a controversial and emotional issue. It would have been inappropriate and insensitive to put the crosses in the yard of a woman known to have had an abortion. Notre Dame, however, is the most widely recognized Catholic university in the country. Being that the Catholic Church has a clear anti-abortion stance, it would seem that the students chose a logical and "safe" environment to make their display. Would anyone think it acceptable to vandalize expressions of Muslim thought at a Muslim school? Of course not, and, likewise, it seems equally inappropriate for a student to destroy expressions of Catholic thought on campus. 
Anna Dunikoski University Village Resident Oct. 8 
Death penalty produces injustice 
Last Friday, 39-year-old Eddie Hartman was killed in North Carolina. 
What made his death distinctive is that the state sponsored it. His 
constitutionally guaranteed "fair" trial was far from perfect. He was 
sexually abused as a child, which is usually a mitigating factor. 
However, the prosecution used Hartman's homosexuality to suggest 
that he may have enjoyed the acts. His court-appointed lawyer failed 
to challenge these claims and has since been disbarred. The state did 
not reconsider Hartman's sentence. 
His case demonstrates just one of the many problems in the current capital punishment system. 
The death penalty relies on people and is therefore inherently flawed. One hundred seven inmates have been released from death row after DNA testing and revoked testimonies. David Spence was put to death in 1997 after prison inmates received favors to testify against him. A detective who worked the crime said, "Nothing from the inves­tigation ever led us to any evidence that he was involved." 
When invoking an irreversible punishment, there is no margin for error. 
The death penalty is also prone to discrimination against the poor and United States minorities. Ninety-five percent of all people sen­tenced to die in the United States could not afford their own attor­neys. Eighty percent of those executed since 1976 were convicted of murdering white victims, while minorities represent more than half of all homicide victims. The justice system cannot be considered "just" if race and economic resources are factors in the punishment. 
Fifty seven people have been executed this year, and more are scheduled to die. The death penalty needs to be abolished to prevent more question­able executions from occurring. 
On Sunday night at 6 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo, Professor Garth Meintjes will be speaking on the Death Penalty in the United States. A screening of "The Farm: Angola, USA" will follow his lecture at 6:45 
p.m. The 90-minute film follows six inmates through the largest maxi­mum-security prison in the United States. It won the Grand Jury Award at Sundance in 1998 and was nominated for Best Documentary that year at the Academy Awards. At 8:15 p.m. Professor Greg Downey will moderate an informal discussion on the prison system. 
Amnesty International invites all who are interested in these issues to attend any or all of these events to commemorate the National Weekend of Faith in Action on the Death Penalty. All events are free and open to the public. Refreshments will be provided. 
George Dzuricsko freshman Stanford Hall Oct. 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Debating church and state separation 
Abigail Wheetley's Oct. 6 U-Wire col­umn defended the Alabama Ten Commandments ruling which invoked the principle of separation of church and state. She made the comment that this principle of separation is being under­mined by laws restricting abortions. In this subtle line, however, Wheetley underscored the fallacious claim that restricting abortions is somehow a reli­gious imposition which should therefore be separated from the legal matters of the state. 
The problem is, as detestable as abortion is from a moral or religious standpoint, it is also abhorrent in the eyes of the state. Restricting abortions holds pragmatic purposes. The common argu­ment is that no state has the right to impose any authority over a woman's "right" to choose whether or not to abort her child. 

Using this same line of reasoning, the state is out of line when it prohibits murder. Who is the state to say that we can't kill our fellow citizens? After all, we have a "right" to do whatever we want. The point is, as much as we like to isolate our actions from the world, we can't. The absurd notion of permitting murder fails to acknowledge that we can't act freely to the extent that we harm others. 
From a purely legal standpoint. heroin is illegal not because it is immoral. but because its use creates myriad problems. from psychological problems to violence to death. And society pays the price. Its tax dollars go to work to aid addicts in rehabilitation. It pays the medical bills. In the instance of murder, society pays 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
fTWOVt:O "fA;VB­
6~~W A t,OT· :Berretz \F' fwB--~ISS~ OF v·t.t.ft' COV~1Ri Jv51 Vt>1eP ro ~(~ CAt.:lfO:~NlA'$
. . 
<·..,.., .1£u~ I
J ~J'tt "'-f·~~·:.V· .,.: . 

for the murderer's court cases. Try as we might, we can't separate these "individ­ual" actions from their subsequent con­sequences. The job of the government, therefore, is to protect the welfare of all its citizens. Call it a religious principle, call it a law, call it whatever you wish: our laws should protect us and see the human dignity inherent in every person. 
With this in mind, it is a wonder that abortion has flourished so much in this country. You have a living, breathing fetus with its own heartbeat and a body completely distinct from its mother's, with its own distinct DNA and 
traits, its own brain and its own organs, and our govern­
ment gives the green light for us to terminate it. Whenever we want, 
by the way. Not just in the beginning phases, but up to the ninth month, when the child is fully grown 
-if a nine-month old child isn't a life, what is? How can we fail to see the 
monstrosity in puncturing the skull of a partially delivered child? Because it's "our" body and ·"our" deci­sion. No, it isn't our body. It's the distinct body of the being we brought into life. And the government has just as much a need of protecting that defenseless fetus as it does every other human being. Abortion, plain and simple, is taking the life and dignity away from a child. from a son, from a daughter and from a citi­zen. 
Ricky McRoskey sophomore Knon Hall 
Ocr. 8 
'.~_·····/~~A,7J~
~ ~ ~·~ 

page 12 Thursday, October 9, 2003 


:r~~· ~;#\ ""'T(. l't~tt,... p,....., 
tWtU•~et'f., 
ByKC KENNEY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Before "School Daze" and "Fives," before "Fourth and Inches" and "Happy Town," there was another zany and toony way of looking at the world of Notre Dame. It was seen through the eyes of four friends named Nate, Dez. Sheldon and Carrie. These four Notre Dame students were the brainchild of Dave Kellet, a '96 Notre Dame graduate, and the main characters the comic strip "Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse." 
The name of the strip was the result of a humor-filled brainstorming session between Kellet and his roommates. He was a sophomore and had just submit­ted his first comic for print, but it still didn't have a name. Finally, the head editor called him at midnight before the paper went to press and said that they needed a title. Kellet is sure that they had gone through at least a hundred names that night trying to come -up with something. Why "Four Food Groups?" Besides being a play on the Notre Dame legendary status of the Four Horseman, Kellet admits "everything seems funnier at 1:30 a.m. And the name haunted me for the next three years. I thought it sounded like the ingredients for a dietary supplement." 
Though sketching characters and comic strips had been a hobby of his since the third grade, prior to college Kellet had never done anything more than one or two cartoons for his high school paper. When he was a freshman in college he drew a few "Far Side"-
Sttt! S"ut f w~.r, 
~N. Wu·~ l'IAT lAO~· 01it.4 ~e: u !?/ 
f.\t.A'? ):: ~ ~y.. h"t. Ht.~­""&~ttT "..,.'1··. 
\ 

:t.··· .~-ll"' ~ s,..,~'~~ ,..~.. 
t.J.O... 

~.1,1'\4~~ tw 'S~•O ~.w • ~ .i4~~N... ... l.l'f ft\. 
. t r ,.. ,..~,u.u.
~To•. • 'T\dlt'l"~ 
\ 
esque comics for Scholastic, but his big break came as a sophomore when he submitted a sample strip to The Observer and they took him on as a daily cartoonist for the 1993-94 school year. 
Writer's block was something he always feared and had to deal with, but it was easily rectified by "watching [his] ... roommates. Ideas would flow freely." The comic strip was primarily character based, but it allowed him to comment on campus politics and world issues without getting into trouble. 
"Things visually in a cute little pack­age can get away from the harsh black­and-white of print," he said, which gave him a great deal of freedom to comment on everything from dining hall food to human cloning to the NRA. One of the biggest differences, he said now that he's away from campus, is the separa­tion from his audience. As a student, inspiration often came from "opening his eyes to the jokes all around him. [He] could tell when people in the dining were looking at "Four Food Groups." People had no problem letting [him] know if a story line stunk or if it was really good. And if it was really good, [he'd] go with it." One series of strips with Regis Philbin seemed to end and segue way into a Notre Dame squirrel joke, but Philbin showed up at the end to tie the two story lines together. As one character was quoted at the end of that strip: "Never-ending story lines: the hall­mark of quality cartooning." 
Kellet's ideas were broad reaching and usually very creative. "I think there was one time that I turned in a strip at mid-


Ex-Observer cartoonist 
"Four Food Groups" 

night and the editor wanted something changed," he recalls. His larger-than-life characters were always fun to read about and easy to connect with. Originally the concept for "Four Food Groups" arose out of the idea of having two roommates, one a literature major and the other a chemical engineer, and capitalizing on the conflict between Arts and Letters majors and the sciences. Both captured the general buffoon nature of your average male Notre Dame student. He soon brought in Carrie, a marketing major. with the intent of having her play the voice of reason for Nate and Dez. Occasionally other characters would emerge, but they would typically not last more than one strip to repre­

sent a particular major or administrative role. It wasn't until his second year that Kellet introduced Sheldon, a 10-year­old genius that attended Notre Dame, majored in PLS, and whom Nate took under his wing. Sheldon, as young as he was and new to the University. was able to offer that outsider­looking-in approach to the comic, often commenting on the enjoyed. He did one better, after being crazy antics of Nate and Dez in a matu­laughed out of the offices of Notre Dame rity that far exceeded his age. Press and the Notre Dame Bookstore, Before Kellet graduated, he was Kellet found a small publishing company mobbed by several die-hard fans of in Elkhart that was willing to make a "Four Food Groups" to give them copies collection of the best of "Four Food of old classic strips that they really Groups." He got together a large group­ing of his favorite strips, took most of his life savings and made a book called A Well-Balanced Meal. He figured that though he might lose some money on it, 
-,.Attt 

it would be great experience and look
Ap~MUt!l.l"t1&,..'1 

really good on a resume. He put his 
:S~-t..·~ ..,-'*-lit0.\fll11"l4 

book up for sale at the Bookstore and \r ft.U.J~~T ~~t.Jt: sold out his first printings in a week. J+r ,-..., l'tt••• The Bookstore went through two more printings very quickly, and he still receives a check every once in a while when somebody picks up one of his
'S-tP-~fflAt 
books . 
.. r~\t.,.;o ':."", p ... 

Kellet graduated from Notre Dame in
) 1996 with degrees in Literature and Spanish, "two majors that steered toward the major money jobs," he says, quoting his mother. Kellet moved back home to San Diego where he got a 


.­
Thursday, October 9, 2003 Page 13 



'Jext Course 
·takes character from out into the world 



with his girlfriend, this time liv­ing in Los Angeles. Based on the success of "Sheldon" as of yet, he launched the "Sheldon" Web site where fans could con­tinue to see the strip. He began submitting "Sheldon" to several newspaper syndicates across the country with hopes that "Sheldon" might be published. This proved to be frustrating until he was contacted by a syn­dication company that had seen his Web site and decided that they wanted to look more into the idea of "Sheldon." Kellet is now what is known as the "syn­dication testing phase" in which his strip has been placed on a Web site with the intent of building an audience and monitoring the success of the strip online to get an idea of how it would do in a daily newspaper setting. Somewhere between 4,000 and 6,000 new comic strips are submitted each year to syndicates for perusal. Kellet 

,, -me. UNE:: JU~,M,_..£.0 
\,.,u:~ '" Noy WoA~ Ltv1HU~.'~ 

from "Four Food Groups" ­"Sheldon." Kellet took the basic concept behind Sheldon, but gave it a new spin by taking him away from Notre Dame and making him a 1 0-year-old child prodigy that wrote software to speed up the Internet and became the second richest per­son in the United States after Bill Gates. He put it online so that people back in the States could see it and he began to develop an audience. 
Kellet moved back to the U.S. 
Masters degree in 18th century car­toons, and he interned at the San Diego Daily Tribune where he was able to draw political cartoons once or twice a week. This was, he remembers, "really good for a kid just out of college" and he quickly learned important rules of the cartoon/newspaper world, such as "don't make fun of businesses owned by the publisher of the paper." He was also able to spend time with his high school sweetheart that he had continued to see throughout college despite being in dif­ferent cities. 
While in San Diego, Kellet was hon­ored with a Rotary scholarship to study in Canterbury, England, at the University of Canterbury's Center for Cartoon Holdings. He moved there with his girlfriend and began his studies. There he received his Masters in 19th century cartooning and continued to draw strips for fun and for local papers. 
It was while he was in England that he started building up a comic strip based around one of the original characters hopes to be one of the two or three lucky ones that actually becomes published. 
Sheldon character was based on the "old Disney equation" of giving charac­ters short limbs and big eyes to evoke a "ooh, ahh" response from readers. Though he began as a PLS major, he has evolved into a software geek, interested in Lord of the Rings and obscure history and literature trivia. 
Sheldon is not alone in his adventures. Much like "Four Food Groups," "Sheldon" is set-up with four main char­acters that interact with each other and share comic insights or get into funny situations together. Sheldon is raised by his grandfather, a befuddled old man who doesn't know how to program his VCR in stark contrast to Sheldon's tech­no-background. By having Sheldon raised by his grandfather rather than parents, Kellet feels it allows for Sheldon to have more freedom to grow as his own person without having a very specific base from which to sprout off of. Sheldon is also joined by Dante, Sheldon's best friend, who Kellet describes as being "a few chairs short of a dinette set," offering a comic foil to Sheldon's pre-teen genius. 
Arthur, Sheldon's sarcastic and wise­cracking talking pet duck, rounds ofT the group. Sheldon created Arthur when he downloaded the Encyclopedia Britannica and some voice-recognition software into his pet duck. Arthur gained the ability to talk and it quickly became evident that most of what Arthur had to· say was smart-alecky and facetious. 
One of the big difficulties of making a comic strip like this is not having the constant source of inspiration that he was able to bask in at Notre Dame. He cites his wife as his biggest source of inspiration, calling her the "most ... funny human being all around." As an actress and writer, she has helped him with ideas and remains his biggest fan. Kellet also reads a lot of books and sub­scribes to six or seven different maga­zines to stay up on pop culture and find inspiration. He also moonlights with an Los Angeles-based sketch-comedy group where he is constantly brainstorming up new skit ideas with some very funny comedians and writers. 

Where is Kellet now in comparison to where he thought he would be? "The Observer was great experience for the real world.... [Working there] showed me I could and I wanted to be a cartoon­ist.... [Things] still haven't happened as I hoped it would, but I keep plugging away with hopes that I can pull it off." He reminds students, especially those interested in an artistic career, that "the world does not go out of the way to open doors unless you have an amazing stick­to-it-ness.... Lots of times I thought about quitting. The rewards may not be what you thought. But they may be bet­ter." 
See "Sheldon" online now at Sheldoncomics. com. Dave Kellet resides in Los Angeles with his wife where he writes hilarious strips at his cartoon desk everyday for the world to enjoy. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu. 


Thursday, October 9, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Armstrong leads New Orleans over Orlando in preseason 
of injured Pacers, including bench, including six from top
A5sociated Press 

point guards Kenny Anderson draft pick Darko Milicic, who (hamstring) and Anthony played 14 minutes. 
BATON ROUGE, La. -Darrell Johnson (broken finger). Kedrick Brown led the Celtics Armstrong hit three 3-pointers Rick Carlisle got the win in his with 18 points, while Paul Pierce in the fourth quarter as part of a debut as Pacers coach after had 13 and Antoine Walker 19-point performance that being fired by Detroit. New added 10. helped the New Orleans Hornets Pacers president Larry Bird to a 105-98 exhibition victory hired his old buddy in Cavaliers 83, Hawks 80 Wednesday night over the September to replace lsiah LeBron James had six points, Orlando Magic. Thomas. three rebounds and three assists 
It was Armstrong's first Ron Artest drew a technical as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat appearance for New Orleans foul in the third quarter after the Atlanta Hawks 83-80 in a since signing as a free agent being called for an offensive foul preseason game Wednesday after nine seasons with Orlando. and faking like he was going to night. The game also was the first NBA toss the ball at referee Scott James played 30 minutes, coaching appearance for the Foster. shooting 3-of-7 from the field. Hornets' Tim Floyd since he Artest was suspended for 12 His shots included an airball and resigned as Chicago's coach in games last season for bad a one-handed breakaway dunk December 2001 with a 49-190 behavior or flagrant fouls. that left the sellout crowd at the regular-season record. In the game, the Bulls (0-1) led Asheville Civic Center buzzing. 
Drew Gooden led the Magic by as many as 12 in the first Zydrunas Ilgauskas led the with 29 points. Juwan Howard half, but faded in the second. Cavaliers (1-1) with 19 points added 12 points and Britton The Pacers (1-0) took control and eight rebounds. Darius Miles Johnsen 10. in the third quarter, getting their added 13 points, including a 19­
.' 
Orlando, which lost its presea­first lead of the game, 49-48, foot jumper with 12.2 seconds son opener Tuesday night in when Jermaine O'Neal scored on left. Lee Nailon missed a tying 3­Dallas, led 90-82 when a finger roll with just over 11 point attempt at the buzzer for Armstrong hit his first 3-pointer. minutes to play in the third. Atlanta. He also added a fast-break layup Obinna Ekezie had 18 points and a pair of free throws in the Detroit 104, Boston 89 and 13 rebounds for the Hawks, quarter. Richard Hamilton scored 18 who shot 35 percent in their pre­Toronto. the title last spring. Spaniard 
Baron Davis added 18 points points and Ben Wallace added season opener. Toronto's Vince Carter was 4-Pau Gasol led Memphis with 17 for New Orleans while Robert 17 as the Detroit Pistons beat the for-15 from the field for nine points Traylor and Courtney Alexander Boston Celtics 104-89 Toronto 76, Washington 71 points, while Washington's Jerry The Bercy arena, packed to its had 12 each. Rookie David West Wednesday night in a preseason Lamond Murray scored 14 Stackhouse was 1-for-9 and 14,480 capacity, was engulfed in grabbed 11 rebounds and scored game at the Mohegan Sun points to lead the Toronto scored five points. a roar when Parker was intro­nine points. David Wesley scored Arena. Raptors over the Washington Juan Dixon added 14 points duced. He's the only Frenchman 13 points, but left the game in The game marked the return Wizards 76-71 in an exhibition for the Wizards. with an NBA championship ring. the third quarter with a bruised of Celtics' forward Vin Baker, game Wednesday night. Bosh, the fourth overall pick in "For me, this is as exciting as right thigh shortly after going who underwent rehabilitation Murray is returning after miss­the draft, went 5-for-7 from the an NBA playoff match," Parker down hard on a foul as he tried for alcohol abuse. Baker, a for­ing all of last season with a torn field and committed four said. to fmish a fast break. mer University of Hartford star, ligament in his right foot. Rookie turnovers. Duncan and fellow Spur 
scored eight points and blocked Chris Bosh added 12 points and Robert Horry also received loud Indiana 96, Chicago 82 two shots before leaving midway eight rebounds for the Raptors, Spurs 105, Grizzlies 93 welcomes as the NBA roadshow 
AI Harrington had 18 points through the third quarter with who played their lowest scoring Frenchman Tony Parker came to Paris for the first time and seven rebounds, but the an injured left foot. game in preseason history. scored 19 points as the NBA since 1997 -when Michael Indiana Pacers lost another Hamilton, who starred at the First-year Toronto coach Kevin champion San Antonio Spurs Jordan visited with the Chicago player to an injury in a 96-82 University of Connecticut, scored O'Neill has posted many signs in opened their exhibition season Bulls. preseason win over the Chicago 10 points in the third quarter as the Raptors' locker room, includ­with a 105-93 victory Parker was quiet for the first Bulls on Wednesday night. the Pistons (1-1) built an 84-69 ing one that says "The Raptors Wednesday night over the two quarters. But he heated up 
Pacers forward Austin lead. play defense before offense." Memphis Grizzlies. in the third, scoring 10 points Croshere left in the second quar­Tayshaun Prince scored 12 Kwame Brown had 15 points Two-time league MVP Tim and combining with Duncan and ter with a pulled left hamstring points and Chauncey Billups 10 and eight rebounds for the Duncan added 15 points as the Argentine Emanuel Ginobli ­and did not return. for Detroit. The Pistons also got Wizards, who shot 36 percent Spurs played for the first time who finished with 13 points-to 
Croshere joined a growing list a collective 41 points from their compared to 3 8 percent for since beating New Jersey to win give San Antonio momentum. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SEX IS NO BARRIER  1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6  Alumni family needs USC tickets for  Spring Break 2004 w/STS,  
NOTICES  Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for a few good men and  Engine, New Tires, 10 Disc CD Changer Runs Great,  TICKETS  reunion. Call Pat, 574-289-8048  America's #1 Student Tour Operator.  
women who wish to work in a FUN  front end damage-$600 neg.  2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME  Hiring campus reps.  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  and fast pace environment. A new  574-271-1202  . GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO  Call for discounts:  
store will be opening up in early  NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  GAME dventrelle@yahoo.com  800·648-4849  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  October. We have aggressive pay.  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  or 925-457-1057.  or www.ststravel.com  
&Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call  Hrs from 11 am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers and mgmt available. Call  FoR RENT  TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  2 GA TIX FOR USC/B0/832-428­ A 'Reality" Spring Break 2004s  
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  Andy at 57 4-277.0850 for  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  3937.  Hottest prices Book now..  
interview.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  -TOP DOLLAR PAID  Free Trips, Meals & Parties  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  WALK TO CAMPUS.  AM-232-2378  I am willing to trade 2 FSU tix for 2  sunsplashtours.com  
banjo & mandolin.  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  MMMRENTALS.COM  PM 288-2726  USC tix ... Call Bob (81 8) 219-0856  or 1 800-426-771 0  
Hoosierdads Music  exper. required. All looks & ages.  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM  
4609 Grape Ad  Earn $100-$300 a day. 1-888-820­ 272-1525  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  ADOPTION:  
Mish, IN 2775038  0167, ext. U187.  SALE AM -232-2378  276-8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877.  Irish, affectionate, childless, stay·at·  
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  PM -288-2726  home mom and environmentalist  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED  has space available tor football/par- Selling GA USC ticket  dad, dream of sharing love with  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  klindgre@ nd.edu  Caucasian or Hispanic newborn  
tionst Go Loco in  2 tree trps high commission sun- full hot breakfast, $80-$11 5,  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  through adoption.  
Acapulco,  splashtours.com 1800-426-7710  Middlebury, 30  (57 4)232·0964.  I have 2 USC tix for sale; prefer to  Legal & confidential.  
Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in  miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit  trade for FSU. 312-879-6256  Call Jacqueline and Allan  
Cabo·all with BIANCHI-ROSSI  # 1 07' 1 -800-418-9487.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  toll free at  
TOURS. Book by Oct 31­ FOR SALE  Rent one of the best 5 bedroom  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251·1570.  PERSONAL  1-800-484·6754, PIN: 8642  
get FREE MEALS!  homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed- 
Organize a group and travel for  IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX- room house and  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Welcome to the postseason Sosa.  
FREE.  URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build  get the 3 bedroom house next door  NEEDS TIX TO ANY  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Call for details.  your dream home next to  for free. ANLAN PROPERTIES 532­ HOME FOOTBALL GAME.  you love needs confidential support  How does that taste?  
800-875-4525 or  Notre Dame. A limited number of  1896  PLEASE CALL  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
www.bianchi-rossi.com.  home sites are available. For more  674-6593.  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  Flavor of the week...Oue wow.  
info go to:  B&B 3 miles N D 1 king USC 2  more information, see our bi-weekly  
***ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get  www.lrishCrossings.com  Twins Navy 4 Rooms  Just Between You And Me, ADire  ad in The Observer.  Stupid Rec Sports.  
~  12th trip free.  BYU Best area  Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs  
Group discounts for 6+  93 lsuzu Trooper $3,61 0 and 99  287-4545  ONLY PLEASE  Spring Break 2004 with  "I want to be a trophy husband."  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  Honda Accord $10,650. John 231­ PH:277-1659  StudentCity.com and Maxim  
800-838-8202.  0420.  NO FOOTBALL HOUSING:  Magazine! Get hooked up with  Interesting...  
Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in  SMC grad needs USC tix. Email  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  but never again my friend,  
Vector/Cutco  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  nice neighborhood  Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com  a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of  never again.  
workforstudents. com  FOR SALE.  available tor remaining NO football  the hottest destinations. Book early  
574-282-2357  ONE MILE TO NO.  games. Six blocks from stadium.  Wanted Mens Football Tickets$$  for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS  NLCS  
NON-RENTAL.  Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laun- Pay Top Dollar $$ 1·866-808.0990  and 1 50% Lowest Price Guarantee!  Go Cubs  
NEWLY REMODELED.  dry, parks 6 cars. $1 ,200 per week- To reserve online or view our Photo  We're goin fishin  
WANTED  FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu  end. No pets. (574) 231-8823 (evenings).  BUY?SELL NO FOOTBALL TICK­ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289-8048  Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Caii1-B88-SPRINGBREAK!  Let's tight..return to glory  

Thursday, October 9, 2003 p;1ge 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB PLAYOFFS 



Red Sox overcome curse to take game one from Yankees 
Mussina, pitching on seven play of raw power at the plate 
Associated Press 
days' rest since losing the first­and on the mound Wednesday round opener against Minnesota, night, and behind Mark Prior wasn't sharp at all, allowing overwhelmed the Florida Marlins 
NEW YORK -The Boston Red three homers in a game for only 12-3 to even the NL champi­Sox put aside curses and fatigue the second time this year -and onship series after two games. 
to burst ahead in the AL champi­for the first time in 13 postseason Alex Gonzalez homered twiceonship series. 
starts. He dropped to 4-4 in post­and Aramis Ramirez also con­David Ortiz, Todd Walker and season play. nected for the Cubs. But onceManny Ramirez homered off a While Mussina didn't allow any again, Sosa woke up Wrigleyshaky Mike Mussina, and the Red runs in the second inning, he Field.
Sox beat the New York Yankees labored, going to 2-0 counts on A day after he tied the game5-2 Wednesday night. 
four batters, including 3-0 on with a two-out, two-run shot in
All the chants and signs 
three. the ninth for his first postseasonreminding Boston of its 85-year Boston finally broke through in home run, he hit a two-run drivetitle drought only seemed to spur the fourth. Ramirez reached on a in the second inning that wenton the Red Sox against their old one-hopper to right side that even farther. By a lot.
rivals, who have dominated their Mussina just managed to deflect Sosa launched a 495-foot shotNortheast neighbors for decades. 
-similar to the Cristian Guzman that cleared the ivy-covered wall, Tim Wakefield befuddled New infield hit that led to Minnesota's sailed over the shrubbery thatYork with his knuckleball. taking 
a 5-0 lead into the seventh key rally in his previous start. serves as a batter's backdrop and before he got wild. Three reliev­Ortiz, who had been 0-for-20 threatened to fly completely out 
against Mussina, fell behind 0-2, of the park. Only a televisioners from Boston's beleaguered worked the count full and then
bullpen completed the three-hit­camera booth kept the ball from 
homered into the front of the
ter. becoming a street souvenir. 
right-field upper deck. 
"Our offense came through. It's Coming ofT his two-hit gem in 
Walker made it 3-0 when he
unbelievable," Wakefield said. the opening round against
led ofT the fifth with a drive high
After traveling from Boston to Atlanta, Prior was good enough. 
ofT the foul pole in right field. 
Oakland on Sunday night, then Of course, being handed an 11-0 
Two batters later, Ramirez hit
winning Game 5 on Monday lead after five innings helped the 
homered on a drive that just
night and flying back across the 23-year-old keep his composure. runs. Along with shutting down to run nearly as hard when Sosa 
cleared the right-field wall and a
country, the Red Sox seemed This time, the big hits went in the Marlins, he shook them up by connected with two outs.
leaping Juan Rivera. Kevin Millar
bleary eyed when they arrived at Chicago's favor and so did the lit­hitting a foul ball that scattered Prior and Penny came out
added an RBI single ofT reliever
Yankee Stadium on Tuesday. But tle ones. Lofton tied an NLCS the Florida relievers sitting on a zinging and even with Wrigley
Jeff Nelson in the seventh for a
when it came time to play, they mark with four hits, all singles. bench down the right-field line. buzzing, the sound of fastballs
5-0 lead. 
had the energy and emotion, not Prior cruised until the sixth, \.Yhile Prior was in control, popping into catcher's mitts
Wakefield, who improved to 3­
New York, which had been off when Derrek Lee and rookie Marlins starter Brad Penny was echoed throughout the ballpark. 
0 in LCS play, took a two-hit
since winning its first-round Miguel Cabrera led ofT with con­hit hard. He gave up seven runs How hard were they throwing? 
shutout into the seventh but
series at Minnesota on Sunday. secutive home runs that made it in two-plus innings. Pierre tried to bunt the first pitch 
walked his first two batters and
Wakefield said he was going on 11-2. Marlins shortstop Alex of the game and the ball flew ofT 
was replaced by Alan Embree. 
adrenaline. But before anyone could get Gonzalez, who made two sensa­his bat and landed in foul territo­
"I told all my friends don't call too worried, the Cubs put any tional plays in the late innings to ry-beyond third base. me, because I'm going to be Chcago 12, Aorlda 3 notion of a remarkable rally to keep Game 1 tied, had two balls The radar gun clocked Prior at sleeping in," he said. Once the ball flew ofT Sammy rest. Left fielder Moises Alou ran tick off his glove for early singles. 94 mph and showed Penny 
Yankees fans kept reminding Sosa's bat and soared toward the back toward the wall to catch a Both runners wound up scoring. slightly faster. Not that it was a the Red Sox of their title drought, juniper bushes in dead center long drive by pinch-hitter Mike Mark Grudzielanek's hit helped good thing for Penny -as the screaming "1918," but it just field, there was no telling how Lowell. and the relay to first load the bases in the first inning story goes, this season Marlins seemed to fuel the Red Sox, who far it might go. caught a stumbling Jeff Conine and Randall Simon slapped a manager Jack McKeon had the flashed their power and rapped And if he keeps hitting like this, for an inning-ending double play. two-out, two-run single to left. radar readings shut off at Pro out 13 hits, including four by there's no telling how far he Prior left with two on and no Lofton bounced an RBI single Player when Penny pitched so he Ramirez, who grew up close to might take these Chicago Cubs. outs in the eighth to a standing ofT Gonzalez's glove in the second wouldn't become fixated and Yankee Stadium. The Cubs put on a startling dis-ovation, having allowed three and stole second. He didn't have overthrow. 

w·.•.•.·••.••.·•.··•.••.·.•.•.·.• .·........•..•.•..•.•..•,.'. '· ··················-'····· 
. ' 
·"'_1•"\=_-h•·e--·..•F·.--·o,u· ·. ·t.·•b· A;·..·n· .= =I N •· -t:.r· ·... :D=ame E.rasntus L·e·e:tur,es
.r .... ___ .n ..... ua....... o ... e.... .. . ...... .. ... .. ..... ..... .... . . ... ___ . 
·rhe llotto.rable Jobn. T.. N·oonan.~ Jr~~ Judge of the lJn.ited States Court: ' of ·' i\ppeals for 
-h. ·· ·N-r • t1 ( ..."t!. ·,.. · .. t. 1~ ··-.·t···_ · · · ... --~ h· ~ ..1 1· "...... -_ · -~,; · .. ·t·~· t··b · 
t_,:e __ ·~tn.Jl _....trctu .,. o1s .u1.guts.· et.a .llston.rlO <l.'.... e la\v and Ch.ristia.11itv 
-if' 

D.EEPEltt1iVG THE DOCTRli''E: 
Eigltt Lectttres .011. tl1e .Det~eltlptlteltt 
o.fCatl1olic .l~lo:ra.l Teaclti11g· 
T'hursdav ~ ()ut o·fDee.d.s C:ornes l.~tl\V 0 ·":t·ober 9
' \,.: .. ' .. . .·' 


518 :E. Colfax ~A.ve., Suite #2 
South r.Bend, '11i46617 574/232-1822 
112 W. C{eve{and1\/. -§1'anae-r, 1111f4653(.1 574/217-6693 

T'he lt!'Ctures \Vill begh-1 at. .5 p~:rn.. in. the La\v School Courtr.OC.l!lt.. ,.n~~c series continues each Tuesday and Thursday, concluding ()ctober 16. 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

/ 
< 

4-7 pm
sports heritage hall, joyce center (enter gate 1 or 2) 
all students regardless ofdegree, major, college, ~r year 
American University 
School of International Service 
Andrews University 
Graduate Admissions 
Argosy University 
School of Professional Psychology 
Bastyr University 
Admissions 

Boston College 
Graduate Arts &Sciences 
Boston College 
Lynch School of Education 
Boston University 
College of Communication 
Carnegie Mellon University 
The Heinz School of Public Policy & Management 
CaseWestern Reserve University The Institute for Management &Engineering 
CaseWestern Reserve University 
Nursing 
. 

CaseWestern Reserve University 
The Mandel School-Social Work 
Central Intelligence Agency Concordia University 
Graduate Admissions 
Cornell University 
Graduate School 
DePaul University 
Office of Graduate and Adult Recruitment 
Earlham College 
Master of Arts in Teaching 
Erikson Institute 
Child Development 
Franciscan University of Steubenville 
Admissions 

GEM Fellowships 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science 
Georgetown University 
Communication, Culture & Technology (CG) 
Georgetown University 
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences 
GraduateTheological Union 
Admissions 

Howard University 
Graduate School 
Indiana University 
School of Public and Environmental Affairs 
Indiana University 
School of Optometry 

Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis 
School of Public & Environmental Affairs 
Indiana University Kelley School of Business 
Systems & Accounting Graduate Programs 
Johns Hopkins University 
Health Policy and Management 

Marquette University 
Graduate Admissions 

Midwestern University 
Admissions 

National University of Health Sciences 
Doctor of Chiropractic Program 

New York University 
The Steinhardt School of Education 
Northwestern University 
Medill School of Journalism 

Ohio University Pittsburgh Theological Seminary 
Admission 

Princeton Theological Seminary 
Vocations Office 

Purdue School of Engineering andTechnology, IUPUI 
Engineering and Technology 

Purdue University 
Graduate School 

Roosevelt University 
Admission 

Saint Louis University 
School of Public Health 

Saint Xavier University 
Admission 

Savannah Collegeof Art and Design 
Graduate Admissions 

Southwestern Graduate School 
of Biomedical Sciences 
Division of Cell and Molecular Biology 
Teach For America The Catholic University ofAmerica 
Graduate Studies 
The Chicago School of Professional Psychology 
The Graduate College of Union University 
School of Management, Education, Engineering 
The Pennsylvania State University 
Physiology, Ecology, Genetics, EPC, and Hershey Medical Center 
The University ofTexas at Austin 
Graduate Recruitment & Outreach 
University ofCalifornia San Diego 
Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies 
University ofCincinnati 
Research and Graduate Education 
University ofMichigan 
College of Engineering 
University ofMichigan 
Program in Biomedical Sciences (PISS) 
University ofMichigan 
School ofSocial Work 
University of North Texas 
Graduate School 
University of Notre Dame 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
University of Notre Dame 
Graduate Studies 
University of Notre Dame 
Master ofScience in Accountancy 
University of Notre Dame 
Master ofScience in Administration 
University of Pennsylvania 
School of Social Work 
University of Pennsylvania 
Fels Institute of Government 
University of Pennsylvania 
Graduate School of Education 
University ofSouthern California 
Graduate Affairs 
University ofSouthern California 
SchoolofEngineering 
University ofTulsa 
Graduate School 
Valparaiso University 
Master of Business Administration 
Wright State University 
School of Professional Psychology 


sponsored by also plan toattend: 
THE 

Successfully Applying to Graduate School:
CAREER 
Panel Discussion with Faculty and Current Graduate Students

CENTER 
wednesday, october 8, 7:00-8:00 pm • 138 debartolo hall 
~·· ..... 
Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

NHL 


Bruins hold their own, tie Devils in season opener 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Bruins are fighting the Red Sox for atten­tion in Boston these days. In the NHL, though, they might be moving up in the pecking order. 
Jeff Jillson scored twice in his Bruins debut, the second to tie the game with 3:58 left in regu­lation on Wednesday night as Boston opened the season with a 3-3 tie against the Stanley Cup champion New Jersey Devils. 
"Every year, they're up there and battling for the Stanley Cup," said Bruins goalie Felix Potvin. who stopped 32 shots in his Boston debut. "I think we held our own against those guys." 
With many in the crowd fol­lowing the AL playoff game between the Yankees and Red Sox in New York, the Bruins ral­lied from a 2-0 deficit in the sec­ond period only to fall behind on Scott Nied ermayer's second goal. 
But Jillson tied it when he faked out a defenseman in front of the left circle and wristed a shot past goaltender Martin Brodeur. Joe Thornton also scored for the Bruins, who got new coach Mike Sullivan a point in his debut as an NHL head coach. 
Brian Rafalski had two assists, and Jeff Friesen also scored for the Devils. Brodeur stopped 28 shots for New Jersey, which beat Boston in the first round of the playoffs 4-1 on its way to the title. 
"It's been a long training camp," Brodeur said. "But we're all looking forward to the chal­lenge of defending the Cup." 
Niedermayer's second goal was the 1OOth of his career. The defenseman also cleared the puck off the goal line with just over two minutes left. 
The first period was scoreless, then New Jersey took a 2-0 lead on a pair of power-play goals. 
Blackhawks 1, Wild 0 
.Jocelyn Thibault and the Chicago Blackhawks' penalty killers beat the defensive-mind­ed Minnesota Wild at their own game. 
Thibault stopped 33 shots and helped his teammates snuff all seven Minnesota power plays to lead the Blackhawks to a 1-0 victory Wednesday night in the season opener for both teams. 
Chicago's tight play and Thibault's sharp work allowed an early second-period goal by Tyler Arnason to stand up. 
"Our penalty killers were good -they had to be," Chicago coach Brian Sutter said. "We played a good team tonight and had to earn it." 
Chicago had three power-play opportunities, two in the first period. One of those chances lasted only eight seconds. 
"We did a great job of penalty killing," he added. "For the most part they kept the shots to the outside and I was able to see them." 
Thibault had eight shutouts last season, second best in the NHL. He beat Buffalo 3-0 in the Blackhawks' home opener a year ago. 



Minnesota's Dwayne Roloson cut into the Minnesota zone and stopped 21 shots. battled through traffic on the 
When the Wild did shoot, right wing boards. pucks were blocked, cleared or The Blackhawks signed smothered by Thibault or his Nieminen as a free agent away teammates. from Pittsburgh in July. 
After a scoreless first period, Wednesday marked the first Arnason connected from the slot time in five years the at 3:53 of the second. He was set Biackhawks opened the season up with a perfect centering pass at home. They started 0-1 after from Ville Nieminen, who had three of those four road openers. 

Mullaney's Harp and Fiddle 
Pittsburgh's official home of Notre Dame Fan Club 
live Irish Entertainment Fri & Sat 9PM 


Full Menu & Full Bar All Irish Fans Welcome 
corner of Penn & 24th in the Strip District 10 minutes from Heinz Field 412-642-6622 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
> Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 > Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-78 l 9 ) Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ) JohnDillo~ Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ) Dr. Susan Steibe·Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 ) Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Community Resources: 
> Women's Care Center: 234-0363 > Cad10lic Charities: 234-3111 



..,
Wf! 
; \ 
; j 
~ I 
: l 
II 
II 11 page 18 TheDbserver + SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 2003 
l 
NFL 


Redskins playing injury-ridden teams all season 
Associated Press 

ASHBURN. Va. -When the Washington Redskins play the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday, it's the Buffalo Bills who should beware. 
That's because the Bills play the Redskins next week and
' ~ 
\ 
Washington's opponents this sea­son almost always turn up beset by key injuries. 
So the Bills might consider petitioning the NFL to wear full body armor for their game against the New York Jets. Quarterback Drew Bledsoe should hide a rabbit's foot in his uniform for luck. Owner Ralph Wilson should make sure his players' insurance is paid up. 
It's known as the curse of the Redskins. 
"I don't know what it is," line­backer LaVar Arrington said, "but we have been running into a lot of teams that have been injury-ridden." 
No kidding. Arrington used to complain that the Redskins never get any breaks, but that's hard to swallow these days. Just the ask the Jets, Falcons, Giants, Patriots, Eagles -and now the Buccaneers. 
"Hello. How's it going? Real quick, I'll update our injury sta­tus," were the first words out of Tampa Bay coach Jon Gruden's mouth during his conference call Wednesday with Washington reporters. 
Gruden then ran down a list of nine names, the aftermath of the Bucs' Monday night loss to Indianapolis. Fullback Mike Alstott is out for the season. Joe Jurevicius is out this week, and fellow receiver Keyshawn Johnson is "very questionable." Cornerback Brian Kelly probably won't play, while linebacker Shelton Quarles is a 50-50 call. Charles Lee had to be re-signed just to give the team a full com­plement of receivers. 
"Quite honestly, it's hard to produce a game plan not know­ing the status of so many players who have played key roles," Gruden said. "It'll be a great challenge to see if we can over-


WNBA 

Leslie and Staley to play for U.S. team 
Associated Press 

Lisa Leslie and Dawn Staley will team again for another shot at Olympic gold -maybe for the last time. 
The two WNBA veterans were among the first seven players selected Wednesday for the U.S. women's national basketball team that's expect­ed to compete at the Athens Games next year. 
Leslie, from the Los Angeles Sparks, and Staley, from the Charlotte Sting, helped the
j: 
·.) United States win Olympic gold 
\ i in 1996 and 2000. They also
'! played on gold-medal winning teams in the 1998 and 2002 World Championships. Others named to the team were Tamika Catchings of the Indiana Fever, Shannon Johnson of the Connecticut Sun, DeLisha Milton-Jones of the Sparks. Katie Smith of the Minnesota Lynx and Tina Thompson of the Houston the Comets. Houston's Van Chancellor will coach the team. "I think we have seven tremendous players," Chancellor said. The biggest name missing is the Comets' Sheryl Swoopes, who played on the 1996 and 2000 Olympic teams and twice has been the WNBA's most valuable player. Swoopes could not make a \' j commitment to the team at 
i' this time, but she could be one of the five players added later. The WNBA season will be suspended during the Olympics, which are Aug. 13­29, and probably for a couple of weeks before that so the
I 
I. U.S. team can practice before heading to Athens.! Starting with the Atlanta! Olympics in 1996, Leslie and I Staley have helped U.S. teams r go 34-0 in the major interna­! .. 
tional events. Leslie, 31, a five­time WNBA all-star, said she could see playing in another Olympics after 2004, noting 
I' I. 
I' 
'' 
that Teresa Edwards played in five. 
Staley, 33, the women's bas­ketball coach at Temple, said this would be her last Olympics. 
"I've enjoyed the ride, defi­nitely," said Staley, a 5-foot-6 guard known for her leader­ship, passing and fiery play. 
"I also want them to know we don't just compete for gold medals, we win gold medals. I want to make sure it's left in good hands." 
Leslie said she was a junior in high school when she first met Staley. 
"She's the floor leader and general," Leslie said. "She can lead us to gold. Having Dawn there is one reason I keep playing USA Basketball. She can help us win." 
come that." That's the story the Redskins have heard since opening day. 
"Everybody's got injuries," safety Matt Bowen said. "We've just been on the lucky side." 
Consider: 

-Week 1: The Jets came to town without quarterback Chad Pennington, who broke his wrist in preseason. New York got just 158 total yards in the Redskins' 16-13 victory. 
-Week 2: Atlanta didn't have Michael Vick, out with a broken leg. The Falcons led 17-0 before the Redskins rallied for a 33-31 win. 
-Week 3: The Giants were the healthiest team the Redskins have played yet; their chief defi­ciency was merely that they had to start two rookies on the offen­sive line. Like Tampa Bay, New York was coming off a tough Monday loss, but they beat Washington 24-21 in overtime. 
-Week 4: The Patriots were missing nine opening-day starters, including three line­backers. Two offensive linemen made their first NFL starts, and quarterback Tom Brady had a sore elbow. Somehow New England lost by only three, 20­17. 
-Week 5: The Eagles didn't have the three Pro Bowl players in their secondary, yet coach Steve Spurrier's offense managed only 171 yards passing until the final two drives of the game. Philadelphia held on, 27-25. 
Conversely, while other teams have been taking roll call in the trainer's room, the Redskins have been relatively unscathed. Guard Dave Fiore's two-game rest for his sore knee is the clos­est thing to a serious injury so far this season. 
"We've had pretty healthy teams," Spurrier said. "We've been very fortunate." 
That about sums up why the Redskins are the most frustrated 3-2 team around. 

YQtl (#Itt finally makt til' t.magltu! {Y~efsi/Jng 
dt·t.am t;J( .fllglt.t a. r••U frt>m I0,OOD ft·lt eve' 4t lbd.i,an,p .Skydiving he s.lt.Jes t>f Coshent lNI AetJd,myt L<~cat.4d just Call now t,o sclt~du It a s.ltb.tt dl sta'nct from the· thriU ()( ~ Ufttlm~l t:tllt.IIJ:ll$ wt are b/J«n 7 
574-642-3156

days a w•-ek.. 
www.lndianaSk Academy. com 
Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Georgia's Davis makes his name known on defense 
Associated Press 
ATHENS. Ga. -Everyone at Georgia has their favorite Thomas Davis hit. 
Fred Gibson likes the one where Davis lifted Clemson quar­terback Charlie Whitehurst into the air. then drove his body into the turf. The only thing missing was the chalk outline. 
"He stuck him right in the mid­dle of the chest," crowed Gibson, a Bulldogs receiver. "If I was a quarterback, I would not want to get hit in the middle of the chest by Thomas Davis." 
Running back Tyson Browning prefers the one where Davis was getting blocked but still managed to knock over Alabama quarter­back Spencer Pennington with a one-arm clothesline. Hulk Hogan would have been proud. 
"Thomas is the best athlete I've been around -ever," Browning said. "He's capable of running you down, or he can play straight smash-mouth football with you." 
Just five games into his sopho­more season at No. 8 Georgia. Davis has emerged as one of the country's most dominating play­ers -a fusion of safety and out­side linebacker who seems to be in on every big play for the Dawgs. 
Not bad, considering he wasn't even recruited by another Division I -A school. 
That little tidbit is still baffiing to Georgia defensive coordinator Brian VanGorder, who merely throws up his arms when some­one asks why the Bulldogs were the lone major school to offer a scholarship. 
VanGorder had only seen Davis 

NFL 

Jets fans look to place blam.e for bad start 

Marvin Jones said. 
"Accountability is the No. 1 issue. 
If you're not playing, don't give 
yourself a false sense that you 
are playing. It's a reality check." 
Accountability starts at the top, 
where Bradway makes many of 
the personnel decisions. Though 
he does have input from coaches 
and scouts, Bradway ultimately 
takes the brunt of the criticism. 
It all started when the 
Redskins came calling for Coles, 
guard Randy Thomas, special 
teams player Chad Morton and 
kicker John Hall. They offered 
Coles a seven-year, $35 million 
offer sheet that included a $13 
million signing bonus, which the 
Jets did not match. 
But if they had made Coles a 
slightly higher tender offer, the 
Jets could have received even 
more compensation, and the 
Redskins acknowledge they 
probably would have backed off . pursuing Coles. 
The Jets then packaged that 
No. 1 pick (13th overall) and 
their own pick at No. 22 for the 
No. 4 overall spot and took 
Dewayne Robertson, a junior 
from Kentucky. Robertson is 
starting and does not have a 
sack, though he is still learning 
how to play the position as a pro. 
"It's still too early to judge this 
group of players," Bradway said. 
"The time we took in making 
those decisions, the input that we 
had in making those decisions. l 
can't sit here and tell you that I 
wish we had done things differ­
ently, because that would be fool­
ish on my part. Decisions were 
made and you move on. 
"It's easy to sit here at 0-4 and 
question everything you do in 
your entire organization." 
In his last comments to the 
media last month, owner Woody 
Johnson defended Bradway. 
"I think that's a little bit unfair 
because it's the whole organiza­
tion," Johnson said. "It's not just 
Terry. It's the 80 people that 
work here." 
Bradway knows how to win. 
He was with the Giants when 
they won two Super Bowls and 
with the Chiefs he helped draft 
Tony Gonzalez, Donnie Edwards 
and Joe Horn. 
With the Jets in 2001, he cleared cap space by letting Aaron Glenn and Marcus Coleman go in the expansion draft, enabling Edwards to get the type of defensive backs he wanted. Bradway also signed Curtis Martin, Vinny Testaverde and Kevin Mawae to long-term deals for stability. 

NOTRE DAME FfLM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
on film before visiting tiny, isolat­ed Randolph-Clay High School in southwest Georgia to watch him play basketball. 
"After about 10 minutes, I was like, 'Geez, this guy can do some special things,"' VanGorder recalled. 
Davis leads the Bulldogs in tackles· (51), including five behind the line of scrimmage. He has three sacks and has pres­sured the quarterback five other times. Last week, he returned a blocked punt for a touchdown against Alabama -his personal favorite. 
Davis has become an especially lethal player in the hybrid posi­tion the Bulldogs created for him. He came to Georgia as a safety, but was supposed to start at out­side linebacker this season. When senior Kentrell Curry went 


KAT 

Georgia's Thomas Davis sacks South Carolina's Dondrlal Plnklns. 
down with a season-ending leg "I really enjoy safety," Davis injury, Davis moved back to the said. "There's no one around. secondary. You can just go make plays." 
From there. he's got more "I like to think of myself as a room to see the play developing, football player," Davis said. ''I'm doesn't have to contend with a a guy who can play just about lot of blockers and can use his any position the coaches ask him speed to get to the ball quickly. to play." 
\ 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Every week, Jets general manager Terry Bradway answers ques­tions from callers on an evening radio show. 
Last week, following a 17-6 loss to Dallas, Bradway fielded a query from one irate listener who shouted, "You should be fired!" 
Jets fans are trying to find someone to blame for an 0-4 start. 
Bradway seems the perfect target after an offseason in which the Redskins plucked four players -including top receiver Laveranues Coles -from the team. Bradway ::tlso traded two No. 1 picks to move up and take defensive tackle Dwayne Robertson, who has not had an immediate impact. 
''I'm disappointed because we lose," Bradway said. ''I'm not worried about draft, free agency all that stuff. Whether we like it or not. this is the team that we put together as a group. If they don't play well, I understand what my role is. 
"I've said all along if you do well you stay. if you don't then you probably leave. That is the standard that has been set." 

After making the playoffs in Bradway's first two seasons run­ning the organization, things could not have started worse for the Jets in 2003. 
Following the offseason losses, starting tackle Josh Evans was suspended indefinitely for violat­ing the league's substance-abuse policy. forcing the team to start Robertson at a position that's often tough for rookies. 
Then came the biggest hit of all: Quarterback Chad Pennington broke and dislocated his left wrist in the preseason and will not return for several weeks. Officials inside the organ­ization acknowledge privately the loss hurt the team more than anything that happened in the offseason, though publicly they have tried to downplay his absence. 
It is no wonder the sight of Pennington throwing again made coach Herman Edwards sound downright giddy Wednesday. But he knows Pennington cannot. solve everything. 
So does the rest of the team, coming off a bye week to play the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. 
"You have to understand what you're doing wrong. You have to be accountable," linebacker 










OUNDTHE 
ATION 
\ 
)) 
h '\ H \ 

I 
) I 'I I 
I 

I I 
l' 
' t ~ 
~ ' l 
I 
j 
! I' I' 
I 
II 
'I 
I, 
I' 
I 
, I 
Page 20 


around the dial 
NHL 
Los Angeles at Detroit 7:30p.m., ESPN2 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Kentucky at South Carolina 7:30 p.m., ESPN Colorado State at Brigham Young 10 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Boston at New York 8 p.m., FOX 

Colv\PILED HZO!v\ THE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES Thursday, October 9, 2003 
NHL 


Associated Press 

DALLAS Jean-Sebastien Giguere wasn't able to carry his postsea­son magic into the new season. 
Giguere allowed goals on the second and third shots against him, then gave up another in each of the final two periods as the Dallas Stars beat the Anaheim Mighty Ducks 4­1 Wednesday night in the season opener. 
Sergei Zubov and Stu Barnes beat him on shots 30 seconds apart in the game's opening minutes, then Zubov made a superb pass to set up Barnes for the third goal, which Giguere had little chance to stop. Bill Guerin flipped in the final goal on a breakaway midway through the third period. 
Giguere finished with 18 saves in his first game since winning the Conn Smythe Trophy as the playoffs MVP. 
He had a 1.62 goals­against average, .945 save percentage and five shutouts during the post­season as the Mighty Ducks took New Jersey to seven games in the Stanley Cup finals. 
In rising from seventh seed to Western Conference champions, Anaheim ousted Dallas in the second round. It was a bitter early exit for the conference's top team in the regular season. 
Both teams were break­ing in new captains, hav­ing lost their longtime leaders in the offseason. 
Dallas saw defensive brute Derian Hatcher sign with Detroit, while Paul 
Kariya  signed  with  
Colorado.  
The  Mighty  Ducks  

replaced him by adding Sergei Fedorov and Vaclav Prospal, both of whom led their teams in scoring last season. 
Fedorov's Anaheim debut coincidentally came on the 10-year anniver­sary of the first game in Mighty Ducks history: a 7­2 loss to Detroit in which he scored the winning goal and had two assists for the Red Wings. 
Mike Modano, Dallas' new captain, assisted on Zubov's goal. He now has 44 assists and 63 points against Anaheim, the most by a Mighty Ducks oppo­nent in both categories. 
Modano's linemate Jere Lehtinen, who last season was named the league's top defensive forward for a third time, left in the second period because of a shoulder injury. He was hurt in a first-period colli­sion. 
IN BRIEF 

Colts tackle Glenn ques­
tionable for Sunday 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis Colts starting offensive tackle Tarik Glenn was listed Wednesday as questionable for Sunday's game against Carolina. 
Coach Tony Dungy said Glenn had an MRI Tuesday that revealed a strained ligament in his left knee. 
Glenn has started 101 straight games since joining the Colts as a first-round pick in 1997 and pro­tects Peyton Manning's blindside as the left tackle. 
Glen, who was held out of prac­tice Wednesday, said he hoped to practice Friday and that he would play Sunday if he was needed. 
Meanwhile, running back Edgerrin James practiced sparingly Wednesday as he continues to recover from a sore back that has caused him to miss the last two games. 
James said he would like to play, but Dungy indicated Tuesday that if he wasn't feeling better, the Colts were likely to keep him off the field against the unbeaten Panthers. 
One of James' backups, James Mungro, also missed Wednesday's practice because of an injured right knee. 
Dungy did not elaborate on the injury and said Mungro was ques­tionable for Sunday. 
Ryan Diem, the Colts starting right tackle, already has been ruled out of Sunday's game. 
Diem has missed two games with an injured left ankle. 
Linebacker Jim Nelson also will sit out this weekend after breaking his left collar bone in Monday night's 38-35 victory at Tampa Bay. 
Nelson is expected to miss eight to 12 weeks and might be placed on injured reserve if he needs surgery. 
Man pleads innocent in 
Williams' sister's shooting 
COMPTON, Calif. -A man accused of killing the half-sister of 

tennis stars Venus and Serena Williams pleaded innocent Wednesday to murder and other charges. 
The suspect, Aaron Michael Hammer, was scheduled to return to court on Oct. 22, when a date for his preliminary hearing would be set. 
Yetunde Price, 31, was shot Sept. 14 while riding with a companion in a sports utility vehicle in Compton. 
Price, a registered nurse and beauty shop owner. was also a per­sonal assistant to her half-sisters. 
Authorities have said Hammer had ties to a gang but is not a mem­ber. 
In addition to murder, Hammer was arraigned Wednesday on charges of personal use of a firearm and possession of a firearm by a felon. 
The Williams sisters began their tennis careers in Compton before moving to Florida. 
• 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

O'NEILL HALL'S 
1st Annual SAND VOLL£Y8ALL TOURNAMENT 
Q Thursday) October 9; 9to 11 PM 
Location: McGlinn Cowts 
FREE FOOD and DRINKS! $100 of PRIZES to the Winning Teams FREE TO PLAY! BFlNG YOUR FRIENDS! Co-Sponsored by D.I.C.E. Funding 

Confident 
continued from page 24 
that. Our focus cannot be all that we have in front of us, but simply Pittsburgh this week." 
Notre Dame had their first of two bye weeks last week, and that gave the coaching staff a chance to reevaluate goals and set new ones for the remainder of the season. 
"We set goals for the sea­son, which obviously have to be readjusted as you go through the season. We set goals for individual areas that we look at each and every week to see if we can hit those targets," Willingham said. "We're constantly doing that, constantly trying to pro­vide goals, areas for our team to really point, direct them­selves to, direct themselves to help us be a better football team." 
But Willingham knows that none of the team's goals will be reached unless they begin acting on them, instead of believing in them. 
"Obviously we've got to do 
ADAM MIGLORE!fhe Observer 
Senior Vontez Duff cuts back on a kick return against Purdue. Duff and the Irish look to get a win against Pittsburgh. 
some things better," he said. put it all together." "That is the key to what we're doing. Believing and not doing things better doesn't Contact Joe Hettler at get us anywhere. We have to jhettler@nd.edu 
···············································~ 
~ .'.. University Resources 
•
• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & 
•
•
•
• Bisexual Students 
• 
-~~~~ 
. . .
.• • ~;.~u~ . ;..,...,.t·sr '' ·r: li-t
.~,...,.,~ ~·'"'" 
• 51'VM'HT Kt:~ 
• The Standing Committee on Gay and
•
•
• Lesbian Student Needs 
• 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 

• Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • 
• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
• •• • Office of Campus Ministry 
•
• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •• and their friends; pertinent library resources in
• 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 

•
• 
• University Counseling Center 
•
• (Individual counseling) 
•
• Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
•
•
•
• 
For more information. check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-sc2"lln/ 
•
•
................................................~ 
BASEBALL 

Rizzo and Sanchez lead Blue to victory 
Special to The Observer 
Cody Rizzo's three-run shot down the leftfield line and Javi Sanchez' bases-clearing triple to the left-center gap fueled a 15-hit attack as the Blue team won again in Game 2 of the Notre Dame baseball team's annual intrasquad scrimmage, holding off another Gold rally for the 13-10 win in Wednesday's action at Eck Stadium. 
The tournament format still allows the Gold a chance to win the Series title but they must defeat the Blue by six or more runs to claim the title. Thursday's third and final game will feature a pitching matchup of the team's lofty sophomore tandem, with 7­


.ND EXPRESS .. ' CO.EO.POOL.tOURNAMENT 
. . 
If you play ppol, you can win 
.·s·,.,I.·o· • t•. 't
. . .. ···'· 

What: Smgle eUIDillation pool tournamentfor cooples Where: NilExpre'n, BasementofLaFnrtune Student Center When: Ottolrer Ilfl' 9pm ~ 12am . 
Wintling team wins1$100Gift Certificate valid @the ND Bookstor~! · Sign tiP at ND &pressbyS.pm OetGbe_rJO. 

foot-2 righthander Ryan 
Doherty slated to start for the 
Gold while 6-foot-6 lefthander 
Tom Thornton is the Blue's 
Game 3 starter. 
Sophomore Nick Mainieri ­
son of 1Oth-year Irish head 
coach Paul Mainieri and for­
merly the starting quarterback 
at St. Joseph's High School ­
joined the Irish this fall as the 
team's bullpen catcher but he 
has played a key offensive role 
in both wins for the Blue. 
Mainieri is batting 3-for-5 in 
the series with his 3 RBls tied 
with Rizzo for second on the 
team (Sanchez, with 5, is the 
only other Blue player with 
multiple RBis in the series). 
Mainieri poked an RBI single 
into right field to spark the 
five-run bottom of the second 
that gave the Blue a 6-5 lead 
and he plated another run with 
a squeeze bunt in the fifth as 
the Blue stretched to a 9-5 
cushion. 

Tuesday's game saw the Gold 
commit five errors and yield 
eight unearned runs but it was 
the Blue that struggled defen­
sively in Game 2. making six 
errors that helped bring home 
three unearned runs. Rizzo 
and Sanchez each had a hand 
in either scoring or driving in 
five of the Blue's runs. 
The Blue's four runs in the 
sixth proved to be valuable 
insurance runs, with the Gold 
then scoring three times in the 
seventh with the tying run left 
on deck. The insurance runs 
came after walks by Brennan 
Grogan and Matt Macri ­
sandwiched around Cody Rizzo 
getting hit by a pitch -before 
Sanchez drilled his three-run 
triple and Sean Gaston added 
an RBI single up the middle . 
Senior lefthander Cody Wilkins -who struck out the only two batters he faced in Game 1 -was credited with the Game 2 win after entering in the fourth and retiring five of the seven batters he faced, with one hit and one walk allowed while keeping the Gold from adding to its five early runs. 
Several players continued their hot hitting, with Blue senior infielder Zach Sisko bat­ting 5-for-7 in the series (RBI, 3 R, 3B, 2 2B) while three Gold players are batting .500-plus in the series, led by sophomore catcher Matt Bransfield's seven times on base (4-for-6, 5 RBI. 3 R, 2 2B. 2 BB, HBP), plus sen­ior second baseman Steve Sollmann (5-for-9, 4 R. HBP. 2 SB) and freshman centerfielder Danny Dressman (4-for-8, RBI, 4 R, 2 2B, 2 BB, 2 SB). 
The teams have posted near­ly-identical statistics in the series, with the Blue owning the slight edge in team batting average (.368-.359) but an added advantage in extra-base hits with one home run, two triples and three doubles (all four of the Gold's extra-base hits have been doubles}. Both pitching staffs own a 9.00 staff ERA, with the Gold pitchers owning the strikeout edge (11­
6) while the Blue have issued fewer walks (7 -9; with each staff hitting three batters). Both teams also have totaled six stolen bases while the Blue have seven errors and the Gold six. 
lf 
t page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 2003 
1 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Howard looks to end season with upset of unbeaten Lewis 
ing an amazing year. Despite their inconsistency, the n By lAUREN OSTERHUS, Quarterback Erin Nasrallah, a Shamrocks have managed to CHRIS SINUTKO AND playmaker with quickness and a earn a 3-2 record. This success is ANNIE BRUSKY strong arm, leads a smooth due in part to their outstanding Sports Writers offense that has seemed to quarterback Bridget Meacham improve with each game. and running back Raquel Ferrer Their defense serves as the -the leaders of McGlinn's 
An undefeated Lewis team will backbone of the team, helping offense. face the Howard Ducks tonight in the offense achieve good field On the other side of the ball, their final games of the regular position while shutting down the Lyons is rolling in with two season, at the Riehle west field opposing team's offense. straight wins, including one Thursday night at 7 p.m. The Chicks hope to carry the against defending champs PE. 
This game is part of the posi­motivation from their season into The Lions have outscored their tion round, held by the Gold this position round. opponents 32-6 on this streak. League to determine playoff posi­Lyons is lead by quarterback tion, in which the various seeds McGlinn vs. Lyons Roxie Trevino who had a hand are pitted against each other. The McGlinn and Lyons clash the Lions' last five touchdowns, Ducks are in sixth place, setting Thursday night for a playoff spot passing for four and running for them up to play the first-seeded in the Gold League. Lyons is com­one. Chicks. ing into the contest on a two­
Howard, as is evident by its game winning streak while Badin vs. Pasquerllla East position, has struggled all season McGlinn lost its previous game to One team is ending a successful long with putting points on the Badin. McGlinn must win to get regular season and getting ready Pasquerilla East senior Stephanie to again shine at offense. board. Their focus this year was into the postseason. to "make some noise" in the play­Yahn said. The Bullfrogs are also looking more about having a good time Both teams are trying to stay offs. The other is looking ahead to When the two teams met earli­for another strong performance on the field than playing hard­focused on this game and not the future after a disappointing er this season, the Bullfrogs came from the players that have been core competitive football. look ahead to the playoffs. "We season, hoping to end it all on a away with a 19-0 victory. instrumental in their successes 
They were, in fact, unaware have to focus on this game," positive note. The Pyros, however, believe all season. 
\, I there was another game left in McGlinn captain On-Kay Wong Their stories couldn't be more they learned from that experi­Badin quarterbacks Steph the season until RecSports con­said. "We have to get ready for different, but don't expect ence and will be prepared to put Heath and Erin Zachry have tacted the captains a few days the task at hand which is beating Thursday night's Gold League up a better fight at tonight's shared the touchdowns nearly ago. The Ducks just plan on going Lyons, and then we'll look football game between second­game. equally, often connecting with 
\ out and having fun in their last ahead." seeded Badin and fifth-seeded "Now that we know how they leading wide receiver Molly regular season game. These two teams faced off the Pasquerilla East to be lacking the play, we can set up better for Donnely. 
\ 
This year's team, while winless, first week of the season. McGlinn usual intensity or competitiveness them defensively. Hopefully our Cornerback Jenn Craig and is a step up from previous years. won that game 7-0 on a Iate that have come to define these offense can come out strong too," safety Jenn Carter have dominat­"Although our record doesn't fourth-quarter touchdown. two teams. Yahn said. ed the other side of the football really show it, we've improved a However, that was a long time "We're definitely taking this "They're the defending champi­for Badin; picking off many key 
i lot since last year. I mean, last ago, and both teams have game seriously," Badin senior ons and, sure, people come and interceptions. year we struggled to even com­changed throughout the season. Betsey Schroeder said. "We go but they're still a good, solid plete a play," captain Shannon McGlinn has been very incon­respect PE as a good team and opponent. They're capable of put­Trevino said. "This is defmitely a sistent this year. we want to get some momentum ting points on the board," rebuilding year for us; hopefully "We have our ups and downs," going into the playoffs." Schroeder said of her team's Contact Lauren Osterhus at next year we'll have a strong Wong said. "We do well and then "We want to show everybody opponent. losterhu@nd.edu, Chris Sinutko foundation to work with." we struggle. That's our problem. what's to come for next year. The Pyros are expecting at csinutko@nd.edu and Annie 

Lewis, on the contrary, is hav-We have to be more consistent." We're going to be really strong," Kathryn Lent and Leslie Follmer Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 


. 
\ ~ 
; ·: ~ 
iiI 
'l 
\ I·.''I., r 
< \ 
I I 
i 
~ i; 
h 
I I I \o 1: 
I I 
. \ 
( ~ 
/, 
I 
I 
~ 
1 
l~ 
I'· 
''• 
. { 
I 
I I' 
'I 
II 
f l: 
I' 
I J , 
'' . '.,
·,' 
, I 
:: I·. I;
I , 
Trip 
continued from page 24 
ideas and possibly identify two more players to join the returning core. 
Brey talked about sopho­more Rick Cornett and fresh­man Colin 

the role of a shy new guy. Brey and the coaching staff have been telling Falls to be greedy. 
"I think it's just getting comfortable. They are being very generous, with kicking it out," Falls said. "The coaches have been harping on me to shoot it." 
T h e 

Falls possi­bly being two players  "I think it gives us a chance as a coaching staff  three-game trip will give the  
to fill out his eight-man rotation. As  to experiment with some lineups and rosters.,  Irish an opportunity to get some  
a freshman,  work  in  
Cornett saw  Mike Brey  against  
extremely  Notre Dame coach  actual  
limited play­ teams .  
ing time and  Being able  

started to lose confidence. To to get out of the practice gym keep his spirits up, Cornett and into true game situations went to his family. will hopefully help the Irish 
"I think I have a lot more come Nov. 24. confidence this year than last "I think it gives us a year. By not playing last year, chance as a coaching staff to it kind of took my confidence experiment with some line­away, " ups and ros­Cornett ters," Brey 
said. "My parents, my  ..I think I have a lot more  s a i d . "There's not  
sister and my grand­mother and my friends  confidence this year than last year. By not playing last year, it kind oftook  a lot riding on it, so to speak. You can't experi­ 
from home kept me  my confidence away...  ment against Northern  
level-head­ed and kept my spirits  Rick Cornett Irish sophomore  Illinois. "We've got to be ready  
up."  to  play.  
F  a  1 I  s  Hopefully  

comes to Notre Dame from that gives us a head start." 
Loyola Academy in Park 
Ridge, Ill. Throughout sum­
mer workouts, the Irish 
looked at Falls to fill that 
outside shooter role they lost 
with Carroll and Miller grad­
uating. Receiving a bunch of passes 
on open-looks from the out­

side, Falls passed up a num­Contact Matt Lozar at 
ber of chances and played mlozar@nd.edu 

Thomas 
continued from page 24 
drastically eliminated. 
"I just learned the game can come real easy to me if I bear down and focus on each and every play," Thomas said. "I think there were times I overanalyzed and made the wrong decision. There were times when I tried to make more of what's not there. 
"I think if I keep things simple. my game will come and I'll be suc­cessful." 
What changed Thomas? It might have been a spring and summer on the road by himself, living in apartments trying out for NBA teams who pointed out his faults while telling him he had tremendous potential. Brey also named the vocal Thomas a cap­tain, meaning he had more responsibility leading the team ­a role the junior embraced. 
"It was his time to do that with older guys graduating and now as a junior," Brey said. 
While the Irish might rely on Tarin Francis to generate points down low or Chris Quinn and Colin Falls to launch 3-pointers, there is no secret that Thomas is the lynchpin to Notre Dame's suc­cess. In the past, if Thomas has played well, so have the Irish. If they've struggled, so has Thomas. 
"Sometimes before, it wasn't him so much trying to force the issue, but him putting pressure on himself to make the big play," sen­ior Torrian Jones said. "It wasn't himself being selfish but him try­ing to help the team out in any way he can. He is ready to step up and be a big player this year." 
In Notre Dame's four practices this season, Brey said Thomas has done a better job managing the flow of the game. If a teammate grabs a bunch of rebounds, Thomas ensures he gets a pass on offense. If Thomas penetrates, he now looks to pass it to the wing as much as he tries to make a shot. 

"We need him to manage the game better, absolutely," Brey said. "He could make better deci­sions, but he has to score for us, too. He has to make plays for us. I want him to be fearless, daring and go for things. That's a little bit of a fine line with him." 
Thomas brushes off questions about his flirtations with his NBA future, saying that he's totally committed to Notre Dame's suc­cess this season. Ironically, he's counting on his experience with his NBA past to carry the Irish through the season. 
"Through my experiences, the better that you become, the more you learn and the better experi­ence you gain," Thomas said. "I feel like each and every year, I gain more understanding of how to run the team and how to play the game." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


•·. 

Thursday, October 9, 2003 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~&JJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GALEL 
j
I rr 
CI2003 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WHAT TI-u= 5Ail...Of<5 010 WHE:N THf:Y C.r<A5HED THE: PRIVATE: PARTY.

tGANDEA t 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~I': THEY "( r r x I I J" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: GROIN RHYME EMERGE ANYWAY Answer: The cowboy made dinner for his wife because he was-HOME ON THE "RANGE" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  43 "let's give _!"  DOWN  
1 Collar  45 Completely  1 Salamanders  
4 ·­Said" (Neil  47 Part 3 of the  2 Buddhist who's  
Diamond hit)  quip  attained  
8 On the job  50 _lingus  Nirvana  
14 Go off 15 Kind of dance  51 Coffee bar treats  3 Utah's Canyon­ 
16 Dorm mate.  56 Shrinks  4 Chemist's study  
affectionately 17 Start of an idle  61 City known for its cheese  5 Draft pick 6 Bell and others  
question 19 Household  62 Gets working, in a way  7 Apple that may be green or red  
20 Understood 21 Mumbo jumbo 23 Exit 26 Keel-billed bird  63 End of the quip 66 Madison, for one 67 Not yet final, as  8 One with designs on others 9 Part of a skater's shoe  
27 Part 2 of the quip 33 _Bay, off Long Beach, Calif. 37 Superman's baby name  a decree 68 Lacrosse contingent 69 Some Singaporeans 70 Carrier to the Mideast  10 Habit 11 Epps of "Higher Learning" 12 Latvia's capital 13 Stay fresh 18 Quick swim  
38 Purple shade 39 Spelling of ·TV 42 "Me neither"  71 Saucer contents, for short  22 _·di·datl 24 Food stamp 25 Banks on the  40 ·carmina Burana"  52 Part of a balance  58 Old union leader I. W.  _  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~~.........,...,....,,...., -=+;r+~r+::~  runway28 Greek vacation spot 29 Tennis ace Mandlikova  composer 41 American-born Jordanian queen 44 Good fellow 46 Spring Playgirl  53 Blabber 54 Ant, in dialect 55 Composer Camille Saint-_  59 1960's Soviet moon program 60 Holiday song word 64 Texas tea  
~~~  30 Very much 31 Florida's  magazine V.I.P. 48 Green lights  56 Garden party? 57 St. Petersburg's  65 "The Good Old _.(song  
Beach  49 Table scrap  river  classic)  
~=+=~  32 1558-1603  
f-:+rl:+::~:-F-­ monarch: Abbr.  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a  
-=+~-+::~+:-:-4 ..:+=+:~ ...;;;+~~  33 Rain, but just barely 34 Wheels 35 Final Four org.  credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  
*+-=+:-~  36 Coatroom  Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,  
features  nytimes.com/leaming/xwords.  

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: John Lennon, Sean Lennon, Susan Lucas, Jackson Browne, Robert Wuhl 
Happy Birthday: It would be best to slow down and double-check what's really going on around you. You have been moving at such a rate that you might have lost sight of what it is you really want to achieve. Trust in yourself and your abilities and forget about following someone else. Your numbers: 6, 13, 20, 27, 35, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romantic partneP.> may cost you dearly if you let them Don't try to impress otheP.> by being flamboyant or dramatic. Creative endeavoP.> will tum out as planned. Don't take part in joint money deals. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should have a heart-to-heart talk with a close and trusted friend. Your lover may not undeP.>tand your needs. You must ftnd a way to let him or her know without hurting feelings. 3 stllP.i GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Let your imagination run wild and use your creative flair in your projects at work. Research the possibilities of making changes that will improve your work environment. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your pessimism will affect productivity. You need to get involved in groups that can raise your self-esteem. Problerru; with your lover may be difficult to patch up. 2stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will get into arguments if you allow youP.>elf to be baited by someone who wants to make you look bad. Try hard not to let innuendoes get to you. Your own initability will play a key role. 4 stllP.i VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will enhance your reputation if you bend over backward to help friends or relatives with existing problerru;. You should catch up on 
co~pondence.3stars 

LIBRA (Sept. 2.'\-0ct. 22): You will have to make preparations at home. Residential moves or changes to your living quarteP.> arc apparent. Don't get flustered, or everyone else will as well. Acceptance will be the key. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be relentless in getting your own way. Don't be 
too quick to judge others. Promote some of your creative ideas. Musical directions will be more profitable than anticipated. 3 stllP.i SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your cash into a safe investment. You can make money if you arc quick to recognize a good deal. Take care of those who can't do for themselves. Your ability to find soh,Hions will be admired. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Infatuations are likely. Use discrimination in your peP.>onal dealings and refrain from falling all over someone who you think feels the same way you do. Don't make a fool of yourself. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should concentrate on making those job changes that have been on your mind. It would be-best to work in a position that will allow you the freedom to work at your own pace. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't go out with unreliable friends. You should spend some time helping the little people in your life. Your creative talents will come in handy. 3 Stars 
Birthday Baby: You are independent and eager to show otheP.> what you have to offer. You're geared toward success from day one and not likely to forgo your positive direction for one morrent because you are determined, dedicated and never daunted by failure. 
Need advice J Try Eugenia\ Web .1ite ut W»W.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The 0 bserver  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE 0BSERVEIZ 
p
Thursday, October 9, 2003 

Page 24 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Learning curve 
Irish game plan may be different this year 
l i 
By MATT LOZAR J\ssociate Sports Editor 

I .... I 
I t 
I \ Losing Matt Carroll and Dan 
l..l •,
I 'I 
I ' l Miller to graduation has .left I I \ head coach Mike Brey search­I ing for some answers.I I ~ Since arriving at Notre 
I 
I : ) Dame, Brey's teams have I I I always had more of a score­
I ' '. 
I \ first attitude. With 42 percent I 
' ~ 
I \§ of the offense from last year I not returning and this year'sI I core players, specificallyj' Jordan Cornette and Torrian 
I 
Jones, having more of a defen­

( sive mentality, Brey talked at Media Day Wednesday about how his team might have to change its focus for the 2003­
(t,r 
04 season. "I think we can be better defensively with Cornette and 

'll n 
r. Jones on the f1oor. I think we 
can contest some basketsH instead of just trying not to let'l people beat us off the dribble," 
\ \, 
I Brey said. "I think with certain 
I 
i lineups we can extend [our
II ' i 
defense]. Maybe get some easy buckets off our defense, which is something we really haven't done since I've been here." 

Brey identified Cornette and Jones, along with Tom .i ('i 
Timmermans, Chris Quinn,

' 
f' Chris Thomas and Turin
' 
Francis as the nucleus of his

!· ·' 
team he would be ready to I ir take into a conference show­'ij' down tomorrow. Each of those 
'l', 
li players averaged at least 12
ii 
minutes a game. 
''I'm really excited about who we have back," Brey said. "When we think about this team all summer and watching them in four practices, the six returning guys, that if we had to toss it up tonight in a Big East game, I would feel pretty good about it." 
One of those players, who has waited his turn in his first three years at Notre Dame, is Jones. Since his freshman year, Jones has been behind Danny Graves, Carroll and Miller and had not had the team and coaching staff look to him as a leader. 
Being named a captain by Brey over the summer, Jones took that role very seriously, leading the Irish in their off­season workouts. 
"Coach Brey is a class act, and I know he had a plan for me or he wouldn't have brought me here," Jones said. "I knew that if I paid my dues, later on, it would pay divi­dends. 
"I would have the opportuni­ty this year to be a captain ­which is a great honor -and to be a leader and play great minutes for this team." 
With only six players cur­rently in the rotation, Brey wants to use the upcoming trip to Barbados over fall break to experiment with some new 
see TRIP/page 22 


J 
l •. 
i FOOTBALL 
I ':: 
I 
I 
l 
I I ''!! 1 Irish not quite ready to give up on season
I I 
I 
that, Willingham thinks the 
j 
l: ~• By JOE HETTLER team can turn around their Sports Editor sluggish start. 
"I would like to believe [stay­At 1-3, many Notre Dame ing positive] is a naturalr football fans may not like the process of who I am and what 
team the Irish put on the field I do because I think I've fig­
every Saturday. ured out there's not much you Coach Tyrone Willingham can accomplish by being nega­
I 
couldn't disagree more. tive," Willingham said. "Even "I've gone on record at some though there are many around 
point of saying that I like our you that choose that, maybe
I 
l! 
! football team," Willingham even wish you to go that route, said. "We could be very easily I don't think you can accom­
I I l 
sitting here right now being 3-plish anything. 
I 1 and not 1-3.1like a lot of the "Hopefully our football team things that I'm seeing from our is paying attention to its lead­football team." ership. If it does, it will stay on 
: l Willingham believes the the positive track." 
~ ~).. Willingham has a history of
' ) .... biggest task facing his team is 
I , . I i, staying positive in the midst of turning around poor starts. 
I 
I the adversity they are facing His 1999 Stanford team start­this season. If the Irish can do ed the season losing several games before finishing 8-4 and 7-1 in conference play -good enough to reach the Rose Bowl that season. 
Willingham said he thinks the Irish can have that same type of turnaround, but they can't try and win all their remaining games at once. The team must take it one game at a time. 
"What we have to continue to do is continue to improve, believe in self, the individual and team, and I think we can get some things done," Willingham said. "But it is impossible to write that story that you're writing unless we do it game by game. 
''I' m g I ad t h at you n o ted 
see CONFIDENT/page 21 
Thomas is back and ready to go 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sporrs Writer 
When Chris Thomas pulled his name out of the NBA Draft and decided to return to Notre Dame for his junior year, NBA scouts told Mike Brey he was gaining a much more mature point guard. 
At the time, Brey didn't quite believe what the scouts said. But after a summer leading the team in pick-up games and four full­fledged practices, Brey is starting to realize the scouts were right 
"I told him when he decided to come back, 'You didn't need to go work Nike camp, you need to be here with our team for six weeks and you need to lead,"' Brey said. "I thought he did a great job of that, and I think he took a lot of pride in that 
"I didn't know if I agreed with those NBA people when they told me that, but they were prophetic in that statement." 
Thomas, a 6-foot-1 guard who has started every game of his Notre Dame career, averaged 
18.7 points and 6.9 assists a game last year. And while Brey allowed his star point guard to play fearlessly -and the Irish benefited from his playmaking ability -Thomas also committed back-breaking turnovers. 
But if what Brey has said he's seen in practice carries over into the season, those mistakes will be 
see THOMAS/page 22 


ANDY KE:NNA!The r"\hr·•~•a. 

Brady Quinn Is sacked against Purdue. Despite a shaky 1-3 start, the Irish are staying positive going Into Saturday's game. 
I ) 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALl 
BASEBALl 
MlB PlAYOFFS
NHl Red Sox 5 

Cubs 12 Gold 10 
Howard vs. Lewis McGlinn vs. Lyons 
Blue 13 
Bruins 3 

Marlins 3 Today, 7 p.m. Today, 8 p.m. 
Yankees 2Devils 3 


Blackhawks 1 
The Ducks look to The Shamrocks and 
Cody Rizzo's three-
Sammy Sosa hit a

The Red Sox took
Wild 0 

run home run and Javi
upset the Chicks in the Lions clash in this play-home run as the Cubsgame one of the seven
Sanchez's triple led the
regular season finale. off battle. 
evened the series to 1-1.
game series.

Blue team. 
page 21 page 17 page 15 page 15
page 22 page 22 
I I
I. 
'I •, ,) • 
I i ; 
I II' j 
.. I' 
. ' . f 



